Sr. FullStack Java Developer Sr. FullStack <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. FullStack Java Developer - Anthem Inc New York, NY ? IT professional with 8 years of experience in Object Oriented design and development of Multi-Tier distributed, Enterprise application using Java/JEE/J2EE technologies with Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC)  ? Experience in System Analysis, Design, Configuration, Code management and maintenance in the sectors of Banking, Finance, E-commerce, Health.  ? Experienced in developing the UI screens using HTML5, JavaScript, CSS, JQuery, Ajax, and Bootstrap.  ? Expertise in Object Oriented functional JavaScript and its libraries/ frameworks such as JQuery, AngularJS, NodeJS and ExtJS.  ? Strong experience with implementing application using AngularJS. Solid understanding of Angular directives.  ? Used NodeJS for Node Package Manager (NPM) and Grunt plugin for building the Projects.  ? Having experience with Cloud API Computing Service environment like Amazon Web Services (AWS)  ? Experience with AWS (EC2, IAM, EBS, S3, RDS, SES, ELB, Cloud Formation, Elastic Cache, Cloud Watch, Lambda, SNS, Dynamo DB)  ? Knowledge on JAVA 8 Lambda Expressions to retrieve the data from Collections.  ? Good Exposure to Functional Interfaces and stream API to support functional-style operations on streams of elements.  ? Developing inter-operable Web Services and its related technologies like SOAP, WSDL, UDDI, JAX-WS, JAXB, JAX-RPC using tools like Apache Axis, good understanding of Service oriented architecture (SOA)  ? Hand on experience with Restful web services, used JAX-RS to implement RESTful applications in Java.  ? Experience in using frameworks like Struts, Spring, JSF, Hibernate and build tools like ANT, MAVEN and log4J for logging.  ? Experience in J2EE Technology's (Servlets, JSP, JDBC, EJB, JNDI, JSTL, JSON, POJO, JMS, JSF My Faces, Rich Faces, Prime Faces, JPA, JAX-WS, JAX_RS)  ? Expertise in Core java concepts, such as Multi-Threading, Generics, Exception Handling and Collections.  ? Experience in developing server side code with good knowledge of enterprise and persistence design patterns like Singleton, Factory Prototype, Business Delegate, Session Facade, and Service locator, Front Controller, Data Access Object and MVC.  ? Experience in application development using JSP, Servlets, JSTL, EJB transaction implementation (CMP, BMP, and Message-Driven Beans), JMS, Swing, Java Beans, JDBC, XML, Web Services, JNDI, Multi-Threading.  ? Expertise in XML technologies such as XSL, XSLT, XML schemas, XPath, XForms, XSL-FO and parsers like SAX, DOM.  ? Worked on data exchange from website using XML, Python and Web Services.  ? Experience with application servers like Web Logic, JBOSS and IBM WebSphere and Web Server like Apache Tomcat.  ? Handled PHP backend development for dynamic database driven website  ? Generated reports using SQL Server reporting Services (SSRS), integrated and deploying them in SharePoint.  ? Created a news feed aggregator in PHP which displayed news dynamically using news feed.  ? Excellent knowledge in working with various databases like SQL Server (RDBMS), MySQL, DB2, ORACLE and MongoDB (NoSQL)  ? Proficient in SQL and wrote Stored Procedures, Triggers besides writing DDL, DML and transaction queries with development tools like TOAD and Aqua Data Studio.  ? Extensive development experience in different IDE's like Spring Tool Suite, RAD, Eclipse and IntelliJ.  ? Experience in development, deployment and troubleshooting Web based and enterprise based applications on Windows, UNIX and Linux platforms.  ? Subversion SVN, CVS, IBM Clear Case and Git as versioning software tools.  ? Hands on experience on Reporting tools like Qlikview, Jasper.  ? Experience writing Junit using tools like JMeter and TDD for application integration testing and unit testing.  ? Developed the JSON structure for the data transfer in between the Goggle Web Toolkit (UI) and business tier.  ? Developed Hibernate configuration files and queries and Implemented DAO classes.  ? Developed the Enterprise Service Bus (ESB) as a gateway between the business tier and UI to make the business tier separate from UI.  ? Hands on experience in developing reports using Crystal Reports and JXL Excel Reports.  ? Experienced in JMS over messaging to exchange the information in more reliable and asynchronous way in Enterprise Applications. Used Apache Active MQ as JMS provider.  ? Expertise in working with Agile methodologies like Test Driven Development (TDD) and Scrum Methodology. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. FullStack Java Developer Anthem Inc - Norfolk, VA February 2017 to Present Project: Lighting IOT Security Platform  Description: The Philips Lighting is powering smarter cities, more efficient building by providing real time data analytics from secure connected ligiting systems and the Internet of Things. The IOT Security Platform helps in connecting to the devices through endpoints and helps in connected lighting for safer, greener and smart living.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in Client Requirements gathering, Analysis, Design, Development and Testing of the application using AGILE methodology (SCRUM)  • Designed various modules using technologies like CSS Media Queries, HTML5, AJAX, JSON, and JavaScript.  • Worked on JavaScript and HTML5 Browser Cache mechanism for storing and retrieving data for the website.  • Designed, developed a custom, singlepage, responsive web application on front end using AngularJS.  • Used AngularJS to connect the web application to back-end APIs, used RESTFUL methods to interact with several API's, and wrote custom directives for a responsive, CSS-animated user interface.  • Implemented routing logic and navigation from screen to screen and implemented login functionality on the client side in AngularJS.  • Working as an application developer experienced with controllers, views and models in NodeJs.  • Used Java 1.8 Lambda expressions and Stream API to support functional-style operations on streams of elements.  • The Stream API is integrated into the Collections API, to perform bulk operations on collections, like sequential  • Used Multi-Threading and collection framework including List, Map etc.  • Involved in multi-tiered J2EE design utilizing Spring Inversion of Control (IOC), AOP, MVC and Hibernate.  • Developed the persistence layer using Hibernate Framework, created the POJO objects and mapped using Hibernate annotations and Transaction Management.  • Creating REST API implementation using Spring Boot framework and writing test cases for those API's.  • Deploying application in AWS cloud using services like EC2, DynamoDB, Aurora, ELB, VPC etc.  • Used NoSQL database Amazon Dynamo DB to store data of reporting Application.  • Hands on experience working with Java IDE's like Intellij.  • Extensively used Junit and JMockit for writing unit test cases.  • Hands on experience in creating Docker containers and images and deployed the code using docker and AWS Services.  • Involved in CICD process using GIT, Nexus, Jenkins job creation, Maven build, Create Docker image and deployment in AWS environment.  • Hands on experience with Terraform scripts.  • Designed and developed API specification with testing case (Swagger)  • Used Log4j to capture the logs that include various levels of information like error, info, debug into the log files.  • Tracking the bugs and improvements through JIRA.  • Handling the project with GIT version control.    Environment: HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery AJAX, Bootstrap, AngularJS, EXTJS, NodeJs, Agile (SCRUM), SpringBoot, Hibernate, DynamoDB, Docker, Terraform, Nginx, GIT, JUnit, Maven, Restful, JAX-RS, Log4J, AWS, Swagger, MicroServices, JIRA, Jenkins. FullStack Java Developer Apple - Sunnyvale, CA July 2015 to January 2017 Project: iTranslate Integration System    Description: The iTranslate Services takes the capabilities of translation management within World Server and wraps it in a powerful set of reusable web services which you can easily hook up with your content authoring system. This enables a seamless flow of content and project information between the client system and iTranslate.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in gathering system requirements for the application and worked with the business team to review the requirements.  • Used Agile (SCRUM) methodologies for application development.  • Upgraded existing UI with HTML5, CSS3, JQuery and Bootstrap with AngularJs interaction.  • Developed forms for user event handling and validations using JavaScript's and AJAX.  • Created cross-browser compatible and standards-compliant CSS-based page layouts.  • Used AJAX & JSON communication for accessing RESTful web services data payload.  • Developed the view-controller components using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Servlets/JSPs, and Angular.  • Implemented routing logic and login functionality on the client side using AngularJS.  • Worked on controllers, views and models in BackboneJS.  • Implemented the application using Spring IOC, Spring MVC Framework, Spring Batch, and Spring Boot and handled the security using Spring Security.  • Java programming with Multi-threading and performance tuning experience.  • Used Spring Framework AOP Module to implement logging in the application to know the application status.  • Used Hibernate for ORM (Object Relational Mapping) and DAO (Data Access Object) implementation.  • Designed and developed MicroServices business components using Spring Boot.  • Responsible for creating an instance on Amazon EC2 (AWS) and deployed the application on it.  • Configure and deploy Amazon Web Services (AWS) Lambda service to run codes in response to events and automatically manage resources.  • Designed and developed third-party payment services, REST services to offer users convenient payment methods using various APIs provided by various third-party payment processor based on OAuth protocol.  • Exposed Restful Web Services using JAX-RS specification.  • Implemented Spring Integration framework for messaging abstraction while making REST calls.  • Involved in designing and developing the JSON, XML Objects with NoSQL database like MongoDB.  • Used WebSphere server to route our JMS queue messages to different business floors and configured routes in WebSphere and used WebSphere in e-mail notification.  • Involved in installing and configuring Maven for application builds and deployment  • Extensively used Junit and JMockit for writing unit test cases.  • Used Sonar, Jenkins to build the projects.  • Used JIRA to fix bugs and track the workflow.  • Used GIT version control to track and maintain the different version of the application.    Environment: HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, GWT, AJAX, Bootstrap, Multi-Threading, AngularJS, BackboneJS, Agile (SCRUM), Hibernate, Spring, Spring Integration, MongoDB, Spring Batch, Spring Boot, Spring Security, Servlet, XML, GIT, JUnit, Maven, JMS, WebSphere, Restful, JAX-RS, Log4J, AWS, MicroServices, JIRA, Sonar, Jenkins. Java/J2EE Developer MasterCard - St. Louis, MO December 2014 to June 2015 Project: Eservice Online Reports    Description: The Eservice Online project is designed and developed for MasterCard Worldwide customers. The Online Reports application to provide MasterCard customers an online view into their mandatory as well as optional reports. MasterCard customer user can request access to the Online Reports tool including the ability to view/export/print specific mandatory and/or options reports. The Online Reports tool receives and loads reports into eService database. The reports are received from the provider systems. This tools have billing feed process to provide accuracy & flexibility to handle different kinds of billing models.  Responsibilities:    • Understand and analyze the requirement document, to come up with design.  • Implemented Agile methodology throughout the project development lifecycles.  • Developed rich GUI interfaces using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, AngularJS, Node JS, JSP and Servlets.  • Developed a single page application (SPA) eligibility verification module using AngularJS.  • Implemented Page events using JQuery, JavaScript such as click, submit, change, and etc.  • Applying Spring Framework for transaction Management and Spring JDBC for building ORM, and Dependency Injection.  • Designed and developed Business Services using Spring Framework (Dependency Injection) and DAO Design Patterns.  • Used Spring DI (Dependency Injection), Spring Batch to inject the dependencies to parent object.  • Responsible for designing Mybatis mapping files based on business logic and Object relationships.  • Integrated Spring and Mybatis together and worked on developing backend components and services using Mybatis and spring.  • Implemented Spring Boot Microservices to divide the application into various sub odules  • Implemented various design patterns in the project such as Singleton, Data Access Object, and Service Locator.  • The site is built on WCS platform with integrated mutable third party application.  • Established Database Connectivity using JDBC, Mybatis O/R mapping with Spring ORM for Oracle.  • Handled the database management using PL/SQL DML and DDL SQL statements.  • Involved in writing Stored Procedures, Triggers for handling complex queries.  • Involved in writing SQL Queries for interacting with database through JDBC.  • Used the WebLogic application server to run the application, and test it.  • Parsed the XML content and updated the database using DOM and SAX parser.  • Implemented Web services using WSDL/SOAP.  • Developed SOAP based requests for communicating with Web Services  • Used XML, XSD and JSON messages for Data transfer. Used JAXB API and DOM for XML parsing messages.  • Packaged and deployed the application in JBoss.  • Hands on experience Jasper reports for generating reports.  • Used Log4j for Logging various levels of information like error, info, debug into the log files.  • Used Gradle tools for building and deploying the Web applications, implemented the Junit testing.  • Used JIRA for tracking the Project Stories in Agile Methodology.  • Used Subversion for version control.    Environment: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, AJAX, JQuery, AngularJS, JSON, XML, Spring, Mybatis, MircoServices, SOAP, WSDL, HQL, SQL, JBoss, Oracle, WebLogic, RAD, WCS, JVM, JMS, JNDI, Gradle, Jasper, JUNIT, JIRA, Subversion. Java/J2EE Developer United Health Group - Parsippany, NJ November 2013 to October 2014 Project: Optum Health Services    Description:  UnitedHealth group is the most diversified health and care company in the United States and a leader worldwide in helping people live healthier lives and helping to make the health system work better for everyone. UnitedHealth Group has long been defined by innovative approach to health care. Optum, is a health services platform, focus on helping improve the health care system itself, including population health management, care delivery and improving the clinical and operating elements of the system.  Responsibilities:    • Involved in SDLC requirements gathering, analysis, design, development and testing of application developed using Agile methodology.  • Created user-friendly GUI interface and Web pages using HTML, CSS, JQuery, Ajax and Java script.  • Involved in the coding and integration of several business critical modules using Java, JSF, PrimeFaces, Hibernate and Oracle.  • Involved in integrating application with JSF/Prime Faces.  • Used Spring MVC and Dependency Injection for handling presentation and business logic.  • Integrated Spring DAO for data access using Hibernate.  • Implemented persistence framework using Hibernate & handled Transaction Management using the provided data source.  • Extensively used JSON to parse the data from server side to satisfy the business requirement.  • Responsible for designing Hibernate mapping files based on business logic and Object relationships.  • Integrated Spring and Hibernate together and worked on developing backend components and services using Hibernate and spring.  • Developed Struts based presentation layer, hibernate based DAO layer and integrated them using Spring Dependency injection, ORM and Web modules.  • Extensively used HQL and SQL for querying databases.  • Developed Message Driven Bean for asynchronous sending Messages using JMS.  • Used Apache Axis Service Engine for creating and deploying Web Service clients using SOAP, WSDL.  • Used Web Services for creating rate summary and used WSDL and SOAP messages for getting useful plans from different module.  • Used Spring JMS module for lookup for the queues and MDBs for the listeners  • Established Database Connectivity using JDBC, Hibernate O/R mapping with Spring ORM for Oracle.  • Helped tune the JVM by tuning Heap size and Garbage Collector.  • Packaged and deployed the application in JBoss.  • Used Log4J for application logging and notification tracing mechanisms.  • Used Maven tools for building and deploying the Web applications.  • Analysis and Bug fixing of the production problems and defects along with enhancements and worked with Unix shell scripts for running the batch jobs.  • Implemented JUNIT test cases for unit testing and Suites for end to end testing.  • Used JIRA for tracking the Project Stories in Agile Methodology.  • Used SVN to maintain the version of the files and took the responsibility to do the code merges from branch to trunk and creating new branch when new feature implementation starts.    Environment: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JSON, XML, AJAX, JQuery, JSF, Prime Faces, Struts, Hibernate, Spring MVC, SOAP, WSDL, HQL, SQL, Unix Shell Scripts, JBoss, Oracle, JVM, JMS, JNDI, Maven, RMI, Eclipse IDE, UML, JIRA, JUNIT, SVN. Java/J2EE Developer Wells Fargo, Desmoines, IA January 2011 to July 2013 Project: CORE- Common Opportunities, Results and Experience    Description: This project has been designed and developed for the users of the home mortgage sector which helps in automating the mortgage sales and fulfillment process (end to end) . The CORE Program - Common Opportunities, Results and Experience - focuses on innovation in processes and technology to reduce cost and complexity, better leverage skill and scale, and enable a better response to market and volume changes. CORE will drive needed improvements in end-to-end approach to real estate-secured lending, improve the overall customer experience.    Responsibilities:  • Developed web GUI involving HTML, Java Script under MVC architecture  • Used Jquery for Ajaxcalls for doing the validations and developed the GUI with Swing.  • Integrated Struts with Spring framework  • Used StrutsFramework&Tag Libraries for Executing Client request.  • Have used Struts Validator Framework for Client and Server side validation.  • Hibernate used as the persistence mechanism ORM Mapping along with advanced features such as Criteria based querying  • Implemented SOA architecture with Web Services using SOAP, WSDL, UDDI and XML using CXF framework tool/Apache Commons. Worked on parsing the XML files using DOM/SAX parsers.  • Involved in developing XML utilities and Interfaces using JAXB.  • Wrote complex queries and mapped database views using DAO in Oracle.  • Involved in writing Stored Procedures for handling complex queries with help of TOAD and access them through Java Programs.  • Created the EAR file using RAD and send the EAR file to Linux server using FTP by using CuteFTP.  • Responsible for configuring the various properties to integrate the WCS application with third party interfaces.  • Performed deployment of applications on IBM WebSphere Application Server.  • Developed an E-commerce system which is associated to this project.  • Developed build script for the application using ANT  • Wrote test cases in Junit for unit testing of classes and implemented the logging using Log4j.  • Developed Unixshellscripts for running the batch jobs  • Used JIRA to fix and track the workflow.  • Used Rabbit MQSeries and JMS API for application integration and used JMS for various asynchronous processes.  • Interacting with QA team and Business team to resolve defects  • Used Rational Clear Case for Version controlling.    Environment: HTML, JSP, JavaScript, XML, Servlet, Struts, JNDI, Hibernate, JMS, JVM, Log4j, Ant, WCS, RAD, WebSphere, Scrum, Oracle, Web Services (SOAP/WSDL), JUNIT, Rational Clear Case, Shell Script, UNIX. J2EE/ Java Developer Manam Infotech Pvt. Ltd - Bengaluru, Karnataka August 2009 to October 2010 Project: Client Services Management System    Description: CSMS is web based application. This is used to keep track of Services provides by the State Govt. RGB (Resource guide builder) is the module was developed to assist state to keep track of the details of agents and available resources by assessing and maintaining a care plan. Intake process is the module for Agencies for maintaining information about their respective contracts with the state and for maintaining record as to services provided by them. Role management is the module for Maintain users, Organizational units, Roles and Privileges.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in client requirement gathering, analysis & application design.  • Created HTML Wireframes based in the Detailed System Specification document.  • Developed rich user interface using JavaScript, JSTL, CSS, JQuery and JSP's.  • Implemented client side data validations using JavaScript.  • Implemented server side data validations using Java Beans.  • Implemented views using JSP & JSTL. Implemented the Data Access Object (DAO) component of the application that abstracts and encapsulates the data access from the application to Hibernate.  • Extensively used HQL and SQL for querying databases.  • Involved in design, coding for the business layer using Java, and Spring Framework and EJBs.  • Used Apache Axis as the Web Service framework for creating and consuming Web Service clients using SOAP and WSDL.  • Used Oracle as the backend database. Involved in creating the PL/SQL scripts for the database.  • Implemented J2EE Core design patterns like Front Controller, Business Delegate, etc.  • Developed Aspects (AOP) for the Transaction, Logging, and Database Retry purpose.  • Installed, configured and administrated Oracle database and Web Logic Application Server and Enterprise Messing Services in the development environment.  • Used SVN as version control system  • Used ANT scripts to build the application and deployed on Web Sphere Application Server    Environment: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Java, Spring, Soap, PL/SQL, Hibernate, Ant, UML, WebLogic, XML, Oracle, SVN. J2EE Developer OG Software Solutions Pvt. Ltd - Chennai, Tamil Nadu June 2008 to July 2009 Project: Loan Management System    Description: OG Software Solutions Pvt Ltd is a software company that provides solutions to banks & financial services. Its service domain includes web design and development, custom software development and consulting. It is a web based application for banks and other lending institutions that is designed & developed to span the complete loan cycle from capturing the initial inquiry from prospective customer till the closure of a loan account.  Responsibilities:  • Developed web pages using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JSP and Struts.  • Wrote JavaScript for client side validation.  • Designed and developed Action classes, Form bean, Action Mappings (Strutsframework), JavaBeans to interact between UI and EJB.  • Implemented the Data Access Object (DAO) component of the application that abstracts and encapsulates the data access from the application to the database.  • Designed various tables required for the project using Oracle database.  • Used Oracle to develop PL/SQL Procedures. Interacted with database development team for performance tuning of Queries and Procedures. Participated in database design sessions.  • Monitored the logs using Log4J and fixed the problem.  • The application was deployed on the Tomcat.  • Involved in build and deploying the application using ANT.  • Used CVS as version control system.  • Worked on bug fixing and Production Support.    Environment: Html, CSS, JavaScript, JSP, Servlet, J2EE, JDBC, Struts, Tomcat, Oracle, Eclipse IDE, CVS, ANT, Log4J. Education Bachelor's Skills DATABASE (9 years), JAVASCRIPT (9 years), JAVA (8 years), jQuery (8 years), J2EE (7 years) Additional Information Technical Skills  Languages C, C++, Java, SQL, PL/SQL  Enterprise Java Java, J2EE, Swing, RMI, Sockets, JDBC, Servlets, JSP, JMS, Java Beans, JSTL, JSF, Struts, EJB, Spring, JTA, JNDI and JPA  Web/XML Technologies HTML, XHTML, JavaScript, AngularJS, CSS, XML, XSD, XSL/XSLT, SAX/DOM, AJAX, JQuery, JSON, Backbone JS, DOJO, NodeJs.  Tools & Framework  Struts, Hibernate, Spring MVC, Spring Web Flow, Spring IOC, Spring AOP, JMS, JSF, Log4J, SOA, Jasper reports, SOAP UI, Spring Boot, Spring Batch, Spring Security, and Spring Data.    Web services SOAP, RESTful, UDDI, WSDL, JAX-RPC, JAX-RS JAX-WS, JAX-B, Apache Axis2, Apache CFX, JMS, Rabbit MQ, AWS  Web/App Servers Web Sphere, Apache Tomcat, JBoss, Weblogic  Database Oracle, MySQL server, DB2, MongoDB and NoSQL  Development Tools Eclipse, RAD, Spring Tool Suite (STS), IntelliJ  O-R mapping Hibernate, Mybatis, JPA, JTA  Modeling/ CASE Tools Rational Rose, MS Visio Professional, Star UML  Testing Tools/ Others JUnit, SoapUI, Putty, Rational Clear Quest, RTC, LoadUI, JIRA  Version Control GIT, CVS, SVN, Rational clear case  Platforms Windows, Sun Solaris, UNIX  Cloud Technologies AWS EC2