Mean Stack Developer Mean Stack <span class="hl">Developer</span> Mean Stack Developer - Jefferson Bank, Remote South Carolina (SC) • 10+ years of experience in software development which also includes 3+ years on modern web applications using MEAN Stack which includes MONGODB, Express JS, Angular JS, and Node JS and UI Development and Design and also the client/Server applications on Java/J2EE.  • Experienced in using Modernizer to check cross-browser compatibility, making sure that the HTML and CSS features are working properly.  • Collaborated with UX and design teams, translating complex design mock-ups into high quality, accessible, W3C standards-based code  • Experience with full software development life cycle, object oriented programming, architecting scalable platforms, and agile methodologies.  • Experienced using CSS3 pre-processors such as SASS and LESS.  • Building structured MVC web applications using JavaScript, Angular JS, Node.js, J-Query, Express, and MONGODB.  • Expertise in gathering, documenting and analyzing business requirements and worked on many project methodologies like Agile / Scrum  • Back end development and design using Node.js and Mongo DB.  • Experience in maintaining, building and deploying Java application servers like BEA WebLogic 7.0/8.x/9.x, Bea WebLogic Portal Server7.0, IBM Web sphere 5.x, J-Boss 4.0.3, Tomcat 5.0.25/6.x and Oracle application server (OAS).  • Designed and developed sophisticated, Data-Bound Ajax applications and framework using jQuery components including: a tool for Menu creation using YUI tree, context menu, drag and drop capabilities to manipulate the menu tree and Custom Ajax RPC protocol and JSON.  • Extensive experience in developing web pages using HTML5, CSS3, SASS, LESS, Object Oriented Java Script, J-Query, AJAX, JSON.XML.  • Created Mobile Web Applications with Responsive Web Design, through uses of Twitter Bootstrap, JQuery Mobile and CSS3 Media Queries.  • Experience with various IDE's such as Eclipse, Sublime, Dreamweaver, and Notepad++.  • Diagnosed and debugged a variety of cross-browser and cross-platform interface compatibility issues with Modernizerand CSS Polly fills.  • Experience with creating and reviewing UI design specifications, prototype development, and conducting usability tests to ensure quality assurance.  • Good experience in PL/SQL, writing Stored Procedures, Functions, Packages, Views and Triggers.  • Experienced with RDBMS implementation and development using Oracle 8/8i/9i/10g/11g, PL/SQL, SQL Server and My SQL 4.0.18/5.0.  • Expertise in RESTful,SOAP web services to integrate between Application to Application  • Created API-driven interactive applications utilizing AJAX technology.  • Extensive experience in designing and developing enterprise applications for J2EE platform using MVC, JAVA, JDBC/ODBC, JSP, Servlet, Struts, EJB, Hibernate, Java Mail, JNDI, Apache Ant.  • Experience with front-end development with back-end system integration.  • Extensively used build utilities like MAVEN, ANT for building of jar, war and ear files.  • Experience with image editing tools such as Photoshop, Fireworks, and Illustrator.  • Expertise in Java, J2EE, Web Services, BPEL, XML, XSLT, XPATH, XQUERY, BAM, Oracle Business Rules Engine. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Mean Stack Developer Jefferson Bank, Remote July 2015 to Present Description: Jefferson Bank is a family-owned bank serving communities in San Antonio, Boerne, New Braunfels and the Texas Hill Country. The aims of the project is improving accuracy, reducing losses, improving capital management by building standardized Reports and dashboards in Mortgage. Produce and distribute operational reports, ad hoc analyses and pipeline details to help moving and improving their performance. Manage project in data sources, validation and production.    Responsibilities    • Used Object Oriented Programming concepts to develop UI components that could be reused across the Web Application.  • Implemented Distance Vector Routing algorithm using socket programming and UDP for communication between hosts where each host is acted as a pseudo-router.  • Wrote code to build Views (Handlebar based) and Models as part of MVC pattern using Backbone JS.  • Worked on Front end by using Angular Js, Backbone Js and JavaScript.  • Worked the backend by using node Js, express and MONGODB.    • Designed dynamic and browser compatible pages using HTML5, CSS3, JQuery and JavaScript.  • CSS styles were developed in order to preserve the uniformity of all the screens throughout the application and positioning of screen objects.  • Participated with end users and business analyst to understand the business requirements  • Responsible for design and development of the web pages from mock- ups (PSD).  • Daily programming with Node.JS, Angular, Bootstrap and Express.  • Created web pages using Media Queries and AngularJS that cater to Android and IOS web platforms.  • Developed Web API using Node JS and hosted on multiple load balanced API instances.  • Used Node JS, Angular JS and Backbone JS MVC Frameworks in the development of the web applications.  • Experience in RESTful web services to integrate between HRMS to Finance.  • Interacted with Testing Team, Scrum Masters and Business Analysts for Fixing of Issues.  • Interacted with Customers and development teams for Fix the Issues.  • Performed the Regression Testing for Complete UI after fixing the Issues which are reported by Testing Team.  • Increase front-end development by 10% by using require.js, jasmine and documentation.  • Wrote code to handle cross browser compatibility issues in IE 7, 8, 9 and FF.  • Developed multiple POCs to create a user transaction grid in Angular JS.  • Delivered Node.js and socket.io real-time socket communication video function.  • Designed and developed an application for file sharing among remote hosts usingsocket programming.  • Implemented Routers & History in Single Page App (SPA) using Backbone JS.  • We used GIT for our Continuous Integration solution we then changed over to GIT with Jenkins.  • Extensively used debugging tools such as Firebug and IE Dev tools to investigate the issues and fix the bugs.  • Used HP Quality Center to keep track of outstanding bugs to reduce downtime, increase productivity, and improve communication.    Environment:  HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, MONGODB,ExpressJS, AngularJS, Node Js, J-Query, Handlebars, Backbone JS, RWD, Twitter Bootstrap, Eclipse, JSP, Adobe Photoshop, MS Office, and HP Quality Center. Mean Stack Developer Local Search Group June 2013 to June 2015 Description: Provides custom search engine marketing that drives website traffic and generates credible leads for its clients in the medical, automotive, and retail industries    Responsibilities    • Created and deployed new features in order to sustain and amend existing applications under MVC pattern using Node.JS, Angular, Bootstrap and Express.  • Developed the Front end by using AngularJs, Backbone and JavaScript with the twitter bootstrap  • Handled cross browser/platform compatibility issues (IE, Firefox, and Safari) on both Windows.  • Managed application state using server and client-based State Management options.  • Used JIRA to keep track of outstanding bugs to reduce downtime, increase productivity, and improve communication.  • Worked with JASMINE unit test framework to write unit tests for JavaScript code.  • Developed multiple POCs to create an interface between Backend to Frontend by using MONGODB,ExpressJS,AngularJsand Node Js.  • Responsible to for making the pages dynamic using AJAX, JSON and JQuery.  • Experience in RESTful web services to integrate between HRMS, Finance and MMHandled the status of the project in a timely manner in a clear and concise way.  • Extended CSS as needed to accommodate new data and display types.    • Involved in complete SDLC - Requirement Analysis, Development, System and Integration Testing.  • Developed the backend by using Node Js, Express and MONGODB.  • Customized the Node.JS server to pick the local package JSON and run the applications without changing the local paths and variables.  • Used Node.JS for server side web applications for java script codes to build real-time web API's.  • Developed cross-browser/platform HTML 4/5, CSS 3, and JavaScript to match design specs for complex page layouts while adhering to code standards.  • Interfaced with the Marketing and IT departments &developing requirements to implement.  • Responsible to create Responsive Web Design using Twitter Bootstrap and Media Queries.  • Developed client side validation code using JavaScript and JQuery.    Environment:  HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript,Node.js, J-Query, Handlebars, Backbone JS, RWD, Twitter Bootstrap, Eclipse, JSP, Adobe Photoshop, MS Office, and HP Quality Center, MONGODB, Express JS, Angular JS. Web Developer WellPoint Inc April 2013 to April 2013 Description:WellPoint is one of the nation's largest health benefits companies, with nearly 33 million members in its affiliated health plans and approximately 64 million individuals served through its subsidiaries. Involved with an internal web application for sales to help our associates to maintain customer information and offer different packages depending on the plan that they are using.    Responsibilities:    • Worked with R&D team to create POC for AngularJs for a Single page application.  • Developed the backend by using Node Js, Express Js and MONGODB.  • Expand APIs in client-side presentation frameworks to meet interaction requirements.  • Designed the front-end applications, user interactive (UI) web pages using web technologies like HTML5, CSS3, XHTML andAngularJs.  • Developed GUI using JavaScript, HTML, DOM, XHTML, AJAX, JSON, CSS and JQuery in ongoing projects.  • Worked on stringent browser compatibility support: IE8/9/10, Firefox, Chrome, and Safari.  • Created bandwidth-saving image sprites from designers' Photoshop files.  • Using well-structured and object-oriented CSS to generate pixel-perfect layouts based on design comps.  • Developed Responsive web pages using media queries and Twitter Bootstrap.  • Involved in complete SDLC - Requirement Analysis, Development, System and Integration Testing.  • Coded Java Script for page functionality and Lightbox plugins using JQUERY.  • Used HP Quality Center to keep track of outstanding bugs to reduce downtime, increase productivity, and improve communication.  • Interacted with Testing Team, Scrum Masters and Business Analysts for Fixing of Issues  • Interacted with Customers and development teams for fixing the Issues.  • Performed the Regression testing for Complete UI after fixing the Issues which are reported by Testing Team.  • Extensively involved design discussions and user experience sessions to provide inputs on the layout and UX.    Environment:HTML5, HTML, CSS2,ExpressJS, Angular JS, Node Js, AJAX, Angular JS, SVN,SQL,Quality Center, Sass, JavaScript, Tomcat Apache, JQuery. Software Engineer March 2011 to August 2012 Responsibilities:    • Worked closely with Business Analysts in understanding the technical requirements of each project and prepared the use cases for different functionalities and designs.  • Designed new classes and functionalities using various JQUERY components for CRM application for customer service.  • Provided time estimates for front-end development on projects, consulted with project managers and clients on front-end development tasks, managed developer resources, provide insight into user interface design, and interacted directly with clients to answer any questions or concerns.  • Tested cross browser compatibility issues between multiple browsers.    • Developed non-functional HTML, CSS pages from the mock ups and involved in UI review with UI architect and Business Units.  • Handled all aspects of the web application including maintaining, testing, debugging, deploying and printing.  • Facilitated discussions with Systems Analyst to identify technical requirements.  • Developed and designed the various screens and its architecture in accordance to UI Specs.  • Designed the Front End applications, user interactive (UI) web pages using web technologies like HTML, CSS, JavaScript, and JQuery.  • Worked on developing a communication application that provided a collaborative platform for users to share customer related issues, assign action items, and manage overall internal communication.  • Worked on feature developments for the Growth team and projects handed down from the executive team, focusing primarily on HTML, CSS/SCSS, and JavaScript development.  • Implemented AJAX functionality using JQUERY, EXT-JS, JSON and XML.  • Wrote Object Oriented JavaScript to create modules and extensively debugged with Firebug and other debugging tools.    Environment:  HTML, CSS,JavaScript, XML JQUERY, EXT-JS, JSON, AJAX, SVN, Eclipse. Software Engineer January 2009 to February 2011 Responsibilities:  • Co-ordinated with BA group for better understanding about functional requirements and to analyze and design the business requirements.    • Developed Deployment descriptor using XML files.  • Wrote product technical documentation as necessary.  • Tested/De-bugged web browser using Firebug.  • Designed use cases for different scenarios.  • Worked extensively with the File management and image libraries.  • Performed Client-side validations using JavaScript.  • Implemented Remote and Home interfaces for the Bean.  • Used Bugzilla to keep track of outstanding bugs to reduce downtime, increase productivity, and improve communication Designed and developed components for billing application.  • Developed functional code and met expected requirements.  • Developed frontend layout and home page intros for e-Commerce web site using Fireworks.  • Developed web pages compatible in both IE and Firefox.  • Developed jar file and then deployed the Bean.  • Designed tables to access the database in Oracle and involved in writing PL/SQL, Stored Procedures, and Triggers.  • Responsible for designing and development of Web pages using HTML, CSS including Ajax controls and XML.  • Developed UI using JavaScript, HTML, CSS, JavaScript validations and XML.  • Implemented applications in JavaScript, and MySQL.  • Developed Bean's implementation Class.  • Created DSN in ODBC for database connectivity.  • Developed and tested websites for multiple browser support on Macintosh and Windows systems.  • Developed and tested Gadgets for multiple Scenario support.    Environment:  HTML, CSS2, JavaScript, Tomcat Apache, JQuery, JQuery mobile, EJB, JNDI, Web Logic, Java, Applets, AWT/Swing, AJAX. XML, MySQL, Bugzilla. Java/J2EE Developer May 2006 to December 2008 Description: Involved in a Payroll application Development, which uses struts framework. The module allows the user to add a new employee, his pay structure, generate pay slip, deductions, Income Tax calculations and other payroll activities. The user can also modify the pay structure with a user-friendly GUI and uses Hibernate 3.1 for the back end transactions.    Responsibilities:    • Developed functional code and met expected requirements.  • Wrote product technical documentation as necessary.  • Creating Front-end Applications using HTML, CSS and JavaScript.  • Worked closely with other senior developers, product managers, system architects, and the QA team to deliver optimal designs and software to meet and exceed expectations.  • Developed Deployment descriptor using XML files.  • Developed jar file and then deployed the Bean.  • Elegant implementation of page designs in standards-compliant HTML and CSS.  • Leading technical projects with a focus on quality and improving the user experience.    • Working directly with clients to design and develop elegant solutions.  • Designed tables to access the database in Oracle and involved in writing PL/SQL, Stored Procedures, and Triggers.  • Designed presentation part in JSP (Dynamic content) and HTML (for static pages).  • Implemented Remote and Home interfaces for the Bean.  • Created DSN in ODBC for database connectivity.    • Designed use cases for different scenarios.  • Developed Bean's implementation Class.  • Designed and developed components for billing application.  • Contributed to the design direction by building mock-ups in Photoshop and FrontEnd  • Tested cross-browsers compatibility on a range of projects.  • Creating rapid prototypes of interfaces to be used as blueprints for technical development.  • Configured the Web Logic Console by creating Connection Pool.  Environment:- EJB, JNDI, Web Logic, Java, Applets, CSS, MySQL, JavaScript, AJAX and Windows XP, AWT/Swing, JDBC, Servlets, XML, HTML. Education Bachelor's Skills HTML, JAVASCRIPT, BOOTSTRAP, NODE.JS, JSON, PHP, XML, AJAX, CSS, DREAMWEAVER, IIS, IIS 6, TOMCAT, UI WEB, WEB SERVER, WEB SERVICES, ECLIPSE, JAVA, JSP, SERVLETS