Application Development Analyst Application Development Analyst Application Development Analyst - Volkswagen of America, Inc Southfield, MI • Over 9 Years of Experience in Developing Web-based, Internet/Intranet, Client/Server, Distributed Architecture and Component Oriented Architecture Applications using Java/J2EE Technologies.  • Excellent knowledge of SDLC processes that includes translation of requirements into functional and technical specifications, Designing, Developing, Testing Implementation and Post Production support using development methodologies like Waterfall and Agile.  • Developed Web Applications using Java EE technologies such as Servlets, JSP, JNDI, JPA, JMS, JDBC, JAXP and JAXB, Micro Services, Spring Boot.  • Experience in Web technologies including: JavaScript, CSS, XML, XSD, jQuery, JSON, Ajax and Angular JS, Bootstrap.  • Proficient in using JSP, JavaScript, JQuery, CSS, CSS3, HTML5, HTML, DHTML, AJAX, JSON, XML and XSLT.  • Strong knowledge on front-end development using Adobe Flex, MXML, Action Script, AJAX, Java Scripts, CSS, HTML and DHTML.  • Extensively worked on implementing Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) using XML Web Services (SOAP, REST, WSDL and UDDI)  • Strong knowledge and experience working in applications developed using ORM frameworks like Hibernate and MVC frameworks like Spring and its subsidiary modules such as Spring JDBC, Spring MVC, and Spring AOP.  • Experience in configuring applications domains and deployments on application servers like Web Logic, WebSphere, JBoss and Web Servers like Apache Tomcat.  • Experience in developing reusable components for cross cutting concerns like Logging, Build management, Transaction management, and Testing framework using Log4j, Ant, Maven and JUnit to increase productivity, easy maintenance and to retain software quality.  • Experience in using IDEs like RAD, Eclipse, STS and NetBeans various Configuration Management tools like CVS, Clear Case and SVN.  • Expertise in implementing various Object Oriented Design Patterns such as Model View Controller, Front End Controller, Data Access Object, Service Locator, Data Transfer Object, Session Facade and Singleton  • Experience in developing persistence layer using DAO design pattern, ORM/JPA principles developed on relational databases such as Oracle, DB2, and SQL Server.  • Team Player, quick learner and self-starter with effective communication, motivation and organizational skills combined with attention to details and business process improvements. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Application Development Analyst Volkswagen of America, Inc - Auburn Hills, MI May 2016 to Present Responsibilities:  • Following Agile Scrum methodology that include iterative application development, and stand up meetings.  • Using WordPress and CakePHP framework for developing static webpages.  • Using IBM Mobile First/Worklight platform to develop Guided Selling iOS IPad application.  • Using Xcode to manage testing for the iOS application.  • Integrating services using SOAP, and WSDL for most applications.  • Using Sumo Logic to collect logs and analyze data.  • Using Dynatrace to monitor applications in all the environments and setting up alerts if needed.  • Using Fastly for CDN, and performing proper handling and validation of a content.  • Developing several modules of different applications for both front and back end using Java, Java Script, HTML5, CSS3, XML, PHP, AJAX, Adobe Flex, Micro Services, Spring Boot, Hibernate, Spring MVC and Angular JS.  • Developing a Microservices oriented architecture project in AWS.  • Testing and monitoring applications after deployment.  • Using Adobe CQ to manage web content and digital assets.  • Managing Incident tickets, customer requests and escalating HPI incidents properly.  • Monitoring alerts, CPU spikes and outages.  • Using SVN and Git to manage source code used by developers.    Environment: Java,J2EE,Hibernate, Spring, Angular JS, MVC, JSP, Servlets, Spring-JDBC, SOAP, WSDL, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Maven, JBoss, Apache Tomcat, Oracle, MySQL, Jenkins, Eclipse, Log4j,. SVN, Git, JUnit, Windows, Mac. Java /UI Developer Responsibilities Money Gram - Minnesota, MN, US December 2014 to April 2016 • Followed Agile Scrum methodology that included iterative application development, weekly Sprints and stand up meetings.  • Used the Dependency Injection feature provided by spring framework for bean wiring.  • Developed integration services using SOA, Web Services, SOAP, and WSDL  • Developed user interface using JSP, HTML5, CSS3 and implemented client side validations using JavaScript using Spring framework.  • Used Java Messaging Services (JMS) for reliable and asynchronous exchange of important information.  • Created Real-time Reporting systems and dashboards using Adobe Flex, xml, and MySQL.  • Developed the user interfaces using Angular JS, Java Script, HTML5, DHTML, CSS3 and AJAX.  • Use of Multithreading and Collections Framework including List, Map etc.  • Used Spring-JDBC configuration to manage some transactions across multiple databases.  • Designed and developed the service business process and data access to Oracle database and back-end layers with JAXB, JMS and XML.  • Developed Stateless Session beans and Entity Beans for implementation of the persistence layer.  • Used Factory, Singleton, Session Façade, Business Delegate and DAO Patterns.  • Used Maven for building the applications EAR for various environments.  • Designed, developed JSP, Servlets and deployed them on JBoss Application Server.  • Used Spring ORM Support for Hibernate to manage efficiently Hibernate Resources and consistent exception Hierarchy.  • Developed several modules of the web application for both front and back using Java, Adobe Flex, Struts, Spring, Hibernate  • Implemented routing logic and navigation from screen to screen and also implemented login functionality on the client side in AngularJS  • Worked on JMS components for asynchronous messaging.  • Used the Java collections Framework Classes for Holding the Application objects.  • Designed and created Hibernate persistence classes using Hibernate API.  • Used JUnit extensively and defined various Test Suites and Test Cases.  • Developed a logging component using Log4J to log messages and errors.  • Used SVN for version control across common source code used by developers.    Environment: Java, J2EE, Hibernate, Spring, Angular JS, MVC, JSP,    Servlets, Spring-JDBC, Web Services, SOAP, WSDL, JAXB, JMS, XML, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JMS, Maven, JBoss, Apache Tomcat, Oracle, PL/SQL, Eclipse, Log4j,. SVN, JUnit, Windows. Java Developer Responsibilities Apollo Healthcare - Phoenix, AZ August 2013 to December 2014 • Implemented the functionalities using Java, JSP, Servlets and J2EE framework.  • Developed user interface using HTML, JSP, XML to interact with users, and the business logic is implemented using Servlets and Java Beans.  • Strong knowledge on front-end development using Adobe Flex, MXML, Action Script, AJAX, Java Scripts, CSS, HTML and DHTML.  • Developed the logic using JavaScript frameworks like AngularJS, NodeJS.  • Used Firebase DB as database and created data using JSON.  • Used JavaScript for client side validations and validation frame work for server side validations.  • Used Spring IOC, Writing Java Bean classes, with get and set methods for each property to be configured by Spring.  • Implemented routing logic and navigation from screen to screen and also implemented login functionality on the client side in AngularJS  • Used Dependency Injection feature of Spring framework.  • Written the database integration code using Hibernate, leveraged the AOP features of Spring framework to handle exceptions.  • Created front end components using Adobe Flex 2.0 and also used CSS extensively for GUI  • Worked on data access layer using DAO pattern and Spring JDBC Template.  • Worked on Restful web services which enforced a stateless client server and support JSON.  • Used Eclipse IDE for development and deployment of application in WebLogic Application Server.  • Used JUnit extensively and defined various Test Suites and Test Cases.  • Developed a logging component using Log4J to log messages and errors.  • Used CVS for version controlling.  Environment: Java, J2EE, Hibernate, Spring, Angular JS, MVC, JSP, Servlets, Java Beans, Spring JDBC, Web Services, Restful, HTML, JSP, XML, JSON, JavaScript, JMS, ANT, WebLogic, Oracle, PL/SQL, Eclipse, Log4j, CVS, JUnit, Windows. Java Developer Responsibilities United American Insurance - McKinney, TX April 2011 to August 2013 • Implemented the back-end functionality of the modules using Session beans and Entity beans and used DAO, DTO, Business Delegate, J2EE design patterns.  • Developed the controller Servlet to handle the requests and responses.  • Developed user interface using JSP, XML, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, AJAX and JQuery.  • Used AJAX to perform simple XML Http Request callbacks for retrieving data dynamically into the client pages.  • Developed the presentation layer using JSF, JSTL Tag libraries, AJAX, JavaScript, jQuery, HTML5, Angular JS, Bootstrap and CSS.  • Used Web services (SOAP) for transmission of large blocks of XML data over HTTP.  • Developed Data Access Objects to access middleware Web Services.  • Wrote Hibernate configuration file, Hibernate mapping files and defined persistence classes to persist the data into Oracle Database.  • Configured Hibernate session factory to integrate Hibernate with Spring.  • Worked on JMS components for asynchronous messaging.    • Wrote Stored Procedures, Triggers and Functions using SQL Navigator to perform operations on Oracle database.  • Deployed the applications on WebSphere Application Server.  • Used JUnit extensively and defined various Test Suites and Test Cases.  • Developed a logging component using Log4J to log messages and errors.  • Used Clear Case for version controlling.    Environment: Java, J2EE, Hibernate, Spring, MVC, Angular JS, JSP, Servlets, Web Services, SOAP, JSP, XML, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, AJAX, JQuery, JMS, Maven, WebSphere, Apache Tomcat, Oracle, PL/SQL, Eclipse, Log4j, Clear Case, JUnit, Windows. Java Developer Responsibilities Fifth Third Bank - Columbus, OH December 2009 to April 2011 • Actively involved in designing and developing of Object Oriented methodologies using UML and created Use Case, Class and Sequence diagrams.  • Implemented Java Design Patterns like Singleton, Factory, Command patterns.  • Developed classes using Core Java (multithreading, concurrency, memory management) and Spring IOC.  • Developed Data Access Classes using the Hibernate.  • Developed persistence layer using ORM Hibernate for transparently store objects into database.  • Created XML based configuration, property files for application and developing parsers using JAXP, SAX, and DOM technologies.  • Wrote Stored Procedures, Triggers and Functions using SQL Navigator to perform operations on Oracle database.  • Analyzed and fine Tuned SQL queries to improve performance of the application with the database.  • Developed SOAP Web Services using Spring-WS to communicate with Database Tables.  • Created Data Source and deployed the Web application in WebSphere Application Server.  • Used JUnit extensively and defined various Test Suites and Test Cases.  • Used Log4J to trace the flow of the application.  • Used SVN for version controlling.  Environment: Java, J2EE, Core Java, Hibernate, Spring, MVC, UML, XML, Web Services, SOAP, JMS, Maven, WebSphere, Oracle, PL/SQL, SQL, Eclipse, Log4J, SVN, JUnit, Windows. Jr. Java Developer Responsibilities Creative Computer Systems - Addis Ababa, ET January 2009 to November 2009 • Actively involved in gathering, analyzing and documenting business requirements, functional requirements and data Specifications for application development.  • Developed new functionality and features in line with functional specifications and business requirements.  • Developed user interface using HTML, CSS and JavaScript.  • Develop Core Java programs for all business rules and workflows using Spring Framework.  • Used annotations for Spring MVC and Spring Hibernate frameworks.  • Created Model logic using Java Beans and used Hibernate to store the persistence data into Oracle database.  • Wrote Stored Procedures, Triggers and Functions using SQL Navigator to perform operations on Oracle database.  • Developed SOAP Web Services using Spring-WS to communicate with Database Tables.  • Deployed application on WebLogic Application Server.    • Used JUnit to write repeatable tests mainly for unit testing.  • Used Log4J to trace the flow of the application.  • Used SVN for version controlling.    Environment: Java, Core Java, Hibernate, Spring, MVC, JSP, Java Beans, Web Services, SOAP, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, ANT, WebLogic, Oracle, PL/SQL, Eclipse, Log4j, SVN, JUnit, Windows. Education Bachelors in Computer Science in Computer Science Unity University - Addis Ababa, ET Skills Application Support, Production Support, System Analyst