Java Architect / Java Microservices Development / Team Lead <span class="hl">Java</span> Architect / <span class="hl">Java</span> Microservices Development / Team Lead Java Architect / Java Microservices Development / Team Lead Jersey City, NJ ? Excellent experience in Java/J2ee, JMS, Core Java, C, C#, Web Services, REST, SOAP, Spring, Hibernate, OOAD, Multithreading, EJB, JSP, Servlets, JDBC, JSON, JBoss, XML, Angular 2, Jenkins Perforce, YAML, SWIFT, Google Protocol Buffers, Perl, UNIX Shell Scripts etc.  ? Experience also includes Java Swing, WebLogic, MDB, Maven, Git, AWS, Mem Cache (on AWS), RDS, S3, AWS parameter store, SOAP, AWS load balancer, EC2, AWS code pipeline, Route 53, Elastic Beanstalk, AWS Lambda, FARGATE, AWS SSM, Docker, API Development, Spring cloud, JAVA 1.8/11 Confluence, JIRA, Mongo DB, Tibco, Oracle Coherence Cache, Eclipse; RDBMS experience includes Sybase, Oracle and SQL Server programming including database triggers, functions and procedures.  ? Functional domain experience includes Investment Banking, Retail, Manufacturing, Consulting Services etc. with leading clients including Nike, Morgan Stanley, Bank of America, JPMC, Barclays, London Stock Exchange, Nasdaq etc.  ? Excellent communication and interpersonal skills and ability to collaborate effectively as an Individual contributor or work in a team. Work Experience Java Architect / Java Microservices Development / Team Lead SIRIUSXM.com - New York, NY August 2018 to August 2019 Changed back end monolithic struts application to microservices for siriusxm.com  ? Used different microservices design patterns (aggregator, chain), Spring cloud API Gateway, Service registration and discovery, Circuit Breakers (Hystrix), Spring cloud config (Distributed/versioned configuration), Feign, Spring cloud bus, Domain Driven Design (DDD) and async logging to develop these microservices. Lot of POC's were done during development, ex: kubernetes vs spring cloud vs ZUUL, different distributed monitoring/logging solutions (zipkin vs splunk), swagger vs rest docs.  ? Helped setup CI/CD pipeline by using JROG and gave input on how Jenkins scripts should be written and how jenkins servers set up should be (master/slave set up).  ? Technologies used were JAVA 11, spring boot 2.0, REST, SOAP, Gradle, JAX-RS, Docker, Sonar, REDIS, JWT, swagger and Jenkins, Lombok, Mongo DB, App Dynamics, Data Dog, AWS FARGATE and SSM. AWS/ Java Architect/Team Lead/ Developer ASCAP.com - New York, NY January 2018 to August 2018 Worked on an application called OME (www.ascap.com/ome) which was responsible for registering users onto ASCAP platform.  ? Lead the backend development.  ? Designed/Developed microservices and used swaggers bottom up approach using spring boot, JAVA 1.8, REST, JIRA, Docker, API Development, AWS SSM (parameter store), S3, AWS Lambda, AWS CICD pipeline, AWS load balancer, EC2, Route 53, Maven, Elastic Beanstalk, JSON, Sonar, Jenkins and oracle DB AWS/ Java Architect/ Developer Nike.com - New York, NY January 2014 to December 2017 Worked on NBA Nike connected jersey application which gives users next-level access to athletes, exclusive offers, and the game they love (https://news.nike.com/news/nikeconnect-jersey-app-guide).  ? Wrote several microservices to accomplish different tasks using spring boot and JAVA.  ? Worked with several different teams around the world to accomplish tasks on daily basis.  ? Technologies used were Core Java, Spring Boot, web services, Jenkins, Terraform, JSON, maven, JWT (token based authentication, encrypting / decrypting payloads) JIRA, Git.  ? Worked heavily with Amazon web services, MemCache (on AWS), RDS, S3, ELB among other AWS technologies to deploy apps in different regions. Sr. Consultant Morgan Stanley - New York, NY June 2012 to December 2013 Gathered requirements and developed an application which acted as a Router to deliver MUNI/Credit messages to different market handlers.  ? Validated the messages before sending forward and generated dynamic Alerts to notify concerned parties.  ? Technologies used are Core Java, JMS, Spring, RESTful web service, maven, JIRA, Git, Linux, Confluence, Multi-Threading and UNIX scripting.  ? Processed feed from IPREO client which included writing a new trade capture instance in Core Java, sending that trade to downstream systems, and making sure it was executed fine and it will also be shown in the reporting system. Sr. Java Developer Barclays Capital, Jersey City/NYC October 2010 to January 2012 Working with a project that covers the work required to support margin requirements and related workflows.  ? Lead a team of six people in the risk market domain.  ? Worked on encryption mechanism to secure passwords and other important Barclays data.  ? Working heavily with messaging (JMS) and Oracle Coherence.  ? Developed an application which loads and calculates margin based on different strategies for a given portfolio consisting of 75,000+ positions in less than 17 seconds using threading techniques like executor service from end to end which included Java and C++ applications and oracle coherence.  ? Worked heavily on data integrity issues to move the current code to newly developed code and wrote test cases to prove it (re-engineering efforts).  ? Worked heavily with oracle coherence cache.  ? Technologies used were Core Java, JDBC, Oracle Coherence Cache, Hibernate, Threading, Eclipse, Linux, Unix, Microsoft, WebLogic 10.0, EJB's, Tibco, Autosys, XML, XSL, JSP, Web Services, MDB, Sybase and SQL Server.  ? Regression testing. Sr. Programmer/Architect- Risk Margin Team Bank of America - New York, NY April 2010 to October 2010 Working with a project that covers the work required to support product specific risk margin requirements and related workflows.  ? Core business functionality is based on strategy-based margin. Design approach is based on overall Margin strategy of a margin calculation engine/hub to enable future utilization by different business areas and convergence of overlapping components.  ? Working heavily with Apache MQ message broker and Google protocol buffers using Java for low latency purposes. Setting the standard for changing the code from XML to Google protocol buffer.  ? Skills used are TCP/IP, SOA, JDBC, SSH, UDP, JProbe, Java, NIO, SQL, JMS (Queues, Topics, in memory brokers, dynamic queues), SQL server 2005/2008, fine tuning of Java classes and Oracle coherence cache (3.6). Oracle coherence cache is used for performance enhancement for worldwide clients (Asia, London and teams).  ? Interacting with cross functional teams to define business requirements. Working extensively with Microsoft Excel (VB Script) for margin reporting purposes for internal and external clients (hedge funds).  ? Changed all the current projects and defined standards for using Apache maven for worldwide Bank of America developers.  ? Working with threading techniques like fixed thread pool (among others) to minimize memory consumption.  ? Writing test case using JUNIT (using eclipse and maven) to prove performance enhancements. Recommending changes to the infrastructure team and cross functional teams along the lines of performance enhancements. Solutions Engineer / Sr. Java Developer Capital Markets Group - New York, NY October 2002 to April 2010 Project: London Stock Market, Product Manager  ? Worked heavily on the design and development of an application which was responsible for order routing and management of one billion records of LSE trading messages every day in gzip format files. Worked with Low level programming details (ultra low latency, Byte Arrays, Bits, and Byte Buffers) to maximize the processing speed. Skills used were Core Java, JSP, IBM'S WSAD/RAD and Sybase.  ? Developed business cases to support changes in the product mix to increase revenue, meet regulatory requirements and competitive pressure. Effectively managed day-to-day service escalations in partnership with marketing management and support teams to minimize client disruption and dissatisfaction and get to root cause analysis. Helped off shore clients understand the products by preparing and presenting lecture materials on several subjects such as Risk and Tax Considerations, Equities, Debt Securities, Municipal Securities, Derivatives, Portfolio Management, Securities Markets and Securities Transactions. Worked heavily with derivatives.    Project: NASDAQ OMX Stock Market, Team Lead - Global Technology Services Group  ? Worked with Options surveillance System to detect fraudulent activities and generated alerts based on a certain criteriafrom market data/exchange traded Instruments. Worked on daily basis with Vice President and Technology Directors to gather requirements about new changes in the derivatives market /equity trading systems and suggested technology solutions to cut costs in short and long run using Agile programming methods.  ? Algorithmic trading techniques rules engine was written to trigger unusual activity in the options exchange.  ? Skills: JAVA, PL/SQL, Multi-threading, Struts, WAS, UNIX, Perl, HTML, Java Script, CSS, SQL Server 2005, Log4j, Oracle database and Cloud/Grid Computing. Stocks, options, derivatives knowledge was used and worked with off shore team.    Project: IBM, Solutions Engineer  ? Participating in full project life cycle from the business and technology side where responsibilities included: defining work flows, defining business requirements documents, detailed project planning, defining user test criteria and data, testing, status monitoring, problem tracking and resolution. Created and facilitated the development and delivery of new products and services and changes to existing ones. Worked closely with sales representatives to educate existing and prospective customers on how they can incorporate currently offered solutions into their architecture and operations to derive business value. Working with MDA, Java, JSP, SQL, MYSQL, JBOSS (Eclipse), JBoss Messaging (Message Driven Beans), Subversion, Hibernate and Stripes on daily basis to develop the application.    Project: National City Bank, Principal Software Engineer (Investment Consultant Services)  ? Developed an application to enabled Profile-driven selection of a targeted solution, set Investment instructions & restrictions, select pricing & features, customize proposal/Generate & Submit contract, and Track contract acceptance and implementation.  ? Furthermore, added functionality to include contract maintenance (manager/allocation/fee change), contribution, and withdrawal processing.  ? Utilized fixed income knowledge to gather requirements from portfolio manager. Worked very closely with the global business team to accomplish day to day tasks.  ? Used UML to make state and activities diagrams for business users.  ? Participated in high level and detailed design of the project.  ? Utilized JAVA, J2EE, JSP's, Struts, HTML, CSS, Macromedia, Photoshop, Visio, MS SQL, Authentication, Identity management, encryption, Sybase, WSAD (RAD), Web Sphere Application Server, AJAX, and PVCS in the development process.    Project: State Farm, Senior Messaging Architect  ? Assisting State Farm's Architecture team with significant release of messaging components to integrate the workflow to middle office, back office, and external systems from the front offices. Suggesting other Integration strategies of banking components for Enterprise Messaging using Web Sphere MQ, Message Broker and JMS (Pub/Sub, point-to-point). Worked on JBOSS messaging technologies as well. Some parts of the application required object-oriented Perl Scripting.  ? Developed Web based reporting tool in ASP.Net for banking clients. Reporting tool gave users the ability to dynamically generate reports by using different databases. HTML, DHTML, JSP, Servlets, Business Objects, Rapid Application Developer and WebLogic, WebSphere Application Server were used for development.    Project: JP Morgan Chase, Senior Consultant (Fixed Income Group)  ? E-commerce site analysis and development for Financial Services systems. Worked with offshore delivery (BPO) center to develop a Fixed Income application to handle CD/IRA products for businesses and consumer accounts. Other Key responsibilities included software Evaluation, Selection and its Implementation. New functionality will provide the capability to change term, change interest rate, add an interest rate variance, add a comforter option, add funds, withdraw funds, and override holds on withdrawals during the renegotiation period of the CD/IRA (within 14 days of the maturity date). Users can also change the duration of the CD based on a certain set of rules at midpoint. Used JAVA, Servlets, JSP's, RAD (IBM), Struts, Clear Case, Code Pro, and SQL to develop JP Morgan Chase E-commerce website.    Project: Ralph Lauren, E Marketing Manager (Ecommerce Website)  ? Lead someaspects of Marketing by developing and implementing marketing, advertising, emarketing, training materials, market research, service contract program, and sales data mining/tracking.Integrated Google Checkout and EBay in programming code to save time in weekly repeated tasks. Used e-marketing techniques (A/B testing, SEO, ROI strategies) to bring customers to website and to increase sales. Managed dynamic campaign management and cookie-based ad targeting. Other responsibilities included researching and using Web Position, Search Engine Optimization, Web Analytics, Yahoo/ Google Ad words strategies for local and worldwide potential customers, email campaigns, loyalty, lead generation and affiliate programs to bring more traffic to the site. Worked with data analytics vendors, third and party ad servers.    Project: St-Paul Travelers, Senior Software Engineer  ? Developed an application called Rule Deployment Service which was responsible for deploying new set of underwriting rules to different environments simultaneously. Gathered business requirements, prepared high and detailed level designs and used proven application development methodologies to minimize risks. Used JAVA, JMS, Web sphere MQ, Message Broker, Sequence Diagrams, Class Diagrams, Design Patterns and Extreme programming principals to develop this application. Worked closely with client for day to day tasks.    ? E-tutorial Website development using JAVA, JSP, Struts, Rational Rose, JBoss Clear Case, UML, XML, WSAD (IBM) and Visio. Wrote Customized Eclipse plug-ins to dynamically generate code based on XDE/UML diagrams. Prepared and lectured training materials to bring clients team offshore and on shore up to speed on bi-weekly basis. Assigned tasks and helped team members in all phases of application development /transition process. Compiled status reports on weekly basis for Clients Managers. Gathered Functional and Non-Functional Requirements (System requirements Specification document). Used Class, Sequence and Activity diagrams, VMware, virtualization, Swing and SWT Design Patterns and XP programming principles in the development process.    Project: Bank Trade (EuroBank EFG) Product Engineer  ? Worked with two E-commerce applications using J2EE (Swing), C#, C++, ASP and ASP.NET. Duties included integration, functional testing and fixes to projects. Worked effectively and collaboratively with client staff. Coordinated development of code effectively with client technical staff to ensure the highly effective delivery and integration of code to enable a high degree of client satisfaction. Understanding business needs of clients and making reports for product enhancements accordingly. Produced complex financial reports using MSSQL 2000 and DB2. Retrieving and updating databases using joins. JDOM was used for document manipulation. JDeveloper was used for development and JBOSS was used for deployment. Worked with virtual machines. Visited different countries to complete the process. Performance optimization engines. Crystal Reports. GAP analysis of CRM (SAP) system and how can we change our existing small products to be a part of CRM. VOIP analysis and its implementation in all domestic and international branches of the company. Prepared training materials for clients.    Project: Realty Data, Swing /JSP Developer  ? Developed Realty Data's Website which takes orders based on XML format from different clients, stores them in database, processes them and sends an acknowledgement back to clients using Java Mail. Used MVC architecture to develop this application. Oracle 9i database. Developed Realty Data's portal using Java, Swing, JSP's, Servlets, JavaScript and CVS. Worked with target selection technologies, Website dynamically displays all the products covered by the company in 45 states and their respective counties. Designed a server-side Image map using Dream weaver, Fireworks, Image Ready, Photoshop and Flash. Used several marketing techniques to drive more traffic to the site. www.realtydata.com    Project: National City Bank (Tangoe), Java Developer  ? Responsible for designing and developing custom products for different clients on an ongoing basis. Understanding client's financial hierarchy and developing custom modules according to client's financial structure. Developed High and Detailed Level Designs and coded the application according to business requirements. Used J2EE, JSP's, Swing, Struts, AWT, Windows, JDO's, XML/XSD (JDOM, DOM, XSD), Ant, Web Logic 7/8, JBuilderX, FIX, DB schema design, Junit and MS SQL Server 2000 (Data Modeling) andWSAD in the development process. Extreme Programming techniques used. Other responsibilities included analyzing and suggesting product enhancement to managers. Education New York University 2006 Bachelor of Science in Computer Information Systems Stony Brook University 2002 Skills Linux