Sr. AEM Consultant Sr. AEM Consultant Sr. AEM Consultant - Epsilon Atlanta, GA • Over 11+ years of professional experience in Analysis, Design, Development, Testing, Deployment and implementation of software applications.  • Brain Bench Certified professional in JDK 1.5, 1.6.  • Expertise in design and development of various web applications with N-Tier Architecture using MVC and J2EE Architecture techniques.  • Proficient in working with various technologies like Java8, spring, Hibernate, Adobe CQ, Ajax, JMS, JDBC, XML, Web Services and Design Patterns.  • Expertise in working with various database/tools like Oracle9i/10g, Toad, and MS-SQL Server 2005.  • Extensively used WSAD5.1/RAD/Eclipse/My Eclipse 8.0 as J2EE Development Environment.  • Experienced in developing J2EE components on Application Servers like WebSphere7.x, WebLogic10.3, JBoss7.1.1 and Web servers like Tomcat 6.0.  • Experienced with Crystal Reports Version 9. Worked on generating PDF, Excel and HTML reports using JAVA.  • Hands on Experience in Maven, Ant and Log4J.  • Developed, implemented and configure web content management solutions using AEM (Adobe CQ5) and technologies such as Java, HTML/DHTML, XML, JavaScript, and web services and Strong knowledge on MSM, Security, Authentication.  • Strong knowledge on SiteSpect, Cloud services, Target and integration with Analytics.  • Extensive Expertise in CQ5, CRX, JCR, sling and OSGi technologies.  • Extensive domain Knowledge in Banking, Travel, Transportation, Logistics.  • Ability to work in tight schedules and efficient in meeting deadlines.  • Good initiator, quick learner and excellent team-player with strong personal and group communication skills.  • Experienced on source control solutions such as: SVN, GIT and Bitbucket.  • Coach and mentor junior technical resources; own responsibility for ongoing technical development of technical resources on AEM projects.  • Working knowledge and understanding of the following: Apache Sling, Apache Felix, Apache Server logs, OSGI, Restful web services, AJAX, JSON.  • Proficient in all phases of SDLC (analysis, design, development, testing and deployment) and highly competent in gathering user requirements and converting them into software requirement specifications using Rational Rose, UML, Object Oriented Techniques. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. AEM Consultant Epsilon - Irving, TX March 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Involved in meetings to gather information requirements and preparing the Requirement Document.  • Provided hands-on, expert-level technical assistance to developers.  • Build new AEM instances and configured all the required configurations (httpd, dispatcher. Any) for the AEM to run as required.  • Designed and build components, templates, dialogs, and workflows using the AEM architecture (Sling, CRX, OSGI, and JCR).  • Involved performance optimizations, heap and thread dump analysis.  • Translate business requirements into well-architected solutions that best leverage the AEM platform.  • Worked on the issues like Disable Targeting and JQuery Versioning which usually arise when upgrading from CQ5.6 to AEM 6.1.  • Created a new repository for new AEM instances.  • Configured Replication and Dispatcher Flush in the AEM.  • Created workflows for activating and deactivating pages from the content authors. Detailed knowledge of user and group administration in AEM.  • Experience working with Maven to build and generate the jar files to deploy in the Felix Console.  • Worked on slightly for developing components.  • Worked on Installation, environments, maintains upgrades and supports AEM instances.  • Have a detailed knowledge of working with JIRA.  • Have been using DAM Assets, Package Manager, Package Share, Replication and other tools provided by CQ and also have an in-depth knowledge of using all the above.  • Implemented Personalization (Dynamic Content Targeting) for Regional based content using AEM Campaigns and Segments.  • Created the Campaigns and Segments in AEM for every region and assigned the campaigns to the segments.  • Used Client Context Session store to store user/region specific information.  • Created a responsive column control component using bootstrap grid system.  • Designed and Implemented many complex Restful Web Services, Workflows, Templates, Components, Campaigns, Segmentation and Teasers  • Designed efficient content models, security models, workflows and templates.  • Worked on SPA using AngularJS  Environment: AEM 6.1, Workflow, DAM, Java, J2EE, Apache Maven, HTML5, JavaScript, AngularJS, CSS3, JSP, GitHub, Jira, Jenkins. Sr. AEM Consultant Time Warner Cable - Denver, CO October 2016 to March 2017 Responsibilities:  • Developed wiki pages to set up environment for author, publish and dev, qa environments.  • Worked on components, templates, dialogs, widgets and bundles.  • Worked on AEM Sling models, sightly and Touch UI development.  • Set up and maintain administration activities such as workflows, publishing permissions, roles, templates and components.  • Worked with marketing team to publish all content to the website.  • Worked on dispatcher configuration, deploying modules and load balancing.  • Worked on HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript and multi browser support.  • Worked on day to day change requests and quickly make changes to the application.  • Worked as Associate Architect for supporting content authors.  • Used JIRA tool for tracking the issues in production environment.  • Used GIT for code repository.  Environment: AEM 6.1, Workflow, DAM, Java, J2EE, HTML5, JavaScript, CSS3, JSP, JIRA, Jenkins, GitHub. Sr. AEM Consultant Sydney NSW March 2015 to September 2016 Responsibilities:  • Maintaining and enhancing the features B2B site.  • Developed the custom components and the OSGI services according to the business logic and functionality.  • Worked with the DAM and the customized the update asset workflow.  • Developed components, templates and pages using HTML5, CSS3, Java, Sightly.  • Resolving technical and production issues AEM 6.2  • Involved in building, deploying the code and moving code to different environments.  • Worked on customized workflow process due to the MSM Multi-site manager configurations used in AEM for the site: to handle multiple countries which are setup from a Global tree with live copies.  • Used JIRA tool for tracking the issues in production environment and svn for code repository.  • Participate in B2B product feature and design discussions and mentor junior level developers while working on self-development.  • Responsible for code review and automation of build process deployment.  Environment: AEM 6.2, Workflow, DAM, Java8, J2EE, HTML5, JavaScript, CSS3, JSP, JIRA, Jenkins, SVN, Maven. Adobe CQ5 Developer HP - Plano, TX December 2013 to February 2015 Project: Cit.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in meetings to gather information requirements and preparing the Requirement Document.  • Designed Content structure including folder structure, Caching, Workflow for verification, metadata management strategies and come with design for CUG and ACL properties for asset control.  • Upgraded CQ 5.4 to AEM 5.6.1 and resolve the dependencies of the tool with the old version.  • Implemented Complex workflows, workflow launchers, Schedulers to meet the requirements.  • Setting up environments dev, test, staging, production and setting disaster recovery and backup system.  • Designed and Developed Adobe CQ5 templates, OSGI bundles, and components for HP websites to meet requirements for more than 50 brands.  • Maintaining CQ Servers and restoring them on failovers.  • Customization of PDF generation.  • Integration of Spring MVC with Adobe CQ5.6.  • Created POC related to CQ5 design and implementation.  • Designed DAM Tagging and taxonomy for website.  • Worked on in gestors which ingest news, photos, videos and articles from third party.  • Created design for integration with Scene 7 for storing Videos.  • Developed CQ components, workflow and integrating CQ with other applications.  • Implemented Log4J for Logging Errors, debugging and tracking using loggers, appender's components.  • Participated in the Agile SCRUM based development methodology to deliver valuable working software frequently.  • Worked on design for integration with third-party Restful and SOAP based web services and LDAP for authentication.  Environment: Adobe CQ5.6, CQ5 DAM, CQ Tagging, Workflow, Scene 7, Java, J2EE, Apache Maven, Confluence, JIRA, Ingestors, Apache HTTP Server, SOAP and REST Web Services, JAXP, JAXB, Axis 2.0, Jersey 1.2, Servlets, JDBC, MS SQL Server, HTML, JSP, TOAD, UML, MS Visio, AJAX, JUnit, log4j Sr. Java Developer FedEx - Memphis, TN May 2012 to November 2013 Project: GFBO  Responsibilities:  • Involved in complete SDLC - Requirement Analysis, Development, System Integration Testing and Performance Testing.  • Involved in two initial demos to client and coordinating with off-shore team.  • Worked on updating functionality specifications and developed Technical design document and added all documented-on wiki Confluence.  • Extensively worked validations using JSF validation framework and Java Script.  • Implemented Log4J for Logging Errors, debugging and tracking using loggers, appender's components.  • Involved Agile development practices to significantly improve speed to market and reduce defects.  • Used Apache Maven for build automation.  • involved in designing and implementing the application using various design patterns such as Singleton, DAO, Front Controller, Service Locator, Business Delegate, Facade and Data Access Object  • Worked closely with QA team and coordinating on fixes  • Used Web services (SOAP) for transmission of large blocks of XML data over HTTP.  Environment: Core Java, J2EE, JDBC, ICE Faces, Hibernate3.2, Spring3.0, Web logic 10.3, Oracle10g, Eclipse 3.7, CSS, Ajax, JavaScript, Maven, Log4j, SVN, XML, XHTML, Web Services, Design Patterns, Sr. Java Developer Wal-Mart Stores Inc - Bentonville, AR January 2011 to April 2012 Project: Diversity Tracker Application  Responsibilities:  • Involved in complete SDLC - Requirement Analysis, Development, System Integration Testing and Performance Testing.  • Involved in the implementation of Spring MVC Pattern.  • Configured and deployed the components in Web Sphere.  • Worked with JavaScript, CSS and HTML to tweak the web pages to the desired style followed by the organization.  • The front-end was driven extensively using JavaScript / AJAX along with Data Grids.  • Adding many features using JavaScript to highlight and draw attention to image features and add a unique feel to the website  • Use Hibernate framework for the backend persistence.  • Customized and deployed central authentication services using LDAP.  • Involved in code reviews, create ear file and deploy the ear file and distributed to end-users.  • Responsible to fix any critical issue on QA environment.  • Able to deliver the requirements on timely manner.  • Interface with the offshore team by leading them on the technology front thereby achieving a team work environment by successfully delivering the tasks/developed packages and integrate them on the customer environment.  • Handling and providing clarifications of team size 7 at off-shore.  Environment: Core Java, J2EE, JSP, JSF, Rich Faces, Servlet, JDBC, Hibernate3.2, Spring2.5, WebSphere7.1, JMS, Oracle10g, RAD7.5.5, CSS, Ajax, JavaScript, Maven, Log4j, SVN, XML, XHTML, LDAP, Web services, Validation framework and Design Patterns Sr. Java Developer Vanguard - Malvern, PA December 2009 to January 2011 Project: IAM and FAS  Responsibilities:  • Involved in complete SDLC - Requirement Analysis, Development, System Integration Testing and Performance Testing.  • Wrote XHTML and CSS code to design and link survey landing pages.  • Developed custom components using JSF Facelets.  • Migrating from Core JSF to Facelets.  • Extensively used Rich Faces using Scrollable DataTable.  • Involved in the implementation of Spring Web Flow- MVC Pattern.  • Developed JSF pages using Java Script and CSS on Web Sphere.  • Configured and deployed the components in Web Sphere.  • Worked with JavaScript, CSS and HTML to tweak the web pages to the desired style followed by the organization.  • Implemented JTest for performance in all scenarios.  • Used Hibernate in persistence layer.  • Implemented JAVA/J2EE design patterns such as Factory, DAO, Session Façade, Singleton, Value object.  • Implemented object/relational persistence (Hibernate) for the domain model.  • Creating logs for error tracking using Log4J.  • Followed agile software development with Scrum methodology.  Environment: Core Java, J2EE, JSP, JSF, Rich faces, Servlet, JDBC, Hibernate3.2, Spring2.5, WebSphere6.1, JMS, Oracle10g, RAD7.5.5, CSS, Ajax, Ant1.7.1, JTest, Log4j, Clear case, XML, XHTML, Validation framework and Design Patterns Software Engineer ISAP Technologies - Chennai, Tamil Nadu January 2008 to November 2009 Project: IAppraisal  This application is used for the appraisal system of the company where in all the employees uses this application for the appraisal purposes. Each employee logs in with different roles of appraise appraiser, reviewer and SDU Head. The user interacts with the environment corresponding to their roles to do the appraisal purposes.  HR has got all access privileges like creating appraisal cycles, performance bands and distribution, Personal Attributes, new grade/designation and manages the same. HR can also manage the employee hierarchy tree. HR can navigate through all the main functionalities in the application. All the users except appraise can view the Approval Worksheet.  Appraise can only do their self-appraisal or target setting and view the appraisal summary.  HR can view various reports like Eligibility View, Status view, performance band view, appraisal feedback view etc.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in complete SDLC - Requirement Analysis, Development, System and Integration Testing.  • Developed user interface using JSP, JSP Tag libraries (JSTL) to simplify the complexities of the application.  • Developed Servlets which acts as Controller in MVC Architecture.  • Implemented EJB's for Message Driven Bean and Developed Transfer Objects to transfer the data between different tiers.  • Client GUI pages were designed using HTML, JSP, JavaScript.  • Used JavaScript for client side validations.  • Used multithreading in programming to improve overall performance.  • Implemented Transaction processing using multithread.  • Developed various helper classes needed following Core Java multi-threaded programming and Collection classes.  • Developed both front-end user interface screens as well as database design.  • Implemented stored procedures using JDBC.  • Changes & Enhancements in Applications and Business Analysis  • Creating logs for error tracking using Log4J.  • Developed crystal reports for Feedback View Report, Eligibility View Report, Status View Report, and PerformanceBandView Report.  Environment: Core Java, J2EE, JavaBeans, JDBC, Servlets, JSP, Tomcat, Eclipse, log4j, Ant, JUnit, Windows, JavaScript, CSS, HTML, XML, Oracle Software Engineer IBS Software Solutions - Bengaluru, Karnataka September 2005 to December 2007 Project: ICargo  ICargo is a product designed for the handling of cargo in airlines. Cargo is envisioned to be the leading hosting solution for the airline cargo transportation world. The product will also provide a viable migration alternative from the current legacy systems. It is divided into four releases, which includes Flight operations, Terminal operations, Revenue management, and Report generation.    Responsibilities:  • Developed Panels which provides GUI for the user.  • Developed Java Components for the core business logic  • Perform Unit Testing.  • Played an active role in the deployment process of the applications on the server side.  • Used HTML, Java Script, AJAX, and JSP to develop UI pages.  • Used JavaScript for client side validation.  • Worked on various activities deployment and integration of all the modules as part of Integration Team.  • Involved in Fixing the UAT Bugs, change requests (CRs) analysis and impact analysis of CRs.  • Involved in Unit Testing, User Acceptance Testing and Bug Fixing.  • Involved in the configuration of SSL to provide internet security.  Environment: Java, Servlet, JSP, JavaScript, HTML, CSS, EJB, Tomcat, Oracle, Eclipse Education Masters of Computer Applications in Computer Applications UNIVERSITY OF MADRAS - Chennai, Tamil Nadu Skills AJAX (7 years), J2EE (10+ years), Java (10+ years), JavaScript (10+ years), JSP (10+ years) Certifications/Licenses Driver's License Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Technologies  AEM 6.x, Java, Swing, Java Beans, J2EE (JSP, Servlets, EJB), JSF2.0, Struts 2, Web Services, Spring3.0, Hibernate3.2, Adobe AEM, Ajax, JMS, JDBC, JavaScript, SOAP, Crystal Reports 9.0    Markup Languages HTML5, XML, XSL, XSLT, DHTML.  Application Servers Web Logic 8.1/9.2/10.3.2, WebSphere7.1, JBoss 7.1.1.  Web Servers Tomcat 5.5/6.0  Middleware RMI, EJB 2.0, Oracle ADF  Apache Projects Ant 1.5, Log4j, JMeter  IDE Eclipse3.7, My Eclipse 8.0, RAD7.5, JDeveloper11.1.1.7, Intellij.  RDBMS Oracle 8/8i/9I/10G, My SQL 4.0, MS-SQL Server 2005  SourceControl Tools Svn, Git, Bitbucket  Design Patterns Singleton, MVC, Business Delegate, Session Facade, DAO  Operating Systems Windows NT / 2000 / XP professional, UNIX