Sr. ETL Informatica Developer Sr. ETL Informatica <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. ETL Informatica Developer - Tapestry North Bergen, NJ • 12+ years of IT experience in Data Analysis, Design, coding and testing of Data Warehousing implementations across Banking, Financial, Pharmaceutical, Health care and Insurance Industries.  • Strong experience in the Analysis, design, development, testing and Implementation of Business Intelligence solutions using Data Warehouse/Data Mart Design, ETL, OLAP, BI, Client/Server applications.  • Strong Data Warehousing ETL experience of using Informatica 10.x /9.x Power Center Client tools.  • Expertise in Data Warehouse/Data mart, ODS, OLTP and OLAP implementations teamed with project scope, Analysis, requirements gathering, data modeling, Effort Estimation, ETL Design, development, System testing, Implementation and production support.  • Strong experience in Extraction, Transformation and Loading (ETL) data from various sources into Data Warehouses and Data Marts using Informatica Power Center ,Power Exchange.  • Extensive experience in developing Stored Procedures, Functions, Views and Triggers, Complex SQL queries using SQL Server and Oracle PL/SQL.  • Experience in resolving on-going maintenance issues and bug fixes, monitoring Informatica sessions as well as performance tuning of mappings and sessions.  • Proficient in the Integration of various data sources with multiple relational databases like Oracle11g /Oracle10g/9i, MS SQL Server, DB2, Teradata, VSAM files and Flat Files into the staging area, ODS, Data Warehouse and Data Mart.  • Worked extensively with slowly changing dimensions.  • Extensive experience in writing UNIX shell scripts and automation of the ETL processes using UNIX shell scripting.  • 3+Years’ Experience in application development using Java, J2EE Technologies.  • Experienced in Data Migration Using Snap Logic Cloud.  • Experienced with coordinating cross-functional teams.  • Hands-on experience across all stages of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) including business requirement analysis, data mapping, build, unit testing, systems integration and user acceptance testing.  • Excellent interpersonal and communication skills, and is experienced in working with senior level managers, business people and developers across multiple disciplines. Work Experience Sr. ETL Informatica Developer Tapestry - North Bergen, NJ August 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Responsible for Business Analysis and Requirements Collection Designed Source to Target Mapping Specification Documents.  • Worked on Informatica Power Center tools- Designer, Repository Manager, Workflow Manager, and Workflow Monitor.  • Worked with Informatica Data Quality (Analyst and Developer)  • Designed and customized data models for Data warehouse supporting data from multiple sources on real time  • Used various transformations like Filter, Expression, Sequence Generator, Update Strategy, Joiner, Stored Procedure, and Union to develop robust mappings in the Informatica Designer.  • Wrote UNIX shell Scripts & PMCMD commands for FTP of files from remote server and backup of repository and folder.  • Involved in Performance tuning at source, target, mappings, sessions, and system levels.  • Prepared migration document to move the mappings from development to testing and then to production repositories.  • Works with DBAs and Data Architects to plan and implement appropriate data partitioning strategy in Enterprise Data Warehouse.  • Worked with XML's, Java transformation within Informatica.  • Created and Tidal jobs for Informatica Components and deployed into Production Server.  Environment: Informatica Power Center 10.2 & 10.1, Informatica Data Quality, Oracle, SQL Server, Netezza, SAP Hana XML, Tidal, UNIX, Hive. Sr. ETL Informatica Developer Magellan HealthCare - Glen Allen, VA January 2018 to July 2018 Responsibilities:  • Involved in business requirement analysis and prepared functional requirement document  • Involved in the ETL technical design discussions and prepared ETL high level technical design document.  • Involved in migrating the Legacy data in to Data Bases Using Snap Logic.  • Involved in the analysis of source to target mapping provided by data analysts and prepared function and technical design documents  • Extracted data from Flat files, high volume of data sets from data files, Oracle using Informatica ETL mappings/SQL PLSQL scripts and loaded to Data Store Area  • Created complex Informatica mappings using Unconnected Lookup, joiner, Rank, Source Qualifier, Sorter, Aggregator, newly changed dynamic Lookup and Router transformations to extract, transform and loaded data mart area.  • Created re-usable transformations/mapplets and used across various mappings  • Developed Informatica workflows/worklets/sessions associated with the mappings using Workflow Manager  • Wrote Unit Test cases and executed unit test scripts successfully.  • Involved in performance tuning of Informatica code using standard informatica tuning steps.  • Involved in the performance tuning of SQL/PLSQL scripts based on explain plan.  • Supported during QA/UAT/PROD deployments and bug fixes.  • Schedule daily backup of Informatica environment, restore Informatica environment when required.  • Administer projects, roles, user, and privileges across all three environments, Configure and setup LDAP security integration with Informatica, Load balancing of the ETL services  • Involved in code Reviews as per ETL/Informatica standards and best practices.  Environment: Informatica 9.6.1(Repository Manager, Admin Console, Designer, Workflow Manager Workflow Monitor), Toad, Oracle 11g, UNIX, SnapLogic, AWS Sr Informatica Developer Volkswagen Group of America - Auburn Hills, MI April 2016 to December 2017 Responsibilities:  • Involved in business requirement analysis and prepared functional requirement document  • Involved in the ETL technical design discussions and prepared ETL high level technical design document  • Involved in the analysis of source to target mapping provided by data analysts and prepared function and technical design documents  • Extracted data from excel files, high volume of data sets from data files, Oracle using Informatica ETL mappings/SQL PLSQL scripts and loaded to Data Store Area  • Created complex Informatica mappings using Unconnected Lookup, joiner, Rank, Source Qualifier, Sorter, Aggregator, newly changed dynamic Lookup and Router transformations to extract, transform and loaded data mart area.  • Created re-usable transformations/mapplets and used across various mappings  • Wrote complex PLSQL scripts /functions/procedures/packages.  • Developed Informatica workflows/worklets/sessions associated with the mappings using Workflow Manager  • Created Tivoli jobs to schedule Informatica Workflows  • Executed workflows using Tivoli scheduler  • Wrote Unit Test cases and executed unit test scripts successfully.  • Involved in performance tuning of Informatica code using standard informatica tuning steps.  • Involved in the performance tuning of SQL/PLSQL scripts based on explain plan.  • Supported during QA/UAT/PROD deployments and bug fixes.  • Wrote UNIX corn shell scripts for file transfer/archiving /Email notifications.  • Schedule daily backup of Informatica environment, restore Informatica environment when required.  • Administer projects, roles, user, and privileges across all three environments, Configure and setup LDAP security integration with Informatica, Load balancing of the ETL services  • Provided 24/7 production support to all the ETL Informatica applications and Projects.  • Involved in code Reviews as per ETL/Informatica standards and best practices.  Environment: Informatica 9.6.1(Repository Manager, Admin Console, Designer, Workflow Manager Workflow Monitor), Toad, Oracle 11g, UNIX, SAP BO Sr. Informatica Developer EXIM - Ready Soft - IN June 2014 to December 2015 Responsibilities:  • Extensively worked on Informatica IDE/IDQ.  • Involved in massive data profiling using IDQ (Analyst Tool) prior to data staging.  • Used IDQ's standardized plans for addresses and names clean ups.  • Worked on IDQ file configuration at user's machines and resolved the issues.  • Used IDQ to complete initial data profiling and removing duplicate data.  • And extensively worked on IDQ admin tasks and worked as both IDQ Admin and IDQ developer.  • Performed many multiple tasks effectively and involved in troubleshooting the issues.  • Created references tables, applications and workflows and deployed that to Data integration service for further execution of workflow.  • Played a very important role in team in development of mappings, workflows and troubleshooting the issues.  • Working extensively on Informatica Designer, workflow manager to create, sessions, workflows and monitor the results and validate them according to the requirement.  • Design reference data and data quality rules using IDQ and involved in cleaning the data using IDQ in Informatica Data Quality 9.1 environment  • Worked on deploying metadata manager like extensive metadata connectors for data integration visibility, advanced search and browse of metadata catalog, data lineage and visibility into data objects, rules, transformations and reference data.  • Used IDQ to profile the project source data, define or confirm the definition of the metadata, cleanse and accuracy check the project data, check for duplicate or redundant records, and provide information on how to proceed with ETL processes.  Environment: Oracle 11g, PL/SQL, Informatica Data Quality 9.x, IDQ admin console, UNIX. Sr. Informatica/IDQ Developer Liberty Mutual - Ready Soft - IN June 2013 to May 2014 Responsibilities:  • Extensively worked on Informatica IDE/IDQ.  • Involved in massive data profiling using IDQ (Analyst Tool) prior to data staging.  • Used IDQ's standardized plans for addresses and names clean ups.  • Worked on IDQ file configuration at user's machines and resolved the issues.  • Used IDQ to complete initial data profiling and removing duplicate data.  • And extensively worked on IDQ admin tasks and worked as both IDQ Admin and IDQ developer.  • Performed many multiple tasks effectively and involved in troubleshooting the issues.  • Created references tables, applications and workflows and deployed that to Data integration service for further execution of workflow.  • Worked on UC4 as job scheduler and used to run the created application and respective workflow in this job scheduler in selected recursive timings  • Played a very important role in team in development of mappings, workflows and troubleshooting the issues.  • Worked very closely with SQA team all the time in order to fix the issues and completed tasks effectively in time and proceeded to production level.  • Very familiar about Sorter, Filter, Expression, Consolidation, Match, Exception, Association and Address validator transformations.  • Working extensively on Informatica Designer, workflow manager to create, sessions, workflows and monitor the results and validate them according to the requirement.  • Design reference data and data quality rules using IDQ and involved in cleaning the data using IDQ in Informatica Data Quality 9.1 environment  • Develop MDM solutions for workflows, de-duplication, validations etc., and Facilitate Data load and syndication  Environment: Informatica 9.x (Repository Manager, Admin Console, Designer, Workflow Manager, Workflow Monitor), Informatica Data Quality 9.x, Toad, Oracle, UNIX, Autosys. Sr. Informatica Lead XLI, IBM India Pvt Ltd April 2012 to May 2013 Responsibilities:  • Logical and Physical data modeling was done using Erwin for data warehouse database instar Schema  • Using Informatica Power Center Designer analyzed the source data to Extract & Transform from various source systems (oracle 10g, DB2, SQL server and flat files) by incorporating business rules using different objects and functions that the tool supports.  • Using Informatica Power Center created mappings and mapplets to transform the data according to the business rules.  • Used various transformations like Source Qualifier, Joiner, Lookup, sql, and router, Filter, Expression and Update Strategy.  • Implemented slowly changing dimensions (SCD) for some of the Tables as per user requirement.  • Developed Stored Procedures and used them in Stored Procedure transformation for data processing and have used data migration tools  • Documented Informatica mappings in Excel spread sheet.  • Tuned the Informatica mappings for optimal load performance.  • Have used BTEQ, FEXP, FLOAD, MLOAD Teradata utilities to export and load data to/from Flat files.  • Created and Configured Workflows and Sessions to transport the data to target warehouse Oracle tables using Informatica Workflow Manager.  • Worked along with UNIX team for writing UNIX shell scripts to customize the server scheduling jobs.  • Constantly interacted with business users to discuss requirements.  • Performed Power Center User Administration, Folder creation and User access control  • Performed Code Migration across various environments like DEV, TEST, STG, and PROD. Informatica SCM(Folder Level migration/Object Level Migration)  • Informatica object Migration using Repository Manager  • Informatica Administration activity(by using Admin console)  • Hotfix Implementation.  • Performed root-cause analysis for production issues across multiple projects, and implemented code fixes (if needed) for same  Environment: Informatica Power Center Designer 9.5.1,Informatica Repository Manager, TeraData14, Erwin, oracle 10g, DB2, TOAD, Unix- SunOS, PL/SQL, and SQL Developer Sr Informatica Developer JP Morgan Chase - IN January 2011 to March 2012 Responsibilities:  • Gathered business scope and Technical requirements.  • Worked with Power Center Designer tools in developing mappings and mapplets to extract and load the data from flat files and Oracle (source) to Oracle (target).  • Extensively used All Fusion-Erwin for Logical / Physical data modeling and Dimensional data modeling, and designed Star join schemas.  • Created different transformations for loading the data into targets using various transformations like Source Qualifier, Joiner transformation, Update Strategy, Lookup transformation, Rank Transformations, Expressions, Aggregator, and Sequence Generator  • Created reusable transformations and mapplets to use the transformation logic in multiple mappings  • Worked on Repository manager to create and manage user profiles.  • Scheduled Sessions on the Informatica Server using Informatica workflow Manager  • Implemented performance tuning logic on targets, sources, mappings, sessions to provide maximum efficiency and performance.  • Extensively used Source Qualifier, Aggregator, Filter, Expression, Lookup, Update Strategy, Router and Joiner transformation.  • Used Procedure Transformations to invoke Oracle PL/SQL Procedures.  • Implemented slowly changing dimensions according to the requirements, Partitioned sessions, modified cache/buffers and tuned transformations for better performance.  • Wrote Data loading stored procedures, functions using PL/SQL from Source systems into operational data storage  • Involved in fine Tuning queries for better performance (includes indexing and pre-joining and materializing views).  • Created views and altered some of the Dimensional tables to satisfy their Reporting needs.  • Created reports like, Reports by Department, Reports by Supplier, Reports by Period, Demographic reports and Comparative reports  • Created different types of reports such as Master/Detail, Cross Tab and Chart.  Environment: Informatica Power Center 9.1(Repository Manager, Admin Console, Designer, Workflow Manager, Workflow Monitor), Toad, UNIX, TeradataR14 Sr. Informatica Developer Commonwealth Bank - IN April 2009 to December 2010 Responsibilities:  • Involved in System Study and Transferred knowledge to offshore team  • Involved in production support and ensured ETL processes works as expected  • Involved in researching and resolving production issues  • Involved in technical supporting, troubleshooting data warehouse application to meet Service Level Agreement (SLA's)  • Handling of CR's (Change Requests) and enhancements for existing application and followed change management process  • Understanding the business requirement specifications provided by the client.  • Involved in Data Quality ,Data profiling , Data Cleansing and metadata management  • Performing impact analysis and handling ETL change requests based on the business rules.  • Created design specifications for ETL coding and mapping standards  • Created complex mappings using Unconnected Lookup, joiner, Rank, Source Qualifier, Sorter, Aggregator, newly changed dynamic Lookup and Router transformations to extract, transform and load data to staging area.  • Wrote PLSQL procedures/Functions and called from Informatica  • Involved in test data preparation for all releases.  • Wrote Test cases and executed test scripts in Data warehouse  • Establish performance and tuning methods for mappings, workflows  • Distribution of work to onsite and offshore team and follow-ups.  • Reviewing the work and submitting the work to client with sufficient documentation  • Created timelines for project completion and cost estimation.  Environment: Informatica Power Center 8.6.1, Orcle10g, Windows2000, Autosys, HP Quality Center, WinSCP. Sr. Java Developer Commonwealth Bank - IN November 2007 to March 2009 Responsibilities:  • Involved in Developing of Application based on J2EE using Struts, Hibernate and spring frameworks.  • Involved in all the test cases and fixed any bugs or any issues identified during the testing period.  • Involved in writing detailed Functional document and Technical document identify integration points and review technical specifications created by other developers with the team and across interfacing teams.  • Used apache-maven tool to build, configure, and package and deploy an application project.  • Used Sub version to maintain different versions of application code.  • Involved in fixing the production defects.  • Created deployment guide for Production.  • Deployed application ears on IBM WebSphere Application Server Network Deployment in Development, System Test and Performance Test on a daily basis and troubleshoot various configuration and application issues.  • Configured WebSphere resources such as JDBC Providers, Data Sources and Connection Pooling and administered performance tuning.  • Configured Admin console security on WebSphere and creating users with various roles to access the WebSphere admin console users and groups and added them in LDAP Console Groups using Admin console.  • Configured SVN and implementing project  Environment: Java, Servlets, JSPs, Struts1.x, XML, IBM WebSphere, MyEclipse, Oracle, SVN Java Developer Dubai Islamic Bank - Dubai, AE September 2006 to September 2007 Responsibilities:  • Involved in all the phases of SDLC including Requirements Collection, Design & Analysis of the Customer Specifications, Development and Customization of the Application.  • Worked on all phases of application development to implement the assigned use cases successfully.  • Deployed the application on IBM Web Sphere application server.  • Involved in coding for different modules by using JSP, Servlets.  • Involved Bug Fixing and Migrating the Application in Different Environments.  • Deployed application ears on IBM WebSphere Application Server Network Deployment in Development, System Test and Performance Test on a daily basis and troubleshoot various configuration and application issues.  • Configured WebSphere resources such as JDBC Providers, Data Sources, and Connection Pooling and administered performance tuning.  • Configured Admin console security on WebSphere and creating users with various roles to access the WebSphere admin console users and groups and added them in LDAP Console Groups using Admin console.  • Developed Crystal Reports based on user requirements  • Deploying and Configure Reports in BO Server  • Developed Crystal Reports and deployed in BO Server.  Environment: Java, J2EE, JSP, IBM Web Sphere Application server, My Eclipse, JavaScript, Oracle 9i, JDBC, SVN, Crystal Reports 9. Education Master of Science in Information Technology in Information Technology Sikkim Manipal University 2003 Skills DB2, MS SQL SERVER, SQL SERVER, ORACLE, PL/SQL Additional Information Technical Skills  ETL Tools: Informatica Power Center 10.x, Informatica Data Quality, SnapLogic  RDBMS: Oracle, DB2, MS SQL Server, Teradata ,Netezza,Hive  Programming Skills: SQL,PL/SQL, Java, J2EE, Unix,C,C++  Reporting Tools: Business Objects XI. Crystal Report 9.