Business Analyst Consultant Business Analyst Consultant Business Analyst Consultant - United Health Care Durham, CT Work Experience Business Analyst Consultant United Health Care October 2018 to Present Liaise between internal teams, research, plan, define, and drive pharmacy strategies for the creation of programs that improve the provider, patient, and member experience at the best possible cost.  • Prioritization  • Project Management  • Requirements, User Stories, Use Cases  • Documentation  • Strategy development Product Manager Surgical Information Systems (formerly Source Medical) January 2015 to August 2018 Lead a cross-functional team to deliver software solutions for Ambulatory and Specialty Hospital product portfolios that deliver unique value to clients and stakeholders.  • Project Management  • Regulatory Compliance  • Portfolio Management and Roadmap Planning  • Requirements, User Stories, Use Cases Sr. Business Analysis Source Medical November 2013 to January 2015 Business Analyst Source Medical December 2010 to November 2013 Business Analysis/ December 2010 - November 2013  Liaise between clients and internal teams, research, plan, define, and drive product innovation for the creation of software that is functional, efficient, improves patient care and administrative functions, and meets regulatory compliance and industry standards.  • Product Owner  • Prioritization  • Roadmap Planning  • Project Management  • Requirements, User Stories, Use Cases  • Documentation Staff RN Midstate Medical Center September 2009 to January 2011 Provided patient care to medical, surgical, and telemetry patients from admission to discharge. Responsible for the complete nursing process including patient care, documentation, medication management, and education.  • Patient Care  • Patient Discharge Planning  • Patient Education  • Documentation Java Developer The Hartford February 2006 to November 2009 COBOL Developer The Hartford August 2001 to February 2006 Successful coding, testing, implementation of applications per technical and business specifications while adhering to standards and protocols and within established delivery dates. Creation of technical analysis and documentation, design document and test plans.  • Technical analysis  • Develop and implement moderate to complex technical specifications  • Create and maintain technical and design documentation  • Testing and test plan creation Education Bachelor of Science in Nursing Walden University - Minneapolis, MN 2019 Associates of Science in Nursing Goodwin College - East Hartford, CT 2009 Skills Documentation, Sdlc, Use case, Software development, Registered nurse, Problem solver, Team building Certifications/Licenses RN 2009 Assessments Management & Leadership Skills: Impact & Influence — Highly Proficient August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to adapt their leadership style to accomplish goals using rational or emotional appeal. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/mljoysjbgtvggfes Supervisory Skills: Directing Others — Highly Proficient August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to motivate the performance of others through feedback to identify improvements or corrective actions. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/wvt-bnqryz5fahbt Research — Highly Proficient August 2019 Measures a candidate’s ability to follow protocols, interpret statistics and graphs, identify errors, and choose research methodology. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/3umsaejfj6n94pkc Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information Skills Summary  I am a Registered Nurse in the state of CT with a long history in software development and project management. I am well versed in both Agile and Waterfall SDLC methodologies and have experiences in documentation, requirement, user story, and use case development of over 16 years. I am a well-organized, enthusiastic, problem solver excited to be on a team building great products that improve the life and experience of those who use them.