Tech Architect/Lead Developer- SAP Hybris eCommerce Tech Architect/Lead <span class="hl">Developer</span>- SAP Hybris eCommerce Tech Architect/Lead Developer- SAP Hybris eCommerce - VetsFirstChoice Boston, MA • 12+ years of experience as a JAVA Developer and Hybris Developer, with strong experience in working with several mid to large-scale application development projects involving several cross-functional teams.  • Above 4 years of experience in ECOMMERCE Technologies- Hybris for eCommerce, OCC, PCM, WCM, DAM with customization experience.  • Experience in Hybris Multichannel E-commerce Suite, data structures, PCM, WCMS customization, migration, data import/export, setting of WCMS templates and algorithms and object oriented concepts.  • Experience in environment setup for Hybris, Installation, configuration, on operating systems like Linux, Windows based systems, etc  • Experience in creating OOTB features of Hybris by reusing B2C and B2B Accelerators.  • Experience in Hybris core platform, extensions, type system, Cockpit extensions, ECommerce B2C or B2B, Product & Content Management, Search, order management and customer service.  • Multi skilled professional with good all-round ability to provide improvement based implementation support and guidance for successful execution of the project.  • Expertise on Object Oriented Designing and Programming concepts, design patterns, design, architecture and gathering functional requirements.  • Profound knowledge in Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) and familiar with SCRUM/Agile development methodology and workflow.  • Experience in design and development of reusable enterprise systems and various web applications using Spring, Spring MVC, Hibernate, EJB, JSP, JMS, Servlets, JDBC, JNDI, AJAX, JSF, and RMI.  • Hands-on experience in relational databases like Oracle 10g, DB2, MySQL, Sybase, MS SQL Server using SQL and PL/SQL.  • Experienced in developing applications using Java, J2EE (JSP, Servlets, JDBC), Struts, Spring, JSF, Hibernate, Flex, RMI, Web services, XML, Jira, XSLT, HTML, and JavaScript.  • Experience in using open source frameworks like JUnit, Log4J and ANT.  • Determined leadership skills to manage teams and effective verbal and written communication skills supplement a proven aptitude and attitude to multi-task, sustained a classified access to ensure success. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Tech Architect/Lead Developer- SAP Hybris eCommerce VetsFirstChoice - Portland, ME December 2016 to Present Responsibilities:  • Provided solutions for Promotion Price Populator Cron Job which is used to kick in the promotions and provided a walk through HLD document on the code related to the cronjob.  • Worked on B2B site - multistep checkout page in making the total to Zero dollars when a Assisted Service representative orders via customer site  • Worked on Account Page Controller to reset the password for customer by a CSR without the help of old password.  • Worked on Cart Page Controller in modifying the existing functionality related to adding the Pet to Vet and Vet to Pet.  • Worked on different cockpits like BackOffice and HAC.  • Worked on Cronjobs, Impex, CMS components and Order management, data migration.  • Worked as a Tech Lead and Architect in providing support and solutions for crunchy issues like cronjobs, data models, etc.,.  • Worked on preparing the HLD for Indexing Static Content on SOLR integrated with Hybris.  • Worked on Design, discovery, coding and testing.  • Worked on different modules which include SOLR, Cart Page, Multi Step Checkout, PDP's, CronJobs and Impexes.  • Provided solutions in creating WCMS components for rendering all pages to facilitate different offers to enhance the sale.  Environment: Java/J2EE, Hybris 6.3, JSP, MySQL Server, Springs, Linux, HTML, CSS, Java Script, XML. Tech Architect- SAP Hybris eCommerce MSA Safety, Cranberry Township, PA September 2015 to November 2016 Responsibilities:  • Acted as a Tech Architect and SME for the redesign B2B Site.  • Worked on preparing the HLD for Indexing Static Content on SOLR integrated with Hybris.  • Clean up the dead code related to OOTB configurations like Cybersource to increase computation time and memory for existing B2B site.  • Prepared functional and System Architecture designs for implementing B2B Site redesign.  • Facilitated requirements gathering and reviewing functional architecture for the redesign of new B2B Site.  • Suggested best practices for continuous integration and analyzing gaps on Hybris OOTB features for the redesign site.  • Provided continuous support in daily activities such as design, code standards, methodology and code review.  • Recommended using Hybris OOTB components to accelerate the development.  • Worked on different modules which include SOLR, Cart Page, Checkout, PDP, CronJobs and Impexes.  • Worked on different cockpits like CMS, HMC, HAC, ProductCockpit, and ImportCockpit.  Environment: Java/J2EE, Hybris 5.7, JSP, SQL Server, Springs, Linux, HTML, CSS, Java Script, XML. Sr.Hybris Lead/ Developer West Marine - Watsonville, CA March 2014 to December 2015 Responsibilities:  • Worked on SinglePageCheckoutController for PortSupply (B2B), simplifying the checkout from MultiStepCheckoutPageController.  • Implemented SimplifiedCheckout for West Marine (B2C) from MultiStepCheckoutPageController.  • Worked on Performance issues, related to Controllers, Cronjobs, CheckoutPage.  • Increased the Performance by decreasing the Checkout page load time- tweaking the Controllers and required Filters.  • Created Cronjobs to fetch the required data at certain intervals.  • Working as a Liaison between Client Publishing Team and Implementation team, in using the Import Cockpit.  • Configuring the ImportCockpit and creating Jobs and Mapping, i.e., required for Client's Marketing Teams and Publishing Teams.  • Creating Impex and HOT folders, to avail the data loads from respective teams without help from Developing teams.  • Worked on PCM, in creating the media and customizations required for the particular product.  • Worked on HMC customizations and localization and items.xml to do the modeling.  • Worked on PCM (Product Content Management), WCM (Web Content Management).  • Worked on PDP Controllers to add Variables to the utag data layer and Cart Pages and Order confirmation pages Digital Transformation Consultant- SAP Hybris eCommerce DOW Chemicals - Midland, MI January 2015 to August 2015 Responsibilities:  • Primarily worked on Data Clean Up of unused tables and fields for data sync models and hot folder headers.  • Implemented delivery tracking roles which allows deliveries to be visible to certain groups with certain roles.  • Implemented Search and Promote feed, which helps in leveraging the buyer's search to specific products and allowing customer to find specific promotional products at top of the results.  • Worked on roles, assigning roles to different categories and defining filters and rules to roles which helps in providing visibility for shipTo's, products, Orders, customers and customer data.  • Vastly worked on shipTo's, soldTo, salesOrg, Division, Distribution Channel in defining relationships and data mapping between these attributes, categories and types to a customer or product/order/delivery.  • Worked on Material description/specifications and visibility of MyFavorite products to appear in delivery details page depending upon the roles assigned.  • Worked on deliveries and delivery search, which allows the user to find specific deliveries based on a B2BUnit and roles assigned to customer and enhanced the search deliveries function which allows the customer to find the deliveries using different search criteria.  • Worked on Registration and advance Registration pages.  • Implemented new fields to b2bUnits, which allows the customer to find only those shipTo's when searched with new flag if the field is active.  • Worked on Order Details Page, Product Details/Description/Specification, Delivery Details Page, Cart Page, Summary Page, my Profile page.  • Worked on Email Templates, Impex, Flex Quires, HMC and HAC.  • Worked on Configuring Docker across the team, which is used to manage apps (Hybris, AEM) side-by-side in isolated containers.    Environment: Java/J2EE, Hybris 5.7, JSP, MySQL Server, Springs, AEM, Linux, HTML, CSS, Java Script, XML, Docker. Sr. Hybris Developer Rodan and Fields, SFO, CA June 2013 to February 2014 Responsibilities:  • Worked on Performance issues related to Filters and facades- refactoring the code and inheritance mapping.  • Implemented the Hybris recommendations- refactor the deployment table or models, reviewed and refactored relationships for models.  • Analyzed the save method, to cut down the performance time.  • Worked on CMS driven Components, in creating CMS driven emails & CMS driven Content  • Worked on Autoship Jobs that allows the USER to change their next Autoship or skip the Autoship.  • Created Impex for Emails, Phone numbers and images, which can be changed from CMSCockpit by the Marketing Team.  • Worked on creating components using VM Files, to create an email-template as the business required.  • Worked on EIS Services, Rest Services, to check the flow of emails.  • Worked on HMC customizations and localization and items.xml to do the modeling.  • Worked on PCM (Product Content Management), WCM (Web Content Management).  • Customized a Page Template to define number and name of slots of a page and positioning of the slots on the page using JSP of the page.  • Assisted in giving demo and documentation of e-mail template changes from the CMS - for the Digital Marketing Team.  • Communicated with DPM, PMO and other stakeholders regarding the functionality and further requirements on storefront content.  • Worked on UI related issues, in making changes to the existing JSP's.  • Started Working on SonarQube for testing the Code Quality, to increase the performance.  Environment: Java/J2EE, Hybris 5.5, JSP, MySQL Server, Springs, Avalara, SonarQube, Linux, HTML, CSS, Java Script. Sr.Hybris Developer Life Time Fitness, MN, MN March 2012 to June 2013 Responsibilities:  • Design and development of Hybris eCommerce with reporting module for Business Users and WCMS Cockpit customizations.  • Worked on Slots to render a group of components using Velocity File, CMS manager and landing page to create a template as the business required.  • Customizing the levels using XML configuration and CMS cockpit to change the appearance of cockpit.  • Worked on HMC customizations and localization and items.xml to do the modeling.  • Customized a Page Template to define number and name of slots of a page and positioning of the slots on the page using JSP of the page.  • Custom Integration with MYLT services for LT Bucks and other in-house systems.  • Integration with SOLR and customization to control order of products on multiple pages.  • Design, Development and Architecting Hybris Reporting module that interact with in house Data warehousing systems and MYLT authorization systems.  • Creating Restful web services for in house applications for data exchange w.r.t Orders, Auto shipments and other vital information.  • Assisted in the documentation of technical and functional design documents.  • Communicated with business and other stakeholders regarding requirement analysis and estimations.  • Formulate coding and design practices to use best available eCommerce solution.  • Participate in peer reviews to ensure coding standards and code reusability.  • Participated in the migration of Hybris 4.8 to Hybris 5.1.  Environment: Java/J2EE, Hybris 4.8 & 5.1, Solr, JSP, MySQL Server, Ajax, JSON, Spring MVC, Linux, HTML, CSS, Java Script. Hybris Developer Jaycar Electronics - Chicago, IL November 2010 to January 2012 Responsibilities:  • Designed and developed components within pages for integration with third party web services and developed pages in accordance with the Mobile website requirements.  • Developed 'Download Checked Files' jQuery component for downloading selected documents.  • Participated in development of Roles to create pages and managing content using CMS (Designer, Content Manager and Publisher).  • Integrated Solr in WCMS pages for efficient faceted search and developed WCMS templates & pages to match the wireframes provided by the UX Team.  • Developed and deployed Impex scripts for high volume data uploads to PCM, project data configurations, essential data and migration of content pages.  • Customized a Page Template to define number and name of slots of a page and positioning of the slots on the page using JSP of the page.  • Configured Solr to index custom types used for generic search and custom types in Solr for faceted search.  • Configuration of developed Ajax scripts to populate web pages dynamically based on the selections made by the user  • Customized PCM to import product images from Celum (DAM)  • Updated web pages to match wire frames  • Participated in Design reviews and Code reviews from the architectural point of view  • Developed high level software designs, specifications and component architecture for feature implementation.  Environment: Java/J2EE, Hybris 4.8, Spring MVC, JSP, Java Script, Oracle 10g, MySQL, HTML, XML, and Linux. Sr. Java Developer SoftCard - Dallas, TX December 2009 to October 2010 Responsibilities:  • Actively used Design, Analysis, Coding and Testing for the automatic deployment process using UNIX scripts  • Used Analysis, Design and Development of different modules on Struts.  • Developed code for file receiving and dispatching modules and developing a web interface to trigger receiving and dispatching files.  • Developed the presentation layer using JSP and Servlets with Eclipse tool.  • Used HTML5, CSS3, Java Script, JQuery, AJAX, JSON for better and faster interactive front-end development.  • Developed application in J2EE technologies using Spring MVC architecture.  • Developed web Components using JSP, Servlet and EJB under J2EE Environment.  • Implemented the SOAP and RESTful Web services using Apache Axis2 and Jersey REST API in Eclipse IDE environment.  • Designed Stored Procedures, Functions, packages, Views, Sequences, Triggers using PL/SQL for Oracle database.  • Implemented Hibernate Criteria for Object oriented queries and used Named and Native queries for accessing the database using Hibernate Template.  • Implemented Spring Security with LDAP authentication management.  • Lead the Rate Revision Team and coding (Enhancements, CR's and productivity improvement tasks) and Unit Testing.    Environment: JAVA, J2EE, Spring MVC, J2EE (EJB, JSP, JDBC, Servlets), JDBC, EJB, Junit, JSP, Java Script, Ant, HTML, XML, CSS, Spring, Hibernate, SOAP & REST Web Services. Sr. Java Developer Winston, NC October 2008 to November 2009 Responsibilities:  • Designed and development applications using Rational Unified Process (RUP), UML and OOAD.  • Developed the Use cases, Diagrams, Sequence Diagrams using Rational Rose and deployed the project using the MVC design pattern.  • Developed Sitemap page and Help pages using bootstrap framework.  • Used Hibernate as an ORM mapping tool and worked with Hibernate Query Language (HQL).  • Implemented Secondary Level Caching in Hibernate using Eh cache and created the Action classes, Action Forms Beans, Validator using Struts Framework.  • Approach for screen development and reusability of visual components in the JSP pages.  • Implemented business logic in Middle Tier using pluggable components, which were specified in the customized xml documents.  • Wrote ANT build scripts to compile Java classes and create jar, performed unit testing and package them into EAR files.  • Developed Hibernate ORM mapping and wrote HQL queries to retrieve buyer and product related information from Oracle database.  • Implemented base classes, setting up framework classes/configuration files for implementing full- fledged J2EE application.  • Developed presentation layer using HTML, CSS, Java Script and AJAX.  • Performed design, code reviews and prepared detailed documentation.  • Implemented Exception mechanism and used Struts validation frame work.  Environment: Java, J2EE, Servlets, Hibernate, Struts, Web sphere, RAD, Oracle, SQL, ANT, HTML, DHTML, JavaScript, AJAX, CSS, XSLT, JUnit, BASH. Application Developer DWS, NSW - AU April 2007 to August 2008 Responsibilities:  • Developed various UI (User Interface) components using Struts (MVC), JSP, and HTML.  • Developed the Action Classes, Action Form Classes, created JSPs using Struts tag libraries and configured in Struts-config.xml, Web.xml files.  • Developed servlets and JSPs with Custom Tag Libraries for control of the business processes in the middle-tier and was involved in their integration  • Generated UML sequence and class diagrams  • Professional in writing the test cases for the application using JUnit.  • Used extensive JSP, HTML, and CSS to develop presentation layer to make it more user friendly.  • Developed EJBs (Session and Entity) in Web Sphere 5.1 Application Studio for handling business processes, database access, and asynchronous messaging  • Implemented Stateless Session beans (EJB) for middleware and deployed on Weblogic Application Server.  • Implemented J2EE design patterns Session Façade, Data Access Object, Business Objects, and Service Locator for middle-tier development  • Used JTA to provide transaction capabilities to the business processes  • Implemented JDBC to connect to the oracle database and JNDI to lookup administered objects  • Developed application functionalities using PL/SQL Stored Procedures and Functions.  • Added logging and debugging capabilities using Log4j and JUnit using CVS  • Involved in design of test plans with QA to ensure functional, usability and performance requirements are met.    Environment: OOAD, UML, SDLC, Java, J2EE, Struts, Servlets, JSP, JSTL, JavaBeans, JDBC, XML, CSS, Java Script, SQL, Oracle, Weblogic 8.0, JBuilder, NetBeans, CVS, Clear Quest, Rational Rose, HTML, JUnit, BASH. Java Developer Bank West - Sydney NSW February 2005 to March 2007 Responsibilities:  • Developed MVC architecture, Business Delegate, Service Locator, Session facade, and Data Access Object, Value Object and Singleton patterns  • Actively participated in the complete development, testing and maintenance process of the application.  • Used Hibernate as the ORM tool to communicate with the database.  • Designed and created a web-based test client using Struts up on client's request, which is used to test the different parts of the application.  • Participated in writing the test cases for the application using JUnit.  • Used extensive JSP, HTML, and CSS to develop presentation layer to make it more user friendly.  • Developed back-end stored procedures and triggers using Oracle PL/SQL, created database objects, performance tuning of stored procedures, and query plan  • Developed Presentation screens using Struts view tags.  • Created XSL style sheets to generate complicated output reports based on user requirements from XML data.  • Developed various Customer and Network capacity flows.  • Designed and developed various server side components using J2EE APIs.  • Supported the application through debugging, fixing, production support and maintenance releases.  • Worked closely with the client and the offsite team and coordinated activities between them for effective implementation of the project.    Environment: Java/JDK 1.5, J2EE, JSP, JDBC, Servlets, EJB, RMI, Spring MVC Framework, Web Services, , JMS, Web Sphere MQ 6.0, Hibernate, HQL, Oracle 10g, SQL and PL/SQL. Education Bachelor's Skills XML (10+ years), HTML (10+ years), J2EE (10+ years), JSP (10+ years), CSS (10+ years), Devops, Java, Demandware, CFC, Java J2Ee Certifications/Licenses Driver's License A valid Federated Enterprise Architecture Certification. Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  Skills and Technologies Hybris 4.8, 5.1, 5.4, 5.7, 6.3, 6.5, J2EE, Springs (MVC), Hibernate, EJB, Omni Channel Commerce  Databases Oracle 8i/9i/10g/11g, MS Access, MS SQL Server  Web Technologies J2EE (Servlets, JSP), HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JSON, Jquery, XML, JSON, JQuery  Application/Web-Servers Web logic 8.x/9.x/10.x, Web Sphere 6.x/7.x, JBoss 4.x/5.x/6.x/7.x, Apache and Tomcat.  Developer Tools Eclipse, Net Beans, WSAD, RSA, RAD, JIRA, STS  Operating Systems Windows, Unix/Linux, Ubuntu  Configuration Tools JUnit,Log4j, SVN, ANT  Repository Tools Bit bucket, GIT, SVN, CVS