Total System Services • Java - Software Engineer Developer Total System Services • <span class="hl">Java</span> - Software Engineer <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java - Software Engineer Developer Columbus, GA Work Experience Total System Services • Java - Software Engineer Developer TSYS April 2018 to August 2018 Worked with a team of 4 to develop test cases into a jar using Junit, Jenkins, Gradle for covering struts. This was  implemented to test session/requests saved throughout the .jsp pages in order to hit a 80% or above code coverage.  Performed a walk through and mock-up to showcase within my first month on the job.  • Developed a python wrapper for automating the reading, listing and creation of CA certificates as a sidecar for our  Vault. Requirements included removal of human interaction.  • Created static IP's for our Mac laptops in order to isolate test cases which removed the need for remote desktop  logins. This was achieved by using Apple launchctl scripts which ran a Docker image using both NGINX and gunicorn in order to setup the proxy with YAML scripts to automate the creation or tear down of an isolated server.  • Created the architecture needed to achieve SSO for applications and allow our Mac and Windows users a Single-  Sign-On. Software Engineer Kurolink (Startup) January 2017 to December 2017 Created and engineered a startup API using Django, MySQL, Python for allowing users to take a quiz to help  determine a personality type.  • Created bash/shell/perl scripts to automate the deployment from a local machine to github/Docker image and create a backup from the server before deployment of the code change.  • Created and mixed API's with Google/Twitter/Linkedin for new user creation.  • Created a front-end web API to allow non- developers easy access for updates or fixes as an admin. Programmer Analyst / Developer Boeing August 2014 to January 2017 • Security and compliance liaison for our control policies and performed duties such as updating, remediation and creation of documentation.  • Provided on-call 24/7 production support for applications for a team of 6  • Created scripts for automating daily tasks using Python.  • Created, maintained and modified scripts using PowerShell, Perl, Bash, Shell for monitoring of 200+ applications in order to provide a zero downtime goal. This was done on a team of 3 working with developers, engineers and  management per application.  • Took over a legacy VB.Net application using MySQL scripts for gathering data and allowing Boeing management to make decisions based off analysis of every employee and purchase made since early 2000. Creating additional API's  for Boeing programs as needed. I was able to reduce the weekly run using additional stored procedures from 3.0  hours to just above an hour for a run or rerun.  • Automated the monthly process of our Java application which required a developer to spend roughly 40 hours a month uploading, updating and modifying if needed to about .5 hours or a 99% reduction. This process used shell  scripts ran from AutoSys and Apache Ant with slightly modified Java code to include the variables. The requirements  where to automate and if possible create fixes. I lead the team in development for logging the SQL procedures, creating a backup of the data-mart, alerting the group's as jobs finished while allowing for rerun's as needed. My  team was given 16 weeks. The code was finished within 4, we tested and updated documentation as required and had approval within 8 weeks.  • Implemented SSO (Single Sign On) for our Java applications.  • Repaired bug fixes for multiple applications written in C#, C++, Java, VB.NET, HTML, CSS  • Created and implemented knowledge transfer guides to get shared using OneNote allowing for more efficient ways  of implement processes.  • Created new HowTo's, schematics, diagrams and documentation for applications to include all end-points and allow  for the reduction of applications.  • Nominated by management to join our leadership team of roughly 20 with 2 Senior Directors. Nominated within that group to join a smaller leadership reporting directly to our Directors and upper management. Our responsibility  was to come up with new processes and ways of implementing these processes.  • Nominated from management to attend multiple developer conferences and knowledge transfer what I learned.  • Performed peer review with new developers, interns and other team member for every piece of code being  updated.  • Tracked all work performed using Microsoft Team Foundation Server. (Contractor) • Systems Analyst Aflac April 2014 to August 2014 • Created backup and restores for developers using scripts.  • Performed updates and/or rollbacks for code being released from development to test/production. UI Developer (Spring Intern) Oxbow Meaders January 2014 to April 2014 Created a UI using javascript to allow barcode scanning from a phone in order to help showcase some of the exhibits  where more information would be asked. Education Computer Science Columbus State University - Columbus, GA 2011 to 2014 Skills VISUAL STUDIO, C#, DJANGO, DOCKER, Git, Java J2Ee, Spring, Hibernate, Rest, Java, J2Ee, Angularjs, Javascript, JSP Military Service Branch: USCG Service Country: United States Rank: E5 October 2003 to October 2007