Portal Developer (GPA) Portal <span class="hl">Developer</span> (GPA) Portal Developer (GPA) - Deloitte Consulting India Pvt. Ltd Work Experience Portal Developer (GPA) Deloitte Consulting India Pvt. Ltd January 2018 to Present Description: As a part of GPA, our main job was to implement portal for agents using Angular JS and Edge.  Duration: Jan 2018 - Present    2. Client: Pekin Insurance  • Project: Crunch Program.  • Role: Portal Developer (GPA)  • Description: As a part of GPA, our main job was to implement portal for agents using Angular JS and Edge.  • Duration: Jan 2018 - Present Portal Developer Deloitte Consulting India Pvt. Ltd December 2016 to Present Currently working as a Guidewire Portal Developer with more than 2 years of experience in developing Portal for Agents using Guidewire Edge Framework as well as Angular and Spring MVC.  Key Result Areas:  Maintain accurate scheduling and meet objectives for simultaneous projects.  Investigate errors to reproduce issues and develop software fixes.  Coordinated with Portal Development for state rollouts and developing services using edge framework and spring MVC.  Trained in Guidewire Policy Center Configuration.  Accountable for problem solving and Bug fixing for effective and efficient workflow.  Involved in both development and deployment of services.    Projects Handled:    Deloitte Consulting India Pvt. Ltd.  Portal Developer Dec 2016 - Present  Currently working as a Guidewire Portal Developer with more than 2 years of experience in developing Portal for Agents using Guidewire Edge Framework as well as Angular and Spring MVC.  Key Result Areas:  • Maintain accurate scheduling and meet objectives for simultaneous projects.    • Investigate errors to reproduce issues and develop software fixes.  • Coordinated with Portal Development for state rollouts and developing services using edge framework and spring MVC.  • Trained in Guidewire Policy Center Configuration.  • Accountable for problem solving and Bug fixing for effective and efficient workflow.  • Involved in both development and deployment of services. Portal Developer (Backend Dev Edge, Spring) Deloitte Consulting India Pvt. Ltd December 2017 to June 2018 Description: As a part of State Auto Crunch Program, our main role was to implement portal for commercial lines as well as implementing business owners policy, business auto policy, commercial umbrella.  Duration: Dec 2017 - June 2018    Projects Handled:  1. Client: State Auto Insurance  • Project: Crunch Program.  • Role: Portal Developer (Backend Dev Edge, Spring)  • Description: As a part of State Auto Crunch Program, our main role was to implement portal for commercial lines as well as implementing business owners policy, business auto policy, commercial umbrella.  • Duration: Dec 2017 - June 2018 Staff Software Engineer NCS Pvt. Ltd - Indore, MADHYA PRADESH, IN July 2015 to December 2016 Key Result Areas:  As a part of Java Development, I worked on the core projects of the company.  Complete wide range of Software development and programming tasks on contract basis.  Analyze software usability and performance, recommending changes to improve functionality.    NCS Pvt. Ltd, Indore.  Staff Software Engineer July 2015 - Dec 2016  Key Result Areas:  • As a part of Java Development, I worked on the core projects of the company.  • Complete wide range of Software development and programming tasks on contract basis.  • Analyze software usability and performance, recommending changes to improve functionality.    MOB NO:  +91 9009140044  EMAIL ID:  akssaraf@outlook.com    MOB NO:  +91 9009140044  EMAIL ID:  akssaraf@outlook.com    ABOUT ME  ABOUT ME    Dynamic, energetic, results-driven Software Professional with an extensive career of over 3.7 years, powered with expertise in directing all aspects of Software Design, Development and Testing.  Ambitious, passionate, determined, strategic developer with a proven track record of consistently exceeding the organizational goals and ability to communicate with a diverse group of people.  Exceptional communicator with outstanding interpersonal skills, natural rapport building abilities, effective problem solving skills as well as excellent analytical, logical and programming skills.  Demonstrate profound expertise in Software Development Life Cycle, Design Patterns and Application Architecture.  Leverage detail-oriented nature, have a proactive, collaborative, insightful working style in a fast-paced environment.  Inspiring team leader with a positive can-do attitude, who is self-motivated, confident, flexible and always up for challenges to reach maximum potential in a given role.    Dynamic, energetic, results-driven Software Professional with an extensive career of over 3.7 years, powered with expertise in directing all aspects of Software Design, Development and Testing.  Ambitious, passionate, determined, strategic developer with a proven track record of consistently exceeding the organizational goals and ability to communicate with a diverse group of people.    Exceptional communicator with outstanding interpersonal skills, natural rapport building abilities, effective problem solving skills as well as excellent analytical, logical and programming skills.    Demonstrate profound expertise in Software Development Life Cycle, Design Patterns and Application Architecture.    Leverage detail-oriented nature, have a proactive, collaborative, insightful working style in a fast-paced environment.    Inspiring team leader with a positive can-do attitude, who is self-motivated, confident, flexible and always up for challenges to reach maximum potential in a given role.    Coordinated with Unit testing and supporting testing team by helping them in test cases.  Involved in writing codes and following Design Patterns to develop ad hoc services as per project requirements and specifications.  Perform root cause analysis while debugging programs and solving problems with effective solutions.  Programmed requirement analysis and gathering via Client Interaction so as to achieve 100% client satisfaction and deliver application services within deadlines.  Projects Handled: Java Developer (Backend Dev, Spring MVC JSTL, Hibernate) NCS Pvt. Ltd - North Delhi, DELHI, IN July 2015 to December 2016 Description: As a part of project, we were involved in creating web based report pages for various business analysis.  Duration: July 2015 - Dec 2016    • Coordinated with Unit testing and supporting testing team by helping them in test cases.  • Involved in writing codes and following Design Patterns to develop ad hoc services as per project requirements and specifications.  • Perform root cause analysis while debugging programs and solving problems with effective solutions.  • Programmed requirement analysis and gathering via Client Interaction so as to achieve 100% client satisfaction and deliver application services within deadlines.  Projects Handled:  1. Client: North Delhi Power Limited (NDPL)  • Project: Palmetrix Sensor Interface  • Role: Java Developer (Backend Dev, Spring MVC JSTL, Hibernate)  • Description: As a part of project, we were involved in creating web based report pages for various business analysis.  • Duration: July 2015 - Dec 2016    Languages  Java  J2EE  SQL    Frame Work:  Spring (Core, AOP, DAO, ORM, MVC)  Tiles  GuideWire    Data Base  MS SQL Server  MySQL 5.x    Web  Technologies  JSP  Servlet 2.4    Server  JBoss 7.x  Tomcat 7.0    Tools  Maven  Eclipse Keplar  Junit 4.1  Log 4J  iReport 4.1.1  GitHub    Languages  Java  J2EE  SQL    Frame Work:  Spring (Core, AOP, DAO, ORM, MVC)  Tiles  GuideWire    Data Base  MS SQL Server  MySQL 5.x    Web  Technologies  JSP  Servlet 2.4    Server  JBoss 7.x  Tomcat 7.0    Tools  Maven  Eclipse Keplar  Junit 4.1  Log 4J  iReport 4.1.1  GitHub Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  TECHNICAL SKILLS    EXPERTISE OFFERED  EXPERTISE OFFERED  System Analysis & Debugging  Data Structures  Client Relationship Management.  Coding Software and Programming    • System Analysis & Debugging  • Data Structures  • Client Relationship Management.  • Coding Software and Programming    Application Development  Service Oriented Architecture  Software Development Life Cycle    • Application Development  • Service Oriented Architecture  • Software Development Life Cycle