Full Stack Java developer Full Stack <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">developer</span> Full Stack Java developer - Fidelity Investment Cary, NC Professional Summary  • Sun Certified Web Component Developer  • Sun Certified java Programmer  • ORACLE Certified Associate  • AWS Certified Cloud Practitioner  • Java 6 from Brain bench  • ORACLE PL/SQL Fundamentals from Brain bench  • Java and Oracle Developer with around 11 years of experience in developing J2EE Web applications using different frameworks and Oracle.  • Extensive experience in Design and Development of Web application using MVC Framework and web-services like JAX-WS  • Experience in developing UI using Ext-JS.  • Developing application using Spring Batch.  • Experience in developing GUI using Eclipse SWT/RCP.  • Experience in Hibernate Framework with Spring Dependency Injection  • Experience on MDB using JMS to send Alerts  • Experience in implementing UI using AngularJS  • Extensive experience in Oracle 10g,9i and hands on experience writing SQL queries and PL/SQL Stored Procedures, Functions, Packages, Database Triggers, Exception Handlers, Cursors, Database Objects and Collections, by using PL/SQL  • Experience in technologies like JSP, Servlets, JDBC, EJB.  • Work experience in Storage, financial and shipping  • Experience on various Application servers BEA Weblogic, IBM WebSphere and in the Web server Apache Tomcat.  • Sound experience in working with Object Oriented design, MVC Architecture, Enterprise Java Beans, Struts Framework, Hibernate, Java Design Patterns and successful implementation of the same.  • Sound knowledge of Core Java and EJB 2.0/3.0 Architecture.  • Expertise in Java Collection Classes  • Expertise in AJAX.  • Experience in developing REST Service using Spring Boot.  • Experience in developing UI using AngularJS.  • Sound knowledge of different XML Architecture frameworks like DTD, Schema, XSLT, Xpath, SAX, DOM  • Expertise in Object Oriented Analysis and Design using UML.  • Sound knowledge in AWS Cloud services like EC2, S3, VPC, Cloud Watch, Load Balancers.  • Sound knowledge of Struts Framework.  • Sound knowledge of Spring Framework (Core, Spring MVC)  • Very good knowledge on Unix  • Knowledge of BigData technology like Hadoop.  • Knowledge of Hadoop modules like HDFS, MapReduce, HIVE, Pig.  • Excellent project life cycle experience (SDLC) in all aspects of requirements specifications, design, code, test, deploy, maintaining.  • Working Experience in CRM  • Experienced in working on Test Plans, Functional Specifications, Use cases, User Acceptance Testing (UAT), Involved in performing the FIT Analysis, Stress testing.  • A team player with concern for quality at all levels and ability to perform under stress. Good communication and interpersonal skills, commitment, dedication, result oriented, hard working with a quest and zeal to learn new technologies and undertake challenging tasks Work Experience Full Stack Java developer Fidelity Investment - Durham, NC March 2018 to Present Description:    Company Match  Company Match is responsible to calculate match for all participants for a particular client based on provided time interval. User can able to create rule on web and user can able to run calculation based on selected rules. Application is developed using Java, J2EE technologies.    Responsibilities:  • Developing application UI using web technologies like Angular.  • Implementing REST Service Using Spring Boot.  • Develop engine application based on spring framework to run calculation.  • Store, retrieve and update rule information to Oracle database.  • Build application using Maven.  • Working with MyBatis fetch or storing information from/to backend.  • Managing Code in version control System like Git/Stash.  • Creating tables in Oracle database to store report information.  • Developing Stored Procedures, Functions in Oracle.  • Working in creation of Sequences for automatic generation of unique numbers.  • Writing Complex queries to fetch data from Database.  • Developing shell script to deploy application in Unix environment,    Environment / Tools Java 8, J2EE, Angular 6, Spring, tomcat, Rest Service, Spring Boot, Eclipse, Oracle, Unix, HTML, Javascript. Sr. Java/J2EE developer Fidelity Investment - Durham, NC March 2017 to March 2018 Description:    Metrics Service  Metrics Service is responsible to collect reports(xml) of different applications, process those reports and store in database. Automation Webservice pass on information to UI based on request and display on dashboard for client interaction. System receive metadata information via CSV file and service will perform action based on metadata information. Application is developed using Java, J2EE technologies.    Responsibilities:  • Developing application in multi-threaded environment system.  • Deserialize and parse xml reports using JAXB and xslt.  • Implementing REST Service Using Spring Boot.  • Developing application UI using web technologies like AngularJS.  • Store and fetch report information from PostgreSQL database.  • Implementing Junit Test Cases to test backend code.  • Build application using Maven.  • Working with MyBatis fetch or storing information from/to backend.  • Managing Code in version control System like Git/Stash.  • Creating tables in Oracle database to store report information.  • Developing Stored Procedures, Functions in Oracle.  • Working in creation of Sequences for automatic generation of unique numbers.  • Writing Complex queries to fetch data from Database..  • Developing shell script to deploy application in Unix environment,    Environment / Tools Java 1.6/1.7, J2EE, AngularJS, IBM WebSphere, tomcat, Rest Service, Spring Boot, Eclipse, Oracle, Unix, PostgreSQL, HTML, Bootstrap, Javascript Sr. Java developer Metlife - Cary, NC November 2016 to March 2017 Description:    Intake Claims  Intake Claims is responsible for taking users claims, create claim id based on information provided and store claims detail in database. System receive information from different sources like UI, CSV file Upload, PDF file or Email. Application is developed using Java, J2EE technologies.    Responsibilities:  • Developing application using web technologies like Angular JS  • Implementing backend Using REST Services.  • Developing multi-threaded application.  • Working with server side technologies like JSP.  • Working with MyBatis to fetch or storing information from/to backend  • Implementing Junit Test Cases to test backend code.  • Writing code using quartz scheduler and trigger to automatically read csv file.  • Managing Code in version control System like Git.  • Build application using Ant.  • Deploying application using Websphere in production.  • Creating tables based on csv data in SQL Server.  • Writing Complex queries to fetch data from Database  • Testing application in Tomcat.  • Deploying application in UNIX environment.    Environment / Tools Java 1.6/1.7, J2EE, Angular JS, IBM WebSphere, Rest WebService, Eclipse, SQL Server, Unix, MyBatis, JSP, HTML, UNIX Sr. Java/J2EE developer Fidelity Investment - Durham, NC August 2012 to November 2016 Description:  Fidelity Wireless and Alerts  Fidelity Wireless & Alerts (FWA) is responsible for all systems engineering, development, deployment, operation, and maintenance of Fidelity's wireless and alerts systems. FWA has been aggressively pursuing the use of common components in a J2EE, J2SE and Websphere environment under AIX UNIX. FWA is also aggressively pursuing the latest mobile technologies to ensure that the wireless alerts are available to their customers on the PDA of their choice (iPhone, iPad, Android devices).    Responsibilities:  • Developing application using web technologies like Java, J2EE, Spring MVC  • Implementing backend service and provide as a Web services  • Developing SOAP based Web-Service.  • Developing multi-threaded application using Spring Batch.  • Developing UI using Ext-JS, JSP, HTML, CSS, AngularJS.  • Working with server side technologies like Servlet, JSP.  • Developing application using Spring framework.  • Developing Backend using multithreading environment.  • Working with Ibatis to fetch data from backend  • ManageCode in version control System like Git and ClearCase  • Build application using Maven and Ant  • Experience in building project in Jenkins  • Deploying application using IBM WebSphere.  • Writing queries using Oracle SQL  • Developing Stored Procedures, Functions in SQL Developer.  • Working in creation of Sequences for automatic generation of voucher numbers.  • Working in creation of Views and Synonyms for hiding of actual Tables and Queries.  • Creating indexes on tables and Optimizing Stored procedure queries.  • Developing storprocedure from Ibatis to get data.  • Deploying application in UNIX environment.    Environment / Tools Java 1.6/1.7, J2EE, IBM WebSphere, WebService, Spring Core, Spring MVC, AngularJS, PL/SQL Developer, Eclipse, Oracle 10G, Unix, IBatis, JSP, Servlet, HTML, Javascript, CSS, UNIX Sr. Java/J2EE developer Credit Suisse - Raleigh, NC July 2010 to August 2012 Description:  FrontNet USA  FrontNet USA is a banking application, which integrate different application within bank, and provide consolidated solution for client as well as sales manager    Responsibilities:  • Actively participated in High-level Document and Detailed level Document for different modules in the project.  • Use Eclipse to develop an application  • Involved in enhancing the existing product  • Use Collection concept (Vector, List, Map, SET. Iterator, Enumeration etc)  • Developing business component with EJB  • Developing application on Struts MVC architecture  • Working with Server side technologies like, JSP, Servlet, Portlet  • Developing GUI using HTML, java script, CSS  • Working on JPA and Hibernate for ORM mapping  • Working with weblogic portal and Portlet.  • Use Oracle 10g as a back-end  • Developing Stored Procedures, Functions, Packages. in SQL*Plus.  • Written many database triggers for automatic updating the tables.  • Working in creation of Sequences for automatic generation of voucher numbers.  • Working in creation of Views and Synonyms for hiding of actual Tables and Queries.  • Creating indexes on tables and Optimizing Stored procedure queries.    Environment / Tools Java 1.5/1.6, Collection Concept, Struts MVC, PL/SQL Developer, Eclipse 3.4 Oracle 10G, Unix, JPA, Hibernate, JSP, Servlet, Portlet, Weblogic Portal, HTML, Javascript Java (SWT/RCP)/ Oracle developer IBM Global - Harrisburg, PA September 2009 to July 2010 Description:  UCMS  UCMS is taxation System of U.S. developed for PA state government. Mainly this application contains different forms for tax and calculates individual actual tax. It also keeps record of individual Employer and predecessor tax information in respect to individual information    Responsibilities:  • Actively participated in High-level Document and Detailed level Document for different modules in the project.  • Use Eclipse to develop an application  • Involved in enhancing the existing product  • Use Collection concept (Vector, List, Map, SET. Iterator, Enumeration etc)  • Developing GUI using SWT/RCP technology  • Experience in working with different plug-ins of Eclipse RCP.  • Developing different GUI screens using widgets like Tree and Table form in Eclipse SWT/RCP  • Developing perspective to show different views together in RCP  • Developing Menus and views using Extension point in RCP  • Developing statistics graphs using JFree Chart  • Working with TableViewer and TreeViewer component of Jface  • Developing Back-end code using Hibernate Framework  • Developing many-many, many to-one relationship in hibernate  • Working on Spring Dependency Injection With Hibernate  • Sending alerts using MDB and JMS  • Use Oracle 10g as a back-end  • Developing Stored Procedures, Functions, Packages. in SQL*Plus.  • Written many database triggers for automatic updating the tables.  • Working in creation of Sequences for automatic generation of voucher numbers.  • Working in creation of Views and Synonyms for hiding of actual Tables and Queries.  • Creating indexes on tables and Optimizing Stored procedure queries.    Environment / Tools Java 1.5/1.6, Collection Concept, SWT/RCP, SQL Developer, Eclipse 3.5 (Galileo - RCP Plug-ins version), SWT, JFace, Oracle 10G, Unix, IBM Clear-Case, JMS, MDB, Ant, Reflection, ORM (Hibernate), Spring Dependency Injection Java/ Oracle developer Fedex, Colorado Spring CO April 2008 to August 2009 Description:  AMS Service (Shipment Application)  AMS Service shipment application. Which receives data from different application regarding shipment and processing every data and store it in the database. Mainly this software maintain information about shipping data.    Responsibilities:  • Use Eclipse to develop an application  • Involved in enhancing the existing product  • Use Collection concept (Vector, List, Map, SET. Iterator, Enumeration etc)  • Use Swing to enhance project  • Developing GUI using SWT/RCP technology  • Developing Back-end code using EJB 2.0/3.0  • Deploying code using Web-logic  • Use JMS to send an data to frount-end to back-end  • Use Oracle 10g as a back-end  • Passing data between front-end to back-end using Web-Services  • Use JAX-WS to send data which generate WSDL file  • Use XML Schema to web-service  • Work with Java Reflection  • Use Benthic as an Oracle Client  • Use Clear-Case to Review Code  • Developing Client-Server application Using Socket programming.  • Call Remote method using RMI  • Involved in the integration and unit testing of the components and fine-tuning of the code.  • Used Linux to deploy application  • Use Unix for job scheduling    Environment / Tools Java 1.5/1.6, Collection Concept, SWT/RCP, XML(Schema, XSLT, DOM), Benthic, Eclipse 3.2, BEA Web Logic 10.0, Socket Programming, EJB 2.0/3.0, Oracle 10G, Unix, Clear-Case, Web-Service (JAX-WS), AXIS-2, JMS, Ant, JFree Chart, Reflection Java/Oracle Developer SUNRISE REMEDIES PVT. LTD - Ahmedabad, Gujarat June 2006 to March 2008 Description:  Business Application of Sunrise remedies Pvt. Ltd.  Involved in Business Application of sunrise remedies Pvt. Ltd. . Developing Accounting, Sales, Inventory department application .Involved in design, development and implementation of the data mart. Involved in documentation, performance enhancement and modification of the SQL and PL/SQL code. Also using SWINGS/AWT, HTML and JAVA script to develop Front-End    Responsibilities:  • Involved in enhancing the existing product  • Developed the statistics graph using JSP, Custom tag libraries, Applets and Swing in a multi threaded architecture  • Developed application in Struts framework  • Developed the Struts Formbeans, ActionClasses and JSP for Notification processing  • Implemented the business logic for alert processing, for various events using Java threading.  • Developing application in JAVA Swings  • Worked in Agile Methodologies.  • Involved in bug fixing and performance tuning of the existing project.  • Maintaining and enhancing the various graphs displayed to user.  • Used the Struts plug-in property for validation, developed the Action Classes, Action Form Classes, created JSPs, used Struts tag libraries and configured in struts-config.xml, web.xml files.  • Created the documentations for the enhancements.  • Involved in the integration and unit testing of the components and fine-tuning of the code.  • Use Unix for job scheduling    Environment / Tools Java, Struts framework, Servlets, JSP, Applets, XML, HTML, Apache Tomcat 5.5, Eclipse, BEA Web Logic 8.1, EJB, Java Script, Oracle , OOAD, Unix. Education Bachelor's Skills BEA, ECLIPSE, EJB, HIBERNATE, SPRING, JAX, JAX-RPC, JAX-WS, JBUILDER, JMS, JNDI, JSP, RMI, STRUTS, DATABASE, JDBC, MS ACCESS, MS SQL SERVER, MS SQL SERVER 2005, SQL SERVER, Java, Angular, Node, Javascript