Java Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Developer - Duquesne Light Pittsburgh, PA • 7+ years of professional experience in developing Multi-Tier distributed applications using JAVA-J2EE technologies.  • Strong server side coding experience using Core Java, Multithreading, EJB, Servlets, JSP, JDBC, DOM, JUnit, XML, XSLT,, SPRING Framework, Hibernate, AJAX, XML Schemas.  • Very strong experience with Databases and object oriented programming.  • Expertise in practicing the SDLC models (Waterfall Model, Agile methodologies).  • Experience in various stages of SDLC like Initiation, Requirements gathering and analysis, Design, Development, Integration & Testing, Implementation/Production Release and Operations& Maintenance.  • Experience working on database like Oracle 9i, Oracle 10g,Oracle11g, SQL Server, MySQL using Java JDBCAPI.  • Extensively worked on SOA such as RESTful&SOAP web services.  • Knowledge in Amazon Web Services.  • Spring boot has been built on top of existing spring framework.  • Strong experience in writing JUnit for unit testing and Web Services testing with SOAP UI.  • Expertise in Unit testing, Integration testing, Smoke testing & System testing  • Experience in using build tools like Ant, Maven and Continuous Integration tools like Jenkins.  • Experience in usingLog4J for logging messages, Debug and Error tracking.  • Extensive B2B development work on IBM Web Sphere, Web Logic, AWS, Jboss application servers and web development server on Apache Tomcat web.  • Worked on version control tools like Github, CVS.  • Proficient in developing web page quickly and effectively using, HTML 5, CSS3, JavaScript, AngularJS, AJAX and JQuery and also experience in making web page cross browser compatible.  • Experience in developing applications using different IDEs like Eclipse, Net Beans, and IntellIj.  • Experienced in managing Onsite-Offshore model projects with teams across different geographies, working in different Time zones.  • Proficient knowledge in JDBC and writing SQLQueries, PL/SQLStored Procedures, Triggers and SQL packages.  • Responsible for checking cross browser compatibility and hence worked on different browsers like Safari, Internet Explorer, Mozilla Firefox and Google chrome.  • Extensive Knowledge in all phases of Project and Product development life cycle that includes System Study, Analysis, Design, Development, Integration, Testing, Deployment, Maintenance, Re-Engineering and Documentation.  • Proven experience in coordinating with different internal/external stakeholders (Business / Technical / Finance teams) of projects.  • Effectively uses the open source frameworks and implement easily and open to learn any new technologies.  • Very adaptable - able to acquire and use new skills rapidly and effectively.  • Good problem solving and analytical skills in resolving the technical challenges of the project and providing creative solutions to them.    Responsibilities:    • Used Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) for transactions management.  • Designed and Developed the Application using Spring MVC and Hibernateas the ORM.  • System built using Spring MVC architecture. Implemented the application using the concrete principles laid down by several design patterns such as Factory Pattern, Session Facade, Business Delegate, Bean Factory, Singleton, Data Access Object, Observer Pattern and Service Locator.  • The business logic was written in Spring Serviceclasses and the service layer classes were configured in Spring-service.xml.  • Involved in Design and Developing of the front end using HTML, CSS, and JavaScript to perform validation on the client side.  • Extensively worked on Front end using JQuery, JSP,Ajax,JavaScript, JSTL, Bootstrap, HTML, HTML5, and CSS.  • Developed Hibernatein Data Access Layer to access and update information in the database.  • Used Spring Framework for Dependency injection and integrated with Hibernate.  • Designed and Developed Wrapper Services to Ad Gen functions and exposed as web services.  • Developed and tested utilities to interact with SOAP web services.  • Developed RESTFUL web services using Spring Framework.  • Extensively reviewed the code for Application Security.  • Designed the workflow, system architecture, drawing sequence diagrams, activity diagrams, class diagrams, HTML pages, database schema and tables.  • Developed a UI component using Angular JS. Project using Angular JS framework frontend development using HTML5 and CSS3 for most of the feature.  • The Persistence layer consisted of Persistence classes which used to access the DB by using Hibernate HQL and Criteria queries.  • Recorded and plays back test in Fire fox using Selenium IDE.  • Used SOAP for testing web services request and response.  • Provided Log4j support for the application for debugging the system  • Implementation of the Business logic layer for Mongo DB Services.  • Generated Hibernate XML files for the configured beans. The business logic was written in EJB DAO classes and the service layer classes were configured in Spring-service.xml.  • The transaction management in the interceptor stack is done using interceptor-rules.xml in which all the rules regarding navigation of Interceptors are defined.  • Deployed the application using Web Logic Admin console, also configured the messaging through Web Logic Admin console.  • Involved in testing the XML files and checked whether data is parsed and loaded to staging tables.  • Analysis of current security and database configuration services.  Environment:JSP, Servlet, Hibernate, Spring, XML, CSS, XML Schema, AJAX (JQUERY, AJAX), DOM, SOAP, Java script, Angular JS, PL/SQL, D/HTML, XHTML, Ant 1.6, Log4j, JUnit, Git, Web Logic 10.0, Oracle 11g RDBMS, Mongo DB, Mercury Quality Center 9.0, Eclipse 3.2.    Sabre Corporation, Dallas, TX. April 2014 to Sept 2015 Java Developer.  Description:Sabre Corporation is a travel technology company based in Southlake, TX. It is the largest Global Distribution Systems provider for air bookings in North America. The software allows for a seamless work flow during each step of the process. The Customer login system is used for easy access for the customers to book air ticket, manage the transactions, view and update the booking, and cancel the booking.  Responsibilities:  • Experience in the development of Enterprise Java Beans (EJB's)to implement Business logic for maintaining information and database operations.  • Developed the application using JSF, spring, Java, Java script, Hibernate, Ajax ImplementedSOA architecture with web services using SoapUI, WSDL and Restful. Developed the user interface using HTML, CSS.  • Used spring boot to avoid all the boilerplate code and configurations that we had to do previously.  • CSS, AJAX, and JavaScript, Angular Js.  • Responsible for developing application using Spring framework with Angular JS.  • Object relational mapping and Persistence mechanism is executed using Hibernate ORM.  • Coded the Custom JSP, Java Beans packages for Product Features functionality. This module takes care of changing the password if the user logs into the system for the first time.  • Involved in developing & exposing web services and also consumption of Web Services like RESTFUL Services.  • Applied design patterns including MVC Pattern, Façade Pattern, Abstract Factory Pattern, DAO Pattern and Singleton.  • Worked on different utility classes that are used all over the application for validations and formatting at the backend.  • Involved in the JMS Connection Pool and the implementation of publish and subscribe using Spring JMS.  • Developed queries that are required for the application development and implemented using different logics.  • Developed test classes in JUnit for implementing unit testing.  • Deployed application in local for testing performed in JBoss and final Testing, Stage and Production versions are deployed and released using the Web Sphere Application Server.  • Experienced in writing SQL scripts including Stored Procedures, functions, packages and triggers and implemented Database access connectivity through JDBC at Server end.    Environment: Java, JDK1.6, J2EE, JDBC, Servlets, JSP, JSTL, EJB, HTML, AJAX, Spring Framework, Java Script, CSS, XSLT, XML. JUnit, GWT, Angular JS, Web services like RESTFUL, SOUPUI, WSDL, Web Sphere, JBoss6, Hibernate, JMS, UNIX, Oracle 10g.    Client: AT&T, Miami, Florida. Aug 2011 to March 2014.  Java Developer.    Description: PRIMA application is based on Oracle Application Development Framework (Oracle ADF) to create transaction-based web application as required for telephone number inventory management. Details about the schema and features that implement the application are also provided. In this application, block of telephone numbers and individual telephone numbers called "lines" are managed through a front-end web application. Block and line statuses are used as lines go through their life cycle. Users can visit the web site, and based on their role, they will acquire and manage blocks and lines, and generate reports.  Responsibilities:  • Creates user information solutions for complex and large programs by developing, implementing, and maintaining Java based components and interfaces.  • Responsible for creating and maintaining web applications and web services that interact with complex databases.  • Collaborates with developers and clients to develop precise business logic.  • Created POC for Spring Batch for running batch jobs.  • Documented how Spring Batch is useful for the current project.  • Rewriting of JSP's to XHTML pages to take advantage of strict validation, and to overcome the problems of JSP using along with JSF display technology.  • Developed the Graphical User Interface using HTML, JQuery, JavaScript, CSS, JSP, JSTL, JSON and Dynamic GUI using AJAX.  • Responsible for checking cross browser compatibility and hence worked on different browsers like Safari, Internet Explorer, Mozilla Firefox and Google chrome  • Designed and developed code for Exchange project using the Java EE 6 platform.  • Recorded and plays back test in Fire fox using Selenium IDE.  • Created Automation test framework using Selenium.  • Used AngularJS for DOM Manipulation, Filters, and Directives.  • Integrate the dynamic pages with Backbone JS and JQuery to make pages dynamic.  • Developed presentation layer using JSP, HTML5 and CSS3,JQuery, Backbone JS and Angular JS.  • Designed and developed several applicants for the United Federation of Teachers in IntellIJ IDE using Spring 3, Spring Security, Spring WebFlow2, Hibernate, Dojo, Ajax, HTML, JSP, JSTL, JSON, JQuery, Log4J, Restful, MySQL, DB2, Maven, JUnit and LDAP for Teachers to log in and manage benefits.  • Jboss configuration is done in thoroughly firewalled environment using TCP.  • Migrating the application from Web Sphere to Jboss.  • Chat servers created with node.js using redis for message routing, but never deployed to production.  • Install configure Jboss Application server for the VPDC environment and currently working on the Prod environment setup in Cloud environment.  • Developed websites using Angular JS, Backbone JS, CSS3, HTML communicating with back end.  • Develop custom solutions that act upon Jenkins information in real time.    Environment: Java EE6, WEBLOGIC, ORACLE ADF and ORACLE PL/SQL experience, Junit, IntellIj, Angular JS, Java 1.6,servlets, jsp, jsf, java script, Jenkins, Jboss 4.2.x, Jboss 5.1 EAP, Spring Batch 2.1.8,WebLogic 8.1/9.x/10.x, Apache, Backbone.js, multithreading, Groovy 1.8/1.7, Facelets., JPA 1.0, XML, XSLT, XPath.  Client: Virtusa Corporation, India June 2009 to July 2010Java/J2EE Developer  Description: Virtusa Corporation is a global information technology (IT) services company providing IT consulting, technology and outsourcing services. Using enhanced global delivery model, innovative software plat forming approach and industry expertise, they provide high-value IT services that enable clients to enhance business performance, accelerate time-to-market, increase productivity and improve customer service.  Responsibilities:  • Implemented server side programs by using Servlets and JSP.  • Participated in designing the user interface for the application using HTML5, Java Server Pages (JSP) and CSS.  • Implemented MVCusing Struts Framework.  • Involved in gathering requirements from the client for designing the Web Pages.  • Involved in implementing the DAO pattern for database access and used the JDBC API extensively.  • Involved in implementing Multi-Threading for communication.  • Used XML with DTD and its references with the files.  • Tested the application functionality with JUnit Struts Test Cases.  • Used CVS for version control.  • Handled the database access by implementing Controller Servlet.  • Involved in using Oracle 11i for generating on-screen reports and writing complex sub-queries.  • Implemented PL/SQL stored procedures and triggers.  • Used JDBC prepared statements to call from Servlets for database access.  • Used Log4J for any errors in the application.  • Deployed project on Web Sphere 6.1 application servers in Linux environment.    Environment: Java 7, J2EE, JSP, Servlets, HTML5, CSS, XML, JavaScript, Eclipse 4.2, Struts, java SDK 1.4, MVC, Web Sphere, Core java, Servlet 2.2, JSP 2.0, JDBC, PL/SQL, XML DTD, Apache Tomcat 8.0, ASP, Spring1.0.2, JavaScript, Windows 2000, Oracle 11i, JUnit, CVS, ANT 1.5 and Log4J, Restful Web services, HP ALM Quality Center 11.52. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Java Developer Duquesne Light - Pittsburgh, PA October 2015 to Present Description: Duquesne Light Holdings, Inc. ("DLH") is an energyservices holdingcompany formed in 1989 to serve as the holding company for Duquesne Light Company and to engage in certain unregulated energy and related businesses. DQE offers a wide range of services for all customers, from individuals and small businesses, to corporations and government entities, their business are categorized in to Online Payment, Power Management, Managing accounts, managing energy usage for home and business, Activities, e-statements, Transaction management. Education Bachelor of Technology in Computer Science & Engineering Birla Institute of Technology and Science - Pilani, Rajasthan Masters in Computer Information and Systems Harmon School of Business - Warrensburg, MO Skills JAVA (1 year), AJAX (Less than 1 year), ANALYSIS DESIGN (Less than 1 year), APACHE (Less than 1 year), BOOTSTRAP (Less than 1 year) Additional Information Technical Skills    Core Java Concepts Collections, Generics, Multithreading, Serialization, Exception Handling, RMI, File I/O and Reflection.  Languages C, C++, Java, SQL,PL-SQL.  Web Technologies. HTML5, DHTML, JavaScript,Bootstrap, CSS/CSS3, AJAX,XML,XSLT,JSON, JQUERY, JSTL, ANGULAR JS and Node JS.  J2EE JSP, Servlets, EJB, JMS and JDBC.  Framework Struts, Spring MVC and Hibernate.  Web/Application Servers Apache Tomcat, JBoss, JBoss6,Web Sphere, Web logic.  IDEs Eclipse, IntellIj and Net Beans.    Design Skills UML (JUDE, Rational Rose), Object Oriented Analysis and Design (OOAD), GOF Java &J2EE Design Patterns.  Web Services SOAP and Restful Web Services.  SDLC Agile, Waterfall.  Logging Tools Log4J.  Testing JUnit, SOAP UI.  Build & Deployment Maven, Jenkins.  Database and Tools Oracle, MySQL, DB2, SQL Developer and MongoDB.  Version CVS, GIThub.    Operating Systems Windows Vista/7/8/10, UNIX, Oracle Solaris, Linux.