Senior Software Developer Senior Software <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior Software Developer - Zodiac Aerospace Huntington Beach, CA Work Experience Senior Software Developer Zodiac Aerospace - Brea, CA May 2014 to Present on Zodiac Aerospace's RAVE product, which provides airline passengers with an exceptional entertainment experience during their flight. My duties include the enhancement and maintenance of RAVE, adding new features as well as debugging the legacy system. This has required me to be involved in every level of the software development process from initial design to final test. I also mentor the more junior engineers. I am considered an expert in several areas as well as having a deep knowlwdge of most aspects of the system. I am the person others seek to get answers. During my time at Zodiac, the software deprtment transformed from a waterfall management to a Agile (specifically LeSS) environment. C++, Python, Java, Certified Scrum Master Chipton-Ross Incorporated - El Segundo, CA October 2012 to March 2014 Under contract to Boeing, I worked on the Open System Engineering Environment (OSEE) tool. OSEE is an integrated, extensible tool environment for large engineering projects. It provides a tightly integrated environment supporting lean principles across a product's full life-cycle in the context of an overall systems engineering approach. My specific duties included incorporating new features into OSEE and for identifying and fixing existing bugs.  Skills and Products used:  Java, Eclipse, LEAN principles, SQL AEROTEK Incorporated - Torrance, CA 2011 to October 2012 I was under contract to ARINC incorporated for work on their Advanced Information Management system (AIM) for the railroad industry. This system is a Windows based system consisting of a GUI used by the operators to control train operations and a server based system to process data to and from the field. I have been responsible for customization and debugging of the system for one of ARINC's customers. My specific duties were testing (both structured and unstructured) the system and fixing any bugs I discovered.  Skills and Products used:  C/C++, Java, Microsoft Visual Studio, Netbeans Boeing Corporation - Canoga Park, CA 2004 to 2011 for work on the System of Systems Common Operating Environment (SOSCOE) middleware system designed to run on LINUX based embedded systems residing in combat vehicles. I was responsible for design, implementation, test, review, documentation and end user support of several sub-components of SOSCOE. My specific duties were concentrated in the Task Integration Network (TIN) software. The TIN system implements the business logic for integration of diverse services across the network. I developed and implemented the algorithms that allowed the TIN system to access user defined services via Remote Method Interface (RMI) and direct call via dynamic load into the TIN engine. The dynamic load was able to handle either C++ or Java based services without the user writing a bridge between the languages  Skills and Products used:  C++, Java, LINUX, Eclipse IDE, CPPUNIT test framework, Microsoft Office Suite Compaxion Incorporated - Diamond Bar, CA 1993 to 2002 I was responsible for the design and implementation of the company's database compaction system. I am co-author of the patent for compaction technology. I was the principle programmer for the subsystem responsible for the compaction of data. The Compaxion product created a smaller version of an existing database that was accessible via the standard ODBC interface. This smaller version contained all the same data and schema as the original database.  Skills and Products used:  Microsoft Visual Studio (C/C++) with MFC, Microsoft Access, Microsoft office Suite, TCP/IP communication protocols, SQL Education Bachelor of Science in Electrical and Electronics Engineering California State Polytechnic University - Pomona, CA 1980 to 1984 Additional Information C, C++, C++ STL, Boost Libraries, JAVA, TCP/IP, Python  LINUX, Microsoft Windows, Subversion, Jira, Confluence  Certified Scrum Master, Certified Agile Leadership, Certified LeSS Practioner (Large Scale Scrum)