DevOps/Middleware Developer and System Integrations DevOps/Middleware <span class="hl">Developer</span> and System Integrations Looking for Software Engineering role as DevOps developer or Core Java developer or Technology specialist. Any ? 15+ years of experience in Software Applications and infrastructure development, Integration, Optimization and Life cycle management using industry standard tools and automation techniques.  ? Worked on defining, developing and integrating Enterprise Solutions, generated technical requirements and integration plans. Generated integration architecture and testing plans.  ? Have designed functional and development specifications, applications performance analysis and worked on post implementation support on Unix and Windows infrastructure. Have set up monitoring for production and non-production services.  ? Experienced generating Jenkins CI/CD pipeline to build and deploy codes Java applications. Have used containerized technology, such as Docker and Docker-Compose..  ? Experience in configuration management and deployment automation tools. Created and managed complex queries and stored procedures.  ? Enhanced complex application codes for maintenance and diagnosis purposes. Troubleshooting applications using third party monitoring and performance tools.  ? Worked extensively with all aspects of enterprise applications fundamentals, i.e. Networking, File systems, Database and have worked extensively with vendors (IBM, Oracle, OpenText, Microsoft) along with development teams for architectural, implementation of enterprise applications and for their operational issues.  ? Experienced working with DevOps methodologies with CI/CD and automations. Intermediate working experience of cloud architecture and applications provisioning in cloud..  ? Documented and provided appropriate presentations to stakeholders about changes implications, outage scenarios, implementations and rollback efforts. Replicated environments to generate more testing cycles.  ? Deep understanding of SDLC and its implementations, programming fundamentals, applications integration and segregation. Programming data structures.  ? Worked in environment adherent of ITIL standards, TDD driven development, and Agile methodologies. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience DevOps/Middleware Developer and System Integrations IT Consulting June 2015 to July 2019 Clients: IBM, Scotia Bank, Canada Life, CIBC, BMO  ? Developed application using iText framework ( java) to provide company's internal autosys job report for auditing.  ? Developed an application framework using apache POI and shell scripting, Oracle DB to generate on-demand excel reports from targeted environment and email generated report to business unit who make request, this saved manual execution of SQL and email report to user.  ? Upgraded WebSphere App Servers (WAS) versions from 6 to 7 and 8x on RHEL (6, 7) systems using Ansible, python, wsadmin and shell scripting.  ? Generated Jenkins CI/CD build process using maven and deployed web sphere applications. Worked closely with developers to generate process work-flow.  ? Worked with business users and QA teams to incorporate new changes and test for releases.  ? Created / Modifed SQL queries for report generation and for incidents resolutions.  ? Used Dockers deployment platform to generate non-production environments for releases changes.  ? Architected and implemented RightFax Enterprise Applications 10.x. Worked on Migrating 9x version of application to 10x by involving corresponding LOBs. Worked on conversion projects for LOBs to convert their convention fax solutions on RightFax application.  ? Configured SSL, web service module and Web application of RightFax client on IIS.  ? Worked on capacity planning, failover scenarios, load balancing design for Non-Production and Production environments.  ? Installed and configured WebSphere 7x and 8x application components on AIX for non-Production to clustered Production environment using automation tools. Followed Change Management process.  ? Worked on JVM tuning and performance analysis.  ? Responsible for QA Test data activity planning, automation and documentations. Generated Performance Test data requirements by working with stakeholders and working on data masking and generation of synthetic data for test scenarios. Responsible for collecting information for generating test case scenarios. CIBC Canada March 2013 to June 2015 Mar 2013 - June 2015  Production Env Automation and Systems Specilists  WebLogic upgrades, SSL upgrades, Linux (VMware) migration, Autosys implementation.  ? Worked on migration of Java Weblogic applications to migrate into newer version. Designed and rewrote Spring, Hibernate, JMS components. Worked on JEE (J2EE) framework on WebLogic 7/8/9/12 version to create release features for bank's internal applications which communicates with 10s of bank's wealth management, mortgage and retail banking applications.  ? Worked to provide 24/7 Production Environment support for Weblogic 8/9/11, IBM MQ and Enterprise Windows based applications which interact between Tier 1 applications of business Lines including Retail, Credit, brokerage, Investment banking.  ? Worked on Oracle SOA end points to design and implement changes for releases. developed corresponding testing plans and integration strategies and documentation.  ? Implemented Kofax Total Agility Enterprise applications upgrade from Kofax Capture. Worked with development team to implement workflows, fax data captures for peripheral systems.  ? Worked with Documentum ECM for KoFax images content management.  ? Worked on Ansible Continuous Management tools for WebLogic 8x, 9x, 11x and apache deployments as well as Operational automation.  ? Involved in setting up MQ Queues, channels, WebLogic startup class design and modification as per new, deployments of new JEE resources.  ? Developed WebLogic deployment scripts modifications (WLST and Unix) to deploy EJBs, DataSources and JMS resources. Worked with BigIP load balancing and SSL configuration from VIP to WebLogic layer for two stop SSL communication.  ? Worked on project involved applications Integrations with requirement gathering, impact analysis, deployment planning and configuration, worked with offshore team to delegate repetitive tasks.  ? Worked on configuration management tool (Ansible) for application configurations for WebLogic environment.  ? Worked with DBAs to analyze Oracle AWR reports for performance of databases with WebLogic applications and planned JVM tuning accordingly.  ? Worked with RightFax, KoFax, Pegasys and SWIFT for application upgrades, production issues troubleshooting and maintenance issues.  ? Managed SSL renewal process for many of supported sites for businesses, including SSL to TLS upgrade.  ? Configuring applications monitoring using Site Scope monitoring tools as well as with Unix scripting for timely awareness of failures to notify team by pages and emails.  ? Participated in Tidal to Autosys migration project by creating and managing Autosys scheduling jobs for RightFax application and some other wealth management data jobs.  ? Monitored Autosys batch overnight to ensure problem free processing. Implemented several small to medium scale projects into production, entailing developing Autosys R11 batch jobs and Feedhub 2.2 accounts and troubleshoot Informatics workflows and escalate failures to the Development team. Created file watcher, command lines and box jobs to create push/pull jobs through feedhub. Worked on Informatics workflows to process files initiated from commands jobs.  ? Worked with application DR situation planning and implementation with corresponding stakeholders. Technology Specialist for Middleware applications and Ansible Automation Engineer TELUS Mobility August 2006 to February 2013 Weblogic upgrade, F5 implementation, New Environment buildings, Migration to VM.  ? Managing, installing, deploying and configuring J2EE based applications using WebLogic console WebLogic 9.x/8.1 servers as well as using automated scripts. Created Auto deployment tools using WL and UNIX script for accurate and speedy deployments.  ? Worked on Ansible Community Editions and Jenkins as CI and Maven for build management on J2EE applications. Created 5+ end to end environments with more than 700 applications servers and applications configurations using Ansible.  ? Managed, Configured BigIP/F5 LTM network configuration for applications URLs for secured and unsecured access till WebLogic layers from bigIP. Created iRules for requests redirection, Used keytool for key, certificate stores for WebLogic.  ? Generated Self Signed and versioned certificates SSL communication till WL layer through F5.  ? Involved in Infrastructure migration from standalone Solaris to VM based Linux.  ? Providing application support for non-production environments to QA teams and to make sure readiness of environments with new changes after each release.  ? Worked on LAMP stack coding to generate self-management of Internal Environments repository. Used mySQL (as part of LAMP) database. Designed and managed database as well as runtime queries and stored procedures. Used WorkBench as database management tool. Java, .Net Application developer and Application Support consultant CGI Inc - Toronto, ON February 2004 to August 2006 Java application Developer to create Web Based and Applet based applications Xpoint Tech and AltoWeb Inc May 1999 to June 2003 Education Masters in Computer Science in Computer Science University of Nevada at Reno - Reno, NV 2000 Bachelor of Engineering in Engineering LD College of Engineering - Ahmedabad, Gujarat 1996 Skills ECLIPSE, JAVA, HIBERNATE, SPRING, JAX, JAXB, JAXP, JAX-WS, STRUTS, JENKINS, PYTHON, SCRIPTING, SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT, XML, XSL, XSLT, APACHE, LINUX, SHELL SCRIPTING, UNIX, Jenkins, Ansible (3 years), Java development with framworks (3 years), Java development (5 years), Java and python modules development using wasadmin, wlst (5 years), AWS, Cloud understanding (1 year), Docker and containerization (2 years)