Java Devops Engineer <span class="hl">Java</span> Devops Engineer Java Devops Engineer Morrisville, NC • 6+ years of working experience in all phases of SDLC design and development. Expertise in design and development of Web Applications.  • IT experience and gained expertise in systems Windows and Unix administration and transformed traditional environments to virtualized environments with AWS - EC2  • Strong expertise on DevOps concepts like Continuous Integration (CI), Continuous delivery (CD) and Infrastructure as Code, Cloud Computing etc.  • Hand on experience to build Docker images by writing Docker files for various applications deployments.  • Experience in branching, tagging and maintaining the VersionControl and SourceCode management tools like GIT, SVN (subversion) on Linux and windows platforms.  • Built Automation and Build Pipe Line Development using Jenkins and Maven. Set up build pipelines in Jenkins by using various plug-in like Maven plug-in, EC2 plug-in etc.  • Knowledge in using Linux servers and Configuration Management tools like Chef, Ansible  • Experience in Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC), AGILE methodologies, TDD, Enterprise Java Beans.  • Extensively worked with Sql/NoSql like MongoDB, Oracle, SQL Server, Postgres, MySQL and DB2 relational & non-relational database management systems.  • Extensive Experience working with Spring Framework 4.0, Struts Framework 2.0 and ORM Hibernate 4.2 framework.  • Developed J2EE applications on IDE's like Eclipse, and Rational Application Developer (RAD), IntelliJ.  • Extensive experience in developing and deploying applications on Web Logic Application Server, JBoss, Web Sphere, Tomcat. Strong Experience in implementing MicorServices Architecture.  • Strong Experience in implementing Micorservices Architecture & Service Oriented Architectures (SOA) using XML based Web Services (SOAP/WSDL) and RESTful Web Services.  • Experience in building enterprise applications using Maven and Gradle.  • Experience is using Tomcat, JBOSS, Web logic and Web Sphere application servers for deployment  • Experience in error logging and debugging using Log4J, JUnit.  • Experience in using version control management tools like SVN, GIT.  • Expertise with Restful API development methods and implementation technologies.  • Implemented a Continuous Delivery pipeline with Docker , Jenkins and GitHub  • Having good experience JENKINS migration.  • Experience in Deploying applications in AWS. Having knowledge on Python.  • Experienced in TEST automation using Jenkins, Karma, Jasmine.  • Excellent communication and interpersonal skills and a very good team player with the ability to work independently. Work Experience Java Devops Engineer SAS - Cary, NC October 2018 to March 2019 SAS CI360 Customer-level digital data merged with traditional data sources yields a 360-degree customer view. Imbedded predictive marketing analytics engenders a deeper customer understanding. Engage with customers contextually across inbound and outbound channels. And craft compelling customer experiences tailored to each unique customer's journey.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) using Agile Methodology and followed Scrum sessions.  • Worked on Single Page Applications (SPA) using Angular 4, Typescript, HTML5, CSS3, and Bootstrap 3.  • Extensively used Hibernate ORM in data access layer.  • Used Spring Core Annotations for Dependency Injection Spring DI and Spring MVC for REST API's and Spring Boot for micro-services.  • Implemented the caching mechanism in Hibernate to load data from Postgre database.  • Created Typescript reusable components and services to consume REST API's using Component-based architecture provided by Angular 4.  • Installed application on AWS EC2 instances and configured the storage on S3 buckets.  • Configure different AWS instances based on project requirement and add them to different load balancers.  • Implemented a Continuous Delivery pipeline with Docker , Jenkins and GitHub  • Used Jasmine & Junit.  • Used GitHub version controlling tools to maintain project versions supported the applications through debugging, fixing and maintenance releases.  • Used JIRA for bug tracking, issue tracking and project management    Environment: Windows 7, Java 8, Spring, Spring Framework, Spring Boot, Restful Web Services, Agile , JavaScript, Jenkins, Log4j, Hibernate, PostgreSQL , Maven, Junit, Angular 4,AWS, API Gateway, Docker, Docker swarm, Linux, GIT Java Devops Engineer Thrivent Financial - Appleton, WI February 2018 to September 2018 Thrivent is an organization that has helped Christians be wise with money and live generously. Over the last century, Thrivent has grown from a singular business to a suite of businesses operating as an enterprise unified by a common mission.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in SDLC LifeCycle of Software Development from Analysis through Design, Development, Integration and testing phases. Involved in Full Cycle of Software Development from Analysis through Design, Development, Integration and testing phases.  • Followed Agile Software Development with Scrum methodology.  • Consumed SOAP Web services & Restful Web Services using Spring MVC.  • Designed and developed UI screens with HTML5, CSS, Angular Js 4.  • Worked on the Micorservices architecture using Spring Boot.  • Worked on AWS cloud services like EC2, S3, Cloud watch, Cloud Front, IAM for installing configuring and troubleshooting on various Amazon images for server migration from on premises to cloud environment.  • Installed, Setup and configure various Jenkins jobs for application deployments and test cases execution.  • Responsible for onboarding Application teams to build and deploy their code using GitHub, Jenkins, Nexus and Ansible.  • Migrated multiple applications from Anthil to Jenkins from Dev environment till UAT.  • Provided extensive pre-delivery support using Bug Fixing and Code Reviews.    Environment: Windows 7, Java 7&8, SpringBoot, Spring Framework, SOAP Web Services, Restful Web Services, Agile Methodology, JavaScript, JQuery, Jenkins, Log4j, Hibernate, Maven, Pivotal, Junit, Linux, Spring Boot, Github, Ansible, Nexus, NAGIOS, Shell script, Python J2EE Developer AT&T - Atlanta, GA May 2015 to November 2017 AT&T Inc. is an American multinational telecommunications conglomerate, headquartered at Whitacre Tower in downtown Dallas, Texas. AT&T is the world's largest telecommunications company.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in SDLC LifeCycle of Software Development from Analysis through Design, Development, Integration and testing phases.  • Extensively used Scrum Programming concept which is part of Agile methodologies to plan work for every iteration.  • Developed the front-end web page by using HTML5, CSS3, and JavaScript, taking advantage of the frameworks Angular.JS, React.js utilized node.js (Express) to consume JSON.  • Implemented Micro services Architecture using spring boot for making application smaller and independent.  • Designed and developed the REST based Micro services using the Spring Boot, Spring Data with JPA ( Java Persistence API) and Used Swagger to interact with API end points of the Micro services.  • Implemented the Spring IOC for the core business application logic and used Hibernate as persistence framework.  • Designed and developed REST based Microservices using Spring Boot.  • Cassandra & Oracle was used as persistence database.  • Optimized SQL queries in Oracle and extensively wrote SQL DDL and DML statements  • Worked on development of Hibernate, including mapping files, configuration file and classes to interact with the database.  • Responsible for implementing Hibernate caching.  • Integrated Apache Kafka for data ingestion  • Used Git/SVN for Version Control  • Used JIRA as an issue tracker tool to collaborate with testers and functional team as well as to track defects and change requests  Environment: Windows 7, Java 7/8, Unix, Spring, Spring Framework, Spring boot, RESTful Web Services, Jersey 2.x, Docker, Agile Methodology, AWS, Oracle 12g, Cassandra, Eclipse IDE, Apache Kafka, GIT, AWS, Jenkins, Log4j, Hibernate, Maven, Angular 4, JBOSS, JSP, GIT J2EE Java Developer Direct Energy - Houston, TX January 2015 to April 2015 As a fully integrated energy company, Direct Energy is one of the largest retail providers of electricity, natural gas, and home services in all of North America. The company is committed to providing our customers electricity, products, and services in ways that improve the quality of everyday life. Involved in gathering business requirements with the end user, designed and developed the project using Spring Framework and used Agile methodology to produce high quality software.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in the Analysis, Design and implementation of the project.  • Followed Scrum Agile methodology for iterative development of the application.  • Implemented SOA architecture.  • Design and implementation of RESTful Web services and handled HTTP operations to retrieve the data and Consumed web services.  • Used Spring MVC Framework 3.0 to construct the dynamic web pages.  • Used various industry standard design patterns like façade, factory and singleton.  • Developed JUnit for Unit Testing and Jenkins for CI.  • Experience with Maven build and deployment process.  • Used SVN version controlling to maintain project versions.  • Used Informatica as an ETL tool to create source/target definitions, mappings and sessions to extract, transform and load data into staging tables from flat files to Oracle database.  • Developing Mapping Documents indicating the source tables, columns, data types, transformation required, business rules, target tables, columns and data types.  • Used the Log4j frame work to log the system execution details to log files.  • Wrote JUnit test cases for unit, Jasmine for Angular integration, and functional tests and configure the builds in Jenkins.  • Used Rally for bug tracking and responsible for resolving these defects assigned on time and update their status on regular basis.  Environment: JBOSS Server, Java (JDK 1.6), J2EE, Struts 2.0, Spring 3.0, MongoDb, Oracle 12g, Angular 1.2 Eclipse, JUnit, JSP, JSON, SVN, Maven, SOAPUI, RALLY, Informatica 9x. Education Masters in Computer Science Rivier University 2014 Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Languages Java JDK 1.6/1.7/1.8, SQL, PL/SQL, UML, XML, XSL, XSLT, NoSql  J2EE Technologies Servlets, JSP, JDBC, JPA, EJB, Pearl, C++  Application Servers / Web Servers Apache Tomcat, IBM WebSphere, WebLogic, JBoss  Container Tools Docker,ECS.  Ticketing Tools Jira, Bugzilla  Build tools Maven and Gradle    CM tools Chef and Ansible  Frameworks Spring 4.0, Struts 2.0, Hibernate3.0,  Database Oracle, MySQL, SQL Server, DB2, Cassandra, MongoDb  Design Patterns Business Delegate, DAO, MVC, Session Facade, Singleton  Operating Systems Linux, Windows 98/2000/XP/NT, UNIX.  Web Technologies JavaScript, Java applets CSS, HTML, DHTML, AJAX, SOAP, REST, JQuery, GWT, Angular JS 1.0/2.0, React js, Backbone js, Node Js, Bootstrap,.  Other Technologies  AWS, Maven, ANT, Clear Case, Clear Quest, JAXB, Maven, JAXP, JUnit, Log4j, Rational Rose, CVS, SVN, SOAP UI, Maven, ANT, Gradle, Jenkins, Chef, Puppet, New Relic, AWS, Docker    Cloud Computing  Cloud Computing: Amazon EC2, Amazon S3, AWS Identity and access management, AWS Cloud Watch other services of the AWS family.