Senior Ruby on Rails / Java Developer Senior Ruby on Rails /<span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior Ruby on Rails / Java Developer Work Experience Senior Ruby on Rails / Java Developer San Francisco, CA January 2019 to July 2019 • Airbnb is a web application that offers its members to use service to arrange or offer lodging, primarily homestays, or tourism experiences. The company does not own any of the real estate listings, nor does it host events; as a broker, it receives commissions from every booking.  • Working on Payments of the Airbnb Web based application.  • AGILE/SCRUM Process, Storyboarding, standup meetings..etc  • Moving from a Monolithic Architecture to Service Oriented Architecture SOA from Ruby to Java.  • Involved in Design, Code Reviews, Coding/Scripting of the APIs  • Adding features, REST API based approach to Payments  • Handling day-to-day Issues / Interaction with the customer from time-to-time through meetings  • Trainings and mentoring the team  • Ruby, Rails, Rspec, ActiveRecord, Rubymine, Postgres, AWS, React.js, Elastic Search, Zeus, Cucumber  • Java, JAX-RS, DropWizard, IntelliJ, Service Oriented Architecture  • JIRA, Git, Kiterunner Senior Ruby on Rails Developer for Cloud Services Autodesk User Management @ Autodesk - San Francisco, CA February 2018 to January 2019 • Autodesk User Management handles user subscription management, entitlement provisioning, authentication and authorization platform designed to scale from individual customers up to large enterprises.  • AGILE/SCRUM Process, Storyboarding, standup meetings..etc  • Involved in Design, Code Reviews, Coding/Scripting of the APIs  • Adding features, REST API based approach to subscription management  • Handling day-to-day Issues / Interaction with the customer from time-to-time through meetings  • Trainings and mentoring the team  • Ruby, Rails, Rspec, ActiveRecord, Rubymine, Postgres, AWS, React.js, Splunk, Elastic Search, Micro Services.  • JIRA, Git, Jenkins Senior Ruby on Rails Developer for Cloud Services Webex @ Cisco - San Jose, CA January 2017 to January 2018 • Ruby Web services for Webex.  • API based approach for pulling service of the records from the Oracle database to be consumed on the Mulesoft.  • Push Services for the same using Apache Kafka to be consumed asynchronously.  • Architected the complete API based approach using Ruby and oracle.  • Involved in Design, Code Reviews, Coding/Scripting of the APIs  • Incorporated the pagination for easy access of the API  • AGILE/SCRUM Process, Storyboarding, standup meetings..etc  • Handling day-to-day Issues / Interaction with the customer from time-to-time through meetings  • Trainings and mentoring the team  • JIRA, Git  • Ruby, Rails, Sublime 2, Cisco Cloud, Apache 2 web server, Oracle. Software RoR Architect American AOC - TPV, Austin Texas - Austin, TX October 2012 to January 2017 • Ruby on Rails Web based application used to automate error analysis by processing Android Logs - Logcat logs, Debug dumps, ANR logs, UART logs for faster debugging.  • Processed by giving input as- 1. Entering a PR number. 2. Urtracker Attachments 3. wetransfer links 4. developer.tpvision.com  • Processes information per boot cycle giving cpu load graphs, log stats graph, errors & other statistics.  • Gives the call stack for debug dump and maps directly to the source code on opengrok based on appropriate version.  • When the logs are very large analyzing per boot cycle and dumps becomes easy as the information is upfront ready.  • Processing a new dump/log - 1gb - 5-10min. But it takes hours to Analyze/speculate using classical methods such as Notepad++ - analysis plugin or glogg.  • Need not download the logs on to the PC/laptop but instead feed it to the application as a link and see the processed information on the web application.  • Written in Ruby on rails/bootstrap, Backend - Postgres and in the production environment - Piranandroid is in a docker  • Ruby on Rails/Rspec/Bootstrap, jq-plot for graphs, Backend - Postgres and in the production environment - Piranandroid is hosted using a docker  • NGINX, AWS  • JIRA, Git  • AGILE/SCRUM Process Senior Technical Specialist VTECH US December 2010 to September 2012 Project: Java based Application - Jsystem  • Seed member of the team  • Jsystem is a tool to test the functionality of Linux/Android Handsets.  • Maintaining and enhancing the functionality testing tool - Jsystem (Junit) to support new features and fixing the bugs  • Interaction with the Development team, testing team and Customer for new requirements  • Creating automation tools as per new requirements, maintaining existing tools, adding enhancements and fixing bugs  • Experience in customizing open source Test Automation Frameworks like Jsystem (Junit), Sikuli to test Android systems.  • Suggesting open source libraries to the upper management as alternatives to licensed software for cost reduction.  • Recruiting team members through lateral and campus interviews.  • * Providing in-house training to the team on Jsystem(Junit), Sikuli, etc.  • Co-ordinating and interacting with clients from time-to-time.  Achievements:  • Successfully ramped up the team and made it productive at short notice  • Performed exploratory testing for all field issues and created tools for achieving this  • Created tools for performance testing using Python  • Wrote an excellent test agent, in developmental board for interacting with various tools, that was bug free and had a very low footprint  • Integrated Sikuli on to the Jsystem framework in order to automate manual performance testing of Android handsets. This was a creative approach that nobody had tried before in the company Technical Leader Alcatel-Lucent US/Canada April 2007 to December 2010 Project: CRNC tool    • Seed member of the team - Training from Alcatel-Lucent, Canada  • Development of CRNC testing tool using C/C++  • Handled a team of 8.  • Development of features, High level Document HLD and Low Level Document LLD , Coding , UT Plan and UT for various feature  • Fixing the CR's for the CRNC testing tool.  • Design & Code reviews using Code Collaborator  • RNC Load Generator for Load testing - Feature development. Motorola Winphoria - VERIZON US March 2006 to March 2007 • Coded for features on Push to talk over Cellular Product using C, C++ and Java.  • Fixing Bugs for XDMS.  • Removed Memory leaks using Rational Purify.  • Development of features, High level Document HLD and Low Level Document LLD , Coding , UT Plan and UT for GPI Feature  • Script, Automation using Shell Scripting for UT.  • Fixing Bugs for GPI feature.  • Customer interaction and co-ordination. Tau Tester Motorola Labs (U.K.) March 2004 to March 2006 TTCN and script using Perl;  • Coded various features for functionality and Performance tools for UMTS Products  • Performed functionality testing and performance testing using the tools  • Recruited team members through lateral and campus interviews.  • Provided in-house training to the team on UMTS Tools  • Co-ordinated and interacted with Clients from time-to-time  Achievements:  • Successfully ramped up the team and made it productive at short notice  • Won an Award for excellent coding of a feature called Location Based Service - Assisted Global Positioning System (AGPS)  • Proud to have contributed too many complex features in the functionality and load testing tools Software Engineer Philips June 2003 to March 2004 Project: DVD-II CamCorder    • Was a part of Camcorder application design for User Interface for DVD+RW - II Generation.  • Development of code/ UT Plan/UT for Camcorder Programmer Mahantech, Worldspace Communication November 2000 to June 2003 Project: DVD-II CamCorder    • Coding for Command Interpreter for Main Board for Biometric Authentication using WLAN.  • Development of code/ UT Plan/UT  • Coding for Conversion of Template and Fingerprint Data into packets based on 802.11a  • Coding for Character Device Drivers - Infrared, PWM - C on Linux Education MBA in Marketing & Systems Bangalore University - Bengaluru, Karnataka 2008 B.E. in Computer Science & Engineering University of Mysore - Mysore, Karnataka 2000 Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/ganaraja-gopalakrishna-726ab615 Additional Information Sr. Architect - Full Stack - RoR with a background in Computer Science, having 18+ years' experience gained predominantly in Software Product/Web App Development in Product and Service based Companies. Development using Ruby on Rails, Rspec, JavaScript, JQuery, AngularJS, Postgres/MySQL on Linux. A Polygot also worked on projects using Java, PHP and Python on Linux/Windows  • Architecting, designing and building backend distributed software platforms for large scale SOA consumer systems  • Evolve various stack components to scale and optimize and address new service requirements by prototyping and converting prototypes into real products  • Proven skills in Application development using Ruby on Rails/Rspec on Linux.  • Ruby Gems - Devise, Figaro, Pundit, Stripe, Resque, SideKiq ..etc  • HTML5, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, Bootstrap, AJAX, JSON, XML, AngularJS  • Designing and developing REST API, JSON APIs and integration points for various platform services  • Polyglot - Java, Python, PHP  • Experience with Databases such as MySQL, Postgres, SQLite, NoSQL - MongoDB, etc.  • Experience with Amazon Web services(AWS), EC2, S3, EBS, Load Balancers, Cloudfront, RDS, Heroku, etc.  • Strong competencies in data structures, algorithms, software design patterns MVC, façade, factory, etc. and UML/SDL modelling Languages  • Thorough involvement with Agile, SCRUM, Continuous Integration and Test Driven development methodologies  • Configuration management tools like GIT, Clearcase, CM Synergy, Perforce and Subversion(SVN) ) and have used Open Source Continuous Integration & Continuous Deployment tools like Jenkins.  • Experience in creating Design document, Feature document, documentation of the code using Doxygen.  • Experienced in Onsite/Offshore Client interfacing with clients in US, Canada, UK, Israel, Belgium, Nederlands and Taiwan - (Motorola, Alcatel-Lucent, Verizon, Vtech, Huawei, Philips, MTK and TPV)  • Involved in One-roof development for resolving issues blocking business deals with customers.  • Ability to understand any kind of code written in any language and handling existing tools without any documentation and adding enhancements and fixing the bugs for such tools.  • Investigate and triage bugs and report them in a systematic manner into defect management tools such as Jira, ClearQuest, Quality Center, Problem Tracker and Bugzilla, etc.  • Well-developed interpersonal skills, team player and highly collaborative and result oriented with attention to detail at work and ability to work under tight deadlines and timely delivery of the quality work in the estimated time and integrate seamlessly with complex and challenging environments  • Seeding, Building, Mentoring and Imparting Knowledge to teams and Recruiting team members through lateral interviews.