Queue Manager Queue Manager Queue Manager - StateFarm Tempe, AZ • 12 years of experience in developing web-based applications and web services on J2EE platform  • Oracle Certified Java Programmer.  • Rich knowledge in Spring framework. Experience in using web services (REST and SOAP) and websocket programming.  • Experience in using Unit testing frameworks like JUnit ,EasyMock, PowerMock, TestNG, JMockit and Mockito.  • Involved in preparing documentation and UML diagrams.  • Rich knowledge on java core concepts, reflection API, generics and usage of collection framework.  • Experience in building applications with maven and rich knowledge on Maven.  • Design and implementation experience in J2EE compliant multi-tier systems.  • Experience in using Java, JSP, Servlets, Spring, xml, JDBC, JSON, Apache Camel.  • Experience in using TOMCAT, JBOSS and Web Sphere servers.  • Worked on databases Oracle 11g, Sybase, Postgres and MySQL.  • Knowledge of Mongo and BRMS.  • Worked on myBatis framework, hadoop and kafka.  • Experience using DOM and JAXB for XML parsing.  • Experience in using SOAPUI, SQL developer, PuTTY, WinSCP,Toad for oracle, Toad for Sybase, Tortoise SVN and GIT.  • Experience in developing applications in agile methodology.  • Excellent written and verbal communication skills.  • Underwent 6 weeks DOJO training Work Experience Queue Manager StateFarm - Tempe, AZ September 2016 to Present Role: Sr. Java/ J2EE Developer  Description:  QueueManager is a web application, which is a migration project of existing SFCTI. SFCTI is a customer call application, where each agent will be present with a user interface to answer customer calls, conference a call, cold-transfer the call and perform many other call operations. This application will be used by around 65000 agents.    The user interface was developed using Ember and the backend service (which interacts with Cisco's cti library) will be responsible for handling all the call operations and sending the data to UI. We used websocket programming for the connection between UI and backend service.    I received several appreciations for my analysis on the complex and sporadic defects that we received during system testing.    Responsibilities:  • Analysis of existing application.  • Analysis of Business Requirements.  • Discuss on the design of the application.  • Develop the backend service using websockets  • Invoke tridion to get the configuration of Cisco's cti server.  • Interaction with Cisco's Cti library and handle the various events that Cisco sends back.  • Develop restful service to put the various events Cisco sends to Hadoop.  • Use DPL script to lookup password to invoke Hadoop interaction services.  • Invoke external interaction services using jaxrs-client.  • Use good exception handling to avoid any possible issues.  • Use GIT to maintain the code.  • Participating in Daily scrum meetings.  • Co-ordinate with offshore on the requirements and defects.  • Coordinating with multiple teams for project needs  • Defect analysis, fixing and tracking using TRAC.  • Writing unit test cases using JUnit and Mockito framework.  • Co-ordinating with the system testing and performance testing.  • Deployment on tomcat, functional checkout and testing the application in various environments (DEV, System, Performance and Production).  • Perform ESM monitoring  • Create splunk alerts for possible issues in the application.  • Create Python script to automate deployment process  • Create puppet script to automate server creation.    Solution Environment:  Websocket programming, Cisco's CTI server, Spring, Spring Boot, Spring Cloud, PCF, JMockit, BDDs, CRNK, Katharsis, JAXB, Tridion, GIT, Tomcat, Splunk, Junits , Maven, Restful Services, Agile, DOJO. HTC January 2016 to Present Sr. Java/ J2EE Developer StateFarm - Bloomington, IL January 2016 to December 2018 Description:  As part of this effort, we developed 6 webservices (4 REST and 2 SOAP) which are currently in production. All these services basically write to kafka and read from hbase. These services are consumed by different producers. For example, the above project QueueManager (SFCTI) is one of the producers. Every interaction with the customer is stored into Hadoop. This data is later used for calculating different facts like total interaction time, total queue time, total wrap-up time etc.    We also developed two serializers in addition to the above services. One serializer InteractionDataSerializer will be running in the Hadoop environment and it keeps reading the messages from kafka queue and puts them into Hadoop. Another serializer InteractionFactSerializer also will be running in the Hadoop environment and it calculates the facts (mentioned above). I developed this fact calculator and also received appreciation from the project architect.    I also created a java restful service which interacts with apache solr to retrieve the search results based on given criteria    Responsibilities:  • Preparing the design documents.  • Participating in Daily stand-ups.  • Co-ordinate with offshore on the requirements and defects.  • Developed RESTful web services using IBM jaxrs rest framework.  • Developed SOAP based web services  • Invoke external services using jaxrs-client and jaxws-client.  • Using JAXB marshalling and unmarshalling for XMLs.  • Java code development using RSA.  • Deployment on Websphere Application Server.  • Defect tracking using TRAC  • Writing unit test cases using JUnit and Mockito framework.  • Fixed performance issues based on performance testing.  • Deploying and testing the application in various environments (dev, system, pre-prod, performance and production).  • Perform ESM monitoring.  • Create splunk alerts.    Solution Environment:  Hadoop, Kafka, Apache Solr, JaxRS RESTful webservices, SOAP webservices, Spring, JAXB, Tortoise SVN, Tortoise GIT, Maven, WAS, SoapUI, Splunk. Sr. Java/ J2EE Developer Cigna Home Delivery Pharmacy - Blue Bell, PA September 2014 to December 2015 Blue Bell, PA Sep 2014 - Dec 2015    Project-1:  Credit Card Tool Replacement and Go To Market  Role: Sr. Java/ J2EE Developer    Description:  There were two projects scheduled to go live in November, 2015. As the only Java developer available onsite, I had to work on both the projects.    Credit Card Tool Replacement (CCTR)  This project is an enhancement to the already existing application MailRx. MailRx is a huge and existing application which consists of multiple screens (developed using 'C') for the pharmacists to work on the prescriptions. In the existing application, mailrx was using cybersource for the credit card payments, but since Cigna's contract with cybersource has expired, the credit card functionality had to be replaced with the latest one.    In the existing functionality, mailrx has a daemon CreditCardDaemon which keeps polling the sybase database for new requests and when it finds a new request it will process the request by interacting with CPM (cybersource payment manager).    As an enhancement to the above, the daemon was replaced by a service (developed using apache camel) which will invoke the cybersource's ICS platform. MailRx will invoke this service manually instead of inserting the records in the sybase. The service will insert the request into the mysql database, invoke the cybersource and then update the response in the mysql database.    The new service was developed using apache camel to perform the routing. Spring's JDBC template was used for queries in ms sql and spring aop and apache camel logging was used for logging purposes.    Go To Market (GTM)  This project is also an enhancement to the MailRx. Whenever there is an entry for specialty drug in the order, mailRx has to invoke a new service (developed using Apache Camel) which will return the days supply allowed for that patient. If the days supply entered for that patient is greater than the days supply returned from the service, then a popup has to be shown to the user that there is a days supply limitation for that drug. Otherwise, the flow will proceed normally.    The new service has to invoke 2 external services using the memberId received in the request. The first service will return the member details and the second service takes input from the first service and returns the days supply value. For this, we used apache camel to perform the routing. Different error codes have to returned to the consumer based on the response from both first service and second service. Spring AOP as well as apache camel logging was used for logging purposes.    Responsibilities:  • Analysis of existing application.  • Analysis of Business Requirements.  • Prepare the schemas for request and response format for the services.  • Preparing the design document and UML diagrams using Sparx.  • Participating in Daily stand-ups.  • Co-ordinate with offshore on the requirements and defects.  • Developing RESTful web services using apache cxf framework.  • Using JAXB marshalling and unmarshalling for XMLs.  • Used WSRR to retrieve the endpoints of the external web services.  • Writing xml queries in sql to query database.  • Coordinating with multiple teams for project needs  • Transition for offshore team and QA teams for testing.  • Java code development using JBoss Developer Studio.  • Defect tracking using ALM  • Writing unit test cases using JUnit and Mockito framework.  • Deploying and testing the application in various environments.    Solution Environment:  Apache Camel, Apache CXF RESTful web services, Spring core, JAXB, MySQL, Tortoise svn, Toad for Sybase, Sybase, Microsoft Sql Server Studio, Maven, Sparx, JBoss server, SoapUI. Tata Consultancy Services Ltd December 2011 to December 2015 Technical Lead Cigna Health Insurance Corp - Bloomfield, CT December 2013 to September 2014 Description: Create a new desktop application to allow internal users of Cigna US Retail business to access/modify the data on the IFP database. This application was mainly used by the triage team.  Implemented security for the entire application using Spring AOP with custom annotation.    Responsibilities:  • Analysis of Business Requirements.  • Participating in Daily stand-ups and working stories in agile methodology.  • Coordinated with offshore team, build teams and dependency teams.  • Participated in Team meetings with internals for requirement gathering, giving transition to the offshore team.  • Developing RESTful web services using spring.  • Implementing myBatis framework to interact with SQL DB.  • Using JAXB marshalling and unmarshalling for XMLs.  • Writing xml queries in sql to query database.  • Coordinating with multiple teams for project needs  • Transition for offshore team and QA teams for testing.  • Involving in story discussions and estimation of efforts.  • Completing the story with in sprint including testing.  • Java code development using STS.  • Defect tracking using ALM  • Writing unit test cases using TestNG and Mockito framework.  • Deploying and testing the application in various environments.  • Developed spring frame work based JUnit classes to unit test developed code.  • Resolved performance issues and participated in code reviews.  • Developing the code which complies with check style and junit coverage  • Used Log4J logging framework for logging messages.  • Writing integration test cases.    Solution Environment:  STS,Maven,UML, Spring web services, Spring AOP with custom annotations, Tortoise SVN, emma code coverage, checkstyle 2.9.1, JUnit, EasyMock, Design Patterns (Strategy and Factory), Tomcat and SOAPUI Module Lead State Farm Insurance - Hyderabad, Telangana October 2012 to December 2013 Description:  DC7 is one of the ten Development Centers supported by StateFarm. Its goal is to standardize the customer facing document content and format, provide the infrastructure to design, manage, compose and assemble the customer communications, provide the delivery mechanism for paper and electronic documents which can be printed or forwarded on demand and provide customers with the ability to response to State Farm requests electronically if desired.    Responsibilities:  • Analysis of existing application.  • Coordinated with onsite team, another development teams of internal frameworks  • Developing java code using spring tool Suite IDE.  • Developed spring frame work based JUnit classes to unit test developed code.  • Developing the code which complies with checkstyle and coverage range  • Used Google Code pro for static code audit.  • Used Log4J logging framework for logging messages.    Solution Environment:  Spring Tool Suite, Spring Web services, Soap webservices, Core Java, Maven, JUnit, EasyMock, PowerMock, design patterns and WAS. Module Lead Lloyds Bank Of UK - Chennai, Tamil Nadu December 2011 to August 2012 Company: TCS    Description:  In the end-to-end simplification whenever a new requirement comes, we get the end-to-end process design document. We analyze the functionality and prepare the concept note, service design document and also identify the services that suit the functionality of the project. For identifying the services, we use Information Framework on Rational Software Architect tool. In this framework, services are already identified and our task is to identify the services which satisfy the functionality of the requirement.    Responsibilities:  • Analysis of the design document.  • Identify the services which suit the functionality of the requirement  • Interact with client daily on status and issues.    Solution Environment:  RSA, UML. Java/J2EE Developer IBM US November 2007 to December 2011 Company:IBM    Description:  The Common Portal Engine (CPE) provides a common portal framework, components and infrastructure to enable quick deployment of new high performance, personalized, adaptable portals. The CPE framework helps to build, manage and host portal server-based sites that are internal to IBM. CPE supports the IBM One Web Experience where all the pages on a site can maintain consistent visual aspects and can gather data from common content management repositories.    Responsibilities:  • Analyze and resolve the tickets related to the application.  • Perform the enhancements on the application.    Solution Environment:  RSA, WAS, Java. RSA, Enterprise Architect IBM INDIA Pvt Ltd August 2007 to December 2011 from August 10th 2007 to December 13th 2011.    TECHNOLOGY  Below is a list of important hardware, software products, tools and methodologies that I have worked with.  Programming Languages Java, J2EE, Python  Technologies  Core Java, Design Patterns, Collections, Reflection, Threads, I/O, Servlet , JSP, JDBC, Soap/Rest Web Services, Kafka, Hadoop, Junits    Frameworks Spring , Spring Boot, Spring cloud, PCF  ORM Spring JDBC, myBatis, Spring JPA  Databases Oracle, Mongo, Sybase, MySQL, Hadoop  Application Server Apache Tomcat, IBM WebSphere, JBoss  Development Tools / IDE Eclipse, Spring source Tool suite, RSA and JBoss Developer Studio  Version Control Tortoise SVN, GIT  Design Tools RSA, Enterprise Architect  Operating System Windows 95/98/2000/xp/vista/7  Software methodology Waterfall, Agile Education BTech in Computer Science Engineering in Computer Science Engineering Narayana Engineering College - Nellore, Andhra Pradesh September 2003 to May 2007 IIT Long Term Training - Vijayawada, Andhra Pradesh September 2002 to May 2003 Narayana Junior College September 2001 to May 2002 Sri Pratibha Junior College - Ongole, Andhra Pradesh September 2000 to May 2001