Sr. Manager Sr. Manager Sr. Manager - Publicis Sapient ? Over 20 years of hands on experience in IT in delivering application with cross functional onsite and offshore teams  ? Extensive Experience with Capital Market, Equities, Derivatives, Fixed Income, Prime brokerage, Spend Management and Wireless/Mobility Industry  ? Worked with large financial institutions - Goldman Sachs, Moody's, State Street, and Morgan Stanley.  ? Implemented Big data solution with petabytes size data  ? Specialize in Cloud migration implementation and Cloud strategy projects  ? Manage and deliver $5Million projects with 50+ people global team with Agile and SCRUM.  ? Architect, design and implement Lending platform, Collateral Management, Margin, Trading routing, heavy data volume (>100 million) and highly scalable (>10000 users) applications  ? Create product road map, work with C-level executives as well as business users, handle client relations and respond to RFPs  ? Consult with companies to provide strategic vision and thought leadership in developing next generation digital transformation applications  ? Worked on cutting edge technology stack includes Cloud - AWS, Big Data - Hadoop, Hbase, spark, Kafka, Elasticsearch, Web/Mobile applications, Java/J2EE, python, Database, SSO, Microservices, Nodejs Work Experience Sr. Manager Publicis Sapient June 2015 to Present Projects Handled:  Ratings portal on AWS for Moody's  Lead team for ratings portal creation on AWS using PaaS along with some on-premise application migration. Application was built with Dynamodb backend and using lambda, api gateway and EKS for microservices.    Iconiq Capital  Create strategy and proof of concept for Snowflake cloud data warehouse on AWS for asset, portfolio and risk management calculation engine and reporting analytics. ETL and data pipeline created using Talend, Compare Snowflake with AWS Redshift and Azure data warehouse.    Consolidated Audit Trail (CAT) for Thesys  Architect and lead team to create Petabyte size big data application for Consolidated Audit Trail (CAT). CAT is an SEC Rule 613 mandate to track orders throughout their life cycle throughout the U.S. securities markets. Solution was designed using AWS cloud based EMR cluster using spark with scala and python for ETL.    Consumer Originated Lending Technology for Goldman Sachs  COLT is a digital transformation project for GS Wealth Management to build consumer lending platform to provide client loans against the collateralized portfolio. System uses custom collateral rules, standard Margin call issuance and underwriting process to secure the loan.    Strategy of new application architecture for State Street  Goal was to determine future state architecture for Hedge fund accounting system for AIS division. Applications to be reviewed included:    • Trade capture  • Interfaces to prime brokers  • Middle office trade processing  • Corporate actions processing  • Cash and collateral processing  • GL accounting and settlement  • Trade allocation and NAV calculation  • Data warehousing system  • Investor portal to track portfolio    Responsibilities:  Technical  ? Architect, design and implement a highly scalable and distributed microservice based system on cloud  ? Create processes and standards to ensure consistent quality and SLA  ? Data architect to design big data solution for Petabyte size data using Spark, EMR on AWS cloud  ? Data model design on Snowflake cloud data warehouse platform with Talend for ETL  ? Data quality remediation and MDM golden record selection design  ? Migrate existing application to AWS cloud and implement new serverless application on cloud  ? Develop multi-threaded java application parallel processing of collateral valuation engine and margin calls for up to 100,000 loans  ? Setup and implement cloud and micro service design patterns and create best practices for team    Project management/Delivery  ? Responsible for on time delivery of the system  ? Work with CIO to bring his vision to fruition  ? Manage multiple globally distributed teams across different functional groups  ? Manage operational system alongside new product development  ? Perform stakeholder and risk management for the project  ? Document requirements and future needs  ? Create detailed plan, budget estimate and milestone for each application migration considering inter application dependency  ? Work with each application owner to track progress and eliminate blockers    Leadership & Strategy  ? Hire, mentor and grow at 20+ programmers and architect team  ? Create multi-year roadmap for the product as well as short term tactical enhancements  ? Work with the business for gathering requirements, setting expectation and ensuring quality delivery  ? Manager external companies/vendors and collaborate with internal technology teams Sr. Manager Cobite June 2004 to June 2015 Applications Handled:  Smart order router  The application recommends the exchange where the trades should be executed based on trading fees and rebates based on adaptive learning algorithm. The application looks for lit liquidity on the exchanges along with the fees/rebates for each trade and makes the decision to which exchange the trade needs to be sent for execution.    Wireless Spend /Mobile Device Management for Morgan Stanley  The application allows large companies to get visibility and control over their mobile spend. Modules includes spend analytic, asset management, contract validation, invoice processing and reporting.  The application integrates with worldwide mobile carriers, ERP, procurement and business reporting systems    Trade Capture Application  Implemented enhancements to the trade capture application for IED/Prime brokerage division. Trading involved various types of instruments like Equities, FX and Fixed income as well. Provide web front end for reporting    Teleblock for Call Compliance, Inc  This application manages the Do no call list from the Federal Government and all the individual states on a monthly basis and provides it to telemarketing companies allowing them to be compliant with the Do Not Call laws It also creates outbound feeds for the Telecom provides to real time block these calls.    Responsibilities:  Project Management/Delivery:  ? Lead the development and QA team of 10 people - perform code-review, review test cases  ? Work with the Front office traders to perform scope management and risk management for derivatives/equities trades module  ? Transition from Waterfall to Agile/SCRUM methodology and setup continuous integration practice  ? Completing sophisticated module to be on-time and within budget despite shifting priorities, demanding expectations, and stringent deadlines.  ? Lead effort to establish process and technical blueprints    Technical:  ? Architect, design and implement a highly scalable and distributed system for real time execution  ? Work in Linux environment  ? Develop multi-threaded java application for querying multiple exchanges and ordering instruments  ? Develop analytic module's business tier and back end using Spring, Hibernate and Oracle  ? Use distributed caching for accessing reference data  ? Use FIX protocol for communicating with ECN and MQSeries messaging for talking to other applications  ? Implement front end using HTML5, JQuery and Ajax and web-tier using Struts2 framework  ? Implement REST web-services using CXF for communication with other systems  ? Write test-cases using Junit  ? Implement Single Sign on using SAML, write shell scripts, database procedures  ? Design and develop application to handle more than 100 million database records with multi-threading to enable parallel jobs Sr. Java Developer Entology, Inc September 2002 to July 2004 Architect and develop Java/Web application for Johnson & Johnson to enable the sales representative to create/track their career goals. Software Developer B-There July 2001 to August 2002 Design and implement web based application that helps large event management companies to allow user registration, hotel booking, event planning and creating dashboard reporting. Software Developer Nextone October 2000 to June 2001 Creating SIP application stack to be used by mid-size telecom providers to route the calls via VOIP from the PSTN gateway. Software Developer Quantum Technologies February 2000 to October 2000 Convert to a web based supply chain management system for Manugistics from the legacy windows system. Systems Engineer CMC Ltd July 1997 to January 2000 Develop application for ports to manage the containers shipment with automatic planning for ship, rail or truck Education Bachelors of Engineering in Electronics Mumbai University 1997