Project Manager Project Manager Project Manager Senior Technical Project Manager at Candela Labs  Fifteen years plus experience in programming  Masters in Software Engineering  Second class upper in Management Information Systems  Expert in Java, JQuery, PHP, EJB 3.0, Swing, OSGI, SOA  Proficient in implementation of RESTful Services and microservices  Proficient in web technologies like GWT, JSP, PHP  Proficient in MVC frameworks like Hibernate, Struts, Spring  Domain knowledge of psychometric assessment systems, core banking, credit scoring, logistics and warehousing and content management systems  Experienced in RDBMS such as DB2, Oracle, MySQL, PostgreSQL  Experienced in NoSQL DB such as MongoDB, RethinkDB  Proficient in UML tools like RationalRose, Visual Paradigm, RSA  Proficient in Business Process Modeling tools i.e., JBPM, IBM BPM and Activiti BPM  Excellent project management, interpersonal and communication skills  Knowledge of MEAN stack including ReactJS and docker containers. Work Experience Project Manager Prudential Insurance March 2018 to August 2019 Software and Platform: Windows 10, Linux  Other Skillset used: IBM Case Manager, IBM BPM, Activiti BPM    Brief Description  This project details with automation of the insurance companies for the new business and policy servicing. IBM BPM was used for the some clients and some customers opted for Activiti BPM for the cost factor. The BPM engine would get triggered based on some predefined criteria and would flow from one activity to the next.    Responsibilities  • Project Manager to manage the delivery of features  • Conduct trainings with customers  • Single point of contact for the customers  • Involved in the technical decisions of the overall entity  • Costing and resource management Senior Solution Architect / Senior Technical Project Manager Mimos Berhad July 2014 to February 2018 July 2014 - February 2018)  Project Name: Malaysian Psychometrics Assessment System (MPAS)  Client: Government  Role: Senior Solution Architect / Senior Technical Project Manager  Software and Platform: Windows 7, Java 7, Spring MVC  Other Skillset used: Tomcat, Jasper Reports, Maven, JIRA, Jenkins    Brief Description  MPAS is an online assessment system which comprises of two core modules namely administration and test delivery. The administration module allows the test developers and item writers to assemble tests, manage topics and items in addition to setting the scoring algorithms for calculation of final scores for individuals. In the administration modules tests are assigned to the test takers along with the scheduling and venue. The test delivery module compromises of the components to display the questions and score the items which will be later used in printing the reports.  Responsibilities  • Project Manager to oversee the overall development of the features.  • Architect to re-architecture the application to meet industry standards  • Database restructuring of the application  • Implementation of Jasper reporting for dynamic report creation.  • Database driven UI implements for different clients  • Mentoring of the junior staff  • Deployment of the application onto cloud infrastructure.  • Implementation of SSL into the application  • Performance tuning of the application  • Conduct training sessions with the juniors to teach new technologies  • Implementation of scrum as a project development methodology.  • Implementation of reporting engine to generate reports on the fly using Jasper Reports.  • Easily extendable API  • Implementation of RESTful services. Smart Data Manager MasterCard December 2011 to June 2014 Role: Project Lead/ Technical Lead  Software and Platform: Windows 2010, Java 6, Spring, GWT, Sencha  Other Skillset used: XML, JBoss, Maven, JIRA, Bamboo    Brief Description  Smart Data Manager is a project this helps MasterCard to manage accounts as to which banks are authorized to issue cards under MasterCard payment platform. It also allows reporting of transaction and clearing.  Responsibilities  • Project Lead  • Implement modules using GWT and Sencha Framework  • Propose, direct and implement new solutions  • Extending frameworks to meet our needs  • Profiling the existing modules    Project Name: InControl  Client: MasterCard  Role: Project Lead  Software and Platform: Windows 2010, Java 6, Struts, Web Services, Spring  Other Skillset used: XML, Rational Application Developer, Webshphere, Tomcat, Maven, JAXB, JIRA, Bamboo    Brief Description  InControl is a project whereby an individual card holder can manage and control his spending and based on his needs will determine actions to be taken if purchases happen more than the limit desired and also to create virtual cards for online and phone transaction. This way the card holder can safe guard their real cards from fraudulent transactions.  Responsibilities  • Project Lead  • Implement solutions using Struts 2, Spring 3 and web services  • Implement client based validation and AJAX calls using JQuery  • Handle interviews for Java Tower for MSAT Malaysia  • Subject Matter Expert for jQuery, Spring, Struts, Mockito  • Mentoring of junior associates  • Mavenize the existing master card projects Experian (Malaysia) Sdn Bhd January 2010 to December 2011 Project Name: Originations Studio and Runtime  Client: Company clients around the world Senior Java Developer Experian (Malaysia) Sdn Bhd January 2010 to December 2011 Software and Platform: XP, Jbpm 4.4, Java, Spring  Other Skillset used: XML, NetBeans 6.9, RMI, JAXB, MBeans, JMX, Maven, Felix OSGI  Brief Description  Experian is a world renowned organization for credit scoring and tools services. Experian is currently enhancing its tools to sync then with the new generation tools.  Responsibilities  • Scrum Master cum Team Lead  • Design and implement new components into the visual studio.  • Handled migration to JBPM 4.4  • Handle enhancement of jbpm workflow to cater for new components.  • Mentoring of junior developers.  • Implementing DB2 9.7 into production environment  • Implementing PostgreSQL  • Creating new netbeans modules by extending the netbeans API  • Creating core-business modules for credit scoring and rating  • Implemented multi-tenancy into the runtime engine using DB2 9.7 and hibernate.  • Implement MBeans for management of runtime services  • Implement custom plug-ins in the VisualVM monitoring tools  • Handled and implemented POCs pertaining to runtime components  • Actively participated in architectural decisions and meetings.  • Enhancing the current open source projects to meet the demands of the runtime system being developed.  • Runtime generation of HTML pages  • Implementation of worklist prioritization engine for application processing Infopro Solutions Sdn Bhd July 2007 to November 2009 Project Name: ICBA10  Client: Company clients around the world Systems Consultant Infopro Solutions Sdn Bhd July 2007 to November 2009 Software and Platform: XP, Linux, Oracle, JBoss, EJB3, Jbpm, Java  Other Skillset used: XML, ECLIPSE IDE, JBoss IDE, NetBeans IDE, SqlDeveloper, RSA    Brief Description  ICBA10 is an internal Research and Development project for the banking institutions around the world. The product handles everything that happens inside the bank and is developed on open-source technologies and using the best practices.  Responsibilities  • Team lead for the Common Business Services module from inception to completion with on time delivery.  • Designed and developed core banking module i.e.,  ? Receipting  ? Payment  ? Checklist  ? Collateral  ? Product Structure  ? Price and Charge Structure  ? Notifications and Reminders  ? Accounting Module  • Designed the developed some Kernel and CIF module use cases specs and actual implementation and design of it.  • Refactor and total enhancement of the dynamic forms whereby forms were generated based on configuration stored in the database.  • RSA design of most of the common business service use cases and planning and integration of Common Business module with other modules.  • Implementation of Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) into the common business services module.  • Handled knowledge transfer session among colleagues to share and put into practice best practices.  • Mentoring and counselor of junior staff  • Modification to the openAdaptor API to enable Retrieve, Delete and Update to existing record in the database. By default Open Adaptor only allows for INSERT.  • Implement SuperCSV for auto data binding of CSV records to domain objects based on a configuration.  • Handle POC pertaining to core banking processing and integration to other tools.  • Creation of DatabaseFactory to enable application to be porter over multiple databases seamlessly. Distributor Operator Manufacturer Environment Logistics Consulting Asia - MY November 2004 to June 2007 Development Team Lead DHL, TNT, Coca-Cola, CHC, DANONE Malaysia, DANONE Indonesia November 2004 to June 2007 Software and Platform: XP, Linux/Unix, PostGres, Apache  Other Skillset used: XML, SQL, Java, ECLIPSE, Hibernate, Struts    Brief Description  The DOME system is being developed to cater to the logistics needs of the clients. The system can cater to unlimited user and user types to whom roles are assigned as per position held. The system centralizes all the warehouse activities of inbound and outbound. Stock levels are automatically managed by the system and if the ordered quantity is more than the inventory level then the system will allow the users to modify the quantity. The invoices are auto generated. This system is capable to run for any business till any level.  Responsibilities  • Team leader cum solution architect.  • Manage junior staff and assist in QA if required.  • UML modeling  • Assist in database design and putting the requirements into implementation.  • Provided training to customer and clients.  • Implement web based system testing tool named Selenium.  • Created an interface for report generation through views.  • Implemented Struts MVC framework to implement the OOP concepts and principles into practice. University Malaya June 2005 to March 2006 Thesis project  Project Name: Road-Mapping method for Selection and Ranking of R&D Projects Developer University Malaya June 2005 to March 2006 Software and Platform: XP, Linux/Unix, PostGres, Apache  Other Skillset used: XML, SQL, PHP, ECLIPSE    Brief Description  This system is developed as a pre-requisite for graduation from University Malaya Masters in Software Engineering program. The system selects and ranks projects based on quantitative and qualitative analysis of projects. The qualitative data is transformed into quantitative data using a scoring model. Each keyword attached to a project is converted into a quantifiable value and is used in the ranking process. The quantitative data come from the financial data attached to each project. This financial data is converted into Net Present Value, Return on Investment, Payback Analysis. After all the required information is obtained, the system uses an AI component to rank and select projects on a roadmap. The selection is performed using the scoring model to determine the number of proposals that match with the roadmap project. The ranking is performed by using the values obtained from ROI, NPV, Payback Analysis, and Duration of project, cost of project, project id, and proposal id.  Responsibilities  • Handle all the stages of SDLC.  • Research and implement multiple methods to enable better selection and ranking. Celcom and Maxis June 2004 to October 2004 Project Name: eCentury Content Management System  Client: Celcom and Maxis (Malaysian Telco) Developer cum System Analyst Celcom and Maxis June 2004 to October 2004 Software and Platform: NT, MySQL, Apache, FrontPage, Dreamweaver  Other Skillset used: PHP, SQL, UML    Brief Description  The content management system is a fully web-based system which is used for management of mobile data i.e., color wallpapers, polyphonic tones, java games and others. The system has THREE levels of users namely SuperUser, Administrator and General user. The system allows other companies to be registered as a Content Provider and then they can set up the users on their own inclusive of the set of activities they can perform. The system tracks intelligently where to place which data. The data will be fed in a zip format file which then will be unzipped by the system and files will be sorted as per folder. The SuperUser has the authority to assign roles to users, manage contents, and manage users and keywords that are to be used for data transmission to the mobile phones/devices.  Responsibilities  • Manage about 10 junior staff  • Perform UML modeling of the overall system  • Acted as system analyst for the uploading of rich content to the database Parlimen Malaysia April 2003 to March 2004 Project Name: Parlimen Malaysia Hansard System Developer Parlimen Malaysia July 2003 to February 2004 Software and Platform: NT, MySQL Server, Apache, FrontPage, Dreamweaver, Linux  Other Skillset used: PHP, SQL, UML    Brief Description  The project involved setting up a web-based system for Parlimen Malaysia to manage their documents. The Hansard System has three FIVE levels of users namely typist, sub-editor, editor, superuser and Administrator. The administrator is responsible for add/deleting/updating users and their access rights. The typist can send data to a chosen subeditor and can view their sent data. The subeditor can view the data sent to them by the typist and can choose to keep/edit the data to a chosen editor. The editor can view the data directed to him/her and can choose to keep/edit the data to the system. The superuser can approve the data to be loaded onto the server.    Responsibilities  • Perform all the phases of SDLC  • Perform training to the staff of Parlimen Malaysia  • Perform deployment test and deploy the software from Windows to Linux platform    Project Name: Parlimen Malaysia E-Lib System    Client: Parlimen Malaysia  Duration: July 2003 to Feb 2004  Role: Developer  Software and Platform: NT, MySQL Server, Apache, FrontPage, Dreamweaver, Linux  Other Skillset used: PHP, SQL, UML    Brief Description  The project involved setting up a web-based system for Parlimen Malaysia to manage their inventories materials i.e. tables, chairs, and computers and so on. The Inventory Control and Maintenance System have TWO levels of users namely Administrator and User. The administrator is responsible for add/deleting/updating users and their access rights. The User is responsible for Adding/Updating/Deleting items and scheduling maintenance.  Responsibilities  • Perform all the phases of SDLC  • Perform training to the staff of Parlimen Malaysia  • Perform deployment test and deploy the software from Windows to Linux platform    Project Name: JPK E-Learning System    Client: Parlimen Malaysia  Duration: July 2003 to Feb 2004  Role: Developer  Software and Platform: NT, MySQL Server, Apache, FrontPage, Dreamweaver, Linux  Other Skillset used: PHP, SQL    Brief Description  The project involved setting up a web-based system for Parlimen Malaysia to manage their library materials i.e. books, journal, acts, bills, magazine, cds and so on. The Library System has THREE levels of users namely Administrator, Librarian and User. The administrator is responsible for add/deleting/updating users and their access rights. The Librarian is responsible for borrowing, returning and settling fines. The user can reserve, check fines, check items borrowed, check reserved items and search catalogues.  Responsibilities  • Perform all the phases of SDLC  • Perform training to the staff of Parlimen Malaysia  • Perform deployment test and deploy the software from Windows to Linux platform    Project Name: Parlimen Malaysia Inventory Control and Maintenance System Developer Parlimen Malaysia - MY July 2003 to September 2003 Software and Platform: NT, MySQL, Apache, FrontPage, Dreamweaver  Other Skillset used: PHP    Brief Description  The project involved setting up a web-based system for Ministry of Education. The E-Learning System has THREE levels of users namely Administrator, Teacher and Student. The Students can Add/Drop a subject, View Notes, Attempt online quizzes, view attendance status, view average marks, view upcoming appointments, view announcement and check mails. The teacher can upload notes, upload quiz, mark attendance, insert student marks, and check mails, view/insert appointments and contacts. The Administrator can Add/Delete/Update a user. This system has few subsystems namely notes systems, quiz and marking systems, email system, contact system, appointment system, attendance system.  Responsibilities  • Perform all the phases of SDLC    Training and Education Master in Software Engineering University Malaya September 2006 Bachelor in Management Information Systems International Islamic University Malaysia 2000 to 2003 O Levels International Islamic University Malaysia 1992 to 1998 Maz International School Additional Information Key Skills  Programming Languages  Java, Python, jQuery, AngularJS    Frameworks  Spring MVC, GWT, Hibernate, Struts  Symfony for PHP    Databases  Oracle, MySQL, DB2, MS Access, MSSQL, PostgreSQL  NoSql DB (MongoDB, RethinkDB)    Design Patterns  Delegate Pattern, Factory Pattern, DAO Pattern, Command Pattern    Web Servers  IIS, Apache, Apache Tomcat    Application Servers  Tomcat, JBoss, Websphere 7    Operating Systems  Well experienced in all version of windows (Win 3.0 - Windows XP), Linux  Knowledge of Unix and Sun Solaris    Application Software  Well Experienced with Microsoft Office  Familiar with Lotus SmartSuite and almost all widely used application software    IDE Tools  IntelliJ, Eclipse IDE, NetBeans IDE, JBoss IDE    Testing and Debugging Tools  JUnit , Selenium for web-based systems testing, FireBug, WebDeveloper, JMockit    Version Control  Tortoise SVN, Microsoft Visual Source Safe, IBM Clearcase    Continuous Integration Tools  Bamboo, Hudson, Cruise Control