Lead Consultant Lead Consultant Lead Consultant - Virtusa Inc Milpitas, CA ? Team Lead/ Programmer Analyst with around 10 years of experience in Software Engineer applying broad technical knowledge base to achieve ambitious project objectives at all phases of the software development life cycle.  ? Experience in working with Core Java, REST based web services, Spring Boot 2.x, hibernate (3.x), Apache SOLR, Apache Kafka, Eureka, Zuul, Ribbon, Junit, Swagger, JDBC, JSP, JMS, XML  ? Have experience in software Development Processes like SDLC, Waterfall and Agile Methodologies.  ? Capable of translating high-level, ambiguous Business goals into working software solutions  ? Object-oriented design. Vast experience in Multi-Threading Experience with Executor Framework. Back-end web languages Git and GitHub flow development process and Web application design  ? Hands on with Hibernate 3.2 for Object - Relational Mapping [ORM].  ? Possess good leadership qualities, good Interpersonal Skills, team-working attitude, takes initiatives and very proactive in solving problems and providing best solutions  ? Extensive experience in design, development and implementation of Model-View-Controller (MVC) frameworks  ? Experience in CAST AIP and Sonar Source Tools for Code Quality Checking.  ? Ability to grasp new technologies and to correctly apply new tools to build applications.  ? Possess good leadership qualities, good Interpersonal Skills, team-working attitude, takes initiatives and very proactive in solving problems and providing best solutions.  ? Good implementation knowledge of MVC, façade, Factory, Singleton, Abstract Design patterns  ? Excellent logical, analytical & debugging skills, well focused and can meet the expected deadlines Work Experience Lead Consultant Virtusa Inc - Jersey City, NJ December 2018 to Present Description: Working on Post Trade market user functional entitlement application where we are consuming the data from a Centralized system and saving/retrieving the entitlement-related data to other upstream systems    Responsibilities:  • Delivered day to day project management, including resources, risks, dependencies and schedule, for web technology solutions for national clients  • Performed requirement and system analysis, and Java web application development leadership  • Designed and Developed key functional entitlement features within Post-trade application stack  • Developed and maintained Technical specifications and also swagger documentation  • Designed the application from scratch and wrote POJO classes, repositories, controllers and service classes  • Extensively worked on both consumption & producing of RESTful based Webservices using JAX-RS & jersey parsers.  • Worked closely with UI teams to understand their requirements and made changes to accommodate the approved changes  • Documented the changes and providing guidance to the offshore team on day to day activities  • Engaged with End client/business stakeholders to identify problem areas and provide strategic resolutions    Environment: Core Java, J2EE, Spring Boot 2.0.8, Oracle, Spring Framework 4.x, Swagger 2.9.2 Lead Consultant Virtusa Inc - Columbus, OH May 2018 to December 2018 Description: Worked on a Tech Refresh project where some legacy applications were being upgraded to newer framework ( Java 1.8) and upgraded the Spring Boot version from 1.0 to 1.5.12 to comply with the security standards of the company    Responsibilities:  • Performed requirement and system analysis, and Java web application development leadership  • Identified and provided resolutions for potential issues/bugs within the system  • Developed understanding of the existing applications, migrate the applications to Java 1.8 and migrated one spring boot application from 1.0 to 1.5.2 version  • Modified the code, added new classes, removed/upgraded the existing classes/methods to support existing functionalities  • Adhered to the architecture of the existing applications and company- wide policies and rectified the existing issues in the codebase related to the black duck and sonar cube scans  • Document the changes and providing guidance to the offshore team on day to day activities    Environment: Core Java, J2EE, Spring Boot 1.5.4, Oracle, Spring Framework 4.x Consultant Capgemini - Orlando, FL July 2017 to March 2018 Description: Worked on the replacement of one of the core Sales systems for different facilities. The system has dependencies on many other upstream and downstream systems that needed to be analysed and handled properly to make sure that consistency is maintained between the systems and existing processes and business remain unaffected by the change    Responsibilities:  ? Imparted technical direction and guidance to the development team to create designs, develop systems, resolve issues and manage development schedule  ? Develop high-level architecture design documents to facilitate integration of in-house development project and/or vendor based application within the existing enterprise architecture.  ? Develop/Maintain code to access the backend services offered by TravelBox  ? Work with Other Development teams to explain them the architecture and the code level logic changes that needed to be implemented  ? Perform initial design, problem solving and reviews of software architecture that conforms with the strategic direction of WDAT.  ? Perform analysis oversight during detailed design of systems that conform with the strategic direction of WDAT  Environment: Core Java, J2EE, Spring Boot, REST services, Apache Kafka, Apache SOLR, Zuul, Eureka, XML, Tomcat and Oracle Sr. Java Developer CAST Software - New York, NY February 2012 to July 2017 Description: Cast Dashboard Portal: CAST is an Analytics company that performs static code analysis of applications written in multiple programming languages. CAST dashboard portals provide CIOs and IT executives with accurate and business relevant analytics about their applications through a comprehensive dashboard that helps align IT with the business and finance. This Dashboard can show a lot of data store in our back-end databases which could be Oracle or Postgres or SQL Server. The portal provides trending data based on historical data collected via performing multiple scans on the application. This portal also provides multiple reports and exposes multiple API's to pull out information stored in our databases and push it down to other reporting tools used by the clients.    Responsibilities:  ? Involved in Developing Web Application with Full Software Development Cycle (SDLC) from Design to Deployment using Test Driven Development methodologies  ? Worked on Core Java and its libraries in creating the java web application's business Logic.  ? Used AngularJS to create the front end. Used various third parties to validate the data entered by the User Also used JavaScript for client-side validations of input data Created HTML pages using CSS styling.  ? Written POJO Classes, .hbm files for Hibernate Object-To-Relational Mapping  ? Developed SOA architecture based on the RESTful Web Services  ? Used the various Complex data structures in collections Framework in Java for building the Business Logic.  ? Created unit test cases for testing the application. Developed the application using Spring MVC Framework with respect to Model View Controller architecture  ? Developed Restful web services for inter systems integrations. Used CAST AIP and Sonar to analyse and measure source code quality. Enhanced an existing AngularJS application to follow strict MVVM/MVC patterns for improved source code maintenance. Deployed application in Tomcat Server  ? Used various types of Oracle relational database tables to store the data. Also, handled history and audit of the data  ? Extensively involved in the enhancements, troubleshooting, bug fixes and change requests for the Web Services. Used JIRA as a defect tracking system  Environment: Core Java, J2EE, Hibernate 3.2, Spring MVC, RESTful WebServices, XML, JavaScript, Tomcat, Angular JS, SQL Developer and Oracle, Postgres Software Engineer Indus Valley Partners - IN May 2011 to January 2012 Security Management Profiler: Web application to retrieve data stored in two different applications developed by Indus Valley Partners Inc (Recon & Security master) and to analyse the status of portfolio before and after the reconciliation process. This project was aimed at helping the internal support teams to track the status of securities managed within Recon and Security Master.    ? Engineering and operations of applications in production, test, maintenance, and development environments which includes installs, upgrades, deployment, monitoring, configuration, support of applications  ? Coordinate with multiple development teams to understand the product design and help them resolve application and performance issues  ? Involved in system design and development in core java using Collections, multithreading and exception handling  ? Implemented Spring framework in existing project for dependency injection and better decoupling the code  ? Created Hibernate persistent and configuration files for ORM implementation  ? Designed and developed application using REST Web services using Spring  ? Developed generic DAO tier for fetching the navigation items through the Legacy Intranet; connecting to the SQL server database and fetching data using Hibernate ORM Mappings    Environment: Core Java, J2EE, Spring 2.x, RESTful Web Services, Hibernate 3.2, XML, JavaScript, Tomcat, JSP, SQL Server Software Engineer Citrix Systems Inc - Bengaluru, Karnataka September 2008 to October 2010 Xen-VM Management: The project was aimed at creating a user-friendly web portal through which users can create, delete and manage their virtual machines  ? Developed and maintained GUI using JSP and HTML Used CADI framework to develop new modules and enhance the existing features of the website  ? Used Struts validator framework to validate data inputs and created web pages using Struts tiles  ? Resolved user issues by fixing the bugs and handling production issues.  ? Have implemented design patterns in this project. Participate in all phases of Software Development Life Cycle  ? Test Automator: Automation project to perform testing of Citrix Online web- plugin and Citrix receiver  ? Technologies: Java, Selenium, JUnit  ? Designed and developed automation framework, scripts and test cases to validate different test scenarios  ? Prepared documents and provided training to QA team for the features available in the automation suite    Environment: Core Java, Struts, Internal CADI framework, HTML/CSS, Multithreading    Test Automator: Automation project to perform regression testing for Citrix Online web-plugin and Citrix Receiver.  ? Designed and developed automation framework, scripts and test cases to validate different  ? test scenarios  ? Prepared documents and provided training to QA team for the features available in the  ? automation suite  ? Ported legacy Regression Test cases into Selenium automation framework to speed up the  ? Testing cycles  ? Created Test Cases using Element Locators and Selenium Web driver methods  ? Enhanced existing Test cases using JUnit and Selenium Web Driver    Environment: Java, Selenium, JUnit Education Master of Science in Technology Management University of Illinois - Urbana, IL Skills EJB, J2EE, JAVA, HIBERNATE, SPRING Additional Information Technical Skills:    J2EE Technologies Spring Boot, Hibernate 3.0, Apache Solr, Apache Kafka, Zuul, Eureka, Ribbon, JSP, JUnit, Web Services, EJB, JMS  Languages Java, J2EE, SQL, XML  Application Server/Web Server Apache Tomcat, JBoss, WebLogic, WAS (WebSphere Application Server), WPS (WebSphere Portal Server).  Web Technologies HTML, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX, JSON, Angular JS  Web Services Apache Axis, SOAP, WSDL, JAX-RPC, JAX-WS, RESTful Web Services  Database Toad, SQL Developer, Oracle 10g, Postgres 9.4  Methodologies Agile (Scrum), Waterfalls.  Operating Systems Windows Server 2012, Windows 7, Linux Environment  SCM Git, SVN