Unity3D Developer Unity3D <span class="hl">Developer</span> Tampa, FL Work Experience Unity3D Developer Self Employed - Tampa, FL September 2016 to Present • Follow online content to learn to develop in Unity3D  • Use Unity3D engine to deploy and develop games onto multiple platforms.  • Code using C# to develop unique features  • Attend meetup sessions to learn more about the industry and development cycle for video games Product Manager MyBuys.com - Ann Arbor, MI June 2015 to September 2016 • Gather requirements from stakeholders (clients as well as internal stakeholders) on high priority feature requests.  • Design and prioritize features for our web reporting interface  • Design and prioritize features for our implementation tools. This includes backend data integrations as well as javascript beacon implementation.  • Received professional training on Agile development cycle. Experienced in scrum. Manager, Application Support Team MyBuys.com - Ann Arbor, MI July 2012 to June 2015 Ann Arbor, MI  • I Experienced quick professional development due to strong work ethic and demonstration of both coding and leadership skills at MyBuys  • Interview candidates for entry level and senior engineering and project management positions  • Manage priorities and set goals for a team of 10 engineers  • Mentor and train young engineers. Provide input on projects and help with creating client solutions  • Designed and developed a web dashboard interface where account managers can process simple tasks and view client health statistics across product modules  • Participate in senior leadership meetings to help communicate progress and discuss company strategy  • Designed and developed automated solutions to many various problems ranging from recognizing missing data feeds to tracking email volumes and list hygiene problems Sr. Application Support Engineer MyBuys.com - Ann Arbor, MI March 2010 to June 2012 Ann Arbor, MI  • Handle change-orders for clients using html, java, .vm technology, xml beans, javascript, css  • Develop and maintain ETL processes using Talend, java, xml, .tsv, .csv, SQL, Oracle, Perl, Linux  • Deal with client-facing issues concerning technical problems or changes  • Train incoming support engineers  • Investigate issues with product implementations using Unix, WinSCP, html, SQL developer, Talend.  • Perform code reviews of peer's work in perl and Talend as well as QA templates in html, javascript, css Teaching Assistant, Debugger Illinois State University - Normal, IL August 2008 to December 2009 • Assisted teaching Java and Eclipse IDE for introductory class.  • Debugged Java, Web Services, and C++ programs for students.  • Graded projects for introductory Java and Web Services class. Java Developer Intern Illinois State University - Riverwoods, IL June 2009 to August 2009 • Worked on and completed a project currently in production at Discover. This project is an enterprise application that processes cycling accounts and determines, based on a variety of factors, whether or not an account is due for an increase or decrease in APR.  • Developed SQL queries in Teradata RDBMS.  • Coded and tested Korn shell scripts.  • Developed and tested Java code. Education B.S. in Computer Science Illinois State University - Normal, IL December 2009 Music Performance Chicago College of Performing Arts - Chicago, IL May 2007 Skills Unity (3 years), Javascript (6 years), HTML (9 years), Java (6 years), C# (3 years), Unity3D (3 years), Perl (6 years), Linux (9 years), SQL (6 years)