Solutions Architect Solutions Architect Solutions Architect - American Express Plantation, FL Distributed architecture, micro services, cloud infrastructure Work Experience Solutions Architect American Express April 2017 to Present on behalf of TCSL, USA  Develop expert knowledge of existing systems and facilitate modification and maintenance of current application architecture.  Work with the Project Managers and Product Owners to develop high level project  schedule and resource plans for implementation projects.  Develop, document, communicate, and enforce environment/release management, configuration and development best practices.  Build strong relationships with business partners to ensure technology alignment with business priorities.  Focus on design reviews to make sure that the implementation aligns with architectural  plans and roadmaps.  Keywords: team management, java development, micro services, spring boot, vert.x, couchbase, jbpm Technical Lead and Architect American Express June 2013 to April 2017 on behalf of TCSL, India & USA  Perform technical aspects of software development for assigned applications including  design, developing prototypes, and coding assignments.  Lead design and code reviews.  Debug software components and identify code defects for remediation.  Demonstrate technical expertise to help team members overcome technical problems.  Take accountability for the success of the team achieving their goals.  Keywords: jms, drools, restful web services, springboot, java, jee. Technical Lead and Infrastructure Engineer American Express March 2010 to June 2013 on behalf of TCSL, USA  Participate in current state system analysis, requirements gathering, and documentation.  Lead requirements understanding and issue resolution throughout the project life  cycle.  Handle the diagnosis and correction of JEE infrastructure problems.  Contribute to the creation of technical design/implementation documentation.  Participate in troubleshooting capacity and availability issues, various  moves/adds/changes, server software installation and configuration.  Keywords: java development, jee infrastructure tuning, linux, change management, team  management Technical Lead American Express October 2008 to March 2010 on behalf of TCSL, USA  Design and implement JEE environment with various components like IBM WebSphere  6.1, IBM HTTP Server 6.1, SUN Directory Server 6.3.1, Linux etc  Analyze, determine and resolve issues related to speed and availability of Next  Generation Selects website.  Lead a team of Java developers and guide them in day-to-day coding and troubleshooting tasks.  Received best performer award for successfully taking on and delivering additional  responsibilities as required.  Keywords: java development, jee infrastructure design, technical leadership, performance  tuning Java Developer September 2004 to October 2008 Various - Lehman Brothers/GE Health Care/State Bank of India, USA & India  Develop custom Java code to integrate various Development Tools like CaliberRM, Mercury Quality Center, IBM BuildForge etc. using XML messages.  Develop various Java components using JSTL tags, Spring and Struts Framework.  Develop Java code to validate and process SWIFT financial messages.  keywords: java development 1/2 Education Information Science & Engineering BVB College of Engineering & Technology - Hubli, Karnataka 2000 to 2004 Skills ECLIPSE, JAVA, Git, JAVASCRIPT, JENKINS, JSON, XML, DYNAMODB, COUCHBASE, DATA MANAGEMENT, RESTFUL WEB SERVICES, DATA MODELING, WEB SERVICES, ORACLE, OPENSHIFT, TRAINING, Linux, Spring Certifications/Licenses AWS Certified Solutions Architect - Professional April 2018 to Present Lightbend Reactive Architecture Advanced June 2019 to Present Additional Information Skills Programming languages  Java, Javascript, NodeJS    Web Technologies  Restful web services, JEE    Data Modeling  JSON, XML    Data Management  Oracle, Couchbase, DynamoDB    Cloud  OpenShift, AWS    BPM  jBPM    Tools  GIT, Jenkins, Confluence, Eclipse, Atom    Keywords java jbpm aws cloud infrastructure solving complex problems    teamwork training