Java Tech Lead <span class="hl">Java</span> Tech Lead Java Tech Lead - FPL Lake Worth, FL Work Experience Java Tech Lead FPL January 2019 to Present contractor)  Web-based enterprise application used by workers and contractors out in the field. It is a real-time application useable by anyone to generate work in the power grid, from outages, vegetation work, or preventative maintenance. It's a 24/7 application on multiple time zones.    • Worked in conjunction with the business teams as well as Application and Vendor teams  • Developed REST services  • Developed microservices using Docker containers  • Developed services hosted on Amazon AWS  • Set services into using Maven  • Work item management using JIRA  • Performed code reviews  • Participated in PROD deployments  • Participated in budget forecasting, equipment usage    • Java 1.8  • Oracle 12  • Spring Framework  • Spring Boot  • JBoss servers  • Jenkins automation  • APIGEE Java Tech Lead American Express July 2018 to December 2018 contractor)    Web-based world wide application used by our internal professionals in their day to day operations in suppling service to our customer accounts. 24/7 coverage.    • Team Lead, retrieve technical aspects of software development for assigned applications  • Performs hands-on architecture, design, and development of systems  • Communicate with stakeholders and business partners on the solution and the implementation aspects at the technical and/or functional level appropriate for the situation  • Functions as a member of an Agile software development team and helps drive consistent development practices - tools and common components  • Works closely with technical architects and architecture governance technical team for solution development and design reviews  • Works closely with product owners on blueprints and annual planning of feature sets that impact multiple platforms and products  • Design and develop software solutions using Java/Spring and open source tools  • Tests developed in JUnit with coverage in mind.  • Delivery of solutions through the use of Jenkins.  • Participated in Code Reviews (3 teams)  • Participated in PROD deployments  • Participated in budget forecasting, equipment usage    • Java 1.8  • Spring Framework  • Oracle db  • Maven  • Git / BitBucket  • Confluence  • Jenkins Senior Solution Developer ChenMed June 2017 to June 2018 Web-based application used by our medical professionals in their day to day care of our patients. Housed on Microsoft Azure cloud service platform.  • Functions as a member of an Agile/Scrum software development team  • Design and develop Microservices  • Design, develop, tests and delivered software solutions using Java/Spring and open source tools  • Performed all functions necessary to take software solutions from planning to implementation  • Provided mentoring on industry standard software engineering practices and SDLC  • Engaged with key stakeholders to ensure requirements, schedules, and all expectations are understood by the development team and stakeholders for assigned software solutions and software maintenance  • Developed and executed automated unit testing for all assigned software solutions  • Worked with designers on developing front end using Angular.JS (legacy), React.JS, GoogleWeb Toolkit (GWT)  • Modified (legacy) C# application.  • Supported infrastructure and network teams in analysis and resolution of issues that were related to software  • Stayed current with technology trends in order to provide best options for solutions  • Shared knowledge, lessons learned, and best practices among the team  • Provided support and guidance for delivery of software solution  • Provided appropriate documentation  • Followed all defined methods, processes, and procedures  • Performed other tasks as assigned    • Java 1.8 (1.7)  • Spring Framework (SpringBoot, Bootstrap)  • MySql db  • Intellij IDE  • Maven  • Git repository Senior Application Developer USAA January 2017 to February 2017 contractor)    eCommerce on a j2ee platform, Spring framework for securities industry and customer generated content (CGC) specific business  • Execute and program company application through all phases of the SDLC  • Provided expertise in triaging, diagnosing and resolving complex systems issues  • Adapt and applied new information and knowledge  • Oracle (11g) database  • Git for source control.  • J2EE (v1.7), Javascript  • SOAP & RESTful webservices  • JUnit testing  • WAS server    Worked on their Credit Card & Banking department  • Created/updated team wiki  • Maintains and consistently demonstrates a general knowledge of company guidelines, processes, practices and procedures.  • Performs complex systems analysis and/or assists Sr./Lead with designing applications requiring advanced techniques using leading-edge technologies.  • Provided technical expertise with analytical support in the conceptualization, development and implementation of complex interrelated systems and/or programs.  • Developed system designs to meet user requirements  • Gathered user requirements and performs systems analysis  • Executes application designs often integrating multiple phases or aspects of an overall system design.  • Participate in application development design / code reviews.  • Implemented procedures to solve the more complex applications problems considering system requirements / limitations, operating time, and system architecture for desired results.  • Collaborate with other applications staff members to resolve complex systems issues.  • Implemented procedure to move application programs from development to production in controlled manner.  • Provided feedback in determining scope and participates in recommending priorities for system changes.  • On-going evaluation of system functions and design and identified areas for improvement  • Prepared status reports and other updates to users and management.  • Participated actively in all, and in some cases lead certain aspects of project management and control Senior Java Developer / Lead STRONGTHUMB - West Palm Beach, FL June 2014 to December 2016 eCommerce on a j2ee platform, Spring framework  • Responsible to take customer ideas (Business Requirement Doc)  • Create development plan (Technical Specs, Pseudo code)  • Implementation of said plan  • Prepare project for customer acceptance and staging (Error Checking Doc)  • Bug fixing (10%)  • Mentor development team (1 front end, 1 backend developers, 1 contractor)    • Oracle (11g) database  • NoSQL Lucene & Solr  • SVN for source control.  • J2EE (v7), Javascript  • SOAP & RESTful webservices  • JUnit testing  • Tomcat server    Worked on Spencers/Spirit of Halloween (CMS - Micros)  • Implementation of FEDEX API, return/exchange on client-side with both email and image of return label, logic to prevent double credits  • Implementation of promotions on a multi-site  • Customize SOLR based on client provided rules. When typing a search term in the search box, the site anticipates phrases that the user is typing and presents a list of options in a drop down menu  • Create custom field built into the backend of Site Manager to allow client to override its functionality on the fly  • Create interface to retrieve data from Solr  • Modified email tracking template, added shipping items detail, images, and separated tracking numbers URL  • Implemented client-based fraud prevention customer based list (white, black, grey)  • Implementation of removal of duplicate refinements, multiple catalogs, multiple refinements, same names  • Implementation of sensitive search, vendor search, to prevent a key word (vendor specific) search to return items of competing vendors (Batman - Marvel)  • Implemented Automated Clearance, shell program to automate putting products into one or more clearance categories if the product qualifies as a clearance product    Worked on ABCFWS.com (CMS - Micros)  • PCI Compliance (session fixation, cookie vulnerability, cross site request forgery, cross site scripting, output encoding, form caching)  • Re-engineered cache for faster response time  • Re-engineered search filters for better response and user experience (UI)  • Modified payment capture (less manual interaction)  • Implemented Google Maps API for store locator Senior Java Developer SONAVATION, PALM GARDENS FL April 2014 to June 2014 contractor)    • Responsible to integrate a biometric sensor to a software package  • Migrated software to our Cloud service  • Developed WebServices (AWS) to connect to our core products to third parties products, iOS and Andriod systems  • Creation of APIs  • Developed process to integrate TLO (third party APIs) into our products.  • Developed process to integrate DSI (TCP / UDP conversions) into our cloud/host products.  • Created multiple VM environments, separating our core products from one large environment    • MySQL database  • RabbitMQ for messaging  • Used Agile methodology  • Git for source control.  • Core Java & J2EE (v7)  • Spring Framework  • Eclipse IDE  • CentOS LINUX environment Senior Developer / Lead TECHNIA USA - Fort Lauderdale, FL February 2013 to February 2014 • Worked on a large scale manufacturing program, based on the Enovia (PLM) system. Took ownership of NB project. Developed project using client's business requirements.  • Formulate a plan to organize requirements into prioritizations (tech specs)  • Create a test plan, and possible problems that can occur with changes.  • Made modifications to alleviate technical debt.  • Worked on whole scale bases, from JSPs (UI), DAOs, schemas, MQL statements, triggers, business objects, and database modeling.  • Led 3 developers, 2 testers.    • Eclipse IDE  • Red Hat Linux environment  • Oracle database using MQL.  • Used Agile methodology  • BitBucket / Git for source repository.  • Core Java (v5/6) - Spring Framework  • JUnit testing Senior JAVA Developer / Architect PEOPLE'S TRUST INSURANCE - Boca Raton, FL February 2009 to November 2012 • The challenge was to look over current system / strategy and come up with better overall solutions and implementation. Evaluated old system and with network engineer, re-construction system, added QA, DEV and testing environments. Integration between in-house and third party systems.  • Studied homeowners' insurance, restrictions, financial record keeping, and audit regulations.    • Created PostgreSQL and SQL Server database environments (Dev, Test, Staging, LIVE).  • Implementation of OLAP and tools for data mining.  • Integration with Sharepoint.  • Designed, developed and deployed server side Java based applications.  • Implemented LDAP to internal app, creating group/user restrictions  • Developed data entry sales and sales tracking / display (real-time / ajax)  • Intra-net UI applications, with external exposure.  • Developed report's engine for mid-management for day to day operations  • Developed financial reporting apps to meet government insurance regulations  • Developed audit / book checker apps to verify financials and accounting books  • Developed claims & underwriting apps to find strength and weakness in our financials  • Migrated hosted software to internal servers    The use of Excel, paper and Access reports were minimized, as was human error. End users are now inputting data to a database. Managers could now review data on the fly, verify data during the day, and see trends, errors, postulate training procedure to correct.  • Used Agile methodology and Team Foundation Server (TFS).  • PostgreSQL, Informix, and SqlServer DBs  • Core Java & J2EE (v5) - Spring Framework  • Ajax extensive work JSPs Senior JAVA Developer FPL - Juno Beach, FL August 2007 to February 2009 contractor)    • Developed UI Applications that run on Portal Server framework.  • Worked on different portlets (based on user preferences) to display reports, charts, data.  • Full development of their event (problem) driven energy distribution system. This including:  • Developed front end website to display, create, modify, analyze events  • Developed database table / scripts to maintain events / website  • Developed backend server process to retrieve data from both website and database  • Create documentation to serve as a general view (non-technical) for process, general technical overview, and lastly, "HowTo" troubleshooting guide document.  • Websphere (v5), Javascript - Spring Framework, jsp, css, SQL on an Oracle database.  • Used partial page updating without page refresh (AJAX).    Currently, working on legacy application to integrate into the portal framework. Man-hour allocation. Project used by in-house managers, accounting team, foremen, and contract vendors.  • Developed complete project from concept.  • Integrated this project into another, expanding that stand alone program.  • Developed front end JSPs (use of Tiles), adding security/validation  • Developed back end pieces, including creation of new DB tables in support of project.  • Developed beans in support of back and front end.  • Used JaxB to load/unload client files from/to DBs  • Used / modified WebService to transfer data to mainframe  • Struts framework  • Written in Core JAVA (v5) - Spring Framework, jsp, Javascript, using JaxB, Ant, Tiles and DOJO toolkit. Senior JAVA Developer MONIKER.COM - Pompano Beach, FL March 2006 to August 2007 eCommerce on a j2ee platform  • Re-Design of new Moniker.com home page (UI).  • Maintenance on Moniker.com home page, as it is in constant change. Updating jsp, html, css files to coincide with Marketing department direction.  • Worked on their website and sales/admin tools (front end) adding new functionality  • Worked on Fraud Prevention project. Created algorithms to detect possible fraud users / transactions.  • Worked on their Buyer Authentication project. Closely worked with VeriSign and Cardinal Commerce to implement their buyer authentication (Verified by Visa) and fraud filtering when clients use credit cards through the website.  • Developed new payment abstracts to replace legacy code, using factory and proxy patterns.  • Initiated new payment gateway (authorize.net).  • Modified single sign-on between our websites, use of WebService to transfer data between DBs.  • Core & J2EE (v5) - Struts Framework  • SQLServer db  • Using Tomcat on UNIX environment.  • Coding done on Windows using Eclipse. Senior JAVA Developer / Lead Wal-Mart Stores - Bentonville, AR May 2005 to December 2005 eCommerce on j2ee platform  • Worked on Scheduler (UI) project.  • Re-designed object orientation for better reusability.  • Re-Designed the Hibernate to Informix connection pooling. At peak times, process halted. 95% usage, 55% dropped. Currently 25%, <1% dropped.  • Re-designed Mainframe to Scheduler process. Too much overhead and slow processing time. Average cycle time (1 load) 2 min 34 sec, currently 1 min 2 sec.  • Re-designed deployment (Ant) scripts and methodology.  • Modified code to decrease memory usage / waste.  • Created GUI test application (Swing) to isolate / test individual pieces.  • Modified WebServices to lower quantity of services (duplicates) without losing quality of services.  • Mentored two developers    • Written in Core Java & J2EE - . Spring Framework.  • WebSphere IDE.  • Deployed on UNIX.  • Informix database Senior JAVA Developer CHOICEPOINT - Boca Raton, FL August 2001 to April 2005 • Entire full life cycle software design and development in WebSphere environment. This included board requirement definition, technical specs definitions, prototype, design, implementation, unit testing, and maintenance plan.  • Worked with/on developmental teams as well as with non-technical members. Baseline language JAVA, creating struts, beans and sockets. Oracle, SQL and Informix databases (through JDBC connections, pooling).  • Use of Apache Tomcat and Jakata Turbine.  • Communicating with end-users in XML.  • Maintained Middleware reporting engine on a large scale, robust system.  • Designed and developed HTTP gateway programs (and APIs) for third party and internals.  • Designed and developed test programs for QA to use. Senior Software Engineer FIRSTPOP - Boca Raton, FL December 1999 to August 2001 • All programs written in object-oriented (OO) programming language, most C++  • Designed and developed Firstpop's idea of pop-up technology. Including hardware and software system for control/automation of business and management processes, security and network segments (NT).  • Developed client application (COM+ Agent embedded C++) that communicates to our server through Winsock (browser independent). Data transfer and upgrade request are accomplished in this way. 300,000 unique clients with less than .001% installation/computer problem experienced  • Developed server applications (ADO) that supported the client application. These multithreaded programs receive data, which is then ported to our MS SQL Server. Data is then sent back for continuance or closure.  • Developed user-friendly server applications (ODBC COM) that translated database information for internal sales force.  • Developed server application ( JAVA) that controlled our pop-up ads. Data sent by client application in conjunction with sales department emphasis, a mathematical algorithm is used to determine the ad (to send our client).  • Developed installation programs (InstallShield) that wrapped client application with our freeware, shareware, and promotional software  • Developed server monitoring and error-checking applications that would contact personal through either email or cellular (text)  • Developed client application uninstaller.  • Designed internal LAN and communications system.  • MySql used E-Commerce Developer CHAMPION COMPUTER - Boca Raton, FL November 1999 to November 1999 UNIX Administrator / Systems Analyst DOLE FRESH FLOWERS - Miami, FL August 1998 to October 1999 Computer Language Specialist & Trainer OMEGA RESEARCH - Miami, FL August 1996 to August 1998 Education Computer Science Florida International University Electrical Engineering Miami Dade Community College Skills J2EE, JAVA, HIBERNATE, SPRING, JBOSS, JSP, SERVLETS, STRUTS, INFORMIX, SQL SERVER, MYSQL, ORACLE, POSTGRESQL, SQL, API, Git, JAVASCRIPT, JENKINS, Lucene, Solr, Java J2Ee Additional Information SKILLS: Operating Systems: UNIX (Solaris, RedHat), Windows  Databases: Oracle (11 yrs), Informix (3 yrs), SQLServer (9 yrs), PostgreSQL (3 yrs) MySQL (3)  Transport Layer: TCP/IP (Ethernet), MQL (1 yr)  Java/J2EE mods: Hibernate, JSP, Servlets, EJBs, JUnit, Corba, Ajax  Javascript: NodeJS, AngularJS, React  Frameworks: MVC, Spring, SpringBoot, Struts  Messaging: IBM ActiveMQ, RabbitMQ  NoSql: Lucene, Solr  Method/Bug: Agile, Jira, Confluence  Tools: Sql Server Mngt Studio, Toad, Firebug, Postman  Respoitory: CVS, SVN, Git  Servers: Tomcat, JBoss, WAS  Cloud Service: AWS, Azure  DevOps: Jenkins  API gateway: ApiGee  webService: Swagger, WSDL, WADL, SoapUI  BigData: Spark, Kafka    OTHER: US Citizen and Air Force Veteran