Patient Transporter / Dispatcher Patient Transporter / Dispatcher Burbank, CA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Patient Transporter / Dispatcher Glendale Adventist Medical Center - Glendale, CA April 2016 to Present CA  Glendale Adventist Medical Center  • Executing all types of patient transport within the hospital  • Performance at a higher level by interacting with patients with extreme care  • Part of the rapid response team if emergency transportation is required  • Successful lifting and moving patients in and out of bed onto gurneys  • Assisting the nurses with patient communication EMT Medistar Ambulance - Los Angeles, CA October 2015 to April 2016 Medistar Ambulance  • Interpreted limited histories and used physical examinations to identify potential underlying critical issues.  • Assessed patient condition through physical and verbal exams and by collecting information from others at the scene.  • Monitored patients for changes, and reviewed and revised plans accordingly.  • Kept vehicles ready for emergencies by cleaning them and keeping medical supplies stocked.  • Performed basic and advanced patient assessments.  • Responded to dispatched emergency assignments quickly and safely.  • Promoted team effort when working with the dispatch center, external public safety agencies and health care  providers.  • Demonstrated high standards of performance, including teamwork, communication and compassion.  • Strictly protected the confidentiality of all information related to patient care activities and EMS operations. Operations Manager Caretrans Ambulance Services - Glendale, CA November 2014 to October 2015 CA  Caretrans Ambulance Services  • Managed all day-to-day operations.  • EMT scheduling.  • Conducted new employee interviews  • Prepared new employee files for the company which included all relevant documentation, policies and procedures etc  • Prepared all ambulances for the LA DOT and LA County permits.  • Successfully migrated the paper PCR system to a newer paperless PCR system called AngelTrack.  • Dispatched EMT's on a daily basis using AngelTrack.  • Knowledge of the MedtransSoft system.  • Conducted business development by cold calling facilities to gain transports  • Prepared all PCS forms for our continious dialysis patients  • Managed all ambulances and kept them in good running condition regarding regular servicing, smog checks for registrations, licensing and general maintanence.  • Managed all city business license renewals and also prepared all paperwork for new business licences under the instruction of the owner.  • Monitored all pull notices for each EMT driver.  • Enforced company policies and procedures. Field Training Officer / Dispatcher EMT - Glendale, CA March 2013 to November 2014 Java Developer Silvermoon Business Systems January 2011 to April 2012 Backend Java developer with network abilities.   Data design  Troubleshooting  Client resolutions services     South Africa Independant Contractor - Transportation Mercury Couriers September 2004 to June 2010 South Africa Data Entry Clerk Lancet Laboratories January 2000 to August 2004 South Africa Education Emergency Medical Technician Glendale Community College - Glendale, CA 2013 Java Developer in Information Technology Van Zyl and Pritchard - Johannesburg, South Africa January 2008 to December 2008 GED in High School Allen Glen High School - Johannesburg, South Africa January 1992 to December 1999 Skills CPR CERTIFIED (3 years), CUSTOMER SERVICE (5 years), EXCELLENT COMMUNICATION SKILLS (5 years), FAST LEARNER (8 years), MEDICAL TERMINOLOGY (4 years), OFFICE MEDICAL (3 years), QA (3 years), Networking (1 year) Additional Information SKILLS:  • Calm under pressure  • Excellent phone etiquette   • Sound decision maker  • Fast Thinking  • Very Organized  • Intense attention to detail  • Fast learner  • Management skills  • Strong Customer service  • CPR Certified  • Computer Literate  • Team Leader  • Excellent communication skills