Sr. UI Developer Sr. UI <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. UI Developer - XC Technology Austin, TX Myself highly creative, forward thinking professional with a multi-faceted background in user experience, front-end/back-end development and responsive design/programming for both static and dynamically loaded content with 10 years of solid experience.    • Hands-on experience in developing Web Applications/Pages using HTML (4/5), CSS (2/3), JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, XML, twitter Bootstrap, JSON, Angular 1.x 1.5 1.6, Angular 2/4, Node.js, Express JS,D3.js,React.js, Redux, Require.js , Java/J2EE, Media Queries, CSS Frameworks, Java, JSP, Media Queries, Github , RESTful programming.  • Experience in all phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) including Analysis, Design, Development, Documentation, Testing, Deployment, Version Control and, Production support and Maintenance and extensive experience with Agile and SCRUM.  • Hands-on of experience in frontend/client-side world and have extensive expertise with React.js, Redux, Angular JS, Angular2/4, Boothstrap and most legacy frameworks and libraries such as jQuery.  • Excellent in backend/server-side stack, I've built large scale applications with Node.js with relational (MySQL) and non-relational databases such as MongoDB.  • Expertise in debugging and troubleshooting skills that allow me to quickly analyze problems in legacy applications and come to a modern solution that extends the life of the application without rewriting everything from scratch.  • Expertise in Angular JS framework and its ability to create simple and scalable code for SPA.  • Strong Technical knowledge on Migration of applications from Angular.js to Angular2.  • Strong working experience in multi-layered Architecture involving AngularJS.  • Expertise in using Angular JS directives, Controllers, Filters, Services, Templets , Events and Injectors.  • Expertise in creating desktop based application with Angular JS and Unit Test with Karma-Jasmine.  • Expertise in Responsive Web Design (RWD) and Single Page Applications (SPA).  • Expertise in React JS framework to develop SPA.  • Expertise in Angular JS directives, Controllers, Filters, Services, Templets, Events and Injectors.  • Expertise in creating responsive mobile-friendly websites.  • Expertise in using React JS components, Forms, Events, Keys, Router, Animations and Flux concept.  • Experience in building application with React JS, Redux, Require JS, in MVC architecture.  • Expertise in React.JS framework and integrate them to Node JS server side code.  • Hands-on of knowledge in using JSON and AJAX to link with back-end applications.  • Expertise in implementing the MVC architecture in backend applications using JAVA along with Spring, Servlets and Node.js along with Express JS.  • Extensively Worked on CSS Background, CSS Positioning, CSS Text, CSS Border, CSS Margin, CSS Sprites, CSS Padding, CSS Table, Pseudo Elements & Classes and CSS Behaviours in CSS.  • Hands-on in writing test cases in methodologies Test Driven Development and Behaviour Driven Development.  • Experience in using Bugzilla and Firebug to debugging and troubleshooting the existing code.  • Expertise in enhancing to Mongo DB architecture to improve performance and scalability.  • Experience in Unit Testing (UIT), Integration Testing and Preparing test cases.  • Expertise in Spring Boot & Spring MVC.  • Experienced working on different layers of Spring MVC architecture such as Spring-Controller, Service and Repository classes.  • Good experience in using Ionic 3 framework for mobile app development.  • Expertise creating user validation forms and sending data to server using Restful services.  • Expertise in working on AWS to integrate Server and Client side code.  • Hands-on experience in AWS cloud resources to better achieve a lower cost and higher performance/uptime.  • Experience in Using SASS and LESS, Groovy Scripting.  • Expertise in Utilizing Jasmine, Karma, Mocha and NPM to build and test applications.  • Hands on working experience with onshore/offshore team.  • Extensively used jQuery, JSON, AJAX and DOM scripting to create interactive web applications.  • Expertise in Video Coding by using HTML5, CSS3 and JavaScript.  • Extensively used the repositories like Github and SVN.  • Extensive use of Grunt& Gulp as a build tool for projects.  • Expertise in Gimp and Photoshop.  • Experience in Drupal Themes developing Drupal custom modules, resolving Drupal configuration issues.  • Extensive experience working under agile methodologies environment (scrum, kanban). Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. UI Developer XC Technology - Austin, TX September 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Developed single page applications using Angular 4/5, Typescript, HTML5, CSS3, and Bootstrap4  • Created Typescript reusable components and services to consume REST API's using Component-based architecture provided by Angular 4/5.  • Designed the front-end applications, User Interactive (UI) web pages using web technologies likeHTML5/CSS3, Angular4, Angular5 and bootstrap.  • Worked with Angular4/Angular5 framework in front end development that implements MVC pattern.  • Worked on various projects in B2B, B2C websites using Angular4/Angular5 framework involving - Angular Directives, Components, Filters, Factory, Service, Angular Forms, and Angular Expressions.  • Created reusable templates using Angular directives and worked with NPM package manager tools (Node JS)  • Good knowledge on using Angular APIs like @angular/http [For making HTTP requests], @angular/common [ Common core things including form validation], @angular/router [Routing for the entire app]  • Implemented HTTP requests using Rxjs Observable library to handle multiple values over time  • Good knowledge on creating services with Angular 4 @injectable property, as to make the service available for dependency injection when creating components  • Implemented Node.js router to make cross-domain requests to API services: Spotify API, GitHub API, MongoDB  • Called the Restful web service calls for POST, PUT, DELETE and GET methods  • Extensively worked with making calls to WEB APIs to fetch the data from the back end as JSON response and parse it on the UI for DOM/CSS Manipulation  • Solid knowledge of API authorization flow  • Designed dynamic client-side JavaScript codes to build web forms and simulate process for a web application, page navigation using Angular 4  • Used Git for managing source code    Environment: HTML5, CSS3, Typescript, Bootstrap4, Angular 4/5, REST API's, Node JS, NPM, MongoDB, Git, Agile Sr. UI Developer Z& A Infotech - Parsippany, NJ July 2015 to September 2017 Responsibilities:  • Developed web front end interfaces using HTML/HTML 5, CSS3, PHP, JavaScript, XHTML, jQuery, AJAX, JSON, AngularJS, Angular 2/4, NodeJS, React.js, jQuery and Bootstrap.  • Used advanced level of jQuery, AJAX, JavaScript, Backbone, Bootstrap, CSS and pure CSS layouts.  • Used jQuery core library functions for the logical implementation part at client side for all the application.  • Developed Bootstrap responsive web application pages using Angular JS services, controllers and directives for front end UI.  • Updated our project from Angular version 4 to 5 and made use of version 5 functionalities.  • Implemented form validations across the site using jQuery and JavaScript.  • Knowledge about creating SPA and worked with Angular Route and Angular UI while creating different kind of views.  • Used Angular JS as framework to create a Single Page Application (SPA), which can bind data to specific views and synchronize data with server.  • Displayed tabular data using AngularJS by applying filters on the table data.  • Tested cross browser functionality and fixed major layout bugs for supporting browsers using Angular JS.  • Used Angular 2 for developing new web applications using Angular CLI.  • Created Typescript reusable components and services to consume REST API's using Component based architecture provided by Angular 2.  • Designed and developed the Presentation layer using Angular 4 and Angular Material.  • Enhanced user experience by designing new web features using MVC Framework like Backbone.js.  • Designed the front-end applications, user interactive (UI) web pages using web technologies like HTML5 (Local storage, Index DB)/CSS3, Angular JS and bootstrap.  • Used jQuery-Ajax plug-in to get the data in JSON format and displayed on HTML page.  • Developed Agent and Customer pages using React.js, Redux and web pack.  • Expertise in client scripting language and server-side scripting languages like JavaScript, jQuery, Node.js, Backbone.js, Vue.js, Underscore.js, Express.js, React.js, Angular.js, Angular2.  • Used AngularJS Http Request to read data from web servers and process JSON data to render in the UI.  • Experience with Working on Frameworks like Spring MVC, Hibernate, JPA, Databases like Oracle and SQL Server.  • Debugging applications in different browsers using Firebug, and testing applications using JUnit, Jasmine.  • Created forms to collect and validate data from the user in React.js and JavaScript  • Performed extensive JavaScript and jQuery programming to give AJAX functionality for the website.  • Extensive experience in implementing model-view-controller (MVC) architecture using Angular Framework.  • Involved in Agile process, monthly Sprints, and daily Scrums to discuss the development of the application.  Environment: HTML5, CSS3, jQuery, JavaScript, Angular 5, AJAX, JSON, Angular JS, Node JS Responsive Design, Bootstrap 4, d3.js(V4), DOM, Firebug, DHTML, Eclipse, SVN, Adobe Dreamweaver, Jira, MVC, Agile/Scrum, SQL Server Management Studio, Windows. UI Developer Bed Bath and Beyond - Union, NJ May 2013 to June 2015 Responsibilities:  • Created custom, general use modules and components which extend the elements and modules of core Angular JS.  • Implemented two-way data binding through scope in applications built on Angular JS and one-way binding when necessary.  • Created model binding and API calls using Angular JS.  • Developed high-performance web applications using JavaScript, HTML5/XHTML, CSS, jQuery, and Angular.  • Built a high-performance, reusable code library for UI and backend components.  • Developed MySQL and MongoDB based backend.  • Implemented modules into Node JS to integrate with designs and requirements.  • Developed Web API using Node.js and hosted on multiple load balanced API instances.  • Worked heavily in AWS cloud resources to better achieve a lower cost and higher performance/uptime.  • Developed form validations utilizing Angular JS messages modules.  • Implemented re-usable templates with JavaScript handlebars and generating layouts.  • Created interactive prototypes using Balsamiq and InVision.  • Developed data visualization tools using Algorithmic Programming, WebSockets, JSON and AJAX for market sentiment indicators, live streaming price panels, live events count down widget, economic calendars.  • Used various jQuery plugins date picker, dialog boxes to build Rich Internet Application (RIA) to make it look more intuitive.  • Modified Shopify template with client's branding, Customized menu structure to suit categories, Setup categories, product pages, blog, and special pages.  • Used jQuery to perform AJAX to get JSON data from the backend and parse it on the front-end.  • Created SQL scripts for tuning and scheduling with SQL server.  • Tested created pages using JavaScript testing frameworks Mocha, Jasmine, Karma.  • Debugged the application using Firebug to traverse the documents and manipulated the nodes using DOM, DOM Functions using Firefox and IE Developer Tool bar for IE.  • Design and develop prototype video to showcase company features.    Environment: HTML, XHTML, CSS3, Bootstrap, Foundation, JavaScript, jQuery, Angular JS, JSON, AJAX, Green Sock, Web Sockets, Node JS, Java Groovy, JIRA, Firebug, Balsamiq , InVision , GIT/GitHub, Eclipse. WEB /UI Developer eBay - San Jose, CA December 2012 to April 2013 Responsibilities:  • Developed screen functionality using HTML, CSS, JavaScript.  • Produced content pages with CSS3 layout and style mark-up presentations and used JavaScript methods and properties.  • Established online branding and company style guide which led to a 200% increase in traffic.  • Used jQuery to make the frontend components interact with the JavaScript functions to add dynamism to the webpages at the client side.  • Enhanced user experience by designing new web features using MVC Framework like Backbone.js.  • Developed customer facing software for managing advertisements to grow the business using Backbone.js, JavaScript/jQuery, HTML, CSS.  • Developed web based ad sales team application, implemented AJAX based framework, developed CSS layout prototyped the application and demonstrated to advertiser, business user and to end-users..  • Implemented interaction between frontend and backend using the JSON object.  • Using complex Object Oriented concepts in improving the performance of the websites.  • Wrote Cross Browser code of CSS and JavaScript for Internet Explorer and Firefox.  • Written CSS to provide table free layout to user interface screen.    Environment: HTML, CSS, DHTML, JavaScript, Wordpress, BackboneJS, JQuery, AJAX, JSON, XML, MVC. Web service//UI Developer BCBS, Eagen, MN October 2010 to November 2012 Responsibilities:  • Involved in discussions with the System Analysts to identify the technical requirements.  • Developed Page layouts, Navigations and presented designs and concepts to the clients and the management to review.  • Developed web presentation layer using HTML and CSS according to internal standards and guidelines.  • Created a robust and user friendly CALL CENTER APPLICATION based on client requirements.  • Development the whole application module using technologies such as JavaScript, jQuery and more.  • Wrote a combination of jQuery plugins, as well as completely custom JavaScript to build a bleeding-edge, AJAX-driven user interface.  • Involved in writing application level code to interact with APIs, Web Services using AJAX, JSON and XML.  • Designed and developed intranet web applications using JSP, JavaScript and CSS.  • Responsible for checking cross browser compatibility and hence worked on different browsers like safari, Internet explorer, Firefox and Google chrome.  • Designed the table less web applications using CSS and with the help of and tags as per W3C standards.  • Worked with teams where requirements are constantly being implemented, tested and improved.  • Worked closely with SQA team in fixing the reported bugs/defects and checking cross platform compatibility.    Environment: Agile, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, JSON, AngularJS, Ext JS, JAVA, JSP. Jr. Java Developer ADOBE - Santa Clara, CA September 2008 to August 2010 Responsibilities:  • Responsible for gathering business and functional requirements from the users.  • Followed Spring MVC framework to develop the application for the project.  • Implementation of security and data protection.  • Played key role in the design and development of application using J2EE, EAD4J technologies/framework using SOA.  • Leveraged the homegrown framework to handle exceptions.  • Implemented frontend components using Struts framework.  • To verify the behavior of the system under test used Mockito Framework  • Wrote Action classes, Request Processor, Business Delegate, Business Objects, Service classes and JSP pages.  • Implemented various J2EE design patterns like DAO pattern, Business Delegate, Value Object.  • Development of Web components such as Servlet, JSP, CSS, AJAX, and Taglibs.  • Migrated the Existing Frame work to Struts Frame work and Business Logic Analysis.  • Used JSP, JSTL tag libs and JavaScript for developing the view tier and used Service Oriented Architecture with Java and XML, Involved in critical UI feature development.  • Experienced in handling the problems and troubleshooting.  • Worked in Agile models and have good knowledge on Agile methodologies.  • Involved in developing the customer form data tables. Maintaining the customer support and customer data from database tables in MySQL database.  • Designed and implemented the UI using Java, HTML, JSP and JavaScript.  • Use Perl/Python/bash shell scripts to maintain the system.  • Designed and developed web pages using Servlets and JSPs and also used XML as repository.  • Development of Web components such as Servlet, JSP, CSS, AJAX, and Taglibs.  • Migrated the Existing Frame work to Struts Frame work and Business Logic Analysis.  • Used JSP, JSTL tag libs and JavaScript for developing the view tier and used Service Oriented Architecture with Java and XML, Involved in critical UI feature development.    Environment: JAVA, J2EE 1.7, Hibernate 4.2.1, JSP, perl, Struts, Log4j, Junit, Mocktio, IBM WebSphere Application Server 8.5, Xml, Html, JavaScript. Education Bachelor's Skills CSS (9 years), JAVASCRIPT (9 years), AJAX (8 years), HTML (8 years), jQuery (6 years) Certifications/Licenses Driver's License Additional Information Skill Set:    HTML (9+ Yrs),CSS (9+ Yrs),PHP (4 Yrs), Angular.Js (4Yrs),Angular2(2Yrs),Angular4(1Yrs),Angular5(2 Months),React.Js ( 2+ Yrs), React Native, Node.Js (4 Yrs),Spring (3 Yrs), JAVA,C,C++,Sql, Pl/Sql,Backbone.JS Waterfall, Agail , Adobe Illustrator, JQuery, Ajax ,AWS.    Technical Skill:    Web Technologies: HTML,CSS, JavaScript ,PHP, JAVA.  Debugging Tools: Developer tools, Firebug, Bugzilla.  Programming Languages: C,C++, JAVA,SQL, PL/SQL  Wire Frame Tools: Adobe Illustrator CS3(basic idea on wire frame and visual design)  Version Mgmt: Subversion, GIT, CVS, BIT bucket  Frameworks Angular JS, Angular2, Angular4,React Js,EXT JS, D3, Backbone JS, Ionic 3,Bootstrap,Prototype, Node JS, JQuery , Spring, Drools.  Database: Oracle 9i, 10g, / SQL Server 2005, 2008, NoSQL SERVER, MS SQL  IDE:  MS Visual Studio 2008, Dreamweaver CS3, Eclipse, Sublime Text, Web Storm, Brackets, Notepad++, Edit Plus, JS fiddle, Tatastrom, Brackets, Plunker.    Operating systems: Windows 2000/XP/Vista/7/8/10,Linux/Unix, Mac  Browsers Google, Firefox and IE