Senior Developer/Tech Lead Senior <span class="hl">Developer</span>/Tech Lead Senior Developer/Tech Lead - Cognizant Technology Solutions Manchester, CT Results-oriented software engineering professional with more than ten years of experience in Java/J2EE based software development. Have experience in fresh software development, software maintenance, performance tuning, and interfacing with Legacy systems. I have worked on projects for clients such as Wyndham Hotel Group, Travelers and Aegon UK. For the last five years I have been in Senior Developer/Tech lead role. Sponsorship required to work in the US Work Experience Senior Developer/Tech Lead Cognizant Technology Solutions - Hartford, CT June 2012 to Present USA    Objective of the project is development and maintenance of Enterprise products for client. This includes a wide variety of products. Some are limited to employees whereas others are external facing. The project requires me to work with business in analyzing the requirements and suggesting alternatives to better achieve the goals, estimate the change requests/projects, design the solution and work with development and testing team to implement the product.  Apart from my regular assignments, I like to add value to the team by developing tools. The latest one was to help sunset the Lotus notes databases. The tool converted information stored in Lotus notes database to PDF files and uploaded them to Filenet for future reference. The tool saved significant amount of manual effort and eliminated chances of error in migrating the data.  We are now working on moving our applications to cloud based infrastructure. Java Developer Cognizant Technology Solutions - Kolkata, West Bengal January 2011 to June 2012 West Bengal, India    I was working from offshore for the same client. I learned a lot during this assignment. Got an opportunity to work with JBOSS and Websphere servers, learned a bit of Autonomy and Filenet. Got to know about automated build tools like Jenkins and how to configure these tools. Jprofiler helped me in fine tuning application performance.  Most of the application we worked on are now being used enterprise wide. One of them is an in-house content management tool and is open to all employees.  We also worked on a design assignment. The goal was to convert an existing legacy system into a J2EE based application to improve performance and ease maintenance. Assistant Systems Engineer TATA Consultancy Service - Kolkata, West Bengal August 2007 to December 2010 West Bengal, India    Primary objective of this project was to provide IT consulting services to a UK based insurance company. I worked on various software and tools used in generating quote and policies.  This is where I got the first test of the software development sector and it helped me gain a momentum in this constantly changing industry. Education Masters of Computer Applications in Computer Applications Kalyani Government Engineering College - Kalyani, West Bengal 2007 Skills Clearcase (Less than 1 year), J2EE (10+ years), JBOSS (5 years), Websphere (7 years), Web Services (5 years), JSF (5 years), Requirements Analysis (5 years), Estimation (5 years), Cognos (4 years), Angular (1 year), RESTFul webservices (1 year), Pivotal Cloud Foundry (1 year), Spring boot (1 year), Core Java, Java J2Ee, Hibernate, Rest, Java, Soap, JEE, Javascript, MVC, Spring Certifications/Licenses SAFe practitioner Certified Scrum Master June 2014 Additional Information Skills  • JSF, JSP, Servlets, Struts, Richfaces 4, JQuery, CSS  • EJB, JPA, Spring(Core), web services (SOA), JAXB, XML, UML modeling and transformations, JUnit.  • Java/J2EE Senior Developer/Tech Lead  • Estimation, Requirement analysis  • Performance and scalability optimization  Tools/Platforms used:  • JBOSS EAP, Websphere (6.2-8.0, Liberty 8-17)  • JProfiler, Jmeter, Dynatrace  • Enterprise Architect, Visio, RAD, RSA, eclipse, SOAP UI  • PMD, Crucible, Jenkins, Cognos  • Clearcase, SVN