Sr Java Developer Sr <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Rayne, LA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr Java Developer CGI Federal - Lafayette, LA May 2018 to Present • Assigned to BIA TAAMS project which tracks land ownership of American Indian tribes • Fixing production issues in Java code • Adding new features to application • Creating unit tests for new and existing code • Primary technologies: Spring Webflow, PrimeFaces/JSF, Netbeans Sr. Java Developer Wells Fargo - Charlotte, NC March 2018 to April 2018 Contractor on Wells Fargo Advisory (Investment) Customer Onboarding team Sr. Java Developer TIAA - Charlotte, NC October 2017 to January 2018 • Assigned to Digital Metrics Team • Upgraded applications to Spring 5 • Switched email templates from Velocity to FreeMarker • Extracted common functionality to shared library • Added shared library to Jenkins jobs • Changed Jenkins jobs to publish jars and wars to Artifactory • Integrated maven release plugin into build process to version projects before upload to Artifactory • Technology Used: Java 8, Eclipse IDE, svn, Tomcat, Oracle, MySQL/MariaDB, Jenkins, Artifactory, Spring, Freemarker, Velocity, Ext.js, bootstrap, Windows 10, RedHat Enterprise Linux Sr. Java Developer TCS/Bank of America - Charlotte, NC June 2017 to August 2017 • Attached to project to redesign Offers Federated Repository (OFR) application • Upgraded code base from Java 6 to Java 8, upgraded from J2EE version 2 to J2EE version 5 • Migrated app server from IBM WebSphere to JBoss • Migrated database from IBM DB2 to Oracle Exadata • Removed WebSphere dependencies from code base • Recoded SOAP front end, making existing functions available through REST and adding additional functionality through REST for follow up phase • Target technology stack was Spring Web Services • Technology Used: Java 8, Java 6, Eclipse IDE, IBM WebSphere, IBM DB2, Spring Sr. java Developer Fiserv Inc - Charlotte, NC January 2017 to May 2017 Contractor on the Source Capture Options (SCO) team. Responsibilities included development, enhancement, and maintenance of existing software, writing unit tests, and estimation and assisting in analysis of upcoming work. Java Developer TCS/Bank of America - Charlotte, NC December 2015 to December 2016 • Contractor on the Enterprise Account Opening team. Responsibilities include development, enhancement, and maintenance of existing software, writing unit tests, and estimation and assisting in analysis of upcoming work.  • Team member on platform engineering team. Designed and coded proof of concepts for later integration into applications. Established design patterns for use by feature teams in coding solutions. Helped establish frameworks and their usage within the department's applications. Helped design and code the code base to be used as the basis of the next website iteration.  • Team member on team that implemented designs and features into the next generation code base.  • Maintained and enhanced existing code base with new features for consumer and small business deposit applications, consumer and small business credit card applications, and consumer vehicle loan applications.  • Worked with JBoss, Spring, IntelliJ, Eclipse, SVN. Tomcat Java Developer Wells Fargo - Charlotte, NC October 2015 to December 2015 • Contractor on the International Trade team. Responsibilities include maintenance and enhancement of internal software system used to facilitate international trade via a variety of financial instruments and legal positions for the bank.  • Worked with JBoss, Spring, IntelliJ, Eclipse, SVN. Tomcat, Struts Java Developer Premier, Inc - Charlotte, NC July 2015 to October 2015 • Contractor on the Data Warehousing team. Responsibilities included maintaining and developing code to assist in transfer and loading data from clients into data warehouse, and overseeing the daily extraction and loading of data from clients into the data warehouse.  • Created process to populate audit table for customer data to assure data loading process was happening correctly, and inserted notification process for error conditions.  • Designed new architecture for extracting customer data and transporting it to Premier's network to streamline the process. Java Developer Bank of America- Charlottte, NC July 2014 to July 2015 • Contractor on the Enterprise Account Opening team. Responsibilities include development, enhancement, and maintenance of existing software, writing unit tests, and assisting in analysis of upcoming work.  • Worked as part of Tiger Team to develop proof of concepts for other teams. When completed, the proof of concept would be turned over to other teams for implementation.  • Worked on team to enhance and maintain credit card application process.  • Worked on team to create check status tool that allows users to check the status of their vehicle loan application online. Java Developer NAVEX Global - Charlotte, NC September 2012 to July 2014 • Team member on the Single Sign On project, an important companywide strategic project to allow customers of our various products to login once and access any product. Created Web Services (SOAP, JSON) for user management in Liferay and backported Security Assertion Markup Language (SAML) related code into Liferay 5.2.3 from Liferay 6.0 to support Single Sign On • Instrumental in upgrade of Liferay from 5.2.3 to 6.1.1 which allowed the company to introduce load balancing, clustering, and failover support. Helped upgrade existing code and added SSO code.  • Evaluated existing portal application and estimated time to fix defects to increase customer satisfaction • Production support including analyzing and fixing defects Java/Lotus Notes Developer BlueCross BlueShield of South Carolina/PalmettoGBA - Columbia, SC October 2001 to September 2012 • Team member for Online Provider Services, an initiative to allow Medicare service providers such as hospitals and doctors, to check claims, remittances, and eligibility information in real time. Coded and implemented login and registration process, and claims display during 1st phase, helped design, architect, and code security enhancements and messaging portions of phase 2 enhancements.  • Worked with customer to upgrade and enhance legacy Appeals system. The update increased scalability and responsiveness, increased number of users capable of using the system, and added batch processing functionality to better accommodate users' work.  • Part of team that created the Security Manager application to secure company IT infrastructure. This application helped reduce unauthorized access to company resources by ex-employees.  • Upgraded Pyramid security application, used by other e-Commerce applications for authorization and authentication. This is the main authentication and authorization application for web based Java applications.  • Team member for coding and troubleshooting the DMEPOS Competitive Bidding Program internal website. This program was mandated by Federal law to reduce Medicare expenses and is actively overseen by Congress.  • Coded EdMIC website, which included a Java-based Web Content Management system. Site was coded as part of a Medicare subcontract dealing with a provider education outreach program.  • Coded PalmettoGBA InTouch, an Android application for providers, giving them access to information published on the palmettogba.com web site through their mobile devices.  • Upgraded Provider Enrollment Tracking application to current standards while improving performance. Application was used internally to track the provider enrollment process into the Medicare system which allows doctors and hospitals to service Medicare covered patients.  • Worked with external vendor to create application used as part of a third party online PHR demo initiative for CMS.  • Team member on project that allows providers to swipe an insurance card and determine eligibility, file claims, and accept credit card payments • Worked as System Expert (subject matter expert), provided technical design guidance to analysts, work estimates, troubleshoot problems spanning Domino, Java, ASP, and mainframe systems, also coded highly complex applications as needed • Worked as team member to architect, design, code, and maintain a Java and Domino project responsible for winning part of large Medicaid contract.  • Maintained and enhanced Java based timekeeping system. Maintained and enhanced Java based help desk application.  • Worked as part of multiple person team and HR to gather requirements, estimate, design, code, and maintain new functionality for self-service employee application.  • Worked with team to determine requirements, design, estimate, and code custom Instant Messaging Java applet for Lotus Sametime for Intranet.  • Estimated, designed, coded, and tested Java applet for Intranet that launches applications on users' desktops. Team member on project to produce POC March 2004 to May 2004 Technology Used: Eclipse IDE, Tomcat, IBM WebSphere, IBM DB2, Java 7, Java 8, Struts, Spring, J2EE Education Bachelor of Science in Business Information Systems in Business Information Systems University of Phoenix - Denver, CO Skills Android (10+ years), coding (10+ years), Java (10+ years), Lotus Notes (10+ years), Security (10+ years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SUMMARY  • Java Development - 12 years  • Java Frameworks Used:  ? J2EE/JEE - 5 years, last used 2018  ? Spring - 8 years, last used 2018  ? Struts - 2 years, last used 2017  ? Liferay - 2 years, last used 2014  ? Hibernate - 5 years, last used 2018  ? JUnit - 4 years, last used 2018  ? Mockito/Power Mock - 2 years, last used 2018  ? JSF - less than 1 year, last used 2018  ? Apache Camel - less than 1 year, last used 2015  • Application Servers Used:  ? Apache Tomcat - 12 years, last used 2018  ? IBM WebSphere - 3 years, last used 2017  ? JBoss EAP - 2 years, last used 2017  ? iPlanet/Sun One Java Application Server - 5 years, last used 2012  ? Apache Karaf - less than 1 year, last used 2015  • Databases Used:  ? Oracle 9/10/11 - 8 years, last used 2018  ? Microsoft SQL Server - 2 years, last used 2019  ? IBM DB2 - 2 years, last used 2017  ? MySQL/MariaDB - 2 years, last used 2018  • Web Technologies Used:  ? HTML - 17 years, last used 2018  ? JavaScript - 15 years, last used 2018  ? CSS - 10 years, last used 2018  ? XML - 3 years, last used 2017  ? Web Services SOAP - 3 years, last used 2018  ? Web Services REST/JSON - 2 years, last used 2018  ? JQuery - 1 year, last used 2018  ? Web Security - 12 years, last used 2018  • Version Control Used:  ? Subversion - 7 years, last used 2018  ? git - less than 1 year, last used 2015  ? MKS - 5 years, last used 2012  ? PVCS - 6 years, last used 2007  • CI/CD/Build Systems Used:  ? Maven - 4 years, last used 2018  ? Ant - 7 years, last used 2014  ? Jenkins - less than 1 year, last used 2018  ? IBM uBuild - 3 years, last used 2017  ? Artifactory - less than 1 year, last used 2018  • Development Environments Used:  ? Eclipse - 8 years, last used 2018  ? IBM Rational Application Developer (RAD) - 3 years, last used 2017  ? MyEclipse - 1 year, last used 2017  ? IntelliJ/Android Studio - 2 years, last used 2018  ? NetBeans - 1 year, last used 2018  • Operating Systems Used:  ? Windows - 18 years, last used 2018  ? RedHat Enterprise Linux/CentOS - 6 years, last used 2018  ? Solaris - 1 year, last used 2012  ? Mac OSX - less than 1 year, last used 2015  • Hands on experience in collaborating and writing technical standards  • Served as System Expert/Architect to Lotus Notes and Java coding teams