Java Full Stack Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> Full Stack <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Full Stack Developer - Whole Foods Austin, TX Java, Full Stack Developer Work Experience Java Full Stack Developer Whole Foods - Austin, TX November 2018 to Present Roles & Responsibilities:  ? Involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) of the application like Requirement gathering, Design, Analysis and Code development  ? Developed java modules implementing business rules and workflows using Spring MVC, IOC and Web Framework.  ? Improved the maintainability of the project by implementing and improving Exception Handling and Collection APIs.  ? Involved in Sprint planning for the estimation of efforts for user stories and bugs.  ? Performed code reviews and provided guidelines for best practices of software management, Coding Standards and Code Commenting for better understandability.  ? Used Spring Boot, which is radically faster in building Micro services and develop Spring based application with very less configuration.  ? Designed and developed the REST based Microservices using the Spring Boot, Spring Data with JPA  ? Refactored the code for JVM Optimization and performance of application.  ? Involved in Maven based build process and continuous integration of the project using Bamboo and Jenkins.  ? Implemented SOA architecture with Web Services using SOAP, WSDL and XML to integrate other legacy systems.  ? Unit testing of developed product features using Junit and Mockito frameworks as part of development cycle.  ? Worked on spring boot, Spring Rest full template to develop Application Level Micro Services.  ? Implemented Micro Services based Cloud Architecture on AWS Platform and Cloud Foundry.  ? Developed Business Logic and Interfacing components using Business Objects, XML, and JDBC.  ? Used Git for source code control.  ? Develop detailed program design for application changes and/or major bugs.  ? Involved in writing program documentation and technical specification documents.  Environment: Java 8, J2EE, Spring Boot, Spring MVC, GIT, JBoss Dev. Studio, SonarQube, Maven, Rally, JIRA, SOAP/Restful Web Services, WSDL, Spring Based Microservices, Agile Java Full Stack Developer CISCO - San Jose, CA September 2017 to November 2018 Roles & Responsibilities:  ? Involved in the complete Software Development Life Cycle using Agile methodology.  ? Architected and implemented the application modules using Spring Boot 2.0, Spring Security and integrated the application using Micro services architecture.  ? Involved in producing and consuming the RESTful Web Services using Spring.  ? Produced SOAP Web Services for communicating with external components.  ? Created Hibernate 4.x configuration, mapping files and defined persistence classes to persist the data into Oracle 11g Database and used Hibernate Query Language (HQL) to query the database.  ? Used Eclipse IDE for application Development and used Maven for build automation tool to compile and generate EAR, WAR, and JAR files.  ? Created all the services to work with the various entities provided and restify the services using REST APIs with JAX-RS.  ? Involved in Configuration of WebLogic application server and deployment of application code.  ? Extensively used Hibernate in data access layer to access and update information in the Oracle 11gdatabase.  ? Worked on database connectivity using Oracle SQL Developer and pushing data back and forth from the database.  ? Used Java Message Service (JMS) for reliable and asynchronous exchange of information.  ? Used Spring, Spring Integration framework to build applications& interact with multiple interfaces.  ? Tested the responses of the SOAP web services using SOAP UI and generated Mock Service in SOAP UI to simulate and test the functionalities of Web Service  ? Troubleshoot the Web Services and identify the issues based on the logs generated and fix the Issues.  ? Prepared unit test cases with JUnit, Spring Test and Mockito framework.  ? Used GIT HUB as version control software to manage the source code and to keep track of changes to files which is fast and light weight system.  ? Used Log4j as the logging framework.  Environment: Java, J2EE, JSP, Servlets, JDBC, Spring MVC, Hibernate, Web Services, SOAP, REST API, Restful, Micro Services, Oracle, TOAD, JUNIT, SQL, PL/SQL, Spring Tags, ANT, Maven, UML, TOAD, Web Sphere, Agile, Linux Java Full Stack Developer Genentech - Oceanside, CA June 2016 to August 2017 Roles & Responsibilities:  ? Involved in requirement analysis, design, coding and unit testing  ? Developed the middle tier using J2EE technologies under Struts framework  ? Developed enterprise application using JSP, Servlet, JDBC and Hibernate.  ? Used spring to implement MVC (Model View Controller) architecture and Hibernate for Java object mapping with database tables  ? Used Spring AOP for cross cutting concerns like Transaction management and logging Web service calls  ? Implemented JAXP for SAX to the event-driven, serial-access mechanism that does element-by-element processing  ? Implemented JAXP also supports the XSLT to control over the presentation of the data and enabling to convert the data from XML documents to other formats, such as HTML.  ? Developed Queue (IBM MQ) based Integration Micro Services with Spring Boot.  ? Developed server-side services using Spring Web Services (REST)  ? Responsible for the entire Design and coding the whole Rules Management module and JUnit. Responsible for implementing the business API's.  ? Used Spring-JDBC Template for coding DB operations.  ? Handled all aspects of the web applications including maintaining, testing, debugging and deploying.  ? Performed the different modules like login, search and download with tracking.  ? Setting up Maven scripts to build, package, and deploy application code to the target Apache Tomcat.  ? Used Git as source code version control for pulling and pushing the code changes and solved merge issue  Environment: Java, JQuery AJAX, Agile (SCRUM), Spring, Hibernate, REST, Micro Services, Spring Boot, Dynamo DB, GIT, JUnit, WebLogic 10.0, Maven, Restful, JAX-RS, Log4J, Microservices, JIRA Core Java Developer Infotek Software & Systems Ltd - Pune, Maharashtra September 2014 to December 2015 Roles & Responsibilities:  ? Extensively used design patterns like Singleton, Value Object, Service Delegator and Data Access Object.  ? Developed the core component of recovery management module using Spring MVC Framework  ? Used Spring IOC and configured the Dependency Injection using Spring Context  ? Involved in design and coding utilizing Spring Dependency Injection.  ? Used Log4J for logging framework to debug the code.  ? Handled the database management using PL/SQL DML and DDL SQL statements.  ? Maintained source code versioning using CVS.  ? Was integral part of Scrum process, JSON and Agile (TDD) methodology  ? Conducted code reviews session both for features and bug fixes.  ? Used JUnit for Unit testing.  Environment: Java 1.7, Apache Tomcat 6, Spring MVC, MySQL, Hibernate 3.0, Junit, Log 4j, Java Script, jQuery, HTML, JSP Education Master's Degree in Computers & Information Science in Computers & Information Science California University of Management & Sciences - Anaheim, CA 2017 Bachelor's Degree in Electronics & Communication Engineering in Electronics & Communication Engineering JNT University 2015 Skills ECLIPSE, JAVA, HIBERNATE, SPRING, JAX