Routing Lead, Architect, Project Planning, Client Liaison Routing Lead, Architect, Project Planning, Client Liaison Routing Lead, Architect, Project Planning, Client Liaison Tampa, FL Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Routing Lead, Architect, Project Planning, Client Liaison Verizon 2010 to 2019 Implemented complex routing engine built in house over Java platform, with Cisco ICM suite of products.  ? Managed database internally with MSSQL, saved an expense of 3 million dollars quote by Avaya DR thin client.  ? Implemented dynamic threshold handling, using layers of occupancy, wait times and weight managed vendor logic, to prevent gaming solutions that vendors very often implement.  ? Provided intraday groups with robust GUI and custom solutions using Java, JSP, MSSQL, a runtime rules engine that ran by scheduler jobs to figure what was active over multiple intervals. Verizon Data Services, National Routing - Tampa, FL 2000 to 2019 End Product Support Expert and Metrics Analyst Verizon Data Services, Voiceportal 2008 to 2010 Coordinated across Voiceportal platform routing platform and platform migrations.  ? Oversaw and coordinated Intuitive Voiceportal menu improvement using services like Secret Agent, to help put the solution together for a complete experience, for customer to agent.  ? Consolidated complex routing engine from a failure model with each change to a robust tree logic, that does not break with changes.  ? Supported Metrics Analysis to higher executives, covering areas of project success and misdirects and handoff analysis. Product Integration, Developer C++, Java, Oracle DB Verizon Data Services, IVAPP 2006 to 2008 Developed product order solutions for Verizon's Customer Orders.  ? Integrated the order process through different stages of enabling from central office to customer's premise.  ? Supported order details over database, resolved fall outs of orders. Education Master's Skills Eclipse, Data analysis, Db2, Dbms, Oracle, Sql, Sql queries, Acd, Avaya, Genesys, Cisco, Vmware, Linux, Unix, Corba, Sip, Mcp, Retail, Icm, Ppt Links http://linkedin.com/in/SujathaGanapathy Additional Information SKILLS    ? Call Center Routing Solutions and Architecture Expertise  ? Cisco Call Routing software, ICM v11.6  ? Genesys suite of products v8.0  ? Integrated routing to Avaya ACD  ? Data Analysis and SQL queries, DBMS|DB2, Oracle, MS  ? Genesys SIP Servers, MCP  ? Presentation skills, using PPT decks including  graphs and analytics  ? Project Management, Architect and Lead Skills  ? IDE: Eclipse, NetBeans  ? Platforms: CORBA, Linux, Unix, Windows, VMware  ? Scrum Trained  ? Containers Fundamentals, Linux Foundation  ? AWS Cloud Fundamentals    EXPERTISE    ? Cisco UCCE, ICM Versions 7.5x, 10.0x, 11.6x.  ? Genesys Components - Configuration Manager, SCI, URS, IRD, Statserver, Reporting DBs, Outbound, v6.5 through v.8, theoretical knowledge of Genesys Orchestration tools.  ? Strong experience on metrics analysis to help reduce misdirects and handoffs.  ? Provided continuous improvements to routing logic to improve AHT, Occupancy and retail rates for Call Center Agents.  ? Lead and delivered platform upgrades with Cisco and Genesys Software.  ? Strong working experience on multitude ACDs migration to a single Avaya IPACD platform and skill consolidation projects within Avaya.  ? While external vendors quoted millions of dollars for National Call Routing, took the task of implementing at zero cost, using existing licensed software, National Call Sharing and Center of Excellence for Verizon wireline centers.