Salesforce Administrator Salesforce Administrator Salesforce Administrator - Westfield Insurance Fort Worth, TX • Over 10+ years of experience in IT industry with strong experience in Salesforce.com and Web Development and over 7 years of working experience with Salesforce.com as Administrator on various applications.  • Experience with enterprise-level integrations involving business-critical SQL Server 2005 or higher.  • Experience with Salesforce Customization, creating profiles, roles, users, page layouts, email services.  • Strong Knowledge of SFDC standard Data structures and familiarity with designing Custom Objects and Force.com platform and Force.com Sites.  • Experience in Integration of Salesforce with in-house legacy ERP systems, using Apex Web services WSDL and outbound messaging.  • Experience in administration, configuration, Implementation, and Support of sales force CRM, and Salesforce applications based on Apex Language and leveraging Force.com Platform -- world's first commercial Software as a Service (SAAS) application running in Cloud Computing Environment.  • Extensive experience using Sales force Administration Profiles, Creating Roles, Page Layouts, Org-Wide default ,Sharing rules, Work Flows, Approval Workflow, Reports/Graphs and Dashboards.  • Strong Implementation and Integration experience using Custom objects, Triggers, workflows/ workflow rules, approvals, S-Controls, Visual Force Pages, and Apex classes.  • Proficient in using meta-data migration tools like Eclipse IDE and Salesforce Apex Data Loader.  • Experienced in integration of Salesforce.com with external applications by using Web Services API, Metadata API, SOAP.  • Proven ability to integrate business processes across disparate systems.  • Committed to excellence, self-motivator, quick-learner, team-player, and a prudent developer with strong problem-solving, analytical skills and communication skills.  • Experience with enterprise-level integrations involving business-critical systems.  • Experience in eliciting and writing business requirements and creating designs to meet those requirements. Able to think critically and present optimized solutions in their design.  • Back-end Salesforce development experience focused on data structures/data cleansing.  • Experience with additional software development technologies and methodologies•  • Familiarity with configuration management concepts and tools.  • Knowledge on Customer Service and Custom AppExchange applications.  • Installed Salesforce AppExchange apps, configured and maintained user security permissions incompliance with organizational needs  • Worked closely with Business Users to enable business process using SFDC  • Experience in Data migration and cleansing using Import Wizard, Apex Data Loader and demand tools  • Experienced in creating Custom Objects, building relationships, and adding related lists  • Experienced creating Campaigns, Manage Leads, Accounts, and Case management  • Created various types of reports that gives the visibility of the data to the business, and help them analyze the forecast and trend in the data  • Optimum use of documentation to avoid any form of miscommunication or misinterpretation during the entire software development process.  • Strong understanding of fundamental business processes, excellent problem solving and Communicational skills.  • Proficient in MS office tools and reporting skills with a capability to develop and maintain sales pipeline reporting and metrics  • Performed administrative tasks like running and generation of production reports on daily, weekly basis and monthly basis and sending them to clients, customers and other teams under scheduled times Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Salesforce Administrator Westfield Insurance - Westfield Center, OH September 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Interacted with various business team members to gather the requirements and documented the requirements.  • Involved in API/Web Service design and developing technical specifications for the Salesforce.com (SFDC) application.  • Involved in project technical design plan, conversions, Mapping, configuration of portions of the SFDC application.  • Implemented SFDC CRM to deliver various reports in departments of Sales, Administration and Marketing etc.  • Interface Designing using Visual force page and their supportive Controller Classes.  • Automate the functionality by writing Triggers and Apex Classes.  • Reengineered APEX code already in production to optimize trigger based transactions for performance and speed as well as to work seamlessly with governor limits.  • Integrated external systems like Record setter data, Dodge MDM, MAS, PeopleSoft into Salesforce.com primarily used the partner and enterprise WSDL'S with J2EE technologies.  • Responsible for Unit testing and performance testing of SFDC API/Web Service.  • Responsible for Agile methodology testing package upgrades in sandbox org and deploying in production org.  • Created public websites and applications that are directly integrated with your Salesforce.com organization using sites.  • Developed a unified view of all accounting data within Salesforce.com.  • Responsible for integrating Salesforce.com to risk manager desktop apps via web services API.  • Used Data Loader for insert, update, and bulk import or export of data from Salesforce Objects. Used it to read, extract, and load data from comma separated values (CSV) files.  • Packaged and Deployed customizations from Sandbox to other environments using Eclipse.  Environment: Salesforce.com, Force.com, Apex, Data Loader, SOQL, SOSL, Communities, CRM, Import Wizard, Eclipse IDE, Controllers, Visual force Pages, JQuery, XML and Triggers. Salesforce Administrator Faro Technologies - Lake Mary, FL April 2016 to September 2017 Responsibilities:  • Translate requirements from non-technical end users through interviews into documents understandable by users and developers, Process flow diagrams, Functional specifications with use cases and class models, sequence diagrams using tool  • Architect and design application with class, interaction, state chart diagrams.  • Designed, developed and deployed the Custom objects, Page layouts, Custom tabs, Components, Visual Force Pages, Apex classes & Triggers to suit to the needs of the application.  • Working Knowledge on Sales Cloud, Service Cloud, Custom Cloud and Apex Programming On Force.com Platform.  • Involved in data migration and integration using Data Loader.  • Worked in Administration, Configuration, Implementation and Support of sales force CRM and Sales force SFA applications.  • Extensive experience in lead case management (Web-to-Lead, Email-to-Case).  • Experience working with Salesforce.com sandbox and production environments.  • Worked with Visual Force Pages, Custom Controllers, Extension Controllers, Apex Coding, Apex Batches, Apex Web Services, App Exchange deployment, Apex Classes and Apex Triggers.  • Scheduling Apex jobs for processing large records.  • Unit and integration testing for new requirements and get the UAT from the business owner.  • Created Profiles and Roles based on Organizational role hierarchy, implemented Record-Level and Field-level security and configured their sharing settings.  • Created Custom Objects, Tabs, and Sharing Rules as per the business requirements.  • Worked on various Sales force objects like Accounts, Contacts, Leads and Opportunities.  • Designed junction objects and implemented various advanced fields like Pick list, Custom Formula Fields, Field Dependencies, Validation Rules, Work Flows, and Approval Processes for automated alerts, field updates, and Email generation leading to effective Web-to-Lead communication with customers and partner portals.  • Implemented Chatter, Chatter desktop, created public and private groups.  • Developed Apex Classes, Apex Triggers, Components, Visual force Pages and Controller classes for various functional needs in the application.  • Created Workflows, Approval processes, Validation rules and sharing rules.  • Extensive experience in Apex/Visual force development.  • Set up Marketing Campaigns, Campaign Hierarchies, Lead Queries, Assignment rules, Web-to-Lead and Auto-Response rules.  • Designed, developed and deployed Apex Classes, Controller Classes and Apex Triggers for various functional needs in the application  • Debug Apex scripts using Debug Logs and System Log Console to catch Exceptions and execute Governors and Limits.  • Developed product capabilities using Force.com, APEX, and Visual force.  Environment: Salesforce.com platform, Visual force Pages, Data Loader, Workflow & Approvals, Email Services, Reports, Dashboards, Custom Objects, Custom Tabs, Security Controls, Eclipse IDE Plug-in, Sales force Sandbox, HTML, Java Script, Windows XP. Salesforce Administrator Citizens Bank - Providence, RI December 2015 to March 2016 Responsibilities:  • Extensive experience using Sales force Administration Profiles, Creating Roles, Page Layouts, Org-Wide default ,Sharing rules, Work Flows, Approval Workflow, Reports/Graphs and Dashboards.  • Working with management, strategic planning & analysis staff and end-users to create and manage complex workflow rules, data validation, and triggers.  • Create reports, dashboards, and processes to continuously monitor data quality and integrity  • Manage the Salesforce sandboxes by performing refreshes, managing users, and creating and deleting sandboxes as needed.  • Create and maintain user security (roles, profiles, and permission sets)  • Create and maintain custom objects and fields handle bulk data migration using Data Loader and maintain page layouts.  • Determine the impact on Client for each Salesforce upgrade from release notes and preliminary testing and sharing the changes with the business representatives; test and validate several changes and ensuring that the changes don't impact current configuration; coordinate with the business representatives on what can be turned on, what can't be turned off, and what needs to be communicated to the end users; and create Change Control documentation.  • Provide users with technical support.  • Stays current on new Salesforce features, new releases and functionality and provide  Worked with Lightning and UI components  • Customized SalesForce layout & functions to best suit employer's needs.  • Tracked and performed daily routine necessary applications such as merging duplicates, task assignments, maintaining and upgrading security permissions, & more.  • Worked in a constantly ever-changing environment in which clients wishes could change anytime  Environment: Maven, Ant, GITHUB/GIT, Jenkins, AWS, EC2, S3, EBS, Cloud Foundry, Clear Quest, Chef, Puppet, Docker, Shell/Python script, Linux. Salesforce Administrator Britannica - Chicago, IL September 2014 to November 2015 Responsibilities:  • Developed Custom Tabs and Custom Objects  • Developed a custom object to manage the case escalation management  • Created Formula Fields, Validation Rules, Workflow and approvals for the flexibility and functionality of force platform application  • Responsible for setting Field level security  • Created Reports & Dashboards for sales and marketing  • Migrated legacy system to Salesforce.com, ensuring a flawless migration process  • Responsible for interacting with users providing end user training and obtaining essential feedback to improve system functionality.  • Managed users, Public Groups, Profiles, and Roles within the Salesforce CRM, this involved designating access to the applicable user within the user hierarchy  • Performed day-to-day administrative tasks and addressing production support issues like unlocking / re-setting passwords, modifying data, and creating ad hoc reports  • Created reports of summarized results of analysis and presented to Regional Sales Business Directors, SVP and Finance on a weekly/monthly basis  Environment: Saleforce.com platform, JavaScript, Apex, Email Services Triggers, HTML, Apex Data Loader. Salesforce Administrator DonorsChoose - New York, NY May 2013 to August 2014 Responsibilities:  • Created custom objects, applications and custom report types.  • Designed workflow rules, validation rules and approval processes for various functional and business requirements.  • Created email-to-cases, automated-responses, assignment rules, email alerts and templates for Case Management.  • Collaborated with other developers in performing unit testing and identifying bugs in the application. Migration of the product from the test environment to the production.  • Created web to lead, web to case and Email to case to direct leads and cases from the Internet and email appropriately to the user queues or users.  • Used SalesForce Automation for sale lead management, opportunity management, account & contact Management, approvals and workflows.  • Created Queues, Groups and created assignment rules to assign leads to appropriate queues and users.  • Maintained security such as user accounts, mobile user accounts, sharing rules, user roles, user profiles, field level security, list view rights.  • Created workflows to assign tasks, field updates and outbound messages according to the business requirements.  • Worked on page layouts, list views, custom reports, and record types.  • Created search layouts to organize fields, custom links, related lists, and other components on record pages.  • Providing ongoing SalesForce.com maintenance and administration services including periodic data cleansing, custom objects, workflow.  • Imported information from ACT and excel spreadsheets.  • Maintained data cleanliness and accuracy by adding custom validation rules, custom formulas, reports and dashboards.  Environment: Saleforce.com platform, Force.com API, Workflow & Approvals, Reports, Custom Objects, Custom Tabs, Email Services, Visual Force, SalesForce.com Data Loader, Security Controls, HTML, Java Script, Sandbox, Eclipse IDE Plug-in, Github. Salesforce Administrator EMC Corporation July 2010 to April 2013 Responsibilities:  • Performed the role of SalesForce.com Administrator and developer in the organization.  • Used the Model View Controller (MVC) architecture to decouple the business logic and data.  • Led corporate-wide implementation of SalesForce.com (SFDC) customer relationship management system.  • Participated in business process review meetings with multiple teams to establish standardized workflow processes.  • Handled day-to-day administration, maintenance and support of salesforce modules for more than 50 users.  • Designed custom objects, tabs, records, and views within SFDC to support new workflow processes.  • Assigned workflows for Lead conversion, transfers, managing web-to-lead to track responses to online campaigns.  • Imported thousands of accounts and contact records, prior to using the SFDC import wizard, to ensure the accuracy of data for end users within the application.  • Worked on various Standard Objects including Accounts, Reports, Contacts, Events, Tasks, Dash boards.  • Analyzed policies regarding customer service efficiency; recommended and implemented process improvements.  • Developed custom portal for customer using apex and visual force pages.  Environment: SalesForce.com, Apex, Visualforce, Force.com IDE, Dashboards, Reports, Workflows, Sandbox, Data Loader, JavaScript, CSS, HTML, XML, AJAX, Eclipse plug-in for Force.com IDE, Demand tool, Java, J2EE, Web services, SQL Developer, SQL, Windows XP. Java Developer AT&T - Middletown, NJ January 2008 to June 2010 Responsibilities:  • Used different Design patterns, like MVC, Controller Servlets, Singletons, Value Objects while implementing the framework and Factory.  • Extensive use of spring framework.  • Implemented hibernate mapping for the statistics data for different storage Objects and programming using Hibernate API.  • Developed an HTML5 Client for BigBlueButton using NodeJS, WebSockets (SocketIO  • Thin client rendering: HTML5, Tag Libs, JavaScript, XML, JSP and Servlets.  • Eclipse used as Java IDE tool for creating JSPs, Servlets, EJBs, and XML.  • Coded Maven build scripts to build and deploy the application on Web logic.  • Developed the statistics graph using JSP, Applets and Swing in a multithreaded architecture.    • Involved in production support (bug fixing) and enhancements of the product.  • Used unit to automate Unit testing.    Environment: Java, Spring framework, Hibernate, Servlets, JSP, Applets, JSTL, Custom tag libraries, SWT, XML, Linux Shell Scripts, JAXB, HTML5, WebSockets (SocketIO), Ajax, Apache Tomcat4.2, Eclipse 3.2, Oracle 9i, Linux (RHEL Education Bachelor's Skills ECLIPSE (9 years), JAVA (8 years), HTML (6 years), WORKFLOW (7 years), LOADER (8 years), Salesforce Admin, Salesforce, Visualforce, Apex, COM Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:  Programming Languages C, C++, C#, Java, Apex.  Query Languages SQL, SOQL, jQuery  Operating Systems Windows 10/8/7/Vista/XP  Scripting Languages JavaScript, CSS  Web Technologies Web services, HTML, XML, CSS and JavaScript  SFDC Tools Apex Data Loader, Eclipse plug-in, Informatica Cloud  SFDC Technologies  Force.com platform, Custom Objects, Workflow & Approvals, Validation Rules, S- Controls, Apex Classes/Controllers, Test Classes, Triggers, SOQL, SOSL, Visual Force (Pages, Components), Sandbox development & Testing, Reports, Dashboards, Analytical Snapshot and Data Migration.