Sales field Sales field Sales field - FedEx Office Plano, TX • 12 years of strong experience in Software development using Java / J2EE (JEE), Development Integration, Deployment, Testing and Maintenance of Client-Server, Web-based applications.  • Expertise in Server Side development using J2EE technologies including JSP, Servlets, Spring.  • Extensive experience in working with different frameworks - Spring MVC, Struts.  • Hands on experience in RESTful/SOAP web services  • Configuration and Version control management using VSS, perforce, Git and SVN.  • Worked on configuring build tools like ANT and Maven  • Worked on identifying defects, problems, suggesting and determining the extent of programming required.  • Worked on software development methodologies like Waterfall, Agile development.  • Proficient in Database development using different RDBMS (Oracle, MS SQL Server, MySQL and DB2) in various projects  • Experience in working with application server technologies like (WebSphere, WebLogic, Tomcat)  • Experience in developing applications using different IDE like Eclipse  • Expertise in analysis and development of Test Plans, Test Cases and Test scenarios/scripts using industry standards for software/ business application testing and also experienced in performing different types of Testing.  • Experience in working with customers to determine their needs, gather, analyze and document requirements, communicate with customers throughout the development cycle, manage customer expectations, resolve issues and provide project status.  • Experience in working on windows and UNIX operating systems.  • Trained and having the good knowledge on latest technology Hadoop -HDFS, MapReduce, HBase, Hive, Sqoop and Pig.  • Attended Safe Agile Practitioner training and acquired certification.  • Possess excellent oral and written communication skills and adept at multi-tasking. Strong moral and work ethics with a sense of self-discipline and integrity. Also have experience of managing Offshore Development module.    Summary of Skills:  Operating Systems Windows XP/7/8, Unix and Linux  Programming Languages Core Java, JSP, Servlets, JDBC, HTML, Ariba, Hadoop- HDFS, MapReduce, HBase, Hive, Sqoop and Pig. Java Script, Type Script  Web Technologies Struts, Spring Core, Spring JDBC, Spring MVC, Spring Web  Database Oracle 9i/10g/11g, Sql Server and DB2  Other Tools Eclipse 4.x, HP-QC, VSS, SQL Developer, Toad, Microsoft Visio, Jira, Perforce, Git, Log4J, Ant and Maven, HPAGM  Domain Banking and Financial, Health Care, Insurance, Retail and Logistics  Servers Apache Tomcat 5.5,, IBM WebSphere 7.0, Bea WebLogic 8.1/10/11/12  Web Service SOAP and Restful  Methodology Waterfall and Agile Work Experience Sales field FedEx Office - Dallas, TX March 2016 to Present Dallas, TX March 2016 to Till Date  Project: Sales Navigator and Revenue Systems    Sales Navigator:  Sales Navigator is an internal application whose primary focus is to maintain performance, commission calculations etc., of all Sales field team members who are intended to sell the FXO products/services.  Navigator primarily support the Sales Planning and Commissioning processes.    Revenue Systems:  Transactional and Operational Data Store (TODS):    A real-time J2EE/web-services system used as system of record for financial data for FedEx and FedEx Services; provides critical financial processing capabilities to ensure all monetary transactions flowing from POS and Bank settlement are processed based on corporate accounting rules, ensuring proper revenue allocation and interfacing with PeopleSoft General Ledger. It also provides functionality for credit card settlements, Tax, Revenue and reporting. TODS handles $5 Billion in yearly revenue by processing 1 million revenue transactions per day from FedEx stores.    Vertex Q:  Vertex Q is the third party tax software provided by Vertex, which is used to provide the tax rates to the E-commerce applications through the tax service for the orders placed online.    Vertex O:  Vertex O is the third party tax software provided by Vertex, which is used to provide the tax rates at the store for the orders through OTP.    ReconNet:  ReconNET is a third party tool owned by Trintech that is used by the financial operations accounting team for reconciling FXO transactions to bank deposits. ReconNET allows the accounting team to generate financial reports as well as identifying missing sales and missing funds. ReconNET interfaces with the TODS system for receiving both FedEx sales files and deposit files from banks.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in System Analysis that included the high-level design, low-level design for new features, System Design and Contributed to the Technical architecture of the system.  • Involved in complete life cycle in all phases of Requirement gathering, Design, Development and Implementation.  • Actively participated in analysis / customization of business requirements, to propagate change request process and accommodate any change / update received from business team.  • Analyze and troubleshoot the Production and UAT problems  • Provide support for Production release checkout.  • Building and deploying the application.  • Used Spring Framework for Dependency injection.  • Implemented Spring MVC controllers like Controller, Simple Form Controller and Multi Action Controller  • Connected to Data Sources and performed operations using spring data framework like Spring JDBC  • Write Controllers, Model builders and View to implement Spring MVC.  • Interact with business analyst and SME's/Stake holders to understand project requirements.  • Understanding the requirement then helping team to create user stories in AGM  • Involved in migration of Vertex O from version 6.0 to 8.0. Proactively worked on issues identified and provided speedy resolution  • Providing speedy resolution for the Incidents/issues for all the applications (24x7 support) . Received many appreciations from the client and business for quick resolution  • Proposed and automated the Vertex Q and eSocket-POS validations for the new FedEx Stores setup.  • Following FedEx oriented processes to make sure to meet all the compliances.    Environment: Spring MVC, JMS, JSP, CSS, XML, WebLogic 12.1.3 application server, SVN, REST/SOAP web Services, UNIX, Oracle. java Developer First Data Corporation September 2015 to March 2016 Project: FDC- Clientline EDW Legacy  Project Description:  FirstData's prepaid solution offers affordable turnkey solution for custom-branded prepaid cards, plus comprehensive administrative and cardholder support. First Data helps meet a broad range of customer needs with a variety of card types. FirstData's Prepaid solutions is the one of world's largest Gift Card platform with 17+ year of history in merchant gift card processing that support multi million transaction yearly and boast of online process capable of handling 800 transaction per second. To many of global clients like Wal-Mart, Starbucks, Shell etc.  The goal of this project is to extract Prepaid Closed Loop Gift Card accounts and their online transaction data along with merchant details to feed to EDW as well as other systems like Data Vault.  Technologies involved are Java, Spring IOC, Spring JDBC, UNIX, UNIX shell Script, Toad with Oracle, WebLogic application server, SVN, REST Services  Responsibilities:  • Used Spring Framework for Dependency injection and integrated it with REST Services.  • Involved in System Analysis that included the high-level design, low-level design for new features, System Design and Contributed to the Technical architecture of the system.  • Make sure that the entire development process adheres to agile methodology to get the best out of the system and reduce the turnaround time.  • Actively participated in analysis / customization of business requirements, to propagate change request process and accommodate any change / update received from business team  • Used spring framework's Dependency Injection (IOC) to configure application components.  • Developed the application using Spring JDBC  • Ant tool is used to build and deploy the application  • Involved in gathering and understanding the requirements  • Developing the code by understanding the requirement  • Involved in writing Unix shell scripts  • Preparation of the Test plan and identifying the test data for client.  • Analyzing the issues and bugs. Resolving it by providing the fix.  • Used Log4j for tracking the applications. IT staff HealthRules February 2015 to August 2015 TM) Implementation Feb 2015 to Aug 2015  Project Name: Health Edge    Project Description:  HealthRules(TM) offers the most flexible and easy-to-use environment for authoring healthcare-specific rules, which drive the processing of healthcare claims. Using HealthRules, customers will administer their benefit plans, provider reimbursement contracts and general healthcare company policies. The intuitive environment will empower business users, rather than IT staff, to administer and implement their business decisions. Customers will be able to quickly respond to the market, implement new policies and launch new product offerings.    Technologies involved are Java, Oracle and Sql server, WebLogic, UNIX, Apache Camel Karaf, and Perforce  Responsibilities:  • Involved in System Analysis that included the high-level design, low-level design for new features, System Design and Contributed to the Technical architecture of the system.  • Make sure that the entire development process adheres to agile methodology to get the best out of the system and reduce the turnaround time.  • Actively participated in analysis / customization of business requirements, to propagate change request process and accommodate any change / update received from business team.  • Involved in Sprint and Iteration plan and standup calls.  • Working closely with business analyst on understanding the interfaces.  • Developing the custom code for interfaces by understanding the requirement  • Preparation of the Test plan and identifying the test data for client.  • Analyzing the issues and bugs. Resolving it by providing the fix.  • Interacting closely with client to provide regular updates regarding day to day activities American Express, Utah July 2014 to January 2015 Project Name: PRSA Control Tool    Project Description:  The Process Risk Self-Assessment (PRSA) Framework has been developed to provide a consistent and effective process for the identification and evaluation of operational risks at American Express. Process Risk Self Assessment (PRSA) is the methodology for process-level risk self-assessment. Key elements of the PRSA Framework include identification of business processes, identification of inherent risks through the completion of an annual risk assessment questionnaire, implementation and testing of controls, and process certification. The PRSA Framework is designed to capture and evaluate all types of operational risk that impact the Company, including financial reporting, compliance, and operations  Technologies involved are Java, Spring MVC, UNIX, UNIX shell Script, Toad with Oracle, WebLogic application server, SVN, REST Services    Responsibilities:  • Write Controllers, Model builders and View to implement Spring MVC.  • Involved in System Analysis that included the high-level design, low-level design for new features, System Design and Contributed to the Technical architecture of the system.  • Analysis of Requirement document, Design document and Business rule for new implementation in Process Risk Self-Assessment (PRSA)  • Define the Process description documents and creating process map for PRSA Program.  • Creation of Test Plan and Test cases.  • Creating Open Pages for the Process, Sub process, Risks, Controls and Test Cases for Release Management process.  • Test execution of Controls for Platform Management, Release Management processes  • Client Management - Planning discussions, Status reporting, Relationship Maintenance Develop the TPA Reversal Invoice Detail end user Reports to assist in the business operations American Insurance Group July 2013 to June 2014 July 2013 - June 2014    Project Name: Fusion Business Operations Support    AIG and certain of its affiliates (collectively, the "Companies") provide commercial insurance to large corporations. To handle claims submitted by the claimants, the Companies enlist the services of third party administrators ("TPA (s) ") . The TPA validates, processes, and pays the claimants on behalf of the Companies. The TPA then sends the claims to the Companies for billing, booking, reimbursement and reporting. The claim data from all the TPAs are validated for data quality and populated in the Third Party Administrator Information Repository ("TPAIR") database by the coverage validation process.  The TPAIR application and associated business processes apportion the losses to layers and assign the responsible party, for each layer, which could be either the insured or AIG Vendor Services ("AIGVS") or the Fusion group, which is the unit that runs this line of business. The TPAIR application then bills the insured and AIGVS for their respective losses and books the losses to the Corporate Reporting System ("CRS")    Technologies used are Java, JSP, Servlets, Spring MVC, DB2, SQL Server, VSS, and WebLogic Server, Rest services    Responsibilities:  • Write Controllers, Model builders and View to implement Spring MVC.  • Used Spring Framework for Dependency injection and integrated it with REST Services.  • Analyze the reversal invoices and the TPA payment reports to provide supporting information details to the Fusion business users.  • Identify data issues encountered during the analysis of the reversal invoices and the TPA payment reports and interact with the AIG managers on the same.  • Develop ad hoc reports for TPAIR, as requested by the Fusion business users.  • Develop the TPA Reversal Invoice Detail end user Reports to assist in the business operations.  • Analyze the data issues encountered during the implementation of the AIG Domestic Claims ("AIGDC") losses in TPAIR.  • Involved in resource handling. Guiding and training resources to deliver the deliverables with good quality  • Prepared and updated the project plan to track the deliverables  • Involved in preparing the documents required security and PQI audit. Faced security and PQI audit and got the good score in PQI audit.  • Involved in preparing the procedure documents  • Involved in development of change requests  • Involved in developing the UI screens using the JSP.  • Involved in unit testing, integration testing and system testing  • Involved in preparing the test cases and test scripts  • Executed the test cases and recorded the execution details  • Recorded the defects and tracks it until to closure State Street December 2012 to June 2013 Project Name: Helium Datamart    Project Description:  A complete data warehousing and information delivery solution giving asset owners & managers dynamic, customizable, and scalable self-service platform for all their data needs.    Technologies used are Core Java, Struts, Xml, and Oracle, WebLogic server  Responsibilities:  • Involved in System Analysis that included the high-level design, low-level design for new features, System Design and Contributed to the Technical architecture of the system.  • Analysis of the objects across the clients  • Understanding the requirements of the clients  • Involved in support related activities  • Development of software  • Building and deploying the application.  • Managing and coordinating with offshore team  • Involved in unit testing, integration testing and system testing  • Involved in preparing the test cases and test scripts  • Executed the test cases and recorded the execution details  • Recorded the defects and tracks it until to closure Ariba buyer American Express - Punch, Jammu and Kashmir July 2008 to November 2012 Project Name: Amex GCCE SDM    Ariba is an e-commerce related project supporting the business and financial domain. It is a Supply Chain Management System. It is a procurement kind of tool, which helps buyers and suppliers to make their business in efficient manner. Ariba buyer overcomes all the problems, which usually arise in paper procurement process. Ariba Services Network (ASN), a connector point where suppliers and buyers interact with each other. There are some Punch out sites, which helps Ariba in making Procurement of goods and services. Based on type of commodity, Ariba punch out the purchase requisition to various punch out sites. There are different Punch out category sites, like IntelliShopper (for Products), and Elance (for Services) . Based on the Amount of a particular requisition or other customizations different levels (Level 1 & Level2) of approvals will be done in Ariba buyer. After completion of approval a purchase order (PO) will be created and send to ASN/Supplier. Based on the type of the Payment (Invoice, eCard) the PO will be dispatched to ASN or Supplier. Supplier will generate the invoice and send to buyer. Buyer reconciles the invoice and sends it to ASN. Once goods/services shipped to the buyer, a receipt has been generated and kept in ASN/Millennium. Here it has been developed for American Express users, who can create and submit their requisitions and orders relating to various products and resources through this website.    Technologies used are Core Java, Ariba, Oracle and Java script    Responsibilities:  • Involved in resolving day to day issues in production.  • Handled critical monthly process like CPC Process and AXPERT process.  • Worked on fixing the long pending production bugs to avoid the delay in procurement life cycle and to make the system stable and reduced manual efforts 500 hrs per annum.  • Worked on the DM (Demand Management) Saves initiative and saved around $ 75 K USD per annum.  • Involved in preparing the weekly / monthly reports which will be presented to client to update on application issues.  • Involved in resource handling and recruiting the resources in Syntel.  • Provided the knowledge transition sessions on ARIBA application and internal AMEX processes to groom to new joiners in the team.  • Actively involved in yearly DR activity for ARIBA application. A Trading Partner HEALTH CARE ADVANTAGE SYSTEM (PNC-HCA) August 2007 to June 2008 is an end-to-end Portal Application for the enhancement of the PNCBank Clearing House (CH) capabilities by integrating the CH functionality with its existing Treasury management based payment processing capabilities. This system has modules like Trading Partner and Collections. A Trading Partner can either be a Payer or a Provider who manages the transactions on behalf of the Payer. The payer can view, Add, edit, and delete the details of the Trading Partner.    Technologies used are Java, Spring MVC, JSP, Servlet, XML, HTML, JavaScript, Oracle, and Eclipse    Responsibilities  • Involved in Analysis / Design and development phase of the project that included the high-level design, low-level design for new features, System Design and Contributed to the Technical architecture of the system.  • Involved in prototype designing using Dream weaver.  • Write Controllers, Model builders and View to implement Spring MVC. Education Master of Computer Application in Computer Application Bharathiar University - Coimbatore, Tamil Nadu Additional Information 12