Sr. Software Engineer Sr. Software Engineer Sr. Software Engineer - Garmin International Kansas City, MO • Extensive experience in information technology, specifically in the field of software development  & solutions design with experience in technical and team leadership.  • Extensive Knowledge in the development of Banking & Financial Services applications.  • Agile methodology & experience in all phases of software development life-cycles: requirements  gathering and analysis, development, testing, and implementation to production environments.  • Full-Stack Java/J2EE/JEE Development with hands-on experience working with front-end, back-  end, web services, application servers and database design.  • Professional strong technical and team leadership, willingness to learn new technologies.  • Excellent analytical and problem solving, strong communication & interpersonal skills. Work Experience Sr. Software Engineer Garmin International - Olathe, KS August 2017 to Present • Design, develop and implement Restful Web Services applications utilizing Spring Frameworks, Java, JEE, Apache HBase, Oracle, Maven, Jenkins and Tomcat.  • Develop API Rest webservices endpoints for Mobile & Web interfaces.  • Redevelop existing services to improve performance and utilize latest technologies.  • Build unit testing framework using Mockito &Junit.  • Create & participate in code reviews and in coaching other team members.  • Participate in production support duties, monitor application performance and resolve errors. Consultant Apps Programmer Bank of America - Plano, TX June 2016 to August 2017 • Design, develop and implement Web Services applications utilizing Spring Frameworks, Java, JEE, Hibernate, Oracle, AngularJS, JavaScript, Maven, Jenkins and Apache Tomcat.  • Develop front-end user interface and required web pages using AngularJS and Bootstrap.  • Design and create the Database Model, define required tables, their relationships & constrains.  • Develop application back-end using spring frameworks, JAX-RS Web Services, Hibernate & Oracle.  • Create required unit testing framework using Junit.  • Evaluate and analyze requirements, propose best solution & estimate development efforts.  • Create design and detailed technical documentation, research software specification. Sr. Software Engineer SKIDATA INC - Addison, TX July 2014 to June 2016 -1-  • Design, develop and implement software solutions utilizing Java, JEE, Hibernate, Oracle & SQL  Servers, HTML, AngularJS, JavaScript, Bootstrap, Maven, Jenkins and JBoss.  • Evaluate and analyze requirements, propose best solution & estimate development efforts.  • Design and create the Database Model, define required tables, their relationships & constrains.  • Develop back-end solution utilizing stateless EJBs, JAX-WS Web Services, Hibernate & Oracle DB.  • Develop front-end user interface and required screens, utilizing AngularJS and HTML5.  • Build unit testing framework utilizing Junit and Mockito.  • Build and release management using Maven and Jenkins.  • Create detailed technical documentation and software specification.  • Assume technical responsibility, troubleshoot software problems, collect, analyze and summarize  development and service issues.  • Partner with team members regarding technical matters, help creating best practice solution. Sr. Software Developer Bank of America - Addison, TX March 2013 to July 2014 Design, develop and implement an application to manage mortgage client documents, utilizing  Java, J2EE, EJB, SQL, Oracle, MQ/XML, HTML, Struts and Ant scripts.  • Design, develop and implement an application that uses MDB for listening to MQ/XML messages and processes them using a Session EJB.  • Design, develop and implement JAX-WS/SOAP and JAX-RS/Restful web services applications.  • Develop and implement a multi-threading application that handles concurrent requests and ensure  thread safe processing.  • Participate in all phases of application development lifecycles, including development, testing, and implementation to production environments.  • Perform unit application testing, integrate with development team, and resolve application issues.  • Create and update required Low Level design documents and application interface.  • Coordinate with applications build team and provide application required support.  • Work closely with QA and performance testing teams to provide defect analysis and resolutions. Sr. Lead Developer / Application Consultant CIBC - Toronto, ON May 2010 to March 2013 Design, develop and implement web services applications used as shared services for multiple  channels utilizing Java, J2EE, EJB, SQL, Oracle, SOAP/XML and Ant.  • Design, develop and implement a web-based application utilizing Java, J2EE, Servlets, SQL, Oracle, Struts, HTML, JavaScript and Ant.  • Create detailed design and application interface documents, present design/interface to stakeholders (business client, management, QA and project lead).  • Research and troubleshoot applications issues, and provide information by collecting, analyzing, and summarizing development and service issues.  • Lead team members, coach junior members, and provide senior level support.  • Participate in code review sessions and identify possible issues and opportunities for reusability.  • Participate in architecture and solution design, contribute to application design and code  development for 7x24 enterprise shared services and web-based applications.  • Coordinate with QA team to ensure comprehensive test coverage, coach performance team and provide timely resolution of issues and help to achieve application performance requirements.  • Coordinate with support team to prepare the test environments and develop deployment scripts.  • Work closely with management, technical leads and project manager, provide project status and outstanding issues, accomplishments and achievable timelines of the project milestones.    -2- Senior Computer Systems Analyst Ministry of Finance - Oshawa, ON April 2007 to April 2010 • Design and develop enhancements to multiple J2EE web-based applications utilizing Java, J2EE, EJB, SQL, Oracle, MQ/XML, HTML, Struts, JavaScript and Ant.  • Convert a suite of applications from single-user mode to support concurrent user in a multi- threading processing.  • Add new products & features, modify existing ones, and create new presentation layer components  and new reports to satisfy business requirements.  • Provide senior level support, fix existing code base to various J2EE web-based applications and resolve identified application issues.  • Create new reports and modify existing ones using Crystal Reports and Jasper Reports.  • Design and implement changes to database schemas, add new required fields/tables.  • Create build & deployment scripts to automate implementing applications to production.  • Lead User Acceptance Testing (UAT) efforts and resolve any related or environments issues.  • Perform unit, system and integration testing, setting up required environments, and provide  support to enable business users to accomplish their testing.  • Participate in project requirements gathering, design sessions, business meetings.  • Participate in weekly & monthly team meetings, provide status updates and development progress  reports to managers and project leads. Advisory Application Developer / Development Team Lead / Application Consultant CIBC - Toronto, ON July 2004 to April 2007 Lead team of developers to develop and deliver a J2EE shared services application that effectively  connects front-end channels with underlying data layers and presents promotional offers to CIBC  customers. The application then capture customers actions and update the underlying data layer.  • Lead team to develop and deliver a J2EE shared services application used by multi-channel, the application is to facilitate fulfilment client requests and provide status updates.  • Create UML diagrams (Class, Component and Sequence) needed for application High-Level  Architecture and detailed design.  • Present application design through design sessions in order to get approvals from architecture, management, project leads, and interfacing channels applications.  • Create application design utilizing J2EE design patterns; Session Façade, Data Access Object, Service Locator, Business Delegate, Transfer/Value Object & Factory Pattern.  • Develop required Java Helper classes needed for application validation and common methods, develop DAO/JDBC classes to persist requests to database.  • Build required XML schemas and needed data validation modules.  • Investigate best solution and required tools, set up code repository in source version control.  • Develop unit testing and integration testing, provide testing report outlining issues and their status.  • Work closely with QA and performance team to ensure comprehensive test coverage and provide  timely resolution of issues.  • Generate deployment scripts and documents required for testing environments, System Integration  Testing, User Acceptance Testing, Performance Testing, and Production deployment.  • Work closely with management, business client, project manager, and QA to identify and resolve  any issues in a timely manner. Development Team Lead Bank of Montreal - Toronto, ON June 2003 to July 2004 • Lead team to upgrade and restructure J2EE application to upgrade to WebSphere 5.  • Set up development environment on WSAD and help resolve issues.  -3-  • Develop container-managed persistence Entity Beans, presentation layer component (servlets, JSPs  pages and CSS Style Sheet and JavaScript), business layer component (Entity and Session EJBs) and integration layer component (DAOs) to successfully run the application on Web Sphere.  • Identify environment, code and Application/Web Server issues, work with development team  members, senior technical specialist, and QA and business clients to resolve outstanding issues.  • Contact IBM support for WebSphere issues, request fix patches and updates, provide a status  reports to management and project manager.  • Participate in implementing applications to production and provide support and monitoring. Senior Application Developer Bank of Montreal - Toronto, ON September 2001 to June 2003 Developed J2EE application to act as a proxy for online Banking application. Application receives  third-party requests, validates and forwards them to online banking. The application is to ensure  no changes to online banking interface, when there are vendor interface changes.  • Participate in creating content management system for Bank of Montreal web site, using Vignette  Content Management Server and Vignette Multisite Content Manager (VMCM). Customize Vignette  core Java classes & templates, to develop customized workflow that enhances and simplifies the process of implementing new contents, to enable business users implementing content efficiently.  • Modify, develop Java classes, Servlets and JSPs to add mortgage products to the Lending website.  • Identify issues in a timely manner, work closely with team members, technical specialist, QA and business users to resolve these issues and provide status to team members. Java / C++ Developer CIBC - Toronto, ON December 1998 to September 2001 • Develop and build a three-tier architecture application, create integrated JSP, Servlet and JavaBean to simulate the (Model/View/controller) design pattern (MVC).  • Participate in re-developing online banking application from C to Java, Java Beans and Servlets, convert pages to Java Server Pages, enrich pages with dynamic contents, improve the look & feel.  • Modify online Mortgage application to send data to another server behind the firewall, to ensure  data security, and then write data to database instead of serializing objects on the file system.  • Develop Java application to receive user requests, insert the requests into oracle DB using JDBC. Systems Developer CIBC - Toronto, ON May 1998 to September 1998 Develop and implement application programs using Java, C, C++, UNIX, CSS, HTML, and JavaScript. Computer Programmer / Analyst Canadian Tire Corporation Ltd - Toronto, ON September 1997 to December 1997 Create, develop and implement application programs to satisfy Year 2000 compliance (Y2K). Education Computer Programming and Analysis Seneca College of Applied Arts and Technology - Toronto, ON Bachelor of Science in (BSc), Engineering Assiut University Skills Eclipse, Ejb, Java, Hibernate, Intellij idea, Spring, Jax, Jax-ws, Jboss, Jms, Jsp, Servlets, Struts, Database, Jdbc, Sql server, Oracle, Sql, Hbase, Html Additional Information Skills acquired  Solution Design: Enterprise Solution Architecture, OOP, OOD. JAVA/JEE Development: Java, Spring  Framework, Log4j, EJB, MDB JDBC, JMS, multi-threading, Hibernate, Struts. SOA/Web Services: JAX-  RS/Restful, JAX-WS/SOAP, XML Schema Design. Web development: AngularJS, JavaScript, AJAX, JSON,  Bootstrap, HTML, Servlets, JSP. Application Servers: JBoss, WebSphere, Apache Tomcat. Build tools:  Maven, Jenkins, SonarQube, Ant. Database: Oracle, Apache HBase, SQL Server. Testing: Mockito,  JUnit, TestNG. Platforms: Linux, UNIX. IDEs: Eclipse, IntelliJ IDEA.