Agile Coach / Scrum Master Agile Coach / Scrum Master Agile Coach / Scrum Master - JP Morgan Chase New York, NY An experienced Agile Coach in company transformation of different industry. Shown project management and psychology of team coaching skills. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Agile Coach / Scrum Master JP Morgan Chase - New York, NY September 2018 to Present Converted the team from Waterfall to Scrum. Developed Scrum Team. Played role of Scrum Master for the team of 10. Developed Janus Risk and P&L reporting system, built on top of an Oracle database, with the transaction volume of over 1 million positions, 75 million P&L and 3 billion risk data points loaded daily. Responsible for consolidating the data under one data mart with a unified financial hierarchy, reference data and reporting interface. Technologies: Java 7, multithreading, Oracle.  • Helped the management to get on Agile Methodology.  • Coached Scrum Masters.  • Designed data mart schema to provide unified dimensions for risk, P&L and reconciliation services;  • Developed the Reporting module, a service which allowed processing of live queries by a large number of users from Trading, Market Risk and Product Control groups;  • Implemented and supported fast changing requirements for PDF file retrieving and generation of the J2 application;  Technologies: Java 7, multithreading, Oracle. Agile Coach / Scrum Master New York & Company - New York, NY August 2017 to September 2018 Scrum Master for the team of 4. Developed, supported one of the major applications for the business called OPPS, the major part of Order Fulfillment and Order Management. Managed a team of eight developers.    • Coached management of the company with Agile Methodology.  • Managed the conflicts.  • Developed part of the software platform.  • Developed, supported one of the major application for the business called OPPS, a major part of Order Fulfillment and Order Management.  • Changed full DAO, BO layers of the application by introducing pure layers separation, refactoring and restructuring.    Technologies: Java 7, ESB (JBoss & Mule), Oracle and MS Server, Spring Boot, AngularJS as front-end. Scrum Master Morgan Stanley - New York, NY July 2016 to August 2017 Managed team of 7. Developed on a large-scale project involving two major Java-based applications: a data preparation application for fixed income yield curves and a related data synchronization application.  • Refactored the application legacy code and implemented an easily maintainable and extensible permanent solution;  Technologies: Java, J2EE, EJB, Eclipse, JMS, SOA, Spring, EJB, PL/SQL, Oracle, OLAP, Weblogic, XML, XSLT, UML, Design Patterns Project Manager/Team Lead Wells Fargo - New York, NY June 2015 to July 2016 Introduced Agile Methodology to the team. Worked as Scum Master. Developed and supported Loan Origination Application (LORA), one of the foremost projects of Private Banking sector of Wealth Management Div. of the Firm. LORA was an application for gathering client data, determining the client's eligibility to get a loan, and generation of all related legal documents, making it possible for the client to receive the funding in real time.  • Executed full cycle of project development, from UI to the server backend and created Unit and Integration tests for new and existing Java classes with heavy Multithreading;  • Created a number of AngularJS controllers and HTML templates;  Technologies: Java 7, Tibco-JMS, DB2, Spring, JBoss, AngularJS Agile Coach Audible an Amazon Company - Newark, NJ May 2014 to June 2015 Helped company transformation to Agile/Scrum process by working as Agile Coach for several groups up to 10 people in size.  • Pioneered in adopting and enforcing Scrum rules;  • Led daily stand-ups and scrum ceremonies for three teams;  • Worked with product owners to groom the backlog and plan sprints;  • Tracked, escalated and applying expert judgment to remove impediments;  • Report at weekly Scrum of Scrum meetings;  • Removed team impediments on a daily basis to allow the team to deliver the sprint goals and deliverables.  • Developed several parts of Fulfillment Services on TDD.  Technologies: Java 8, AWS, Oracle, Dynamo DB. Agile Coach / Scrum Master Wells Fargo Bank - North Brunswick, NJ April 2013 to May 2014 Converted several teams to Scrum; couched, trained, defined roles, conducted meeting, removed implications. Played role of Agile Coach for four teams and Scrum Master for three teams. • Couched management and team members Agile and Scrum methodology and practice.  • Created teams and trained Product Owner, Scrum Master, Scrum team members of three teams: Endur development in commodity trading, FlexTrade development and Watch Tower team.  • Created JIRA Scrum Boards. Helped Product Owner to create the Back Logs. Ran Spring Review, Sprint Planning, Scrum Stand-by Meetings.  • Developed Automated Testing Platform for Commodity Trading Desk Support of the Bank called FRENTE (Framework End To End Testing) using Java 8.  Technologies: Java 8, AWS, Oracle, Dynamo DB. Scrum Master/Lead Developer Thomson Reuters - New York, NY March 2012 to April 2013 Lead team of 4. Developed a project to enhance and upgrade FXAll's proprietary Portfolio Order Management System (POMS) to the latest version of Gigaspaces in-memory database platform XAP 9.5. POMS was an advanced portfolio-trading tool that streamlines the foreign exchange workflow for asset managers and corporations.    Technologies: Java, J2EE, EJB, Eclipse, Gigaspaces, Design Patterns Scrum Master/PM/Lead developer SNSV Corporation - New York, NY March 2011 to April 2012 Scrum Master and PM for several teams. As a member of Golden Copy module development, participated in the development of a JMS-based Fusion platform for Bank of America EIS Department; built the Field Matcher Java Application for BA support    Technologies: Java, J2EE, EJB, Eclipse, FIX protocol Team Lead Bank of America - New York, NY February 2010 to March 2011 Developed a Spring-based communication platform to synchronize data with major company's data warehouse (Fusion).    Technologies: Java, Oracle, MS SQL Server, Multithreading, Eclipse, FIX protocol, Design Patterns SENIOR CORE JAVA DEVELOPER /TEAM LEAD BLOOMBERG, R&D DEPARTMENT - New York, NY January 2009 to February 2010 Responsibilities - Developed:  • A part of back-end for Portfolio Analyzer and Property Des applications on BLOOMBERG.COM: Core Java, GigaSpace, Hibernate, Oracle within Spring container. Maven as a building tool. SVN and TeamCity for full project cycle support.  • A part of JUnit infrastructure - Unit Tests and Spring-base Integration Tests. SENIOR CORE JAVA DEVELOPER /TEAM LEAD MERRILL LYNCH, EIS DEPARTMENT - Jersey City, NJ August 2008 to January 2009 Responsibilities:  • Developed a Java Multi-Threaded data migration application for the FUSION project, one of key projects for the company, which involved conversion to Oracle time-slicing architecture;  • As a member of Golden Copy module development, participated in the development and maintenance of the JMS-based Fusion platform; TEAM LEAD MERRILL LYNCH, LRT DEPARTMENT - New York, NY July 2007 to August 2008 Responsibilities:  • Maintained and developed several components of Arctic Feed Loading platform: changed Multi-Threaded and Single-Threaded Java classes to process nearly 100 feeds, changed Tolerancer Java classes.  • Participated in the development of Merrill Lynch LRT standard for Java distributed cache platform. Created proof of concept in GemFire Enterprise 5.0 of GemStone.  • Optimized legacy Java feed loaders to increase performance up to 60%. SENIOR J2EE DEVELOPER/ TEAM LEAD STANDARD & POOR'S - New York, NY June 2006 to July 2007 Developed enhancements and support for S&P Portfolio Advisor, a Web-based platform that enables financial advisors to structure clients' investment portfolios across the range of security types with Standard & Poor's Model Allocation Portfolios (MAPs), designed by Standard & Poor's Investment Advisory Service LLC.  Technologies: JSP, JavaBeans, Struts 1.1, JavaBeans, and Hibernate. SENIOR J2EE DEVELOPER LORD ABBETT & CO - Jersey City, NJ May 2005 to June 2006 Developed five major use-cases of CRD (Common Reference Data) Maintenance Application. The application was designed to provide a user-friendly interface that allows the query, addition, modification and conditional deletion of data in the Data Warehouse CRD repository including: Maintenance of the "boilerplate" data for all Broker/Dealer firms doing business with Lord Abbett & Co. including basic name and address information. Creation and tracking of "events" (mergers, acquisitions, divestitures, legal name changes) relevant to the Broker/Dealer firms. TEAM LEAD DOW JONES, WFC - New York, NY April 2004 to May 2005 Designed a J2EE replacement of a Vignette legacy system for Financial News & Article Publishing using Rational Rose UML engineering and reengineering. Developed server-side for two subsystems, AWE and CAPS, to be used for publishing/un-publishing article content from the fileservers and Oracle database backend of the WSJ.com website. Automated Wire Editor (AWE) subsystem for collection and formatting newswire stories for WSJ.com and Newswires DJDayweb.com websites, with the daily volume of publishing transactions exceeding 20,000. PROJECT MANAGER PIONEER FUTURES @ NYM EXCHANGE - New York, NY March 2003 to April 2004 Developed several parts of E-BOSS (Electronic Back-Office Settlement System) system in J2EE/Sybase 12.5 platform, a fully integrated business solution for global derivatives back-office processing, which provided clients with state-of-the-art trading, clearing and reporting functionality.  Application included the following functionality: Automated data processing with unlimited number of exchanges, On-line statement generation, Global margin calculation, On-line query and API data access Futures & Options handling, Remote client access, US and global clearing interfaces, Regulatory and compliance reporting, Multi-currency conversion and reporting, Multi-currency commission and fee tables Education MS in Biomedical Engineering in Biomedical Engineering RUDN State University of Moscow - Boston, MA Skills DB2 (1 year), derivatives (1 year), Eclipse (4 years), exchange (1 year), fixed income (1 year), HTML (1 year), Java (10+ years), JBoss (2 years), JIRA (1 year), JSP (1 year), Maven (1 year), MS SQL Server (1 year), Oracle (8 years), PL/SQL (1 year), Rational (1 year), Rational Rose (1 year), SQL (2 years), SQL Server (1 year), Sybase (1 year), Trading (4 years), Scrum Master, CSM, PMP, Agile Scrum, Scrum Additional Information Core Competencies    Agile Coach /Scrum Master experience.  • Over 16 years of experience in project management and applications programming;  • Many successfully completed software projects;  • Exceptional focus and follow through abilities, with a track record of efficiency and productivity;  • Excellent professional and interpersonal communication skills.    Functional Skills  Fixed Income products, Yield Curves, Currency Exchange products, Equities, Mortgages and Pools; Warrants; Commodities; Derivatives: Futures & Options; Portfolio management;    Business Processes: Calculation of P&L, P&S, fees and commissions, trades bust & reinstate. Yield Curve loading, Imagine Trading Platform support, Production vs. UAT Data synchronization.    Technical Skills  Programming Languages: Java with Multithreading, Angular JS, JSP, JSF, Spring Framework: Core and JDBC, Gigaspaces XAP 7.0-9.5, Hibernate, WebServices, JNDI, Beans, JavaScript, CSS, XML, XSL, SQL, PL/SQL, DHTML, HTML,  RDBMS: Oracle (since 7x and all), Sybase (since 11.0), MS SQL Server, DB2  Development Tools: Eclipse, Idea, JIRA, Coherence, SourceTree, JBoss DE., TeamCity, JBuilder (since 2005), Rational Rose, NetBeans, WebSphere Studio, Ant, Maven, Informatica PowerCenter 7.0 and all.  Operating Environments: Linux, Solaris, Mainframe OS/390  Application Servers: IBM WebSphere Application Server (since 3.11 and all), BEA WebLogic Server (since 5.1), Jetty, JBoss  Messaging Platform: ION Market View real-time e-trading platform