Sr.Salesforce.com Developer/Admin /Lightning Sr.Salesforce.com <span class="hl">Developer</span>/Admin /Lightning Sr.Salesforce.com Developer/Admin /Lightning - Optum , Basin Ridge, NJ Denver, CO • Over 9+ years of IT experience and 7 years as a Certified Salesforce.com Platform Developer and excellent experience as Salesforce Admin as well.  • Extensive experience with the Salesforce.com development life cycle, application design patterns, integrationpatterns and deployment planning.  • Experienced working in Cross-functional teams, identifying business requirements and supporting sales/marketing efforts.  • Experience in SFDX implementing the APEX Classes, APEX Triggers, VisualForce pages, S - Controls, Force.com IDE, Eclipse with SOQL, SOSL and Plug-ins AppExchange test coverage.  • In-depth experience in CRM business processes like Forecasting, Campaign Management, Lead Management, Pipeline Management, Order Management, Account Management, and Case Management.  • Used Email to case, Web to Case features an d created a community where the customers can create, update and manage their cases.  • Proficient in dealing with functionalities related to sales cloud&service cloud, Marketing cloud, Community Cloud, Custom Cloud and Analytics Cloud.  • Experience with SFDC Service console, customer portal, case management, knowledge base, customer communities and service account management  • Experience working in Agile methodology, Scrum methodology, Waterfall model and Test driven development.  • Experience implementing Service Cloud which includes Omni-Channels, Routing Configurations, Entitlement Management, Knowledge Basics, Knowledge search Basics, Call center integration and Salesforce for Outlook.  • Created test scenarios on Sandbox and productionenvironment and migrated code to deployment upon successful testing.  • Created customized UI as per the client and application requirements using Visualforce.  • Review/Adjust/Write Apex and Visual Force page builds to ensure we keep code coverage at a high percentage as well as meet business needs.  • Expertise in creating different email templates and inbound emails using Visualforce for the clients and customers.  • Experience in data migration from ACT, Excel, MS outlook using Data Loader, Data Import Wizard, SFDC Data Export, MassDelete.  • Experience in Creating page layouts, search layouts to organize fields, custom links, related lists and other components on a record detail.  • Working with different aspects of Web Services (XML, WSDL, SOAP, REST).  • Expertise in customizing standard Objects like Accounts, Contacts, Opportunities, Products, Cases, Leads, Campaigns, Reports (Summary reports, tabular reports, Pie charts)and Dashboards and Report folders for different user profiles as per the requirements.  • Created lookup and master-detail relationships on the objects and created junction objects and various advanced fields like Pick-list, Field Dependencies, Custom Formula, Approval Process, Sharing rules for automatedalerts, field updates and Email generation.  • Implemented Security and Sharing rules at Object Field and Record levels for different users in the organization.  • Setting up Service Cloud Console, Cases (Web to case, Email to case), Solutions, Case Assignment  • Expertise in Lightning app builder (salesforce 1) and implemented new application based on Lightning to have compatibility of the app in mobile, Tab and Desktop versions.  • Developed Lightning Component Framework andbuilt Lightning component using aura framework.  • Knowledge on Salesforce Lightning Process Builder, Lightning UI/UX, app builder and creating Visual Workflows, salesforce support communities and Chatter groups.  • Built reusable UI/UX components with lightning component framework.  • Strong experience with source control tools Git, Bit bucket, Source tree, built salesforce code from the repository.  • Experienced in Object Oriented Analysis and Design and Object-Oriented Programming and Design Patterns under MVC (Model View Controller) Architecture.  • Capable of rapidly learning new technologies and processes, and successfully applying them to projects and operations.  • Excellent communication and inter- personal skills, accustomed to work in both large and small team environments. A team player with strong ethic, a positive attitude and ability to make the best use of individual resources. Work Experience Sr.Salesforce.com Developer/Admin /Lightning Optum , Basin Ridge, NJ April 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Extensively worked on Agile methodology and attended Daily status/standup meetings.  • Analyzed business needs, distinguish between needs and wants, identify gaps between business needs and standard application functionality, design and document solutions that fill the gaps.  • Created user Roles and Profiles and given them Security controls and shared settings.  • Maintaining profiles roles and Standard Objects like user Accounts, Contacts, Leads, Campaigns, Dashboards, Reports and Custom Objects.  • Also created Reports for custom financial data of current and potential portfolio.  • Authorized access to data, financial data and overall better customer security facilities.  • Developed various Custom Objects, Components, Controllers, Custom Reports, Custom Tabs, Labels, Visual force pages, Validation rules, Approval Processes and Auto-Response rules for automating business logic and Report folders for different users and profiles based on the requirement.  • Also created Reports for custom financial data of current and potential portfolio.  • Authorized access to data, financial data and overall better customer security facilities.  • Designed web pages in Visual force for capturing various customer's data.  • Developed User Interface using Apex controllers, Visual Force and Force.com IDE  • Created the Reports and Dashboards as per the business requirements.  • Migrated data from Excel and CSV files to SFDC using Data Loader and Data Import Wizard.  • Worked on Process Builder based on the requirements.  • Migrated the code/components from Sandbox to other Sandbox using Change set.  • Design Lightening Pages according to the business requirement.  • Design Custom buttons and Lightening Compact Layouts.  • Worked on the various Record types and Page layout customization.  • Developed various Custom-Lightening Components.  • Worked on Flows, Cases, Assignment and Escalation rules according to the work priority.  • Worked on web service integration with JSON and Rest API.  • Given SQA Support, Conducted Unit Test.  • Collaborated in Refinement Sessions with Business for Story point estimation and business logics to design data modal.  • Design Flow Diagrams.  • Experience implementing version control using Git  • Worked on documentation of each sprint deliverables.  • Collaborated on VSTS for task creation and Story assumptions.  Environment: Salesforce.com IDE, Service Cloud, Salesforce 1, Marketing Cloud, SOAP, SOQL and SOSL, Experience, Visual force, APEX Classes, APEX Triggers, Workflows, Reports and Dashboards, CSS, HTML, JSP, jQuery, JSON, Data loader, Aura, Lightening-Bundles, Lightening Controllers. Sr.Salesforce.com Developer/Admin Fannie Mae - Reston, VA February 2016 to March 2017 Responsibilities:  • Performed the role of Salesforce Developer in the Organization.  • Expertise in advanced APEX/Visualforce development, including high volume data processing, managed packages, community portals, SSO and metadata API.  • Designed and developed SFA based Application on Froce.com Platform in Salesforce.com environment with Apex programming language at backend and Visual Force pages as user interface  • Interacted with Various business user groups for gathering the requirements for Salesforce implementation and documented the Business and Software Requirements.  • Involved in implementation and Design of Cases and Issue with Order Management and Product Return module.  • Designed and developed SFA based Application on Force.com Platform in Salesforce.com environment with Apex programming language at backend and Visualforce pages as user Interface.  • Developed different Visual Force Pages to suit to the needs of the application using different Visual force components.  • Worked on salesforce standard objects (accounts, contacts, leads, opportunities).  • Created Custom objects, formula fields and design validation rules page layouts, workflow rules.  • Maintenance of CRM functionality implementing SFDC.  • Creating SFDC reports (functional and technical documents).  • Create profiles, roles and configure permissions according to organizational hierarchy requirement.  • Created Workflows for automated lead routing and lead escalation.  • Developed Apex classes and Triggers and linked them to manage the workflows.  • Used Organization security, Network security to ensure user could login only through office servers and Session security to ensure users have access only in their working hours.  • Used more than 55% of Apex for SFDX.  • Experience in deploying the AppExchange applications and integrating with third party applications  • Implemented Email-to-Case, Web-to-Case entry and manual case entry for entering customer's cases in Cases Tab.  • Configured the GitHub to maintain the different versions in common development environment.  • Worked on ETL tools to migrate the information from another database. Built APIs with Salesforce.com Apex SOAP/REST Services  • Good experience in Web Service- Synchronous & Asynchronous, web service factory, SOAP and REST  • Integrated applications with salesforce.com using SOAP web services API.  • Used Informatica Power Exchange for integrating the SFDC with legacy system.  • Implemented communities and built external pages.  • Involved in migrating data into Salesforce application using Apex Data Loader through CSV files. Installed and Configured Apex Data Loader.  • Deployed Change Sets from Sandbox to production.  • Very good experience of using Data loader and cleansing and de-duplicating Bulk loads.  • Deployed Apex using Force.com IDE, Force.com Migration tool and Web services API.  • Developed Visual Force pages which rendered based on salesforce1 app.  • Also embed Lightning Components in Visual force page by using new Lightning Out feature by event-driven programming.  • Responsible for setting up web service integrations.  • Expertise in aura framework, Lightning Components and Sales force Lightning Design System(SLDS).  • Created Aura based Components, Attributes, Controllers which can be compatible to access through Lightning App builder.  • Created Impressive designs with Custom styling to bring dynamic versions of the components when setting up in lightning App builder.  • Enhanced in Communities by adding new fields, field sets using Sales force lightning.  • Developed various Apex Classes, Triggers, Controller classes and methods for functional needs in the application compatible with lightning.  • Used the sandbox for testing and migrated the code to the deployment instance after testing.  • Created Salesforce 1 mobile apps using Angular JS, Bootstrap, Apex and Visual force.  • Create AppExchange test drive apps or components, create packages, upload packages, Adding Apex, VF to the Appexchange.  • Use App Cloud mobile to instantly deploy apps to users with Salesforce1. Build user friendly and native android IOS and windows app with the mobile SDK, design and run massively.  • Responsible for controlling security and sharing of sales reports and dashboards, providing regulated, auditable cross-sfunctional access for anyone in the organization via Cloud.  • Worked on Salesforce Community cloud like how to engage with employees, customers, partners.  • Implementation of Salesforce Service Cloud from Business case to operation.  • Worked on migrating components using Force.com Change sets, ANT from DEV to QA, UAT and production instances.  • Integration of Java platform with Salesforce.  • Performed the role of Business Analyst interacted with various business user groups for gathering the requirements for salesforce.com CRM implementation.  • Leading testing effort, test plans, and test data preparation for System Integration and UAT testing.  • Interacted with various business team members to gather and documents the requirement.  • Configured and used source control tool Git to maintain repositories for various releases.  • Used Force.com Eclipse IDE plugin to manage, author, debug and deploy Force.com applications in the Eclipse development environment.  • Created custom buttons and links on Account and Relationship Group object for generating auto Reports.  • Writing test classes and checking the code by having different profiles in these classes and making sure we are covering more than 75% lines of the apex classes before pushing them into the production  • Followed CI/CD process for deployments using Force.com Migration Tool and Snapshot  • Managed a team size of 5-10 Salesforce developers across different geographical locations. Lead the effort to implement JIRA as the primary application tool for tracking user stories and defects for our B2C Organization.  • Worked with 5-10 member QA team to complete functional and regression testing of various releases and projects As a senior technical resource on the team I work on interviewing both full time and contracting resources and on boarding them to the project team Mentored junior developers on the team to help them completed their assigned development tasks and also help them understand the big picture Manage team resources and project timelines between standard FOEX and project budgets Provide Salesforce best practices to implement a robust and scalable solutions.  • Worked with Waterfall, RUP and Agile methodologies. Provide strong technical and functional expertise to gather end to end business requirements and translates them to Salesforce technical functionalities.  • Work with our business teams to build custom consoles and Force.com Sites on the Force.com platform Lead the effort to introduce continuous integration (CI) on our Salesforce platform using Jenkins and Team Forge source Control repository.  Environment: Salesforce.com IDE, Service Cloud, Salesforce 1, Marketing Cloud, SOAP, SOQL and SOSL, Experience, Visual force, APEX Classes, APEX Triggers, Java 8, Workflows, Reports and Dashboards, CSS, HTML, JSP, JQuery, Data loader, data Import wizard, Sales Cloud, Service Cloud, Marketing Cloud, Migration Tool, ETL tools, Web services API, Windows 7, Validation Rules & Formulas, Migration tool, Email services, Security Controls, Sandbox, Production. Sr. Salesforce Apex/ Visual force Developer BCBS, MI September 2014 to January 2016 Responsibilities:  • Performed the role of Salesforce Developer in the Organization.  • Expertise in advanced APEX/Visualforce development, including high volume data processing, managed packages, community portals, SSO, Canvas applications and metadata API.  • Designed and developed SFA based Application on Froce.com Platform in Salesforce.com environment with Apex programming language at backend and Visual Force pages as user interface  • Involved in creating and customizing Email template and configuring them to the email alert within the workflow rule for a standard/custom object.  • Interacted with Various business user groups for gathering the requirements for Salesforce implementation and documented the Business and Software Requirements.  • Involved in implementation and Design of Cases and Issue with Order Management and Product Return module.  • Designed and developed SFA based Application on Force.com Platform in Salesforce.com environment with Apex programming language at backend and Visualforce pages as user Interface.  • Developed different Visual Force Pages to suit to the needs of the application using different Visual force components.  • Worked on salesforce standard objects (accounts, contacts, leads, opportunities).  • Created Custom objects, formula fields and design validation rules page layouts, workflow rules.  • Maintenance of CRM functionality implementing SFDC.  • Creating SFDC reports (functional and technical documents).  • Create profiles, roles and configure permissions according to organizational hierarchy requirement.  • Developed applications using Agile methodology.  • Created Workflows for automated lead routing and lead escalation.  • Developed Apex classes and Triggers and linked them to manage the workflows.  • Used Organization security, Network security to ensure user could login only through office servers and Session security to ensure users have access only in their working hours.  • Used more than 55% of Apex for development.  • Implemented Email-to-Case, Web-to-Case entry and manual case entry for entering customer's cases in Cases Tab.  • Used SOQL and SOSL for Data manipulation needs of the application using platform Database Objects  • Integrated Salesforce.com with external systems like Oracle and SAP using SOAP API and REST API.  • Integrated applications with salesforce.com using SOAP web services API.Used Informatica Power Exchange for integrating the SFDC with legacy system.  • Implemented communities and built external pages.  • Involved in migrating data into Salesforce application using Apex Data Loader through CSV files. Installed and Configured Apex Data Loader.  • Deployed Change Sets from Sandbox to production.  • Very good experience of using Data loader and cleansing and de-duplicating Bulk loads.  • Deployed Apex using Force.com IDE, Force.com Migration tool and Web services API.  • Developed Visual Force pages which rendered based on salesforce1 app.  • Developed custom UI suing CSS, HTML, Visualforce components and used jQuery, JavaScript for front-end validation.  • Designed salesforce service cloud console to enhance productivity with dashboard like interface.  • Planned community rollout framework as four steps -cyclic process (Establish, Manage, Engage and measure)  • Responsible for writing SOQL and SOSL queries.  • Used Sandbox for testing. created, managed packages and migrated them between Sandboxes and Production environments for final implementation  Environment: Salesforce.com IDE, Service Cloud, Salesforce 1, Marketing Cloud, SOAP, SOQL and SOSL, Experience, Visual force, APEX Classes, APEX Triggers, CUJs, Workflows, Reports and Dashboards, CSS, HTML, JSP, jQuery, Data loader, data Import wizard, Sales Cloud, Service Cloud, Marketing Cloud, Migration Tool, Web services API, Windows 7, Validation Rules & Formulas, Migration tool, Email services, Security Controls, Sandbox, Production. Salesforce.com Developer/Admin Capital One - Falls Church, VA April 2013 to August 2014 Responsibilities:  • Extensively worked on Agile methodology and attended Daily status/standup meetings.  • Analyzed business needs, distinguish between needs and wants, identify gaps between business needs and standard application functionality, design and document solutions that fill the gaps.  • Reviews and streamlined existing CRM to endure accurate adoption metrics reporting. Deactivating users to release licenses.  • Created user Roles and Profiles and given them Security controls and shared settings.  • Maintaining profiles roles and Standard Objects like user Accounts, Contacts, Leads, Campaigns, Dashboards, Reports.  • Also created Reports for custom financial data of current and potential portfolio.  • Authorized access to data, financial data and overall better customer security facilities.  • Developed various Custom Objects, Components, Controllers, Custom Reports, Custom Tabs, Labels, Visual force pages, Validation rules, Approval Processes and Auto-Response rules for automating business logic and Report folders for different users and profiles based on the requirement.  • Also created Reports for custom financial data of current and potential portfolio.  • Authorized access to data, financial data and overall better customer security facilities.  • Developed customer management app for the customer services team to track client databases and financial transactions by collecting requirement for the application of the Salesforce CRM with the Customer Portal.  • Worked at the client site with the customer and manager the project from end-to-end.  • Written Triggers an order to process incoming service e-mail requests from customers to automatically create new case records.  • Created various Reports (Summary reports, Matrix reports, Pie charts, dashboards and graphics) and Report Folders to assist managers to better utilize Salesforce as sales tool and configured various reports and door different user profiles based on the need in the organization.  • Created workflow rules and defined related tasks, time-triggered tasks, email alerts and field updates to implement business logic.  • Performed administrative tasks like Data management, User management (Creating and managing roles, profiles and users).  • Migrated financial transactions using Data loader tools that enabled ease of account reconciliation of various journal accounts.  • Integrated Salesforce.com with an external application using SOAP, REST based web services.  • Worked on Customizing service console.  • Used REST API for implementing Web Service Definition Language(WSDL) in the application for access to data from external systems and web sites.  • Used SOQL and SOSL for data manipulation.  • Designed web pages in Visualforce for capturing various customer's data.  • Developed User Interface using Apex controllers, Visual Force and Force.com IDE  • Created the Reports and Dashboards as per the business requirements.  • Migrated data from Excel and CSV files to SFDC using Data Loader and Data Import Wizard.  • Maintained Sandbox Environment for QA Activities.  • Worked on Process Builder based on the requirements.  • Migrated the code/components from Sandbox to other Sandbox using Change set.  • Experience with Salesforce Service cloud implementation and Sales cloud.  • Co-ordinate with the test team and provide the application flow demo before the test team starts Testing.  • Developed a SOAPUI based framework to enable testing of legacy SOAP/REST API implementations and Salesforce Service cloud integration with CI/CD Automation.  Environment: Salesforce.com platform, Force.com IDE, Apex classes, Triggers, Visualforce (Pages, Components & Controllers), UAT Server, QA Server, SOSL and SOQL, HTML, CSS, Salesforce.com Developer & Administrator All State Life Insurance - Northbrook, IL December 2012 to March 2013 Responsibilities:  • Performed the roles of Salesforce.com Administrator and Developer in the organization.  • Developed various Custom Objects, Tabs, Visualforce Pages and Controllers.  • Administered, configured, maintained Salesforce.com application user profiles, roles, assigning Permissions, generating security tokens, Validation Rule, upgrade installation.  • Created and deployed Several Reports using salesforce.com platform.  • Developed APEX Classes, Controller Classes and APEX Triggers for various functional needs in the application.  • Developed and deployed workflows and approval processes for opportunities and products/ assets management.  • Involved in Salesforce.com application setup activities and customized the apps to match the functional needs of the organization.  • Created various Reports (summary reports, matrix reports, pie charts, dashboards and graphics) and Report Folders to assist managers to better utilize Salesforce as a sales tool and configured various Reports for different user profiles based on the organization's need.  • Implemented the requirements on Salesforce.com platform and Force.comIDE Plug-in using Eclipse.  • Assigned workflows for Lead conversion, transfers, merging duplicates, managing web-to-lead to track responses to online campaigns.  • Involved in Datamappingspecifications to create and execute detailed system test plans. The data mapping specifies what data will be extracted from an internal data warehouse, transformed and sent to an external entity.  • Developed VF components in mobile apps.  • Created and used Email templates in HTML and Visualforce.  • Used the sandbox for testing and migrated the code to the deployment instance after testing.  • Conducted Administrative duties which included working with c-level executives, system administrators, and end users to gather their business requirements, then develop customized solutions to meet their needs.  Environment: Salesforce.com IDE, Service Cloud, Salesforce 1, Marketing Cloud, SOAP, SOQL and SOSL, Experience, Visual force, APEX Classes, APEX Triggers, CUJs, Workflows, Reports and Dashboards, CSS, HTML, JSP, jQuery, Data loader, data Import wizard, Sales Cloud, Service Cloud, Marketing Cloud, Migration Tool, Apptus, Web services API, Windows 7, Validation Rules & Formulas, Migration tool, Email services, Security Controls, Sandbox, Production Salesforce.com Developer & Administrator Tech-Mind Solutions - Bengaluru, Karnataka November 2010 to September 2012 Responsibilities:  • Involved in Salesforce.com Application Setup activities and customized the apps to match the functional needs of the organization  • Implemented the requirements on Salesforce.com platform and Force.com IDE Plug-in using Eclipse.  • Interacted with the Salesforce.com tech support team on a regular basis.  • Interacted with various business user groups for gathering the requirements for salesforce.com CRM implementation.  • Worked with various salesforce.com objects like Accounts, Contacts, Leads, Campaigns, Reports, and Dashboards  • Intensely worked with Apex, S-Controls, Triggers, API integration.  • Developed various Custom Objects, Tabs, Components and Visual Force Pages.  • Performed the role of Developer and Administrator for Salesforce  • Interacted with the stakeholders of the CRM application (like, teachers, students and administrators) and gathered their requirements discussed with them and free-zed the requirements.  • Designed, Implemented and deployed Custom objects, Page layouts, Custom tabs, Components, and S-controls to suit to application needs  • Managed and implemented creating workflow triggers, workflow alerts, updated emails and responses.  • Performed web integration SFDC to create Web-to-leads and Web-to-case.  • Bridged the communication gap between students, teachers and administrators using CRM customizations.  • Developed Visual Pages to include extra functionality and wrote Apex Classes to provide functionality to the visual pages.  • Customized the Dashboards to track the usage for productivity and performance of business centers and their sales teams.  • Designed implemented and developed the Custom Objects, Page Layouts, Custom Tabs, Components and S Control to suit the need of the Application.  • Created various profiles and configured the permissions based on the organizational hierarchy requirements of Intergraph.  • Customized tabs for among different business users groups and business centers.  • Created the workflow for the automated lead routing, lead escalation and alerts.  Environment: Salesforce.com Platform, Apex Language, Visual Force Pages, Data Loader, HTML, Java Script, S-Controls, Workflow & Approvals, Reports, Custom Objects, Custom Tabs, Email Services, Security Controls, Sandbox data loading, Eclipse IDE Plug-in, Windows XP. Java/J2EE Developer CS Soft tech Pvt ltd July 2008 to October 2010 Responsibilities:  • Developed modules in Java and integrated with MySQL database.  • Responsible for coding using Java Servlets, Java Beans and XML.  • Worked with OOPS concepts such as Inheritance, Encapsulation, Abstraction and Polymorphism.  • Expertise in performing operations such as Collections, Exception Handling and Multithreading.  • Developed web applications using Spring MVC framework.  • Setup the class path for the Java JDK and managed the JVM ( Java Virtual Machine) settings.  • Involved in Analysis, Design and Development of different phases of Process Flow module.  • Designed Graphical User Interfaces using JSP's.  • Worked on various design patterns UML and Enterprise Application Integration.  • Implemented Action class and Action Forms using struts  • Worked on the design of the entire end-to end architecture for the Classification Web Application.  • Added Dynamic functionality to the user interface using Java Script.  • Implementation of components and wireframes using cross-browser compatible JavaScript, jQuery and AJAX.  • Experience in Programming with SQL, PL/SQL.  • Used JDBC for administering and managing users and clients.  • Implemented XSLT transformation for converting XML to HTML.  • Implemented database tables, middleware designing, client-side web programming and server-side java programming.  • Followed Scrum Agile methodology for the iterative development of the application.  • Scripting of Test cases base on the specifications received for the request.  • Utilized various Testing methodologies for testing application on various levels like system testing and integration.    Environment: Java 1.3, Java Script, Java Beans, Java Servlets, jQuery, Apache Tomcat, Eclipse, AJAX, Windows, PL/SQL, JDBC, XML, CSS, HTML. Education Bachelor's Skills HTML (9 years), INTEGRATION (8 years), INTEGRATOR (8 years), CSS (8 years), USER INTERFACE (7 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Salesforce.com  Apex Language, Apex Triggers, Apex Unit Tests, Visual force, Salesforce Object Query Language(SOQL), SOSL, Reports and Dashboards, Data Management, Data Security, Data Modelling, UI Customization, Web Services, AJAX, workflow & Approvals, Dashboards, Custom objects.    Tools  Salesforce IDE, Salesforce Explorer, Eclipse, Data Loader. IO,  Data Import Wizard, Workbench, Sandbox and Production, Sand box testing, Salesforce.com Communities, Salesforce Lightning Design System (SLDS), Case Management, Marketing cloud, Sales Cloud, Service Cloud, Community Cloud, Data Export, Mass Delete, ETL etc.    VisualForce:  Standard Component Library, Custom components, Visualforce Remoting, VisualForce Remote Objects, AJAX capabilities, VisualForce templates, Standard controllers/controller extensions    Languages Apex Language, JAVA 8, C, Unix-shell scripting, SOQL, SOSL  APEX  Async Apex (batch jobs, future calls, schedulers), Dynamic Apex, SOQL/SOSL/DML operation, SOQL query optimizations, Custom SOAP/REST services, Integration with external SOAP/REST services, Security and Sharing model in Apex, Apex triggers, Distributing Apex in managed Packages.    Web Technologies HTML, XML, CSS, PHP, JavaScript, Angular JS, JQuery, JSON, Bootstrap.  Web Design Tools  Code Smith, Visual Studio, Dream weaver, Tortoise SVN, SQL Query Analyzer, Adobe Photoshop, Adobe Acrobat Pro, Adobe Flex Builder, MS Office, Outlook, Word, Excel, Power point, Access, OneNote.    Mobile Salesforce 1, Salesforce iOS SDK, Salesforce Mobile templates.  Databases MS SQL Server, PL/SQL.  IDE-s: Salesforce IDE, Eclipse IDE, SQL Developer, Visual studio, putty  Packages MS-Office, Project, SharePoint, Excel    Operating Systems Windows 2000/2003/XP/Pro/Vista/7/8.1/10, Linux, Mac OS.