Job Seeker Work Experience ADP September 2018 to Present Role(s) Played: Enterprise Architect ADP September 2018 to Present Projects:  ? Wage Garnishments  ? Compliance Solutions Products External Reviews.    Key Responsibilities:  ? Involving in new initiatives & POCs of multiple products of compliance solutions from Architects pool.    Believes in Hard Work and Proven in Good Work.  ? Studying the entire "Point in time" architecture and coming up with improvement areas and automate  processes.  ? Working with engineering teams and other architects to implement machine learning algorithms to automate  few processes and avoid manual intervention.  ? Suggesting new technologies and tools for Operation users productivity improvement.  ? Drawing external view for multiple products to understand integration view and come up with consolidated  architecture to stream line process and improvise the client onboarding process and ROI. Portfolio Architect July 2016 to July 2018 Tata Consultancy Services December 2002 to August 2017 15 Years 8 months  Role(s) Played: Sr Solution/Tech Architect Tata Consultancy Services January 2013 to June 2016 Application Architect Tata Consultancy Services January 2010 to December 2012 Sr Tech Lead Tata Consultancy Services April 2008 to December 2009 Tech Lead Tata Consultancy Services June 2004 to March 2008 Production support Lead Tata Consultancy Services June 2003 to May 2004 Key Assignments/Projects:  ? Business Middleware (Customer: JPMC)  ? GCPT-Viper (vNG) program (Customer: AMEX)  ? GCPT- My Setups (MYSU) (Customer: AMEX)  ? GCPT GCRR (Customer: AMEX)  ? GCPT APIfication (Customer: AMEX)  ? Manage Your Card Account (Customer: AMEX)  ? CS Gateway (Customer: AMEX)  ? Production Support of Key applications. (Customer: AMEX)    Key Responsibilities:  ? Drove architectural decisions, designed new changes for all applications within portfolio.    ? Worked with different Agile train PMs, business, Tech leads from different applications to align on business requirements.    ? Prioritized business features/user stories based on road map and aligning with individual application  tech teams and designing application changes.    ? Played end to end Tech/Solution Architect role to design/ build the multiple enhancements to the application (US) and to built new instance of the application for all international markets (Currently  serving 14+ markets).    ? Developed different proto types with different approaches and worked with Amex architecture teams to figure out best solutions.    ? Developed required all frame work/utility classes and add all required abstraction layers in the code to reduce coding effort and to easily switch to diff frameworks.    ? Provided multiple unsolicited proposals to improve the application performance, to switch to different  frameworks and to decommission unnecessary code/components and implement them in the project with Amex approval.    Believes in Hard Work and Proven in Good Work.  ? Worked with different E2E teams, tech teams, vendor teams, architects, business teams to execute the projects.    ? Designed complete application including screens, frameworks, and components as application  architect from Amex side to develop international My Setups application.    ? Actively participated in Pegasus initiative since 2009 from PDP onwards, work with PFAs, conceptual  design team and various tech teams to define conceptual design/BAITS and to define different  applications role.    ? Daily status calls with offshore team to discuss various projects status/issues/concerns.    ? Estimated sizing for small projects to multi-year projects to submit to business. Involved in Weblogic to Websphere Tech refresh initiative.    ? Involved in code migration and infrastructure setup.    ? Automated Environment setup activity by writing Jython scripts for WAS env setup.    ? Took the application as Tech lead in 2008 and executed more than 150+ different projects without slippage to time lines/cost.    ? Completed AIU (Application Infrastructure Uplift) uplift of the existing WAS3.5 application to LWJ.  Completely analyzed existing application and prepared system documentation/requirement matrix.    ? Provided unsolicited Proposals to improve the application performance, to switch to different  frameworks and to decommission unnecessary code/components and implement them in the project with Amex approval. EzCommerce April 2001 to November 2002 1 Year 8 months  Role(s) Played: Java Developer EzCommerce April 2001 to November 2002 Key Assignments/Projects:  ? EzDefect Tracking System ; Ez Workbench ; Ez Workflow ;Asset Management  System ; Lead Management System ; Resume Management System    Key Responsibilities:  ? Played key member role in development of above mentioned projects.  ? Involved in mock ups creation for customer demo.  ? Involved in Test cases development.  Believes in Hard Work and Proven in Good Work. Education Electronics Osmania University 1998