J2EE Developer J2EE <span class="hl">Developer</span> J2EE Developer - Newfield Bank • Around 4 years of experience in the Software Development Life Cycle including analysis, design, development, implementation, testing, maintenance and documentation.  • Experienced in Analysis, Design, Development, Integration, Deployment and Maintenance of Web services, Client Server and Web based applications using Java SE 8, J2EE/ Java, JSP, JavaScript, Servlets, JNDI, JDBC, JAXP, EJB, XML, XSL, and XSLT.  • Experience in integrating the internal security model into new projects with Spring Batch, Spring Microservices and Spring Boot.  • Knowledge in implementing a REST API/Microservice using Spring Boot.  • Good understating on using OAuth security framework.  • Extensive knowledge in using Spring-Data, Spring JDBC.  • Experience in integrating Microservices Architecture with Spring Boot and Docker.  • Experience using persistence framework like Hibernate/JPA for mapping Java classes with database and using Hibernate Query Language (HQL).  • Handled all the port mapping/binding things that happen with Dockers and Containers.  • Diverse experience utilizing tools in N-tier and Microservices architecture applications using Spring Boot, Spring Cloud config, Netflix OSS components(Eureka, Hystrix), Pivotal Cloud Foundry, AWS, Rabbitmq, Kafka, Zookeeper, My SQL, Restful Web Services.  • Worked under new technologies introduced in java8 like Functional interfaces and Lambda Expressions.  • Expertise in Application development using various frameworks such as Spring Framework 3.x, 4.x.  • Good knowledge in CI/CD tools like Jenkins.  • Experience working with different SDLC methodologies like Agile (SCRUM).  • Experience in using NodeJS and Express for making calls (GET, POST, PUT, DELETE) for triggering or fetching data from Restful API's provided by the backend team.  • Expertise in Object Oriented Analysis, Design / Development Methodologies, Use Cases, Sequence and Class Diagrams using UML.  • Hands-on experience on developing AWS cloud formation templates and setting up Auto scaling for EC2 instances.  • Experience with unit testing using JUnit and web services testing Soap UI, REST Client (POSTMAN).  • Experienced with IBM WebSphere Application Server, JBOSS application servers and Apache Tomcat Application Server.  • Experience with IDEs like Eclipse, NetBeans, Microsoft Visual Studio, Intellij.  • Expertise in writing APIS's using Spring Data/JDBC by accessing Oracle, MySQL, PostgreSQL databases.  • Experienced in implementing full life cycle of software development process (SDLC).  • Used version controller tool like GIT, SVN and CVS.  • Excellent analytical, logical and programming skills, Self Motivated, Self-Starter, Team Player can work with minimal supervision with effective Communication skills and Organizational skills combined with attention and Time management skills. Work Experience J2EE Developer Newfield Bank - Franklinville, NJ April 2018 to Present Franklinville, NJ Apr 2018 - Till Date  The bank needed to revamp its transactional processing infrastructure and system features that supported the Online Banking feature. This included re-developing the entire online business solution with more comprehensively defined business and user requirements.  Role: J2EE Developer  Responsibilities:  • Developed applications following 12 factor principles and implemented design patterns.  • Following Agile Methodology and interact with various stake holders in gathering requirements and business artifacts in the areas of gathering, design, coding and documentation.  • Collaborate with the team to design and launch new features.  • Involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) of the application like Requirement gathering, Design, Analysis and Code development.  • Developed Microservice to provide Restful API utilizing Spring Boot with various data persistence frameworks such Hibernate, JPA and messaging engines.  • Integration with Spring security in web application.  • Developed the applications using Java, JSP, JDBC, WebServices, spring, HTML5, and JavaScript etc.  • Developed application using Spring MVC, JSP, JSTL and AJAX on the presentation layer, the business layer is built using spring and the persistent layer uses Hibernate.  • Implemented business layer using spring core and configured spring dependency injection, enabling all business components loosely coupled between layers.  • Developed web components using MVC pattern under Spring framework.  • Developed Web Services using XML messages that use SOAP. Developed Web Services for Payment Transaction and Payment Release.  • Involved in designing and developing the front end of the application using JSP, Java script, AJAX, HTML5, DHTML, CSS3.  • Implemented and tested the enterprise application with jQuery and Spring MVC.  • Implemented a Microservices using a Microservices architecture with Spring Boot based services.  • Created and Implemented Micro Services using spring boot, REST, JSON.  • Used Java Mailing or Messaging Service (JMS) API's for mailing detailed notifications depending upon the success and failure once the backend process is complete and also for mailing administrator of any system related problems.  • Used Modules and Controller in the JS files as part of the constructors.  • Used NodeJS to sign up for lightweight web server to hos application locally.  • Involved in Unit testing of application using JUnit and built the package using Maven and deployed the application on to WebLogic App Server.  • Used Jenkins for CI/CD Continuous Implementation and Continuous Delivery.  • Apache Maven tool has been used for the build and deploy the application. Monitored the Error logs using Log4J and fixed the problems.  • Followed Agile/SCRUM software development methodologies.  • Extensively used Oracle SQL Developer graphical tool for the enhancement and simplification of Database Development task.  • Performed a thorough unit testing and resolved several data related issues before migration to production.  Environment: J2EE, Spring, Hibernate, JSP, MVC, HTML5, CSS3, Spring Boot, JavaScript, Maven, AJAX, JDBC, JSTL, JMS, XML, SOAP, WebLogic, agile, SQL and Windows. J2EE Developer Kate Spade - New York, NY January 2017 to March 2018 NYC, NY Jan 2017 - Mar 2018  This project was an Ecommerce web based application which allowed the customer to get a view of all the products in the store and buy them online. The application mainly dealt with the online payment and billings. It provides a search feature which uses Regular Expression or pattern matching with a user interface called Search box through which consumers can access and view latest and top selling products/offers. It uses Secure Good payment Gateway solution for customer to make a payment.  Role: J2EE Developer  Responsibilities:  • Worked on the development and testing of the infotainment module using Agile (SCRUM) methodologies.  • Used Java 8 features like lambda expressions for communicating between business layer and database, stream API for Bulk Data Operations on Collections using both streams and parallel streams.  • Worked on requirement gathering and providing use cases for business, functional & technical requirements.  • Developed the hotel management system aimed to manage the services of guests from arrival to departure in the hotel.  • System was developed using Java/J2EE technology working closely with the core team and a scrum master.  • Used Spring core annotations for Dependency Injection Spring DI and Spring MVC for REST API's and Spring Boot for micro-services.  • Used Spring framework to achieve loose coupling between the layers thus moving towards Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) exposed through Restful Services.  • Designed and developed various modules of the application with Spring MVC architecture and Spring Bean Factory using IOC, AOP concepts.  • Participated in requirement gathering and framework implementation sessions through Agile TDD methodology.  • Developed and delivered SOAP based Web Services and used Apache-CXF and SOAP UI to test the services  • Involved in creating and Deployment of REST API and MicroServices in Java J2EEE using Spring Boot.  • Implementation of authentication for Restful web services using Spring Boot Security Starter.  • Developing the application for incident creation and retrieving the events using restful web services with spring Boot.  • Worked extensively on spring boot for building web service.  • Analyzed the Node.JS server structure in legacy project, then mimicked the REST service by using java JAX-WS API and did the corresponding configurations.  • Maintained source code in GIT Repository.  • Implemented RESTful Web services in Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) to retrieve data from client side and made REST API calls from AngularJS and parsed the data to client and handled the security and Authorization using Spring Security and OAuth authentication protocol respectively.  • Utilized Node.js to create a fast and efficient chat server.  • Developed strategies and supported tools to create an efficient integration and release process using Jenkins.  • Responsible for the overall layout design that meet cross-device compatibility using Bootstrap, color scheme of the web site using HTML5, and CSS3 and Responsible for creating detailed wire frames and process flows.  • Developed a Micro-service architecture using Spring-Boot frame structure and used Rest API based HTTP gateway to communicate between services.  • Worked concurrently with QA team to understand and fix the bugs through a trouble ticket system.  Environment: Java 8, Spring Boot, Microservices, Node JS, Ajax, Git, Jenkins, Web Services, SoapUI, JSON, Log 4j, Agile, Windows. Java Developer SoftVan - Ahmedabad, Gujarat September 2015 to December 2016 Responsibilities:  • Involved in Analysis, Design, and Implementation of software applications using Java, J2EE, XML and XSLT and WebServices (SOAP, WSDL).  • Developed Façade classes to encapsulate the business logic and hide the implementation details of the data access classes and EJBs.  • Involved in Java Multithreading to cascade multiple changes on multiple records in only one transaction and developed a batch process framework.  • Involved in creating and Deployment of REST API and Micro Services in Java J2EEE using Spring Boot.  • Integrated Spring DAO for data access using Hibernate, used HQL and SQL for querying databases.  • Developed User Interface having animations and effects using JSF, JavaScript and HTML.  • Developed Core Java classes and methods for handling data from databases.  • Developed the presentation layer using JSP, HTML and client side validations using JavaScript.  • Apache Camel is used for routing.  • Used Hibernate to store the persistence data into the Oracle database and wrote HQL to access the data from the database.  • Involved in coding, code reviews, Junit testing, Prepared and executed Unit Test Cases.  • Used Log4j for External Configuration Files and debugging.  • Designed various tables required for the project in Oracle 11g database and used the Stored Procedures in the application.  Environment: J2EE, JSP, Java, spring, Servlets, JMS, Hibernate, MVC, DAO, Spring Boot, Eclipse, HTML, DHTML, CSS, AJAX, XML, Junit, EJB, Jboss, Multi Threading, WebLogic, SOAP, GIT, SQL, Oracle and Windows. Additional Information Technical Skills:  J2EE Technologies Core Java, J2EE, Servlets, JSP, JDBC, EJB, JMS, Web Services  Servers Tomcat, WebLogic, WebSphere, JBOSS  Databases SQL Server, Oracle, MySQL, Cassandra  J2EE Frameworks MVC Architecture, Spring Framework, Jakarta Struts, GWT (Google web Toolkit), Hibernate, Apache Axis  Versioning Tools GIT, SVN  Scripts Java Script,  Markup Language XML, XSLT, HTML  Tools Git, Eclipse IDE, Net Beans  Design Tools Rational Rose, Visual Paradigm  J2EE Pattern Singleton, Value List Handler, Service Locator, Factory Pattern, Front Controller, Data Access Object  Operating System Windows Variants, UNIX, Linux