Senior Associate Full Stack Java developer Senior Associate Full Stack <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">developer</span> Senior Associate Full Stack Java developer - Cognizant - J P Morgan Glen Rock, NJ ? Team lead/Senior Full Stack Java/Web developer with expertise in running scrums and agile sprint planning using Jira, requirement analysis, architecture, design and development of client facing Java/web based applications.  ? Involved in Full Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) Developing Web Applications using agile methodologies.  ? Used Web Technologies such as HTML, CSS, Angular JS, Angular Material, gulp, nodeJS, Ajax, JQuery and Bootstrap for building Webpages.  ? Developed application on Spring Boot, and spring framework by utilizing its features like Spring Dependency injection, Spring Security, Spring Web flow with Spring MVC.  ? Extensively used Hibernate in Data access layer to access and update information on database.  ? Implemented SOAP as well as RESTful web services using WSDL, SOAP, JAX-WS, JAX- RS, SOAP UI  and JERSEY.  Worked on Hikari JDBC, Mybatis, JPA, Oracle, Mysql DB.  ? Designed and developed Class diagrams and sequence diagrams.  ? Developed JUnit test cases for Persistence layer and Business layer to perform the unit level testing.  ? Continuous integration using Bamboo and teamcity. Work Experience Senior Associate Full Stack Java developer Cognizant - J P Morgan - Jersey City, NJ December 2017 to Present GTI - Verum SOR  Verum is authoritative source for technology infrastructure and referential data. The application aligns to reference data management practices and guidelines. Data is accessed via Rest API and user Interface.  ? Implemented spring boot web services for verum sor API for getting SOR object data and create/update SOR object data.  ? Worked on integrating smart approvals for creating and updating SOR objects.  ? Worked on creating scopes and entitlements for admin module.  ? Implemented token based authentication.  ? Worked on defects fixing and production issues.    Wealth and asset management.  Global Collateral management provides the platform for financial clients for margin calls. Financial clients account details are maintained and they can create arrangements using accounts, positions, facilities, Miscellaneous collateral/Tradable and additional exposure. GCM system provides the platform used for margin calls.  ? Implemented create arrangement REST web service for multi-client arrangements. Worked on spring boot application. Implemented DAO and mappers using Mybatis. Worked on Oracle store procs.  ? Implemented cross pledge functionality.  ? UI development using ReactJS, redux,  ? Worked on Pentaho transformation jobs to load data in oracle DB.  ? Worked on code coverage for java classes and sonar fixes. Software Development Engineer III (Team Lead) WEXINC ? South Portland, MA October 2012 to November 2017 Full Stack Java/Web developer.  WEXInc. Provides payment processing and IT Management reporting services to the United States commercial and government vehicle fleet industry. WEX Fleet provides vehicle fleet customers with fuel cards and data and telematics offerings for drivers. WEX works with online travel agencies to facilitate cross-border payments through virtual cards, allowing online travel agencies to automate back-end accounting practices.  Software Development Engineer III (Team Lead) Developed an interface for corporate clients to automate the creation of companies and inventories.  ? Corporate clients can view virtual cards, transactions and authorization data, manage payables and accounts, view corporate and individual account credit limits and balance. Clients can add notifications; manage Bins, and card image sets. User is authentication is done using single sign on. Process synchronizes data with TSYS external system.  ? Sprint lead for Bin Management, Card Image management, Defect management and Global credit management. Analysis of business requirements for Bin, Card Image Management, Multiple addresses, Global Credit Management feature.  ? Created and assigned task in Jira to the Team. Worked on prioritizing task with product team.  ? Created reusable components in AngularJS based on the project need using Custom Directives Filters, Services and Factories. Worked with AngularJS routers like UI router to establish routing between Nested html views. Spring Framework's IOC Dependency Injection. Extensively worked on Spring Bean and Spring IOC.  ? Designed and Implemented SOAP and RESTful web services, WSDL, SOAP, JAX-WS, JAX- RS, SOAP UI and JERSEY.  ? Developed POJO's, Data Access Object (DAO) which handles all database operations using HQL & Hibernate named queries  ? Design and implemented the GCM process. Built multithreaded components using Java Concurrency.  ? Development of Authorization & Authentication using OAAM/OIM Oracle, and Single sign on.  ? Developed Junit/Mockito for Unit testing of Java code and Jasmin for angularJS components unit testing. Wells Fargo April 2007 to October 2012 - Mobile Banking Application Client  ? Mobile banking platform can be accessed via: Desktop browsers, Mobile phone via browser, Downloaded app SMS banking. Wells Fargo customers can enroll for mobile Banking. And perform transfer, Payments and check Account Activities using mobile. It provides Mobile Remote Deposit Capture feature with which  ? Customer can also deposit cheque using mobile. It has main modules like Single Sign on, Sign on, Enrollment, Accounts, Bill Pay, transfers, Preferences and Text Banking.  ? Analysis and study of business requirements of BEV MQ feature.  ? Responsible for development of web based mobile application using JSP, Jquery, Ajax and Apache Beehive and Spring framework.  ? Responsible for development of web application to support basic and smart phone. Test using browser agents.  ? Estimations, Planning, Design and Development of BEV MQ, Accounts, Bill Pay feature.  ? Involved in bug fixing and production tickets fixing. Unit testing using TestNG framework, Integration and System Testing.  ? Implemented AJAX to speed up web application. used JQuery extensively for DOM manipulation and cross browser compatibility.  ? Quality and Process - SCM coordinator, HMP Coordinator, Submit Planned task for all resources.    Credit Suisse - Corba service - Real-time and delayed data Quotes for Research data  This application is a Corba service, which provides real-time and delayed data (Quotes) for Research data. It has components including Search service, Quote service, Research service, Integrated Service, Watch service and some internal components like Load adapter and DBLoader, This application provides data based on user and roles. FIS (Financial Info Server) is a system that provides master data and quote for various instruments. Quote Service is one such module, which is a CORBA Server and provides a set of CORBA services. Quote Service provides market information of a number of instruments and takes into consideration a wide range of combinations of time units for one or a list of instruments. It provides Intraday as well as Historical quote data for multiple instruments. It also provides contents from the Reuter's chain. The Search Service is a client / server model service of the FIS data provided by the search service is fetched from a search database.  ? Analysis and study of business requirements of Watch and Research service.  ? Responsible to develop CORBA services. Performance tuning using multi-threading. Responsible to develop wrapper and internal services using Credit Suisse JAP framework.  ? Responsible to generate watch service usage statistics report in pdf format using itext API.  ? Involved in coding of modules like Research service, quote service, Watch Service Functional and Requirement study of existing system Unit testing.  ? Involved in bug fixing. Integration and System Testing. SCM Coordinator for Audits. System analyst - MoneyMaximizer - CAI / TRD - Trading Research and Design N.S.E.I.T - Mumbai, Maharashtra August 2006 to April 2007 Real time system and used by traders, fund managers, etc.  Online Trading System for Instruments such as Equity, Equity Options, Futures, Futures Options, Mutual Funds, Bonds, Forex (Interbank Spot and Forward), Portfolio Management System Risk Tracking System (Risk parameters displayed on "Risk Monitor") Stop Loss Orders sending BI / Alerts Notification System .The Traders (Professional Users) trade on various Instrument- specific accounts associated with different portfolios. They can request current price of any Symbol to Reuters Online Feed. The FIX complaint trade messages are sent to the Brokers and responses (Execution Reports) are  displayed to the users. The user can size an account, Trade on Symbols.  ? Analysis and study of business requirements, Responsible for Development and Unit testing.  ? Involved in CMM process like Defect prevention process representative.  ? Requirement Study of existing system. Involved in bug fixing. Unit testing,  ? Integration and System Testing. Software analyst Pay-station Talentbeat - Pune, Maharashtra June 2005 to July 2006 Calling card module contains contractual information as to using postpaid Or prepaid long distance services from the calling card provider. There are two ways to purchase card a) Web purchase. b) Terminal purchase (POS). Customer can pay all bills online. Also customer can pay bills to nearest retailer. For this retailer  has to sign up through Paystation. Introlink - e-commerce based web site. It enables any. Individual organization to trade worldwide the four major applications offered by Introlink are Pay center. Business center, I-shop, Help center Introlink enables you to receive and send money instantly & securely via MobileLime -It enables customers to Pay, using their Cell phone. Prospect System is a subsystem of Mobilelime, which enables you become MobileLime member MobileLime is a free service that turns the cell phone. Education BACHELOR OF ENGINEERING in Information Technology D.Y.Patil College, Pune University - Pune, Maharashtra Skills Java