Senior Software Architect/ Product Owner Senior Software Architect/ Product Owner Senior Software Architect/ Product Owner - Clutch Analytics Las Vegas, NV Work Experience Senior Software Architect/ Product Owner Clutch Analytics March 2015 to Present Passionately built, alongside Clutch's CTO, this fledgling software company starting with 4 employees, and growing to over 40 employees. Architected the foundation stone of technology to be "best in class."    Senior Software Architect and Direct Manager for API Services, ETL, Mobile, and QA development  teams. Supervised and coordinated day to day Developer activities, along with long term planning and objectives. Successfully delivered software solutions to partners; set goals, expectations and mediated  problem resolutions.    Micro-Service Architect: Node.js, MongoDB, Docker, Nginx, HTML5, CSS3, Jquery, Javascript, MEAN  stack, Express, Angular.js, React.js, Redis, Socket.io.    DevOps: Docker, Ansible, Ubuntu, Git, AWS ECS, DigitalOcean multi-environment configuration, integration, and deployment 100% Open Stack.    Austin TX, Las Vegas NV Software Architect BizRez.com January 2012 to March 2015 Independent Contractor 1099) (3 YEARS 3 MONTHS)    Provided guidance and architectural design for enterprise solutions. David follows best practices and general industry standards for the inception and construction of custom software.    Have prototyped and constructed many architectural aspects for a complete software solution. Managed  small teams of both in-house and offshore resources.    Have presented high-level solution and project walkthroughs with C-Level management.    HTML5, CSS3, JQuery, Javascript, MEAN stack MongoDB, Express, Angular.js and Node.js. PRPC  BPM Consultant/Expert services.    Contracts: CIBC Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce (Quantum Tech Group), California  Franchise Tax Board (Accenture), and Patient Advocate Group (RulesWare),    Hampton VA, Toronto Canada, Sacramento CA CSSA Senior System Architect Pegasystems January 2007 to January 2007 2011 (5 YEARS)  David has contributed design recommendation from the inception of use-case gathering to the development of custom software. Has held a high degree of accountability for the unit testing for  development assignments. Can work on detailed tasks and mentor and lead other developers.  Participated in team, department and divisional meetings. Has contributed to the project management and methodology metrics for the deliverable dates and software Go-Lives.    Technologies: PRPC Web Platform, JSP, Javascript, HTML, CSS, WebSphere, Tomcat, DB2, Oracle, MSSQL Professional Services - Software Developer and Consultant: Worked extensively in all aspects of the software development lifecycle.    Engagements: Farmers, State Farm, Prudential, AIG, MassMutual, Travelers, and BBC    Simi Valley CA, Hartford Connecticut, Jersey City New Jersey, Springfield MA, Cambridge MA, Dubuque IA Senior Java Developer (Independent Contractor) Interavant May 2000 to January 2007 YEARS 8 MONTHS)    Lead Web developer for Sun Microsystems Tunathon, and Status Reporting Tool. Instrumental in the success of the migration of Caterpillar's applications from an IBM Web sphere IV environments to a Web  Sphere VI environment. Architected, designed and implemented a MapQuest SOA framework utilizing  SOAP and an AJAX client interface. Contracted for an emergency fix for Luxor's credit card comp  services. Engineered software for the Untied Brother Hood of Carpenters national training center.    Technologies: Javascript, HTML, CSS, XML, XSLT, MySQL, Oracle Designed and developed a thin  client, J2EE, JSP framework for the processing of XML and XSLT screens. All application data feeds  executed using XML/XSLT. Specialized skills focused on XML and XSLT development.    Contracts with: Sun Microsystems (Tek Systems), Bank of America (Tek Systems), Caterpillar  (Concinnity Group), Luxor Hotel (Tek Systems), United Brother Hood of Carpenters (Eastridge  Infotech)    Palo Alto CA, San Francisco CA, Peoria IL, Las Vegas NV Education Master's degree in Business Administration and Management Chaminade University of Honolulu BS in Computer Science Hawaii Pacific University Skills Jquery, HTML, Javascript, Linux, XML Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/malloda