Data Architect Data Architect Data Engineer - Tokbox/Vonage Dublin, CA I am an experienced Data Engineer who thoroughly enjoys planning, building, maintaining and expanding data pipelines. I am all about moving the data around, processing it and making it available. I view myself as a data craftsman and artisan, with an extensive and ever-growing tool belt. I love to learn about and play with new technologies that make working with data easier and better. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Data Architect Taulia Inc - San Francisco, CA January 2019 to July 2019 Directly responsible for the assessment, high-level design/roadmaps and proof of concepts for the company-wide data infrastructure.  Technologies: Lambdas, Kinesis, Python, MySQL, Postgres, Redshift, Airflow, S3, AWS  Reason for leaving: Culture, role and skills mismatch Data Engineer Tokbox/Vonage - San Francisco, CA April 2016 to January 2019 Directly responsible for the design, development and evolution of the data infrastructure during a period of explosive growth, and the development of back-ends for applications that use the data infrastructure  Technologies: Hadoop, Spark, Hive, Oozie, Hue, AWS/EMR/S3, Cassandra, Redshift,  BigQuery, Zeppelin, Flume, Logstash, Java, Python, Bash, Maven, Graphite/Grafana, GitHub  Reason for leaving: Acquired by Vonage, culture change and expected consolidation Sr. Software Engineer San Francisco, CA November 2014 to March 2016 Designed and developed the backend system to process, analyze and report on mobile ad events, built for metric reporting, resilience, speed and large volumes of data.  Technologies: Hadoop, Spark, Hive, Pig, Oozie, Hue, AWS/EMR/S3, Machine Learning,  Spring, MongoDB, Java, Scala, Python, Bash, Gradle, Maven, GitHub  Reason for leaving: Changing market conditions, resulting in cost reductions globally Software Engineer Bluenose Analystics - San Francisco, CA March 2014 to October 2014 Designed and developed the back-end system to process and analyze usage data for customer analysis, reporting, anomaly detection and prediction of account churn  Technologies: Hadoop, Pig, Hive, Oozie, Machine Learning, MongoDB, AWS/EC2/S3, Java,  Scala, Python, Bash, GitHub  Reason for leaving: Company went bankrupt Sr. Software Engineer Kitenga/Quest/Dell - Santa Clara, CA February 2013 to February 2014 Designed and developed an easy-to-use, off-the-shelf Hadoop solution, with prefabricated processing elements to perform analysis and Big Data processing  Technologies: Hadoop, Cloudera, Pig, Hive, Flume, Machine Learning, MiniCluster,  AWS/EC2/S3, Java, Python, Bash  Reason for leaving: Post-privatization reorganization resulting in product discontinuation Sr. Software Engineer, Sungard Availability Services San Ramon, CA March 2011 to February 2013 Designed and developed cloud-based applications to manage virtual environments and provide disaster recovery services. Participated in Hadoop service proof of concept.  Technologies: Java, Python, Hadoop, VMware, AWS and web application technologies  Reason for leaving: Declining revenues, lack of opportunity and local office closure    Page Two Sr. Java Developer Macys.com - San Francisco, CA March 2010 to March 2011 Redesigned and developed a legacy system into a multi-tenancy, SaaS application to allow for the addition of Bloomindales data, focusing upon scalability, performance, and maintainability.  Technologies: Java, Python, VMware and web application technologies  Reason for leaving: Lack of engineering leadership and preference for contractors/consultants Sr. Java Developer Intrax Cultural Exchange - San Francisco, CA August 2009 to March 2010 Redesigned and developed a suite of custom applications into a distributed, scalable, cloud- oriented infrastructure, focusing upon maintainability, performance and stability.  Technologies: Java and web application technologies  Reason for leaving: Executive turnover and project suspension JEE Engineer Fat Spaniel Technologies - San Jose, CA June 2008 to July 2009 Enhanced and developed a SaaS application that collected, processed and presented large volumes of data gathered from a variety of renewable energy sources.  Technologies: Java and web application technologies  Reason for leaving: Company went bankrupt Sr. Java Developer Acumen Solutions - San Francisco, CA August 2007 to June 2008 Redesigned the billing/accounting systems for Hotels.com to include data from Expedia  Technologies: Java and web application technologies  Reason for leaving: Company restructured and shifted to Salesforce related projects Sr. Software Engineer Micromuse/IBM - San Francisco, CA April 2000 to June 2007 At Micromuse, designed and developed event and system management tools/products that processed large amounts of real-time and historical data. At IBM, designed and developed an N-Tiered VoIP solution, targeted to service providers, for the collection, processing and presentation of event, usage, and performance data  Technologies: Java, Python, C, C++, PERL, Python, network management and web application technologies  Reason for leaving: Market share purchase of Micromuse & post-acquisition reduction in force  Other previous history omitted for the sake of space, provided upon request. Education Master of Science in Telecommunications University of Colorado at Boulder - Boulder, CO Bachelor of Science in Computer Science University of Hawaii - Honolulu, HI Skills Bash (5 years), Hadoop (7 years), Java (10+ years), Python (4 years), Scala (1 year), Spark (3 years), Kafka (2 years), Hive (5 years), Pig (5 years) Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/bobfreitas https://github.com/bobfreitas Additional Information Technical Skills Summary  Big Data: Hadoop, Spark, Cassandra, Pig, Hive, Oozie, Hue, Flume, Logstash  Database: Cassandra, Redshift, BigQuery, MySQL, MongoDB, SQLServer, Oracle, SQL,  PL/SQL, Data Modeling  Programming Languages: Java, Scala, Bash, Python, JavaScript, C, C++  Miscellaneous: Zeppelin, Maven, Gradle, Ant, Jenkins, Eclipse, IntelliJ