MuleSoft Enterprise Architect (consultant) MuleSoft Enterprise Architect (consultant) MuleSoft Architect Chicago, IL 14 years of strong experience in Application architecture, Quality Assurance Management and Information Technology Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience MuleSoft Enterprise Architect (consultant) AON - Lincolnshire, IL January 2019 to Present Responsibilities:  • Manage team of developer onsite - offshore and as a lead of this assessment effort, responsible for review and audit the EA environment for existing tools and documents related to the information gathered in support of EA. The task involved review of the current state of the business enterprise architecture and technical architectures that provide the authoritative source of the data, including how the data is gathered, captured, and stored within different systems.  • Design and develop Mule flows to create various interfaces between multiple systems that are part of the Insurance solution.  • Provide highest level technical leadership in developing architecture and design that would align with the strategic goals of the organization  • Involved in Agile - Sprint methodologies to perform requirements gathering, analysis and planning  • Develop interfaces to accept requests from SAP Client in JSON format and invoke stored procedures to update tables in SQL Server database.  • Develop JSON schemas and RAML and creating mock service to test them.  • Transform data using DataWeave.  • Publish exceptions to Anypoint MQ hosted on the Cloudhub. Developed a flow to listen to the queue and send email notifications.  • Develop MUnit test suite for unit testing.  • Translating mapping documents and requirements specifications documents into technical design.  • Worked on various Mule connectors / adapters, developing API, API management and developing services on CloudHub  • Good understanding of typical integration technologies such as HTTP, XML/XSLT, JMS, JDBC, REST, SOAP, web services and APIs,  • Exchanged data in various formats such as XML, CSV, EDI and JSON  • Created http inbound & outbound flows, routing, orchestration, transformations and Security of Mule ESB application using OAuth.  • Hands-on experience with production deployment and postproduction support  Environment: Anypoint Studio 6.1.2, Mule Server 3.8.1, Mule Management Console, RAML, ActiveMQ, Anypoint MQ, Apache-Maven 3.3.9, Nexus, FileZilla 3.14.1, Salesforce, SAP Hybris, GIT, Oracle, Web Logic server 10.3, JMS, Eclipse, JUnit, Mockito, CVS, EMMA, Spring framework - DI, AOP, MVC, Hibernate 3.5, Ant, SQL Server, Oracle, Rally, JIRA, Confluence. Mulesoft Developer (Consultant) Verisk Analytics (ISO) - Jersey City, NJ January 2017 to December 2018 Sr. ETL QA Analyst (Consultant) July 2016 to December 2017 Responsibilities:  • Developed a MuleSoft batch application to transfer transcript data from PeopleSoft into UAchieve. Utilized Database and HTTP connectors to read and write data in this application.  • Developed applications to run Transfer Evaluations in UAchieve system.  • Developed MuleSoft batch applications to import Transfer Evaluation and GPA data from UAchieve into PeopleSoft system.  • Tuned MuleSoft batch applications to obtain optimum performance and CPU utilization.  • Developed several complex SQL scripts to read and write data into UAchieve and PeopleSoft systems.  • Developed batch applications using transaction scope, for-each, message enricher, until-successful, choice router, private & public flows, exception handling and several other Mule components.  • Worked on validating the conversion of outbound batch process for insurance applications (Coverage Verifier, A+ AUTO, A+ Property - Underwriting applications) from Mainframe to ETL.  • Reviewed and Analyzed Business Requirement documents and Technical Specifications to ensure they are precise and accurate for testing, and to implement test plans and test cases.  • Developed and executed Test related Documentation including Test Plans, Testing Processes and schedules  • Estimated the Testing Effort required and revised estimates when there is a change in effort  • Conduct and Participate in Technical Reviews/Walkthroughs for QA deliverables viz Test Plan, Test Strategy, Test cases  • Collaborated with Project Managers, Business Analysts, SME's, Development teams, and organized early sync-up meetings with QA team as a part of Test preparedness and Defect prevention process.  • Validated the output files created by mainframe batch and ETL process are same and there is no deviation. Provided guidance to the development team in implementing the system flow and the expected outcomes.  • Validated the job flow and intermediate output files are same for ETL process and Mainframe batch.  • Created Requirement Traceability Matrix and conducted Test Case walkthroughs.  • Developed Regression Suite and SQL Queries in building the automation scripts  • Driven testing to completion by following test schedules and tracked testing progress throughout the entire Software Testing lifecycle(STLC)  • Defect Creation, Management and Tracking Defects to closure using Defect Tracking Tools- Atlaasian JIRA  • Created Defect Reports, Daily/Weekly Status Reports and Communicated these reports effectively with project team members, stakeholders and made recommendations to the management on process and test approach.  Environment: Manual Testing, JIRA, Mainframe, COBOL, DB2, ETL- Pentaho, Agile Methodology, SQL Server Management Studio, SQL, XML, .Net. Sr. QA Performance Engineer (Consultant) Samsung - Ridgefield Park, NJ September 2015 to June 2016 Responsibilities:  • Managing a team responsible for driving End-to-end testing of small and large scale features and applications of samsung.com/us B2B site, B2C site and Customer Support (ad hoc and automated) that can span across multiple platforms  • Review, help design and implement test plans and test cases, conduct test plan reviews, conduct risk analysis, & drive integration testing across the system.  • Timely communication to all responsible QA groups of dynamically changing features and plans  • Coordination of the QA efforts of various teams responsible for testing one or more features / areas  • Responsible for defining the Automation Test Planning and architecture for samsung.com/us using Selenium Webdriver, TestNG, Maven, Jenkins, Java.  • Responsible for designing automation test cases and test scripts using Java, Eclipse, Maven and designing continuous integration using Jenkins for production builds.  • Responsible for designing Jmeter Test Plan for PNF / Monitoring samsung.com/us B2B and B2C sites. Scheduling automation build executing of Jmeter PNF Regression Test using Maven & Jenkins. Responsible to create and maintain GitHub Repository for Jmeter PNF Regression Test Project.  • Responsible for designing Jmeter Performance Test Plan for samsung.com/us B2B and B2C sites. Scheduling automation build executing of Jmeter Performance Test using Maven & Jenkins. Responsible to create and maintain GitHub Repository for Jmeter Performance Test Project.  • Responsible to closely work with the QA Team and train them for quality assurance tasks (manual as well as automation) and providing guidance to perform QA activities to achieve goal of good quality product    Environment: Manual Testing, WebServices Testing, Responsive Web Design Testing, CMS Testing (TeamSite & Adobe Experience Manager), Mantis, JIRA, Selenium Webdriver, TestNG, Java, Jmeter, Apache Maven, Eclipse, Jenkins, SDLC, Agile Methodology, Android devices Testing (Samsung Galaxy Notes / Mobiles /Tablets). Lead QA Analyst Conde' Nast - New York, NY August 2012 to September 2015 Full Time)    Responsibilities:  • Understand business challenges, problem statements, requirements and existing environments for various brand websites The New Yorker, Vogue, GQ, Style, Glamour, Bon' Appetit, CondeNast Traveler, Wired, Bride etc and Consumer Marketing Group.  • Walkthrough the applications with the help of Subject Matter Experts to know third party components, custom build components, dependencies and technologies. Also identify some end-to-end test scenarios for automation tool evaluation.  • Design and implement Keyword driven, tool agnostic and internationalization test automation framework using tools like Selenium WebDriver and Saucelabs. These frameworks suppose to be language, Browser and Windows Operating System Independent.  • Perform technical and cost feasibility study, requirement gathering and analysis.  • Mentor the team to use the framework, quality standards, implement the change management system in the automation suites and prepare the user friendly documentation for the scripts.  • Conduct Interviews and surveys to know about current artifacts, regression usage, applications stability, test data and test assert management.  • Perform responsibilities of conducting research on IT requirements and business requirements in UAT areas  • Develop roadmaps and rollout plans to execute the automation and performance projects for publication brand websites (altogether 22 websites).  • Generate automated test data creation using various tools to help Development team, Subject Matter Experts and Testing team for their application testing purpose.  • Involve in requirement analysis, designing test plan, identifying test conditions, designing test cases, reviewing test cases and executing test cases.  Environment: Manual Testing, Web Services Testing, Responsive Web Design Testing (Mobify & Responsive), Database Testing (SQL), Custom CMS Testing, Selenium Webdriver, Saucelabs, PHPUnit, PHP, Atlassian JIRA, Windows XP/7/8/10, SDLC, Waterfall Methodology, Agile Methodology, Apple device testing (iPhone 4/5/6/6+, iPad 1/2/3/Mini/Air, iOS 6/7/9), Android devices Testing (Samsung Galaxy Notes / Mobiles /Tablets), Digital App testing. Sr. QA Analyst (Consultant) Standard &Poor's - New York, NY September 2011 to August 2012 Responsibilities:  • Created and Executed test scenarios and test cases, participated in the functional meetings with members of project management team as well as development team.  • Communicated with the managers who are in Japan and team located in Japan and Hongkong in Asia Pacific region. Responsible to submit test reports and test the application in provided deadline by Japan Managers.  • Assisted in requirement analysis and data analysis.  • Tested Web-based Rating application to be used by the customers/clients for Presentation of Credit Ratings.  • Designed and implemented Keyword driven internationalization test automation framework using QTP and Quality Center. Designed and implemented performance scripts using LoadRunner.    Environment: Manual Testing, QTP, LoadRunner, Quality Center 10.0, SQL, TOAD, FGR (Web services) Java, Pegaworks, Agile, Scrum, TDD. Java Developer (Consultant) CitiGroup - New York, NY July 2010 to February 2011 Responsibilities:  • Developed with Java Server Page (JSP), designing and developing client-side graphical user interfaces using HTML, JavaScript, JQuery and CSS  • Developed JAX-WS SOAP layer on top of middleware application as a communicating interface.  • Generated WSDL document for SOAP WebService  • Environment: Java, J2EE, JavaScript, JSP, SOAP, API, HTML, CSS, JQuery, SQL Programmer Analyst Anupam Global Soft Ltd March 2008 to June 2010 Responsibilities:  • Worked independently and part of a team to support/enhance Securities Lending Application  • Design and develop code artifacts, create release notes and support documentation  Environment: Java, J2EE, JavaScript, JSP, HTML, CSS, JQuery, SQL Education Certified Developer GLSICT College, Gujarat University, India - Gujarat, IN July 2000 to June 2003 Bachelor of Science in Physics J&J Science College, Gujarat University May 1997 to June 2000 Additional Information Results-oriented, innovative, and performance-focused professional with more than 14 years of strong experience in Application architecture, Quality Assurance Management and Information Technology    PROFESSIONAL SKILL    ? Team Leadership & Management ? Software Quality Assurance  ? Communication & Collaboration ? Quality Assurance Automation  ? Problem Solving ? ETL & Data Analytics  ? Application Architecture ? Agile Methodology  ? Mulesoft Enterprise Service Bus ? Software Development Life Cycle  ? API Designing & Development ? Product & Project Management