SharePoint Developer SharePoint <span class="hl">Developer</span> SharePoint Developer Lombard, IL • Over 9 years of experience in Software Development of client/server and web-based products including Microsoft SharePoint technologies  • Well versed with Object Oriented Design and Programming  • Hands-on experience in C#.NET, ASP.NET, VB.NET, ADO.NET concepts and .NET Framework  • Experience in developing and testing vast Web Based Projects  • Fully exposed to all practical aspects of project and product development process such as analysis, design, development and maintenance  • Full skill set that includes a strong design background, a full allotment of technical abilities, impressive people skills and extensive strategic internet philosophy  • Experience in design, development, implementation and maintenance of SharePoint 2010 and MOSS 2007 (Microsoft Office SharePoint Services) based solutions using SharePoint Object Model  • Quick learner and excellent team player with the ability to meet tight deadlines and work under pressure  • Experience on SharePoint Online and CSOM, as well as wide knowledge on applying Responsive Design to SharePoint Sites, Master Pages and Layouts. Work Experience SharePoint Developer Jones Lang LaSalle - Lombard, IL December 2015 to June 2018 2015 - • Develop webparts on sharepoint 2013 using Jquery , KnockOut, SPservices  • In charge of the BDC and Istream applications , attending issues related to User Interfaces and application Bugs  • Attend User requirements which go from Browser related issues to bugs on Sharepoint  • Developed and designed the Management Self Assessment Tool Webparts from scratch, which interacted with sharepoint lists through the use of spservices, jquery, knockout, JSON and AJAX.  • Worked on creating powershell scripts to install and deploy WSP files  • Developed PowerShell Scripts to upgrade and test Sharepoint sites migrated from Sharepoint 2010 to Sharepoint 2013  • Developed PowerShell Scripts to backup and restore Sharepoint sites on Sharepoint 2010 and Sharepoint 2013  • Developed Sharepoint 2013 Designer Workflows  • Utilized Javascript , Knockout, Jquery , JSON , AJAX and SPservices to manipulate the complete dom on the content editor webparts  • Created the css files to apply design and the look and feel to the content editor webparts  • Site Collection Administrator of Connect, Extranet, Intranet and Internet Sites for JLL  • Created walkthroughs to help users self resolve their browser related issues  • Participated on the migration from SharePoint 2010 to SharePoint 2013 developing PowerShell scripts to upgrade sites user interface.  • Developed solutions to modify the look and feel of the Extranet.  • Created the Content Types to support the BDC web application.  • Have worked creating wsp solutions using Visual Studio 2010, 2012 and 2013.  • Helped developing Infopath forms as well as Sharepoint Designer Workflows for the users.  • Developed Powershell Scripts to fix the publishing pages layouts.  • Have worked on analyzing and determining errors on the crawls for the Search Service Center as well as the Workflow Manager.  • Worked on a solution to export and import of Publishing Sites, through a Visual WebPart on SharePoint 2013.  • Analyzed, tracked and troubleshooted SharePoint Issues along with users, to find not only browser related issues on the client side, but on the server as well.  • Working with JLL.com, Extranet, BDC and New Connect.  • Created a script to deliver a full inventory of the Extranet SharePoint environment.  • Attending client requests and issues related to SharePoint Online.  • Created SharePoint Online and CSOM script to enable likes functionality on the JLL2 environment.  • Developed webparts using Responsive Design on the JLL internet site.  • Applied validation to existing request forms to avoid javascript injection as part of the site potential vulnerability issues.  • Migration of sites using Sharegate.  • Created basic applications with Outsystems, and migrated such applications among PROD, QA and Dev environments.  • Created powershell script to fix pages at root site level, copying them to the pages libraries assigning them a valid page layout and copying all the webparts in them.  • In charge of monitoring the synchronization of the contacts library in sharepoint to the brokers database on SQL.  • Helped integrating and troubleshooting brightcove videos in JLL.com sites SharePoint Developer Insurance Auto Auctions - Westchester, IL August 2015 to December 2015 • Develop rotating News webpart , image slider webpart, and Quicklink menu buttons webparts using Visual Studio 2015, Jquery , KnockOut, Spservices, bootstrap, bxslider, easing, rss and pgwslideshow libraries.  • Participated on migrating workflows from one site to another  • Created custom workflows using SharePoint Designer and visual studio 2015  • Attend User requirements which go from Browser related issues to bugs on Sharepoint  • Worked on creating powershell scripts to install and deploy WSP files  • Created Masterpages, Pagelayouts, Content Types , lis definitions, cascade stylesheet files from scratch in order to apply the new look and feel of the company  • In charge of applying Responsive Design to the Homepage Branding, in order to prepare the site to respond to different browser sizes and devices on which to be displayed such as desktop browsers or mobile devices.  • Utilized Javascript , Knockout, Jquery , JSON , AJAX and SPservices to manipulate the managed metadata contained on the Term Store  • Created the css files to apply design and the look and feel to the content editor webparts  • Created wsp containing custom pages to provide info such as Employee ID and server to which the user was redirected by the load balancer using Visual Studio 2015  • Helped developing custom Infopath forms for SharePoint 2013 Custom Lists..  • Have worked on analyzing and troubleshooting errors using PowerShell and ULS logs SharePoint Developer Jones Lang LaSalle - Lombard, IL September 2013 to July 2015 • Develop webparts on sharepoint 2013 using Jquery , KnockOut, SPservices  • In charge of the BDC and Istream applications , attending issues related to User Interfaces and application Bugs  • Attend User requirements which go from Browser related issues to bugs on Sharepoint  • Developed and designed the Management Self Assessment Tool Webparts from scratch, which interacted with sharepoint lists through the use of spservices, jquery, knockout, JSON and AJAX.  • Worked on creating powershell scripts to install and deploy WSP files  • Developed PowerShell Scripts to upgrade and test Sharepoint sites migrated from Sharepoint 2010 to Sharepoint 2013  • Developed PowerShell Scripts to backup and restore Sharepoint sites on Sharepoint 2010 and Sharepoint 2013  • Developed Sharepoint 2013 Designer Workflows  • Utilized Javascript , Knockout, Jquery , JSON , AJAX and SPservices to manipulate the complete dom on the content editor webparts  • Created the css files to apply design and the look and feel to the content editor webparts  • Site Collection Administrator of Connect, Extranet, Intranet and Internet Sites for JLL  • Created walkthroughs to help users self resolve their browser related issues  • Participated on the migration from SharePoint 2010 to SharePoint 2013 developing PowerShell scripts to upgrade sites user interface.  • Developed solutions to modify the look and feel of the Extranet.  • Created the Content Types to support the BDC web application.  • Have worked creating wsp solutions using Visual Studio 2010, 2012 and 2013.  • Helped developing Infopath forms as well as Sharepoint Designer Workflows for the users.  • Developed Powershell Scripts to fix the publishing pages layouts.  • Have worked on analyzing and determining errors on the crawls for the Search Service Center as well as the Workflow Manager.  • Worked on a solution to export and import of Publishing Sites, through a Visual WebPart on SharePoint 2013.  • Analyzed, tracked and troubleshooted SharePoint Issues along with users, to find not only browser related issues on the client side, but on the server as well. SharePoint Developer Johnson & Johnson - Fort Washington, PA April 2013 to September 2013 • Joined a development team to support ongoing development for a legacy MOSS 2007 environment with incredibly heavy restrictions.  • Participated in user feedback sessions, gathering requirements and creating system specification documents.  • Worked with team workshops to do sprints on not only creating application sets designed to work together, but to utilize group collaboration sessions to further refine and develop applications to provide new functionality to the users  • Created several content editor web parts utilizing JavaScript to create new functionality without violating governance restrictions, yet still interacting with SP Services, document libraries, and lists.  • Developed many Microsoft office macros in Excel, PowerPoint, and Word to interact with the SharePoint site.  • Created the css files to apply design and the look and feel to the content editor webparts.  • Worked with the team that was brought in to maintain the changes that each of the teams had put together, creating documentation of our work, and participating in knowledge transfer activities.  • Developed all the CSOM functionality using JQuery, SPServices, JSON and AJAX. Sr. SharePoint Developer The Joint Commission - Oakbrook Terrace, IL September 2012 to March 2013 • Developed the Official Documents web part to show documents from and download documents to individual organizations.  • Developed a set of web parts that allowed users to set their Favorite Application, Default Home Page and Program Preferences.  • Created a console application to load information from SQL database tables into SharePoint lists, creating this way a list instance that will feed up the Menu Navigation.  • Created a console application that imported info from XML files into SharePoint lists.  • Created a console application to export user data from a database and assign hash code info to import it into another database.  • Designed flyout navigation menus for the site based on the roles available for the user.  • Developed the Guest User web service , as well as a web part to approve or reject guest login requests as well as deleting guest active accounts.  • Created custom site templates that included custom lists, libraries, content types and list definitions.  • Populated DataGridViews programmatically as well as through JavaScript functions to display data from the site.  • Utilized JavaScript to manipulate elements within pages.  • Developed the Official Email web part that worked as an inbox for corporate internal emails displayed to each organization.  • Developed several consumer and provider web parts that interacted with SharePoint lists.  • Implemented the MVP design pattern and taught the team members on how to work with it.  • Used Visual Studio 2010 with TFS to create the different wsp solutions to be deployed on our environments. SharePoint Architect Jr /Sr. Developer Magna Donnelly - Holland, MI April 2012 to August 2012 • Applied Security Trimming and Audiences to Ribbon Custom Actions in order to display functionality to the users depending on their membership to SharePoint security groups.  • Intensively worked with SharePoint Client Object Model in Custom Actions and JS functions to access and modify items and lists, using JQUERY, SPSevices, JSON and AJAX.  • Customized the controls available in the out-of-the-box edit and display ASPX forms for particular list definitions and list instances.  • Performed various administrative tasks such as the configuration and monitoring of the Usage and Health Collection of the entire farm.  • Developed custom site templates which included all the necessary artifacts for the site to be fully functional, e.g. list definitions and list instances, content types, fields, etc.  • Evaluated and tested different third party tools to aid in the day-to-day activities of the company, such as Virto Bulk Upload and Telerik Controls.  • Utilized Telerik controls, e.g. RadCombobox, to create a custom field type which would display the locations of different suppliers bound to a People Picker field.  • Created powershell scripts to add scripting content to wiki pages.  • Helped the team implementing the MVP design pattern.  • Worked with Visual Studio 2010 and TFS to develop the solutions that were deployed on the environment.  • Applied styling to the modules to meet the look and feel needs using CSS. SharePoint Architect Jr/ Sr. Control Version Manager February 2007 to March 2012 • Controlled the source code for all the applications throughout the company using ChangemanDS  • Developed UNIX and AWK scripts to automate installations of 70% of the applications on the company.  • Worked with Control M to automate the delivery of reports to all the clients on their inbox.  • Assisted as manager for more than 150 projects ensuring that the code used on each of the project was the latest version.  • Assisted and coordinated the release to production environments of more than 150 projects, those projects were developed on different platforms going from Shell scripts, Java, Control M and COBOL.  • Worked with Oracle 8, 9 and 10 Databases to supply the different applications on the company.  • Worked on tight schedules to meet the delivery dates required by the clients.  • Generated scripts to gather source code from B24 the mainframe for ATMs.  • Helped implementing the ITIL methodology to successfully gather control of all the applications on the company.  • Participated on the migration of the MOSS 2003 servers to Sharepoint 2007.  • Assisted on the branding and the design of the look and feel of some of the client sites, using CSS and XSL.  • Responsible of revising and granting that the code met the standards of all the .NET applications of the company.  • Involved in meetings with users to gather requirements to design custom made webparts for the Sharepoint sites. Lead Software Developer Network and Software Solutions February 2006 to September 2006 2/2006 - 9/2006  • Responsible for developing presentations of Quest Software such as TOAD and Spotlight.  • Translated the manuals of the software to provide them to the clients of the company.  • Developed courses to teach the capacities and functionality of TOAD software for Oracle, SQL Server and DB2 as well as Spotlight to the buyers of the tools  • Involved as Jr Java Architect for the CAPUFE project, to control the billing of the highways tolls in Mexico.  • Involved with analysis and designing of several applications based on Java.  • Responsible of the maintenance of the Apache server.  • Worked with Oracle 8 and 9i, developing stored procedures as well as maintaining the databases for the different applications on the company.  • Responsible of teaching Java to the new resources of the company, so they can go work with our clients as Java Developers.  • Responsible for creating documentation standards approving technical documents.  • Acted as the Webmaster of the corporate site.  • Developed dlls using C# code as middleware for the corporate intranet site.  • Developed and designed custom reporting webparts for clients working with MOSS 2003.  • Participated on the implementation of MOSS 2003 with one of the company clients.  • Developed branding features in Master Pages and web enabled online panels for data entry using ASP.NET forms and submitted for processing to the appropriate manager.  • Developed custom workflows with visual studio to be deployed on document libraries, so the users can approve or reject and deliver a final copy of the document to their clients.  • Developed and designed Infopath forms so that one of the company clients can request their PTO online with MOSS 2003.  • Created several Scripts for DOM manipulation using JQuery.  • Applied the look and feel to several sites inside the company, using CSS, as well as worked xith XSL to apply styling to the XML formatted tables.  • Created SharePoint Solution Package (.wsp files) for custom features and web parts and managed deployment of code across SharePoint environments, including Development, Testing, Staging, and Production.  • Managed site governance, site policies, site templates, and conducted end user training.  • Managed site security and permissions and created various web applications and site collections per business needs.  • Responsible for creating the documentation of all the applications developed using the RAD methodology.  • Implemented the MVP design pattern for the CAPUFE and FOVISSTE projects.  • Created List Definitions as well as List Instances using Visual Studio.  • Created the Content types to be used in the document libraries for the FOVISSTE project.  • Worked with TFS and Visual Studio 2010 to develop the solutions deployed to the environments. Sr. Visual Studio Developer/ SharePoint Developer Jr. - Hildebrando February 2005 to February 2006 Designed and implemented the Account Usage Reporting System so the users of Nextel of Mexico could have reports on the usage of their lines..  • Maintenance of the Online Invoice System and the Activation of New Services System.  • Designed and implemented the security model creating Permission levels and managing people and groups for the portal and giving Permissions and security at site.  • Attended user requirements and got involved with meetings with clients to develop solutions that meet the company needs.  • Used Javascript and VBScript to manipulate the DOM in visual webparts.  • Created Powershell scripts to apply styling and activating solutions on all the subsites on the web application.  • Involved on the implementation of MOSS 2003.  • Developed and Designed custom webparts from scratch based on the Marketing team requirements.  • Developed and Designed web services using C# to retrieve the usage of the users account from the Databases.  • Created Custom Templates, Custom Master Pages, List Definitions, List Instances and Content types using Visual Studio.  • Used SPServices combining AJAX and JSON to retrieve user permissions, to create a select view based on the user group.  • Worked with CSS and XSL to apply styling, on the modules I was assigned. Visual Studio Developer Jr Network and Software Solutions October 2003 to February 2005 • Designed and implemented the Online Invoice System for Nextel of Mexico.  • Designed and implemented the Activation of New Services System for the users of Nextel of Mexico  • Responsible for creating Development, Test and Pre-Production/Production environments for the corporate intranet site from scratch by installing and configuring Microsoft Content Management precursor of MOSS 2003 in all environments..  • Designed and developed custom web parts using several server controls like Grid View along with Forms View and Details View.  • Designed and developed ASP.Net integration with Crystal Reports to generate custom reports.  • Customized and implemented a unified layout and branding for the site utilizing ASP.NET and Microsoft Frontpage.  • Analyzed client business requirements and implemented custom security model for the site pages and content.  • Utilized ASP.NET & C#.NET to build custom web parts and ADO.NET to connect to SQL Server databases utilizing appropriate authentication and session management for retrieving and storing records directly into Content Management environment.  • Created custom components in ASP.NET for handling document events like approval, case forward, reject, and add feedback.  • Developed online forms for submission of Managed and Controlled content approval requests.  • Determined the server infracture for the application by evaluating the ability to support web-based form as well as anticipated increase in number of business partner users.  • Responsible for evaluationg the conversion of the application to .NET/SQL Server solution to ensure performance and meet functional specifications.  • Applied styling to the different modules using CSS and XSL.  • Helped on implementing the MVP design pattern on the early stages of some projects. Java Programmer Jr. - CSI July 2003 to October 2003 • Designed User Interface webforms using Web Controls and User Controls in JSP.  • Created and Designed Classes for the SISACLAR, for the Social Security Application nationwide in Mexico  • Implemented data editing, filtering, sorting, paging in Datalist and Datagrid controls using JSP.  • Implemented Secured Sockets Layers (SSLs) as well as web services integration with JSP.  • Handled complete MS Sql Server DB and IBM DB2 operations like Tables Creation, Writing Stored Procedures and UDFs, Triggers, etc.  • Performed Client-side validation using JavaScript.  • Developed the Branding for the site using CSS and XSLT.  • Created Password Hashing in Java language to prevent hacking..  • Extensively involved in Bug Fixing, Code Verification and Uploading files to the Production and Testing environments.  • Involved in packaging periodic builds to be deployed to the Production and Testing environment and creating the necessary release notes. Education B.S. in Computer Systems Engineering Universidad de Monterrey - Monterrey, MX Skills CSS (10+ years), .NET (10+ years), MICROSOFT SHAREPOINT (10+ years), SHAREPOINT (10+ years), JAVASCRIPT (7 years), Infopath, NET, Sharepoint Administrator, Sharepoint Designer, HTML Additional Information Technical Skills  • Sharepoint Technologies: SharePoint 2016, SharePoint 2013, SharePoint 2010, MOSS (Microsoft Office SharePoint Server) 2007, SharePoint Portal Server 2003, Microsoft Windows Sharepoint Services 3.0/2.0/1.x, Central Site Administrator, Web Parts, Tool Parts, Microsoft SharePoint Designer 2007, Microsoft InfoPath 2007/2003, Business Data Catalog, Excel Calculation Services, Key Performance Indicators, Single Sign On, Custom Parts, Zone Parts. SharePoint Online, and CSOM with powershell scripting. Sharegate and Outsystems.  • Web Technologies: HTML, HTML5, CSS, CSS3, ASP, JSP, PHP, XML, XSLT, XPath, VBScript and JavaScript, CSOM and Resposive Design.  • Web Services: SOAP, WSDL, WCF, DAML-S  • Programming Languages: Visual Basic 6.0, .NET, VB.NET, C#.NET, ASP.NET, JAVA, J2EE, C++, C, JQUERY, Knockout.  • Database Technologies: SQL Server 2000/2005, Oracle 8i/9i/10g/11i, DB2, MySQL    • Operating Systems: Solaris, WINDOWS NT/2000/XP/2003  • Enterprise Applications: MS Office 2003/2007, MS FrontPage 2003, ControlM  • Source Control Systems: Visual Source Safe, PVCS, ChangemanDS  • Application Server: Tomcat,Apache, BEA Weblogic, IBM Web Sphere