DevOps/ Database Engineer DevOps/ Database Engineer DevOps/ Database Engineer - AT&T Labs New York, NY • Highly experienced in IT industry comprising of DevOps Engineering, automating,  building, releasing of code from one environment to other environment and deploying  to servers.  • Hands-on experience in SCM, AWS, DevOps, Build/Release Management, Cloud  Management and Containerization.  • Expertise in AWS platform and its dimensions of scalability using EC2, S3, EBS, VPC,  ELB, AMI, SNS, RDS, IAM, Route 53, Auto-scaling, Cloud Front, Cloud Watch,  Cloud Trail, Cloud Formation and Security Groups.  • Migrated on-perm data centers to cloud providers on AWS.  • Hands-on experience working on several Docker components like Docker Engine,  Docker Hub, Compose, Docker Registry and handling multiple images primarily for  installations and domain configurations and creating Docker images.  • Used Git for source code version control and integrated with Jenkins for CI/CD  pipeline, code quality tracking and user management with build tool Maven.  • Created CI/CD pipelines and setup triggering of automation builds and auto  deployment with the help of the CI/CD tool like Jenkins  • Integration, deployment and automation of application servers Tomcat, WebLogic  across Linux platforms.  • Expertise in DevOps, Release Engineering, Configuration Management, Cloud  Infrastructure Automation, it includes Amazon Web Services (AWS), Maven,  Jenkins, Chef, and Git Hub.  • Expertise on Jenkins for continuous integration and for end-to-end automation for all  build and deployments. Created pipeline in Jenkins by integrating Git and Maven  plugins.  • Experienced in implementing Organization DevOps strategy in various operating  environments of Linux servers along with cloud strategies of Amazon Web Services.  • Experienced in branching, merging, tagging and maintaining the version across the  environments using SCM tools like Git  • Used Git for source code version control and integrated with Jenkins for CI/CD  pipeline, code quality tracking and user management with build tool Maven.  • Experience in implementing and administering monitoring tools Splunk and Nagios.  • Experienced with scripting languages like Python, Ruby, Json and Shell scripting.  • Excellent in written and verbal communication skills, strong organizational skills, and  a hard-working team player. Work Experience DevOps/ Database Engineer AT&T Labs - Middletown, NJ December 2018 to Present The scope of the project is to develop python test scripts that will interface with AQuA  SonoBouy frame work to validate DB users on Kubernetes pods and to provide a tester that  can be reused across multiple database types to compare a list of users (expected users) to the running database's users (actual users).    Responsibilities:  • Responsible in writing Python scripts to access databases Postgres and MariaDB to list out userids, to confirm that only authorized accounts are entered in the database.  • Worked with Deployment Team to incorporate DB audit fixes.  • Written and Executed python scripts in Influx DB, Cassandra DB and SQLite servers  to get the valid users list from that particular databases.  • Implemented CI/CD pipeline using Jenkins and extensively worked for End-to-End  automation for all build and deployments.  • Created Jenkins pipeline which helps to drive all builds out to the docker registry and then deployed to the docker containers using Jenkins file.  • Used Kubernetes to orchestrate the deployment, scaling and management of Docker  Containers.  • Involved in development of test environment on Docker containers and configuring the Docker containers using Kubernetes.  • Worked with Jenkins pipelines to drive all microservices builds out to the Docker  registry and then deployed to Kubernetes, Created Pods and managed using  Kubernetes  • Utilized Kubernetes for the runtime environment of the CI/CD system to build, test  deploy.  • Worked with Docker and Kubernetes to manage micro services for development of continuous integration and continuous delivery.  • Worked on infrastructure with Docker containerization and maintained Docker Images  and containers.  • Worked in applying security patches, database upgradation patches on databases  and troubleshoot reporting issues.  • Experience working in Database Backup and Disaster Recovery.    Environment:  Jenkins, Docker, Kubernetes, Postgres, Maria DB, Influx DB, SQLite, Cassandra DB, MySQL,  Jenkins File, Docker Containers AWS DevOps Engineer MARLABS INC - Piscataway, NJ February 2018 to November 2018 Scope of the project is to design and facilitate the environment for the deployment of multiple  applications & sub-systems and manage the operational metrics. The goal of DevOps  implementation is to streamline the automation process for Continuous Deployment and Releases.    Responsibilities:  • Deployed applications into the AWS cloud using Amazon EC2, VPC (Virtual Private  Cloud), IAM (Identity and Access Management), Cloud Front, Cloud Watch, AMI,  Lambda, Cloud Trail and Route 53.  • Build servers using AWS launching EC2, RDS, creating security groups, auto-scaling,  load balancers (ELBs) in the defined virtual private connection (VPC).  • Developed Cloud Formation scripts to automate EC2 instances and applications.  Deployed many resources using the CloudFormation templates.  • Used Cloud Front to deliver content from AWS edge locations to users, allowing for further reduction of load on front-end servers.  • Working with several Docker components like Docker Engine, Machine, Creating  Docker images, Compose, Docker Registry and handling multiple images primarily for middleware installations and domain configurations.  • Used Jenkins for Continuous Integration and deployment into Tomcat Application  Server.  • Created Jenkins pipeline which helps to drive all builds out to the docker registry  and then deployed to the docker containers using Jenkins file.  • Custom Jenkins pipelines containing scripts to build docker images and integration  with various plugins to push builds to artifactory.  • Implemented CI/CD pipeline using Jenkins and extensively worked for End-to-End  automation for all build and deployments.  • Responsible for building/deploying consistently repeatable build/deployments to company production and non-production environments using Jenkins.  • Configured and maintained Jenkins to implement the CI process and integrated the tool with Maven to schedule the builds.  • Designed the project workflows/pipelines using Jenkins for Continuous Integration  and deployment into different Web/Application Servers.  • Automated the deployments using Jenkins and its respective dependency plugins.  • Strong experience utilizing Jenkins for enterprise scale infrastructure configuration  and application deployments checking out code from git and use maven to build jar  artifacts.    Environment:  AWS, Jenkins, Git, Maven, Amazon RDS, Amazon Glacier, Docker Cloud Engineer Teaneck, NJ October 2016 to November 2017 Created health checks on Route53 and configured different routing policies like Simple,  Weighted, and Fail-over.  * Used IAM to create and manage AWS users and groups and use permissions to allow and deny the access to AWS resources.  * Created S3 buckets and managing policies for S3 buckets and Utilized S3 bucket and Glacier for Archival storage and backup on AWS.  * Implemented Server-less architecture using AWS Lambda with Amazon S3 and Amazon  Dynamo DB.  * Used Amazon RDS (Relational Database Services) for the storing of the customer data on cloud and used S3 versioning when it's important to import from the Amazon Glacier.  * Setting up databases in AWS using RDS, storage using S3 bucket and configuring instance  backups to S3 bucket  * Working with Elastic Beanstalk for quick deployment of services such as EC2 instances,  Load balancer, and databases on the RDS on the AWS environment. Jr DevOps Engineer Bajaj Allianz General Insurance - Hyderabad, Telangana September 2014 to November 2015 Responsibilities:  • Installing Subversion, Apache Tomcat, Application servers on Unix Servers.  • Maintained the Tags, Branching and merging the code in the parallel development of two phases and applied the vendor patches to the Trunk and All branches in Subversion  Repository.  • Written pre-commit, post-commit, post-receive hooks in GIT and responsible for merging, tagging and conflict resolution in GIT.  • Worked with MAVEN for building the application, has written MAVEN scripts and shell  scripts to automate the build process.  • Installed/Configured/Managed JENKINS CI Automation and used JENKINS as a continuous integration tool for automation of daily process and automated the Jenkins  testing jobs using Selenium.  • Created and Configured Red Hat, Ubuntu, CentOS and Solaris Virtual Machines in AWS  using EC2, Elastic IP, VPC, Subnets, Route Tables, NAT Gateway.  • Implemented Chef Knife Recipes to create a Deployment on internal Data Centre  Servers. Also re-used and modified same Chef Recipes to create a deployment directly into EC2 instances.  • Written Chef Cookbooks for various DB configurations to modularize and optimize  product configuration, converting production support scripts to Chef Recipes and AWS server provisioning using Chef Recipes.  • Managed all the bugs and changes into a production environment using the Jira  tracking tool.  • Involved in performing tasks in Databases like Oracle, MySQL.  Environment:  AWS Stack, SVN, Git, Apache Tomcat, Maven, Jenkins, Jira, Chef, Ruby, Python, MySQL,  Selenium, Linux, Unix Java Developer ICICI - Hyderabad, Telangana October 2013 to August 2014 Responsibilities:  • Involved in Analysis and Designing.  • Developed the prototype.  • Involved in low level designing in UML using Rational Rose.  • Involved in UI team design using HTML, CSS, JavaScript.  • Created Spring MVC framework and DAO to communicate with database.  • Involved in Mapping of class files with database using hibernate files.  • Extensively used Custom JSP Tags to separate presentation from application logic.  • Created Soap Web services using WSDL file.  • Used SOAP based Web services for Consuming 3rd Parties for retrieving Customer  information.  • Extensively used XML for communicating between external parties and for consuming  the Web Services using AXIS mechanism.  • Created the war file and deploying in application server.  • Retrieved the XML and traversed the xml using SOAP.  • Testing experience include mobile browser testing, omniture testing etc.  • Extensively used AJAX for performing data operations without refreshing the page.  • Worked extensively using UNIX background. Involved in shell scripting to automate  jobs.  • Used Oracle 9g for database storage and deployed the Application in Apache Tomcat.    Environment:  Subversion (SVN), Clear case, Jenkins, Perl Scripts, Shell Scripts, XML, WebSphere,  WebLogic, PL SQL Education Master's Master of Computer Science Skills TECHNICAL SKILLS: Cloud AWS, Private cloud Scripts & Languages Shell/Perl Script, Python, Ruby, JavaScript Database Tools MySQL, MongoDB, Influx DB, MariaDB, Cassandra DB, SQLite Containerization/Orchestration Docker, Kubernetes CI Tools Jenkins, Maven Version Control Tools GIT Development Methodologies Agile Methodology and Waterfall Model Operating System Windows/Mac, Linux Monitoring & Logging Tools Nagios, Splunk Web/App Servers Apache, Tomca (6 years)