Sr. Salesforce. com Developer/ Administrator Sr. Salesforce. com <span class="hl">Developer</span>/ Administrator Sr. Salesforce. com Developer/ Administrator - Citigroup Nashville, TN Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Salesforce. com Developer/ Administrator Citigroup - New York, NY April 2018 to Present Description: Citigroup Inc. or Citi is an American multinational investment bank and financial services corporation headquartered in New York City. The company was formed by the merger of banking giant Citicorp and financial conglomerate Travelers Group in 1998; Travelers was subsequently spun off from the company in 2002.    Responsibilities:  • Analyzed business needs, distinguish between needs and wants, identify gaps between business needs and standard application functionality.  • Experienced working with Standard objects like leads, opportunities and cases.  • Developed Apex Classes, Visualforce pages and Apex Triggers to develop the custom functionality as per the requirements.  • Designed, developed and deployed the Custom objects, Components, Visualforce Pages to suit to the needs of the application.  • Maintained Sharing according to territory scale and assigned various Sales and marketing team needs.  • Experience on developing the force. com platform to meet the various internal needs.  • Involved in integration with Java based web application using Enterprise API from Salesforce.  • Collaborated with chatter to make the internal team aware of the ongoing development.  • Designed, developed and deployed Apex Classes, Controller Classes and Apex Triggers, packages for various functional needs in the application.  • Worked with Data loader for loading the attachments into salesforce. com.  • Analyzed and converted business workflows to Salesforce workflows and assigned workflow alerts.  • Created the platform on Sandbox, tested and deployed in production.  • Experience working on Web testing tools, Automation scripting using Selenium, Jenkins and load testing tools like load runner.    Environment: Force. com platform, Apex Language, Visual Force, Data Loader, HTML, JavaScript, Apex Triggers, Web Services, Reports, Chatter, Standard objects, Custom Objects, Custom Tabs, Email Services, Security Controls, Sandbox data loading. Sr. Salesforce Developer/Admin Change Health Care - Nashville, TN December 2016 to March 2018 Description: MOST is a set of medical orders by Change Health care. MOST is valid in all care settings including hospitals until replace by new physician's order. An advance directive is encouraged for all competent adults regardless of their health status. An advance directive allows a person to document in detail his/her future health care instructions and/or name a surrogate decision maker to speak on his/her behalf. When available, all documents should be reviewed to ensure consistency, and the forms updated appropriately to resolve any conflicts.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in requirements gathering, system design, analysis, implementation, and followed AGILE (SCRUM).  • Involved in discussions with all team members to provide best solution for migrating Salesforce Classic to Salesforce Lightning.  • Analyzing the Scenarios for switching between Salesforce classic and the Lightning Experience.  • Worked on translating several Visual Force pages to lightning framework  • Used lightning Process Builder to overcome complex workflows which easily automates the business process in a new Visual Presentation.  • Designed, developed, and deployed Apex Classes, Controller Classes, Extensions and Apex triggers, API integration for various functional need in the application using Eclipse IDE.  • Involved in Developing Lightening pages using Aura, implemented lightening Controllers, Components using Lightning Design Systems (LDS) for Lightning Community builder.  • Developed various Batch Apex classes and scheduled those using Apex Schedulable classes.  • Created Custom objects, Profiles, Roles, Page layouts, Security, Custom Visualforce tabs and Components.  • Involved in Data mapping and migration of data from legacy systems to SalesForce.com Objects and fields.  • Developed Visualforce Pages using different components and using Angualr.js, HTML5, CSS3.  • Skilled in understanding and implementing the new Salesforce Lightning Experience.  • Created various Reports (Summary reports, Matrix reports, pie charts, Dashboards, and Graphics).  • Regularly keeping track on client's requirement to achieve their organization business goals.  • Implemented Salesforce Lightning Components for small set of users within the organization.  • Written Apex REST API Web Service classes to automate the end to end flow.  • Integrated SFDC with applications on Splunkbase using RESTAPI and used MuleSoft for integration.  • Responsible for writing SOQL, &SOSL Queries with consideration to Governor Limits for data manipulation needs of the application using platform database objects.  • Performed Bulk Data Migration from Applications to Salesforce using Import Wizard, Excel Connector, Data Loader, Workbench, Apex Data Loader utility and ETL Tools.  • Executed various levels of Unit, Integration, User Acceptance, and Operational Acceptance testing using test cases to prove that system confirm to specification of business and quality requirements.  • Used the sandbox for testing and migrated the code to the deployment instance after testing.  • Responsible for Continuous Integration (CI) and Continuous Delivery (CD) process implementation using Jenkins and Project Management tool as JIRA.    Environment: Salesforce CRM, Force.com, Apex Language, Visual Force, Custom Component, Lightning Component, Service Cloud, Custom Controllers, Security Controls, Time Base Triggers, Data Loader, HTML5, JavaScript, Angular.JS, SOQL, SOSL, Workflow, & Approvals, Reports, Custom Objects, Custom Tabs, Email Services, Sandbox data loading, MuleSoft, REST API, Workbench, Eclipse IDE Plugin. Sr. Salesforce Developer/Admin Andersen Corporation - Stillwater, MN June 2015 to November 2016 Description: Build a world class Inside Sales Team that better serves our customers, complements our field strategy, and contributes to Andersen revenue growth. Expands sales reach that is scalable and more cost effective, provides support and mitigates risk of future retirements, growth engine and improved customer experience for our lesser served dealers.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in discussions with all team members to provide best solution for migrating Salesforce Classic to Salesforce Lightning  • Helped provide the best environment for the ISR's through email integration, task management and day to day telephonic activities through Mitel integration. Environment was setup in Lightning interface for the Sales reps and gave proper demos before migrating them from classic.  • Involved in requirements gathering, system design, analysis, implementation, and followed AGILE (SCRUM)  • Worked for the enhancements of user interface and helped reduce the backlogs according to the requirements of the product owner.  • Design and plan for migration of the org from classic to lightning and ensured proper functionality of the migrated components.  • Developed Junction objects and implemented various advanced fields like Picklist, Custom Formula Fields, Field Dependencies, Validation Rules, Workflows, Approval Process and Process builder for automated alerts  • Enabled and enhanced Lightning for Outlook to improve internal efficiencies so the sales reps can update their records effortlessly and send one-to-many messages with one click.  • Led org migration effort to inventory Org elements and migrate them via an unmanaged package.  • Created a sync of contacts, email alerts, events and tasks between Salesforce to Outlook and Outlook to Salesforce successfully  • Maintained sharing according to territory scale and assigned various sales and marketing team needs.  • Created Lightning components using Aura as specific actions for standard objects according to the requirement.  • Created Salesforce SObjects and related metadata necessary to support customizations across instances.  • Implemented Email-to-Case, Web-to-Case entry and manual case entry for entering customer's cases in Cases Tab  • Worked with Marketing and finance users to create custom functionality: to handle Account Sub-elements, to deliver custom campaign functionality and managed workflows.  • Extensive Experience working with Data loader, Workbench, Eclipse. Worked on Sales Cloud and Service Cloud Platform  • Designed, developed, and deployed Apex Classes, Controller Classes, Extensions and Apex triggers.  • Worked on Single Sign on for Internal users where no additional sign in is needed for salesforce if user is logged into the company's network  • Running reports to analyze the monthly progress of sales team and how effective is their selling process and visualize through dashboards.  • Created email templates and inbound emails using visual force for clients and customers.  • Used SOQL and SOSL statements within Governor Limits for data manipulation needs of the application using platform database objects  • Consolidated multiple triggers into a single active trigger for various objects under the salesforce best practices.  • I worked on the POC to introduce version control and created a pipeline for version control system.  • Used Git as version control tool and Bitbucket as Remote Repository, Maven as build tool to specify dependencies.    Environment: Salesforce CRM, Force.com, Apex Language, Visual Force, Custom Component, Lightning Component, Service Cloud, Custom Controllers, Security Controls, Time Base Triggers, Data Loader, HTML5, JavaScript, Angular.JS, SOQL, SOSL, Workflow, & Approvals, Reports, Custom Objects, Custom Tabs, Email Services, Sandbox data loading, MuleSoft, REST API, Workbench, Eclipse IDE Plugin. Sr. Salesforce Developer BCBS - San Francisco, CA January 2014 to May 2015 Description: BCBS is an American Multinational corporation. BCBS used Salesforce.com as a platform to build custom workflow solutions that can automate critical internal business processes. They are establishing Force.com center of excellence within the enterprise and implement portfolio tracker for credit review, cash management, investing debts, access account information, view transfers, payments insurance.    Responsibilities:  • Participated in requirements grooming sessions with business users, developers and created technical design documents with coding standards and pseudo code by following Agile Scrum methodology.  • Written Apex web services to for inbound calls to Salesforce and developed Apex callouts to consume data from external services by consuming Partner WSDL.  • Implemented Email-to- Case, Case Escalation rules, Case Assignment rules for service request automation.  • Developed custom visual force pages and associated Apex extension controllers and standard page layouts based on record type.  • Worked on SOQL and SOSL for querying required data sets from different custom objects and performed DML operations with consideration of Governor Limits.  • Developed Apex classes and Apex Triggers for implementing customizations requested by business users.  • Provided ongoing Salesforce.com maintenance and administration services including periodic data cleansing, custom objects, workflows.  • Performed out of Box configurations customization activities Page/Search/Compact Layouts, Record Types, Dependent Pick Lists, Formula, Roll-up summary fields, Validation rules, Workflows and Approval process.  • Worked on Eclipse IDE with Force.com Plugin for development and customizing components.  • Worked as administrator to maintain Application Level Security and involved in discussions to implement System Level Security configured Single Sign-on.  • Worked with Data Loader for data migration and performed Insert, Update, Import and Export operations.  • Developed various Custom Reports, Report Types, Dashboards and Analytic snapshot for different line of business on Standard and Custom Objects.  • Created Test classes for Unit Testing to check custom business functionality implemented.  • Built package.xml and deployed components to sandbox and production instances using Force.com ant migration tool Workbench and Change Sets.  • Participated in solving day to day production issues and training sessions provided by Team.  • Used SVN (Sub Version) as version control tool.  • Used Jenkins as CI/CD tool and JIRA for project management.    Environment: Salesforce.com, Security Controls, Escalation rules, Assignment rules, Record types, Custom Objects, Apex, Visualforce Pages, Sandbox, Workbench, Tooling API, SOAP, ANT, SVN, Jenkins, JIRA, Eclipse. Salesforce Developer/Admin American Express - New York, NY September 2012 to December 2013 Description: American Express ensured delivery of innovative, high-quality solutions to meet business needs for those departments using Salesforce as well as building the necessary interface and tools to integrate new departments into salesforce. This project deals with the Ultra High Net Worth Clients of American Express. The requirement is to migrate Customers Lead data from interface systems to Salesforce using CLI Data migration in batch jobs that are scheduled weekly, monthly and Quarterly. The data received in the form of csv and text files are uploaded into a Database temporarily and then migrated into Salesforce using apex data loader command line interface.    Responsibilities:  • Interacted with various business user groups for gathering requirements for Salesforce implementation & developed and documented the Business and Software Requirements.  • Created various Reports (summary reports, matrix reports, pie charts, dashboards and graphics) and Report Folders to assist managers to better utilize Salesforce as a sales tool and configured various Reports for users.  • Worked on Service Cloud and Sales Cloud implementations.  • Experience in developing and maintaining email templates within Marketing Cloud.  • Integrated web services by generating the necessary stubs from the WSDL files for extracting the data from the home-loan applications by using the home-loan web services.  • Implemented Salesforce.com web services client using Salesforce web services API, Java, XML and Partner WSDL.  • Designed Salesforce Service Cloud console to boost productivity with dashboard-like interface, to modify records.  • Used SOQL&SOSL with in Governor Limits for data manipulation needs of the application using Force.com explorer  • Managed Service Cloud components including Service Console, Partner portal, Call Center, CTI integration, Customer Portal, Live agent, Knowledge Base and Entitlements  • Performed detailed analysis of business and technical requirements and designed the solution by Customizing various standard objects of Salesforce.com (SFDC) and using other Platform based technologies like Visualforce, Force.com API and Webservices.  • Worked with Visualforce Pages, Custom Controllers, Extension Controllers, Apex Coding, Classes, Apex Triggers.  • Experience in creating and maintaining Automations & Data Extensions and connector data transfer processes in Marketing Cloud.  • Worked with Data loader for loading the attachments into salesforce.com, related to objects like Accounts, Contacts, Opportunities, and Activities.  • Designed and developed SFA based Application on Force.com Platform in Salesforce.com environment with Apex programming language at backend and Visualforce pages as user interface.  • Collaborated with the QA team in reviewing and validating test plans and test cases and ensure that the application meets user requirements.  • Used Git as version control tool, Maven as build tool to specify dependencies.  • Responsible for Continuous Integration (CI) and Continuous Delivery (CD) process implementation using Jenkins and Project Management tool as JIRA.    Environment: Saleforce.com platform, Apex, Visualforce, Salesforce.com Data Loader, Workflow &Approvals Reports, Custom Objects, Custom Tabs, Email Services, Community and Partner Portals, HTML, JavaScript, Java, Web Services, WSDL, Sandbox, Eclipse, Git, Maven, Jenkins, Jira. Salesforce Developer Staples - Framingham, MA August 2011 to August 2012 Description: Staples handle their Lead management and sales Process in formal process. There is no predefine predefined manner of Lead handling and conversion based on the capability of the lead. The project is to build new business functionality to manage lead generation, conversation, and provide customer service effectively in Salesforce    Responsibilities:  • Worked on Service Cloud and Sales Cloud implementations.  • Developed Complex Apex Batch Jobs and changes to the existing Jobs for better Performance.  • Created profiles, roles and implemented object level, field level and record level security.  • Development of SOAP and REST based web services used for custom development.  • Provided ongoing Salesforce.com maintenance and administration services including periodic data Cleansing custom objects, workflow.  • Developed and deployed workflow rules, approval processes, email templates and assignment rules.  • Debug Apex scripts using Debug Logs and System Log Console to catch Exceptions and execute Governor limits.  • Worked with Dynamic Apex to access S-Objects and fields to describe information, execute DynamicSOQL, SOSL, and DML Queries.  • Used SOQL and SOSL with in Governor Limits for data manipulation needs of the application usingForce.com explorer.  • Experience in ETL Methods for integrating data feeds on Salesforce cloud.  • Worked with Visual Force Pages, Custom Controllers, Extension Controllers, Apex Coding, Apex Web Services, Apex Classes, and Triggers.  • Managed Service Cloud components including Service Console, Partner portal, Call Center, CTI integration, Customer Portal, Live agent and Entitlements.  • Implemented Email-to- Case, Web-to- Case entry and manual case entry for entering customer's casesin Cases Tab, Auto Response rules, Assignment, and Escalation rules.    Environment: Salesforce.com platform, Database.com, Apex Script, Visual Force Pages, Controllers, CSS, Workflow & Approvals, List Views, Email Templates, Custom Objects, Custom Tabs, Page Layouts, Email Services, HTML, Java Script, Reports, Dashboards. Jr. Salesforce Developer/Admin Boston Mutual Life Insurance - Canton, MA March 2010 to July 2011 Description: Boston Mutual Life Insurance is the largest Insurance Company which operates from various platforms and online. Boston Mutual Life Insurance wanted a cloud-based CRM solution that would eliminate ongoing maintenance and expensive customization. The Enterprise Claim System (ECS) is a web-based system, which will replace the current mainframe application, Claim Service Record (CSR) system. ECS is designed to meet many goals like Increased Flexibility, Reduced Complexity, better "time to market".    Responsibilities:  • Hands on experience in implementing security and sharing rules at object, field, and record level for different users at different levels of organization. Also, created various profiles and configured the permissions based on the organizational hierarchy.  • Involved in Data mapping and migration of data from legacy systems to SalesForce.com Objects and fields.  • Created Dashboards and Dashboard Components and implemented multiple levels of Dashboards and Scheduled Dashboard refresh.  • Public groups, Queues, Case Teams, Sharing Settings Deployment using change sets.  • Created Many-to-Many relationships and created Junction objects to implement Roll-up Summary fields to aggregate data from child records on the parent.  • Performed analysis, troubleshooting, data testing and environmental refreshes as needed.  • Used Data Loader for insert, update, and bulk import or export of data from (SFDC) Salesforce.com subjects.  • Used it to read, extract and load data from CSV files.  • Worked with Dynamic Apex to access Objects and Field values based on user inputs, execute dynamic SOQL, SOSL and DML queries.  • Used Tabular, Summary and Matrix reports to create Standard reports and Custom reports.  • Used Force.com developer toolkit including Apex Classes, Apex Triggers and Visualforce pages to Develop custom business logic.  • Created several workflows/validation rules/assignment rules on Leads/Accounts/Cases as per the Business requirements.  • Set up Marketing Campaigns, Campaign Hierarchies, Assignment rules, Web-to-Lead and Auto-Response rules.  • Experience in integrating Salesforce Marketing Cloud with web analytics tools like Web trends, Google Analytics.  • Performed Apttus CPQ related configuration for product setup, approval matrices, approval rules, Process builders and flows.  • Created CPQ process using Apttus CPQ and CLM AppExchange toolin Quote.  • Worked on various salesforce.com standard, Custom objects like Accounts, Contacts, Leads, Campaigns, Reports and Dashboards, and responsible for the customizing the same as per the business requirements.  • Customized fields, page layouts, record types, searching, list views, queues, reports, and dashboards to drive business decisions.    Environment: Saleforce.com platform, Apex, Apttus CLM, Visualforce, Salesforce.com Data Loader, Workflows, Approvals, Reports, Custom Objects, Custom Tabs, Email Services, HTML, Java Script, Java, Web Services, WSDL, Sandbox, Eclipse IDE Plug-in. Jr. Java Developer Fedex - Memphis, TN February 2009 to March 2010 Description: FedEx Corporation is an American multinational courier delivery services company headquartered in Memphis, Tennessee. The name "FedEx" is a syllabic abbreviation of the name of the company's original air division, Federal Express, which was used from 1973 until 2000.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in design, coding, testing, and documentation, and followed Agile methodology.  • Designed and developed the web-tier using HTML, JavaScript, Servlets, Struts.  • Involved in the development of business module applications using J2EE technologies like Servlets, JSP and JDBC.  • Designed the application using the J2EE design patterns such as Session Façade, Business Delegate, Service Locator, Value Object, Value List Handler, Singleton. EJB Session Beans were used to process requests from the user interface and CMP entity beans were used to interact with the persistence layer.  • Developed EJB MDB's and message Queue's using JMS technology.  • Implemented security for different front-end views based on the access privileges  • Used SQL statements and procedures to fetch the data from the database.  • Used SAX and DOM parser to parse the XML documents and XSLT for transformations.  • Consumed Web Services (WSDL, SOAP) from third party for authorizing payments to/from customers.  • Deployed the application on to Apache Tomcat application server.  • Developed test cases and performed unit test using JUnit Framework.  • Used log4j for logging messages, CVS as Version Control, and ANT for Build automation tool.    Environment: Java, J2EE, Struts, Servlets, EJB, JMS, Oracle 9i, SAX-DOM, WSDL, SOAP, Apache Tomcat, Log4j, Junit, CVS, ANT. Education Bachelor's Skills Apex, Api, Application development, Design patterns, Javascript, Orm, Software development, Tomcat, Web based, Web services, Web sphere, Eclipse, J2ee, Hibernate, Spring, Jboss, jquery, Database, Force.com, Salesforce.com Links http://Salesforce.com