SAP Enterprise Portal / WebDynpro ABAP/HR Renewal/UI5 Implementation & Support Consultant SAP Enterprise Portal / WebDynpro ABAP/HR Renewal/UI5 Implementation &amp; Support Consultant SAP Enterprise Portal / WebDynpro ABAP/HR Renewal/UI5 Implementation & Support Consultant - SanDisk, Inc CA • Sr. SAP Enterprise Portal / UI5 / Architect / SME and SAP MDM Java portal consultant with 12 years of strong experience in implementing Enterprise scale IT solutions with SAP NetWeaver and Java/J2EE/ Web UI Technologies.  • Skills include around 10 yrs. of SAP Enterprise Portal 7.5, 7.4, 7.3, 7.2, CE 7.3, 7.2 & 7.1, Portal 7.01, 7.02 and 7.0 Installation, Administration, Configuration, Business Packages deployment and Configuration, SAP Fiori Apps, SAP UI5 and WebDynpro ABAP / JAVA iView development, Captcha and Portal Development Kit (PDK) iView Development, SAP BPM, e-Commerce, MDM & MDG Development using MDM Java API, VC, CAF and 2+ yrs. of Java, J2EE development.  • Served as SAP Enterprise Portal global competency lead with a team size of 50 consultants across the globe (US, UK& India). F  • Process Integration configuration experience - with specialization in HR and its sub modules.  • Served as advisory-level pre-sales support and post-sales technical support specialist. Pre - Sales support activities includes webinars to clients, on-site assessments / workshops and defining the future implementation roadmaps, build demos keeping abreast of changes in the market place, conduct trainings for internal team and customers.  • Worked on medium to large-sized, single or multi-product projects, usually with multiple computer environments where design is extremely complex. Analyze customer's business requirements and technology objectives, develop project design to meet customer's business needs.  • Prepare technical and functional specifications and estimate time frames, quality and quantity of resources required to successfully implement project. Work with clients, designers, and infrastructure team to define, create, and support SAP Portals and web applications.  • Architect and supervise design, development, and implementation of SAP Portal environment, such as knowledge management (KM) repository and taxonomies, business applications, and transactions.    • Adept at managing multiple efforts concurrently, takes ownership, demonstrates accountability and has a reputation of following through to deliver results. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience SAP Enterprise Portal / WebDynpro ABAP/HR Renewal/UI5 Implementation & Support Consultant SanDisk, Inc - Milpitas, CA May 2014 to Present Environment: SAP Enterprise Portal 7.5, 7.4, 7.31, NWDS, WebDynpro JAVA/ABAP, HCM (HR Renewal), Captcha & PDK, OpenText, SAP ECC EHP 7, SAP Gateway 2.0 SP09, SAP Fiori(UI5) 1.28.6 (JSON, XML & Odata), Web IDE &Eclipse, JavaScript.  Project Overview  SanDisk Corporation is an American multinational corporation that designs, develops and manufactures data storage solutions in a range of form factors using the flash memory, controller and firmware technologies  Responsibilities  • Responsible for designing and developing the solution components  • Developed custom ESS and MSS iView's customized Forms in ABAP WebDynpro  • Created custom Portal Roles, Pages, and iView's for portal HCM and SCM applications.  • Managed Roles / user permissions according to the needs of projects and teams  • Customized the logon page code, masthead and develop custom themes& layouts.  • Responsible for portal Content admin, system admin and user administration tasks.  • Upgraded ESS / MSS components to 7.31 , 7.4 & 7.5 Portal  • Created Portal Components based on Abstract Portal Components  • Migrated custom developed portal applications (.par) to Portal 7.31 & 7.4  • Migrated custom developed WebDynpro Java applications to 7.31 & 7.4  • Designed and created technical specifications for custom WebDynpro Java application for MSS Team viewer that gets data from the custom BAPI's from SAP HR.  • Supporting Portal for CRM, HCM, SRM and CLM systems.  • Configured and customize the UWL and KM Documents Integration.  • Production support which includes development and system / landscape support activities.  • Preparation of Technical Specifications, for custom ABAP WebDynpro applications from MSS employee Absence, CATS time data.  • WebDynpro Java code for Setting values for the Attributes to Update MULE on a successful upload of file.  • WebDynpro Java code for File check in the utility server for Error Trapping.  • Developed using Captcha & Portal Development Kit (PDK) for Enterprise Portal.  • Responsible for design, architecture and implementation UI5.  • Worked with key client stakeholders to define business processes and user interfaces.  • Developed UI5 Applications using OData Service.  • Worked on XML, JQuery, JavaScript and CSS SAP Enterprise Portal & UI5 Consultant SanDisk, Inc - Milpitas, CA August 2014 to November 2016 Environment: SAP ECC EHP 7, SAP Gateway 2.0 SP09, SAPUI5 1.28 (JSON, XML & Odata), Web IDE &Eclipse, JavaScript  Responsibilities  • Responsible for design, architecture and implementation UI5.  • Worked with key client stakeholders to define business processes and user interfaces.  • Worked closely with Basis Team to configure Gateway & Fiori Infrastructure.  • Fiori application configuration in both Gateway and ECC back end.  • Used Web IDE toolkit to develop Fiori Applications.  • Developed custom applications using UI5, XML, JavaScript, JQuery and CSS  • Integrate Gateway OData/JSON services with UI5 Apps.  • Configured SAP Enterprise Portal on Device to support mobile devices.  • Configured mobile desktop and framework pages.  • Developed mobile based Fiori application for MSS CATS data report. SAP Enterprise Portal & HR Renewal Consultant SanDisk, Inc - Milpitas, CA May 2014 to August 2014 Environment: SAP ECC EHP 7, SAP Gateway 2.0 SP09, Odata.  Responsibilities  • Configured standard SAP UI5 HR Renewal 1.0 FP 4 technology for ESS.  • Upgraded Portal components From Enterprise Portal 7.31 SP08 to Enterprise Portal 7.4 SP12  • Upgraded ESS / MSS HR ABAP & HR stacks.  • Configured OData channels (SAP Gateway) enables the bundling of several information sources  • Intuitive UI that users can personalize to meet their requirements. SAP Enterprise Portals /Visual Composer/WebDynpro Java Consultant Fulton County Schools - Atlanta, GA September 2013 to April 2014 Environment: SAP Enterprise Portal 7.3, CE 7.3, Visual Composer, ECC EHP 6, NWDS & NWDI  Project Overview  The Fulton County School System is one of the most unique school systems in the nation. Though not Georgia's largest school system in terms of student enrollment, it is, however, one of the largest systems in geographic area. From its southern end in the City of Chattahoochee Hills to its northernmost tip in Johns Creek, the county is more than 70 miles long. What is known as present-day Fulton County was formed by the 1932 consolidation of the former Campbell and Milton counties, making Fulton the size of three counties.  Responsibilities  • Created public budget funding system customizing Forms using Visual Composer.  • Created Tracks in NWDI & Administration.  • Created custom Portal Roles, Pages, and iView for Enterprise portal ECC applications.  • Managed Roles / user permissions according to the needs of projects and teams  • Customized the logon page code, masthead and develop custom themes & layouts.  • Responsible for portal Content admin, system admin and user administration tasks.  • Created custom Portal Roles, Pages, and iView for portal ECC applications.  • Managed Roles / user permissions according to the needs of projects and teams  • Portal branding i.e. masthead, themes, logo customization.  • Good experience on Portal Themes, layouts, desktops  • UWL configuration & customization SAP Enterprise Portal/WedDynpro Java & JAVA MDM & MDG API Consultant Johnson & Johnson - Piscataway, NJ April 2012 to August 2013 Environment: Enterprise Portal 7.2, NetWeaver 7.1, WebDynpro for Java, MDM 7.0 Data Manager, MDM & MDG Console, MDM 7.0 Java API's  Project Overview  The Alchemy project involves all Medical Devices & Diagnostics (MD&D) companies. The project will standardize more than 25 plant operations systems onto one common SAP platform. This will establish common processes across 63 manufacturing facilities around the globe.  Responsibilities  • Developed MDM Java API Components for Products and Material Objects.  • Configured portal UWL for MDM workflows.  • Customized Portal UWL to accommodate the custom workflows in MDM & MDG.  • Design and developed WebDynpro Java Development UI components for create, update and read operations for MDM repositories within NWDI environment and NWDS tool.  • Developed custom workflow in MDM using MDM Java API.  • Developed using Portal Development Kit (PDK) for Enterprise Portal  • Configured MDM & MDG business package iView's  • Configured MDM & MDG Details, Result set, Search, Picklist search iView's for custom repositories.  • Developed custom EPCF and URL events for MDM & MDG Details and MDM& MDG Result Set iView's.  • Transport portal objects across DEV and QA systems.  • Provided daily support and administration of portal operations, such as problem and issue resolution.  • Raising an OSS note and wok with basis team to implement OSS notes, kernel patches, and support packages.  • Migration of ESS / MSS Java Webdynpro to ABAP Webdynpro.  • Designed Framework for cross application communication and navigation.  • Production support which includes development and system / landscape support activities.  • Customized ESS Applications using WebDynpro Java and NWDI  • Created custom iView's using FPM views and FPM Applications for MSS applications.  • Configured Portal SSO using Kerberos.  • Developed Portal Menu Navigation.  • Administration of User's like Creating Mass Users' and created Group's for them as per Client Requirement.  • WebDynpro Java code for Setting values for the Attributes to Update MULE on a successful upload of file.  • WebDynpro Java code for File check in the utility server for Error Trapping. SAP Enterprise Portal/WedDynpro Java, PI & ABAP Consultant Johnson & Johnson - Piscataway, NJ January 2011 to March 2012 Environment: Enterprise Portal 7.1, 7.2, NetWeaver 7.1, WD Java/ABAP, FPN, SAML, NTLM SSL VPN, HTTPS Web Dispatchers( Cipher Suite configuration), NWDS&NWDI, Process Integration (PI)  Project Overview  The Crossroads & USROTC project's involves all Medical Devices & Diagnostics (MD&D) companies. The project will standardize more than 25 plant operations systems onto one common SAP platform. This will establish common processes across 63 manufacturing facilities around the globe.  The standard MD&D Global Process Model enabled by SAP will support enterprise business imperatives, provide strategic capabilities, address key process and system issues, and drive competitive advantage for our businesses.    Responsibilities  • Developed custom ESS and MSS iView's customize Forms in ABAP WebDynpro  • Developed custom WebDynpro ABAP applications (POWL) for MSS.  • Created custom Portal Roles, Pages, and iView's for portal HCM and SRM applications.  • Managed Roles / user permissions according to the needs of projects and teams  • Customized the logon page code, masthead and develop custom themes& layouts.  • Responsible for portal Content admin, system admin and user administration tasks.  • Designed and created technical specification for custom WebDynpro Java application for MSS Team viewer that gets data from the custom BAPI's from SAP HR.  • Supporting Portal for CRM, HCM, and SRM systems.  • Configured and customize the UWL and KM Documents Integration.  • Configured Federated portal networks (FPN) using (RRA, RDL and RAI), SAML, NTLM SSL VPN & HTTPS Web (Cipher Suite configuration) Dispatchers.  • Production support which includes development and system / landscape support activities.  • Preparation of Technical Specifications, for custom ABAP WebDynpro applications from MSS employee Absence, CATS time data.  • Process Integration configuration experience - with specialization in HR and its sub modules (ALV'S Reports, POWL).  • Configured the SSO between SAP Portal and BW, CRM and ECC systems.  • Done the role mapping in SAP Portal with respect ECC for ESS/MSS users  • Deployed and configured the ESS/MSS BP in SAP Portal, Integrated the Custom ESS applications in SAP Portal.  • Integrated the POWL functionality in SAP Portal and configured the Business objects to navigate from one iview to another iView. SAP Enterprise Portal/ WedDynpro Java & Ecommerce Consultant National Grid - Syracuse, NY January 2009 to December 2010 Environment: Enterprise Portal 7.1, SAP ECC EHP 6, SAP Gateway 2.0 SP06, NWDS (Eclipse), JavaScript, Sencha Architect, SAP BPM  Project Overview  National Grid is dedicated to being the world's premier network utility. National Grid's core skills lie primarily in the management of large and complex energy delivery networks. NG owns, operates and develops the high-voltage electricity transmission network in New York Metro principal natural gas transportation system and largest investor-owned energy companies in the world - covering Massachusetts, New York, Rhode Island and the UK.    Responsibilities  • Worked on Sencha Architect to create applications for desktop and Integration into Enterprise Portal.  • Portal Ajax Framework creation.  • Workflows using SAP BPM.  • Technical Specification Preparation.  • Created Tracks in NWDI.  • Customized ESS Applications using WebDynpro Java and NWDI  • Configuring and customizing ecommerce ISA B2B (Business To Business), java application using NWDS and NWDI.  • Configuring and customizing ecommerce ISA B2C (Business to Customers) java application using NWDS and NWDI.  • Configuring Landscape between Enterprise Portal to NWDS and NWDI.  • Creating iView's and assigned to Page, Worksets and Roles.  • Configured and Integrate SAP ESS / MSS (EHP 5) Business packages into SAP Enterprise Portal.  • Customized Portal theme and logos  • Developed Portal Menu Navigation.  • Developed using Portal Development Kit (PDK) for Enterprise Portal SAP Enterprise Portal and WedDynpro Java Consultant National Grid - Syracuse, NY January 2008 to December 2009 Environment: SAP ECC EHP 6, SAP Enterprise Portal 7.1, NWDS (Eclipse) & NWDI  Project Overview  National Grid is dedicated to being the world's premier network utility. National Grid's core skills lie primarily in the management of large and complex energy delivery networks. NG owns, operates and develops the high-voltage electricity transmission network in England and Wales and is Great Britain's principal natural gas transportation system.    Responsibilities  • Implemented portal landscape and information Architecture  • Designed and develop custom ESS and MSS iView's  • Created custom Portal Roles, Pages, and iView for Enterprise Portal ECC applications.  • Integrated SAP GRC 10 applications into portal.  • Customized the logon page code.  • Customized Portal theme and logos / branding.  • Configured SAP Enterprise Portal Single Sign on using SAP logon tickets for HR, SRM and CRM systems  • Configured and customize the UWL and KM Documents Integration  • Designed and develop portal security strategy.  • Worked with SAP customer support and Basis teams on pre-Go live checks.  • Production support which includes development and system / landscape support activities.  • Configured Portal SSO using Kerberos.  • Configured Portal Single Sign On using SAP logon tickets for SRM, PPM and HR systems.  • Managed Roles / user permissions according to the needs of projects and teams. SAP Enterprise Portal/WedDynpro Java & JAVA MDM API Consultant Lexmark - Lexington, KY January 2007 to December 2007 Environment: NetWeaver 7.0, WebDynpro Java, MDM 7.0 Data Manager, MDM Console, MDM 7.0 Java API's, SAP BPM  Project Overview  Enhancement project of SAP MDM applications for managing master data effectively and efficiently for all MDM objects like Customer, Vendor and Material.  Responsibilities  • Designed and developed MDM Java Components for Products and Material Objects.  • Developed business processes using SAP BPM.  • Configured portal UWL for MDM workflows.  • Customized Portal UWL to accommodate the custom workflows in MDM.  • Designed and develop WebDynpro Java Development UI components for create, update and read operations for MDM repositories within NWDI environment and NWDS tool.  • Developed custom workflow in MDM using MDM Java API.  • Configured MDM business package iView's  • Configured MDM Details, Result set, Search, Picklist search iView's for custom repositories.  • Developed custom EPCF and URL events for MDM Details and MDM Result Set iView's.  • Transport portal objects across DEV and QA systems.  • Developed using Portal Development Kit (PDK) for Enterprise Portal  • Provided daily support and administration of portal operations, such as problem and issue resolution.  • Raising an OSS note and wok with basis team to implement OSS notes, kernel patches, and support packages.    Java/J2EE Experience (2004 - 2006) Java/J2ee Developer Sai Softek services PVT LTD - Pune, Maharashtra May 2005 to January 2007 Environment: Core JAVA & J2EE (Struts, EJB'S, DAO'S, JSP, Servlets, WebLogic).  Project Overview  Develop a common Global Warranty Management solution to acquire quality business intelligence for product improvement while responsibly controlling Service Agent reimbursements.  Design and implement a GWM solution that will Eliminate Warranty Waste and to improve dealer and customer satisfaction by enabling the improvement of product quality, Establishing common warranty reporting and metrics.  Reduce duplication of problem resolution efforts for "Global" products across regions, Provide detailed claim data to downstream quality systems to enable rapid engineering analysis and response Integration with Dealer World Service Workbench style guides.    Responsibilities  • Responsible for designing and developing a development process that includes a standard development environment, Code Review and Unit Testing.  • Designing and Implementation of Struts / MVC framework  • LLD using UML and identifying the Attributes, functions and Classes and the relationships.  • UI Design and Implementation using Dream Weaver  • Design and Implementation of Database.  • Source code maintenance using CVS that includes setting up the baselines, creating users and granting permissions.  • Deploying and configuring the application in WebLogic application server that includes datasource configuration.  • Developed Static and dynamic reports using Actuate Reporting tool.  • Responsible for all the technical deliverables of the project Java/J2ee Developer Errand Technologies September 2004 to April 2005 Environment: Core JAVA & J2EE (Struts, EJB'S, DAO'S, JSP, Servlets, WebLogic).  Project Overview  The Bill Payment is a sub module in Personal unibanking. Main functionality of this module is that the Capital Z customers can pay their bills through the internet to different corporations. This module contains mainly three sub modules. 1. Pay My Bills 2. Scheduled Recurring billPaymnet 3. Update and delete billPaymnet the pay my bills functionality is the customer can pay the bills for different corporations on immediate and scheduled payments. Scheduled payment means the customer is allowed to select the payment date. The second module will take care the functionality of installment payments for each bill. The Immediate means the customer can pay the bills as an immediate payment, but as scheduled payment means the customer can pay the payment on installment Basis i.e. the customer can pay the bills on different installment cycles. The third module provides the functionality that the customer can Update and delete the bill payments for different organizations. This project developed under MVC architecture contains different entity beans and session beans and Calling the beans with servlets  Responsibilities  • Application Modeling using UML.  • Design and coding of the JSP  • Mapping the database and inserting the mapped value into Oracle database.  • Generating the XML file from the mapped database  • Bug Fixing and production support using Mercury TD.  • Performance tuning that includes refining java code and also database cleansing by removing redundant fields.  • Responsible for overall technical deliverables of the project. Education Master's in Computer Applications Bangalore University - Bangalore, Karnataka Bachelor's in Science Osmania University