Director, Cloud Platform Engineering Director, Cloud Platform Engineering Director, Cloud Platform Engineering - DataStax Berkeley, CA Work Experience Director, Cloud Platform Engineering DataStax - Santa Clara, CA April 2018 to Present Single threaded leader driving the engineering efforts for DataStax Apache Cassandra as a Service and the Cloud  Services Platform components of our integrated -aaS platform, DataStax Constellation. Cassandra as a Service is the first  self-service NoOps Cloud platform that simplifies the arduous process of safely deploying Cassandra while reducing the time it takes to deploy a running cluster from hours or days to minutes, all while applying best of breed security,  performance tuning with automated issue remediation and self-healing. The Cloud Services Platform is an opinionated  Platform as a Service to provide internal teams with an accelerated on-ramp for getting services based products into production. It prioritizes fast and safe iterative development by standardizing on containerized CI/CD deployments and  providing out of the box support for ad hoc environment creation for feature branches, logging & metrics collection, monitor creation, resource provisioning, network connectivity and internal & edge security, all specified using a single  versioned config file. Other achievements include:  ? Aggressively scaled a distributed, remote team from two engineers to 17+ in one year and promoted two senior  engineers into team leadership roles.  ? Established agile delivery practices to increase the predictability of project delivery and raise engineering  satisfaction by reducing over-subscription and end of sprint crunches.  ? Engineering leader for GCP specific product integration for Cassandra-aaS  ? Established architectural and cross-team cloud testing review boards  ? Spearheaded creation of Cloud centric SDLC policies and instituted incident post-mortem and change  management policies  ? Introduced and evangelized customer first engineering practices and led executive workshops on customer first  product design using the PR/FAQ process Director, Data Platform Lending Club - San Francisco, CA July 2016 to April 2018 Director of the Big Data Software Engineering and DevOps groups currently tasked with enhancing current on-prem  capability while migrating to a modern real-time AWS tech stack.  Responsibilities and achievements included:  ? Driving team recruiting; growing team 3x in 12 months while retaining top software engineering talent and spearheading integration DevOps team.  ? Setting strategy and leading development of automation and self-service capabilities to reduce operational  burden and time platform engineers spend resolving issues and manually repetitive tasks.  ? Defining and executing technical and enterprise strategy for evolving Lending Club's data platform to support full  lifecycle development of analytical & machine learning pipelines by transitioning from high latency on premises  Hive to an AWS based low latency, loosely coupled Kafka/Spark/Cassandra stack for ingestion, ETL processing  pipelines real-time decisioning and highly available persistence.  ? Leading development and delivery of self-service machine learning and analytical environments to enable data  analysts, scientist and engineers throughout the company with always available best in class tooling.  ? Driving company wide platform evangelization and adoption for analytical and operational workloads.  ? Responsible for creating and representing the holistic data platform strategy; including long and short term  engineering roadmap, staffing, vendor selection and annual budget process. Software Development Manager Amazon - Detroit, MI May 2014 to June 2016 Chief software engineering manager on Amazon Marketplace Selling Coach platform which generates automated, machine generated recommendations based upon analytical and machine learned models to alert sellers to opportunities to grow and expand their business.  Accomplishments included:  ? Chief technical representative on strategic product planning and development committee to establish both long  term (3y) and short (1-12m) term product development plans in collaboration with Product Management team  supporting a more than 50% annual profit growth.  ? Established a culture of adoption of Lean Agile software development and continuous delivery practices to accelerate delivery while reducing software defects and disruptive events by 50%.  ? Spearheaded product definition, architectural design, development, testing and deployment of key platforms for  (1) distributed processing of real-time data at hundreds of thousands of transactions/second (2) a several  thousand node distributed Hadoop and Spark cluster for orchestrating the processing of hundreds of Terabytes of data on a continuous basis (3) an always on Spark processing cluster that allows internal teams to perform ad  hoc queries across datasets containing >100MM records in <10s (3) drove adoption of platform by intra and  extra-departmental teams.  ? Managed an annual infrastructure and hardware budget of more than $2MM for fleets spread over 15 data  centers on three continents.  ? Established operational metrics reporting and dashboards for all systems giving an at-a-glance view of platform  health as well as automated alarming.  ? Transitioned a single product development team from Seattle to Detroit and grew team from 6 local engineers to  17 top-talent engineers and 2 engineering managers.  ? Submitted three patent applications for technical innovations envisioned and developed as part of roadmap  initiatives. Applications Development Manager GE, Van Buren Twp, MI August 2013 to May 2014 Key development leader for a group of applications that span a range of internal verticals including corporate lending  compliance, event planning and EHS/safety management. Successes included:  ? Coordinated technical solutions and managed development schedules and staffing requirements for four  offshore development teams.  ? Drove adoption of modern Agile/Scrum development processes and procedures, leading to a more than 25%  increase in development deliverables and transitioned to an automated, continuous integration model for build, test and deployment  ? Established peer code review process for improving code quality and cross training team members.  ? Performed comprehensive technical audits of three large scale applications to determine level of technical debt  and effort required for improvement and modernization.  ? Performed feature analysis and gap audit on global environmental health and safety (EHS) platform used  company wide to ensure compliance with internal policies and external laws. Established vendor feature  development roadmap and initiated internal initiative for data warehouse driven metrics collection and reporting.  ? Established the process for instrumenting, measuring and reporting user experience metrics for over 20  department applications. CTO DNA Software Inc - Ann Arbor, MI February 2011 to March 2013 DNA Software is a fast paced biotech startup focused on nucleic acid assay design and analysis. During my tenure there  I quickly became versed in the theory of science of nucleic acid design and managed the transition of products and business practices from a traditional application model to a cloud based Software as a Service (SaaS). Accomplishments  included:  ? Designed and led development of a horizontally scaled Java Enterprise based SaaS portal to allow customers to design and analyze their nucleic acid based assays.  ? Managed all new products by centrally controlling internal resources to move the project through the entire  SDLC. Acted as central resource for external customers to solicit and respond to their feedback and feature  requests.  ? Designed and led development of a massively parallel diagnostic design software suite for a global leader in parallelized genetic assay development. Software utilized dozens of concurrent cores to develop up to 500  non-interfering assays for each run. Reports from customer stated that through experimental evaluation, they  determined that 99% of assays performed as designed the first time they were run. Lead Engineer TheaterMania - New York, NY October 2010 to December 2010 Theatermania is a white label ticketing service for small venues. During my tenure, I architected and developed guidelines for the creation of a universal payment processing service for internal applications to leverage outside of a PCI compliant  environment.    Development & Program Leader  Mount Sinai, New York, NY  July 2008 - Oct 2010    Development and program leader on successful, on time, on budget $4 million project to totally replace Sinai's existing  CMS enterprise web site for the hospital, medical school and associated practices. Key achievements included. Chief Developer & Site Lead Vault.com - New York, NY 2007 to 2008 Responsible for modernizing and moving aging infrastructure to a more modern architecture. Self Employed Self Employed 2006 to 2007 Developed solutions for dynamic CMS based websites using PHP and TYPO3 web CMS for a variety of clients. Founder & CTO Evercare Communications - Copenhagen, DK 2003 to 2006 Founding member of a startup specializing in custom software solutions. Developed an array of enterprise applications  including an intelligent resource scheduling application and an online real estate auction website. Java Programmer Dyad Sodality Inc - Manassas, VA 2001 to 2003 Developer on endeavor to create a global logistic web application for the Defense Information Systems Agency (DISA). Education Bachelor's Degree of Electronic and Computer Engineering in Electronic and Computer Engineering Engineering College of Copenhagen 2001 Skills Devops, AWS