Head of Digital Transformation for North America Head of Digital Transformation for North America Head of Digital Transformation for North America - Global Organization Frisco, TX • Architect with a strong development background in Java, C#, Big data and Mainframe Languages  • Data architecture expertise of more than 15 years building, supporting and managing API Portfolio for Retail, Insurance, Auto, Telecommunication, Mobility and Healthcare. The last 6 years expertise is on Restful API and JSON  • Pre-Sales and Post-Sales support function performed as technology expert while at Epsilon and interfaced with CMO, CFO, CIO and different levels of business users in support of Sales, Product Launch, Warranty and quarterly business reviews of SLA's  • Founder of OmVision Technologies a product company in support of Healthcare Eligibility, built on Java technology stack, wrote the most complex components and built of team of more than 20 technologist and the company was later acquired  • Invited to speak by CEO of Blue of Cross and Blue Shield on "Integration Broker" using SOA stack  • Invited to speak by IBM representing HMS at Seattle CTO conference on Data Analytics and Warehouse  • Product positioning and POC with business to rationalize ROI and strategy  • Manager with consistent history of business process improvement & operational efficiency to include business transformation, platform reengineering and lift & Shift.  • Experienced in all facets of IT and aligning to the business goals and objectives.  • Digital transformation, application rationalizations and restructuring expertise  • Lead a strong team of technology associates Architects, Developers, Database Administrators, Quality Assurance, Automation engineers and Dev Ops associates  • Excels at blending technical and business skills to create and implement lasting solutions that support business goals and strategies.  • Scrum and ITIL V2 Certified  • Adapt at management of project planning, including timelines, budgets, and resourcing  • Strategic visionary who is currently managing numerous technology initiatives of up to $ 50 million.  • Strong leader who influences change at all levels of the organization from the executive leadership team to an individual contributor along with our customers, partners and stakeholders Work Experience Head of Digital Transformation for North America Global Organization August 2018 to Present Contract)  • Roadmap for Migration to Microservices and strategy to reduce OPEX by Application Rationalization  • Agile Coach and evangelizing Scrum delivery model for Agile delivery  • Manage and responsible for delivery of Data Management and strategy. Deliverables are to provide a roadmap to digitally transform the organizations by supporting the initiatives:  ? Data Lakes  ? Business Analytics  ? Digital Data Warehouse and Operational data stores  ? Data governance and compliance framework  • Define roadmap and strategy for IOT (Internet of things) smart meter and sensor data is secure and ingested into daily transactions  • Define Organization strategy for Cloud Migration and address technical debt of Infrastructure and Application consolidation.  • Manage Capex and OPEX of 70 million dollars Senior Director - Product Management & Delivery Alliance Data Services April 2015 to June 2018 • Managed and implement successful migration of products from Web Services to APIs to Microservices  • Managed Restful API software releases using continuous integration and delivery to meet stringent customer SLA's using Container/Kubernetes open source tools  • Managed and Lead API migration to AWS Cloud environment. Define scaling policy and S3 policies  • Managed and Lead a team of Architects, C# and Java developers, DBA, Business Analyst and Project Managers to deliver world class Loyalty suite of product supporting 1000 +APIs  • Managed and prioritize product backlogs and defects  • Managed the Center of Excellence for product performance test and Quality Assurance team  • Managed and lead the automation of API testing using Selenium and other open source tools  • Manage customer expectation and escalations and accountable to meet the stringent SLA's  • Delivered strategy roadmap, cost benefit analysis and ROI model to migrate legacy data warehouse to Amazon Redshift for World's largest Oil & Gas client.  • Act as key point of contact with Architecture review board, change control board and Release management and Change Management teams to come up with defined dates for product releases.  • Interfaced with security and systems team to coordinate for security patches, windows patches and come up with a monthly patch cycle date and quarterly product release dates.  • Managed CI (Continuous Integration) and automated 94% of API's including DDL changes and Reference data using agile methodologies.  • Lead multiple Client teams on performance, functional and quality test so the Client teams can meet the defined SLA's. Automated test data creation using tools and innovative plugin custom codes  • Lead and own RAIL (Roll over Action Item list) prioritization with project team to ensure delivery timelines are aligned and proactively address challenges and delays  • Member of the digital innovative team to architect and recommend solutions from traditional API models to Micro Services. Partner with a broad base of Architect to drive innovation by encouraging and respecting new ideas and championing change.  • Lead monthly QBR (Quarterly business review) meetings with Client executives to get buy-in on solution health check and alignment of customer expectations  • Manage a team of Offshore Senior Director's at our Epsilon Center in Bangalore Application Engineering Architect Softcard September 2013 to April 2015 • Responsible for API Portfolio management and release cycle  • Responsible for Product Backlog and defect tracking and management  • Managed the Application Engineering team to operationalize the APIs for the Electronic Wallet (Mobile Payment on Android/Windows/IOS). Under my leadership our team beat the corporate expectations by delivering the product ahead of time with no major severity defect. Was awarded the "CEO STAR Award" for under budget and quality deliverables. Our Product development was Offshore/Onsite model.  • Managed product development from initial POC (Proof of Concept) and coordinated across several product owners to roll out an electronic wallet product that was supported on 95+ devices.  • Interfaced with leading Vendors like Place cast for mobility advertisement and targeted geo spatial delivery of coupons and promotions.  • Responsible for 7/24 uptime, performance and scalability of the system to meet defined SLA's  • Technology stack was JAVA with SOA, OSB, ESB as mediation layer  • Provided monthly executive presentations to SOFTCARD partner executives (AT&T, Verizon and TMobile) on how we performed against our SLA's, Capacity Plans and product roadmap.  • Member of the Executive Project Steering Committee, Change Control Board, Architecture Review Board. This helped me manage our release cycle deliverables in a collaborative manner and maintain system stability. Project Director Clemson University & South Carolina Health and Human Services - Greenville, SC January 2010 to August 2013 Managed budgets upwards of $60 million)    • Managed Eligibility, claims processing and supporting application portfolio that serviced SC State residents using disparate technology stack Java, Mainframe, .Net and backend supporting Oracle, DB2 and SQL Server with emphasis on Services using Restful API's with XML payload as transition from SOAP AP  • Architectural standards adhered to TOGAF standards and met the MITA seven standards and conditions  • Managed world class vendors (IBM, Dell and HP) to design and implement a world-class datacenter that was capable of supporting petabyte of data and nationwide wide transaction processing with sub-second responses.  • Delivered strategic plan to define phased implementation approach with clear steps to priority requirements and devised risk mitigation strategy to meet the stringent timeline and stay within budget in the event of procurement delays.  • Responsible to build a team of technologist and support staff from ground up. The team size was 150+ senior level technologists at CU-ICAR in Greenville.  • Developed processes and best practices for Enterprise Architecture and then aligning business processes to technologies for enterprise wide adoption within the State of SC Medicaid Systems also known as Department of Health and Human Services.  • Managed technology implementation for a project budgeted at 60+ million with phase roll-out starting in 2012 for EHR and Provider Registration. Software development was based on 'Agile" methodology. Architecture standards used were N-Tier or layered based on abstraction model using Service Bus and Persistence Layer. Chief Systems Architect (CSA) HMS January 2005 to December 2009 - World's largest Third-Party Loyalty company    • Ensured that service level agreements were met and SDLC specifications were met per standards. Responsible for ensuring that application products development adheres to standards, runs efficiently and effectively, and produces quality deliverables using Reference Architecture defined for SOAP API's.  • Responsible for IT Strategy and Operations planning. Interface with the CEO/COO/CIO for aligning business strategy with technology and architectural roadmap. Reduced operating cost by 25 Million dollars by recommending consolidating application into a single platform over 4 years timeframe.  • Member of the M&A team representing IT and comprised of CEO/CFO/Legal counsel  • Influenced the CEO and successfully championed and implemented offshore model for application development in 2007. As Offshore head, visited with my CEO to international offshore locations for audit and compliance in 2007 and 2008.  • Negotiated master contracts for offshore vendors and with major Vendors IBM, Informatica, Microfocus and Qlikview for Software, Middleware and Hardware procurement and contract.  • As CSA, led and wrote a detailed IT strategy document for 2009 to meet current and 36-month architecture roadmap.  • As CSA, led the evaluation and selection of new standard technologies and have a buy-in across business, technical and stakeholders. Provide TCO (Total Cost of Ownership), ROI (Return on Investment) and Investment Financial Models.  • As CSA, work with Industry Analyst (Gartner, Aberdeen) to study technology trends and its applicability to the enterprise. Monthly presentation to executive IT steering committee which included the CEO, COO and CFO.  • Established processes for data security (HIPPA, SOX etc.) and regulatory compliance and SAS 70 with help from Risk Management Organization.  • Established architectural processes and standards to guide the rest of the development organization and head technology POC.  • As CSA, completed two phases of Application modernization (Mainframe to Web Based) for HMS Claims database system and customer facing applications with SOA foundation using .Net/ESB/ Java framework and relational database SQL Server, Oracle and DB2.  • Responsible as CSA for data capture, quality, profiling, Meta data repository and analysis. Led a team that included executive team (Sponsor), business leaders (Data Owners), Process engineering group (Data Stewards) and IT analyst to institute data governance policies and processes including archival and BCP (Business Continuity process).  • As CSA, directed the systems architecture requirements development for network and open systems technology; middleware including data, databases, workflow and logical processes; and interfaces with other systems. Reduced IT run rate by 5% annual savings. Administered performance review, mentored and trained and recruited top caliber associates.  • As CSA, Chair the Architecture Review Board to oversee, coordinate and approve system architectural designs ensuring solutions are built to operate efficiently and, in a cost, effective manner with an acceptable architectural standard that lends to reuse rather than focusing solely on delivery and immediate tactical needs  • As CSA, provided roadmap for solutions that includes ODS (Operations Data Store), OLAP and GRID based data repository. Introduced Cluster File System for Hadoop Project (Cloud Computing) and Crystal Reports/Business Objects for reporting and analytics  • Responsible for CapeX (Capital Expenditure) and operations Budget of 5 million dollars Lead Java Developer /Founder Sprint/Geico/OmVision January 1998 to December 2004 of Tech Company    • President of Omvision founder of One-Swipe Eligibility product.  • As member of development staff participated in application development using Core Java and Java Framework (Spring, Struts and Plain old Java POJO)  • In Sprint was a lead member of the team that performed WEBLOGIC application server performance test at Menlo Park with the Vendor (Weblogic). Won CTO award  • At Geico was a member of the Application Architecture team and participated in setting standards for application coding and database management of dictionary  • As developer was SME on writing OLTP based transaction with very good expertise using backend database technologies (Oracle and DB2)  • Well rounded experience in Business Intelligence, Analytics and reporting. Education Bachelor's in business Degree in business Bombay University - Mumbai, Maharashtra MBA Jamnalal Bajaj Institute of Management Skills Java, .net, Api, Application development, Data migration, Medicaid (8 years), Medicaid Claims (8 years) Additional Information SKILLS    • Management and Architect experience of more than 15 years; spanning Application Development & Web Application (eCommerce) and Operations management expertise (.Net/ Java, Mainframe) including Mobile Commerce and Service Oriented API based services. Cloud technologies (AWS, Azure), Big Data migration and AI  • Proven Distributed computing expertise with complex Integration projects across disparate systems and state and country boundaries. Strong expertise with Highly Available, scalable platform with Disaster Recovery environments.  • Interfaced with Leadership of AT&T mobility division, Verizon and T-Mobile to provide Softcard future state roadmap.  • ITIL foundation certification (2013) and practiced service management (SM) processes for operational excellence. Implemented a SM process at SOFTCARD to manage the SLA's and communication with our external partners on managing and scheduling technology related changes.  • Expertise in managing ARB (Architecture Review Board), CCB (Change Control Board) and PMO (Project management office) governance and project management.  • Adapted to different styles depending on organizations needs and demands on SDLC methodologies. Practiced Agile and Scrum processes in the last 5 years. Scrum certified at Epsilon.  • Expertise in Offshore and Onshore blended models and have worked closely with C-Levels executives for Application rationalization, product selection and technology standardization.