Java Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Developer - IDB US Become a core professional in the technology area specific to my qualification and experience and also in relevant technologies.  To grow as an individual, as a professional all the while contributing immensely to the growth of the organization I work with Work Experience Java Developer IDB 2017 to Present Technology Core Java, Oracle11g  Team Size - 10    Responsibilities -  ? Worked as a Java Developer and contributed towards E2E Testing of Product life cycle  ? Written test cases, test scripts and test Executions.  ? Conducted Functional & Regression test suites  ? Bug tracking.    Achievements:-  I] Awarded "Star Of The Team" for outstanding performance in this Project Associate Developer April 2015 to Present Technical Expertise  Programming Languages: Core- Java, J2EE, IBM MQ, Integration, Web Services, Spring  Web Technologies: Spring MVC  Databases: Oracle 10g, Oracle Reports  Web/Application Server: IBM Websphare 7  Operating Systems Windows, Linux  Frameworks & Tools Eclipse IDE, Maven, SVN, Jira  Design Patterns MVC, Singleton, Factory pattern   Project 1 - Global Cash Plus(GCP 4.3) Java Developer Kotak Bank, IDBI Bank July 2017 to January 2018 Technology Core Java, Oracle11g  Team Size - 7    Responsibilities -  ? Involved in CR(Customer Request from Production Environment)  ? Coding, testing of code and Delivering the Hotfix to clients.    Project 3 - "Total Treasury" Java Developer M&T Bank December 2016 to June 2017 Technology - Web Based Application, Online Payments, , SQL, Quality Centre  Team Size - 8    Project Details -  Global CASHplus (GCP) is Fundtech's transaction banking solution that combines comprehensive global cash management with the full range of automated financial supply chain features such as    ? Payments    ? Balance-Reporting    ? Check Managments    ? Positive Pay    Responsibilities:-  • Involved in Requirement Analysis, Development as per FS & Defect Management  • Involved in deploying WAR, testing and QC Support closely.  • Flexible to adapt to change in work methodologies in the IT Industry.  • Hands on in Transaction Banking Domain.  • Proficient in Functional, Regression & Accessibility Testing.    Technologies used:-  • Oracle11g, Web Services, Core- Java, Apache, WebServer.  • Frameworks used in this project are EXT JS, Ajax, Spring  • Role- Associate Developer  • Worked as a Java Developer and contributed towards E2E Testing of Product life cycle  • Written test cases, test scripts and test Executions.  • Conducted Functional & Regression test suites  • Bug tracking    Project 2 - "Transact Cash In 4.1" Education Bachelor's