JAVA DEVELOPER <span class="hl">JAVA</span> <span class="hl">DEVELOPER</span> JAVA DEVELOPER - GitHub • Having 3.2 years of Experience in Software Developing Java and J2EE Technologies with frameworks like Spring, Spring boot, vertex, Web Services, Hibernate and Struts1.  • Hands on Experience in Spring Framework.  • Hands on Experience in Spring Boot and VERT.X.  • Hands on Experience in Hibernate Framework.  • Hands on Experience in Web Services (SOAP, REST).  • Good knowledge in Kubernetes and Docker containerization.  • Good knowledge in Data Structures.  • Good knowledge in Struts1 and Struts2 Framework.  • Good implementation Knowledge in J2EE Technologies (JDBC, JSP, Servlets).  • Good knowledge in XML (DTD, XML schema, SAX, DOM, JAXB). Work Experience JAVA DEVELOPER GitHub 2019 to Present Senior Software Engineer MINDTREE LTD - Bangalore, KARNATAKA, IN October 2018 to Present Bangalore. GitHub October 2018 to Present Environment Java 8, Micro services, Spring Boot, Vertex, Rest API's, Intellij, Eclipse, Postgress, GitHub, Kubernetes and Docker.    Description:  MOSIP helps governments of countries to build a digital identity system. Using this, every Individual of a country can be given a Unique Identity Number (UIN). This helps in inclusivity and accessibility of all Individuals without disparity or discrimination. The key objectives of the platform are to provide the basic framework to create a fully functional identity system, provide the flexibility for a country to choose the features from the basic framework as per their requirements, maintain privacy, security and confidentiality of an Individual's data, provide a scalable and accessible solution to cater to a wide range of population (a few thousands to tens of millions) and Verify/authenticate an Individual's identity where required to provide access to services    Responsibilities:  * Created Spring Boot micro service as per the Requirement.  * Created Vertex services as per requirement.  * Designed vertex and spring Rest API's as per requirement.  * Implemented centric exception handler to handle exceptions in micro services.  * Implemented validations utility for request and response data.  * Designed DTO's and their validations by using JSON or XML data.  * Implemented service layer and their implementations.  * Written the encryption decryption classes by using encryption and decryption algorithms.  * Written DAO's and their implementations with JDBC.    Project#2 HEALTH EAZE (WELLNESS)   Client VIDAL INSURANCE NETWORK GLOBAL SEVICES. JAVA DEVELOPER Vidal Health TPA Pvt. Ltd May 2016 to September 2018 Environment Java, JSP, Struts1, Jdbc, Web-services (Soap, Rest), Eclipse, Jboss, Oracle.    Description:  This project mainly focuses on Doctors and Patients relation. This software facilitates a doctor to get a registration which provides a quick reference of past history related to a patient like his/her symptoms, drug allergies, family history etc. Doctors can use this information for further advises. So doctors will feel simple while treating a patient which he already treated before. In this system patient will also facilitate by user-id and password to get online information about his family past history, Test advised by Physician and All the consultation done by Physician for your family. When a health professional involved at various points of Patient health care has access to Patients medical history such as allergies, surgeries, tests and prescriptive medications, it empowers him with the ability to make better decisions.    Responsibilities:  * Designed JSP's as per the Requirement.  * Implemented Struts1 Action Classes.  * Implemented client and server side Validations.  * Integrated Web services using REST Web-service.  * Implemented Web services using SOAP Web-service.  * Written the encryption decryption classes for Web Authentication (for https.)  * Written DAO's and their implementations with JDBC.  * Written JDBC Components.  * Designed the layout of page by using struts tiles framework.    Project#1 VINGS   Client VIDAL INSURANCE NETWORK GLOBAL SERVICES. Vidal Health TPA Pvt. Ltd May 2016 to September 2018 Environment Java, JSP, Struts1, Jdbc, Web-services (Soap, Rest), Eclipse, Jboss, Oracle.    Description:  VINGS is a complete solution for the TPA which allows managing all health insurance data received from the insurance companies for cashless claim settlement. TPA can manage the details of claims intimation, advice customers on network hospitals, approve cashless services and settle claims, and disbursed the claims to the policy holders. All these activities are maintained in VINGS application. Once the policy is issued, insurance companies/employers send all the records to the TPA. TPA maintains the database of the policy holders in VINGS application to process cashless and reimbursement/claim process by different teams. TPA issues the identity cards to the policy holders on the basis of their records.    Responsibilities:  * Designed JSP's as per the Requirement.  * Implemented Struts1 Action Classes.  * Implemented client and server side Validations.  * Integrated Web services using REST Web-service.  * Implemented Web services using SOAP Web-service.  * Written the encryption decryption classes for Web Authentication (for https.)  * Written DAO's and their implementations with JDBC.  * Written JDBC Components.  * Designed the layout of page by using struts tiles framework. Software Engineer on payroll of RCS Technologies Vidal Health TPA Pvt. Ltd - Bangalore, KARNATAKA, IN April 2016 to September 2018 Bangalore. Senior Software Engineer MINDTREE LTD - Bangalore, KARNATAKA, IN 1980 to 1980 Team Size 80 Education RSM Inter college 2009 St. Xavier's 2007