Development Engineer Development Engineer Development Engineer Edison, NJ Work Experience Development Engineer Prudential Financial PGIM August 2016 to December 2016 • Familiarize with C++ to help do position fixing and pricing for in house trading systems(Calypso and Summit).  • Used Java to help build interfaces for trading systems to communicate with eachother to exchange trade information.  • Familiarized myself with trading concepts, collateral management, pricing, profit and loss calculations.  • Developed tests. Software Developer Thomson Reuters FXall May 2015 to June 2016 • Used Core Java, Python, and Java Swing to develop currency trading application.  • Used Java Swing APIs to develop a user rich interface.  • Applied object oriented principles and multithreading principles to make code more readable and efficient.  • Implemented algorithms in Java using Data Structures and Collections Framework  • Developed test cases using JUnit testing.  • Familiarized myself with different trading concepts in Foreign Exchange.  • Responsible for development of new features in trading application including different types of orders, user preferences saving, sound alerts.  • Used Eclipse efficiently for debugging application.  • Implemented Singleton, factory design pattern and MVC  • Responsible for documenting technical specifications  • Core java fundamentals were used to create static utility classes, comparators, generics, collections, extending abstract classes and implementing interfaces after injection.  • Designed and coded application components in an agile environment utilizing a test driven development approach.  • Used Jira for bug tracking and GIT for source control. Software Consultant/ Java Development Lotus LLC February 2015 to April 2015 • Worked on development of Hibernate, including mapping files, configuration file and classes to interact with the database.  • Wrote code to parse information from sites into Excel.  • Calculate risk and predict market trends with regards to data. Software Engineer/ Java Development Dovetail Systems August 2013 to December 2014 • Designed and developed the applications using Core Java: requirement study, software design, and development.  • Developed the Java Code using Eclipse.  • Maintained the source code using Mercurial.  • Configured, administered, and participated in the upgrade of Atlassian - including workflow management, documentation, repository management, debugging, and maintenance of all tools.  • Integrated Jenkins Continuous Integration (CI) to perform daily build of Dev server.  Worked with Hudson and Jenkins Build tools, including job migration, administering these tools using SHELL and Groovy scripting.  • Creation of Test plans. Development and coding of Test classes and Test Cases.  • Preparation of the Detailed Design document for the project by developing business process flows, requirements definition, use cases, and object model.  • Used Maven for building the application, and completed testing by deploying on application server.  • Utilized Agile Scrum to manage full life-cycle development of the project.  • Involved in configuring JNDI properties and used Data Source objects for database communication.  • Experience in developing asynchronous messaging systems using JMS, MDB and MQ Series  • Designed and developed base classes, framework classes and common re-usable components  • Used JIRA for bug tracking, issue tracking and project management. Java Development/Engineer Addteq LLC July 2012 to August 2013 • Participated in in-house projects for developing, debugging, and deploying applications.  • Involved in design, development, testing and implementation of the process systems, working on iterative life cycles business requirements, and creating Detail Design Document.  • Using agile methodologies to plan work for every iteration and used continuous integration tool to make the build passes before deploying the code to other environments.  • Assisted in implementation of agile software development practices such as test-driven development, continuous integration, acceptance test driven-development and continuous delivery.  • Developed JSPs and Servlets using MVC Framework.  • Wrote Perl Scripts for Database Interfacing and Common Gateway Interfacing.  • .Used Core Java to design and develop applications.  • Gained familiarity with Collections Framework and Multithreading. Education BA in Mathematics Rutgers University September 2008 to May 2012 Skills Bea, Eclipse, J2ee, J2se, Java, Java technologies, Spring, Wsad, C++, Git, Groovy, Html, Javascript, Jenkins, Object oriented, Perl, Python, Scripting, Subversion, Svn Additional Information Skills  Java Technologies: J2SE 5.0, J2EE 1.4, JavaScript, SQL, Swing, Spring, ANT, Maven, Jenkins, Hudson, Core Java, Collections, I/O, Multithreading, Data Structures, Algorithms  Other Technologies: C++, Shell Scripting(Bash and Korn), Perl, MatLab, Groovy, Object Oriented Principles, MS Office, MS Excel, MS Access, VBA, R Programming, Basic Python  Web technologies: HTML, XML, XSD, Web services, Tomcat  Application Servers: BEA Web logic 8.1, IBM Web Sphere 9.2  Databases: Oracle10G, DB2, MS Access, SQL Server, MySQL, PostGreSQL  Development Tools: Eclipse 3.1.0, Ant, WSAD, RAD, MS-VSS, Tortoise SVN, SQL Developer  Operating Systems: Windows, Linux CentOS, RedHat, Fedora, Ubuntu  Source Code Control: Subversion, Mercurial, CVS, Git