Sr. MongoDB Developer/Admin Sr. MongoDB <span class="hl">Developer</span>/Admin Sr. MongoDB Developer/Admin - Thrivent Financial ? Over 8 years of experience in Developing/Administrator web applications using Java/J2EE, JavaScript, jQuery, Object Oriented Programming, JSP, Servlet, Web Services and additionally in design, administration, analysis, development and implementation stages of various databases like MongoDB, Oracle, SQL Server, Hadoop, Cassandra and MongoDB. Close to 4 years of experience in MongoDB (versions 2.x, 3.x, 3.2) Development, installation, configuration and administration.  ? Over 4 years of experience in Java/J2EE and core java technology, developing websites using J2EE technology.  ? Extensive experience in developing Map-Reduce programs and aggregation frameworks using JavaScript's.  ? Experience in developing application, automated scripts leveraging MongoDB. Experience in the analysis of the data, data modelling and data structures.  ? Extensive experience in designing MongoDB multi-sharded cluster and monitoring with MMS.  ? Experience in upgrading and migrating various versions of Mongo database on different platforms.  ? Focused on architecting NoSQL databases like Mongo, Cassandra and Cache d4atabase.  ? Designed and developed custom Mongo applications specific to clients' needs.  ? Experience in Agile software development approach, a framework that delivers customer collaboration and interaction with processes and tools.  ? Extensive experience with JavaScript, Ruby and Python in Linux, UNIX and Windows environments.  ? Full life cycle experience in highly secure, extremely large-scale deployments of very high volumes of critical data with extensive security.  ? Extensive knowledge of Web development, from concept through implementation and optimization.  ? Experience in various phases of SDLC such as requirements gathering, analysis, design, implementation, maintenance of software applications and testing Client/Server and web applications.  ? Proficiency in multiple databases like MongoDB, Cassandra, MySQL, ORACLE and MS SQL Server.  ? Applied skills in software development, architecture, design, and support for new and existing products.  ? Fast learner, can quickly incorporate and implement new procedures with efficiency and accuracy.  ? Skilled in troubleshooting with good organizational and interpersonal skills.  ? Team player with excellent communication skills and ability to lead. Self-motivated individual with exemplary analytical and problem solving skills.  ? Exceptional ability to collaborate with team members for code and design reviews. Self-motivated worker with strong focus on business goals and end-user experience. Work Experience Sr. MongoDB Developer/Admin Thrivent Financial - Providence, RI February 2017 to Present Roles & Responsibilities:  ? Experience in design and developing Application leveraging MongoDB.  ? Worked on the enhancement of the business logic with J2EE with struts framework. Experience in developing java programs at the Application side.  ? Involved in analyzing the mongo data and document structures.  ? Developed Ruby/Python scripts to monitor health of Mongo databases and perform ad-hoc backups using Mongo dump and Mongo restore.  ? Experience with creating script for data modeling and data import and export. Extensive experience in deploying, managing and developing MongoDB clusters.  ? Experience in creating JavaScript for using DML operation with MongoDB.  ? Creation, configuration and monitoring Shards sets. Analysis of the data to be shared, choosing a shard Key to distribute data evenly.  ? Architecture and Capacity planning for MongoDB/ Cassandra clusters. Implemented scripts for mongo DB import, export, dump and restore.  ? Implementing on premise MMS monitoring and backup solution.  ? Involved in the Application deployment with WebLogic server in production and with JBoss in the dev environment.  ? Involved working with teams to find performance related activity with the Application as well as with the database side.  ? Used MongoDB third party tools (ROBO MONGO, MONGOOWL, MONGOVUE) and mongo-built in binaries to monitor and analyze the performance of MONGODB.  ? Installation of MongoDB on physical machines, Virtual machines as well as AWS.  ? Backup & Recovery, Database optimization and Security maintenance.  ? Worked on MongoDB database concepts such as locking, transactions, indexes, Sharding, replication, schema design.  ? Created multiple databases with sharded collections and choosing shard key based on the requirements.  ? Experience in managing MongoDB environment from availability, performance and scalability perspectives.  ? Configuring high availability using geographical MongoDB replica sets across multiple data centers.  ? Migrated Mongo database systems from No-SSL authentication to SSL authentication using certificates.  ? Migrated Mongo database from MMAPV1 storage engine to WiredTiger storage engine.  ? Managing Mongo databases using MMS monitoring tool.  ? Performance tuning and stress-testing of NoSQL database environments in order to ensure acceptable database performance in production mode.  ? Testing, evaluation and troubleshooting of different NoSQL database systems and cluster configurations to ensure high-availability in various crash scenarios.  ? Upgraded Mongo systems and involved with creating shards, replica sets, monitoring, and projections for Mongo Systems.  ? Worked with capped collections to wipe out aged data based on requirements.  ? Administered multiple environments (up to 25TB), automating backups and checks, restore, validation/integrity checks, growth modeling and predictions, and system expansion; assisted with upgrade efforts with MongoDB  ? Worked on creating various types of indexes on different collections to get good performance in Mongo database.  ? Familiar with MongoDB write concern to avoid loss of data during system failures.  ? Implemented read preferences in MongoDB replica set.  ? Configured delayed secondary's to avoid human failures in coding and development.  ? Strong experience in analyzing chunk migrations, splitting and balancing across the cluster.  ? Worked on pre-splitting mechanism using shard keys to distribute data across shards.  ? Skilled in troubleshooting with good organizational and interpersonal skills.  Environment: MongoDB, Cassandra, Ruby, MMS, Puppet, Linux/Unix, LVM Snapshots, Backup Scheduler, Data guard, Sharding, Replication, Python, Shell scripting, Perl, Py Mongo, JavaScript, web logic server, eclipse, struts, Soap and Eclipse. Consultant/HG MongoDB - Warwick, RI October 2016 to December 2017 Roles & Responsibilities:  ? Experience in managing large-scale, geographically-distributed database systems, including relational (Oracle, MySQL) and NoSQL (MongoDB) systems.  ? Extensive experience in deploying, managing and developing with MongoDB clusters.  ? Familiar with MongoDB clusters, performance tuning, backup and recovery.  ? Manage run-time configuration, processes, scaling, backup and recovery, monitoring, and performance tuning for production MongoDB instances.  ? Implementation of MongoDB security mechanism with various Authentications.  ? Having good experience in Migrating single Instance database to RAC Environment. Performed Capacity Planning, Undo segments and Health check reviews in RAC.  ? Monitoring Day-to-Day Backups, Log's & recovering them as per the requirement. Scheduling the databases backup using Cron tab and VERITAS net backup.  ? Involvement in space management, rectification of lock problems, managed quotas.  ? Worked on API server and maintained, written using Python Twisted and my own MongoDB driver. Handles data synchronization to millions of mobile devices from a single machine.  ? Scalable data design for MongoDB and Redis. Worked on pre-splitting mechanism using shard keys to distribute data across shards.  ? Point in time Backup and recovery in MongoDB using onsite MMS.  ? Familiar with MongoDB clusters, Java scripting to load unstructured data into sharding environment.  ? Migrated large amount of data between mongo clusters using mongo dump, mongor estore, mongo export and mongo import.  ? Monitored queries with high response time and high disk read per execution (Top SQLs) and tuning the same using Explain Plan, TKPROF and SQL tuning advisor.  ? Extensively used features such as Data Pump, Flash Back Recovery, ASM, AWR, ADDM for Generating reports  ? Created Partition's estimated stats on one partition1 and copied the stats to remaining partitions using dbms stats.  ? Performed CRUD operations like Update, Insert and Delete data in MongoDB.  ? Worked on MongoDB database concepts such as locking, transactions, indexes, Sharding, replication, schema design, etc.  ? Worked on creating various types of indexes on different collections to get good performance in Mongo database.  ? Testing, evaluation and troubleshooting of different NoSQL database systems and cluster configurations to ensure high-availability in various crash scenarios.  ? Worked on creating documents in Mongo database.  Environment: MongoDB, Oracle 11g, SQL * Plus, RAC, RMAN, Shading, TOAD, SQL*Loader, SQL Developer, Shell Scripts, UNIX, Windows XP Java Programmer GlaxoSmithKline - Providence, RI February 2015 to June 2016 Roles & Responsibilities:  ? Developed Web Application using struts framework, based on the client Requirement.  ? Developed an Application for automating the mainframe screen using core java and screen scraping technology mainly for replacing the role of admin in granting the access to the employees.  ? Worked on the authentication and authorization security tool Site minder for securing the users.  ? Involved in setting up the policy database store and user information store in site minder.  ? Worked on the part of integrating the web services with the web Application.  ? Worked on integrating the security authentication and authorization tool site minder with the Application.  ? Involved in setting up the LDAP Active directory setting in the site minder tool  ? Involved in Unit Testing Stored Procedures and Functions.  ? Worked on various backend Procedures and Functions using PL/SQL.  ? Developed UNIX shell scripts to perform a nightly refresh of the test system from Production databases.  ? Coordinate with the front end design team to provide them with the necessary stored package and procedures and necessary insight into the data.  ? Involved in all phases of the SDLC for Designing & giving recommended approach to satisfy the requirements.  ? Designing Tables, Constraints, Views, and Indexes etc. in coordination with the application development team  ? Developed database objects including tables, Indexes, views, sequences, packages, triggers and procedures to troubleshoot any database problems  ? Tuned complex Stored Procedures for faster execution and Developed database structures, according to the requirements  ? Created Materialized Views and partitioning tables for performance reasons.  ? Resolving the issues on priority basis.  ? Responsible for Analyzing and Implementing the Change Requests.  Environment: Java, Eclipse, Struts 1.x, Tomcat, Web logic Server, Oracle 10g, PL/SQL, Toad, SQL *Plus GAP Inc - Providence, RI October 2014 to December 2015 Roles & Responsibilities:  ? Installing R12 Oracle applications, cloning, patch analysis  ? Experienced in oracle cluster ware patching, CRS & Voting disks backups and restore.  ? Having hands on experience in Upgrade/Migrate Oracle Database from 8.0 to 9i, 10g, 11g and 12c.  ? Experienced in applying One-off patches, Patch sets, CPU/PSU Patches against Cluster and standalone database infrastructure.  ? Experienced in Oracle binaries Home/Database refresh between prod and uat/dev environments using cloning method.  ? Hands on experience of database backups and Recovery strategies using RMAN, Hot Backup, Export, and Transportable Tablespace.  ? Implementing Disaster recovery. Implementing PCP and DMZ. Oracle Application Database upgrade from 9.2.0.6 to 10.2.0.4  ? Creating db links and resolving application issues faced by developers  ? Monitoring database backups. Production support. Monitoring Standby database  Environment: Oracle 10.2.0.4/11.2.0.4, Sun Solaris 9&10, SQL, PL/SQL, OEM/OEM Grid Control and RMAN.