IT Administrator IT Administrator IT Administrator - IMPACT CNC, LLC To utilize my core competencies for the growth and personality enhancement of the individual  and professional forefront while working towards the attainment of goals & development of organization. Work Experience IT Administrator IMPACT CNC, LLC - Columbia City, IN July 2018 to Present * Manage and Maintain Windows Server 2016, 2012 & 2008 R2.    * Manage Exchange Server 2012 and DHCP Server.    * Work in VMware ESxi 6.5 for creating and maintaining Virtual Servers.    * Perform Active Directory Services administration and management include creating and modifying  the groups, domain controllers and users.    * Experience working with GPO for drive mapping, policy creation and Software Deployment.    * Work with Adtran managed Switches (NetVanta 1638P).    * Manage the IT Infrastructure using Kaseya VSA IT Management System.    * Manage Sonicwall firewall and Cloud Symantec as a security for company's network.  * Manage VoIP by using PBX Unified Maintenance console and KX-TVA Maintenance console.    * Create and Manage backups using Unitrends Backup System    * Work in SQL Management 2016 to execute ERP related queries.    * Give support to Made2Manage ERP Software by creating the ticket and accessing knowledgebase.    * Test, setup, deploy and maintain Computer Hardware and Software for the company.    * Communicate with Business unit and Staff to fulfill IT related services. IT Intern Columbia City, IN April 2018 to June 2018 PHP Web Developer INDOSOFT LIMITED March 2015 to November 2015 Bhopal Area, India  •Worked with designers, front end and project management staff to capture  requirements for the functional elements of projects. •Ensured that all work complied with client established standards and guidelines.  •Researched and collaborated with coworkers to find solutions for complex coding problems. Java Intern Vedisoft Software & Services Pvt. Ltd May 2013 to July 2013 Bhopal, Madhya Pradesh, India  Key Learning-  ?Client side scripting (HTML, CSS, Servlets, JScript)  ?Server side scripting (Servlets, Beans & DAOs, Database) Education Master's degree in Engineering/Industrial Management Trine University 2016 to 2017 Skills Active directory, Vmware, Exchange, firewalls, VPN, DNS, Security, SQL Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/gokul-menon-45407a135 Additional Information Top Skills  Active Directory  IT Management  VMware ESX