Python / Machine Learning Engineer Python / Machine Learning Engineer Python / Machine Learning Engineer - Travelers Insurance(Claims) Work Experience Python / Machine Learning Engineer Travelers Insurance(Claims) March 2019 to Present Created object detection models with deep neural networks to detect  windows on houses using Convolution Neural Network.  Role & * Created character recognition models to detect handwritten digits.  Contribution * Created a Chatbot to hold conversations using Rasa framework.  * Ongoing project to detect and assess damages to windows using mask  RCNN Data Engineer December 2018 to March 2019 Start Date Dec-2018 End Date March - 2019  * Worked on both structured and unstructured data and dealt with different data types such as numeric, date and text data and formats  such as CSV, JSON, XML, etc.  * Utilized Apache Spark framework with Python to develop and execute  data cleaning tasks  Role & * Used Spark RDD's and Hadoop Clusters for faster computations on large  Contribution amounts of data which is stored in HDFS.  * Used Amazon Red shift for staging data after cleaning and transforming  the data.  * Worked on setting up and configuring AWS EMR Clusters and Used  Amazon IAM to grant fine-grained access to AWS resources for users.  * Used tableau for visualization.    Training Projects  Project Name Data Analysis Team Size 4  Start Date Dec 2018 End Date March 2019  An online movie streaming business recorded a dip in their user base. The project  Project purpose was to analyze their data recorded and create reports for management to Description make new strategic decisions.    Created a dimensional model and loaded into Red shift to perform analysis.  Created an end to end logical architecture using AWS to support the analysis  Role & Created an end to end ETL architecture.  Contribution Performed data cleaning and transformation with Glue  Created queries in Athena  Used Tableau to create visualization  Technology & S3, Red shift, Glue and Crawlers, Athena  Tools Java Developer AK OWUSU INSURANCE AGENCY May 2017 to December 2018 The purpose of the EZTAGS project was to enable residents in Riverdale, Maryland  Project to be able to renew their tags, or vehicle registration and have the them delivered  Description to their home. Users will interact with a web platform to accomplish this.    Developed an API using spring MVC that performed crud operations on a MySQL  Role & database. API returned vehicle information once the user provided the VIN  Contribution  number of the vehicle.  Technology & Java, Eclipse, Git, Spring Suite, Spring Boots, Spring Security, Spring JDBC, Maven, Tools SQL Skills Hadoop, Hdfs, Hive, Html, Python, Keras, Numpy, Pandas, Pyspark, Tensorflow, Ambari, Sqoop, Data architecture, Erp, Hadoop, Sql server, Mysql, Oracle, Sql, Java Additional Information Skills Summary    Domain Insurance, Tech    Programming Languages Python (NumPy, Pandas etc.), Java, SQL Html, CSS    Operating System / ERP Version Windows, Linux    TensorFlow, Keras  Tools / DB / Packages / Databases - Oracle, SQL Server, MySQL  Framework / ERP Components Methodologies -Agile  Big Data Architecture - Hadoop Architecture    PySpark, Hive, SparkSql, Sqoop, Ambari  Big Data Tools  Storage - HDFS, S3    Amazon - EMR, EC2. Google cloud    Hardware Platforms Intel Series    Project 1