Java Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Developer - Schlumberger Houston, TX • Four (4) years of progressive IT experience with strong analytical, designing, Implementation of object-oriented Applications using Java/J2EE.  • Strong background in software engineering, development, configuration, Cloud and IoT devices.  • Experienced with Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC), Object Oriented Programming, Design and Web based technologies based on Agile, Scrum, Waterfall Model, and Iteration.  • Expertise in design and development of various web and enterprise-level applications using Java/J2EE technologies Such as spring, Swing, Hibernate, Struts framework, EJB, Servlets.  • Experienced in Middleware persistence framework like Hibernate/JPA for mapping Java classes to the database and using Hibernate Query Language (HQL).  • Experienced in Front End frameworks such as JSP, XML, Servlets, JDBC, jQuery, Ajax, JavaScript, NodeJS, ReactJS, BackboneJS, AngularJS.  • Experience working with back-end technologies like, web services, Java Persistence API, Enterprise Java Beans and JDBC.  • Implemented based on corresponding view components with view components JSP, Html, html5, CSS 3, XSD, XSTL.  • Experienced in setting up Amazon EC2 instances, virtual private cloud (VPCs), and security groups, Data Pipeline and Lambda. Setting up databases in AWS using RDS, storage using an S3 bucket and configuring instance backups to S3 bucket.  • Experience with setup and maintenance of WebLogic Server, Apache, Tomcat, LDAP along with build tools like ANT, Maven, Jenkins and logging tools like Log4J.  • Hands on experience in implementing client-server business applications using MVC, SOA architecture and Micro Services.  • Experienced in implementing Service-oriented architecture and Web Services using SOAP, RESTFUL.  • Solid Hands-on experience in end to end implementation of CI and CD (Continuous Delivery), DevOps processes using AWS Code Commit AWS Code Deploy, AWS Code Pipeline, Jenkins, and Ansible.  • Experience with Java 8 features such as lambda expressions, Parallel operations on collections and for effective sorting mechanisms and new Date Time API.  • Extensive expertise working with MVC architecture, Struts and Spring framework, Java design Patterns and hibernate ORM framework.  • Proven experience in writing Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, Functions, and Packages using TOAD.  • Good working experience in using ANT and Maven scripts for building and deploying the application in web/App servers.  • Experience working with JUnit4 for implementing unit testing and other testing phases like Integration testing, system testing.  • Extensive experience working with RDBMS such as MySQL, MS SQL Server, PostgreSQL, DB2, Oracle and NoSQL database like MongoDB.  • Developed and worked on RESTful web services for the Downstream Systems and Building RESTful APIs in front of different types of NoSQL storage engines. Used popular Node.js frameworks like Express and Loop back to mock a Restful API.  • Experience of core java API's such as Multi-Threading, Exception, Collection and used Apache Kafka for data streaming and data pipeline  • Developed microservices to load the data from DynamoDB to Kafka topics for reporting and Used Git to control the build version.  • Real time passionate experience with RIA technologies like GWT (Google Web Toolkit), Smart GWT, AJAX, JSON & JSNI. Work Experience Java Developer Schlumberger - Houston, TX August 2018 to Present ·Involved in requirements gathering, system design, analysis, implementation and setting up the development environment.  ·Extensively used JAVA8 Streams, Lambda Functions, Predicates, Functional Interfaces, Method References, Filters, Collections and default methods.  ·Involved in the development of the UI using HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, Ext JS, Angular JS and customized Data Tables and High charts into Angular JS Directives.  .Extensively involved in coding with AngularJS to add functionalities and effects like Accordion, Infinite Scroll bar, Slider bar, Draggle/Droppable, Resizable, Progress bar.   ·Worked on the jQuery JavaScript Library that simplifies HTML document traversing, and event handling.  ·Hands on experience with MongoDB Installation, Configuring, Monitoring and Designing Shared Environment.  ·Implemented a responsive web design using Bootstrap and developed Microservices for different level of layers in flow of network.  ·Worked on Espresso Framework and used internally for developing the services with a quick and easy view of UI.  ·Involved in implementing the Micro Services based on Restful API utilizing Spring Boot with Spring MVC.  ·Implemented the application using Spring IOC, Spring MVC Framework, Spring Batch and handled the security using Spring Security.  ·Migrating the application to Cloud environment using the Amazon web services- EC2, S3 and various services of AWS.  ·Worked in Amazon Web Services including migrating infrastructure to AWS cloud and maintenance of production web infrastructure.    ·Implemented Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) using JMS (MQ series) for sending and receiving messages while creating web services.  ·Extensive use of Spring Data in design and development of user interfaces and worked with HTML, DHTML, CSS, JAVASCRIPT, JSON in UI pages.  ·Involved in implementation of application using conventional design practices (Web-Service Oriented Architecture, MVC-Model View Controller).  ·Created and injected spring services, spring controllers and DAOs to achieve dependency injection and to wire objects of business classes.  ·Extensively used the Spring framework implemented upon the MVC design pattern and developed RESTful Web services for transmission of data in JSON format.  ·Used PL/SQL stored procedures for applications that needed to execute as part of a scheduling mechanisms. Heavily used joins stored procedures, views, Unions in Oracle data base to fetch the data.  ·Extensively used Hibernate Relational mappings (One-To-Many, Many-To-Many) in the secondary project and Used GitHub extensively as versioning tool and used Maven for automated building of projects.  ·Implemented functionality like searching, filtering, sorting, validating using Angular JS and JavaScript.  ·Extensively worked on and having great exposure of Hibernate Cache, Query, Criteria and Transactions in secondary project.  ·Worked on creation of custom Docker container images, tagging, pushing images, integration of spring boot.  ·Good hands on experience in designing and developing J2EE compliant systems using IDE tools like Eclipse, Net Beans, My Eclipse and RAD.  ·Created customized AMIs based on already existing AWS EC2 instances by using create image functionality hence using this snapshot for disaster recovery.  ·Testing for Node JS is done using mocha and chai for spring boot used Mockito, Junit, JMeter, and Mock MVC and achieved Test Driven Development.  ·Created the Docker containers and Docker consoles for managing the application life cycle.  ·Used React-Autocomplete for creating google maps location search on the webpage and Involved in building applications using React JS by building re-usable UI Components.  ·Used Maven as build and dependency management tool for creating EAR, WAR and JAR file to be deployed in application servers and integrated with SVN, Jenkins, JMeter and Jenkins Jobs. Java developer HCL - Noida, Uttar Pradesh June 2015 to September 2016 Job Duties:  • Participated in front-end development using Angular JS, JavaScript, jQuery, HTML, CSS and bootstrap.  • Written JavaScript functions for various validation purposes and written JavaBeans to contain data objects. Implemented session beans, entity bean, and message-driven beans.  • Consuming and exposing various Web services using JAX-RS and JSON to different systems for business services.  • Used HTML, CSS and JavaScript for developing user interface and worked closely with UI developer to design and develop services required in the application front-end.  • Developed application based on Model View Controller (MVC) architecture and used git repository for managing the files in this project.  • Implemented forms and action classes for the application using EJB and Struts Framework and developed EJB deployment descriptor using XML and used JAXB components for transferring the objects between the application and the database.  • Implemented Multithreading concept to load data from files to table, transforming files from one format to other.  • Reviewed codes in shell script, Java, J2EE, created subprograms, procedures, functions and diversely utilized Java tools in business, Web, Client-server environments including Java Platform, Enterprise Edition ( Java EE), Enterprise edition ( Java EE), Enterprise JavaBean (EJB), Java Server Pages (JSP), Java Servlets, Struts, And Java Database Connectivity (JDBC) technologies.  • Used Multithreading concept to post data from files to tables involving transformation of file from one format to another.  • Configured Struts-config.xml, Tiles-def.xml and various properties files provided by Struts Framework for the implementation module.  • Developed dynamic web pages using JSP and used Struts Validation framework to perform input validation.  • Build PL\SQL functions, stored procedures, views and configured Oracle Database 10g with JDBC data source with connection pooling enabled.  • Installed WebSphere Application Web Server for handling HTTP Request/Response. The request and response from the client are controlled using Session Tracking in JSP.  • Performance tuning of JVM heap size, garbage collections, Java stack and Native thread & production performance.  • Developed Ant scripts and developed builds using Apache ANT and used Log4J to capture the log that includes runtime exceptions. Education The University of St. Augustine for Health Sciences - San Marcos, CA March 2017 to August 2018 Skills Java J2Ee, Java, Spring, J2Ee, Hibernate