Java Developer/ IIB Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span>/ IIB <span class="hl">Developer</span> Solution Analyst - Deloitte Cosulting LLP Mechanicsburg, PA • Around 5 years of experience in Java Programming, Systems Analysis, Design, and Implementation.  • Possess strong commitment to team environment dynamics with the ability to contribute expertise and follow leadership directives at appropriate times.  • Thorough understanding and working experience on Object Oriented Programming (OOP) concepts.  • Experience in networking protocols like TCP/IP, SNMP, UDP/IP, HTTP and SMTP, VPN’s, Data Encryptions.  • Designed & developed the business components using Java 7, Java EE 7, RESTful API (JAX-RS), spring, Hibernate, JPA, Servlets, JSP, JavaBeans, Design Patterns, PL/SQL, XML, XSD, JSON technologies.  • Experienced in implementations of Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) using Java Web Services (SOAP, WSDL and UDDI).  • Broad involvement in front-end technologies like HTML5, CSS3, Java script, AJAX, JSP, JSTL, JQUERY and other java Script libraries.  • Proficient in using java development IDEs like Eclipse, My Eclipse, Net Beans.  • Hands on Experience in Developing Automation Framework using TestNG and Creating Test Result Report.  • Strong experience in Developing & Automating Selenium Testing with Selenium IDE, RC, and WebDriver.  • Prepare all documents for project standards and maintain accuracy in same and manage all technical resources to meet all requirements and perform tests on various processes in coordination with development teams.   • Develop all logical and physical models and deploy all applications and to provide excellent documents for all processes.   • Strongly initiative, creative and able to learn new technologies. Ability to deal with people, ability to grasp things fast, and willingness to work has always been my strengths.  • Experience in gathering functional requirements and converting to technical specifications.  • Good Communication, organizational and team management skills. Sponsorship required to work in the US Work Experience Java Developer/ IIB Developer Deloitte Consulting - Mechanicsburg, PA November 2018 to Present The Common Wealth of Pennsylvania (CWOPA), Pennsylvania was founded as a commonwealth for the common good. It has become the ideological compass for our American values of freedom tolerance, and individual rights. Today, Pennsylvania continues to lead the way for successful businesses and communities with innovation. Through a complete end-to-end solution, MVDLS provides a strong and robust backend and flexible integration capabilities that enable new government digital services, transactions, and operations to keep the DMV or DOT running smoothly.     Role: Java/IIB Developer                                                                                                                        • Extensively worked on creating IIB Applications and Libraries for message flow development.    • Involved in deploying barflies in WebSphere Message Broker 8.0.0.4, IIB V9 and IIB V10 via MQSI commands.    • Migrating IIB applications from version to version.    • Developed backend applications using Java 1.7, Microservices, Spring MVC, Spring Security, Spring Transactions, Kibana, Spring Boot and Hibernate.  • Developed Message Flows to process Leads received from various sources using IBM Integration Bus (IIB) and WebSphere MQ (WMQ).  • Developed Web services in IIB/Message Broker by using SOAP and HTTP nodes.   • Created XSDs, WSDLs and implemented Restful web services utilizing XML and JSON message formats.  • Worked on error reporting to support team by using email nodes.   • Created common ESQL functions, Reusable sub flows in WMB. Created sub flows for error logs and audit logs by using Log4j.  • Worked with VUE JS Forms, Validations, Modules, Components, directives, controllers and HTTP Request    • Experience in Vue. JS for building apps and declarative templates with data-binding, created some custom directives in the application.    • Developed Web services in IIB/Message Broker by using SOAP and HTTP nodes. Created XSDs, WSDLs and implemented Restful web services utilizing XML and JSON message formats.    • Worked on error reporting to support team by using email nodes    • Created common ESQL functions, Reusable sub flows in WMB. Created sub flows for error logs and audit logs by using Log4j.    • Developed Message flow services using ESQL Compute Node, FileNodes, Timer Nodes, Email nodes, and Routing Nodes.    • Developed Web Services using SOA, SOAP, WSDL and JAX-WS, JAX-RPC programming models.  • Developed RESTful Web Services in Java that provides support for JAX-RS APIs and serves as a JAX-RS using RESTful Web Services framework.  ·       Designed different components of the transition including Validation, Worked with CWF, TDS and XMLNS, XMLNSC message formats.    ·       Configured AWS Cloud Watch to monitor AWS resources as well as application and troubleshoot AWS EC2 status check including System Status check and Instance Status check alerts.   ·        Developed test cases for Common flows and tested those test cases in UT (Unit Testing), ST (System Testing) and IT (Integration Testing)    ·       Developed Message Definitions for Processing XML, Cobol Copy book, EDI format Messages in IIB/Message Broker v8 using DFDL and MRM.    ·       Used Jenkins for Continuous Integration, expanded test scenarios, tracked Cucumber reports.   ·       Supported IIB applications in different environments like DEV, SIT, UAT, Pre-PROD and PROD.  ·       Troubleshoot IIB applications by checking IIB application logs, syslog and user trace.    ·       Configured Queue managers for remote queuing to transfer messages between source and destination queue managers.    ·       Written Database triggering through IIB message flow using ESQL with Mapping Node and DFDL    ·       Helped and support to programming team members as required.  Environment:  Java SE 7, J2EE, Springs 3.x, Spring MVC, Spring JPA, Hibernate, Spring Security, Jersey Rest Services, SOAP Services, Angular JS, JavaScript, WSDL, XML, XSLT, Cucumber, PL/SQL, Eclipse4.3, JUnit, Jenkins, Maven, IIB (IBM Integration Bus), Selenium, Log4j, WebSphere7.0, AWS (EC2, S3, Cloud Watch, SNS, SQS). Solution Analyst Deloitte Consulting - Mechanicsburg, PA June 2018 to November 2018 The Bank of America Corporation is an American multinational investment bank and financial services company based in Charlotte, North Carolina with central hubs in New York City, London, Hong Kong, Minneapolis, and Toronto. Its primary financial services revolve around commercial banking, wealth management, and investment banking. Bank of America Corporation (BoFA), Merrill Lynch, BoFA Securities, previously Bank of America Merrill Lynch, is an American multinational investment bank division under the auspices of Bank of America. This is a migrated project from COBOL Language and modernized into JAVA for more to be accessed as a web application.    • Worked for front end UI using Angular 2 and Bootstrap   • Familiarity in writing Custom Directives in Angular 2.    •  Developed cross browser compatible pages using Modernizer to ensure proper working of HTML5 and CSS3 features.  •  Experience in all phase of SDLC like Requirement Analysis, Implementation and Maintenance, and extensive experience with Agile and SCRUM.    •  Created Typescript reusable components and services to consume REST API's using Component based architecture provided by angular 2.   • Implemented Angular Router to enable navigation from one view to the next as user performs application tasks.    ·       Worked with Bootstrap components of Angular-UI like carousel, collapse, dropdown, and tabs to develop dynamic responsive Web Application.   ·       Implemented Angular JS Http Request to read data from web servers and process JSON data to render in the UI.    ·       Configured AWS Cloud Watch to monitor AWS resources as well as application and troubleshoot AWS EC2 status check including System Status check and Instance Status check alerts.   ·       Created Spring Restful Web services consuming and producing JSON / XML, XSLT, and XSL.  ·       Experience of working in Unix environment.  ·       Used Jenkins for Continuous Integration, expanded test scenarios, tracked Cucumber reports.   ·       Create test cases using Selenium Web driver, TestNG and  Java.   ·       Created reusable templates and style sheets based on UI standards and guidelines; Performed functional tasks using specifications and wireframes.   ·       Actively participated and provided feedback in a constructive and insightful manner during daily SCRUM meeting to track the progress for each iterative cycle and figure out the issues.     Environment:  Java SE 7, J2EE, Struts, Springs 3.x, Spring MVC, Spring JPA, Hibernate, Spring Security, Jersey Rest Services, SOAP Services, Angular JS, JavaScript, WSDL, XML, XSLT, Cucumber, PL/SQL, Eclipse4.3, JUnit, Jenkins, Maven, TDD, Selenium, Log4j, WebSphere7.0, AWS (EC2, S3, Cloud Watch, SNS, SQS). Java Developer Deloitte Consulting - Denver, CO September 2017 to June 2018 The Colorado Department of Labor and Employment (CDLE) is the principal department of the Colorado state government responsible for local government assistance, property taxation, property assessment appeals, affordable housing, and housing construction regulation. CDLE, Division of Workers Compensation (DoWC), This Department provides the information and tools that are helping Colorado businesses and workers remain competitive. This is a migrated project from Natural Language and modernized into JAVA for more to be accessed as a web application.    • Followed Agile sprint methodology throughout the application development.  • Assisted in understanding mainframe languages COBOL and modernizing the systems.  • Helped design form validation programs using HTML and JavaScript.  • Implemented code structures in both migration and modernization programs.  • Developed Web Services using SOA, SOAP, WSDL and JAX-WS, JAX-RPC programming models.  • Bug Fixing behind non-modernized and modernized screens while upgrading Maxenso Editor from 15th to 17th version.  ·       Learning more about the Maxenso tool, and its components.   ·       LCM Configurations and adding modules to an LCM Request.   ·       Adding Screen Lockout Implementation for the screens (new improvement for DWC screens).  ·       Experience of working in Unix environment.  ·       Used Jenkins for Continuous Integration, expanded test scenarios, tracked Cucumber reports.   ·       Working on Vaadin UI framework for modernizing the mainframe screens into ongoing functionality.  ·       Executed both Functional and Regression Test Cases.   ·       Developed test cases and performed unit testing using J Unit.    ·       Extensively used Collabnet subversion for version control.  ·       Used Glassfish Server for deploying various components of application.      Environment:  Java SE 7, J2EE, LCM configurations, Maxenso 17.0, Vaadin, Jersey Rest Services, SOAP Services, XML, XSLT, Cucumber, PL/SQL, Eclipse4.3, JUnit, Jenkins, Maven, TDD, Selenium, Log4j, WebSphere7.0, Collabnet, Glassfish. Java Developer SMS Software Technologies - Dallas, TX August 2016 to September 2016 Role: Java Developer                                                                                                                       Sep 2016 – Aug 2017    • Contributed to servlet-based application development.  • Assisted in maintaining and updating existing applications and modules.  • Helped design form validation programs using HTML and JavaScript.  • Developed backend applications using Java 1.7, Struts, Springs, Spring MVC, Spring Security, Spring Transactions, Spring Boot and Hibernate.  • Implemented different validation control on the web-pages using AngularJS.  • Developed Web Services using SOA, SOAP, WSDL and JAX-WS, JAX-RPC programming models.  • Developed RESTful Web Services in Java that provides support for JAX-RS APIs and serves as a JAX-RS using RESTful Web Services framework.  ·       Responsible for maintaining and expanding AWS (Cloud Services) infrastructure especially worked with database setup and maintenance on AWS EC2.   ·       Configured AWS Cloud Watch to monitor AWS resources as well as application and troubleshoot AWS EC2 status check including System Status check and Instance Status check alerts.   ·       Created Spring Restful Web services consuming and producing JSON / XML, XSLT, and XSL.  ·       Experience of working in Unix environment.  ·       Used Jenkins for Continuous Integration, expanded test scenarios, tracked Cucumber reports.   ·       Create test cases using Selenium Web driver, TestNG and  Java.   ·       Executed both Functional and Regression Test Cases.   ·       Deployed the application in WebSphere Application server and configured WebSphere Application Server to access the Database by setting up Data source, also experienced with Tomcat and Jetty.  ·       Contributed to development of client side and server-side codes for external and internal web applications.  ·       Helped and support to programming team members as required.  Environment:  Java SE 7, J2EE, Struts, Springs 3.x, Spring MVC, Spring JPA, Hibernate, Spring Security, Jersey Rest Services, SOAP Services, Angular JS, JavaScript, WSDL, XML, XSLT, Cucumber, PL/SQL, Eclipse4.3, JUnit, Jenkins, Maven, TDD, Selenium, Log4j, WebSphere7.0, AWS (EC2, S3, Cloud Watch, SNS, SQS). System Analyst Infosys Limited - Mysore, Karnataka May 2014 to August 2014 Infosys Limited is an Indian multinational corporation that provides business consulting, information technology and outsourcing services.  Started in the company as an intern during my bachelors and got hired in the same company as a Java Developer.    Role: System Analyst     • Involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) as requirement gathering, data modeling, analysis, architecture design & development for the project.   • Used agile/scrum methodology to develop and maintain the project.  • Executing test cases allotted to me for each test cycle.   • Developed UI and JSP, HTML, CSS, J Query, DHTML, JavaScript, and AJAX.  • Implemented different validation control on the web-pages using AngularJS.  • Developed Web Services using SOA, SOAP, WSDL and JAX-WS, JAX-RPC programming models.  • Developed RESTful Web Services in Java that provides support for JAX-RS APIs and serves as a JAX-RS using RESTful Web Services framework.  • Created Spring Restful Web services consuming and producing JSON / XML, XSLT, and XSL.  • Implemented spring configuration files for the beans defined and properties to be injected into them using spring's Dependency Injection.  • Experience in implementing Spring MVC mapping Java classes with database and using Hibernate query language (HQL).  • Deployed the application in IBM WebSphere Application server and configured WebSphere Application Server to access the Database by setting up Data source, also experienced with Tomcat and Jetty.  • Developed backend applications using springs and Hibernate.  • Used Spring Framework for Dependency injection and integrated with Hibernate.  • Used XML Web Services for transferring data between different applications.  • Wrote Java Scripts for various modules of the received client messages.  •  Manage script creation for regression and stress testing using Selenium WebDriver and QTP.   • Involved in Unit Testing using Junit Test Framework.  • Identified test cases to automate. Automate those test cases using Selenium RC, JUnit, and Java (Eclipse IDE). Contributed in framework creation.  • Participate in testing activities, in collaboration with the development and production teams, to ensure satisfactory performance of end-user reporting.  Environment: Telecom (Mobile), Servlets, Core Java, SOA, SOAP, WSDL, JAX-WS, JAX-RPC, IBM WebSphere Application Server, JQuery, CSS, HTML, Tomcat, AJAX, HQL Windows 2000, Oracle 9i, Junit, Selenium RC, POM, Log4j. Education Master's in computer science in computer science Lamar University - Beaumont, TX Bachelor of Technology in Mechanical Engineering Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University - Kakinada, Andhra Pradesh Skills IIB (1 year), Java, Java J2Ee, J2Ee, Javascript, JSP, Hibernate, Spring, Angularjs, Rest, JEE, MVC, Angular, AWS