Junior Java Developer Junior <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Looking for Full Stack Java Developer positions Pittsburgh, PA • Highly focused and reliable Entry-Level Java Developer with an outstanding work ethic and computer  language knowledge base.  • Adept at explaining complex computer development concepts and processes to a variety of  professional and lay audiences in a clear and accessible manner.  • Able to work well independently or as part of a professional computer program development team.  • Experience in Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) including Requirement analysis, Design,  Development, Testing, and Maintenance.  • Expertise in applying various OOPs concepts such as Abstraction, Encapsulation, Inheritance, and  Polymorphism.  • Experience in development using Agile Methodology.  • Expertise in Java core concepts, JUnit, JDBC, Servlets, JSP, Hibernate, Spring.  • Experience in using WSDL, XML, XSLT, JSON file formats  • 4 years of Hands-on experience in Java/J2EE and expertise in writing Maven build scripts, JUnit test  cases.  • 3 years of experience in developing or querying Databases. Had hands-on experience using Oracle  Database, MySQL.  • 2 years of industry experience as an application developer using Agile Methodology. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Junior Java Developer CNT Infotech - Dover, DE August 2018 to Present To enhance and improve the operations, the Delaware Department of Correction (DDOC) has initiated iCHRT project to enhance the DACS and iCHRT systems based on the agreement with ACLU/ CLASI. The primary focus of this project is to automate the tracking of offender’s details throughout their custody.  • Interacted with business analyst team to understand the requirements.  • Participated in all Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) phases.  • Used Oracle Application Development Framework (ADF) for designing the application.  • Used JDeveloper as application tool for developing screens (JSP pages).  • Developed and created HTML pages using all components and layouts in Kendo UI tool and Bootstrap for mobile screens.  • Worked on modifying and creating database tables according to the requirement.  • Used TOAD to access the database for verifying and validating data. Systems Engineer Infosys Ltd - Hyderabad, Telangana August 2014 to June 2016 HRMS team  A Human Resource Management System (HRMS) refers to the systems and processes at the intersection between human resource management (HRM) and information technology (IT). This project main aim is to merge all basic HR activities and processes within the IT field. The linkage of its financial and human  resource modules through one database is the most important distinction between the individual and proprietary developed predecessors, which makes this software application both rigid and flexible.  • Interacted with business analyst team to gather and understand the requirements.  • Developed the User Interface screens using Angular JS, HTML, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Developed integration services in SOA by offering Web Services based on XML communication on REST Layer.  • Used JAX-WS to interact with other applications in an organization using SOAP and WSDL.  • Developed the action classes to execute the business logic and action forms to collect the input  data from the users using JAVA, DAO, and Oracle.  • Used Spring Dependency Injection feature for Bean wiring and created Object-Relational  mapping using Hibernate 4.3.  • Used log4j for writing into Application and Error logs and involved in fixing the regarding security issues.  • Used the Eclipse and JBoss Application Server for creating and deploying the application.  • Incorporated JUnit into the code to do the unit testing around the developed module.  • Worked on Spring MVC framework using a Maven project. Implemented Spring transaction  management for some database transactions  • Created various Controller classes and request mappings using Spring Annotations.  • Used Spring AOP to implement security, where cross-cutting concerns were identified.  • Performed Unit testing for each module and tracked the defects using Bugzilla.  • Worked on logging mechanism by making use of Apache Log4j. Intern, Assistant Engineer Trainee Efftronics Systems Pvt Ltd - Vijayawada, Andhra Pradesh August 2013 to January 2014 August 2013 - January 2014  Energy Information Services Team, R&D Group  Energy Information Services (EIS) team develops software which is used for forecasting utilization, measuring  electricity, prevention of power waste etc. This acts as a communication between users and power utilization.  • This project deals with the electricity measure consumed by residents and industries.  • We developed a software which measures electricity consumed and stores the statistics in an Oracle  database. The system will query the database for every 30 days (once in a month) and based on the statistics it estimates bill and next month estimated usage.  • It will also suggest customers/users regarding unnecessary wastage of power and how they can save  power bill. Education M.S. in Computer Engineering The University of Toledo - Toledo, OH May 2018 B.Tech. in Electrical and Electronics Engineering K L University - Guntur, Andhra Pradesh 2010 to May 2014 Skills Java (4 years), C (2 years), C++ (1 year), JUni (2 years), JSP (1 year), Servlets (2 years), JDBC (2 years), JMS (2 years), JBoss (2 years), Maven (2 years), Spring (2 years), Spring MVC (2 years), Hibernate (2 years), ORACLE (3 years), Agile (2 years), Soap (2 years), MySQL (1 year), PL/SQL (1 year), Jsp (2 years), HTML 5 (2 years), CSS3 (2 years), Javascript (2 years), AngularJS (2 years), Eclipse (4 years), NetBeans (1 year), Visual Studio (1 year), Microsoft Office (5 years), TIBCO BW (2 years), TIBCO EMS (2 years), Autocad (1 year), SSIS (Less than 1 year), XSLT (2 years), XML (2 years), XSD (1 year), JSON (2 years), WSDL (1 year), II (1 year), Tomcat (3 years), Bootstrap (1 year), Oracle ADF (Less than 1 year), Kendo UI (1 year) Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/narenthanguturi Additional Information ACADEMIC PROJECTS:    Automatic News Generation System based on Natural Language Thesis Project (UT, 2017 – 2018)    •The proposed prototype is structured on a data-to-text template that creates summaries for three different games from a structured input and produces summaries of the games in three different spoken languages.  •Basketball, Soccer, and Cricket were the games used, and Chinese, Spanish, and English were the languages used for the communication of the summaries.  •Designed and developed NLG News System in which uses NLG Techniques to generate News based on Sports Data/ Statistics of a game or a series of games.  •Developed a user interface for giving data to the system.  •This project is developed using Java, JavaScript, HTML, CSS, Json File format, Tomcat Server, IIS Manager, and Swagger Framework.    Mobile GPS Tracking Using Java UT, 2018    •The main idea of the application is to use a mobile phone which receives GPS coordinates and record those details in the server under the account of the registered user. From then the user can follow the map.  •This was developed using Java, HTML, CSS, MySQL.    Voice Calculator using CMU Sphinx and Java (UT, 2017)    •Developed speech calculator interface by using CMU Sphinx and Java. This interface has two modes of input-general (key based mode) and speech mode (voice input).  •Voice input will take instructions from our voice and then it will calculate, and the result will be displayed and spells back (CMU Sphinx Young Female voice is used here)  •Key-based mode will take instructions from the user, calculate the result and spells back.    Hospital Management System (UT, 2017)    •This application will maintain all patient details and their test results and can be used in hospitals, clinics, dispensaries, laboratories.  •Developed using HTML, JavaScript, CSS, MySQL, Oracle SQL Developer.    Rewarding System for Enterprises (UT, 2016)  •Developed an interface for enterprises to reward their employees.  •This application will generate the best and worst performer’s list for that quarter/year based on the time-sheets. Developed using Java, MySQL, JavaScript, HTML, CSS.    Go-To-The Marker Integration(GMI) (Infosys Project, 2016)    •GMI is based on middle-ware integration for a mobile application. TIBCO is the integration tool that we used to develop the interfaces for each module and accomplish local testing, UT, Performance Testing and hyper care support for the 1.0 release.  •Interfaces are designed and developed using TIBCO BW, TIBCO EMS, TIBCO RV, MySQL, SOAP/WSDL web services.    Shopping Application (Infosys Project, 2014)    •This project is part of Java Stream training in Infosys Ltd.  •We replicated major shopping websites like Amazon. We did Unit testing and Performance Testing for the application designed.  •Developed using Java, JavaScript, HTML, CSS, Oracle Database.