Java Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> San Jose, CA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Java Developer iConsultUS - Santa Clara, CA 2016 to Present Implemented the Air Reservation System Application using the concrete principles laid down by design patterns such as Singleton, MVC, Factory.  Use of Multi-Threading and collection framework including List, Map etc.  ? Configured Queues/Topics and used JMS to listen to the messages from the queues/  topics from the external systems.  ? Involved in multi-tiered J2EE design utilizing Spring MVC, Spring IOC, Spring  Annotations modules, EJB (Enterprise Java Beans), Hibernate.  ? Used Spring API's for wiring components using dependency injection.  ? Used Spring - ORM to integrate Hibernate and creation of Hibernate POJO's.  ? Implemented Spring DAO layer to interact with the database.  ? Implemented the persistence layer in JPA. Created the Entity classes and mapped using  annotations.  ? Designed the front end UI mockups using JSP, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, AngularJS  ? Used AngularJS framework to create a single page information portal.  ? Developed & consumed RESTful WebServices to allow communication between applications through RESTful over HTTP.  ? Worked on incorporating effective Error-handling mechanism to avoid system crash on encountering Null-pointer exceptions.  ? Used Log4j to keep track of the issues (errors/bugs) based on the releases and phases of SDLC.  ? Used SVN version source control tool.  ? All the APIs developed were also functionally and unit tested using JUnit.  ? Created Data Model in mySQL workbench. Associate Professional Application Delivery CSC - Noida, Uttar Pradesh 2013 to 2015 Developed and Deployed the Application on Eclipse & Netbeans IDE.  Environment: EJB, JPA, Java, J2EE, XML, Windows, UNIX, Java Script, HTML, CSS,  AngularJS, Log4J, mySQL.  Computer Sciences Corporation (CSC) - Noida, India  Associate Professional Application Delivery, 2013 to 2015 (2 years)  Used programming languages like  o  C, C++ & Java;  o  XSLT for XML transformation;  o  PERL and UNIX shell scripting/automation/scheduling;  o  SOAP messages in WMB message flows  o  DTS  o  ESQL Compute Node and Java Compute node;  Websphere Message Broker:  o  Got certification in IBM Message Broker v8 application development.  o  About 2 years of experience in Middle-ware technologies like IBM Websphere  Message Broker (WMB) and Websphere Message Queue (WMQ) with usage on RFHUtil.  o  Worked on several EAI projects and used different ESB tools to develop  projects Education Bachelors of Technology in Electronics and Communications Institute of Technology Skills Javascript, MySQL, PHP Assessments Problem Solving — Highly Proficient April 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to analyze relevant information when solving problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/f5-ae7ux3rmxs0v4 Data Analysis — Highly Proficient April 2019 Measures a candidate's skill in interpreting and producing graphs, identifying trends, and drawing justifiable conclusions from data. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/xtlseynxxo7l-4u Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.