Full Stack Developer Full Stack <span class="hl">Developer</span> Full Stack Developer - Clark County School District Henderson, NV Work Experience Full Stack Developer Clark County School District - Las Vegas, NV January 2018 to Present Developed and implemented new websites for the School District's Web Security services  which included backend and front-end projects.  • Languages used in the projects were Java, PHP, PowerShell, JavaScript.  • Created new applications to control servers and monitor servers without having to refresh  applications through the JVM.  • Utilized Microsoft SQL SERVER Database to set up webpages and manage applications.  • Web applications are created using AngularJS, PHP, PowerShell.  • Work is given through a ticketing system, where high priority tickets are always finished  first. Java Software Developer UnitX - Las Vegas, NV August 2016 to December 2017 • Developer of a program that tracked movements of robots with work orders, which allowed tier 1 support to control robots if they broke down.  • Lead a team of programmers to develop a program to automate crane activation and any  work orders entered into the program would give the crane access to that container by taking a picture and pulling the data from the picture to determine if it was the correct  container number.  • a program to track GPS movements of all robots on shipping yard broken down or active.  • Developed a program that would alert tier 1 support that something has gone wrong with a movement a crane or robot was trying to do. Website developer Intern LV.NET - Las Vegas, NV February 2016 to June 2016 Developed and Implemented an automated system for their human resources department  o Application created was developed in PHP  * It was tasked to send an automated message to human resources with a new  workers information to be accepted into their system automatically without having to enter any information in by hand.  • Daily programming tasks included any errors that support ran into or customers ran into with the website  • Managed content through MYSQL database Technical Support NetTekSol - Las Vegas, NV March 2015 to January 2016 • Setup various access points, Wi-Fi, internet connections for all clients.  • Assisted clients with any technical related problems that were needed. These problems  included.  o Emails set up  o VOIP phone setup  o Troubleshooting  o Virus Scanning  o On-Site or Off-Site Repair  o OS installation  o Access Point installation  o Internet rewiring  o Switch and router setup  • All work done and given was handled through a ticketing system.  Non-Professional Experience    Social Media Application (Scan.me)  • Collaborated with other engineers on a social media application for a contest similar  to snapchat through the use of C++, Java, JavaScript, React.  o Application allowed for the users to connect and update their other social  media platforms through the application while updating their status on it.  o Users were able to connect with each other by scanning a QR code and user  could gain access to other social media platforms along with their phone  information.  o UI created consisted of a text area and the ability to add a picture or 6 second  video with a filter on it.    Remote Desktop Assistant (Julie)  • Developed a python based personal desktop assistant for use on a computer.  o Developed a GUI for the application through the use of TkInter.  o Program allowed user to set reminders, take notes, play music, search the web, and control the computer through use of commands. Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Science in Computer Science University of Nevada - Las Vegas, NV May 2018 Skills Visual studio, Git, Intellij idea, Web server, Xcode, Javascript, Jquery, Java, Angular, Node, Nodejs, C#, React Additional Information Operating Systems  • Linux, Windows, Macintosh  Software/Tools  • IntelliJ IDEA CE, Atom text editor, Apache web server, Visual Studio, XCode, Andriod Studio,  Git