Sr. Java Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Java Developer - Oak Street Health Work Experience Sr. Java Developer Oak Street Health - Chicago, IL July 2018 to Present Investors Title Company is a holding company for Investors Title Insurance Company and National Investors Title Insurance Company which write policies to protect mortgage lenders and homeowners from unforeseen claims made against title to real property. Established in 1972, Investors Title specializes in residential and commercial title insurance, 1031 exchanges, reverse exchanges, title agency management services, and trust and capital management services.  Responsibilities:  ? Implemented Different Design patterns like singleton, factory and J2EE design patterns like Business delegate, session facade, Value object and DAO design patterns.  ? Used Spring Framework's IOC Dependency Injection to inject Service Object using Service Locator Design Pattern into Action Classes.  ? Used Struts tag libraries in the JSP pages.  ? Developed a controllerServlet that dispatches request to appropriate Action Classes.  ? Developed the application under J2EE Architecture using Spring 5, Struts, Hibernate, Servlets, Web logic and JSP.  ? Implemented and worked on functional reactive web End-points in developing scalable applications in Spring 5.  ? Used Java Persistence API (JPA) and Hibernate for performing the Database Transactions.  ? Designed extensive additions to existing Java Web Application utilizing Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) techniques.  ? Extensively worked on Spring Bean wiring, Spring DAO and Spring AOPmodules.  ? Designed Graphical User Interface (GUI) for various WebPages using AJAX, HTML, CSS, JSF, JQuery and JavaScript.  ? Implemented SOA architecture with web services using SOAP, WSDL, UDDI and XML.  ? Identified and resolved programming issues, Servlets and EJB s performance tuning opportunities.  ? Used JMS API for asynchronous communication by putting the messages in the Message queue.  ? Consumed Web Services (WSDL, SOAP, UDDI) from third party for authorizing payments to/from customers.  ? Involved in pre-testing the Web-Service calls with SwaggerUI using end-points.  ? Involved in Developing Web Application with Full Software Development life Cycle (SDLC) from Design to Deployment using agile methodologies.  ? Created detail design documents which has the UML Design diagrams, table information, object model etc which are required for the developer.  ? MVC architecture is implemented by struts framework.  ? Exposed Survey API to other applications in DOE using Apache Axis2.  ? Page design and development are done using OracleBPM.  ? Worked on multiple things like setting up Kubernetes dashboards with AAF and also using kube config.  ? Implemented a production ready, load balanced, highly available, fault tolerant Kubernetes infrastructure.  ? Used & Implemented Kubernetes to deploy scale, load balance, scale and manage docker containers with multiple name spaced versions.  ? Involved in implementing JQuery for providing interactive user interfaces.  ? Written Test cases using JUnit to validate the application flows in different scenarios in the standalone application.  Environment:Jdk1.6, JSP, Servlet, EJB, Spring 5, JavaScript, Hibernate, JQuery, Struts, Design Patterns, HTML, CSS, JMS, XML, Eclipse, Apache, Oracle ECM, Struts, Webservice, SOAP, ILOG, Web2.0, OracleBPM, JSF, WSDL,Apache CXF, Apache Axis2, Apache Tomcat Server, SOA, PL/SQL, Oracle10g, UML, Weblogic, Junit. Sr. Java Developer Juniper Networks - Los Angeles, CA June 2017 to June 2018 Juniper Networks is an American multinational corporation headquartered in Sunnyvale, California that develops and markets networking products. Its products include routers, switches, network management software, network security products and software-defined networking technology.  Responsibilities:  ? Involved in complete software development life cycle management using UML (Unified Modelling Language) - Requirements gathering, Conceptual design, Analysis, Detailed design, and Development.  ? Coding interfaces for Web Services  ? Application was developed using Spring MVC Web flow modules  ? Implemented spring framework for application transaction management  ? Created connections to database using Hibernate Session Factory, using Hibernate APIs to retrieve and store data to the database with Hibernate transaction control.  ? Involved in the development of Page Flows, Business Objects, Hibernate database mappings and POJOs. Used xml style syntax for defining object relational metadata.  ? Used Spring ORM to integrate Spring Framework with hibernate and JPA.  ? Used Springs Jdbc and DAO layers to offer abstraction for the business from the database related code  ? Used Spring AOP module to handle transaction management services for objects in any Spring-based application.  ? Used Spring MVC framework& Integration for Server side programming.  ? Responsible to update/verify CDM for release level tasks.  ? Developed JavaScript code for Client Side Validations. Involved in JAD sessions, documenting system requirements, creating application designs, validating high-level designs (HLDs) to ensure accuracy and completeness against the business requirements and programming the solutions.  ? Developed Servlets and JSP to interact with Enterprise Java Beans (EJB) containing all the Business Logic.  ? Used Hibernate as the persistence layer to interact with Oracle DB.  Environment:Spring Framework 3.0, Hibernate, Java 1.6, DHTML, HTML, CSS, Servlets, UML, J2EE,JSP, EJB, Struts Framework Taglibs, SQL, Java Script, Oracle 11g,Websphere Application Server, Eclipse, JUnit, JMock, WSDL, Web services, XML, XSLT, XSD (Schema Designs), SOAP 1.2,XPath, XQuery, UNIX, UML, JNDI, JDBC, JMS, Rational Clear Quest, Tortoise CVS. Sr. Java Developer FedEx Corporation - Memphis, TN February 2016 to May 2017 FedEx Corporation, originally known as Federal Express, is an American global courier delivery Services Company. ROADS (Route Optimization and Decision Support) is used by FedEx US Ground Operations to obtain the corporate on-road productivity targets that significantly exceed historical trends. The project starts from collecting the packages information like from where these packages are coming and to which location has to be delivered. It has many modules like route profile, day plan management, print management and location profile.  Responsibilities:  ? Involved in database modeling applying the normalization rules  ? Developed Code using Struts framework, based on the MVC design pattern  ? Developed the presentation layer using Struts Tag Libraries  ? Developed the application with iterative methodology, recapturing the existing code and writing a new code for most of the modules  ? Created POC for Spring Batch for running batch jobs.  ? Worked on backend logic using Servlets, EJB, Hibernate and JDBC.  ? Developed page specific elements, handlers, web beans, view helper classes, JSP pages & fragments by using design patterns and java standards  ? Analysed, designed, validated the business logic of the system and implemented the application  ? Developed business services using EJB's and used SOAP API.  ? Translated functional requirements into technical design by gathering the user stories.  ? Developed order history and order status of all the Authorized agent's specific bonds  ? Developed dynamic pages for generating a report for displaying the existing business rules based on a search criteria to be reviewed by the CNA internally  ? Involved in debugging the product using JIRA Bug Tracking  ? Deployed the application on to Websphere application server.  ? Developed Search Tool for the organization to display reports agent wise, month wise, weekly.  ? Involved in developing the UI pages using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JSON, jQuery and AJAX.  ? Developed servlets for generating reports in PDF format.  ? Implemented multiple high-performance MongoDB replica sets on EC2 with robust reliability.  ? Implemented logging using log4j.  ? Deployed the application in JBOSS Application Server.  ? Developed Servlets and Worked extensively on My SQL.  ? Worked with MySQL for SQLYog and Workbench.  ? Written JQuery Validations for the User Front-ends.  ? Maintenance of data in different Oracle Database and environments using TOAD.  ? Worked on Hibernate object/relational mapping according to database schema.  Environment: Windows XP/2000, Java 1.5, J2EE, Struts 1.1, EJB 2.0, Servlets, Session Beans, Ant, JavaScript,1.3, JSPs, HTML, CSS, JQuery, JSON, Oracle 8i, Ajax, MongoDB, Soap, Toad, Eclipse 3.1, WebSphere Application Server 5.1, Weblogic, Apache CXF, MySQL, XSLT, JUnit, Log4j, Rational Clearcase, ClearQuest. Java Developer Cube Innovative Solutions - Hyderabad, Telangana July 2014 to December 2015 India  The objective of APM (Advanced Patient Management) is to develop a web-based system to monitor the patient condition by the physician by using Latitude devices and to eliminate many office visits by a patient. In-home remote follow-up can increase patient satisfaction and improving physician workflow. The combination of device data with meaningful external sensors can provide an effective means to help manage patient health.  Responsibilities:  ? Part of the technical team in the development of Model View Controller (MVC), Model architecture to handle configuration, database connectivity, and template management.  ? Created a Reporting tool using JSP and Servlets that calculates the amount of state and federal taxes.  ? Developed the GUI of the system using HTML, CSS, JSP and client-side validations was done using JavaScript.  ? Used JQuery for developing asynchronous web applications on client side. Built and accessed the database using JDBC for ORACLE 9g.  ? Involved in the development of a web authentication module using Java Servlets.  ? Handled Session Time-outs with HTTPSessionListener interface.  ? Performed XML parsing using DOM parser.  ? Tracked software errors with Clear Quest and coordinated with help desk staff in resolving bug.  ? Maintained version control using CVS.  ? Developed Servlets and Java Server Pages (JSP).  ? Created test case scenarios for Functional Testing.  ? Used Java Script validation in JSP pages.  ? Helped design the database tables for optimal storage of data.  ? Coded JDBC calls in the Servlets to access the Oracle database tables.  ? Responsible for Integration, unit testing, system testing and stress testing for all the phases of project.  ? Prepared final guideline document that would serve as a tutorial for the users of this application.    Environment:JDK1.4 , J2EE, Servlets, JSP, Struts, MVC, EJB, Java Beans, SQL, PL/SQL, Design Patterns, JDBC, JBOSS, Log4J, Apache ANT, JavaScript, CSS, HTML, XML, DB2, Stored Procedures, Skills Ejb, J2ee, Java, Hibernate, Java technologies Additional Information SKILL SUMMARY  ? Expert working knowledge in using methodologies Agile Methodology & Software Development Life Cycle.  ? Having work experience in different domains like Insurance, Health, Telecom and Retail.  ? Proficient in developing front-end systems with JavaScript, ReactJs, JQuery, Ajax, Bootstrap, HTML5, CSS3, Tag Libraries, Custom Tags and JavaScript frameworks such as AngularJS, NodeJS.  ? Expert in Java/J2EE technologies such as Struts, Spring Framework, JSP, EJB, Hibernate and Webservice.  ? Developed applications with Spring using technologies Spring Core, MVC, DAO, ORM, Boot, Heroku, Security, Integration, Spring Zuul, Spring Eureka, Spring.  ? Used Hibernate for Object Relational Mapping, MyBatis SQL Maps, Slick, and Java Ultra-Lite Persistence.  ? Expertise in back-end/server side Java technologies such as webservice, JPA, JMS, JDBC.  ? Expert in using SOA and Webservice Technologies and Tools like Webservice, SOAP, REST, UDDI, SOAP UI.  ? Adapt in server-side development skills using Apache and good knowledge of database connectivity (Data Source) for SQL databases like Oracle, MySQL and NoSQL like MongoDB.  ? Expertise in using Cassandra for achieving denormalizationthrough features like collections.  ? Hands on experience on Amazon Webservice provisioning and good knowledge of AWS services like EC2, S3, Elastic Beanstalk, ELB (Load Balancers), Cloud Watch, Cloud Formation, IAM, SNS.  ? Use of Docker and Kubernetes to manage micro services for development of continuous integration and continuous delivery.  ? Expertise in deploy J2EE applications on IBM Web Sphere/Web Logic Application Servers, Tomcat and JBOSS.  ? Deployed applications on multipleWeb Logic Servers, setting up the Development, Testing and Production environments, maintained Load balancing, High Availability and experienced in applying patches and plug-ins forWeb Logic Application Server.  ? Familiar with Design Patterns like Singleton, Factory Design, MVC, Data Access Objects, Adapter, Service Locator, Session Facade, Observer, DAO, service proxy and circuit breaker.  ? Expertise in Dockercontainers, leveraging Linux Containers and AMI's to create DockerImages/containers.  ? Used Swagger for designing and describing APIs and for keeping the API design and documentation in sync.  ? Expertise in working on building tools like ANT, Maven, Gradle.  ? Worked with Version Control Systems like GIT, WinCVS, CVS, SVN, Bitbucket.  ? Experience in various Agile methodologies like Test Driven Development, SCRUM.  ? Developing Unit & Integration testing with Junitand Mockito.