Full Stack Java/API developer Intern Full Stack <span class="hl">Java</span>/API <span class="hl">developer</span> Intern Engineering complete software Development Life cycle with smarter and efficient techniques Chicago, IL Graduate student Actively Looking for Software Engineering full-time position with proven record of leadership and team handling. Motivated software developer with industry experience in object-oriented analysis and development of multi-tier distributed enterprise business applications, exploring Machine Learning and Data field. Sponsorship required to work in the US Work Experience Full Stack Java/API developer Intern SAP Fieldglass - Chicago, IL June 2019 to Present • Implementing REST APIs for various UI widgets and Admin Objects using Java and indigenously built API framework. This decoupling of UI and Backend reduced testing and deployment time of huge monolithic Java application. Designing and Implementing SQL and backend queries to provide data for APIs. IXp Summer Intern - Product development Java Full Stack June 2019 to Present Implementing REST APIs for various UI widgets and Admin Objects using Java and indigenously built API  framework. This decoupling of UI and Backend reduced testing and deployment time of huge monolithic Java  application. Designing and Implementing SQL and backend queries to provide data for APIs. Wiley Educational Services - Chicago, IL February 2019 to May 2019 Software Development Intern Wiley Educational Services February 2019 to May 2019 Developed and implemented various database trigger on backed events. Managed and performed data extract, transform and load load operation from newly acquired third party database. Implemented GDPR capability in a  multi-tenant application using jitterbit scripting and orchestration. Community crime Dataset August 2018 to May 2019 Developed Faster RCNN Object Detection Pipeline, Used pretrained ResNet as base model and performed  transfer learning using Image Net Dataset. Implemented several Deep neural net classification model on UCI  Community crime Dataset, UCI Image recognition dataset, CIFAR10 dataset.  ? Performance Evaluation of Deep neural network on Variable Precision Data June 2018 - Dec 2018  ? Developed deep neural network using Backpropagation algorithm in C++. The neural net learns on MNIST data  set and classifies handwritten digits from 0 to 9. Neural net uses custom made variable precision data types for measuring performance of NVIDIA tesla P100 GPU. Benchmarking Computing March 2018 to May 2018 Cloud computing coursework included benchmarking of CPU, memory, secondary memory and Network over distributed cluster. Installed & maintained HDFS, writing hadoop and spark implementation of external sort  program and exploiting strong and weak scaling, finally validating the result with Terasort validation. Cybage Software Pvt. Ltd - Pune, Maharashtra September 2014 to September 2017 Java Developer Cybage Software Pvt. Ltd September 2014 to September 2017 o Responsible for Backend development and Unit test cases for J2EE web-based application using Spring MVC, Hibernate 3.0 and mockito. Dockerized CI and testing environment with Docker & Jenkins. Developed Java Rest  Api framework using Spring Boot and Hibernate. Performed research over AWS services EC2, ECS, ELB etc  Academic projects and publications: Education MSCS Illinois Institute of Technology - Chicago, IL January 2018 to December 2019 Master of Science in Computer Science in intended research Center for Development of Advanced Computing - Pune, Maharashtra February 2014 to August 2014 Bachelor of Technology in Technology Uttarakhand Technical University - Nainital, Uttarakhand August 2009 to June 2013 Skills APACHE SPARK, C++, DOCKER, Git, GRADLE, Hadoop, JAVASCRIPT, JENKINS, PYTHON, KERAS, TENSORFLOW, J2EE, JAVA, HIBERNATE, SPRING, HADOOP, MYSQL, ORACLE, ORACLE 10G, MVC, HTML 5 Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/puneet-singh-886269b7