Java Backend Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> Backend <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Backend Developer - Wells Fargo • Around 5 years of progressively responsible experience in development, testing, documentation & production support applications using Internet, Web and Client Server Technologies in N-Tier J2EE Architecture.  • Experience in the entire lifecycle process in projects which includes Design, Development, Deployment, Testing and Implementation.  • Proficient in design and rapid development of web and J2EE applications using Core Java, JSP, CSS, Servlets, JavaScript, spring, JDBC, JNDI, JMS, HTML/DHTML, XML and Struts framework  • Experience in XML related technologies including XML, XSD, UML, XSL, DTD, XML Schemas, SAX and DOM Parsers.  • Developed applications in environments of Agile and Waterfall methodologies.  • Expertise in working with application servers and Web Servers as Web Logic, WebSphere, Tomcat, JBoss.  • Expert level skills in Java, JSP, Servlets, Struts, JUNIT, Multithreading, JDBC, with  • Experience in MVC Design Pattern of J2EE Architecture.  • Experience in Agile Methodology (Scrum)  • Active participation in the technical and architectural design of the project and maintaining the team spirit in development, delivering the product.  • Strong analytical and problem-solving skills. Willingness and ability to adapt to newEnvironments and learn new technologies Work Experience Java Backend Developer Wells Fargo - Phoenix, AZ July 2018 to Present Domain: Finance - Asset Management  Project: Global Client Reporting  This application is used by Client portfolio managers to generate Quarterly and Monthly Investment reports across various asset classes. I'm involved in the migration of static template reports to make dynamic so that users can dynamically add required components to the report without any tech support and generate the reports.  Responsibilities:  • Implemented business layer using Core java, Spring Beans using dependency injection, spring annotations.  • Designed and developed the REST based Microservices using the Spring Boot.  • Developed and consumed Restful web services to accumulate data and generate reports.  • Involved in unit testing and regression testing before production deployments.  • Developed Junit test cases for the developed application.  • Go through the assigned JIRA issue requests of the project and work with Business requestor to finalize requirements based on the technical possibilities.  • Understanding High Level Design and creating detailed technical Design documents.  • Developed code using server-side technologies like Spring Boot framework- Core, AOP, MVC, Data.  • Doing code review for the projects done by other teammates/ peer code review.  • Used Jenkins tool to deploy application in cloud and non-cloud environments.  • Tracking the defects/bugs till production phase.  • Interacted with Business requestor/ Client portfolio managers to finalize the requirements, UAT support and post-production support.  • Working with other teams (like back end or middle ware team), required for the project.  • Involved in post-production maintenance and solved the tickets.  • Involved in build and deploying the application using Tomcat server.  • Implemented rules for code quality using Sonar, Code Pro, PMD, Check style, Find bugs.  Environment: Java, Spring Boot, Microservices, BIRT tool, Spring MVC, Spring Data, Spring AOP, REST web service, Oracle, Sybase, Angular, HTML5, JavaScript, CSS. Java Developer Blue Cross Blue Shield of Michigan - Detroit, MI April 2016 to June 2018 Project: We offer consumer driven insurance solutions in Healthcare, dental and vision products. With a customized approach to valuable coverage options that promote physical and financial wellness, we help our members to protect their tomorrows by planning today.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in all phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) including analysis, design, development, and testing of the project.  • Used Spring Boot to create stand-alone spring applications.  • Used Eclipse Integrated Development Environment for coding, debugging and testing the application modules.  • Designed and developed Microservices business components using Spring Boot.  • Knowledge in creation of Typescript reusable components and services to consume REST API's using Component based architecture provided by Angular 2.  • Implemented Spring Boot services in combination with Angular as front end to form a Microservice Oriented application  • Angular JS was used to parse the JSON file using the REST Web services.  • Configured Spring based Microservices and Spring Boot  • Used Object/Relational mapping tool Hibernate and JPA to achieve object to database table persistency.  • Analyze and fix issues related to REST Web services and Application responses.  • Implemented the back-end services using Spring Boot.  • Worked on developing REST Services to expose the processed data as a service.  • Implemented Spring Security and spring transactions in the applications.  • Experienced on spring framework applications like Spring Core, Spring AOP, Spring MVC, Spring Batch, Spring Security and Spring Boot and did integration to Micro services into existing system architecture.  • Involved in the configuration of Spring Framework and Hibernate mapping tool.  • Extensively followed Test Driven Development to implement application business logic, work flow process and integration of application modules.  • Followed Pair Programming to analysis, design, development, Integration, Testing and deploy the applications.  • Used XML, XSD, XPath and JAXB for message transformations and mappings.  • Extensively followed agile Scrum methodology and XP to implement the application modules.  • Used Maven for building and deploying the web application into WebSphere and configuring the dependency plug-ins and resources.  • Wrote JUnit test cases for each line of the application code and performed validation.  Environment: Java/J2ee, JSP, Spring Boot, Hibernate, SOAP, REST, JAX-RS, JMS, MQ Series, SQL, PL/SQL, JAXB, XML, HTML5, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, JSON, Eclipse, JBoss. Java Developer BBVA Compass - Plano, TX February 2015 to March 2016 Project: BBVA Compass Banking is one of the lists of largest banks in the United States. As part of project my role is to develop web applications to meet the mortgage needs of client, loan deposits, Multi Loan deposits and Teller Referral.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in gathering and analyzing business requirements and converting them into technical specifications.  • Developed Class Diagrams, Sequence Diagrams as part of Module Design Documentation.  • Agile delivery of software using practices of short iterations, scrum.  • Implemented the presentation layer using Spring framework  • Developed the JavaScript for Client-Side Validation.  • Used Struts framework to develop the application based on a MVC design pattern.  • Developed the User Interface using JSTL, Custom Tag libraries, HTML, XHTML, JavaScript, and CSS.  • Used JDBC for database connectivity to SQL Server.  • SOAP has been used as a protocol to send request and response in form of XML messages. WSDL has been used to expose the web services using Apache Axis.  • Used J2EE design patterns like Service Locator, Data Access Objects, Factory pattern, MVC and Singleton Pattern.  • Created and consumed SOAP/Restful Web Services.  • The RESTful web services have been used to retrieve and update the data which is populated  • Implemented Hibernate using the Spring Framework (Created the session Factory)  • Involve in JUnit Testing, debugging and bug fixing.  • Worked on Multithreading.  • Participated in the discussion with business experts to understand the business requirements and mold them into technical requirements toward development.  • Designed UML diagrams using Rational Rose.  • Built the functionality for the front end JSPs to take the data from the model as an XML and using XSLT to convert the XSL to HTML.  • Prepared Test Cases for Integration Testing.  • Used Java Message Service (JMS) for reliable and asynchronous exchange of important information, such as Loan and Teller application  • Designed and developed Message driven beans that consumed the messages from the Java message queue.  • Deployed components to the development environment, system test environment, and UAT environment.  • Used simple Maven projects and Maven Archetypes projects for developing applications and provided JAR files for UI application use.  • Test Driven Development approach was used and was involved in writing many unit and integration test cases.  Environment: Java, JavaScript, Spring 3.1, Hibernate 3.1, Struts 1.3, JSTL, Custom Tag libraries, HTML, XHTML, CSS, JDBC, JAXP, JDOM, PL/SQL, JMS, Junit. Education Bachelors in Computer Science Wright State University - Dayton, OH Skills JAVA (4 years), JAVASCRIPT (4 years), MODEL VIEW CONTROLLER (4 years), MODEL-VIEW-CONTROLLER (4 years), MVC (4 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:  Java Technologies: Servlets, JavaBeans, JSP, JQuery, JMS, AJAX, Angular JS, JDBC, HTML, Ant, Log4JandJunit.  Markup Languages: SQL, UML, HTML, DHTML.  Frameworks: JSF Framework, Struts 1.2, Spring3.0, EJB3.0, JPA, Hibernate, Spring Batch, MVC.  Scripting Languages: JavaScript.  Programming Languages: Java, C, C++, C#, VB.Net  Web Servers: Apache Tomcat, Jboss.  Application Servers: Web Sphere, Weblogic Server.  Operating Systems: Windows XP, Windows7, Windws2000, HPUX/ Linux, UNIX.  Versioning Tools: SVN, Clear Case, CVS.  Database: Oracle, SQL Server, DB2.