Sr. Security Analyst Sr. Security Analyst Sr. Security Analyst - PricewaterhouseCoopers (PwC) San Antonio, TX • Improved risk posture of major Bank client(s) through Third-Party Risk Management. Developed/administered informational websites and educational applications. Constructed reports and other technical solutions for business operations using various scripting languages/tools. Provide employer/clients with a versatile set of skills within technology such as programming, automation, networking, and security. Work Experience Sr. Security Analyst PricewaterhouseCoopers (PwC) - San Antonio, TX February 2018 to Present • Conducted Third Party Risk Management operations for Mizuho Bank with the use of GRC Archer. Administered resources to vendors for internal system access. Managed various roles of Archer to ensure all vendors are properly onboarded through the TPRM process.  • Produced analysis reports, automated processes, built various standard operating procedures for the program. System Developer Accenture Federal Services - San Antonio, TX June 2016 to October 2017 • Primary task(s) involved maintaining an internal Joomla website, administering users, updating front-end of the website. Responsible for producing and administering existing business operation reports, as well as creating entirely new business analysis reports with excel.  • Increased business operation speed by automating several processes throughout my primary tasks using Excel-VBA, PowerShell, BAT and CasperJS. Assistant Cyber Security Lab - San Antonio, TX May 2015 to May 2016 Upheld Cyber Security Lab policies. Assisted Network Administrators in maintaining Cyber Security Lab network (troubleshooting network issues). Assisted students with accessing and operating Virtual Machines (VMware)    Freelance Work:  The Electronic Freedom Index (EFI) Project - San Antonio, TX  • Developed a web tool for an informational website  • Contracted by the UTSA Economics Department to build education tool for economic research Java I & II Tutor UTSA Department of Information Systems & Cyber Security - San Antonio, TX August 2014 to May 2016 Approached by Java I and Java II professors for tutor position because of my expertise in Java. Hosted public and private tutoring sessions on a regular basis throughout each week. Assisted in grading student lab work and conducted recitation session. Education Bachelor of Business Administration degree in Information Systems The University of Texas at San Antonio - San Antonio, TX Skills HTML, JAVASCRIPT, PHP, PYTHON, VBA