Java Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> SQL Developer Jefferson City, MO To seek a challenging job in a globally competitive environment by applying the skills and  experience gained from education and experience in Software Industry and contribute towards the  organization's growth. Work Experience Java Developer University of Central Missouri, Missouri February 2019 to May 2019 USA Feb 2019 - May 2019  Project: Video Express Project  Description: Video Express project is a video rental site where a subscriber can buy any number of movies, write and read reviews for the movies and can view his past activity.  Technologies: Java/J2EE 1.7, Spring MVC 4.0, ReST Web services with Spring, SQL, Oracle 11g,  SQL Developer, MyBatis ORM, JavaScript, jQuery, Bootstrap, Browser Developer Tools, Apache  Tomcat Server, Eclipse, Maven, GIT  Responsibilities:  - Implemented Spring 4.0 MVC framework in developing the entire application.  - Followed Factory and Façade design patterns in developing the object-oriented project in order to make reusable components.  - Developed presentation layer using Html, JSP, CSS, Bootstrap, JSTL.  - Used JavaScript and jQuery as the java script library in the UI module.  - Created Spring controllers using the spring annotations (@Autowired, @Controller,  @Produces etc..) to handle the requests in and producing the required data in proposed  media type (JSON) or as of Model and View type based on the requirements from service  implementation layer.  - Used both Spring's setter Injection concept and constructor Injection in enabling  dependency injection.  - Implemented the service layer classes (@Component, @Qualifier), a layer in which business logic is implemented.  - Developed the ReST API using the Spring MVC 4.0 - Restful Web Services  (@RestController, @Produces, @Consumes) to serve the web application data in. JSON  format.  - Used Mybatis ORM in mapping database records to java objects.  - Developed P/L sql to get the requested data and created the database and tables required  for the project.  - Used GIT as a repository to store the source code. Application Development Analyst Accenture Solutions Private Limited - Hyderabad, Telangana June 2015 to March 2018 Technologies: Selenium IDE/RC/WebDriver, Firepath, Cucumber, Maven, Jenkins, HP Quality  Center, Java, JavaScript, XPath, Eclipse, UFT, VBScript.  Client: Bank of America, Merrill lynch  Description: Bank of America AML (anti-money laundering) applications deals with detecting  suspicious activity which includes terrorist financing, security frauds and market manipulation. AML  Applications are responsible for analyzing legal entity profiles and KYC of the customer during audit and compliance to define a logical and valid customer for the bank.  Responsibilities:  - Experience in Selenium automation using Selenium WebDriver, Cucumber, Selenium Grid, JAVA, Maven, Jenkins  - Worked on Hybrid framework that is built by integration of selenium and cucumber.  - Developed an automation framework, which follows Page Object Model (POM), to perform UI- actions and validations on dynamic controls in webpages.  The framework is responsible for validation of all required mandatory fields in AML  applications. Since legal entity profiles and KYC pages have a dynamic nature in terms of appearance of UI components the POM framework is made of two modules to handle  dynamic mechanism.  • Default or reusable module  • Special conditions module  Framework is built using Selenium web-driver, java and java-script integrated in cucumber framework and follows singleton design pattern to get high performance and  stability  - Worked in different automation testing procedures like data driven, keyword driven and hybrid  framework and have implemented the same in performing QA on multiple applications having  range of UI components (frames, grids).  - Wrote gherkin scripting automation test scripts to execute in Cucumber.  - Written step definitions to test complex scenarios and simplify attentive manual efforts using java  and JavaScript. The step definitions are designed to focus on defect identification, detailed test  result/summary reporting and maximum functional coverage. Test results are generated in HTML, excel and json format for high level logging and low-level logs are stored for analyzing and debugging test executions using log4j  - Worked in waterfall model and extended support in projects following agile methodology.  - Experience in Smoke, Functional, Regression testing, User Acceptance Testing(UAT) along with reporting in HP ALM.  - Experience in validating Regular and Ajax control using Selenium locators (XPath, CSS, id and name).  - Hands on experience in automating test scenarios and test cases using UFT - VB Script  Programing Standards.  - Experience of using different frameworks like Keyword, Data Driven in UFT, and worked on scripting using Shared Object Repository and Descriptive Programing.  - Used Quality Center for assigning defects to the developer and took the responsibility to get them  to a closed status after working with developers and identifying the actual problem.  - Developed Test Cases Using Quality Centre based on requirements gathered from Functional  Specifications and Design documents.  - Experience in developing Requirement Traceability Matrix (RTM), Defect Management and Defect Tracking, creating Test Scripts, reviewing Log files & Reports for delivering utmost  Quality product.  - Experience in development, configuration and maintenance of smoke test scripts and suites in Jenkins.  - Designed training programs for Teammates and new joiners on java, cucumber, selenium web- driver and other relevant technologies. Was a member of Trainer's Team that provides technical  training to all resources migrated from other projects. Mentored team members across the project to comply with project ethic and policies by participating in weekly team connects.  - Participated in interviews and screening in recruitment program for candidates aspiring to be part  of our project. Created feedback templates after evaluation of candidate based on project  guidelines    Awards:  - I received an appreciation certificate (ACE) from Accenture for my contribution to the project  for delivering it on time.    Summary of Skills:  Languages JAVA/J2EE 1.7, PHP, SQL, VBScript  Databases Oracle, MySQL    Technologies JDBC, Servlets, JSP, MyBatis, Spring MVC, ReST Web Services, Maven, Jenkins, HTML 4/5, CSS 2/3, Bootstrap, JavaScript, Selenium IDE, Firepath, Cucumber, XPath,  GIT, UFT    Frameworks Spring 4.0, Hybrid, Keyword, Data Driven  Web RESTful Web Services  Services    Tools Eclipse, NetBeans, MS Office, SQL Developer, Google Chrome Developer Tools, MS  Professional Education Master's in Computer Information Systems in Computer Information Systems University of Central Missouri - Warrensburg, MO December 2019 Bachelor's in Metallurgical Engineering in Metallurgical Engineering Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University Hyderabad May 2015 Skills Java, Spring Links http://@Controller http://@Controller