Java Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Developer - Source InfoTech Inc S Portland, ME Talented Software Development Engineer with a Master's degree in Computer and Information Sciences. Appreciative of my  fine experiences, I seek an opportunity to help make the world a better place using my professional expertise along with  programmatic knowledge and prudence. Hands on experience in developing Java EE, Web applications and a full understanding  of Software development life cycle.  Core competencies include Java, Hibernate, Soap Web Services and SQL tuning  PERSONALITY TRAITS  Kind of a person viewing the bigger picture and thinks outside of the box. I strive for perfection and at the same time keeps  things simple. I qualify myself as exceptionally focused individual, thinks over the situations practically, adapts and prioritizes  tasks within the time bound. Has excellent communication skills coupled with co-operative working approach. Work Experience Java Developer Source InfoTech Inc September 2016 to Present Technologies used: Java, Oracle, Hibernate, Soap Web services, Maven, Jenkins, Git Flow  ? Created a workflow to load the file received to the database, send file load status emails to the sender and use the pre-loaded data to price the transactions on a daily basis.  ? Developed a stand-alone java application to loads millions of records into database every day and use the data loaded by another java application to price the transactions. Optimized the insert statements by batching them.  ? Improved the performance of an application by more than 75%, examined the bottle necks and cached most of the data  required to process during startup of application to reduce the overhead caused by expensive database calls.  ? Launched Amazon EC2 Cloud Instances using Amazon Web Services and configured instances with respect to specific  application needs and deployed applications on AWS servers using CI/CD.  ? Experience in developing Soap and Micro Service endpoints to send/receive data from front end applications or CRM.  ? Experience in Oracle SQL and extensively used database hints for performance tuning.  ? Experience in implementing Spring and Hibernate and JPA annotations.  ? Implemented build scripts for compiling, building and deploying applications on AWS servers using Maven and Jenkins.  ? Experience with Real time messaging queues - JMS.  ? Experienced in LINUX/UNIX shell scripting and Log4j for runtime logging and debugging.  ? Involved in various phases of development life cycle of the project and participated in daily SCRUM meetings.  ? Collaborated with developers and QA team to improve the overall quality of the applications.  ? Experience in mentoring junior developers and interns. Graduate Project Assistant The Center for Development and Disability, UNM August 2015 to July 2016 Technologies used: Java, WebLogic, MySQL, Hibernate, Rest Web services, Bootstrap  ? Created a Web application using Java to collect data from people with various backgrounds and offer them a list of courses  to be taken to complete their degree etc.  ? Designed application components using Java Collections and provided concurrent database access using multithreading.  ? Provided technical guidance and support for databases and application development to support multiple programs.  ? Designed, developed, and maintained web-based learning resources including increasing usability and mobile  responsiveness. Software Development Engineer Intern Easy Solutions - IN April 2014 to July 2014 Involved in the development of a secure SOAP based web application for an insurance company using Spring MVC and Hibernate.  ? Used XML parser APIs such as JAXP (SAX) and JAXB in the web services request response data marshalling as well as unmarshalling process.  ? Deployed a Ruby on Rails application on Heroku app server.  ? Actively participated in group technology reviews and collaborated with team. Education Master of Science in Computer and Information Sciences The University of New Mexico - Albuquerque, NM July 2016 Skills Spring, Java J2Ee, Java, Hibernate, Javascript, MVC, JEE, Rest, J2Ee Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/dev-v-1508