Programmer Analyst Programmer Analyst Programmer Analyst - Hilltop Ranch Inc Modesto, CA Passionate full-stack developer, professionally designed and developed web-apps utilizing different JS  frameworks in frontend and PHP/ Java frameworks/servers in backend. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Programmer Analyst Hilltop Ranch Inc April 2016 to Present Domain: Agriculture & Food Manufacturing | Project: Nutdrive, an EPR and Web Portal.  Managing, designing and developing in-house LAMP web-based application software, a custom  Enterprise Resource Planning system for Almonds Processing.  Duties & Achievements:  • Design and develop client user interface using Sencha ExtJS framework, in combining with jQuery, Ajax, HTML, CSS and SASS. Realized REST API in the backend to expose data upon client  requests using PHP and its custom frameworks.  • Define the data tables for new business features, design and implement tables, views,  procedures in MySQL (local) and MariaDB (Linux server).  • Define software development life cycles as a balance between agile and waterfall  methodologies, whereas requirements, design, development cycles are overlapped between projects, while the development and integration cycles are modified to have a like-QAT and like-  UAT testing cycles before deploying.  • Receiving requests from managers and issues from direct operating users through an IT ticket  tracking channel and use Gitlab to document and manage the software development. Java Developer Source Mantra Inc June 2013 to July 2014 Client: Deloitte | Domain: Eligibility Systems |Project: VA-CMS - commonhelp.virginia.gov  • Developed UI based on the designed use case using JSP, JSTL, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Ajax, and jQuery.  • Realized the logic in Data Collection module using EJB and patterns MVC, Session Façade, BO  and DAO.  • Implemented the exception mechanism in the Bean level (EJB and BO classes) and validation in the JSP.  • Analyzed errors submitted from users and provided work-around as needed daily, debugged and released the code fixes monthly, and supported the QA, UA and Production deployment  regularly.  • Stay up-to-date with the latest development of the application coding. Education M.S. in Electrical Engineering Temple University 2010 to 2013 B.S. in Electrical Engineering HCMC University of Technology 2002 to 2008 Skills Ajax (4 years), Angularjs (Less than 1 year), Apache (Less than 1 year), Api (3 years), Assembly. (Less than 1 year), C# (Less than 1 year), C (Less than 1 year), Clearcase (Less than 1 year), Clearquest (Less than 1 year), Css (4 years), Database (Less than 1 year), Html (4 years), Java (1 year), Javascript (1 year), jquery (4 years), Mysql (3 years), Php (3 years), Rest (3 years), Sass. (3 years), Sencha (3 years) Links http://github.com/madza1812 http://linkedin.com/in/an-dang741717110