SR. APPLICATIONS DEVELOPER SR. APPLICATIONS <span class="hl">DEVELOPER</span> SR. APPLICATIONS DEVELOPER - JP MORGAN CHASE New York, NY ? Senior Java Developer with 6 years of experience in software design and development. Primary areas of technical expertise include Java, J2EE (JSP/Servlets), Multi-threading, Spring, Hibernate, SQL and Web-Services etc.  ? Full life cycle development experience in delivering all aspects of information technology services to clients, development, and deployment of enterprise applications software  ? Worked with Waterfall, Agile Scrum methodologies  ? Strong understanding of Spring concepts like Inversion of Control, Dependency Injection  ? Worked on developing application using Spring MVC, Spring Jdbc, Spring Rest  ? Hands-on experience on collections, exceptions, concepts in Java  ? Worked on front-end technologies like Thymeleaf, jQuery, JavaScript, HTML, CSS  ? Good knowledge of design patterns like Factory Pattern, Session Façade, Singleton etc.  ? Excellent experience in designing and maintaining complex SQL queries and developing PL/SQL  ? Excellent knowledge of Investment banking and Finance domain  ? Ability to work independently and contribute individually as well as in an ambient team environment.  ? Excellent analytical and communication skills coupled with very positive user interaction and team spirit Work Experience SR. APPLICATIONS DEVELOPER JP MORGAN CHASE - Jersey City, NJ August 2017 to Present Project: Know Your Customer (KYC)    Description: Know your customer project application enables J.P Morgan Chase LOBs to maintain case life cycle. Under USA Patriot Act Federal regulators require that financial institutions such as banks due diligence in verifying the identities of potential clients and keep detailed records of the process used. All the clients go through various KYC steps and after successful validations are ready for trading and fulfill regulatory requirements.    Role/Responsibilities:  ? Currently working as Sr. Applications developer, involved in the full life cycle development and support of a mission critical enterprise application  ? Worked in an Agile Scrum development methodology  ? Used Spring, Hibernate, Oracle DB and to implement business logic and generate reporting details  ? Involved in the development and deployment of module to produce documents to the clients using Java RESTful services  ? Involved in the migration from websphere to tomcat server  ? Used HTML, Thymeleaf, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery to develop UI modules  ? Created scheduler jobs in Autosys for processing transaction  ? Used Documentum to store documents submitted by customers  ? Created jUnit for all newly developed components  ? Used SVN for version control and source code management  ? Involved in design and development of new modules as well as enhancement to the existing module  ? Worked with business for deriving requirements and updating FRD and creating data mapping document  ? Management reporting and working in onsite-offshore model, coordinating with offshore team to get the business goals done for clients  ? Responsible for pre-production check readiness as well as Production deployment supporting the service to go live    Environment: Java 1.6/1.7, J2EE, Spring MVC 4, Hibernate 5, Spring REST, Log4j, Eclipse, Tomcat 8.0, SVN, Jira, jQuery, GIT, Documentum 15, Autosys JAVA DEVELOPER BNP PARIBAS - Jersey City, NJ July 2016 to May 2017 Personal Account Dealing (PAD)    Description: Personal Account Dealing (PAD) is an employee trading workflow system used by employee and compliance department. BNP Paribas employee must request for trade approval from his/her manager and compliance manager before performing any stock/bond/option or future trade. System uses various internal and external interfaces and generates custom complete reconciliation report for HR and compliance department.    Role/Responsibilities:  • Involved in migrating the old PAD application using Java, Spring, Hibernate, Spring Data and Oracle as database  • Worked on UI grid using datagrid.js to represent data for all the stocks traded by the employees to be seen by compliance department and what stocks are being bought more often respectively  • Implemented hide and show controls, dropdown menus and tab navigation  • Implemented server-side validation to validate the user inputs before persistence  • Working with BA and business users to define requirements  • Create SQL queries for user support and clean-up work requests to modify, add and delete production data as per business needs. Generate ad hoc-reports which are customized reports for specific business needs using Oracle SQL  • Also involved in creating JAVA API's, RESTful web services  • Perform code deployment in Development and Stage/UAT environments and co-ordinate with deployment teams to deploy the code in Production environment    Environment: Java 7, Angular 2, Bootstrap, datagrid, Spring 4.0, Hibernate 5.0.2, REST, JSON, Oracle 11g, Tomcat 8.0, SVN JR. JAVA DEVELOPER RR DONNELLEY - Normal, IL August 2015 to May 2016 Project: Custom Point Info    Description: Custom Point Info is an application for internal users. It displays all the graphs and charts based on the orders made by the customers for last 2 years. By reading and analyzing these graphs, users can make informed decisions    Role/Responsibilities:  • Created a Custom Point Info Web Application for internal users. It was an independent application.  • Created controllers to handle the different requests  • Used GWT to create panels for the view pages  • Used highcharts and google charts to display the charts and tables of the customers  • Used Spring JDBC to get the data from the database and feed the data into the graphs  • The team used Agile Scrum methodology as their development life cycle    Environment: Java 7, Spring, Spring JDBC, JSP, GWT, CVS, git, jQuery, JavaScript, SquirrelSQL Education Master of Science in Information Systems ILLINOIS STATE UNIVERSITY BE in Electronics and Communication MALWA INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY Skills JAVA (3 years), ORACLE (2 years), REST (2 years), Subversion (2 years), SVN (2 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL EXPERTISE    Programming Languages Java 1.5 / 1.7 / 1.8, PL/SQL  Web Technologies JSP, Servlet, Spring 3/4 (MVC, IOC, DI), Hibernate/JPA (ORM), Spring REST, REST, SOAP, Spring JDBC, Spring Boot  Front-end Technologies HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, Thymeleaf, Bootstrap, GWT  Build Tools Maven  Databases Oracle 11g, MySQL  Version Control Git, SVN, CVS