JAVA Developer <span class="hl">JAVA</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> JAVA Developer Franklin Lakes, NJ ? Java/J2EE consultant with 5+ years of experience in software development and IT enabled services. Experience in developing and supporting enterprise wide, Client/Server, Multi-tier, web and desktop applications.  ? Strong experience in domain areas such as Automotive, Financial, Medical and Manufacturing developing enterprise web Applications and possess a deep knowledge of the J2EE Framework and internals of the architecture.  ? Experience in developing Web based applications using Java, J2EE, JSP, Servlets, JDBC, Java Beans, JNDI, Spring Core, Spring Security, Spring AOP, Spring MVC, Spring DAO, Struts, EJB, Hibernate, and JPA  ? Proficient in complete Software Development Life Cycle SDLC including requirements gathering, analysis, design, development, testing and maintenance.  ? Expertise in building Web Services SOAP, Restful using Apache CXF, Axis 2, Spring Web Services.  ? Conversant with various J2EE design patterns including Session Fa ade, Business Delegate, Data Access Object and Service Locator.  ? Excellent understanding of RDBMS concepts, good at writing SQL queries and experience in designing Object-Relational methodologies using Oracle and MySQL databases.  ? Experience in developing web pages using JSP, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, AJAX and JSTL.  ? Expertise in working on WebSphere, Jboss, Resin and Tomcat.  ? Experience in various methodologies like Waterfall and Agile.  ? Worked with Source control tools like SVN and Git.  ? Used ANT, MAVEN script to compile, build and deploy the web application.  ? Experience in developing applications using IDEs like Eclipse, WebLogic Workbench and TOAD.  ? Have good experience in working with Junit. Work Experience JAVA Developer Nationwide Insurance - Columbus, OH February 2017 to October 2018 Responsibilities:  ? Involved in Analysis, design and coding on Java and J2EE Environment.  ? Very Strong knowledge in using J2EE based App Servers like JBoss 5.0, WebSphere 6.1, WebLogic 8.1, and Web servers like Apache Tomcat 6.x/7.x  ? Developed class diagrams, sequence diagrams, and use case diagrams for the view accounts. Generated skeleton code based on the class diagrams.  ? Worked in continuous integration, Testing and deployments projects using HP ALM(traditional), Jenkins tools and repository Github.  ? Involved in developing front end screens using JSP, Groovy, JSTL, JQuery, XSLT, DHTML, HTML5, CSS, AJAX, CSS3 and JavaScript. Also, involved in adding the Internationalization to the existing application.  ? Installed, configured and deployed the applications on WebSphere Portal and Application Serve with SOA Governance.  ? Construction of UIs using JQuery, Backbone.js, Bootstrap and JavaScript. Involved in JUnit Testing. Integrated Spring DAO for data access using with Hibernate.  ? Used Hibernate to integrate with the backend database.  ? Experience designing and implementing RESTFUL web services Appreciation and taste for innovative user experience and visual design Can learn and pick up new technologies very quickly High energy drive to proactively.  ? develop an in-depth knowledge of all aspects of the solution domain and drive the implementation of the most current and relevant solutions  ? Managed different versions of application using Git.  ? Developed an interface, which also shows the check images as the gif files, if there are any in the account summary of the account actions.  ? Wrote different queries for database to retrieve the details from the DB2 database which are configured for One Source System.  ? Developed JSP custom tags, using JSP2.0, for encapsulating presentation logic in concise form. Converted XML to Java objects using JAXB.  ? Worked on android Web services REST API for developing e-Commerce Application.  ? Developed stored procedures and called using JDBC.  ? Built data-driven web applications using JSP by developing custom tags, JSTL for all the application UML, Ext JS, AngularJS pages, EJB and XML.  ? Was part of solving the issues that came in production  Environments: core JAVA5.0/6.0, JEE, Javascript, Servlets, JSP, JDBC, EJB, JPA, Hibernate, JSF, Spring JAXB, JAX-RS, SQL, Oracle 10g, SVN, ANT, Eclipse, SQL Developer, JUnit, WebLogic 10.x, Log4J, HTML, CSS, Oracle Database, CSS, JSON, DOJO, RESTFUL APIs, SOAP, WSDL, JMS, MDB, JIRA, Jenkins, Python, Web Services, BootStrap XML, Log4J, XML Schema, Tomcat, Maven, JQuery. JAVA Developer Mastercard - St.Louis, MO, US April 2015 to January 2017 Responsibilities:  ? Involved in designing user screens and validations using HTML, JavaScript, JQuery and Node.js as per user requirements.  ? Developed Client side validation code using JavaScript and JQuery.  ? Developed web services and SOAP Messages with XML, SOAP and WSDL.  ? Used Spring Dependency Injection properties to provide loose-coupling between layers.  ? Implemented the Web Service client for the login authentication, credit reports and applicant information using Apache Axis 2 Web Service.  ? Used various JAX-RS Web Services using Jersey Framework.  ? A React frontend with Immutable.js, Redux state written in TypeScript interacting with backend. Built browserify, npm dependency management.  ? Implemented UI Tier with JSP, Groovy, Servlet, JSF, XML, XML Schema, CSS, CSS3, JavaScript, AJAX. Developed JSF managed beans and backing beans and configured JSF navigation in faces-config.xml.  ? Also used Annotation capabilities of RESTFUL API by providing ease development and client adoption  ? Implemented system-wide Email Notification for important changes.  ? Integration with Infusionsoft CRM system via node wrapper around web APIs.  ? Developed Message Driven Beans (MDBs) for receiving and processing data from IBM MQ Series using JMS.  ? Authentication, authorization and security of application is provided using Encryption Security Framework.  ? Wrote Hibernate Criteria queries, named queries for stored procedures, and triggers to perform back-end database operations.  ? Implemented multithreading concepts of transaction purpose  ? Developed ANT Scripts to do build, packaging ear file.  ? Deployed the application using WebLogic as a server.  ? Used UML and Rational Rose suite for designing the System.  ? Implemented the logging mechanism using Log4j framework.  ? Wrote test cases in JUnit for unit testing of classes.  ? Provided functional support to the technical team in resolving & providing a quick fix for production issues.    Environments: core JAVA5.0/6.0, Javascript, Servlets, JSP, JDBC, EJB, JPA, Hibernate, JSF, JAX-B, JAX-RS, SQL, Oracle 10g, SVN, ANT, Eclipse, SQL Developer, JUnit, WebLogic 10.x, Log4J, HTML, CSS, Angular JS, JSON, DOJO, RESTFUL APIs, SOAP, JMS, MDB, JIRA, Jenkins, Bamboo, Python, Web Services, BootStrap XML, XML Schema, Tomcat, Maven, JQuery. JAVA/JEE Consultant ECIL - Hyderabad, Telangana April 2013 to December 2013 Responsibilities:  ? Designed the system according to J2EE specifications. Servlets were used as a Front Controller gateway into the system.  ? As a Programmer participated in the designing of the Web framework using Struts framework as a MVC design paradigm.  ? Involved in the entire life cycle development of the application.  ? Reviewing and analyzing data model for developing the Presentation layer and Value Objects.  ? Used HTML, CSS, XHTML and DHTML in view pages for front-end.  ? Extensively involved in developing Web interface using JSP, JSP Standard Tag Libraries (JSTL) using Struts Framework.  ? Used Struts & JavaScript for client-side validation.  ? Used Struts Tag Libraries to develop JSP pages.  ? Used JSTL in the presentation tier.  ? Involved in writing the client side scripts using JavaScript.  ? Developed Controller using Action Servlet and Action mapping provided by Struts framework.  ? Good Knowledge of Springs IOC, Spring MVC , Spring Boot and Spring integration with Hibernate and Struts Technologies.  ? Wrote Hibernate configuration and mappings xml files for database access.  ? Developed various java objects (POJO) as part of persistence classes for OR mapping with databases.  ? Developed SQL stored procedures and prepared statements for updating and accessing data from database.  ? Development carried out under Eclipse Integrated Development Environment (IDE).  ? Used ClearCase Version Control for Project Configuration Management.  ? Involved in designing the user interfaces using JSF, Facelets, Javascript and HTML5.  ? Done the complete requirement/system specifications and test specifications.  ? Worked with a variety of issues involving multithreading, server connectivity and user interface.  ? Created entities and mapped them to the database using Hibernate.  ? Implemented DAO design pattern for database related activities (Add, Delete, Modify etc) and to  ? interact with the database using JDBC.  ? Generated periodic reports based on the statistical analysis of the data from various time frame and division using SQL Server Reporting Services.    Environment: core JAVA, JavaScript, Servlets, JSP, JDBC, EJB, JPA, Hibernate, Spring, JSF, JAX-B, JAX-WS, SQL, MS SQL Server, Clear Case, ANT, Eclipse, TOAD, JUnit, Tomcat 6.x, Log4j, HTML, CSS, JQuery. JAVA/Spring boot Developer Express Scripts Inc - Franklin Lakes, NJ, US Responsibilities:    ? Involved in requirement analysis and designing the system to incorporate those requirements and coming up with the design to utilize existing systems and services.  ? Communicating with external services' representatives for understanding, reporting problems and taking into account the changes and updates.  ? Designed POCs for proving the third party service's credibility and functionality.  ? Implemented the REST web service for utilizing these services and exposing some of the newly implemented functionalities for others through JAX-RS and Spring RestController.  ? Implemented the Project structure based on Spring MVC pattern using spring boot.  ? Integrated the JSON objects, DB objects and business logic through faster xml Jackson Object Mapper.  ? Used Oracle SQL Server for storing the data and extensively used SQL queries along with stored procedures and functions for queries and data analysis.  ? Designing, coding and maintaining all the classes and beans for implementing the business logic. Managed all the beans, controllers and services for both synchronousand asynchronous operations.  ? Used Callable objects for implementing multithreading for parallel execution of independent events.  ? Wrote JUnit test cases for these classes following a test driven methodology.  ? Coordinated with the testing team for bug reports and fixes and tracking these tickets through JIRA.  ? Incorporated error handling through exception handling in different layers and generating custom exceptions and codes.  ? Implemented different levels of logging throughout the system using log4j logger.  ? Participated in daily stand ups and Sprint planning and review meetings.  ? Performing bug fixes and coordinating with the testing team for all the updates and changes.  ? Documented and presented the code to the client before code handover.    Environments: Java 1.8, Spring 4.0.6, Spring boot 1.1.5, Junit 4.11, Apache, Tomcat 7.0.54, Log4j 1.2.17, httpclient 4.3.4, JAX-RS 2.0, Maven 2.5.1, Windows 7, Eclipse Luna, Jira, Web Services, JSON, Jenkins, App Express. Education Bachelors of Technology in Technology JNTU Skills Java