Java Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Developer - State Farm Colorado Springs, CO ? 4 years of IT experience in Design, Development, Support and Implementation of Web based applications using JAVA/J2EE/GROOVY GRAILS Technologies (Core Java, JDBC, Servlets, JSP, XML, Spring, JUNIT, Hibernate, and Restful API).  ? Bachelor Degree in Electronic and Communication Engineering from Pokhara University, Nepal.  ? Development experience with Java such as OOPS Concepts, Strings, IO, Multithreading, Collections and Exception Handling.  ? Experience in spring frameworks like spring web flow, ORM, spring core, Spring AOP.  ? Extensive knowledge in Spring Web MVC framework for the applying MVC Implementation to the web application.  ? Good knowledge of spring's IOC, AOP, Spring MVC and spring integration with Hibernate technologies.  ? Experience with various build and CI CD tools such as Maven, Gradle, Jenkins, etc.  ? Used Git, GitHub, Bitbucket, CVS, and Subversion for version control.  ? Excellent knowledge and experience in SQL queries, PL/SQL, stored procedures, functions and triggers to interact with SQL, MySQL and Oracle databases.  ? Used Apache Kafka (Message Queues) for reliable and asynchronous exchange of important information between multiple business applications.  ? Creating and supporting of JMS, MQ connection factory, topics, queues, channel, listeners.  ? Experience with Core Java- Multi-Threading, Concurrency, Spring Batch, JavaScript frameworks.  ? Experience with Collections, Interfaces, Synchronization, and Exception Handling.  ? Strong expertise in development and deployment of web components that include Servlets, JSP, and business layer components that include Web Services, and JDBC, JNDI, JMS.  ? Experience of Test-Driven Development (TDD) and Behavior Driven Development (BDD).  ? Extensive experience in Microservices using Spring Boot application development.  ? Extensively worked with Angular framework for UI development and developed html components for usage in common modules.  ? Significant experience in developing applications using Java and related technologies using methodologies like AGILE, TEST DRIVEN, SCRUM.  ? Expertise in Application development using various frameworks such as Jakarta Struts Framework, Java Server Faces, Spring Framework, Spring MVC, Spring Annotations, Hibernate ORM with GUI plug-ins, validation plugins like Validator Framework.  ? Design and develop user interface using HTML5 tags, AJAX, Angular JS, jQuery and XML.  ? Developed Controller Servlets, Action and Form objects for process of interacting with MySQL database and retrieving dynamic data.  ? Worked on spring framework for the business layer using Spring Core, DAO, Spring ORM, and Spring Web MVC.  ? Strong database experience in Oracle 9i/10g, 11g, MS-Access, SQL Server with good programming skills in SQL and PL/SQL views, Stored Procedures and database triggers with comprehensive knowledge on Performance Tuning and Query Optimization in Oracle Stored Procedures.  ? Sound Knowledge of Hadoop, HDFS and NoSQL.  ? Very Good Experience with Servlets and JSP.  ? Experience in developing PL/SQL, Stored Procedures and Triggers on Oracle Databases.  ? Working knowledge of Ant/Maven for project build/test/deployment, Log4j for error logging and Debugging, JUnit for unit and integration testing for XML validation.  ? Experience in using JUnit Frameworks like Mockito, JMock, TestNG, and Easy Mock.  ? Experience with middle-tier popular J2EE application and web servers like WebLogic 8.x/9.x, WebSphere 5.x/6.x, WebSphere Portal 5.x, Tomcat 4/5/6.  ? Developed client-side AJAX application that uses Swing, NetBeans, XSLT, XPath, SPA, JavaScript OOP, and more Bind objects and retrieve them via Groovy Grails, JNDI interface.  ? Experience in Coding Groovy domain class to handle the business logic.  ? Strong Knowledge of Amazon Web Services (AWS) and Cloud Computing.  ? Experience in modeling applications with UML, Rational Rose and Rational Unified Process (RUP) and Microsoft Visio and source control applications like Microsoft VSS, CVS and Rational Clear Case.  ? Excellent communications skills, team Player adept at building strong working relationships with coworkers and cross-functional teams to achieve project priorities/deadlines. Work Experience Java Developer State Farm - Richardson, TX February 2019 to Present Project Name: Bank Lending Underwriting.  Brief description: This project processes the vehicle loan, determines the approval or disapproval of loan application and also determines the interest rate for loan. My Role in this project is to migrate the data from oracle database to HDFS and provide the data archive solution.    Responsibilities:  ? Responsible for system analysis, design data migration architecture.  ? Involved in various phases of data migration as requirement gathering, modeling, analysis, architecture design & development.  ? Developed Trigger, function, Procedure and Views for oracle database.  ? Developed Informatica Mapping, Workflows and Transformations.  ? Created shell scripts to do perform various task like clean-up the server, move file between server.  ? Written Hive, Pig query to fetch the result from the Hadoop cluster.  ? Worked in the Hadoop cluster for data archive solution.  ? Analyzed the database table and change the table structure to enhance the database performance.  ? Used PUTTY, WinSCP to login to Linux server and transfer the files.  ? Analyze the java code and refactor it remove redundant and inefficient code.  ? Designed, developed and maintained the data layer using Hibernate 3.0 and used Spring ORM to integrate with Hibernate.    Environment: Java, JDK 1.8, Informatica 10.1, Hadoop, JUNIT, PL/SQL, Oracle 12.1, Oracle 12.2, Log4j, WINSCP 5.7.4, PUTTY 0.65, Linux, Window. Java Developer Discover Finance Services - Riverwoods, IL June 2018 to January 2019 Project Name: EPP Pricing Rule.  Brief description: This project helps the business owner to create the pricing rules and see the impact of the rules on agents of discover. My Role in this project is to develop the backend api and frontend to create and process the business rules.    Responsibilities:  ? Responsible for system analysis, design and development using J2EE architecture.  ? Involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) as requirement gathering, modeling, analysis, architecture design & development and the project was developed using Agile Methodology.  ? End-to-end Project Management, including customization of product based on the customer's requirement, meeting delivery deadlines on development, testing, implementation phases of the system and customer relationship consulting.  ? Performed application design development maintenance enhancements and testing using JUnit framework.  ? Designing and editing GUI with innovation and creativity with the help of graphs, charts, other diagrams, etc.  ? Work closely with the UI team and provide Restful API's which deliver data in JSON format needed by the User Interface which uses Angular.  ? Created custom directives in Angular that perform functionality.  ? Taken care of Java Multithreading in common java classes / library.  ? The entire application was developed in J2EE using MVC based architecture, Spring Integration (STS).  ? Developed UI and appearance for the screens using JavaScript, AJAX, AngularJS and jQuery.  ? Used spring (3.7.0) IOC for dependency injection and Spring AOP for cross cutting concerns like logging, security, and transaction management.  ? Designed, developed and maintained the data layer using Hibernate 3.0 and used Spring ORM to integrate with Hibernate.  ? Design of REST APIs that allow sophisticated, effective and low-cost application integrations.  ? Used AJAX in suggestion list and to display dialog boxes.  ? Developed Microservices using Spring Boot.  ? Performed unit testing using JUNIT framework.  ? Monitored the logs using Log4j and fixed the problems and used GitHub and Git UI for version control.  ? Used Gradle, Tomcat and Jenkins to automate the build and deployment process.  ? Involved in research activities for determining frameworks and technologies feasible for the development of application.  ? Conduct knowledge sharing sessions among the team members in technical areas.    Environment: Java, Spring 3.7.0, Servlets, JDK 1.8, Java Script, XML, XSD, JUNIT, Angular, Intellij IDE 2015, AJAX, MS-SQL Server, PL/SQL, SonarQube, Log4j, GitHub, Git 1.9.5, RabbitMQ 3.5.4, MariaDB, 1.6.9, WINSCP 5.7.4, PUTTY 0.65. Java/J2EE Developer Deerwalk Services - NP June 2015 to March 2018 Project Name: Operation Management System, Deerwalk Hospital, Event Management System.  Brief description: Operation Management System is java-based application that keep track of all the stage during the different phase of big-data processing. Deerwalk Hospital application is a complete solution for a Hospital which cover billing, lab, accounting, inventory management and HR department all in single application. Event Management System is a project for US client which generate the XML report and keep track of all the expenses in business for different vendor. My role in these projects are to develop both create the UI, write the business logic, work with project manager and product owner during all phase of application from requirement gathering to delivery.  Responsibilities:  ? Involved in requirements gathering and analysis from the existing system.  ? Worked with Agile Software Development.  ? Designed and developed business components using Spring AOP, Spring IOC, and Spring Batch.  ? Implemented DAO using Hibernate, AOP and service layer using spring, MVC design.  ? Developed Java Server components using spring, Spring MVC, Hibernate, Web Services technologies.  ? Using Java 1.7 with generics, for loop, static import, annotations etc, J2EE, Servlet, JSP, JDBC, Spring 3.1 RC1, Hibernate , Web services (Axis, JAX-WS, JAXP , JAXB) JavaScript Framework (DOJO, jQuery, AJAX , XML, Schema).  ? Used Hibernate as persistence framework for DAO layer to access the database.  ? Worked with the JavaScript framework AngularJS.  ? Designed and developed Restful APIs for different modules in the project as per the requirement.  ? Developed JSP pages using Custom tags and Tiles framework.  ? Implemented Single Page Application (SPA) Pattern and used Angular JS MVC to build a cross-browser application.  ? Developed the User Interface Screens for presentation logic using JSP and HTML.  ? Have Used Spring IOC to inject the services and their dependencies in dependency injection mechanism.  ? Developed SQL queries to interact with SQL Server database and also involved in writing PL/SQL code for procedures and functions.  ? Responsible for making AJAX Calls for the UI Interactions to the Controller Actions using AngularJS and getting the Data back as JSON and parsing it onto the UI.  ? Developed the persistence layer (DAL) and the presentation layer.  ? Created AngularJS controllers, directives, models for different modules in the frontend.  ? Used MAVEN for build framework and Jenkins for continuous build system.  ? Developed GUI using Front end technologies JSP, JSTL, AJAX, HTML, CSS and JavaScript.  ? Developed a code for Web services using XML, SOAP and used SOAPUI tool for testing the services proficient in testing Web Pages functionalities and raising defects.  ? Involved in writing Spring Configuration XML, file that contains declarations and business classes are wired-up to the frontend managed beans using Spring IOC pattern.  ? Configured and deployed the application using Tomcat and WebLogic.  ? Used Design patterns such as Business Object (BO), Service locator, Session façade, Model View Controller, DAO and DTO.  ? Used Log4J to print info, warning and error data on to the logs.  ? Involved in writing the Junit test cases as part of unit testing.  ? Prepared auto deployment scripts for WebLogic in UNIX environment.  ? Used Java Messaging artifacts using JMS for sending out automated notification emails to respective users of the application.    Environment: Java, J2EE, Spring Core, Spring Data, Spring MVC, Spring AOP, Spring Batch, Spring Scheduler, Restful Web Services, SOAP Web Services, Hibernate, Eclipse IDE, Angular JS, JSP, JSTL, HTML5, CSS, JavaScript, WebLogic, Tomcat, XML, XSD, Unix, Linux, UML, Oracle, Maven, SVN, SOA, Design patterns, JMS, JUNIT, log4J, WSDL, JSON, JNDI. Education Bachelor's Skills Ejb, J2ee, Java, Hibernate, Spring Additional Information SKILL SET:    Programming Languages C, C++, Java, PL/ SQL, .Net  J2EE Technology JDK1.4/1.5/1.6/1.7, Servlets, Java Beans, RMI, JDBC, JMS, Web Services, EJB, Spring boot, Microservices.  Frameworks and Tools Struts 1.x/2.x, spring 2.x/3.x, Hibernate, JPA, JSF, Log4J  Web Technologies XML, XSL, XSD, XSLT, HTML, HTML5, CSS, DHTML, JavaScript, JP, jQuery, Angular  Databases DB2, Oracle 8i/9i/10g/11g, SQL Server, MySQL, Microsoft-SQL, Maria DB  Application/Web Servers Apache Tomcat, JBoss, WebLogic and WebSphere  Version Control GIT and SVN  Operating Systems Windows 98/2000/XP/7, UNIX / Linux