Programmer Analyst java Developer, Design, Development Programmer Analyst <span class="hl">java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span>, Design, Development Programmer Analyst java Developer, Design, Development - Cognizant Technology Solutions India Pvt. Ltd Key Skills  • Around 2+ years of IT experience (IT/Software industry).  • Good knowledge of Agile Methodology.  • Have good analytical skills. Work Experience Programmer Analyst java Developer, Design, Development Cognizant Technology Solutions India Pvt. Ltd May 2017 to Present Duration May 2017 - Till Date  Team Size 6  Environment (with skill versions) Java/J2EE, Oracle 11g, Mongo DB  Tools Eclipse, SQL Developer (Oracle 11g), SOAPUI, JBoss 4.2.3, GIT, Putty, WinSCP.  Framework Spring Boot.  Delivery Model Agile    Project description:  Walgreens E-commerce is an online E-commerce portal that provides access to consumer goods, pharmacy & health and wellness services in America through its retail drug stores. The E-commerce website helps them to attract more customers. In this project I was involved in some major and minor enhancements. One of the key challenges of this project is to successfully implement the Agile Development project delivery model with a team with a little knowledge of Agile Methodologies.Major enhancements like abandon cart, Rest service migration, Micro service migration.  Major Projects:  • Migration from Rest Services to Micro Services  1. Involved in design implementation to migrate all the ATG rest services to micro services in agile methodology  2. Implemented the design in spring framework and developed the micro services without any impact to existing model.  • Spring Boot Implementation  Implemented redis repository to maintain session with voltage encryption for security.  3. Created automated JUNIT test cases with mock services.  4. Created onprem micro services.  5. Delivered the code with zero sonar violations and minimum 85% code coverage.  • DB Migration From Oracle to Mongo Db  6. Migration ATG repository concept to mongo db collections.  7. Implemented change stream from mongo to oracle to avoid data loss in existing model.    Roles & Responsibilities:  • Analysis, Design, Coding and Testing.  • Implemented the service contract in Spring Boot framework.  • Created Automated JUNIT test cases for the business requirements.  • Involved in RCA for regression defects.    Project #2:    Project Name Maplin E-Commerce Developer Cognizant Technology Solutions India Pvt. Ltd January 2017 to Present Programmer Analyst Trainee -Testing, Issue Fixing Cognizant Technology Solutions India Pvt. Ltd June 2017 to March 2018 Duration June 17 - March 18  Team Size 5  Environment (with skill versions) Java/J2EE, SAP Hybris  Tools Eclipse, SQL Developer (Oracle 10g), Sonar, SAP Hybris, GIT,    Project description:  • Maplin is a seller of electronic goods with it's headquarter in Rotherham, United Kingdom.  • The customers can buy items directly from any Maplin store or can place orders using maplin.co.uk.  Responsibilities:  • Analysis, Coding and Testing.  • Coding the web application in Java & J2EE Technologies..  • Worked on fixing Sonar Violations  • Involved in analyzing and fixing the defects. Education B.tech JIS College of Engineering Additional Information • Core Skills: Core Java, ATG, Rest Services, Spring Boot, Micro Services, Oracle 10g,  • Good Knowledge of Java Coding standards and practices, J2EE.  • Always willing to learn new technologies and implement them in the projects.  • Good understanding of Microsoft office ( Excel, Word, Power Point)  • Worked in Coding, Testing Phases, Code review.    ? Core Java  ? Spring Boot  ? Micro Services  ? Rest Services  ? J2EE  ? Agile  ? Oracle 10g  ? Mongo DB    Technical Skill Set  Operating System Windows XP, Windows 7    Core Skills Core Java, Rest Services, Spring Boot, Micro Services, SQL  Frameworks ATG, Spring Boot  IDE & Tools Eclipse, SQL Developer, SoapUI, Spinnaker, Jira  Database Oracle 11g, MySQL, Mongo Db  Domain Knowledge Retail ecommerce Practice.  Project Lifecycle Analysis, Design, Build, Test.  Project Development Methodology Agile