Full Stack Java/J2EE Developer Full Stack <span class="hl">Java</span>/J2EE <span class="hl">Developer</span> Full Stack Java/J2EE Developer - New York State Division of Criminal Justice Services New York, NY Over 5 years of Genuine experience in Systems Analysis, Design, Development and Implementation of Web and Client/Server and Enterprise Application development using J2EE Framework.  • Hands on experience in Architecture, Designing, Development and Deployment of High-Performance, Scalable, Distributed Applications.  • Expertise in various components in Spring, which includes Spring IOC, AOP, Spring JDBC, Spring MVC, Spring JPA, Spring Batch, Spring Security and Spring Boot Micro Services.  • Experience with development, implementation and maintenance of large web/portal application systems using J2EE technologies (using Core Java, Servlets, JSP, JDBC, JMS, Swing, Struts, Spring, Shell Scripting, Spark, AngularJS, ReactJS, Hibernate, XML, a, Web service, NetBeans, Eclipse, ANT.  • Hands-on experience in building web and enterprise applications in various domains like Health, Banking/Financial Services, Insurance, Public Sector, and Software Service verticals.  • Experienced in using JavaScript library JQuery, J2SDK 1.5, MS FrontPage, JSP, EJB, Struts Tag Library, AngularJS, MPEG4, Docker, Jasmine.  • Developed integration modules for disparate clients using Apache Camel.  • Extensively experienced in using various design patterns such as MVC (Model-View-Controller), such as Multi Threading, Singleton, Session Facade, Service Locator, Factory and Business Delegate in the development of Multi-Tier distributed Enterprise Applications  • Proficient working knowledge of C, C++ with OOPS, Java, and J2EE.  • Experienced working with Web Technologies such as HTML5, CSS3, XML, XHTML, DHTML, AJAX and Java Script.  • Good work experience of Web/Application Servers like Tomcat 6.0/7.0, Web Sphere 7.x, 8.x and JBoss3.x, 5.x, 6.x application servers.  • Experience in JPA and worked with Hibernate 2.0,3.0 and EJB 2.0, 3.0.  • Experience in RDBMS using Oracle and comfortable using databases SQL Server, DB2, MySql and MS Access.  • Experience in SOA (Service Oriented Architecture) and Web Services technologies (Apache SOAP, REST, WSDL, UDDI)  • Proficient in programming by using the IDE's such as Eclipse Luna, My Eclipse 6.x, JBoss6.x, 5.x, 3.x, RAD 9.0, 9.6. Good experience with version controls such as CVS, SVN.  • Experienced with build tools include Maven, Gradle and Jenkins Version/Source Control tools including SVN and Rational Clear Case. IDE tools like RAD, WSAD, Eclipse, Spring STS, and Borland JBuilder and Oracle Jdeveloper  • Strong experience in back-end coding for Microsoft SQL Server, IBM DB2, Oracle 9i/11g/12c, MySQL using procedures/Functions, cursors, triggers and packages in PL/SQL.  • Expertise in developing applications using Multi-threading, Util packages,Single Sign On ,Struts, Enterprise Java Beans (EJB), Servlets, JSP, JSTL, JTA, JDBC, JNDI, JDOM, JSF, JSON , JMS, SOAP, POJO, Apache Lo4j, Hibernate, ANT, Junit, and JQuery.  • Understanding of Java Beans, DOJO, AJAX, XHTML, XSLT, XQuery, JQuery, SQL/XML.  • Good understanding of all aspects of Testing such as Unit, Regression, White-box, Black-box.  • Experience on LDAP for accessing and maintaining distributed directory information services over Web security protocol network. Also experienced in using Netegrity SiteMinder which intercepts user's requests to validate access to secure applications.  • Quick at grasping modern technologies and keeps on updating my skills.  • Good team player and excellent leadership qualities. Hardworking, honest with good interpersonal skills. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Full Stack Java/J2EE Developer New York State Division of Criminal Justice Services - Albany, NY December 2016 to Present Responsibilities: -  • Participated in discussion with business analysts and analyzed the feasibility of the requirements.  • As a developer worked closely with production support to understand and troubleshoot production issues reported by Business/Support team.  • Understanding the business requirements and preparing the design document.  • Participated in discussion with business analysts and analyzed the feasibility of the requirements. Involved in planning and estimation  • Extensive experience to SOA (Service Oriented Architecture) and experience in developing Web services using SOAP.  • Debug, compile and test Oracle PL/SQL database packages, triggers and store procedures.  • Worked on Jersey Framework using REST API. Developed service layer by using Spring MVC.  • Developing the application using Java with Spring Boot Micro Services. Framework and integrating application using Camel Framework. Implemented session beans using EJB 3.0  • Recommend and develop strategy for integrating internal security model into new projects with Spring Security and Spring Boot Micro Services..  • Developed User interface using JSF, JSP, HTML, JavaScript, and CSS, Ajax and JQuery and JSON.  • Developed integration modules for disparate clients using Apache Camel.  • Used jQuery and JSF validation framework for front end validations  • Performed Validations on UI data using JSF validations and JavaScript and HTML pages.  • Developed DAO objects and Hibernate mappings.  • Designed and modified User Interfaces using JSP, java, Apple PNS, Apache, Spring, Visual Studio .NET, APIs, IDE, Eclipse Plugins, Eclipse Tools, JSON, Java, JavaScript, SDLC.  • Attending the daily Standup Meetings  • Write the Unit test cases by using Junit framework and Mockito framework.  • Proficient in developing with application with Service Oriented Architecture SOA using SOAP, WSDL, UDDI and XML.  • Involved in unit testing and Integration testing. Involved in Bug Fixing  • Used Spring MVC and Dependency Injection for handling presentation and business logic.  • Worked closely with team and make sure that team followed the Java coding guidelines and reviewed the code.  • Used SoapUI 5.30 for Testing the Web Services  • Developed Using RAD IDE and deployed the application components into IBM WebSphere application server8.5 and WebSphere Portal Server 8.  • Developed Maven scripts for various tasks to automate the build process and for the deployment of the application in Web Sphere server  • Involved in WebSphere administration like setting up Data Sources, Creating Queues, deploying applications.  • Perform building and deployment of EAR, WAR, JAR files on test, stage systems in WebSphere Application Server and IBM WebSphere portal Server 8.0.  • Used JMS & MQ for messaging and WebSphere server as application server.  • Configured and build Asynchronous communication with JMS services with IBM MQ Series  • Used RAD for development and WebSphere Application Server for deployment.  • Developed MAVEN scripts for deploying the application using MAVEN.  • Coordinate the Functional users and testing teams in testing the application in Test environment. Given production support for this after deployed in to the production server.  • Involved in data base migration testing activities.  Environment: Java J2EE, Oracle 10g/12c, RAD9, RAD9.6, Junit, Web services, Rational unified process, Java/J2EE, SQL, PL/SQL, JSP, EJB3.0, Hibernate, IBM WAS 8.5, IBM WPS 8, HTML, AJAX, Java Script, JDBC, XML, JMS, XSLT, Apache Camel, UML, IBM MQ, log4j, Jenkins, Sonar, SoapUI 5.30, SVN and Maven. Fullstack Java/J2EE Developer Gordon Food Services (GFS), MI January 2016 to November 2016 Responsibilities:  • Analyzed use cases, created interfaces and designed the core functionality from presentation layer to business logic layer.  • Implemented and designed applications using Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) that includes Requirements Analysis, Design, Coding and Testing.  • Implementation and maintaining applications along with methodologies like Object Oriented Analysis and Design (OOAD).  • Maintained a Hadoop cluster, adding and removing nodes, configuring the Name Node high availability and keeping a track of all the running Hadoop jobs.  • Used HTML5, bootstrap, CSS3, C++, EJB, Grid Gain, Spark, MPEG4, JBPM, JDK 1.8, Golang, JavaScript and Angular JS to Designed dynamic and browser compatible pages.  • Experience working with end users to troubleshoot problems with both Tableau Desktop and Server.  • Worked on creating Packages, Stored Procedures & Functions in Oracle using PL/SQL and TOAD.  • Used Spring Boot Micro Services for building application with spring initializers and bootstrapping the build configuration and develop custom solutions that act upon Jenkins information in authentic time.  • Developed Java Web Services using WSDL, SOAP, JAX-WS, XML, and WS-Security.  • Create scalable and manageable designs and implement enterprise integrations with industry standard technologies utilizing Spring Boot Micro Services PCF and API Gateway.  • Developing Restful and SOAP webservices using Spring Boot Micro Services.  • Implemented, managed and administered the overall Hadoop infrastructure.  • Developed various AngularJS directives to help build the functionality and UI behavior using JavaScript, also developed filters and angular services and responsive UI with AngularJS, Bootstrap and SASS.  • Built custom websites for clients using CMS's (Drupal) by coding custom modules and themes, as well as utilizing e-commerce APIs for secure payment processing.  • Design and Developed applications using Core Java, HL7, Java Collection, JDBC, Servlets, JSP.  • Integrate the web services using Apache Camel routing and Spring.  • Used Spring Framework to develop the Web application.  • Implementing Spring and Struts Framework and Re designing the existing applications.  • Working on front-end and back-end application development. Have upgrade additional functionalities and services with the use cases provided.  • Developed SAOP, RESTFUL web services using spring MVC, Apache CXF.  • Attended JAD sessions for collecting the business requirements.  • Worked on creation of MOCKUP screens using Blueprint and presented to the users before development.  • Re-developing JSP elements, Custom Tag Libraries and JavaScript code for JSP's to upload applicant case documents and also retrieve the documents from Enterprise Content Engine.  • Worked on implementing Web-Services SOAP and RESTFUL services in which request and responses are Image documents being transferred between applications  • Implemented IBM Content Management architecture for an efficient implementation of the view level customizations and interfaced with the application logic.  • Implemented Persistence Layer Queries, Stored procedures, Functions, Packages.  • Used Maven and Ant build scripts to build the application.  • Use MVC Design Pattern in the application.  • Incorporated an efficient way of doing builds and deploying the application to WebLogic and Tomcat Application Server.  • Monitored the error logs using Log4J and fixed the problems.  • Used HCS (Health Commerce System) system with Single Sign on for Applications.  • Used Oracle & MySQL Server to manage data and create tables  • Used Eclipse Luna, Neon Oracle IDE for developing project.  • Developed Parser and Builder XML, XSLT, Java Beans, J-Query.  • Used JUnit test cases for creating and testing the app.  Environment: Java 8, J2EE, Struts, Spring 4.3, Spring Boot Micro Services, Spring AOP, Apache Camel, Hibernate 4, JMS, CVS, REST, log4j, JUnit, Jenkins, SQL, Hadoop, J2SDK 1.5, Gradle, Grid Gain, Python, EJB, Tableau, XML, Appian, Ajax, XSD, java Script, Angular-JS 1.5, ReactJS, Bootstrap, HL7, Mongo DB, Mockito, PowerMock, Linux, C++, Tomcat, Spring Tool Suite(STS), IBM RAD, Jenkins, Docker and Load Runner, Golang, selenium, maven, JPA, JSF, JQuery, WebLogic Application Server, RabbitMQ, GIT, Log4j. Java/J2EE Developer TCS - IN June 2015 to December 2015 Responsibilities:  • Implementing the design patterns like Singleton, value object pattern and Data access objects in the project.  • Involved in system design and development in core java using Collections, multithreading and exception handling. Designed and developed the UI using HTML, CSS and JSP.  • Responsible for development of presentation layer using JSP, spring.  • Business logic was developed using Session beans and container managed persistence services via Hibernate.  • Worked on the JAVA collections API for handling the data objects between front end and business layers. Developed SAOP, RESTFUL web services using spring MVC, Apache CXF.  • Involved in developing web services using SOAP (UDDI, WSDL), XML.  • Deployed entity beans on WebSphere Application Server.  • Worked on LDAP configuration for accessing and maintaining distributed directory information services over Web security protocol network.  • Implemented MVC architecture using struts, JSP & Enterprise Java Beans.  • Involved in development of services based architecture utilizing open source technologies like Hibernate ORM and Spring MVC Framework.  • Exposed to all phases of software development life cycle, including in-depth knowledge of RUP.  • Designing and coding of Action classes and Business Layer and DAO Classes and wired them using Spring Framework.  • Worked on Persistence layer from simple DAO to Spring/Hibernate.  • Designed Stateless Session Beans fitting the requirement of the business and implemented its interfaces.  • Experience in writing Queries, Stored procedures, Functions, Packages, and Triggers.  • Implemented Data Access Objects (DAO pattern) using JDBC.  • Developed batch programs to update and modify metadata of large number of documents in FileNet Repository using CE APIs  • Extensively used JavaScript to provide the users with interactive, Speedy, functional and more usable user interfaces. Designed Asynchronous communication using Ajax.  • Worked on creating Packages, Stored Procedures & Functions in Oracle using PL/SQL and TOAD. This clearly separates the Business Logic from the Backend access to the Database and the Front-End Presentation layer.  • Worked on creating a test harness using POJOs, which would come along with the installer and test the services every time the installer would be run.  • Involved in the Code Review Team that suggests the best way so that the product is stable and is implemented with the best performance and efficiency. Used the JDBC for data retrieval from the database for various inquiries. Java Stored Procedure used to generate PDF reports.  Environment: J2EE 5.0, HTML, Java Script, Ajax, JDBC 3.0, SQL procedures, Hibernate 8.0, Struts Framework 1.1, SAML, Ant, SOA, SOAP, DAO, XML, XSLT, JSP 2.1, JTA 1.1, JQuery, Servlet 2.5, Web Service 1.2, IBM WebSphere 6.x, IBM Rational Clear Case, LDAP, MS- Office 2007, Oracle 9i, Eclipse 3.4. Education Master's Skills Eclipse, Ejb, J2ee, Java, Hibernate, Rest, Java J2Ee, Soap, Spring, Core Java