JAVA DEVELOPER <span class="hl">JAVA</span> <span class="hl">DEVELOPER</span> JAVA DEVELOPER Palo Alto, CA, CA • Over 4+ years of experience in IT industry and worked in different phases on system development including analysis, design, development, documentation, implementing, and testing using Java Stack Technologies and implementation of projects using various methodologies like Waterfall, Agile, and RUP.    • Hands on experience in the implementation of Core Java 8 concepts like Streams API, Lambda functions, Generics, Time API, Functional Interfaces Multithreading, Transaction Management, Exception Handling, Concurrency, File handling, IO, Generics and Collection API.    • Proficient in design and rapid development of web applications using Java/J2EE like Hibernate, Spring, Struts, JSP, JNDI, Servlets, JPA, WebSphere Commerce, RMI, Multithreading, JDBC, Java Beans, EJB (Entity, Session, Message Driven Bean), XML, JMS, Java Mail, Mutation Testing, JUNITs and web services like SOA, WSD and UDDI.    • Experience in designing and developing User Interface (UI) applications and professional web applications using Restful Web Services, SOAP, IBM BPM, Jasper Reports Server, Extjs, Eclipse, NetBeans, Visual Source Safe, CVS, SVN, ICE faces, HTML5, XHTML XML, XSL, XSLT, AJAX, JavaScript and CSS3, JSF, JSTL Servlets and Angular JS with client scripting and server-side scripting languages like JavaScript, jQuery, JSON, JSF, JSP.    • Strong experience in using various IDE's tools like NetBeans, Eclipse, IntelliJ, BlueJ, JBuilder, Rational Application Developer (RAD) and JDeveloper for application development.    • Experience in implementing open source frameworks like Hibernate, JPA, Ibatis (ORM Frameworks) and Struts frameworks and experience in mapping Object-Oriented domain model with relational databases.    • Excellent experience in SOA based integration using Web services technologies such as SOAP (Simple object access protocol), REST (Representational State Transfer) and WSDL (Web Services Description Language)    • Experience with AJAX, REST and JSON working with JavaScript frameworks like Bootstrap, Node.js and Angular JS.    • Strong hands-on experience with Spring MVC Controllers, Spring Boot, Validators, Spring Annotations, Spring tag library, Inversion Of Control (IOC), Spring LDAP, Spring Batch, Spring Cache, Spring Integration, Spring Scheduler, Application Context configuration, Spring Aspect Oriented Programming (AOP), Spring DAO, JDBC, JTA, IO, Hibernate, Spring Microservices, Spring REST, Spring Eureka with Thymeleaf, Spring Web flow, Spring Ribbon, Spring Netflix Zuul, Spring Security along with Hibernate as the back-end ORM tool for implementation of persistence layer and mapping of POJOs.    • Excellence experience in Azure cloud computing mostly for building, testing, webservices like SaaS PaaS and IaaS    • Experience and in-depth Knowledge of understanding in the strategy and practical implementation of AWS Cloud-Specific technologies including S3, EC2, (Virtual Private Cloud) VPC, (Relational Database Service) RDS, (Simple Queue Service) SQS, (Elastic Block Store) EBS, (Simple Notification Service) SNS, Cloud Front, Cloud Formation, Elastic Load Balancing, AWS Identity and access management, Elastic Cache, Cloud Watch, RedShift, AWS Lambda, SNS, Dynamo DB.    • Strong experience of using open source technologies including React, Node JS, Spring, Angular, jQuery, Apache Storm, Elastic Search, Redis, Mongo DB, Bootstrap, Junit etc.    • Proficient in NoSQL transactional databases like Cassandra, Mongo dB and big data technologies like Spark/Storm, Kafka and Hadoop Map Reduce.    • Experience in implementing security models OAUTH2 and SAML for authentication/authorization using Spring Security and IAM Cloud Security.    • Proficient experience with SQL Server, Oracle, DB2 and MySQL as back-end Databases. Extensively used database tools like TOAD and SQL Developer. Knowledge in Database Programming with Stored Procedures, Triggers, Functions using SQL, PL/SQL and Oracle.    • Strong knowledge on JavaScript Unit testing with Jasmin, Karma, Protractor for Angular JS, Mocha and Chai React JS and Backbone JS and experience with build tools like ANT, Maven, Gradle and logging tools like Log4J and DevOps tools such as Chef, Puppet, Ansible, Jenkins, GIT.    • Experience in JUnit, Mockito, Spock Testing for unit testing and Selenium Web Driver, Cucumber (Behavior Driven Development testing) for Integration testing.    • Experience in Continuous delivery / Continuous Integration (CD/CI) tools Docker, Jenkins to deploy this application to AWS.    • Strong command in leading Frameworks Team such as Angular.js, backbone.js, bootstrap.js, D3.Js, React.Js and NodeJS.    • Expertise with servers using Apache Tomcat & HTTP Server, Web Sphere, Web Logic and JBOSS Application server.    • Experience in building high performance and scalable solutions using various Hadoop ecosystem tools like Pig, Hive, Sqoop, Spark, Solr, and Kafka.    • Hands on experience in installing, configuring, and using Hadoop ecosystem components like Hadoop MapReduce, HDFS, HBase, Oozie, Hive, Sqoop, Pig, Zookeeper, and Apache Storm.    • Expertise in design and development of various web and enterprise applications using Type safe technologies like Scala, Akka, Play framework, Slick.    • Extensive experience in Test Driven Development (TDD) and actively involved in Requirement gathering, Analysis, Design, Reviews, Coding, Code Reviews, Unit and Integration Testing.    • Experience in implementing various design patterns including Data Access Object,  Session Facade, Business Delegate, Service Locator, MVC, Data Transfer Object and  Singleton.    • Expertise in creating Conceptual Data Models, Use Case Diagrams, Class Diagrams and  State Diagrams. Work Experience JAVA DEVELOPER TESLA - Palo Alto, CA December 2018 to Present • Involved in design and development as a J2SE and J2EE Software developer on an Agile platform to development processes on Software Development life cycle (SDLC)    • Prepared the Java 8 development structure for MyEclipse and Replaced the Joda library  using streams and lambda expressions. Used the stream feature of Java 8 for aggregate operation and pipelining.    • Backend application code developed using Java 8 and Spring Boot Services to consume the data from the Database and from the other applications.    • Implementation of the markup of the project using HTML, CSS, Bootstrap and created different modules in the application and applied AngularJS to enhance the user interface, for making restful API calls and data binding.    • Used IBM Integration Bus (IIB) to connect to T-SQL stored procedures and connect it with Java component to write custom business logic. Involved in deploying the ESL portal application on IBM WebSphere portal server.    • Used SAML for SSO login to access the web service provided and OAuth for authorizing the user to the application. Involved in identifying job dependencies to design workflow for Oozie and resource management for YARN.    • Worked with NPM package manager tools and created reusable templates using Angular directives.    • Programmed in Angular 4 to upload (post) files/images to the AWS S3 browser from the Front-end by installing NPM package of AWS-SDK.    • Used JPA and Hibernate for data-object mapping to enable persistence of the data Implemented DAO classes separately to modularize the data access component. Used JPA tool for generating entities from database.    • Worked on server-side web applications using Node.js and involved in Construction of UI using jQuery, AngularJS, Ext JS, ReactJS, Bootstrap and JavaScript.    • Involved in designing, developing and testing the web application by using the HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, NodeJS, and React.JS.    • Developed and implemented UI controls and APIs with ExtJS and Coded the front-end Ajax framework components using Web 2.0 JavaScript library ExtJS. Used React-Router to turn application into Single Page Application.    • Used Spark API over Cloudera Hadoop YARN to perform analytics on data in Hive.    • Worked on Deployment Automation of all microservices to pull image from private Docker registry and deploy to Kubernetes Cluster.    • Installed Kafka manager for consumer logs and for monitoring Kafka Metrics also this has been used for adding topics, Partitions to build real-time analytics purpose.    • Worked on Spring Cloud-Netflix OSS stack for microservices deployment and auto configurations like Eureka (Service Discovery Server), Ribbon (Dynamic Routing and Load Balancer), Hystrix (Circuit Breaker), Zuul (Edge proxy) and Monitoring and centralized log analyses (ELK)    • Built real-time dashboard applications for visualization and analytics on Apache Web servers using Elastic Search, Logstash and Kibana 4.0 (ELK), D3.JS, Grafana, Splunk, Graphite.    • Worked to integrate the enterprise application technologies with existing JVM environment used in integration tools like Spring Integration, Mule ESB, Apache CXF, Apache Kafka and JENKI.    • Used Orchestration container Kubernetes for load balancing and to schedule the tasks across the computer cluster and load balancers for backend API services.    • Used various version control software such as SVN, GIT, GIT LAB, CVS, Big Bucket for maintaining code repositories. Implemented Single Sign On and policy-based authentication using Site Minder security framework.    • Worked on design patterns like MVC, Object Orient Design, Singleton, Factory, Session Facade, Service Locator, Visitor, Observer, Decorator, Front Controller, Data Access Object.    • Involved in Rule project design, Orchestrate, Authorization, debugging for launch configuration for rule project analysis reporting, execution and publish to JRules team server.    • Implemented Docker container service, build pipe line like Jenkins, Bamboo and GoCD for Continuous Integration and Continuous Deployment that can run on the cloud or on-premises.    • Implemented continuous deployment system with Jenkins: Code Deploy, Ops Works, and Packer for deployment of Java Applications.    • Used Spring MVC framework to enable the interactions between JSP/View layer and implemented different design patterns with J2EE, XML technology and involved in handling transactions using Spring Declarative Transaction Management.    • Worked with JAXB, SAXP and XML Schema for exporting data into XML format and importing data from XML format to database. Involved in development of java components by using Hibernate and Spring to persist the data in DB.    • Involved in ORM mappings for associations, Inheritance & fetching strategy, performing CRUD operations and managing second level cache using Hibernate.    • Used SOA Integration service for Data Integration Service, Functional Integration Service and used SOAPUI for the functional testing, inspection and invocation of Spring based Web services.    • Migration of current search process from Database to Solr search engine.    • Designing new components to fit in the already existing architecture using core Java, multi-threading different design patterns like factory method, Abstract factory pattern, Singleton, while developing web-based Applications using REST Web services.    • Implemented Oracle SQL Queries & PL/SQL - stored procedures, functions, triggers, sequences and built-in functions to retrieve and update data from the databases.    • Created rule-based decision services using BRMS (ILOG JRules framework) and developed specialized search system using MongoDB, AngularJS, Java Servlets, JUnit, and Maven.    • Used Microservices to communicate using synchronous protocols HTTP and REST for implementing SOAP.    • Deployed the application on Amazon web Services (AWS) using Elastic Cloud Computing (EC2) and Elastic Container Services (ECS) instances. Used Angular to build custom reusable components to use across the application pages. Project migration into cloud environment using AWS, Docker container. JAVA DEVELOPER PAYPAL - India May 2017 to November 2018 • Involved in SDLC Requirements gathering, Analysis, Design, Development and Testing of application using AGILE methodology (SCRUM) . Involved in design discussions and understanding of business requirements and identify the relevant functional and technical requirements.    • Participated in requirement gathering and framework implementation sessions through methodology using Rally Agile Development Software.    • Multithreading was used to process data in chunks to improve performance. Followed the best practices in coding like removing unnecessary casting, using generics in Hash Map, caching, Collections like sort, comparator, list, set.    • Designed the application using the J2EE design patterns such as Session Façade, Business Delegate, Service Locator and Singleton.    • Used React JS to create controllers to handle events triggered by clients and send request to server. Used React JS for creating interactive UI's using One-way data flow, Virtual DOM, JSX, React Native concepts.    • Involved in building a high efficiency Web Application using React and Node JS. Developed interactive web pages using HTML, CSS and JS and used Bootstrap for cross browser compatibility.    • Worked on responsive design and developed a responsive website that could be served to Tablets and mobile users using ReactJS Designed, developed and architected middle tier Restful Web API layer for the mobile applications.    • Wrote a Scala library that allows data scientists to manipulate data structures more easily. As part of the library, native data structures like Spark Data frames were extended to support new functionality.    • Developed Spring based presentation layer, hibernate based DAO layer and integrated them using Spring Dependency injection, ORM and Web modules.    • Developed the application using Spring Framework that leverages Model View Layer (MVC) architecture. Used Spring Batch as spring batch jobs can meet the requirements of reliability, robustness, and traceability, which are essential for automatic processing of large amount of data.    • Spring Security is used for Authorization like Method Level Authorization and URL Level Authorization. Spring Transaction is used for the degree of isolation to work with other transactions and to execute within a transaction scope to run that transaction and used to check out before timing out of the transaction.    • Wrote code Web Services (JAX-WS) for external system via SOAP/HTTP call and to fetch data from web services via XML response and updating the HTML pages. Used Web services (SOAP) for transmission of large blocks of data over HTTP. Used XML Web Services using SOAP protocol to transfer data from one application to other which is remote.    • Used Pivotal Cloud Foundry to role-based access controls, applying and enforcing roles and permissions to ensure that users can only view and affect the spaces for which they have been granted access.    • Configured Hibernate objects as Spring Beans in the Spring Configuration File. Configured the Hibernate configuration files to persist the data to the Oracle 11g Database.    • Created connections to database using Hibernate Session Factory, using Hibernate APIs to retrieve and store images to the database with Hibernate transaction control.    • Used version control repository SVN (Subversion by apache) and JIRA for issue tracking. Used Maven as a build tool and retrieved all the dependencies required for the application.    • Used SOAP UI for testing the web services, AppDynamics for application health and Mockito for testing.    • Used PL/SQL stored procedures for applications that needed to execute as part of a scheduling mechanisms. Used Log4j framework to log/track application.    • Created continuous integration builds using Jenkins and deployed on JBoss. Created CI/CD pipelines and setup auto trigger, auto build and auto deployment with the help of the CI/CD tool like Jenkins. JAVA DEVELOPER FACEBOOK - India January 2015 to April 2017 • Actively involved in Analysis, Design, Development, System Testing and User Acceptance Testing. Used Agile approaches, Including Test-Driven Development (TDD) and Scrum.    • Designed and developed UI using spring view component HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, AngularJS and Vue.js. Built custom UI widgets, directives, filters and Application logic using AngularJS MVC Architecture.    • Created Typescript reusable components and services to consume REST API's using Component based architecture provided by Angular 4.0.    • Design coded and tested key modules of the project using java oops concepts. Used most of the new features of Java 8 like lambda expressions, functional interfaces, Method references and stream API.    • Used Spring and Hibernate for implementing IOC, AOP and ORM for back end tiers. Implemented Hibernate Template to great extent making use of HQL, Named Parameters, Named Queries and interfaces such as Expression, Query and Criteria.    • Developed Hibernate with Spring Integration as the data abstraction to interact with the database of MongoDB and used Hibernate, object/relational-mapping (ORM) solution and technique of mapping data representation from MVC model to Oracle Relational data model with SQL-based schema.    • Used Multithreading and Concurrency and implemented threads while preparing and generating mails.    • Used a Microservice architecture, with Spring Boot-based services interacting through REST and Apache Kafka.    • Deployed Spring Boot based microservices Docker container using Amazon EC2 container services. Created Stacks using Amazon Cloud Formation templates to launch AWS Infrastructure and resources. Used AWS Lambda to run the code in the AWS.    • Created RESTful web services using Spring RESTful API sending JSON data between Frontend, middle tier Controller.    • Responsible for Configuring Kafka Consumer and Producer metrics to visualize the Kafka System performance.    • Designed and developed a project that reads messages from Kafka topic and applied conversation from JSON to pipe delimited String data format to be saved in Oracle DB and NoSQL DB.    • Used Continuous delivery/ Continuous Integration tools Docker, Jenkins to deploy this application to AWS and used GIT for version control of code for incremental development and JIRA as a defect tracking tool and Maven as a building tool.    • Used SonarQube for continuous inspection of code quality. Wrote JUnit test cases to test the application.    • Logging framework Log4J is used for log messages. Implemented log4j for application logging and to troubleshoot issues in debug mode. Education Master's