Application Developer Application <span class="hl">Developer</span> Application Developer - Fannie Mae, Sri_aditya_nadakuduti@fanniemae.com Herndon, VA • Around 5 years of experience in analysis design and development of software applications using J2EE technologies  • Areas of expertise include JAVA, JSP, SPRING, HIBERNATE, Ajax, Angular JS, J query, for the application development using J2EE technologies.  • Designed and coded application components in and agile environment utilizing a test driven development (TDD) approach.  • Sound Knowledge of Extreme Programming with Agile Methodology with iterative and incremental Software Development.  • Expertise in designing and developing J2EE compliant systems using IDE tools like Eclipse, STS and deploying them in application servers likes Apache tomcat and Web Logic servers.  • Have Good Knowledge in both Consuming and Producing web services using RESTFUL Webservices with Spring Framework.  • Deep Knowledge of Angular Js Practices and commonly used modules  • Hand on Experience in Amazon Web Services EC2, VPC, IAM, S3, LAMDA, Cloud Watch, Cloud-Front.  • Sound knowledge in working with Maven build and deployment process.  • Good experience with databases, database concepts, normalizations etc. and proficient in Oracle 11g/10g/9i  • Sound knowledge in working with Maven build and deployment process. Used Jenkins for automated build process  • Proficient in coding using Multi-Threading, Collections, Interfaces, Exception Handling and Reflections.  • Strong Knowledge of XML Schema and XSLT.  • Proficient in developing unit testing and integration testing with good knowledge on testing frameworks and testing methodologies.  • Excellent client interaction and presentation skills and have proven experience in working independently and in a team  • Having Very Good experience in Writing Automation Test Cases using SELENIUM WEB DRIVER, GHERKIN, JUNIT, MOCKITO  • An Excellent team player, quick learner and a highly motivated individual with effective communication skills  • Ability to multitask and prioritize work based on deadlines. Sponsorship required to work in the US Work Experience Application Developer Fannie Mae, Sri_aditya_nadakuduti@fanniemae.com - Herndon, VA May 2016 to Present Responsibilities:  • Involved in the Analysis, Design and implementation using AGILE methodology for iterative development of the application..  • Involved in business requirements gathering and analysis of the requirements.  • Developed the application using Spring Framework that uses Model View Controller (MVC) architecture with JSP as the view.  • Took advantages of Spring Batch functionality to improve the processing time for load data (approx. 18 Mil) by 3 times  • Created and Optimized views for user interactions using objects of HTML Helper class, Custom Helpers and Angular JS, Javascript, JQuery, typescript.  • Design and developed microservice based application using Spring Boot and Spring Cloud which adheres to Cloud  development principles.  • Developed Microservices front-end keeping the UI and Backend service together and serve as independent components.  • Used IAM for creating roles, users, groups and also implemented MFA to provide additional security to AWS account and its resources  • Experience on various AWS services like S3, EC2, ECS, Cloud trail, VPC, RDS, Route 53, SNS, and Lambda.  • Used JavaScript and J query functions for Client-side/Server-side validation.  • Designed, executed and maintained Selenium automated test cases for regression test cases  • Extensively used Spring IOC for Dependency Injection.  • Used Spring Batch to read large number of records from a database and file.  • Improved Robustness of the Code and performance for the Application by using CAST Application Intelligence Platform.  • Expertise in using Autosys Tool for Monitoring and Scheduling Job via Linux server.  • Used Oracle10g database for tables creation and involved in writing NoSQL queries using Joins and Stored Procedures.  • Used Hibernate for Object-Relational Mapping and for database operations in Oracle database.  • Developed Action classes and DAO classes to access the database.  • Developed several POJO classes to map table data into Java Object.  • Used tortoise SVN tool to keep track of all work and all changes in source code.  • Developed enterprise application which consumes and publishes enterprise data using Tibco EMS queues.  • Used JASPER REPORTS to generate reports in PDF, Excel and HTML.  • Responsible for build using MAVEN and worked with a continuous integration tool JENKINS for deployment and testing in different environments.  • Deployed the applications on Weblogic Application Server.  • Used Junit for testing the application with Mockito for Mocking Objects and Powermock to mock static objects.  Technologies Used: Eclipse, STS, Maven Tortoise SVN, Toad, Linux, , solaris, Java- JDK7, Spring Framework, Angular, Spring MVC, Weblogic, Autosys Client R11, Maven, JUNIT, Mockito, Hibernate, Spring Batch, AWS, Selenium, Gherkin, Spring Boot, Microservices Java Developer Columbus, OH January 2016 to May 2016 Responsibilities:  • Insurance Management system will help us to claim, view and approve a case.  • This was developed in MVC architecture with JSP as the front end, servlets as the controller and Hibernate mapping for the database connection, Involved in all layers like Presentation Layer, Business Logic and Data Access Layers.  • Developed User Interface using HTML5, JavaScript and Angular JS.  • Involved in developing Server-Side EJB Components and wrote session beans to perform the business logic.  • Created and optimized views for user interactions using objects of HTML Helper class, Custom Helpers and Angular JS, JavaScript, JQuery, typescript.  • Used Hibernate for Object-Relational Mapping and for database operations in Oracle database.  • Developed Spring AOP Components for Service implementation.  • Developed Action classes and DAO classes to access the database.  • Developed several POJO classes to map table data into java Object.  • Involved in writing SQL queries and Stored Procedures using SQL and PL/SQL using Oracle SQL Developer and connected database using JDBC API.  • Extensively worked with JUnit framework to write unit test cases to perform unit testing of the application.  • Experience in installation/Configuration of Tomcat application server.  • Participated in the code reviews for various initiatives to follow the Best Practices for Performance and Security  Technologies: Java, JSP, Spring, Hibernate, Oracle 11g, Tomcat, Maven, CSS, JavaScript, Ajax, SVN, Junit, Mocito, Angular, PowerMockito, REST, Jenkins. Java/J2EE Developer NATIONAL INFORMATIC CENTER July 2013 to August 2014 RESPONSIBILTIES:  • A Causelist and judgement uploading web enabled system has been designed, developed and hosted by the request of the hon'ble District and Session Judge Raipur to upload their daily Causelist and judgement.  • The Case Information System is a Web -Application, that helps the court staff for case filing, case registration, daily proceedings, statistical reports, query.  • This application is built using Java, Spring, Hibernate and oracle 10g.  • Roles & Responsibilities:.  • Involved in all layers likes Presentation Layer, Business Logic and Data Access Layers.  • End to End responsibility is taken to develop Agent side applications using Spring, HTML 5, CSS 3, J Query, Ajax, and integrated Hibernate to Oracle database.  • Involved in creating Servlets and Java Classes, which route submittals to the Appropriate.  • Enterprise Java Bean(EJB) components and render retrieved information using Session façade.  • Involved in writing SQL queries and stored Procedures using SQL and PL/SQL using Oracle SQL developer in installation/ configuration of Tomcat application server.  • Responsible for Writing Junit test cases to ensure the code coverage for testing Technologies Used: Java, JSP, Spring, Hibernate, Oracle 11g, Tomcat, oracle 10g, Maven, CSS, JavaScript, Ajax, SVN.  Technologies: Java, JSP, Spring, Spring MVC, Hibernate, Oracle 11g, Tomcat, Maven, CSS, JavaScript, Ajax, HTML SVN, Junit, REST, Jenkins. Education Master of Science in COMPUTER SCIENCE University of Central Missouri - Warrensburg, MO 2016 Bachelor of Science in COMPUTER SCIENCE Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University - Hyderabad, Telangana 2013 Skills Eclipse, J2ee, Java, Hibernate, Spring, Angular, React, Node, Javascript