Java Full Stack developer <span class="hl">Java</span> Full Stack <span class="hl">developer</span> Java Full Stack developer - IBM • More than 3+ years of Full stack JAVA developer experience in analysis, design, developing, testing and implementation of web and distributed Enterprise applications using JAVA/J2EE and Client-Server technologies.  • Experience in designing and developing applications using J2EE technologies including Servlets, JSP, EJB, JNDI, JDBC, JMS, Hibernate, Web Services, Spring.  • Strong experience in Spring frameworks such as Spring IOC, AOP, MVC, ORM, Transaction, Security and Spring Boot.  • Experience in Web Designing and User Interface Development using technologies like HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX, AngularJS, NodeJS, and React JS.  • Experience with JavaScript Libraries like JQuery, JSP, JSTL Specification, Tag Libraries, AJAX and Resource Properties.  • Experience in TDD, Pair Programming and version management tools GitHub, SVN.  • Worked in debugging and troubleshooting existing code using Firebug and Developer Tools.  • Experience in MVC architecture using Spring MVC for web application development.  • Implemented different modules in Spring like IOC, MVC, ORM, and Transaction Management.  • Implemented Hibernate as the backend ORM tool for persistence layer and mapping of POJOs.  • Exposure to Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) with JMS, Web Services SOAP and Restful.  • Extensive experience in SQL, PL/SQL programming, stored procedures with MySQL and Oracle databases.  • Hands on experience in implementing various Design patterns including Data Access Object, Model View Controller, Factory Method, Singleton.  • Hands on experience in giving Production and Deployment Support. Work Experience Java Full Stack developer IBM - Costa Mesa, CA June 2017 to Present Development of enterprise application which provides streamlined process for WCA.    Implementation Details:  • Project SDLC is worked through Agile SCRUM methodology. Participated in daily scrum meetings, sprint planning and sprint retrospective sessions.  • Implemented Micro Service Architecture with Spring Boot based RESTful services and consumed SOAP based Web Services.  • Web tier is developed using Spring MVC and front-end pages that are developed using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, AJAX and JQUERY.  • Developed client-side validation code using JavaScript and JQuery.  • Creating cross-browser compatible and standards-compliant CSS-based page layouts.  • Involved in fixing Front-End issues with the layouts using Firebug and developer tool.  • Implemented JQuery to perform AJAX calls for creating interactive web pages on JSON response.  • Implemented Service and DAO components using Spring beans using dependency injection.  • Integrated Restful Web Services with Spring MVC using Response Body annotation. Implemented AJAX to retrieve the JSON through Restful calls.  • Implemented a Node.js server to manage authentication.  • Used Spring JPA to integrate with Hibernate for the persistence layer.  • Defined JPA entity persistence classes for ORM to persist the data into Oracle Database.  • Implemented Spring AOP for transaction management.  • Implemented services on the back end using with SOAP web services using Apache CXF.  • Used SOAPUI as web services testing tool.  • Created reusable directives, factories and services in AngularJS.  • Used design patterns like Singleton, Data Access Objects, and MVC.  • Responsible to remove bugs and add new features, enhance performance and scalability in application.  • Implemented the Business logic by efficiently utilizing the OOPS concepts, Collections and Exception handling of Core Java and also Performed Unit Testing using JUNIT and Mockito.  • Tracked QA defects/issues by using JIRA and tested in DEV and QA environments.  • Deployed the applications on Linux server using putty, WinSCP and Jenkins.  • Implemented SPRING BATCH framework for Batch processing that provides reusable functions to be used in processing large volumes of records.  • Provided Security Validation by Preventing WCA from XSS, CSRF, and XXE attacks.  • Experience in using AWS Services like S3, Lambda, EC2, DynamoDB, Kinesis Streams, EMR and Cloud Formation Template.  • Used GIT for version control and application deployment on WebLogic Application Server  • Developed application logging using Log4J to log messages and errors.  • Used the Java Collections API extensively in the application.  • Maven and Jenkins for the application build and deployments.    Environment:  Java 1.8, Spring-boot (Micro-Services), JMS, JSP, Spring MVC, AWS, Hibernate, JavaScript, Ajax, JQuery, Angular JS, Junit, Restful, SOAP, GIT, XML, WebLogic, MongoDb, Node.js. Java/J2EE developer Efftronics pvt ltd June 2014 to July 2015 Project: Travel Assistant System  The application is developed to book the reservation for ground transportation around the world in various cities for high profile clients for their business meetings and events. Worked on booking, invoicing and payment processing functionality. The clients for this application includes executive assistants, travel planners, etc.    Implementation Details:  • Involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) such as requirements gathering, modeling, analysis, design, development and testing Followed Agile methodology.  • Developed presentation layer using jQuery, HTML and CSS according to internal standards and guidelines.  • Implemented persistence layer using Hibernate with Spring ORM.  • Used Maven for automating the build process of java applications and components.  • Used Spring Framework to code business APIs through dependency injection.  • Used Web Services WSDL, XSD and SOAP using JAX-WS apache CXF implementation.  • Used JPA entity Beans as persistence classes and Hibernate as ORM provider  • Used Spring MVC framework for building web layer.  • Involved in designing, developing and testing the web application by using the HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, and React JS.  • Exposure to Apache Kafka as part of message queue techniques.  • Used JUNIT for unit Testing. Deployed applications on Tomcat server.  • Developed PL/SQL database scripts and written Stored Procedures.  • Deployment of application on DEV and QA Linux servers.  • Used SVN for the concurrent development in the team and for code repository.  • Worked in Agile environment with active scrum participation. Participated in sprint planning sessions along with BA and QA teams.  • Used HTML/JSP pages with JSTL and SPRING tag libraries for UI.  • Designed an N-Tier J2EE application that can rapidly and accurately identify relevant documents in collections.  • Worked on Mongo DB and wrote code which finds, update, save and insert data to Mongo DB.  • Created MULE ESB artifact and configured the MULE configuration files and deployed.  • Developed JMS components to send messages from one application to other application internally using Active MQ.  • Worked Docker container management along with volumes, container based DB and services, Docker Arti-factory configuration and setup.  • Used Log4J to capture the log that includes runtime exceptions.  • Implemented Multithreading, Concurrency, Exception Handling and Collections whenever necessary.  • Developing prototype screens using HTML and JavaScript.  • Performed data extraction and loading the JSON data with the server-side content in to the Mongo DB  • Responsible to remove bugs and add new features, enhance performance and scalability in application.  • Designed and created DAO using data modelling in the integration layer.    Environment:  J2EE, JDBC, Spring, Hibernate, JMS, EJB, Java Servlets, Oracle, HTML, SVN, WSDL, SOAP, Eclipse, Tomcat,  React JS, Mongo DB, Mule Soft, Docker. Education Master of Science in Computer and Information Science in Computer and Information Science Southern Arkansas University August 2015 to May 2017 Bachelor's Degree in Electronics and Communication Engineering in Electronics and Communication Engineering SRM University - Chennai, Tamil Nadu August 2011 to May 2015