Java Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr Java Developer - Boeing Seattle, WA • 5 years of extensive IT experience in developing, design, analysis, testing of various web based, SOA based and client/server applications in multi-platform environments with JAVA/J2EE technologies.  • Experience in various Agile Methodologies like Test Driven Development (TDD), SOA, SCRUM and Waterfall.  • Highly proficient in using OOPS for building n-tier architecture systems with hands on development expertise in front-end UI layer, core business frameworks and Back-end database layer integration.  • Experience in Front-End UI development skills using scripting languages like HTML5, DHTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, JSON, AJAX, Angular JS, Node.js, Bootstrap, Tag Libraries, JSTL.  • Expert in Core Java with strong understanding of Garbage Collector, Collections, Event handling, Exception handling and Generics.  • Expertise in implementation of J2EE Technologies: JSP, JTS, Servlets, JSTL, EJB transaction implementation, JMS, Struts, Hibernate, Java Beans, JDBC, XML, Web Services, JNDI, Serialization and Externalization.  • Experience in developing web applications on MVC based frameworks like Spring, Spring Security, Spring Boot, Spring Cloud, and Spring MVC.  • Experience in integrating the internal security model into new projects with Spring Batch, Spring Micro Services and Spring Boot, Pivotal Cloud Foundry and Netflix Eureka.  • Experience in development of REST and SOAP based web services using WSDL, XML, JAX-WS, JAX-RS, JAXB, AJAX technologies and Jersey frameworks.  • Expertise in Back-end/server-side java technologies such as: Web services, Java persistence API (JPA), Java. Messaging Service (JMS), Java Database Connectivity (JDBC), Java Naming and Directory Interface (JND).  • Expertise in open source framework Object Relational Mapping (ORM) tools like Hibernate and used Hibernate Annotations to reduce time at the configuration level.  • Expertise in databases such as Oracle, MySQL, SQL Server, NoSQL, Mongo DB, Cassandra and IBM DB2 databases to manage tables, views, indexes, sequences, stored procedures, functions, triggers and packages.  • Strong experience in different IDEs like Eclipse, Spring Tool Suite and IntelliJ.  • Worked on various application and web servers like JBoss, IBM Web Sphere and Apache Tomcat.  • Having experience with Cloud Computing environment like Amazon Web Services (AWS) and PCF.  • Experience in AWS Solutions using EC2, S3, Elastic Load Balancer, Dynamo DB and Auto Scaling Groups.  • Experience with JUnit, Mockito and Log4j in developing test cases and determining application functionality.  • Experience in development, deployment and troubleshooting Web based and enterprise-based applications on Windows, UNIX and Linux platforms.  • Experience in building applications using ANT, Maven and Gradle.  • Experience in using code repository tools - SVN, TFS, GitHub. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Java Developer Boeing - Seattle, WA March 2018 to Present Description: Spares Technical Engineering Processing System (STEPS): STEPS is web application used by spare part engineers and technicians to maintain information of spare parts and interchangeability which can in-turn be used to create Recommended Spare Parts List (RSPL) to be provided to Boeing customers along with the aircraft delivery  Responsibilities:  • Interacted with Business users and Business Analyst to gather requirements.  • Analysis and understanding of business requirements. Implemented the process using SAFe Agile (Scrum) methodology and Test-Driven Model.  • Worked with team members to define product road map, project objective, Sprint Planning, backlog and user stories, guide project team including daily Scrum meeting, delegating tasks, identifies resources, base lining timelines for Sprints and deliverables  • Developed web application using Spring Boot.  • Extensive use of HTML5, CSS3 and jQuery, Bootstrap, Angular Js, for the presentation layer along with JavaScript for client-side validation and JSON is used for exchanging text data.  • By using jQuery and Ajax sent the request to server side and receive the response.  • Implementing or exposing the Micro services to base on RESTful API utilizing Spring Boot with Spring MVC.  • Used Hibernate, object relational-mapping (ORM) solution, technique of mapping data representation from MVC model to Oracle Relational data model with a SQL-based schema.  • Proficient in using Spring Data JPA that helped in creating automatic Data Access Objects (DAOs) at the compile time.  • Using Spring Security resolve the frontend http request exception issues return frontend error codes.  • Involved in the development of project back-end logic layer by using most of the core java features such as Collection Framework, Interfaces, multi-threading and Exception Handling programming.  • Designed tables in Oracle 11g database and worked with Database Developers for implementing Stored Procedures in the application.  • Developed unit testing the applications using Junit Framework and developed logging and standard mechanism based on Log4j  • Used Gradle for dependencies and configuration management.  • Debugging and troubleshooting any technical issues while implementing the applications.  • Monitored the error logs using Log4J and fixed the problems.  • Participated in code review and mentoring sessions and used GIT as version control  • Used TFS for tracking bugs and used Jenkins for building and deploying the application to multiple environments.  • Used Pivotal Cloud Foundry (PCF)to run, build and deploy the application.  Environment: Java 1.8, Oracle, Spring Boot, Spring-MVC, Spring Security, Hibernate, JPA, Servlets, JavaScript, Gradle, HTML5, CSS3, JSON, JUnit, Angular Js, Rest web services, Log4J, GIT, SAFE, TFS, Pivotal Cloud Foundry (PCF), Jenkins Java Developer Principal Financial Group - Des Moines, IA October 2016 to February 2018 Description:  Retirement & Investment services provide a wide range of save, invest and retirement services like 401k, annuities, rollover an account etc. I am involved in developing Restful webservices for the rules involved for the client Department of Labor.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in Requirements gathering, Analysis, Design, Development and Testing of application using AGILE methodology (SCRUM).  • Developed the web interface using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, AngularJS  • Designed Java Components and integrated using spring framework with Hibernate Object/Relational persistence mechanism.  • Involved in writing Spring Configuration XML, file that contains declarations and business classes are wired-up to the frontend managed beans using Spring IOC pattern.  • Implemented the application using Spring IOC, Spring MVC Framework, and Spring Batch and handled the security using Spring Security.  • Used Web Services for transmission of large blocks of XML data using SOAP.  • Tested the application functionality with JUnit Struts Test Cases.  • Used Node.js for server-side code and Angular.js as the framework. Written callback functions for the Restful API.  • Involved in using Angular JS components, Forms, Events, Keys, Router, Animations and Flux concept.  • Involved in integrating JAX-RS into Spring Boot application.  • Implemented Micro Services using Spring Boot, Spring Cloud, Spring Micro Services and enabled discovery using Netflix Eureka Server.  • User level support for multiple applications including web based, iOS and Android mobile apps.  • Implemented Restful Web Services to retrieve data from client side using Micro Services architecture.  • Created web services using spring @Rest Controller to return JSON to the frontend.  • Hands on Experience with Drools, Apache camel, Active MQ, Rabbit MQ, IBMMQ  • Sending requests and responses in Micro services through REST/HTTP.  • Involved in working with structs Tiles2.0 for the look and feel for a web application.  • Fundamental mastery of AWS clouds computing platform and its dimensions of scalability.  • Used AWS deployment services to quickly set up a dynamic website and configured virtual servers.  • Responsible for maintaining and expanding our AWS infrastructure using AWS EC2, manage documents in S3, providing IAM access to S3 buckets.  • Designed and developed DAO layer with Hibernate standards, to access data from SQL Server.  • Created SQL Server logins and assigning roles and Authentication models as a part of Security.  • Developed the persistence layer using Hibernate Framework, created the POJO objects and mapped using Hibernate annotations and Transaction Management.  • Implemented service methods and SQL queries, PL/SQL to interact with the forms.  • Performed deployment of applications on IBM Web Sphere Application Server.  • Responsible for Continuous Integration (CI) and Continuous Delivery (CD) process implementation using Jenkins along with LINUX Shell scripts to automate routine jobs.  • Development carried out under STS Integrated Development Environment (IDE).  • Used MAVEN to define the dependencies and build the application and used JUnit for suite execution and Assertions.  • Used JIRA for bug tracking, issue tracking and project management.  • Used GIT as source control management giving a huge speed advantage on centralized systems that must communicate with a server.    Environment: Java, Agile Methodology, Structs, Spring IOC, Spring MVC, Spring Boot, Spring Cloud, Spring Batch, Spring Security, HTML5, CSS3, React.js, Bootstrap, AngularJS, JSTL, JQuery, AJAX, AWS EC2, S3, Micro Services, Hibernate, Restful API, SQL, Oracle, CRUD, CI, CD, Jenkins, JIRA, RabbitMQ, MAVEN, JUnit, UNIX, STS, IBM Web Sphere, Log4J, GIT. Java Developer Soft Pro Systems Ltd - Hyderabad, Telangana June 2014 to August 2015 Description:  This project is mainly an Intranet application meant for employees in the organization. They are Intranet Mailing System, Chatting, File Transfer and Remote Login. This project is based on the client server methodology.  Responsibilities:  • Worked on High level and low-level system design, planning, estimation and implementation.  • Implemented the front-end using HTML, XHTML, DHTML, XML, CSS, JavaScript and Angular JS.  • Used JQuery, AJAX to interact with Java Servlet.  • Implemented Multithreading, Concurrency, Exception Handling and Collections whenever necessary.  • Application designed and developed using Java Core, J2EE, JMS, JavaScript, Spring MVC, Spring boot, Hibernate, Spring Integration, RESTful Services, UDP, TCP and Web Sockets.  • Used Test driven development (TDD) approach for application development.  • Involved in writing JSP components. Used JSTL Tag library to create standard dynamic web pages.  • Good knowledge on the spring modules like Spring IOC, Spring MVC, Spring Web flow, Spring AOP, Spring DAO and Spring Security.  • Configured application and embed Tomcat server using Spring Boot.  • Designed and developed Restful Services to retrieving configuration JSON documents related to customer.  • Implemented Persistence layer using Hibernate to interact with the Oracle database, Used Hibernate Framework for object relational mapping and persistence.  • Involved in development of Spring DAO layer which invoked database queries.  • Developed Oracle PL/SQL stored procedures and queries for payment release process and authorization process.  • Used Hibernate ORM tools which automate the mapping between IBM DB2 SQL databases and objects in Java.  • Developed various reusable helper and utility classes using Java Beans with Eclipse editor.  • Deployed and tested the application in UNIX on Web Logic Application Server.  • Created Maven build file to build the application.  • Used Log4j for debugging, testing and maintaining the system state.  Environment: Java, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, Spring Boot, AngularJS, AJAX, JSTL, Spring MVC, DAO, IOC, Hibernate, REST, TDD, Eclipse, PL/SQL, Oracle, JAX-RS, JMS, Active MQ, SOA, UDDI, WSDL, Web logic, Agile, MAVEN, Log4J, SVN Java Developer Visual Soft - Hyderabad, Telangana August 2013 to May 2014 Description:  This is an e-commerce application, which helps the customers to sell their products online. A customer can access his information with proper authentication/authorization only (Encrypted id/passwords). It enables the customer to update the product information online, search for a product by full/partial product name, product category and ID. It also provides the customer with up-to- date reports on the sales information based on customer age-group/gender and product Name/category.  Responsibilities:  Analysis, design and development of application based on J2EE and design patterns.  • Involved in all phases of SDLC (Software Development Life Cycle).  • Developed user interface using JSP, HTML, CSS and JavaScript.  • Involved in developing functional model, object model and dynamic model using UML.  • Development of the Java classes to be used in JSP and Servlets.  • Implemented asynchronous functionalities like e-mail notification using JMS.  • Implemented Multithreading to achieve consistent concurrency in the application.  • Used the Struts framework for managing the navigation and page flow.  • Created SQL queries and used PL/SQL stored procedures.  • Used JDBC for database transactions.  • Developed stored procedures in Oracle.  • Used Test Driven Development approach and wrote many unit and integration test cases.  • Used Eclipse as IDE tool to develop the application and JIRA for bug and issue tracking.  • Used ANT tool for building and packaging the application.  Environment: Core Java, Struts, Servlets, HTML, CSS, JSP, XML, JavaScript, Water fall, Eclipse, Oracle, SQL, JDBC, JBOSS, JUNIT, ANT, JUNIT, ANT, SVN, Apache Tomcat Server Skills ECLIPSE, EJB, J2EE, J2SE, JAVA Links http://@Rest