Temporary Administrative Assistant Temporary Administrative Assistant Temporary Administrative Assistant - USPS East Amherst, NY Energetic and dedicated professional with a strong appetite to succeed. Multi-lingual and well-spoken, seeking an opportunity to utilize my skills in a growth oriented firm. Work Experience Temporary Administrative Assistant Person Centered Services - West Seneca, NY April 2019 to Present NY  Role and Responsibilities:  • Maintain Office communication.  • Provide support for Care coordinators and supervisors.  • Handle incoming calls from outside administration as well as care coordination in need of general information or Medisked system informational support.  • Handle all incoming and outgoing mail which may consist of -  ? Post mail - Ensure all outgoing mail is stamped and ready to be picked up by USPS daily.  ? Sort mail - Separate mail and place in the destination mail slots. Many times the later should be addressed to and delivered.  ? Post office - Travel to the Post office to drop off any certified mail as it would need to be stamped.  • Uploading all documents such as Consents and LCED for each individuals into Medisked.  • Updating the required documents into Medisked.  • Create Excel and Word spreadsheets for management and supervisors as well as any personnel to help them manage their everyday activities.  • Other responsibilities as assigned. Student Administrative Officer SOUTH PACIFIC INSTITUTE - Melbourne VIC February 2012 to November 2013 AUSTRALIA  Role and Responsibilities:  • Provide administrative support to the Manager and the department.  • Created and maintained all academic files and transmitted confidential documentation via campus mail.  • Manage and update student details on Prisms.  • Create, Update and Cancel student COEs on Prisms.  • Prepared correspondence, created forms and revised documents.  • Responded to telephone request from medical providers, applicants and other interested parties requesting brochures, applications and information about the College programs.  • Fulfill all student request forms, Maintain student details on local server.  • Handle all activities throughout the day and perform other duties as assigned. Trainee Technical Associate EPERIUM BUSINESS SOLUTIONS - Noida, Uttar Pradesh January 2011 to December 2011 Role and Responsibilities:  • (Enfinity studio, CoreJava, Servlet/JSP) coding of new software and fixing issues with existing software.  • Responsible for software development and web development projects.  • Accountable for analyzing requirements, developing designs, implementing and testing software/web applications using Java, JSP, JavaScript, HTML, and SQL.  • Mapping requirements and providing solutions involving finalization of specifications & selection of techniques.  • Developed SQL queries in Oracle  • Worked on their system "Eperium Tracker" which is a system that keeps track of employee activities of Eperium. Trainee Java Developer PRIVI ORGANICS LIMITED - Delhi, Delhi May 2010 to December 2010 INDIA  Role and Responsibilities:  • Develop web applications and build sites using PHP, My SQL, HTML, CSS and static code analysis.  • Install, configure and deploy software, provide quality assurance.  • Troubleshoot various software issues using debugging process and coding techniques.  • Developed JSPs and Servlet.  • Developed screens using Java, HTML, DHTML, CSS, JSP and JavaScript.  • Designed Database for the application. Education Bachelors in Science KANPUR UNIVERSITY - Kanpur, Uttar Pradesh 2004 to 2007 Skills Javascript, Database, Sql, Jsp, File management, Keyboarding, Safety procedures, Multitasking, Problem solving, Data Entry, Administrative Assistant, Microsoft Office, Outlook, Word Additional Information SKILLS  • Project Management.  • CoreJAVA, JavaScript, Jsp, Sql.  • Database programming.  • Excellent problem solving abilities.  • E-commerce background.  • Ambitious, hardworking and committed to excellence.  • Knowledge of Diary management, Administrative procedures, Processing information, Creating spreadsheets, Multitasking, Office safety procedures, Document presentation, Keyboarding techniques, Mail & file management.  • Excellent communication, analytical & interpersonal skills with the ability to work in a dynamic environment with in a given time frame.  • Ability to show appropriate initiative and handle diverse assignments with flexibility and timeliness.