Sr.FullStack Java Developer Sr.FullStack <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr.FullStack Java Developer Richmond, VA Java/Full Stack Java Developer with 7+ years of experience in Analysis, design, and development, testing, documentation, implementation of various applications and web applications on Multi-Tier Distributed Architecture using JAVA, J2EE, and Spring, Hibernate Technologies with Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC)  * AWS Certified Associate Developer-2018  * Good exposure on entire Software Development Lifecycle (SDLC) methodologies like Waterfall, Agile/Scrum.  * Extensive experience in system analysis, design, development and implementation of web-based application using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript/ECMAScript/JScript, AngularJS, Angular2, Angular4, Typescript, Node.js, AJAX, jQuery.  * Proficient in working with Angular2 and Angular4 to create Single Page Applications (SPA).  * Extensive experience in Amazon Web Services (EC2, RDS, Red shift, Elastic Load Balancing, SQS, SNS, AWS (IAM) Identity and Access Management, AWS CloudWatch, Elastic Beanstalk and Cloud Front).  * Experienced with event-driven and scheduled AWS Lambda Functions to trigger various AWS resources.  * Extensive programming experience in Core Java Concepts including Multi-Threading, ExceptionHandling, Collection API, Collections, Data Structures, Regex, Generics, Algorithms, Object Oriented Programming (OOPs) concepts like Polymorphism, Inheritance, Abstraction, Encapsulationetc.  * Extensive experience in design and implementation of client/server and web applications using Java/J2EE Technologies (Servlets, JSP, JSTL, JDBC, EJB, JMS, MQ, Struts, XML, Java Multi-threading API, Swing, Spring, Hibernate and SOAP & REST/Restful Web Services).  * Experience in developing web application using various frameworks such as Struts, Spring Framework, Hibernate ORM.  * Experience inMicroservices with Spring Boot, Pivotal Cloud Foundry (PCF) and Engagement using Spring Boot.  * Extensive experience in designing, developing and implementing Model View Controller (MVC) using Struts, Spring Framework, Hibernate ORM Framework.  * Good familiarity with Spring AOP for Logging, Transactionsand Messaging.  * Experience in LDAP for authentication scheme and in middleware technologies, MQSeries.  * Extensive Design,Implement and test services experience in a MicroserviceOriented Architecture and has implemented the REST basedMicroservicesusing the Spring Boot, Spring Data with JPA ( Java Persistence API).  * Extensive experience in developing web applications using Struts Framework implementing Action Classes, Action Forms, Struts Validation Framework, Struts Tiles and Struts Tag Libraries.  * Expertise in deploying applications on Application Servers and Web Servers - IBM WebSphere, Web Logic, JBoss, Apache Tomcat and Glassfish System Application Servers.  * Strong working knowledge on Relational and NoSQL databases like MSSQL, Oracle, MongoDB, Sybase, MySQL, CouchDB, Cassandra, PostgreSQL, Redis, Teradata.  * Experience in implementing web services based on Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) and Monolithic Architecture using SOAP, RESTful Web Services, JAX-WS, UDDI, WSDL, WADL.  * Expertise in Cutting Edge Technologies like EJB, JMS, JTA, XML and Web Sphere MQSeries with strong experience in Developing and Deploying Enterprise Java Beans on Application Servers like WebLogic, Web Sphere and JBoss.  * Strong Familiarity with Python Scripting, Docker, Linux Shell Scripts, Configuration Management, Jenkins, PostgreSQL, Redis, Flask, PaaS / IAAS.  * Good working experience on bug tracking tools like JIRA, Bugzilla and Remedy Testing phase.  * Extensively worked on debugging using Logging Frameworks such as Apache Log4j, Performed Unit Testing, Integration Testing and generating of test cases for web applications using JUnit, Jenkins and Log4j.  * Experience in using Maven, Gradle, ANT.  * Strong understanding on working with SCM/Version Control Management Tools Git, GitHub, GitLab and Bitbucket.  * Expertise in programming using Scala, built Scala prototype for the application requirement and focused on types of functional Scala.  * Extensive experience in working on design, development, testing, implementation, deployment, enhancements and production support in Linux/Unix and Windows Environments/Platforms.  * Expertise in Unit Testing using JUnit & Mockito, Integration Testing, Smoke Testing and System Testing.  * Excellent analytical and critical thinking, creative problem solving, quick learning, interpersonal and client interfacing skills. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr.FullStack Java Developer Hilltop Holdings 2016 to July 2017 Responsibilities:  * Involved in requirements gathering, system design, analysis, implementation and setting up the development environment.  * Developed multiple Angular 4.0 components which are compatible with latest versions of TypeScript, angular CLI.  * Involved in the development of the UI using HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, ExtJS and AnjularJS.  * Extensively involved in coding with AngularJS to add functionalities and effects like Accordion, Infinite Scroll bar, Slider bar, Draggle/Droppable, Resizable, Progress bar. Customized Data Tables and High charts into AngularJS Directives.  * Implemented a responsive web design using Bootstrap.  * Espresso Framework which is used internally for developing the services with a quick and easy view of UI.  * Extensively used Java8 Streams, Lambda Functions, Predicates, Functional Interfaces, Method References, Filters, Collections and default methods.  * Developed Microservices for different level of layers in flow of network.  * Involved in implementing the Microservices based on RESTful API utilizing Spring Boot with Spring MVC.  * Implemented the application using Spring IOC, Spring MVC Framework, Spring Batch and handled the security using Spring Security.  * Implemented Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) using JMS (MQ series) for sending and receiving messages while creating web services.  * Extensive use of Spring Data in design and development of user interfaces.  * Involved in implementation of application using conventional design practices (Web-Service Oriented Architecture, MVC-Model View Controller).  * Created and injected Spring Services, Spring Controllers and DAOs to achieve dependency injection and to wire objects of business classes.  * Extensively used the Spring Framework implemented upon the MVC design pattern.  * Developed RESTful Web services for transmission of data in JSON format.  * Used PL/SQL stored procedures for applications that needed to execute as part of a scheduling mechanisms. Heavily used joins stored procedures, views, unions in Oracle database to fetch the data.  * Developed Applications using Rule Engines-JBoss Drools 4.x, Work Flows, human tasks to implement business rules validations and provided Drools Dashboard for business users.  * Extensively used Hibernate Relational Mappings (One-To-Many, Many-To-Many) in the secondary project.  * Extensively worked on Hibernate Cache, Query, Criteria and Transactions in secondary project.  * Worked on creation of custom Docker Container images, tagging, pushing images, integration of Spring Boot.  * Used load balancing in pivotal cloud foundry services.  * Testing for Node.js is done using mocha and chai for spring boot used Mockito, JUnit, JMeter, Mock MVC and achieved Test Driven Development.  * Created the Docker Containers and Docker consoles for managing the application life cycle.  * Hands on experience with MongoDB Installation, Configuring, Monitoring and Designing Shared Environment.  * Used Maven as build and dependency management tool for creating EAR, WAR and JAR File to be deployed in application servers and integrated with SVN, Jenkins, JMeter and Jenkins Jobs.    Environment: Java 1.8, J2EE, Spring IOC, Spring MVC, Spring RESTful Web Service, Spring Security, Hibernate 4.2, JMS, AngularJS 1.5, 4.0, Oracle 11g, CRUD, JIRA, CI, CD, Selenium, DAO, XML, MDB's, JMS, IBM WebSphere, DML, MVC, RESTful, JUnit, JMeter, Log4j, SVN, EC2, S3, Microservices, Bootstrap-3, Jenkins Full Stack / Java Developer Equifax, McLean, VirginiaDec 2014 to July 2016 Responsibilities:  * Analysis and understand the business requirements and implemented the process using Agile (Scrum) Methodology.Worked on high level and low-level system design, planning, estimation and implementation.  * Developed presentation layer using JSP, JSF, HTML5, CSS3 and client validation using JavaScript, DOM.  * Used two-way data binding features of AngularJS to implement data binding to bind various server controls to the data from database.  * Implemented animation and styling using CSS3 and jQuery.  * Worked on high level and low-level system design, planning, estimation and implementation.  * Developed presentation layer using JSP, HTML, XHTML, CSS and client validation using JavaScript, DOM.  * Involved in writing JSP ( java Server pages) and Java Server Faces (JSF) components. Used JSTL Tag library to create standard dynamic web pages.  * Worked on XML and JSON for transferring and retrieving data between different applications.  * Used Web Services for creating rate summary and used WSDL and SOAP messages for getting useful plans from different module.  * Implemented Multithreading, Concurrency, Exception Handling and Collections whenever necessary.  * Designed and integrated the full-scale Spring / Hibernate persistence solution with the application architecture.  * Implemented Object Relational Persistence (Hibernate) for the domain model.  * Involved in design and development of the Hibernate Domain Model for the services.  * Worked on web services and associated business modules integration.  * Worked on development and implementation of the MVC Architectural pattern using Spring Framework including JSP and Servlets.  * Involved in identifying and implementation of different J2EE design patterns like Service Locator, Business Delegate and DAO.  * Worked in wide-area network to maintain all the device related data onto MySQL database.  * Developed the DAO layer for the application using Spring Hibernate Template Support.  * Used JMS API for communication between the components.  * Collaborated with testers and developers and prepared test plans for producing high quality software applications.  * Used JUnit and build tools such as MAVEN. Worked on Log4j for logging errors, messages and performance logs and SVN for version control.  * Deployed and tested the application in UNIX on IBM Web Logic Application Server.    Environment: Java, Multithreading, Concurrency, Exception Handling, J2EE, HTML, Hibernate, Java SDK, WebLogic, SOA, Microservices, WSDL, UDDI, SOAP, JavaScript, JMS, Struts, JSON, Servlet, JSP, CSS3, HTML, jQuery, AngularJS, AJAX, JDBC, Oracle, Maven, MySQL, Log4j, SVN, UML, JAXB, XML, Scrum, Unix/Linux, JUnit. Java Developer Bristlecone India LTD 2013 to August 2014 Responsibilities:  * Participated in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) of the application like Requirement gathering, Design, Analysis and Code Development.  * Used Web Services (SOAP) for transmission of large blocks of XML data over HTTP.  * ANT Tool was used for the entire build process.  * Designed and developed application based on MVC design pattern using Struts Framework.  * Developed complete business tier with stateful session beans and CMP Entity beans with EJB 2.1 standards.  * Designed and developed the UI using struts view component, JSP, HTML, CSS, and JavaScript  * Used Node.js for building web applications with client-server architecture, where both can initiate communication in two-way connections and allow them to exchange data.  * Implemented the application using Spring IOC, Spring MVC Framework, Spring AOP, Spring Boot, Spring Batchand handled the security using Spring Security.  * Designed and developed the End Points (Controllers), Business Layer, DAO Layer using Hibernate/JDBC template and Spring IOC (Dependency Injection).  * Spring MVC model integration for front-end request action controller.  * Used Apache Axis Service Engine for creating and deploying web service clients using SOAP.  * Consumed SOAP and RESTful web services in SOA environment and used SoapUI for Testing.  * Utilized Hibernate for Object/Relational Mapping purposes for transparent persistence onto the SQL Server.  * Developed Struts Action Classes using Struts Controller Component.  * Used SVN for version controlling and JUnit for Unit Testing.  * Involved in creating various Data Access Objects (DAO) for addition, modification and deletion of records using various specification files.  * Developed persistence API's that can store data synchronously and asynchronously to Cassandra data store with batching.  * Created flows on messaging using ActiveMQ.  * Extensively used JUnit for Unit Testing, Integration Testing and Production Testing.  * Involved in installing and configuring maven for application builds and deployment.  * Used JIRA to assign, track, report and audit the issues in the application.  * Implemented Design Patterns like Front Controller, Business Delegate, Service Locator, Session Facade, Data Access Objectsand Singleton.    Environment: J2EE 1.5, IBM WebSphere Application Server 5.1, WSAD 5.1, EJB 2.1, AJAX, Hibernate 2.1, Struts1.1, JSP 2.0, Servlets 2.4, XML, XSLT, SOAP, JavaScript, UML, HTML, ANT, SVN, Log4j 1.2.7, SQL Server. Java Developer Net centric,IndiaSep 2011 to December 2012 Responsibilities:  * Involved in development, customization and enhancement of the product in Windows, Linux Platform.  * Wrote Form Handlers, Managed Bean Classes, VO's using Struts MVC Framework (Srtuts1.1) for the modules.  * Implemented Generic Controller in Java that carries common functionality such as Redirecting URLs, Generic Methods for handling Exceptions.  * Designed and developed all UI Screens (Forms) using Java Server Pages, CSS, JSTL, HTMLand JavaScript.  * Responsible for Developing Managed Bean and DAO classes for Business Implementations.  * Used Tag Libraries for Screen Design using JSP.  * Client-Side validations are handled using JavaScript.  * Written utility classes for getting Connection using JDBC.  * Responsible for Writing SQL Queries and executing using JDBC API.  * Involved in preparation of System Use Cases (SUC's) and Unit Test Speciation (UTS).  * Taken whole responsibility and developed module alone with in time specified.  * Developed Unit Test Cases using JUnit.  * Used Eclipse IDE for Development and Version Control as ClearCase.  * Implemented Struts MVC design pattern and front controller pattern.  * Developed Core Java components to develop the transaction report. Stored the Dynamic data on to Collection Objects and used the predefined methods to perform all DB related operations efficiently.  * Used Log4j for logging purposes during the development of the application.  * Used JDBC to interact with the underlying MySQL Database.  * Extensively worked on SQL for writing complex queries in the business logic layer.  * Deployed Applications on Apache Tomcat Server and used CVS as the version control manager.  * Used Eclipse IDE to integrate the different frameworks to build the overall application.    Environment: J2EE, AJAX, Hibernate 2.1, Struts, JSP Servlets XML, XSLT, SOAP, JavaScript, UML, HTML, ANT, SVN, SQL Server. Sr. Java/Full Stack Developer Capital One, Richmond,VAAug2017 Responsibilities:  * Working in Agile, ScrumEnvironment's and participated in requirement gathering, analysisandDesign, Development, Testing and Implementation.  * Defining and constructed layers, server-side objects and client-side interfaces on Java/J2EE design patterns.  * Developing and implementing the Web Application by using Spring MVC framework.  * Utilizing Java8 features like Lambda expressions and Stream API for Bulk data operations on Collections which would increase the performance of the Application.  * Used Core Java concepts collections, generics, concurrency to improve the performance of the applications and to schedule tasks using multithreading.  * Creating Multiple & Nested Views, Routing, Controllers, Services and Custom Directives, Bower and Grunt.  * Designed Redshift Data Model, Redshiftperformance improvements/analysis.  * Managed Amazon RedshiftClusters such as launching the cluster and specifying the node type.  * Created a Lambda job to trigger UNLOAD from Red shift to S3 bucket.  * Worked with Angular2 MVC framework including authoring complex directives, services, controllersand filters.  * Used AngularJS in creating animations based on CSS classes for a new requirement surfaced for the client.  * Strong Knowledge on Hibernate and in using Hibernate Connection Pooling, HQL, Collections, Hibernate Caching, Hibernate Transactions.  * Creating a responsive web application integrating Twitter Bootstrap with AngularJS and media queries.  * RESTful web services using Jersey for JAX-RS implementation and to transport detain JSON format.  * Worked on SOA Web Services using SOAP for transmission of large blocks of XML data over HTTP.  * Using the Eclipse as IDE configured and deployed the application onto Tomcat server.  * Using a Microservice architecture, with Spring Boot-based services interacting through a combination of REST and Apache Kafka message brokers.  * Developing Microservices using Spring Boot, Spring Security and deployed on AWS.  * Implementing the associated business modules integration using Spring and Hibernate Data Mapping.  * Using Spring Dependency Injection, annotations and Spring MVC components to implement business layer and navigation part of application.  * Used various jQuery and Bootstrap plug-in like date picker, Bootstrap selectors.  * Exposed and Consumed SOAP based Web Services to communicate between systems.  * Created RESTful web services interface to Java-based runtime engine.  * Using ActiveMQ to improve the stability and scaled the system for more concurrent users.  * Configured and verified AWS workstations as per application requirement.  * Experience with Eclipse Toolbar, open the drop-down Amazon Web Services menu (identified by the AWS icon) and select AWS Lambda Java project.  * Working on creation of custom Docker Container images, tagging and pushing the images.  * Used JMS for reliable and asynchronous exchange of essential information such as payment status report.  * Writing SQL queries, stored procedures and enhanced performance by running explain plans.  * Composed and executed MongoDB scripts to insert and update NoSQL database automating data changes and reporting and managing and maintaining Oracle and NoSQL databases in production domain.  * Worked with departments to maintain existing JIRA projects.  * Used the Maven to configure the POM File to build and manage the application.  * Using Maven goals for testing and packaging the various components and releasing on Apache Archive for easy accessibility and maintenance within the organization  * Using Jenkins with Maven to Compile and Build Microservices java code and configure Build Triggers.  * Elastic Cache can be run in the Amazon Virtual Private Cloud (Amazon VPC) environment and Redis can use Elastic Cache with almost no modification.  * Performing Smoke Testing and Functional Testing with Selenium in multiple Java platforms.  * Followed TDD (Test Driven Development) methodology to write unit tests with JUnit and Mockito.    Environment: Linux, Windows, Java, J2EE, JDK, AWS, SDK, Ext JS, Git, Swing, JFC, Spring 4.x, AWS SNS/SQS, RDS, Redshift, Hibernate4.x, Scala, Core Java, SOAP/Rest, Python, JavaScript, Clojure, UML, HTML5, CSS, SASS, RAD 7, WAS 8, WSDL, SDK's, JIRA 5.x/6.x, JAXB, Linux, JAX-WS, JAX RPC, JMS, Unix, Selenium, MongoDB, AngularJS, Angular2, , ReactJS, AJAX, Apache jQuery, Maven, EMR. Education Bachelor's Additional Information Technical Skills:    Frameworks  Spring Boot, Spring MVC, Spring IOC, Spring Transactions, spring security, Spring Batch, Spring ORM, Spring Tiles, Spring AOP, Hibernate ORM, JPA, Spring JDBC, Spring Integration, Apache Tiles, iBATIS.    Web Application Servers Apache Tomcat, JBoss, Glassfish, WebSphere  Front-end HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, JavaScript, Ajax, jQuery, JSON, JSP, JSTL, AngularJS, Angular4.  Debugging Tools Jira, Bugzilla  Database Postgres SQL, MySQL, MongoDB, Redshift, MS SQL, Oracle, Redis.  IDE Eclipse, IntelliJIDEA, Sublime, Atom, Visual Studio  Webservices and Message Services SOAP, REST, Apache Kafka, MQ, IBM MQ.  Version Control Git, GitHub, Bitbucket, GitLab, SVN  Build and Deployment Maven, ANT, Gradle, Jenkins.  SDLC Methodologies Waterfall, Agile(Scrum), Kanban  Testing JUnit, Mockito, reflection, PowerMock, Selenium, Integration and System Testing  Debugging Tools JIRA, CRM, Bugzilla, Remedy, Rational ClearQuest.  Cloud Tools  CloudWatch,CloudFront,ElasticBeanstalk,EBS,IAM,SQS,SNS,ELB,Lambda,DynamoDB,Cloud,Autoscaling,Pivotal Cloud Foundry (PCF)    Tools Putty,WinSCP,MobaXterm,ShellScripting,VirtualBox,VMware,Log4j    Operating Systems Windows, RHEL Linux, Ubuntu, Unix.