Java Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java developer New Brunswick, NJ • Around 5 years of experience in IT as a Full stack Java/J2EE Developer and worked in the areas of Analysis, Design, Development, Production Support and Deployment of Web based applications.  • Expertise in the implementation of Core concepts of Java, J2EE Technologies: JSP, Servlets, JSTL, JPA, JSF, JMS, Struts, Spring, Hibernate, EJB, Java Beans, JDBC, XML, Web Services, JNDI, Multi-Threading.  • Having knowledge on Java 8 features like Lambda expressions and functional interfaces and Parallel Streams.  • In depth knowledge on core java concepts such as OOPS, Collections, Threading, generics, Exception handling, Multi-Threading, Execution services, concurrent utilities, File IO, Garbage Collection and Serialization.  • Experience and in-depth Knowledge of understanding in the strategy and practical implementation of AWS Cloud-Specific technologies including S3, EC2, (Virtual Private Cloud) VPC, (Relational Database Service) RDS, (Simple Queue Service) SQS, (Elastic Block Store) EBS, (Simple Notification Service) SNS, Cloud Front, Cloud Formation, Elastic Load Balancing, AWS Identity and access management, Elastic Cache, Cloud Watch, RedShift, AWS Lambda, Dynamo DB.  • Strong experience of using open source technologies including React, Node JS, Spring, Angular 7/6/4/2, jQuery, Apache Storm, Elastic Search, Redis, Mongo DB, Bootstrap, Junit etc.  • Good Knowledge on developing the UI pages from scratch using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, Google Web Toolkit (GWT), Bootstrap, AJAX, Angular 7/6/4/2, Backbone JS, Node JS and React.js.  • Expertise in design and development of various web and enterprise applications using Type safe technologies like Scala, Akka, Play framework, Slick.  • Good knowledge in Hadoop Architecture with various components such as HDFS, Flume, Pig and MapReduce.  • Hands on Experience with Middleware Technology Messaging Brokers like JMS, Kafka, Active MQ, Rabbit MQ.  • Experience in Creating and configuring the continuous delivery pipelines for deploying Micro services and lambda functions using Jenkins CI server.  • Experienced in React JS and working with React Flux architecture and Redux frameworks.  • Strong experience in Spring Framework modules such as Spring MVC, IOC, AOP, JDBC, JTA, IO, Spring Boot, Spring Microservices, Spring REST, Spring Annotations, Spring Transactions and Spring Security.  • Expertise in developing SOA (Service Oriented Architecture), REST and J2EE Web Services based on SOAP, WSDL, UDDI, JAX-WS, JAXB, JAX-RPC using tools like Apache Axis.  • Extensive experience in development of Web services such as SOAP using WSDL, JAXB, SOAP, JAX-WS and Apache CXF and Restful using JAX-RS, CXF, Rest easy, JERSY implementation.  • Strong experience in designing and developing data models and accessing from Java applications using SQL, PL/SQL, ORM tool Hibernate and has experience with NoSQL databases like MongoDB, Cassandra.  • Experience in developed logging and standard mechanism based on Log4j and SLF4j.  • Hands-on experience working with Continuous Integration (CI) build-automation tools such as Maven, GIT, GITHUB, SVN, CVS, Jenkins and Apache Ant.  • Have experience to Develop scripts for build, deployment, maintenance and related tasks using Jenkins, Docker.  • Experience in designing, developing, and deploying J2EE applications on Web sphere, Web logic, Apache Tomcat and JBoss application Servers.  • Experienced in writing and implementing unit test cases using Junit, Unit test, Selenium, Cucumber, Easy mock and Mockito.  • Strong experience on various development environments (IDE Tools) like Eclipse, IRAD, and My Eclipse.  • Experienced in performing automation using Selenium, Java and performing Behavioral driven testing using Cucumber and Jbehive.  • Experience in Test Driven Development (TDD), Waterfall model and agile methodologies like scrum.  • Experience in working with different operating systems like Windows and UNIX/Linux. Work Experience Java Developer Java DeveloperJohnson & Johnson - New Brunswick, NJ January 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Involved in programming, testing, debugging, implementing and maintaining of Java EE client/server distributed application to meet the organization's needs. Prepared the Java 8 development structure for MyEclipse and Replaced the Joda library using streams and lambda expressions.  • Used the stream feature of Java 8 for aggregate operation and pipelining. Design coded and tested key modules of the project using java oops concepts. Used most of the new features of Java 8 like lambda expressions, functional interfaces, Method references and stream API.  • Backend application code developed using Java 8 and Spring Boot Services to consume the data from the Database and from the other applications. Architected, designed and implemented a SPA (Single Page Application) in Angular 7/6 which consume JSON from a Spring MVC, using Spring Security to secure the Application.  • Involved in design and development of UI component, which includes layered POVs and Carousels using frameworks Angular 7/6, JavaScript, HTML5, CSS3 and Bootstrap. Implemented Web Service calls for data parsing and server interaction using spring, Threads, JSON, SOAP, RESTAPI and Apache.  • Exposed Stateless session beans as RESTful web services using JAX-RS. Implemented Angular7/6 promises to handle asynchronous communication with our Rest API for various requirements. Make pluggable UI Microservice for each platform which should solve the monolithic problem of seed generation and create Docker image and deploy them into Kubernetes using Angular 7/6.  • Used Docker for local development, deployed and remotely debugged Stateless application in Kubernetes and used automation tools like Junit, Jtest and Mockito as testing frameworks.  • Worked with Docker and Kubernetes to manage micro services for development of continuous integration and worked with Spring MVC pattern used Hibernate persistence framework for developing the public access Agile Court application.  • Mainly involved in development and maintenance of the website using HTML5, CSS3, Ajax, jQuery, JavaScript, Angular 7/6 and Node.js. Used Rabbit MQ to provide a single unifying transport that reduces cost and maintenance efforts, including support for HTTP, REST and JMS.  • Used Docker for local development, deployed and remotely debugged Stateless application in Kubernetes and used automation tools like Junit, Jtest and Mockito as testing frameworks. Developed test cases for Front Jasmine and Karma and have used Rabbit MQ queues for implementation of multi-threaded synchronization processes and used JMS queues for consumption requests.  • Developed the spring AOP programming to configure logging for the application. Designed the page flow using struts, server side components, and ibatis for DAO layer. Developed Servlets and JSPs based on MVC pattern using Struts framework and Spring Framework.  • Used Node JS, React JS, Backbone MVC framework for developing the Single Page Application (SPA). Developed and executed software systems utilizing React.JS and Groovy.  • Implemented the application using Spring IOC, Spring MVC Framework, Spring Batch, Hibernate and handled the security using Spring Security Developed internationalized multi-tenant SaaS solutions with responsive UI's using Java or ReactJS, with NodeJS and CSS. Responsible for developing the UI side with ReactJS, SASS, HTML5.  • Implemented Spark using Scala and utilizing Data frames and Spark SQL API for faster processing of data. Implemented Spark RDD transformations to Map business analysis and apply actions on top of transformations.  • Developed POC's& production ready jobs to stream the data from various backend systems to IMDG using feeds, various database pull, Apache Spark and Kafka. Migrating some of the applications from AngularJS6 to AngularJS7 and componentize the code as per the Angular 6 recommendations for better testability.  • Deployed the Docker image of services building Docker file and build a continuous delivery pipeline for containers using AWS Code and Amazon ECS. Wrote Ext JS, Ember. js function while implementing various UI Screens across the whole web application (both consumer facing as well as internal application).  • Built main application in PHP leveraging technologies such as Tastypie, Angular. js, Backbone. js, Ember. js, and Celery. Worked with Object-Oriented JavaScript such as Backbone. js, Knockout. js, Ember. js, Handlebars. js.  • Worked with design, management, configuration and troubleshooting of distributed production environments based on NoSQL technologies like MongoDB, Apache Hadoop/HBase, Couchbase, etc.  • Well versed in installation, configuration, supporting and managing of Big Data and underlying infrastructure of Hadoop Cluster. Worked in performing real time analytics on big data using HBase and Cassandra in Kubernetes & Hadoop clusters.  • Deployed Spring Boot based Microservices Docker container using Amazon EC2 container services. Build Rest services using NodeJS and ExpressJS and used a full complement of Express, Angular 7/6, NodeJS, and MongoDB to store and present assessments  • Performed unit testing using JUNIT test cases and automated functional testing tools like Selenium debug tools like log4j used Mockito for stubbing. Created automated test cases for the web application using Selenium.  • Strong Knowledge on automated java-based integration testing and behavioral testing of the applications using Selenium and Cucumber respectively. Integrating Struts with spring by delegating Struts action management to Spring Framework using proxy. Developed different reports in JavaScript by implementing the Angular 7/6 SPA framework and common packages for the application using Generics.  • Involved in unit and integration testing using both SOAP UI and APIGEE trace tool. Used Storm and Kafka Services to push data to HBase and Hive tables & installed Kafka cluster with separate nodes for brokers. Consumed Kafka stream using Apache Storm topology.  • Designed and developed Microservices Architecture to divide application into business components using Spring Boot, Apache Storm, Active MQ and Apache Kafka. Developed queues using AWS SQS with JMS for services to subscribe and listen events. Implemented logic to listen and to subscribe events.  • Developed user interface using JSP, AJAX, JSP Tag libraries and Struts Tag Libraries to simplify the complexities of the application. Developed the application using Struts Framework that leverages classical Model View Controller architecture.  • Designed and developed a project that reads messages from Kafka topic and applied conversation from JSON to pipe delimited String data format to be saved in Oracle DB and NoSQL DB.  • Worked closely with Devops team to set up CI/CD pipeline using Jenkins, Ansible, AWS, Maven and GIT.  • Deploying Rest API's Application in AWS Cloud and Cloud Foundry. Used ExpressJS to route different endpoints, made RESTful services to manipulate data in MySQL.. Familiar with MongoDB write concern to avoid loss of data during system failures and implemented read preferences in MongoDB replica set.  • Developed a feature in utility application and Verification Monitoring tool to verify the application statistics like poolers, consumers, loggers using Angular 6, Node.js and Bootstrap.  • Created ant build files to create the EAR and WAR files and involved in development of CPRS system using the Spring MVC framework. Involved in development of Hibernate objects in order to persist data into the database.  • Involved in writing SQL scripts and creating backend database table for complex business operations. Participated in building web-services using SOAP that allowed integrating the business application with the legacy applications and also facilitates for future applications.  • Used XML web services using SOAP to transfer the remote application to different institutions. Developed web services to allow communication between applications through SOAP over HTTP using Axis-2.  • Secured the API's by implementing OAuth 2.0 token-based authentication/authorization scheme using Spring Security. Designed and developed third-party Payment services to Offer Users Convenient Payment Methods based on OAuth Protocol.  • Developed a production Node.js application with Express module and persisted user information in MongoDB using Mongoose ORM, Node JS to manage dependencies, and ExpressJS to quickly build a modular server code-base.  • Used Angular 6 Routing for navigation between nested HTML views in the application and created Angular 6 custom directives that were used along with HTML elements for DOM manipulation.  • Used Log4j API for logging in development, testing and production environments, configured to send email notifications.  • Created Spring MVC components like Dispatch servlets, configure Request mapping annotation controllers, view resolver components and implemented transaction management using Spring declarative transaction management with Spring AOP concepts.  • Implemented version controlling using SVN and used Jenkins for continuous integration. Wrote build & deployment scripts using Ant, Maven on UNIX environment. Used GIT for version control and used eclipse as the IDE for developing the application, Used Rational Clear Quest for defect fixing. Involved in guiding, mentoring new contractors to understand the application  • Co-ordinated with QA lead for development of test plan, test cases, test code and actual testing responsible for defects allocation and resolution of those defects Java Developer Starbucks - Seattle, WA August 2016 to December 2017 Responsibilities:  • Involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) such as requirements gathering, modeling, analysis, design, development, and testing.  • Developed the view-controller components using JSPs, HTML5, CSS3, AJAX, JavaScript (jQuery).  • Implemented routing logic and navigation from screen to screen and implemented login functionality on the client side in Angular 4. Developed website and created graphics for website using HTML, JavaScript, CSS, React.JS. Implemented REST based web services using JAX-RS annotations, consumed services from angular 4 modules.  • Hands-on experience in developing integration with Elastic search in any of the programming languages like JAVA and JavaScript. Having knowledge of advance reporting using Elastic search and NodeJS. Developed the monolithic application and involved in migrating existing monolithic application in to Micro Service Architecture based RESTful Service and deployments were done on AWS using Spring Cloud for AWS.  • Designed and developed Micro Services business components using Spring Boot. Responsible for creating an instance on Amazon EC2 (AWS), Pivotal Cloud Foundry and deployed the application on it. Involved in the development of Microservices for all the models using combination of Spring Boot and Spring Security.  • Installed, secured, and configured AWS cloud servers and Amazon AWS virtual servers (Linux) and used Spring Cloud for AWS. Exposed micro services as both SOAP and Restful web services using Spring Soap, Rest controllers. Used XML Web Services using SOAP to transfer the amount to transfer application that is remote and global to different financial institutions.  • Worked on NoSQL databases like Cassandra and MongoDB and Apache Spark for cluster management with Apache Kafka as messaging system. Implemented a POC with Spark SQL to interpret complex JSON records. Used Cassandra as a storage for Spark analytics and worked on Mongo dB.  • Used Apache Kafka for holding large number of messages and using RESTful service pushing messages to Couchbase and used Spring boot and Couchbase starter for retrieving and storing data to Couchbase. Worked on Rest Web services for backend services, used Couchbase DB (NoSQL) for database services.  • Automated the installation and maintenance of Kafka, storm, Zookeeper and elastic search using salt stack technology. Implemented real time analytics pipeline using Confluent Kafka, storm, elastic search, Splunk and green plum.  • Worked on data transformation pipelines like Storm. Worked with operational analytics and log management using ELK and Splunk. Assisted teams with SQL and MPP databases such as Green plum.  • Extensively worked on Java persistence layer in application migration to Cassandra using Spark to load data to and Cassandra Cluster. Worked on AWS services to deploy static websites and dynamic Web Apps on EC2 using Elastic Beanstalk and Elastic Container Service-Docker.  • Involved in creating EC2 instances and installed required configurations and applications on it and created S3 buckets for storing object level data into it.  • Developed API's to read and publish data from Elastic Search cluster using native Java Transport client as well as REST client. Worked on Spring Integration with the Elastic Search.  • Used Spring MVC framework for implementing Model-View- Controller (MVC) architecture at the Web tier level to isolate each layer of the application so that complexity of integration will be reduced, and maintenance will be very easy.  • Used Spring AOP for solving crosscutting concerns like keeping logged data and transactions details etc.  • Used Spring Batch for processing large amount of data like transaction management, job processing, resource management and logging.  • Used UNIX shell scripting to automate software installation and testing and Used kubernetes to manage applications by inspecting and performing CRUD on clusters and worked on docker with kubernetes to create pods for application and deployed across multi node kubernetes cluster.  • Used Angular.JS as framework to create a Single Page Application (SPA) which can bind data to specific views and synchronize data with server and Initiated Microservices application through Docker and Kubernetes cluster formation.  • Used Hibernate ORM framework as persistence engine and wrote Hibernate Queries to automate the mapping between Oracle database and Objects in Java. Involved in writing SQL and Stored Procedures for handling complex queries with help of TOAD and access them through Java Programs from Oracle Database.  • Worked with MongoDB to store non-relational data into collection and retrieve them whenever required.  • Used WebLogic server to route our JMS queue messages to different business floors and configured routes in WebLogic and used JMS in e-mail notification. Worked on setting up Maven scripts to build, package, and deploy application code to the target WebLogic Application Servers and worked on continuous integration servers like Jenkins.  • Hands on Coding to build REST Micro Services using Spring Cloud, Oracle, XSD, JSON, Spring Config, and Jenkins. Worked on developing RESTful endpoints to cache application specific data in in-memory data clusters like REDIS and exposed them with RESTful endpoints.  • Focused on Test Driven Development there by creating detailed JUnit tests for every single piece of functionality before writing the functionality. Performed automation testing and authored test scripts using Selenium Web Driver, Selenium Grid and Junit.  • Worked in Agile TDD environment using SDLC tools like GIT, Jira, Jenkins, and Maven for build packaging and deployments of the application components. Java Developer BNY Mellon - IN May 2014 to December 2015 Responsibilities:  • Involved in various SDLC phases like Design, Development and Testing. Interact with business managers to transform requirements into technical solutions.  • Designed the application using the J2EE design patterns such as Session Façade, Business Delegate, Service Locator, Value Object and Singleton.  • Configured spring to manage Actions as beans and set their dependencies in a Spring context file. Developed presentation tier as HTML, JSPs using Struts Framework. Used AJAX for faster page rendering.  • Implemented the application using Spring IOC, Spring MVC Framework, Spring Batch, Hibernate and handled the security using Spring Security Developed internationalized multi-tenant SaaS solutions with responsive UI's using Java or ReactJS, with NodeJS and CSS.  • Implemented modules into Node.js to integrate with design and requirements & also back-end service using Node.js and REACT modules and implemented client side Interface using React JS.  • Developed General Ledger module, which streamlines analysis, reporting and recording of accounting information. General Ledger automatically integrates with a powerful spreadsheet solution for budgeting, comparative analysis and tracking facility information for flexible reporting.  • Developed client-facing Struts web applications by creating and modifying Java classes, JSPs, Struts Delegates and DAOs, AJAX.  • Implemented the MVC architecture using Struts framework. Developed various Action Classes that route requests to appropriate handlers, Coded Struts Action Servlets to process requests and forward to Struts Action classes.  • Developed JSP and Java Helper classes for In-patient and out-patient Information. Wrote Action classes, Request Processor, Business Delegate, Business Objects, Service Classes and JSP pages.  • Application integration with Spring Web Services to fetch data from external Benefits application using SOA architecture, configuring WSDL based on SOAP specifications and marshalling and un-marshalling using JAXB  • Developed web pages using Servlets and XML for various modules and involved in environment set up with Ant, Eclipse, JBoss and SQL Server 2005.  • Used Oracle as the backend database and wrote PL/SQL packages, stored procedures, views and functions at the Oracle database. Used Cassandra, NoSQL database management system for keeping user-generated data by upgrading of Couchbase and Cassandra cluster.  • Developed multiple Angular 2 components which are compatible with latest versions of Type Script, angular CLI.  • Integrated the Java code (API) in JSP pages and responsible for setting up Angular 2 framework for UI development  • Used Replication Filters in CouchDB to filter precisely the data that needs to be replicated to different nodes. Used Couch base as a database for one of the micro services which talks to database using nickel queries within spring framework.  • Designed generic database Connection Pooling with JDBC using Oracle and involved in the SQL query optimization. Developed the components for parsing XML documents using SAX and DOM parsers.  • Involved in developing code for obtaining bean references in spring framework and used Spring MVC to implement the Model View Controller pattern. Used Spring IoC to inject data into Java beans.  • Developed project in Eclipse IDE and created DB interactions using Hibernate. Provided management with technical documentation for Java applications using MS Visio and MS Word.  • Worked on JDBC for data persistence and prepared high- and low-level design documents for the business modules for future references and updates. Deployed the application in JBoss Application Server in development and production environment.  • Implemented CVS as Version control system and used Maven as a build and dependency management tool to manage various dependencies. Used ANT as build tool and Junit for writing Unit tests.  • Involved in the functional test of the application and tested Java applications using Functional Testing, JBoss and log statements. Code Walkthrough/ Test cases and Test Plans. Education Master's Skills Spring, Java, Java J2Ee, Hibernate