Process Developer, Java Developer Process <span class="hl">Developer</span>, <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Process Developer, Java Developer - Apple Inc Summary    § Ability to learn new skills quickly and accurately to integrate many  different skills to achieve success.  § Diplomatic and tactful with both professionals and non-professionals.  § Possess excellent interpersonal skills and ability to relate to people at any  level of business and management.  § Excellent communicator & team player with good analytical, problem  solving, Critical Thinking and presentation skills  § Being optimistic and Learning from failures.    Personal Information  Name: Banothu Sandeep Naik  Country: India    Contact Mail Id: sandy143777@gmail.com    I hereby declare that the information provided above is accurate up to my knowledge.    Banothu Sandeep Naik  9490349230 Work Experience Process Developer, Java Developer Apple Inc April 2018 to Present Oracle JDeveloper April 2018 to Present Environment Tools: Oracle JDeveloper  Technology: Oracle BPM  Server: WebLogic 12c  Team Size 20    Project Description:  Toolkit application is the customer support application. This has close to 130 process  flows for different regions, vendors and products. It involves the region specific rules and different services which will help the support analyst to resolve the customer issues.    My Role:  § Discussion with clients about implementing process as per functional documents  § Creating technical document according to requirement.  § Developing Process flows according to functional  documents and sharing demos to client.  § Code reviewing and optimizing code for real time.  § Creating test Case design for critical functionalities and providing  proper Exception handling.  § Fixing bugs in process that are raised by during testing. Process Developer, Java Developer, UI Developer Oracle Financial Services Software January 2017 to March 2018 Duration January 2017 -March 2018  Environment Tools: Oracle JDeveloper, Eclipse, Maven, NetBeans  (with skill versions) Languages: Core Java, JavaScript  Process: Oracle BPM  Server: WebLogic 12c  Team Size 17    Project Description:  The process of credit appraisal management origination gets initiated when a prospective  customer approaches the bank, for setting up a new facility or extend the facility limit to get  new /additional loans. The proposal application will consist of customer details, financial  information and the requested credit limit details.    My Role:  § Communicating with Managers, gathering requirements and designing  § architecture.  § Creating technical document according to requirement.  § Developing Process flows according to functional  documents.  § Developing code as per designs and sharing demos to  Managers.  § Developing UI for respective process and integrating with Restful  Services. o Code reviewing and optimizing code for real time.  § Fixing bugs in process and UI that are raised by Testing Team. Assistant Application Developer Oracle Financial Services Software April 2015 to March 2018 Working as Associate consultant in Infosys Ltd. Process Developer Oracle Financial Services Software August 2015 to December 2016 Environment Tools: Oracle JDeveloper 12c  (with skill versions) Process Framework: Oracle BPEL, Oracle BPM, Oracle OSB  Server: Web logic and Apache tomcat  Team Size 10    Project Description:  Digital Engagement is an add-on product for Customer Information File (CIF) module where all pertinent information about a customer's personal and account information are stored  according International Financial standards(IFX) in Oracle Banking Product(OBP).    My Role:  § Understanding application with respect to business and application configs and § aligning them with business strategies  § Measuring, analysing, benchmarking, and improving processes.  § Monitoring, reviewing, and adopting to the change in work culture  § Analysing cost, time, and quality of productivity and changing  process as required  § Identifying and simplifying business processes to drive maximum output  § Reviewing, enhancing, and reducing cost of process and increasing revenue  § Converting different modules according to IFX standards.  § Creating domains, manage servers and deploying applications into WebLogic  servers and continuous monitoring of servers.  Other responsibilities.    o Conducting process development knowledge sharing session to various  teammates by conducting regular KT sessions across different Locations.  o Preparing Development of process documents according to requirement and sharing with team.  o Helping other teams to resolve issues. Education Bachelor of Technology in computer science National Institute of Technology - Raipur, CHHATTISGARH, IN 2010 to 2014 SSC Board of Secondary School 2008 to 2009 HSC Board of Intermediate Education 2007 to 2009 Additional Information Technologies Oracle Jet (OJet)  Process Frameworks Oracle SOA Suite, Oracle BPEL, Oracle BPM, Oracle OSB    Web Technologies JavaScript, HTML 5, JQuery, CSS  Application/Web servers  Oracle JDeveloper 12c, Weblogic Server 12c  IDE Tools Eclipse, Notepad ++, Net beans  Operating Systems Windows XP/7, Oracle Unix 5/6    Professional Experience: