Java Full-Stack Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> Full-Stack <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Full-Stack Developer - Mastercard Jersey City, NJ • Having around 5 years of IT Experience in Analysis, Design, Development, Testing, Deployment and Implementation of Multi-Tier Web and Distributed applications using Java, J2EE Technologies and Related Frameworks  • Solid experience with various Software Development Methodologies like SDLC, Object Oriented Analysis and Design (OOAD), Agile Software Development.  • Excellent Java development skills using J2EE, J2SE, Servlets, JSP, JDBC, Java Beans, JMS, JNDI and Web Services (SOAP and RESTFUL)  • Working coding the application tier using Spring and Spring Modules (MVC, Batch, Spring DI, AOP and Templates)  • Experience in configuring and coding using ORM components, setting up configuration files, annotations using Hibernate framework  • Designing, Implementing, Developing, Deploying and Consumes Web Services (REST, Jersey, SOAP, UDDI, Axis2, WSDL, JAXB, JAX-RS, and JAX-WS)  • Experience in writing Build Scripts using Shell Scripts, ANT, MAVEN and using CI (Continuation Integration) tools like Continuum, Jenkin and Hudson  • Expertise in using and deploying the web application on various web & application servers like Apache web server, Web Logic, Tomcat, IBM Web Sphere, JBOSS.  • Proficiency in programming with different Java IDE's like Eclipse, IntelliJ, JBoss, WebLogic Workshop.  • Experience in front-end UI development skills using like JSP, AngularJS, HTML, JavaScript, jQuery, and CSS, JSTL, and Spring tab libs  • Expertise in designing applications using various J2EE design patterns like MVC, Singleton, Value Object, Data Access Object, Factory, Session Façade, Business Delegate and Service Locator etc.  • Expertise in development of unit test cases using JUnit, Test NG, Mock and PowerMock frameworks  • Experience in Log4j for capturing the logging information from the java code  • Experience in SQL and Worked on databases like Oracle and IBM DB2, MySQL, MongoDB  • Ability to learn quickly in work environment, fluent in communication, productive interpersonal skills with the ability to understand and cooperate with group requirements efficiently  • Dedicated to successful project completion with the ability to work in a team or as an individual, and as a liaison between different teams Work Experience Java Full-Stack Developer Mastercard - New York, NY December 2018 to Present DTD Application: Desktop Deposit is a web-based application which is used by Mastercard clients to deposit cheques using different type of scanners. It also provides the status of the previously submitted deposits and reports for the customers based on different accounts and timelines. This project is about migration of Struts2 to Spring Application. I was mainly involved in Advance Search module development.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in the Analysis, Design and implementation using AGILE methodology for iterative development of the application. Participated in Scrum, Retrospective and Release Planning Meetings  • Designed and developed Application based on Spring Framework, Spring MVC and Spring templates  • Hands on experience with data persistency using Hibernate and Spring Framework  • Involved in implementation of enterprise integration with Web Services and Legacy Systems using SOAP, and REST (Using Axis and Jersey frameworks)  • Responsible for maintaining Content Management System on daily basis.  • Involved in setting up Maven configuration and helping Continuous Integration (CI) Issues  • Used Spring Core for concept Inversion of control (IOC) implemented using dependency injection.  • Developed front-end code in AngularJS and to retrieve data as JSON Object from controllers in back-end RESTful Server, then display the well-organized result in web pages by writing AngularJS controller, directives, services, and route providers. Also used AEM to get Content and populate on web pages.  • By using jQuery and Ajax sent the request to server side and receive the response.  • Worked for standardizing the code as per sonar standard almost for all Architecture modules.  • Used OpenShift Container services for coordinating cluster over docker and scheduling workflows.  • Developed Object Model and UML design models for developing Use cases and created Sequence diagram, class diagram and active diagrams for application components and interfaces  • Developed Hibernate POJO classes with respective mapping to the tables in the database using the JPA-Hibernate integration.  • Using Rest API services and spring data JPA (hibernate) to retrieve data from MySQL database  • Expert in writing JUnit and Integration test cases using Spring test module, Mockito, power mock, Rest assured.  • Tested applications and documented results and bugs including documentation of information useful in the debugging process  • Worked closely with various teams to resolve issues which include: Business, QA, Build & Deployment, Off-shore, Tier2, Production Support teams  • Mentored, trained and educating the users in technology perspective, worked through walk through and review sessions, closely worked with users, developers and team members in problem solving  Environment: Agile, Spring, Hibernate, Web Services REST, JAX-WS, SOAP, AXIS, SOAP UI, JDK, Java, J2EE, JSP, JDBC, Servlets, HTML, Hibernate, JPA, Java Script, CSS, XML, JUnit Test Cases, jQuery, AJAX, Splunk, Rally, MySQL, JBoss, Maven, Jenkin, Sonar, Git, Unix Java Developer Kohl's corporation - Milpitas, CA January 2018 to November 2018 Description:  Kohl's Corporation, Inc. is an American department store chain carrying national brands of home furnishings (cookware, frames & Albums, electronics and more) and bedding (bedspreads, blankets & Throws). The project involved E-commerce implementation in Kohl's Corporation, enabling it to sell its products online. The portal is completely developed using Java/ J2EE technologies with Spring, Hibernate, and Web Services on Web Sphere Application Server on Linux Platform.    Responsibilities:  • Created quality working J2EE code to design, schedule, and cost to implement use cases.  • Followed Agile Scrum methodology for Application development.  • Actively used the Spring Framework for developing the whole Business Tier Module and successively build and deployed to WebSphere Application Server.  • Extensively used Spring Application Context for configuring & creating various beans for entire Application.  • Extensively used Hibernate technology for development ORM System for interacting with Oracle database.  • Involved Service oriented architecture (SOA) by developing and consuming SOAP and Restful web services based on JAX-RS.  • Involved in stored Procedures for interacting with the Oracle database, MongoDB.  • Integrated the JSP pages with the controllers and updated the data with the beans  • Developed, Tested and Deployed application in IBM WebSphere server using RAD.  • Documented and communicated application design using UML diagrams like sequence diagrams, class diagrams, use case diagrams.  • Developed unit test cases and suits on JUnit framework for unit testing  • Did setup for GIT hub and Jenkins to maintain repository and for building WAR  • Extensively Used the Maven for Creating the Stable and Snapshot build versions of the Application as a Deployment Product to the local and development environments.  • Supported the application in production and interacted with offshore and on-site production support teams  Environment: Java, J2EE, Servlets, JSP, JDBC, Agile, Rally, Spring, Hibernate, Web services, WSDL, SOAP, REST, SOA, HTML, DHTML, GIT, CSS, XML, AJAX, jQuery, ANT, MAVEN, MongoDB, Design Patterns, UNIX, WebSphere, Tomcat, Oracle Java Developer Nirvaana Technologies - Vadodara, Gujarat January 2015 to July 2017 Description:  ADP has the innovative software and unmatched expertise to help clients to improve compliance, reduce costs, and get the best out of their most important assets and employees. Worked on the main portal and handled customer module, Orders and Employees and Payroll modules. The Project has been developed using Java/ J2EE technologies.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in the analysis, design, and development and testing phases of Software Development Lifecycle (SDLC).  • Responsible for analysis, design, development and integration of UI components with backend using J2EE technologies such as MVC framework, Servlets, JSP and JDBC for database connectivity.  • Worked on Agile Methodology to meet timelines with quality deliverables.  • Implemented the presentation layer using Struts MVC framework.  • Creating HTML Web pages utilizing JavaScript and CSS.  • Involved in High Level Design and prepared Logical view of the Application.  • Involved in designing and developing of Object-Oriented methodologies using UML and created Use Case, Class, Sequence diagrams and in complete development, testing & maintenance process of application.  • Worked with HTML, CSS, and JavaScript in UI pages.  • Implemented MVC pattern using the Struts framework.  • Designed user-interface and checking validations using JavaScript.  • Involved in developing JSP pages and Actions and using Taglibs for the web tier and validating the client data using the Java Script.  • Involved in development of Web Services using Axis Framework  • Created Data Source and deployed web application in the WebLogic application Server.  • Developed client user interface using JSPs and Servlets.  • Used Version Control Tool SVN to perform Checking-out and Checking-in of codes from the repository.  • Used ANT scripts to build, test and deploy application.  • Used Eclipse IDE for the development.  • Responsible for the development of database SQL queries.    Environment: JDK, Java, Struts, Hibernate, Web Services, Servlets, JSP, JDBC, XML, JavaScript, Core Java, ANT, MAVEN, AJAX, CSS, Oracle, WebLogic, UNIX, PL/SQL Developer, JUnit, Agile, Eclipse IDE Skills Eclipse, J2ee, Java, Hibernate, Spring, Jboss, Jdk, Jms, Jndi, jquery, Jsp, Jstl, Jta, Servlets, Struts, Design patterns, Html, Javascript, Object oriented, Svn Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  Design Skills: UML, Object Oriented Analysis and Design (OOAD), Design patterns  Java and J2EE: JDK, Java, JSP, Servlets, JDBC, Java Beans, JMS, JNDI, JSTL, JTA  Frameworks: Struts, Spring, Hibernate, Log4j, Maven, Ant, JENKIN  SOA technologies: WSDL, UDDI, SOAP, REST, AXIS, Jersey  Web Technologies: HTML, JavaScript, CSS, jQuery, AJAX, DHTML, AngularJS  IDE& Tools: Eclipse, RAD, OEPE, NetBeans, TOAD, SOAP UI  Methodologies: Iteration methodology, Agile methodology  Web/Application Servers: WebSphere, Apache Tomcat, WebLogic, JBoss  Misc. Tools: Remedy, Splunk, Paros Proxy, SVN, TeamSite  Operating systems: Windows, UNIX, LINUX, MAC