Java Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Developer - SAP Labs India Pvt Ltd Currently working at SAP Labs as a Java Developer with expertise in PERSONAL INFO  developing and managing Back End Api's.Adept at developing Rest and Phone: +919742253776  Odata based web Api's according to customer specifications and Email: shreyas.belavadi@gmail.com  upgrading them to make them more useful.Seeking to leverage my   Location: Bangalore  technical and professional expertise to learn and excel by contributing  LinkedIn: www.linkedin.com/in/shreyas-  to the achievement of organizational goals.  belavadi-21a67550/ Work Experience Java Developer SAP Labs India Pvt Ltd 2015 to Present SPRING  STRUTS  Working as a Java Developer in SAP IoT Application  Enablement Team MAVEN  JDBC  1. Part of SAP IoT Application Enablement Core Services team  J2EE  provides collection of Rest and OData based services.  SQL    2. Developed over 50+ API's in both OData and Rest which is a JUNIT    part of Configuration, Thing, File and Event related services. SAP HANA    3. Single handedly Drove Hana Scale Out which is a major feature in the product that manages each customer as a tenant containing CONCEPTS & TOOLS  his/her information having their own Hana boxes, where  CLOUD FOUNDRY CLI  connections to the database had to be switched within a single  ODATA  instance of the application without increasing the number of  SAP CLOUD PLATFORM  connection pool to the database.  DYNATRACE  4. Major contributions also include Building of Template Api for the KIBANA  front-end consumption which made the onboarding of things JENKINS  robust and hassle free.  XMAKE  SAP WEBIDE  5. Performance improvement of configuration related API's where  SAP HANA STUDIO  all entire DDL and DML statements were decoupled and batch  GIT  processes were implemented to carry out these operations.  ECLIPSE  6. Dev-Ops tasks which included monitoring the uptime/downtime  APPDYNAMICS of applications using Kibana and Dynatrace. Java Developer JMETER January 2014 to November 2015 Accenture Services India Pvt Ltd - (Jan 2014 - Nov 2015)    Working as a Java Developer for Orange(telecom)    1. A software engineer analyst actively involved in design, development, testing and maintenance of various  applications used by Orange, Telecom service provider across Europe. Applications include: Extranet (Portal for Orange distributors across Europe). GUIS (Call center portal for Orange).    2. Involved in numerous Go-lives which included monitoring and deploying features and bugfixes on live.    3. Supported actively in solving numerous bugs related to the applications.    4. Enhanced middleware call to accommodate new and multiple product selection which included JSP and generating java classes using XSD. Education Bachelor of Engineering in Engineering Sri Jayachamarajendra college of engineering 2009 to 2013 Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/shreyas-