Java Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Developer - Freddiemac Work Experience Java Developer Freddiemac - McLean, VA June 2017 to Present Description: Freddiemac is a company where the work is based in the secondary mortgage market where we purchase mortgage loans and mortgage related securities (PCs) .It is basically related to the housing finance system for many American families. It also deals with various projects for various streams of upgrading and developing of the projects. My project is basically an migration project, in which I developed various applications CMS, SMS and TOB. This experience helped me to improve my skills more into the development.    Responsibilities:  • Experience in developing the application on the front-end technologies which involves Ajax, frameworks like Bootstrap, CSS, Javascript and Jquery.  • Involved in analysis, specification, design, and implementation and testing phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) and used Agile methodology for developing application.  • Developed an end -to -end appilication by using the Spring framework like Sprin MVC.  • Developed the application UI using the latest versions like HTML5, CSS3, JQuery and Bootstrap.  • Developed various helper classes needed following Core Java multi-threaded programming and Collection classes.  • Developed various controllers which helps in working of the application, by integrating the front-end with various services and mapper classes along with DAO implementations.  • Designed and developed the End Points (Controllers), Business Layer, DAO Layer using Hibernate/JDBC template, using Spring IOC (Dependency Injection)  • Extensively worked with the retrieval and manipulation of data from the SQL Database by writing queries using Rapid SQL.  • Along with development regularly involved in Unit Testing code by using frameworks like JUnits.  • Also used AJAX in suggestive search and to display dialog boxes with JSF and DOJO for some front end.  • Involved in installing and configuring Maven for application builds and deployment  • Used application servers like Weblogic and Tomcat for deploying the web application.  • Worked on TAM junctions in the application development for the sake of the authentication process whenever the user login into the application.  • Developed the persistence layer using Hibernate Framework, created the POJO objects and mapped using Hibernate annotations and Transaction Management.  • Extensively used JSON to parse the data from server side to satisfy the business requirement in the Ajax calls of the application.  • Extensively used JUnit for unit testing, integration testing and production testing.  • Used repository like GIT to maintain the version of the files and took the responsibility to do the code merges and creating new branch when new feature implementation starts.  • Setup the continuous Integration (CI) and continuous Deployment (CD) process for the application using the Jenkins.  • Involved in sonarcube analysis using Jenkins build and had experience in working with fortify scan analysis in deploying application.  Environment:HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap3.3.7, JavaScript, JQuery3.2.1, AJAX, JBOSS (with tomcat) Application server, Weblogic 12.2.1, Agile (SCRUM), JDBC, Spring MVC, DOJO, JSON, GIT, JUnit, Maven, SOLR, SQL, Rapid SQL, REST Webservices. Java Developer Vodafone India - Mumbai, Maharashtra September 2013 to November 2015 Project: Online Bill Payment    Description: Vodafone is a leader in delivering broadband and other wire-line and wireless communication innovations to mass market, business, government and wholesale customers. We revamped the entire online bill payment application using latest Java/J2EE technologies. User (Residential & Commercial) can create their online profile, view the services & features enrolled, view and pay for bill and also set up bill payment options like Auto-Pay using Credit Card, Check, Debit Card or pay manually.  Responsibilities:  • Actively participated in the daily SCRUM meetings to produce quality deliverables within time.  • Involved in multi-tiered J2EE design utilizing Struts framework and JDBC.  • Developed the project with the java coding concepts like multithreading concepts by creating the various java classes.  • Implemented various design patters by using java code to obtain the perfect application.  • System was built using Model-View-Controller (MVC) architecture.  • Designed the front end using JSP, jQuery.  • Designed and implemented the application using JSP, Struts MVC, JDBC, MYSQL  • Used SVN version control tool  • Automated the build process by writing Maven build scripts  • Wrote SQL queries, stored procedures, modifications to existing database structure as required for addition of new features using MySQL database  • Designed and implemented cluster wide replication using JGroups.  • Involved in installing and configuring Eclipse for development.  • Configured JGroups and Jboss Cache.  • Configured and customized logs using Log4J and unit testing using Junit    Environment: Java, JavaScript, JDBC, Struts, AGILE Methodology, SCRUM, JSP, Servlet, XML, JGroups, JBoss Cache Design Patterns, Log4J, JUnit, SVN, MySQL, Eclipse. Education Master of Computer and Information Systems-Digital Systems in Computer and Information Systems Kent State University - Kent, OH January 2016 to December 2016 Bachelor of Technology in Electronics and Communication Engineering Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University Hyderabad - Hyderabad, Telangana September 2009 to June 2013 Skills JAVA (4 years), JAVASCRIPT (4 years), JBOSS (4 years), JDBC (4 years), jQuery (4 years) Additional Information Technical Skills:  Programming Languages: Java, bash, JavaScript.  Server Side Technologies: JSE/JEE (JDBC, Servlets, JSP, JMS), Spring (IoC, MVC, Batch, AOP), Hibernate, Apache Tails, XML/XSLT, SOAP, RESTful, Java, JGroups, JBoss Enterprise services like JBossEAP, JBOSS Webserver, JBOSS Cache.  Version Control Tools: Git, SVN  Databases: MySQL, SQL Server.  Client Side Technologies: AJAX, HTML/HTML5, JavaScript, AngularJS, JQuery, CSS, ExtJS.  Development Environment: Eclipse, NetBeans  Application/Web servers: Tomcat, WebLogic.  Databases: MySQL, Oracle.  Server Environment: LINUX/ UNIX  Support Software: CVS, Subversion,  Methodologies, Standards: Test-Driven-Development (TDD), Agile Methodology, Scrum, J2EE Design Patterns.