Full Stack Java Developer Full Stack <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Full Stack Java Developer - UnitedHealth Group, CA • Overall 4+ years of experience in Analysis, Design, Development, Testing and implementation of Distributed and Enterprise and Web - based Client-Server applications using Java and J2EE technologies.  • Experience in multi-tiered distributed environment, OOAD concepts, good understanding of Software Development Lifecycle (SDLC) and familiarity of Service Oriented Architecture (SOA).Experience in Agile (SCRUM), BDD and TDD (Test Driven Development) software development methodologies.  • Experienced in React.JS and working with React flux architecture, Re dux architecture using complex Object-Oriented concepts in improving the performance of the websites.  • Expertise in developing and integrating enterprise applications using Spring MVC, Spring IOC, Spring web flows, Spring Security, Spring Boot, Spring Batch Processing, Spring integration.  • Hand full of experience in the basics and essential web technologies such as HTML/HTML5, CSS/CSS3, JavaScript, JSON, XML, AJAX and j Query which helps in building plain and simple web application.  • Extensive experience using spring framework and ORM mapping tools like Hibernate which implements Java Persistence API (JPA).  • Development experience with Core Java such as IO, Multithreading, Collections, Exception handling, Networking.  • Well-versed in the Object-Oriented Programming(OOP)concepts like Objects, Functions as Classes, Methods, Constructors, Inheritance, Polymorphism, Abstraction, Encapsulation with JavaScript and the Typescript.  • Used Continuous delivery / Continuous Integration (CD/CI) tools Jenkins to deploy this application to AWS and used GIT for Version Control of code for incremental development.  • Experience in developing PL/SQL, Stored Procedures, functions, triggers using Oracle and comfortable working with databases like SQL Server, DB2, No-SQL and My SQL.  • Experience in using Version Control Systems and Build tools like TFS, CVS, Git, SVN and Ant, MAVEN, and Log4J.  • Experienced in Routing and REST API's to build the dynamic web applications.  • Responsive in developing the React.JS applications with reusable components, Forms, Event handlers, Keys, Router, Animations and Flux concept.  • Excellent logical and critical thinking abilities with a sharp expectation to learn and adapt, understand new strategies. Work Experience Full Stack Java Developer UnitedHealth Group, CA January 2019 to Present Responsibilities  • Followed Agile methodology to iterate quickly on product changes, developing user stories and working through backlog, used JIRA to record and monitor the stories and backlogs.  • Developed SPA with Angular, Typescript, Bootstraps, HTML5 and CSS3.  • Implemented client-side Interface using React JS, used React-Router to turn application into Single Page Application.  • Created reusable components and services to consume REST API's using Component based architecture provided by Angular.  • Used Spring Cloud and Spring boot to create REST full Micro Services and deploy them to docker containers in AWS.  • Developed Spring REST controllers to serve data in XML and JSON format and configured application using Maven.  • Utilized coreJ2EE design patterns such as DTO (Data Transfer Object) in the implementation of the services.  • Developed drag and drop document editing using React.JS.  • Used Hibernate named queries concept to retrieve data from the database and integrate with Spring MVC to interact with back end persistence system.  • Used Maven to build and deploy application onto JBOSS Application Server and also used J Rebel to deploy code onto server.  • Involved in using React.JS components, Forms, Events, Keys, Router, Animations and Flux concept.  • Used React.JS in development of the web application to bind the data/model that is being retrieved from a database through services provided in a controller to the view using scope.  • Worked on the Angular Materials like form controls, Navigation components, layouts, Buttons, indicators & icons, Data Tables, Pop ups and Modals for the modern look and feel of the application.  • Designed, Developed, Enhanced, and maintained applications in My SQL using PL/SQL in Windows and UNIX environments. Java/J2EE Developer Meta system - IN September 2013 to June 2017 Responsibilities  • Implemented RUP development processes on Software Development life cycle.  • Designed JSP pages using struts tag libraries, HTML, DHTML and JavaScript.  • Coded Struts Action Classes, and Model Classes.  • Involved in writing code for Form Beans, Java Actions, DTO and DAO for accessing business methods in the business layer.  • Used J2EE web-services to get geographic data (city, country etc.) and EJB's for credit card validation etc.  • Used Hibernate Query Language (HQL) for writing the queries.  • Used Eclipse IDE for writing code and BEA Web Logic as application server.  • Worked on Struts, Tiles and Ajax for developing the application.  • Identified usability and develop functional and smooth, easy-to-operate and eye-catching web applications using Angular.JS and React.JS and Bootstrap with My SQL database.  • Implemented client-side application to invoke SOAP and Restful Web Services.  • Created a loosely couple component model to give the better flexibility to handle frequent business changes.  • Involved in developing Use Case, Class, Sequence & Components Diagrams as part of the documentation.  • Actively participated and provided feedback in a constructive and insightful manner during daily Stand up meetings and weekly Iterative review meetings to track the progress for each iterative cycle and figure out the issues. Education Master's in Computer Science in Computer Science California State University Skills Eclipse, Java, Hibernate, Intellij idea, Java technologies, Spring, Jaxp, Jboss, Jms, Jndi, jquery, Jsf, Jsp, Jta, Servlets, Struts, Javascript, Angular.js, Bootstrap, Typescript Additional Information Skills  Languages: Java, Core Java, SQL, PL/SQL,  Web Technologies: HTML5, CSS3, Javascript, Typescript, JSON, XML, AJAX, jQuery, Bootstrap  Framework: JSF, Struts, Hibernate, Spring MVC, React.JS, Angular, Angular.JS  Database: Oracle, MS Access, MySQL, SQL Server  Java Technologies: JDBC, Servlets, JSP, JRA, JPA, JTA, Java Mail, JMS, JNDI, JAXP, JMX  Server: Web Application Servers, IBM WebSphere, JBOSS, Apache Tomcat, WebLogic  IDE Tools: Eclipse, Net Bean, IntelliJ IDEA  Tools: Jenkins, GitHub, JMeter, CVS, VSS, SVN, Junit, Maven, Log4j  Methodologies: SDLC, Agile, Scrum, Waterfall  Operating System: Windows 7/8/10, Linux