Java Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Developer - Vizient Inc Austin, TX • 5+ years of experience in development of Web & Enterprise applications using java and J2EE Technologies.  • Well versed in all aspects of software development life cycle (SDLC) including system design, development, and delivery of enterprise software and experience in developing applications using Agile Software Methodology.  • Hands on experience in Core Java Collections, Multi-Threading, Servlets, JSP, JDBC, Hibernate, Spring, RESTful and SOAP Services.  • Experience in different modules (Spring Core, Spring MVC, Spring ORM, Spring JDBC, Spring FORMs, Spring AOP, Spring Security) of Spring Application Framework.  • Experience on different IDEs such as RAD, Eclipse, NetBeans and deployment using Application Servers Apache Tomcat, BEA WebLogic, WAS and JBoss.    • Knowledge in web Development and design with a strong background working on open source technologies, including HTML/HTML5, CSS3, Ajax and Angular JS.  • Experience in Oracle DB, SQL Databases and knowledge in NoSql DB like MongoDB.  • Follows Agile Scrum Development methodology. Skilled in incident, problem and change management.  • Ability to learn new concepts and to adapt to new environments.  • Excellent project management skills with a healthy attitude to superiors and team members. Work Experience Java Developer Vizient Inc - Irving, TX September 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  •Interact with the stake-holders and gather requirements and business artifacts based on SAFe Agile SCRUM methodology.  • Analyzing the business functionality of the existing application and restructuring that to a new technology for enriching the user experience apart from providing enhanced functionalities  • Actively involved in designing, developing and testing of J2EE components like Java Beans, Java, XML, Collection Framework, JSP, Spring and Hibernate.  • Developed integration services using SOA, RESTful and SOAP Web Services.  • Developed the application using Oracle DB for storing data to the server.  • Involved in Analysis, Design, Development, and Production of the Application and develop UML diagrams.  • Created SQL Statement, Stored Procedure, and PL/SQL using Oracle database.  • Created a build environment for Java using GIT and deployed .WAR/.JAR/. EAR files into different Environments.  • Performed Test Driven Development (TDD) using JUnit and Mockito.  • Wrote and executed test cases based on written design, as well as based on product knowledge that resulted in greatly improving the software. Researched and documented software bugs and created and implemented fix.  • Responsible for investigating the issues, defects, determining problem root cause, formulating corrective action recommendations & implementing them.  Environment: JDK 1.7, J2EE, Spring, Hibernate, Struts, JSP, Servlets, Oracle Database, AJAX, Java Script, Eclipse IDE, JUnit, CXF Web Services, Oracle, WebLogic 10, JQuery, SVN. Java Developer HMS holdings - Irving, TX February 2016 to September 2017 Responsibilities:  • Experienced in Agile Methodology, participated in Sprints and daily Scrums to deliver software tasks on-time and with good quality on basis with onsite and offshore teams.  • Responsible for analysis of current programs including performance, diagnosis and trouble shooting of programs presenting challenges and design solutions to overcome such.  • Core Java multithreading, Collections, File Handling, Localization, Inheritance.  • Created Spring Boot applications testing suite using Spring Junit plugin and Mockito framework.  • Used Spring Rest Template to use the exposed REST web services.  • Developed end to end application on Spring boot framework (REST API Applicaion / Spring JPA using JPA repository).  • Knowledge of CI (Continues Integrations) and CD (Continues Deployment) methodologies using Jenkins, which I used the pipelines to build or deploy the code to Environments.  • Developed Application using Spring DAO, Spring AOP and Hibernate, Web Services like SOAP and Restful Web services.  • Experience in built web services using Spring framework and Apache CXF operating offering both REST and SOAP interfaces  • Implemented Java EE components using Spring MVC, Spring IOC and Java Spring security modules  • Knowledge with Front-end JavaScript frameworks like Angular JS. And with the creation of RESTful Web service  • Experienced in using Spring Controller, Service and DAO layers to create flexible application subsystems.  • Used Jenkins tool and made customizations according to the local build to track out the build status.  • Used Hibernate 3.0 in data access layer to access and update information in the Oracle 12c database.  Environment: J2EE, JDK1.6, Ajax, Spring Frame Work, Hibernate 3.0, JMS WSDL, REST, Postman, XML, HTML, Log 4j, WebSphere 6, RAD 7, React.JS, Angular-JS, Oracle. Jr. Java Developer Keane India Pvt Ltd - Hyd January 2014 to March 2015 Responsibilities:  • Involved in development of Order Management and Performance analysis modules of the project  • Involved in developing class diagrams, sequence diagrams in UML showing generalization and other relationships and describing the interaction of object respectively.  • Worked extensively on SOAP based Web Services.  • Developed UI using JAVA Server Pages (JSP), HTML and Java Script for the Presentation layer.  • Used Ajax to provide dynamic features where applicable.  • Developed front end controller in Servlet to handle all the requests  • Developed service delegate to handle the Business logics  • Developed DAO (data access object) patterns to access the database.  • Used Junit to develop the test cases for unit testing  • Build and deployed the application in Production environment using maven builder  • Writing test cases in selenium IDE and testing the application.  • Worked on Git version control system to maintain versions in the application development.  Environment: Java 1.4, JSP, Servlets, JMS, Weblogic, Oracle Education MS IN COMPUTER SCIENCE in COMPUTER SCIENCE NEW NEGLAND COLLEGE 2017 Skills Java J2Ee, Java, Spring, Hibernate, J2Ee