Backend Java Developer Backend <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Backend Java Developer ? 4+ years of experience in Software Development Life-Cycle (SDLC) phases of design, development, implementation, deployment, testing, and maintenance as per quality standards using Agile and Scrum methodologies.  ? 1+ year of experience in core AWS services (S3, EC2, ELB, Auto scaling etc.) and deployment services (Elastic Beanstalk, Ops Works) and security practices (IAM and Cloud Watch)  ? Experience and in-depth Knowledge of understanding in the strategy and practical implementation of AWS Cloud-Specific technologies including EC2, EBS, S3, ELB, Cloud Watch, Lambda, SNS, Dynamo DB.  ? Good Experience in Application Software Development and Design, Object Oriented, Technical Documentation, Software Testing, and Debugging.  ? Excellent implementation knowledge of JDK 1.6/1.7 and 1.8, Spring, Spring Boot, Hibernate, Restful Web Services, Struts, JDBC.  ? Consumed and Exposed both REST and SOAP-based web services very good experience with SOA model.  ? Experience in RDBMS using MySQL, Oracle, SQL Server.  ? Involved in configuring, deploying applications on IBM Web Sphere Application Server, BEA Web Logic Application Server, Apache Tomcat on UNIX, Linux and Windows platforms.  ? Extensive experience in Design, Development, and implementation of Model-View-Controller (MVC) using Spring and Spring Boot.  ? Good experience in Database Design, writing stored procedure, functions, triggers, SQL queries.  ? Experience in creating build scripts using Ant and Maven also have experience in Jenkins.  ? Strong experience in developing the Restful applications on top of Spring Framework.  ? Experienced in remodeling and improving the performance of the applications.  ? Have a deep understanding of both Relational Database and also experience in a non-relational database like MongoDB.  ? Experience in writing the scripting language Groovy which can run on the Java virtual machine.  ? Extensively used several interfaces and features provided by Spring MVC framework for new web applications like Handler Mappings, Controllers, View Resolvers, Multipart file resolver, Handler Interceptor, Handler Exception Resolver, Locale Resolver, Theme Resolver, Annotations, Validators.  ? Used many Handler Mappings such as Simple Url Handler Mapping, Controller Class Handler Mapping, default Bean Name Url Handler Mapping to map incoming request to appropriate handlers defined by controllers.  ? Good Experience in developing test cases with JUnit and logging with Log4j.  ? Experience in writing the scripting language Groovy which can run on the Java virtual machine.  ? Experience in shell scripting and Python in Unix/Linux environment.  ? Extensive development experience on different IDE's like Eclipse, JBOSS, and NetBeans for debugging and using java coding standards.  ? Good debugging skills that deep diving into technical issues, collaborating with cross-domain experts, handling clients with differen t priorities and mindsets, both onsite and remote.  ? Experience in using CVS, Rational Clear Case, SVN and Git for version control.  ? Knowledge in developing System Design using UML methodology and preparation of class and sequence diagrams.  ? Communicate effectively with people at different levels including stakeholders, internal teams and the senior management.  ? Experience working in an Agile/Scrum team environment and pair programming. Work Experience Backend Java Developer Bank of America - Charlotte, NC August 2017 to October 2018 Responsibilities:  ? Used Spring MVC framework on the server side for creating RESTful web services by giving JSON output to UI and modifying the DOM object on UI, by making HTTP calls and used GET and PUT.  ? Worked on Spring Security feature by securing the mobile application by security interceptors and also worked with external entitlement services to authenticate the user to access the data.  ? Understanding user stories to design and propose a solution to the problems in Microservices architecture.  ? Development of Spring Microservices and Converting user stories into backend logic in-service classes.  ? Worked on deployments with CI/CT with Jenkins and UDeploy to build to higher environments  ? Developed email notifications batch job service using CRON scheduler by interacting with the SMTP server to run nightly batches.  ? Developed multiple Controllers, Services & DAO layers to interact with the data layer and developed Entity classes based on the table structure.  ? Utilized AWS Services platform to upload data into AWS S3 buckets and creating EC2.  ? Deployed AWS Lambda code from Amazon S3 buckets.  ? Deployed Spring Boot based microservices in Docker and Amazon EC2 container using AWS  ? Development of new listeners for producers and consumer for both Rabbit MQ and Kafka  ? Used Microservice with Spring Boot interacting through a combination of REST and Apache Kafka message brokers.  ? Created prototype in MongoDB to create data model, implemented versioning and business process model. Used MongoDB GridFS to store large files.  ? Created a new cluster and container management tool using Kubernetes for Zero downtime Deployment.  ? Involved in core integration to pick the file from FTP location and bring them into our staging tables and did all the validation on the java side  ? Deployed Spring Boot based Microservices in Docker and Amazon EC2 container using Jenkins  ? Developed Microservices using Spring MVC, Spring Boot, and Spring Cloud.  ? Used Microservices architecture, with Spring Boot based services interacting through a combination of REST and Spring Boot.  ? Implemented Micro Service Architecture with Spring Boot based RESTful services and consumed SOAP based Web Services.  ? Configured Apache Server and PHP Scripting Engine and MySQL Database Server  ? Involved in the development modules using PHP and HTML5  ? Created multiple mid-tier services to interact with multiple validations and worked on entitlements services to do user validations Interaction and also worked on applying security systems.  ? Worked with Oracle database and used Hibernate (ORM). Created POJO/Data  ? Objects in mid-tier service. Hands on experience on implementing lazy loading, first and second level of caching.  ? Worked on Jasper reports using iReport tool and integrated that JRXML into spring framework.  ? Wrote SQL commands and Stored Procedures to retrieve data from Oracle database. Worked to plug this procedure in Java classes.  ? Developed the Mobile application using Singleton, Business Delegate and Data Transfer Object design patterns in the project.  ? We are using crucible while we commit code into SVN for reviewing the code.  ? Written JUnit test cases during the development phase and used assert functions to compare two objects.  ? Used JIRA for bug and issue tracking.    Environment: Java (JDK1.7 & 1.8), MongoDB, PHP, SOAP and RESTful web services, Hibernate, Eclipse, Oracle 10g, Tomcat 7 and 8, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Ajax, Log4j, Jenkins, AWS Lambda, EC2, S3, Docker, SVN, Maven and ANT, iReport, Crucible, Spring MVC, Micro Services, Unix, XML, TDD, PUTTY, WinSCP, Eclipse Neon1, SQL Developer, Toad, Cloud-Servers. Java Developer Deutsche bank - New York, NY June 2016 to July 2017 Responsibilities:  ? Analyzing the business and functional requirements provided by the client.  ? Worked on integration methodology and strategy including interface, data flow, and process flow.  ? Used Hibernate for Object Relational Mapping (ORM) purposes for transparent persistence onto the Oracle 10g database using Hibernate Query language (HQL).  ? Developed server side REST-style web services and called them from backbone collections.  ? Developed PHP files to extend the functionality of the server  ? Automated deployment of Microservices to pull an image from private Docker Registry and deploy Docker swarm cluster using Ansible.  ? Developed Spring boot application with Microservices deployed it into AWS using EC2 instances.  ? Worked on responsive design in making the application compatible with desktop, tablet, mobile and developed tabbed pages.  ? Migrating existing application into Microservices architecture using REST APIs, spring boot.  ? Preparing test cases using Selenium Webdriver to validate all UI components, Popups, Browser navigations, Mouse movements.  ? Migrated existing business applications to Amazon cloud services (AWS) based environment and deploy applications using Amazon web services.  ? Used Declarative Transaction management system of Spring Framework and integrated it with JDBC and Hibernate transaction managers to customize transactional behavior  ? Maintaining existing scripts and writing new scripts to automate the existing environment using Maven  ? Worked on the unit and integration testing of the application.  ? Created SQL queries, used functions, procedures, and triggers.  ? Wrote Web Services SOA, (SOAP, WSDL) for address validations. Implemented advanced java API and core java for coding sophisticated business logic.  ? Developed test suite framework and regression tests for rules and alerts engine, recovery engine, object manipulation functionality, import/export engine and user-defined function handling using JUnit.  ? Maintaining separate build in Maven for the module for easy integration to the portal build and configure with Jenkins.  ? Improved database performance by recognizing and rewriting slow queries.  Environment: Java, Spring, PHP, Windows, (HTML, ASP, C#, etc.) MS Office, Soap UI, AWS EC2, AWS Lambda, Docker Java Developer Nano minds Technologies - IN June 2013 to July 2014 Responsibilities:  ? Extensively worked in designing and implementation of multi-tier applications using Java 8, J2EE, JDBC, Spring, Servlets, JavaBeans with Eclipse.  ? Developed business components using core java8 concepts and classes like Inheritance, Polymorphism, Collections, Serialization and Multithreading etc.  ? Diversified exposure in Software Process Engineering, designing & building a Web Application using Java/J2EE Technology, & open source technologies.  ? Used Maven for build automation tool to compile and generate EAR, WAR, and JAR files.  ? Developing Applications using latest Java/J2EE technologies such as Cassandra, Java 8, Junit.  ? Web design and development, application development using HTML, JavaScript.  ? Used AJAX and JSON to make asynchronous calls to the project server to fetch data on the fly.  ? Developed UI using HTML 5, Bootstrap, Java Script, and Angular JS for interactive cross-browser functionality.  ? Developed and build Ant scripts, Maven for packaging the application code.  ? Used Jenkins for Continuous Integration and deployment into Tomcat Application Server.  ? Worked on unit testing the application using Jasmine, Karma.  ? Wrote services to store data and retrieve user data from Mongo DB for the application.  Environment: GitHub, Java 8, JavaScript, HTML5, CSS3, JQuery, Mongo DB, JSON, AJAX, DHTML, XML, Eclipse Education Master of Science in Computer Science Texas A&M University 2014 to 2016 Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/saketham Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Programming Languages Java/J2EE, Java 8, JavaScript, SQL, PL/SQL, C, C++.  Technologies & web Services JSP2.3, Servlets, JSP, EJB, JDBC4.0, JPA, JMS, Hibernate (ORM) Web Services (REST, SOAP) WSDL  Web Technologies HTML5, CSS3, Java Script, AJAX, XML ,XHTML, DHTML, JSON, React JS, Node JS, Angular 2  Frameworks  Struts2, Frameworks, spring4(Dependency Injection, Spring MVC, Spring Access, Spring Context, Spring JDBC, Spring with Hibernate), Hibernate4.0, Microservices, JUnit, Log4J    Databases Oracle, DB2, PL/SQL, My SQL, SQL Server, MS Access, MongoDB , NoSQL, Mongo DB.  Cloud Services EC2, EBS, S3, ELB, Cloud Watch, Lambda, SNS, Dynamo DB  Operating Systems Windows 10, UNIX/LINUX, MAC.  Apache Tools Log4j, Maven and ANT  Integrated Development Tools Eclipse, Net Beans, IntelliJ, Rational Application Developer  Application Servers Web Logic, IBM Web sphere, Apache Tomcat 8, JBoss5.X, Glassfish  Application Tools Jenkins, JIRA  Testing Tools JUnit4.9, Selenium, Firebug, Protractor.  Version Control CVS, SVN, Rational clear case, GIT, Git hub  SDLC Methodologies Agile, Scrum models