Java Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Developer - Slalom Consulting, Boston, MA Boston, MA • Having extensive experience in the IT industry with diversified exposure in Software Engineering  Process, designing & building a Web Application using Java/J2EE Technology, AWS & open  source technologies.  • Well experienced & knowledge by working in domains like Banking, Insurance and E-  commerce.  • Experience in Core Java with strong understanding and working knowledge of Object-Oriented  Programming (OOP) concepts, Data Structures, Algorithms, Collections, Multi-Threading,  I/O and Exception Handling.  • Experienced using Java/J2EE patterns Observer, Adapter, and Singleton.  • Extensive experience in developing Microservices using Spring Boot.  • Extensive experience in developing J2EE web applications using Servlet 3.x, JSP, JSTL, JMS and  JDBC.  • Good Working experience in using different Spring modules like Spring Core, Spring MVC,  Spring AOP, Spring Security, Spring ORM, Spring Data, Spring Boot in Web applications.  • Experience in Object-Relational Mapping (ORM) like Hibernate 4.x using Java Persistence API  (JPA) standard.  • Involved in CI/CD process using GIT, Jenkins job creation, Maven build Create Docker image  and deployment in AWS environment.  • Hands-on experience in creating UI web applications using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript 2.0 and  jQuery 3.x, AJAX, Bootstrap 4.x, Angular2.  • Performed configuration, deployment and support of cloud services including Amazon Web  Services (AWS).  • Experience in developing Web Services on SOA using - SOAP with JAX-WS & RESTful with JAX-  RS web services.  • Practical experience in using IDE tools such as NetBeans, and Eclipse and application servers  WebSphere 8.x, WebLogic 12.x, JBoss 5/4 and Tomcat 8/7/6.  • Experience in SQL & NoSQL databases using Oracle 11g, MySQL 5.x, MS-SQL Server and  MongoDB 3.  • SDLC Methodologies: Waterfall, Agile/SCRUM.  • Hands-on experience in unit testing with Junit 4.0.  • Experience in monitoring the error logs using Log4j 2.x and used JIRA to manage the  issues/project work flow.  • Experience with version control system such as GIT & SVN.  • Implemented new solutions with emerging technologies for resolving issues such as inefficiency,  performance bottleneck in distributed applications.  • Strong analytical thinking and problem-solving skills backed by good communication skill. Work Experience Java Developer Slalom Consulting, Boston, MA - Piscataway, NJ May 2019 to Present End Client: Amica Insurance, Lincoln, RI  Role: Java Developer  Project: Platform Modernization    Project Description:  CARE (Salesforce.com) AMICA Life Insurance Company joining the Customer Acquisition, Retention, and Engagement (CARE) platform which aims to give a truly enterprise customer relationship management  (CRM) solution and will allow all employees to have a true 360° view of AMICA customers across all  policy types. Aim of Platform Modernization using CARE is to replace AMICA's current SalesLogix CRM  tool and will be connected to many of AMICA's new systems to automatically share and update customer  information.    Responsibilities:  • Designed, Implemented & Developed REST Microservices using Spring Boot 4.x to integrate it  with Salesforce.  • Implemented Spring Security using OAuth 2.0. for the login authentication for different vendors  using REST APIs.  • Integration of REST APIs with Salesforce doing various operations such as creation, deletion & upsert (update + insert) of various records of users in Lead, Opportunity & Contact Objects of  the Salesforce.  • Created and configured a JMS listener for the transactional and redelivery of JSON messages in the queue, in the event of failure of delivery of JSON messages from REST APIs hitting the  endpoint.  • IBM MQ client tool was used as messaging and queuing middleware, with point-to-point solution.  • Implemented Bulk API of Salesforce which is based on REST principles for loading or deleting  large sets of data to query, queryAll, insert, update, upsert, or delete many records  asynchronously by submitting batches.  • Wrote SOQL queries for various REST APIs.  • Refactored various REST APIs code to add or enhance its functionality by using Java 8  technologies such as Lambda Functions, Streams.  • Used Postman for testing RESTful API web services.  • Developed test cases and performed unit test using JUnit Framework 4.x in Test Driven  Development (TDD) approach.  • Created RAML schema & Technical API specification documentation for the REST APIs.  • Configured and created application log files using slf4j 1.6 required to trace messages.  • Implemented Agile Methodology for software development process.  • Used SVN for maintaining version control and synchronizing changes using MyEclipse, to improve performance of team work.  • Used JIRA for bug tracking, issue tracking and project management.    Environments:  Spring Boot 4, Spring Security, Microservices, REST API, Salesforce, SOQL, Bulk API, JMS, IBM MQ, JSON, JAVA8, Postman, Junit 4.x, RAML, slf4j, Agile, SVN, JIRA. Java Full Stack Developer Slalom Consulting, Boston, MA - Piscataway, NJ December 2018 to April 2019 Project: Stock Trading Application    Project Description:  Stock Trading is an application within Corporate Investment Banking LOB (Line of Business) and is  responsible for processing payments and settlements messages received from both external and internal  parties. Apart from its core functionality, application stack is also responsible for tracking, redelivery and historical analysis on the settlements processed.    Responsibilities:  • Implemented REST Microservices using Frameworks Spring Boot 4.x, Spring IOC, and Hibernate 4.x.  • Customized RESTful web service using Spring RESTful API, sending JSON format data packets  between front-end and middle tier controller.  • Used JAXB binding to convert Java object to XML and vice-versa.  • Integrated Spring security mechanism with existing security infrastructure and CORS access  control.  • Implemented Microservices architecture using Spring Boot for making application smaller and  • independent.  • SQS will put a JSON file into queue and listener will listen and save into the Oracle 11g database.  • Oracle 11g database was used to save instructions read & executed into it.  • Designed, configured and deployed Amazon Web Services (AWS) for a multitude of applications  utilizing the Amazon Web Services focusing on high-availability, fault tolerance and auto-scaling.  • Installed the application on AWS EC2 instances and configured the storage on S3 buckets.  • Used Jenkins for continuous deployment and integration of the build and release process.  • Used Log4j 2.x for auditing and logging activities.  • Managed advanced techniques for single page business solutions and front-end MVC patterns.  • Responsible for using GIT to do version control and merge code after functionality was done.  • Followed Agile methodology (scrum) as the development guideline and actively participated in project tracking using JIRA.    Environments:  Spring Boot 4, Spring IOC, Spring Security, Microservices, Hibernate 4, AWS, SQS, Oracle 11g, Jenkins, Linux, RESTful API, JAX-B, JIRA, Log4j 2, GIT Java Full Stack Developer New York Institute of Technology - New York, NY January 2018 to November 2018 Project Description:  E-Inventory helps its clients to manage their inventory effectively and efficiently. It bridges the gap between customers, shipping system, orders, warehouses and suppliers and helps the clients to grow  their businesses. The project E-Inventory has modules like shipping tracking, maintaining and updating  sales orders, product listing, purchase history management, recommendation system.    Responsibilities:  • Developed the application using Spring 4.x Framework with MVC pattern.  • Developed validation rules and properties files using Spring validator framework.  • Constructed REST web service work as an interface to collect verification information from external system like user data using JAX-RS.  • Consumed REST web service to communicate with internal systems like financial department for payment authorization and feedback collection.  • Single page application scenario for Angular 2.  • HQL queries are developed to access and update information such as product return history and claim status in Oracle 11g database.  • Used Hibernate 3.x annotation to control data fetching and cascading type and batch size to improve the data access performance.  • Usage of Maven to inject dependencies automatically.  • Developed forms using HTML5, CSS3 and Bootstrap 4.x.  • Used JMS ( Java Message Service) to broadcast messages to all subscribers using Topic as Message  Oriented Middleware (MOM).    Environments:  Spring 4.x, Hibernate 4.x, Angular 2, Oracle 11g, REST, JMS, Maven, JAX-RS, CSS3, HTML5, Bootstrap 3.x Java Backend Developer New York Institute of Technology - New York, NY September 2017 to December 2017 Using Payroll Management System, Payroll can be generated based on employee job type, pay rate and hours worked. Payroll management system generates payroll for different employees around the whole  company. The system includes employee information on a dash board, direct deposit, pay stub/Payroll  History, Employee self-service portal, built in roles and permission.    Responsibilities:  • Implemented Transfer Funds, Messaging Service Modules using Spring Framework with respect  to Model-View-Controller (MVC) Architecture.  • Developed various EJB components like Stateful session, Message Driven Beans to fulfill Business  Logic.  • Used JMS for reliable and asynchronous exchange of important financial information.  • Implemented persistence layer using Hibernate 4.x that use POJO classes to represent persistent  database tables.  • Consumed Web Services using WSDL and SOAP for transferring funds to other financial  institutions.  • Used XML Parser API such as JAX-RPC in the web services request/response data for marshaling  and unmarshalling.  • Designed and developed data access layer using Data Access Object (DAO), Session Façade, Business Delegate and Singleton design patterns.  • Used Log4J 2.x to capture the log.  • Developed test cases and performed unit testing using Junit 4.  • Used GIT for Version control across common source code used by developers.    Environments:  Spring, Hibernate 4.x, EJB, WSDL, SOAP, JMS, Maven, XML, JAX-RPC, Junit 4, Log4J 2.x, GIT Java Developer ODP PVT. LTD - Surat, Gujarat August 2014 to July 2016 Project Name: Inventory Management System    Description:  Inventory Management is an integral business operation across the retail industry. The type of asset may  be fixed or digital. The project handles the whole Inventory Management System in the company. It  includes managing asset, capturing requirement, cost saving, performance prediction. It starts with acquisition of asset, maintenance orders, resource capturing, tracking and reporting. Proposed software  tracks the financial performance of assets through detail report. This tool provides detailed analytical and periodic report to enable timely and informed decision making.    Responsibilities:  • Used Spring framework for dependency injection with the help of Configuration files.  • Designed the Front-end Screens using JSP, Servlets, HTML and JavaScript.  • Implemented AJAX in web pages to make asynchronous request to the server.  • Wrote SQL queries and PL/SQL procedures for JDBC.  • Involved in coding DAO layer using Hibernate to access the Oracle database.  • Implemented Web service calls using JAX-WS and SOAP that provide Global information support  such as Customer and Account management.  • Tested Web Services using SOAPUI tool as a part of unit-testing.  • Used JMS for asynchronous communication between the applications.  • Developed various test cases and performance unit testing using JUnit.    Environment:  Spring, JSP, Servlets, JavaScript, AJAX, Hibernate, HTML, JUnit, Eclipse, SOAP, JAX-WS, SQL    Project Name: Customer Feedback Module June 2013 - July 2014  Description:  A periodic overhaul of the customer feedback screen on the customer portal. The customer would be  prompted to fill dynamically created UI survey forms the results of which are stored in the DB. Worked with a Global team of developers working out of Europe collaborating with developers in the US.    Responsibilities:  • Used and implemented the application using Spring MVC, Inversion Control, Spring  Annotation modules and Hibernate.  • Used Spring to integrate Hibernate and creation of Hibernate POJO's.  • Developed web services to allow communication between applications through REST over HTTP.  • Developed server-side applications using Servlets, JSP, EJBs and JDBC.  • Developed web pages by using HTML, CSS, JavaScript.  • Built the application using MVC-DAO pattern and necessary business logics.  • Configured and customized logs using Log4J and used JUnit for unit testing.  • Used SVN version control extensively on daily basis for code maintenance as multiple teams were  involved in development from both offshore and on site.    Environment:  Java, J2EE, JSP, EJB, Servlets, Spring MVC, IOC, Hibernate, RESTful web services, JUnit, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, SVN Education Bachelor's Skills Eclipse, J2ee, Java, Hibernate, Spring Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Languages Web Services  JAVA SE 8/7, C REST, SOAP  Web Technologies\ Servers  HTML 5, CSS 3, Bootstrap 4.x, JavaScript Tomcat 8/7/6, WebLogic 12, WebSphere 8,  2.x, jQuery 3.x, AJAX, Angular2. JBoss 5.0/4.0.    J2EE Technologies Databases  Servlets 3.0, JSP, JMS, JDBC, Hibernate 4.x, SQL Server 2008, MySQL 5, Oracle 11g,  Spring 4, JPA MongoDB 3    Operating Systems Development Tools  Windows 10/8/7/XP, Unix Eclipse, IntelliJ, NetBeans.    Building Tools Testing Tools  Maven 3.x, ANT. Junit 4, Log4j 2. x.    SDLC Version Control  Waterfall, Agile. GIT, SVN.