Java developer <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">developer</span> Java developer - Amazon Cranbury, NJ • Proficient in Java, J2EE technologies like JDBC, JSP, Java Servlets, Java Beans, Models, Struts, Spring, Hibernate, XML, JMS, JNDI, Java Reflection API (JRA), Java Persistence API (JPA), Java Transaction API (JTA), Web service like SOAP, Restful, JAXP.  • Proficient in developing GUI using web technologies like CSS, HTML, Java Script, JSF/Prime Faces, Ajax, JQuery, JSON, PHP, Angular JS, Node JS.  • Experience in writing Data Access Object (DAO) using Hibernate mapping and Hibernate.  • Experience building the design principle Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) software applications in Java.  • Worked on Fortify Static Code Analyzer (SCA) which is used for analyzing the source code for security issues.  • Experiences with Representational State Transfer (REST), Simple Object Access Protocol (SOAP), Java Messaging service (JMS) Web Services to expose the business logic.  • Experience working with Relational Database Management Systems (RDBMS) like MySQL, SQL, Oracle.  • Strong working knowledge on Web Services like REST/Restful, SOAP, WSDL, UDDI, to expose the functionality of Business code.  • Expertise in application and web servers such as Apache Tomcat, IBM WebSphere, JBOSS, Glassfish and Oracle Web logic.  • Strong working experience with Integrated Development Environment (IDEs) like Eclipse, My Eclipse, IntelliJ Idea, NetBeans.  • Experience in Installing, upgrading and configuring RedHat Linux 3, 4, 5., 6 and 7  • Experiences with tracking tools like JIRA.  • Good working experience with Version Control Tools (SVN, Git), Build Tools (Ant, Maven, Gradle), Automation Tools (Selenium, Quick Test Pro), Bug Tracking Tools (Jira), Other Tools like Log4j, Junit, TestNG, Jenkins, Fortify. etc.  • Experience in client-side validations using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, AJAX, jQuery, AngularJS, Angular (2,4,5,6) and NodeJS.  • Experience in developing software applications in Java using Object Relational Mapping (ORM) frameworks like Hibernate, EclipseLink, Ibatis, MVC frameworks like JSF, Struts, spring modules such as Spring MVC/AOP/DAO/JDBC/Security/ORM/OXM/IOC.  • Experience in Unit and Integration testing using Junit, TestNG, Mockito, Jasmine, Selenium.  • Experience in Creation and managing user accounts, security, rights, disk space and process monitoring in Solaris and Redhat Linux.  • Experience in Amazon Web Services (AWS) cloud computing service it includes Amazon EC2, Amazon S3, Amazon Elastic Load Balancing, Amazon SQS, Amazon Simple DB, Amazon RDS, AWS Identity and access management, Amazon EBS, AWS CloudWatch and Amazon Cloud Front.  • Experience in modeling, Object Oriented Analysis and Design (OOAD) architecture and designing artifacts using Rational Rose. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Java developer Amazon - Cranbury, NJ August 2018 to Present • Involved in the creation of UI specification documents by interacting with business users and design documentation and data modelling for the entire project.  • Frontend validations are performed using JavaScript, server-side validations are performed in Struts.  • Used Struts Tag Libraries, JSPs, HTML, JavaScript, DOJO and CSS to develop the frontend UI, certain shopping cart features are developed using Angular.js.  • Involved in the architecture, design and development of high traffic application built in Java/J2EE using MVC architecture integrating spring, Hibernate and Struts frameworks in SOA.  • Experience on Apache Ant as build tool to automate the build process for the entire application.  • Experience on SVN repositories for version controlling, and Log4J is used for Logging Errors, Exceptions.  • Involved in integrating applications with other application using IBM WebSphere.  • Good knowledge on automated data loading using SSIS package to fetch, load and parse data from various external sources such spreadsheets and flat files from DB2 in to SQL Server Database.  • Involved in development, performance testing & defects fixing, also followed an Issue Tracker to log the issues and fixes applied daily to streamline the application development.  • Used GIT controls to track and maintain the different version of the project.  • Used Struts Tag Libraries, JSPs, HTML, JavaScript, DOJO and CSS to develop the frontend UI, certain shopping cart features are developed using Angular.js.  • Involved in the architecture, design and development of high traffic application built in Java/J2EE using MVC architecture integrating spring, Hibernate and Struts frameworks in SOA.  • Used struts validation framework to perform Server-side validations.  • Involved in the creation of data model and data dictionary during the application design phase.  • Implemented ORM with HIBERNATE to make the Persistence class objects interact with numerous SQL Server tables spanned across various schemas as per MODOC standards.  • Defined multiple Data sources on the server side to be used in applications with JNDI.  • Entire Application was developed in Eclipse. GWT plug-in is used for browser testing and compatibility of AJAX and JQuery components along with JUnit. Agile Methodology is used to develop the application, involved in daily SCRUM meetings to discuss the status and progress of individual Sprints and was mainly interacting with the business users for data migration and testing the application.  • Experience on Test/Prod environment for continuous build and deployments in Jenkins. Java Developer IBM - Noida, Uttar Pradesh June 2016 to December 2017 • Involved in preparation of functional definition documents and Involved in the discussions with business users, testing team to finalize the technical design documents.  • Created business logic and application in Struts Framework using JSP, and Servlets.  • Worked on implementation of MVC pattern by using its Custom Tag Library, UI Components, Server-side Helper Classes, Valuators, Event Handlers and Navigation Handlers.  • Involved in developing JSP pages for the web tier and validating the client data using JavaScript.  • Developed web application using Spring MVC framework.  • Used Spring DAO concept in order to interact with database (DB2) using JDBC template.  • Proficient in Core Java concepts like Collections, Multithreading, Data Structures, Serialization, and JavaBeans.  • Developed XML documents and generated XSL files for Payment Transaction and Reserve Transaction systems.  • Wrote unit test cases for different modules and resolved the test findings.  Implemented SOAP using Web services to communicate with other systems.  • Developed JDBC code for backend processing.  • Used Subversion for version control and log4j for logging errors.  • Involved in writing test cases for testing functional specification and for unit testing  • Wrote Oracle PL/SQL Stored procedures, triggers.  • Helped production support team to solve trouble reports.  Interacted with testing team to fix defects. Maharashtra - Java Developer Accenture Services Pvt. Ltd - Mumbai, Maharashtra July 2014 to May 2016 • Programming and Development of web pages using Struts, AJAX, Servlets, JSP and JavaScript.  • Developed user interface using HTML, JavaScript and CSS.  • Developed Jasper report to generate financial report.  • Involved in the performance tuning and bug fixing.  • Worked extensively with JSP's and Servlets to accommodate all presentation customizations on the front end.  • Used different Design patterns like MVC pattern, DAO pattern, and singleton to achieve clean separation of layers.  • Designed and developed the code using multithreading, Collections and other J2EE technologies.  • Developed DAOs using Hibernate persistence API for the database operations to interact with Oracle database.  • Written and executed various SQL Queries& PL\SQL programs to retrieve the data from the database Oracle.  • Used Log4j, Junit and developed unit test cases to monitor the application functionality.  • Used Tomcat as a server to deploy the application.  • Created custom components and web forms using technologies like Java, JavaScript, HTML, CSS, jQuery, AJAX  • Good knowledge on NetWeaver Enterprise Portal Administration areas like User Administration (creation of iviews, pages, users, groups and roles), Portal Customization (Portal Logon page), System Creation and Configuration  • Implemented Enterprise Portal Administration areas which includes Content Administration, Single sign on, Transport Package, UME administration, system administration.  • Configured Universal Worklist (UWL) of different frontend and backend applications for multiple systems.  • Analyzed issues on ESS/MSS applications including leave request, travel expense. Education Master's Skills Ant (Less than 1 year), API (1 year), CSS (2 years), HTML (2 years), J2EE (2 years), Java (4 years), JavaScript (4 years), JDBC (1 year), JQuery (2 years), JSP (3 years), JUnit. (2 years), Oracle (3 years), Servlets. (3 years), SOAP (1 year), SQL (4 years), Struts. (4 years), Subversion (2 years), Tomcat (1 year), Web services (1 year), XML (1 year), Java J2Ee, Rest, Hibernate, AWS, MVC