java Developer <span class="hl">java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> java Developer - IRM Investment Orlando, FL, FL • Around 4+ years of experience in Analysis, Design, Development, Management and Implementation of various stand-alone, client-server enterprise applications in Python • Experience object-oriented programming (OOP) concepts using Python and C++.  • Experienced in developing web-based applications using Python, DJANGO, C++, XML, CSS3, and HTML5.  • Experience with Web Development, Python and the Django framework.  • Involved in entire lifecycle of the projects including Design, Development, and Deployment, Testing and Implementation and support.  • Experienced with full software development life-cycle, architecting scalable platforms, object-oriented programming, database design and agile methodologies.  • Good knowledge of web services with protocols SOAP and REST.  • Experience with Unit testing/ Test driven Development (TDD), Load Testing in JIRA, JENKIN.  • Experience in developing web applications implementing MVC architecture using Django framework and SQLAlchemy.  • Hands on experience in working with WAMP (Windows, Apache, MYSQL, Python/PHP) and LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, Python/PHP) Architecture.  • Experience with Requests, Pysftp, Gnupg, Report lab, NumPy, SciPy, Matplotlib, HTTPLib2, Urllib2, Beautiful Soup and Pandas python libraries during development lifecycle.  • Good experience in developing web applications and implementing Model View Control (MVC) architecture using server-side applications like Django, Flask and Pyramid.  • Hands on experience in working with Python ORM libraries including Django ORM, SQL Alchemy.  • Working knowledge in multi-tiered distributed environment, OOAD concepts, good understanding of Software Development Lifecycle (SDLC) • Experienced in Python's modules NumPy, matplotlib for generating complex graphical data, creation of histograms etc.  • Proficient in writing SQL Queries, Stored procedures, functions, packages, tables, views, triggers using relational databases like Oracle and MySQL.  • Excellent experience with Python development under Linux OS. Work Experience java Developer IRM investment,FL - Orlando, FL February 2018 to Present Responsibility: •Experienced working with server-side production code for application that are robust and high volume.  • Researched and solve various technical problems, including information extraction from unstructured text, Categorization and de-duplication.  • Developed applications using mix of technologies (Python, Django, Flask, Pandas, REST, and  SOLR) • Developed web applications and RESTful web services and APIs using Python, Django and  Flask.  • Experienced in ticketing assigning tool like Jira, Bugzilla.  • Strongly follow PEP-8 coding standard and test a program by running it across test cases to ensure validity and effectiveness of code using PyChecker and PyLint.  • Involved in Unit testing and Integration testing of the code using PyTest.Displayed and proved capability to learn any new technology and work on it.  • Hands-on experience in writing and reviewing requirements, architecture documents, test plans, design and maintaining documents, quality analysis and helping with the software release process. java Developer Amica Insurance Company - Sugarland, TX January 2017 to January 2018 Responsibility:  Experienced with full software development life-cycle (SDLC), architecting scalable platforms, object oriented  Programming, database design and agile methodologies • Developed Views and Templates with Python and using Django's view controller and template language for the Web application.  • Implemented Microservices architecture in developing the web application with the help of Flask framework.  • Experience in working with Python ORM Libraries including Django ORM and have good knowledge on Project management tools. Used Apache to deploy production site.  • Experience in using various version control systems like CVS, Git, Bitbucket. GitHub and Amazon EC2 and deployment.  • Strong experience using Web Services and API's in python • Proficient in SQL databases MySQL, PostgreSQL • Experience in object oriented programming (OOP) concepts using Python, C++.  • Experienced in working with various Python Integrated Development Environments like IDLE, PyCharm, Atom, Eclipse, PyDev and Sublime Text.  • Experience with Requests, NumPy, SciPy, Matplotlib, and Pandas python libraries during development lifecycle.  • Experience in creating initial website prototype from Django skeleton and building out Views, Templates using CSS for whole site following Django MVC architecture. Familiar with UNIX / Linux internals, basic cryptography & security. java Developer Swing Software Solutions - Ahmedabad, Gujarat November 2015 to December 2016 Responsibility: • Designed the Web application Using Python on Django Web Framework pattern to make it extensible and Flexible.  • Used the Model View controller (MVC) framework to build modular and maintainable applications • Building reusable code and libraries for future use.  • Developed scalable applications using Django framework.  • Used data structures like directories, tuples, object oriented class based inheritance features for making. Maintained and improved the security level of data.  • Responsible for security standard implementation and data protection.  • Worked with millions of database records on a daily basis, finding common errors and bad data patterns and fixing them.  • Utilized PyUnit, the Python unit test framework for testing the functionality of the application.  • Profiled python code for optimization and memory management.  • Implemented locking mechanisms using multithreading functionality.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  • Involved in entire lifecycle of the project. Skills C++ (2 years), CSS (2 years), Javascript Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Programming Languages: java, Embedded SQL, C, C++.    Framework: Django, Pyramid, Flask.    Scripting Languages: HTML, CSS.    Databases: MS SQL Server MS-Access, MY SQL, Oracle, MongoDB, SQLite, PL/SQL.    Operating Systems: Linux, Windows, Windows Server 2003, Version Control Team Foundation Server (TFS), Subversion.    Tools: Django South, Fabric deployment tool, Pytest, PyCharm, Sublime, Eclipse, NetBeans.