Sr. Java Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Java Developer - Microsoft Corporation Tampa, FL • 4 years of work experience as a Java/J2EE programmer, developing applications using Servlets, JSP, JSTL, EJB, Struts, spring, JSF, Java Beans, JDBC, JMS, Hibernate and MVC architecture.  • Worked on full Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC), which includes requirements analysis, modeling, design, architecture, development, integration, documentation, testing, and deployment.  • Expertise in developing applications using Spring framework like Spring IOC, Spring AOP, Spring MVC, Spring Data JPA, Spring Data MongoDB, Spring Security, Spring Boot, Spring Cloud, etc.  • Strong knowledge of Core Java technologies multithreading, exception handling, collection, functional programming, lambdas, streams, I/O, etc.  • Used a Microservices architecture, with Spring Boot-based services interacting through a REST.  • Expertise in writing queries, triggers, sequence, and stored procedures in major RDBMS including Oracle, DB2, SQL Server, and My SQL.  • Outstanding knowledge of developing and consuming RESTful web services using JAX-RS, Jersey, Spring Web MVC, etc.  • Experienced with developing SOAP web service and SOAP clients using JAX WS, Spring WS, WSDL, JAXB, Apache AXIS.  • Experience in 3-tier and Microservices architecture applications using Spring Boot, AWS, Rabbit MQ, Kafka, Zookeeper, Cassandra, My SQL, Restful Web Services.  • Familiar with various aspects of microservice architecture such as configuration server, service registry or discovery server, load balancing, circuit breaker, API gateway utilizing Netflix OSS such as Eureka, Hystrix, Ribbon, Zuul Netflix, Config Server, etc.  • Solid hands on with the implementation of application layer security for RESTful APIs using JWT, Spring Security.  • Extensive involvement in Front-end Web Application Development utilizing HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, JavaScript, Servlets, JSP, jQuery and AngularJS.  • Experience with various build and CI&CD tools such as Maven, Gradle, Jenkins, etc. Used Git, GitHub, Bitbucket, CVS, and Subversion for version control.  • Working knowledge with cloud computing such as AWS EC2, and microservice container deployment in Docker.  • Extensively worked in Agile environment with the Project Management tools like TFS, Confluence, and Jira.  • Great experience with logging and tracing application events and defects in various environment.  • Involved in the front-end development using JSP's, jQuery, HTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript  • Experience in the functional usage and deployment of applications in JBoss, Web Logic, Web Sphere and Apache Tomcat Server.  • Launched and configured Amazon EC2 (AWS) Cloud Servers using AMI's Linux and configuring the servers for specified applications. Extensive experience in building the data layer using O/R mapping technology such as Hibernate 3.0.  • Automated infrastructure in AWS using amazon web services. Deploy Chef to completely provision and manage AWS EC2 instances, volumes, and S3. Work Experience Sr. Java Developer Microsoft Corporation - Tampa, FL June 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Actively involved in Analysis, Design, Development, System Testing and User Acceptance Testing.  • Resolving defects, write unit tests using Junit, and customize framework.  • Maintained Interface compatibility and concurrency in the project using Java 8 new features like default, static methods and Concurrency API.  • Using Java 8 Method References feature to point to methods by their names and used functional Interfaces.  • Implemented functionality like searching, filtering, sorting, validating using Angular JS and Java Script.  • Developing (CI/CD) tools Jenkins for fast paced robust application development environment.  • Developed entity attribute descriptions, definitions for data models and design database schema objects. Implemented AJAX functionality using jQuery, JSON and XML.  • Modifying current database by adding tables, altering referential integrity and relationships to support the control system.  • Using Maven to compile the application, build WAR files and deployment on the server.  • Wrote client-side validations for DOJO and XML files which checks for the valid values for the different events that are being logged.  • Implemented the backend business layers using Spring Beans and Web services.  • Implementing and building web services in Docker.  • Using Hibernate Framework for object relational mapping and persistence.  • Using Spring Web MVC framework for implementation in the web application. Used AngularJS 4.0 and Backbone.JS for client-side validation.  • Performed PL/SQL code review and modification for the development of new requirements.  • Involved in the development of frontend of the applications using HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, and JavaScript frameworks.  • Actively participating in code reviews, scrums, sprint planning, reviews and retrospective meetings.  • Applied CRUD operations on MySQL using JPA and JDBC to maintain user information.  • Design tables, views for various SQL queries, stored procedures and functions.  • Working with production support and operations teams to resolve production issues in a timely and efficient manner.  • Wrote user stories in JIRA as per requirements and migrating the existed API's into Spring Boot, Spring Data and Spring Cloud technologies.  • Integrated existing performance tools with Jenkins for CI/CD as part of DevOps.  • Responsible for maintaining and expanding AWS (Cloud Services) infrastructure using AWS Stack especially worked with database setup and maintenance on AWS EC2.  • Analyzed the Maven dependency management in the base code to annotate the dependencies on to Spring Boot application into Gradle for Micro Services.  • Developed UI automation for Node JS, Angular, and Ext JS -based web applications using Selenium Web Driver, developed in JavaScript. Micro services have been built using Spring boot, Spring cloud.  • Responsible for setting up Angular framework for UI development. Used Angular for DOM Manipulation, Filters, and Directives  • Developed Micro Services using Spring BOOT in various frame works to develop Spring Cloud for distributed systems and used for building or deploying and Spring Security for authorization and authentication support.  • Using AWS Cloud Watch to monitor the application and to store the logging information. Java Developer AT&T - Dallas, TX October 2017 to May 2018 Responsibilities:  • Implemented business logic, data exchange and created graphics using JAVA, struts and Spring MVC.  • Used JAVA, struts and Spring MVC to interface with the jQuery UI, Bootstrap and manage the storage and deletion of content.  • Developed the Web Based Rich Internet Application (RIA) using J2EE (Spring framework) and Macromedia/Adobe Flex.  • Used Docker Container to address every application across the hybrid cloud and Docker for better collaboration and innovation.  • Worked on JSON for storing and exchanging information between browsers and Rest API's and even worked on JSON data format for asynchronous browser-server communications.  • Developed the web pages Java, JavaScript, jQuery, backbone, handlebar, Mock ax, Ember and J2EE technology framework using Spring 2 MVC, JDBC, Hibernate, and Web Services with J2EE design patterns using Eclipse.  • Used Node.js as a proxy to interact with Rest services and interacting with Database Involved in writing application level code to interact with APIs, Web Services using AJAX, JSON and XML.  • Developing Applications using latest Java/J2EE technologies such as Cassandra, Java 8, Junit.  • Developed Spring Boot based microservices in Docker and Amazon EC2 container using Jenkins.  • Used Microservices architecture, with Spring Boot based services interacting through a combination of REST and Spring Boot.  • Karma test runner and Jasmine test framework tool are used to perform behavioral driven testing for the angular application.  • Developed application using JavaScript, AngularJS for frontend, JPA, RESTful web services, MySQL for Backend and deployed in AWS. Developed single page application by using AngularJs and ReactJS.  • Created Stacks using Amazon Cloud Formation templates to launch AWS Infrastructure and resources. Used AWS Lambda to run the code in the AWS.  • Used RabbitMQ Queues for implementation of multithreaded synchronization processes and used JMS queues for consumption requests.  • Developed Spring Integration application using Camel as route builder, Spring Batch, Spring JMS, Spring JDBC, Core, AOP, JPA, JTA and Gradle as building tool.  • Developed the web-services and analysis of SOAP envelope using SOAPUI.  • Created Rest web services using JAX-RS, Hibernate framework.  • Configured action mapping (in XML) for each logical request that may be submitted.  Seed Hibernate as Object Relational (OR) Mapping Tool for the backend data.  • Used DOJO toolkit to construct Ajax requests and build dynamic web pages using JSP, HTML5 and JavaScript, Angular JS.  • Used various version control software such as SVN, GIT, GIT LAB, CVS, Big Bucket for maintaining code repositories.  • Managed Amazon Web Services like EC2, S3 bucket, ELB, Auto-Scaling, SNS, SQS, AMI, IAM, DynamoDB, Elasticsearch, Virtual Private Cloud (VPC) through AWS Console and API Integration.  • Worked with design, management, configuration and troubleshooting of distributed production environments based on NoSQL technologies like MongoDB, Apache Hadoop/HBase, Couchbase, etc.  • Worked with Angular JS to interact with a web service to render the page from data returned from the service.  • Responsible for using various JavaScript Web application related libraries such as Backbone.js, React JS, Ember JS, Require.js, Knockout, Angular.js 2.0, bootstrap and Google Web Toolkit.  • Developed software's for AWS in Java 7 (using Spring Framework, MySQL, AWS Aurora, Lambda, API Gateway, S3, SNS, SQS, DynamoDB, EC2, EBS, Akamai WAF (web application firewall) and Apache Tomcat web server).  • Implemented Kafka in java 8 along with Kafka stream topology. Live stream events will be stored in MySQL and Cassandra through Kafka stream topology.  • Implemented design patterns like Front Controller, MVC, Business Delegate, Data Transfer Objects and Data Access Objects.  • Worked in Building application platforms in the Cloud by leveraging Amazon Web Services, open source technologies & best engineering practices of CI/CD.  • Used Axioms AJAX request to data from back-end based on user interface input and post updated data back to backend.  • Implemented JWT (JSON Web Tokens) for creating tokens to assert claims in the application and thus providing authentication of RESTful services.  • Tested for Node JS is done using Mocha and chai and for spring boot used Mockito, Junit, mock MVC and thereby achieving Test Driven Development (TDD).  • Responsible for Scaled Agile Framework Methodology implementation and practices.  • Worked with design, management, configuration and troubleshooting of distributed production environments based on NoSQL technologies like MongoDB, Apache Hadoop/HBase, Couchbase, etc. Java Developer Accenture - Pune, Maharashtra July 2014 to December 2016 Responsibilities:  • Implemented Singleton, factory design pattern, DAO design Patterns based on the application requirements and Worked with SQL and NoSQL queries to interact with the MongoDB database.  • Involved in the development and testing of web application and integration projects using Object Oriented technologies such as Java, Struts, JSP, JDBC, Spring Framework, Java.  • Used AngularJS to implement rich functionality in various pages: form validation, grid, search, sort, pagination, multi-selection, tags-input, advanced directives, authentication, server-side proxy, unit tests, cloud integration, slide pages, users switch, etc.  • Designed and implemented a stream filtering system on top of Apache Kafka to reduce stream size.  • Did Written test cases and done Unit testing execution with JASMINE and KARMA.  Selecting the appropriate AWS service based on compute, data, or security requirements.  • Worked in Integration of Amazon Web Services AWS with other applications infrastructure.  • Developed the web application using HTML, CSS, AJAX, JSP, JavaScript, jQuery.  • Developed Mean Stack from scratch including Mongo DB server (Mongoose Connector) setup and Express JS server development.  • Developed the different components of the application such as JSP, Servlets, DAO and Used Sub Version (SVN) for version control.  • Involved in the Development of Spring Framework Controllers. Developed Controller for request, response paradigm by Spring Controllers using Spring-MVC.  • Developed additional UI Components and implemented an asynchronous, AJAX (jQuery) based rich client to improve customer experience.  • Used Modules for the Front-end are integrated to Back-end using Hibernate framework.  Built ANT scripts for automated deployment and for the build operation of the entire application.  • Developed web pages using HTML5/CSS and JavaScript, Angular JS.  • Developed many JSP pages, used Dojo in JavaScript Library, jQuery UI for client-side validation.  • Implemented different machine learning techniques in Scala using Scala machine learning library and created POC using Spark SQL libraries.  • Implemented SOA to develop Spring Restful/Microservices and implemented Spring Eureka, Netflix, Ribbon as part of Services Discovery using Apache Axis.  • Developed drag and drop document editing using React Js.  • Used JSP, HTML on front end and Servlets as front controllers and JavaScript for Client-Side validations.  • Developed the application by implementing MVC Architecture using Spring MVC where servlets for Handling HTTP requests.  • Implemented Oracle SQL Queries & PL/SQL - stored procedures, functions, triggers, sequences and built-in functions to retrieve and update data from the databases.  • Performed Continuous Integration with Jenkins and Docker for build, ship, to run distributed applications.  • Used java 8 streams, lambdas and other functional programming concepts to implement good coding standards.  • Installed, configured, and administrated NoSQL database clusters in AWS Virtual Private Cloud Network. Created architecture stack for data access with NoSQL database Cassandra.  • Implemented Spring Boot to create a CRUD backend for our React-fronted application and automated test scenarios by writing java code and using selenium framework for cucumber testing.  • Worked on MySQL database, knowledge on writing CRUD queries and joint queries.  Followed Test Driven Development as well, written JUnit test cases using JUnit and Mockito frameworks.  • Involved in Unit Testing and Bug-Fixing and achieved the maximum code coverage using JUNIT test cases.  • Created the screens in JSP and written all Java scripts to perform the client-side validations.  • Used SQL Server to access data in the database at different Levels, responsible for implementing SQL queries and managing JDBC interactions with data sources.  • Used Kafka to load the data on Hadoop File system and move the same data to MongoDB database.  • Designed and developed Micro Services using (MEAN Stack) node.js, Mongo dB, Neo4J, Elastic search on Cisco Private Cloud OpenStack Platform.  • Worked with design, management, configuration and troubleshooting of distributed production environments based on NoSQL technologies like MongoDB, Apache Hadoop/HBase, Couchbase, etc.  • Used the most popular streaming tool KAFKA to load the data on Hadoop File system and move the same data to MongoDB NoSQL database. Education Bachelor's in CS in CS Mumbai University - Mumbai, Maharashtra 2015 Master's New Jersey Institute of Technology Skills Javascript, MySQL, PHP Certifications/Licenses AWS Certified Developer 2018