Java Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Developer - The Vanguard Group Malvern, PA • Over 5+ years of Strong software experience in design, development and deployment of web-based Client-Server business applications using OOP, Java/J2EE technologies  • Designed, Developed, Tested Implementation & Post Production support using development methodologies like Waterfall, Agile/Scrum, SDLC.  • In depth knowledge on core Java concepts such as OOPS, Collections, Threading, Generics, Exception handling, Thread pools, Execution services, File IO and Serialization.  • Expertise in design with Use Case, Sequence diagrams, Activity diagrams, Class diagrams with exposure to UML.  • Developed modules using Angular, Bootstrap, JavaScript, CSS3 and HTML5, AJAX.  • Proficiency in computer science fundamentals such as object-oriented design, data structures and algorithm design  • Experience in developing applications using Core Java concepts like OOPS, Multithreading, Collections Frameworks, Exception Handling, Data structures, Generics, Enums and JDBC.  • Developed using new features of Java 1.8 Annotations, Generics, and Enhanced for loop.  • Used advanced java 8 features like Lambda expressions for array operations, Streams, Method reference, collections.  • Used Spring Core Annotations for Dependency Injection Spring DI and Spring MVC for REST APIs and Spring Boot for micro-services.  • Worked on Spring modules like Dependency Injection, Aspect Oriented Programming and Spring Mail, Spring JMS and Spring Security.  • Developed core modules in large cross-platform applications using JAVA, J2EE, Hibernate, JPA, Servlets, JSP, JDBC, Web Services (REST) and Micro Services.  • Developed Micro services using Spring Boot and deploying Micro services into AWS cloud using Jenkins.  • Experience in Spring Framework modules such as Spring MVC, IOC, AOP, JDBC, Spring Boot, Spring REST.  • Experience in implementing Java EE design patterns such as MVC, Singleton, Factory, DAO, DTO in the development of N-Tier distributed Enterprise Applications.  • Experience in SQL stored procedures, Functions, Triggers in relational databases: Oracle SQL and MYSQL.  • Hands on experience with build tools like Maven and Logging tools like Log4J.  • Experienced in using IDE's such as Eclipse, STS, IntelliJ.  • Experience in working with web servers Tomcat 8, Web Logic Work Experience Java Developer The Vanguard Group - Malvern, PA March 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Involved in analysis, design and development of e-bill payment system as well as account transfer system and developed specs that include Use Cases, Class Diagrams, Sequence Diagrams and Activity Diagrams.  • Worked with Core Java for business logic.  • Implemented the project according to the Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC)  • Developed the web layer using Spring MVC framework.  • Implemented JDBC for mapping an object-oriented domain model to a traditional relational database.  • Involved in analyzing, designing, implementing and testing of the project.  • Developed UML diagrams like Use cases and Sequence diagrams as per requirement.  • Developed the Generic Classes, which includes the frequently used functionality, for reusability.  • Exception Management mechanism using Exception Handling Application Blocks to handle the exceptions.  • Designed and developed user interfaces using JSP, Java script, HTML and Struts framework.  • Involved in Database design and developing SQL Queries, stored procedures on MySQL.  • Programmed session and entity EJBs to handle user info track and profile-based transactions.  • Involved in writing JUnit test cases, unit and integration testing of the application.  • Provide on-call support to production systems and provide analysis, troubleshooting and problem resolution  • Involved with knowledge transfers and trainings to bring additional resources onboard.    Environment: Java 8, Java Script, Core Java, Use Cases, Class Diagrams, Sequence Diagrams, EJB, MySQL, Junit, HTML, JSP, JDBC Drivers, UNIX, Shell scripting, SQL Server. Java Developer Nielsen - Oldsmar, FL January 2017 to February 2018 Responsibilities:  • Developed Controllers using Spring MVC framework and connected to business components using Spring Annotations.  • Extensively used Spring AOP and Dependency injection during various modules of project.  • Developed and Consumed Restful Web Services using Jersey.  • Used Axis 2 to develop SOAP Web services.  • Worked with the business team for the project requirement review & User Acceptance Testing.  • Used WebSphere Application Server as part of production implementation.  • Worked on Oracle and DB2 databases as backend.  • Helped the build team to integrate the code Continuous Integration using Jenkins.  • Used the Log4j frame work to log the system execution details to log files.  • Used SVN version controlling to maintain project versions  • Used JUnit and Mockito framework for unit testing the functionality being tested.  • Used JAXB, JAXP for parsing auditing information in xml format.  • Used JSP, JSTL and Spring tags for retrieving and displaying data. Used jQuery Framework.  • As a part of Quality assurance participated in the Code review process.  • Analyzed web applications, documented detail Test plans, Test cases and expected results based on the business functional requirements.  • Adhere to Agile Methodology. Supported On call on a weekly basis as part of team on call rotation.  • Implemented tickets in production    Environment: Java 1.7, Spring MVC/ DI/ AOP/ Templates, Hibernate 4.0, Web Services, RESTFUL Services, Jersey, Axis, Apache  Http Client, SOAP, SOAP UI, JDBC, SQL Server, DB2, HQL, PL/SQL, JSTL, Spring Tags, jQuery, JSP, HTML, CSS, Java Script, AJAX, ANT, Maven, Jenkins, Rally, UML, SPLUNK, Eclipse, Oracle, Linux, SVN, WebSphere Java Developer Value Lab Solutions - Hyderabad, Telangana June 2014 to December 2016 Responsibilities:  • Utilized object-oriented programming and Java for creating business logic and was awarded best team for building Robust Features.  • Responsible in all stages of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) of the project using Agile methodology including Scrum technology.  • Developed RESTful web services using Spring MVC for implementing CRUD operations.  • Utilized MAVEN for project management and build along with Tomcat Server for deploying JAR files.  • Developed user interface using JSP, JSP Tag libraries, third party libraries and JS to simplify the complexities of the application.  • Developed the existing UI with HTML5, CSS3, JSP and Java Script to simplify the complexities of the application.  • Developed functionalities under various scenarios and worked on Test cases, Unit testing to ensure application follows all business requirements.  Environment: Java 1.6, J2EE, Core Java, Servlets, HTML, CSS, JSP, XML, JavaScript, Eclipse, MySQL, JDBC, jUnit, ANT, SVN, Apache Tomcat Server, MAVEN. Education Bachelor's Skills Apache (3 years), Html5 (2 years), Java (4 years), Java script (4 years), Maven (3 years), Mysql. (3 years), Sql (2 years), Sql server. (2 years), testing (4 years), Spring (4 years)