Java Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Developer Richmond Hill, GA ? Around 5 years of experience in all the phases of software development life cycle that includes Requirement Study & Analysis, Design, Development, Integration, maintenance, installation, implementation and testing of various client/server and N-tier web applications.  ? Extensive development experience specializing in environment building n-tier applications using JAVA, J2EE, .Net MVC, Spring, Struts, Hibernate, JavaScript, HTML/HTML5, CSS/CSS3, Angular JS, React JS, Oracle, SQL.  ? Experience with XML, SAX, DOM, SOAP web services, WSDL and Restful web services.  ? Experience in implementation of JAVA application data access tier with JDBC, SQL, etc. and manipulating databases e.g. Oracle 11g, MySQL, Ms SQL etc.  ? Hands-on experience in OOPS and Multithreading concepts.  ? Hands-on experiences in building application with Maven and Gradle.  ? Good experience in coding test cases using JUnit 4, JMock2.  ? Extensive experience in developing UI using HTML, CSS.  ? Experienced in developing J2EE applications on MVC based frameworks like Spring and Struts.  ? Strong working knowledge of Database Programming using SQL, PL/SQL and Stored Procedures.  ? Experience with IBM Web Sphere application server technologies, WebLogic, JBoss and Apache Tomcat and configuring them.  ? Expert in version controlling tools like Git and SVN.  ? Excellent written and verbal communication skills, presentation and problem solving skills.  ? Good team player and have the ability to work in both Agile (Scrum) and Waterfall environments. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Java Developer CVS Health - Scottsdale, AZ December 2017 to August 2018 CVS Health provides sales and marketing optimization solutions for life sciences, financial services, and B2B organizations. Specializing in innovative, customized technology and services, offers the Clear Sky platform, Consulting, Analytics, and Technology Services. The project involved the integration of clients' data into IMS databases and generate analytical reports for business users.  Responsibilities: ? Implemented Agile methodology that involved daily sessions with team on progress of iterations.  ? Involved in gathering requirements and High Level Design based on requirements.  ? Monthly sprint sessions with team to gather requirements.  ? Developed Restful API for Web portal.  ? Developed portals in Java. Designed web pages for Web portal using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript (Angular JS, React JS), JQuery in frontend and Java functions in the backend.  ? Used SQL server for database operations.  ? Worked on Voice NT, EZ Texting/Contact Wireless for communications and Twitter APIs for twitter communications.  ? Integrated SSRS reports in the web Application using aspx pages.  ? Responsible for bug fixing and deploying web portal.  ? Deployed portal in Tomcat 7.0.  ? Developed Restful APIs for Web portal.  ? Designed web pages for Web portal using HTML, CSS, in frontend and Java functions in the backend.  ? Used Hibernate 4.3 with SQL server for database operations.  ? Worked on Active Reports and SSRS for developing reports using SQL queries.  ? Responsible for bug fixing and deploying web portal in Tomcat server.  ? Deployed portal in Tomcat 7.0.  ? Developed Restful Web services for SOAP client using Jersey 1.9 to provide access to information through JSON Objects, XML.  ? Developed web application using Apache Open Office UNO API for mail merge in the backend and JSPs, Servlets, JavaScript in the frontend.  ? Hibernate was used as ORM with SQL Server database.  ? Used Jira for tracking issues, bugs and improvements in both Java and .Net applications.  ? Used Eclipse and Visual Studio for application development.  ? Used Tomcat as web server for deployment.  ? Involved in writing SQL server stored procedures and designing and developing database.  ? Involved in writing dynamic queries in SQL Server.  ? Developed unit test cases using Junit4 and JMock2 was used for mocking.  ? Documentation (Training manual) of Web portal.  ? Documentation (Use Cases) of portals.    Environment:  Java, Eclipse, NLog, HTML/HTML5, CSS/CSS3, JavaScript (Angular JS, React JS, Node JS, Ember JS, Flux, ES6), SSRS, SQL Server. JDK 1.7, Apache Tomcat, RESTful APIs, Hibernate 4.3, JDBC, Junit4, JMock 2.6, log4j, Selenium, Jira, REST Services, JSP, Servlet JSON, XML, Active Reports. Gradle 2.3, Git 1.9, Open Office, Windows Server 2012. JAVA/J2EE Developer Charter Communications - Denver, CO January 2016 to November 2017 Company: Charter Communications, Inc. is a telecommunications company that offers its services to consumers and businesses under the branding of Spectrum. Providing services to over 25 million customers in 41 states, it is the second-largest cable operator in the United States by subscribers, and third largest pay TV operator.    Responsibilities: ? Worked on WLI, RLI and BIR applications.  ? Analysis, design and development of Application based on J2EE using Struts and Hibernate.  ? Involved in interacting with the Business Analyst and Architect during the Sprint Planning Sessions.  ? Developed Rich user interface using HTML, JSP, JSTL, JavaScript, JQuery, CSS and WRIA (Wells Fargo Rich Interface API).  ? Hibernate was used for Object Relational mapping with Oracle database.  ? Involved in developing the user interface using Struts tags.  ? Integrated Struts and Hibernate ORM framework for persistence and used Hibernate DAO Support with Hibernate Template to access the data.  ? Involved in unit testing using JUnit 4.  ? Implemented DAO classes which in turn use JDBC to communicate and retrieve the information from DB2 database sitting on Linux/UNIX server.  ? Wrote selenium test scripts for regressive testing the application.  ? Involved in fixing the production defects for the application.  ? Involved in writing SQL, PL/SQL stored procedures using PL/SQL Developer.  ? Used Eclipse as IDE for application development.  ? Used Weblogic 10.0 for application deployment.  ? Supported production deployments and validated the flow of the application after each deployment.    Environment: JDK 1.5, JEE 6, JSP, Struts, Struts Tags, JavaScript, HTML, SAX, JAXB, Servlets, WRIA(Wells Fargo Rich Interface API), Eclipse IDE, Weblogic10.0, XML, CSS, MySQL, Oracle, Maven, UNIX, JDBC, SOAPUI Java Developer Edutech Learning Solutions Pvt. Ltd August 2015 to December 2015 Description: The company has business interests in engineering, construction, manufacturing goods, information technology, and financial services, and has offices worldwide.    Responsibilities: ? Database schema design development and coding of DDL & DML statements, functions.  ? Responsible for designing, coding and developed the application in J2EEusing MVC architecture.  ? Developed Business components using JavaBeansand database connections using JDBC.  ? Configure application flow, controlling logic and navigation.  ? Designed and developed base classes, framework classes and re-usable components.  ? Designed web pages using JSP, HTML.  ? Validations for the Client Side were done using JavaScript.  ? Performance tuning, debugging issues in testing and deployment phases.    Environment: JAVA2, Servlets, JDBC, HTML, JAVA Beans, Spring Framework, Apache Tomcat, JSP, Oracle 8, Oracle 9i Lite, Google Atlas tool. Education Bachelor of Engineering in Engineering Gujarat Technological University - Ahmedabad, Gujarat Skills J2Ee, Hibernate, Spring, Java Additional Information Technical Skills:  Languages JAVA, J2EE, C#, C, C++, Python  Servers Tomcat 5/6/7, BEA Web Logic 8.1/10.3, IBM WebSphere 5.1, JBoss, IIS 7.  JAVA Technologies JAVA 1.6,1.7, J2EE (JSP, JSTL, JavaBeans, Servlets, JDBC)  Web Technologies HTML/HTML5, CSS/CSS3, JavaScript, Angular JS, React JS, RESTful APIs, Flux, ES6, JSON, JQuery, Bootstrap, REST APIs  XML Technologies XML, DTD, Schemas(XSD), XSL, XSLT, SAX, DOM, SOAP, Restful  Databases Oracle 11g/10g/9i, MS-SQL, DB2, MySQL  Environments Windows, Unix, Linux  Frame Works Spring 3.0, Hibernate 4.3, Struts 2, .Net MVC  Version Control SVN, GitHub  Development Tools Eclipse, Visual Studio, Oracle JDeveloper 9.0.3, SQL-Management Studio, MySQL workbench, Gradle, Maven, Text Pad  Testing Tools JUnit 3/4, JMock2, Selenium, BugZilla  Others Log4j, Nlog  Modeling Languages UML  Design Tools Microsoft Visio, IBM Rational Rose, Enterprise Architect