Java Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Developer in biology field offering 10 years of experience implementing Client/Server solutions for eCommerce, Real Estate, Hospitality, Bio, and Pharmaceutical industries using Java and J2EE technologies with emphasis on complete SDLC, Testing, Deployment, and User Support. Looking forward to work in scientific filed. Work Experience Java Developer Stanford University - Palo Alto, CA December 2005 to July 2008 Scientific User Registration and Management System is designed to register users through a registration process.Users are able to create their username and password and are  able to manage their account information online.This system facilitates administration staff to verify the data, approve new registrations, decline registrations that are similar to thepreviously submitted registrations, and search for the users that are currently in the system.System also facilitated administration staff to print reports.    • Worked on the software components for client server communications using spring,  • hibernate, ibatis and Oracle databases.  • Worked with Sql and stored procedures.  • Worked with Tomcat Application server.  • Wrote unit and automation tests.  • Worked with Linux and Unix environments  • Worked with JIRA, SVN, MAVEN, Bambo, Nexus, AND Git technologies. Java Developer Outsource Group - San Francisco, CA June 2004 to November 2005 Outsource Group provides Human Resource Outsourcing Services, for example, Payrol  checks.  • Analyzed web based tool called Emportal using technologies like Weblogic8.1, Oracle,  • C# and ASP.  • Worked with Sql and stored procedures.  • Worked with Weblogic Application server.  • Worked with Linux and Unix environments and SVN Java Developer Netrequisite.com - San Francisco, CA January 2004 to June 2004 San Francisco, CA  Fonmark System was designed for registered customers to dial into the phone interface and order the product by entering the product number displayed on an advertisement. After purchasing or asking for information of that particular product, the customer gets the email confirmation. The system could also maintain the life cycle data of a product.    • Implemented Client/Server solutions using Tomcat, jsp, html, Javascript, and MySql  technologies.  • Worked with Sql and stored procedures.  • Worked with Linux and Unix environments and SVN. Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/harcharan-singh-b220b3167