Java Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Developer - Deutsche Bank, NC Durham, NC • Around 3 years of experience in developing web applications using Java.  • Sound knowledge and experience in the development of web based applications using Core Java, JDBC, Spring MVC, Hibernate, Web Services and XML technologies.  • Expertise in Design, Development, Deployment of Enterprise and Web Based projects using Web servers and various application servers including WebLogic and WebSphere/RAD.s  • Developed Complex database objects like Stored Procedures, Functions, Packages and Triggers using SQL and PL/SQL.  • Expertise in writing ANT scripts for automation of build and deployment of SOA components  • Expertise in writing MAVEN scripts for automation of build and deployment of Java components.  • Worked with Core Java concepts like Collections Framework, multithreading.  • Experienced in Version Control System Administration, using GIT And SVN.  • Develop reusable solution to maintain proper coding standard across different java project. Proficiency  • Experience with Linux/UNIX environments and scripting for Build & Release automation.  • Managed and monitored the performance of JVM by adjusting WebLogic Heap size and garbage collection parameters  • with the application servers like WebLogic.  • Experience in implementing Design Patterns like Singleton, MVC.  • Experienced with various frameworks like Struts, Hibernate, and JPA.  • Expertise at JDBC API for connection and access to databases.  • Expertise on Testing REST API using Robot Framework and SOAP UI  • Strong knowledge in web services testing via Tool SOAP UI/ Restful web services  • Experience in Writing MongoDB Schema using Mongos.  • Experience with JUnit, Log4j in developing test cases and determining application functionality.  • Experienced in RDMBS such as Oracle, MySQL and IBM DB2 databases  • Rich experience in deploying of J2EE Applications on various servers (WebLogic, JBOSS and Tomcat)  • Knowledge of software development life cycle and project documentation. Sponsorship required to work in the US Work Experience Java Developer Deutsche Bank, NC January 2018 to Present Project Description:  Deutsche Bank is German global banking and financial services Company. I'm part of Galileo Development Team. Deutsche Bank has decided to build the new Application to track the shares and Custodians which is GRP (Global Repository Program) this replaces the existing System which is STS (Share Tracking System).    Responsibilities:  • Working as Java Developer. Analyzed the requirements and involved in application and database design  • Interacted with Clients and Stakeholders to understand the requirement  • Developing Java 8 classes, Java Design Pattern (including Singleton, Factory) for the API reusability and extensively used Collections, Multithreading, during development.  • Developing build script using Maven to build, package, test and deploy Web applications in Weblogic container.  • Designing and developed a Restful APIs for different modules in the project as per the requirement.  • Developing the MVC application model using Spring framework, Spring Boot, Micro services, and used Hibernate framework to interact with the database  • Using JUnit Testing Framework for performing Unit testing.  • Responsible for handling day-to-day technical issues, analyzed and determined root cause, facilitated resolution.  • Using the micro-services to send the swift messages and DTC using the message controller.  • Using the micro-services to send the Mock respaces to the actual incoming messages.  • Responsible for deploying applications in development and DEV environments  • Involving in Java SQL development.  • Using UNIX Script and using SVN as Sub version control system.  • Using GIT for version control of the application.  • Using Log4J to capture the log that includes runtime exceptions.  • Involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) of the application like Requirement gathering, Design, Analysis and Code development.    Environment:  Core Java, Web services, REST, JUNIT, GIT, WebLogic, J2EE, JSP, Struts, Spring MVC, Micro Services, Spring Boot, Maven, Multithreading, OOAD, HTML, XML, Design Patterns, ANT, IBM RAD IDE, Hibernate 3.0, LOG4J, Sub Version(SVN), SOAP Java Developer Kapstone LLC March 2017 to December 2017 Project Description:    Kapstone LLC is one of the best Service Providing IT company. I have been working on Web service. This web service implemented for identity management, this webservice enables LF connect application to maintain identities in the OID (LDAP). LF connect is AWS cloud hosted application consuming webservice hosted in Brunswick DC. Internally this Web service is pointed to OID via JNDI data source. LF Connect application hosted on AWS environment had a requirement to create identity under on premise OID.    Responsibilities:  • Interacted with Clients and Stakeholders to understand the requirement  • Participated in Knowledge Transition and played a vital role in building the project team  • Worked as Java/J2EE Developer. Analyzed the requirements and involved in application and database design.  • Designed and used SOAP and REST Web Services (both implementer and Consumer) for the DAO modules involving data retrieval and storing.  • Developed Java classes, Java Design Pattern (including Singleton, Factory) for the API reusability and extensively used Collections, Multithreading, lambda expression concepts during development.  • Developed and consumed Restful Webservices for middle tier and front end.  • Designed and Developed Representational state transfer (REST) based services and Simple Object Access Protocol (SOAP) based services as part of the requirement.  • Developed and consumed Restful Webservices for middle tier and front end.  • Good Hands on Experience on Multithreading, Exception handling, Collections Framework  • Developed build script using Maven to build, package, test and deploy Web applications in Tomcat container.  • Implemented modules using Core Java APIs, Java collection, Threads, XML and integrating the modules  • Implemented multithreading code to improve the performance of batch processing  • Developed the ANT scripts for preparing WAR files used to deploy J2EE components  • Used SOAPUI and Postman to test web services  • Used Spring MVC to implement MVC Design Pattern  • Followed Spring MVC pattern and used View Resolver to map web pages.  • Used Spring MVC to develop application architecture and JDBC to interact with Database. Also used Ajax to communicate with DB for certain functionalities.  • Wrote JUnits and suites for testing functionalities  • Designed and developed a Restful APIs for different modules in the project as per the requirement.  • Regular interaction with client on status updates and clarifications  • Responsible for Code review and Performance optimization process  • Involved in creation of design specification document.    Environment:  Core Java, Web services, REST, JUNIT, GIT, WebLogic, J2EE, JSP, Struts, Spring MVC, Maven, Spring Boot, , Micro Services, Multithreading, OOAD, Oracle 9i, HTML, XML, Design Patterns, ANT, IBM RAD IDE, MongoDB, Hibernate 3.0, LOG4J, Sub Version(SVN), TOAD, UML, SOAP Java Developer Verisk Analytics IL June 2016 to February 2017 Project Description:  The Verisk is leading health insurance company and their plans provide coverage for hospital service. I have been worked on the development of Provider Wizard. The Provider wizard is designed to simplify the process of adding provider where user is guided to add the provider details in a wizard manner. Along with the wizard worked on the redesign of application UI to make it more user friendly.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) of the application like Requirement gathering, Design, Analysis and Code development.  • Generated Use case diagrams, Class diagrams, and Sequence diagrams using Rational Rose.  • The application is designed using J2EE design patterns and technologies based on MVC architecture.  • Agile Methodology is used for development of the application.  • Developed the Application using Spring MVC Framework by implementing Controller, Service classes. Performed Junit testing to test the implemented services.  • Expertise in installation, configuration and administration of WebLogic application serves.  • Configuration and managing WebLogic domains to support fusion middleware applications  • Used J2EEdesign patterns like Value Object Pattern, Business Delegate, service locator, and session façade, Singleton, Factory and DAO.  • Used Hibernate for mapping claim data by connecting to Oracle 11g database.  • Developed the application using Spring Framework that leverages classical Model View Layer (MVC) architecture.  • Implemented spring java based SOAP Web Services for authorization and JUnit tests for part of my code.  • Managed Spring Core for dependency injection of control (IOC), and integrated with Hibernate.  • Implemented MVC architecture by using spring framework 2.0, Hibernate 3.0 in terms of JSPs and Servlets  • Configured and built Spring MVC application on Tomcat web server.  • Implemented logging using log4j and Spring AOP.  • Developed DAO and service layers using the Spring Dao support and hibernate ORM mapping  • Worked extensively in a multithreading environment.  • Worked on core Java concepts like Collections and Exception Handling for writing the backend API's.  • Involved in multi-tiered J2EE design utilizing Spring Inversion of Control (IOC) architecture and Hibernate.  • Implemented Struts Dispatch Action class and form bean classes using struts framework  • Enabling customers to better manage software development, deployments and infrastructure with tools  • such as Chef, Jenkins and GitHub.  • Implemented security for different front-end views based on the access privileges  • Handling code management on IBM Rational Clearcase/Clearquest, and Git Hub  • Involved in writing XML validation classes using Struts validation framework.  • Configured local Maven repositories and multi-component Ant projects with Nexus repositories and  • scheduled projects in Jenkins for continuous integration.  • Integrated GIT into go to automate the code check-out process  • Modified the existing ANT scripts to suit the new project requirements  • Integrated Subversion (SVN) into Jenkins to automate the code check-out process  • Developed JUnit test cases for DAO and Service Layer methods.  • Used SVN for version control of the application.  • Used Log4J to capture the log that includes runtime exceptions.    Environment:  Core Java, J2EE, JSP, Struts, Spring, OOAD, Oracle 9i, HTML, XML, Design Patterns, Multithreading, ANT, Web Services, IBM RAD IDE, MongoDB, Hibernate 3.0, LOG4J, Sub Version(SVN), TOAD, JUNIT, UML, SOAP Education Bachelor's in Computer Science JNTU-K Master's in Computer Science GOVERNOR'S STATE UNIVERSITY Skills Ajax (Less than 1 year), Ant (2 years), Api (2 years), Git (2 years), Html (2 years), Java (2 years), Jdbc (Less than 1 year), Jsp (2 years), Maven (2 years), Oracle (1 year), Rational (Less than 1 year), Soap (2 years), Sql (1 year), Sub version (2 years), Tomcat (1 year), Uml (1 year), Unix (1 year), Web services (2 years), Weblogic (2 years), Xml (2 years)