JAVA DEVELOPER <span class="hl">JAVA</span> <span class="hl">DEVELOPER</span> JAVA DEVELOPER - Comcast Arlington, VA Sr. Java Full Stack Developer Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience JAVA DEVELOPER Comcast - Reston, VA February 2018 to Present Roles & Responsibilities:  ? Designed Frontend with in object oriented JavaScript Framework like Angular.JS and Angular Material design.  ? Developed various generic JavaScript functions used for validations.  ? Handled Java multithreading part in back-end component, one thread will be running for each user, which serves that user.  ? Developed AngularJS custom directives for specific functionality on DOM elements.  ? Developed Interactive web pages using Angular JS, HTML5, CSS3 and Bootstrap as per user requirements.  ? Used SOAP for Web Services by exchanging XML data between applications over HTTP.  ? Involved in the development of model, library, struts and form classes (MVC).  ? Extensively used Hibernate concepts such as inheritance, lazy loading, dirty checking, locking, and transactions.  ? Used version control repository SVN (Subversion by apache) and JIRA for issue tracking.  ? Developed ORM mappings using Hibernate annotations and also established data integrity among all tables sitting on Oracle Database.  ? Implemented the various services using micro services architecture in which the services work independently.  ? Used spring framework to achieve loose coupling between the layers thus moving towards Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) exposed through Restful Services.  ? Implemented security for different front end views based on the access privileges.  ? Tested REST services using google chrome's POSTMAN plugin.  ? Developed UI pages with Spring MVC, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, and used Boot Strap for creating Responsive Web pages.  ? Developed Hibernate DAO classes and with the spring framework manager classes retrieve and save the data from the database.  ? Design and implementation of BPMN process using Oracle BPM studio.  ? Worked on building & deploying JAVA code through Jenkins, used Jenkins Amazon Web Services Code Deploy plugin to deploy to AWS and worked AWS Cloud management.  ? Used Spring Batch as spring batch jobs can meet the requirements of reliability, robustness, and traceability, which are essential for automatic processing of large amount of data.  ? Used Spring Framework for Dependency Injection and integrated it with the Struts Framework and Hibernate.  ? Worked on RESTful APIs for HTTP requests between client and server.  ? Implemented design patterns such as Session Façade, Business Delegate, Adaptor, Bean Factory and Singleton.  ? Produced and consumed centralized Spring Restful Web Services for Enterprise applications to consume in JSON format and in trusted client-server environment.  ? Built RESTful web service by building Angular.js Server in the back-end to handle requests sent from the front-end jQuery Ajax calls.  ? Micro services has been built using spring boot, spring security and deployed to AWS cloud.  ? Setting up the basic project set-up from scratch of Spring-Hibernate App based on Design.  ? Created connections to database using Hibernate session Factory, using Hibernate APIs to retrieve and store images to the database with Hibernate transaction control.  ? Involved in developing code for obtaining bean references in spring framework using Dependency Injection (DI) or Inversion of Control (IOC) using annotations.  ? Developed JAX-WS web service by Top-down Approach starting from WSDL.  ? Prepared high and low level design documents for the business modules for future references and updates.  ? Junit tests were written to test each module in the application.  ? Evangelized the use of web services as a way to implement application integrations.  Environment: Java/J2EE, HTML, Spring-Hibernate, HTML5, CSS3, JQuery, CSS, JavaScript, JUnit, Eclipse, log4j, Micro service, Web Services, Apache Camel ,Postman, AWS cloud, Subversion SVN, Spring Restful Web Services, JIRA JAVA DEVELOPER Omni Cell - Pittsburg, PA January 2017 to February 2018 Roles & Responsibilities:  ? Worked on Spring 3 MVC and Spring MVC with REST integration and JSON.  ? Designed and Developed Micro services for various Activation and management activities in One Network flow.  ? Designed, developed a custom, single-page, responsive web application on front end using AngularJS.  ? Developed several reusable directives using AngularJS.  ? Configured session timeout with Spring Boot in server side and implemented auto logout functionality.  ? Evaluated and implemented Redis cache for Microservices.  ? Utilized spring caching abstraction.  ? Build Apache Kafka Multi-node Cluster and used Kafka Manager to monitor multiple Clusters.  ? Worked on Integrating SAP RFC's with existing applications using JMS queues and Active MQ.  ? Designed and developed UI of application modules using CSS, jQuery, AJAX, JSON and DOJO.  ? Developed Web Services using SOA technologies such as SOAP WSDL and REST.  ? Extensively used various Spring Framework modules like MVC, DI (IOC), Auto Wiring, JDBC Templates, Spring Security and AOP.  ? Managed projects using Redmine, Git and GitHub.  ? Created detailed AWS Security Groups which behaved as virtual firewalls that controlled the traffic allowed to reach one or more AWS EC2 instances.  ? Extensively used Hibernate mappings, HQL, EHCache, Query, Criteria, Lazy loading Transactions and Lockings.  ? Involved in designing and implementation of MVC design pattern using Struts framework for Web-tier.  ? Migrated test and use cases for applications to AWS cloud with public and private IP ranges to accelerate development productivity by decreasing test-run times.  ? Used Design Patterns like Singleton, Factory, Session Facade and DAO.  ? Developed using new features of Java 1.6 Annotations, Generics, enhanced for loop and Enums.  ? Used spring and Hibernate for implementing IOC, AOP and ORM for back end tiers.  ? Involved in writing Thread Safe blocks for multithread access to make valid transactions.  ? Used Spring Inheritance to develop beans from already developed parent beans.  ? Database development required creation of new tables, PL/SQL stored procedures, functions, views, indexes and constraints, triggers and required SQL tuning to reduce the response time in the application.  ? Created user-friendly GUI interface and Web pages using HTML, Angular JS, Jquery and Java script.  ? Used Log4j utility to generate run-time logs.  Environment: J2EE, Spring 3.5 framework, Spring MVC, Spring Security, JSF, Hibernate 4.x, jQuery, JSON, JSF, Servlets 2.3, JDBC, AJAX, Web services , SOAP, XML, Java Beans, XStream, Apache POI, Ext JS, JQuery, JavaScript, Oracle 10g, IBM RAD, Websphere 7.0, Agile Methodology, Design Patterns, SVN, Apache Maven, JUnit, HtmlUnit, XSLT, HTML/DHTML JAVA/J2EE Developer DELL Services - Hyderabad, Telangana January 2013 to August 2015 Roles & Responsibilities:  ? Involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) of the application like Requirement gathering, Design, Analysis and Code development.  ? Developed the applications using Java, J2EE, Struts, and JDBC.  ? Worked on various use cases in development using Struts and testing the functionalities.  ? Involved in preparing the High Level and Detail level design of the system using J2EE.  ? Created struts form beans, action classes, JSPs following Struts framework standards.  ? Implemented the database connectivity using JDBC with Oracle 9i database as backend.  ? Involved in the development of model, library, struts and form classes (MVC).  ? Worked on core java, using file operations to read system file (downloads) and to present on JSP.  ? Involved in the development of underwriting process, which involves communications without side systems using IBM MQ and JMS.  ? Used PL/SQL stored procedures for applications that needed to execute as part of a scheduling mechanisms.  ? Involved in developing applications using Java, J2EE, EJB, Struts, JSP and Servlet.  ? Designed and developed Application based on Struts Framework using MVC design pattern.  ? Developed Struts Action classes using Struts controller component.  ? Used SAX XML API to parse the XML and populate the values for a bean.  ? Developed XML applications using XSLT transformations.  ? Created XML document using STAX XML API to pass the XML structure to Web Services.  ? Used Apache ANT for the entire build process.  ? Used Rational Clear Case for version control and JUnit for unit testing.  ? Configured WebSphere Application server and deployed the web components.  ? Provided troubleshooting and error handling support in multiple projects.  Environment: Flex, EJB, Struts, spring, JSP1.2, Servlets2.1, Jasper reports, JMS, IBM MQ, XML, SOAP, UDDI, WSDL, JDBC, JavaScript, XSLT, XML, UML, HTML, JNDI, Rational Rose 98, Oracle 9i, IBM Websphere 6.0, ClearCase, Log4J, ANT, JUnit, IBM RAD, Apache Tomcat    Certification & Education: Education Master's Degree in Management in Information in Management Schiller international University - Tampa, FL 2016 Bachelor's Degree in Computer Science in Computer Science JNT University 2013