Java Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Developer Phoenix, AZ • Around 5 years of experience in IT industry involving various stages of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) phases like requirement analysis, design, development, implementation, deployment, testing and providing support/maintenance for applications.  • Extensive working experience with different methodologies like Agile (Scrum) Waterfall.  • Experienced in multiple domains such as finance, health, and commercial.  • Experienced in application development using Java/J2EE technologies including Servlets, JSP, Struts, JDBC, Hibernate, multi-threading, Spring frameworks like core, MVC, Security, AOP, IOC, and web services as SOAP and Restful services  • Experience with JAVA 1.8 features like Lambda Expressions, functional interfaces and filters.  • Having Knowledge with Cloud Computing Service environment like Amazon Web Services (AWS) and managed S3 bucket, through AWS Console and API Integration.  • Expert in building Micro Service applications using Spring Boot for developing Restful web services.  • Proficient in implementation of frameworks like Spring MVC, Spring IOC, Spring Security, Spring Boot, Spring Data, Spring Batch and ORM frameworks like Hibernate.  • Experienced in UI frame works such as HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, and Angular Js.  • Experience in developing inter-operable Web Services and its related technologies like SOAP, WSDL, UDDI, XML related technologies/tools such as JAXB, XSD, XML with good understanding of JAX-WS, JAX-RS, JAX-RPC inter-operable issues  • Experienced in developing applications using servlets with JSPs and HTMLs  • Experience in developing server-side code with good knowledge of enterprise and persistence design patterns like Singleton, Factory.  • Experience in configuring application server domains, defining application resources (JMS, JDBC), designing and defining data base entities and their relationships.  • Expert in deploying, configuring, administering application and web servers like Web Sphere, Web Logic, JBoss, Apache Tomcat  • Experienced in implementing, designing, developing functionality to fetch data from different sources and persisted the data through Hibernate, to separate DAO layer from Database layer  • Experienced in working with various databases like Oracle 10g/11g, DB2, MySQL, SQL Server  • Experienced in developing projects using Maven to add dependencies for various components to fetch all necessary jars automatically  • Experienced in working with various operating systems like Windows10/Windows XP.  • Subversion (SVN), CVS and GIT as versioning software tools  • Experience with JUnit, Log4j in developing test cases and determining application functionality. Work Experience Java Developer Bank of the West, AZ February 2018 to February 2018 Responsibilities:  • Involved in the development of rest API's for entitlement check, limit check and initiation threshold.  • Involved in the data base design and development.  • Involved in the development of PL/SQL functions and packages to support these functionalities.  • Developed the batch jobs using the spring job framework.  • Used lambda expression, Streams.  • Involved in writing the test cases using JUNIT, MOCKITO and POWERMOC.  • Involved in development of S3 Integration. To retrieving the Global Document and Logo Signatures from AWS S3 Bucket.  • Participated in the daily scrum meeting, sprint planning and grooming, retrospective meetings.  • Involved in the design discussion, requirement gathering interaction with the vendor teams.  • Used Tortoise SVN to maintain the version of files and took the responsibility to do the code merges from branch to trunk and creating new branch when new feature implementation starts.  • Configured and customized logs using Log4J.    Environments: Java1.8, Spring Boot, Spring Batch, SQL developer, tomcat, putty, JIRA, Confluence, Eclipse oxygen, SVN. Java Developer CSRA, NJ September 2015 to January 2018 Responsibilities:  • Actively involved in Analysis, Design, Development, System Testing and User Acceptance Testing. Successfully followed Sprint planning and estimation for user stories in Agile Environment.  • Implemented the front-end using AngularJS, HTML 5, AJAX, CSS3 and Java script.  • Designed and Developed enterprise level angular component libraries such as data-tables, autosuggestion, pagination etc.  • Re-design and improve the webpages and its performance.  • Developed the application using Java 1.8 and implemented its features like Lambdas Expressions, Time API, Streams, functional interfaces, collectors, default methods, type interfaces, and for each.  • Used multithreaded environment to run processes asynchronously using different future calls to access the data.  • Extensively used various Spring Framework modules like MVC, Dependency Injection (IOC), Auto Wiring, Spring Security and AOP.  • Created and injected spring services, spring controllers and DAOs to achieve dependency injection and to wire objects of business classes.  • Spring Boot micro services were developed using Micro Service architecture with RESTFUL.  • Employed fail safe and circuit breaker patterns for the first time in Client's email applications using Spring Boot Micro Service Applications.  • Implemented functionalities using Spring IO / Spring Boot with Hibernate ORM.  • Configured the Hibernate configuration files to persist the data to the Mongo DB Database.  • Used Spring Tool Suite (STS) which is based on Eclipse to develop and debug application code.  • Worked on Swagger UI to interact with the API'S. Designed and documented APIs using Swagger.  • Migration of Existing Application to AWS cloud. Used Amazon Web Services (AWS) like S3, RDS, cloud watch and Cloud Front for promoting code in various environments.  • Deployed Micro-services as Restful Java Web Services on Amazon Elastic Beanstalk.  • GIT is used for the version control, Maven is used for build script and configured log4j, .log files.  • Using JUnit test in Eclipse, developed Unit test cases and test suite.  • Used JIRA for project management, Issue tracking and monitoring errors and fixed the errors.  • Used Jenkins as the integration tool and improved scalability of applications on cross-platforms.    Environment: J2EE, Java 1.8, Spring, Spring boot, Spring MVC, Java Scripts, Hibernate, Rest, Maven, JUnit, Angular, AWS, Spring Kafka, MAVEN, JUnit, Jenkins, Agile Methodology, Eclipse, GIT, Log4j, PL/SQL, STS, Docker, Web Logic Application Server. Java Developer AngularJS and AJAX technologies - Hyderabad, Telangana March 2014 to August 2015 Responsibilities:  • Involved in all the phases of SDLC including Requirements Collection, Design & Analysis of the Customer Specifications, Development and Customization of the Application.  • Designed front-end presentation logic using JSP, HTML5, CSS3 and Strut tags.  • Used JavaScript, AngularJS and AJAX technologies for front end user input validations and Restful web service calls.  • Created a Single Page Application (SPA) using AngularJS as framework, to bind data with specific views and to synchronize data with server.  • Implemented pre-authentication framework (Spring Security) for authentication and authorization.  • Used spring framework including Spring Web, Spring Security, Spring IOC, Spring Annotations, Spring AOP, and Spring Transactions.  • Used a Micro service architecture, with Spring Boot-based services interacting through a combination of REST and MQ to deploy Identity micro services and Micro Components  • Used Hibernate, ORM solution, technique of mapping data representation from MVC model to Oracle Relational data model with an SQL-based schema.  • Written SQL Queries and stored procedures to interact with Oracle DB.  • Restful web services using Jersey for JAX-RS implementation.  • Micro Services were being used as a strategy to gradually replace a core monolithic application while still adding business features.  • Used Mongo DB as data storage and utilized aspects like replica sets, sharing and clever document design to make service extensible scale and feature wise.  • Developed JUnit test cases for elements, web beans, handlers and view helper classes.  • Focused on Test Driven Development thereby creating detailed JUnit tests for every single piece of functionality before writing the functionality.  • Used Maven as build automation tool for deploying the project on Apache Tomcat Server.  • Configured and customized logs using Log4J.  • Actively participated in the daily SCRUM meetings to produce quality deliverables.  • Coordinated with Business Analyst, Architecture and QA team to ensure the quality and success for each iteration tasks.    Environment: Java, J2EE, JavaScript, Servlets, XML, Tortoise SVN, Spring MVC, JDBC, Maven, Tomcat Server, JMS, JSP, HTML, AngularJS, AJAX, Spring, Spring Framework, Spring Boot, Spring Security, Mongo DB, Hibernate, SOA, Restful, WSDL, JIRA, CSS, Log4J, JUnit, Linux, STS, Oracle, Agile Methodology. Skills Java, Java J2Ee, Hibernate, Soap, Angular, MVC, JSP, JEE