Java Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Developer - Boeing • 3 years of experience in development of Web & Enterprise applications using JAVA and J2EE Technologies.  • Well versed in all aspects of software development life cycle (SDLC) including system design, development, and delivery of enterprise software and experience in developing applications using Agile Software Methodology.  • Hands on experience in Core Java, Collections, Multi-Threading, Servlets, JSP, JDBC, Hibernate, Spring, RESTful and SOAP Services.  • Experience in different modules (Spring Core, Spring MVC, Spring ORM, Spring JDBC, Spring FORMs, Spring AOP, Spring Security) of Spring Application Framework.  • Knowledge in web Development and design with a strong background working on open source technologies, including HTML/HTML5, CSS3, Ajax and Angular JS.  • Experience in Oracle DB, SQL Databases and knowledge in NoSql DB like MongoDB.  • Follows Agile Scrum Development methodology. Skilled in incident, problem and change management.  • Ability to learn new concepts and to adapt to new environments.  • Excellent project management skills with a healthy attitude to superiors and team members. Work Experience Java Developer Boeing - Seal Beach, CA September 2017 to Present Project Name: Boeing Communication Systems - MAX  • Interact with the stake-holders and gather requirements and business artifacts based on SAFe Agile SCRUM methodology.  • Analyzing the business functionality of the existing application and restructuring that to a new technology for enriching the user experience apart from providing enhanced functionalities  • Actively involved in designing, developing and testing of J2EE components like Java Beans, Java, XML, Collection Framework, JSP, Spring and Hibernate.  • Developed integration services using SOA, RESTful and SOAP Web Services.  • Developed the application using Oracle DB for storing data to the server.  • Involved in Analysis, Design, Development, and Production of the Application and develop UML diagrams.  • Created SQL Statement, Stored Procedure, and PL/SQL using Oracle database.  • Created a build environment for Java using GIT and deployed .WAR/.JAR/. EAR files into different Environments.  • Performed Test Driven Development (TDD) using JUnit and Mockito.  • Wrote and executed test cases based on written design, as well as based on product knowledge that resulted in greatly improving the software. Researched and documented software bugs and created and implemented fix.  • Responsible for investigating the issues, defects, determining problem root cause, formulating corrective action recommendations & implementing them.    Envirnoment: Java, Agile, JDBC, JSP, Servlet, JavaBeans, Hibernate, Spring Core, Spring AOP, Angular JS, Angular 2, ANT, XML, SQL, Oracle10g, WebLogic, JUnit, CSS, JSON, Log4j, Web Services, Unix, JAX-WS, JAX-RS. Java Developer ATT - Alpharetta, GA December 2016 to May 2017 Project Name: DirecTv    • Experienced in Agile Methodology, participated in Sprints and daily Scrums to deliver software tasks on-time and with good quality on basis with onsite and offshore teams.  • Responsible for analysis of current programs including performance, diagnosis and trouble shooting of programs presenting challenges and design solutions to overcome such.  • Core Java multithreading, Collections, File Handling, Localization, Inheritance.  • Created Spring Boot applications testing suite using Spring Junit plugin and Mockito framework.  • Used Spring Rest Template to use the exposed REST web services.  • Developed end to end application on Spring boot framework (REST API Applicaion / Spring JPA using JPA repository).  • Knowledge of CI (Continues Integrations) and CD (Continues Deployment) methodologies using Jenkins, which I used the pipelines to build or deploy the code to Environments.  • Developed Application using Spring DAO, Spring AOP and Hibernate, Web Services like SOAP and Restful Web services.  • Experience in built web services using Spring framework and Apache CXF operating offering both REST and SOAP interfaces  • Implemented Java EE components using Spring MVC, Spring IOC and Java Spring security modules  • Knowledge with Front-end JavaScript frameworks like Angular JS. And with the creation of RESTful Web service  • Experienced in using Spring Controller, Service and DAO layers to create flexible application subsystems.  • Used Jenkins tool and made customizations according to the local build to track out the build status.  • Used Hibernate 3.0 in data access layer to access and update information in the Oracle 12c database.  Environment: JavA, Agile, Servlet, JavaBeans, Hibernate, Spring Core, Spring AOP, XML, SQL, Oracle 12c, Tomcat, JUnit, Angular JS, JSON, Log4j, Web Services, JAX-WS, Postman, Oracle 10g, Oracle 11g. Core Java Developer Basecamp Technologies Pvt. Ltd - Pune, Maharashtra April 2014 to July 2015 Project: Ecommerce Application  • Involved in various Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) phases of the project.  • Coding with core Java concepts like Collections, Exception Handling, Java I/O, and Generics to implement some business logic.  • Developed and configured the Java beans using spring and Hibernate framework.  • Well versed with core Java concepts like Collections, Multithreading, Remote Method Invocation (RMI), Serialization, and Java Beans.  • Used Spring Framework for Dependency Injection and integrated it with the Core Java and Hibernate  • Used Web services - WSDL and SOAP for getting credit card information from third party.  • Designing of underlying architecture along with other members of the team and preparing the base code for the application  • CRUD related operations with Database are achieved using Hibernate JPA Repository.  • Logging of errors in application is achieved by Log4j and unit testing of the developed code is done by JUnit Framework.  • Implemented error checking/validation on the Java Server Pages using JavaScript.  • Configured Check Style in eclipse to ensure that Java code adheres to a set of coding standards.    Environment: Java 1.7, Spring, Hibernate, HTML, HTML5, TDD, CSS3, Java Script, Eclipse, Maven, WSDL, SOAP, Apache AXIS, JSE, JAX-WS, AngularJS, JAX-RS, SOAP UI, Log4J, DB2, Oracle 11g, UNIX, Education Masters in Computer Science in Computer Science University of Central Missouri - Masters, MO August 2015 to December 2016 Technology Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University - Hyderabad, Telangana 2014 Skills database. (3 years), Java (3 years), JSON (1 year), JSP (2 years), Oracle (3 years)