Java developer <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">developer</span> Java developer - CenturyLink Corp . • 3+ years of experience in Design and Development of Enterprise Applications, Web Applications, and Web Services in Java/J2EE and related technologies.  • Experience in client-side validations using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, AJAX, jQuery, AngularJS, AngularJS 2.0, and NodeJS.  • Experience in developing software applications in Java using Object Relational Mapping (ORM) frameworks like Hibernate, Eclipse Link, MVC frameworks like JSF, Struts, spring modules such as Spring MVC/AOP.  • Experience in Unit and Integration testing using Junit, TestNG, Mockito, Jasmine, Selenium  • Proficient in Java, J2EE technologies like JDBC, JSP, Java Beans, Models, Struts, Spring, Hibernate, XML, JMS, JNDI, Java Reflection API (JRA), Java Persistence API (JPA).  • Proficient in developing GUI using web technologies like CSS, HTML, Java Script, JSF Prime Faces, Ajax, J Query, JSON, PHP, Angular JS, Node JS.  • Experience on the SPRING framework like SPRING IOC and SPRING DAO, JDBC Templates, Transactions, Security, AOP, MVC, ORM etc.  • Solid experience on API development using node JS, express JS and Mongoose.  • Experience in deploying, configuring and administering application servers such as IBM WebSphere, WebLogic, JBoss, JAX-WS, Glassfish and Apache Tomcat.  • Expertise in Junit Testing with Mockito and Power Mockito.  • Experience working in high pressure team environments with intense development and release activity.  • Solid command in Object Oriented concepts (OOPS) using Java and C# and hands on experience in front-end design using HTML 4.0/5, CSS 3, XML.  • Good Knowledge on continues integration using Jenkins and used SonarQube for quality testing the code in continues integration.  • Good experience with Software development methodologies like Agile methodologies and followed Test-Driven Development (TDD).  • Experienced with SDLC using waterfall as well as agile methodologies.  • Experience on fortify Static Code Analyzer (SCA) which is used for analyzing the source code for security issues.  • Experiences with Representational State Transfer (REST), Simple Object Access Protocol (SOAP), Java Messaging service (JMS) Web Services to expose the business logic.  • Experience working with Relational Database Management Systems (RDBMS) like MySQL, SQL, Oracle.  • Strong working knowledge on Web Services like REST/Restful, SOAP, WSDL, UDDI, to expose the functionality of business code. Work Experience Java developer CenturyLink Corp - Dallas, TX June 2017 to Present Requirements:  • Involved in the creation of UI specification documents by interacting with business users and design documentation and data modelling for the entire project.  • Used Struts Tag Libraries, JSPs, HTML, JavaScript, DOJO and CSS to develop the frontend UI, certain shopping cart features are developed using Angular.js.  • Involved in the architecture, design and development of high traffic application built in Java/J2EE using MVC architecture integrating spring, Hibernate and Struts frameworks in SOA.  • Worked on Apache Ant as build tool to automate the build process for the entire application.  • Worked on SVN repositories for version controlling, and Log4J is used for logging errors, exceptions.  • Involved in integrating applications with other application using IBM WebSphere.  • Worked on automated data loading using SSIS package to fetch, load and parse data from various external sources such spreadsheets and flat files from DB2.  • Involved in development, performance testing & defects fixing, also followed an issue tracker to log the issues and fixes applied daily to streamline the application development.  • Worked on GIT controls to track and maintain the different version of the project.  • Used struts validation framework to perform Server-side validations.  • Used Data Access Object (DAO) pattern to introduce an abstraction layer between the business logic tier (Business object) and the persistent storage tier (data source).  • Involved in writing complex HQL queries to handle the persistence operations.  • Defined beans in xml for dependency injection using Spring IOC/Core. Java Developer FedEx USA - Memphis, TN June 2016 to May 2017 Responsibilities:    • Worked with Spring MVC framework, Hibernate ORM and Spring Boot for implementing the Web tier of the application with Oracle database.  • Developed logging framework in conjunction with Log4j for logging.  • Developed POJO classes for defining the variables in the object class.  • Involved in migrating from CVS to GIT which gave the developers branching capabilities for code merging.  • Involved in full development life cycle including requirements gathering, analysis, and implementation.  • Converted C- code to Java to improve the performance and maintenance of the project.  • Involved, executed and implemented the project in AGILE methodology.  • Used sonar lint for checking code quality real time which helped to check and fix any issues before creating a build and moving to the servers.  • Developed logging framework in conjunction with Log4j for logging.  • Developed POJO classes for defining the variables in the object class.  • Involved in migrating from CVS to GIT which gave the developers branching capabilities for code merging.  • Use of jobs to set up batch jobs at regular intervals and used configuration file to set up and operate the jobs.  • Involved in the analysis, design and development and testing Phase of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC).  • Design and Implemented the UI using HTML, JSP, CSS, AJAX and handled client-side validations using Java Script and jQuery.  • Implemented application with Spring MVC framework which includes writing controller class for handling request, processing form submissions.  • Developed code for consuming various web services using JAXB, JAX-WS, SOAP and Restful.  • Interacting with Business Analyst and Lead for understanding the requirement using Agile Methodologies and SCRUM Meeting to keep track the end client needs.  • Expertise in using Angular JS directives, Controllers, Filters, Services, Templets, Events and Injectors.  • Implemented serval UI screens using Struts2, JSP, HTML and CSS.  • Used Spring Web MVC framework for the applying MVC Implementation to the web application.  • Involved in POC for developing a module using Spring Boot which improved time and efficiency.  • Release Support- Managing Release deployments to lower Environments in terms of software deliveries  • Developed story/task by following TDD/BDD and Pair programming concepts and providing daily status in scrum meetings with the client. Telangana- Java Developer CA Technologies - Hyderabad, Telangana February 2015 to May 2016 Requirements:  • Created business logic and application in Struts Framework using JSP, and Servlets.  • Worked on implementation of MVC pattern by using its Custom Tag Library, UI Components, Server-side Helper Classes, Valuators, Event Handlers and Navigation Handlers.  • Involved in developing JSP pages for the web tier and validating the client data using JavaScript.  • Developed web application using Spring MVC framework.  • Used Spring DAO concept in order interact with database (DB2) using JDBC template.  • Proficient in Core Java concepts like Collections, Multithreading, Data Structures, Serialization, and JavaBeans.  • Developed XML documents and generated XSL files for Payment Transaction and Reserve Transaction systems.  • Wrote unit test cases for different modules and resolved the test findings.  Implemented SOAP using Web services to communicate with other systems.  • Developed JDBC code for backend processing.  • Used Subversion for version control and log4j for logging errors.  • Involved in writing test cases for testing functional specification and for unit testing  • Wrote Oracle PL/SQL Stored procedures, triggers and has a huge knowledge about it.  • Helped production support team to solve trouble reports and Interacted with testing team to fix defects.  • Involved in the creation of data model and data dictionary during the application design phase.  • Implemented ORM with HIBERNATE to make the Persistence class objects interact with numerous SQL Server tables spanned across various schemas as per MODOC standards.  • Defined multiple data sources on the server side to be used in applications with JNDI.  • Entire Application was developed in Eclipse and GWT plug-in is used for browser testing and compatibility of AJAX and J Query components along with JUnit.  • Experience on test environment for continuous build and deployments in Jenkins. Education Bachelor's in computer science and engineering in computer science and engineering Osmania University - Hyderabad, Telangana June 2015 Skills Java, Spring, Java J2Ee, J2Ee