Java Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Developer - Amazon Seattle, WA • Around 5 years of competitive work experience in Software Design, Development, Maintenance, and Enhancement & Implementation of Enterprise applications using Java, J2EE technologies with strong Object-Oriented Programming skills.  • Proficient and strong working knowledge of J2EE Architectural & Design Patterns, SOAP Web Services JAX-WS, JAX-RPC, REST, e Frame work, Struts, Servlets, JSP, JSF, JMS, EJB, Hibernate.  • Having strong Experience with Web Service Applications using User Interface (UI) Technologies like Object Oriented JavaScript, JavaScript & UI Libraries/Frameworks, Angular JS, Angular 2 , 4, React JS, Node JS, Twitter Bootstrap, HTML5, CSS3, DHTML, XML, XSLT, AJAX, jQuery, JSON.  • Extensive experience in Amazon Web Services (Amazon EC2, Amazon S3, Amazon Simple dB, Amazon RDS, Amazon Elastic Load Balancing, Amazon SQS, AWS Identity and access management, AWS Cloud Watch, Amazon EBS and Amazon CloudFront).  • Deployment, performance & scalability fine-tuning web/application servers like WebLogic, WebSphere, JBoss and Pramati& Tomcat.  • Expertise in Spring framework, including Spring IoC, Spring DAO support, Spring ORM, Spring Microservices, Spring AOP, Spring Security, Spring MVC, Spring Cache, Spring Integration, Spring Boot, and Spring REST.  • Expertise in Developing applications using Restful Web Services, SOAP, Java, J2EE, Servlets, EJB, JPA, WebSphere Commerce, Hibernate, Spring Framework, Jasper Reports Server, Ext js, JSP, JMS, Struts, XML, Eclipse, NetBeans, jQuery, Visual Source Safe, CVS, SVN, JDBC, JNDI, JIRA, ANT, Maven, IReport, Apache Tiles, Spring Batch, Spring Security, Spring Web flow, Spring Data JPA, JSF, ICE faces, HTML and Java Scripts.  • Expertise in developing Microservices using Spring Boot and Node JS to build more physically separated modular applications which will improve scalability, Availability, Agility of application.  • Experience in Continuous delivery / Continuous Integration (CD/CI) tools Docker, Jenkins to deploy this application to AWS.  • Excellent knowledge and experience in SQL queries, PL/SQL, stored procedures, functions and triggers to interact with SQL, MySQL, Oracle databases.  • Experience in Maven pom.xml and as CICD tool Jenkins CI and Configured Log4j for logging mechanism. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Java Developer Amazon June 2018 to Present • Used Java 8, REST, and Spring Framework for developing the application. Implemented the persistence layer using Hibernate and configured Hibernate with Spring to interact with the Cassandra Database from the DAO.  • Extensively worked on Java persistence layer in application migration to Cassandra using Spark to load data to and Cassandra Cluster.  • Developed Customized Spring Multi Action controllers for handling similar operations and configured spring and Spring JDBC frameworks to develop full-fledged MVC and DB interaction application.  • Worked on Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) including Requirement analysis, Design, Development, Testing, and Maintenance.  • Used AJAX based on JQUERY, and JSON technologies for making Asynchronous Http requests along with JavaScript.  • Used Spring Core Annotations for Dependency Injection Spring DI and Spring MVC for RESTAPI's and Spring Boot for Microservices.  • Build servers using AWS which includes importing necessary volumes, launching the EC2 instance, creating security groups, auto-scaling, load balancers, Route 53 and SNS as per the architecture.  • Developed Spring REST web services to serve multiple applications across the organization. The data is provided in Json and used Jackson library. Also, consumed REST web services.  • Worked on creation of exhaustive JUnit Unit Test Cases for each Java class that is being developed for this application using a mocking framework Mockito using Test Driven Development technique.  • Used Spring MVC Model View Controller to handle/intercept the user requests and used various controllers to delegate the request flow to the Backend tier of the application.  • Used JERSEY framework to implement the JAX-RS ( Java API for XML and RESTful Service).  • Developed SQL stored procedures and prepared statements for updating and accessing data from database.  • Worked under Eclipse Integrated Development Environment (IDE) & used Clear Case Version Control for Project Configuration Management.  • Worked on JMS on WebLogic & also deployment on Apache servers.  • Developed a single page, mobile first, cross device/cross browser web application for real time location sharing utilizing Angular JS and JavaScript API.  • Coded extensively in jQuery with Bootstrap to make rich Internet web pages and created custom date picker on the website.  • Created the Node.js EXPRESS Server combined with Socket.io to build MVC framework from front-end side AngularJS to back-end MongoDB, to provide broadcast service as well as chatting service.  • Build REST web service by building Node.js Server in the back-end to handle requests sent from the front-end jQuery Ajax calls.  • Implemented different design patterns such as singleton, Session Façade, Factory, and MVC design patterns such as Business delegate, session façade and DAO design patterns Java Developer University of St Augustine for Health Sciences May 2018 to December 2018 • Conducted analysis of organizational needs and goals for the development and implementation of the application systems by involving with business personnel.  • Worked on AWS cloud resources which includes launching, maintaining and troubleshooting of EC2 instances, and S3 buckets, Elastic Load Balancer (ELB), Elastic Search and Relational Database Services (RDS).  • Worked on Creating AWS Route 53 to route traffic between different regions.  • Created AWS Security Groups for deploying and Configuring AWS EC2 instances.  • Developed Java API to interact with the Amazon SQS used for sending bulk emails.  • Developed the micro services using Spring Sleuth, Config Server and NETFLIX OSS (Eureka, Hystrix, and Zuul).  • Worked on containerization using tools like Docker and Setup Docker on Linux and configured Jenkins to run under Docker host.  • Worked on JDK 8 to write the code on functional interfaces, default methods in interfaces and filters using Stream.  • Worked on Oracle (PL/SQL) database and wrote HQL query to access the data from the database. Used Annotations in Hibernate mapping.  • Used Apache Camel to implement Java Message Service (JMS) API for sending and receiving email notifications to the employee about notifications to their portal.  • Developed all the user interfaces using JSP, Servlets and Spring framework also developed the DAO layer using Hibernate and used the caching system for real-time performance.  • Worked on object-oriented analysis and design using UML (uses cases, domain model, Activity diagrams, sequence diagrams, class diagrams, reports generation, reverse engineering) with tool Rational Rose.  • Created Servlets and Java Server Pages (JSP), which route submittals to the appropriate Enterprise Java Bean (EJB) components and render retrieved information using Session Facade.  • Developed Flex Custom Events for communication between various components and for Event Bubbling.  • Created error handling framework and persisted all the business validation errors and application error in to IFP error table.  • Used various J2EE design patterns in the project such as Factory, Singleton, Service Locator and Data Access Object.  • Developed Flex Custom Events for communication between various components and for Event Bubbling.  • Utilized JavaScript to present a data entry form that when submitted transferred form information to the digital stamp placed on the PDF form. Java Developer Walmart January 2017 to May 2018 • Migrated the existing environment and applications into Java8 and Tomcat 8 on Test Server.  • Worked on Tomcat Server domain using upgraded version & extensively used MVC architecture and Tomcat for deployment purposes.  • Created the build instructions docs and used to run weekly production build and release tags for all the applications.  • Spring MVC and Hibernate was used for developing java REST services on the back end.  • Experience and familiarity building modern Spring applications with Spring Boot.  • Used microservice architecture, with Spring Boot-based services interacting through REST endpoints.  • Used Tiles Plug-in to struts for designing JSP page layouts and in cooperating with common menus.  • Creating the project startup UI i.e. Generic XHTML facelet templates error handling, data tables using JSF.  • Interacted with the business teams and worked on modeling the database schema and created tables queries, PL/SQL stored procedures, database triggers.  • Involved in solving the issues related to PROD, TEST server environments also developed reports using Crystal Reports.  • Used Subversion (SVN) as the configuration management tool to manage the code repository.  • Work on project build-script by using MAVEN and deployed on Tomcat also used log4J for enabling logging and debugging at run time.  • Used JMS ( Java Mailing Service) API to mail notifications upon success or failure when the backend processes are completed and to send mail notifications regarding any system related problems.  • Created dynamic schema design through NOSQL Mongo DB by writing rich queries and achieved data in a collection to be distributed across multiple systems. Java Developer Citi August 2013 to December 2014 • Developed dynamic web pages using HTML5, CSS3, jQuery, Bootstrap, AJAX for building up a Monolithic application.  • Created responsive UI modules using Backbone JS with hard coded dependency of underscore JS in combination with Handlebar JS for templating.  • Used Backbone JS to utilize its minimal set of data-structuring (models and collections) and user interface (views and URLs) primitives for building MVC work flow design  • Created JSP, JavaScript, JQUERY & HTML, extensively used various collection classes like Array List, Hash Map, Hash Table and Hash Set.  • Worked with JAXB, used JBoss Application Server that implements the Java Platform, Enterprise Edition ( Java EE)  • Involved in Spring MVC model integration for front-end request action controller.  • Developed the Use case, Sequence and Class diagrams using UML/Rational Rose, used Spring MVC to decouple business logic and view components, involved in developing/coding the core framework classes and developed web services using JAX-WS to make use of existing applications.  • Used Spring MVC (Model View Controller) to handle/intercept the user requests and used various controllers to delegate the request flow to the Backend tier of the application.  • Involved in requirement analysis & client interaction, Responsible for Writing Hibernate mapping XML Files, HQL.  • Implemented Spring Security for providing authentication and authorization for web services. Education Master's Skills Java J2Ee, Java, Spring, J2Ee, Hibernate