Java Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Developer - Infosys, PA Denver, CO • Around 4 Years of IT experience in design, development and deployment of multi-tier, Distributed, Scalable and Transactional Intranet/Internet applications.  • Familiar with Software Development Life Cycle process, which includes translation of requirements into functional and technical specifications, Designing, Developing, Testing Implementation & Post Production support using development methodologies like Waterfall, Agile.  • Well versed in Developing End to End B2B and B2C application using JEE & J2EE technologies such as Servlets, JSP, JNDI, JTA, JMS, JDBC, JAXP, JAXB.  • Good Knowledge and experience working in applications developed using Object Relational Mapping frameworks like Hibernate and MVC frameworks like Struts, JSF etc., and IOC frameworks like Spring and its subsidiary modules such as Spring MVC, Spring and Spring AOP.  • Expertise in SOA, ALBPM, ORACLE BPM workflow applications analysis, design, implementation and integration of B2B and B2C Applications for leading investment Banks.  • G Extensive experience in designing front end interfaces using HTML/HTML5, CSS3/CSS, JSP, Java Script, Angular JS and Ajax, jQuery, JavaScript.  • Well Experienced in deploying and configuring applications onto application servers like WebLogic and Tomcat.  • Mastery in developing reusable components for cross cutting concerns like Logging, Build management, Transaction management, and Testing framework using Log4j, Ant, and JUnit to increase productivity, easy maintenance and to retain software quality.  • Good experience in HTML, JSON, JAVA Script and Jquery.  • Expertise in using IDEs like WSAD, RAD, and Eclipse, various Configuration Management tools like CVS, ClearCase and SVN.  • Worked extensively on relational databases such as Oracle and SQL Server and has a good experience in tools such as TOAD, SQL Developer and DBVisualizer.  • Good knowledge and working experience in XML related technologies JAXP (SAX, DOM), JAXB parsers for parsing xml in to java object.  • Experience in using Java, JEE, J2EE design Patterns like Singleton, Factory, MVC, Front Controller, Business Delegate, Service Locater, Transfer Object and DAO for reusing most effective and efficient strategies.  • Good knowledge and Working experience in using JMS provider TIBCO EMS.  • Good Team Player, quick learner and self-starter with effective communication, motivation and organizational skills combined with attention to details and business process improvements. Work Experience Java Developer Infosys, PA - Denver, CO January 2018 to Present Responsibilities: • Designed the application under JEE architecture, Designed and developed dynamic and browser compatible user interfaces using JSP, JSTL Tags, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery and JSON • Involved in Business Process design and development using oracle BPM • Deployed & maintained the web components on weblogic Application Server 10.3/8.1 • Developed server code using Hibernate, Spring and Web Services under the guide lines of Service Oriented Architecture.  • Design and developed Web services based on SOAP, WSDL, JAXWS.  • Developed persistence layer using, SQL, Hibernate/JTA and Spring.  • Integrated User interface, server layer, persistence layer using Spring IOC, AOP and Spring MVC integration with OBPM, Spring integration with Hibernate.  • Efficiently organized code reviews and defect analysis with senior architects and business analysts.  • Performed unit testing using JUnit and performance and volume testing using HP tools.  • Used SVN to keep track of all the implementations and modifications done in the project, allowing several developers to collaborate.  • Working as tech lead managing six members team, guiding them, conducting code reviews.    Environment: JDK 1.6, JSP, JBOSS, CSS, DHTML, JavaScript, JSON, jQuery Servlets, Spring MVC, Java Beans, Hibernate, JPA, Web Services, Bootstrap, Oracle, Weblogic, UNIX, JUnit. Java Developer Citi Markets and Banking - Township of Warren, NJ November 2017 to December 2018 Description: With implementation of the GICAP BPM tool/XM, the Fixed Income business will have a platform for identifying, processing, and monitoring exceptions and fails for U.S. Government securities and Mortgage-backed securities that clear through BONY and the FED. Trades for U.S. Government and Mortgage-Backed securities are entered and captured into several front-end trade capture systems. These trades are enriched by the TES application before being processed by further downstream applications for clearance and settlement. Government Securities Clearing Corporation (GSCC) eligible trades are submitted directly to GSCC for trade matching and netting. Trades that are not GSCC-eligible are submitted to the GCS application. The GCS application will route trades to the Bank of New York (BONY), Citigroup's clearing agent for U.S. Government and Mortgage-Backed securities.    Responsibilities: • Involved in Business Process design and development using oracle BPM tool/ALBPM.  • Design and development of Hibernate, DAO layer for the application.  • Design and developed Web services based on SOAP, WSDL, JAXWS.  • Involved in designing the xml schema for using web services.  • Created JSP page to modify log levels dynamically without restarting the server • Involved in creating automated builds using ANT to build/deploy onto weblogic server.  • Implemented Test First unit testing framework driven using JUnit • Developed and utilized J2EE Services and JMS components for messaging communication in WebLogic.  • Configured development environment using Weblogic application server for developers integration testing.  Integrated User interface, server layer, persistence layer using Spring IOC, AOP and Spring MVC integration with OBPM, Spring integration with Hibernate.  • Developed dynamic proxies to consume the web services developed in JAX-WS standards for CRM module.  • Published JAX-WS based web services where in all the requests will be routed to this Single Point service and based on the request they are forwarded to the corresponding legacy operations.    Environment: JDK 1.5, JSP, JSTL Tag libraries, CSS, DHTML, JavaScript, JSON, jQuery, Servlets, Spring MVC, Java Beans, Hibernate, JPA, Web Services, JAX-WS, Web Sphere Application Server 7.0, Oracle, Weblogic 10.3, UNIX, JUnit. Java Developer FIMBANK - IN January 2015 to November 2017 Description: KASTLETM Factoring an end-to-end web-based solution caters to factoring and invoice discounting businesses and provides complete business coverage. KASTLETM Factoring supports a complete range of activities for effective asset tracking and management. It enables setting up of client account, facilitates invoices upload and validations, calculation of availability, fees and charges, taxes and duties, payable, disbursement, transfers, receipts and appropriation, accrual of interest, generating accounting entries and MIS. Transfer accounting required entries using their HOST system through Interface.    Responsibilities: • Developed the application under JEE architecture, developed Designed dynamic and browser compatible user interfaces using JSP, Custom Tags, Struts Taglibs, HTML, CSS, JavaScript.  • Developed page layouts, navigation, animation buttons and icons for the SHARE validate screens.  • Deployed & maintained the JSP, Servlets components on weblogic 8.0 Application Server Developed persistence layer using, JDBC, SQL, Hibernate.  • Used SVN to keep track of all the implementations and modifications done in the project, allowing several developers to collaborate.  • Developed ANT scripts.  • Leveraged secondary level EHCache in sync with Hibernate to get optimized performance using persistence layer.  • Implemented Test First unit testing framework driven using JUnit • Developed and utilized J2EE Services and JMS components for messaging communication in WebLogic.  • Configured development environment using Weblogic application server for developers integration testing.  Environment: JDK 1.4, JSP, JMS, PrimeFaces, CSS, DHTML, JavaScript, Struts, Servlets, Java Beans, Hibernate, EJB, Web Services, IBM DB2, MQ Series, Oracle, Weblogic 8.0, Maven, JUnit. Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  JAVA 6.0 years OOPS, Collection, thread etc.  Design Skills 3+ yrs UML (Visio), Object Oriented Analysis and Design (OOAD), Design patterns, J2EE Design patterns etc  J2EE 6.0 years JSP, Servlet, JMS, JDBC, JNDI, LDAP, Hibernate, Spring, Spring MVC  Webservice 3.0+ years. JAX-WS, JAX-RPC, JAXB, SOAP and Security implementation.  XML/HTML 6.0 yrs XML, XSD, SAX, DOM, JAXB, HTML, CSS, JAVA Script, JQUERY, JSON, AJAX  Messaging 5+ years EMS, JMS and Web services.  Build and Source control Ant scripts, SVN and CVS.  Middleware 5.5+ yrs Weblogic10.3 JBoss, Tomcat, Tinbco EMS, Weblogic JMS.  Unix Shell scripts, Autosy jobs  IDE Eclipse, Oracle BPM studio, Aqua data studio, SOAP-UI, SQL Developer, Visio, Dream Viewer, putty.  Database Oracle.  Operating Systems Windows, UNIX    PROFISSIONAL EXPERSINECE