Java Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Developer - Soft HQ Inc Work Experience Java Developer Soft HQ Inc - San Diego, CA April 2018 to Present Worked on developing Enterprise applications using Spring MVC, Spring JDBC, Spring Rest, JAX-RS, Jersey, Restful Web services.  ? Worked in developing applications using Spring framework like Spring IOC, Spring AOP, Spring MVC, Spring Data JPA, Spring Data, MongoDB, Spring Security, Spring Boot, Spring Cloud, etc.  ? Various modules of spring such as Spring Boot, Spring MVC, Spring core and Spring AOP etc.  ? Implemented core java concepts like OOPS, multi-threading, Collections and exception handling.  ? Worked in ORM and JPA technologies such as JDBC, Hibernate, and Spring DAO.  ? Worked in writing queries, triggers, sequence, and stored procedures in major RDBMS including Oracle, SQL Server, and MySQL  ? Experience in building high performance and scalable solutions using various Hadoop ecosystem tools like Pig, Hive, Sqoop, Spark, Solr, and Kafka.  ? Worked in Big data architecture with Hadoop File system and its eco system tools MapReduce, HBase, Hive, Agile, Pig, Zookeeper, Oozie, Flume, Avro, Impala, Apache spark and Spark Streaming and Spark SQL.  ? Wrote Jasmine unit tests using Karma to verify AngularJS modules and JavaScript utility routines.  ? Worked with web technologies like JSP, Html, Angular JS, CSS, Java scripts (used frameworks-JSON) jQuery, MVC frameworks (Struts, Spring MVC, IOC/DI, AOP) other frameworks (Hibernate, EJB, JUNIT) and Database (Oracle, MySQL).  ? Worked with using Amazon Web Services (AWS). Extensive experience focusing on services like EC2, Elastic Beanstalk, CloudWatch, CloudFront, Cloud Formation, IAM, S3, RDS, Elastic ache, SNS, SQS, AMI.  ? Deployed the Spring web services in AWS cloud using Docker containers utilizing the Docker Swarm cluster.  Environment: Java, JSF, JMS, Spring JPA, Spring Batch, Spring Security, SOAPUI, HTML, XML, CSS, JavaScript, Oracle 10g, Junit3.x, SOAP, SOAPUI, XML, BEA web logic, SQL, Docker, AWS, Oracle.  ? Implemented a Continuous Delivery pipeline with Docker, Jenkins/Cloud Bee and GitHub.  ? All the API endpoints follow a spring MVC architecture and I have applied concepts of spring framework like dependency injection etc.  ? Hands on experience in installing, configuring, and using Hadoop ecosystem components like Hadoop MapReduce, HDFS, HBase, Oozie, Hive, Sqoop, Pig, Zookeeper, and Apache Storm  ? Involved in unit Test cases for front-end, using Jasmine test framework and Karma test runner.  ? Used Jenkins as an AWS code deploys plug-in to deploy to AWS. Experience with DevOps methodologies, implementing CI/CD Pipelines using tool sets like GIT, Jenkins, Chef and AWS.  ? Involved in converting Hive/SQL queries into Spark transformations using Spark RDDs, Python and Scala.  ? Worked on MySQL database, knowledge on writing CRUD queries and joint queries.  ? Followed Test Driven Development as well, written JUnit test cases using JUnit and Mockito frameworks.  ? Involved in the development and testing of web application and integration projects using Object Oriented technologies such as Java, Struts, JSP, JDBC, Spring Framework, Java.  ? Created and consumed RESTful based Web services and used SOAPUI to test for send and receive XML data  ? Implemented Singleton, factory design pattern, DAO design Patterns based on the application requirements and Worked with SQL and NoSQL queries to interact with the MongoDB database.  ? Used AngularJS to implement rich functionality in various pages: form validation, grid, search, sort, pagination, multi-selection, tags-input, advanced directives, authentication, server-side proxy, unit tests, cloud integration, slide pages, users switch, etc.  ? Verified data integrity on Cassandra cluster while batch loading.  ? Developed Spring Restful/Microservices and implemented Spring Eureka, Netflix, Ribbon as part of Services Discovery using Apache Axis.  ? Used Microservice with Spring Boot interacting through a combination of REST and Apache Kafka message brokers.  ? Used JIRA tool for Issue/bug tracking, monitoring of work assignment in the system Log4J was used to monitor the error logs and used GIT as version control tool.  ? Involved in developing forms using HTML and performing client-side validations using JavaScript.  ? Developed server-side functionality for Admin Interface features (adding a User, Modifying the User Details, Assigning Roles, Modifying Roles etc.).  ? Efficiently collecting, aggregating, and moving large amounts of streaming data into the Hadoop Distributed File System (HDFS) using Apache Flume.  ? Used Apache Maven for project management and building the application  ? Selecting the appropriate AWS service based on compute, data, or security requirements.  ? Working with the Integration of Amazon Web Services AWS with other applications infrastructure.  ? Used Amazon Cloud Watch to monitor AWS services and Amazon CloudWatch logs to monitor application. JAVA DEVELOPER PepsiCo - Harrison, NY May 2016 to June 2017 Implemented business logic, data exchange and created graphics using JAVA, struts and Spring MVC.  ? Used JAVA, struts and Spring MVC to interface with the jQuery UI, Bootstrap and manage the storage and deletion of content.  ? Developed the Web Based Rich Internet Application (RIA) using J2EE (Spring framework) and Macromedia/Adobe Flex.  ? Used Docker Container to address every application across the hybrid cloud and Docker for better collaboration and innovation.  ? Worked on JSON for storing and exchanging information between browsers and Rest API's and even worked on JSON data format for asynchronous browser-server communications.  ? Integrated Kafka with Flume for more efficient real-time event processing via Kafka Source and Kafka Sink Flume components into Hive via Hive Sin.  ? Developed the web pages Java, JavaScript, jQuery, backbone, handlebar, Mock ax, Ember and J2EE technology framework using Spring 2 MVC, JDBC, Hibernate, and Web Services with J2EE design patterns using Eclipse.  ? Used Node.js as a proxy to interact with Rest services and interacting with Database Involved in writing application level code to interact with APIs, Web Services using AJAX, JSON and XML.  ? Extensively used core java concepts like collection framework, multi-threading, OOPS and Exception Handling.  ? Developing Applications using latest Java/J2EE technologies such as Cassandra, Java 8, Junit.  ? Implemented REST web service in Scala using Akka for CBPMAN log tracking application.  ? Worked in developing front end technologies such as JavaScript, Angular 2.0+, jQuery, HTML, CSS, JSON, JSP and Struts 1.0/2.0.  ? Implemented service layer on top of Cassandra using core java, Datastax java API and Restful API.  ? Deployed Spring Boot based microservices in Docker and Amazon EC2 container using Jenkins.  ? Developed Microservices using Spring MVC, Spring Boot, and Spring Cloud.  ? Used Microservices architecture, with Spring Boot based services interacting through a combination of REST and Spring Boot.  ? By using XSL, XSLT pre-processors Transformed, Navigated and Formatted XML documents. Karma test runner and Jasmine test framework tool are used to perform behavioral driven testing for the angular application.  ? Developed application using JavaScript, AngularJS for frontend, JPA, RESTful web services, MySQL for Backend and deployed in AWS. Developed single page application by using Angularjs and ReactJS.  ? Created Stacks using Amazon Cloud Formation templates to launch AWS Infrastructure and resources. Used AWS Lambda to run the code in the AWS.  ? Used RabbitMQ Queues for implementation of multithreaded synchronization processes and used JMS queues for consumption requests.  ? Developing Spring Integration application using Camel as route builder, Spring Batch, Spring JMS, Spring JDBC, Core, AOP, JPA, JTA and Gradle as building tool.  ? Expertise in XML technologies such as XSL, XSLT, XML schemas, XPath and parsers like SAX/DOM.  ? Developed the web-services and analysis of SOAP envelope using SOAPUI.  ? Created Rest web services using JAX-RS, Hibernate framework.  ? Configured action mapping (in XML) for each logical request that may be submitted.  ? Seed Hibernate as Object Relational (OR) Mapping Tool for the backend data.  ? Have used DOJO toolkit to construct Ajax requests and build dynamic web pages using JSP, HTML5 and JavaScript, Angular JS.  ? Used various version control software such as SVN, GIT, GIT LAB, CVS, Big Bucket for maintaining code repositories.  ? Managed Amazon Web Services like EC2, S3 bucket, ELB, Auto-Scaling, SNS, SQS, AMI, IAM, DynamoDB, Elasticsearch, Virtual Private Cloud (VPC) through AWS Console and API Integration.  ? Worked with design, management, configuration and troubleshooting of distributed production environments based on NoSQL technologies like MongoDB, Apache Hadoop/HBase, Couchbase, etc.  ? Worked with Angular JS to interact with a web service to render the page from data returned from the service. Experience in using various JavaScript Web application related libraries such as Backbone.js, React JS, Ember JS, Require.js, Knockout, Angular.js 2.0, bootstrap and Google Web Toolkit.  ? Developed software's for AWS in Java 8 (using Spring Framework 5.0, MySQL 5.6, AWS Aurora, Lambda, API Gateway, S3, SNS, SQS, DynamoDB, EC2, EBS, Akamai WAF (web application firewall) and Apache Tomcat web server).  ? Develop UI automation for Node JS, Angular, and Ext JS -based web applications using Selenium Web Driver, developed in JavaScript. Micro services have been built using Spring boot, Spring cloud.  ? Implemented Kafka in java 8 along with Kafka stream topology. Live stream events will be stored in MySQL and Cassandra through Kafka stream topology.  ? Implemented design patterns like Front Controller, MVC, Business Delegate, Data Transfer Objects and Data Access Objects.  ? Worked in Building application platforms in the Cloud by leveraging Amazon Web Services, open source technologies & best engineering practices of CI/CD.  ? Used Axios AJAX request to data from back-end based on user interface input and post updated data back to backend.  ? Implemented JWT (JSON Web Tokens) for creating tokens to assert claims in the application and thus providing authentication of RESTful services.  ? Mocha test runner and Chai test framework are used to test React JS components. Jr. Java developer FEBRURY 2015 to April 2016 Implemented Singleton, factory design pattern, DAO design Patterns based on the application requirements and Worked with SQL and NoSQL queries to interact with the MongoDB database.  ? Involved in the development and testing of web application and integration projects using Object Oriented technologies such as Java, Struts, JSP, JDBC, Spring Framework, Java.  ? Used AngularJS to implement rich functionality in various pages: form validation, grid, search, sort, pagination, multi-selection, tags-input, advanced directives, authentication, server-side proxy, unit tests, cloud integration, slide pages, users switch, etc.  ? Expertise in Spring Framework modules such as Spring MVC, Spring IOC, AOP and Spring JDBC, Spring Data, Spring REST, Spring JTA, Spring IO, Spring Security, Spring Boot with Thyme leaf template.  ? Designed and implemented a stream filtering system on top of Apache Kafka to reduce stream size.  ? Written test cases and done Unit testing execution with JASMINE and KARMA.  ? Selecting the appropriate AWS service based on compute, data, or security requirements.  ? Worked in Integration of Amazon Web Services AWS with other applications infrastructure.  ? Developed the web application using HTML, CSS, AJAX, JSP, JavaScript, jQuery.  ? Developed Mean Stack from scratch including Mongo DB server (Mongoose Connector) setup and Express JS server development.  ? Knowledge in developing Micro Services using (MEAN Stack) node.js, Mongo DB, Elastic search.  ? Developed the different components of the application such as JSP, Servlets, DAO and Used Sub Version (SVN) for version control.  ? Integrate existing performance tools with Jenkins for CI/CD as part of DevOps.  ? Involved in the Development of Spring Framework Controllers. Developed Controller for request, response paradigm by Spring Controllers using Spring-MVC.  ? Developed additional UI Components and implemented an asynchronous, AJAX (jQuery) based rich client to improve customer experience.  ? Modules for the Front-end are integrated to Back-end using Hibernate framework.  ? Built ANT scripts for automated deployment and for the build operation of the entire application.  ? Developed web pages using HTML5/CSS and JavaScript, Angular JS.  ? Developed many JSP pages, used Dojo in JavaScript Library, jQuery UI for client-side validation.  ? Used GWT and Smartgwt for web application development.  ? Implementing different machine learning techniques in Scala using Scala machine learning library and created POC using Spark Sql and MiLB libraries.  ? Implemented SOA to develop Spring Restful/Microservices and implemented Spring Eureka, Netflix, Ribbon as part of Services Discovery using Apache Axis.  ? Experienced in Spring framework, spring boot, Web service (REST) frameworks, web service security, Docker, IBM MQ, Maven, GIT, Jenkins, XML, JSON, Messaging framework.  ? Developed drag and drop document editing using React Js.  ? Used JSP, HTML on front end and Servlets as front controllers and JavaScript for Client-Side validations.  ? Developed the application by implementing MVC Architecture using Spring MVC where servlets for Handling HTTP requests.  ? Implemented Oracle SQL Queries & PL/SQL - stored procedures, functions, triggers, sequences and built-in functions to retrieve and update data from the databases.  ? Performed Continuous Integration with Jenkins and Docker for build, ship, to run distributed applications.  ? Used java 8 streams, lambdas and other functional programming concepts to implement good coding standards.  ? Installed, configured, and administration of NoSQL database clusters in AWS Virtual Private Cloud Network. Created architecture stack for data access with NoSQL database Cassandra.  ? Knowledge of Spark, Hadoop Architecture and concepts like HDFS, YARN, Name Node, Data Node, MapReduce.  ? Implemented Spring Boot to create a CRUD backend for our React-fronted application.  ? Automating test scenarios by writing java code and using selenium framework for cucumber testing.  ? Worked on MySQL database, knowledge on writing CRUD queries and joint queries.  ? Followed Test Driven Development as well, written JUnit test cases using JUnit and Mockito frameworks.  ? Strong Knowledge of Core Java, Web Services, XML, XSD Schemas, XSLT, XPATH, WSDL and SOAP.  ? Involved in Unit Testing and Bug-Fixing and achieved the maximum code coverage using JUNIT test cases.  ? Responsible for Scaled Agile Framework Methodology implementation and practices.  ? Created the screens in JSP and written all Java scripts to perform the client-side validations.  ? Used SQL Server to access data in the database at different Levels, responsible for implementing SQL queries and managing JDBC interactions with data sources.  ? Testing for Node JS is done using Mocha and chai and for spring boot used Mockito, junit, mock mvc and thereby achieving Test Driven Development (TDD).  ? Used Kafka to load the data on Hadoop File system and move the same data to MongoDB database.  ? Designed and developed Micro Services using (MEAN Stack) node.js, Mongo dB, Neo4J, Elastic search on Cisco Private Cloud OpenStack Platform.  ? Worked with design, management, configuration and troubleshooting of distributed production environments based on NoSQL technologies like MongoDB, Apache Hadoop/HBase, Couchbase, etc.  ? We used the most popular streaming tool KAFKA to load the data on Hadoop File system and move the same data to MongoDB NoSQL database.  ? Modules for the Front-end are integrated to Back-end using Hibernate framework. Jr. Java developer TCS - IN August 2013 to December 2014 Developed applications using Angular2, Java 8 and new features of java (lambda expressions).  ? Design and developed the application using framework Angular 2 with HTML5, CSS3 and Typescript.  ? Developed UI components using Angular 2 dependency Injection, Models, data binding and controllers.  ? Implemented Angular 2 Router to enable navigation from one view to another.  ? Obtained JSON responses to front-end using GSON API.  ? Used Protractor to perform End to end testing for single page application developed using Angular 2.  ? Developed Application to asses JSON and XML from Restful web service from consumer side using Angular 2.  ? Involved in developing Thread Safe blocks for multithread access and distributed transaction management.  ? Used Amazon Web Services (AWS) like EC2, S3, cloud watch and Elastic Beanstalk for code deployment.  ? Composed and executed MongoDB scripts to insert and update NoSQL database and reporting.  ? Worked with the Node package manager along with Karma, Jasmine, Grunt and Bower for test and build.  ? Used Maven and Jenkins to automate the build and deploy process and Git was used for project management and version management.  ? Used Spring-boot- starter-parent as the parent POM and inheriting sensible default settings from Spring Boot and the spring-data- Mongo dB dependency provides integration with the MongoDB.  ? Used GitHub and Jenkins for building the CI/CD pipeline and day to day builds and deployments using Gradle.  ? Developed rich User Interface using jQuery, JavaScript, CSS3, and HTML5.  ? Application technology skill set: J2SE 3.x, J2SE 1.3, HTML, CSS, SOAP/SOA, WSDL, BPMN, BPM, ESB, JACL scripting and JavaScript  ? Created cloud-based software solution for LG's wearable devices, Android devices and TV sets, written in Scala, Spray IO, Akka, Slick. Utilized IntelliJ, Android Studio, Eclipse Luna, XCode, Jira, Confluence, SBT.  ? Involved in writing Oracle PL/SQL Stored procedures, triggers and views.  ? Extensively used core java concepts like collection framework, multi-threading, OOPS and Exception Handling.  ? Designed dynamic and browser compatible pages using HTML5, DHTML, CSS3, BOOTSTRAP and JavaScript.  ? Consumed Kafka stream using Apache Storm topology.  ? Cassandra implementation using Datastax Java API, Hector API, CQL and Kundera API.  ? Used Hibernate, object relational-mapping (ORM) solution, technique of mapping data representation from MVC model to Oracle Relational data model with SQL-based scheme.  ? Developed the jQuery callback functions to implement asynchronous communication using AJAX.  ? Used the Java Collections API extensively in the application as security protection for XML, SOAP, REST and JSON to make a secure Web Deployment.  ? Proven experience in developing Big Data Pipelines in a Hadoop Ecosystem using Kafka, Hive, Hive w/Tez, HDFS, HBase, and Spark on Yarn.  ? Involved in developing web pages using Angularjs Framework and familiar with various Angularjs directives and services.  ? Configured Docker container service and build pipeline Jenkins CI/CD tool for continuous integrating and deploying application on servers.  ? Used Mongo Java driver to convert java to Mongo query in the application.  ? Designed and developed a number of RESTful web services that support JSON for other developers to access to speed up development using Spring MVC, Spring Boot, Web Services, JSON, Log4J, RESTful, MySQL, and Maven.  ? Used Spring Boot framework for building cloud Microservices and to develop Spring based application radically faster with very less configuration. Used Apache CXF to develop SOAP as well as RESTful web services.  ? Developed Restful services using Rest Template and Microservices using Spring Boot.  ? Involved in configuring and deploying the application using WebLogic, Apache HTTP.  ? Involved in the analysis, design and development and testing phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC).  ? Worked on Spring Core layer, Spring ORM, Spring AOP in developing the application components.  ? Modified web pages using JSP and Used Struts Validation Framework for form input validation.  ? Created the WSDL and used Apache Axis 2.0 for publishing the WSDL.  ? Mavenized the existing applications using Maven tool.  ? Worked in integrating JMS with SPRING BOOT by providing an instance which is embed with Active MQ.  ? Contemporary applications rely on relational databases, NoSQL databases and messaging infrastructure for achieving the internet scale. Cloud Foundry exposes MySQL, PostgreSQL, MongoDB, RabbitMQ and Redis as services that offer the database and messaging capabilities.  ? Involved in designing and development of web interface using JSP, Servlets, JavaScript and JDBC for administering and managing users and clients.  ? Created Angular2 components, implemented Interpolation, input variables, Bootstrapping, NgFor, NgIf, Router Outlet, binding the events, decorators.  ? Implemented Circuit breaker pattern, integrated Hystrix dashboard to monitor Spring microservices.  ? Knowledge in using Oracle, Cassandra, Mongo, MySQL databases, writing & tuning SQL and PL/SQL.  ? Created stored procedures, triggers and functions using SQLPlus to meet user requirements.  ? Installed, configured, and administered NoSQL database clusters in AWS Virtual Private Cloud Network for available data on cloud.  ? Integrated with Redis Cache and RabbitMQ to store and propagate common information like account and diagnostics information.  ? Develop test framework using Selenium Web driver.  ? Cassandra implementation using Data tax Java API, Hector API, CQL and Kundera API.  ? Created and managed a Docker deployment pipeline for custom application images in the cloud using Jenkins.  ? Worked on Redis Cache, Memcached and RabbitMQ.  ? Used JUnit for test cases for unit testing.  ? Used various predefined components from NPM (Node Package Manager) and redux library to create user interaction screens.  ? Utilized AWS Lambda platform to upload data into AWS S3 buckets and to trigger another Lambda Functions Including EC2, MongoDB focusing on high-availability, fault tolerance, and auto-scaling.  ? Used Apache Cordova to build native mobile applications using HTML55, CSS3 and JavaScript. Skills C#, Hadoop, Html, Javascript, Bootstrap Additional Information SKILLS  Languages: JAVA, J2EE, JSF, Hibernate 3.0, Spring, Swing, JavaScript, SQL, HTML, Alfresco 2.1, JPA, EJB 3.0., Hadoop, C, C#, and XML  Frameworks: Apache Axis, Spring Batch, Spring integration, Spring MVC, Struts 2, Hibernate, JSF, Vadim, Grails, Tomcat  Scripting Languages: - HTML, CSS, Java Script, jQuery, Angular JS, JBoss, JSON, XML, CSS, HTTP, XML Data Processing, Web design  Databases: - MS SQL Server MS-Access, Cassandra, MYSQL, Oracle RDBMS (Oracle 12C), MongoDB, SQLite, PL/SQL, Sybase, NoSQL, Cassandra.  User Interfaces: - HTML, HTML5, DHTML, CSS, XML, DOM, XAML, IIS, AJAX, SOAP, Restful, WSDL, Web Services, Angular JS, SAX parser, XPath, Queries  Web Services: - Microservices, Apigee and RESTful Web Services, SOAP Web Services -JAX-WS, JAX-WS, Apache Axis.  Technologies: - Angular, Angular 2/4/6, Node3/2, React JS, Bootstrap, Backbone.js, HTML5/4, DHTML, CSS3/2, JavaScript, Typescript, Struts Tag Library, JSON, JSTL.  Methodologies: - Agile, Scrum, Waterfall.