Java Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Developer Jacksonville, FL Three years of experience in software requirement analysis, design, development, deployment and production support of complex Client/Server and Intranet/web-based n-tier architecture systems with emphasis on Object Oriented Programming.    Broad experience with business processes across various industries and clients (Object oriented multi-tier Internet, Intranet, Web Services, and Health Insurance applications). Work Experience Java Developer BlueCross BlueShield of South Carolina March 2018 to Present BlueCross BlueShield of South Carolina is an independent licensee of the Blue Cross and Blue Shield Association. BlueCross serves 21.5 million people through private business and government contract.    Project: Medicare Advantage Application UI and Service  Integrated and Modernized Platform for Enrollment &Enrollment Reporting capabilities for both Medicare Advantage products.    Enrollment UI and Service Module: We have created smart presentation layer and Webservices to accept Medicare Enrollment application from users, agents and BlueCross BlueShield of South Carolina business associates. This application accepts the 834 benefit enrollment generate contract id, assign provider, assign product and send information CMS through Wipro Info crossing to validate Medicare number and other details.    Responsibilities: • Gathering business requirements and understanding business integration.  • Working closely with the architectural team during the technical analysis of business needs and the initial sketching of system architecture and the database design including normalization.  • Involved in setting up design and coding standards/guidelines such as UI standards document, Java coding standards and code review documents.  • Designing and developing Rich User Interface using HTML5, CSS3, JSP (Spring MVC) along with JavaScript libraries like JQuery.  • Designed data visualizations to analyze enrollment acceptance and rejection rate(D3).  • Used D3.js components such as (Selections, Data Join, Transformation, Transition, Drawing Charts and Arrays) to visualize number of applications in annual enrollment period and product level application.  • Used Spring IOC to maintain loosely coupled between different modules.  • Created common validators for front end data validations and inject validators using Spring IOC for specific UI Modules.  • Used a loosely coupled architecture consisting of UI layer (JSP, Controller Classes) and Business/Service tier ( Java, J2EE) and Backend hibernate and Webservices.  • POJO based domain model integrated with Hibernate ORM to persistence the data.  • Used Spring Transaction to control the transaction.  • Used Design Patterns like DAO, Singleton and Proxy.  • Developing persistence/data access layer using SQL, PL/SQL Stored Procedures and Functions.  • Used Spring AOP Advice (@Before, @After, @AfterReturing, @AfterThrowing) for logging, auditing and Transaction.  • Created REST Based Web services using Spring BOOT (@RestController, @RequestMapping, @RestController, @Controller and @ResponseBody).  • Used log4j for logging debug, information and error messages.  • Modularized the common functionalities like security and validations.  • Coordinating the deployment of web applications on test, stage and production servers.  • Revising web application code for corrections, enhancements, or system environment changes.  • Used GitHub for source code versioning.  • Implementing Scrum Agile Methodology with short release cycles.  • Building test cases, test plans for unit testing, integration testing of application using JUnit.    Environment: Java, J2EE, Spring, JavaScript, JQuery, log4j, D3.js, Highchart.js, UNIX and Windows NT.  Database: Oracle  Application Server: IBM WebSphere Java Developer FedEx - Memphis, TN October 2017 to February 2018 Project: EIS Service Catalogue  The Enterprise Infrastructure Services (EIS) provides various enterprise middle-ware services and applications to the campus. EIS service catalogue provides users with information about all EIS services offered to the corporation. The catalogue is a published, online, consistent listing of Services acting as a one-stop-shop of information.  Responsibilities: • Designed and developed the application using AGILE-SCRUM methodology and participated into discussion meetings about requirements.  • Involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) as requirement gathering, • modeling, analysis, architecture & development and project was developed using Agile Methodologies.  • Involved in developing and maintaining user interface using HTML, CSS, JSP, and J Query support for creating and maintaining user interface side.  • Developed applications using Spring MVC framework.  • Created POJO classes for field Level validations.  • Design and developed business components Webservices using Spring BOOT.  • Implemented Dependency Injection by using Spring IOC framework for maintaining the dependencies across the application.  • Consume REST based with Rest template based on RESTful APIs.  • Used Hibernate ORM framework for persisting data to the database.  • Written SQL queries and stored procedures for communicating with the Oracle database • Used spring security for maintain the security across the service transactions • Used Log4j for maintaining the logging and debugging.  • Used SVN as sub version control across common source code used by developers.  Environment: Java, J2EE, Eclipse, Spring BOOT, Spring IOC, HTML, CSS3, JSP, Angular JS, Hibernate, Web Services, RESTful APIs, Oracle11g, MAVEN, SVN. Java Developer Magna Infotech Pvt Ltd - Hyderabad, Telangana June 2016 to July 2017 Project: Community Banking Operations  Community Banking provides retail, commercial, and corporate banking services to individuals, businesses, and institutions. The company with Community Banking segment offers checking and market rate accounts, savings and time deposits, individual retirement accounts, and remittances and lines of credit, auto floor plan lines, equity lines and loans, equipment and transportation loans, education and residential mortgage loans and credit and debit cards.        Responsibilities:  ·       Involved in the complete SDLC including design of System Architecture, development of System Use Cases based on the functional requirements.  ·       Involved in Daily Scrum(Agile) meetings, Sprint planning and estimation of the tasks for the user stories, participated in retrospective and presenting Demo at end of the sprint.  ·       Involved in the front end using JSP, jQuery, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, and AJAX.   ·       Developed applications in AngularJS and deployed into development, test, and production environment successfully.  ·       Implemented Web-Services to integrate between different applications components using Restful web services by using Jersey.  ·       Used Java API for XML Web Services to convert Java Objects to XML conversions.  ·       Implemented MVC architecture using JSP, Spring, and used Spring Framework to initialize managed beans and services.   ·       Used Spring Security for Authentication and Authorization of the application.  ·       Created data model and generated Hibernate mappings and domain objects using Hibernate tools.  ·       Interfaced with the MySQL back-end database by integrating Spring with Hibernate.  ·       Extensively used Hibernate named queries, criteria queries, (HQL) and Optimistic Locking and Caching to process the data from the database.  ·       Worked with WebLogic application server that handles various requests from Client.  ·       Involved in testing the applicable code using Mockito framework and JUnit.  ·       Used Gradle tools for building and deploying the Web applications.   ·       Used JIRA tool for tracking stories progress and follow agile methodology.   ·       Used logging techniques provided by Log4j tool for efficient logging and debugging.  ·       Developed the application using Eclipse as the IDE.     Environment:HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, AngularJS, AJAX, jQuery, JSP, Agile, Hibernate, Spring, Spring MVC, Servlets, Junit, REST, JAX-WS, PL/SQL, web services, WebLogic Application Server, MySQL, Mockito, Log4j, Eclipse, JIRA, SVN. Java/J2EE Application Developer Bharat Electronics Limited - Hyderabad, Telangana January 2016 to May 2016 Bharat Electronics Limited is an Indian state-owned defence company. It primarily manufactures advanced electronic products for the Indian Armed Forces.    Project: System Analysis  Electronic warfare is any military action involving the use of the EM spectrum to include directed energy to control the Electro Magnetic spectrum. System Analysis is a project which analyze and find the relation between the attributes of Electro Magnetic spectrum signals.    Responsibilities: • Gathering business requirements and understanding business integrity.  • Strong graphical user interface is developed using Java Swings.  • Eclipse IDE is used to develop the whole project.  • Developed data access layer using JDBC drivers.  • MySql was used to maintain database.  • JFreeChart API is used to display quality charts like time-series, bar, pie charts.    Environment: Java, Java Swings, Eclipse IDE, MySql, JFreeCharts. Education Master's Skills architecture (1 year), database (1 year), J2EE (1 year), Java (1 year), JSP (1 year), Java J2Ee, Spring, Rest, Core Java, Soap, Hibernate, Angular, Javascript, MVC, AWS, Angularjs, JEE Certifications/Licenses Oracle Certified Professional, Java SE 6 Programmer Present