Java Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Developer Sterling, VA ? Strong software experience in design, development and deployment of web-based Client-Server business applications using Java/J2EE technologies.  ? Strong Understanding and experience in Data structures, Algorithms, Multithreading, Collections, Threads and OOPs.  ? Experience in spring models like Spring MVC, IOC, Dependency Injection, JDBC, Spring Rest, Spring Boot, Microservices and Spring Security.  ? Experienced in Middleware persistence framework like Hibernate/JPA for mapping Java classes to the database and using Hibernate Query Language (HQL).  ? Having Good Experience on Java 8 features such as Lambda Expression, Functional Interface, Stream Api, etc.  ? Implemented Design patterns such as MVC, View Dispatcher, Data Access Objects, Singleton, Interceptor, Filter, Interceptor, Factory Method and Session Facade.  ? Experience in implementing Microservices using JAX-RS Restful web services using Jersey.  ? Expertise in databases such as Oracle, MySQL databases to manage tables, views, indexes, sequences, stored procedures, functions, triggers and packages.  ? Worked using different IDEs such as Eclipse, Spring STS, IntelliJ Idea, NetBeans and IBM's RAD.  ? Extensive experience in Application and Web Servers likes Web logic, Web Sphere, JBoss and Apache Tomcat.  ? Good working knowledge on unit testing using JUnit, Mock tests, Test Driven Development (TDD), Regression Testing.  ? Handful of experience in build and deploy tools such as Ant, Maven, and Jenkins.  ? Extensive experience in centralized and distributed version control systems such as SVN, GIT. Sponsorship required to work in the US Work Experience Java Developer Finra - Rockville, MD January 2019 to Present Description:  SONAR project that we are currently working on is an app designed to safeguard the investing public against fraud and bad practices. It finds the frauds and inside trading and sending them to corresponding analysts to deal with it.    Environment:  Agile Methodology, Java 8, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Ajax, Angular 4, Hibernate, Spring, XML, JAX-RS, Spring AOP, Spring security, Oracle Db, GIT, JIRA, PL/SQL, JUnit, Log4J, Maven, Jenkins, Docker.    Responsibilities?  ? Involved in Requirements gathering, Analysis, Design, Development and Testing of application developed using AGILE SCRUM methodology.  ? Participated in the application architecture, development tools for web solutions that fulfill the business requirements of the project.  ? Involved in development of services-based architecture utilizing open source technologies like Hibernate ORM and Spring MVC Framework.  ? Worked extensively on Spring boot for building web services. Used MAVEN in each project to automate the builds and managing project.  ? Implemented the logging mechanism using Log4j framework and used GIT version control to track and maintain the different version of the application.  ? Configured spring beans following the Spring Framework's Dependency Injection (DI) and Inversion of Control (IOC) principles annotation based.  ? Designed and developed microservices business components using Spring Boot.  ? Built REST web microservices in the back-end to handle requests sent from the front-end Angular Ajax calls.  ? Entailed in system design and development in core java using Collections, multithreading.  ? Built DAO package as well as DAO IMPL package to implement the data access logic and using Hibernate Annotation to do the data mapping.  ? Developed JUnit test cases for back-end logic implementation development.  ? Used Subversion SVN and GIT for version control, and JIRA for tracking bugs.  ? Setup and Configured Jenkins for Continuous Integration and Deployment process.  ? Used Advanced REST Client and POSTMAN for testing JSON output using.    Strategic Planning System Thomson Reuters - Hoboken, NJ September 2017 to December 2018 Description:  Strategic Planning System is a financial system integrating the financial needs. The Retirement Calculator is a sub-project of Strategic Planning System. It takes personal information (current age, current fund, expected retirement age, saving rate etc.) as input, and it can generate charts, reports and tables about the user's retirement analysis. The Retirement Calculator is one of important part of the company's core business and it supports company's main business.    Environment:  Agile Methodology, Java 8, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Ajax, Angular 4, Hibernate, Spring, XML, JAX-RS, Spring AOP, Spring security, Oracle Db, GIT, JIRA, PL/SQL, JUnit, Log4J, Maven, Jenkins, Docker.    Responsibilities?  ? Implementing the design patterns like Singleton, value object pattern and Data access objects in the project.  ? Involved in system design and development in core java using Collections, multithreading and exception handling.  ? Responsible for development of presentation layer using JSP and spring.  ? Business logic was developed using Session beans and container managed persistence services via Hibernate.  ? Involved in development of services-based architecture utilizing open source technologies like Hibernate ORM and Spring MVC Framework.  ? Designed Stateless Session Beans fitting the requirement of the business and implemented its interfaces.  ? Proficiently designed and developed multi-tier enterprise applications using spring, spring MVC, Servlets, JSP, JavaScript, JDBC, Hibernate.  ? Extensively used JavaScript to provide the users with interactive, Speedy, functional and more usable user interfaces.  ? Built, executed and maintained integration test harness, test script as assigned.  ? Constantly evaluated the test automation strategy and approach to identify areas of improvement  ? Involved in preparing Test plan and developed Test Cases, Test Scenarios manually  ? Worked on creating Packages, Stored Procedures & Functions in MySQL using PL/SQL. This clearly separates the Business Logic from the Backend access to the Database and the Front-End Presentation layer.    Eikon  Thomson Reuters  Hoboken NJ  Nov 2016 to Aug 2017    Description:  Thomson Reuters Eikon provides easy access to trusted news, data, and analytics, all filtered by relevance to your exact needs, and displayed in a highly visual way that easy to grasp and act on. From the same intuitive desktop or mobile device, you can instantly connect to new and emerging markets, deep and varied pools of liquidity, professional networks and expert support - anywhere, anytime. It's features Alerts, Trading, Social Media Monitor, Mobile, Search, Google Chrome Extension, Pricing Data, Research, News, Fundamentals, Charts and Estimation.    Environment:  Java, Spring Boot, JavaScript, JSON, Spring RESTful web services, Angular, Spring Boot, Ajax, JUNIT, SVN, GIT, Jenkins, AWS, Oracle Db, MongoDB, Mockito.    Responsibilities?  ? Involved in Requirements gathering, Analysis, Design, Development and Testing of application developed using AGILE SCRUM methodology.  ? Participated in the application architecture, development tools for web solutions that fulfill the business requirements of the project.  ? Designed and Developed User interfaces using Java Script, HTML5 and CSS3.  ? Worked extensively on Spring boot for building web services. Used MAVEN in each project to automate the builds and managing project.  ? Implemented the application using Spring MVC Framework and handled the authentication, authorization, and access-control features by using Spring Security.  ? Configured spring beans following the Spring Framework's Dependency Injection (DI) and Inversion of Control (IOC) principles annotation based.  ? Designed and developed microservices business components using Spring Boot.  ? Built REST web microservices in the back-end to handle requests sent from the front-end Angular Ajax calls.  ? Entailed in system design and development in core java using Collections, multithreading.  ? Built DAO package as well as DAO IMPL package to implement the data access logic and using Hibernate Annotation to do the data mapping.  ? Developed JUnit test cases for back-end logic implementation development.  ? Used Subversion SVN and GIT for version control, and JIRA for tracking bugs.  ? Setup and Configured Jenkins for Continuous Integration and Deployment process.  ? Used Advanced REST Client and POSTMAN for testing JSON output using.    Customer Policy Status  TaiPing Insurance Company Ltd.  Chongqing, China Kaiser Permanente - Cleveland, OH September 2014 to August 2016 Sep 2014 to Aug 2016    Description:  This is an online hotel management system. In order to meet the client's requirements, certain modules were developed, such as Reservation Management, check in/Check out Management, Histories Management, and Food and Beverage Management. By using this system, the hotel administrator can manage all kinds of information properly and effectively while customers can make reservations online more conveniently.    Environment:  Java, Spring, Hibernate, JSP, JavaScript, JUnit, Servlets, JST, XML, HTML, CSS, TDD, WebSphere Application Server, GIT, MySQL.    Responsibilities?  ? Implementing the design patterns like Singleton, value object pattern and Data access objects in the project.  ? Involved in system design and development in core java using Collections, multithreading and exception handling.  ? Responsible for development of presentation layer using JSP and spring.  ? Business logic was developed using Session beans and container managed persistence services via Hibernate.  ? Involved in development of services-based architecture utilizing open source technologies like Hibernate ORM and Spring MVC Framework.  ? Designed Stateless Session Beans fitting the requirement of the business and implemented its interfaces.  ? Proficiently designed and developed multi-tier enterprise applications using spring, spring MVC, Servlets, JSP, JavaScript, JDBC, Hibernate.  ? Extensively used JavaScript to provide the users with interactive, Speedy, functional and more usable user interfaces.  ? Built, executed and maintained integration test harness, test script as assigned.  ? Constantly evaluated the test automation strategy and approach to identify areas of improvement  ? Involved in preparing Test plan and developed Test Cases, Test Scenarios manually  ? Worked on creating Packages, Stored Procedures & Functions in MySQL using PL/SQL. This clearly separates the Business Logic from the Backend access to the Database and the Front-End Presentation layer.    BETS (Benefit Enhancement and Tracking System)  Kaiser Permanente  Cleveland, OH  Jan 2013 to Aug 2014    Description:  BETS was first developed by Kaiser Permanente for creating group benefit plans in the Ohio region, but now it is considered to be a national system. Data from BETS is currently being used to feed benefits to Health Connect claims and other membership systems. A KP sales representative works with a company contact to create a proposal that describes a customized property/casualty plan for the company's employees. Current System is desktop application, and is converted in to Web Application.    Environment:  Java/J2EE, spring, Hibernate, Oracle Db, HTML, CSS, AJAX, JSP, Servlets, Maven, CSS, Web Logic, JUnit, Eclipse, Log4j, SVN.    Responsibilities?  ? Responsible for design and implementation of various modules of the application using Spring-Hibernate architecture.  ? Responsible for implementing the transaction management in the application by applying Spring AOP methodology.  ? Designed and developed UI with AJAX, HTML, CSS and java script for more interactive web pages.  ? Involved in creating the Xml schemas and WSDL documents by understanding the business requirements and the application as web service component by using JAX-WS.  ? Provided security to Web Service and created the DAO classes using Spring DAO module.  ? Created stored procedures and functions to process the data.  ? Implemented Spring ORM wiring with Hibernate provided access to Oracle RDBMS.  ? JUnit was used for unit testing and implementing Test Driven Development (TDD) methodology.  ? Used Eclipse IDE for developing code modules in the development environment.  ? Implemented the logging mechanism using log4j framework.  ? Used SVN version control to track and maintain the different version of the project.  ? Worked on a variety of defects to stabilize application. Java Developer Education New Jersey Institute of Technology Skills Javascript, Python, Scripting, Jdbc, Mysql, Java, Spring, Hibernate, J2Ee, Java J2Ee