Java Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Developer Irving, TX ? Around 4 years of IT Experience in Project analysis, Design, Development, Testing and Deployment of Web Based Applications using Java/J2EE.Actively involved in each phase of Software Development Life cycle (SDLC)  ? Good knowledge in Object Oriented Design Pattern concepts.  ? Understanding of OOA/OOD concepts in Core Java  ? Exception handling, JavaAPI, I/O Multi-Threading. Experience in Object Oriented analysis and design, UML (Use Cases, Sequence and Class diagrams).  ? Expertise in XML and related tools and technologies like XMLSPY, XSL, DTD, SAX and DOM Parsers.  ? Experience in developing web applications using Java, JSP, Servlets and JavaBeans.  ? Experience and proficient in OOPS concepts, design and techniques with front end development  ? Expertise in Web Services Technologies like SOAP, Restful  ? Experience with Object Oriented Design (OOD) and Object-Oriented Analysis (OOA), UML  ? Expertise in MVC architecture Web Framework with Struts 2.x  ? Created Real-time Reporting systems and dashboards using Adobe Flex, Xml, My SQL  ? Worked on Algorithms and Data Structures.  ? Proficiency in multiple databases like My SQL, ORACLE and MSSQL Server, SQL, PL/SQL.  ? Experienced in working with different version control systems like SVN, CSV and GIT.  ? Experienced in build, deploy multi module applications using Maven, ANT and CI servers like Jenkins.  ? Ability to quickly adapt to new environments and learn new technologies.  ? Excellent analytical capabilities with strong communication skills.  ? Have practiced and promoted the best practice of programming among teams using Waterfall and AGILE Methodologies. Have worked on project estimate technologies like Work Breakdown Structure, Use case Points and Function Point Analysis. Work Experience Java Developer Avaya Technologies - Coppell, TX March 2018 to December 2018 Responsibilities  • Implementing the new features and enhancements for greater usability and performance.  • Involved in the analysis, design, and development and testing phases of Software Development Lifecycle  • Designed Use Case Diagrams, Class Diagrams and Sequence Diagrams and Object Diagrams, using Microsoft Visio to model the detail design of the application.  • Hands on experience in using Ajax, jQuery.  • Developed presentation layer using HTML5, CSS 3, JSP and Java script, AngularJS for validation  • Implemented business logic and Data access layers using spring frameworks.  • Designed and developed service layer using spring with AOP and Inversion Control.  • Involved in writing Spring Configuration XML file that contains declarations and other dependent objects declaration.  • Designed the applications using MVC, Session Facade, and Service Locator and Business Delegate patterns.  • Developed SOAP Web Services on the client side to fetch the information from their database.  • Implemented the Web Service Security, by encrypting the messages.  • Implemented Restful Web Services for retrieving and presenting the data. Serializing the POJO information to XML/JSON formats using JAXB for easy representation. Java Developer Forceites Pvt Ltd - Hyderabad, Telangana July 2014 to January 2015 Responsibilities  • Developed user interface using JSP j Query, and AJAX to speed the application  • Added REST full JSON API facade to DBS SOAP API for use with Android SDK / AJAX on HTML  • Development of EJB's, Servlets and JSP files using RSA 6.0/7.0 for implementing Business rules and Security options using Web Sphere 6.0  • Used Oracle 10g as the backend database using UNIX OS. Involved in design of the database schema and development of Stored Procedures  • Created and maintained (ORM) mapping files and transaction control in Hibernate  • Helped to integrate the dynamic data HTML and validated them using JavaScript  • Implement the presentation layer (GUI), based on open source framework, involving Servlets, JSP, JSTL, JSF, CSS, HTML, JavaScript and Beans  • Designed Interactive GUIs using Java Applets and Swing  • Implementation of Spring IOC container, Spring JDBC template, Spring Exception Strategy and AOP  • XML messages are used to communicate between web services that are written using SOAP and WSDL  • Created different database objects (Stored Procedures, Functions, and Triggers) for the backend SQL server  • Involved in debugging the product using Eclipse 3.6 and JIRA Bug Tracking  • Ant was used to create and build file and does unit testing by creating test suites using JUnit  • Created war files & deployed on Tomcat using ANT deployment tool  • Performed Java web application development using J2EE and NetBeans  • Maintenance of data in different Oracle Databases and environments using TOAD Java Developer Polaris Technologies Limited - Chennai, Tamil Nadu May 2013 to June 2014 Responsibilities  • Developed the application as per the functional requirements from the analysts  • Designed Class and Sequence Diagrams for the FTP functionality  • Worked on UNIX shell scripting to run the JAR file created for batch program  • Used Struts framework in UI designing and validations  • Configured routes in ApacheCamel using Blueprint xml for routing messages between end points  • Developed various applications in COM to test the Load balancing, high availability and maximum throughout of the server  • Conduct implementations across the full software lifecycle, from Needs Analysis through Maintenance  • Establishing JDBC connection using database connection pool  • Wrote complex SQL statements to retrieve data from the DB2 database  • The application was developed using Eclipse on Windows XP. Deployed the application on Apache tomcat server6.0 on windows server 2003  • Used ClearCase version control system Java Developer Indosoft International Pvt Ltd - Hyderabad, Telangana June 2012 to April 2013 Responsibilities  • Involved in Developing Web Application with Full Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) from Design to Deployment using agile methodologies  • Created detail design documents which has the UML Design diagrams, table information, object model etc. which are required for the developer  • Designed Graphical User Interface (GUI) for various Webpages using AJAX, HTML, CSS, JSF, jQuery and JavaScript  • Developed the UML Use Cases, Activity, Sequence and Class diagrams using Rational Rose  • Development work of FAS in java/J2EE environment, which was earlier in UNIX platform.  • Evaluated and analyzed different tools available for the development of Guided order entry to meet the requirement of a client. Education Master's Skills Java J2Ee, J2Ee, Hibernate, Spring, Java, Rest, Core Java, Javascript, Soap