Java Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Developer - Thermo Fishers Pittsburgh, PA Around 5 years of IT experience as a Java/J2EE developer in Analysis, Design, Development, Testing, Implementation, Enhancement and Support of full life cycle web applications using N-Tier J2EE architecture in Financial, Banking, Healthcare, insurance and Telecommunication domain. Work Experience Java Developer Thermo Fishers - Pittsburgh, PA October 2018 to Present Project Description:  Working on project that enables B2B customers of Fisher Scientific to find and purchase products via their own integrated procurement platforms. Also, working with new updated B2B enterprise B2B customer administration portal as part of this project.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in all phases of project from analysis and requirement phase to delivering the project.  • Created System Requirement Specifications (SRS) report of the project by collecting all their requirements from client.  • Analyzed the requirements and formulated project scope.  • Developed the functionalities using Agile Methodology.  • Designed front-end presentation logic using JSP, CSS3 and Strut tags.  • Implemented client-side validations using JavaScript. Developed various generic JavaScript functions  • For validations.  • Designed Low-Level Architecture for Microservices and estimating LOE (Level of effort) for programming application. Analyzing, programming, utilizing existing commerce functionality for migrating to updated technology (Micro service Architecture). Implementing distributed and high-loaded system with massive back office system and integrating based on IBM Web E-Commerce platform.  • Extensively, involved in Identity portal management developing the Micro services with latest technology and frameworks using Java/JEE, Spring Boot, Spring Cloud, Spring Data, Docker, Mongo Db, SQL.  • Developed internal coding using J2EE technologies based on the MVC Architecture.  • Implemented Business Logic using Java 1.8, Spring 3.1, Struts 2.0 and Hibernate 3.0.  • Worked with Java 1.8 Streams API and parallel Streams API for enabling parallel processing of collections in distributed environment.  • Developed Business objects using POJOs and data access layer using Hibernate framework.  • Achieved Dependency injection by creating Spring services, Spring controllers and DAOs to wire Objects of business classes.  • Developed Server-side components based on Struts MVC and the persistence layer build on Hibernate ORM framework and Hibernate-EH Cache for second level caching to increase the usability of the database and reduce the time process for the retrieval of data from the web logic.  • Implemented DAO pattern to fetch data from database using Hibernate to carry out various database  • Operations and avoid redundant database access statements  • Involved in configuring XML mapping files and POJO objects.  • Converted data from database into JSON format files and retrieve useful information using AJAX calls to render the response in UI.  • Integrated the UI code with Backend, Used JSON for data exchange between the client and server.  • Used Hibernate Transaction Management, Spring/Hibernate Batch Transactions, Hibernate cache Concepts.  • Created session EJBs that retrieved information from the Oracle database using Spring-Hibernate.  • Used AJAX extensively to implement front end /user interface features in the application.  • Implemented REST Web services to retrieve data from client side.  • Exposed the Web Services to the client applications by sharing the WSDL's.  • Created DDL and DML SQL scripts for creation of database objects in Oracle 11g db.  • Extensively worked on Jenkins by installing, configuring and maintaining the purpose of CI and End-to-End automation for all build and deployments implementing CI/CD for database using Jenkins. Configuring Jenkins job to spin up infrastructure using Terraform scripts.  • Created logical and physical data models putting to practice, concepts of normalization and RDBMS.  • Created new tables, PL/SQL stored procedures, functions, views, indexes and constraints, triggers and  • Required SQL tuning to reduce the response time in the application.  • Focused on Test Driven Development; thereby creating detailed JUnit tests for every single piece of  • Functionality before writing the functionality.  • Used Jenkins to load JAR files from Database required for running the application.  • Used Maven building tool for creating EAR file to be deployed in application servers. It is also used for  • Dependency management of code in application.  • Used Eclipse IDE to develop and debug application code.  • Used Log4j utility to generate run-time logs.    Environment: Java 1.7/1.8, HTML5, CSS3, JSP, Spring Boot Framework, XML, SQL, UML, Micro Services, Apache Tomcat, JQuery, AJAX, SOA, Junit, Jira, Mongo dB, Oracle, MySql, Log4j, Kafka, Intellij, IBM RAD, IBM WebSphere, AWS. Java Developer Samsung Corporation - Bellevue, WA May 2017 to September 2018 Project Description:  This project is targeted to enhance the capabilities of digital banking solutions. It includes various features such as retail banking, building customer relationship, new product marketing and transactions support on multiple platforms.    Responsibilities:  • Analyzed the technical requirements and created various models required for the project. Implemented Model View Controller (MVC) architecture using Spring Framework.  • Involved in all phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) like Analysis, Designing, Developing, Testing, Finalizing.  • Presentation tier component is developed using JSF Framework and responsible for design and development of various front-end screens following GUI standards.  • Developed Presentation tier implementation which involves in creating the JSP pages, defining the page navigations, creating, and configuring the backing beans, and integrating JSF with the business-logic tier.  • Used Spring Framework as middle tier application framework, persistence strategy using spring support for Hibernate for integrating with database.  • Designed and implemented web module using Spring MVC  • Designed user interface layout using CSS, HTML.  • Created JSP pages using standard JSF tags, decorated using CSS.  • Designed business middleware solution by integrating application using SAO architecture.  • Implemented JAVA/J2EE design patterns such as Factory, DAO, Session Façade, and Singleton.  • Developed spring boot applications using spring data. Expertise in implementing Micro Services using spring, spring boot and spring cloud.  • Implemented client-server business applications using Micro services.  • Used Ajax to provide dynamic features where applicable with the help of prototype library and Ajax4JSF.  • Used a Microservices architecture, with SpringBoot based services interacting through a combination of REST and SpringBoot.  • Setup the Automation framework using Selenium to run test cases in multiple browsers and platforms  • Involved in designing of automation framework to be used in UI testing with Selenium  • Involved in build and deployment of Microservices/Spring Boot with Jenkins.  • Used Log4J for logging and analyzing system performance and flow, involved in code refactoring and bug fixing.  • Developed a RESTful service to provide all the CRUD capabilities for Salesforce App.  • Designed and Developed the UI screens using JavaScript, Angular JS, jQuery, JSP, react JS, Html and CSS.  • Design and implemented the backend layer using Hibernate.  • Tested Service and data access tier using JUnit in TDD methodology  • Used Agile Development methodology of software development  • Used JBOSS for the application deployment, LOG4J for logging and SVN for Source Control.  • Project builds and integration with Maven and Jenkins  • Worked on Oracle as the backend database.  • Improved reliability and performance of high volume applications by moving them to Mongo DB.  • Created and configured EC2 instances on Amazon Web services (AWS) for establishing clusters on cloud and created S3 buckets for our application.  • Performed Branching, Tagging, Release Activities on Version Control Tools: SVN, GitHub  • Performed builds and deployment and responsible for source code control and release management.  • Worked on Windows/Linux environment and debugged the application issues via accessing logs.    Environment: Core Java 1.7/1.8, Servlets, JDBC, Java Util Packages, Java Script, Angular JS, HTML5, CSS3, JSON, JSP, Hibernate 3.x, Spring Framework, XML, SQL, Eclipse, UML, Agile Methodology, Microservices, Apache Tomcat, JBoss, jQuery, AJAX, SOA, Junit, Jira, Unix Shell Script, Mongo dB, Log4j, Maven. Java/J2EE Developer SmartThings - Mountain View, CA January 2016 to April 2017 Project Description: HARMAN (designs and engineers connected products and solutions for automakers, consumers, and enterprises worldwide, including connected car systems, audio and visual products, enterprise automation solutions; and services supporting the Internet of Things, Here Harman have the contractual relation with Smart things.    Responsibilities:  • Developed the application by using Scrum methodology in agile environment.  • Responsible for building scalable distributed data solutions using Hadoop.  • Designed the architecture based on the popular J2EE Model 2 approach of MVC design paradigm.  • Developed application on Spring framework by utilizing its features like Spring Dependency injection, Spring Security, Spring Web flow with Spring MVC  • Used Spring Boot which is radically faster in building cloud Microservices and develop spring-based application with very less configuration.  • Designed and developed the REST based Micro services using the Spring Boot, Spring Data with JPA.  • Designed application modules, base classes and utility classes using core java Spring dependency injections, annotations, and configuration files.  • Used Spring Rest Template to use the exposed REST Web Services.  • Involved in developing code for obtaining bean references in spring framework using Dependency Injection (DI) or Inversion of Control (IOC) using annotations.  • Primarily focused on the spring components such as Dispatcher Servlets, Controllers, Model, and View Objects.  • Developed Business components using Java Objects and used Hibernate framework to map the Java classes to the database using Annotations.  • Designed and developed the REST based Microservices using the Spring Boot  • Implemented the Project structure based on Spring MVC pattern using spring boot.  • Development of application communication through asynchronous message using JMS, MQ, MDB process message in point-to-point scenarios.  • Developed Java/J2EE code, business logic using Spring, Hibernate framework and OOP concepts, involved in Peer code reviews.  • Implemented Data validations for critical functionalities using Angular2 and JavaScript.  • Implemented Responsive development using Bootstrap and CSS3 media queries.  • Worked on Multiple AWS instances, set the security groups, Elastic Load Balancer and AMIs, Auto scaling to design cost effective, fault tolerant and highly available systems  • Experience in installation, configuration, support and monitoring of Hadoop clusters using Apache, Cloudera distributions and AWS.  • Used Spring Security for implementing the authentication, authorization, and access-control features.  • Published Restful services using Spring MVC and consumed rest services using spring-rest template.  • Functionality is implemented by developing RESTful web services using spring boot, JPA, Cloud foundry and Oracle.  • Single Page Web Applications using RESTFUL web services, Ajax, Bootstrap, React.js.  • Experienced in writing complex SQL queries for extracting data from multiple tables.  • Extensively executed SQL queries to view successful transactions of data.  • Extracted data from various sources like Oracle, flat files, and SQL Server.  • Development of XML/XSLT/XSD for schema definitions.  • Unit testing and Integration Testing of application.  • Ongoing support and maintenance of the application of defects and fixing them.  • Coordinated with the testing team for bug reports and fixes and tracking these tickets through JIRA.  • Good experience with test driven software development and unit testing tool like JUnit to write and run repeatable test.  • Used GIT HUB for maintaining the component and to release version management.  • Used Jenkins to build the War file.  • Tested web services on SOAP UI and SOAP Sonar.  • Used Log4j for logging errors, messages, and performance logs.    Environment: Windows XP, JDK 1.5, Servlets 3.0, JSP 2.2, HTML, AWS, Spring Boot, SQL Server 2008, SQL Server 2005, Eclipse 3.2, Maven, WebLogic 11g, SVN, JUnit, Log4j, NoSQL, Spring 3.0, REST, Hibernate 3.3. Java Developer Infosys - Hyderabad, Telangana May 2014 to June 2015 Project Description: It is a project funded to save huge money for the cell tower installation. This tool will help to change the tilt configuration based on the density of population in that area. These tilt configurations are done through the web interface and will be effect at the actual site.    Responsibilities:  • Developed the application using Spring Framework that leverages classical Model View Layer (MVC) architecture. UML diagrams like use cases, class diagrams, interaction diagrams (sequence and collaboration) and activity diagrams were used.  • Worked in an Agile work environment with Content Management system for workflow management and content versioning.  • Responsible for setting up AngularJS framework to achieve data binding between HTML and JavaScript objects.  • Designed and developed Application based on Struts Framework using MVC design pattern.  • Implemented MVC design pattern using JSF 2.0 with Rich faces UI framework  • Designing, Development, JUnit testing and Integration of many components of the applications from end-to-end, i.e. Front-end (View) to JSF Controllers and configurations to Data Model and JPA mappings as well as generating entities.  • Involved in designing user screens and validations using HTML 5, jQuery and JSF as per user requirements.  • Implemented the search functionality for Internal Application using Angular JS.  • Developed REST APIs using Node.js to perform CRUD operations.  • Used Struts Validator framework for client-side validations.  • Worked in using React JS components, Forms, Events, Keys, Router, Animations and Flux concept  • Used Spring Dependency Injection properties to provide loose-coupling between layers.  • Implemented the Web Service client for the login authentication, credit reports and applicant information using JAX-WS 2.0 and Apache Axis 2.  • Used Web services (SOAP, Rest) for transmission of large blocks of XML data over HTTP.  • Used Hibernate ORM framework with Spring framework for data persistence and transaction management.  • Used Hibernate 3.5 object relational data mapping framework to persist and retrieve the data from Oracle and MySQL databases.  • Used Maven for compilation, packaging and deployment in the Apache Tomcat and WebSphere Application servers.  • Implemented the logging mechanism using Log4j framework.    Environment: JDK 1.6, Agile Development Process, Struts 1.x, JSF2.x, Spring 3.0, Spring framework, Hibernate 3.5, RSA, JMS, JSP, Servlets, Web Sphere 7.1, AngularJS, NodeJS, Apache Tomcat, Oracle and MySQL Databases, AJAX, Windows XP, HTML, XML, SOAP, Maven2.x, Log4J, Bootstrap, XML, XSLT, XSD, jQuery, JavaScript, JUnit, SVN. Education Master's in Software Engineering in Software Engineering Gannon University May 2017 B. Tech in Computer Science in Computer Science JNTU May 2014 Skills AJAX (4 years), Apache (4 years), Architecture (4 years), Java (4 years), JavaScript. (4 years), Java J2Ee, Spring, Rest, Hibernate, J2Ee