Java Full-Stack Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> Full-Stack <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Full-Stack Developer - Wells Fargo • Having 5 years of IT Experience in Analysis, Design, Development, Testing, Deployment and Implementation of Multi-Tier Web and Distributed applications using Java, J2EE Technologies and Related Frameworks.  • Solid experience with various Software Development Methodologies like SDLC, Object Oriented Analysis and Design (OOAD), Agile Software Development.  • Strong programming skills in designing and implementation of multi-tier applications using web-based technologies like Spring MVC, Spring Boot.  • Excellent Java development skills using J2EE, J2SE, Servlets, JSP, JDBC, Java Beans, JMS, JNDI, XML, XSD, JSON and Web Services (SOAP and RESTFUL)  • Working coding the application tier using Spring and Spring Modules (MVC, Batch, Spring DI, AOP and Templates)  • Experience in configuring and coding using ORM components, setting up configuration files, annotations using Hibernate framework.  • Designing, Implementing, Developing, Deploying and Consumes Web Services (REST, Jersey, SOAP, UDDI, Axis2, WSDL, JAXB, JAX-RS, and JAX-WS)  • Experience in writing Build Scripts using Shell Scripts, ANT, MAVEN and using CI (Continuation Integration) tools like Continuum, Jenkin and Hudson.  • Extensively worked on development of webservices & microservices with technologies like Java, Cassandra, SQLite, and PL/SQL  • Extensively worked on performance tuning of multiple microservices and was successful in achieving the required results.  • Strong Experience in Web Services using REST (JAX-RS, Jersey and SPRING) and SOAP (JAX-WS, WSDL, UDDI) with XML/JSON. Both Produce and Consume Web Services. Developed Microservices using Spring Boot.  • Installing and configuring Kafka and monitoring the cluster using Nagios and Ganglia.  • Load log data into HDFS using Kafka and performing ETL integrations Experience with ingesting data from RDBMS sources like - Oracle, SQL into HDFS using Sqoop.  • Experience in Relational and Dimensional (Star Schema) Data Modeling. Experience in Understanding Business Requirements, analytical and communication skills with a strong technical background.  • Expertise in creating Use Case diagrams, Activity diagrams, Data Flow Diagrams (DFD), Sequence diagrams, State diagrams based on UML Methodology and business process flow diagrams using MS Visio/Enterprise Architect/Rational Rose.  • Expertise in using and deploying the web application on various web & application servers like Apache web server, Web Logic, Tomcat, IBM Web Sphere, JBOSS.  • Proficiency in programming with different Java IDE's like Eclipse, IntelliJ, JBoss, WebLogic Workshop.  • Experience in front-end UI development skills using like JSP, Angular, HTML, JavaScript, jQuery, and CSS, JSTL, and Spring tab libs.  • Good understanding of Virtualization and Cloud concepts. Design, investigation and implementation of public facing websites on Amazon Web Services AWS.  • Experience in Integration of Amazon Web Services AWS with other applications infrastructure. Experience in scripting deployments to AWS, Monitoring infrastructure like Nagios, App Dynamics, New Relic etc.  • Expertise in Advanced JavaScript libraries and frameworks such as Prototype, Ext JS, Angular JS, Node JS and Object-oriented programing in JS.  • Experience with various MVC Java frameworks like Angular.JS, Node.JS, bootstrap.JS, etc.  • Expertise in designing applications using various J2EE design patterns like MVC, Singleton, Value Object, Data Access Object, Factory, Session Façade, Business Delegate and Service Locator etc.  • Expertise in development of unit test cases using JUnit, Test NG, Mock and Power Mock frameworks  • Experience in Log4j for capturing the logging information from the java code.  • Experience in SQL and Worked on databases like Oracle and IBM DB2, MySQL, MongoDB.  • Ability to learn quickly in work environment, fluent in communication, productive interpersonal skills with the ability to understand and cooperate with group requirements efficiently.  • Dedicated to successful project completion with the ability to work in a team or as an individual, and as a liaison between different teams. Work Experience Java Full-Stack Developer Wells Fargo - Charlotte, NC February 2018 to Present DTD Application: Desktop Deposit is a web-based application which is used by Wells Fargo clients to deposit checks using different type of scanners. It also provides the status of the previously submitted deposits and reports for the customers based on different accounts and time lines. This project is about migration of Struts2 to Spring Application. I was mainly involved in Advance Search module development.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in the Analysis, Design and implementation using AGILE methodology for iterative development of the application. Participated in Scrum, Retrospective and Release Planning Meetings  • Designed and developed Application based on Spring Framework, Spring MVC and Spring templates  • Hands on experience with data persistency using Hibernate and Spring Framework  • Involved in implementation of enterprise integration with Web Services and Legacy Systems using SOAP, and REST (Using Axis and Jersey frameworks)  • Responsible for maintaining Content Management System on daily basis.  • Involved in setting up Maven configuration and helping Continuous Integration (CI) Issues  • Used Spring Core for concept Inversion of control (IOC) implemented using dependency injection.  • Developed front-end code in AngularJS and to retrieve data as JSON Object from controllers in back-end RESTful Server, then display the well-organized result in web pages by writing AngularJS controller, directives, services, and route providers. Also used AEM to get Content and populate on web pages.  • Used Spring Core Annotations for Dependency Injection Spring DI and Spring MVC for REST API s and Spring Boot for micro-services  • Used Spring boot to develop Microservices, to increase productivity with application properties Auto Configuration method.  • Developed Microservices using SPRING Boot and used Docker and AWS  • Using Spring Boot which is radically faster in building Microservices and develop Spring based application with very less configuration  • Developed business components using Spring boot, IOC, AOP, Spring annotations and created user detail service for authentication and access control using Spring LDAP and Spring Security  • By using jQuery and Ajax sent the request to server side and receive the response.  • Configured and verified AWS workstations as per application requirement.  • Created and maintained the monitoring and alerting of production and corporate servers/storage using AWS Cloud watch.  • Worked for standardizing the code as per sonar standard almost for all Architecture modules.  • Used OpenShift Container services for coordinating cluster over docker and scheduling workflows.  • Developed Object Model and UML design models for developing Use cases and created Sequence diagram, class diagram and active diagrams for application components and interfaces  • Developed Hibernate POJO classes with respective mapping to the tables in the database using the JPA-Hibernate integration.  • Involved designing in webpages using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Bootstrap, SASS, LESS, React.js, Redux, Flex, Mongo DB.  • Worked in using React JS components, Forms, Events, Keys, Router, Animations, and Flux concept.  • Built application using React.JS which allowed us to render pages on both the client and server using the same codebase.  • Developed various screens for the front end using React JS and used various predefined components from NPM (Node Package Manager) and Redux library  • Using React JS to implement rich functions in various pages: form validation, crud, grid list, search, sort, pagination, multi-selection, tags-input, advanced/custom directives, authentication, unit tests, etc.  • Used Node.js and Express.js for creating Services.  • Involved in consuming RESTful Services using Node.JS and Express.JS Framework  • Built backend REST API with Node.js, Express.js.  • Implemented XML to stream data across different Interfaces for Reconciliation and Reversal process of the transaction files with the Banks.  • Using Rest API services and spring data JPA (hibernate) to retrieve data from MySQL database  • Expert in writing JUnit and Integration test cases using Spring test module, Mockito, power mock, Rest assured.  • Experience integration of Kafka with Spark for real time data processing  • Created Kafka topics, provide ACLs to users and setting up rest mirror and mirror maker to transfer the data between two Kafka clusters. Has used MapR, HDFS, MapReduce, Pig, Hive and Oozie using Amazon EMR. Leveraged appropriate AWS services  • Tested applications and documented results and bugs including documentation of information useful in the debugging process  • Worked closely with various teams to resolve issues which include: Business, QA, Build & Deployment, Off-shore, Tier2, Production Support teams  • Mentored, trained and educating the users in technology perspective, worked through walk through and review sessions, closely worked with users, developers and team members in problem solving  Environment: Agile, Spring, Spring Boot, Hibernate, Web Services REST, JAX-WS, SOAP, KAFKA, AXIS, SOAP UI, AWS, Node.JS, React.js JDK, Microservices, Java, J2EE, JSP, JDBC, Servlets, HTML, Hibernate, JPA, Java Script, CSS, XML, UML, JUnit Test Cases, jQuery, AJAX, Splunk, Rally, MySQL, JBoss, Maven, Jenkin, Sonar, Git, Unix Java Developer Kohl's corporation - Milpitas, CA November 2016 to January 2018 Description:  Kohl's Corporation, Inc. is an American department store chain carrying national brands of home furnishings (cookware, frames & Albums, electronics and more) and bedding (bed spreads, blankets & Throws) . The project involved E-commerce implementation in Kohl's Corporation, enabling it to sell its products online. The portal is completely developed using Java/ J2EE technologies with Spring, Hibernate, and Web Services on Web Sphere Application Server on Linux Platform.    Responsibilities:  • Created quality working J2EE code to design, schedule, and cost to implement use cases.  • Followed Agile Scrum methodology for Application development.  • Actively used the Spring Framework for developing the whole Business Tier Module and successively build and deployed to WebSphere Application Server.  • Extensively used Spring Application Context for configuring & creating various beans for entire Application.  • Developed server-side application to interact with database using Spring Boot and Hibernate.  • Responsible for creating and maintaining architecture for Restful API using Spring Boot.  • Extensively used Hibernate technology for development ORM System for interacting with Oracle database.  • Used JIRA tool for Issue/bug tracking, monitoring of work assignment in the system  • Designed and developed Use Cases, Activity Diagrams and Sequence Diagrams using UML  • Involved Service oriented architecture (SOA) by developing and consuming SOAP and Restful web services based on JAX-RS.  • Developed microservices with Spring MVC to retrieve API routes for the entire cluster. Using this strategy each microservice in a cluster can be load balanced and exposed through one API gateway.  • Involved in stored Procedures for interacting with the Oracle database, MongoDB.  • Implemented React.js components, forms, events, keys and router.  • Developed user interface by using the React.js, Redux and SPA development.  • Used React.js for templating for faster compilation and developing reusable components.  • Implemented modules into Node.js to integrate with designs and requirements.  • Fetch data from Mongo DB using Mongoose of Node.js.  • Built servers and web services in Node.js + Express.js, interacting with MySQL.  • Used Node.JS, Express.JS to create server-side API with MongoDB.  • Design roles and groups for users and resources using AWS Identity Access Management (IAM)  • Implemented AWS solutions using EC2, S3, RDS, EBS, Elastic Load Balancer, Auto scaling groups, optimized.  • Created Ansible playbooks in YAML code to automate system operations.  • Automated deployment modules WebLogic, WebSphere applications and configuration settings using a combination of PowerShell scripts and Ansible.  • Integrated the JSP pages with the controllers and updated the data with the beans  • Developed, Tested and Deployed application in IBM WebSphere server using RAD.  • Documented and communicated application design using UML diagrams like sequence diagrams, class diagrams, use case diagrams.  • Developed unit test cases and suits on JUnit framework for unit testing  • Did setup for GIT hub and Jenkins to maintain repository and for building WAR  • Extensively Used the Maven for Creating the Stable and Snapshot build versions of the Application as a Deployment Product to the local and development environments.  • Supported the application in production and interacted with off-shore and on-site production support teams  Environment: Java, J2EE, Servlets, JSP, JDBC, Microservices, Agile, Rally, Spring, Spring Boot., Hibernate, AWS, Web services, WSDL, SOAP, REST, SOA, Node.JS, ReactJS, HTML, DHTML, GIT, CSS, XML, AJAX, jQuery, ANT, UML, MAVEN, MongoDB, Design Patterns, UNIX, WebSphere, Tomcat, Oracle Java Developer MYECO - Plano, TX October 2015 to October 2016 Description:  The MYECO - is an ecommerce application which sells Eco friendly grocery bags to customers. It is used by customers to place orders, by partners/retailers to purchase and fulfill orders to their customers, by staff to fulfill, manage the orders and track their usage by getting information from Retailers.    It includes Shopper Registration, Partner (School / PTA) Registration, Purchase MY ECO Products online, Register purchased Bags, calculate points earned by Shopper, Partner (School / PTA) based on Bag usage at a Retailer Outlet / Store, calculate the Charity amount for Partner (School / PTA) based on points earned by Shopper and Partner.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in full Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) to analyze the business requirements, designing front end component, developing server-side code, testing and implementation.  • Used HTML and CSS to design the front-end components.  • Involved and understood the Development of back end system using Spring, Hibernate and Web Services.  • Followed Agile methodology and SCRUM meetings to track, optimize and developed sequence diagram depicting method interactions, using MS Visio.  • Involved in implementation of Spring MVC framework and developed Service layers. Configured the controllers, and different beans such as Handler Mapping, View Resolver etc.  • Created and implemented database operation in HQL using hibernate  • Developed and Consumed SOAP based Web Services using SOAP based Web Services  • Configured and implemented Log4j for logging and MAVEN for CI Integration  • Designed and Implemented Unit Testing using JUNIT Framework  • Involved in creating and extracting data from database using SQL Queries, PL/SQL stored procedures, triggers, packages on Oracle database.  • Created and maintained Technical documentation for launching HADOOP Clusters and for executing Hive queries and Pig Scripts.  • Used Oozie and Zookeeper operational services for coordinating cluster and scheduling workflows.  • Sometimes play a role with QA team in testing to test modules with JUnit and to understand the loop holes.  Environment: Java, J2EE, Servlets, JSP, JDBC, Spring, Hibernate 3, SOAP, Web Services, SOAP UI, BigData, Pig, Hive, Apache Ant, CVS, Design Patterns, HTML, Java Script, AJAX, XML, SQL, PL/SQL, Oracle, SQL Developer, JUnit, Mercury Quality Center, UNIX Java Developer Nirvaana Technologies - Vadodara, Gujarat January 2014 to February 2015 Description:  ADP has the innovative software and unmatched expertise to help clients to improve compliance, reduce costs, and get the best out of their most important assets and employees. Worked on the main portal and handled customer module, Orders and Employees and Payroll modules. The Project has been developed using Java/ J2EE technologies.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in the analysis, design, and development and testing phases of Software Development Lifecycle (SDLC)  • Responsible for analysis, design, development and integration of UI components with backend using J2EE technologies such as MVC framework, Servlets, JSP and JDBC for database connectivity.  • Worked on Agile Methodology to meet timelines with quality deliverables.  • Implemented the presentation layer using Struts MVC framework.  • Creating HTML Web pages utilizing JavaScript and CSS.  • Involved in High Level Design and prepared Logical view of the Application.  • Involved in designing and developing of Object-Oriented methodologies using UML and created Use Case, Class, Sequence diagrams and in complete development, testing & maintenance process of application.  • Worked with HTML, CSS, and JavaScript in UI pages.  • Implemented MVC pattern using the Struts framework.  • Designed user-interface and checking validations using JavaScript.  • Involved in developing JSP pages and Actions and using Taglibs for the web tier and validating the client data using the Java Script.  • Involved in development of Web Services using Axis Framework  • Created Data Source and deployed web application in the WebLogic application Server.  • Developed client user interface using JSPs and Servlets.  • Used Version Control Tool SVN to perform Checking-out and Checking-in of codes from the repository.  • Used ANT scripts to build, test and deploy application.  • Used Eclipse IDE for the development.  • Responsible for the development of database SQL queries.    Environment: JDK, Java, Struts, Hibernate, Web Services, Servlets, JSP, JDBC, XML, JavaScript, Core Java, ANT, MAVEN, AJAX, CSS, Oracle, WebLogic, UNIX, PL/SQL Developer, JUnit, Agile, Eclipse IDE Skills AJAX (4 years), CSS (4 years), HTML (4 years), J2EE (4 years), JAVA (4 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  Design Skills: UML, Object Oriented Analysis and Design (OOAD), Design patterns  Java and J2EE: JDK, Java, JSP, Servlets, JDBC, Java Beans, JMS, JNDI, JSTL, JTA  Frameworks: Struts, Spring, Hibernate, Log4j, Maven, Ant, JENKIN  SOA technologies: WSDL, UDDI, SOAP, REST, AXIS, Jersey  Web Technologies: HTML, JavaScript, CSS, jQuery, AJAX, DHTML, AngularJS, NodeJS, ReactJS  IDE& Tools: Eclipse, RAD, OEPE, NetBeans, TOAD, SOAP UI  Methodologies: Iteration methodology, Agile methodology  Web/Application Servers: WebSphere, Apache Tomcat, WebLogic, JBoss  Misc. Tools: Remedy, Splunk, Paros Proxy, SVN, TeamSite  Operating systems: Windows, UNIX, LINUX, MAC