Java Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Developer - State Farm Insurance Bloomington, IL • 5+ years of experience in design, development and deployment of web applications in cloud using Java and spring framework.  • Good knowledge and hands on experience developing SOAP and REST WebServices using spring technology.  • Extensively used Jenkins to deploy web services to cloud so CICD (Continuous Integration Continuous Delivery) goals are achieved and code quality metrics are met.  • Hands on experience using GIT, SVN for maintaining source code repository. Good understanding on branching strategy so different versions of the code are maintained.  • Experience in writing SQL queries and used Spring JDBC framework to connect to Postgres database.  • Expertise in using IDEs like Eclipse, Net Beans, Spring Tool Suite (STS), STS4 to write code using object-oriented principles and translate the business requirements into a working software.  • Used SAF-Agile (Scalable Agile Framework) practices to develop the business functionality. Actively participated in scrum, sprint planning, retrospectives and met goals and objectives defined in a PI (Program Increment).  • Ability to write unit tests using JUnit and Mockito framework to improve the quality of code and reduce the number of defects.  • Developed web services using Spring boot and successfully deployed on pivotal cloud foundry (PCF).  • Used Urban code tool to integrate with Jenkins to automate the deployment process till production.  • Good knowledge on using Splunk to debug issues of any application deployed on cloud.  • Good understanding on consuming SOAP and REST services in an application.  • Quick learner and a proactive individual with excellent communication and strong analytical skills.  • Highly motivated team player with the ability to work independently and adapt quickly to new and emerging technologies. Work Experience Java Developer State Farm Insurance - Bloomington, IL June 2016 to Present Project Name: E-CRM (Enterprise Customer Relationship Management).  Responsibilities:  • Translated application story board and use cases into functional applications.  • Wrote an operation in SOAP Service to insert data into the database.  • Developed SOAP based web services using WSDL, SOAP and JAX-WS.  • Involved in designing PL/SQL statements based on the requirement for Postgres database.  • Used SOAP UI for functional testing of web service.  • Created Mule flows for the services to hit SOAP operations through Mule.  • Used Cloud Management Portal for deploying applications in environment.  • Used Jenkins as a build tool for deploying applications.  • Used Splunk tool to debug the issues in Environment.  • Worked on Mule-ESB components for communicating with third party clouds like SFDC from mule.  • Followed SAF-agile methodology for implementing agile among multiple interdependent teams.  • Used GIT as version control tool in the project.  • Done Unit testing using JUnit and Mockito.  • Actively involved in peer reviews and code reviews to improve the quality of the code.  • Worked with build configuration team to setup continuous integration continuous delivery pipeline (CICD) to automate the deployment of code changes.  • Good experience in debugging the application by running the server in debug mode and experience in usage of log4J to persist data in log files.    Environment: Spring source tool suit (STS) 3.6.4, PL/SQL, JQuery, XML, SOAP, Mockito, SoapUI 5.1.3, Windows, Tortoise SVN 1.8.11, JDK 7.6.7, Maven 3.0.5, log4J, TC Server, Jenkins, Mule. Java Developer State Farm Insurance - Bloomington, IL August 2015 to December 2016 Project Name: Agency Suite of Tools  Responsibilities:  • Participated in PI planning to break down each story into smaller pieces.  • Used SFX framework for developing rich user interface and jQuery for performing user input validations.  • Developed SOAP service for database interactions.  • Wrote several PL/SQL queries in the SOAP layer for performing CRUD operations.  • Effectively used HTTP Watch tool for the performance tuning.  • Experience working in Agile development following SCRUM process, Sprint and daily stand-up meetings.  • Efficiently used version one to track the progress of the work.  • Reviewed Jbehave Scenarios and helped team during peer reviews.    Environment: Spring source tool suit (STS) 3.2.0, Spring MVC, PL/SQL, JQuery, CSS, XML, SOAP, REST, Mockito, SoapUI 5.1.3, Windows, Tortoise SVN 1.8.11, JDK 7.6.7, Maven 3.    Project Name: Grading and Project Progress Tracking Tool Aug 2014- May 2015 Description: A web-based application which helps students to grade their team mates in a project. This is developed to automate grading process in the university. Faculty considers each student's performance and the reviews by their peers for grading a student.  Responsibilities:  • Interacted with client's in-person and gathered requirements for application.  • Prepared a document with all the requirements collected from the client for future reference.  • Followed agile methodology as part of the application development (Stand up meetings, retrospective meetings, sprint development and Pair programming).  • Used JSP for developing front end pages and JavaScript for user input validations.  • Worked on CSS to prettify the developed web pages.  • Wrote several SQL queries for performing CRUD operations on MySQL database.  • Used NetBeans as the IDE for project.  • Involved in deploying the application on Glass Fish server.  • Performed root cause analysis on defects raised during QA phase.  • Participated in preparing user input manual and future programmer guide to facilitate the users of application.    Environment: Java, NetBeans, UML, JSP, Servlets, JavaScript, CSS, MySQL, Glass fish. HP service manager State Farm Insurance - Bloomington, IL January 2016 to May 2016 Bloomington, IL Jan 2016 - May 2016 (Production Support - Application Services)  Project Name: Agency Suite of Tools    Responsibilities:  • Provided ELS for applications by resolving issues in production environment.  • Effective use of HP service manager (HPSM) to check the tickets logged and worked on finding the root cause for the issue.  • Attended daily triage meetings to update the status and discuss issues raised in production.  • Documented Knowledge capture documents (KCD) of the application and provided them to the support team once application was deployed in production.  • Worked with implementation coordinators to make sure that technical and functional checkouts of the applications are good in different environments.    Environment: Spring source tool suit (STS) 3.2.0, Spring MVC, PL/SQL, jQuery, CSS, XML, SOAP, REST, Mockito, SoapUI 5.1.3, Windows, Tortoise SVN 1.8.11, JDK 7.6.7, Maven 3.0.5 Skills Eclipse, Java, Spring, jquery, Jsp, Git, Html, Javascript, Svn, Database, Postgresql, Soap, Css, Tomcat, Web services, Websphere, Junit, Ui, Version control, Rest Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/rakesh-alugubelli-90b279146 Additional Information Technical Skills:  Programming Languages Java  Web Technologies HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, JSP  Web Services SOAP, REST  Servers IBM WebSphere, Tomcat  Database PostgreSQL  Testing Framework JUnit, Mockito, Soap UI, Postman  Version Control tools SVN, GIT  Development Tools Spring Tool Suite, Eclipse, NetBeans