Java Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Developer - Tata Consultancy Services Santa Clara, CA • Overall 3.7 years of IT experience in Analysis, Design and Development using Java/J2EE technologies.  • Hands-on experience in using J2EE frameworks for transaction management and modeling of high scale applications.  • Expertise in Creating and Consuming Web Services like SOAP.  • Proficient in Object Relational Mapping frameworks like JPA/Hibernate with mapping of persistent classes.  • Proficient in Spring Templates like Spring JDBC, Spring Hibernate and Spring Rest Templates.  • Good working knowledge and understanding in SQL/NoSQL Database technologies like MySQL and Hadoop.  • Experienced with frontend technologies like HTML, XHTML, CSS, JavaScript.  • Experience with unit/functional/integration testing using Junit.  • Deploying the J2EE applications to Application Servers using Maven & Shell Scripts for creating Build Scripts.  • Good knowledge in version control system tools like SVN.  • Proactive and well organized with effective time management skills.  • Experience in working in an Onsite/Offshore delivery model.  • Experienced in Insurance domain. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Java Developer Tata Consultancy Services November 2015 to Present Client: TRYG Insurance (Europe)    Project I:  Description:  FNOL is an insurance project where in a user can claim if he has an insurance with the company which is basically first notification  of loss, prompting the user to upload the claim related documents and getting the damage details. User gets a unique claim ID for further follow ups and at the other end, an email is sent to claim handler with all the uploaded documents of the user for claim  processing.    Responsibilities:  • Worked on web application through agile methodology.  • Design and developed Restful Micro services using spring boot for integration between systems.  • Used Spring MVC to bind web parameters to business logic and implemented transactions using Hibernate manager.  • Developed DAO layer for the application using Spring and Hibernate Template support.  • Developed module to handle runtime generic exceptions.  • Configured continuous integration and pipelines using Jenkins.  • Effectively used Log4j framework to implement logging system for the project.  • Worked with DB team, business Analysts, project managers, users to analyze and implement requirements.  • Co-ordinate with data management team to handle large volume of data integrations.  • Involved in all testing phases - UAT, SIT and production and closely worked with end users.  • Fixing the application defects/bugs in quick turnaround time.    Environment: Java, Spring MVC, Hibernate, drools, JavaScript, Angular JS, Apache Tomcat, Eclipse, Jenkins, Maven, Log4j,  MYSQL, WSDL, SOAP UI, SVN.    Project II:  Description:    Customer universe is an application where in a user can buy a desired policy out of the listed policies he would be able to select  different coverage's based on which the price varies. Promoting the policies or coverages for upgradation. User would be able to grant or revoke accesses to his profile for the house hold members and various other functionalities.    Responsibilities:  • Worked on various new enhancements on the system that involved requirements analysis, designing the solution,  development and implementation.  • Involved in designing and writing custom code for business, data access using Java/J2EE.  • Implemented MVC Architecture using Spring Framework.  • Integrated with web services to fetch data through JSON format and update the DOM.  • Designed necessary backend Java classes to support data access and user authorization.  • Involved in implementation of GDPR in the application.  • Troubleshooting and implementing bug fixes related to client and user reported issues.  • Used agile development practices and work in short iterations to deliver a continuous flow of the most important and valuable  features.  • Used SVN for creating the project structure and version controlling.  • Created technical solution documentation and Deployment Guide for the application    Environment: Java, J2EE, Spring MVC, Hibernate, Web Services, MySQL, JSON, XML, AngularJS, HTML, CSS, JavaScript,  Maven, Continuous Integration, SVN, Log4j, JUnit, Jenkins, SOAP UI, Drools.    CONTACT:  Mobile: 669-286-9860  E-mail: harshithakraju35@gmail.com  Location: California, USA Education Bachelor of Engineering in Engineering Visvesvaraya Technological University 2015 Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  Languages: Java, J2EE  J2EE Technologies JSP, Servlets, JDBC, Java Beans, Web Services, SOAP  Web Technologies HTML, CSS, JavaScript  Frameworks/Tools Spring, Hibernate, MVC Architecture, Web Services, Drools  Web/Application Servers Apache Tomcat, Apache HTTP Server  Software Methodologies Agile Scrum  Databases MySQL, MongoDB  IDEs/tools Eclipse, Jenkins, SOAP UI, Spira, Maven  Operating System MAC, UNIX, LINUX, Windows  Big Data Technologies HDFS, Hive, Spark using Scala, Hadoop, Apache Kafka, Sqoop