Java Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Developer - Walmart Bentonville, AR ? 5+ years of software development experience in object-oriented programming of Multi-Tier distributed, Enterprise applications using Java and J2EE technologies with Software Development Life Cycle.  ? Diverse experience utilizing Java tools in business, Web, client-server environments including Java Platform, Enterprise Edition ( Java EE), Enterprise Java Bean (EJB), Java Server Pages (JSP), Java Servlets, Struts, and Java Database Connectivity (JDBC) technologies.  ? Expert in Core Java with in-depth knowledge of Core Java concepts such as Multithreading, Synchronization, Collections, and Event/Exception handling.  ? Experience in developing client-side applications using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Node.JS, etc.,  ? Experience in deploying J2EE applications using web/application servers like Tomcat, WebSphere, WebLogic, etc.,  ? Excellent knowledge on Object Orient Programming concepts (OOPS).  ? Knowledge in writing API's/ and Web Services in PHP.  ? Experience working on DB2 and basic knowledge of Scala as well.  ? Good experience working on Angular.Js and React.Js for building user interfaces.  ? Understanding of relational database concepts, and experience in query construction using SQL.  ? Developed multi-tiered object-oriented system architectures using uses cases, UML.  ? Experience in working with the Databases environments SQL Server and MySQL.  ? Hands on experience in developing Java and J2EE applications using Eclipse IDE, Visual Studio 2017.  ? Experience using Java Messaging System (JMS).  ? Developed applications and deployed them on a Cloud computing architecture like AWS.  ? Involved in designing of the application using UML (Unified Modeling Language).  ? Hands on experience in working with Node.js applications using Visual Studio Code.  ? Created connection pools in Visual Studio Code and configured as needed.  ? Experience in writing SQL queries, stored procedures, prepared statements and triggers.  ? Extensive experience working with Junit, Selenium testing tools.  ? Hands-on experience using the building tools like Ant, Maven and Jenkins.  ? Excellent communication skills. Adept in building strong working relationships with coworkers and management.  ? Involved in testing and fixing the bugs.  ? Talented problem solver able to think "outside the box."  ? Fast learner, good at team work and ability to adopt new technology. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Java Developer Walmart - Bentonville, AR January 2019 to Present Walmart Inc. is an American multinational retail corporation that operates a chain of hypermarkets, discount department stores, and grocery stores.    Responsibilities:  ? A small amount of Java Development via the Eclipse IDE (most of us were given one programming task). The task I performed was a String masking of the password attribute in an XML file.  ? Using GIT as a repository for the application project folders.  ? Worked with Spring, Hibernate, and Faces frameworks.  ? Used Eclipse debugger in-order to fix the bugs.  ? JIRA for trouble tickets and Confluence for our knowledge base.  ? Worked with the development technologies like: Enterprise Java Beans, Servlets, JSP, JSF, JavaScript, HTML, CSS.  ? Efficiently worked on Core Java technologies, SDLC, and design & development of web-based application.  ? Worked on RESTful web services on Java8 version.  ? Efficiently worked with DB2 to store and retrieve the records.  ? Evaluated and solved trouble tickets by coordinating with DBAs and my Java team.  ? Actively participated in AGILE SCRUM meetings. Java UI Developer Houston, TX January 2018 to November 2018 Slokatech work together to focus the vision, align actions, processes, and technology, and engage people to deliver sustained excellence.  Responsibilities:  ? Involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) of the application like Requirement gathering, Design, Analysis, and Code Development.  ? Developed unique user experiences that drove interaction, using JavaScript.  ? Implemented responsive web design and mobile friendly design using AngularJS.  ? Created forms to collect and validate data from the user using AngularJS and JavaScript.  ? Created and maintained the front-end standards document and oversaw production of JavaScript, HTML and CSS.  ? Tested front-end code in multiple browsers to ensure cross-browser compatibility.  ? Leveraged responsive web frameworks to consistently complete product deliverables ahead of schedule.  ? Designing and developing the algorithms for server module that configures process management engine using Java8.  ? Experience in working with SQL, Stored procedures and Database Schema.  ? Worked with Node.js and similar back-end Express web application frameworks.  ? Designed the scalable, reliable and secure software architecture using Node.js.  ? Wrote Java Script validations to validate the fields of the user registration screen and login screen.  ? Used Node.js runtime environment for developing server-side web applications and possessed basic understanding of Google's V8 JavaScript engine.  ? Implemented back-end features for the gateway application running a Node.js stack providing communication between devices and storage.  ? Wrote MS SQL queries to retrieve the data, update the data from the database and to connect database in the DAO implementation classes.  ? Created tables and worked on MS SQL and PL/SQL to write Stored Procedures functions and packages for complex inserts and updates in the database. And used Stored Procedures in the application.  ? Web Service using AngularJS and AJAX and render the JSON data on UI.  ? Created Stored Procedures, User Defined functions, Views and implemented the Error Handling in the Stored Procedures and SQL objects and modified already existing stored procedures, triggers, views, indexes depending on the requirement.  ? Developed a distributed and scalable web application on .Net framework using Visual Studio 2017.  Environment: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, NodeJS, MSSQL, AngularJS, Visual Studio Code, Visual Studio 2017, Postman, SQL Server, .Net Java Developer TSYS - Columbus, GA October 2016 to January 2018 Total System Services (TSYS) is a United States merchant acquirer and bank credit card issuer. They help the customers anticipate that future, through their products, solutions and expertise.  Responsibilities:  ? Extensively involved in requirements gathering and analyzing them, checking the dependencies and design of the project.  ? Responsible for developing a front-end application using React.js.  ? Implemented User Interface guidelines and standards throughout the development and maintenance of the website using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, AJAX.  ? Designed and developed User Interface using CSS, HTML, and JavaScript. Used JavaScript DOM manipulation and JavaScript event to generate the data result in UI.  ? Implemented the application using Spring MVC Framework by implementing Controller, Service Classes.  ? Used UML and Rational Rose for making class diagrams and sequence diagrams.  ? Performed client-side validations using JavaScript and server-side validation using spring validator framework.  ? Developed front end controller in Servlet to handle all the requests.  ? Implemented application database objects Stored Procedures and Views using SQL and PL/SQL to interact with database.  ? Used Node.js for implementing backend features for running applications.  ? Developed the own realm for Apache Tomcat Server for authenticating the users.  ? Configured and created application log files using Log4j required to trace application messages.  ? Used Maven tool to build the application and used Git for version control.  Environment: Java, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, React.js, Spring MVC, AJAX, SQL, UML, Rational Rose, Maven, Git Java Developer Cito Infotech Pvt Ltd - Bengaluru, Karnataka October 2013 to December 2015 Responsibilities:  ? Analysis, design, and development of application based on J2EE and design patterns.  ? Involved in all phases of SDLC (Software Development Life Cycle) and used OOPS concepts.  ? Used HTML, JavaScript, XML, JSP, and CSS to enhance the portal UI and provided the client-side JavaScript validations.  ? Involved in developing functional model, object model, and dynamic model using UML.  ? Development of the Java classes to be used in JSP and Servlets.  ? Implemented asynchronous functionalities like email notification using JMS.  ? Implemented Multithreading to achieve consistent concurrency in the application.  ? Developed various objects using Java and HTML5 and DHTML to maintain well-structured GUI and to interact with controllers to get data from the database.  ? Handled the exceptions using try and catch blocks.  ? Developed server-side services using Core Java multithreading and collections.  ? Used Collection Interface to develop internal logic of the application.  ? Exposed and implemented top-down and bottom-up SOAP web services.  ? Used the spring framework for managing the navigation and page flow and working with applets development.  ? Worked with Node.js framework for backend services.  ? Extensively used GIT for push and pull requests of the code.  ? Created SQL queries and used PL/SQL stored procedures.  ? Used Test Driven Development approach and wrote many unit and integration test cases.  ? Involved in writing flexible queries at DAO layer.  ? Used Eclipse as IDE tool to develop the application and JIRA for bug and issue tracking.  ? Followed strategy of TDD using Junit based testing where test cases first and then writing logic based on test cases to reduce QA cost.  ? Used Maven tool for building and packaging the application.  ? Utilized Eclipse for workbench to provide a complete environment for Java, Java EE, web services, and server development tools.  ? Control repository management using GIT.  Environment: Core Java/J2EE, OOPS, HTML5/DHTML, CSS, XML, JavaScript, JSP, JMS, Git, SQL, PL/SQL, Eclipse, JIRA, Maven, Web services. Education Master's Skills .net (Less than 1 year), Css. (4 years), Database (4 years), Eclipse (2 years), Git (3 years), Html (4 years), integration (2 years), Integrator (2 years), J2ee (2 years), Java (4 years), Javascript (4 years), Jsp (2 years), Junit (2 years), Ms sql server (Less than 1 year), Servlets (2 years), Sql (4 years), testing (2 years), Tomcat (1 year), Uml (3 years), Xml (2 years) Additional Information Skills:  ? Programming Language: Java and J2EE, C/C++, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, XML, PHP.  ? Technologies: JDBC, Servlets, JSP, JavaScript.  ? Development Approach: Waterfall and Agile.  ? IDE: Eclipse, NetBeans, Visual Studio 2017, Visual Studio Code.  ? Testing & Continuous Integration: Selenium, JUnit & Jenkins.  ? Version Controls: GIT, AWS.  ? Frameworks: Node.JS.  ? Design Technologies: OOAD and UML.  ? Database: SQL Server and MySQL.  ? Application/Web Server: Tomcat, WebSphere, WebLogic  ? Protocols: TCP/IP, HTTP, HTTPS and FTP.    ? Operating Systems: All versions of Microsoft Windows.