Java/UI Developer <span class="hl">Java</span>/UI <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java/UI Developer - Comcast Dallas, TX ? Overall 5 years of experience in Analysis, Design, Development and Implementation & Integration of Multi-Tier distributed applications and SOA based applications using Java, and J2EE Technologies.  ? Expertise in developing web applications using Core Java, J2EE, JavaScript, Spring, Hibernate& web services for Telecom and Financial Domains.  ? Good experience in Issue Tracking/bug fixing, debugging and complete maintenance of product/application including Code building, Integration and documentation.  ? Experience in client-side UI Technologies such as HTML, XHTML, CSS and JavaScript, AJAX and frameworks like Node JS, Angular JS.  ? Hands-on experience developing SOA based applications using Restful web services.  ? Good knowledge of PHP, Selenium and NoSQL databases.  ? Good knowledge of IDE/Tools like Eclipse, SQL Server, Maven, Gradle, Log4j, JIRA, Jenkins.  ? Strong knowledge of Agile(Scrum) and Waterfall model.  ? Experience in web application design using Spring Frameworks. Extensive Experience in using IOC, MVC (Model View Controller) architecture for developing applications using JSP, JavaScript, Java Beans and Action classes and Controllers.  ? Hands-on experience on AWS.  ? Developing functionalities based on the requirements and performing Unit testing using JUnit.  ? Quick learner with the ability to meet deadlines and work under pressure.  ? Excellent analytical and problem-solving skills along with good oral and written communication skills Work Experience Java/UI Developer Comcast - Downingtown, PA October 2016 to Present Description:  Comcast Corporation, formerly registered as Comcast Holdings, is an American multinational mass media company and is the largest broadcasting and largest cable company in the world by revenue. It is the second largest cable TV company and largest home Internet service provider in the United States and the nation's third-largest home telephone service provider.  Responsibilities:  ? Involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) and developed application according to client specifications.  ? Worked on developing SPA (single page applications) using Agular2/4 and AngularJS for older applications.  ? Used Spring 4 MVC framework and defined beans for Dependency Injection and spring boot for microservices.  ? Closely worked with business system analyst to understand the requirements to ensure that the right set of UI modules been built.  ? Configured routes to switch between different views by implementing Routing Concept in Angular.  ? Developed custom filters for performing sorting and search operations using filters in Angular.  ? Developed and tested on HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, JavaScript, and React.JS that meets accessibility and web browser standards for the website.  ? Worked with back-end developers to enhance the functionality of web applications asynchronously (AJAX) using REST services.  ? Coordinated with the QA team for testing and solved any issues reported.  ? Created a responsive web application using Bootstrap, SASS, and AngularJS.  ? Implemented version controlling using GIT.  ? Used Jenkins for continuous integration and continuous Deployment (CI/CD).  ? Build & deployed wars using Maven, Tomcat on UNIX environment    Environment:  Java, Angualar2/4, Angular JS, Eclipse, ReactJS, Node.JS, Bootstrap, jQuery, Tomcat, GIT, Maven, Spring, JIRA, HTML5, CSS, JavaScript, Unix/Linux, Oracle. Java Developer Jackson National Life Insurance - Lansing, MI March 2016 to September 2016 Description:  Jackson National Life Insurance is a leading insurance company owned by its policyholders. This application was created to help individuals and families easily shop and buy health insurance and offers a variety of insurance plans, as well as tools to help you choose the plan that's right for you.    Responsibilities:  ? Involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC).  ? Used Rational Rose for the Use Case Diagrams, Object Diagrams, Class Diagrams and Sequence Diagrams to represent the detailed design phase.  ? Developed presentation layer using JSP, HTML, DHTML, CSS, AJAX and JavaScript.  ? Developed front-end JSF as per client gave wireframes along with JQuery, CSS, and HTML.  ? JQuery library has been used for the creation of powerful dynamic web pages and web applications by using its advanced and cross-browser functionality.  ? Used AJAX to make the web application more interactive without refreshing the data frequently.  ? Implemented Spring MVC architecture to send and receive the data from front-end to business layer and Used JDBC, Spring JPA.  ? Implemented various J2EE design patterns such as Value Object and Data Access Object.  ? Spring Security is used for authentication and authorization of the application.  ? Used Spring Batch for the response of the batch web services.  ? Consumed Web services - WSDL and SOAP for getting the required information from the third-party application.  ? Developed the RESTful API, to interact with the different type of document and convert to appropriate version to handle.  ? Implemented Spring Boot with Micro service to divide the application into various sub-modules.  ? Used Spring Boot which is radically faster in building cloud Micro Services.    Environment:  Java, JSP, Spring 2.x (IOC/DI), Hibernate 2.x(ORM), HQL, SOAP, Session Beans, XML, Web logic application server, Log4j, Junit, Eclipse, CVS, Gradle, SVN, jQuery, JavaScript, JSON, JPA, JSP, HTML, CSS, Spring Security, Unix. Java Developer Glansa Solutions - Hyderabad, Telangana June 2014 to November 2015 Description:  Glansa is a Leading Professional Web, Software Designing and Development Company that successfully operates in the Global IT-market since year 2000 and has proven to be a reliable, trustworthy and efficient service provider to the varied businesses and clients globally by rendering its services to clientele in India.    Responsibilities:  ? Followed Agile Software Development with Scrum methodology.  ? Developed front-end components using JSP, HTML, and CSS.  ? Involved in JavaScript and AJAX coding for validations and passing attributes from one screen to another. Extensively used Custom JSP tags to separate presentation from application logic.  ? Used Spring (MVC) architecture to implement the application using the concrete principles laid down by several design patterns such as Composite View, Session Facade, Business Delegate, Bean Factory, Singleton, Data Access Object and Service Locator.  ? Extensively worked on the Spring DAO module and ORM using Hibernate.  ? Developed SOAP-based requests for communicating with Web Services.  ? Implemented DAO layers using JPA standards and Hibernate API interfaces  ? Involved in writing SQL, Stored procedure and PL/SQL for backend and used Views, Functions at the Oracle Database end and deployed the application on Tomcat application server  ? Used Spring Batch for running batch jobs and used Apache Maven for compilation and building JAR, WAR and EAR files.  ? Used JUnit/Eclipse for the unit testing of various modules. Used JIRA as project Management Tool to Track work items    Environment:  Core Java, J2EE, Spring, Web Services, XML, JavaScript, Angular JS, HTML, SOAP UI, IBM Web Sphere Application Server, Log4j, Linux, Spring Security. Java Developer Genpact - Hyderabad, Telangana January 2014 to May 2014 Intern)  Responsibilities:  ? Extensively used Hibernate in data access layer to access and update information in the database.  ? Involved in the database retrieval and connections established to the SQL Server.  ? Implemented various tables required for the project in Oracle database and used the Stored Procedures in the application.  ? Designed and Developed Session Beans necessary for various functionalities.  ? Designed and developed DAO's to implement the business logic.  ? Implemented spring architecture and increased modularity by allowing the separation of cross-cutting concerns using Spring AOP.  ? Designed Restful client utilizing POSTMAN plugin, utilized Jersey implementation of JAX-RS specification to design the Restful web service. Handled various types of HTTP requests like PUT, POST, DELETE, and GET etc. from client to web service, dealt with the various type of Text, XML, and JSON requests.  ? Involved in Java Multithreading programming.    Environment:  HTML, JSP, Servlets, JDBC, Oracle, JSP, SOAP, WSDL, Spring framework, Apache Tomcat, Hibernate, JavaScript, Angular JS, Eclipse, XML, SQL, PL-SQL. Education Bachelor of Engineering in Information Technology in Information Technology CVR College of Engineering - Hyderabad, Telangana Master of Science in Computer & Information Systems Security in Computer & Information Systems Security Wilmington University Skills Eclipse, J2ee, Java, Hibernate, Spring, Javascript, UI, Angular, Front End, React, User Interface