Java Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Developer - (408) 933-9546 Denver, CO, CO • Java Developer with 4 + Years of experience on Enterprise applications, Distributed Application Development, Client/Server Applications, Servlets communication, Internet/Intranet based database applications and developing, testing and implementing application environment.  • Hands on experience in the implementation of Core Java SE 8 concepts like Streams API, Lambda functions, Generics, Time API, Functional Interfaces Multithreading, Transaction Management, Exception Handling and Collection API.  • Expertise in developing Micro services using Spring Boot to build more physically separated modular applications which will improve scalability, Availability, Agility of application.  • Proficient in implementation of spring frameworks like Spring MVC, Spring IOC, Spring REST, Spring AOP, Spring Security and Spring Boot.  • Strong experience using frameworks like JSP, EJB, Java Persistence API, JNDI, JMS, Struts, JSF in developing scalable, reliable, efficient web and enterprise applications.  • Good experience in developing SOA (Service Oriented Architecture) and Microservices architecture using J2EE Web Services based on Restful (JAX-RS), SOAP (JAX-WS), JAX-RPC and JAXR ( Java API for XML Registries) using frameworks like Apache CXF, Jersey, Axis and Spring framework, NodeJS (Express JS &Hapi JS)  • Hands on Experience in working with Databases MYSQL, Oracle 10g/11g, SQL-Server, DB2.  • Expertise in creating Databases, Tables, Stored Procedure, DDL/DMLTriggers, Views, User defined data types (UDT), Cursors, Functions, data dictionaries, and maintaining data integrity and Indexes using SQL.  • Good knowledge in writing stored procedures, Packages and functions using SQL & PL/SQL and good at advance PL/SQL topics like Triggers, Collections.  • Experienced in developing front end applications using HTML4/5, XHTML, DHTML, CSS2/3 (using SASS and LESS), Bootstrap, Angular JS, Angular2, 4.Xand developing dynamic web pages.  • Good experience working on CSS Background, CSS Positioning, CSS Text, CSS Border, CSS Margin, CSS Padding, CSS Table, Pseudo Classes, Pseudo Elements and CSS Behaviors in CSS.  • Good Understanding of Document Object Model (DOM) and DOM Functions. Design and implement a Web based content management utilizing XML, JAXB, DOM, XSLT, XPath, and JavaScript for data generation and presentation with JSF..  • Developed multiple Angular 4.0 components which are compatible with latest versions of typescript, Angular CLI.  • Experience in integration tools like Spring Integration, Mule ESB, Apache CXF, Apache Kafka and Apache Camel to integrate the enterprise application technologies with existing JVM environment.  • Experience in using various Amazon Web Services (AWS) like EC2 for virtual servers, S3 and Glacier for storing objects, Elastic Beanstalk, Elastic Cache and Dynamo DB for Elastic load balancing, storing data.  • Implemented Docker container service, build pipe line like Jenkins, Bamboo andGoCD for Continuous Integration and Continuous Deployment that can run on the cloud or on-premises  • Used Kubernetes Linux container for deploying and scaling containerized applications.  • Experience in using Platform as service (PaaS) Cloud services like Pivotal Cloud Foundry to deploy applications on cloud.  • Hands on experience with build tools like ANT, Maven, Gradle and logging tools like Log4J.  • Expertise in unit-testing with tools like JUnit, Mockito, Spock, TestNgandIntegration testing tools like Selenium Web Driver, Cucumber (Behavior Driven Development testing)  • Experience in using Drools rules engine for defining business rules and Validations.  • Good knowledge in JavaScript Task Runner like Gulp, Grunt for minification, compilation, unit testing.  • Experience with testing tools like Selenium and build tool like Jenkins.  • Experience in software configuration management using CVS, SVN and GIT.  • Strong knowledge on JavaScript Unit testing with Jasmin, Karma, Protractor for Angular JS, Mocha and Chai React JS and Backbone JS Work Experience Java Developer Dish Networks - Denver, CO 2018 to Present Project: Work Force Management-Project is based on taking the Work orders from various  Partner's. Install, repair the services to customers.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in all stages of software life cycle which includes design, integration, implementation and unit testing.  • Worked on software development methodologies like SDLC as well as AGILE  • Gained substantial domain knowledge on communication and media.  • Worked on various modules of work force applications and tools like Oracle Field Service Cloud (OFSC)  • Developed JAX-WS web services for integrating external applications.  • Developed Restful / JSON services for mobile applications.  • Developed Quartz scheduled jobs using Java-Spring framework for batch processing.  • Migrated WFM applications from SPRING IOC to Spring Boot micro services with Java 8 version.  • Implemented Hibernate and JPA for data storage into MySQL/Oracle Data bases.  • Involved in code base migration from SVN to GIT Lab.  • Worked with DevOps team, to migrate PROD/TEST environment from local VMs to CLOUD environment.  • Implemented Java utility classes for JWT and OKTA token-based authentication to protect APIs exposed over internet.  • Worked on Postman and SOAP UI for REST/SOAP API testing.  • Worked on Database schema design for major RDBMS like Oracle and SQL Server.  • Developed Stored procedures and functions in Oracle & PL/SQL.  • Developed Stored procedures and functions in SQL Server & T-SQL.  • Involved in production support, preventive maintenance and troubleshooting of severity production issues to minimize the downtime.  • Excellent hands on Experience in development and deployment on LINUX and Windows platforms.    Environments:EclipseIDE, Maven, Gradle, Sql, Jenkins, Rancher, GitHub, Tomcat, PostMan, SoapAPI, SwaggerUI. Java Developer Dish Networks - San Jose, CA May 2018 to October 2018 Project: Provides an innovative approach to inventory management that addresses equipment loss, and which will provide loss Prevention and ready, easy access to available Asset (equipment) . The system will allow the user to select an Asset on the given Asset device table, after selecting the asset it will redirect to location of an Asset on the floor map so an engineer who needs a particular piece can find it immediately. The user can filter the map based on provided icons such as Asset is available to use, condition of the Asset, status of the Asset etc. And also, user can check in and check out the Asset, also will provide the alerts to Asset administration whenever a new Asset comes into the lab/floor/building or moves out of the lab/floor/building. Basically, application provides tracking (locating equipment on map) of Asset and the time spent looking for a piece of equipment is reduced, lowers capital etc.    Responsibilities:  • Implemented Angular Controllers and services to bind the data.  • Used HTML5, CSS3 and Bootstrap for responsive web design  • Implements responsive design template to get a new interface in Bootstrap, HTML5.  • Written jQuery functions to do client-side validation and Popup screens.  • Extensively used AJAX framework to develop the dynamic user interfaces and XMLHTTP Request object to directly communicate with the server.  • Developed end-to-end web application using Spring MVC framework  • Used Spring for dependency injection  • Used Spring security for basic authentication and also to connect LDAP sever to get the SSO functionality.  • Developed HQL queries with Hibernate to perform curd operation as per requirements  • Used Hibernate for building DAOs.  • Used Maven for preparing WAR files used to deploy J2EE components.  • Consumed the data from API's using RESTful services with spring rest template.  • Developed reusable and interoperable Web service modules based on SOA architecture using RESTFUL and micro Services.  • Imported certification files into java key store to get authenticate with certified API (URL)  • Created XML files using JDOM2 and parsed XML data from data base club files.  • Experienced in writing unit test cases using JUNIT, Mockito.  • Developed JMS Queues for asynchronous messaging and Web Services using SOAP/WSDL  • Exposing and consuming the services to the downstream/upstream applications using Apache CXF and REST services.  • Configured AWS Cloud watch to monitor AWS resources as well as application and troubleshoot AWS EC2 status check including System Status check and Instance Status check alerts.  • Configured development environment using WebSphere application server for developer's integration testing.  • Involved in development of Test Cases using JUnit for Unit Testing.  • Selected and implemented Agile development practices to the application requirements.  • Used Log4j for logging purposes.  • Used Stash for source code.  • RAD used as IDE tool for application development and debugging.    Environment: Java, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Ajax, JBoss, Bootstrap, AngularJS, JSP, XML, JSTL, Hibernate, Spring, JDBC, REST Web Services, Ant, Log4j, JUnit, AWS, Oracle, AXIS, Apache tomcat, RAD, Stash. Jr. Java Developer Nike Inc - Portland, OR May 2017 to February 2018 Project:Is an American multinational corporation that is engaged in design, development and manufacturing of foot ware, apparel etc. involved in designing and developing various application like Nike, Nike friends, Nike plus, Nike Training club, Nike SNKRS.    Responsibilities:  • Understanding User requirements, participating in design discussions, implementation feasibility analysis both at front-end and backend level, documenting requirement.  • Followed Agile SCRUM methodology and sprint meetings, attending daily stand ups.  • Designing and Developing new enhancements using Java 1.8/J2EE.  • Developed the Model, View and Controller (MVC) Components while implementing Spring Framework.  • Implemented RESTful Services Worked with QA team on daily basis in fixing the reported bugs.  • Used GIT as the code repository and versioning system.  • Performed Unit testing on the application using Junit, Mockito and Power Mockit  • Deployed services in Jenkins to analyze Sonar and Fortify results to fix code coverage issues and branch coverage as well  • Worked on TAF (Test Automation Framework) to make sure every service is working efficiently after developing a new module or code changes.  • Deployed the Microservices in Cloud Stackato.  • Developed all the JUnit test cases for all the different layer implementations.  • Developed Maven configuration files for all the existing plugins to make part of the build.  • Used Maven as build tool and Jenkins for continuous integration development.  • Performing the code review activities and retrospective.  • Using Tomcat as a server to deploy applications which is customized in Stackato.  • Used Eclipse as IDE tool to develop the application.  • JIRA for bug and issue tracking. Jr. Java Developer Power Mockito June 2014 to May 2015 Environments: Core Java, Java 1.8, Spring Framework, XML, JSON, Jenkins, Eclipse Oxygen and Agile/Scrum, Maven, GIT, Junit, Mockito, Power Mockito, SonarQube, Fortify, TAF (Test Automation Framework), Jira, Tomcat.  Medha Servo Drives, Pvt. Ltd-India June 2014 to May 2015  Role: Jr. Java Developer    Responsibilities:  • Involved in development and implementation of the application using Spring and J2EE framework • Worked in Agile environment and attended Daily Scrum meetings.  • Involved in requirement collection, design & analysis of the customer specifications, development & customization of the application.  • Used Spring MVC and Hibernate ORM to map Java classes to database tables using various annotations and POJO classes.  • Used JPA to persist the data into database and wrote HQL based queries to implement CRUD operations on the data.  • Involved in implementation of Spring MVC and Spring Controller.  • Configured and tested the application with database server MySQL.  • Implemented as well as exposed web services using REST and documented them using Swagger.  • Designed responsive web pages using the UI technologies using HTML5, CSS3.  • Used Custom tags, JSTL to support custom User Interfaces.  • Used Spring AOP for exception logging with log4J.  • Worked with version control GIT to manage the code repository. Merging and branching using push pull commands through git.  • Successfully performed the RESTful APIs Integration using Spring Rest implementation and developed an API wrapper for reusability.  • Produced RESTful Web Service server with Spring, set JSON data type between front-end and the service layer.  • Used JIRA tool for bug tracking, fixes, task assignment.  • Used Eclipse as IDE for the application development and integration of the frameworks.  • Extensively used JUnit for unit testing.  • Used Maven as build tool    Environment: Java, Java Beans, J2EE, REST, Multithreading, Collections, Spring Framework, Spring MVC, Spring Boot, Hibernate, RESTful Webservices, Jersey, HTML 5, CSS3, JavaScript, JSON, Angular 2, JSTL, JMS, PL/SQL, MySQL, Swagger, Tomcat, Eclipse, JUnit, Mockito, JIRA, Jenkins, Git, Maven. Education Masters in Information Technology Atlantis University - Miami, FL Skills Git (2 years), JAVA (2 years), TOMCAT (2 years), WEB SERVICES (2 years), JSON (2 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  Languages: C, C++, JAVA/JDK8.0, SQL,  J2EE Technologies: Servlet, JSP, JDBC, RMI, JNDI, JSTL, Web Services.  Databases: Oracle, DB2, MySQL, MongoDB  Operating Systems: Windows XP/7/8, UNIX, Linux, Mac OS  Frameworks: Struts, Spring, Hibernate, JSF, JUNIT, J2EE design patterns  Web & App Servers: Tomcat, Weblogic, WebSphere, boss  Xml technologies: XML, DTD, XML Schema, DOM, SAX, SOAP, JAXB, JAXP, XSL, XSD, XPATH, JSON  Build tools: MAVEN, ANT, JENKINS  Version control tools: GIT, SVN, CVS, Rational Clear Case  IDE'S: Eclipse, Spring Tool Suite, MyEclipse, NetBeans, Web Logic