Java Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Developer Bridgeport, CT Work Experience Java Developer Graks Info - Hyderabad, Telangana August 2013 to October 2016 My Responsibilities and Roles:  Worked as java developer.  Involved in development of web applications and desktop applications GUI  #Project 1: Wiitronics Parking Space Management    Wiitronics is a company which provides Smart Parking Solutions.    Random Mouse Web Application  Developing a website using AngularJs and Spring Frameworks.    A user can see parking slot information, book a parking place, can pay online. System administrators can configure the gateways, local servers and sensor settings. Communication between Web application server and AngularJs application is through JSON using the REST API provided by web application server.    Random Mouse Web Socket Application  Developing WEB-SOCKET Application using Spring Framework to automate the process of updating configuration files of Gateways and Local Servers which handles parking site data.  Roles & Responsibilities: -  • Involved in implementation of application using conventional design practices using MVC.  • Spring boot is used to create out of the box structure for the micro service.  • Spring web socket is used for real time data synchronization.  • Spring data is used for the database development.  • Maven is used as build tool for developing application using Spring Framework.  • Integrated spring framework with Hibernate that is used for Database operations.  • Developed a REST Web Service with Spring MVC.  • Used JMS to build a message communication.  • Used Custom Pipes to implement currency conversions in the application using Angular JS.  • Used JavaScript and Angular JS to make webpage more interactive  • Front-end web GUI JSP design as per user's requirement by JSP, HTML, JavaScript and CSS.  • Spring MVC is used for backend data flow control  • Implemented external customer page using Spring MVC pattern and IOC.  • Implemented classes, interfaces, methods, constructors and objects definitions using TypeScript.  • Used Spring framework for Dependency Injection and JDBC connectivity.    Technologies and Frameworks Used: - AngularJs, JavaScript, HTML, CSS, Bootstrap  Java, Spring REST, Spring Web MVC, Spring Data, Spring Security, Hibernate, MySQL, Tomcat Development Tools: NPM, Maven, Git BitBucket, Spring Tool Suite.  # project 2: Document Management System-DMS-Web Application    DMS is a web application to maintain Building Drawings Autodesk and other Documents. Users are given create, read, write and delete permissions based on role. Notifications to users can be sent through mail. User's passwords are stored using bcrypt algorithm.    Roles & Responsibilities: -  • Servlets and JSP are used as backend development  • Hibernate is used as database agnostic development.  • HTML is used to develop static web pages  • CSS and Bootstrap are used to enhance the look and feel of the UI.  • JavaScript and jQuery are used to add dynamic behavior to web pages.  • Tomcat server is used in the application container.  • MySQL is used for database operational purpose.  • Created and developed UI components within single page application (SPA), by using AngularJS.  • Implemented classes, interfaces, methods, constructors and objects definitions using TypeScript.  • Efficient in describing data using XML (DTD, Schema) and working with XML management technologies like XSL, XSD.  • Developed a fully functional prototype application using JavaScript and Bootstrap.  • Implemented Multi-threading concepts.    Technologies Used: - Servlets, Core- Java, JSP, Hibernate, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, AngularJS, jQuery, Bootstrap, AJAX, XML, JSON, Apache Tomcat, MySQL.  # Project 3: Project Name: Cisco Commerce workspace CCW  Technologies used: Java, JSP, Servlet, J2EE, SQL, XML, JavaScript.  Tools used: Eclipse, Quality center, Splunk, Cisco, J2EE App server.  DESCRIPTION: A e-commerce application that offers single experience to Cisco partners or customers to perform all their configuring, quoting and ordering without using multiple tools or applications. It's based on JSP and SQL technology. Workspace has about 8 portlets present for the user to perform various functions (e.g.: QuickStart, Find Hardware, Software subscription, Portlet to view deal, order and conf details etc.). CCW Application contributed to 80% of Cisco business for selling Cisco products by letting partners perform DEAL, QOUTE, CONFIGURE, ORDER operation.  Role & Responsibilities: -  • Understanding the business requirement from business stakeholders.  • XML and JSON are used as data exchange technologies between UI and back end.  • Developed service layer using various J2EE design patterns Singleton, DAO, Factory, and Repository Builder.  • Development of tools used by the team internally using Java, SQL.  • Involved in development of custom Servlet handling http request and response objects.  • Participate in the new development initiatives for providing technical solutions Reports & Process.  • Prioritize the production issues by analyzing the logs, database entries and processes.  • Used Git for software development and other version control tasks.  • Responsible for writing J2EE compliant java code for application development effort which involved working with JSP, Servlets.  • Developing presentation layer with JSP's, HTML5, JavaScript.  Teaching Experience: - Designation: Assistant Professor Education Master's Degree in Computer Science in Computer Science University of Bridgeport 2018 B. Tech in students Matrix Institute of Technology July 2010 to June 2013 Skills Java J2Ee, Spring, Hibernate, Java, J2Ee Additional Information Technical skills: -  Programming Languages: JAVA, C, C++, UML 2.0, Python core-level  Front End Web Technologies: AngularJs, Angular, jQuery, Ajax, HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, JavaScript, XML, JSON, HTML Graphics using Canvas.  Back End Technologies: J2EE Servlets, JSP, Spring, Core java, PHP.  Database: MySQL.  Framework: Spring Core, Spring Boot, Spring MVC, Spring REST, Spring Data, Spring Security, Hibernate, Java Web Services, AngularJs, Angular 2.  Tools: Netbeans, Eclipse, Spring Tool Suite, Code Blocks.  OS: Linux, Windows  Version control System: GIT.  Building tool: Maven.    • Operating Systems  • Formal Languages and Automation Theory  • Data Structures and Algorithms  • Compiler Design  • Guided various students who are preparing for GATE It is one of the most competitive examinations in India Examination.  • Taught students in programming classes.  C and DS professor in various Institutions: -  • Worked as C and DS programming Professor at Himaja Institute ECIL X Roads, Hyderabad (15th March 2012 to 20th Aug 2015).  • Worked as C programming Professor at NIIT ECIL X Roads, Hyderabad (12th Feb 2015 to 20th June 2015).  Freelance Tutor 2013 to 2016: -  • Taught students in computer science related courses, mathematics and Aptitude for GRE and GMAT aspirants, guided bachelor's students in their academic projects.  Strong Points: -  • Strong analytical and problem-solving skills.  • willing to take initiative and able to learn quickly and apply new tools and technologies in the projects.