Java Full Stack Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> Full Stack <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Full Stack Developer - Dignity Health Phoenix, AZ Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Java Full Stack Developer Dignity Health - Phoenix, AZ July 2018 to Present Roles & Responsibilities:  ? Involved in SDLC Requirements gathering, Analysis, Design, and Development, testing production of application using both Agile Scrum.  ? Involved in design discussions and understanding of business requirements and identify the relevant functional and technical requirement.  ? Developed the application using Spring (MVC) Framework that helps in separating the business logic, presentation logic and navigation logic.  ? Responsible for ingesting large volumes of IOT data to Kafka.  ? Managed and monitored server instances and automation using WLST.  ? Configured connection pools and Data sources for Web Logic 9.2/10.3, JBOSS 4.2/5.0.1/5.1.0, and SJSAS 9.1 application servers with backend oracle 9i/10g/11g RAC DB's.  ? Deployed WAR & EAR files in Web Logic 9.2/10.3, JBOSS 4.2/5.0.1/5.1.0 and SJSAS 9.1 application servers hosting clustered environments.  ? Developed Micro services with Java using Spring Boot IDE.  ? Wrote Kafka producers to stream the data from external rest APIs to Kafka topics.  ? Wrote Spring Core and Spring MVC files to associate DAO with Business Layer.  ? Analyzed and implemented the Spring MVC framework and wrote controllers.  ? Used Angular.Js factory and services for dependency injection.  ? Developed the persistence layer by using Hibernate ORM frame work, defining entities through annotations.  ? Wrote Hibernate annotation-based mapping Java classes with Oracle Database tables.  ? Used intercepting filter design pattern for all the pre-processing and post-processing purposes which includes session validation, authorization, logging.  ? Involved in developing and exposing web services and consumption of web services like SOAP, RESTFUL Web services  ? Used Soap UI and postman for Rest API testing  ? Involved in the server's architecture designing and creating Fabric, Profiles and configuring the JBoss Fuse/AMQs servers.  ? Worked with Fuse Karaf commands OSGI commands, features commands, Cxf commands.  ? Worked with master/slave configurations of Jboss AMQs server.  ? Created data sources between Jboss fuse and oracle/PostgreSQL/MySQL data base.  ? Created bridges between WebLogic server 11g/12c and Jboss Fuse, Jboss Fuse to WebLogic 11g/12c  ? Developed RESTful web services using Java, Spring Boot.  ? Produced and consumed RESTful Web Services for transferring data between different applications.  ? Used AJAX to call the REST API methods and connect to the backend.  ? Used Restful Web Services to retrieve and update the data using this AJAX.  ? Performed configuration, deployment and support of cloud services in Azure.  ? Used GITLAB as source control management giving a huge speed advantage on centralized systems that communicate with server and NEXUS as Jar Repository Tool.  ? Developed code with Java SDK to connect with AWS Services.  ? Worked with S3 for storing and retrieving data stored in the S3 bucket's, AWS SQS for bulk email processing, Data backup and archiving on AWS using S3 and Glacier and Dynamo DB to store the data for metrics and backend reports.  Environment: Java 8, Spring 3.5, Hibernate 4.2, Spring batch, Spring quartz, Spring security, Spring JTA, Spring Boot, JPA, Java Scripts, AngularJS 4.0, HTML5, CSS, JMS, AWS (S3, VPC, EBS, ELB, Auto Scaling, Cloud Watch, Cloud Trail, IAM, SNS, SQS, RDS, Dynamo DB), Tomcat Application Server 8.0, Eclipse, SOAP, Restful, Maven, log4j, JUnit, XML, Splunk, SVN Java Full Stack Developer Cigna Health Care - Denver, CO May 2017 to June 2018 Roles & Responsibilities:  ? Involved in all phases of the Software development life cycle (SDLC) using Agile Methodology.  ? Implemented Different Design patterns like singleton, factory and J2EE design patterns like Business delegate, session facade, Value object and DAO design patterns.  ? Implemented AWS client API to interact with different services as Console configuration for AWS EC2.  ? Used Spring Framework's IOC Dependency Injection to inject Service Object using Service Locator Design Pattern into Action Classes.  ? Deployed enterprise J2EE applications on JBoss that includes EAR, WAR files.  ? Recycling JBOSS EAP and EWS, performing configuring changes as per the request  ? The application consisted of a monolithic codebase being slowly migrated to a micro services environment. Each micro services backend and frontend tech stack varied slightly from one another.  ? Implemented Unit testing using Junit.  ? Integration of spring modules with AWS modules in order to consume third party services.  ? Developed Webpages using UI frameworks bootstrap, Angular JS.  ? Created DHTML pages, used JavaScript for client-side validations and AJAX, AngularJS to create interactive front-end GUI.  ? Managed and maintained Oracle and NoSQL databases in production domain.  ? Designed and implemented a NoSQL based database and associated RESTful web service that persists high-volume user profile data for vertical teams.  ? Created Scala and Java based ETL streaming framework, using Spark, Cassandra, Hadoop and Hive.  ? Used Angular libraries like angular-UI-router, angular-resource to create the effective single page application and used angular-cookies to temporarily store the data used in this application.  ? Used LDAP Authentication for logging and Validating User Credentials.  ? Designed the real time analytics and ingestion platform using Storm and Kafka  ? Incorporated Basic authentication and JSON threat protection by using Apigee API gateway.  ? Used Struts tag libraries in the JSP pages. Used Swagger to interact with API end points of the Micro services.  ? Used Pivotal Cloud Foundry to quickly build, deploy & update the applications.  ? Developed a controller Servlet that dispatches request to appropriate Action Classes.  ? Developed the application under J2EE Architecture using spring, Struts, Hibernate, Servlets, Web logic and JSP.  ? Used Java Persistence API (JPA) and Hibernate for performing the Database Transactions.  ? Used join point and advice Spring AOP modules for cross cutting concerns and IOC for dependency injection.  ? Designed extensive additions to existing Java Web Application utilizing Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) techniques.  ? Used Spring Batch to setup batch jobs to email the daily reports and that which run on Pivotal Cloud Foundry with Spring Boot as its MVC layer.  ? Extensively worked on Spring Bean wiring, Spring DAO and Spring AOP modules.  ? Designed Graphical User Interface (GUI) for various Webpages using AJAX, HTML5, CSS3, JSF, JQuery and JavaScript.  ? Followed Agile Methodology and TDD (test driven development).  ? Implemented SOA architecture with web services using SOAP, WSDL, UDDI and XML.  ? Identified and resolved programming issues, Servlets and EJB s performance tuning opportunities.  ? Used JMS API for asynchronous communication by putting the messages in the Message queue.  ? Consumed Web Services (WSDL, SOAP, and UDDI) from third party for authorizing payments to/from customers.  ? Involved in Developing Web Application with Full Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) from Design to Deployment using agile methodologies.  ? Involved in the analysis & design of the application using UML with Rational Rose  ? MVC architecture is implemented by struts framework.  ? Exposed Survey API to other applications in DOE using Apache Axis2.  ? Used Oracle BPM for page design and development.  ? Involved in implementing JQuery for providing interactive user interfaces.  ? Wrote Test Cases using Junit to validate the application flows in different scenarios in the standalone application.  Environment: Java 8, Spring 3.5, Hibernate 4.2, Spring batch, Spring quartz, Spring security, Spring JTA, Spring Boot, JPA, Java Scripts, AngularJS, HTML 4.0, CSS, JMS, JAXP (SAX & DOM), AWS, WebSphere Application Server, Eclipse/RAD 8.0, Oracle 11g, SOAP, RUP, Maven, log4j, Polymer, JUnit, XML, MongoDB, Web Services, ILogJ Rules 5.0, Splunk, GIT Java Developer & UI Developer BMO Harris Bank - Chicago, IL January 2017 to April 2017 Roles & Responsibilities:  ? Developed the J2EE application based on the Service Oriented Architecture.  ? Used Design Patterns like Singleton, Factory, MVC, Intercepting Filter, Front Controller, Business Delegate, Service Locator, Session Facade and DAO.  ? Developed using new features of Java 1.5 like Annotations, Generics, enhanced for loop and Enums.  ? Involved in writing Thread Safe blocks for multithread access to make valid transactions.  ? Used Spring Inheritance to develop beans from already developed parent beans.  ? Worked on Spring Quartz functionality for scheduling tasks such as generating monthly reports for customers and sending those mails about different policies.  ? Used DAO pattern to fetch data from database using Hibernate to carry out various database.  ? Used Hibernate Transaction Management, Hibernate Batch Transactions, and cache concepts.  ? Created session EJBs that retrieved information from the Oracle database using Hibernate.  ? Defined Action Forms, Model Components using Struts MVC framework providing very clean division between controllers, flexibility with the use of interfaces and providing thin web layer over business layer.  ? Developed various generic JavaScript functions used for validations.  ? Developed screens using JSP, JavaScript, AJAX and Ext JS.  ? Used JIRA for defect tracking and project management.  ? Used AJAX extensively to implement front end /user interface features in the application.  ? Implemented SOA to develop Web services using Apache Axis.  ? A set of Web Services was created using CXF to handle SOAP requests with HL7 payload and addressing  ? Developed Web Services clients to consume those Web Services as well other enterprise wide Web Services.  ? Exposed the Web Services to the client applications by sharing the WSDL's.  ? Configured Selenium WebDriver, TestNG, Maven tool and created selenium automation scripts in java using Test NG prior to agile release.  ? Created logical and physical data models putting to practice, concepts of normalization and RDBMS.  ? Database development required creation of new tables, PL/SQL stored procedures, functions, views, indexes and constraints, triggers and required SQL tuning to reduce the response time in the application.  ? Followed Agile SCRUM methodology and used Test Driven Development (TDD).  ? Used Rational Application Developer (RAD) which is based on Eclipse, to develop and debug application code.  ? Used Ant scripts to build and deploy the applications in JBoss application Server.  ? Used Log4j utility to generate run-time logs.  ? CVS was used for project management and version management.  ? Deployed the application on WebSphere 7.0 application server.  ? Developed Functional Requirement Document based on users' requirement.  Environment: J2EE, Spring framework, Spring MVC, iBatis 2.2, JSP 2.0, JSF, Servlets 2.3, JDBC, AJAX, Web services, SOAP, XML, Java Beans, XStream, Apache POI, Ext JS, jQuery, JavaScript, Oracle 10g, IBM RAD, WebSphere 7.0, Data Grid, Agile Methodology, TDD, Selenium, Design Patterns, CVS, Apache Maven, JUnit, HTML, XSLT, HTML/DHTML Java Developer Matrix Network Solutions - Hyderabad, Telangana November 2014 to April 2016 Roles & Responsibilities:  ? Developed and designed front-end using HTML, AngularJS, CSS, Micro services, Bootstrap and JavaScript with JSF AJAX and tag libraries.  ? Developed the entire application implementing MVC Architecture integrating Hibernate and Spring Boot frameworks.  ? involved in development of presentation layer using JSP and servlets.  ? Worked on development of hibernate, including mapping files, configuration file, and classes to interact with the database  ? Developed J2EE application development on Windows and Unix Platforms.  ? Designed and developed hibernate configuration and session per request design pattern for making database connectivity and accessing the session for database transactions respectively.  ? Implemented object-relational mapping in the persistence layer using hibernate framework in addition to spring functionality  ? Deployed and developed web services and integrating clients with services using SOAP and RESTful.  ? Involved in injecting dependencies into code using spring core module.  ? Used Spring Core Annotations for Dependency injection.  ? Involved in developing code for obtaining bean references in spring framework using Dependency Injections (DI) or Inversion of Control (IOC).  ? Used HQL and SQL for fetching and storing data in databases.  ? Worked extensively on Hibernate Query Language (HQL) to store and retrieve the data from oracle database.  ? Developed Enterprise JavaBeans (EJB) for implementing application's business rules and policies.  ? Designed and developed Validations, Controller Classes and JavaBean components.  ? Used Web Services - WSDL and SOAP for getting required information from the third party.  ? Used Apache Ant for the build process.  ? Designed and developed Stored Procedures, Triggers in Oracle to cater the needs of the entire application.  ? Used Clear Case for version control and Clear Quest for bug tracking.  Environment: Java, JDK 1.3, J2EE (JSP, Servlets, EJB), JDBC, Apache Tomcat, oracle, HTML, DHTML, IBM Web Sphere 6.0, SQL and JUnit Education Master's Degree in Computer Science in Computer Science Chicago State University - Chicago, IL 2018 Bachelor's Degree in Information Technology in Information Technology JNT University 2014 Skills Awt, Bea, Bea weblogic, Eclipse, Ejb, J2ee, Java, Hibernate, Spring, Jax, Jaxb, Jax-rpc, Jax-ws, Jboss, Jfc, Jms, Jndi, jquery, Jsp, Jstl Additional Information ? Result-driven IT Professional with referable & strong experience in design, development and deployment of web-based and Client-Server business applications using OOP, Java/J2EE technologies.  ? Expert in various Agile Methodologies like SCRUM, Test Driven Development(TTD), Incremental and Iteration methodology, Agile Development & Testing using Software Development Life Cycle.  ? Expertise in developing SOA (Service Oriented Architecture), REST and J2EE ++ based on SOAP, WSDL, UDDI, JAX-WS, JAXB, JAX-RPC using tools like Apache Axis.  ? Extensive experience in designing professional UI web applications using front-end technologies like AngularJS, Node.js, Angular 2/4, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery AJAX, JSON and Bootstrap.  ? Experience in Service Oriented Architecture (SOA), Web Services Integrations, BPM, BPEL and ESB using WebSphere Process Server, ESB, Web Sphere Integration Developer, Data Power and WSRR.  ? Skilled in transaction implementation (CMP, BMP, Message-Driven Beans), JMS, Struts, Spring, Swing, Hibernate, Java Beans, JDBC, XML, Web Services, JNDI, Multithreading etc.  ? Strong experience in Spring Framework modules such as Spring MVC, IOC, AOP, JDBC, JTA, IO, Spring Dashboard, Spring Boot, Spring Micro services, Spring REST, Spring Eureka, Spring Ribbon, Spring Netflix, Spring Zuul Proxy.  ? Proficient in applying design patterns like MVC, Singleton, Session Facade, Service Locator, Visitor, Observer, Decorator, Front Controller, Data Access Object.  ? Proficient in frameworks like Struts, Spring, JSF, AJAX frameworks and ORM frameworks like Hibernate.  ? Experience with Front end frame works with its components such as AngularJS, jQuery, NodeJS, BackboneJS, React.Js.  ? Excellent understanding of Hadoop architecture and various components such as HDFS, Job Tracker, Task Tracker, Name Node, Data Node and MapReduce programming paradigm.  ? Expertise in XML technologies such as XSL, XSLT, XML schemas, XPath, XForms, XSL-FO and parsers like SAX, DOM.  ? Strong experience with MongoDB development (reports, schema design, map reduce functions) and migrations from SQL relational databases to NoSQL databases like MongoDB, Cassandra and CouchDB.  ? Experience in database modelling, design and development of PL/SQL Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, Functions and Packages in relational databases: Oracle 11g, SQL Server 2005/2008, DB2 and MySQL.    Technical competencies:    Programming Languages: Java 1.8, SQL, PL/SQL  Java/J2EE Technologies: Servlets, JSP, JSTL, JDBC, JMS, JNDI, RMI, EJB, JFC/Swing, AWT, Applets, Multi-threading, Java Networking  Application/Web Servers: Apache Tomcat 8.0, IBM WebSphere 8.0, JBoss 7.x, Oracle/BEA WebLogic 12.x/10.x/9.x  Web technologies: JSP, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, Angular JS, XML, HTML 5, CSS 3, React.Js, BackBone.JS 1.3.1, Node JS 6.0  Frameworks: Spring 4.3, Hibernate 4.3, Angular JS 1.0/2.0, Spring Security 3.2  Web Services: SOAP 1.2, REST 2.0, JAX-WS, JAX-RPC, JAX-RS  IDE: Eclipse, NetBeans 8.0.2, IntelliJ 2017.1, Spring Tool Suite (STS) 3.9.3  Cloud Environments: Azure, AWS, Netflix Eureka, Mesos, Kubernetes  XML Tools: JAXB, Apache Axis, AltovaXMLSpy  Methodologies: Agile, waterfall, TDD (Test-Driven-Development), Scrum  Modeling Tools: UML, Rational Rose, Visio  Testing technologies/tools: Junit, Selenium, TEST NG, Mockito, Cucumber, JMeter, RFT  Relational Database: Oracle 11g/12C, SQL server 2012/2014/2016, MySQL 5.7, DB2 11.1  NoSQL Databases: MongoDB, Cassandra, Couch DB  Version Control: CVS, SVN, Rational clear case, GIT, BitBucket  Build Tools: Maven 3.3.9, Gradle 3.4.1, Ant 1.10  Platforms: Windows 10, UNIX, Linux