Java UI Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> UI <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java UI Developer Redmond, WA • 3.6 years' experience in Core and Advanced Java with strong technical and domain knowledge, good debugging and communication skills and a steep learning curve    • Good knowledge in OOPs concepts, multi-threading, data structures and algorithms.    • Development and documentation experience in application development in Java on Linux    • Adept in java topics like Servlets, JSP, JavaScript and JDBC.    • Strong experience in Relational databases    • Scripting and automation experience in SQL, PL/SQL databases in Linux.    • Strong background in computers networking concepts and related protocols like tcp-ip, snmp    • Experience on UI elements like HTML, CSS and Spring MVC, IOC/AOP    • Sound knowledge with React JS, JQuery, JSON, XML, Restful Webservices    • Hands on experience in High availability scenarios    • Worked on critical and live cluster environments using Apache Tomcat webservers    • Experience in agile software development lifecycle and development tools Eclipse IDE, Git and Putty  • Good knowledge in Amazon Web Services like Amazon EC2, Amazon S3, Amazon Elastic Load Balancing  • Worked in Agile SCRUM and TDD (Test Driven Development) software development methodologies Work Experience Java UI Developer SLV technologies March 2018 to March 2019 Career Turn (careerturn.in) is an online educational portal which is focused to provide quality and effective self-evaluated courses. The team is responsible for the development, maintenance and support of the portal. Career Turn is designed to simplify the tedious analyzing and result making process for the educational institutes and faculty. Career Turn features various practice tests, study content, latest examination patterns alongside mock tests.      Technical Skills:      Tools : Eclipse IDE, Language : Java, HTML, CSS, ReactJS, Restful Webservices      Responsibilities:      ? Worked on the development of the front-end web pages by using HTML, CSS, and JavaScript, taking advantage of the framework of ReactJS ? Involved in the development of career turn application using Java and Java Servlets ? Developed Application to asses JSON and XML from Restful web service from consumer side using JavaScript Java Developer Tata Consultancy Services - Hyderabad, Telangana June 2015 to February 2018 BBOSS (Broadband Operations Support Systems) team is responsible for the development of the EMS and NMS system which manages end to end network solutions for one of the leading communication technology providers, Ericsson. The element management systems have a wide range of plugins depending on the network elements they manage for supporting their functionality. The network management system has the overview of the entire network to provide feasible solutions to support SDH and Ethernet networks based on customer's requirements.    BBOSS's charter is to solve Ericson's customer's operating troubles in a thorough and timely manner. We are involved in the requirement gathering, feasibility study, writing functional specifications and implementation proposals for new features and change requests. BBOSS ensures changes are built to operate with focus on performance and scalability.    Responsibilities:  • Worked in the development (using Java, Servlets, JSPs) and maintenance on both front end and back end of the Element Management System software application called SO-EM where in FCAPS features are implemented which control various multi-vendor network elements. Worked and developed various SQL scripts for the automation and as per the requirement of the end users.    • Debugging and resolving customer escalations; troubleshooting various issues and generating reports    • Worked on the development of new GUI features using HTML, CSS, JavaScript as per the customer requirements.    • Involved in gathering requirements, feasibility study, writing functional specifications and    • Implementation proposals for new features and change requests. Handled many critical bugs and delivered it according to the SLAs (Programming, unit testing and live site support).    • Worked on critical Linux high availability scenarios like failover support and database and stabilizing the system for the minimal down time.    • Involved in code build management and delivered many builds successfully.    • Node maintenance and troubleshooting support, providing support for Clear Case Configuration management activities.    • Mentored several new joiners.    Environment: Linux, Apache, VMWare, Junit, Java, Servlets, JSPs, JavaScript, HTML, CSS, MySQL, PL/SQL Education Bachelor's jawaharlal Nehru University, Kakinada, Andra Pradesh , India July 2011 to May 2015 Skills Javascript, Front End, React