Java Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Developer - Unit Testing Work Experience Java Developer Unit Testing November 2016 to Present Implementation ~ Defect Fixing ~ Programming ~ Debugging ~ Integration ~ Client Interaction ~ Troubleshooting Ability ~ Performance Optimization ~  Professional Summary  ? Overall 3 years of experience in development of Enterprise applications using JAVA.  ? Working as a Java Developer with Amdocs India from Nov, 2016 to till date.  ? Worked with Wipro Technologies for 1.4 years in supporting BSS applications.  ? Possesses 6 months of project experience in database, gained by working with Aircel Ltd.  ? Hands on experience and thorough understanding of Data Structures, Java, J2EE, JDBC, Junit, SQL/PLSQL, UNIX.  ? Knowledge of DevOps and Jira tool and worked in Agile.  ? Cohesive team worker, having strong analytical, problem solving and interpersonal skills. Special proficiency in Java development platform, development and enhancement of APIs.  ? Involved in the development of many CR's.    Technical Skill Set  Primary Skills: Java, JDBC, J2EE, SQL, Junit  Technologies: HTML, SDLC, Agile, DevOps  Operating System: Windows, UNIX  IDE/GUI Tools: Perforce (Version Control), Jenkins, BMC remedy (ticketing system),  UTS, AMDOCS (Document Designer), SonarQube, Eclipse, Maven, Ant  Toad for Oracle, MS-Office, putty, Vi Editor, Ultra Edit, Filezilla, WinSCP  Misc: Data Structures, Algorithms  Database: Oracle  Bug Tracker: HP Quality Center, Jira, Amdocs Monitoring & Control    Project Details  ? Amdocs India (1.7 years)  Project: ENABLER (AMDOCS Billing/Interfaces SYSTEM)  Client: Telus(Canada), USCC(US)  Team size: 4  Technologies: Java, J2EE, UNIX, SQL, PL/SQL, Junit  Tools used: Eclipse, Perforce, Jenkins, SonarQube, Quality Center, Toad, putty, Jira  Description: Amdocs Enabler is a very comprehensive product. Modules can be installed as standalone components interfacing with clients existing systems. Part of a fully integrated Amdocs system environment. The product is customized and implemented for many Communication Service Providers. The Enabler implementation includes all the Main AMDOCS Modules including Customer Management/AR/Collection.  Role: Java Developer (Experience)  Responsibilities:  ? Spearheading design and development of new features independently with high quality  ? Involved in the development of various CRs for different line of business efficiently  ? Active participation in technical discussion for new feature implementation  ? Instrumental in defect fixing raised by testing team and client of Billing module  ? Successful implementation of Unit Testing, supporting System and QA testing  ? Involve in Impact Assessment sessions and validating the representation of all requirements    ? Wipro Technologies (1.4 years)  Project: Power Network's Billing system  Client: UKPN (UK)  Team size: 9  Technologies: Java, SQL, UNIX  Tools used: Quality Center, Oracle, putty  Description: Developed and supported java based applications for engineering, administration and management purpose for UK based Power network client. Analysis user requirements and prepares design and develop modules based on it. Interacting with users to define business requirements and scope of the module/project.  Role: Project Engineer  Responsibilities:  ? Responsible for overseeing and maintaining the Production procedures related to the project.  ? Providing on time assessment and support to work/functions.  ? Handling Daily Operational Activities, defect fixing, unit testing, supporting System and QA testing.  ? Research and investigate the current processes to optimize as the changing scenarios.    ? OPS Campaign Processor (Training) M.C.A. semester- VI  It was two-tier architecture. Oracle was used as front-end and Teradata was used as back-end to store data. There were three modules namely, customer, services & data management. I worked on development part and made scripts to schedule work. This internship was undergone a well known organization AIRCEL Limited which had an engagement with Wipro.  Environment - UNIX, VI Editor, Oracle, Teradata  ? Collage Projects:  1. LAN Chat and File Sharing (M.C.A. semester- V): Designed an application for sending text and files over LAN connected systems, a java based project which had three communication system- Messages, File Sharing and Chat Room. Environment - Java, Sockets, XML  2. Live website-www.mahilaashram.edu.in (B.Sc.(IT) Final Year): In the project, I worked on the designing and coding part with a team. This website was developed under the supervision of department head of my college. Environment - HTML, CSS Education B.Sc. in management university fest 2013 Masters in Computer Application ITM College Bhilwara in M.C.A. B.Sc. M.D.S.University Ajmer in B.Sc. Intra College Computer Quiz