Java Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Developer - Bankruptcy Management Solutions • Around 3 years of Information Technology experience as a Java Developer using J2EE Technologies.  • Extensive experience with Banking/Financial module and Production support  • Expertise in Business Analysis, Requirements gathering, Design Patterns and development of enterprise applications with the J2EE architecture.  • Experienced in developing Web Applications involving J2EE technologies like Java, JSP, Servlets, Struts MVC, Hibernate, Spring MVC, Spring Boot, HTML, Java Script, CSS, JSF, EJB, JDBC, JNDI, XML, AJAX and JUnit.  • Proficient in designing J2EE applications using MVC pattern and Spring framework.  • Experience working on Agile Methodology.  • Extensive experience in creation and maintenance of mapping files and transaction control in Hibernate.  • Experience Working in Production support on 24 x 7 x 365 basis.  • Good understanding of the overall software development life cycle.  • Excellent communication and interpersonal skills.  • Professional knowledge of Unix commands and Mac system.  • Good hands on experience on markup/scripting languages like JavaScript and Unix Shell Scripts.  • Excellent communication and interpersonal skills, problem solving and analytical skills, good leadership qualities with the ability to work independently. Work Experience Java Developer Bankruptcy Management Solutions January 2018 to Present • Experience with Atlassian products such as JIRA & Confluence.  • Extensive experience with Banking/Financial module and Production support  • Involved in Agile Planning-Iteration Planning Meetings and Estimation Session of user stores.  • Used PYTHON to automate daily occurring activities/Database querying for ongoing Production support.  • Worked on Splunk search processing language, Splunk dashboards.  • Performance/Bug tracking using Splunk and create JIRA bug/Improvement ticket with the data accumulated. Leaded as a SCRUM master for several sprints.  • Production support, when in support cycle helped online user navigate through the application.  • Created JIRA ticket when new BUGS discovered during the production support cycle. Performing the workaround fixes when reported and then researching the root cause and creating BUG tickets and acted as a SCRUM master for that task.  • Actively Monitored the Urgent Production channel and communicated with Account manager and guided the product owner understand the issue for writing the BRD.  • Excellent SLA time for resolving the production issues  • Followed Test Driven Development (TDD) to develop JUnit test cases and performed integration and system testing.  • Wrote unit tests of the application using Junit, Mockito  • Cycle SDLC that includes Development, Testing, Implementation and Maintenance Support.  • Extensive experience in Cross-browser HTML, CSS JavaScript coding to offer responsive website layouts to modern browsers and mobile devices.  • Developed custom component in java server faces (JSF).  • Developed custom autocomplete, page re-renders and features like a4j polling in JSF.  • Used the fundamentals of Java-8 features like parallel streams and filters through lambda  expressions.  • Application is designed using the Spring Boot frame work.  • Designed and developed application using Spring Framework-IOC/DI, Spring MVC, Servlets and POJO integrating with Hibernate framework.  • Experience in the development of financial applications using Excel and Access.  • Experience in redesigning, maintaining and supporting existing applications and tools especially in Microsoft Excel Access.  • Extensive knowledge of dynamic document generating API like LINQ, MergeDocs, IReports Google Docs API.  • Developed the UI using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, AngularJs for interactive cross browser  functionality while consuming RESTful APIs.  • Created RESTful APIs for responsive light weighted CRUD operations  • Applied J2EE design patterns like Singleton, Data Transfer Object DTO, Data and Business Object VO during the development of components.  • Coordinated with the QA team in testing of the application in various environments for achieving last minute production GOLD release.  • Created Docker Images for the Development Environment Jr. Java Developer Nivida Web Solution Pvt. Ltd June 2014 to November 2015 Developed business components using core java concepts and classes like Inheritance,  Polymorphism, Collections, Serialization and Multithreading etc.  • Designed the Front-end screen using JSP, XHTML and JavaScript.  • Followed Test Driven Development (TDD) to develop JUnit test cases and performed integration and system testing.  • Extensively developed Servlets and JDBC calls for accessing data from database.  • Developed Database connection methods using JDBC to connect SQL Database.  • Co-ordinated with on-site and offshore team by creating technical specifications, providing guidance and helping in developing different modules of the IFS system.  • Developed a controller Servlet that dispatches request to appropriate Action Classes in Struts.  • Responsible for validation of Client Interface HTML pages using JavaScript and JQuery.  • Developed front-end screens using Struts, HTML, AJAX, jQuery, JavaScript and CSS.  • Used Hibernate framework for Entity Relational Mapping.  • Used HQL to write query  • Used Spring framework that handles application logic and makes calls to business objects  and services mainly SOAP Web services.  • PVCS version control system has been used to check-in and checkout the developed artifacts. The version control system has been integrated with Eclipse IDE. Education Master's in Computer Engineering in Computer Engineering California State University Fullerton Bachelor's in Computer Sciences in Computer Sciences Gujarat Technological University - Ahmedabad, Gujarat Skills Ajax (1 year), Apache (Less than 1 year), Api (1 year), Css (2 years), Eclipse (1 year), Html (2 years), J2ee (1 year), Java (2 years), Javascript (2 years), Jdbc (1 year), Jira (1 year), Jquery. (1 year), Jsf (1 year), Jsp (1 year), Junit (2 years), Python (1 year), Servlets (2 years), Soap (1 year), Sql (1 year), Web services. (1 year)