Java software engineer <span class="hl">Java</span> software engineer Java software engineer - Verizon Wireless Piscataway, NJ • 4+ years of experience working in IT environment for gathering requirements, designing, analyzing, developing micro service-based applications & writing unit test cases (TDD) for Java web application.  • Has worked with multiple SDLC models for agile or scrum frameworks/operations.  • Have experience working with multiple web technologies such as HTML5, CSS, TS, JS, jQuery & Bootstrap.  • Strong knowledge base on JSE (1.8) concept like Lambda expressions, Stream API, Multi-Threading, concurrent API like completable future, Spring Reactive (RX Java), Collection API and Exceptional handling.  • Experience in building, Enterprise Application and Distributed Systems using technologies such as JSE, J2EE (Spring Data, Hibernate, Spring, JDBC Template).  • On hand experience on Spring Boot, Spring Annotation, Inversion of control, Spring Batch, Hibernate, along with Spring Data JPA as the back-end ORM tool for implementation of persistence layer and mapping of POJOs.  • Microservice architecture for attaining domain driven development (DDD) with Spring cloud config, Spring security, Spring Cloud task and Spring dataflow.  • Experienced deploying applications on application servers like Tomcat, Web Sphere, JBOSS etc.  • Experience in Database design in Oracle, IBM DB2, MYSQL database query -based programing. Proficient in programming with API's of JDBC and SQL.  • Comfortable working with design pattern like Singleton, Builder, Session Façade, Abstract.  • Comfortable working with Elastic search for handling huge amount of data with supporting logging tools like Kibanna, Grafana etc.  • Communication and strong analytical skills, presentation skills, interpersonal skills, strong writing, communication skills, and feasible working in tight deadline with team spirit. Work Experience Java software engineer Verizon Wireless October 2018 to Present Project Name: Promotion development team  Developing huge code base for customer across the country for customers seeking wireless network communication. Developing worlds one of the most sophisticated ecommerce software. Microservice based architecture for separate development and deployment of components imposing high scalability. Serving millions of requests every day is a very challenging goal which can be solved by the power of reactive programming without blocking the internal threads and utilize the ideal time of hardware against scalability. Integrating elastic search to deal with lots of data for better scalability efficiently and effectively.    Brief about the project:  • Involved in design, development and enhancements of the projects for building wire line flows.  • Methodology used as Agile with 2 release every month under tight deadlines.  • Participating in Architectural enhancements and bringing improvements to the application.  • Microservice based architectural pattern for decoupled components and performing scalability on specific components.  • Communicating with the offshore team for project status and releases.  • Developing promotion web application for customer base of different group on top of Java/J2ee cutting edge technologies like Spring, Spring Data, Restful services, Elastic search.  • Developing multiple internal data tools (Based on Bootstrap) for validation purpose and data integrity.  • Caching data with REDIS for faster response time and improve the page load time.  • AJAX data calls for communication between multiple application deployed separately.  • Microservices based spring cloud with OAuth2 for securing data over the network.  • Oracle DB and Oracle ATG commerce for better utilizing the power of ecommerce solution.  • Spring Reactive (RX- JAVA) to scale the application and decrease the ideal of CPU Core.  • Maven as the built tool and CICD pipelining with Jenkins for build automation.  • Writing unit testing cased for existing code with Junit 4 and code coverage with Jacoco.  • Testing and providing production support for the ongoing changing to make sure that the application is behaving as expected. Java Developer Midwest distributions - Bensenville, IL October 2016 to September 2018 OMS is a leading one in any Industries which tries to be beyond the data to startup an extraordinary growth by clearly understanding what matters and give an insight on to how it can impact on their businesses across sectors namely sales and marketing. In here the Product cogently manages the information of all the clients and their sales orders, accordingly rationalizes all the project related activities and work orders related to it, Unifies the status tracker to be reviewed by the teams such as General, CS, Modeling & CDM teams and proportionate the level of impact of sales across deliverables.  Responsibilities:  • Maven is used as a build framework.  • Maintained constant communication with Business Analyst and Business Users to identify the user stories and the technical feasibility.  • Used spring as middle tier application framework, persistence strategy using spring support for Hibernate and declarative transaction management.  • Designed and developed the UI using spring standard tag libraries, JSP, HTML, CSS and jQuery.  • Frameworks for JavaScript like AngularJS was used for easing the filtering management and writing cleaner code.  • Used spring Boot for developing micro services to make application run independently for lowering the total cost of the project.  • Additional UI Components implemented using an asynchronous AJAX, jQuery, Angular JS based rich client to improve customer experience.  • Used spring validator framework for client side and server-side validation. Also implemented dynamic loading of JSP's using AJAX.  • Utilized Hibernate for Object/Relational Mapping (ORM) purposes for persistence onto the DB2 database.  • Responsible for writing Hibernate Criteria and HQL queries.  • Tested Service and data access tier using JUnit in TDD methodology.  • Involved in deploying the application in the AWS cloud environment using cloud template. Also participated in configuring load balancing.  • Worked with production support team in debugging and fixing various production issues.  • Prepared high and low-level design documents for the business modules for future references and updates.  Environment: Java/J2EE, spring, Hibernate, JMS, WebSphere, RAD, DB2, Maven, JUnit, AJAX, jQuery. Java Developer WEBTEK June 2015 to May 2016 Project Name: MBSP - Medicare Business Solution Platform  The application mainly focuses on the processes involving the Medicare / over 65 businesses. The main objective of the application is to have an Integrated Technical Solution to support the Senior Market Products, which will house the following capabilities: Enrollment, Billing, Claims Processing/Payment and CMS Reconciliation.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in design, development and enhancements of the projects for building wire line flows.  • Played a key role in developing the business layer and data management components of this web-based system over J2EE architecture.  • Involved in meetings and discussions with Business Architects to understand the system requirements and solution approach.  • Developed application using Spring MVC, JSP, JSTL and AJAX on the presentation layer, the business layer is built using spring and the persistent layer uses Hibernate.  • Developed EJBs for implementing backend functionalities.  • Involved in using Bootstrap and Node.js for the development of UI.  • Developed Graphical User Interface (front-end) using JSP, JSF, HTML5, JSTL, CSS, JavaScript, Backbone and custom tags.  • Used Web Services (JAXWS) to interact with other external interfaces in order to exchange the data in the form of XML and by using SOAP protocol.  • Involved in design, development of Restful and SOAP web services  • Developed SQL scripts using MongoDB.  • Performed client side designing and validations using HTML5, CSS, JavaScript, JSP and Struts Tag Library.  • Used Maven for build framework and Jenkins for continuous build system.  • Coordinating with QC and production support during Releases  • Preparation of Application Design doc, test plan and cases.  • Used JUnit to unit test the modules & Log4j along with Splunk for logging error/debug messages and managing them.  • Worked on IntelliJ for development and deployment of application in WebLogic Application Server  • Worked closely with cross-functional teams (QA, BA) as a part of AGILE environment.    Environment: Java, Spring API, EJB 3.0, 2.0, Node.js, JSP, HTML5, Restful, SOAP, CSS, Bootstrap, Maven, Jenkins, Splunk, Log4j, JavaScript, AJAX, WebLogic, JavaScript, DOJO, JSON, jQuery, XML, JUnit, MongoDB, WebLogic, IntelliJ. Education Master's Skills Core Java, J2Ee, Java J2Ee, Soap, Spring, Rest, Java, Hibernate, JEE