software developer software <span class="hl">developer</span> software developer IT Professional with 3.5 Years of working experience in Java, J2EE, Hibernate and Spring in Automobile, Telecom and Healthcare domains.  • Currently working for PAI (Pro Active Infrastructure) with Mercedes Benz Research and Development India, using Core and Advance Java with Maven and Linux, working on Site Minder and OIDC in one of our module for authorization and authentication.  • Experience in development of enterprise applications using Java 1.9, JDBC, Servlets, JSP and Design patterns and having experience on Vagrant 2.2.3 and Oracle virtual box 5.2.  • Experience in configuring and deploying web applications using IBM WAS, Tomcat and Oracle Weblogic.  • Experience in Defect Management tools HP-QC and TDP.  • Having working experience with Agile(Scrum)methodology.  • Having knowledge on Ansible, IBM MQ v9.0.3 and SDLC  • A team player with strong communication, presentation, analytical and problem-solving skills.  • Ability to work under pressure situations and meet deadlines. Work Experience software developer Mercedes Benz, India, Bangalore September 2017 to January 2019 Java Developer IBM April 2016 to May 2017 Worked as Associate software engineer in SLK software Services, Bangalore from Mar 2015 to Apr 2016.    TECHNICAL SKILLS:  Technologies &Languages JAVA, J2EE, XML, SQL.  Web Skills Hibernate, JSP.  Database & Tools SQL Developer(Oracle 11G)  Application/Web Server Tomcat, IBM Web Sphere.  Version Control SCME, GIT, Dimensions  PAI Components  GUP, DAX, AWS, SPA, JGAP, TAI, CUR, Logging, Web login, User security context, PIN, RIAD, Client container, File adapter, PUCL jobs, PAI installation on Windows and Linux and Configuration of Jenkin jobs.    Other Tools & Technologies  Site Minder(12.7), Eclipse, JUnit, Maven, Bamboo, Stash, Jenkins, Jira, Source Tree, Rally Dev, TDP, all Atlassian tools, QTP, UFT and Jenkins.    PROJECT DETAILS Providence health Care 2003 to 2003 Project Providence Health Services  Client Providence health Care  Description    This is the helping tool for the hospital groups to keep track of the human flow, inventory of the items and accounting of the hospital with Department information, employee information, vendor, vendor items, purchase, payment, mode of payment information, patient type, patient information, visit information, ward, room, doctors, doctors type information, lab, profile and investigation type info.    Contribution / Responsibilities  * Created new screens using JSP and HTML.  * Work with development team to define and implement architecture direction.  * Work within an agile development process to deliver quality solutions on a predictable schedule.  * Involved in creation of database connections and getting the data from database using Hibernate.    Technologies / Tools Used Core Java, Servlets, Jsp, Hibernate and Spring frameworks.  Team Size 10  Duration Mar 2015 - Apr 2016. IBM India Pvt Ltd 2002 to 2002 Project AT&T  Client IBM India Pvt Ltd  Description    AT&T is the provider of telecommunication services across worldwide. CTP provides a single integrated testing platform available to all business units across AT&T, it provides end to end network diagnose which troubleshoots AT&T Ethernet circuits.  CTP supports applications in the area of Network service management and provisioning. Key objective of CTP is to provide common testing services supporting automation for both pre service and in service testing.    Role Java Developer  Contribution / Responsibilities    * Understanding requirement, coding and preparing Unit Test cases.  * Performing Unit test, maintenance and support.  * Participating in Scrum calls and HLD review calls, code and design reviews.  * Making code changes, deploying WAR files on UNIX server for testing.  * Involved in project releases.  * Preparation of Unit Test Case Plan and perform the unit testing.  * Was responsible for analyzing and fixing defects.    Technologies / Tools Used Core Java, J2EE, Linux, Regular expressions and oracle Web Logic server.  Team Size 20  Duration Apr 2016 - May 2017. MBRDI 2001 to 2001 Project PAI (Proactive Infrastructure)  Client MBRDI (Mercedes Benz Research and development India)  Description    PAI is a product suite that consists of PAI Platforms. Therefore we must distinguish between PAI itself and a PAI platform. With this in mind PAI can be seen as a brand for a set of products whereas a PAI platform can be seen as a managed product. Handing different client requirement such as Authentication, Authorization,  Site Minder etc.    Contribution / Responsibilities  * Coding  * Code review  * Mentor the team members, sharing knowledge within team through tech hours.  * Providing KT sessions to the new team members.    * Design, develop, and maintain client software in accordance with internal or external client specifications.  * Work with internal and external clients to define and capture user needs.  * Work with development team to define and implement architecture direction.  * Work within an agile development process to deliver quality solutions on a predictable schedule.  * Serve a leadership role within the team and company.    Technologies / Tools Used Java 1.8, Site Minder 12.52, OIDC, Identity Access Management, Oracle LDAP directory, Jenkins and Linux etc.  Team Size 20  Duration Sep 2017 - Jan 2019. Education B.Tech in Electronics and Communication BVSR College JNTU Kakinada University 2014