Java Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Developer • Over 5+ years of experience in development and design of various applications using Java/J2EE technologies.  • Experience in software development includes Requirement Analysis, Design Development Integration, Implementation, Maintenance, and Testing.  • Experience in Core java - jdk1.5, concurrency utility, Exception.  • Experience in design and development of multi-tier applications using Java, J2EE, XML, XSD, SOAP, WSDL, RMI, HTML, JavaScript, Tag Libraries, and JUnit.  • Experience in client side Technologies such as HTML, DHTML, CSS and JavaScript.  • Experience with 2-tier, 3-tier and N-tier architecture.  • Experience in web application design using open source MVC, spring and Struts Frameworks.  • Experience in using MVC (Model View Controller) architecture for developing applications using JSP, Java Beans and Servlets.  • Experience in MVC Architecture, Struts, Hibernate, Spring and a multitude of J2EE design patterns.  • Designed and developed a REST-ful style Web Services layer  • Proficient in using RDBMS concepts with Oracle 9i/10g, DB2 and MySQL.  • Expertise in Database Design, Creation and Management of Schemas, writing Stored Procedures, Functions, DDL, DML SQL queries  • Experience in parsing XML documents using JAXP 1.3, which supports SAX 2.0 and DOM.  • Experience in application testing using JUnit. Used ANT as build tool.  • Experience under Agile methodology development.  • Excellent communication and interpersonal skills and involved in client interactions for scoping, effort estimates and status reporting. Work Experience Java Developer HCL America - New York, NY October 2013 to October 2013 Description:  The shopping site mainly sells clothes. Customers can register for membership and login to get the latest special, review & leave comments on the product and save information. They can also add or edit their shopping cart. When checking out, customers will be asked to input their credit card information.    • Involved in the process of information transmission.  • On the server side, post the access to the application and provided result on the network using RESTful web service.  • Implemented data reading, saving and modification by stored procedures in Oracle database and Hibernate criteria.  • Responsible for creating tables of client's information in and writing Hibernate mapping files to manage one-to-one and one-to-many mapping relationships.  • Set up email service sent to the clients by JavaMail.  • Used SVN for version control.    Environment:  JDK 1.5, Eclipse IDE, jQuery, JavaScript, REST, XML, AJAX, JUnit. Java Developer/Infrastructure Intuit - San Diego, CA September 2011 to December 2011 Description:  Intuit Inc.is an American software company that develops financial and tax preparation software and related services for small businesses, accountants and individuals.  Customer MDM is the master for party data and customer accounts that are associated to Intuit provided, sold and/or billed offerings. (A Party is any entity that interacts with Intuit)    The group of Privacy services ensures Intuit's compliance with Privacy Federal laws. They manage Intuit's customers "Marketing preference" per communication channel. This allows Intuit customers to opt-out of being contacted by email, phone or postal service. Therefore, Privacy systems are dependent on CPI which is the central collection mechanism for privacy management.  The systems provide a 360 view of customer privacy for privacy compliance.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) such as requirements gathering, modeling, analysis, design and development.  • Functional & Logical Network Deployment Diagram.  • Involved in Database SQL and PL/SQL programming (stored procedure, package and trigger).  • Involved in designing star schema and creating the physical database including partitions as well as automating all aspects of the ETL process.  • Migrating the project from Web Sphere 5.1 to Web Sphere 6.1 EJB3, including the migration from Java 1.4 to Java 5, Ant to Maven 2.  • Expertise in coordinating application builds using Maven2 to clean, installs, builds and deploy and their corresponding dependencies and updated the documentation on to wiki pages.  • Ant Scripts for building the applications and deployments.  • Used ANT tools to obtain maximum build process functionality such as creating .JAR files etc.  • Responsible for creation and maintenance of the perforce.  • Worked on log4j open source framework for log the certain level messages.  • Used Eclipse 3.2 IDE as a code environment and deployed on Jboss Server.  • Involved in code review and deployment of the application on development, testing of production servers.    Environment: Java1.4/1.5,J2EE, log4j, Ant, maven, JUnit, SQL, PL/SQL, Web Services (WSDL, SOAP), Windows and UNIX./LINUX, Multithreading, JAX-RPC, JAX-WS, REST Java Developer Syniverse Technology - Tampa, FL January 2011 to September 2011 Description:  • A Diameter Visibility service is a web service project.  • Visibility URA (Unique Roaming Activity) is a reporting application which is used for customers to report on mobile phone Roaming data. When a Mobile phone user roams to another market (Carrier/Provider) Syniverse used to track this roaming activity.  • There are two main activities in the application - Loading and Reporting. Loading represents the Data handling layer and Reporting encompasses the Presentation and Application layers.  • Loading includes all functionality which happens after a file is received with the diameter roaming data in it and before the data is accessed to display in a report. After the roaming data is received from the Data broker, it is transformed from raw data (or ASCII data) into data which can be loaded into the database and displayed on the screens.    Responsibilities:  • Have worked on Oracle 10g data base for storing and retrieving the application data.  • There are three services which I handled. Diameter Aggregation Service, Diameter DupcheckService and Diameter NodesRecService.  • Developed Test cases with JUnit.  • Used Ajax in the application to create better and dynamic user interfaces.  • Implemented the view layer using JSP2.4, JavaScript, HTML, Controller layer using JSP, Servlets, Business layer using Spring 2.5 (IOC, AOP).  • Developed service layer classes using Spring IOC and AOP Classes.  • Used Restful framework for wrapping users calls, JDBC for database accessing, Spring for transaction management  • I concentrate on Java, Web Services  • involved in developing web-services, writing JUnit tests, improving asynchronous multithreaded queues of processing's of documents, enhancing custom ORM metadata system, etc. (Core Java, Servlets, JDBC, Multithreading)  • Involved in Spring IOC for obtaining the policy details into transfer object upon requesting for the policy.  • Wrote SQL queries, used JDBC to connect to Oracle database for larger data retrievals  • Ant Scripts for building the applications and deployments  • Used ANT tools to obtain maximum build process functionality such as creating .JAR files etc.  • Responsible for creation and maintenance of the core Subversion repository;  • Worked on log4j open source framework for log the certain level messages.  • Used Eclipse 3.2 IDE as a code environment and deployed on Jboss Server  • Involved in code review and deployment of the application on development, testing of production servers.    Environment: Java1.4/J2EE, log4j, Ant, JUnit, SQL, Multithreading, Web Services (WSDL, SOAP), Windows and UNIX. Java Developer Hackensack Medical and Molecular Imaging - Hackensack, NJ May 2009 to May 2010 • Corrected data in system when information on accounts is incomplete and checked files to eliminate any duplication of data.  • Made customer and account changes and upgraded the information by inputting new data and reviewed account output after editing.  • Set up and maintain various files, records.  • Complete special projects as assigned by the Supervisor.  • Respond to department service requests and assist with all needs.    Environment: Java1.4/J2EE, Web Services (WSDL, SOAP), Windows and UNIX.    On-Campus Job, University of Bridgeport, Bridgeport, CT  • Lab Monitor of Engineering Department, (08-2008 to 04-2009)  • Served as sole technical support specialist for DOIT. Installed and configure operating systems, software's, patches and hardware.  • Maintained multiple OS environments, including windows 98 through XP, LINUX as well application as visual studio, SQL, Oracle, MS Office, and many more.  • Assembled more than 100 systems and maintained in LAB.  • Handled Networking in the LAB configured for the training. Vision group of companies - Hyderabad, Telangana January 2007 to March 2007 Responsibilities:  Processed donations received and prepared necessary reports and donor acknowledgments; coordinated donor appeals and assisted with stewardship for various agency programs and campaigns; assisted with the coordination of all details for annual special event; drafted letters of inquiry and foundation grant proposals for various agency programs.    • Organization of a bimonthly employee meeting for analysis and revisions.  • Coordinate and manage record department data entry structure.  • Partner with accounts payable to revise and revamp facility bookkeeping. Education Master's in Computer Engineering in Computer Engineering University of Bridgeport - Bridgeport, CT 2010 Bachelors in Computer Science and Information Technology in Excellent Communication VIF College of Engineering - Hyderabad, Telangana 2006 Skills Eclipse