Java Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Developer - BNSF Texas, TX • IT Professional Experience around 5 years of strong Software in design, development, deployment maintenance of web-based and Client-Server business applications using OOP, Java/J2EE technologies.  • Seeking a job where I can utilize my technical & analytical skills that are learnt from my experience and at the same time gain technical & professional expertise.  • Certified as AWS Cloud Practitioner and has profound knowledge on working with ec2 instances, RDS, S3 buckets.  • Good knowledge on AWS EC2 Reserved, On Demand and Spot instances which help in Cost Optimization.  • Experience on creating IAM roles, User Permissions and Users Security in AWS.  • Good knowledge on Trusted Advisor and Cloud Watch services that help tracking the instances.  • Experience in developing client/server and web Applications using JAVA, J2EE technologies and Web Technologies for enterprise applications.  • Extensive experience in developing JAVA based applications using JDBC, EJB, Servlets, JSP, JMS and Web services.  • Extensively worked on front-end web development technologies like HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, Bootstrap, Angular.  • Experience working on Django and Flask.  • Strong experience in developing applications using frameworks like Hibernate and MVC frameworks like spring and its subsidiary modules such as Spring JDBC, Spring IOC, Spring Security and Spring AOP.  • Working on data insertion, querying, data modification and data manipulation concepts gave me good knowledge of what SQL does.  • Experience working on different operating systems.  • Experience working on version control systems like Tortoise SVN, GIT and used Source code management client tools like GitBash, GitHub, Git GUI and other command line applications etc.  • Extensively worked on Jenkins for continuous integration and for all build and deployments.  • Developed Technical Design Documents with Flow Diagrams, Class Diagrams, and Sequence Diagrams for web applications.  • Deployment and support of various J2EE applications on Apache Tomcat, WebSphere.  • Proficient in designing, developing and deployment using Agile methodology.  • Ability to understand the implications of new information for both current and future problem-solving and decision-making.  • Worked on Identifying measures and the actions needed to improve application performance, relative to the goals.  • Good communication skills and enthusiastic to learn new technologies.  • Good team player, determinate and work ethic. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Java Developer BNSF - Flower Mound, TX August 2017 to Present Project Description:  This tool will track all scheduled employee performance and discipline detail end to end. Our client BNSF currently tracks scheduled employee performance and discipline through multiple applications making it difficult to trace the process from beginning to end. This project consolidates and tracks all incidents including triggering events and assessed discipline. It deals with filing employee violation and the respective decision, handles appeal and arbitration post disciplinary action. Automates the process of tracking PEPA violations providing centralized storage for information pertaining to incidents, and disciplines and a single screen interface for users to manage them.  Responsibilities:  • Developed Web Application using J2EE architecture, using JSP to design the user interfaces, and JSP tag libraries to define custom tags and JDBC for database connectivity.  • Involved in coding Servlets and JSP's to display the dynamic content.  • Actively involved in Analysis, Detail Design, Development, System Testing.  • Written and executed various SQL Queries to retrieve the data from the database for business logic.  • Develop use case scenarios for design and testing.  • Used JUnit framework for unit testing of application and Log4j to capture the log that includes runtime exceptions.  • Setting up an environment, configuring an application and deployment in IBM Web Sphere7 Application Server.  • Involved in writing the server side and the client-side classes using java.  • Extensively used jQuery framework for UI validation & AJAX calls.  • Used IBM Rational Software Architect as IDE tool.  • Used SVN to keep track of all work and all changes in source code.  • Confer with client regarding the requirements.  • Developed user manual to be able to use the system with minimum support.  • Participated in daily standup meetings with team members including scrum master to share the status of user stories working for the sprint cycle.  • Presented demo to product owners on completed user stories frequently.  • Deployment the code to TRIAL, DEV and PROD environments using Jenkins.  Technologies:  Java/J2EE, Servlets, JSP, DB2, Ajax, RESTful API, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, Bootstrap, IBM WebSphere, IBM Rational Software Architect, Jenkins, SVN, SonarQube, iText, Version one. Java Developer Software Professionals Inc - Flower Mound, TX January 2016 to July 2017 Project Description:  Verizon is one of the leading mobile phone and internet service providers. The web application provides the control panel to retrieve data with different conditions. The custom tag called table tag will handle the sorting and filtering the data using ajax methodology.    Responsibilities:  • Worked along with the GCT UI team in designing the frontend website using Angular2.  • Highly used Angular2 router to build single page application for navigate through the different status and multiple modals.  • Developed visually appealing and interactive user interface designs focused on usability and cross-browser compatibility using Bootstrap, JavaScript, and Angular2.  • Coordinated various web pages with appropriate links and multimedia elements in collaboration with design team members.  • Maintained and updated HTML5/CSS3 templates on a regular basis and as required.  • Used Node's package manager (npm) to install all dependencies and modules for building the app.  • Used Rest Web Services to communicate with the GCT API.  • Worked on migrating the java project to Spring project for improving performance.  • Used Log4J logger to record the logs.  • Worked on scheduling the Jobs using Spring Batch Jobs.  • Created Jobs, Task lets, Factory Process to perform daily and weekly scheduled jobs from the script files.  • Used Hibernate for mapping the java code with SQL.  • Written code for storing and updating the records from jobs in database.  • Managed exceptions using Exception Handling.  • Worked in enhancing the look and feel of the application view for better user experience.  • Used Log4J logger to record the logs.  • Developed Object-Relational (O/R) mapping using Hibernate 4 to create high performance persistence layer to interact with various databases using Hibernate Query Language, Criteria APIs and Native SQL Queries.  • Designed and developed the login portal using framework Angular 2 along with HTML5, CSS3 and Type Script.  • Extensively worked on front end, business, and persistence tiers using the struts frameworks.  • Used GitHub for version control and configured Maven for dependencies.    Technologies: Java, HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, JavaScript, jQuery, Angular JS 1.5, Angular 2, Node JS, JSON, Spring, Spring Boot, Spring Batch, Hibernate 4, WebSphere Application Software Developer Cadsys - Hyderabad, Telangana May 2014 to July 2015 Project Description: A one-stop software solution that facilitates complete resource management enables secure data storage and record-keeping. This tool acts a Single window progress monitoring tool for parents, integrated messaging and reminder services. Its simplistic design and maintainable code helps micro and mini scale organizations to adapt to this software across the globe.    Responsibilities:  • Enhanced and built reusable components across different modules using Custom directives and CSS classes.  • Developed backend using OOPs concepts and built interfaces and classes to connect to the database.  • Created Responsive Designs (Mobile/Tablet/Desktop) using HTML5 & CSS3, Bootstrap.  • Created and optimized graphic prototype websites and applications interfaces using HTML5 and CSS3.  • Created cross-browser compatible and standards-compliant CSS-based page layouts. Integrated with back end code for highly interactive AJAX based applications.  • Developed AngularJS functionality in the application to provide two-way binding to the system.  • Used customized services and directives in AngularJS to develop dynamic and responsive Webpages.  • Implemented and designed user interface for web-based customer application.  • Developed data formatted web applications and deploy the script using client-side scripting using JavaScript.  • Worked on Cross-Browser compatibility and fixed the bugs for several browsers.  • Improved outgoing quality through yield improvements and characterization. Also, reduced costs through test time improvements.  • Provided technical assistance for development and maintenance of web pages.    Technologies: HTML5, Java, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, AngularJS, AJAX, JSON, XML, Eclipse, IntelliJ, SVN, Apache, MySQL, Agile Education Master's in Computer Engineering University of North Texas Skills Bootstrap (4 years), Css (3 years), database (4 years), Db2 (3 years), Eclipse (3 years), Html5 (5 years), J2ee (3 years), Java (5 years), Javascript (4 years), Jdbc (4 years), jquery (4 years), Jsp (1 year), Mysql (4 years), scripting (3 years), Servlets (4 years), Sql (4 years), Angular (4 years), AJAX, Apache (3 years), RESTful API (3 years), IBM Rational Software Architect (3 years), Spring (3 years), MVC (2 years), Java J2Ee (3 years)