Java Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Developer - State Street Corporation Quincy, MA • 5 years of experience in full Software Development Life Cycle involving requirement analysis, design, development, testing, documentation & maintenance of J2EE applications in Web-based/Enterprise environment.  • Worked in industrialized AGILE and Waterfall methodologies for the software development.  • Experience in developing services-based architecture utilizing open source technologies like Hibernate and Spring Framework.  • Experience in building web applications using Spring Framework features like MVC (Model View Controller), AOP (Aspect Oriented Programming), IOC (Inversion Of Control) and template classes.  • Extensive work experience using Web Services (RESTful, SOAP) and Service Oriented Architecture (SOA).  • Experience in applying various XML technologies and tools SAX/DOM, XSLT, Xpath for XML document generation, parsing and formatting.  • Proficiency in RDBMS like Oracle, using JDBC Drivers, SpringJDBC template with stored procedures.  • Extensive experience with Oracle, MongoDB Databases & thorough knowledge & experience in PL/SQL statements, Stored Procedures.  • Excellent communication and interpersonal skills with strong customer orientation and client interacting skills. Work Experience Java Developer State Street Corporation - Quincy, MA November 2015 to Present Project: Gold Copy Application    Project1: Global Banking Modernization (GBM) Oct 2018 - Current  GBM is a major initiative to replace and consolidate the various cash and payments platforms on a global basis, with an emphasis on consistent processes and procedures for cash & limit management, credit risk and payment processing. GoldCopy is a key component, enterprise service bus serving as an orchestration layer for GBM.    Project2: Transaction Status Monitor (TSM) Sept 2017 - Oct 2018  Transaction Status Monitor application provides end-users an overview of the status of entities/transactions configured in various cards. Gold Copy will perform matching and counting for multiple sources in accounting & custody and also provide micro services for entity & group level transactions for various configured cards in TSM screen. State Street Corporation August 2016 to September 2017 use case STX07 will intercept the files generated by the source system files like Hogan/IBS/ICASH/CBK destined for downstream applications and process, restructure and enrich various region files which will further assist in improving matching rate in downstream applications like TLMP and facilitate the auto coding of recon breaks. State Street Corporation November 2015 to August 2016 Gold Copy is a key component of the Transformation Program which creates efficiencies and delivers a foundation for new services. The project is focused on booking Accounting positions with Mandatory Events to book, settle, cancel and unsettle Accounting as well as Custody positions with both Mandatory and Voluntary Events.    Responsibilities:  • Worked with Business Analysts and Subject Matter Experts in the analysis, design, and development phases of application using Industrialized SCRUM/AGILE methodology.  • Extensively worked on various types of Business rules using Drools rule engine for business decision making.  • Integrated Spring JMS template with IBM MQ. Developed Micro services using Spring Boot and deployed to tomcat cloud server.  • Used Spring Framework using IOC, AOP, Core, and Transaction Management.  • Involved in writing application level code to interact with APIs, Web Services using AJAX, JSON and XML.  • Implemented the server side RESTful Webservices functionality to provide data for transaction status monitor screens part of TSM and also to allow external applications to access the data.  • Deployed the application on Tomcat Application servers using Jenkins continuous integration build.  • Used log4j to capture the log that includes runtime exceptions and debug information.  • Written Oracle Stored Procedures to enhance existing functionalities.  • Involved in code review and deployment of the application on development, testing of production servers.  • Implemented User Interface (front-end) screens using Google Web Development Kit (GWT).  • Responsible for maintaining the code quality, coding and implementation standards by code reviews.  • Written JUNIT Test cases for Unit testing and used SONAR to maintain code quality  • Documented impact analysis and prepared implementation and production support documents.    Environment: Java 1.8, Spring Framework (Customized), Jenkins, JIRA, Tomcat, Oracle12c, Oracle SQL Developer, JUNIT, SONAR, Google Web Development Kit (GWT), Eclipse, HP Quality Center, Tortoise SVN, Log4j, Maven, XML J2EE Developer American International Group - Berkeley Heights, NJ August 2015 to November 2015 Project: GTP Casualty Rating  Description: GTP Casualty Rating application provides liability coverage for individuals and organizations, which includes general and auto liability. GTP allows underwriters and users to work on various quotes to determine the competitive rates for customers from given information.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in meetings with Business Analysts and architects to gather business requirements and specifications.  • Worked closely with Product owners, architects, frontend developers, QA team and offshore team to meet stipulated deadlines.  • Developed various functionalities and API's for application using JPA and Spring framework.  • Implemented annotation driven MVC Controllers, Handlers and DAO patterns to securely access data from databases.  • Created JPA entities through JPA tools and implement One-to-Many and Many-to-One bidirectional mappings in correspondence with Database tables.  • Developed search criteria 'Entity Search' to search available entities using query text, filters, and indexes using regular expressions.  • Developed Admin tool functionality for the GTP application, to create new users, edit user, reset password for different clients.  • Worked on Oracle12c and Microsoft SQL server for running queries and cross check data integrity.  • Involved in Server-side peer code reviews, JUNIT Testing and bug fixes.  • Fixed defects assigned in HP Quality Center tool assigned by QA offshore team.  • Used Postman and Fiddler4.0 to test RESTful Web services.  • Responsible for application optimization, performance and diagnosis.    Environment: Java 1.7, Spring Framework 3.2, JPA, MS SQL Server, Oracle12c, RAD Eclipse, postman, Tortoise SVN Java/J2EE Developer Fitch Ratings - Reading, PA May 2014 to July 2015 Project: CDS Transparency Tool (CDS-TT)    Description: Fitch group delivers content (ratings, research data) and analytical tools that support credit market investors across global financial community. CDS Transparency Tool provides financial information services and credit market data to clients. CDS tool allows users to view the contributed data from various entities and also access data cleaning reports, data charting from different regions & industries.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in gathering, analyzing, and documenting business requirements, functional requirements and data Specifications for application development.  • Develop/program new functionality and features in line with functional specifications and business requirements.  • Develop core Java programs for all business rules and workflows using spring framework.  • Re-factor existing code structure to separate core business logic and data access objects (DAOs)  • Implement Hibernate for data persistence and management  • Analyze and fix issues related to SOAP Web services and Application responses  • Write database queries and programs for data insertion, updates and views  • Design and develop the presentation layer using JSPs, Query and JavaScript  • Involved in design, configuration, development and bug-fixes.  • Conduct system analysis and development, with limited support from professional staff, to keep our systems current with changing technologies.  • Analyze, design, development of software systems to form a basis for the solution of information processing problems.  • Responsible for analysis of current programs including performance, diagnosis and troubleshooting of programs presenting challenges, and design solutions to overcome such.    Environment: Java 1.6, spring 3.2, Hibernate, Web Services, REST API, WSDL, XML, JAXB, MongoDB, Tomcat, Log4J, STS, Tortoise SVN, Maven. Education Masters in Electrical Engineering in Electrical Engineering California State University - Long Beach, CA December 2013 Bachelor's Degree in Engineering in Engineering Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University - Hyderabad, Telangana May 2011 Skills .NET (Less than 1 year), Database (1 year), Eclipse (1 year), Frameworks (Less than 1 year), GIT (Less than 1 year), HTML (Less than 1 year), JavaScript (1 year), JAX (Less than 1 year), JBOSS (Less than 1 year), JIRA (Less than 1 year), JUNIT (1 year), MongoDB (1 year), Oracle (Less than 1 year), SOAP (1 year), SQL (1 year), Subversion (2 years), SVN (2 years), tomcat (2 years), Web Services (2 years), XML. (2 years)