Application Developer Application <span class="hl">Developer</span> Application Developer Stamford, CT Sponsorship required to work in the US Work Experience Application Developer GE/Synchrony Financial - Stamford, CT July 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Involved in Analysis, Design, Development, UAT and Production phases of the application.  • Participated in JAD sessions gathering along with the Business Analysts.  • Designed application modules, base classes and utility classes using Core Java.  • Implemented the project as a multi-tier application using Spring MVC & used core Spring concepts like AOP, IOC.  • New library development with micro services architecture using Rest APIs, spring boot.  • Expertise in Core Java with strong understanding and working knowledge of Object Oriented Concepts like Collections, Multi-Threading, Concurrency framework.  • Implemented a SOA compliant system working on various transactional messaging using Camel and used Session Beans Message Driven Beans.  • Coded various business process methods required for creation of Web Services related to customer information and provider information, using JAX-WS, SOAP, WSDL and JAX-RS, REST web services.  • Implemented Hibernate for data persistence and management.  • Integrated Spring with Hibernate as the data abstraction to interact with the databases.  • Implemented Singleton, Factory, DAO design Patterns based on the application requirements.  • Consumed and built web services in SOAP, REST supporting both XML and JSON by taking advantage of Spring technologies.  • Developed the Presentation layer using HTML 5, JavaScript, and used AJAX/ jQuery based rich UI for improved customer experience.  • Developed single page application by using Angular JS.  • Developed Session Beans to process user requests and to load and store information from database  • Used GIT for version control and Jenkins used for continuous integration.  • Wrote Stored Procedures and complex queries in Oracle 11g database.  • Designed and developed JUnit test cases during the development phase.  • Implemented the project using agile-scrum methodologies.  Environment: Java 8, SOAP, Spring 3.0, RESTful Web Services, Hibernate 4.0, Jenkins, Angular JS 2.0, AJAX, Servlets 3.0, HTML5, CSS3, Node JS, JavaScript, CSS3, jQuery 2.0, JSON, JMS, Apache Camel, JMS, WebSphere 8.5, Agile, JMS, Eclipse, JUnit 4.4, Windows OS, Unix. JAVA/J2EE Developer Dollar Shave Club - Los Angeles August 2017 to July 2018 Responsibilities:  ·       Involved in the complete Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) phases of the project.  ·       Implemented Spring MVC framework 4.0 in the application. Developed code for obtaining bean references in spring framework using Dependency Injection (DI).  ·       Designed Spring Controller to handle requests from users and return results, Spring Validators to verify requests, Spring Interceptors to check user status, and generate alert messages.  ·       Used Spring AOP 4.0.x and Aspectj 1.7.x to weave additional logic into main business logic, e.g. status check, alert management, and clear data.  ·       Used Spring RESTful API to create RESTful Web Services, set JSON data type between front-end and the middle-tier controller, and also handled the Cross Domain Requests (CORS).  ·       Consumed SOAP web services for communicating with external components.  ·       Implemented Persistence layer using Hibernate 4.3.x to interact with the Oracle database used Hibernate Framework for object relational mapping and persistence.  ·       Mapped (one-to-many, one-to-one, many-to-one relations) DTOs to Oracle Database tables and Java data types to SQL data types by creating Hibernate 4 mapping XML files.  ·       Developed single page application with responsive web design using AngularJS 1.2.9.   ·       Designed and implemented page data submission features and rich client UI using HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap and JavaScript 1.8.4.  ·       Implemented jQuery AJAX calls in web pages to render the response on to UI.  ·       Integrated D3.js reporting component for statistical information display.  ·       Wrote complex SQL stored procedures and HQL statements to fetch the data from the database.  ·       Developed test cases and performed unit test using JUnit Framework 4.11 in a Test Driven Development (TDD) approach.  ·       Used SVN as a Version Control system and for code management.  ·       Used Formlessness for sending detailed notifications depending upon the success and failure once the backend process is complete and also for mailing administrator for any system related problem. JAVA Developer Max life insurance - IN December 2014 to December 2015 Responsibilities:  • Designed the application using UML (Unified Modeling Language) and MVC design pattern.  • Developed business components using stateless session Beans (local as well as remote beans).  • Developed DAO layer using Hibernate as ORM tool to integrate with Oracle.  • Created EJB, JPA and Hibernate component for the application.  • Designing and developing the integration between other applications using SOAP.  • Designed and coded JAX-WS based Web Services used to access external financial information.  • Used Apache CXF open source tool to generate java stubs form WSDL.  • Writing automated JUnit test cases using framework like Mockito and spring tests. And, Message Driven Beans to send emails notifications. Worked in an agile development process based on Scrum.  • Configured and maintained the SPRING Application Framework's IOC container.  • Actively involved throughout the life cycle of the project from requirements gathering to maintenance and optimizing the system.    Environments:  J2EE, WebLogic, JSP, JSTL, JPA, EJB, ETL, JNDI, Java Script, HTML, DHTML, Python, AJAX, CSS, Query, JSF, ANT, JUnit, Agile, Mockito, Apache Tomcat 6.0., Multi-Threading, Struts, Spring, Web Services, SOAP, WSDL, JAX-WS, Hibernate, Linux, Oracle, PL/SQL, CVS Education Master of Science in Computer Science University of Missouri Kansas City - Kansas City, MO Bachelor of Technology in Computer Science and Engineering JNTU Skills JAVA (3 years), ORACLE (2 years), Apache Kafka (1 year), Javascript (1 year), Splunk (1 year), HTML, SQL Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  • Programming Languages: Java SE 8, C, Basics of Scala  • Java EE Technologies: JSP, Servlet 3.0, Hibernate 4.x, Struts 2, Spring 3.x, JDBC, EJB 3.0, JMS  • Front-End Web Technologies: HTML5, CSS 3.0, Bootstrap 3.x, jQuery, AJAX, JavaScript 2.0  • RDMS Software's: Oracle 10g, Oracle 9i, DB2, MySQL 5.x, MS SQL Server 2008  • Web Scripts: XML, JSON, XSLT, SOAP  • App & Web Server: Apache Tomcat 6.0/7.0/8.0, JBoss 5.0, WebLogic 11g  • Development Tools: Eclipse, IntelliJ IDEA, NetBeans, Sublime Text  • Operating Systems: Windows 10/8/7/XP/2000, Linux/Unix