Java Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Developer - Dataflow Group Organization Designation Duration  HCL Technologies Consultant July 2017 to Present  NIIT Technologies Senior Software Engineer August 2015 July 2017  Artech Infosystems Pvt Ltd Software Developer June 2014 to May 2015 Work Experience Java Developer Dataflow Group October 2018 to Present Project Name Dataflow Verification Mobile Application  Project Description  This Project provides the Dataflow Verification for different client of Dataflow Group. It contains Login Management, Creating Profile, updating Profile, fetching Profile and deletes the Profiles. It contains case creation, update the case details and fetch the case details. It includes the integration of Payment gateway with network international.    Role Java Developer with Angular  Technologies Java 1.8, Spring Boot, Spring Batch, Spring Cloud, Spring SOAP, , Hibernate, JPA, Angular, Swagger and nginx.  Database MySQL and Redis  Responsibilities  • Designed and Created the Project Structure for Dataflow Verification Mobile Application.  • Written Rest API for Mobile (Android and IOS).  • Written SOAP Service using spring.  • Written Spring Boot Batch for Dataflow client.  • Exposed API using Spring Boot Drools Rule Engine.  • Designed database schema.  • Written Junit Test cases.  • Deployment of Services in Amazon ec2. Java Developer Airtel Payments Bank November 2017 to September 2018 Project Name Retailer and Remittance  Project Description  1. Retailer project provides the facility for Cash Transaction using IMPS, NEFT and RTGS. It also provides the facility for Cash Withdrawal, Recharge, Open Bank Account, Training for Retailer, Transaction History, Low MCash, SOA, TDS, and Retailer Point for the CMS Enabled.    2. Remittance project provides the facility to send money using My Airtel App by Western Union.    Role Java Developer.  Technologies Java 1.8, Spring Boot, Spring Batch, Apache Kafka, Struts 2 , Hibernate, Kong API Gateway, JPA, Angular, Swagger and Aerospike.  Server Web logic , Apache Tomcat  Database Oracle  Responsibilities  • Written REST API for SOA, TDS, Retailer Point and Mitra Training using Spring Boot.  • Written Spring Batch for TDS and Retailer Point using Spring Boot  • Written API in Payment Gateway using Struts 2 and Hibernate.  • Consumed SOAP Service for SOA (Statement of Action).  • Written JWT Token for Payment Gateway.  • Worked on Hashing, Encryption and Decryption in Payment Gateway  • Worked on Apache Kafka using Spring Boot.  • Worked on Kong API gateway for Western Union and Retailer Point. Toll Global Logistics July 2017 to October 2017 Project Name Toll  Project Description  Toll Global Logistics provides specialist contract logistics. It offers transport, warehousing and value-added services including: freight Transport services, distribution services and supply chain services. Authenticated users have an ability to create, edit, review and delete the shipment or view previous shipments created through My Toll. My Toll Contains also the Finance Module where Authenticated user can see, review and download the Finance report.    Role Java Developer  Technologies Java 1.8, Spring Boot, Life Ray, JPA, Restful Web Services, Swagger  Server Apache Tomcat  Database MySql  Responsibilities  • Written Restful Web Services for Finance Module.  • Written Restful Web Services for Shipment module.  • Written Rest Client to consume the web Services.  • Written DAO for Finance and Shipment module using JPA.  • Develop application using Life Ray in Shipment Module.  • Written JUnit Test cases using Mockito and Power Mockito. Full Stack Developer Staff Travel and Id Travel June 2016 to July 2017 Project Description  This application is a new responsive staff-travel.ba.com and id-travel.ba.com application. This application is developed using Restful Web services and Angular Js. This application is a "single page" web app to address needs of the user. In this application, Staff Travel and other carrier member can book a ticket, manage, cancel and refund the booking.    Role Full Stack Developer  Technologies Core Java, Spring, REST, SOAP, Angular JS, JavaScript, Ajax, HTML, CSS  Server Web logic  Database Oracle 10g  Responsibilities  • Written Restful Web Services for Staff Travel Web Application.  • Written Rest Client to consume the web Service.  • Written DAO classes for three different operations.  • Written caching the data from database using EhCache of Spring.  • Written hashing code to hash the tickets in java.  • Written SOAP UI functional test cases.  • Written Jmeter script for Performance testing of services.  • Involved in low level design for services  • Written XSD for different services  • Written JUnit test cases with Mockito and Power Mockito.  • Involved in coding in Routing-config in Angular JS  • Involved in coding in controllers, Proxies and services in Angular JS  • Involved in coding for Custom directive in Angular Js  • Written unit test using jasmine in Angular JS Selling Flow Development January 2016 to May 2016 Project Name SFD(Selling Flow Development) Phase-2  Project Description  Selling Flow Development is a part of ba.com (British Airways). It includes flight ticket selling, booking hotels and Car rental etc. A passenger can select flights, hotels or car. In this phase, SFD provides the subsidiaries, franchises, other partner's carriers where a person can book a flight and hotel or car. In this phase SFD also enabled a category for Young Adult (age between 12 to 15 years) in refinement page to book tickets also.    Role Full Stack Developer  Technologies Core Java, Spring, REST, SOAP, Angular JS, JavaScript, Ajax, HTML, CSS  Server Web logic  Database Oracle 10g  Responsibilities  • Written Restful Web Services for BASA (BADotcomSellingAdapter) for SFD Application to check the eligibility for route in new Selling Flow.  • Written Rest Client to consume the web Service.  • Written DAO classes for different services.  • Written XSD for different services  • Written SOAP UI functional test cases.  • Written Jmeter script for Performance testing of services.  • Written JUnit test cases with Mockito and Power Mockito.  • Involved in coding in controllers, Proxies and services in Angular JS  • Involved in coding for Custom directive in Angular Js    • Written unit test using jasmine in Angular JS Selling Flow Development August 2015 to December 2015 Project Name SFD(Selling Flow Development) Phase-1  Project Description  Selling Flow Development is a part of ba.com (British Airways). It includes flight ticket selling, booking hotels and Car rental etc. A passenger can select flights, hotels or car. In this phase we provides BA Holiday Shopping Basket, provides operations around eligibility, applicability and offering availability and price. In this phase we worked on ALP (Ancillary landing page) where a person can select hotel or car.    Role Java Developer  Technologies Core Java, Spring, REST, SOAP, Angular JS, JavaScript, Ajax, HTML, CSS  Server Web logic  Database Oracle 10g  Responsibilities  • Written Restful Web Services for SBKM(Shopping basket Manager) and BAHSB(BA Holiday Shopping Basket) for SFD Application.  • Written Rest Client to consume the web Service of BAHSB Restful Web Service.  • Written DAO classes for different services.  • Written SOAP UI functional test cases.  • Written Jmeter script for Performance testing of services.  • Written XSD and JSON schema for different services  • Written JUnit test cases with Mockito and Power Mockito. Southeast Consortium June 2014 to May 2015 for Unemployment Benefits Integration(SCUBI)  Project Description  SCUBI is Capgemini's product to implement Unemployment Insurance System for different states of America.  Benefits to unemployed workers are financed by a payroll tax on  Employers. Taxes collected for this purpose are set aside in a trust fund that can be used only to pay benefits to unemployed workers. State and federal laws prohibit the use of these resources for any other purpose.    Role Java Developer  Technologies Core Java, Hibernate, Spring, JSP, Servlet, JavaScript, Ajax, JQuery, HTML, CSS  Server Web logic  Database Oracle 10g  Responsibilities  • Written Controller classes for Benefits and Appeals module.  • Written Services for Benefits module.  • Written DAO classes.  • Written JUnit test cases using Mockito and PowerMockito.  • Worked on the Design and Requirement analysis. Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    Language Java , Java Script and Python  Database Oracle 10g, MySQL, Redis, Aerospike  Frameworks Spring, Hibernate , Struts 2, Angular  Repository Tool SVN, Git  Build Tool Maven  Other Tools and Technologies Html, CSS, AJAX, JQuery, , Log4J  Application/Web Server Web logic ,Tomcat, Glassfish, nginx  Other Tools Jenkins, SOANR, Jira, Crucible  IDE IntelliJ IDEA, Eclipse, Web Storm  Operating Systems Windows 7/10, Linux