Java Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Developer - Grepthor Software Solutions ? Having around 3.3 years of professional experience in software development and business logic implementation using Java and J2EE based technologies.  ? Hands on experience on technologies like JDBC, Servlets, JSP, Web services.  ? Hands on experience on frameworks like Spring and Hibernate.  ? Hands on experience Spring modules like IOC, DAO, ORM, MVC, ReST.  ? Hands on experience on tools like Log4j, SVN, Maven and PMD.  ? Hands on experience on tools like Junit.  ? Hands on experience on UI technologies like JavaScript, JQuery and Ajax.  ? Having on Knowledge on Spring Boot and Spring Data JPA.  ? Having knowledge on UI technologies like HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, XML and JSON.  ? Worked on IDE such as Eclipse and STS.  ? Understanding Business Requirements, flow of application and Capable of fixing the defects in the application.  ? Ability to adapt to new environments. Work Experience Java Developer Grepthor Software Solutions March 2018 to Present Project Description:  GPA is an intra organization application and is also known as Gate Pass Application System. GPA is providing to recording details pertaining to returnable and Non-Returnable Moving in and out of security gates of the Organization. It is used to check whether the reporting person authorized signatory or not. If Authorized the Material Move in/out of the organization. GPA having three different logins respectably their duties. The GPA modules are 1. Plant 2. Security Agent 3. IRO. These modules will handle their own duties.    Responsibilities:  • Understanding the customer requirements and functionality of the application.  • Involved in coding for web-based application using spring Framework.  • Involved Plant and Security Agent modules in GPA.  • Spring IOC to resolve dependencies.  • Developed JSP's as per the requirement.  • Involved in spring controller's development and persistence layer.  • DAO layer development with spring ORM.  • Consuming ReSTFul web services in Service layer.  • Implemented backend Validations.  • Involved in client meetings and client calls to get business requirements.  • Involved in developing different kinds of reports like returnable, non-returnable, pending returnable and gate wise material count reports.    Environment:  • Java, J2EE, Spring IOC, Spring MVC, Spring ReST, Spring ORM with Hibernate Integration, Apache Tomcat, Eclipse, HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, JQuery, JavaScript, Oracle, Maven, SVN, PMD, Log4j, Junit, Mockito, JBOSS.    Project#2: Finance, human resources & Inventory management system Software Developer Grepthor Software Solutions - Hyderabad, ANDHRA PRADESH, IN February 2016 to Present Java Developer Grepthor Software Solutions December 2016 to January 2018 Project Description:  Fusion is an integrated application which contains the modules of personal management, material management and financial management.    Responsibilities:  • Spring IOC to resolve dependencies.  • Involved in spring controller's development and persistence layer.  • Involved personal management module.  • DAO layer development with spring ORM.  • Involved in writing Unit Test cases.  • Monitored the error logs using Log4J  • Involved Project Deployments.  Environment:  • Core Java, J2EE, Spring IOC, Spring MVC, Spring ReST, SOAP web services, Spring ORM with Hibernate Integration, JSP, Apache Tomcat, Eclipse, HTML, CSS, Oracle, Maven, SVN, Log4j, Junit, JBOSS. Java Developer Grepthor Software Solutions March 2016 to December 2016 Project Description:  CMMS is an intra organization application and is also known as Computer Maintenance Management System application. CMMS is providing to track the issues/problems (calls) which are raised by Nuclear Fuel Complex's employees, and those are may be belongs to different  type of assets problems. CMMS contains four different logins respectably their duties. The CMMS modules are 1.Plant, 2.MA, 3.MPC & 4.CCF.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in developing Plant, MA and CPF modules.  • Involved in Coding for Web-based Application using Spring Framework  • Spring IOC to resolve dependencies.  • Involved in Spring Controllers development.  • DAO layer development with Spring ORM.  • Developed JSP's as per the Requirement.  • Implemented backend and front end Validations.  • Involved in writing Unit Test cases.    Environment:  J2EE, Spring MVC, Spring ORM, Spring IOC, Eclipse, LOG4J, JSP, MAVEN, SVN, JUnit, HTML, CSS, JBOSS & Oracle. Education Bachelor of Technology in Technology Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University - Hyderabad, ANDHRA PRADESH, IN 2015 Additional Information Technical Expertise:  Languages JAVA, SQL  J2EE Technologies Servlets, JSP, JDBC  Framework Hibernate, Spring  Web Services SOAP, Restful  Web Technologies HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, JavaScript, JQuery, Ajax, Json  Web Server Tomcat  IDE Eclipse, STS, SQL Developer  Build Tool Maven  Tools Log4j, SVN, Maven, JUNIT, PMD, JIRA, Jenkins  Database Oracle 11g