Java Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Developer - Amazon Seattle, WA ? Around 5+ years of experience in software development includes Analysis, Design and Development of Web-based applications with extensive experience in the design and development of multi-tier applications using Java, J2EE, Spring, Hibernate ORM, XML, XSD, Web Services (REST & SOAP), WSDL, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Ajax, jQuery, JUnit.   ? Worked on different Application Servers like Web Logic, IBM WebSphere, ESB (Enterprise Service Bus) and JBoss.   ? Proficient in Java 8/J2EE technologies like JSP, Struts, Java Servlets, AJAX, JavaBeans, JNDI, JMS, XML, web service using IDEs like Eclipse, NetBeans.   ? Experience in using DOM4J, JAXB, JAXP parsing and XML Bean to process, validate, parse and extract data from XML files.   ? Good experience in implementing J2EE compliant applications using various Design patterns, Struts framework, Tiles, spring, MVC framework, Hibernate and Messaging Middleware using JMS (MQ series).   ? Extensive experience in the implementation of the version control software SVN, CVS, Git.  ? Experienced in generating logging by Log4j to identify the errors in the production test environment and experienced in Ant, Maven and Gradle tools.  ? Experienced in developing fully functional responsive modules using Scala with Akka, Arango DB.   ? Hands-on experience using Messaging Services like JMS, MQ Series.   ? Proficient in RDBMS concepts and experience in working with Oracle, DB2 and MY SQL PL/SQL, SQL Plus, Database triggers, Procedures, Functions.   ? Closely worked with Release Management Team in doing builds and deploying code into various environments like DEV/QA/SIT/UAT/Prod.  ? Experience in different phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) like analysis, design, development, and testing with SOA, Amazon Web Service (AWS) and Microservices architectures.   ? Experience using core Java APIs to build multi-threaded server-side components for large-scale Web and standalone applications.   ? Strong Experience using RESTful Web services to save and retrieve geo locations using a remote server in Java 8 using Spring MVC, MongoDB.   ? Working Experience in different modules of Spring Application Framework (Spring MVC, Spring Core, Spring Tx, Spring ORM, Spring Boot, Spring JDBC, Spring JMS, Spring WS, Spring Cloud).   ? Self-learning knowledge of Amazon AWS Cloud Platform with focus on EC2 and S3, Lambda services.   ? Experience in building Spring-based Java microservices to support enterprise web application.   ? Managed projects with Grunt task runner and combined with Bower package manager to install JavaScript latest version of libraries based on running in the Node.js environment.   ? Database Design, Development, and Query Optimization using Oracle, DB2. Experience in writing complex Database Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, and Cursors.   ? Having good knowledge in using NoSQL databases like Apache Cassandra 3.11 Couchbase, Kubernetes and Mongo DB 4.0 Orient DBF net.  ? Experience of various operating systems like Windows, UNIX and LINUX. Experienced in Shell Scripting and UNIX commands.  ? Experience in deploying applications in heterogeneous Application Servers Apache Tomcat, Web Logic and Oracle Application Server.  ? Familiarity with development best practices such as code reviews, unit testing, system integration testing (SIT) and user acceptance testing (UAT).  ? Proficient in using editors Eclipse, Visual Studio Code, PyCharm, Py Scripter, Notepad++ and Sublime Text while developing different applications.  ? Expertise in performing Unit testing using Pyunit framework and Test Automation used Robot Framework along with Error Logging using Sentry.  ? Excellent communication and interpersonal skills and involved in client interactions for scoping, effort estimates and status reporting. Work Experience Java Developer Amazon - Seattle, WA November 2018 to Present Designed the Front-end applications, And Mobile Application As well for user interactive (UI) web pages using web technologies like HTML5, CSS3, Es6 JavaScript, React JS and React-Native/Redux Saga.  ? Implemented Redux Saga's with actions and reducers to implement a sync API calls.  ? Worked on redux saga middleware to access redux application state and dispatched redux actions.  ? Worked in designing, developing and testing the web application by using the HTML5, CSS3, SASS, LESS, Bootstrap, and React.JS also developed cross-browser compatible website using HTML4/5, CSS3, DOM, JavaScript, JSON, jQuery, AJAX and Bootstrap.  ? Written Ajax driven JSON consuming JavaScript functions to save User selections such as radio button, drop-down menu selections into a cookie.  ? Used AngularJS modules such as Controllers, Services, Filters, and Directives, to build well-structured web pages, and made Ajax call to communicate with Restful Web services.  ? Used AngularJS for creating custom directives for data manipulations and to display data in company standard format in UI.  ? Used Angular JS to implement data binding, Module loading. Script, HTML, XML Oracle ESB to IBM CICS Mainframe through IBM MQSeries XML Beans and J\MS to test different parts of the application.  ? Worked in designing the CSS templates for use in all pages on the website working with CSS background, positioning, text, border, margin, padding, and table.  ? Implemented Microservices architecture using Spring Boot for making application smaller and independent.  ? Designed and developed the REST based Microservices using the Spring Boot.  ? Kubernetes is being used to orchestrate the deployment, scaling and management of Docker Containers.  ? Worked on AWS (Amazon Web Services) and its features like EC2, S3, RDS, ELB, EBS, ESB, CloudFront, VPC.  ? Extensive experience in working on Keyword Driven, Data Driven and Hybrid framework using Selenium Web Driver.  ? Designed and implemented topics in new Kafka cluster in all environment & successfully secured the Kafka cluster with Kerberos.  ? Implemented Kafka Security Features using SSL & further with more grain-fines security I set up Kerberos to have users and groups this will enable more advanced security features.  ? Extensive experience in using Firefox Add-ons like Selenium IDE, Firebug, Fire Path, Selenium Builder.  ? Worked on leading frameworks as React.js to build high-quality, scalable and reusable components and Front-end solution.  ? Developed user interface by using the React JS, Flux/Redux for SPA development.  ? Used React JS to create custom components for data manipulations and to display data in company standard format.  ? Configured Express JS node http framework to set up middle-wares to respond to HTTP requests and used its front-end tooling like web packs, starter packs, boiler plates efficiently.  ? Developed dynamic responsive Web Application by integrating Angular JS with Bootstrap and LESS CSS which is further integrated with Web Services.  ? Worked on responsive design and developed a single ISOMORPHIC responsive website that could be served to desktop, Tablets and mobile users using React also used Json to fetch data from CA groups and load in customer application.  ? Developing RESTful web services using Node JS and Express JS and used Node JS server to interact with the Rest services and database, hosted on multiple load balanced cloud instances.  ? Worked on AWS cloud resources which includes launching, maintaining and troubleshooting of EC2 instances, and S3 buckets, Elastic Load Balancer (ELB), Elastic Search and Relational Database Services (RDS).  ? Worked on Creating AWS Route 53 to route traffic between different regions also created AWS Security Groups for deploying and Configuring AWS EC2 instances.  ? Developed Java API to interact with the Amazon SQS used for sending bulk emails.  ? Used Axioms with React for making AJAX Calls also installed Ranger in all environments for Second Level of security in Kafka Broker.  ? Worked on containerization using tools like Docker and Setup Docker on Linux and configured Jenkins to run under docker host.  ? Worked on JDK 8 to write the code on functional interfaces, default methods in interfaces and filters using Stream.  ? Implemented web Services to bind the data and provide access to the data on the server and developed form validation with AngularJS valid, and data validation.  ? Worked on Oracle (PL/SQL) database and wrote HQL query to access the data from the database. Used Annotations in Hibernate mapping.  ? Used Apache Camel to implement Java Message Service (JMS) API for sending and receiving email notifications to the employee about notifications to their portal.  ? Developed all the user interfaces using JSP, Servlets and Spring framework also developed the DAO layer using Hibernate and used the caching system for real-time performance.  ? Worked on object-oriented analysis and design using UML (uses cases, domain model, Activity diagrams, sequence diagrams, class diagrams, reports generation, reverse engineering) with tool Rational Rose.  ? Created Servlets and Java Server Pages (JSP), which route submittals to the appropriate Enterprise Java Bean (EJB) components and render retrieved information using Session Facade.  ? Created error handling framework and persisted all the business validation errors and application error in to IFP error table.  ? Used various J2EE design patterns in the project such as Factory, Singleton, Service Locator and Data Access Object.  ? Utilized JavaScript to present a data entry form that when submitted transferred form information to the digital stamp placed on the PDF form. Java Developer McKesson - San Francisco, CA September 2017 to October 2018 Worked on Design, Development, and Implementation in the field of Web Applications development using HTML, CSS, XHTML, JavaScript, jQuery, Angular JS, Bootstrap, AJAX, XML, JSON, Restful web services and Responsive web designing.  ? Developed Spring Restful/Microservices and implemented Spring Eureka, Netflix, Ribbon as part of Services Discovery using Apache Axis.  ? Develop UI automation for Node JS, Angular, and Ext JS -based web applications using Selenium Web Driver, developed in JavaScript. Micro services have been built using Spring boot, Spring cloud.  ? Developed the microservices using Spring Sleuth, Config Server and NETFLIX OSS (Eureka, Hystrix, and Zuul).  ? Used microservice architecture, with Spring Boot-based services interacting through REST endpoints.  ? Used Spring Boot which is radically faster in building cloud Microservices and develop Spring based application with very less configuration also developed unit and integration tests for existing Microservices using Junit and Docker.  ? Worked on Java 8 Lambda Expressions, Parallel streams, Streams and Predicates also worked on various JavaScript Web application related libraries such as Backbone.js, React JS, Ember JS, Require.js, Knockout, Angular.js, bootstrap and Google Web Toolkit.  ? Created AngularJS controllers, directives, models for different modules in the frontend also designed and implemented application using AngularJS framework to two-way data binding also worked in developing front end technologies such as JavaScript, Angular, jQuery, HTML, CSS, JSON, JSP and Struts.  ? Used Spring Core Annotations for Dependency Injection Spring DI and Spring MVC for REST API, Spring Boot for microservices and Spring Batch for running batch jobs.  ? Developed API services in React.js, Node.js while leveraging RabbitMQ for distributed architectures also implemented REST web service in Scala using Akka for CBPMAN log tracking application.  ? Used RabbitMQ Queues for implementation of multithreaded synchronization processes and used JMS queues for consumption requests.  ? Worked on developing, Testing, Debugging, Integrating and Deploying Enterprise applications using Integrated Development Environments (IDE) IntelliJ IDEA, Eclipse and Rational Application Developer (RAD).  ? Extensively worked on JavaScript MVC Framework AngularJS to make rich internet web application for a Single page application. Worked with the Linux/Unix admin team to set up, configure, initialize and troubleshoot a Cassandra cluster.  ? Developed web layer using Spring framework to manage the project in MVC pattern worked on developing Microservices with Spring Boot.  ? Worked on ECMA 6 features as ES6 features implemented in Google's V8 which is used by Node JS.  ? Involved in transpiling, bundling and developing React components for the partner homepages using React.js.  ? Used ReactJS to create views to hook up models to the DOM and synchronize data with server as a Single Page Application (SPA).  ? Used the feature of ReactJS of running the server and rendering the virtual DOM, returning to the browser as a regular page.  ? Used React flux to polish the data and for single directional flow and migrated the code to React.js-with Redux.  ? Implemented the Drag and Drop functionality using React-Draggable and utilized ReactJS Virtual Dom for updating DOM manipulations.  ? Used RabbitMQ Queues for implementation of multithreaded synchronization processes and used JMS queues for consumption requests.  ? Processed data into HDFS by developing solutions, analyzed the data using MapReduce, Pig, Hive and produce summary results from Hadoop to downstream systems.  ? Actively involved in the design of the application architecture in lines of their own Framework based on MVC2 Architecture with JSP Front End (HTTP Request/Response Integration) as View, Servlet as Controller and combination of EJBs and Java classes as Model.  ? Implemented Node.js as server-side proxy for event-driven, non-blocking I/O model , which made my applications to run across distributed devices.  ? Implemented Node JS as a server-side proxy for an Implemented Oath 2.0 for providing authentication and authorization for web services & event-driven, non-blocking I/O model to make the application lightweight and efficient. Done the installing and configuring Confluent Kafka in R&D line, also Validate the installation with HDFS connector and Hive connectors.  ? Developed RESTful web services using Node JS and Express JS and used Node JS server to interact with the Rest services and database, hosted on multiple load balanced cloud instances.  ? Worked on web services using SOAP, UDDI, WSDL, REST and implementation using APACHE AXIS and APACHE CXF. Java Developer Citi Bank - Mumbai, Maharashtra August 2012 to March 2015 Developed dynamic web pages using HTML5, CSS3, jQuery, Bootstrap, AJAX for building up a Monolithic application.  ? Used Redux for state management, to store the whole state of the app in an immutable object tree.  ? Used React- Redux (connect) which is responsible to "map state to props" and "map dispatch to props".  ? Built components using JSX in React.js for rich user interface view, used web pack-built tool and Babel-Loader for transpiling JSX and ES6 to ES5.  ? Followed spring web flow architecture throughout the application.  ? Created responsive UI modules using Backbone JS with hard coded dependency of underscore JS in combination with Handlebar JS for templating.  ? Used Cloud-watch for monitoring AWS cloud resources and the applications that deployed on AWS by creating new alarm, enable notification service.  ? Build servers using AWS, importing volumes, launching EC2, creating security groups, auto-scaling, load balancers (ELBs) in the defined virtual private connection.  ? Designed AWS CloudFormation templates to create custom sized VPC, subnets, NAT to ensure successful deployment of Web applications and database templates.  ? Managed multi-store state logic to maintain single source of truth and created Actions, Reducers, dumb components and smart components.  ? Built applications using React.js which allowed us to render pages on both the client and server using the same codebase.  ? Created reusable ReactJS components and implemented Redux Pattern into the solution to maintain the stable and always updated Application state.  ? Used ReactJS to create Controllers to handle events triggered by clients and send request to server.  ? Used React.js in development of the web application to bind the data/model that is being retrieved from a database through services provided in a controller to the view using scope.  ? Used Backbone JS to utilize its minimal set of data-structuring (models and collections) and user interface (views and URLs) primitives for building MVC work flow design  ? Created JSP, JavaScript, JQUERY & HTML, extensively used various collection classes like Array List, Hash Map, Hash Table and Hash Set.  ? Developed highly responsive mobile user Interface using react-native framework.  ? Worked with JAXB, used JBoss Application Server that implements the Java Platform, Enterprise Edition ( Java EE)  ? Involved in Spring MVC model integration for front-end request action controller.  ? Created S3 buckets in the AWS environment to store files, sometimes which are required to serve static content for a web application.  ? Used IAM for creating roles, users, and groups to provide additional security to AWS account and its resources  ? Developed the Use case, Sequence and Class diagrams using UML/Rational Rose, used Spring MVC to decouple business logic and view components, involved in developing/coding the core framework classes and developed web services using JAX-WS to make use of existing applications.  ? Used Spring MVC (Model View Controller) to handle/intercept the user requests and used various controllers to delegate the request flow to the Backend tier of the application.  ? Involved in requirement analysis & client interaction, Responsible for Writing Hibernate mapping XML Files, HQL.  ? Implemented Spring Security for providing authentication and authorization for web services. Education Bachelor's in CSE Northwestern Polytechnic University - Fremont, CA May 2015 to August 2017 Skills Angularjs, J2Ee, Java, Javascript, Spring, Java J2Ee, Hibernate, JSP