Java Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Developer - Bank of America • Around 4 years of Computer Science experience as a Java Developer.  • Experience in design & development of internet/intranet applications using Java, JEE, JSP, JMS, JDBC, HTML, XML, JSON, CSS, Java Script, Spring, Spring boot, JPA.  • Involved in the development and testing of web application and integration projects using Object Oriented technologies such as Java, Struts, JSP, JDBC, Spring Framework, Java.  • Experience in User Interaction, Development, Integration, Documentation, Testing, Deployment, Building, Configuration.  • Experience in Production/Customer Support, Maintenance, and Enhancements of both Web and Client/Server Technologies.  • Experience in using build and Automation tools like ANT and Maven for the building of deployable artifacts from source code.  • Experience in developing client/server and Web Applications using JAVA, J2EE technologies and Web Technologies for enterprise applications.  • Extensively worked on front-end web development technologies like HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, Bootstrap, Angular.  • Experience working on version control systems like Tortoise SVN, GIT and used Source code management client tools like GitBash, GitHub, Git GUI, and other command line applications, etc.  • Extensive involvement in Front-end Web Application Development utilizing HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, JavaScript, Servlets, JSP, jQuery and AngularJS.  • Solid knowledge in test-driven development including writing integration test cases for the REST endpoints.  • Used Git, GitHub, Bitbucket, CVS, and Subversion for version control.  • Experienced with various application/web servers like JBoss, WebLogic, Glassfish, and Tomcat. Work Experience Java Developer Bank of America - Charlotte, NC July 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Worked on various types of Business rules in excel file templates using Drools rule engine for business decision making, injecting beans into the rules engine and invoking using Rule Base Stateful Session.  • Analyzed documented detail Test plans, Test cases and expected results based on the business functional requirements and Helped the team to integrate the code into the production environment and resolve any issues.  • Involved in bug fixing of various modules in the application that were raised during testing and Used GIT and Stash for creating branches, pull requests and merging.  • Implemented Singleton, factory design pattern, DAO design Patterns based on the application requirements and Worked with SQL and NoSQL queries to interact with the MongoDB database.  • Worked closely with the manager, supervisor and offshore team to assess needs, resolve problems, and provide technical assistance.  • Followed an Agile development environment, involving daily stand-up meetings on call and participated in project discussion.  • Preparation of the framework classes for communication between portal to EJB and Hibernate.  • Used AngularJS to implement rich functionality in various pages: form validation, grid, search, sort, pagination, multi-selection, tags-input, advanced directives, authentication, server-side proxy, unit tests, cloud integration, slide pages, users switch, etc.  • Produced client-side validation through JavaScript and AJAX for asynchronous communication.  • Created and optimized graphics prototype websites and applications interfaces using HTML and CSS.  • Involved in developing HTML5 for client-side presentation and, data validation within the forms and also Built reusable templates for web sites using Bootstrap and Font-awesome fonts. Java Developer Dell - Round Rock, TX October 2017 to June 2018 Responsibilities:  • Updated and enhanced legacy systems, transforming data to new standards, including relational mapping and ODI scripting.  • Designed and implemented customized dashboard applications, extracting data from business systems to display relevant information and generate dynamic reports.  • Coordinated with the client and upper-level management, as well as cross-functional teams to test the solutions for production issues and customizations.  • Performed software development utilizing technologies such as core Java, J2EE, Spring Framework, Hibernate, JSF, Servlet, and Oracle database.  • Interacted with business users and collected the requirements. Analyzed business requirements, designed and recommended solutions over Agile Methodologies.  • Developed web pages using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, and AJAX and Worked with the deployment of code using Jenkins.  • Created backend tables/stored procedures and SQL for database access.  • Installed testing and production environments and wrote test cases and documentation and Extracted data from ERP systems to build a complete dashboard with detailed financial KPIs.  • Design web service and JMS interface to get data to form customer SOA system.  • Experience in building custom frameworks using XML parsing techniques such as SAX & DOM and also Developed and used JSP custom tags in the web tier to dynamically generate web pages. Software Developer IBM - Bengaluru, Karnataka June 2015 to December 2016 Responsibilities:    • Actively involved in Analysis, Design, Development, System Testing and User Acceptance Testing. Successfully followed Sprint planning and estimation for user stories in an Agile Environment.  • Implemented the front-end using AngularJS, HTML 5, AJAX, CSS3 and Java script.  • Designed and Developed enterprise level angular component libraries such as data-tables, autosuggestion, pagination etc and Re-design and improve the webpages and its performance.  • Developed the application using Java and implemented its features like Time API, Streams, functional interfaces, collectors, default methods, type interfaces, and for each.  • Used multithreaded environment to run processes asynchronously using different future calls to access the data.  • Extensively used various Spring Framework modules like MVC, Dependency Injection (IOC), Auto Wiring, Spring Security and AOP.  • Created and injected spring services, spring controllers and DAOs to achieve dependency injection and to wire objects of business classes.  • Spring Boot micro-services were developed using Micro Service architecture with RESTFUL.  • Employed fail-safe and circuit breaker patterns for the first time in Client's email applications using Spring Boot Micro Service Applications.  • Implemented functionalities using Spring IO / Spring Boot with Hibernate ORM and Configured the Hibernate configuration files to persist the data to the Mongo DB Database.  • Used Spring Tool Suite (STS) which is based on Eclipse to develop and debug application code and Worked on Swagger UI to interact with the API'S. Designed and documented APIs using Swagger.  • Migration of Existing Application to AWS cloud. Used Amazon Web Services (AWS) like S3, RDS, cloud watch and Cloud Front for promoting code in various environments. Education Master of Science in Computer New Jersey Institute of Technology - Newark, NJ 2018 Skills Javascript