UI Developer UI <span class="hl">Developer</span> UI Developer - Norfolk Southern Frisco, TX • Around 5 years of Strong Development experience in developing User Interface applications and web applications using HTML4/HTML5, CSS2/CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, and JSON, Bootstrap, and Angular 2/4.  • Proficiency in the Entire Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC).  • Followed Waterfall and Agile/Scrum methodology of software development, which satisfies the customer through early and continuous delivery of valuable software.  • Expertise in Core Java concepts like OOP'S design, Multi-threading, Generics, Exception handling, Collections, Java reflection, Annotation.  • Experience in working with RESTful Web Services and implementing RESTful API's.  • Experience in applying the latest development approaches including MVC, event-driven applications using Ajax, Object Oriented (OO) JavaScript, JSON, Angular 2/4, and XML.  • Experience of working on CSS Preprocessors like LESS and SASS along with JavaScript task runners like Grunt.  • Experience in creating, consuming Web Services and working with third party web service APIs and Web Services using Ajax and jQuery.  • Experience on Typescript, Angular 2/4 for mobile applications, web API and browser clients.  • Extensively worked with Angular2/4modules, classes, components and templates.  • Skills in optimizing Responsive Web design using CSS media queries and Bootstrap.  • Experience in debugging the code using browser tools like Chrome Developer Tools, Firebug, and IE Developer Toolbar.  • Experience in using Tomcat, Apache, security setup across web components and able to perform application deployments and configuration changes on these servers.  • Expertise in using source code control systems using GIT.  • Extensive experience in using Yeoman, Bower, NPM for scaffolding the application.  • Experience with Grunt for JavaScript file's concatenation and minify to improve performance in loading web pages.  • Expertise in building single page web applications using Angular2/ 4  • Experience working with various IDEs such as Notepad++, WebStorm, Eclipse, Brackets and Sublime text.  • Good Knowledge on testing frameworks like Jasmine, Karma, Mocha.  • Possesses excellent analytical, written and oral communication skills with a results-oriented attitude with the capability to handle new technologies. Work Experience UI Developer Norfolk Southern - Atlanta, GA March 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Involved in developing the web pages using Angular2, Angular 4 in building the Single Page Applications (SPAs).  • Developed Reactive Single Page Applications (SPA) using Angular2/ Angular4 with expertise in creating User Controls, Web Forms  • Built Web pages that are more user-interactive using AJAX, JavaScript, LESS, Bootstrap and AngularJS.  • Involved in writing the front-end code for the application using Angular 4.  • Created Angular2 Directives, Components, Pipes, Injectables across the whole system, such as build the custom filter and the main assortment dashboard.  • Built Angular2 framework including MVC/MVVM architectures, different modules, specific controllers, templates, custom directives and custom filters.  • Leveraged Angular2 resources for all data access, encapsulating URLs, and standardizing data access interfaces.  • Created Angular2 Directives, Components, Pipes, Injectables across the whole system, such as to build the custom filter.  • Highly used Angular2 Router to build single page application for navigate through the different status and multiple modals.  • Optimizing the code of reusability using the Decorators and injecting the services to access those in any components by using the property called providers in Angular2 Components.  • Created unit test cases of Angular2 components, services using Karma-test-runner and Jasmine  • Designed and implemented Restful Web services for communicating between Angular2 and Spring Boot.  • Instructing and mentoring teams of developers in uses of Angular 2.0 technologies to include, Node.js, Grunt, LESS and additional technologies to ensure current migration from AngularJS 1.5 to Angular 2.0.  • Designed and implemented the enhanced development platform by doing POC using frameworks like Angular2, Node JS and NPM.  • Developed complex Angular2UI nested components for reuse and rapid development Angular2for each SPA.  • Integrated with the back-end code (JSP) using jQuery, JSON and AJAX to get and post the data to backend servers.  • Used Angular 2.0 & Typescript, ionic framework and jQuery to provide UI functionality.  • Involved in preparation of Templates common across all banners and then developing individualistic content within them using Adobe CQ5, JSP, HTML/XHTML & CSS3.  • Worked with CSS3 background, CSS3 Layouts, CSS3 positioning, CSS3 text, CSS3 border, CSS3 margin, CSS3 padding, Pseudo elements and CSS3 behaviors.  • Integrated the Spring Boot API with Angular2 to store logs and generated deployment services.  • Developed various reusable helper and utility classes using Java Beans with Eclipse editor.  • Involved in writing application level code to interact with APIs, Restful Web Services using AJAX, JSON.  • Developed user interface using AJAX to simplify the complexities of the application.  • Worked with Kendo UI comprehensive framework for building modern web and apps with HTML5 and JavaScript.  • Successfully performed the RESTful APIs Integration using XML and JSON.  • Consumed 3rd party web services in the project using RESTful web services for authentications.  • Handled client-side validation using JavaScript and jQuery.  • Implemented jQuery data tables and binded it with the services using knockout.  • Consumed Web Services (WSDL, SOAP, REST, Restful, and UDDI) from third party for authorizing payments to/from customers.  • Worked closely with securing additional resource for the team and worked in an Agile Environment.  • Developed UI and implemented for some plug-in using JavaScript, HTML, CSS and XML.  • Worked on Cross-browser Compatibility of UI pages. Implemented for internet browsers such as Chrome, Firefox, and IE.  • Developed SQL scripts for data migration.    Environment: Angular 4, Angular 2, Angular JS, TypeScript, Node JS, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Bootstrap, JSON, jQuery, AJAX, LESS, REST, Restful, UDDI, SQL Java /UI Developer Xerox - Sacramento, CA January 2017 to March 2018 Responsibilities:  • Responsible for the design of web applications right from the conceptualization stage to its implementation and maintenance.  • Developed UI using HTML, CSS, jQuery and JavaScript for interactive cross browser functionality and complex user interface  • Developed mockups and prototypes using HTML and CSS3.  • Coded extensively in jQuery to make rich Internet web pages and created custom date picker on the website.  • Involved in extensive HTML5 coding. Co-ordinate with UX designers and develop static content using front end with HTML5, CSS3 and Angular JS.  • Created Custom Directives, Filters, Services and Modules with the help of Angular Js.  • Implemented Client side validations using Angular JS Custom Form Validation and server side validations using Data Annotation.  • Used Custom Angular JS Filters to provide better search experience.  • Implemented AngularJS Factories and Controllers to manipulate and view employee task data.  • Developed CSS styles to maintain the uniformity of all the screens throughout the application and positioning of screen objects. Involved in creating and consuming Restful Web Service using Node JS.  • Developed page layouts, navigation, animation buttons and icons. Experience working on Sass Preprocessor.  • Designed CSS based page layouts that are cross-browser compatible and standards- compliant.  • Performing different modules like login, search and download with tracking.  • Did extensive JavaScript and JQuery programming to give AJAX functionality for the website.  • Used MySQL database to interact with backend data via Rest API.  • Involved in the creation of interface to manage user menu and Bulk update of Attributes using Angular.js, Node JS and jQuery.  • Wrote and performed client-side and server-side unit testing with Jasmine, Mocha and the chai assertion library.    Environment: HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JSON, jQuery, AngularJS, NodeJS, Bootstrap, Sublime, Yeoman, Git, Waterfall methodology, Grunt, Sass, Jasmine, Karma. Java Developer NBTY - San Antonio, TX January 2016 to December 2016 Responsibilities:  • Designed web application user interface, interaction scenarios and navigation based on analysts, interpretations of requirement and use cases.  • Developed client-side validation code using JavaScript and jQuery.  • Worked one-on-one with client to develop layout, color scheme for his website and implemented it into a final interface design with the HTML/CSS & JavaScript using Dreamweaver CS3.  • Designed and developed JavaScript framework, which is wrapper on top of jQuery framework and AJAX, based UI Configuration widgets.  • Used JavaScript and CSS for UI Design Mockup.  • Written code in jQuery/JavaScript/CSS/AJAX for the navigation-oriented application.  • Created Dynamic Integration of jQuery Tab, jQuery, and other JQUERY component integration with Ajax.  • Developed UI and implemented for some plug-in using JavaScript, HTML, CSS and XML.  • Writing and implementing CSS 3 throughout the site, both as in-line and imported files.  • Resolved various CSS compatibility issue and did research for CSS3 to implement for our framework.  • Implemented design process upon client approval and built out all assets: buttons, products shots, UI components, etc.  • Designed and developed the layouts of Customer Relations Module.  • Used several jQuery plugins to build Rich Internet Application (RIA) to make it look more intuitive.  • Participated in team meetings with the UI team and the end user Webmaster corporate clients to understand the needs of new implementation and Participated in daily team meetings and weekly scrum meetings.  • Identified the way to increase the search engine optimization (SEO) and social media friendly.    Environment: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, Usability Testing, Agile methodology, Eclipse. Java Developer Pace time Solutions June 2014 to November 2015 Responsibilities:  • Involved in design, development, Object Oriented Analysis and testing the application.  • Developed Action Servlet, Action Form, Action Class, Java Beans classes using Struts Framework.  • Designed, developed and maintained the data layer using Hibernate.  • Configured connection pools for the database and interacted with the database by configuring the data source in hibernate configuration file.  • Used XML for the data exchange and used DOM parser to extract and read the required information from the XML.  • Implementing the model part of MVC architecture by developing hibernate value objects to map the database tables and configured them in mapping xml files.  • Configured JMS and JNDI in Rational Application Developer.  • Used commons and log4j logging framework.  • Used JavaScript for client side validations in the JSP and HTML pages.  • Performed unit testing, system testing and integration testing.    Environment: JSP, Servlet, My SQL, JS, Apache Tomcat, XML, HTML, CSS, Eclipse IDE Education Master's Skills Eclipse (3 years), HTML (4 years), JavaScript (4 years), testing (3 years), XML (3 years), Angular, UI, Front End, Front-End, React Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    UI Web Technologies: HTML/HTML5, CSS2/CSS3, XML, XHTML, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, DOM, JSON  Frameworks: Angular 2/4, Bootstrap, jQuery, NodeJS  Unit Testing Jasmine, Karma  IDEs worked on: Eclipse IDE, Notepad++, Adobe Dreamweaver, Microsoft FrontPage  Editors Notepad++, Dream viewer, Sublime text  Application Servers: Tomcat Apache Server, HTTP Web Server  Version Tools SVN, GIT Hub  Database SQL, PL/SQL, MongoDB  Browser IE, Firefox, Opera, Chrome, Safari