Java Full Stack Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> Full Stack <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Full Stack Developer - Wex Inc Jersey City, NJ • Experience in design, development, maintenance and support of Java/J2EE applications.  • Working knowledge in multi-tierd distributed environment, good understanding of Software Development Lifecycle (SDLC) and Service Oriented Architecture (SOA)  • Experience in working in environments using SCRUM and Test-Driven development methodologies.  • Experience in working in both Windows and UNIX platforms including programming and debugging skills in Unix Shell Scripting.  • Worked on Site minder and Entitlement services for single sign on or authentication purposes.  • Extensive experience in developing Use Cases, Activity Diagrams, Sequence Diagrams and Class Diagrams using UML Rational Rose and Visio.  • Extensive experience in Java/J2EE programming - JDBC, Servlets, JSP, JMS, EJB2.0/3.0.  • Expert knowledge over J2EE Design Patterns like Singleton, MVC Architecture, Front Controller, Session Façade and Data Access Object for building J2EE Applications.  • Experienced in web development using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, AJAX, JQuery and AngularJS technologies.  • Implemented routing logic and navigation from page to page and implemented login functionality on the client side in Angular 2.0.  • Experienced in developing MVC framework based websites using spring and struts.  • Experience in building web applications using Spring Framework features like MVC (Model View Controller), AOP (Aspect Oriented Programming), IOC (Inversion of Control), DAO (Data Access Object) and template classes.  • Expertise in Object-relational mapping using Hibernate and Ibatis.  • Expertise in developing and consuming Web services including different technologies and standards like XSD, SOAP, WSDL, JAX-WS.  • Experience in configuring and administering MQ-Series and experience in developing messaging systems using JMS.  • Good Knowledge of using IDE Tools like Eclipse, Rational Application Developer (RAD) for Java/J2EE application development.  • Expertise in database modelling, administration and development using SQL, PL/SQL in Oracle (8i, 9i and 10g), DB2 and SQL Server environments.  • Experience in using ANT and Maven for build automation.  • Experience in using version control and configuration management tools like Clear Case, CVS and Subversion.  • Experienced in using Operating Systems like Windows 98 / 2000 / NT / XP, AIX.  • Experience in designing, developing and implementing E-Commerce, B2B applications using J2EE technologies in Banking and Insurance domains  • Proficient in software documentation and technical report writing.  • Versatile team player with effective communication, analytical, presentation and inter-personal skills. Work Experience Java Full Stack Developer Wex Inc - South Portland, ME December 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Involved in complete development of Agile (SCRUM) Development Methodology' and tested the application in each iteration.  • Involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) such as requirements gathering, modelling, analysis, design, development and testing.  • Used Java 8 Lambda expressions along with Streams for creating internal iteration and performing chain operations such as Filter, Map, Collect on a collection Objects.  • Developed the front-end using HTML5, CSS3, Ajax, JavaScript (jQuery), Bootstrap, Angular 2.0 and NodeJs.  • Used Amazon IAM tool and created groups & permissions for users to work collaboratively. Managing with Custom AMI's, Created AMI snapshots and modified AMI permissions. Implementing AWS Security Groups and NACL for Additional Layer of Security.  • Planning and Implementing, Disaster Recovery and Fault Tolerance for AWS services.  • Troubleshooting AWS Auto, scaling and EC2 instances related issues.  • Expert in implementing advanced procedures like text analytics and processing using the in-memory computing capabilities like Apache Spark written in Scala  • Creating end to end Apache Spark-Solr applications using Scala to perform various data cleansing, validation, transformation and summarization activities according to the requirement  • Developed REST web services for transmission of data in JSON format.  • Used MongoDB as a data storage and utilized aspects like replica sets, sharing and clever document design to make service extensible scale feature wise.  • working in a DevOps Environment as a DevOps engineer working on various technologies like ANT, Maven, GIT, SVN, Jenkins, Puppet, Chef, Docker  • Focused on automation and integration of various DevOps Tools Monitored developed applications and fixed bugs.  • Designed and developed dashboard menu section, home page, and admin home page, user module using Spring MVC framework, Hibernate ORM module, Spring Core Module, XML, JSP, and XSLT.  • Used Spring Batch to deal with large number of chunks of data.  • Developed efficient PL/SQL clean-up scripts to remove older transactional data from non-partitioned tables.  • Developed metadata driven PL/SQL utility scripts to generate External tables, Sql Loader control files, getter functions and other generic codes required for data migration.  • Created PL/SQL scripts to perform ETL from different data sources (Main Frame, DB2, ORACLE) to Oracle database.  • Designed and developed the application with spring and REST web services using CAMUNDA tool.  • Involved in establishment of CAMUNDA BPM and set up of Tomcat Server.  • Using Hibernate framework to develop the persistence layer by configuring various mappings in hibernate files and created DAO layer.  Environment: Java 8, Angular 2.0, Spring Core, Struts, REST Web Service, SOAP Web Service, Ext JS, Eclipse, ORACLE, Congo's, Tomcat, ANT. Sr. Java Full Stack Developer Walmart Labs - Sunnyvale, CA August 2016 to January 2017 Responsibilities:  • Designing, development and testing of new modules by communicating with client and team members, using Angular.  • Developing Web applications using Java, J2EE and Hibernate.  • Developing Action Form classes, Form beans, and Action classes using struts.  • Using Hibernate for the backend persistence.  • Developed REST services to talk with adapter classes and exposed them to the AngularJS in the front-end.  • Wrote responsive components using Angular, SASS like type ahead suggestions and search results.  • Developed the web GUI of OneXN using Angular, Bootstrap, Backbone JS, and Node Js.  • Designed and developed the User Interface using JSP, JSF, HTML, CSS and JavaScript, AngularJS, JQuery, Backbone Js, Bootstrap  • Used spring framework for dependency injection and integrated with Hibernate.  • Involved in writing Spring Configuration XML file that contains object declarations and dependencies.  • Developed and Consumed Web Services using SOAP and Restful API. Performing Load Test using SOAP UI.  • Designing the front end using JSP, HTML, CSS, and JavaScript as per the requirements that are provided.  • Setting up, building the environment and deployed project by writing Ant build.xml.  • Developing user interfaces using HTML and CSS and implementing service.  • Eclipse/Sublime text IDEs to develop the application, JIRA for bug and issue tracking, managing SVN and deployment of build in production environment.  • Integration of Mule ESB system while utilizing MQ Series, Http, File system and SFTP transports.  • Used AMQP Endpoints to connect to RabbitMQ, which is a messaging queue.  • Extensively used Mule components that includes File Transport, SMTP Transport, FTP/SFTP Transport, JDBC Connector, and Transaction Manager.  • Developed RESTful/SOAP web services in Mule ESB based on SOA architecture  • Building web applications in WCAG guidelines.  • Designed Integrations using Mule Soft ESB environments for both on premise and Cloudhub environments.  • Experience in developing interfaces between Salesforce and Oracle ERP using Informatica Cloud/Mule ESB technologies.  • Experience in Mule soft any point API platform on designing and implementing Mule APIs.  • Effectively used Explain Plan, SQL Trace, TKPROF and system generated AWR report to identify the performance bottlenecks and fix them accordingly.  • Developed Data Stage multi instance generic ETL job using schema file/SQL file to load Oracle database tables.  • Handling diverse types of performance related issues.  • Completing product development as per requirements, schedules and activities, contributing to team meetings.  Environment: Java, J2EE, JSP, Ajax, XML, CSS, Angular js, JavaScript, SQL, T-SQL, Windows, Agile, Eclipse, Angular-JS, HTML 5, jQuery, HP Quality Center, Maven, UML. Java Developer Plymouth Rock Assurance - Boston, MA August 2015 to July 2016 Responsibilities:  • Developed use case diagrams, class diagrams, sequence diagrams and object diagrams using UML and Rational Rose.  • Designed interactive web pages with front-end screens using HTML and JavaScript technology for the e-statement server as per the requirements.  • Extensive designing and development of Java Servlets, JSP and XML.  • Reviewed and maintained policies to migrate/upgrade code in production and streamlined the process by working with team. Strictly followed the policy of No SQL code gets into production without testing against current production schema and data in test environment.  • Application Architecture based on MVC Struts Framework. Designed and developed custom tags, action classes and action form beans.  • Upgrading the external facing website/portal developed in Java from Web logic using a more loosely coupled architecture and upgraded Oracle tools.  • Used JDBC for connectivity.  • Integrating HTTP Apache HTTP plug-in with Web logic Servers.  • Implemented various design patterns in the project such as Business Delegate, Data Transfer Object, Data  • Object Service Locator and Singleton.  • Rebuild/Configure Development and Test SQL environments to SQL Server 2012 from 2008. Document process for Production Rebuild/Upgrade.  • Generate the report using SQL query as per the client requirement.  • Integrating Struts with spring by delegating Struts action management to Spring Framework using proxy.  • Excellent working experience with Oracle 11g including storage and manipulating data.  • Worked extensively with Front controller, View dispatcher, Session Façade, Business Delegate, Data Access Objects, Service Locator and Transfer Objects design patterns.  • Extensively used Hibernate in data access layer to access and update information in the database.  • Hibernate framework is used in persistence layer for mapping an object-oriented domain model to a relational database (oracle)  • Developed Java Beans and Utility Classes for interacting with the database using JDBC.  • Used SAX and DOM for parsing XML documents and XSLT for transformation.    Environment: J2EE, Java 5, Oracle 11g, Struts1.2, Spring 2.5, Hibernate 3.0, Web services with Axis2 and SOAP, XML, JAXB, XSLT, Castor, UML, eclipse 3.4, Java Mail 1.4, JSON, JavaScript, JQuery, HTML, DHTML, CSS, UNIX Scripting, CVS, Log4j, ANT 1.5.1, Maven, Web Sphere 4.0/5.0, Junit. Java Developer Azure Knowledege Corp November 2014 to March 2015 Responsibilities:  • Develop application flow as per business requirement using java web based technologies.  • Project was developed on Agile based SCRUM methodology.  • Developed web front end using JSP, CSS, HTML and Struts MVC.  • Implement various frameworks like spring framework, Spring JDBC hibernate to improve robustness, performance and usability of the application.  • Used GWT for loading of Health History pages for good look and feel.  • Implemented JMS for subscriber Id automatic upload.  • Use various features spring framework provides like dependency injection, DAO services and integration with Struts MVC.  • Develop and deploy the application to Web logic 10.3.4.  • Write JUnit, Mock test cases for unit testing the task once the development completed to a task.  • Consumed Agent Load Web service to send the IFP enrolment application to Under Writing team.  • Have worked on Quoting Module to enhance features with respect to changing market and Healthcare reform.  • Used Team Site content management system to deploy banners, advertisements and for quick Web changes deployment.  • Developed T-SQL scripts, Functions, Stored Procedure to develop SSRS on them.  • Worked on converting Access Based application in SQL Server applications.  • Developed complex SSIS packages and T-SQL procedures to integrate data form multiple sources.  • Will be stamped on the PDF using in text Framework API.  • Involved in Implementing AZ Migration Quote project by Using JSP, JSF and Oracle 10 g  • Used Cygwin and putty to connect to Unix servers and WinSCP to navigate files from Unix servers in Stage, QA, UAT and Prod environments    Environment: Java 1.5, J2EE, Struts 2.0, Spring 2.0, JSP 2.0, JPA, JMS 1.1, Web-services, SOA, XML, SOAP, WSDL, JDBC, JavaScript, Agile, AJAX, UML, HTML, Multi-Threading, CVS, XSLT, Log4J, Maven, JUNIT, Mock Test, Jboss4.x Jboss5.x and DB2. Java Developer FutureNetGroup Inc August 2013 to October 2014 Responsibilities:  • Project was developed on Agile based SCRUM methodology. Development done using IBM's RAD IDE.  • Developed the User Interfaces using Struts, JSP, JSTL, HTML and Ajax, JavaScript.  • Refactoring the existing code and implementing with design pattern like Factory, Singleton, Façade and Template in different module.  • Designed and Developed fuzzy search in Person/Entity module and Case search in Case Module using DHTML, CSS, AJAX, JSON, OOP JavaScript, JSP, Struts, spring, Hibernate, Java1.5, EJB3.0 and Oracle 9i  • Research and evaluate various client-side technologies for use in internal and external applications and present findings: Yahoo User Interface Library, JavaScript Library and YUI Integration  • Developed Stateless Session Beans to encapsulate business logic.  • Involved in integrating and business layer with DAO layer using ORM tool Hibernate.  • Responsible for development of configuration, mapping and java beans for Persistent  • Layer (Object and Relational mapping) using Hibernate.  • Used Log4j for logging messages used clear Case for version control.  • Code Review, PMD Review, JUnit Test Cases and JCART needs to be done with the new code Development  • Worked on converting Access Based application in SQL Server applications.  • Involved in injecting dependencies into code using concepts like IOC of spring Frameworks.  • Implemented features like logging, user session validation using Spring-AOP module.  • We have design our Data Exchanges Module based on Service Oriented Architecture,  • We broadcast CCMS -core application Services through Data Exchange as web services on ISB layer form which other agencies (Justice partners) like SSN, DMV, Law and Enforcement Agency will access data according to their requirement. We are using  • TIBCO as the middleware which will taking care of the requests posted from the Used Eclipse IDE and deployed whole application using Web logic application server.    Environment: Java 1.5, EJB 3.0, Struts, JSP, Java Swing, JSTL, HTML, Ajax, YUI, JavaScript, CSS, Hibernate, spring, Hibernate, Web Services (SOAP, WSDL), XML, Web logic 9.2, Web logic 10.3, Ant 1.6, Oracle 9i, RAD Clear case, Clear quest, JUnit. Education Masters in computer Science Monroe College - New Rochelle, NY December 2018 Bachelors in Business Administration and Information System Management Sardar Patel University - Gujrat, Gujrat, PK Skills JAVA (3 years), JSP (3 years), ORACLE (3 years), SOAP (3 years), SQL (3 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Languages: C, C++, Java1.4/1.5, SQL, XML  Java Technologies:  Java Technologies: Web Services, Hibernate, Spring, Spring MVC, Struts2, EJB, JPA, JMS, Tiles, JSTL, JSF, JMS, JDBC, JNDI, Servlets, JSP, Java Beans, Annotations Generics, Applets, Collections API, Reflection, Threads, TCP/IP Sockets, and Standalone applications, XML Web Services like XML, SAX, DOM, JAXB, WSDL, JAX WS, XPath, SOAP, XSLT, XHTML, DTD.    IDE Tools:  My Eclipse 6.0/7.5, Eclipse 3.3, NetBeans 5/6.1/6.5 and Sun Studio IDE Operating Systems Windows 03/08, NT/XP, Vista, UNIX.  Concepts  Web Servers Web Logic 8.1/9.2/10, Tomcat 5.5 /6.0.  Enterprise Servers  BEA's WEB Logic 10.0/9.1/8.0, WebSphere7 (WAS)    Developing Tools:  Dream Viewer, Maven, ANT tool, Junit and Log4j  Design Patterns  UML, OOAD, Session Façade, Business Delegate, Value Objects, Service Locator, List Handler, Intercepting Filter, MVC, etc.    Version Control: Git, SVN, Team Foundation Server and Visual Source Safe.  Framework: Bootstrap, jQuery, and AngularJS.  Data Base: My SQL, SQL Server (2012, 2008, 2005), Oracle DB, MS Access, MongoDB, T-SQL, PL/SQL.