Java-Liferay Developer <span class="hl">Java</span>-Liferay <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java-Liferay Developer - Youngsoft Inc Detroit, MI • Experience in full life cycle software development with emphasis on Object Oriented, J2EE, UI development and client, server technologies.  • Exceptional organizational, analytical and communication skills.  • Featuring expertise in MVC web-frameworks and other programing languages. Passion for Web 2.0 trends, API's and other disruptive technologies.  • Worked on Liferay 6.2, Liferay 7.2, OSGI architecture.  • Experience in startups, financial, banking and healthcare/insurance domains.  • Expertise in working with JAVA/J2EE, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, Restful Web services (REST), Servlets, JSP, Spring, Hibernate, jUnit.  • Hands on experience in using development tools like Eclipse, Intellij, RAD, WebStorm.  • Well versed with using version control systems - Git, SVN, Mercurial.  • Interact with product owner in requirements analysis, design reviews, testing and documentation for application being developed in Agile environment. Sponsorship required to work in the US Work Experience Java-Liferay Developer Youngsoft Inc - Wixom, MI December 2017 to Present Youngsoft is a technology and consulting company based in Michigan. Its partnership with Liferay has given them the depth to serve organization's portal initiatives and continue to remain ahead of its competitors. I worked on developing an intelligence and data-visualization application for Delphi's needs.  Responsibilities:  • Develop new features based on OSGI based architecture, Java 8 and latest trends in functional and object oriented programming.  • Present the data visualization for various process in the factory.  • Design the existing page using Content Management Interoperability Services, Java Content Repository and WebDAV so that marketing people can edit the content using WYSIWYG editor.  • Decouple the existing and future applications with a modular, fast and responsive features.  • Use CICD (continuous integration and continuous deployment) techniques, tools to make sure the changes made make all the way to production along with proper rollback plans.  • Develop secure, real-time alerts for Splunk and other alerting tools using proper proactive programming techniques.    • Design the front-end of application using mobile-first, best UI / UX standards using NPM, Node.js, Sass, mobile-first, responsive web-design.  • Providing root cause analysis for production issues.  • Used jQuery to perform UI validations and load the DOM.  • Implemented service modules in a multi-tiered architecture.  • Unit-testing using jUnit and Mockito.  • Dependency management using Gradle.  • Used the workflow, MessageBus and various other concepts of Liferay to achieve the results.  • Developed custom modules using ReactJS.  Environment: Liferay IDE, Java8, Tomcat 8.0, jQuery, JavaScript, ReactJS, OSGI, CSS, Git, Oracle DB. Java Full Stack Developer Blue Cross Blue Shield of Mississippi - Flowood, MS May 2017 to November 2017 BCBS of MS is a leading healthcare insurance company. I worked on creating a new software for subrogation claims processing.  Responsibilities:  • Develop using IBM RAD and used iBatis to connect the underlying databases (MySQL, DB2).  • Used Struts-Spring implementation to support the existing application.  • Developed application on IBM websphere-application-server.  • Developed several Restful services in Java to support iOS and Android apps.  • Used AS400, DB2, SQL-Server to cater various needs in the project.  • Used a variety of design-patterns to structure the project.  • Created a peer-peer video connectivity solution using WebRTC.  • Developed quick modules using Spring Boot.  Environment: IBM RAD, Java, J2EE, Websphere application server (WAS 8.0), AngularJS, Javascript, CSS, DB2, SQL server. Java-Liferay Developer US Bank - Houston, TX February 2017 to May 2017 US Bank (US Bancorp) is a national bank that constitutes the consumer and commercial banking. It is known for its gift cards. I worked on the application FSVportal. It is a centralized portal, where the huge number of websites can be created and configured by horizontal scaling using Liferay.  Responsibilities:  • Developed Portlets based on GenericPortlet, MVCPortlet and LiferayPortlet.  • Used spring framework to inject the DAO and Bean objects, auto wiring the components.  • Worked extensively on Liferay portal and good knowledge of JSR-286 standards.  • Participated in migration from Liferay 6.2 to Liferay 7.0.  • Worked on development of Hibernate, including mapping files, configuration file and classes to interact with the database.  • Worked on jQuery, Liferay Portlets and Spring MVC to fix the defects in a timely manner.  • Used JSP, Liferay, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, CSS3, and HTML5 as data and presentation layer technology.  • Worked on Tomcat Application Server and Maven to deploy the projects developed using Eclipse IDE and integrated with MySQL, DB2 Database to connect DB using iBatis.  Environment: Liferay Portal 6.x/7.x, Tomcat Application Server, Java, J2EE, iBatis, MySQL, DB2, Spring, Spring MVC, HTML5, CSS3, JSP, JavaScript, jQuery, JSR-286, Jenkins, Hudson. Java UI Developer American Express - Phoenix, AZ October 2016 to January 2017 The American Express Company, also known as AMEX, is an American multinational financial services corporation. I worked on corporate credit cards management application. Modules I worked include Global Identity management, My Data, Global registration.  Responsibilities:  • Responsible for implementing new change requests (RFC's).  • Involved in daily Scrum meetings, coordinating with the off-shore team and explaining the Sprint cycle to client in grooming sessions.  • Developed restful web services for accessing the stored procedures as part of MyData project.  • Expertise in using Spring JDBC and integrating the restful services with Spring.  • Used REST API with JAX-RS and resteasy to develop web services.  • Implemented several design patterns like delegate, adapter, factory, worker while involved in development activities.  • Design of new templates in the existing application using Spring JDBC, IBM DB2 as the database.  • Add new functionalities in the application by re-designing servlets, JSP's and Xml configuration files.  • Involved in migrating the application from Infrastructure as a service - IAAS in Jboss EAP 6.2 to Platform as a service - ePaas, Enterprise cloud platform (eCP).  • Well versed and comfortable working with devops concepts and Jenkins.  • Involved in installing Splunk forwarders on several servers and designing the dashboards as per the client needs. Power-user level of expertise in using Splunk.  • Developed the front-end part of the application using AngularJS, Typescript.  • Involved in designing the UI screens of the application using jQuery.  • Experience in developing applications in Eclipse and testing them using SoapUI.  • Extensive use of tools like JIRA, CA Agile central (Rally), Lara, Jenkins.  • Used Git, SVN as version control.  • Took part in the documentation and knowledge transfer sessions.  Environment: Java/J2EE, Platform as a service, Infrastructure as a service, Eclipse, Intellij IDEA, Maven, JBoss EAP 6.2, AngulaJS, TypeScript, IBM Datastudio, Splunk, SoapUI, Git, Tortoise SVN, Jenkins, XL-Release. Java Developer Adroit IT services Pvt Ltd - Hyderabad, Telangana August 2013 to August 2014 Adroit Software services is an off-shore software development firm offering reliable services that cover customized software development, Web-application development, Agile software development and Web-Design.  Responsibilities:  • Responsible for implementing high-quality text, HTML5/CSS3 and incorporate responsive design techniques in the web content.  • Responsible in using Spring Framework MVC for controlling request handling and developing controller classes to switch between JSP.  • Decomposed complex orders into the most basic components.  • Transformed Service Orders from a generic telecom structure to a organization specific structure.  • Wired the components in application-context.xml and writing DAO classes to call the DB SPs using spring framework.  • Emails customer notifications at pre-defined order milestones.  • Unit testing with Junit.  • Used GIT as a version control.  • Took part in documentation.  Environment: JAVA/J2EE, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Web services (REST), Servlets, JSP, Spring, Hibernate. Education Masters in Computer Science in architecture Illinois Institute of Technology - Chicago, IL May 2016 technology GITAM University - Visakhapatnam, Andhra Pradesh Skills Java, Javascript, React, Angular