Full Stack Developer Full Stack <span class="hl">Developer</span> Full Stack Developer - eBay San Jose, CA • Around 5+years of experience in software industry as Full Stack Java Developer with expertise in Design, Development and testing with emphasis on Object Oriented, J2EE and Client Server technologies.  • Excellent Expertise in all phases of Software Life Cycle for Developing, maintaining and supporting the Java, J2EE applications.  • Experience working in both Product-oriented and Service-oriented environments and can adapt well to either.  • Developing Enterprise , Web and Standalone Desktop applications and deploying the same applications on Servers like Web Logic Application Server, Web Sphere 6.0, and Tomcat.  • Experience in developing delivering Customer and Client facing web applications on priority basis.  • Experienced in developing UML diagrams like use cases, class diagrams and sequence diagrams using Rational Rose and MS Visio tool.  • Experienced in various frameworks like Spring, Struts, Hibernate and JSF.  • Expert level skills in application development using Java, JEE, Spring Framework, Struts, JSP, JMS, JSF, EJB, JPA, Servlets, JDBC, Html, XML, JavaScript, jQuery, JEE compliant application servers, multi-threading, client/server, design patterns of JEE architecture.  • Strong web development skills with web 2.0 framework including HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX.  • Developed numerous programs for Corporate Audit group to provide cross platform UAT reports using SAS/SQL.  • Experience in using the JavaScript frameworks JQUERY, Angular JS, and Node.js.  • Excellent understanding & hands experience on Hibernate, Hibernate Query Language (HQL), Transactions and Exceptions.  • Expertise in DOM manipulation using JavaScript, jQuery and Angular JS.  • Expertise in JavaScript and AJAX calls. Expertise in jQuery plugins and Angular components.  • Experience using Apache ActiveMQ, Apache CXF as messaging platform.  • Used Node.js, Angular JS, Bootstrap in creating web applications in a fast-paced environment.  • Strong experience in using Design patterns such as Business Delegate, Data Transfer Object, DAO, Session Façade, Factory Methods, Service Locator and MVC.  • Experience with NoSQL Redis database.  • Experience in Test driven development using Junit, mocking frameworks such as Easy Mock and Jmock.  • Experience in Agile Methodology, Waterfall Methodology and Scrum Software  • Hands on experience with version controllers like CVS (Concurrent Version Systems), SVN (Apache Subversion), CLEARCASE and GIT,TFS.  • Experience in working with Relational Database (RDBMS) concepts like database designing, Normalization, PL/SQL, Stored Procedures, Triggers etc.  • Experience and Strong knowledge in SQL and PL/SQL in major database systems (Oracle, MySQL, MS SQL Server,informix).  • familiar with Non-Relational Database (NOSQL) like Mongo DB, Cassandra.  • Extensive experience in Unit Testing, System Integration Testing, Integration Testing and Performance Tuning.  • Experience working on modern networking concepts and various file transfer protocols (SFTP, FTPS, SCP, FTP).  • Good experience in writing Test Case Scenarios using JUnit.  • Extensive development experience on different IDE's like Eclipse, IBM RAD, WebSphere Integration Developer  • and NetBeans.  • Experience in utilizing Log4J for logging messages like Debug and Error for better tracking of the application.  • Experience in writing Build Scripts using Shell Scripts, ANT, MAVEN and using CI (Continuation Integration) tools  • like Continuum, Jenkins.  • Have hands-on experience working with source control tools such as CVS, Clear Case, SVN, GIT and Surround SCM.  • Good Knowledge of using IDE Tools like Eclipse, NetBeans, JBuilder, Rational Application Developer (RAD) for Java/J2EE application development.  • Setting up continuous integration using Maven and Jenkins.  • Flexible and easy adaptation to all kinds of work environment with good team/independent management for best quality end results. Work Experience Full Stack Developer eBay - San Jose, CA April 2018 to Present Project Description: POS is a payment gateway for all Retail applications. Consolidated 2 legacy Point of Sale applications into a Micro Service Single page app that runs both on desktop and IOS platform.    Responsibilities:  ? Implemented Single Page Application (SPA) using Angular JS Routing.  ? Designed and developed Microservices business components using Spring Boot.  ? Implemented spring applications with Spring Boot and DAO design pattern for maximum abstraction of the application and code reusability.  ? Implemented the application using Spring Boot Framework and handled the security using spring security.  ? Experience with popular React.js workflows (such as Flux or Redux)  ? Worked on creating dynamic web pages using HTML5, JavaScript, jQuery and AngularJS.  ? Developed code to fetch data from back-end and populate on UI using AJAX, Angular-JS, JSON.  ? Managed Amazon Web Services (AWS) infrastructure with automation and configuration.  ? Converted existing JavaScript code into MVC pattern using AngularJS framework.  ? Implemented Dynamic form generation, auto-completion of forms and user-validation functionalities using AJAX.  ? Installed application on AWS EC2 instances and also configured the storage on S3 buckets.  ? Used Ajax calls to make requests to external RESTful Web Services, and injected the service into the controllers.  ? Implemented the design using Spring MVC, making use of concepts such as Dependency Injection and Annotation based transactions.  ? Used Spring MVC for the controllers used Spring Security for securing the web tier Access  ? Implemented caching using Redis NoSQL database.  ? Involved in writing optimized code using multithreading concept.  ? Involved in event handling using multithreading.  ? Created and consumed SOAP and REST APIs using Apache CXF and Spring framework.  ? Implemented SOA architecture using WSDL specification in combination with SOAP and XML Schema to provide Web Services  ? Resources were exchanged using RESTful web services with the data passed around in JSON format.  ? Created Tables, Stored Procedures, Functions, and Triggers using PL/SQL  ? Used LOG4J, JUnit for debugging, testing and maintaining the system state.  ? Reported version completion of bugs using JIRA.  ? Used Mockito and Power Mock to create automatic test cases.  ? Setup Jenkins server and created Jenkins jobs to build and deploy the application in different environments using Maven  ? Involved in writing maven scripts for building and deploying the code.  ? Managed and headed the monthly production release process from code review, testing, creating the release packages and deployment.  ? Involved in developing the application using Java/J2EE platform  ? Created REST API's Microservices and EJB using Express Router/Model/Controller architecture.  ? Created Auto deploy jobs using Jenkins and Gradle.  ? Used GITHUB as version control tool.    Environment: Java 1.8, STS, Spring MVC, Spring Core, Spring Boot, HTML 5, JSP, CSS, Bootstrap, AngularJS, JavaScript, JSON, Apache CXF, REST, SOAP, WebLogic, Oracle 11g, PL/SQL, Redis, Cassandra, Log4J2, Wro4j, JUnit, Mockito, Maven, SonarQube, Jenkins, Rally, Jira, GIT. Java Developer Bank of America - Charlotte, NC February 2017 to March 2018 Project Description: Suspicious activity reporting is a full scope project, which does the active searches and generates reports and alerts based on the criteria set. This project helps to timely monitor and pro-actively respond to frauds and keep an active check on different transactions. This project has various dashboards for different type of reporting. Bank of America internal portal of payment transactions needed to be exposed as REST APIS to feed to multiple partners of organization. Need of migration of legacy apps to micro services to deploy independently and scale as containers and implement the security over containers in hybrid cloud environment.    Responsibilities:  • Designed the front-end screens using AngularJS, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, Bootstrap and Spring Boot.  • Involved in CQ5/AEM related design and framework development using templates, components widgets, CQ5 bundles, JCR/Sling API, configuring Cloud Services, publish and author set-up.  • Developed Angular controllers, services, filters and developed HTML templates with various Angular directives such as ng-app, ng-controller, ng-repeat, ng-if, ng-show, ng-hide, ng-change, ng-blur etc.  • Used various Angular UI Bootstrap components such as calendars, masks, uploaders, sliders, alerts, modal dialogs etc. for developing the UI.  • Developed Angular services making use of resource service to perform REST API calls to the backend.  • Developed reporting dashboards, which processes large amount data that are stored in Elastic Search and My SQL platforms and generates reports and displays in dashboards.  • Followed agile methodology and involved in daily SCRUM meetings, sprint planning, showcases and retrospective and used JIRA as a tracking tool for the sprints  • Developed unit test cases using Jasmine and Karma and performed end to end testing using Protractor and Selenium  • Developed REST controllers using Spring Data REST to serve the UI with required JSON data.  • Extensive knowledge on AWS EC2, Amazon S3, Amazon Elastic Load balancing and other parts of AWS infrastructure.  • Implemented Micro services architecture using Spring BOOT enabled REST API with the Spring Cloud modules.  • Worked on Integration of Microservices deployment patterns with the PAAS platform on top of AWS and Integrating with the Config server and ZUUL proxy.  • Experience on configuring auto scalable and highly available microservices set with monitoring and logging using AWS, Docker, Jenkins and Splunk  • Used complete annotation driven approach to develop the application using Spring Boot and was involved in setting up the Spring bean profiling.  • Used REST Client and POSTMAN to test the rest-based services and used Junit and Mockito to test the middleware services.  • Used Hibernate in the persistence layer and implemented DAO's to access data from database.  • Used Node.js to run Grunt tasks and build properly the project (compile, minify, etc.) and Implement modules into Node JS to integrate with designs and requirements.  • Involved in enhancing existing MEAN (MongoDB, Express, Angular and Node) stack applications and provided the required support.  • Involved in configuration and usage of Apache Log4J for logging and debugging purposes. Used RAD as IDE tool to develop the application.  • Prepared Documentation for Unit Test Plan and Unit Test Results for the QA purpose. Participated in the release night shakeouts/overnight deliveries and QA Support.  • Took part in setting up the application with Jenkins and AWS and is involved in builds and deployments to Tomcat server.    Environment: Java 8, STS, Tomcat 7, Spring Tool Suite, Spring, Spring Boot, Hibernate, Elastic Search, RESTful Web Service, Oracle, HTML5, CSS3, jQuery, AngularJS, Express, JavaScript, GIT, JMS, Jenkins, Agile, JIRA tool, Selenium, Log4j, Maven, AWS, Docker, OAuth2, Cloud Foundry, Kubernetes, Splunk, Apache Kafka, React, NodeJS, Jenkins, Cassandra, Couchbase, Mule API Gateway, Cucumber JVM. Java Developer UPS - Atlanta, GA September 2016 to January 2017 Responsibilities:  • Implemented Struts Framework in the presentation tier for all the essential control flow, business level validations and for communicating with the business layer.  • Developed Struts Framework Action Servlets classes for Controller and developed Form Beans for transferring data between Action class and the View Layer.  • Developed the front-end UI using JSP, HTML, JavaScript, CSS.  • Implemented Struts Validators framework to validate the data.  • Developed Ant(build.xml) targets for build and deployments on WebSphere Application Server 5.0.  • Developed Stored Procedures in the Oracle 9i database.  • Performed impact analysis on the dependency projects of OneSource Project.  • Involved in writing unit test plans and developing test cases using Junit.  • Used Configuration Management and Version Control tool CVS.  • Created Restful Web service for updating customer data from sent from external systems.  • Implemented Hibernate to map all the tables from different data sources to make database updating.  • Responsibilities involved developing of Action Classes, Form Beans and JSPs.  • Created development environment in Eclipse using Flex, WebLogic server.  • Implemented serial communication between Manager and EMS agent  • Involved in writing shell script to export oracle table's data into flat files and performed unit testing using JUNIT and used Log4j for logging and automatic batch jobs.    Environment: Java, J2EE, Eclipse, Windows NT 4.0, UNIX, My Eclipse IDE, JSP/Servlets, jQuery, Apache, Tomcat, JDBC, XML, XSLT, XSD, SAX, JAXP, HTML, Oracle8, UNIX. Jr Java Developer Lanvit Technologies PVT LTD - Hyderabad, Telangana September 2013 to August 2015 Responsibilities:  • Implemented Struts Framework in the presentation tier for all the essential control flow, business level validations and for communicating with the business layer.  • Developed Struts Framework Action Servlets classes for Controller and developed Form Beans for transferring data between Action class and the View Layer.  • Developed the front-end UI using JSP, HTML, JavaScript, CSS.  • Implemented Struts Validators framework to validate the data.  • Developed Ant(build.xml) targets for build and deployments on WebSphere Application Server 5.0.  • Developed Stored Procedures in the Oracle 9i database.  • Written JavaScript for validation of page data in the JSP pages.  • Extensively used Spring IOC, Hibernate, Core Java such as Multi-Threading, Exceptions, Collections, etc. in application. Designed, developed and maintained the data layer using the ORM framework in Hibernate. Involved in Analysis, Design, Development, and Production of the Application and develop UML diagrams  • Worked on Restful web services which enforced a stateless client server and support JSON (few changes from SOAP to RESTFUL Technology) Involved in detailed analysis based on the requirement documents.  • Created Restful Web service for updating customer data from sent from external systems.  • Implemented Hibernate to map all the tables from different data sources to make database updating.  • Responsibilities involved developing of Action Classes, Form Beans and JSPs.  • Performed impact analysis on the dependency projects of OneSource Project.  • Involved in writing unit test plans and developing test cases using Junit.  • Prepared Documentation for Unit Test Plan and Unit Test Results for the QA purpose. Participated in the release night shakeouts/overnight deliveries and QA Support.  • Took part in setting up the application with Jenkins and AWS and is involved in builds and deployments to Tomcat server.  • Used Configuration Management and Version Control tool CVS.    Environment: Java, J2EE, Eclipse, Windows NT 4.0, UNIX, My Eclipse IDE, JSP/Servlets, jQuery, Apache, Tomcat, JDBC, XML, XSLT, XSD, SAX,Informix JAXP, HTML, Oracle8, UNIX. Skills Apache (4 years), database. (4 years), HTML (4 years), Java (4 years), JavaScript (4 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:  Languages Java (JDK1.6, JDK1.7, JDK1.8), J2ee, SQL, PL/SQL  Server-Side Programming  J2EE, Java EE 5, Servlets 3.0/2.5, JSP 2.0, JSTL1.1, EJB 1.1/2.0/3.0, JDBC 2.0/3.0, RMI, MVC, PHP, JSF, STRUTS, Spring 3.0, Spring 4.2.0, Spring MVC, Spring AOP, SpringIOC, Spring Core, Spring Boot, Spring Security, Java Threads.    Client-Side Programming HTML/HTML5, CSS2/CSS3, JavaScript, Bootstrap, AJAX, jQuery, JSON, Angular2.0, AngularJS, React JS.  Database Language Oracle 9i/10g/11g, DB2, MySQL, MS-Access, MS SQL Server, AWS, Informix  Design Methodologies Agile/Scrum, SDLC, OOAD, TDD, Waterfall, UML  Frameworks Struts, Spring 3.0/4.1(CORE, MVC, AOP, IOC, ORM, 0CONTEXT, DAO), Hibernate 3.0/4.0, 2.1, and 3.0, EJB 3.  Web & Application Servers WebLogic 8.x/9.x/10.x, WebSphere 6.x/7.x, Tomcat, JBoss 4.x/5.x  Web Services / Messaging JAX-RS, JMS, JSON, SOAP 1.1, Web Services, Apache Axis, UDDI, WSDL, RESTful API.  IDEs Eclipse, NetBeans, My Eclipse, JBuild, IBM RAD 8.0, 8.5, WSAD, TS, Putty  Operating System Windows, UNIX, Solaris, AIX  Java Design Patterns  MVC, Singleton, Front Controller Factory, Abstract Factory, Front Controller, Iterator, Interface, Proxy, DAO, Service Locator.    Version Control Git, SVN, CVS, TFS.  Tools Ant, Maven, log4j, TestNG, JUnit, Rally, Jasmine, JIRA, SOAPUI, GitHub.