Java/J2EE Developer <span class="hl">Java</span>/J2EE <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Developer Columbus, GA ? 4+ years of IT experience in the areas of Analysis, Design, Development and Testing of web based and client server multi-tier applications using Java/J2EE technologies.  ? Expert in developing Multi-tier enterprise level web applications using various Java, J2EE technologies including JSP, Servlets, EJB, JDBC, Java Beans, Web Services.  ? Extensive experience in working with frameworks - Struts, spring, JSF, Hibernate and MVC.  ? Good Knowledge of using HTML5/DHTML, XHTML, JavaScript, JQuery, JSON, XML, XSL, XSLT, CSS3, Angular JS.  ? Expertise in producing and consuming SOAP as well as REST web services using WSDL, SOAP, JAX-WS.  ? Expert in Spring framework including configuring Spring Application Context with Dependency Injection, Spring IOC (Inversion of Control), Spring AOP (Aspect-oriented Programming), Spring MVC, Spring Security, Spring Boot, Spring JPA and Spring Batch.  ? Worked under new technologies introduced in java8 like Functional interfaces and Lambda Expressions.  ? Experience in Microservice architecture, with Spring Boot-based services interacting through a combination of REST and MQ and leveraging AWS to build, test and deploy micro services.  ? Hands-on experience in development of Microservices using Spring Boot and deploying in Docker.  ? Expertise in Implementing Java and J2EE design patterns like MVC, Session Facade, Data Access Object (DAO), VO, DTO, Factory, Singleton and Front Controller.  ? Well versed with Core Java concepts like Collections, Multithreading, Serialization, Java Beans and Network programming.  ? Extensively used building tool like Maven to compile, package and deploy the components to the Application Servers.  ? Experience of using IDE Tools like Eclipse, STS and NetBeans for Java/J2EE application development.  ? Proficient in handling & administering Web servers/application servers IBM Web Sphere, Apache Tomcat, and JBOSS.  ? Strong experience in database design using PL/SQL to write tables, Stored Procedures, Functions, Triggers, Indexers and proficiency in writing complex queries, using Oracle, IBMDB2, SQL Server, MySQL and MongoDB.  ? Experienced in implementation of JMS to exchange information over reliable channel in an asynchronous way by using Active MQ, Rabbit MQ as a message queue.  ? Experience on version control tools like GitHub, Subversion (SVN) and CVS.  ? Expertise through all the phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC)-Waterfall, Agile/Scrum in developing web applications using JAVA, J2EE Technologies.  ? Results oriented, with an ability to work with aggressive time lines for any assignment to successful completion within the established project schedule and budgetary constraints.  ? Self-starter and a Team Player with excellent communication, interpersonal, positive thinking and mentoring skills and a good aptitude for learning. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Java/J2EE Developer Synovus Bank - Columbus, GA December 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  ? Worked on the development and testing of the infotainment module using Agile (SCRUM) methodologies.  ? Used Java 8 features like lambda expressions for communicating between business layer and database, stream API for Bulk Data Operations on Collections using both streams and parallel streams.  ? Understanding business objectives and implementation of business logic.  ? Gathered and Analyzed business requirements for Application build.  ? Coordinated with QA team to identify ongoing issues and address the issues which are raised by QA.  ? Developed application components using Spring, Spring-Data, Spring Boot and Oracle.  ? Designed UML Use case diagrams, Class diagrams, and Sequence diagrams using Star UML.  ? Used various Core Java concepts such as Exception Handling, Collection APIs and Executer Service Framework to implement various features and enhancements.  ? Used Spring extensively to achieve dependency injection to wire the object of business class.  ? Designed the front-end screens using AngularJS, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, Bootstrap and Spring Boot.  ? Used Spring Data Repositories to perform CRUD operations.  ? Implement OAuth tokenisation for RESTful web services using Spring boot.  ? Involved in creating and Deployment of REST API and Microservices in Java J2EE using Spring Boot.  ? Extensively used Sonarqude for code quality.  ? Implementation of authentication for Restful web services using Spring Boot Security Starter.  ? Developing the application for incident creation and retrieving the events using restful web services with spring Boot.  ? Developed UI of application by using JSP's, JavaScript, Angular JS, CSS, HTML and JQuery.  ? Worked extensively on spring boot for building REST API's.  ? Extensively used STS for developing, debugging, integrating and deploying the application.  ? Extensively used Maven to build the application and deploy on Embedded Tomcat Server.  ? Maintained source code in GIT Repository.  ? Used Log4j for logging to trace the application log messages which is used for debugging.  ? Designed various tables required for the project in Oracle database.  ? Prepared JUnit and Integration test cases and integrated with Jenkins.  ? Reviewed the code for ensuring adherence to Java coding standards.  ? Used JIRA for writing user stories and raising defects in a defined sprint.  ? Set up DEV QA and SIT environments.  ? Maintained DEV, QA and SIT environments and closely worked with QA Team.  ? Used Cobertura tool for code coverage.  ? Followed biweekly sprint schedules and delivered user stories on time.  Environment: Java 8, Agile (Scrum), Spring, Spring Boot, Spring Data, STS, Angular JS, Apache Embedded Tomcat, Sonarqube, Maven, Cobertura, SOAP UI, POSTMAN, Log4j, GIT, JIRA, Jenkins, Oracle, Windows/Linux. J2EE/ Java Developer Stein Mart - Jacksonville, FL September 2017 to November 2018 Responsibilities:  ? Participated in system design, planning, estimation and implementation.  ? Followed SDLC-Agile/Scrum methodology in the application development.  ? Used various Core Java concepts such as Exception Handling, Collection APIs and Executer Service Framework to implement various features and enhancements.  ? Used Spring extensively to achieve dependency injection to wire the object of business class.  ? Used Spring Data Repositories to perform CRUD operations.  ? Developed Microservices using Spring MVC, Spring Boot, and Spring Cloud.  ? Involved in developing Use case diagrams, Class diagrams, Sequence diagrams and process flow diagrams for the modules using UML and Rational Rose.  ? Developed various EJBs (session and entity beans) for handling business logic.  ? Worked on RESTful Web Services for transferring JSON data between two interfaces.  ? Implemented Micro Service Architecture with Spring Boot based RESTful services and consumed SOAP based Web Services.  ? Development of Client-Side and Server-side Validation techniques using AngularJS and Node JS.  ? Created the User Interface screens using Spring MVC for logging into the system and performing various operations on network elements.  ? Analyzed response times of the business transactions under load and developed reports and graphs to present the stress test results to the management using JMeter Analysis.  ? Developed the application using MVC Framework.  ? Worked on PL/SQL and created views, triggers, functions and stored procedures where ever necessary to improve the performance in Oracle database.  ? Used Maven tool to build the application and deployed on the Tomcat Application Server.  ? Performed the unit testing, integration testing and system testing for the application using JUnit.  ? Used Jenkins for the automatic build process and used for integration testing and deploying software.  ? Used GIT to control, track and maintain the different versions of the project.  ? Created complex SQL queries and used JDBC connectivity to access the database.  Environment: Windows, Java 8, SDLC-Agile/Scrum, Micro-Services, Angular JS, Spring Boot, Spring-Data, Junit, MVC, UML, Soap, Restful, Jenkins, Maven, Git, JSP, HTML5, CSS3, XHTML, Jmeter, JavaScript, Eclipse, Node JS, Bootstrap, SQL. J2EE Developer Foothills Insurance Agency - Chandler, AZ March 2016 to August 2017 Responsibilities:  ? Interacted with Business Users and Analysts for requirements gathering for all the use case implementations.  ? Used Spring MVC framework to develop application.  ? Used Hibernate to establish connectivity to the database.  ? Refactored registration module to remove dependencies and make the code more efficient and testable.  ? Involved in Writing detailed design documents from the requirements.  ? Developed Business classes using Spring POJO.  ? Design and Development of Objects using Object Oriented Design in Java.  ? Created sequence diagrams, collaboration diagrams, class diagrams, usecases and activity diagrams using Rational Rose for the Configuration, Cache & logging Services.  ? Worked on XML Technologies like XML Parsers, JAXB for binding data to Java objects.  ? Developed the Spring AOP Programming to configure logging for the application.  ? Developed WebLogic container security components for adding vendor specific Security Realm to application using JMX.  ? Implemented caching techniques, wrote POJO classes for storing data and DAO's to retrieve the data and did other database configurations using EJB.  ? Worked extensively on Web Services (SOAP&REST), XML, JMS and Spring Controller.  ? Used Spring framework for the MVC implementation with spring for DI and Hibernate as ORM tool for database communication.  ? Developed web services using HTTP, SOAP and XML technologies.  ? Used Git as source control management giving a huge speed advantage on centralized systems that have to communicate with a server.  Environment: Java, Spring IOC, Spring MVC, Spring AOP, SOAP Web Services, Agile, Javascript, Hibernate, Maven, GIT, Oracle, Tomcat, WebLogic, Windows. Java Developer Techprocess Solutions Ltd - Mumbai, Maharashtra December 2013 to May 2015 Responsibilities:  ? Designed Spring MVC components and also Data modeling with POJO's using Hibernate.  ? Worked closely with Architecture team and participated in design discussions.  ? Developed the product catalog and DB Modeling.  ? Involved the developing product template pages using the JSPs.  ? Worked on Eclipse IDE as Application Development Environment.  ? Implemented the Model View Control (MVC) structure.  ? Designing of database components using SQL and PL/SQL.  ? Involved in Unit testing for major modules.  ? Used JDBC for database connectivity. Implemented the EJB interface that interacts between the web tier and the DAO.  ? Created the shopping cart page add to cart functionalities.  ? Used JUnit for unit testing the application.  ? Developed the Spring integration classes  ? Implemented Exception mechanism and used API specific error message mechanism.  ? Involved in production issues tracking and fixing.  Environment: Java/J2EE, Web Logic, Oracle, JSP, Spring MVC, Hibernate, JavaScript, Maven, Junit, AJAX, jQuery, HTML, CSS, Eclipse, Windows. Education Bachelor's in Computer Technology Skills AJAX (1 year), Apache (Less than 1 year), Bootstrap (1 year), Eclipse (2 years), EJB. (2 years), GIT (3 years), HTML (1 year), J2EE (4 years), Java (4 years), JQuery (1 year), Maven (4 years), MODEL VIEW CONTROLLER (4 years), MODEL-VIEW-CONTROLLER (4 years), MVC (4 years), Oracle. (4 years), SOAP (3 years), Tomcat (3 years), WebLogic (1 year), webservices (3 years), XML (1 year)