Full Stack Developer Full Stack <span class="hl">Developer</span> Full Stack Developer - AT&T Middletown, NJ • Java developer with 4 years of experience in designing and developing multi-tier web based client-server applications using JAVA/J2EE.  • Expert level skills in application development using core Java, J2EE, Spring, Hibernate Framework, JSP, JPA, Servlets, JDBC, Html, CSS, JavaScript, Jquery.  • Experienced in Software Development life cycle using various methodologies like agile and waterful • Knowledge in Spring framework- Spring IOC, Spring MVC, spring AOP and Spring Security.  • Good understanding of Object Oriented Analysis and Design.  • Have experience in Design, Development and Deployment of Web-Applications/ J2EE applications on servers like Apache Tomcat, JBoss, WebLogic.  • Expertise skills Exception Handling, Servlets, JSP, Custom Tag Libraries, JDBC, JNDI and XML related technologies.  • Interaction with customers for solving their issues and Bug Fixing.  • Expertise in back-end procedure development, for Database Applications using Oracle, SQL and PL/SQL, SQL Server.  • Proficient in unit testing the application using JUnit by creating Test Cases and Test Suite.  • Good knowledge in version control system tools like SVN and Git.  • Experience in working with small and large groups and successful in meeting new technical challenges and finding solutions to meet the needs of the customer.  • Strong Technical background, excellent analytical ability, good communication skills, team player and goal oriented, with a commitment toward excellence.  • Be able to communicate in both English and mandarin orally and in writing.  • Highly organized with the ability to manage multiple projects and meet deadlines.  • Have the motivation to take independent responsibility as well as ability to contribute and be a productive team member. Sponsorship required to work in the US Work Experience Full Stack Developer AT&T - Middletown, NJ August 2016 to Present PMOSS - WIPM PMOSS is an AT&T Network Performance Management platform that provides real time alerting and monitoring of the IP, VoIP, and Mobile network performance for Operations Centers to proactively detect network problems and repair in real time, by collecting measurements from network elements and processing them against predefined thresholds for alert generation.    Responsibilities: • A reporting web application to show all kinds of LTE network monitoring data.  • Front-end web GUI JSP design as per user's requirement by JSP, JSTL, HTML, JavaScript and CSS.  • Spring MVC is used for backend data flow control • JDBC is used to fetch data from DB.  • Log error/debug message by using log4j.  • New features added to legacy PERL and Java report.  • Maven is used for including libraries and project build.  • Unit test and system test.  • Sql query redesign for updated DB schema.  • Tomcat server update and maintenance on server side.  • Build own library for common use.  • Work with DBA to improve DB performance after data growing.  • Debug and deploy on Linux server side.  • Directly communicate with users when requirement changes or issues are found.  • Production support after release.  • Attend to different types of meeting to give my knowledge input.  Technologies: Java, J2EE, JSP, JSTL, JDBC, SQL, log4j, Tomcat, Maven, Eclipse, XML, Oracle DB developer, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, Toad, JUNIT, SCME, Linux server, Perl. Java Developer Illinois Board of Higher Education - Deerfield, IL March 2015 to September 2015 This is an out of agency project. It aims to gather all the demographic information and statistics about enrolled students and degree recipients of each year to model the overall state higher education trend.    Responsibilities: • Multiple Restful web services were designed to fulfill business logic used across the project.  • Difference batch jobs were created to deal with mass database transaction.  • Multiple MDB was created to increase the efficiency of database transaction by using JMS 2.2.  • DAO layer was created by using Spring Data JPA.  • Unit test was made to test the service.    Map (Monetary Award Program)-This project is a web application. It provides grant assistance to eligible students demonstrating financial need. Students submit application through ISAC portal and agency process the application accordingly.  Responsibilities: • Update SOAP service to fit new environment based on new requirement.  • New parameters are added to the old service • New business logic is created for new parameters.  • Project maintenance, defect diagnose and bug fixing.  • Different situations were simulated to test different functions.  • Reference to JIRA to create scenario.  • Manipulation data with MySQL database.  Technologies: Java, J2EE, JSP, Spring Data JPA, EJB, JMS, JDBC Jboss6, Wildfly, Tomcat, Eclipse, XML, MySQL, JSON, REST, SOAP web service, SQL Server 2012, JUNIT, SVN. Java Developer Capgemini - Atlanta, GA September 2014 to March 2015 SCUBI ( Southeast Consortium Unemployment Insurance Benefits Initiative ) - This project cover the design of both technical and business processes, as well as development, implementation and integration of a multi-state unemployment Insurance benefits system.  Responsibilities: • Build the project using maven • Migrate SCUBI project from Spring 2 to Spring 4 • Migrate SCUBI project from Hibernate 2 to Hibernate 4 • Redesign project to create service layer in order to add transactions to database calls.  • SQL statements are created by Using TSQL.  • Strongly involve in Spring MVC to fulfill the functionality.  • Mentor team members.  • Deployed application in Weblogic.  • Resolve issues, such as performance issues and the issues caused by the differences between old and new frameworks.  • Develop the application on windows 7 operation system.  • Work with project manager, Dev team, BA and QA on the project activities.  • Unit testing and testing all functions with component integrated as a whole.  • Participating daily scrum meeting.  Technologies: Java, J2EE, JSP, Spring framework, maven, WebLogic, Eclipse, STS, XML, REST web service, JavaScript, jQuery, Hibernate, SQL/PLSQL, Oracle database 12, JUNIT, SVN Java Developer InfoValue Computing - Westchester, NY August 2013 to August 2014 An administrative tool for hotels to check in customers and keep their information in database.  Responsibilities: • Actively involved in defining and designing the tiers of the applications and implementation with core Java and J2EE best design practices.  • Develop and maintain elaborate services based architecture utilizing open source technologies like Hibernate, ORM and Spring Framework.  • Followed Agile Methodology in analyze, define, and document the application which will support functional and business requirements. Coordinate these efforts with Functional Architects.  • Involved in implementation of application using conventional design practices (SOA-Service Oriented Architecture, MVC-Model View Controller).  • Created database to persist data using Oracle database.  • Created SQL queries, triggers, and views to interact with Database.  • Integrated spring framework with Hibernate that is used for Database operations.  • Extensively participated in user meetings to gather the requirements of the application • Developed a REST Web Service with Spring MVC.  • Implemented Spring MVC Architecture; Servlet targeting request module and flow of control generating JSP in Presentation layer.  • Used JMS to build a message communication.  • Manage project by using maven.  • Deployed application in WebLogic and tested with Junit.  • Created Graphical User Interfaces using JSP and HTML.  • Used JavaScript and Angular JS to make webpage more interactive.  • Develop the application on Linux operation system.  Technologies: Java collection, JSP, Spring framework, MVC, maven, WebLogic, Eclipse, XML, REST web service, JavaScript, jQuery, Hibernate, SQL Oracle database 11g, JUNIT. Education MS in Computers in Computers and Electrical Engineering Stony Brook University September 2011 to May 2013