Java/ J2EE Developer <span class="hl">Java</span>/ J2EE <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java/ J2EE Developer Buffalo, NY • Experienced with all phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) such as developing, testing, migrating, administrating, and production supporting on various platforms like UNIX, Windows  • Experience in gathering, analyzing and documenting business requirements, functional requirements, designing and developing the mapping based on the requirements  • Experience to work in different methodology via Waterfall and Agile.  • Eager to accept new challenges with an attention to detail and can adapt readily to the demands of the job.  • Excellent record in meeting deadlines and ability to handle multiple projects simultaneously.  • Analytical and Technical aptitude with the ability to solve complex problems  • Strong interpersonal skills with ability to interact with end-users, managers and technical personnel.  • Involved in Unit Testing, Integration testing and QA Validation Work Experience Java/ J2EE Developer FedEx Corporate Technology Center - Collierville, TN January 2018 to December 2018 Involved in enhancement of UI of the FedEx website. The aim of the project was to have easy access to Rates, Tracking and Shipping features on the website of the Company.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in Requirements gathering, Analysis, Design, Development and Testing of application using AGILE methodology (SCRUM)  • Helped design form validation programs using HTML and CSS  • Provided assistance and support to programming team members as required.  • Worked with integration of database in Hibernate with Front-End.  Environment: Html, CSS, JS, Java, Hibernate, Spring-Boot Java Developer University at Buffalo February 2017 to May 2017 Built an app that can act as a designer's notebook. The App acts a peripheral for a user where a user takes a picture of interest and can make, store and design notes related to the picture. The pictures can be filtered and sorted by various user-made categories for easy access to the notes.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in interacting with Team members and Users in analyzing the requirements.  • Involved in documenting the Technical and Functional Documents like High Level Design, Low Level Design.  • Designed the Code in Java (android) and used XML to design the layout of the app  • Used custom Image library related to Dinosaurs to add to the App.  • Understanding and providing support to the existing processes and giving solutions in complex situations.  Environment: Android Studio, Rom DB, Java, XML Java Developer University at Buffalo January 2017 to May 2017 Developed an Android based application, STATS-O-SCORE for Mobile phone and tablets which gives Real-time updates of scores of ongoing Soccer Matches.  The App's documentation can be found at https://manvijay.github.io/stats-o-score/  Responsibilities:  • Involved in interacting with Team members and Users in analyzing the requirements.  • Involved in documenting the Technical and Functional Documents like High Level Design, Low Level Design.  • Designed the Code in Java using Android Studio and used FIFA API to connect live scores of ongoing matches with the Application.  • Integrated the layout of the app in XML.  • Integrated Firebase with Android Studio to use as Database for application using SQL Queries.  • Understanding and providing solution in complex situations and team meetings.  Environment: Android Studio, Java, XML Java Developer University at Buffalo February 2017 to March 2017 Created an App using JavaFx and SceneBuilder. This is a desktop app where you can manage, store and validate various attributes of the contacts such as address, email, contact picture, etc.    Responsibilities:  • Designed the code in Java using JavaFX library.  • Designed the layout of the app in SceneBuilder that deploys XML format code.  • Made the design aesthetics of the layout using CSS.  • Ability to add and validate phone numbers, e-mail address, URL, etc of a person.  • Added the ability to create a VCard of a contact. Can add a new contact by dragging and dropping an existing VCard on the App.  • Involved in documenting the Technical and Functional Documents like High Level Design, Low Level Design.  Environment: Eclipse, SceneBuilder, Java, XML, CSS Java Developer A & U Absolute Information - Delhi, Delhi June 2015 to July 2016 Made use of Rest Web Services to make it easier for the salesman to find the customers' information based on several inputs such as phone numbers, last name, vehicle registration number, etc. It also allows the salesman to perform CRUD operations such as add/update customers' information, customers' service date, customers' complaint, etc.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in design, development, testing, and production deployment phases of the project using Agile methodology  • Used Spring to develop interface modules and web applications using Spring MVC  • Worked with Rest Web Services for interacting with customer data.  • Developed the necessary Action Forms for the applications  • Used Multi-threading and collections  • Extensively used SQL (Structured Query Language) to do CRUD (Create, Read, Update and Delete) on the backend database  Environment: J2EE, SceneBuilder, Servlets, Eclipse, JDBC, HTML, JavaScript, XML, UML, WebSphere, Unix, Windows Education Bachelor's in Computer Science in Computer Science University at Buffalo - New York, NY May 2018 Skills Android (Less than 1 year), Eclipse (1 year), Html (2 years), Java (2 years), Sql (1 year)