Sr.. Java Developer Sr.. <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr... Java Developer - Nordstorm Seattle,WA Seattle, WA Work Experience Sr.. Java Developer Nordstorm Seattle,WA - Seattle, WA July 2018 to Present Responsibilities: • Developed the functionalities using Agile Scrum Methodology.  • Involved in developing UI using Spring MVC framework, JSP, JSTL, HTML5, CSS, Javascript, JQuery,AJAX and AngularJS.  • Created Reusable Modules and Custom Directives in Angular2.0 which got used in various places of application.  • Used advanced level of HTML5, JavaScript, CSS3 and pure CSS layouts and Angular 2.0 • Developed applications using Java 6.0/7.0 and J2EE.Experience in LINUX environment.  • Experience in Core Java concepts such as OOP Concepts, Collections Framework, and Exception Handling, I/O System, Multi-Threading, JDBC, Generics.  • Integrated with Spring Cloud projects to provide distributed tracing and other features.  • Developed microservices with Spring and tested the application using Spring Boot.  • Used Spring Core annotations for Spring Dependency Injection, Spring MVC for Rest API's and Spring Boot for microservices.  • Development of cloud hosted web applications and REST APIs using Spring Boot with embedded Tomcat.  • Deployed the application on Amazon Web services (AWS) and used it to provide a large computing capacity for scalable solutions.  • Deployed applications into Continuous integration environments like Jenkins to integrate and deploy code on CI environments for development testing.  • Installed the WebSphere MQ and involved in configuring MDB listeners, JMS resources, and queues and integrating with the WebSphere Application Server.  • Analyzed and fixed issues related to REST Web services and Application responses.  • Used JIRA tool for Issue/bug tracking, monitoring of work assignment in the system.  • Experience on implementation of version control software GIT repositories.  • Environment: Java Developer Textron Wichita - KS October 2017 to June 2018 Responsibilities: • Worked as a full stack developer to develop web applications using spring, Rest based Web services. Used HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JSP, JQUERY, Angular JS, AJAX and Bootstrap in front end.  • Developed user interface using BOOTSTRAPUI and Angular JavaScript to simplify the complexities of the application.  • Developed User Interfaces using HTML and Backbone.JS.  • Experience in Developing User Interface (UI) Rich Web Applications and Web Service Applications using HTML 4, XHTML, CSS 2, XML, AJAX, Object Oriented Java Script, ANGULARJS, REACTJS, BOOTSTRAP Framework, RESTful services, JAVA, JSP.  • Working on AWS Elastic load balancing for deploying applications in high availability.  • Developed business tier components and services using RESTful web services.  • Developed the applications using Java, J2EE, Struts, JDBC • Implemented Log4J1.2 for Logging Errors, debugging and tracking using loggers, appenders.  • Involved in writing application level code to interact with APIs, Web Services using AJAX and Angular resources.  • Involved in the development of model, library, struts and form classes (MVC).  • Developed code for Responsive web design in JavaScript using frameworks like Angular.js, React.js • Implemented Rest API Design Guidelines for the microservices.  • Built applications for scale using JavaScript and NodeJS.  • Involved in writing Maven scripts for automated deployment of the application and managed GitHub Projects and migrated from SVN to GitHub with merge and version and used Jenkins for continuous integration • Environment: Java Developer Ceva logistics - Houston, TX January 2015 to September 2016 Responsibilities: • Involved in the requirements analysis, designing, development, testing and deployment of the enhancements.  • Quickly prototyped and created applications interfaces from the PDF are given by the UX using HTML5, CSS3 and Bootstrap.  • Produced and Consumed in RESTful Web services in JSON.  • Coded different action classes in struts responsible for maintaining deployment descriptors like struts-config, and web.xml using XML.  • Developed Action Classes to service the requests from the UI, populate business objects & invoke EJBs.  • Develop the User Interface Screens for presentation logic using JSP, Struts and HTML.  • Used Amazon Web Services (AWS) data store for storing the records, prescriptions, bills etc. and accessed them using AWS SDK for Java utilizing NoSQL queries.  • Built Web pages that are rich user-interface using AJAX, JavaScript and AngularJS.  • Extensively used JavaScript, jQuery to provide UI functionality.  • Worked on Node.js platform for a single-page application development.  • Implemented modules into Node.js to integrate with designs and requirements.  • Design the unit test for the application using Junit, Groovy.  • Involved in making the application Responsive using Bootstrap and also used LESS/SASS preprocessors.  • Experience in using the Object Relational Mapping Tool Hibernate • Involved in writing application level code to interact with APIs, RESTful Web Services using JSON.  • Interacted with java controllers (jQuery, Ajax, and JSON to write/read data from back end systems).  • Environment: Java Developer Leids - Washington, DC July 2014 to December 2014 Responsibilities: • Gathered user requirements, analyzed and wrote functional and technical specifications.  • Created Use Cases, Sequence, Object Model and Component UML diagrams using UML tool.  • Employed Scrum concepts of Agile Development Methodology for software development.  • Developed asynchronous, rich user interface with AJAX to get user information from the server.  • Implemented web interfaces using HTML, JSP, Servlets, AJAX, Java script, and CSS.  • Designed, implemented and deployed J2EE web application using Struts and Spring IOC (Invention of Control).  • Used Hibernate for Object Relational Mapping (ORM) and data persistence.  • Implemented business processes to develop email notification components using JMS API.  • Worked on complex SQL Queries on DB2.  • Developed Enterprise Java Beans (EJB) with both State Less Session beans and Entity beans using CMP.  • Developed web services using SOAP (Simple Object Access Protocol), WSDL (Web Services Description Language), XML (Extensible Mark-up Language) and Apache Axis.  • Implemented Perl packages extensively and used SOAP Lite module to communicate with different web services based on given WSDL.  • Configured and used JBoss application server for creating Data source and enabling JNDI for beans and database lookups.  • Deployed components on JBoss and Web Sphere application server.  • Used log4j for logging and SVN for version control.  • Configured and deployed web application in JBOSS Server using ANT tool.  • Developed custom reports using Crystal Reports and wrote test cases using JUnit tool.  • Environment: Java Developer Value Labs July 2013 to June 2014 Responsibilities: • Involved in designing, developing and implementation of Classes, UML diagrams showing generalization and other relationships, Sequence diagram describing the interaction of objects over time.  • Involved in design, develop and implementation of the application using Spring and J2EE framework.  • Built web-based application using Spring MVC Architecture and REST Web-services.  • Implemented as well as exposed web services using Apache Axis.  • Implemented services for the users of this application to check member's validity and schedule rides.  • Created an XML configuration file for Hibernate for Database connectivity.  • Created connections to database using Hibernate session Factory, using Hibernate APIs to retrieve and store data to the database with Hibernate transaction control.  • Implemented persistence layer using various features of Hibernate framework like HQL queries, Criteria, projections etc.  • Followed Test Driven Development (TDD), Scrum concepts of the Agile Methodology to produce high quality Software.  • Created an XML configuration file generating beans of the java classes.  • Provided production support for the application both onsite and remotely.  • Implemented various design patterns like singleton, data access object, data transfer object, MVC design pattern.  • Carried out bug fixing by rigorous testing using JUnit tests.  • Configured the JDO configuration files to persist the data to the Oracle Database.  • Documented all stages of the project, generated documentation using Java API Documentation Generator.  • Used Log4j for legging and debugging purpose.  • Database Schema and tables were developed using SQL Developer.  • Environment: Java/J2EE, Apache Axis, Spring, Hibernate, WebSphere, JDO Repository, Tomcat, XML, Log4J, JUnit, Oracle, Windows. Education Bachelors JNTU 2013 Skills AJAX (3 years), Java (4 years), JSP (3 years), Web services (4 years), XML (3 years) Additional Information Technical Skills    Programming Languages: C, C++ and Java.  J2SE Technologies: Core Java, JavaBeans, JDBC, JSP, JDBC, Hibernate etc.  Web Technologies: JSP, Servlets, EJB, JDBC, JavaBeans, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript v1.8, Web Services, AJAX, JQuery, ReactJS, NodeJS and Angular JS.  Web Servers: Apache Tomcat, WebLogic.  XML Technologies: XML, XSL, XSLT, DOM, and JAXB.  Databases: Oracle, MySQL, MS-Access and MS-SQL Server  Build Tool: Ant, Maven and Jenkins.  Tools: SQL Developer, DB Visualizer, Visio etc.  Operating System: Windows, UNIX, LINUX.