Java Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Developer - Infosys Dallas, TX Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Java Developer Infosys - Plano, TX June 2017 to Present Project: CCMS, MI3, Broker Compliance    Responsibilities:  • Selected and implemented agile development practices according to the application requirements for project.  • Creates Scrum plan, Sprint Plan, Release Plan, and QA plan for the scope that has to be developed and released  • Interacting with client to gather requirement and also attending daily scrum call with client to give overall update of project.  • Coordinating the offshore activities and providing them guidance on day to day activities.  • Monitor and track status of iterations/releases and ensure work progress visualization on the scrum board  • Involved in the development of web application using Spring MVC architecture. Configured Bean properties using setter injection.  • Involve in reviewing coding and testing for offshore team.  • Coordinated with the client team during production moves and supported.  • Discussion with senior management for getting project feedback weekly basis.  • Ability to lead and mentor team members  • Involved in writing PLSQL code, view.  • Involved in deploy code in unix server.  • Integrated spring framework with other framework like Restful web service.  • Implemented various design patterns like Singleton, DAO, Factory pattern etc.  • Used Spring Batch heavily for Bach processing.  • Created application layer POJO classes and mapped them to backend Oracle database tables using stored procedure framework.  • Involved in writing ESP code, soft link, ESP doc and ESP script.  • Restful Web-service to expose the business methods to external services.  • Used Maven automated build scripts to compile and package the application and implemented Log4j for the project.  • Implemented Spring MVC to achieve Model View Controller design pattern. Configured spring to manage actions as beans and set their dependencies in a spring context file and integrated middle tire with spring web layer.  • Interacting with Business leads for better understanding of the current system issues.  • Impact analysis of the new requirement or change request on the existing programs initiated by the client  • Developed test classes in JUnit for implementing unit testing  • Deployed WAR files using the build tools in the Tomcat server.    Environment: Core Java, J2EE, Spring3.0, Spring Integration, Spring Batch, Spring MVC, JUnit, REST full web service, Tomcat 8, jdk 8, Agile, Stored Procedures, JIRA, UNIX. Java Developer Deloitte - Atlanta, GA June 2016 to June 2017 Project: State of Georgia Integrated Eligibility System (IES)    The GA IES will replace the existing GA legacy systems with a "NextGen" Integrated Eligibility System (IES) that complies with ACA (Affordable Care Act) requirements, provides real-time eligibility determinations, and creates a common portal for clients and users to process and manage eligibility for multiple HHS programs.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in the development of web application using Spring MVC architecture. Configured Bean properties using setter injection.  • Implemented Spring MVC to achieve Model View Controller design pattern. Configured spring to manage actions as beans and set their dependencies in a spring context file and integrated middle tire with spring web layer.  • Integrated spring framework with other framework like Hibernate.  • Implemented various design patterns like Singleton, DAO, Factory pattern etc.  • Worked extensively with JSP's and Servlets to accommodate all presentation customizations on the front end.  • Used Spring Batch for Bach processing.  • Developed user interfaces using JSP, HTML and CSS, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Worked on to improve the look and feel of the web application based on user feedback using CSS, HTML and JavaScript.  • Used SONAR for code quality and code analytics.  • Implanted JSP for the presentation layer.  • Configured Hibernate for storing objects in the database, retrieving objects, querying objects and persisting relationships between objects.  • Created application layer POJO classes and mapped them to backend Oracle database tables using Hibernate framework.  • Implementing the Coding standards, review the code and fixing all the code review bugs.  • Web-services to expose the business methods to external services.  • Used Maven automated build scripts to compile and package the application and implemented Log4j for the project.  • Developed test classes in JUnit for implementing unit testing  • Deployed EAR files using the build tools in the Web Sphere application server.    Environment: Core Java, J2EE, Servlet, Hibernate3.0, Spring3.0, Spring Integration, Spring Batch, JSP, Servlet, XML, JQuery, Spring MVC, JavaScript, HTML,CSS, JUnit, SOAP web service, web Sphere 8.5, jdk 1.7, IBM Rational Team Concert (RTC). Java Developer Epsilon - Irving, TX October 2015 to December 2015 Project: Reservation Confirmation and PreArrival Email    This project was aimed at adding new functionalities for Hilton, a customer of Epsilon. The new functionalities included changing booking details, terms and conditions and enhancements in the reservation confirmation and pre-arrival emails with the new "Be Wow" look.    Responsibilities:  • I was Involved in the development of web application using Spring MVC architecture.  • Involved in integration of Spring Framework with hibernate.  • Implemented REST Web Services for other applications to communicate.  • Configured Hibernate for storing objects in the database, retrieving objects, querying objects and persisting relationships between objects.  • Used Maven automated build scripts to compile and package the application and implemented Log4j for the project.  • Used JUnit for unit testing of the application.  • Used SONAR for code quality and code analytics.  • Deployed EAR files using the build tools in the Web Sphere application server.    Environment: Core Java, Servlet, Hibernate3.0, Spring3.0, Spring Batch, Spring Integration, Restful Web service , JSP, Servlet, XML, AngularJS, Spring MVC, JavaScript, HTML,CSS, JUnit, Restful web service, web sphere 8.5, jdk 1.7. Java Developer CVS Caremark - Dallas, TX June 2015 to September 2015 Project: Med D Tools    Medicare Pre-Enrollment sites provide drug formulary and pharmacy lookup and drug pricing information for Medicare enrollees. There are two applications: Formulary/Pricing and pharmacy locator. Both applications are J2EE web applications deployed on Web sphere application server on cvs Caremark domain. Pharmacy Locator provides pharmacy lookup information for various pharmacy types like Retail, Mail, Long term care etc. Formulary application provides coverage information for a given drug. Pricing application provides drug pricing, plan comparison, monthly budget information and pricing details of Med D plan stage.  As a java developer I am involved in developing and unit testing their online tools using struts framework and jsp.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in design and development of architecture of the application using Struts framework.  • Develop user interfaces using JSP, HTML and CSS, JavaScript, AngularJS and JQuery.  • Use Hibernate framework for the backend persistence.  • Use IBM RAD 8.5 as IDE tool to develop the application.  • Deploy the application on the Web Sphere Application Server.  • Used SOAP web services for implementing third party Services.  • Used JUnit for unit testing of the application.    Environment: Hibernate3.0, Struts 2.0, IBM RAD 8.5, JSP, JavaScript, Dimension, Core Java, Servlet, JSP, Jquery, HTML,CSS, JUnit, SOAP web service, web sphere 8.5, jdk 1.7, AngularJS. Java/J2EE Developer National Informatics Center (NIC) - New Delhi, Delhi February 2011 to November 2011 National Informatics Centre (NIC) is a premiere software & technology institution run by the Government of India. It was established in 1976 with an objective of providing e-governance solutions by adopting best practices, integrated services and global solutions in the government (public) sector.    Project Name: CollabCad (www.collabcad.gov.in)  CollabCAD is a 3D CAD/CAM Software system for collaborative design & development of Industrial Designs. It provides a total solution from product design, numerical control, visualization, and simulation, analysis to content management, workflow and office automation. CollabCAD is developed on the Linux platform and is available on Windows and Linux. CollabCAD is developed using open source software tools such as Java/ Java 3D, Open Cascade geometry kernel and supports open standards of data exchange such as XML and STEP to ensure interoperability.    Responsibilities:  • Responsible for design, coding and unit testing of new modules.  • Maintained a high standard quality of the code as per the coding standards/conventions.  • Performed requirement analysis for enhancements.  • Implementation and modification of the application GUI.  • Involved in designing the user interfaces using jsp, Java Script and HTML5.  • Experience in implementing J2EE design patterns like, Singleton, MVC pattern and Factory design pattern.  • Developed JUnit test cases for all the developed modules.  • Implemented a generic interface to Hibernate criteria API for UI search functionality.  • Deployment of web, enterprise java components and messaging components.  • Used XML web services using SOAP to transfer application that is remote and global to different financial institutions.  • Developed the application using spring framework that leverages model view layer architecture, also configured Dependency Injection.  • Used Hibernate ORM tools which automate the mapping between SQL databases and objects in Java.  • Integrated the spring and Hibernate framework.  • Extensively used Hibernate in data access layer to access and update information in the database.  • Deployed the application on Web logic Application Server.    Environment: Core Java, Spring Framework, Hibernate, J2EE, Java, XML, JSP, HTML, WebLogic Application Server, CSS, Servlets, Eclipse, Web Services, JUnit, Maven, SQL, Apache Tomcat, Unix/Linux. Education B.Sc. Veer Bahadur Singh Purvanchal University - Jaunpur, Uttar Pradesh Master of computer application in computer application Utter Pradesh Technical University - Lucknow, Uttar Pradesh Skills Java, J2Ee, Spring, Core Java, Javascript, AWS, MVC, Soap