Java Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Developer - CitiBank New York, NY Seeking a challenging career with progressive organization that provides an opportunity to utilize my technical skills and learn more about professional culture in USA.    Core Qualifications:    ? Experience in Programming Languages - JAVA, Javascript, C#    ? Experience of Maven build Technologies.    ? Excellent development and implementation experience in Enterprise/Web/Client Server Java / J2EE based applications using Spring 4.0 (AOP, IOC, MVC, Boot), Hibernate 3.0 frameworks.    ? Knowledge of Core JAVA /J2EE patterns and Design Patterns.    ? Familiarity with SQL/PLSQL Oracle and MySQL database Management.    ? Knowledge of Software Design and Implementation Patterns.    ? Excellent reason and debugging skills.    ? Extensive hands-on knowledge of best practices in different areas (presentation layer, business layer and persistence layer).    ? Used Hibernate as an ORM tool for connecting to database, accessing information.    ? Strong Working experience in Design, Development and implementation of several J2EE frameworks like (Model View Controller) spring, Hibernate and EJB.    ? Experienced in various AUT (Application under Test) such as Automation testing, Manual testing, Integration testing, System testing, Smoke testing, Regression testing, Performance testing and Functional testing.    ? Extensive experience in web development using HTML, JavaScript, XML, CSS.    ? Good Knowledge in web technologies like XML, JavaScript, Angular, JQuery, and CSS.    ? Experience in configuring and deploying the applications on Tomcat, Glassfish, WebSphere, WebLogic, and JBoss Servers.    ? Experience in Designing and developing the applications using Java Server Faces (JSF) and Spring web flow.    ? Extensive experience in XML related technologies/tools such as JAXB, XSL, XQuery, and Path. Work Experience Java Developer CitiBank - New York, NY January 2018 to Present Extensively used Spring IOC/AOP configured Application Context files and performed database object mapping using Hibernate annotations.  ? Used Angular 5 ngIf and ngFor directives used for validations for the input fields of the forms with the data existed in the database.  ? Used Spring Framework for Dependency Injection (DI) using Inversion of Control (IOC) and integrated DAO design pattern to retrieve the data from database.  ? Involved in the architectural refactor the Web services system and portal with Spring framework and Hibernate.  ? Used Hibernate as an ORM tool for connecting to database, accessing information.  ? Configured Hibernate Objects as Spring Beans in Spring Boot configuration file.  ? Extensively used promises (Success and Error) while making sync communication. Wrote services with Angular 2/5 to store and retrieve user data from the DB to the application on devices with the HttpClient service.  ? Developed Bootstrap responsive web application pages using Angular 2/5 services, components and directives for front end UI and consuming the Restful Web service API and made use of CRUD Services for effective use of Web services.  ? Implemented PL/SQL queries and used Oracle stored procedures, and built-in functions to retrieve and update data from the databases.  ? Involved in consuming RESTful services and processed JSON data to render on UI.  ? Worked as a part of Agile team and followed the methodology on a routine and attended regular Scrum meetings held by the Scrum Master.  ? Expertise in Agile SDLC methodology & project planning using JIRA. Associate Java Developer Equifax - Atlanta, GA December 2016 to November 2017 Developed the application using Agile-Scrum methodologies.  ? Worked on Java 8 by using group by and collectors.  ? Worked using fortify to scan applications for identifying potential threats and vulnerabilities. Used this as a static application for security testing.  ? Fortify will be used with eclipse plugin for developing while we write code.  ? Will be using Fortify as it has Jenkins plugin which includes in scanning as part of the SDLC.  ? Fortify scans were done by me before each deployment.  ? Developed a JSON business application to be available to all the users from market reveal in ServiceNow environment to access the data without seeking permission from the concerned team.  ? Developed this application to make it integrated and available to all the other business application teams to take the data which they need without causing any security breach.  ? Worked on developing a Secure Trans Java application for migrating from FTP to SFTP for PRD and NPRD to make it secure from vulnerabilities and outside threats.  ? Developed a Java application for encrypting/ decrypting files by using base64 data to make it a CyberArk compliant.  ? Involved in migrating an application built in JSF to AngularJS.  ? Worked in Agile - Behavior Driven Development (BDD) model.  ? Developed step files for the respective feature files to run all scenarios.  ? Fixed few Jasmine Unit test cases in karma framework. Java Developer Cerner Corporation - North, Kansas, US January 2015 to October 2015 • Involved in Analysis, Design, Development, UAT and Production phases of the application. Participated in JAD sessions gathering along with the Business Analysts.  • Designed application modules, base classes and utility classes using Core Java. Implemented the project as a multi-tier application using Spring MVC & used core Spring concepts like AOP, IOC.  • New library development with micro services architecture using Rest APIs, spring boot.  • Expertise in Core Java with strong understanding and working knowledge of Object-Oriented Concepts like Collections, Multi-Threading, Concurrency framework.  • Implemented a SOA compliant system working on various transactional messaging using Camel and used Session Beans Message Driven Beans.  • Coded various business process methods required for creation of Web Services related to customer information and provider information, using JAX-WS, SOAP, WSDL and JAX-RS, REST web services  • Implemented Hibernate for data persistence and management. Integrated Spring with Hibernate as the data abstraction to interact with the databases.  • Implemented Singleton, Factory, DAO design Patterns based on the application requirements. Consumed and built web services in SOAP, REST supporting both XML and JSON by taking advantage of Spring technologies. Associate Developer American Express - New York, NY May 2013 to December 2014 Involved in various Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) phases of the project.  ? Coding with core Java concepts like Collections, Exception Handling, Java I/O, and Generics to implement some business logic.  ? Developed and configured the Java beans using spring and Hibernate framework.  ? Well versed with core Java concepts like Collections, Multithreading, Remote Method Invocation (RMI), Serialization, and Java Beans.  ? Used Spring Framework for Dependency Injection and integrated it with the Core Java and Hibernate.  ? Used Web services - WSDL and SOAP for getting credit card information from third party.  ? Designing of underlying architecture along with other members of the team and preparing the base code for the application.  ? CRUD related operations with Database are achieved using Hibernate JPA Repository.  ? Logging of errors in application is achieved by Log4j and unit testing of the developed code is done by JUnit Framework.  ? Implemented error checking/validation on the Java Server Pages using JavaScript.  ? Configured CheckStyle in eclipse to ensure that Java code adheres to a set of coding standards. Education Master of Science in Computer Science in Computer Science New York Institute of Technology New York January 2016 to December 2017 Bachelor of Engineering in Computer Science in Computer Science Sri Indu College of Engineering & Technology - Hyderabad, Telangana August 2009 to April 2013 Skills databases. (1 year), Java (4 years), Json (2 years), Soap (2 years), Web services (3 years) Additional Information Skills    JAVA (6 years), HIBERNATE (4+ years), SPRING (5+ year), HTML (5+ years), WEB SERVICES (5+ years), J2EE (3+ years), Soap (3+ years), Core Java (3 years), Rest (4+ years).    Technical Skills    Programming Languages Java, JavaScript, SQL.    J2EE Technologies: Servlets, JDBCTemplate, Spring (IOC, DI, MVC), Spring Boot, Web-Services.    Web Technologies: HTML5, CSS3, AJAX, jQuery, JSON, Bootstrap, AngularJS (1.5).    Databases: Oracle 10g/11g, MySQL.    Operating Systems: Linux, Windows.  Build Tools: Maven.  Version Control: SVN, Git.