Full Stack Java Developer Full Stack <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Full Stack Java Developer - SiriusXM Satellite Radio New York, NY • 4+ years of experience in developing and designing Web Based Internet/Intranet, Multi-tier distributed applications using latest J2EE technologies and various open source frameworks.  • Expertise in Front-End Development using MVC frameworks such as Spring, JSF, Struts.  • Experience in Java, J2EE technologies such as JDBC, Servlets, JSP, Struts, JSF, EJB, Spring, Web Services, Hibernate, JMS, XML, XSD, XSL and JNDI, AJAX.  • Expertise in Client Side Designing and Validations using HTML, DHTML, CSS, Java Script, JSP, Struts Tag Library, JSTL.  • Experience in developing Front End components (UI) using JSP, JSF (Prime faces), JSTL, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX, AngularJS, Angular 2, Angular 4, NodeJS, HTML5, CSS3(SaSS/LESS) and Bootstrap for projects based on java platform.  • Experienced on Simple Storage Service(S3), VPC, Amazon Simple DB, ELB, EBS, DynamoDB, RDS, Aurora, Auto Scaling, Amazon Cloud Watch, IAM, Ops Works, CloudTrail, CloudFormation, RedShift, Route 53, SNS, SES, SQS, LAMBDA, Code Commit, Code Build, Code Deploy, Code Pipeline and experienced in building highly scalable java applications using various architectures.  • Experience in configuring build tools like Maven and ANT for the development and deployment with Jenkins and Hudson.  • Experience with core Java, native Android development SDK and dealing with both SOAP as well as REST based web services.  • Experience building large-scale web services, Microservices based applications in the cloud environment.  • Proficient in Object Oriented Analysis and Design OOAD based on Unified Modeling Language UML architecture using Rational Rose and Microsoft Visio.  • Experience in using various design patterns such as MVC Model-View-Controller, Singleton, Session Facade, DAO, DTO, and Business Delegate in the development of Multi-Tier distributed Enterprise Applications.  • Experienced in databases such as Oracle 8/9/10, DB2 and MS SQL Server to manage Tables, Views, Indexes, Sequences, Stored Procedures, Functions, Triggers and Packages.  • Experience in developing dynamic web applications and Web Services using RAD and Eclipse.  • Expertise implementing various Ajax Frameworks such as JQuery, DOJO and JSON.  • Extensive experience of UI design/development in using XHTML, HTML5, CSS, DHTML, JSTL, Tiles, Bootstrap, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX, JSON, AngularJS and angular 2/4.  • Experienced in JMS over messaging to exchange the information in more reliable and asynchronous way in enterprise Applications. Used Apache ActiveMQ, RabbitMQ, Kafka, AMQP as JMS provider.  • Expertise on Developing responsive Single Page Applications for Audi Users with React, JSX, SCSS, Bootstrap and Redux.  • Proficient in working with Relational databases like Oracle, MySQL, PostGreSQL and NoSQL databases like Redis, MongoDB, Cassandra to manage tables, views, indexes, sequences, stored procedures, functions, triggers and packages.  • Experience working with version control management tools GitHub, and bug reporting tools like JIRA.  • Expertise in implementing Web services, Microservices, AWS, Docker & JMS for the synchronous and asynchronous connection between two applications running in different servers.  • Experience in designing and developing various integration components using JMS and IBM MQ Series.  • Expertise knowledge in building applications using Rational Unified Process RUP, UML and OOAD.  • Experienced on XML technologies like XML, XSL, XSD, XSLT, Xquery, Xpath and DTD.  • Experienced in developing Web Services with XML based protocols such as SOAP and WSDL.  • Expertise to application servers like IBM Web Sphere, BEA Web Logic, Apache Tomcat and JBoss.  • Proficient on Debugging using Logging Frameworks such as Apache Log4j.  • Experience on Unit testing, Integration Testing and generating of test cases for web applications using JUnit, Log4J.  • Worked on Struts, Spring, Hibernate, HTML, CSS, JSP, JDBC, Servlets, Eclipse, MySQL, Oracle, Apache Tomcat.  • Designed and developed a credit reporting agent portal using framework Angular 2/4 along with HTML5, CSS3, and typescripts.  • Designed, Developed and implemented of Model-View-Controller (MVC) (Spring, Struts).  • Developed enterprise application using Servlets, JSP, Apache Struts, Spring MVC, JDBC, Hibernate, JUnit and Oracle.  • Developed Servlets, Core Java components, and JSPs using Struts Framework.  • Experience with Integrated Development Environment IDE. IDEs like IBM Eclipse, JBOSS, IBM WSAD, TOAD, Edit Plus.  • Proficient in Technical, Analytical, Problem Solving skills, strict attention to detail and ability to work independently, work within a team environment. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Full Stack Java Developer SiriusXM Satellite Radio - New York, NY December 2017 to Present • Used SOAP JAXB for producing web services and involved in writing programs to consume the web services  • Developed the application using Spring Mvc Framework that helps in separating the business logic, presentation logic and navigation logic  • Written Spring Core and Spring MVC files to associate DAO with Business Layer  • Intercepting filter design pattern used for all the pre-processing and post-processing purposes which includes session validation, authorization, logging.  • Developed the application using Struts Framework that leverages classical Model View Controller (MVC) architecture.  • Developed the action classes, Action form classes, created JSP's using Struts tag libraries and configured in Struts-config.xml, web.xml files.  • Worked on Struts Action classes, Action forms and Struts-config.xml.  • Worked on Angular 2/4 by consuming Restful web services & used Angular forms like Template Driven forms and Modern Driven (Reactive) forms to perform form validations both on server and client side  • Implemented Angular Router to enable navigation from one view to the next as agent performs application tasks.  • Implemented spring boot microservices to process the messages into the Kafka cluster setup.  • Coordinated with Kafka Admin team to set up Kafka cluster for the QA and Production environments.  • Used React Router to create a SPA which can bind data to specific views and synchronize data with server.  • Implemented Docker-maven-plugin in maven pom to build Docker images for all micro services and later used Docker file to build the Docker images from the java jar files  • Developed micro-services based independent API using REST to connect with several databases like Oracle, Postgres, Cassandra.  • GitHub/GitLab for source code and SQL for data manipulation.  • Designed and built security architecture using AWS Lambda, AWS API Gateway, AWS Cognito and AWS STS.  • Designed and Built the SDLC process using Jenkins, Docker, and Kubernetes for machine learning applications.  • Worked extensively on LDAP integrations. Very good understanding of Integration with these varieties of protocols: SOAP and REST API's.  • Developed Http clients using Rest easy API to communicate between microservices.  • Implemented Business processes such as user authentication, using Session EJB  • Designed and developed presentation layers using JSP, Java Beans, CSS, HTML, DHTML, jQuery and Java Script, Json in UI pages.  • Writing JavaScript functions for various validation purposes. Writing Java Beans to contain data objects. Implemented session beans, entity beans and message driven beans.  • Dynamic form generation auto completion of forms and user-validation functionalities using AJAX.  • Worked on the jQuery java script Library that simplifies HTML document traversing, and event handling.  • Created controller Servlets for handling HTTP requests from JSP pages  • Implemented JSP in Presentation layer programming using JSTL, AJAX, Development  • Developed client user interface using JSPs and Servlets.  • Used Maven to build, run and create JARs and WAR files among other uses  • Deployed the applications on IBMWebSphere6.0 Application Server  • Used IBM RAD versions 8.0 8.5 as IDE for the enterprise application Project development  • Used TEAM FOUNDATION SERVER TFS to check-in and checkout codes to the repository.  • Extensively used mainframe platform to access the tables in DB2 Database and to refresh the data.  • Used JDBC to invoke Stored Procedures and database connectivity.  • Used Log4J to capture the log that includes runtime exceptions.  • Developed JUnit test cases for all the developed modules  • Involved in the complete life cycle of the project from the requirements to the production also involved in UAT.  • Setting up daily Status meetings with team and communicate status to Project Manager.  • Worked with Business team during UAT to review the requirements for any new functionality or enhancements  • Worked with server admin and deployed the application on to the production and Stage Servers. Java Developer JPMorgan Chase - New York, NY September 2016 to February 2017 • Implemented the business logic using various Design patterns.  • Used Spring framework to inject the DAO and Bean objects, auto wiring the components.  • Configured bamboo automating the builds into Gradle archive repository.  • Created controller Servlets for handling HTTP requests from JSP pages.  • Used JSP's HTML on front end, Servlets as Front Controllers and JavaScript for client-side validations.  • Involved in design discussions and understanding of business requirements and identify the relevant functional and technical requirements.  • Worked on Front End frameworks such as jQuery, Ajax, JavaScript, Nodejs, ReactJS, BackboneJS, AngularJs.  • Involved in SDLC Requirements gathering, Analysis, Design, Development and Testing of application using AGILE methodology SCRUM.  • Used JAX-WS SOAP for producing web services and involved in writing programs to consume the web services using SOA with CXF framework  • Used Struts Validator Framework for server side and client-side validations.  • Implemented serval UI screens using Struts2, JSP, HTML and CSS.  • Created business logic and application in Struts Framework using JSP, and Servlets.  • Implemented reprocessing of failure messages in Kafka using offset id  • Implemented Kafka producer and consumer applications on Kafka cluster setup with help of Zookeeper  • Implemented CI/CD automation process using Maven and Jenkins pipeline.  • Worked on Creating and Consuming Web Services, related technologies and tools: SOAP, Restful, WSDL, UDDI, Jersey, AXIS, SOAP UI tools.  • Developed the entire application web-based client implementing MVC Architecture using spring framework.  • Implemented Object-relation mapping in the persistence layer using Hibernate frame work in conjunction with spring functionality.  • Worked on development of Hibernate, including mapping files, configuration file and classes to interact with the database.  • Implemented dozer bean mapping for mapping the domain objects.  • Used SQL Queries in Java code to do select/update/delete depending upon the business requirement.  • Also used Stored procedures connecting to the database using spring JDBC.  • Responsible for modifying existing xml schema definition as per client's requirements.  • Extensively worked with XML schema, XSL/XSLT, XML to navigate in XML documents, and DOM4J to process and parse xml files.  • Extensively worked on XML Altova Map Force for the transformations of xml to xslt.  • Used XPATH to navigate through Attributes and Elements in an XML Document.  • Used JAXB to marshal and unmarshal the xml- java object, java objects-xml  • Extensively used JSP to develop schema viewer applications.  • Used Git as source control management giving a huge speed advantage on centralized systems that have to communicate with a server.  • Developed modern web applications using Angular2, Node.js, React.js, Express.js and Mongo DB.  • Used the fundamentals of Java 8 features like parallel streams and filters through lambda expressions to handle searching.  • Implemented build stage- to build the micro service and push the Docker container image to the private Docker registry.  • Used Gradle as a build tool automating the building, testing, publishing and deployment loading all the dependencies from the nexus artifact repository.  • A WebSphere JNDI naming tree is maintained for the external configuration of a service.  • Enabling XA transactions to achieve consistency for the services connecting to fineos and iseries database.  • Used multithreaded environment to run the processes asynchronously using different future calls to access the data.  • Good hands on UNIX commands, used to see the log files on the production server.  • Involved in the complete life cycle of the project from the requirements to the production support.  • Used Log4j to capture the log that includes runtime exception and for logging info and are helpful in debugging the issues.  • Involved in developing Unit Test cases and testing the Application using soap-ui.  • Developed several shell Scripts to automate file transfers.  • Deployed the complete Web and enterprise applications in WebSphere Server. Java Developer Wipro - Bengaluru, Karnataka November 2015 to August 2016 • Analysis and Design of various modules using J2EE Architecture.  • Involved in implementation of Information system development methodology ISDM for designing, analyzing for the developing systems  • Written Hibernate annotation-based mapping java classes with Oracle Database tables.  • Used Session fa ade. Implemented JMS API for messaging.  • Developed webservices SOAP, WSDL and webservices clients using JAXB and XML, implemented SOA architecture.  • Involved in High Level Design and prepared Logical view of the Application.  • Involved in designing and developing of Object-Oriented methodologies using UML and created Use Case, Class, Sequence diagrams.  • Implemented Multithread concepts in java classes to avoid deadlocking.  • Created Core java Interfaces and Abstract classes for different functionalities.  • Written Spring Core and Spring MVC files to associate DAO with Business Layer.  • Used PL/SQL procedures.  • Used Karma (Jasmine) for angular Unit testing and selenium for E2E testing.  • Implemented Angular Router to enable navigation from one view to the next as agent performs application tasks.  • Analyzed Hadoop cluster using analytics tools including Flume, Pig, Hive, HBase, Oozie, Zookeeper, Sqoop, Spark and Kafka  • Implemented automated deployments with Docker-compose for scalable application deployment by orchestrating containers.  • Wrote JAXB XML parsers for XML Schema Validation and Worked on Jenkins server and build jobs to provide automated builds based on polling the GIT source control system.  • Used the Swagger UI documentation using Swagger configuration for REST API testing using all methods. Used Swagger annotations to document APIs.  • Created Data Source and deployed web application in the IBM Web sphere application Server.  • Implemented JSF in Presentation layer programming using JSTL, AJAX, GWT Development.  • Worked with HTML, DHTML, CSS, JAVASCRIPT, JSON in UI pages.  • Created controller Servlets for handling HTTP requests from JSP pages.  • Writing JavaScript functions for various validation purposes. Writing Java Beans to contain data objects. Implemented session beans, entity beans and message driven beans.  • Developed client user interface using JSPs and Servlets.  • Used Version Control Tool to perform Checking-out and Checking-in of codes from the repository.  • Used EJB Query Language to retrieve data from Hypersonic SQL.  • Developed web services in Java and Experienced with SOAP.  • Developed and maintained Ant Scripts for the build purposes on testing and production environments.