Java Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Developer - Verizon • Highly Trusted, Motivated IT Professional with an impeccable 4.2+ years of experience in system Analysis, design, development, testing, implementation, and support of application software using Object Oriented Analysis and Design in JAVA/J2EE.  • A high level of Expertise in developing and designing web applications utilizing Core Java, J2EE, JSP, Servlets, Java Beans, EJB, JSF, Spring, Springboot, Hibernate, Web Services (SOAP, WSDL, UDDI), JMS, JDBC, XML, HTML, XHTML, HTML5, CSS, DHTML, JavaScript, XSLT, JSON, Ajax, Angular.JS/2/4, JQuery.  • Ample Knowledge in Multi-threaded, Exception Handling, I/O, Concurrency, Generics, JAVA Collections, JAVA AWT, RMI, JSP, JSF, JPA, Spring, Hibernate, Struts, PHP, EJB.  • Hands on Experience in developing an application using MVC frameworks like Struts and spring framework, Spring IOC, Spring MVC, Spring security, Spring AOP, Spring JDBC. ORM experience with Hibernate/JPA and Springboot with JPA.  • A Good understanding in all phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) including system Analysis, Design, Implementation, Testing, and Deployment.  • Experience in production knowledge, Product demo basic troubleshooting and technical support and SSO, OAuth and Keycloak for online authentication and security.  • Experienced in Presentation layer using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, DHTML, XHTML, Bootstrap and AJAX technologies.  • Exposure in configuring and deploying JavaEE applications using web servers like Apache Tomcat 5.x/6.x/7.x/8.x and application servers like IBM Web Sphere 4.x/5.x/6.x, JBoss 3.x/4.2, and Web logic 11g.  • Expertise with Relational databases such Oracle, PostgreSQL, SQL server and MYSQL, PL/SQL.  • Worked on designing and implementing complete end-to-end Hadoop Infrastructure including PIG, HIVE, Sqoop, Oozie, HBase • Manage and review Hadoop log file and Knowledge on Spark & Storm.  • Expert level skills in development of Restful web services using JAX-RS, CXF and JERSEY implementation and SOAP web services using WSDL, SOAP, JAXB, Apache CXF, JAX-WS • Hands on experience in running the scrum meetings and implementing the Agile Methodology on service projects.  • Experience of using different IDE's for Java/J2EE application development like Eclipse, IntelliJ, NetBeans • Worked the backend by using nodejs, expressJs and MongoDB.  • Involved in implementation of RESTFUL web service APIs using Node.js • Used kafka as the messaging framework for communications using queues between micro-services.  • Configured Queues in WebLogic server where the messages, using JMS API, were published.  • Good understanding of NoSQL Data bases and hands on work experience in writing an application on No SQL databases like Mongo DB.  • Installation, configuration, and maintenance of SCM tools using SVN, Git & Continuous Integration (CI) using TeamCity, Jenkins, and Sonar Code Coverage using Ant, Maven to schedule the builds.  • Hands on experience in running the scrum meetings and implementing the Agile Methodology on service projects.  • Experience in AWS, Monitoring and deploying load balances of the various EC2 instance, improved login authentication of users by configuring the AWS Identity and Access Management.  • Good knowledge in optimizing the S3 and SQS services and AWS database services like Dynamo DB, RDS, ElastiCache, Redshift. Work Experience Java Developer Verizon - Alpharetta, GA May 2018 to Present Responsibilities: • Implemented application using Springboot with Spring Framework, Spring dependency injection, Spring MVC for Rest API's and integrated with the Hibernate • Implemented and Configured JHipster project. Used Spring Boot Framework to java development • Extensively Worked with Intellij as the IDE to develop, test and deploy the complete application • Successfully executed all the test cases and fixed any bugs/issues identified during the test cycles.  • Used Atlassian products like Jira, BitBucket and Confluence for issue tracking, release management and code review and Documentation.  • Extensively used Asynchronous calls, callback, non-blocking I/O features in nodejs • Involved in testing the JMS integration between queues and topics.  • Used Hibernate to access data from the DB. Maintained and configured all the Hibernate POJO's using annotations needed for the DB.  • Involved in developing front end (UI) of the application using Angular 4, BootStrap, JavaScript, JQuery, HTML5, CSS3.Active Coordination and Project documentation updates.  • Followed Scrum Agile methodology for the iterative development of the application.  • Involved in designing and creating the Database Tables using PostgreSQL Database.  • Worked on Liquibase which is a source control database.  • Involved in implementation of CI (Continuous Integration) using Jenkins. And involved in configuring pipeline using Blue Ocean Pipeline for project build on Jenkins.  • Used Hibernate to store the persistence data into the PostgreSQL database and wrote HQL to access the data from the database.  • For application deployment we have used Docker Containers • Tested, debugged and implemented the application using JUnit for unit testing used SVN, GIT and Bit bucket Repository as Version control tools.  • Implemented Ansible playbooks for application deployment on a new Virtual Server.  • Used JHipster application framework to develop the application • Implemented RESTful based web services calls to services.  • Used Jira for tracking the User Stories. Java Developer Rockwellcollins - Tulsa, OK November 2017 to April 2018 Responsibilities: • Used Spring Web MVC framework for the applying MVC Implementation to the web Application.  • Used DAO pattern to fetch data from database using Hibernate to carry out various database.  • Implemented application using Springboot with JPA, Spring Framework, Spring dependency injection, Spring MVC for Rest API's and integrated with the Hibernate • Used Hibernate to access data from the DB. Maintained and configured all the Hibernate POJO's using annotations needed for the DB.  • Involved in developing front end (UI) of the application using Angular 4, BootStrap, JavaScript, JQuery, HTML5, CSS3.Active Coordination and Project documentation updates.  • Followed Scrum Agile methodology for the iterative development of the application.  • Involved in designing and creating the Database Tables using PostgreSQL Database.  • Worked on Liquibase which is a source control database • Extensively worked on debugging using Eclipse, Net Beans debugger.  • Support the deployed applications through debugging and fixing.  • Created HBase tables to load large sets of structured, semi-structured and unstructured data coming from UNIX, NoSQL and a variety of portfolios • Experience in developing applications on Windows, UNIX and Linux platforms.  • Involved in implementation of CI (Continuous Integration) using Jenkins. And involved in configuring pipeline using Blue Ocean Pipeline for project build on Jenkins.  • Used Hibernate to store the persistence data into the PostgreSQL database and wrote HQL to access the data from the database.  • For application deployment we have used Docker Containers • Tested, debugged and implemented the application using JUnit for unit testing used SVN, GIT and Bit bucket Repository as Version control tools.  • Implemented Ansible playbooks for application deployment on a new Virtual Server.  • Used JHipster application framework to develop the application • Implemented RESTful based web services calls to services.  • Used Jira for tracking the User Stories..  • Implemented and Configured JHipster project. Used Spring Boot Framework to java development • Extensively Worked with Intellij as the IDE to develop, test and deploy the complete application • Successfully executed all the test cases and fixed any bugs/issues identified during the test cycles.  • Used Atlassian products like Jira, BitBucket and Confluence for issue tracking, release management and code review and Documentation. Jr. Java & JEE Developer Technonika Infotech October 2013 to December 2016 Responsibilities: • Used agile methodology for developing the Application.  • Used Core Java Design Patterns like Singleton, Factory, MVC.  • Developed using new features of Java 1.6 like Annotations, Generics, enhanced for loops.  • Designed and implemented Struts (MVC Paradigm) components such as Action Mapping, Action class, Dispatch action class, Action Form bean, and a form set for validation and used JavaBeans to return dynamic information.  • Designed and developed the application using Test Driven Development.  • Created Technical design document, created test cases for different use cases.  • Designed browser compatible pages using JQuery, JavaScript, and Angular JS.  • Implemented J2EE design patterns such as Session Facade, Factory, DAO, and DTO.  • Worked with Angular JS MVC framework including authoring complex directives, services, controllers, and filters.  • Designed and developed Business components and Integrated with Spring framework.  • Involved in design and implementation of MVC architecture in different modules.  • Implemented binary upload of media files using HTML5, JavaScript, AWS, and vendor Rest APIs for HTML5 revamp of the upload functionality to deliver a simple, rich and easy to use.  • Implemented SOA Microservices architecture with Web Services using SOAP, WSDL, XML, and Spring Boot.  • Designed & developed LDAP Authentication & Authorization Service using Spring, LDAP, JNDI.  • Involved in transforming XML data into Java Objects using a JAXB binding tool.  • Responsible for configuring and deploying the builds on WebSphere Application Server. Skills HTML5 (4 years), JAVA (4 years), JAVASCRIPT (4 years), jQuery (4 years), WEB SERVICES (4 years) Additional Information Skill Highlights:  Enterprise Technologies Java 8, J2EE, EJB, SOAP and RESTful web services  Web Technologies HTML/HTML5, CSS3, CSS, XML, XSLT, JavaScript, AJAX, JQuery, JSON  Database Firebase, Oracle, MySQL, SQL server  Software Architectural Styles Microservices, Client-server model, Service Oriented Architecture (SOA)  IDE & Tools Eclipse Oxygen, Visual Studio, Notepad++, Sublime, Atom  Software Methodologies Agile, Waterfall, Test Driven Development, Model Driven Development  Version Control SVN, GitHub    Operating Systems Windows XP, Windows 7, Windows 10, Linux  Servers Apache Tomcat, IIS, WAS 8, WebLogic, Glassfish  Cloud Components AWS EC2, Microsoft Azure, Google Compute Engine  Other Tools & Technologies HP Quality Center, Jira, PowerShell, IBM Watson Analytics, Unity, Jenkins, Maven, Bamboo