Java/J2EE Developer <span class="hl">Java</span>/J2EE <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java/J2EE Developer - Bunge North America • 5 years of IT experience with requirement analysis, design, development, testing, implementation, and support using Object Oriented Methodologies and Java/J2EE technologies of Core business applications including Client-Server, Web Applications, Windows Applications and Web Services.  • Experienced working in both AGILE and Waterfall based software development environment.  • Experience in integrating the internal security model into new projects with Spring Batch, Spring Microservices and SpringBoot.  • Experience in integrating Microservices Architecture with Spring Boot and Docker.  • Experienced working with highly constructed agile environment including daily scrum, retrospective meeting, sprint planning meeting, backlog refinement, knowledge sharing as well as two week developer roundtable.  • Good understanding user requirements and translating business requirements into technical solutions with excellent problem solving and troubleshooting capabilities.  • Strong Knowledge in developing web applications using Core Java, J2EE, Java 8, JSP, Servlets, JDBC, Struts, Spring, Hibernate ORM, Jax-rs/Jersey, JMS and XML.  • Highly experience with Java complaint IDE's like Spring Tool Suite, NetBeans, Eclipse, SAP NetWear and IntelliJ.  • Experience in integrating and deploying applications using Apache Camel, Service Mix,and JBoss Fuse Enterprise Service Bus (ESB).  • Extensive experience and expertise in developing web applications using Core Java J2EE, Java 8, JSP, Servlets, EJB, JDBC, Struts, Spring, Hibernate ORM, SOAP, REST, JMS and XML.  • Solid experience with Responsive Web Design technologies like HTML5, CSS, JavaScript, AJAX, XML, XSL and JSON.  • Experience with various RDBMS like MS SQL, Oracle, MySQL, PL/SQL, Mongo DB uses JDBC connection in Java.  • Well versed with data structures like Linked Lists, Stacks, Queues, and Hash table, Trees, Tries and Collections API in Java.  • Experience with IDEs like Eclipse, NetBeans, Microsoft Visual Studio, Intellij.  • Experience in using NodeJS and Express for making calls (GET, POST, PUT, DELETE) for triggering or fetching data from Restful API's provided by the backend team.  • Experienced with various messaging middleware including ActiveMQ, RabbitMQ and Tibco Gems.  • Familiar with various project management tools such as JIRA, HP Quality Center and Bugzilla to track defects or bugs.  • Good experience with development methodologies like Agile (SCRUM), Waterfall and Test-driven development (TDD).  • Experienced working with different version controls like GIT, SVN to control source code and Good working knowledge of Build Tool like MAVEN.  • Skilled at quick learning of new technologies, working well in teams with excellent communication skills.  • Capable of meeting deadlines and handling multiple projects/tasks simultaneously. Work Experience Java/J2EE Developer Bunge North America - Chesterfield, MO April 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Implemented the Project in AGILE based development Environment and participated in Daily Scrum, Backlog refinement, Sprint Planning, Retrospective and Sprint closing.  • Used Java 8 features like lambda expressions for communicating between business layer and database, stream API for Bulk Data Operations on Collections using both streams and parallel streams.  • Involved in the phases of SDLC Analysis, Design phase, Development, UAT and Production phase of the application.  • Design and develop application with backend programming languages Java/J2EE, Spring boot, front end with JavaScript.  • Worked in highly pace agile environment with daily scrum, retrospective meeting, sprint planning meeting, backlog refinement, knowledge sharing as well as two week developer roundtable.  • Designed and developed application using Spring Framework-IOC/DI, Spring MVC, Servlets, POJO and EJB integrating with Hibernate framework.  • Used Hibernate ORM framework to develop Data Access Layer.  • Used Spring Boot which is radically faster in building cloud Microservices and develop spring-based application with very less configuration.  • Implementing Spring MVC with Spring Boot which includes writing Controller classes for handling requests, processing form submissions and performed validations.  • Developed Microservice to provide Restful API utilizing Spring Boot with various data persistence frameworks such Hibernate, JPA and messaging engines.  • Increased efficiency of environment setup to become 80% faster by using Spring Boot & Maven to simplify configuration, development, and deployment.  • Developed and Consumed Restful Web services using JAX-RS, XML and JSON to access backend logic using the front-end functionality using various http methods such as GET, POST, PUT and DELETE.  • Involved in the creation of various Data Access Objects (DAO) for addition, modifications and deletion of records using various specification files.  • Installed, configured, and managed the server such as SAP, WebSphere 8.5.5.9 in a clustered environment.  • Involved in creation of an automated build environment for application using Jenkins, SVN, Maven, and deployed JAR, WAR, EAR files.  • Used Tibco Gems for message queuing while working on generating email notifications and text message for various module including payment and contract for bunge farmers.  • Modified Log4j for logging and debugging and developed the pom.xml using Maven for compiling the dependencies.  • Used GIT version Control to maintain source code and JIRA as a project management tool under agile environment.  Environment: Java 8, Jax-rs/Jersey, Hibernate, MongoDB, Maven, SAP NetWear, Spring Boot, XML, JSP, JMS, Servlet, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, Restful, SAP, Junit, Jenkins, GIT, Agile, JIRA. Java/J2EE Developer Cloverleaf Insurance - Saint Peters, MO April 2017 to March 2018 Responsibilities:  • Worked in highly dynamic Agile Environment and participated in scrum and sprint meetings.  • Developed the robust web-based application on Spring Boot frame structure using Java/J2EE technology.  • Created Spring Boot application using Spring components like Spring Core, Spring AOP, Spring MVC, Spring Batch, Spring IOC and Spring Security. The application was created using maven build automation tool in Spring Tool Suit (STS) IDE.  • Created Macro-service architecture by bundling various micro-services and deploying it into the Apache Tomcat server.  • Involved in all the phases of the project development - requirements gathering, analysis, design and development, coding and testing.  • Understanding business objectives and implementation of business logic.  • Maintained DEV, QA and SIT environments and closely worked with QA Team.  • Designed UML Use case diagrams, Class diagrams, and Sequence diagrams using Star UML.  • Used Spring extensively to achieve dependency injection to wire the object of business class.  • Used Spring Data Repositories to perform CRUD operations.  • Involved in creating and Deployment of REST API and Microservices in Java J2EE using Spring Boot.  • Implementation of authentication for Restful web services using Spring Boot Security Starter.  • Developing the application for incident creation and retrieving the events using restful web services with spring Boot.  • Worked extensively on spring boot for building REST API's.  • Extensively used STS for developing, debugging, integrating and deploying the application.  • Extensively used Maven to build the application and deploy on Embedded Tomcat Server.  • Maintained source code in GIT Repository.  • Implemented Java 1.8 features for the existing application where ever required.  • Used J2EE and Enterprise design patterns like MVC, front controller, business delegate, data access object, value object etc.  • Developed stored procedures and complex packages extensively using PL/SQL and Oracle database.  • Used Developer Tool (Chrome, Firebug) for debugging and Cross Browser compatibility.  • Used JIRA to assign, track, report and audit the issues in the application.  • Worked with git as version control system using web-based hosting service Bitbucket.  Environment: Java EE 8, Java Script, Ajax, JSP, Spring, Spring Boot, Microservices, Spring Security, Spring DATA, STS, Maven, GIT, PL/SQL Developer tool, Log4j, Junit, Oracle 12c, Spring MVC, Maven, XML, JavaScript, AJAX, JIRA, Tomcat Server. Java Developer PWC - Tampa, FL July 2016 to March 2017 Responsibilities:  • Worked on the development and testing of the infotainment module using Agile (SCRUM) methodologies.  • Worked on developing Enterprise applications using Spring MVC, Spring JDBC, Spring Rest, Restful Web services.  • Expertise in developing applications using Spring framework like Spring IOC, Spring AOP, Spring MVC, Spring Data JPA, Spring JDBC, MongoDB, Spring Security, Spring Boot, Spring Cloud, etc.  • Expertise in ORM and JPA technologies such as JDBC, Hibernate, and Spring DAO  • Expertise in writing queries, triggers, sequence, and stored procedures in major RDBMS including Oracle, SQL Server, and My SQL  • Outstanding knowledge of developing and consuming RESTful web services using JAX-RS, Jersey, Spring Web MVC, etc.  • Worked with web technologies like JSP, Html, Angular JS, CSS, Java scripts (used frameworks-JSON) JQuery, MVC frameworks (Struts, Spring MVC, IOC/DI, AOP) other frameworks (Hibernate, EJB, JUNIT) and Database (Oracle, MySQL).  • Experienced in TDD (Test Driven Development) using Junit and created technical design document containing architecture of the application/module/product.  • Used Eclipse as an editor, GIT as a version control system and JIRA for defect tracking and project management.  • Experienced in Document preparation including Design Documents, Technical help documents, User training documents and Test Cases.  • Involved in creation of an automated build environment for application using Maven and deployed JAR, WAR, EAR files.  Environment: Java 6, Java, Spring, Spring boot, Hibernate, MongoDB, Maven, Eclipse, XML, JSP, JMS, Servlet, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, Restful, Log4J, Junit, Jenkins, GIT, Agile, JIRA. Java Developer Thrive Market - Los Angeles, CA October 2015 to June 2016 Responsibilities:  • Understanding the business requirements and preparing the design document.  • Reviewed business requirements and discuss with application architect about the design.  • Developed Batch process framework using executive service framework to cascade multiple changes on multiple records in only one transaction.  • Responsible for developing java components using Spring, Spring JDBC, Spring Transaction Management.  • Created and Implemented Microservices or REST APIS using spring boot, REST, JSON.  • Used Spring JDBC in persistence layer that is capable of handling high volume transactions.  • Implemented the service layer using Spring with transaction and logging interceptors.  • Used Spring framework for middle tier and Spring-JDBC templates for data access.  • Developed SOAP/REST based Web Services using both SOAP/WSDL and REST.  • Participated in discussion with business analysts and analyzed the feasibility of the requirements.  • Drew sequence diagrams and Class diagrams using UML.  • Created new tables, Sequences and written SQL queries and PL/SQL in Oracle.  • Developed service layer by using Spring MVC.  • Developed User interface using JSF, JSP, HTML, JavaScript, and CSS, Ajax. Produced and Consumed Soap web services.  • Utilized Agile Methodologies to manage full life-cycle development of the project.  • Implemented MVC design pattern using Spring Framework.  • Used Maven and configured Jenkins to build and deploy the application.  • Form classes of Spring Framework to write the routing logic and to call different services.  • Used Spring DAO to connect with the database.  Environment: Java JDK 1.7, Oracle 11g, Eclipse, Spring MVC, Web services, Microservices, Agile Methodology, SQL, PL/SQL, JSP, SOAP, Apache Tomcat, HTML, Java Script, JDBC, XML, XSLT, UML, JUnit, log4j, GIT and Maven. Java Developer Betanet Consultancy PVT LTD - Gandhinagar, Gujarat January 2013 to April 2014 Responsibilities:  • Actively participated in and helped shape the agile process (SCRUM, Test Driven Development, Extreme Programming, and Continuous Integration) for all development within the team to deliver core functionality that will provide tangible business benefit within agreed timescales.  • Developed the application implementing Spring MVC Architecture with Hibernate as ORM framework.  • Designed and developed the application using agile methodology and followed Test Driven Development (TDD), Scrum.  • Extensively worked on both consumption & producing of RESTful based Web services using spring parsers.  • Used SVN for efficiently managing the source code versions with the development team.  • Used JMS to place the import run requests into JMS Queue.  • Developed XSLT files for transforming the XML response from the web service into HTML as per the business requirements.  • Implemented design patterns like DAO, singleton, factory to achieve design principles.  • Worked heavily on PL/SQL writing complex queries, joins, stored procedures and functions.  • Used Hibernate ORM framework for persistence to database by integrating it with spring framework using Spring Hibernate template.  • Used Jenkins for continuous integration and Maven for building the EAR file.  Environment: Java, Oracle 11g, PL/SQL, spring, Spring MVC, Maven, Hibernate, SVN, JQuery, HTML5, CSS3, Jenkins, XML, Linux, Junit, Maven. Education Bachelor of Engineering in Computer Science in Computer Science Gujarat Technological University - Ahmedabad, Gujarat October 2000 Master of Science in Computer Science in Computer Science Northwestern Polytechnic University Additional Information SKILLS:  Java Technologies Core Java, J2EE, Java 6,8, JSP, Servlets, JDBC, Struts, Spring, Hibernate ORM, SOAP, REST, JMS and XML  Programming Languages Java, C#, VB.NET, C, C++, PL/SQL  Web Technologies HTML, HTML5, XML, XSLT, CSS, CSS3, JavaScript, UML, Angular JS, AJAX, JQuery, AJAX, Bootstrap.  Database Technologies MS-SQL Server, Oracle, MY SQL, T-SQL, Mongo DB  Web/Application servers Apache tomcat, Web Sphere, SAP.  IDE Eclipse, Net Beans, IntelliJ, SAP NetWear, Spring tool suite (STS), Sublime Text.  Operating Systems Windows 7/XP/8/8.1/10, Linux, Mac.  Framework Spring, Spring MVC, Spring Boot, Hibernate, Jersey  Version Control GIT, TFS, SVN and Bit Bucket.