Java AWS Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> AWS <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java AWS Developer Omaha, NE • 7+ years of professional work experience in object-oriented programming with Java AWS for large enterprise customers.  • Experience in all phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) process including analysis, design, development, implementation, integration, testing, maintenance and support of Web-based enterprise applications.  • Experience in Java and J2EE technologies like Servlets, JSP, JDBC, JMS and XML and open source frameworks like Spring Framework, Hibernate /JPA.  • Extensive knowledge and working experience in web development technologies like AJAX, JSP, XML, HTML5, CSS3, JSON, Java Script, jQuery, AngularJs.  • Experience on creating images through Docker and deploying them in Kubernetes (Minikube) environment.  • Extensive knowledge on caching frameworks such as Redis, EHCache  • Experience on messaging and streaming technologies such as AmazonMQ, Active MQ and Apache KAFKA  • Proficiency on CI/CD tools/processes (Git, Gradle , Maven, Jenkins, SonarQube, Jacoco and Junit)  • Experience in Integration of Amazon Web Services AWS with other applications infrastructure.  • Extensive experience in developing RESTful Web Services using Apache CXF and Jersey.  • Experience in designing User Interactive UI Web Pages and visually appealing User Interfaces with the help of HTML 5 and CSS3.  • Experience in front end user interface using HTML5, XML, CSS3, BootStrap, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX, AngularJS, JQuery and JSP2.0.  • Experience in using J2EE Application Servers such as Weblogic, Websphere 7/8and JBoss 7.  • Experience in Oracle, IBM DB2 and MySQL. Experience in writing SQL Queries, PL/SQL Packages, Stored Procedures, and Functions.  • Experience in Unit testing using Java, JUnit and TestNG.  • Experience in software development methodologies such as Agile, Scrum, Test Driven Development and Waterfall.  • Experience with configuration management tools like SubVersion and GIT.  • Experience in use of build tools like Maven and Jenkins for build & deployment.  • Good experience in supporting the applications in Production environment.  • Excellent communication and interpersonal skills.  • Excellent team player with very good analytical &problem solving skills. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Java AWS Developer Perfume Worldwide Inc - New York, NY April 2016 to October 2017 Responsibilities:  • Involved in reviewing requirements documentation and break out "stories" from Product Owners  • Analysis and creation of Design documents for various components involved.  • Developed Restful Web Services to provide guide data for Spectrum Mobile Applications.  • Developed Rest Clients to consume REST URLs using Spring REST Template.  • Developed test cases and performed unit testing using TestNG & Mockito.  • Interacted closely with the QA team to understand and fix issues.  • Developed UI layer components using Spring MVC framework.  • Developed test cases and performed unit testing using JUNIT Test cases.  • Performed code build using MAVEN.  • Deployed the Application EAR and RESTful Services on JBoss Application Server.  • Worked on creating the EC2 Cluster to install and execute spark application for big data processing based on event notification using Lambda, SNS, Cloud Formation Template and Chef Cookbooks.  • Scaled Microservices, distributed systems and serverless applications using Simple Queue Service(SQS).  • Consolidated issues in Production Support on JBoss by checking logs, Health Status, etc.  • Participated in configuration management, change management activities and code re-views.  • Worked on all phases of Agile software developing methodology for developing application.  Environment: JDK 1.7, Spring 3.2, Spring MVC, Hibernate3.2, JAX-RS, Jersey, AWS, Kubernetes, Docker, Linux, Maven, JBoss 7, Oracle 11g, GIT, Eclipse. Java/J2EE developer Liberty Mutual Insurance May 2015 to March 2016 Project: Agent Center Application  Description: Liberty Mutual Insurance is an American diversified global insurer, and the second-largest property and casualty insurer in the United States. Ecommerce application provides services such as Auto Insurance and home insurance. The application is used for accessibility into the appropriate Agent Center applications and generating quotes and policies, payments and reports.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in all the phases of SDLC including Requirements Collection, Design & Analysis of the Customer Specifications, Development and Customization of the Application.  • Developed front-end content using JavaScript, jQuery, XLTS, HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, and Angular JS, and XML Technologies XML, XSD, XSLT.  • Involved in developing the application using Core Java, Spring, JSP, and Hibernate.  • Involved in design, develop and implementation of the application using Spring 3.2 and j2EE framework.  • Involved in using Spring AOP framework for reusability logging purpose.  • Involved in write application level code to interact with APIs, Web Services using AJAX, JSON and XML.  • Consumed Rest based services from Angular JS using HTTP services and Design and Coding of Web Services to implement SOA.  • Implemented Service Oriented Architecture using JMS for sending and receiving messages while creating web services.  • Used Hibernate, ORM solution, technique of mapping data representation from MVC model to Oracle Relational data model with an SQL-based schema.  • Written SQL Queries and stored procedures to interact with Oracle DB.  • Created an XML configuration file for Hibernate for Database connectivity. Designed and Implemented the DAO layer using spring, Java Persistence API (JPA) through Hibernate.  • Developed JUnit test cases for elements, web beans, handlers and view helper classes.  • Focused on Test Driven Development; thereby creating detailed JUnit tests for every single piece of functionality before writing the functionality.  • Extensively used Linux/Unix system administration tools to create servers and deploy and run applications in development stage.  • Assisted Oracle DB development team in developing stored procedures and designing the database.  • Used Maven as build automation tool for deploying the project on Tomcat Server and used Jenkins to perform continuous Integration.  • Interacted with Business Analysts to come up with better implementation designs for the application.  • Used CVS for version control tool and Spring Tool Suite (STS) for IDE.  Environment: Java 1.6,HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, XML, XSLT, AngularJS, Spring MVC, Spring 3.2, Spring Security, Hibernate 3.0, SOA, Apache Tomcat Server 7.0, Maven, RESTful, JUnit, Jenkins, Eclipse, Oracle, CVS. Java Developer NES Technologies Pvt. Ltd - Hyderabad, Telangana 2012 to December 2014 Education Bachelor's in Computer Science in Computer Science Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University India May 2014 Skills ECLIPSE, JAVA, HIBERNATE, SPRING, JAX, JAX-WS, JBOSS, JMS, JNDI, JSP, SERVLETS, STRUTS, DOCKER, Git, JAVASCRIPT, SCRIPTING, SVN, XML, ANGULARJS, HTML5, J2Ee, Java J2Ee, MVC, Rest, JEE