Java/J2EE Developer <span class="hl">Java</span>/J2EE <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java/J2EE Developer - AIG usa Work Experience Java/J2EE Developer AIG - Houston, TX July 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Designed, develop a custom, single-page, responsive Web Application on front end using Angular 4.0.  • Designed pages using Angular 4.0 Validations, Modules, Events, Expressions, Directives, Controllers and Filters.  • Extensively used Spring Framework modules like MVC, DI(IOC), JDBC Templates, Spring Security and AOP.  • Created and injected Spring services, controllers and DAOs for DI and to wire objects of business classes.  • Implemented the Project structure based on Spring MVC pattern using Spring boot.  • Hands on experience Spring Boot Actuator, Spring Cloud, and Netflix Eureka.  • Extensively used Hibernate Mappings, HQL, Query, Criteria, Lazy Loading Transactions and Locking's.  • Developed Stored Procedures, triggered stored procedures using Hibernate.  • Experience with various persistence mechanisms and APIs like JPA, JDO, Hibernate, EJB.  • UsedHibernate EHcache for secondlevel caching which resulted in enhanced performance of the application.  • Developed Web Services using SOA technologies such as REST.  • Developed and consumed Apache CXF based Web Services as part of Payments Application.  • Developed Grunt tasks to run the unit tests on Jenkins.  • Used advanced Java 8 features like Lambda Expressions Streams, Filters. Enhanced concurrency methods etc.  • Design and develop Selenium tests to verify functionality of internal business applications and resulting data.  • Experience with creating Workflows, Mappings and Scheduling Jobs in Informatics.  • Developed Business rules using Drools and integrated with Application.  • Deployed the application in JBoss production server running in Linux platform.  • Worked with high volume and complex PL/SQL Stored Procedures and Packages using TOAD.  • Design patterns are extensively used to achieve clean separation of different layers like Adapter, Singleton, Factory, Abstract Factory, Service Locator and Facade.  • All the functionality is implemented using Spring Boot and Hibernate ORM.  • Worked on AWS Cloud platform and its features which includes EC2,RDS, Cloud Watch, Auto scaling, Cloud Front, IAM, S3.  • Built on-premise data pipelines using Kafka and Spark streaming using the feed from APIstreaming Gateway REST service.  • Integrated Build tools like NPM, GRUNT with JENKINS.  • Developed JSON services JAX-RS and JSON documentation using Swagger API.  • Database development required creation of new tables, PL/SQL Stored Procedures, Views,Indexes and Constraints, Triggers and required SQL tuning to reduce the response time in the application.  • Having knowledge on Ruby on Rails. Developed and tested features in Agile environment with Ruby, Ruby on Rails, MySql.  • Dockercontainer images, tagging, pushing images, integration of Spring boot.  • Experience in develop and configure monitoring solutions to provide full visibility to the different platform components using tools and services like AWS, Cloud watch, Splunk.  • Experience in Cloud Solutions on AWS utilizing EC2, S3, IAM, ECS and RDS etc.  • Developed UI with extensive use of Backbone.js framework that helped to organize the code.  • Experience designing and developing applications on relational databases MongoDB.  Environment:J2EE, Spring Framework, Microservices, Spring MVC 4, MongoDB, Angular 4.0, Core Java, Spring Security, Hibernate 4.X, Magento, jQuery, JSON, AJAX, Web Services, SOAP, XML, Java Beans, XSTREAM, Apache POI, EXT JS, JavaScript, Eclipse, JBOSS, Agile Methodology, Design Patterns, Apache Maven, JUnit, HTML/Unit, XSLT, HTML5/DHTML. Java/J2EE Developer Citizens Bank February 2016 to May 2017 Responsibilities:  • Involved in the design and development phases of Agile Software Development.  • Developed java modules implementing business rules and workflows using Spring Boot.  • Developed using new features of Java 8 annotations, Generics, enhanced for loop andEnums.  • Well versed with core Java concepts like Collections, Swing, Serialization and Servlets & JSP.  • Designed and Developed UI for Customer Service Modules and Reports using AngularJS, HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, JavaScript, and jQuery.  • Worked with Angular CLI and AngularJS to create Controllers and Angular components.  • Used Node.js as a proxy to interact with Rest services and interacting with Database.  • Implemented the business modules integration using Spring and Hibernate data mapping.  • Used Spring Boot Actuator for application's configuration properties in various environments, Upgraded Spring Rest Controllers and Services classes to support migration to Spring framework.  • Using Spring AOP Module to implement logging in the application for application status and deployed Spring Security for session fixation, clickjacking, cross site request forgery.  • Developed Microservices using Spring Boot, Spring Cloud with Netflix Eureka to create the discovery Server, service, discovery clients and integrated Apache Kafka and Zoo Keeper as message broker.  • Developed microservices with Spring to retrieve API routes for the entire cluster. Using this strategy each microservice in a cluster can be load balanced and exposed through one API gateway.  • Developed Entity objects and used Hibernate the ORM tool to access persistent data from SQL Server.  • Experience using persistence framework like Hibernate, JPA for mapping java classes with Database.  • Experience working on Docker Hub, creating Docker images and handling multiple images primarily for middleware installations and domain configurations.  • Involves in Sprint planning for the estimation of efforts for user stories and bugs.  • Designed and developed the REST based Microservices using the Spring Boot.  • Used SQL Server to access data in the database at different Levels, responsible for implementing SQL queries and managing JDBC interactions with data sources.  • Worked on JBoss Application server implementation, support, workload management and performance tuning including Web server setup configuration with JBoss App Server.  • Designed and developed custom message adapter components using Apache Kafka that allowed message to travel through Microservices to base on RESTful API utilizing Spring Boot with Spring MVC.  • Used Maven automated build scripts to compile and package the application and implemented Log4j.  • Implemented unique design patterns such as singleton, business factory and J2EE design patterns.  • Used Kafka to load the data on Hadoop File system and move the same data to MongoDB database.  • Involved in developing internal application using Angular JS, React JS and Node.js connecting toOracle on the backend.  • Implemented Object mapping using Hibernate.  • Worked on bug fixing and enhancements on change requests.  Environment:J2EE, Spring Framework, Microservices, Spring MVC 4, MongoDB, AngularJS, Core Java, AJAX, Web Services, REST, XML, Spring Security, JSON, JavaScript, STS, Hibernate 4.X,Websphere, Agile Methodology, HTML/Unit, HTML5/DHTML, Design Patterns, Apache Maven, Junit, Log4j. Java Developer Sony transport - Hyderabad, Telangana January 2015 to December 2015 Responsibilities:\  • Involved in the analysis specification, design, implementation and testing phases of Software.  • Designing the flow of the project using Water Fall Model.  • Worked on the Struts framework and JSP and Struts tag libraries to page display technology.  • ImplementedModelViewController(MVC) layer of the application to avoid the complexity of integration and ease of maintenance along with Validation Framework.  • Worked on JDBC to select and update the data from the MySQL database.  • Developed web Components using JSP, Servlet and Server-side componentsusingEJBunderJ2EE Environment.  • Used IntelliJfor development and Jobs Server for deploying the web application.  • Used TOAD for database query testing, in the process of optimizing the queries.  • Implemented the spring dependency injection of the Database helper instance to the action objects. Used iBATISframework with spring framework for data persistence and transaction management.  • Used XML Web Services using SOAP to transfer the amount to transfer application.  • Executed the test steps defined in Test Cases manually and reporting the bugs in JIRA.  • Deployed, the application using Apache Tomcat Application server.  • Used ANT for building the application and deployed on Jobs Application Server.  Environment: Java, J2EE, Spring, iBATIS, Struts, Water fall model, EMC EJB, WSDL, JQuery, JSP, SERVLET, MYSQL, Toad, SQL Server, IntelliJ, ANT, JIRA,CVS, Apache Tomcat, Linux, Unix,XML, IBM MQ Series, PL/ SQL, Log4j. Education Master's Skills J2EE (3 years), Java (3 years), jQuery (3 years), SQL (3 years), Web Services (3 years), Java J2Ee Additional Information Technical Skills  Programming Languages: C, C++, Java 1.8, J2EE, SQL, PL/SQL, MYSQL, UML.  Build Tools: Jenkins, Ant 1.10, Maven 3.3.9, Gradle 3.4.1  Web Technologies: Servlets 3.1, JSP 3.0, Struts, SOAP and ReSTful Web Services, Applets, Java Swing, Java Beans 3.0, Java Servlet API 3.0 JMS.  Internet Technologies: HTML 5, JavaScript 1.8, XML 2.0, CSS 3 and CSS 4, jQuery 2.11, Angular JS 2.0, BackBone.JS 1.3.1, Node JS 6.0.  Frameworks: Spring 4.3, Hibernate 4.3, JPA, AngularJS 1.0/2.0, Spring security 3.2.  Java Design Patterns: Rational Unified Process, Agile, Scrum, Test Driven Development.  Developer IDE Platform: Eclipse, Edit plus, Notepad ++, TEXT PAD, JBuilder, Net Beans 8.0.2, IntelliJ 2017.1, Spring Tool Suite (STS) 3.9.3, GITHUB 2.12.0  Cloud Environments: Azure, AWS, Netflix Eureka, Mesos, Kubernetes.