Java AWS Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> AWS <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java AWS Developer Southfield, MI • 4 years of experience as a Java Developer with expertise in technologies like Java, JEE, and web-based client-server application with in planning, designing, developing and Implementation in Amazon Web Services (AWS)  • Good understanding and experienced knowledge with OOP and OOAD concepts, System Analysis, Design, Development and Deployment of Java Applications.  • Expertise in Web-application technologies like Servlets, JSP, JSTL, HTML, JavaScript, CSS, XML, XSL/XSLT, JQuery, JDBC, and Web Services.  • Experience in working with Software Development Life Cycle methodologies like Waterfall and AGILE.  • Expertise in building device independent UI designs using both media queries and frameworks like Twitter Bootstrap.  • Experience in Graphic and User Experience Design and Transforming Web/Graphic Designers Static Mockups into hand code using HTML5 and CSS3.  • Efficient in designing and developing J2EE applications using Model View Controller Pattern and Data Access Object.  • Expertise in working with databases like Oracle 10g/11g, MSSQL Server, MySQL  • Experience in MVC (Model View Controller) architecture, using JSF, Struts Framework, Hibernate and Spring Framework with various Java/J2EE design patterns.  • Involved in Scrum meeting to keep track of current tasks, issues with JIRA and used to update in JIRA each stage as per the development i.e., ready to develop, build, test, approve.  • Proficient in performing unit test in the application using JUnit.  • Worked in several system services such as logging, transaction management, exceptions, security.  • Proficient in programming with SQL, Stored procedures, triggers and views  • Experience with version control systems like Git.  • Ability to work in a team as well as independently with minimum supervision.  • Flexible to work overtime whenever needed.  • Skilled at quick learning of new technologies, working well in teams with excellent communication skills.  • Capable of meeting deadlines and handling multiple projects/tasks simultaneously. Work Experience Java AWS Developer State Street - Boston, MA August 2017 to December 2018 Responsibilities:  • Involved in implementing application flows using Spring MVC framework.  • Involved in Agile Methodology (Scrum) that includes daily scrum with team and followed Test Driven Environment following OOD.  • Worked on AWS cloud services like EC2, S3, RDS, ELB, and EBS for installing, configuring and auto scaling.  • Creating XML Documents for file configuration.  • Used Hibernate framework in persistence layer for mapping an object-oriented domain model to a relational database  • Configured and managed AWS Glacier, to move old data to archives based on retention policy of databases/ applications.  • Used Oracle 11g hosted in Amazon RDS as the Database.  • Designed and developed the framework to consume the web services hosted in Amazon EC2instances.  • AmazonEC2 is also used for deploying and testing the lower environments such as Dev, INT and Test.  • Amazon IAM was used to maintain the user credentials and involved in creating custom IAM policies to various groups defined within the organization.  • Object storage service Amazon S3 is used to store and retrieve media files such as images and Amazon Cloud Watch is used to monitor the application and to store the logging information.  • Involved in writing java API for Amazon Lambda to manage some of the AWS services.  • Tested applications and documented results and bugs including documentation of information useful in the debugging process  • Worked on PL/SQL stored procedures, functions, triggers, cursors and views  • Developed complex SQL Queries for retrieving data from Oracle database  • Designed and developed a number of RESTful web services that support JSON  • Used J2EE Design patterns like Singleton, Service Locator, Session Façade, DAO, DTO and Business Delegate during development.  • Used Collections extensively to store, retrieve and manipulate objects in the business logic layer  • Involved in developing user interface using HTML, CSS, JSP, Angular, JavaScript, JSF  • Involved in Agile Software Development to deliver the tasks on each Sprint not missing deadlines. Used Jenkins to build application.  • Used SVN for version control.  • Involved in Production support for the application  • Configured the domain environment to deploy the new releases released by the development team.  • Participate in weekly project status meeting of the team for providing status of my work and discussing future applications and issues.  Environment: Java, Spring 4.0, Hibernate 3.0, JSP, XML, REST, JDBC, JavaScript, Angular, JSF, HTML, Jenkins, SVN, Log4J, JUnit, WebSphere 8.5, Oracle 10g, Maven, Amazon EC2, Amazon S3, Amazon Cloud Watch, AWS Lambda, Amazon IAM. Java AWS Developer Anthem INC - Mason, OH September 2016 to June 2017 Responsibilities:  • Involved in all the phases of SDLC including Requirements Collection, Design & Analysis of the Customer Specifications, Development and Customization of the Application.  • Involved in implementing the Spring MVC Architecture for the site, also worked on spring security features  • Used Amazon Cloud Watch to monitor AWS services and Amazon Cloud Watch logs to monitor application.  • Developed Java API to interact with the Amazon SQS used in sending bulk emails.  • Used AWS SDK for connection to Amazon S3 buckets as it is utilized as the object storage accommodation to store and retrieve the files cognate to the application  • Used SVN Tortoise as a version controlling for the source code check in and check outs  • Wrote SQL, PL/SQL and stored procedures as part of database interaction.  • Involved in JUnit testing, bug fixing in multiple environments and reproduce bugs for fixing and code review of individual modules in the application.  • Implemented log4j API for exception handling, logging of the errors, warnings, messages, stack traces, debuggers throughout the code  • Wrote test cases which adhere to a Test Driven Development (TDD) pattern.  • Used Web services for transmission of large blocks of XML data over HTTP.  • Involved in the team providing Production support  • Involved in coding Object Oriented JavaScript and responsible for client-side validations using Angular Directives and jQuery functions.  • Developed UI using HTML, JavaScript, and JSP for interactive cross browser functionality and complex user interface.  • Worked on Encrypting AWS S3 storage Objects.  • Inventory groups are added for Amazon Ec2 for instances and monitoring AWS hosts.  • Good knowledge in AWS Content Data Network (CDN) like cloud front.  • Used Bootstrap and media queries to make data post and data retrieval components responsive.  • Used SQL developer for accessing the database  • Used JSON for data interchanging and building the objects.  • Experienced in in setting up of AWS RDS and Dynamo DB instances.  • Experience in monitoring and auditing tools like AWS cloud Watch and Cloud Trial.  • Created Buckets in AWS and stored files. Enabled Versioning and security for files stored.  • Installed SONAR on Jenkins server and configure with the build process for the code analysis process for better code quality and code metrics, and rapid feedback for development teams and managers.  • Hands on experience using multi-threading in back end Java beans  • Developed Backing beans to handle UI components state and stores that state in a scope.  • Wrote EJB Stateless session to communicate with Controller and Service layer i.e. make the EJB calls from Backing Beans.  • Implemented Design Patterns like Spring MVC, Singleton.  • Provided on-call support during the pre-production testing and also the project release.  Environment: Java, JSP, Spring Framework, Spring MVC Framework, Hibernate ORM Framework, EJB, Java beans, Oracle 11g, HTML, CSS, log4j, JavaScript, JQuery, JSTL, JSON, Tortoise SVN client, SQL Developer, AWS Java Developer SouthStar Technologies Pvt Ltd - Bengaluru, Karnataka May 2014 to July 2016 Responsibilities:  • Involved in (OOAD) Analysis & Design for the project and prepared the technical documents for a distributed architecture at enterprise level.  • Involved in developing the JDBC code to call the Stored Procedures  • Wrote SQL Queries and stored procedures as part of database interaction.  • Designed frontend web pages using HTML, CSS and jquery.  • Re-engineered and Re-factored existing code to support the conversion process.  • Involved in Unittest application changes to ensure conformance to design specifications and software performance.  • Coordinated agile approach to software development and assisted the team with technical decisions.  • Followed agile delivery of software using practices from Scrum, Xtreme Programming.  • Involved in design review and code review process in team.  • Used SVN for source code maintenance.  • Involved in Bug fixing of various modules that were raised by the testing teams in the application during the testing phase.  • Developed various configurations files using XML.  • Expertise in SOAP and RESTful webservices  • Experience using JDBC-batch processing.  • Extensively used Eclipse and NetBeans as IDE for application development and support.  Environment: Java, Servlet, Hibernate, Web Services, Maven, XML, JDBC, SVN, Eclipse, NetBeans, SQL, JQuery, HTML, CSS Education Bachelors JSS Academy of Technical Education - Bengaluru, Karnataka Skills Java, Java J2Ee, J2Ee, Spring, Core Java, Rest, Soap