Java Full Stack Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> Full Stack <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Full Stack Developer Arlington Heights, IL • 4+ years of experience in designing, developing and implementing E-Commerce, B2B applications using J2EE technologies in Public, Health and Education domains.  • Experience in the software industry working in all phases of SDLC- Software Development lifecycle using Agile and Waterfall methodologies. Attended Daily Scrum meetings, User Story review meetings, Sprint Review and Retrospective meetings.  • Expertise in Core Java concepts - OOPs Concepts, Collection Framework, Exception Handling, IO, Serialization, Multi-threading and Concurrency.  • Experience in working on various Frameworks like Spring, Struts, JSF, EJB and ORM Technologies like Hibernate.  • Good knowledge of Spring Core, Spring Batch, Spring security, spring boot, spring MVC and spring's integration with Hibernate and JDBC.  • Extensive working experience in the field of Web Applications development using HTML, CSS, XHTML, JavaScript, jQuery, Angular JS, Angular2/4 Bootstrap, AJAX, XML, JSON, RESTful web services and Responsive web designing.  • Having strong knowledge in coding with latest web technologies, frameworks like Angular 2/4 Node.js and Express js.  • Expert knowledge over J2EE Design Patterns like MVC Architecture, Singleton, Session Facade, Business Delegate and Data Access Object.  • Good knowledge on Spring boot microservices that helps in creating independent services which can be deployed easily.  • Extensively worked on performance tuning of multiple microservices and was successful in achieving the required results.  • Expertise in developing REST/SOAP/JSON API web services for designing, developing and deploying the internet applications.  • Good understanding of Document Object Model (DOM), Advanced JavaScript and Standards of ECMA Script versions.  • Experience in deploying, configuring and administering application servers such as IBM WebSphere, WebLogic, JBoss, and Apache Tomcat.  • Experience working with Jenkins and Docker for continuous integration.  • Experience in using IDE tools like Net beans, Eclipse, IntelliJ, Notepad++.  • Good Experience of using the various JavaScript concepts like Prototypes, Closures, and Object-oriented features, Promises, Observables.  • Proficient in Angular JS directives ng-app, ng-init, ng-model for initialization of Angular JS application data, implemented Angular JS Expressions, Directives, Controllers, filters and created Angular JS service layer.  • Experience in using Node.js on the server side and to install necessary packages into the application.  • Hands on experience working on different browsers like Safari, Internet Explorer, Mozilla Firefox and Google Chrome and checking cross browser compatibility.  • Expert on project management tools like Maven, ANT and used log4j for logging framework. Expertise in using JUnit for unit and integration.  • Strong knowledge on working with Jasmin-Karma, Protractor for client-side unit testing and Experience on working client-side build tools like NPM, Grunt, Gulp, Bower.  • Good experience working with GIT and Tortoise SVN for source code management functionality and version control.  • Possess strong working knowledge of Database Programming using SQL, PL/SQL and Stored Procedures.  • Experienced in using Operating Systems like Windows 7,8,10, Linux, UNIX.  • Excellent oral and written communication skills and analytical and programming skills.  • Highly motivated and dynamic team player with passion for learning and has the capability to meet deadlines in a fast-paced environment. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Java Full Stack Developer Illinois Student Assistance Commission - Deerfield, IL February 2017 to Present Project #1  Description: DCEO Weatherization mission is to provide economic opportunities for businesses, entrepreneurs, and residents that improve the quality of life for all Illinoisans. It is laser-focused on improving transparency and accountability, enhancing customer service, increasing Illinois' competitiveness, advancing minority empowerment, modernizing Illinois' workforce, and elevating the state's promotional efforts.    • Actively involved in interacting with business users to record user requirements and created the Functional Specification Documents and remodeled the existing architecture.  • Worked under Agile Environment and participated effectively for daily stand up calls, Sprint review meetings and client meetings whenever required.  • Involved in design, develop and implementation of the application using Spring and J2EE framework.  • Wrote RESTful services to fetch data from Idot.  • Experienced in implementing microservices, Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) with XML based Web Services.  • Developed persistence layer to configure domain objects to be mapped against the Database tables using Hibernate.  • Developed back-end REST client using Spring MVC.  • Created an XML configuration file generating beans of the java classes.  • Extensively used JavaScript to provide UI functionality and supported front-end development using Angular JS.  • Established the communication between UI and Database using REST services.  • Worked on complex SQL Queries on DB2.  • Design the unit test for the application using Junit.  • Developed the custom Logging framework used to log transactions executed across the various applications using Log4j.  • Involved in writing Maven scripts for automated deployment of the application.  • Deployed applications into Continuous integration environments like Jenkins to integrate and deploy code on CI environments for development testing.  • Used Apache Tomcat as an application server for deploying WAR files.  • Experience on implementation of version controlling using GIT repositories.    Environment: Java EE 8.0, GIT Desktop, Jenkins 2.1, Eclipse 4.7, Microsoft Code, Windows 10, MS Office 2015, MS Outlook.    Project#: 2  Description: GEARUP Administration: GEARUP is a federal discretionary grant program designed to increase the number of low-income students who are prepared to enter and succeed in postsecondary education. GEAR UP provides grants to states and partnerships at high-need middle and high schools.    • Designed and implemented the web application layout forms using HTML5, CSS2/CSS3, Angular 4, Typescript, Bootstrap and DOM.  • Created CSS based page layouts that are cross-browser compatible on all the major browsers like Safari, Chrome, Firefox and IE.  • Wrote effective JavaScript Code for angular applications for interacting with server and Network applications.  • Wrote code to fetch data from Web services using Angular observables and Promises via JSON response and updating the HTML pages.  • Used Angular Router to build the Single Page Application (SPA). Implemented Angular 4/5 Dependency Injection (DI).  • Used Express.js, Node.js for backend functionality and for middle ware database used MS SQL.  • Used Node Package Manager (NPM) as package manager for JavaScript, Gulp as the task runner, which handles template cache and minifying code.    Environment: Angular 2,4, Node.js 6.x, Express.js, GIT Desktop, Jenkins 2.1, Microsoft Code, Windows 10, MS Office 2015, MS Outlook. Java Developer Medline Industries March 2016 to February 2017 Description: Medline is the largest privately held manufacturer and distributor of medical supplies uniquely positioned to provide products, education and support across the continuum of care.    • Involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) as requirement gathering, modelling, analysis, architecture design & development and the project was developed using Agile Methodologies.  • Developed using new features of Java 1.8 annotations, Generics, enhanced for loop and Enums.  • Used advanced java 8 features like Lambda expressions for array operations, Streams, Method reference, collections. Enhanced concurrency methods etc. throughout the application for well-defined programming.  • Developed unique user experiences that drove interaction, using JavaScript, Angular JS, jQuery.  • Developed data insertion forms and validated them using JavaScript.  • Developed Java dynamic project using RESTful web services and used postman to deploy the application and used MS-SQL for the database.  • Involved in writing application level code to interact with APIs, RESTful Web Services using JSON.  • Used Multithreading for invoking the database and implemented complex modules which contain business logic using Collection, Reflection, and Generics API.  • Used Spring Core Annotations for Dependency Injection.  • Used Hibernate as Persistence framework mapping the ORM objects to table using Hibernate Annotations.  • Used JUnit framework for unit testing of application and Log4j to capture the log that includes runtime exceptions.  • Used GIT for version control, and Jenkins for Continuous Integration and Continuous Deployment (CI/CD).  • Used Maven for dependency management and building the application.  • Used NetBeans as the IDE for developing the application and JBOSS as the application server. Java Developer DRDO - Hyderabad, Telangana August 2014 to August 2015 Description: DRDO's mission is to use world class science and technology base and provide our Defense Services decisive edge by equipping them with internationally competitive systems and Solutions.    • Involved in developing the application using Java/J2EE platform. Implemented the Model View Control (MVC) structure.  • Used HTML5, CSS3 and Bootstrap for layout design, navigation, animation buttons and icons and developed the application as Responsive Web Application using CSS media queries and Bootstrap.  • Heavily used Core java (Collection API, Exception Handling, Generics and Annotation) to manipulate and transfer data in the back-end.  • Manipulated data using CRUD (Create, Read, Update and Delete) operations of MS SQL data base management system and handled database access and data transmission based on RESTful web service.  • Designed and developed the User Interface using JSP, Servlets and Java for both Business Logic and GUI development.  • Used Git for version management & Maven for building the application. Education Master's in Computer Science University of Bridgeport - Bridgeport, CT August 2015 to May 2017 Skills Java, Spring, Hibernate, Soap, Angular, JEE, JSP, Rest, J2Ee, Core Java, Javascript, Java J2Ee