Java/J2EE Developer <span class="hl">Java</span>/J2EE <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java/J2EE Developer - Valance Health Chicago, IL • Over 4+ years of Progressive technical and functional experience specializing in the analysis, design and development of various multi-tiered client-server applications using Java and J2EE technologies.  • Experience in design, development, coding, testing and implementation phases of SDLC.  • Good working experience with AGILE and SCRUM methodologies.  • Extensive experience in business use case development, design including use cases development, sequence, activity, class, component, package, and deployment diagrams using UML.  • In depth knowledge on core java concepts such as OOPS, Collections, Multi-threading, generics, Exception handling, Thread pools, Execution services, concurrent utilities, File IO and Serialization.  • Good knowledge of Java8 features including Lambda expressions, Method references, Functional interfaces, Stream API, Default methods, Optional class, Collectors class, Parallel array sorting etc.  • Experienced in front End technologies such as HTML5, CSS3, JQuery, JavaScript, ReactJS, NodeJS, Angular4, Bootstrap, AJAX, JSON, XSD, XSTL, Tag Libraries.  • Experience in developing scalable, efficient enterprise applications using JAVA/ J2EE technologies which includes Spring, REST, SOAP, JAX-WS, JAX-RS, Hibernate, JDBC, JSP, Servlets, Struts, JSTL, EJB, XML, and JMS.  • Experienced in Full stack front end technologies using Gruntjs, Gulp Server, Yeoman generator for Angular.  • Experience in spring framework like Spring IOC, Spring DAO, Spring Boot, Spring Batch, Hibernate.  • Experience in Spring Security for Authentication and Authorization of REST services using OIDC on top of OAuth.  • Extensive knowledge of XML-based standards and protocols such as WSDL and SOAP, Service Oriented Architecture SOA, development of XSD schemas and implementing both SOAP and REST web services.  • Experience in database modeling, design, and development of complex PL/SQL stored procedures, triggers, packages and views in relational databases: Oracle, SQL Server, PostgreSQL, MySQL and IBM DB2.  • Focused on architecting NoSQL databases like Mongo, Cassandra and Cache database.  • Expertise in designing Java, J2EE applications using Amazon Web Services and AWS Elastic Compute CloudEC2.  • Expertise with employment of Spring Kafka and Zookeeper apart from JMS as messaging service.  • Experience in Micro Services-Spring Boot, Pivotal Cloud Foundry and Engagement using Spring Boot.  • Experienced in Development, Deployment and testing of enterprise applications on Windows &UNIX platforms using IDEs such as Eclipse, Rational Application Developer (RAD), Netbeans, Intellij 14.x/15.x • Expertise working on Application servers and Web servers like IBM Websphere 8.0/7.0, BEA WebLogic 10.3/8.1 and Apache Tomcat 5.x/6.x, Tomcat 8.0/7.0, Glassfish 4.1.  • Experienced in version management systems with Clear Case, Microsoft VSS, CVS and SVN.  • Hands on experience on installation of python using Docker toolbox.  • Developing scripts for build, deployment, maintenance and using Python and Bash.  • Good experience in unit testing, Jasmine and Junit, Automated testing using Java, TestNG, Selenium (IDE webdriver), Integration testing using Continuum, Selenium, Hudson, Jenkins and Apache camel.  • Experienced in integration and deployment of applications using tools such as ANT, Maven, Gradle and Drools & debugging through log4j. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Java/J2EE Developer Valance Health - Chicago, IL March 2018 to Present Description: This application used to collect the data from the host of hospitals and generate reports and used to collect information about doctors, patient's cares. It makes insurance companies make more intelligent decisions about the market trends    Responsibilities: • Designed Use Case and Sequence Diagrams according to UML standard using Rational Rose.  • Implemented Model View Controller (MVC-2) architecture and developed Form classes, Action Classes for the entire application using Struts Framework.  • Developed classes using core java (multi-threading, concurrency, memory management) and some spring IOC.  • Implemented the data persistence functionality of the application by using Hibernate to persist java objects to the relational database.  • Used Hibernate Annotations to reduce time at the configuration level and accessed Annotated bean from Hibernate DAO layer.  • Used HQL statements and procedures to fetch the data from the database.  • Transformed, Navigated and Formatted XML documents using XSL, XSLT.  • Used JMS for asynchronous exchange of message by applications on different platforms.  • Developed the view components using JSP, HTML, Struts Logic tags and Struts tag libraries.  • Involved in designing and implementation of Session Facade, Business Delegate, Service Locator patterns to delegate request to appropriate resources.  • Used JUnit Testing Framework for performing Unit testing.  • Deployed application in WebSphere Server and developed using Rational Application Developer RAD.    Environment: Struts 2.0, Hibernate 3.0, JSP, RAD, JMS, CVS, JavaScript, XSL, XSLT, Servlets 2.5, WebSphere  Application Server, JUnit. Java Developer ICrea InfoTech - IN March 2015 to August 2017 Description:  This project is about comprehensive and integrated Hospital Management System for a Super Specialty  Hospital. This package is used to computerize the activities of a servicing system. This package contains four modules.  They are Administration, Patient Care System, Health Services, and Auxiliary Services. Each module is having sub modules with in this sub modules will maintain storing, registering, details of joining patient details, and over all day activities maintains one database  Responsibilities: • Used the Agile methodology to develop the application.  • Coordinated the activities between onshore and offshore.  • Collaborate closely with business owners, users, project managers, requirements analysts, testers, and other stakeholders in the software development process.  • Middle tier development using Java in a J2EE environment.  • Experience in Developing GUIs using Eclipse RCP/SWT and Core Java Design patterns.  • Developed the presentation layer written using JSP, HTML, CSS and client-side validations were done using JavaScript, and jQuery.  • Developing web-tier using struts framework.  • Used XML Http Request Object to provide asynchronous communication as part of AJAX implementation.  • Developed ORM mappings using Hibernate annotations and also established data integrity among all tables sitting on Oracle Database.  • Used IBM WebSphere and JBoss as the Application Servers.  • Used Java Messaging Services (JMS) for reliable and asynchronous exchange of important information such as payment status report.  • Estimate effort for completing new features, enhancements, and defect fixes.  • Participate in design review and code review activities of the team.  • Creating custom tags for JSP for maximum re-usability of user interface components.  • Testing and deploying the application on Tomcat.  • Maintaining the database required for report generation.    Environment: Core Java/J2EE, WebSphere Process Server, JSP, Struts, Spring, OOAD, Oracle 9i, HTML, CSS, JSP, jQuery, JavaScript, AJAX, JMS, XML, Design Patterns, ANT, Tomcat, Rationale Rose. Java Software Developer Info Vision, India - IN July 2014 to November 2015 Description: Passkey is a web application, which manages corporate shipping accounts that allows business customers to register their company for back-office shipments. Application can have an administrator type of user who can create sub users and manage their shipping categories like international, domestic, and various other types of shipments by controlling their permissions  Responsibilities:   • Involved in the requirements gathering. Design, Development, Unit testing and Bug fixing.  • Worked with multi-threading in synchronized environment.  • Developed application using Struts, Spring and Hibernate.  • Developed rich user interface using JavaScript, JSTL, CSS, jQuery and JSP's.  • Used Spring IOC for injecting the beans.  • Used Jboss as application server.  • Used Hibernate for connecting to the database and mapping the entities by using hibernate annotations.  • Developed custom tags for implementing logic in JSP's.  • Involved in making release builds for deploying the application for test environments.  • Used Oracle database as backend database.  • Wrote SQL to update and create database tables.  • Used SOAP for Web Services by exchanging XML data between applications over HTTP.  • Used Eclipse as IDE.  • Using RIDC Interface get content details and Create Content through application.  • Created JUnit test cases for unit testing application.    Environment: J2EE, Java, Struts, JavaScript, Hibernate, Tiles, JSP, Jboss, SOAP, XMLSchema (XST), EJB2.0, RIDC, JavaScript, JMS, Rational Rose, WSAD, DB 2. Education Bachelors in Mechanical Engineering in Mechanical Engineering Osmania University 2017 Skills Angular, Javascript, Node, React, Java Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:  Languages Java 6/7/8, Java/J2EE, C, C++,python, UML, DTD, JDBC, Design Patterns, SHELL SCRIPTS, PHP, JAVA SCRIPT, SQL, PL/SQL.  Web Technologies  Servlets, JSP, JSTL, JMS, SWING, JQuery, AJAX, XML, XSLT, XHTML, DHTML, CSS, SASS, LESS, HTML, AngularJS, NodeJS, ReactJS, Ext JS, backbone JS.    Frameworks Struts 2.x/1.x, Spring 3.x, Hibernate 4.x/3.x, JSF 1.2/2.0, iBatis.  Application/web servers Oracle WebLogic 8.1/9.1, IBM WebSphere 5.1/6.0/6.1/7.0, JBoss, Tomcat 5.0.28/6.0  Database Server Oracle 10g/11g, DB2, MongoDB, SQL server, MS Access and MySQL, Cassandra.  Cloud Environments Azure, AWS, Netflix Eureka, Mesos, Kubernetes.  IDE Eclipse, NetBeans, RAD and Rational Rose, Intellij 14.x/15.x, Spring Tool suite2.x/3.x  Web Services AXIS, SOAP, JAX-WS, WSDL, JAX-P, JAX-B and Restful.  Build Automation ANT, Log4j and Maven 3.x, Hudson 3.x, Jenkins 2.x, Gradle and Drools.  Case Tools Rational Rose, Microsoft Visio, XML Spy, TOAD, AWS.  Methodologies Agile, waterfall, TDD (Test-Driven- Development), Scrum.  Operating Systems Windows, Unix, Linux and MAC.