Java Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Developer - AAA Sanford, FL • Over 4 Years of experience in design, development and implementation of software applications using Java, AWS technologies. Having good experience in the Information Technology Industry and healthy participation in all phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) including analysis, design, coding.  • Experience in Pair Programming, Test Driven Development, Waterfall model and Agile methodologies like SCRUM.  • Expertise experience in estimations, analysis, design, development, testing, maintenance, performance tuning and deployment of internet, e-commerce and client-server applications using Java, Servlets, JSP, JavaBeans, JDBC, Spring, Hibernate, AJAX, JavaScript.  • Experience in configuring and implementing various AWS components such as Elastic IPs, EBS, Elastic Cache, Elastic Beanstalk, Dynamo DB, Redshift and Cloud Formation. Strong Development Skills on Cloud Amazon Web Service (AWS).  • Experienced in using GIT, Bit bucket for source code management and performing tech reviews. Experience with different IDE's like Eclipse, NetBeans, Intellij.  • Expertise in various open source frameworks like Angular JS, Node JS, Struts, Spring, Spring MVC, IOC, Web and ORM Technology like Hibernate, JPA, EJB, JQuery.  • Expertise in Web-Development technologies like Servlets, JSP, JSTL, HTML5, JSON, JavaScript, CSS3, XML, XSL/XSLT, AJAX, JQuery.  • Extensive knowledge of XML-based standards and protocols (such as WSDL and SOAP), Service Oriented Architecture (SOA), development of XSD schemas and implementing both SOAP and REST web services.  • Experience in Continuous Integration tools such Jenkins.  • Extensive experience in working IDE tools like Eclipse, Net Beans, RAD, WID (Web Sphere Integration Designer). Experience in developing persistence layer using O/R-Mapping Tool Hibernate.  • RDBMS experience includes Oracle, SQL Server, database programming and connectivity using JDBC, ODBC, SQL, PL/SQL, Stored Procedures, triggers, Queries etc.  • Hands-on experience with Continuous Integration and Continuous deployment using the tools Jenkins, Git and Docker.  • Experienced in generating logging by Log4j to identify the errors in production test environment and experienced in Ant, Maven and Gradle tools.  • Excellent Client interaction skills and proven experience in working independently as well as in a team. Work Experience Java Developer AAA - Orlando, FL November 2017 to Present Responsibilities:    • Project is mainly based on HTML5, CSS3, Angular Js, bootstrap and jsp, jQuery with spring mvc framework.  • Built a single page app which is a link to the landing page, which is based on Angular Js.  • Built a page using jsp with spring form tags as front end and jQuery for events, bootstrap for responsive and finally integrated with spring mvc framework.  • Made the integration of data in several applications in favor JSON documents with dynamic schemas using MongoDB (NOSQL) database.  • Designed new classes and functionalities using various OOJs (Object-Oriented JavaScript) concepts for CRM application for customer service, especially using dynamic polymorphism concept.  • Used LESS for creating HTML frameworks store things like colors, font stacks, or any HTML value.  • Leveraged Docker resources for all data access, encapsulating URLs and standardizing data access interfaces.  • Responsible with the build and configuration of Micro services applications in AWS EC2 environment.  • Build and configure a virtual data center in the Amazon Web Services cloud to support Enterprise Data.  • Warehousing hosting including Virtual Private Cloud (VPC), Public and Private Subnets, Security Groups, Route Tables, Elastic Load Balancer.  • Design roles and groups for users and resources using AWS Identity Access Management (IAM).  • Implemented a CI/CD pipeline involving GitLab, Jenkins, Docker, and Selenium for complete automation from commit to deployment.  • Configured Git with Jenkins and scheduled jobs using POLL SCM option. Performed all necessary day-to- day GIT support for different projects.  • Implemented AWS solutions using EC2, S3, RDS, EBS, Elastic Load Balancer, Auto scaling groups, optimized volumes and EC2 instances.  • Used MySQL, Dynamo DB and Elastic-cache to perform basic database administration.  • Utilize Cloud Watch to monitor resources such as EC2, CPU memory, Amazon RDS DB services, Dynamo DB tables, and EBS volumes.  • Involved in creating various Data Access Objects (DAO) for addition, modification and deletion of records using various specification files.  • Designed and developed the application using Agile methodology.  • Deployment of web, enterprise java components and messaging components.  • Developed XML Schemas - XSD, DTD for the validation of XML documents. Devops Engineer AAA - Orlando, FL July 2017 to November 2017 Responsibilities:    • Involved in Create/Enhance/automate build and deployment processes for each release and backup, restore and upgrade.  • Develops software solutions by analyzing requirements, studying operations, designing, developing, and installing code based solutions utilizing standardized programming languages and framework, supports and develops software as part of a team.  • Installed and configured Chef and written recipes to automate the administrative tasks.  • Created Chef Recipes for automating the deployment process.  • Developing scripts for build, deployment, maintenance and related tasks using Jenkins, Docker, Maven, Python and Bash.  • Implemented functional enhancements to the Transmission Control Protocol (TCP) and IP protocol subsystems, PMTU discovery protocol, led effort of implementing RAS capabilities of all networking subsystems.  • Responsible for continuous integration (CI) and continuous delivery (CD) process implementation-using Jenkins along with python and shell scripts to automate routine jobs.  • Made cookbooks for tomcat and WebLogic to procurement the Linux servers.  • Defined instances in code, next to relevant configuration on what running and then created the instances via chef.  • Involved in writing Python, Bash, Perl, Groovy, PowerShell and shell scripts for compilation and deployment process.  • Experienced with Core Java concepts such as Serialization, IO, Multithreading, Collections, Concurrency and Exception Handling.  • Developed the Services using AWS Elastic Search, Restful Services using JAX-RS and Java.  • Automated deployment and release distribution process with Shell and Ruby/Chef.  • Managed application specific cookbooks, recipes, roles, data bags & environments in chef.  • Written Chef Cookbooks and recipes to Provision several pre-prod environments consisting of Deployment automation, AWS EC2 instance mirroring, Web Logic domain creations and several proprietary middleware installations.  • Extensively worked with various scripting languages like Bash, Shell and Python. Developed Perl and shell scripts for automation of the build and release process.  • Worked in Agile based project with 2 weeks of iterations which includes daily standup and iteration planning, backlog grooming sessions every 2 weeks.  • Created AWS EC2 instances and deployed applications and delivered for QA teams to initiate performance testing.  • Integrated Amazon Cloud Watch with Amazon EC2 instances for monitoring the log files, store them and track metrics.  • Experience with Docker images and containers.  • Experience in building Docker images and writing Docker file.  • Managed Subversion, Jenkins, and Nexus. Designed and automated build & release process.  • Debugged performance related issues with Ant/Maven scripts and helped improved the build process.  • Integrated JIRA, Confluence, and Jenkins for automating the CM process.  • Setup and configured Jenkins for Continuous Integration and Release Management Java Developer Netapp - Bengaluru, Karnataka December 2014 to November 2015 Responsibilities:    • Project was developed and implemented in agile development environment.  • Involved in design, implementation and testing.  • JavaScript and AngularJS were used for the client side validations.  • Implemented Spring MVC framework which includes writing Controller classes for handling requests, processing form submissions and also performed validations using Commons validator.  • Implemented the business layer and persistence layer by using and data description using Hibernate. Hibernate Transaction Manager is used to maintain Project was developed and implemented in Agile development environment.  • Developed RESTful Web Services using JAX-RS API and consumed the Web Services to retrieve data from different applications using RESTful protocol.  • Extensively worked on subroutines for different APIs using Perl, modifying and creating new connections to Database.  • Used spring framework to achieve loose coupling between the layers thus moving towards Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) exposed through RESTful..  • Involved in migrating SQL Server Databases from Development to Production Server.  • Designed and develop web based application using HTML5, CSS, Bootstrap, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX and JSP framework.  • Used Maven and Jenkins to build and to deploy the application. Used GIT as source control tool for branching, merging and maintain code versions in the repository enabled using Maven Versioning Capability.  • Used JUnit framework for unit testing of application and used log4j to capture the log that includes runtime exceptions and debug information.  • Participate in process Documentations and audit compliance on UNIX/Linux servers. Java Build Engineer ASM Technologies - Chennai, Tamil Nadu May 2013 to November 2014 Responsibilities:    • Developed several pages using JSP, JSTL, HTML, jQuery and JavaScript. Used jQuery to make AJAX calls.  • Recorded and plays back test in Fire fox using Selenium IDE. For deployment we used Tomcat Application Server to build we use ANT Scripts.  • Testing the web services using the SOAP UI.  • Consumed web services securely using JAX-WS API.  • Extensively used jQuery, Node.js in implementing various GUI components in application portal.  • Used Hibernate as Object Relational (OR) Mapping Tool for the backend data persistency.  • Used PMD tool to analyze the code. It finds common programming flaws like unused variables, empty catch block and so forth.  • Design JSON responses according the request, send it back to the front end after the logic processing.  • Developer mobile site for marketing campaigns by using JQUERY MOBILE, BACKBONE.JS, and latest technologies.  • MEAN stack implementation, AngularJS Full-Stack generator (generator-angular-full stack), and actually run, edit, and deploy an application..  • Used Jenkins continuous integration tool to do the deployments.  • Used Code Review Tutor for doing code reviews on developed code.  • Looking into the Splunk logs for hidden application errors.  • Involved in the development of test cases for the testing phase. Education Masters in Computer Science in Computer Science Northwestern Polytechnic University Skills C++, Git, Html, Javascript, Jenkins, Reporting tools, Scripting, Svn, Xml, J2ee, Java, Jboss, Jsp, Css, Tomcat, Web logic, Configuration management, Maven, Ms access, Mysql Additional Information TECHNICAL PROFICIENCIES  Programing Languages C, C++, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JSP, Java/J2EE, XML.  Cloud Platforms AWS  Scripting Languages Shell, Bash.  Configuration Management GIT, SVN.  Operating Systems Windows, UNIX and RHEL.  Databases Oracle, MySQL, MS Access.  Monitoring Tools Java Melody, Nagios, Cloud Watch (AWS).  Web/Application Servers Tomcat, HTTP Server, Web logic and JBOSS.  Bug Reporting Tools JIRA.  Build Tools & CI Tools Maven and Jenkins.