Java Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Developer - Verisk Analytics Westmont, IL Work Experience Java Developer Verisk Analytics January 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Followed Agile (Scrum) Methodology that includes attending daily standups, sprint planning, sprint reviews.  • Gathering, understanding and developing the requirements from business owners.  • Participated in developing user stories and prioritized stories based on the requirements and sprint releases.  • Implemented a functionality using AWS Lambda to store the uploaded pictures by the user to AWS S3 bucket.  • Developed a functionality that gets triggered upon the upload of a file to the S3 bucket saves the file metadata to DynamoDB table.  • Used AWS KMS Encryption to encrypt the data.  • Implemented a SNS Event that purges the data from AWS S3 bucket.  • Given access to the services to use other services by using AWS IAM Service.  • Wrote lambda functions that validates and provides authorization to the logged in user to upload or download the file.  • Written the lambda function that sends Email to the user who uploads the file to the S3 bucket with the attachment.  • Written lambda function that allows the user to download the file attachments within the provided IP Range.  • Created AWS Dynamo DB to store the metadata of the uploaded files.  • Designed and deployed the applications API's using AWS API Gateway.  • Used AWS API Gateway for connecting the frontend UI to the S3 buckets.  • Written the Cloud formation Templates to take the war from S3 bucket and deploy it to lambda functions  • Written AWS Cloud formation templates to automate the production migration process.  • Developed an Ember Js UI for making the legacy application more responsive and faster.  • Implemented AWS Lambdas both in Node js, JAVA.    Environment:  • AWS Services: Security - IAM, Compute - Lambda, Storage - S3, Management &Governance - Cloudwatch and Cloudformation, Database - DynamoDB, Application Integration - SNS  • Languages: JAVA, Node js, Ember js. Java/J2EE Developer Verisk Analytics March 2016 to Present Responsibilities:  • Participated in developing an application's backend using technologies like Spring Rest, java 7, Log4j, Spring MVC, Spring Core.  • Followed Agile (Scrum) Methodology that includes attending daily standups, sprint planning, sprint reviews.  • Gathering, understanding and developing the requirements from product owners.  • Created POJO classes, Interfaces, Controllers, and Services.  • Created many microservices using the Spring Rest.  • Designed an API that does read the form encoded data and takes the attachments as a part of request.  • Created a service that does take the data in the form encoded format and performs queries on the db2 databases and populate them  • Designed an API that takes the attachments from the client and uploads them to the file service.  • Implemented Log4j that logs the info to the file appenders.  • Created an API with spring batch that reads the xml files provided by the user and performs SQL queries and write the results to the pdf and upload them to the file service.  • Modified the legacy application that accepts the JSON request to application that accepts the form encoded data and performs the seamless login operation from one company to another.  • Ran many applications in Jenkins and performed bamboo builds.  • Performed the migration of the application to the Production environments.  • Performed the code migration from Sub version to Bitbucket.    Environment: Spring rest, Spring Core, Spring MVC, JavaScript, LOG4j, Jenkins, Bamboo, SVN, Bitbucket, Restful Web Services. Java/J2EE Developer Verisk Analytics October 2016 to January 2018 Responsibilities:  • Used Elastic Search to develop an application for fast storing and efficient retrieving of the data  • Used Logstash to retrieve data from the SQL server database to Elastic Search.  • Used the centralized exception handling in the spring projects.  • Used Spring boot projects inorder to develop a spring application that performs search applications.  • Extensive knowledge in using concept of Java Regular Expressions and java io libraries.  • Used Spring boot to create an API for retrieving the data from Elastic Search.  • Used Spring data JPA which internally uses hibernate to communicate with the DB2 Database, mapping the entities to the tables and corresponding columns in the database by using Hibernate annotations.  • Used "Git" version control as source code management system.  • Created an API whose function is to read the data from the user provided file and performs the db2 queries and writes them to a file.  • Responsible for writing and running the logstash scripts that reads the SQL data from the Sql Server and Loads them into Elastic Search Server.  • Used the Elastic Search Java API for performing the Wild Card Query operations on the data residing in the Elastic search index.  • Written Scripts to create an Elastic Search Index that allows the data to be searched on special characters as well as wildcard search.    Environment: JavaScript (JSON, Ajax), Elastic-Search, Logstash, CSS3, Spring Boot, Spring Data, JPA, Hibernate, Spring MVC, Spring Core, RESTful Web services and SVN, BITBUCKET Education Technology JNTU Hyderabad - Hyderabad, Telangana September 2009 to April 2013 Skills databases (Less than 1 year), DB2 (1 year), Git (1 year), Java (3 years), JavaScript (1 year), MODEL VIEW CONTROLLER (1 year), MODEL-VIEW-CONTROLLER (1 year), MS SQL SERVER (1 year), MVC (1 year), RESTful Web services (1 year), Security (1 year), SQL (1 year), SQL server (1 year), Subversion (1 year), SVN (1 year), UI (1 year), USER INTERFACE (1 year), version control (1 year), Web services (1 year), xml (Less than 1 year), Java J2Ee, Rest, Hibernate, J2Ee, Spring