Java Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Westlake, OH • 3+ years of software development experience in object-oriented programming, design and development of Multi - Tier distributed, Enterprise applications using Java and J2EE technologies with Software Development Life Cycle.  • Extensive experience in the Analysis, Design, Development, Implementation and Testing of enterprise application with web technologies, distributed technologies and client-server architecture environment.  • Expertise in Core Java with strong understanding and working knowledge in Object Oriented Concepts like Collections, Multithreading, Data Structures, Algorithms, Exception Handling.  • Knowledge of Software Development Methodologies like Agile, Waterfall.  • Hands on experience with HTML, CSS, JavaScript and XML.  • Knowledge of databases such as MySQL, SQL Server along with some experience with Oracle.  • Have a hands-on experience with MongoDB and SQLite while working in academic projects.  • Good experience in IDE's like Eclipse and NetBeans.  • Experience Working on different platforms like Windows XP/Vista/7/8/10.  • Experience with multiple Servers like JBoss, IBM WebSphere, WebLogic, Tomcat.  • Extensive working experience on Apache Struts, JSF and Spring MVC presentation tier frameworks and Hibernate 3.0.  • Good exposure to build Web Services (WSDL, SOAP) using open source implementation like RESTful API. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Java Developer Time Warner September 2018 to Present • Participated to design and develop user-friendly web pages and overall UI using HTML, CSS, JavaScript such front-end technologies also having knowledge of Angular framework.  • Implemented AJAX to make web pages more interactive, also enabling switching between different independent tabs.  • Developed JavaBeans to be used by JSP pages for presenting Web content.  • Experienced with Agile - scrum methodology and Kanban board.  • Experienced of working with GitHub, GitLab and knowledge and some experience with Jenkins and Junit.  • Worked with a variety of issues involving multi-threading, server connectivity and user interface.  • Made extensive use of java Naming and Directory interface JNDI for looking up of enterprise beans.  • Performance tuning of SQL queries consisting of many tables with large amount of data.  • Created Packages, Procedures and Functions that extensively used PL/SQL cursors, user defined object types and exception handling.  • Developed SQL, PL/SQL, stored procedures - database application scripts.  • Implemented spring dependency injection and other features throughout the application.  • Have some Experience of working and developing the Application using Spring batch.  • Worked with RESTful web services to perform CRUD operation in Admin module to add packages in system that can be view at customer module.  • Worked closely with the ESB team and defined the appropriate wsdls and their structures that are RESTful web services for the mobile application to use. Internship Warner, OH February 2018 to August 2018 Jr. Java Developer July 2015 to December 2016 • Extensively used various J2EE design patterns like Factory, Singleton, Data Access Objects, Data Transfer Objects in the project, which facilitates clean distribution of roles and responsibilities across various layers of processing.  • Built RESTful Web services interface implemented in Java long with WSDL, XML and XSL.  • Involved in the development of presentation layer and GUI framework in JSP, HTML and client-side validations were done using JavaScript.  • Designed and deployed XML files for Dispatcher Servlet, Application Context and Controllers to implement the Inversion of Control (IoC) module in Spring.  • Used AJAX for request response processing without reloading the complete page in the client side.  • Developed presentation layer using HTML, CSS and Java script.  • Experienced of working with Hibernate framework and done tasks with hibernate mapping files and writing SQL queries.  • Involved in writing PL/SQL Stored Procedures, Functions and Views for Oracle database.  • Prepared Test Cases to perform Unit, Integration and System Testing. Tested the developed components using Junit. Internship Meta System - IN October 2014 to June 2015 Education Master of Science in Computer Science in Computer Science Kent State University January 2017 to August 2018 Bachelor of Engineering in Computer Engineering in Computer Engineering Gujarat Technological University August 2011 to June 2015