Java UI Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> UI <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java UI Developer - SECURE APPS/EQUIFAX Atlanta, GA • Over 2 years of experience in software development as a Java Developer and UI/UX Developer in various environments.  • Experience in web development with a strong background working on open source technologies, including HTML/HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, DOM, JQuery etc.  • Experience in UX design with a strong background working in Wireframes (low fidelity and high fidelity) Prototypes, Mockups, Storyboard and User Flows.  • Translate business requirements into wireframes, screen mock-up and prototype.  • Experienced in breaking up layered PSD into HTML using CSS.  • Developed a new high profile project by using Angular2.0, Web pack, Babel and Angular CLI.  • Expertise in using JSON and AJAX to connect with back-end applications/services.  • Strong experience in creating Node JS applications including http servers, RESTful services and JSON file manipulations using Files Service module.  • Extensive knowledge and on-hands experience in server side programming using JSP, Servlets, RESTful and SOAP Services.  • Client Side code were written in Reacts/JQuery/JavaScript and Server Side Code were developed using MVC  • 1 year of experience with Node.js while utilizing Node.js frameworks such as Socket.io, Express.js  • Knowledge of NodeJS and modules available for it such as Express.js, Mongo Skin.  • Worked on developing data driven documents using D3.js.  • Hands-on experience of back-end frameworks like Struts and Spring MVC along with business logic written in Core Java.  • Extensive experience on implementing the AJAX features using JavaScript and jQuery.  • Experience on working with CSS Backgrounds, CSS Layouts, CSS Positioning, CSS Animations, CSS Text, CSS Borders, CSS Margin, CSS Padding, CSS Table, Pseudo Classes and Pseudo Elements.  • Extensive experience in attending client calls, Provide the estimate of effort required to complete a unit of design task to ensure the completion of job within given timeframe.  • Worked with BA to develop and iterate design mockups, user stories and other design doc. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Java UI Developer SECURE APPS/EQUIFAX - Atlanta, GA August 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Working with team utilizing agile methodology for software development to create highly scalable, functional applications. Interacted with client periodically to gather the requirements and presenting demos.  • Working on highly advanced user interface design and development using AngularJs, Node.js, HTML5, XHTML and CSS3.  • In depth knowledge of Apache Cassandra architecture.  • Experience in designing data models in Cassandra and working with Cassandra Query Language.  • Implemented multi - data center and multi-rack Cassandra cluster.  • Very good knowledgeable in polymer blends development methodology  • Invented silicone polymers and heat transfer analysis.  • Designed metal polymer hybrid tooling for scaling up of new processes.  • Experience with creating script for data modeling and data import and export. Extensive experience in deploying, managing and developing MongoDB clusters. Experience in creating JavaScript for using DML operation with Mongo.  • Extensive use of Bootstrap for creating web pages. Involved in upgradation and maintenance of website to the new layout using the Grid orientation model Bootstrap framework  • Develop API services in an Agile environment  • Worked extensively on Angular 4 Typescript SPA domains.  • Create desktop application with Angular 2/4 and Unit Test with Karma-Jasmine.  • Experienced in developing React components. Used Axios with ReactJs for making AJAX Calls. Worked on Webpack for build and webpack-dev-server a server.  • Experience with TeamSite customization using CSSDK.  • Good working knowledge of XML for creating user-defined tags against DTD\'s and creating configuration files for the TeamSite architecture.  • Conducted development on multiple internal and external SharePoint sites across three networks running SharePoint 2007 and 2010  • Investigated and implemented useful SharePoint capabilities out-of-the box Utilized jQuery to create custom enhancements on current sites for customer satisfaction and efficiency  • Used AngularJS as framework to create a Single Page Application (SPA) which can bind data to specific views and synchronize data with server.  • Implemented the search functionality for Internal Application using AngularJS.  • Used Bootstrap and CSS3 media queries to create a responsive website that fit all devices from desktop to tablet and mobile phone.  • Hands on experience in creating components using React.js  • Good experience in creating components documentation using react.js  • Used various bootstrap components like accordion, date picker, time picker, alert, buttons, modal and also react-bootstrap components.  • With the concept of React Js Worked on usage metrics and also end to end events tracing for analysis purpose.  • Developing & Customizing UI JavaScript Plug-ins using JQuery, Object Oriented JS and JSON.  • Updating billing pages using HTML, CSS in AngularJS framework.  • Developing the Presentation Layer using JSP Technologies.  • Analyzing the response of JSON in order to update DOM. Jr. Java UI Developer CONVERSANT - Hyderabad, Telangana May 2014 to August 2016 Responsibilities:  • Created user interface and navigation structure from wireframes.  • Implemented page designs in standard-complaint DHTML and CSS.  • Developed the Front-End User Interface using HTML, JavaScript, JQuery and CSS.  • Created interactive navigation lists using list elements in HTML.  • Implemented client-side validations in registration forms, login and logout forms using Java Script.  • Worked extensively with the File management and image libraries.  • Performed Client-side validations using JavaScript.  • Fixed bugs and provided support services for the application.  • Extensively used JQuery, JSON, AJAX and DOM scripting to create interactive web applications like message posting and auto complete form validations.  • Worked with widgets to create more interactive web pages.  • Responsible in code optimizing and test across browsers.  • Actively participated in meetings with clients to determine website goals and develop strategies.  • Developed the application based on MVC (Model-View-Controller) Architecture using Spring Web MVC.  • Experience with creating script for data modelling and data import and export. Extensive experience in deploying, managing and developing MongoDB clusters. Experience in creating JavaScript for using DML operation with MongoDB.  • Experience in design and developing Application leveraging MongoDB.  • Used Microsoft Visio for designing the Use Case Diagrams, Class model, Sequence diagrams, and Activity diagrams for SDLC process of the application.  • Implemented GUI pages by using JSP, JSTL, HTML, DHTML, XHTML, CSS, JavaScript and AJAX.  • Extensively used Java multi-threading to implement batch Jobs with JDK 1.5 features.  • Configured the project on Web Logic application servers.  • Implemented the online application using Core Java, JDBC, JSP, Servlets, spring, Hibernate, Web Services, SOAP, and WSDL.  • Communicated with other Health Care info using Web Services with the help of SOAP, WSDL.  • Tested the web services with SOAP UI tool.  • Implemented Singleton, Factory Design Pattern, DAO Design Patterns based on the application requirements.  • Used SAX and DOM parsers to parse the raw XML documents.  • Used RAD as Development IDE for web applications.  • Tuning complex database queries and joining the tables to improve the performance of the application.  • Designed and developed base classes, framework classes and common re-usable components.  • Used SVN for Version Control tool and Silk Central for bug tracking tool.  Environment: CSS3, HTML, DHML, JSP, JSTL, XHTML, AJAX, Web Logic, JDBC, JSP, Servlets, spring, Hibernate, SOAP, WSDL, XML, SAX, SVN, RAD, DOM parsers. Education Masters in Technology of computer science Kent state university Bachelors in Information Technology Geethanjali college of engineering and technology Skills Ajax (2 years), Css (2 years), Dom. (2 years), Html (2 years), Java (2 years), Front End, Angular, UI, Front-End, Javascript, Angularjs, React, User Interface