Order Management Order Management Order Management - Infosys Technologies • Dynamic, talented and innovative software developer with 4 years of experience serving as key  technical team member throughout all phases of software development lifecycle.  • High problem-solving skill with history of success in developing, designing, launching and supporting  mission-critical web applications.  • Skilled in implementing Java-based technologies while working independently or as part of team on  multi-tier applications.  • Highly motivated self-starter, and fast learner.  • Utilized Java, Eclipse/ J2EE, testing programing code & Applications, collaborated with team and  management.  • Followed agile software development practice paired programming, test driven development and  scrum status meetings.  • Effectively interacted with team members and business users from different regions for requirements  capture and analysis.  • Experienced Release process for project execution as part of SCRUM.  • Highly experienced in gathering Requirements, developing Design documents and implementing  naming standards to applications.  • Experience in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle SDLC of the application.  • Performed Analysis, Design, Development, Integration and Testing of application modules.  • Implemented open source log4j logging framework in whole application. Work Experience Order Management Infosys Technologies February 2019 to Present Responsibilities:    • Designing and developing web services using REST API's for tracking the Orders.  • Wrote database stored procedures using PL/SQL to generate report for orders that were  placed for a day.  • Gathering requirements from clients  • Writing unit tests and integration tests to test the order tracking flow.    Environment: Java, J2EE, Spring, REST, Eclipse, WebSphere, DB2, JUnit, GITLab, Windows, Jira    Oct 2017 to Dec 2017 Personal Project Project Title Question and Answer API    Responsibilities:  • Designed and developed REST API's to manage Q& As using Spring Rest  • Designed DB Schema to store user based Q&A  • Source Code https://github.com/skondoju/question-and answer-api.    Environment: Java, J2EE, Spring, REST, Intellij, Glassfish, MySQL, JUnit, GIT, Mac Java Developer Qfund Technologies - Hyderabad, Telangana January 2009 to June 2010 Client: Check Centers  Responsibilities:    • Designed and development of new applications and existing system  enhancements for several complex projects  • Participated in requirements gathering and analysis to design coding, testing and deployment.  • Provided system troubleshooting, customization and user training.  • Used agile methodology to develop user interaction forms and created use cases and sequence diagrams to assist in application design • Involved in functional testing and  bug fixing.  • Enabled accurate data manipulation and SQL data updates using service classes and implemented client-side input validation and back-end business logic.  • Played a key role in planning, design, development, programming, deployment and testing of the system  • Integrated Struts & Hibernate frameworks to develop end to end application.  • Built with 3-tier (Struts MVC) architecture, ORM (with Hibernate) technology and agile methodologies.  • Implemented Web Services using SOAP protocol, UDDI, WSDL and Service Oriented  Architecture (SOA) Concept.  • Creation of generic templates to be used by users.  • Set up Object & relationship mappings with Associations, inheritance, and named  queries etc.using Hibernate.  • Used JMS for Asynchronous messaging.  • Excellent experience in validating query execution plans & tuned queries using  Indexes, Views and Batch processing.  • Used Ant tool to build & deploy the application on the server.  • Deployed the application in UNIX machine and used FTP to see the logs etc.    Environment: Java, J2EE, SOA, Struts, Web Services, XML, UML, HTML, JavaScript, Eclipse, JBoss, Active MQ, JAX-B, JMS, AJAX, Maven, SOAP, Oracle, PL/SQL, SOAP  UI, JUnit, CVS, Windows, Unix. Title Java Developer Qfund Technologies - Hyderabad, Telangana May 2006 to December 2008 Client: Check N Go    Responsibilities:  • Designed and development of new applications and existing system enhancements for several complex projects  • Participated in requirements gathering and analysis to design coding, testing and deployment.  • Provided system troubleshooting, customization and user training.  • Used agile methodology to develop user interaction forms and created use cases and sequence diagrams to assist in application design.  • Involved in functional testing and bug fixing.  • Enabled accurate data manipulation and SQL data updates using service classes and implemented client-side input validation and back-end business logic.  • Played a key role in planning, design, development, programming, deployment and testing of the system  • Integrated Struts & Hibernate frameworks to develop end to end application.  • Built with 3-tier (Struts MVC) architecture, ORM (with Hibernate) technology and agile methodologies.  • Implemented Web Services using SOAP protocol, UDDI, WSDL and Service Oriented  Architecture (SOA) Concept.  • Creation of generic templates to be used by users.  • Set up Object & relationship mappings with Associations, inheritance, and named  queries etc.using Hibernate.  • Used JMS for Asynchronous messaging.  • Excellent experience in validating query execution plans & tuned queries using  Indexes, Views and Batch processing.  • Used Ant tool to build & deploy the application on the server.  • Deployed the application in UNIX machine etc.    Environment: Java, J2EE, SOA, Struts, Web Services, XML, UML, HTML, JavaScript, Eclipse, JBoss, JMS, SOAP, Oracle, PL/SQL, SOAP UI, JUnit, CVS, Windows, Unix. Education JAWAHARLAL NEHRU TECHNOLOGICAL UNIVERSITY Skills Eclipse, Java, Hibernate, Spring, Jboss, Rest, Java J2Ee, J2Ee, Core Java Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/sireeshakondoju Additional Information COMPUTER SKILLS  Languages: JAVA  Web: Servlet, JSP, Bootstrap, CSS3, HTML5  Web Services: REST, SOAP, JSON, XML  Web / App Servers: Tomcat, Glassfish, JBOSS  Frameworks: Spring, Hibernate, Spring Boot, JDBC, JUnit, Struts  Databases: MySQL, Oracle, SQL, Postgres  SDLC: Agile Scrum, Waterfall  Tools: Eclipse, IntelliJ, Git, CVS, Visual Studio Code, Sublime Text, Toad, JIRA  Platforms: Windows, MacOS  Other Technologies: Log4j, Maven.