Sr. Java Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Java Developer - Verizo • 3 years of experience in all phases of software application development including Analysis, design and development of web-based applications.  • Extensive experience using OOD/JEE design patterns, MVC architecture, JEE application frameworks and Agile SLDC methodologies for delivering client/server, n-tier distributed applications.  • Proficient using JAVA, J2EE technologies such as Hibernate, Struts, Servlet, JSP, EJB, Net Beans, JDBC, XML, XSD, SOAP, JavaScript, Ajax.  • Worked on different Applications and web servers like BEA Web Logic, Apache Tomcat.  • Extensive Experience in different IDE's like Eclipse, NetBeans and JGrasp.  • Experience in Object oriented Analysis and Design (OOAD) techniques.  • Strong experience using JEE web and application frameworks like Spring, Struts, JSF, AJAX/RIA.  • Experience in client side Technologies such as HTML, DHTML, CSS, JavaScript, ExtJs and Dojo Frameworks  • Experience in various methodologies like Waterfall and Agile.  • Strong understanding of RDBMS concepts through writing queries, stored procedures using SQL, PL/SQL on databases like DB2, Oracle, MySQL and SQL Server.  • Experience with testing using Junit, SOAPUI, ANT build environment, log4j, debugging, troubleshooting, performance tuning, and securing applications  • Experience in creating Technical Documents, Functional Documents and Help Documents.  • Excellent communication and interpersonal skills and involved in client interactions for Requirements Gathering and Explaining work Process.  • Proven ability to handle multiple tasks with strong technical aptitude and learning skills to adapt the rapid changing technologies and implementing the same at work. Work Experience Sr. Java Developer Verizo - Atlanta, GA July 2018 to Present Project Description:  Long Term Evolution is a new technology. It allows more clarity for application usage and all data services as well as theoretical typical speeds of 5 Mbps uplink and 12 Mbps downlink. Verizon Wireless has already launched LTE for retail customers. The LTE Wholesale project is a strategic initiative with the primary purpose of expanding Wholesale marketplace by offering the LTE/4G technology. This functionality was to continue support of 3G processing with system like MTAS, eTNI, DMD as these systems had API changes to support Retail LTE project in addition to 3G processing.  Responsibilities:  • Effectively participated in weekly client communications with Business Analysts.  • Involved in the architecture team for design and implementation of system.  • Wrote custom Maven script to application on JBoss Application Server.  • Developed the code using Core Java Concepts Spring Framework, JSF, JSP, AJAX, JavaBeans, Hibernate3.0, Web Services, Java Script, XML and HTML.  • Developed views and controllers for client and manager modules using Spring MVC and Spring Core.  • Used Spring Security for securing the web tier Access.  • Data Operations are performed using Spring ORM wiring with Hibernate Template  • Implemented Design patterns and design of DAOs and Mapping Files for Hibernate.  • Involved in creating database objects, tables, views and constraints using postgresql.  • Involved in adding new functionalities to legacy system  • Implemented JMS to asynchronously send messages.  • Designed static and dynamic web-pages using HTML, CSS, javascript, jquery.  • Used Angular JS framework to develop dynamic web pages.  • Designed and developed the UI using Struts view component, JSP, HTML, DHTML, CSS, Angular JS and JavaScript.  • Expertise in designing and creating WSDL using XML Spy and Spring WS Developed and modified database objects as per the requirements.  • Developed Exception handling framework and used log4J for logging.  • Involved in finding the root cause for errors and fixing them and involved in providing production support during deployment.    Environment: Java, J2EE, Spring MVC, Spring 2.5, XML, HTML, Angular JS, JAVASCRIPT, TFS, JUnit, Apache Tomcat Server, Eclipse 3.5. Senior Java/J2EE Developer HSBC - Buffalo, NY January 2016 to June 2018 Project: HSBC Online is HSBC's consumer internet banking portal. It provides various services such as online account opening, statements, online bill payment, inter institution funds transfers, access to tools for planning and various investment services to the customers. Continuously seeking ways to utilize new technologies, HSBC provides an array of exciting services and rich features to its customers.  • Involved in System Analysis that included the high-level design, low-level design for new features, System Design and Contributed to the Technical architecture of the system. Actively participated in setting Java coding standards and writing related documentation.  • Analyzing the customization requirement and to determine whether it is CR or New Feature while handling customizations.  • Involved in writing JSF Backing Beans for controlling the UI and writing custom components and validators.  • Implemented Web Services using Restful for transferring data from different server.  • Developed JavaScript functions for client side validations. Designed the Java Server Pages (JSP) that use CSS for customization.  • Used Ajax and JQuery to develop dynamic Web pages.  • KYC (Know Your Customer) a module to capture personal information of customer and his transaction.  • Preferences and pattern generation based on the parameters supplied by banks using DB2, XML and Struts2.  • Had implemented interface based inheritance to decouple the old reporting module so that new type of reports along with existing (PDF, xml, xls, html) can be added in future using Java.  Environment:J2EE, JSP, JSF, JDBC, DB2, Core Java, Web Logic, Web services, Restful, multi-threading, Ajax, JavaScript, CSS, XML, Struts, JQuery. Skills AJAX (3 years), CSS (3 years), HTML (3 years), JAVA (3 years), JAVASCRIPT (3 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    Programming Languages Java, Visual Basic, C, C++, JavaScript, Unix Shell Scripts, SQL, PL/SQL  Java & Middleware Technologies JDK 1.4/5/6, EJB3.0, JMS, Java Beans, JNDI, JDBC, Web Services, SOAP, REST  Web Technologies JSP, JSTL, Servlets, JSF, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, AJAX/RIA, Java AWT, Java SWING, Applets  XML Technologies SAX, DOM, XML, XSD, XSLT  Database Oracle 9i/10g/11g, MS SQL Server 2008/2005, DB2, MySQL, MS Access  SDLC Methodologies Waterfall, Agile (SRUM)  Frameworks Struts 2.0, Spring 2.x, JSF 2.0, AJAX/RIA, MVC, Hibernate 2.0  Operating System Windows 98/NT/2000/XP/VISTA/7, UNIX, Linux  Web & Application Servers Web Logic 8.1/10.x, Apache Tomcat 5.x, JBoss 6.x, Oracle AS 10g, IIS, WebSphere 7.x, Java Web Server  IDE & Tools  Eclipse, JUnit, Log4j, JBuilder, Jdeveloper, TOAD, Visio, MS Office, Enterprise Architect, ER/Studio, UML, SQL*Plus, SQL* Loader, Putty, WINSCP    Configuration Management CVS, Perforce, GIT