Jr. Java Developer Jr. <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Jr. Java Developer Fairfax, VA ? Having 3 years of experience in the IT industry with expertise in Software Analysis, Design, Development, Implementation and Testing of Object-Oriented applications using Java and J2EE.  ? Working knowledge in multi-tiered distributed environment, OOAD concepts, good understanding of Software Development Lifecycle (SDLC) and familiarity of Service Oriented Architecture (SOA).  ? Oracle Certified Java Programmer.  ? Experience in Unit Testing and System Integration testing  ? Excellent working knowledge in design and development of web based, server side, SOA, Integrated data intensive applications using the J2EE technologies, ESB, and Web services.  ? Well experienced in web/application development.  ? Expert in Various Agile methodologies like SCRUM, Test Driven Development, Incremental and Iteration methodology and Pair Programming as well as implementing Waterfall model.  ? Good working experience on IDE (Eclipse, RAD, TOAD), IBM Rational Software(Rose, WebSphere, RPT etc), Visio, CMS(Clear Case, SVN, Serena), Mule ESB, CI, Maven, Apache tools & utilities and company specific internal portals.  ? Have good experience with configuration build tools like Jenkins and Hudson continuous build tool.  ? Expertise in implementing Web services and JMS for the synchronous and asynchronous communications between two applications running in different servers.  ? Expertise in XML and related technologies like XSL, XSLT and parsers like JAXP (SAX, DOM) and JAXB Experience in Database Design, Creation and management of Schemas, writing Stored Procedures, functions, Triggers, DDL, DML SQL queries. Experience in writing SQL and PL/SQL programming.  ? Expertise in Hibernate and MVC-architecture.  ? Experience in providing 24/7 application support for Production and Development environments.  ? Well experienced in using JUnit for performing unit-testing framework.  ? Proficient in Object Oriented Architecture and Design.  ? Having good communication, analyzing and presentation skills. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Jr. Java Developer Capitol One - McLean, VA January 2018 to June 2018 Responsibilities:  ? Involved in analysis, design, development and implementation of this application.  ? Analyzed and understood the requirements and Enhancements by discussing with Business Analysts and developed the features according to Business requirements.  ? Analyzed and developed Use Case diagrams, Sequence diagrams and Activity diagrams using UML Rational Rose.  ? Closely worked with business system analyst to understand the requirements to ensure that right set of modules been built.  ? Developed the web service for accepting the XML as inputs source for generating the rate plans using JAX-WS framework.  ? Involved in implementing the MVC architecture integrating Hibernate and Spring frame work.  ? Used Core Spring framework for dependency injection and Spring Context Used Spring ORM to integrate with the Hibernate.  ? Experience in working with Angular 2/4 modules, services, templates, directives, services and dependency injection to create a SPA.  ? Developed UI pages using Angular JS, CSS3 and HTML 5  ? Used Spring AOP for logging and profiling for certain modules.  ? Work on technical design and develop SOAP Fault translation from application exceptions, Web Services, custom components.  ? Used to work with REST API to maintain application in cloud domain using some commands like GET, PUT, POST, DELETE  ? Configuring Web services using the Web services definition language  ? Created tables in Oracle database and implemented Database access through Hibernate.  ? Unit testing using JUnit and Preparing test case plans  ? Experience in Developing User Interface (UI) Rich Web Applications, and Web Service Applications using Front End/User Interface (UI) Technologies like Object Oriented JavaScript, Type Script, Angular 2.0, Angular 4, Angular JS, Node JS, Bootstrap, Media Queries, CSS Frameworks, Java.  ? Expertise in Angular 2.0 framework and its ability to create simple and scalable code for SPA.  ? Worked extensively on Angular 2/ Typescript SPA domains.  ? Spring Tool Suite (STS) as IDE for the application development and integration of the frameworks.  ? Utilized Agile Methodologies to manage full life-cycle development of the project.  ? Implemented MVC design pattern using Struts Framework.  ? Implemented Spring Boot and Spring Security features.  ? Analyze, manage and coordinate new technology releases with the team, working closely with business partners to ensure timely complete of releases  ? Strong participation in production support and enhancements  ? Solve unique and complex problems with broad impact on the business  ? Ensure timely completion of releases, for Consumer portal websites with the highest quality and least defects; and identify application performance and process improvement initiatives and implement the same in consultation with project manager  ? Used REST web services to consume information from external systems.  ? Developed web application using JSP custom tag libraries, Struts Action classes and Action.  ? Followed Agile Methodology for implementation of the project.  ? Perform problem identification and resolution activities, involving multiple teams necessary to resolve the system problems based on severity/priority.  ? Involved in new enhancements, code review, code discussion, quality check and bug fixing.    Environment: J2EE, Spring, JSP, AJAX, Angular JS JSON, Servlets, XML, Oracle, Bootstrap, Log4J, Eclipse, Hibernate, AWS, Web Services, Spring boot, JIRA. Jr. Java Developer Greyline Infotech - Ahmedabad, GJ, India June 2011 to December 2014 Education Master's Wilmington University Skills Apache (Less than 1 year), Cruise control (Less than 1 year), Cvs (Less than 1 year), Databases (Less than 1 year), Java (3 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:  JAVA/J2EE Technologies  J2EE, Servlets, JDBC, JUnit, DOM JSP, JSF, EJB, JNDI, JMS,  Struts, Hibernate, Spring MVC, Spring Boot, Spring Batch, Rest and  SOAP Web Services, JAX-RPC, AJAX, JavaScript, XML, Apache CXF,  Application/Web Servers Web Sphere 7.0/6.x, Web Logic JBOSS,  Tomcat, IBM Rational Application Developer 8.5.1    Web Technologies JSF, HTML5, CSS, HTML, Java Script, JQuery, Angular JS, Node JS, AJAX, JSON, XML, MVVM, Win forms, Bootstrap, CSS.  Languages Java, UNIX shell scripting, SQL, HTML, JavaScript, XML,  Design Tools and IDE's Eclipse 3.x, Rational Rose, UML, STS, Cruise Control CI  Databases Oracle IBM DB2, MS-Access, MS SQL-Server, Oracle 10g.  Application/Web Servers Web Sphere 7.0, JBoss 5.0, Apache, Tomcat  Operating System UNIX (Solaris, HP-UX), Red Hat Linux, Windows MS-DOS.  Reporting Tools Excel Reporting, HTML Reporting, SSRS.  Others Tool Maven, JUnit, CVS, TOAD, SQL, CA Harvest SCM, GIT, HP service Manager, HP Systinet, WinSCP.