Java/Application Developer <span class="hl">Java</span>/Application <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java/Application Developer - Equifax • 3years of experience in full project life cycle of Web based and Enterprise applications using Java and UI Technologies.  • Worked extensively on design and development of Core Java, JSP, Servlets, JSTL and other technologies in JEE, POJO based applications.  • Hands on experience with the MVC and ORM frameworks such as Struts, Hibernate, Core Spring.  • Expertise in web application development using HTML, XHTML, DHTML, CSS, Java Script, JSF, PHP, Ajax, jQuery, Angular 4, and JSP.  • Experiences with Representational State Transfer (REST), Simple Object Access Protocol (SOAP), Java Messaging service (JMS) Web Services to expose the business logic.  • Experience working with Relational Database Management Systems (RDBMS) like MySQL, SQL, Oracle.  • Strong working knowledge on Web Services like REST/Restful, SOAP, WSDL, UDDI, to expose the functionality of Business code.  • Hands-on experience in Microservices with the cloud technologies.  • Experience on Microservices using Spring Boot, Spring Cloud.  • Experience in client-side with AJAX, and Java Script.  • Experience in IBM Rational Application Developer, and Eclipse.  • Experience in Configuration Management tools like JIRA, Visual, Perforce, CVS and Subversion.  • Expertise in using version code control systems such as GIT, SVN.  • Experience in using tools Log4J, Unit Testing Tools Junit, and Build Tools such Maven.  • Good exposure in Design Patterns for Web and Enterprise applications.  • Design and execution of test scenarios, test cases and experience in Functionality Testing.  • Involved in Documentation of user manuals and all phases of application development  • Worked on all phase of SDLC like Requirement Analysis, Implementation and Maintenance and extensive experience Agile & Waterfall project environment.    TECHNICAL ENVIRONMENT    Java/J2EE technologies: Core Java, Servlets, JSP, JDBC, JNDI, JMS, Sockets, JSTL, Java  Web Services: SOAP, WSDL, SoapUI, JAX-WS, JAXB, SOA, RESTful  Frameworks: Hibernate, Spring, Spring ORM, Spring MVC, Spring boot, Spring  Scripting Languages: JavaScript, HTML5. CSS3, Bootstrap, jQuery, Ajax  Web/Application Servers: IBM Web Sphere, JBOSS, Apache Tomcat, WebLogic  IDE's: Eclipse, Intellij, Visual Studio, WebStorm  Data Bases: Oracle, SQL, PL/SQL, MySQL, MongoDB, Cassandra  Version Control: SVN, GIT, CVS Work Experience Java/Application Developer Equifax - Indianapolis, IN May 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Involved in the application development using Java platform. Model View Controller (MVC) implementation.  • Responsible for providing the client-side JavaScript validations and usage of HTML, JavaScript, XML, JSP, CSS as per the requirements to enhance the Portal UI.  • Used Spring Core for Dependency Injection.  • Mapping of ORM objects to tables using the Hibernate as the persistence framework.  • Involved in different service classes, used across the framework.  • Implemented Restful web services using jersey API.  • Migrated the existing application from an XML-based configuration to a Java annotation-based configuration. Worked using fortify to scan applications for identifying potential threats and vulnerabilities. Used this as a static application for security testing.  • Used Fortify with eclipse plugin for developing while we write code.  • Worked on Fortify as Jenkins plugin which includes scanning the total application as part of the SDLC.  • Performed the Fortify scans before each deployment.  • Developed a JSON business application in order to be available to all the users from market reveal in Service Now environment to access the data without seeking permission from the concerned team.  • Developed this application in order to make it integrated and available to all the other business application teams to take the data which they need without causing any security breach.  • Implementation of business logic, validation Frame Work using Spring Web flow and Spring MVC.  • Strong experience in Spring Modules Spring MVC, IOC, AOP, JDBC, Spring Boot.  • Designed and implemented scalable, Restful and Microservices.  • Implemented Web tier of the application through the usage of Spring MVC framework.  • Implementation of clean separation of layers through the usage of different design patterns like Factory pattern, Singleton and DAO pattern.  • Used Spring Security for login validation and secret word hashing.  • Used Spring MVC (Model View Controller) to handle the user requests and used various controllers to delegate the request flow to the Backend tier of the application.  • Used Oracle database tool to build, edit, and format database queries, as well as eliminate performance issues in the code.  • Build Microservices for the delivery of products across the enterprise.  • Used core java concepts like Collections, multithreading while developing server-side services.  • Worked with IBM Web Sphere Application Server Developer Tools for Eclipse by using lightweight set of tools to assemble, develop and deploy Java EE, Web 2.0, and mobile applications.  • Involved with GUI using JSP, Java Script and HTML.  • Used Jenkins for Continuous Integration (CI)  • Used JIRA to track the progress of the project and wrote test cases and Used Junit as a testing framework in a Test-Driven Development environment. Java Developer Nielsen - Tampa, FL August 2017 to May 2018 Responsibilities:  • Involved in SDLC cycle like Analysis, Designing, developing, Testing and deploying the Enterprise applications using Java and Object-Oriented Design Patterns based on business requirements.  • Interacting with the Architect and Development Team to understand the scope of Performance Testing or creating Test Plan.  • Followed Agile Software Development Methodology and Test-Driven Development (TDD) to build the application iteratively and incrementally. Participated in scrum related activities and Daily Scrum Meetings.  • Involved in working with technologies like Spring Framework, Hibernate and Restful Web Services in designing and development of the application.  • Worked with Spring modules like MVC, AOP, Spring Security, Spring MVC, and Spring Boot.  • Worked on designing the User Interface by coding in HTML5, Angular JS, Bootstrap, AJAX, jQuery, JavaScript to create the SPA (Single Page Application)  • Performed functionality testing using JUnit.  • Design and Developing Micro Services, mock creation using Mockito J-Unit Test Cases  • Used jQuery, AJAX for service calls on pages to interact with the server for information.  • Used NoSQL database Cassandra for having high efficiency and good response for the request.  • Configured Persistence-Context in Spring Framework and Hibernate as a persistence provider to interact with the database.  • Implemented Java APIs for retrieval and analysis on No-SQL database like Cassandra.  • Created POJO classes which are used by Data Access Object classes.  • Experience in replacing Hibernate with Native SQL Queries (JDBC) in places to handle large search.  • Produced Restful Web services using JAX-RS and Jersey Framework.  • Executed JMS service by using Rabbit MQ and Queues for the batch processing.  • Worked extensively on Spring IOC for the dependency injection for managing application dependencies.  • Implemented Microservices based Cloud Architecture utilizing Spring Boot.  • Designed and created Microservices business segments and RESTful administration endpoints utilizing Spring Boot.  • Developed Selenium Web Drivers Scripts to perform integration test of the application.  • Expertise in JUnit test cases with the data mocking by using Mockito for unit testing application classes.  • Used JIRA tool for tracking the bugs.  • Configured and maintained Jenkins to implement the Continuous Integration process and integrated the tool with Maven to schedule the builds. Software Engineer G-tel Software Solutions June 2014 to July 2015 Responsibilities:  • Involved in Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for documentation, designing, development and user acceptance of the system.  • Gathering requirements and communicating effectively with business users and Detail Design, Development, System Testing and UAT and successfully followed agile methodology throughout the project.  • Understanding the various functional requirements for a module and client discussions.  • Documenting the requirements and check pointing the document with clients periodically.  • Team member of Finalization design strategies for various functional requirements.  • Solved defects in the Java J2EE application running on a JBOSS J2EEweb server.  • Re-factored Java code, solved numerous defects, and developed the Government contract feature.  • Designed and developed the presentation layer using JSP, HTML and Java Script  • Developed RESTful web services interface to Java-based runtime engine and account.  • Designed the web applications for the university by replacing the Custom MVC framework with the Spring MVC module.  • Used Spring IOC (Inversion of Control) /DI (Dependency Injection) to wire the object dependencies across the application.  • Developed Email confirmation feature using Java Mail and implemented Spring pagination feature.  • Involved in implementing logging and Exception Handling.  • Used the Spring Application Context, Spring ORM components of the Spring framework.  • Developed Web Service client interface with JAX-RPC from WSDL files for invoking the methods using SOAP.  • Developed Hibernate configuration files for establishing and mapping files based on POJO classes and entire DAO (Data Access Objects) layers.  • Development of the application that was used to create dynamic JSPs, given input from a database table containing information about the concepts of the JSP being developed.  • Designed and developed the UI using JSP, Servlets, HTML, CSS and JavaScript, Bootstrap, jQuery.  • Used Exception handling and Multi-threading for the optimum performance of the application.  • Implemented Logging mechanism using Log4j APIs.  • Participated in weekly design reviews and walkthroughs with project manager and development teams. Education Master's in Computer Technology Eastern Illinois University Skills LINUX (Less than 1 year), UNIX (Less than 1 year), WINDOWS XP (Less than 1 year) Additional Information Methodologies: Agile, Test Driven Development, Waterfall  Platform: Windows XP/7/8/10, UNIX, Linux