Java/J2EE Developer <span class="hl">Java</span>/J2EE <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java/J2EE Developer - Sun Life Financial Kansas City, MO • Over 3 years of experience in analysis, design, implementation, & testing of Object-Oriented Applications in Client/Server environments using Java/J2EE.  • Experienced in Java Web-based, Desktop Based Development with Concepts of, Object Oriented Design (OOD), Object Oriented Analysis (OOA), Object Oriented Programming (OOP) and its implementation.  • Experience working with various Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) methodologies based on Agile, Scrum, Waterfall Model, Iteration.  • Expertise in design and development of various web and enterprise-level applications using Java/J2EE technologies Such as Spring, Hibernate, Struts framework, EJB, Servlets 3.x.  • Experienced in Middleware persistence framework like Hibernate/JPA for mapping Java classes to thedatabase and using Hibernate Query Language (HQL).  • Experienced in Front End frameworks such as jQuery, Ajax, JavaScript, Nodejs, ReactJS, BackboneJS, AngularJS 4.  • Experience with setup and maintenance of WebSphere Server, Apache, Tomcat, LDAP.  • Experienced in Full stack front-end technologies using Grunt JS, Gulp Server, Yeoman generator for Angular.  • Implemented based on corresponding view components with view components JSP, Html, html5, CSS 3, XSD, XSTL.  • Experienced in implementing Service-oriented architecture and Web Services using SOAP, RESTFUL.  • Solid Hands-on experience in end to end implementation of CI and CD (Continuous Delivery), DevOps processes using AWS Code Commit AWS Code Deploy, AWS Code Pipeline, Jenkins, Selenium and Ansible.  • Experience with Java 8 features such as lambda expressions, Parallel operations on collections and for effective sorting mechanisms and new Date Time API.  • Handled operations and maintenance support for AWS cloud resources which includes launching, maintaining, and troubleshooting EC2 instances, S3 buckets, Auto Scaling, Dynamo DB, AWS IAM, Elastic Load Balancers (ELB) and Relational Database Services (RDS). Also created snapshots for data to store in AWS S3.  • Good knowledge and experience with multiple Servers like IBM Web Sphere, IBM Web Sphere ESB (Enterprise Service Bus), Web Logic server, Apache Tomcat, JBoss.  • Extensive experience in working IDE tools like Eclipse, IntelliJ, WID (Web Sphere Integration Designer).  • Extensive experience in design and development of MQSeries applications using MQSeries for Java and MQSeries JMS APIs& MOM (Message Oriented Middleware)  • Experience in developing and a solid understanding of Service Oriented Architecture and Microservices Architecture.  • Proven experience in writing Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, Functions, and Packages using TOAD in Relational Databases.  • Worked in Building application platforms in the Cloud by leveraging Amazon Web Services, open source technologies & best engineering practices of Continuous Integration and Development.  • Proficient in NoSQL DB with Apache Cassandra DB, Mongo DB.  • Experience in software configuration management using CVS, SVN and IBM Clear Case.  • Good working experience in using ANT and Maven scripts for building and deploying the application in web/App servers.  • Extensive experience in working on multiple operating systems including UNIX, Sun Solaris, Linux and Microsoft Windows.  • Goal oriented individual with excellent analytical, problem-solving, communication and interpersonal skills with the ability to interact with individuals at all levels and work independently.  • Master's Degree focused on Artificial Intelligence and Big Data Analytics. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Java/J2EE Developer Sun Life Financial June 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Gathered user requirements, analyzed and wrote functional and technical specifications, we use SharePoint to maintain all our design docs.  • Followed Agile software methodology for software development (3-week Sprint)  • Worked on one of the UI based application and client focus more on the look and feel of the UI. We use lots of customs components to design the UI. Chase standards and HTML, CSS, JavaScript, AJAX, AngularJS is being used intensively.  • Used Spring MVC framework on the server side for creating RESTful services by giving JSON out and modifying the DOM object on UI, by making HTTP calls and used GET and PUT.  • Implemented Core - Java concepts like Inheritance, Polymorphism, Abstraction, and Encapsulation.  • Created multiple mid-tier services to interact with multiple validations and worked on entitlements services to do user validations Interaction and worked on applying security systems.  • Worked with Oracle database and used Hibernate (ORM). Created POJO/Data  • Objects in mid-tier service. Hands on experience in implementing lazy loading, first and second level of caching.  • Understanding Business Coordinating with the Offshore team in India and being flexible on gathering updated from the team. Work closely with Database team and testing team. Java/J2EE Developer Allstate - Bengaluru, Karnataka May 2013 to July 2016 The Allstate Corporation is one of the largest insurance providers in the United States and one of the largest that is publicly held. Alliance is an application developed for creating online quotes in different lines of business such as Business Auto, Business Owners, Commercial Property and Farm & Agriculture Business.  Responsibilities:  • Gathered user requirements, analyzed and wrote functional and technical specifications, we use SharePoint to maintain all our design docs.  • Followed Agile software methodology for software development (3-week Sprint)  • Worked on one of the UI based application and client focus more on the look and feel of the UI. We use lots of customs components to design the UI. Chase standards and HTML, CSS, JavaScript, AJAX, AngularJS is being used intensively.  • Used Spring MVC framework on the server side for creating RESTful services by giving JSON out and modifying the DOM object on UI, by making HTTP calls and used GET and PUT.  • Implemented Core - Java concepts like Inheritance, Polymorphism, Abstraction, and Encapsulation.  • Created multiple mid-tier services to interact with multiple validations and worked on entitlements services to do user validations Interaction and worked on applying security systems.  • Worked with Oracle database and used Hibernate (ORM). Created POJO/Data  • Objects in mid-tier service. Hands on experience in implementing lazy loading, first and second level of caching.  • Wrote SQL commands and Stored Procedures to retrieve data from Oracle database. Worked to plug this procedure in Java classes.  • Developed the application using Singleton, Business Delegate, and Data Transfer Object design patterns in the project.  • Created Stored procedures using PL-SQL for data modification (For insert, update, delete) in MySQL by joining business tables.  • Worked on spring integration for loading files in the database and worked on modifying stored procs. Used Unix commands to connect to servers and using PUTTY run the batches.  • Written JUnit test cases during the development phase and used assert functions to compare two objects.  • Worked on Cucumber for Shift left testing.  • Written feature files and step Definitions. Expertise in writing cucumber feature file and debugging, setting the Data objects by preparing the values.  • Used log4j for logging and SVN for version control.  • Configured and deployed a web application in WebLogic Server.  • Created SOAP-based web services also consumed other services.  • Used JIRA for bug and issue tracking.  • Good experience in documentation of designs and flow charts. Also worked on designing DATA Models and maintain the existing documents in share-point.  • Worked on Oracle coherence for clustered applications.  Environment: Java (JDK1.6 & 1.7), JEE, Spring (IOC, AOP, Batch), RESTful web services, Hibernate, Eclipse, MySQL, WebLogic 10.1, UML, XSLT, HTML5, CSS3, AngularJS, JavaScript, Ajax, Log4j, Jenkins, CVS, Maven 2.0, Tomcat 7.0, SOAP, Spring Integration, SVN, Scrum Methodology, EJB 2.0, iReport, SOAP, Jenkins, Crucible, Spring integration, JBoss, Unix, XML, WSDL, TDD. Education Master's in Texas University of Texas at Arlington - Arlington, TX August 2018 Skills Java J2Ee, Spring, J2Ee, Hibernate, Java Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/ashutosh-singh-5990 https://github.com/Ashu234/ Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  Programming Skills Java 8 (JDK 1.4/1.5/1.6/1.7/1.8), JSF, Python, React, Scala, JUnit, Log4J, Ant, Maven, Ruby on Rails.  Methodologies/Design patterns OOAD, OOP, UML, MVC, DAO, Factory pattern, Session Façade, Singleton, Agile, Scrum, Test Driven Development.  Web Technologies  JSP, Servlets, AngularJS, jQuery, React.JS, Node.JS, EJB, Hibernate, Struts, Spring, JDBC, HTML5, DHTML and XML, CSS3, D3, Web Services, WSDL, SOAP, MQ Series, Apache Camel, Kafka, Spring Boot, Express.js, Bootstrap.    Frameworks Struts, Spring, Hibernate, Spring MVC, Spring Web Flow, Spring IOC, Spring AOP, Groovy.  Application/Web Servers JBoss, Glassfish 2.1, WebLogic, Web Sphere, Apache Tomcat Server.  IDE Tools Eclipse (Juno, Galileo, Helios, Indigo), Rational Application Developer (RAD) and NetBeans, STS.  Databases Oracle 11g, MySQL, SQL, MongoDB, Hive, Postgres.  Reporting Tools Crystal Reports, BO XI R3.  Cloud AWS.  Version Control Tools CVS, SVN, Clear Case, Git, Bitbucket, SourceTree.  Tools  Rational Rose 2000, JBuilder 3.5/5.0, Visual Cafe 4.0, Visual Age Java 3.5, eclipse 3.X, MS-Office, Front Page, Ultra Edit 32, Clear Case, iReport -1.2.5.    Operating System Windows, Linux, Unix, Mac, Solaris.  Machine Learning Natural Language Processing