Java Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> 2+ years of professional experience in developing back-end code for web applications and Master's and Bachelor's in Computer Science. St. Louis, MO Around 2 years of professional experience in developing back-end code for web applications and a graduate degree with Master’s and Bachelor’s degrees in Computer Science.   • Knowledge on the technical phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC).   • Strong knowledge in Object Oriented Analysis and Design (OOA & OOD) and OOP programming.   • Proficient in J2EE design patterns such as Singleton and Factory pattern.   • Experience in building User Interfaces (UI) using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript frameworks.   • Worked on frameworks like Spring MVC and Hibernate.   • Knowledge on RESTful web services using Apache Tomcat Server.   • Proficient knowledge in databases like MySQL and Oracle DB Server.   • Experience in developing, configuring and deploying applications in Apache Tomcat.   • Familiar with usage of build tools like Maven and CI/CD tools like Jenkins.   • Knowledge of writing Manual and Automated Test scripts using Selenium.   • Ability to learn new frameworks, design patterns, architecture and programming languages. Sponsorship required to work in the US Work Experience Java Developer Union Pacific Rail Road - St. Louis, MO October 2018 to April 2019 ·        Project is migration of a desktop application built on Java Swing/ C++ to a web application on AngularJS/ Java.  ·        Part of daily group and one-on-one SCRUM meetings with Project Manager.   ·        Main duties involved are working closely with the Project Manager and Team Lead to explain them the screen logic of the Java Swing code and service logic of the C++ code.  ·        Using my documentation, responsibilities involve working with the front end and back end teams in writing services in Java and coding the front end of the web application using JavaScript/AngularJs.   ·        Worked on RESTful Services for creating the web services.   ·        Used JSON to transmit data between client and server.  ·        Framework used in the services code for Java is Spring MVC.   ·        Helped the Testing team with writing automated test scripts using Selenium Webdriver to test the web application being developed.   ·        Use ANT as the build tool for automation.   Use JIRA for tickets that were assigned to keep a track of the issues/bugs/request and to attach the documentation that I write.  Student Assistant University of North Texas January 2016 to December 2017 ·      Prepared and published responsive websites using content management systems (WordPress, Cascade); collaborated with communication experts to introduce new features to the design.  ·       Graded students’ web design related submissions.  ·      Worked closely with professor to ensure fair, consistent grading and standards.  ·      Provided robust feedback to reinforce proper web design fundamentals. Junior Java Developer Aadhaar Softech Solutions PVT. LTD. September 2013 to November 2015 ·      Involved in several phases of project execution.  ·      Followed TDD and scrum concepts of Agile methodology to produce high quality software.  ·      Involved in front end development of report generation module using Swing.  ·      Developed and implemented the application using Spring MVC.  ·      Responsible for Data Retrieval through DAO’s from Database layer.  ·      Involved in creating the Hibernate POJO objects and mapped using Hibernate Annotations.  ·      Used Jenkins for continuous integration and deployment.  ·      Used MAVEN as the automated build tool and developed build file for compiling the code of creating WAR files.  ·      Used GIT for version control of the application.  ·      Performed Unit Testing by JUnit, Code Refactoring to adhere to the existing design.  ·      Used internal project management tool JIRA for Bug tracking and Issue tracking.  ·      Used JSON to primarily transmit data between client and server.  ·      Participated in production support and maintenance of the project.  Education Master's in Computer Science University of North Texas - Denton, TX January 2016 to December 2017 Bachelor's in Computer Science Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University - Hyderabad, Telangana September 2011 to May 2015 Skills Java, Spring, Ajax, Javascript, JSF, Hibernate, Eclipse, Java J2Ee, XML, Core Java, J2Ee, Soap, Angular, Rest, JEE, MVC Additional Information • Excellent written, oral and interpersonal communication skills.  • Excellent documentation and presentation sk  • A very good team player with ability to work independently with minimum or no supervision.  • Ability to meet deadlines and have flexibility in a fast-paced environment. 