Java Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Developer - Equifax Fremont, CA • Over 4+ Years of Extensive experience of designing and developing software applications with the EJB, Annotations, Java, Spring Boot, JSP, Servlets, Java Beans, Groovy, JNDI, AJAX, JMS, ORM, JNDI, Web services, JDBC, JAXP, RMI, XML, JavaScript (Angular and Bootstrap), jQuery, CSS, Web Services, SOAP, REST.  • Experienced in a fast-paced Agile Development Environment including Test-Driven Development (TDD) and Scrum.  • Involved in hands on programming on the core application development using multithreading, Groovy and Grails that combines Hibernate and spring.  • Experience in handling, configuration, and administration of databases like MySQL and NoSQL databases like MongoDB and Cassandra.  • Perform core administrative duties such as version upgrades, managing permissions and monitoring the platform to ensure it continually meets performance and availability requirements.  • Experience in working with databases like MongoDB, MySQL, and Cassandra.  • Integration of Linux based applications with Windows Authentication and Authorization  • Proficient in Java/JEE Design Patterns including Singleton, Factory, Model View Controller (MVC), Data Access Object (DAO), and Business Delegate. Well versed with core Java concepts like collections, multithreading, serialization, Java beans.  • Very Strong in developing JEE applications using HTML, HTML5, CSS, CSS3, DOM Manipulation, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, JSON and AngularJS, Node.js, Grunt, Gulp, Bower.  • Installed and Configured Jenkins Plugins to support the project specific tasks and Automated deployment of builds to different environments using Jenkins.  • Hands on experience with AWS solutions using CloudFormation Templates and launch configurations to automate repeatable provisioning of AWS resources for applications.  • Created AWS EBS volumes for storing application files for use with AWS EC2 instances whenever they are mounted to them and installed Pivotal Cloud Foundry (PCF) on EC2  • Good Working experience in using different modules like Spring Core Container Module, Spring Application Context Module, Spring MVC Framework with STS module, Spring AOP Module, Spring ORM Module etc. in Spring Framework.  • Valuable experience on web servers like Apache HTTP, Apache Tomcat, and application servers JBoss7.0 GA, BEA WebLogic 8.1, IBM WebSphere 6.0/6.1/7.0/8.5 and configuring them.  • Experience in building web applications using spring 3.1 Framework features like MVC (Model View Controller), AOP (Aspect Oriented Programming), IOC (Inversion of Control), DAO (Data Access Object) and template classes.  • Developed REST web services for implementing the business logic for different functionalities in the features that are developed.  • Design and develop micro-services, J-Unit test cases, mock creation, and fix defects.  • Used Collection framework and Multithreading for performing ache operation.  • Experience in Scripting languages like Angular JS, React JS and Node JS.  • Experience in database related work primarily creating complex stored procedures, Views, Triggers, Functions, using PL/SQL.  • Experience in Configuration Management, setting up company Version policies, build schedule using Clear Case, SVN, CVS, and Git, Subversion. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Java Developer Equifax - Atlanta, GA November 2017 to Present RESPONSIBILITIES:  • Created and executed development plans as well as revise as appropriate to meet changing needs and requirements.  • Participated in the gathering and reviewing of business requirements and translating these into functional/technical designs.  • Development and building of microservices using Spring Boot and Gradle.  • Leaded and coordinated the team in designing, development, implementation, and support of application or product.  • Followed agile best practices in maintain and improve work of the agile team.  • Review of team members pull request and suggest necessary comments to improve the code.  • Worked on Spring Boot, Spring Restful and Soap template to develop Application Level Micro Services.  • Data sources from Injection microservices produce and consume data from apache Kafka to enhance data from enhancer microservices.  • Worked on flavor of test case like contract test, performance test, functional test and E2E test by using the Mockito Framework.  • Used Tableau for visualization of data from PostgreSQL and easy to troubleshoot is there is an issue with the particular consumer.  • Implemented Micro Services based Cloud Architecture on AWS Platform and Cloud Foundry.  • Worked on Creating the topics in Kafka for our webservices for the Logging improvement and then to ELK from where the traffic is being visualized in the Kibana.  • Wrote Kafka producers to stream the data from external rest APIs to Kafka topics.  • Responsible for generating Dashboard Kibana for the service to see the incoming traffic. Created dash boards from the scratch in different environment, where we can narrow down the incoming traffic and visualize.  • Used Spring Boot which is radically faster in building cloud Microservices and develop Spring based application with very less configuration.  • Configure Elasticsearch, Logstash and Kibana to provide an end-to-end pipeline for log analytics in near real time.  • Used Spring Core Annotations for Dependency Injection Spring DI and for REST API s and Spring Boot for micro-services and Lombok plugin for annotations.  • Experienced in Writing the Splunk and Kibana queries for reporting, dashboards for analysis.  • Worked with Cassandra NoSQL Database  • Implemented the amazon SQS for the queueing to load the data on Hadoop File system and move the same data to MongoDB, NoSQL database and Logstash (ELK) for fraud monitoring tools.  • Involved in working with building tools using Maven and integrated with Jenkins for performing the Jenkins jobs.  • Used Big Data Technologies such as Cassandra, Hadoop Ecosystem for development.  • Worked on design, development and architecture for Cloud Services, Micro Services, and Web Services  • Wrote JUnit test cases for unit, integration, and functional tests, run automatically by Pivotal Cloud Foundry (Go CD) in the builds triggered by each push to Git Worked on Repositories like VSS, SVN, GIT Gerrit Used GIT repository for software configuration management and version control Used Git Hub version control for file Management.  • Used GIT as version management, Jira for defect management system.  • Knowledge about securing an end-to-end distributed system.    Environment: Java, J2EE, Spring, Spring Boot, Hibernate, REST, Soap, Microservices, Kibana, SERVLET, Mongo DB, Cassandra, Oracle, PL/SQL, JDBC, UML, MongoDB, Junit, MAVEN, GW, Kafka, Hibernate, Rest, Soap, log4j, JUnit, Web Services, JSON, XML, XSL, Web Logic Application Server, Kafka, Zookeeper, Logstash, Splunk. Java Full Stack Nissan Motors, Tennessee January 2017 to November 2017 Responsibilities:  • Participated in design and development as a Core Java and J2EE Software developer. Pooling up most apposite design pattern for DAO and implementing interface to reduce code reuse. Understanding the Business Process and developing logic and software stack based on business flow.  • Using advanced level of HTML5, AJAX, JavaScript, CSS3 and pure CSS layouts. Implemented application level persistence using Hibernate and Spring. Developed various UI (User Interface) components using Struts (MVC), JSP, and HTML.  • Developed and designed new cross-browser accessible interfaces using jQuery and JavaScript. Involved in writing JSPs, JavaScript and Servlets to generate dynamic web pages and web content. Used WebLogic for deployment of applications.  • Used XML and JSON for transferring/retrieving data between different Applications.  • Develop procedures to automate security tasks during code builds and deployments.  • Respond to and, when appropriate, resolve or escalate security incidents.  • Report unresolved security exposures, misuse of resources, and noncompliance situations using defined escalation processes.  • Conceived and designed custom POCs using Kafka 0.10 and the Twitter Stream in standalone mode; architected the front-end near real-time data pub/sub non-blocking messaging system using the Kafka.  • Developed stored procedures, triggers and functions with PL/SQL for Oracle database. Uses the DAO pattern for data access layer and JMS API for the messaging requirement. Used JavaScript and jQuery for validating the input given to the user interface. Developed test cases and performed unit test using JUnit Framework.  • Created distributed Oracle coherence domains, configuration and system design based on oracle coherence. Involved in intense User Interface (UI) operations and Client side validations using AJAX toolkit.  • Design and development of many PL/SQL batches using JAVA with connectivity to Oracle for data maintenance and handling. Used SVN Subversion for software version control.  • Developed web applications using Spring MVC, jQuery, HTML5, Used Eclipse IDE for designing, coding and developing applications. Involved in the development of presentation layer and GUI framework using EXTJS and HTML. Client Side validations were done using JavaScript.  • Implemented a prototype to integrate PDF documents into a web application using iText PDF library. Customized Jasper Reports and SQL procedures according to the client requirements. Designing and creating business rules using Corticon Rule Engine. Utilized Agile Methodology (SDLC) to managed projects.  • Designed the UML, created class, sequential diagrams using Borland Together Architecture, modified code, configured WebLogic server and project in Oracle.  • Designed and implemented interface elements using Google Web Toolkit.  • Developed a Web 2.0 control console using GWT to manage data matching for data staging.  • Uses the DAO pattern for data access layer and JMS API for the messaging requirement.  • Used Backbone.js to create Data model to and to trigger event-handling on data change on UI interface.  • Involving in Building the modules in Linux environment with Ant Script.  • Enhanced user experience by designing new web features using MVC Framework like Angular 2, Backbone.js, Require.js, Node.js and EXT.js, ExpressJs.  • Created multi AWS VPC instances.  • Making changes to the existing web applications and creating new components using React JS.  • Designed and developed asynchronous RESTful Microservices using Spring boot, that are consumed by other microservices with an average response time of 30 milliseconds.  • Used Spring Boot which is radically faster in building cloud Microservices and develop Spring based application  • with very less configuration.  • Used the Node.js and Angular js MVC Frameworks in the development of the web applications.  • Built a robust and secure CONTENT MANAGEMENT SYSTEM for few projects as per clients' needs and requirements where HTML, CSS, AJAX and JQUERY were extensively used  • Proficiency in implementing the design to meet web standards (W3C), SEO and worked on various browsers for cross-browser implementation.  • Involved in writing application level code to interact with APIs, Web Services using AJAX, JSON and XML.  • Successfully handled JSON/XML data and carried out JSON/XML parsing for form submissions and DOM manipulation.  • Used Bamboo for continuous integration and continuous deployment server.  • Implemented design patterns in Scala for the application.  • Implemented Bamboo to run multiple builds in parallel for faster completion.  • Developing Web Pages by using HTML5, CSS3, jQuery, JavaScript and working knowledge of Angular js, bootstrap.js, and React js.  • Used AJAX frameworks like jQuery, JSON to develop rich GUIs and also involved in performance tuning the website.  • Developed test specs for controllers using JASMINE  • All the functionality is implemented using Spring IO / Spring Boot and Hibernate ORM. Implemented Java EE components using Spring MVC.  • Responsible for creating and maintaining architecture for Restful API using Spring Boot.  • Used Bitbucket for web-based version control repository hosting service.  • Worked with Reducers, React Containers to update the state of an App produced by Redux, Flux, Native and by mapping those to the React component using React-Redux, React-Flux and React Native.  • Used MongoDB for storing employee details, designing documents and collections.  • Operational management to business problems. Involved in the management multiple small projects, to Commercial operations enhance the existing functionality and web pages for global clients' employee share plans.  Environment: Java, J2EE, Javascript, HTML5, CSS3, Angular js, Spring, Spring Boot, Hibernate, Struts, Weblogic, REST, Microservices, JQuery, AJAX, ExtJS, JavaScript, JSP, SERVLET, Mongo DB, Cassandra, Oracle, CRUD, PL/SQL, JDBC, UML, MongoDB, Apache Spark, Bamboo, Junit, MAVEN, GW, Node.js, React JS, Jasmine, Jasper report, ILOG, Typescript, Bitbucket, Web 2.0, SOA, Scala. Java Full Stack Oracle Corp, California September 2015 to December 2016 Responsibilities:  • Developed front-end using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery and JQuery UI featuring the implementation  • Developed the application with Core Java concepts collections, Exceptions.  • Developed warm-up programs in core java to load recently logged in user profile information into Mongo DB.  • Developed core java multi-threading processes extract and upload data from text files to Elastic search and schedule them as nightly batch processes  • Struts framework for MVC design Pattern, Action class, Action Servlets, Form Bean.  • Created JSP screen by assembling Struts Tiles and Taglibs and used HTML for static webpage And JavaScript for View part of the project.  • Used Eclipse IDE for writing code and BEA WebLogic as application server.  • Used data structures such as linked lists, vectors, stacks, queues, etc.  • Implemented simulated top-down SOAP based Web Service to test the business logic for the rating calculation.  • Used JDBC, MQ Series, Web Service, and Hibernate framework to access the data from back-end MSSQL database server.  • Used Stored Procedures to crunch data and creating view for fetching data from multiple tables on MSSQL Server.  • Implementing ORM using Hibernate 4 framework.  • Used Java Persistence API (JPA) for managing relational data mapping.  • Spring framework to implement bean to declare a service and accessed those using Application context.  • JMS for sending and receiving Message through application server.  • Involved in developing the applications using Spring Framework for Dependency Injection (Inversion of Control), Implemented the business logic using EJB (session and entity beans).  • Designed SOA Architecture and Testing of 3-tier and n-tier component based applications using Java Scala Groovy and J2EE technologies.  • Used XMLSAX to parse the simulated xml file, which has simulated test data.  • Used SVN for version control.  • Used Log4J logging framework to write Log messages with various levels.  • Developed Automated Test Application, which validates various XML document using Junit and XSLT.  • Used JRockit JDK to develop and run the underwriting workbench application.  • Used GWT and WAS migration.  • Followed Agile Methodology during the development process.  • Work with DNS to map the website to its IP address.  • Developing new states for website using Angular 2.  • Extensively used Bootstrap for building responsive website with rich look.  • Extensively used GWT for developing Ajax applications.  • Used Maven to validate, compile and deploy the files.    Environment: JDK 1.5, Java/J2EE, EJB, JSF 1.0, Hibernate 3.0, Jakarta Struts 2.0, Spring 3.0, JSP, CSS, JSTL, JDBC, Servlets, XML, JRockit, JUnit, Scala, JavaScript, Angular 2, JMS, Agile Programming, Html, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, JQuery UI, Eclipse 3.1, GWT, MSSQL Server 2005, Ajax, AXIS, Web Services JAX-WS, BEA WebLogic Server 8.1, UML, Maven, UNIX, SVN. Jr. Developer INNOVA INFOTECH - IN June 2014 to July 2015 Responsibilities:  • Actively involved in various phases of the Software Development Life Cycle and the project was developed by using the Agile methodologies. Application is developed using Spring MVC, which are based on Model View Controller (MVC) design pattern.  • Worked on HTML/HTML5, CSS/CSS3 style sheets, JavaScript, and jQuery to tie together a diverse range of sites with an easily understandable structure.  • Coded Servlet classes in java web server environment.  • Used JDBC to connect to MySQL database.  • Created web pages using JSP.  • Developed the presentation layer and GUI framework that are written using HTML and Client-Side validation sere done using JavaScript.  • Involved in unit testing using, Used Junit, TestNG.  • Used HTTP Protocol to communicate over the server.  • Produced and Consumed RESTful Web Services, developed Controller, Service, and repository classes, and consumed through AngularJS Service call from client side.  • Worked on MYSQL And PostgreSQL for Database.  • Used various Core Java concepts such as Multi-Threading, Exception Handling, Garbage Collection, Collection APIs to implement various features and enhancements.  • Implemented multi-threading in applications using Java Executor Framework.  • Used ORM (Object Relational Mapping) tool along with Paused Hibernate as Persistence framework mapping the ORM objects to table using Hibernate annotations.  • Developed Web API using NodeJS and hosted on multiple load balanced API instances.  • Refactored legacy code by applying object-oriented patterns and other industry standard  design patterns such as MVC.  • Worked as Administration, maintenance, support, and scaling of Application Servers (WebLogic, Oracle Fusion Middleware SOA, OSB, IBM WebSphere, JBoss, and Tomcat)  • Experience in consuming RESTFUL web services using Node JS and Express JS and displayed on the front-end using jQuery and Angular JS.  • Assisted the analysis team in performing the feasibility analysis of the project.  • Developed presentation layer of the project using HTML, JSP 2.0, JSTL and JavaScript technologies.  • Developed web services component using XML, WSDL and SOAP with DOM parser to transfer and transform data between applications.  • Designed UX pages using Adobe Illustrator for digital photo manipulation and photorealistic styles of computer illustration.  • Build responsive application using AngularJS, NodeJS. Application compatible with mobile devices and different web platforms and browser.  • Used SOAP UI for testing the web services by sending a SOAP request.  • Used Agile Scrum process.  Environment: Java 6, Spring, Hibernate, python, Rest, log4j, Git, JUnit, IBM MQ, JMS, JAXB, Web Services, HTML5, CSS3, AEM, Java Script, jQuery, AJAX, JSON, Angular JS, NodeJS, XML, XSL, jQuery, Mongo DB, Cassandra, MongoDB, Web Logic Application Server. Education Bachelor of Computer Science in Computer Science JNTU May 2015 Skills Java (4 years), Junit (4 years), Soap (3 years), webservices (4 years), Xml (4 years)