Software Engineer Software Engineer Software Engineer Houston, TX * 3 years expertise in Server-Side Programming using J2EE, Java, Spring MVC, Angular JS, HTML,  SQL.  * Experience in designing and developing User Interface (UI) applications and professional web  applications using HTML5, XML, XSD, jQuery, AJAX, JSON, JavaScript and CSS3, JSF, JSP,  JSTL Servlets and Angular JS with client scripting and server-side scripting languages like JavaScript,  jQuery, JSON, JSF and JSP.  * Extensive knowledge on spring modules like Spring IOC, Spring DAO, Spring MVC and Spring  AOP, Spring Batch.  * Knowledge on C and C++ with Object Oriented Concepts.  * Extensively worked with ORM tools Hibernate (HQL), JPA, OJB and JPA annotations.  * Worked on MVC Architecture like spring framework, JSF.  * Good experience on SOAP and REST Web Services, JUnit, XML.  * Hands on Experience in databases such as MYSQL, Microsoft SQL Server, SQLLITE.  * Thorough knowledge with J2EE application platform configuration and performance optimization  * Experienced in developing event driven applications using AJAX, JSON and XML.  * Very good Team player, willingness to learn and attended Scrum meeting on daily basis.  * Experienced in working with Tomcat, Web Logic and WebSphere application servers.  * Worked on Log4j configuration and setup and Implementation part.  * Well versed with Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) process which includes Analysis,  Designing, Developing, Testing, Implementing and documenting the entire life cycle using waterfall,  agile and test-driven development.  * Implementing SOA using JMS messaging technology.  * Worked as a code reviewer and trainer when team required.  * Expertise in developing XML documents using DTD, SCHEMA.  * Implemented TDD using Junit in many projects.  * Experience in version control tools like Bitbucket, GIT, SVN, Perforce to manage and control  software development. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Software Engineer SAMSUNG R&D INSTITUTE BANGLADESH LTD April 2015 to July 2016 Description:  Samsung is a largest research based platform where we mainly worked on java based core module on which android application are performing and getting required services. Handling different types of input module for Middle East region was our main concern.  Responsibilities:  * Developed device management portal using Spring MVC.  * Worked on modification of Samsung device input panel on android operating system.  * Generating fully functional Restful web services with Maven archetypes supporting both XML and JSON message transformation.  * Used spring framework to the DAO and Bean objects, auto wiring the components.  * Worked on development of Hibernate, including mapping files, configuration file and classes to interact  with the database.  * Extensively worked with XML schema, XSL/XSLT, XML to navigate in XML documents, and DOM4J  to process and parse XML files.  * Responsible for modifying existing xml schema definition as per client's requirements  * Used XPATH to navigate through Attributes and Elements in an XML Document.  * Used Perforce as source control management giving a huge speed advantage on centralized systems that  have to communicate with a server.  * A Web Sphere JNDI naming tree is maintained for the external configuration of a service.  * Used Log4j to capture the log that includes runtime exception and for logging info and are helpful in debugging the issues.  Environment: Eclipse, Android, Perforce, Java, Java Script, Angular JS, JSON, Spring IOC, Spring MVC,  Spring AOP, Spring ORM, JAXB, XML, JAX-WS, JMS, MDB, Hibernate, JMX, Jira, EHCache, JUnit,  Mockito, Maven, Oracle, Tomcat, WebLogic. Java Developer Ibacs Limited UK - Dhaka, BD April 2013 to March 2015 Description:  This system is a printer service provider, designed to give total control over transactional data, across all  global trading partners, and translating it into actionable information is key to driving value out. DRI  gradually began offering more products and services to its printing clients, and launched many of the world's first printing website.  Responsibilities:  * Expertise in Agile Software Development involved in requirements gathering and analysis from the existing system.  * Designed and developed business components using Spring AOP, Spring IOC, Spring Annotations.  * Developed Java Server components using Spring, Spring MVC, Hibernate, Web Services technologies.  * Developed user interface using JSP, JSP Tag libraries JSTL, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, AngularJs to simplify the complexities of the application.  * Use generics, for loop, static import, annotations, J2EE, Servlet, JSP, JDBC, Spring, Hibernate, Web  services (JAX-RS, JAX-WS, JAXB), JavaScript Framework (jQuery, AJAX, XML, Schema).  * Used Hibernate as persistence framework for DAO layer to access the database.  * Designed and developed a Restful APIs for different modules in the project as per the requirement.  * Developed the persistence layer (DAL) and the presentation layer.  * Developed Interactive web pages using AJAX and JavaScript.  * Created controllers, directives, models for different modules in the frontend.  * Used MAVEN for build framework and Jenkins for continuous build system.  * Developed GUI using Front end technologies JSP, JSTL, AJAX, HTML, CSS and Java Script.  * Developed a code for Web services using XML, SOAP and used SOAPUI tool for testing the services  proficient in testing Web Pages functionalities and raising defects.  * Configured and deployed the application using Tomcat and WebLogic.  * Used Design patterns such as Business Object (BO), Session façade, Model View Controller, DAO and DTO.  * Used Log4J to print info, warning and error data on to the logs.  * Involved in writing the Junit test cases as part of unit testing.  * Used Java Messaging artifacts using JMS for sending out automated notification emails to respective  users of the application.  Environment: Java, PHP, J2EE, Spring MVC, JavaScript, HTML5, CSS3, Hibernate, SOAP, REST,  WebLogic, JQuery, AJAX, JSP, servlet, SQL, JDBC, Eclipse, Junit, Jira, MAVEN, Agile Scrum, SOA,  SVN. Education Master of Engineering in Electrical Engineering Lamar University - Beaumont, TX December 2018 Bachelor of Science in Electrical and Electronic Engineering in Electrical and Electronic Engineering Chittagong University of Engineering & Technology January 2013 Skills Javascript, PHP, Android, MySQL, ASP