Senior Java Developer Senior <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Chicago, IL • About 7+ years of experience in developing high-performance distributed systems and web applications.  • Expert in Software Development Life Cycle with efficiency in gathering business requirements, design, development, integration and implementation of software in Java/J2EE/JavaScript technologies.  • Experienced in developing applications using frameworks like – Struts, Spring MVC framework, Spring Boot, Hibernate ORM.  • Hands on experience on front end development with HTML5, JavaScript, Angular 2, CSS3 and Bootstrap.  • Experience in developing Web based applications in J2EE – including Spring MVC, Spring Core, Spring Boot, Spring Rest, Pivotal Cloud Foundry – PCF and Bootstrap.  • Experienced working with Waterfall model and Agile Methodologies like having Daily Scrum meetings, Agile Retrospectives, Sprint planning, Resource planning.  • Have extensive knowledge on deployment, configuration and monitoring of the window Platform over a clustered environment.  • Proficient in Object Oriented Principles, Methodologies and Best Practices.  • Good knowledge of the different processes involved in the Software Development Life Cycle and has exposure to the standards procedures.  • Good Experience in Application Maintenance and Support.  • Proficient in DB2, Oracle and SQL programming.  • Domain expertise in Banking, HealthCare and Finance.  • Involved in various activities like Design, Coding, End-to-End Testing and Production Maintenance and Enhancement Support for various online applications  • Good Knowledge and experience in using J2EE Application Servers such as IBM WebSphere (WAS), Tomcat, JBoss. And IDE’s like Eclipse, RAD for Application development.  • Hands on experience in producing/consuming web services – SOAP  • Log management experience with Splunk and Kibana.  • Experience on working with offshore.  • Ability to learn and adapt quickly with new tools and technology.  • Demonstrated ability to multitask and manage multiple projects in a cross-functional environment.  • Fast learner, self-motivated, with a high degree of attention and commitment to work Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior Java Developer Cognizant Technology Solutions - Chicago, IL July 2015 to Present • Currently working as Senior Java Developer in Cognizant Technology Solutions.    TECHNICAL SKILLS:  Languages Java/J2EE  Java Technologies Struts, Spring and Hibernate  Web Related Webservices, HTML, JSP, Java Script, Ajax, Jquery (Basics), XML  RDBMS Databases Oracle, DB2, SQL  Operating Systems Windows, Unix, Linux  Tools & Utilities  Eclipse, WINSCP, SQL Developer, Putty, Winmerge, Araxis, SoapUI, Zena scheduler, Kibana, squirrel, SSMS, New Relic APM, Service Now, CASD    Webserver Tomcat, Glassfish, IBM WebSphere.  IDE Eclipse  Configuration Tool SVN, CVS, Serena dimensions, GitHub    Senior Java Developer - e-Commerce - Synchrony Bank (GE Capital Retail Bank)  CLIENT PROFILE:  GE Capital Retail Bank provides retail banking and credit services to consumers, businesses, merchants, and retailers in the United States and internationally. It offers retail sales finance, such as private label credit card programs, installment lending, bankcards, and financial services for consumers, retailers, manufacturers, and health-care providers, as well as offers financing programs to dealers, retailers, associations, contractors, and service providers. The company also provides retail consumer financing solutions, such as private label credit cards, dual card, flex loans, and all-tender loyalty and gift cards; and business credit services, including business process outsourcing of open account trade credit, private label revolving credit programs, receivables financing, and inventory financing. As of June 2, 2014, GE Capital Retail Bank is now known as Synchrony Bank.    PROJECT SUMMARY:  One Time Passcode (OTP)  Technology J2EE, Struts, Java script, SQL, SOAP - web service  Location iGATE Global Solutions  Project Description  The project deals with the implementation of One Time passcode Verification process for apply Application and it is additional fraud protection against high risk functionalities.    Role Developer  Responsibilities  • Responsible for requirement gathering, designing, coding.  • Involved in transforming the requirements to Business reports.  • Attended daily status meeting with Onsite and managers.  • Actively provided support to business users and stakeholders.  • Experience in the application development from initial definition and design phases to coding, testing, implementation and support.  • Defined/Produced the detailed systems requirement specifications document.  • Managed Requirement changes throughout the project life cycle.  • Created and maintained the traceability matrix between the baseline functional requirements and the other work products such as design document and test plans.  • Prepared test cases based on the identified functional requirements and verified the same.  • Played a key role in Unit Testing, Technical & User Manual preparation.  • Had been a part of a successful defect free release.    TRU Prescreen  Technology J2EE, Spring, Java script  Location iGATE Global Solutions  Project Description This Project is to enable the customer for accepting the TRU Prescreen offer online.  Role Developer  Responsibilities  • Responsible Designing, coding, Query analysing.  • Involved in analyzing the requirements.  • Interacted with clients for clarifications.  • Worked in developing new enhancements.  • Involved in Unit Testing.  • Involved in Integration Testing.  • Had been a part of a successful defect free release.    Amazon Payment Allocation  Technology J2EE, Spring, Hibernate, Java script, SQL  Location iGATE Global Solutions  Project Description  This project is to enable payment allocation for the cardholders to select specific payment allocation method on their account for all the future payments.    Role Developer  Responsibilities  • Understanding client requirements in terms of user requirements, functional specifications and technical requirements.  • Responsible for requirement gathering, designing, coding.  • Experience in the application development from initial definition and design phases to coding, testing, implementation and support.  • Prepared test cases based on the identified functional requirements and verified the same.  • Played a key role in Unit Testing, Technical & User Manual preparation.  • Had been a part of a successful defect free release.    Senior Java Developer - Finance - Health Care Service Corporation  CLIENT PROFILE:  Health Care Service Corporation, a Mutual Legal Reserve Company (HCSC), and an Independent Licensee of the Blue Cross and Blue Shield Association, is the largest customer-owned health insurer in the United States and fourth largest overall, operating through our Blue Cross and Blue Shield® Plans in Illinois, Montana, New Mexico, Oklahoma and Texas. HCSC affiliates and subsidiaries such as Dearborn National® and Medecision offer group life, disability and dental solutions, as well as a range of other individual solutions.    Finance - Health Care Service Corporation  Technology J2EE, Spring, Hibernate, Java script, web service, Oracle  Location Cognizant Technology Solutions  Project Description  To ensure the highest levels of service and system availability for all the HCSC - Finance applications.  Developing and implementing tactical and strategic approaches to eliminate or contain incidents / issues, continually driving process improvements.    Role Senior Developer - Production Support Analyst  Responsibilities  • Onsite/Offshore coordination  • Involved in defect fixing for existing applications  • Assisted all customers and provided production support for all designs and performed tests on all installation process for infrastructure.  • Performed all tests on production applications and prepared recovery procedures for all finance applications.  • Coordinated with IT groups and external vendors and ensure effective application services to ensure reliability of all applications.  • Analysed all business processes and ensure compliance to all controlled processes according to business requirement. Monitored and provided support to workflows.  • Monitored and provided support to workflows and provide expert knowledge on all workflow designs.  • Provide 24x7 operational supports to all production practices on holidays and weekends.  • Developed and maintained professional relationships with all online business teams.  • Monitored all alerts and escalated all issues for all procedures and systems.  • Coordinated with various teams and raised support ticket for all issues, analysed root cause and assisted in efficient resolution of all production processes.  • Maintained logs of all issues and ensured resolutions according to quality assurance tests for all production processes.  • Prepared test applications and review all Java application servers.  • Support has been provided in analyzing and resolving all the Critical production issues.(P1/P2)  • Provided permanent fix for the recurring issues.  • Prepared POC to migrate the application from Struts to Spring Boot.  • Worked on all the incidents and resolved it within the SLA.  • Created CO and SOP to implement the data fix changes to production.  • Provided direction and resolution with complex issues. Ensured escalated issues are resolved in a timely and efficient manner.  • Performed research and analysis of complex processes in order to provide appropriate solutions and other information.  • Provided production support training and subject matter expertise. Education Bachelor's