Full Stack Java Developer Full Stack <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Full Stack Java Developer Spring, TX Java Developer  mie7md@gmail.com  St. Louis, MO    Full stack Java Developer  Centene Corporation - St. Louis, MO January 2017 to Present Work Experience Full Stack Java Developer Verizon Wireless - Irving, TX August 2015 to December 2016 • Implemented various features of spring framework such as Dependency Injection, IOC, Annotations, and spring integration with Hibernate.  • Worked on Software Configuration Management (SCM) in Agile, Scrum methodologies.  • Designed and developed REST full-service interface using Spring MVC to the underlying customer event API.  • Experienced in writing JUnit Test cases for Java and JEE applications.  • Worked on Spring Security for application authentication.  • Manage, integrate and secure ART store's services in the cloud (AWS, Cloud Bees, and JIRA etc.)  • Implemented the REST apis and data transformers using the JAVA connector which involves the use of JAVA8 features Lambda and Streams.  • Worked on Oracle and IBM DB2 as the backend database and integrated with Hibernate to retrieve data access objects.  • Wrote various queries using SQL and created a database using MySQL for the manipulation of data from the database.  • Used Jenkins as the Continues Integration Tool to build the project to Development, Test and production environments.  • Deployed micro-services as restful Java Webservices.  • Designed and developed Microservices platform to support a multitude of enterprise level applications.  • Worked on different Application Servers like Web Logic, Apache Tomcat, and JBoss AS.  • Developed EJS access layer and components using JPA/Hibernate frameworks for object persistence to Derby database for mock domain and in Oracle for real domains.  • Deployed Elasticsearch to aggregate logs with Logstash and visualize them with Kibana  • Shared data and computing power to compute-intensive engineering design patterns and software adjustments using Grid Computing.  • Identifying appropriate AWS service based on computer, data availability, security requirements and storage. Also developed ReactJS Application for fetching Insured person details.  • Implemented application security including User Management, LDAP authentication, authorization (users have restricted access to app components according to their permissions)  • Implemented a role-based security system for web-based administrative applications  • Implementing security Single Sign-On application to share user management, authentication, and authorization among multiple applications.  • Developed a new NodeJS middleware by integrating AngularJS into the new API micro-services through the EAN (Express JS, Angular, and Node.JS.) stack. These NodeJS apps will be within Docker containers.  • Working with Big Data applications using technologies such as Java, Scala, Hadoop, REST API, Hive, AWS, S3, PostgreSQL.  • Configured AWS Identity Access Management (IAM) Group and users for improved login authentication.  • Experience in working with Spring Quartz framework and developed various quartz jobs.  • Performed code reviews and implemented best Python programming practices.  • Enhanced user experience by designing new web features using MVC Framework like Backbone.js, Require.js and Node.js.  • Responsible to support the operations, monitoring, reporting according to the requirement of the higher management team by making Splunk Dashboards.  • Used SVN, GIT for version control and involved in writing the bamboo build scripts.  • Used Bamboo as a build tool and Maven for building projects and Sonar for code analysis    • Developed web service using JavaScript framework ReactJS to facilitate consumer-driven contract integration testing between micro services and created business modules with JSP, Servlet, Struts framework, java, XML/XSL and EJB technologies.  • Designed and implemented the web application in Node.js, HTML5 and jQuery from initial concept development to beta launch and contributed in developing a back-end application to pick up live data using JMS from Queues, reformat it and load it to a new SQL data base.  • Implemented Restful Webservice using Jersey API to extract the required data from the legacy database and was responsible in developing front end screens using JSP, JSTL, jQuery, XSLT, DHTML, HTML5, CSS, AJAX, CSS3 and JavaScript. Also, involved in adding the Internationalization to the existing application.  • Designed and developed a web-based test client using Spring, JSP, JSTL, JavaScript, HTML and JMS to test different parts of the application.  • Design and develop custom Adobe LiveCycle work processes and solutions utilizing both Workbench and the Adobe APIs.  • Implemented code according to coding standards and Created AngularJS Controller, which isolate scopes perform operations and developed single page applications, components using Angular JS directives, controllers, view and routing, service modules.  • Currently supporting springs and Struts integrated with Hibernate and SOAP web services applications along with development activities and implemented Spring JDBC, Hibernate and SQL Queries to perform DML operations on the MS SQL Database.  • Contributed in writing multiple hibernate queries, mapping files, entities and models on SQL Server database and worked with ReactJS components, Redux Forms, Events, Router and Flux concept.  • Worked on Java based configuration using SPRING BOOT.    • Worked on spring boot, Spring Rest full template to develop Application Level Micro Services.  • Implemented Micro Services based Cloud Architecture on AWS Platform and Cloud Foundry.  • Implemented Hibernate Template to great extent making use of HQL, Named Parameters, Named Queries and interfaces such as Expression, Query, and Criteria.  • Implemented and developed UI components using Angular JS features like Dependency Injection, Models, data binding, and controllers.  • Implemented asynchronous messaging service using Kafka in micro services-based application.  • Used Java Messaging Services (JMS) for the reliable and asynchronous exchange of important information such as payment status report.  • Designing and implementing the UI using OO JavaScript, Ember JS, HTML, CSS/CSS3, SASS and AJAX.  • Designed and developed Micro services using Java 8, Spring Boot and Angular2. Hosted on AWS and used Docker, Chef, Puppet or similar orchestrators/containers. Used Jenkins as continuous integration server.  • Worked with JAXB, SAXP and XML Schema for exporting data into XML format and importing data from XML format to database and JAXB in the web service request response data marshaling as well as the unmarshalling process.  • Constructed the puppet modules for continuous deployment and worked on Jenkins for continuous integration after creating Spring Batches for running batch jobs and later documented the use of Spring Batch.  • Wrote PL/SQL Queries, stored procedures, triggers and prepared statements. Java/UI Developer UnitedHealth Group - Columbus, OH June 2014 to July 2015 • Installed and configured JENKINS for automating Deployments and providing automation solution and was involved in developing applications with Stateless Session EJB's and Message Driven EJB's.  • Integrated GIT into JENKINS to automate the code check-out process using Active MQ as a JMS client to exchange messages with web services.  • Working with SOAP web services & EJB to communicate with the applications and developed XML and XSLT pages to store and present data to the user using parsers for extensive usage of Struts, HTML, CSS, JSP, jQuery, AJAX and JavaScript for interactive pages and implemented the user interface using JSP, JSTL, JavaScript, CSS, HTML and jQuery.  • Worked on Jasper reports using iReport tool and integrated that JRXML into spring frame work and created RESTFULL APIs using Spring MVC and used both annotation-based configuration and XML based.  • Used maven to manage the dependencies, SVN for version control and Junit for Unit testing and created and configured cloud VM on Amazon Web Services (AWS) also integrated Hibernate with Spring ORM for database mapping.  • Integrate Oracle Scheduler with CC&B cluster mode batch using Coherence.  • Modelled MESI snooping cache coherence protocol backend controller in C  • Designed WSDL and exposed SOAP based web services for chase subsystems. Routing the calls to CQ5.  • Expertise in configuring a domain, deploying applications, configuring data sources, logging and web subsystems in JBOSS and EAP.  • Create and maintain Amazon EC2 instance that supports the companies Redmine project management site and Mercurial CM.  • Used AJAX framework for asynchronous data transfer between the browser and the server. Java Developer Hunka Web Solutions Pvt. Ltd, Bhopal IND October 2013 to April 2014 • Extensively worked on business, front end and persistence tier using the Java, JSP and Servlets.  • Was engaged at various level during different phases of various project which involves Client Interaction, Requirement gathering, Design and Estimation for enhancements and deliveries, Reviews and Deployment to Production, Programming and Knowledge sharing from the various vendors.  • Used Core Java and OOPs Programming skills in design and development of J2EE components and API's.  • Used SPRING framework that handles application logic and makes calls to business objects and services mainly SOAP Web services.  • Used Amazon CloudWatch to monitor the application performance and used the logs to identify any threshold limits.  • Used J2EE framework to implement Servlets, JSP and XML on Apache Tomcat server using Eclipse IDE.  • Developed a Web Service (SOAP, WSDL) that is shared between front end and cable bill review system.  • Built ANT scripts for automated deployment and for the build operation of the entire application.  • Used Hibernate as persistence Layer ORM Framework to perform database operations.  • Designed and implemented a CXF JAX-WS based Web Service (I.e. w/ MTOM) for interposes communication between the host Electronic Medical Records Management system and the paper IQ digital pen platform for the transfer of documents and their updates used by healthcare and social services internationally.  • Employed Fully-fledged templating mechanism using Ember JS which reduces the overall amount of code.  • Used Spring Framework for Dependency injection and integrated with the Spring Web Flows  • Was responsible for the bug tracking and bug fixing. Java Developer Hexaware Technologies, Mumbai IND June 2012 to September 2013 • Utilized modular structure within the Angular JS and Node.js application in which different functionalities within the application were divided into different modules.  • Was actively involved in active participation in project related events and Security audits.  • Developed JavaScript based components using Ext.JS framework with client reports customized according to user requirements.  • Coded web applications utilizing programming languages including JavaScript, jQuery, SQL and AJAX.  • Involved with bug fixing on functionality, performance and designing issues with JavaScript and jQuery.  • Created and modified new and existing pages, applied new styles on the pages with the help of Dojo and JavaScript.  • Developing Hybrid applications using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Angular.JS that are cross platform compatible.  • Created design documents for program change requests and presented to client.  • Implemented the user interface using JSP, JavaScript, CSS, HTML.  • Developed client request validations and processing using JavaScript and HTML.  • Implemented front-end using JSP, HTML, JSTL, CSS, JavaScript and AJAX.  • Used Core Java and OO Programming skills in design and development of J2EE components and API's.  • Was responsible for the development of unit test cases and code.  • Was responsible for defect fix.  • Hands on experience in Hibernate, PostgreSQL and Redis.  • Responsible for programming for Enhancement and Requirement changes.  • Direct Interaction with the client.  • Java Servlets and JSP were used as a middle-ware to communicate Client & Server used JDBC for database access.  • Was responsible for the code review for the team members.  • Challenge was to learn PHP and Facebook App Integration on very short duration and handle a team.  • Was engaged at various level during different phases of various project which involves Client Interaction, Requirement gathering, Design and Estimation for enhancements and deliveries.  • Was responsible for the bug tracking and bug fixing.  • Worked on creating the Jenkins jobs to run the self-service jobs by extracting the data/files from the application team's Bitbucket repositories, build the jar from iCART engine and pushes these to the Unix Server's Run path.  • Designed and implemented application using JSP, Spring MVC, Backbone, JNDI, Spring IOC, Spring annotations, Spring AOP, Spring Transactions, Hibernate, JDBC, SQL, ANT, JMS, Oracle, JBoss.  • Was responsible for the code review for the team members.  • Used MongoDB as data storage and utilized aspects like replica sets, Shading, and clever document design to make service extensible scale and feature wise. Education Bachelor's