Sr. Full Stack Java Developer Sr. Full Stack <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Full Stack Java Developer - Seacoast National Bank • 4+ years of experience in Object Oriented Designing, Developing, Implementation and testing in  Client/Servers e-business applications using Java & J2EE Technologies.  • Good exposure to all phases of SDLC process, including system use case, functional & technical  specification documentation based on business requirements.  • Review design documents with stake holders and collect approvals  • Excellent Knowledge of Object Oriented Analysis & Design using UML.  • Good experience with RUP, Agile methodologies.  • Experience implementing SOA, Web service applications.  • Experience in Microservices and Spring Boot application development.  • Strong Experience in developing the application using frameworks like Struts, Java Server Faces (JSF)  and Spring Frameworks Worked on maintaining the persistence using Hibernate, JPA ORM.  • Experienced in implementing presentation layer using JSF, JSP, HTML5, CSS, JQuery, JavaScript,  AngularJS, Angular 2, Ext JS, Node JS, JSON and Servlets.  • Proficiency in developing web services (Soap, Restful) that include several components like SOAP,  WSDL, XML, XSD, Axis2, JAXB, JAX-RS and JAX-WS. Also Developed SOAP web services using Apache CXF  and Drop Wizard, IBM MQ, Mule Soft ESB.  • Experience deploying applications on Apache Tomcat 6 Web Server, BEA Web logic 8/9/10, Web sphere  5.0/6.0 application server environments.  • Designed and developed multiple J2EE Model 2 MVC based Web Application using J2EE• Technologies,  Patterns and popular open-source framework Struts, Spring MVC, spring, JPA and Hibernate.  • Experience with Software designing and modeling using UML on Rational Rose and Enterprise Architect.  • Deployed Spring Boot based Microservices Docker container using Amazon EC2 container services and  using AWS admin console.  • Hands on experience in deployment of J2EE applications on JBoss, Tomcat, IBM Web Sphere and Web  logic Application Servers.  • Good experience maintaining the project in IBM Rational Clear Case, SVN, CVS, StarTeam version  control repositories.  • Experience in using XML based technologies and parsers DOM, SAX, JAXP, and JAXB.  • Good knowledge in Python and Hadoop, HDFS, Map Reduce, Hive, HBase, Flume.  • Experience in database design, NoSQL, data modeling and developing stored procedures, functions and  triggers using SQL plus, SQL developer in Oracle 9i, My SQL and DB2.  • Created REST APIs by using spring, exposed them from my existing system so that it is consumed by  other application.  • Experience in several agile frameworks like Scrum, XP, and Using TDD/BDD and ATDD approach.  • Experience in writing test-cases in Java environment using Junit, Mockito and Power mock, JIRA.  • Experience in managing the build files using ANT and Maven.  • Experience in Managing Crystal Report, ADBASE for Use of Relational Database, and ACE framework  combination of JSON, JQuery, and JSF.  • Experience in DB2 for storing and analyzing Data.  • Experience in using the Log4j framework for Logging Java Application.  • Experience in developing, designing in UML, Package, Class and State Diagrams.  • Well versed with Core Java concepts like Collections, Multithreading, Serialization, Java Beans and  Network programming.  • Excellent communication, problem-solving, interpersonal, organizational skills.  • Experience in Java Framework Integration with Apache Camel. Work Experience Sr. Full Stack Java Developer Seacoast National Bank - Stuart, FL January 2019 to Present Responsibilities:    • Involved in developing Web service operations in Service Oriented Architecture (SOA).  • Analyze requirements with team; write High Level design documents, System Use Case, analyze risk  factors.  • Followed agile methodology during complete SDLC process.  • Validated forms using Angular 2 and regular expressions there by providing client-side validation and server validation  • Participated Agile/Scrum development and deployment teams  • Used Spring Framework 4.1 for the application development.  • Created a custom analytics frame work to gather useful user behavior data using Mongo DB  • Responsible for Web UI development in JavaScript using JQuery, AngularJS, and AJAX.  • Involved in front end development using Struts, JSP's, JSF and JSTL.  • Used JAXB for marshalling and un marshalling of work order, billing XML documents, and JAXP for processing.  • Worked with React JS to build bootstrap components for UI web objects. Linked with API data to view  render virtual DOM dynamically.  • Worked on project to retrieve log messages procured from Kafka by leveraging Spark Streaming  • Used JSP, JSTL, Angular 2 and Spring tag lib to create dynamic and responsive pages  • Created instances in AWS as well as worked on migration to AWS from data center.  • Developed REST Web services to make web service calls simple and easy for the client to access it with the help of standard HTTP URIs.  • Developed DAOs using JPA, hibernate persistence API for the database operations to interact with Oracle Database.  • Performed system monitoring using Sensu and Cloud Watch in AWS Cloud.  • Implemented Microservices architecture using Spring Boot for making application smaller and independent.  • Developed web service client using Spring Framework and REST HTTP protocol to get customer  credentials and information.  • Experience in implementing and hosting Docker and Kubernetes containers.  • Configuration and maintenance of Virtual IPs hosted on ATS and Nginx.  • Developed and tested extraction, transformation, job and load (ETL) processes  • Worked with Groovy/Grails to support both static and dynamic typing as well as for operator  overloading.  • Used Spring Batch to setup batch jobs to email the daily reports and that which run on Pivotal Cloud  Foundry (PCF) with Spring Boot as its MVC layer.  • Developed security framework with support for database security and integration with external security  data stores such as LDAP  • Designed and developed the REST based Microservices using the Spring Boot.  • Responsible for creating efficient design and developing User Interaction screens using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX and JSON.  • Implementing JSP Standard Tag Libraries (JSTL) along with Expression Language (EL).  • Creating custom, general use modules and components, which extend the elements and modules of core AngularJS.  • Used AngularJS as the development framework to build a single-page application and reusable  AngularJS applications.  • Designed and developed necessary PL/SQL for the database operations as needed.  • Involved in deployment of the application at various environments (Development, QA Testing, Staging, and Production.  • Used cucumber BDD (Behavior driven development) Framework for test execution.  • Used GIT for version control and handled unit testing using Protractor, Jasmine and Karma.  • Involved in deploying systems on Amazon Web Services(AWS) Infrastructure services EC2, S3, RDS, SQS, Cloud Formation  • Deployed application on Apache Tomcat server.  • Used GIT for version control and repository.  • Used log4j for logging errors, info, and exceptions.  • Involved extensively in Code Reviews, Unit testing and Process Improvements.    Environment: JDK 1.8, Java 8.0,J2EE, HTML, JSON, XHTML, JS, AJAX, JQuery, Jquery UI, AWS, CSS3, JSP, React Js, Angular 4, Typescript, JavaScript, Node.JS, Microservices, Bootstrap, Web Sphere, Unix, SOAP, REST, Spring  Boot JMS, Eclipse, Jenkins, Junit, , Mockito, XQuery, TDD, Spring MVC, GWT,JIRA, Spring framework DI, AOP, Batch, Hibernate, Docker, Maven, Rally, Selenium, Spring Batch, NOSQL ,Groovy, BPM,JPA, MFC, Cucumber, Full Stack Java Developer AIG - Farmington, CT June 2018 to December 2018 Responsibilities:    • Designed and coded application components in an Agile/TDD environment utilizing a test-driven  development and SDET approach and pair-programming.  • Developed the application using spring framework that leverages model view layer architecture, also configured Dependency Injection.  • Used Hibernate ORM tools which automate the mapping between SQL databases and objects in Java.  • Extensively used Hibernate in data access layer to access and update information in the database.  • Design of GUI using Model View Architecture STRUTS Frame Work.  • Integrated Spring DAO for data access using Hibernate.  • Implemented unit test for testing Angular components with frameworks using KARMA and JASMINE  • Created hibernate mapping files to map POJO to DB tables  • Involved in the Development of Spring Framework Controllers  • Developing application using spring core module and POJO's using Eclipse and worked on Messaging  service.  • Designed and developed the XSD for WSDL.  • Deployed code in Apache Tomcat and Web logic serve  • Developed user interface using JSP, JSP Tag libraries JSTL, HTML5, CSS, and JavaScript to simplify the complexities of the application.  • Built Micro Services using spring boot with continuous deployment and continuous integration using  Docker and Jenkins. Provided LDAP security for the application.  • Used JSON objects, ECMAScript6, Typescript, JavaScript and Bootstrap intensively to create interactive  web pages.  • Develop AWS Lambda based Microservices interacting with Dyanamo B & SNS/SQS using AWS SDK.  • Involved in developing the Pig scripts.  • Currently working on fitness tool which aids in Test Driven Development (TDD).  • Used JMS for the asynchronous exchange of critical business data and events among J2EE components  and legacy system. Configured Kafka message source with Spring XD.  • Extensively Used Jenkins as Continuous Integration tool to deploy Spring Boot Microservices to Pivotal  Cloud Foundry (PCF) using build pack.  • Developed test scripts with Ruby-Selenium to automate browser & web applications under Cucumber  (BDD) Framework.  • Extensive experience of Object Oriented JavaScript design pattern and JavaScript MVC Patterns  Preferably Angular JS and React JS.  • All the functionality is implemented using Spring IO / Spring Boot, Microservices and Hibernate ORM.  • Designed and developed the Presentation layer using Angular 4 and written logics using Typescript.  • Used NodeJS to resolve dependencies via Angular 2, typescript, jasmine.  • Worked with Map/Reduce and stream processing e.g. Storm  • Worked with NoSQL databases such as Cassandra, Mongo DB, and Riak  • Supported and provided important feedback to various development teams with regards to the grid  computing and caching technology.  • Design and development of a proof-of-concept real-time notification system using Node.js and Socket.  IONGINX  • Developed User Interface in JSP, JavaScript and HTML5 with Backbone JS Framework  • Designed and developed REST-ful style Web Service layer and WSLD.  • Implemented a generic interface to Hibernate criteria API for UI search functionality.  • Developed SQL, PL/SQL, stored procedures along with Shell Scripting- database application scripts.  • Deployment of web, enterprise java components, messaging components and multi-threading.  • Developed XML Schemas - XSD, DTD for the validation of XML documents, also used Subversion.  • XML SAX and DOM API, JDOM, XSLT was used for informative view.  • Used XML web services using SOAP to transfer the amount to transfer application that is Used SWING  for GUI based coding.  Environment: JAVA, JSP, Servlet, EJB, Spring, JavaScript, Hibernate, UML ,JQuery, Struts, Design Patterns, HTML5, CSS3, JMS, XML, Eclipse, Apache, Oracle ECM, Struts, Web service, SOAP, ILOG, React Js, AWS, ETL,  Web2.0, LDAP, BDD, Kafka, Microservices, Apigee, Oracle BPM, JSF, WSDL, Apache CXF, Apache Axis2, Apache  Tomcat Server, SOA, PL/SQL, Oracle10g, UML, Web logic, Junit. Java Developer TIAA - Charlotte, NC January 2018 to May 2018 Responsibilities:    • Implemented Different Design patterns like singleton, factory and J2EE design patterns like Business  delegate, session facade, Value object and DAO design patterns.  • Implemented AWS client API to interact with different services as Console configuration for AWS EC2.  • Used Spring Framework's IOC Dependency Injection to inject Service Object using Service Locator  Design Pattern into Action Classes.  • The application consisted of a monolithic codebase being slowly migrated to a Microservices  environment. Each Microservices backend and frontend tech stack varied slightly from one another.  • Implemented Unit testing using Junit.  • Integration of spring modules with AWS modules in order to consume third party services.  • Developed Webpages using UI frameworks bootstrap, Angular JS.  • Created DHTML pages, used JavaScript for client-side validations and AJAX, AngularJS to create  interactive front-end GUI.  • Managed and maintained Oracle and NoSQL databases in production domain.  • Designed and implemented a NoSQL based database and associated Restful web service that persists  high-volume user profile data for vertical teams.  • Used Angular libraries like angular-UI-router, angular-resource to create the effective single page  application and used angular-cookies to temporarily store the data used in this application.  • Designed extensive additions to existing Java Web Application utilizing Service Oriented Architecture  (SOA) techniques.  • Developed BDD automation scripts using Cucumber tool and Selenium.  • Used Spring Batch to setup batch jobs to email the daily reports and that which run on Pivotal Cloud  Foundry with Spring Boot as its MVC layer.  • Extensively worked on Spring Bean wiring, Spring DAO and Spring AOP modules.  • Designed Graphical User Interface (GUI) for various Webpages using AJAX, HTML5, CSS3, JSF, JQuery  and JavaScript.  • Followed Agile Methodology and TDD (test driven development).  • Implemented SOA architecture with web services using SOAP, WSDL, UDDI and XML.  • Identified and resolved programming issues, Servlets and EJB s performance tuning opportunities.  • Used JMS API for asynchronous communication by putting the messages in the Message queue.  • Consumed Web Services (WSDL, SOAP, and UDDI) from third party for authorizing payments to/from customers.  • Involved in Developing Web Application with Full Software Development life Cycle (SDLC) from Design  to Deployment using agile methodologies.  • Involved in the analysis & design of the application using UML with Rational Rose  • MVC architecture is implemented by struts framework.  • Exposed Survey API to other applications in DOE using Apache Axis2.  • Page design and development are done using Oracle BPM.  • Experienced in code review and represent as a team lead across all functionalities and used lambda  expressions.  • Involved in implementing JQuery for providing interactive user interfaces.  • Written Test cases using Junit to validate the application flows in different scenarios in the standalone  application.  Environment: Java 1.8, J2EE, JSP 2.0, PL/SQL, Spring 2.0, EJB 2.0, Angular 2/4 ,JMS, JNDI, Oracle, XML, DOM, SOAP, Junit, Apache Camel, Web Sphere 8.5, Hibernate 3.0, Microservices, AWS,JDBC, Kafka, TDD, BDD, MS SQL  Server 2012, JESS, REST-ful Web service, Web logic 8, JBoss Drools, SOA Design Patterns, Cassandra, LDAP, NOSQL, Hadoop. Java Developer Sonata Software - Hyderabad, Telangana April 2015 to November 2017 Responsibilities:  • Used the light weight container of the Spring MVC Frame work to provide architectural flexibility for inversion of controller (IOC).  • Involved in the complete Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) phases such as Requirement Analysis, Design and Implementation of the project.  • Used Spring Framework for dependency injection.  • Implemented and deployed several EJB (Session and Entity).  • The front end of the project is designed on MVC architecture using struts, Tiles frameworks.  • Involved in Configuring tiles-def.xml, web.xml and struts-config.xml according to the strut framework.  • Used LOG4J for error logging at the development box and used ANT for building the deployable  EAR/WAR components.  • Used Web Sphere Application Server for deploying various components of application.  • EJB's were running under the hood of Web Sphere container/server.  • Implemented Back office loan services and web applications using Session Façade, Service Locator, Data  Access Objects, Business Delegate, MVC, Front Controller and Data Transfer Object design patterns.  • Created DB2 SQL Procedures, Functions & Stored Procedures, Nested Tables, Cursors, DB2 Packages, Reports & SQL Functions for Reports.  • Developed the application using RAD model.  • Worked with VSS Version control in order to create virtual library of computer files.  Environment: Java1.5, JSP2.0, Servlets2.4, EJB2.0, Struts1.2, Spring 2.0.3, JDBC3.0, Design patterns, Html, XML, CSS, Log4j, Ant, Web services, RAD6.0, IBM Web Sphere server6.1, IBM DB29.0, VSS. Education Bachelor's Skills Nodejs, Jquery, Java, Angular, React, Node, Javascript