Java Web Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> Web <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Web Developer Minneapolis, MN ?3 years of experience in Spring-boot, Webservice, Html, Servlets, JSPs, Mybatis, Spring, Struts2, Weblogic, Tomcat, SQL.  ?Experience in Deploying Enterprise Java Beans on Application Servers like Tomcat and WebLogic. Experience in working with SpringIOC, SpringMVC.  ?Experience in spring modules like MVC, JDBC, ORM, and Web Services using Eclipse and MyEclipse. Involved in the development and testing of web application and integration projects using Object Oriented technologies such as Java, Struts, JSP, JDBC, Spring Framework, Mybatis, Java Beans and Web Services.  ?Experience with an Oracle database.   ?Experience in the development of various web using J2EE technologies like Servlets, JSP, JDBC and Web Services.  ?Experience in using frameworks and tools like Struts2+Spring+ibatis, Spring-boot, SpringMVC, MyEclipse, Eclipse and Toad for Oracle  ?Experience in deploying Weblogic and projects on Linux systems  ?Working Experience in client-side development with HTML5, JSP, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, and AJAX. Experience with front-end HTML5, CSS, JS, and JSON development. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Java Web Developer Tongda Technology Co., Ltd. - Nanjing August 2015 to November 2018 Wechat Mall Project  • Used HttpsURLConnection to request Wechat’s http-service access token, user identification and other web-services.   • Used CXF to generate client code to develop in cooperation with the development server team to develop the client calling the server web service to query goods, add goods to the shopping cart and order goods function.  • Used JUnit to test web services.  Environment: Java, Oracle, Struts2, Spring 2.0, JUnit, ibatis, Weblogic 10, MyEclipse, Javascript, jsp  User information collection by wechat Project and User information management System  • Developed with the Baidu’s ID card image recognition web-service, and realizing the function of extracting information through ID card photography, then then used sql and Mybatis to store relevant data in the database.   • Used Redis to store the Token from Wechat’s Web service.   • Use DES to encrypt and store user information.  • Built graphical report display using echarts.  • Used LODOP Plug-in to debug the peripheral printer speeds up the development of similar functions.  • Used Easyui to developed some reports with complex logic.   Environment: Java, Oracle, Spring-boot, maven, JUnit, Mybatis, Tomcat, Eclipse, Redis, Javascript, html, Easyui, Echarts  Insurance Distribution Project and Agent distribution Web-service Project  • Used CXF and HTTPClient to interconnect with web-services  of the two insurance companies to realize the purchase, cancellation, and printing of multiple products.    • Participated in the development of other insurance companies’ products. Some need to pass XML, some need to pass JSON.  • Used CXF to past a web service, and used java to develop a web service for the purchase of two insurance products, cancellation, and printing of documents for another agency. They can use our web-service to achieve insurance purchase, cancellation, and printing of multiple products.  Environment: Java, Oracle, Struts2, Spring 2.0, JUnit, ibatis, Weblogic 10, MyEclipse, CXF Education Bachelor's in Computer Science and Technology Shandong University of Finance and Economics - Jinan September 2011 to June 2015 Skills Java Developer (3 years), Java, Spring, html5, Oracle, Weblogic, Struts2, mybatis, Toad, Tomcat, MyEclipse, Java J2Ee, Javascript, MVC, JSP Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/pengfei-wang-07a710183/ Certifications/Licenses Driver's License April 2019 to March 2023 Additional Information Work Permit: Green Card Holder