Java/J2EE Developer <span class="hl">Java</span>/J2EE <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java/J2EE Developer Alpharetta, GA • Over 3+ years of experience in analysis, design and development of various multi-tiered architecture based enterprise applications using Java and J2EE technologies.  • Specialized in development and implementation of Application and Web based Technology Solutions.  • Having experience in coding, development of web based applications using Java and J2EE.  • Extensive knowledge in design pattern and implementation of MVC architecture with Struts framework.  • Ability to interact with end users, self-motivated, quick learner & team player with good analytical and communication skills.  • Experience in J2EE Technology- Servlets, JSP, JDBC, JQuery, Java Beans, Java Mail.  • Expertise working with frameworks & technologies like Java, JSPs, Servlets, EJBs, JDBC, Struts, Strurs2, Spring (including Web, ORM, MVC, AOP), Hibernate  • Expertise working on Application servers, Web servers, and IDEs like IBM Websphere, BEA WebLogic, Oracle Application Server, JBOSS and Apache Tomcat, JBuilder, RAD, WSAD, Eclipse, RSA  • Expertise in DB queries, stored procedures and triggers using PL/SQL.  • Good Listener and a Quick Learner, shows keen interest in discussions and always willing to give suggestions both on the Technical as well as the Functional front  • Good experience in implementation and testing of Web Services using SOAP and REST based architecture  • Good knowledge in tools like CVS and familiar with IDEs like Eclipse, RSA, RAD.  • Strong experience in writing SQL Queries and Stored Procedures for Oracle, DB2, MS SQL Server  • Experienced in REST based WebServices.  • Good working knowledge with SOA Architecture and SOA Products.  • Experience with scripting technologies JavaScript, JQuery, ExtJS  • Strong understanding of Object Oriented Programming methodology.  • Good communication, interpersonal skills backed by sound analytical, technical and leadership skills.  • Experience in unit testing Java components with JUnit  • A Team player as well as a Self-Starter. Work Experience Java/J2EE Developer AT&T January 2017 to December 2017 Project: IVR Order Status    Order Status, The purpose of this project is to establish a data repository to capture complete sales/order events to be used as a source of contract data needed to support the new Revenue Recognition (aka REV REC) revenue accounting process for product orders from all internal sales channels.    The Order Management OMNI-Channel program included scope for this repository function from the perspective of providing the ability for AT&T customers to initiate activities through any channel of their choosing. In order to support REV REC, this portion of the scope will be re-prioritized in order to provide the Rev Rec solution with the required Order information.    In addition, the Order Management program will utilize this new repository to enhance the customer ordering experience by providing the ability for our customers to do business seamlessly with AT&T across any internal channel they choose and expand their functionality to do business how they want, without the limitations of the individual ordering channels.    Responsible for creating API's for Order Status for OrderSummary and OrderDetails,    Responsibilities:  • The business logic of the application was developed using Java, spring  • Used spring concepts like IOC for building the framework.  • Used JSON object to decrease the number of variables in API  • Involved in creating DAO's  • Involved in update database using SQL DEVELOPER, TOAD  • Involved in Design call flows  • Involved in creating Services and Controller  • Responsible for creating OrderSummary API  • Responsible for creating OrderDetails API  • Involved in integrating the code with ERICM(which is Internal Tool in AT&T)  • Involved in writing test cases for Junit.  • Involved in some self testing in this Project  • Used Rally for bug tracking  • Supporting OrderSummary and OrderDetails API's since this project on live    Environment: Java, J2EE, Oracle 11g, TOAD, Eclipse, ANT, XML, Restful WebServices, Weblogic, Junit, ERICM (AT&T tool which integrate API code) Java/J2EE Developer AT&T January 2017 to March 2017 Project: IVR Cross Channel CustomerSnapshot    This Project is for IVR should be able to determine if a caller had logged into att.com or the MyATT app within the configurable number of days. Using Customer Snapshot API we can check whether the caller logged into ATT.COM or the MyATT APP within the last 30 days and If caller logged into ATT then API provides the Latest Channel name and LatestContactDate within the configurable number of days    Responsibilities:  • The business logic of the application was developed using Java, spring  • Used spring concepts like IOC for building the framework.  • Used JSON object to decrease the number of variables in API  • Involved in creating DAO's  • Involved in update database using SQL DEVELOPER, TOAD  • Involved in Design call flows  • Involved in creating Services and Controller  • Responsible for Create CustomerSnapshot API  • Involved in integrating the code with ERICM(which is Internal Tool in AT&T)  • Involved in writing test cases for Junit.  • Involved in some self testing in this Project  • Used Rally for bug tracking  • Supporting Customer Snapshot Project since this project on live    Environment: Java, J2EE, Oracle 11g, TOAD, Eclipse, ANT, XML, Restful WebServices, Weblogic, Junit, ERICM (AT&T tool which integrate API code) Java/J2EE Developer AT&T March 2016 to January 2017 Project: IVR CPARE(Common Payment Arrangement Recommender ), CPARE_MAB(Mobile Application Buisiness)    This Project is for Enhancements of Payments and customers who have more past due and don't have any Payment Arrangement those customers account should be Cancel or Suspended .This project will provide the Wireless customer the ability to make a Payment Arrangement online either secured or unsecured.    This project should create the foundation for creating a consistent customer experience across portfolios and customer touch points. All architectural and design decisions for this project should be made with the assumptions that  1) the Payment Arrangement options presented to customers should ultimately be the same options presented in all channels (MyATT Online, MyATT App, IVR, CSR, ) and  2) this solution will support Home Solutions portfolio.    Responsibilities:  • The business logic of the application was developed using Java, spring  • Used spring concepts like IOC for building the framework.  • Used JSON object to decrease the number of variables in API  • Involved in creating DAO's  • Involved in update database using SQL DEVELOPER, TOAD  • Involved in Design call flows  • Involved in creating Services and Controller  • Responsible for Create PaymentArrangement API  • Involved in MAB(Mobile Application) design for CPARE project to develop screens for Payments  • Used Justinmind design tool for Design the project Documentation  • Involved in integrating the code with ERICM(which is Internal Tool in AT&T)  • Involved in writing test cases for Junit.  • Involved in some self testing in this Project  • Used Rally for bug tracking    Environment: Java, J2EE, Oracle 11g, TOAD, Eclipse, ANT, XML, Restful WebServices, Weblogic, Junit, ERICM (AT&T tool which integrate API code) Java/J2EE Developer Fabric.com October 2015 to March 2016 Project: Purchase Order    Fabric.com is an Amazon subsidiary company and Purchase Order project is for Online Fabrics order.  Purchase Order is intranet application used by Fabric internal employees. They use Purchase Order application to order the goods that are required for fabric.com. It creates unique purchase order number for every order.    Responsibilities:  • The business logic of the application was developed using Java, Servlets, spring, MyBatis.  • Worked on Java Beans for making changes to the business logic.  • Used spring concepts like IOC for building the framework.  • Involved in configuring MyBatis mapping file.  • Involved in creating DAO's  • Involved in creating Services and Controller  • Responsible for Create Order API  • Responsible for Update Order API  • Responsible for Delete Order API  • Written the Data layer using MyBatis  • Involved in integrating the code with UI(Angular JS)  • Worked with using Git Bash shell  • Involved in consuming Amazon Rest WebServices  • Involved in writing test cases for Junit.    Environment: Java, J2EE, Oracle 11g, Eclipse, Maven, XML, Restful WebServices, Weblogic, Junit, GIT Education Bachelor of Technology in Computer Science in Computer Science Nagarjuna University Skills ECLIPSE (2 years), J2EE (2 years), JAVA (2 years), API (2 years), XML (2 years), html, asp, javascript, mysql, Spring, Hibernate, Java J2Ee, Soap, Rest Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  Languages C, Java, SQL  Java/J2EE  Struts MVC, Spring Framework, Servlets, JSP, JSF, EJB, Java Swing, Java Beans, Java Mail, JDBC, JNDI, REST API, JMS, SOAP Webservices, REST Web services, ILOG,    Databases ORACLE 9i, 11g SQL Server, MySQL, Sybase, MS SQL Server  Middleware JMS, Hibernate, Enterprise Java Beans  Web Development HTML, CSS, XML, Java Script, JQuery, ExtJS  IDE's Eclipse, Net Beans, RSA, RAD  Web/Application Servers Apache Tomcat, IBM WebSphere, Oracle Weblogic, JBoss  Tools ANT, Maven, log4j, MS Visio, Contivo, TIBCO, XMLSPY, Tortoise SVN, GIT  O/S Windows NT/98/2000/XP/Vista/7, Unix/Linux  Version Control CVS, VSS, Subversion, Clearcase