Application Developer Application <span class="hl">Developer</span> San Jose, CA ? 4 years of technical IT experience in Design, Development, Support and Implementation of Web-based applications using Java/J2EE and MVC technologies.  ? Hands-on experience in J2EE technologies such as Spring Framework, Servlets, JDBC, JUnit and Web Services.  ? Worked on the concepts of multi-threading, Exceptional Handling, OOPS and Garbage collection.  ? Utilized servers as Tomcat, IBM WebSphere for deploying applications.  ? Continuously worked with Agile methodologies like SCRUM and TDD.  ? Expertise in developing test cases using Mockito and JUnit frameworks.  ? Beginner level expertise in web-based GUI development using HTML, AngularJS and CSS.  ? Designed and developed APIs using Spring MVC for JSON format responses. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Application Developer HM Health Solutions - Pittsburgh, PA December 2017 to April 2019 Seamlessly managed, maintained and troubleshot IBM Mainframe's monthly and daily activities for multiple applications utilizing Visio Workflow Plans. Frequently supported and assisted other developers to meet user needs and deadlines. Created, maintained and implemented new source code for additional features of application. Designed the prototype application, indicated program unit structure, and coordinated application plans with the development team.    ? Developed and deployed additional technology features in Estimation Engine using Java and PL/SQL to meet client efficiency needs.  ? Utilized Power Mockito and JUnit frameworks to unit test legacy code.  ? Took ownership and responsibility of application ( Java). Completed in-depth evaluation of needs and made significant code changes to improve performance.  ? Worked on new workflow. Coordinated with upstream system to adjust database. After implementation, raw files uploaded in 10 hours instead of 2 days resulting in high client satisfaction.  ? Implemented Spring Data JPA as the ORM tool for data persistence.  ? Developed technical design documents for projects actively assigned to team, in order to create implementation plan. Maintained documentation for cross-team reference to ensure accessibility by team members, when needed. Java Developer INTEGRA Technologies - Wilmington, DE May 2017 to November 2017 Frequently participated in project planning sessions with team managers, business analysts and team members to analyze business requirements and outlined the best feasible technical solutions.    ? Performed database operations using Oracle PL/SQL frequently.  ? Tweaked existing code to new coding standard established to form uniformity within all applications making it easier for future resources (employees).  ? Used Maven to build, run and create JARs and WAR files.  ? Developed REST Web Services to interact with other components.  ? Utilized JIRA ticketing system keep track of bugs.  ? Worked with GitHub for version control.  ? Created design documents for proposed changes and maintained appropriate documents for future troubleshooting and Root Cause Analysis (RCA).  ? Created documentation for on-boarding business partner configuration on security and setups. Java Engineer AKT LLC - Lewisville, TX October 2016 to April 2017 Actively participated in different parts of the development life cycle for Agile methodology. Managed project requirements and ensured projects were completed on time within budget, with minimal defects. Developed REST API interactions between different applications.    ? Performed SQL CRUD operations daily for maintenance, project development and troubleshooting purposes.  ? Developed REST API's for data gathering between applications (PeopleSoft etc.)  ? Utilized Spring Framework for creating the business logic and Spring AOP and MVC for transaction handling.  ? Hibernate was used to access and perform operations on the database end.  ? Developed and debugged servlets and EJBs with WebSphere Application Server.  ? Used Harvest and Urban Code for version control and application deployment.  ? Actively involved in regression testing of different pieces of the application on a regular basis.  ? Worked on middleware frameworks like Hibernate for mapping java classes to database. Java Developer CORMAC Corporation - Columbia, MD July 2016 to September 2016 Made coding changes to effectively add loggers for RCA. Efficiently worked within team to achieve tight deadlines on time. Worked on process improvements to increase product quality and effectiveness.    ? Added loggers using Log4j in different parts of the application to track for RCAs.  ? Utilized Eclipse IDE and WebSphere Application Server for entire application.  ? Performed unit testing using JUnit for the entire application to meet gate requirements for the upcoming release cycles.  ? Utilized JaCoCo, Sonar Lint and Sonar Qube for measuring code coverage, code duplication and unit test results.  ? Assisted in creating visually appealing dashboards using Tableau.  ? Performed database operations using PL/SQL procedures.  ? Researched on utilizing PowerBI for enhancing product quality.  ? Created configuration, build and test scripts for Continuous Integration environment. Java/J2EE Developer Vadamalai Media Group (VMG) - IN June 2013 to July 2014 Effectively contributed to end-user specific product development by participating in different parts of the software development life cycle (SDLC). Managed to deliver components before the planned deadlines to the users. Maintained coding standards and followed effective testing strategies before delivering.    ? Developed and deployed enhancements using Spring Framework (Spring Bean and Controller classes).  ? Performed rigorous unit testing using JUnit and Power Mockito frameworks.  ? Participated and created technical design documents for requirements.  ? Worked on front-end development using HTML, JavaScript and CSS.  ? Utilized Selenium for automated testing.  ? Responsible for deploying applications in development and dev environments.  ? Running tests on different components and report failed cases to QA team for analysis.  ? Implemented spring configuration for dependency injection.  ? Performed client-side validation using java script.  ? Utilized Git for version control and Maven to build, deploy applications.  ? Developed REST Web Services to retrieve data in JSON format. Education Master of Science (MS) in Information Systems University of Maryland - Baltimore, MD Bachelor of Engineering in (BE - Engineering) - Computer Science Sri Ramakrishna Engineering College - Coimbatore, Tamil Nadu Skills Eclipse, Java, Hibernate, Spring, jquery, Oracle, Pl/sql, Sql, Jira, Junit, Selenium, Git, Html, Javascript, Bootstrap, Visio, Ajax, Css, Tableau, Teradata Additional Information Technical Skills  Programming Languages: Java, SQL, PL/SQL  Databases: Oracle  Software: Microsoft (MS) Office (Visio, Word, Excel, Outlook, PowerPoint)  Web Technologies: HTML, CSS, AJAX, JavaScript, jQuery, Bootstrap  Operating Systems: Linux, Unix, Windows, Mac  Tools/Frameworks: Eclipse, Spring, Hibernate, Junit, Power Mockito, IntelliJ, Tableau, Power BI, Mainframe, UC Build & Deploy, SQL Navigator, Harvest, Urban Code, Git, Teradata SQL Assistant, JUnit, Selenium, JIRA