Java/J2EE Developer <span class="hl">Java</span>/J2EE <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java/J2EE Developer - CommScope Lake Oswego, OR • Around 5 years of experience in IT industry in the fields of Analysis, Design, Development, Implementation and Testing of Software Applications using Java/J2EE technologies.  • Strong experience on software development methodologies like Waterfall, Agile, TDD, Scrum and RAD.  • Knowledge on JAVA 8 Lambda Expressions to retrieve the data from Collections.  • Participated in Scrum, Sprint review, Retrospection and Virtual Closure meetings as part of Agile.  • Deep understanding of MVC [model-view-control], Client-Server and N-tier Architectures.  • Developed MVC Architecture using Jakarta Struts 1.3/2.0 with features like the Validation Framework, Tiles Framework, and Internationalization.  • Expertise in Web Application Development using HTML/HTML5, CSS/CSS3, JavaScript, SAAS, Angular JS, Angular 2, Node.js, jQuery, Bootstrap, XML, XSL, XSLT, XPath, XQuery, Java Swing JSON, DOJO, ExtJS, JSTL and AJAX.  • Extensive experience in Angular JS, React JS, Node.js, Backbone and Bootstrap.  • Good experience in implementing SOA solutions through Web-Services using JAX-WS, Spring, SOAP, WSDL and RESTful services.  • Hands on experience in developing several Microservices using spring boot, jersey, swagger to communicate through HTTP protocol for implementing SOA approach and web services.  • Worked with Spring Features like Spring MVC, Spring DAO, Spring Boot, Spring Batch, Spring Heroku.  • Experience in Spring Security, Spring Integration, Spring Zulu, Eureka.  • Skilled in design, development and deployment of applications for the J2EE platform using Servlets, Struts, Spring, EJB, JSP, SOA, SOAP, REST, Microservices, ORM, JPA, JMS, JAXP, JAXB, JUnit.  • Proficiency in IBM WebSphere, JBOSS and Apache Tomcat Application Server.  • Experience in working with Databases like Oracle 11g/10g/9i/8i, MySQL, PL/SQL, IBM DB2, PostgreSQL and MS-SQL server.  • Experience in working on Linux environment, Windows and UNIX shell scripts  • Work experience in integrating Automation scripts (Selenium WebDriver API) on Continuous Integration tools Hudson/Jenkins for nightly batch run of the Script.  • In depth Extensive Experience in retrieving and manipulating data from backend using Database SQL queries, PL/SQL- Stored Procedures, Functions, Sequences, Triggers, Views and Packages.  • Experience with PL/SQL, T-SQL DB development, Design Patterns, Agile- Scrum, XP, TDD.  • Hands on Experience with relational databases Oracle, SQL Server, DB2, My SQL as well as NoSQL Databases like MongoDB, Mark Logic, Cassandra, DynamoDB.  • Developed application using IDEs such as Eclipse, IntelliJ, WSAD (RAD), J-Builder and  NetBeans. Work Experience Java/J2EE Developer CommScope - Portland, OR November 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Involved in Client Requirements gathering, Analysis, Design, Development and Testing of the application using AGILE methodology (SCRUM).  • Designed various modules using technologies like CSS Media Queries, HTML5, AJAX, JSON, and JavaScript.  • Worked on JavaScript and HTML5 Browser Cache mechanism for storing and retrieving data for the website.  • Designed, developed a custom, single page, responsive web application on front end using AngularJS.  • Used AngularJS to connect the web application to back-end APIs, used RESTFUL methods to interact with several API's, and wrote custom directives for a responsive, CSS-animated user interface.  • Implemented routing logic and navigation from screen to screen and implemented login functionality on the client side in AngularJS.  • Working as an application developer experienced with controllers, views and models in NodeJS.  • Used Java 1.8 Lambda expressions and Stream API to support functional-style operations on streams of elements.  • The Stream API is integrated into the Collections API, to perform bulk operations on collections, like sequential  • Used Multi-Threading and collection framework including List, Map etc.  • Involved in multi-tiered J2EE design utilizing Spring Inversion of Control (IOC), AOP, MVC and Hibernate.  • Developed the persistence layer using Hibernate Framework, created the POJO objects and mapped using Hibernate annotations and Transaction Management.  • Creating REST API implementation using Spring Boot framework and writing test cases for those API's.  • Deploying application in AWS cloud using services like EC2, DynamoDB, Aurora, ELB, VPC etc.  • Used NoSQL database Amazon Dynamo DB to store data of reporting Application.  • Hands on experience working with Java IDE's like Intellij.  • Extensively used Junit and JMockit for writing unit test cases.  • Hands on experience in creating Docker containers and images and deployed the code using Docker and AWS Services.  • Involved in CICD process using GIT, Nexus, Jenkins job creation, Maven build, Create Docker image and deployment in AWS environment.  • Hands on experience with Terraform scripts.  • Designed and developed API specification with testing case (Swagger).  • Used Log4j to capture the logs that include various levels of information like error, info, and debug into Tracking the bugs and improvements through JIRA.  • Handling the project with GIT version control.  Environment: HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery AJAX, Bootstrap, AngularJS, EXTJS, NodeJS, Agile (SCRUM), SpringBoot, Hibernate, DynamoDB, Docker, Terraform, Nginx, GIT, JUnit, Maven, Restful, JAX-RS, Log4J, AWS, Swagger, Microservices, JIRA, Jenkins. Java/J2EE Developer Aetna - Hartford, CT January 2018 to October 2018 Responsibilities:  • Performed complete application life cycle function (SDLC) from conception to final release to users including design & analysis, Implementation, Testing, Deployment, and Maintenance.  • Followed Agile methodology throughout the project, involve in Scrum meetings with the team members on day-to-day basis for the update on project status.  • Extensively used Java 8 features such as lambda expressions, Parallel operations on collections, multithreading and for effective sorting mechanisms and Streams to store and process the data.  • Used Multithreading to simultaneously process as and when a specific user data is completed in one table.  • Designed the login portal using framework AngularJS 2.0 along with HTML5, CSS3 and Type Script.  • Implemented with XML, XSLT, XPath and Web services (REST & Soap).  • Worked with Angular.js routers, forms, modules, DOM, expressions, controllers, filters and Http Request.  • Configure and run gulp tasks in Node.js runtime and handle injection, CSS pre-processing, test-running.  • Created Typescript reusable components and services to consume REST API's using Components.  • Experience in creating RESTful web services using Jersey, SPRING framework and JAX-RS.  • Good understanding of REST API's extensive experience of integrating services via Ajax using JavaScript, jQuery, and Angular.js  • Extremely used plain JavaScript and J-Query, JavaScript Library to do the client-side validations.  • Experience in creating RESTful web services using Jersey, SPRING framework and JAX-RS.  • Used spring framework 4.3 to create the beans needed and injected dependency using Dependency Injection.  • Implemented the persistence layer using Hibernate-ORM. Worked on Spring Web Flow on Spring MVC for building flows in our web application.  • Implemented and developed Hibernate configuration and session-per-request design pattern for making database connectivity and accessing the session for database transactions respectively.  • Implemented jQuery based accordion styles and handled complete jQuery in showing Rich Internet Application.  • Implemented presentation layer using Spring Boot 1.3, J-Query and Bootstrap 4.0.  • Extensive involvement in developing Spring MVC, Spring Data and Spring Batch applications.  • Utilized Spring core, Spring Boot, JPA, and Hibernate 5. Developed Entity objects and used Hibernate the ORM tool to access persistent data from MySQL.  • Microservices have been built using Spring boot, Spring security and deployed to AWS cloud.  • Used AWS SDK for connection to Amazon S3 buckets as it is used as the object storage service to store and retrieve the media files related to the application.  • Configured the Docker Containers and creating Dockers files for different environments.  • Experience in using JUnit and build tools such as Maven. Worked on Log4j for logging errors, messages and performance logs and SVN for version control.  • Maven used to manage dependencies in the application and deploy it on JBoss Application server.  • Developed unit testing frame work using JUnit test cases for continuous integration testing  • Working on Continuous Integration (Jenkins) to configure the project jobs to build on daily/weekly basis.  • Used Eclipse as IDEtool to develop the application and JIRA for bug and issue tracking.  • Used Git as a version control system and deployed the application in Production  • Extensively Worked on Continuous Integration and Continuous Deployment (CI/CD).  Environment: Java 8, JSP, Spring, JSTL, EJB, JMS, XML, XSLT, JDBC, AJAX, HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, JavaScript, Angular 2, Node.js, Restful, AWS, jQuery, Hibernate, JPA, Microservices, PL/SQL, JBoss, Docker, RabbitMQ, Log4J, Maven, Windows, Junit, Mockito, JIRA. Java/J2EE Developer Promizent Solutions Pvt. Ltd October 2015 to March 2017 Responsibilities:  • Extensively involved in requirements gathering and analyzing them, checking the dependencies and design of the project.  • Participated in all phases of SDLC includes areas of requirement gathering, analysis, estimation, design, coding, testing and documentation.  • Worked in Agile/Scrum methodology for the enhancements and involved in story breakup and task prioritization  • Involved in the design of helper classes using core Java and multi-threading and Collections.  • Used several design patterns like Factory, Front Controller, Strategy and Boot starter patterns.  • Designed and developed various screens using HTML, CSS, Typescript/JavaScript/Angular JS, and jQuery.  • Built commercial applications with ES6, Web pack /Gulp, Swagger, and SPAs like React and Angular.  • Expertise in consuming RESTful web services using Node.js, AngularJS and jQuery along with JSON parsing to implement AJAX call and render the response data to User Interface.  • Developed the code based on the design using Tiles MVC (Struts framework) and using J2EE pattern  • Used Hibernate as an O/R mapping tool for selecting, inserting and updating the records in the database.  • Responsible for customizing data model for new applications by using Hibernate ORM technology.  • Built end to end CI/CD Pipelines in Jenkins to retrieve code, compile applications, perform tests and push build artifacts to Nexus Artifactory.  • Used GIT as version control system, to keep track of all the work & all changes, allowing several developers to collaborate and used ANT as build and configuration tool and Jenkins for continuous integration tool.  • Developed build and deployment scripts using ANT as build tool in Jenkins REST API move from one environment to other environments.  • Created tables and worked on My SQL and PL/SQL to write Stored Procedures functions and packages for complex Inserts and updates in the database. And used Stored Procedures in the application.  • Created various MongoDB collections and wrote services to store and retrieve user data from for the application on devices and used Mongoose API to access the MongoDB from NodeJS.  • Used Apache ActiveMQ as messaging platform.  • Designed and developed the UI using Struts view component, JSP, HTML, CSS and JavaScript.  • Took part in setting up the application with Jenkins and AWS and is involved in builds and deployments to Tomcat server.  • Used Mockito framework for unit testing of application and Log4j to capture the log that includes runtime exceptions.  • Performed Unit testing, Integration, Testing and generating of test cases for Web application using Mockito and Log4j.  • Interacted with application testers to review system defects and provided comprehensive fixes. Used JIRA for issue tracking.  Environment: Java 1.7/1.6, J2EE, Agile, HTML, CSS, Typescript/JavaScript/Angular JS, jQuery, MVC (Struts framework), Hibernate, Jenkins, ANT, Jenkins, My SQL and PL/SQL, MongoDB, ActiveMQ, Tomcat, Git, Junit, Mockito, Log4j, JIRA. Java Developer Angaros (India) Private Limited February 2014 to September 2015 Responsibilities:  • Involved in various stages of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) deliverables of the project using the Agile methodology.  • Developed International Error Correction Screens using custom front-end forms using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery and Ajax.  • Gathered and clarified requirements with business analyst to feed into high-level customization design, development and installation phases.  • Used Spring Framework for dependency injection for Action classes using Application Context XML file.  • Involved in implementation of MVC pattern using JSP and Spring Controller.  • Developed business objects using Spring IOC, Spring MVC and Spring AOP.  • Implemented MVC architecture using JSP Spring, Hibernate and used Spring Framework to initialize managed beans and services.  • Worked on SOAP and RESTful Services using WEB API which return JSON data.  • Implemented SOA architecture with Web Services using SOAP, JAX-WS, WSDL, UDDI and XML.  • Used Struts2 Tag Libraries to implement J2EE design patterns (MVC).  • Used Collections for Model classes in the DAO layer (Data Access Object) involved in modifying some changes in DAO layer using Hibernate.  • Implemented Concurrency, Exception Handling and Collections whenever necessary.  • Used SQL to perform data mapping and backend testing, also documented all the SQL queries for future testing purpose.  • Wrote Stored Procedures and complicated queries for IBM DB2.  • Created process flow for deploying web application in Apache Tomcat.  • Managed build, reporting and documentation from the project information using Maven Tool and SVN for version control.  • Configured development environment using JBOSS application server for developer's integration testing.  • Used Jenkins for Continuous Integration. Used JUnit for testing and used JIRA for tracking bugs.  • Responsible for the dealing with the problem, bug fixing and troubleshooting.  Environment: Java 1.6, J2EE, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, Ajax, spring, Spring IOC, Spring AOP, Spring MVC, Hibernate, RESTful, SOAP, XML, XSLT, Eclipse, Unix, PL/SQL, JUnit, Maven, IBM DB2, JIRA, Jenkins, SVN and JBoss. Skills ECLIPSE, EJB, J2EE, JAVA, HIBERNATE, JAVA TECHNOLOGIES, SPRING, JBOSS, JMS, JSP, RMI, SERVLETS, STRUTS, WSAD, C++, DESIGN PATTERNS, DTD, Git, HTML, BOOTSTRAP