Guidewire Data Developer Guidewire Data <span class="hl">Developer</span> Guidewire Data Developer - Berkley Risk Administrators Minneapolis, MN Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Guidewire Data Developer Berkley Risk Administrators - Minneapolis, MN November 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Gained hands-on experience in Configuration and Integration for Guidewire ClaimCenter 7 and 9.  • Develop and maintain GOSU language application code within Guidewire Claims Center application.  • Involved in architecture and design team for version upgrade from Guidewire CC 7 to Guidewire CC 9.  • Involved in configuring PCF, Rule Sets, Workflows, and Datatypes.  • Involved in Integrating Guidewire ClaimCenter with the external system using SOAP Web Services.  • Worked along with Business Team and developed the new business requirements in Guidewire Studio.  • Written event fired rules as per the requirement.  • Used Java, Eclipse and Spring Batch to develop the Batch Jobs and Tidal Scheduler to schedule the Batch Jobs.  • Worked along with the business team on analyzing & prioritizing the requirements for each rollout.  • Deployed JAR, EAR, and WAR applications WebSphere Application Servers  • Used JIRA issue tracker to file the bugs.  • Experience in writing SQL Queries.  • Taking a part in Agile and SCRUM meetings to improve the responsiveness.  • Experience with source code management systems like GIT.  • Used Bamboo for build and deployment tool.  Environment: Guidewire Claim 7 and 9, Gosu, Java, JDK 6.0.45, JDK 8.0.161, Spring Batch, Bamboo, SQL Server/H2, Hibernate, WebSphere, SOAP, Putty, WinSCP, Agile, GIT, Windows/Linux Java Developer JP Morgan Chase - Lewisville, TX December 2015 to November 2017 Responsibilities:  • Involved in a group meeting with teammates and made substantial changes to the design to improve the performance of the Application  • Utilized modular structure within the application in which different functionalities within the application were divided into different modules.  • Developed the application using Agile methodology and Scrum method of project management.  • Extensively used core java concepts like Multithreading, Collections Framework, and concurrency.  • Involved in service layer development using spring framework.  • Developed Web services using Apache CXF and exposed WSDL for the client to consume.  • As a Middleware Team making Web service and Message Queuing call to Backend and populate required response to the clients.  • Working with MyBatis and Spring ORM to implement persistence mechanism to store data in the Backend Database.  • Responsible for the Oracle schema design and created SQL maps for iBATIS.  • Develop and execute unit test cases using JUnit, and Mockito as mocking framework for mocking data.  • Tested the Web Services Using SOAP UI Client Tool.  • Actively involved in code reviews and in bug fixing.  • Used MAVEN for building the application and deployed on Tomcat Server.  • Used SVN for version control.  • Involved in tracking the production issues and fixing the issues.  • Used JIRA issue tracker to file the bugs.    Environment: Java/J2EE, Spring Framework, Mockito, SOAP, Apache Tomcat, XML, Eclipse IDE, SVN, Maven, SOAP UI, JAXB, Apache CXF, JAX-WS, Superputty, SQL, MyBatis, Oracle Databases, Tortoise SVN, JUnit, Agile, JIRA, and Windows/Linux. Java Developer SLN Systems - New York, NY August 2015 to November 2015 Responsibilities  • Followed Scrum Agile methodology for iterative development of the application.  • Involved in system design, enterprise application development using object-oriented analysis in Java/JEE.  • Designed and developed the front end using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, AJAX.  • Designed use case diagrams, class diagrams and sequence diagrams as a part of the Design Phase.  • Implemented various J2EE Design patters like Singleton DAO, Transfer Object.  • Used Bootstrap along with AngularJS in creating the Application.  • Development of Client Side Validation techniques using AngularJS Script.  • Jersey implementation of JAX-RS is utilized to develop RESTful service.  • Developed a RESTful service to provide all the CRUD capabilities.  • Developed the application implementing Spring with Hibernate as ORM Framework.  • Used JUnit Framework for the unit testing for Java classes.  • Used Apache Maven to build the project.  • Code review of peers and integration testing.  • Checked the compatibility of the application with MySQL.  • Used Git for version control.    Environment: Java/J2EE, Spring, Hibernate, Apache Tomcat, AngularJS, REST, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, AJAX, MySQL, Git, SQL, Jenkins, JAX-RS, Junit, Apache Maven, Windows/Linux. Software Developer CMC Limited July 2013 to December 2013 Responsibilities  • Coding for various device drivers using C++.  • Porting of embedded Linux OS to the target board  • Customize the u-boot boot loader.  • Customize the embedded Linux kernel for various driver's support.  • Customize the build root file system.  • Involved in System functionality testing.  • Involved in System field testing  • In this project, Java is used for coding the data and also used SQLite Database for storing the information of all the employees in an Organization.  Environment: C++, Eclipse, Emulator, SQLITE Database and jdk1.6, I2C, USB and TCP/IP. Education Master of Science in Computer Science in Computer Science Northwest Missouri State University 2015 Bachelor's in Electronics and Communication Engineering Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University - Hyderabad, Telangana 2009 to 2013 Skills Eclipse (4 years), Java (4 years), Jira (3 years), Soap (3 years), Sql (4 years), Guidewire (2 years), Gosu (2 years), Guidewire Claim Center (2 years), Workers Compensation (2 years), Property and Casualty (2 years)