JAVA Developer <span class="hl">JAVA</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Experienced in web application Development using angularJs, Javascript, Java and Spring MVC framework. Great problem solving ability. Good exposure to agile and Devops methodology. Dedicated and highly ambitious to achieve organizational as well as personal goals. Excellent team player Work Experience JAVA Developer Tcs October 2016 to Present • Involved in multi-tiered JavaEE design using spring MVC and REST Webservices.  • Involve in application business layer development through spring framework.  • Developed loosely coupled classes by using spring dependency injection.  • Optimized the performance of the application by storing non sensitive data locally.  • Developed logics to handle complex navigation for different cases and scenarios.  • Optimized the existing codes by analyzing and implementing better logics for some functionality.  • Developed and maintained single page application (SPA) using angularJs.  • Used angularjs services to interact with server side to get the data.  • Worked on Agile based development cycle with a bi weekly release schedule, involved in complete SDLC life cycle - Designing, Coding, Testing, Debugging and Production Support.  • Worked closely with Business Analysts and Product Owner in understanding the requirements and providing better solution to the business problem by developing delightful features in application.  • Proposed technical feasibility solutions for new functional designs and suggested options for performance improvement of technical objects.  • Consistently met deadlines and requirements for all production work orders.  • Got involved in build and deploy automation process with Devops methodology. Education Bachelor Of Technology in Computer Science MCKV Institute Of Engineering - Howrah, WB, IN 2016 Md Jan Higher Secondary School - Kolkata, WEST BENGAL, IN 2012 The Presidency Muslim High School - Kolkata, WEST BENGAL, IN 2010 Additional Information Skills  • UI Web Technology: HTML, CSS, Bootstrap  • Scripting language: Javascript, Jquery, AngularJs, D3  • Programing: Java, J2EE, Web Services(REST), Junit, Spring MVC  • Version Control: Tortoise SVN  • Dependency Management: Maven  • Repository: Nexus  • Build and Deploy: Jenkin  • Methodology: Agile, Devops  • Servers: Jboss, Tomcat  • IDE's: Eclipse