Java/J2EE Developer <span class="hl">Java</span>/J2EE <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java/J2EE Developer - Southwest Airlines • Hands on 4+ years of IT experience in Software and Web Development using Java/J2EE technologies.  • Experience in all phases of Software Development Life Cycle including Requirements Analysis, Impact Analysis, Applications Design, Development and Testing of various web applications  • Well versed with entire development life cycle and agile methodologies.  • Experience in working with UML class diagrams, use cases, sequence diagrams, etc to meet changing business and user requirements  • Experience in version control systems such as CVS and Subversion  • Hands-on experience with Spring Boot and Spring JPA  • Implemented XML based protocol such as SOAP Web Services and Restful Web Services in software application development.  • Experienced in developing n-tier Enterprise application with J2EE design patterns like MVC, DTO, DAO and Singleton  • Intensive knowledge in databases like Oracle, SQL Server and IBM DB2, PostgreSQL.  • Experienced with XML related technologies such as XML, XSL, XSLT, DOM, and JAXP.  • Good knowledge of Ant and Jenkins  • Good understanding of Project Process and the ability to analyze business problems and identify solutions.  • Front-end development experience using HTML, JSP, CSS, JavaScript, J-Query.  • Experienced in creating build files using ANT, MAVEN, and logging using Log4J.  • Experience in requirements gathering and analysis the business and system requirements.  • Experience in quality assurance, unit testing.  • Good team player and self-starter with excellent communication, coordination, documentation, project planning and interpersonal skills. Work Experience Java/J2EE Developer Southwest Airlines - Gainesville, FL January 2017 to Present Project: Southwest Partner Services (SPS)  Southwest Partner Services (SPS) is a middleware platform that will provide International and Domestic Shopping, Pricing and Booking services to Corporate Partners, Travel Agencies, Offsite Check-In and MyId. SPS will use TBS 5.x Service (services from Partners and to Amadeus) and Spring Integration to orchestrate calls between Partners to SWA and SWA to Amadeus    Responsibilities:  • Involved in requirement gathering phase of SDLC with Business Analyst and worked with Agile-Scrum methodology.  • Participates in PSI (Potentially Shippable Increments) Sprint Planning, demos and retro.  • Worked on refactoring the code for better readable, understandable, maintainable and with small exception of performance optimization.  • Development XML to XML message transformation from internal specific domain to external domain using XSLT.  • Implemented the schematron validations for input request sent by partners.  • Implemented wiremock for stubbing and mocking of web service with Amadeus travel agencies.  • Developed Rest endpoints using the Spring boot.  • Worked in deployment of code promotion for different QA, ITEST region using Jenkins and IBM buildforge tools.  • Implemented XML integration using XML, XSDs, XSLT, SOAP.  • Implemented security services such as Tokenization and Altéa Session Management Service for all services with F5 Load balancing testing.  • Implemented mutual authentication with x.509 certificates between Partners and SWA.  • Worked in developing spring related backend services.  • Maven is used to download the Java Plug-in for developing the applications.  • Extensively used JUnit for Unit Testing of web service and message transformation.  • Extensively used SOAP UI for testing the web services.  • Conducts daily post stand-up Developer huddles to encourage exchange technical ideas & possible solution reuse where applicable.  • Collaborates with Solution Architects & Developers to ensure that Application architecture, design & implementation of the solution are consistent with the Solution architecture & Architectural vision.  • Provides technical guidance to Business Analysts to flush out stories & their Acceptance Criteria.  • Provides technical guidance to QA Testing Lead to develop & implement testing strategy for the stories.  • Used PUTTY for UNIX login, to run the batch jobs, check the server logs and deploying applications.  • Clear Quest is used to keep track of the defects and maintain the defect status.    Operating System: Unix and Windows operating System  Java Technologies: JDK 1.7, Spring 3.0, Spring Boot, Pivotal Cloud Foundry, Spring Integration 3.0, Web Services, JSON, JavaScript, XML 1.0, XSLT 2.0, STS 3.6, Wiremock, Grrovy script, schematron.  Special Software: Apache CFX 3.0, SVN, Maven, Jenkins, IBM Build Forge, F5 Load Balancing Java Developer Walmart - Bentonville, AR October 2015 to December 2016 Project: Order Pickup  Order Pickup project is establishing a mechanism to pick and release the orders via handheld device. This process will increase the efficiency and productivity by providing a platform for the picking of multiple order types simultaneously. This system also allows store associate to make any changes to the order while picking and releasing the order to customer.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in the Requirements Analysis and database design  • Involved in User group meetings to gather system requirements.  • Designed Class diagrams and sequence diagrams  • Developed Jersey Restful Web services between centralized order management system and the client systems it communicates with.  • Interact with the client daily to discuss the project status  • Designed the logical and physical data model, generated DDL scripts, and wrote DML scripts for Informix database.  • Implementing spring restful web services and DAO's  • Worked on DAO layer in Hibernate.  • Designed web pages using JSP, Struts, XSL, HTML, DHTML, AJAX and client-side validation with JavaScript  • Developed test cases using JUnit  • Extensively used Hibernate ORM in data access layer to write DAOs. Developed hibernate mapping and Configuration files  • Used Subversion for concurrent version control of the application.  • Do peer to peer code reviews  • Develop user documentation  • Involved in Unit Testing using JUnit and System Integration Testing.  • Used Ant and Jenkins for java builds and compilation of code  • Coordinated with QA testers for end-to-end unit testing and post-production testing.  • Subversion was used for concurrent version control of the application.    Operating System: Unix and Windows operating System  Java Technologies: Java, Spring restful web services, Hibernate, XSLT  Special Software: Apache Tomcat, SVN, Jenkins, Eclipse, Splunk, Oracle Java Developer EyeMed - Mason, OH February 2015 to September 2015 Project: VCP  Vision Care Portal application which allows retail locations to provide a customer with various vision pricing options based on the customer insurance plan and eligibility. Vision Care Portal is re-written in order to be more maintainable by developers and reduce the number of manual lookups by the assignment support center and to minimize the repetition for sales/store associate from calculating and researching  member and member benefits/eligibility.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in the Requirements Analysis and database design  • Involved in User group meetings to gather system requirements.  • Designed Class diagrams and sequence diagrams  • Interact with the client daily to discuss the project status  • Designed the logical and physical data model, generated DDL scripts, and wrote DML scripts for oracle database.  • Implementing spring restful web services and DAO's  • Worked on DAO layer in Hibernate.  • Developed test cases using JUnit  • Extensively used Hibernate ORM in data access layer to write DAOs. Developed hibernate mapping and Configuration files  • Used SVN for concurrent version control of the application.  • Do peer to peer code reviews  • Develop user documentation  • Involved in Unit Testing using JUnit and System Integration Testing.  • Used Ant and Jenkins for java builds and compilation of code  • Coordinated with QA testers for end-to-end unit testing and post-production testing.  • Subversion was used for concurrent version control of the application.    Operating System: Unix and Windows operating System  Java Technologies: Jsp, Java, Java Script, Restful web services, Maven, Spring MVC  Special Software: WebLogic 5.1, SVN, Jenkins, IntelliJ 13, Oracle Education B.Tech in Computer Science Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University Skills Eclipse, J2ee, Java, Hibernate, Java technologies, Spring, Java J2Ee, JSP, Rest, JEE, Javascript, MVC, Angularjs, Angular, Core Java