Associate Application Developer Associate Application <span class="hl">Developer</span> Associate Application Developer San Jose, CA Work Experience Associate Application Developer HM Health Solutions - Pittsburgh, PA December 2017 to April 2019 Seamlessly managed, maintained and troubleshot IBM Mainframe's monthly and daily  activities for multiple applications utilizing Visio Workflow Plans. Frequently supported and assisted other developers to meet user needs and deadlines. Created, maintained and  implemented new source code for additional features of application. Designed the prototype  application, indicated program unit structure, and coordinated application plans with the development team.  ? Developed and deployed additional technology features in Estimation Engine using  Java and PL/SQL to meet client efficiency needs.  ? Assumed accountability for the success of new and existing applications and projects.  ? Took ownership and responsibility of application ( Java). Completed in-depth  evaluation of needs and made significant code changes to improve performance.  ? Worked on new workflow. Coordinated with upstream system to adjust database. After  implementation, raw files uploaded in 10 hours instead of 2 days resulting in high  client satisfaction.  ? Regularly participated on end-to-end testing efforts between systems, as effort (task) of regression testing.  ? Developed technical design documents for projects actively assigned to team, in order  to create implementation plan. Maintained documentation for cross-team reference to ensure accessibility by team members, when needed. Java Developer INTEGRA Technologies May 2017 to November 2017 Frequently participated in project planning sessions with team managers, business analysts and team members to analyze business requirements and outlined the best feasible  technical solutions.    Java Developer ~~~~~~~~~~)  ? Built additional features to the existing educational platform/application and enhanced the efficiency of existing modules.  ? Tweaked existing code to new coding standard established to form uniformity within all applications making it easier for future resources (employees).  ? Created design documents for proposed changes and maintained appropriate  documents for future troubleshooting and Root Cause Analysis (RCA). Junior Business Analyst ASTACRS - Ashburn, VA October 2016 to April 2017 Program trainee. Sought out client opportunities. Presented resume to prospect. Interviewed and when hired, provided high-end analyst services.  ? Managed project requirements and ensured projects were completed on time within  budget, with minimal defects.  ? Participated in requirements gathering sessions with the users (stakeholders).  Communicated, documented and coordinated the whole development cycle between the team members. Business Intelligence/Analytics Developer CORMAC Corporation - Columbia, MD July 2016 to September 2016 Created customer specific data-driven dashboards. Worked closely with research team on finding latest software options, from the evolving market, to optimize company performance.  Efficiently worked within team from scratch to development of company specific software.  Experience with streamlining SQL query generation and data modeling.  ? Created and deployed visually appealing dashboards in Microstrategy to represent  visual insights to help management in decision making.  ? Worked on ETL workflow using Informatica for pulling data migration.  ? Created reports with new tools such as, Tableau and Power BI, that increased the product value. Education Master of Science in (MS) - Information Systems University of Maryland - Baltimore, MD Bachelor of Engineering in (BE - Engineering) - Computer Science Sri Ramakrishna Engineering College - Coimbatore, Tamil Nadu Skills HTML, Linux Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/barath-pandiyan