QA Tester QA Tester QA Tester - Blue Cross & Blue Shield of Mississippi Vienna, VA Diligent QA Tester with more than 3 years of experience testing Web-based applications. Proficient in test  strategy implementation test plan development test execution and bug tracking. Specialize in test development  scheduling execution and test project management.  Experience in full Software Development Life Cycle SDLC Experience in Agile software development  utilizing Scrum and test based development TDD based on JUnit and Waterfall model.  Strong experience in the Web Application GUI Development and client side technologies like AngularJS,  HTML/HTML5, JavaScript, jQuery and CSS3.  Solid understanding of quality assurance and software development life cycles.  Ability to Focus on deadlines and deliverables-ensures the ability to find the bad defects and bug quickly.  Proficient in development of enterprise business solutions using JBoss, WebLogic, Web sphere and Tomcat  Server.  Experienced in OOAD Techniques developing Use Cases, Sequence Diagrams and Class Diagrams using UML  methodology.  Good experience in writing SQL Queries, PL/SQL Procedures, Functions, Triggers, Cursors, Indexing, Query  Optimization and Performance Tuning.  Experience in SOAP, REST, XML and WSDL for developing Web Services.  Expertise in Unit Testing, Integration Testing, and experience in preparing the Test Cases, executing Test plans.  Developed Java Applications in various IDE tools like NetBeans, MyEclipse and Eclipse.  Experienced in Version controlling tools like GIT and SVN and Build Tools like Maven and Ant.  Effective communication skills with clients, subject matter experts, end-users, technical teams, co- workers and  professional management teams.  Willing to explore new quality assurance tools and procedures Work Experience QA Tester Blue Cross & Blue Shield of Mississippi - Flowood, MS September 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  Involved in Finding Security Vulnerabilities, Fixing it and testing to have a secure application.  Understanding of Test Planning, Test Design, Test Execution and Defect Reporting & Tracking.  Test automation scripting and execution.  Performed backend test of application using MySQL, writing queries to confirm correctness of data entered via  UI, and data manipulation.  Developed an effective automated test script design with objectives of maximizing the reusability and their  maintainability  Created Test Automation Framework with Cucumber and Selenium WebDriver.  Involved in analysis, design and development of pre-existing system and upgrade it into newer secure system.  Developed presentation layer using JSP, Struts-2, JavaScript, JSON, AJAX.  Deploying application on WebSphere Server.  Hands on experience in handling Cross site scripting XSS.  Used Spring framework for transactional calls.  Executing Selenium Test Cases and Reporting defects.  Develop test framework using Selenium Webdriver.  Extensively worked with Struts, JSTL, EJB implementing J2ee Pattern for various modules.    Environment: Java, Selenium IDE, Selenium WebDriver, Cucumber, J2EE, JSP, JSTL Tags, OWASP, Struts, Spring, Jdbc, MyBatis, Hibernate, Soap Web Services, Soap UI, MySql, Linux, WebSphere, Junit, TestNG  Windows. Java Developer JP Morgan Chase - Wilmington, DE April 2016 to September 2017 Responsibilities:  Responsible in complete software development life cycle (SDLC) as well as in Agile/Scrum.  Involved in analysis, design and development of system and created specifications writing Use Cases, Class  Diagrams.  Work directly with management, vendors, and third parties to ensure that Web-site's financial transactions and database management applications operate at peak efficiency.  Designed and develop many batch projects Class Diagram.  Configured the Hibernate to implement the ORM Mapping in the system using XML configuration files.  Implemented Spring MVC based controllers using MVC annotations to navigate request to different layers.  Extensively used Spring Framework such as Spring IoC for bean management and Spring AOP integrated with Log4j for exception logging.  Mostly got experience in publishing and consuming web services SOAP API.  Performed Unit Testing, Integration Testing and user acceptance testing using JUnit.  Written Many Database Scripts as needed for the projects to create new table or to alter previous table.  Used HibernateTemplate API for database operation, such as queries, updates and in order to fulfill user's  requests.  Configured and deployed the application in JBoss.  Used SVN as the version control system.    Environment: Java, J2EE, Spring, Spring-Batch, Jdbc, Control -m, Hibernate, Soap Web Services, Soap  UI, Linux, JBOSS, Junit, EasyMock, Log4j, MySql, SVN, Windows. Education Masters in Computer Science in Computer Science Maharishi University Of Management - Fairfield, Iowa, US Bachelor's Degree in Electronics & Communication Engineering in Electronics & Communication Engineering Tribhuvan University Skills ECLIPSE, JAVA, SPRING, JBOSS, jQuery, STRUTS, CASE TOOLS, Cucumber, HTML, JAVASCRIPT, JIRA, SELENIUM, SELENIUM GRID, SELENIUM RC, SELENIUM WEBDRIVER, SQL SERVER, MYSQL, QA, Manual