Java/J2EE Developer <span class="hl">Java</span>/J2EE <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java/J2EE Developer - Cerner Kansas City, KS Experience in all phases of software development life cycle including analysis, design, development, implementation, integration, testing and maintenance of multi-tier distributed applications using Java and J2EE technologies. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Java/J2EE Developer Cerner - Kansas City, KS March 2017 to Present Project: Add Appointment (Revenue Cycle Application)  • Actively involved in iteration planning, coding design, development, testing, code reviews and project release.  • Implemented object oriented design for multi-tier distributed application using JAVA and J2EE technologies.  • Develop UI components to display recurring appointments and reusable message dialog with customizable header, message and buttons with their callback functions using Javascript, HTML, and CSS.  • Implemented internationalization (i18n) for logging and error reporting.  • Created new service APIs using EJS by writing and consuming SQL queries.  • Uplifted over 30 projects to use Java 8 for the scheduling organization.  • Improved application's memory consumption by identifying key memory leaks by running Eclipse Memory Analyzer.  • Utilized Jenkins pipelines to run builds and support continuous integration and continuous delivery.  • Reviewed test plans and performed unscripted validations for the functional stories.  • Used both GitHub and SVN for source code management.  • Mentored new engineers to improve their skill set and getting them familiar with the available tools and processes. Java/J2EE Developer Cerner - Kansas City, KS April 2016 to December 2016 Project: Shift Left (Fetalink Application)  • Implemented service oriented architecture by creating RESTful web services.  • Developed JDBC queries and consumed Cerner's EJS services and implemented multithreading to in order to retrieve pregnancy data for multiple patients efficiently.  • Designed and generated REST APIs and documentation using Swagger by providing configuration in YAML file.  • Created test data generator utility using Hibernate to insert data to perform integration and behavioral tests created using JBehave framework.  • Tested the web services using Postman by passing Cerner's generated authentication token.  • Performed in extensive load tests of the service endpoints using Cerner's performance testing framework, Gatling. Java Developer USAA - San Antonio, TX October 2015 to March 2016 Project: ECT Get Healthy (Document Exchange Application)  • Developed the application using IBM Rational Software Architect.  • Utilized IBM Rational Team Concert (RTC) for collaborative lifecycle management, source control, planning, project reporting and task assignment.  • Developed Servlets to perform various operations such as sending instructions to printers for scan, and storing the documents to database and retrieving them.  • Manipulated the scanned documents on the server side to adjust brightness and rotation.  • Created query for Splunk dashboard to trace issues. Education Bachelor's in Engineering University at Buffalo - Buffalo, NY 2013 Skills J2Ee, Java, Spring, Hibernate, Rest, SQL, Web Services, Git, HTML, CSS, Javascript, React.js, Redux, SVN, JIRA, Jenkins, Agile, Scrum, MYSQL, HTML 5, Jquery