Software Developer Software <span class="hl">Developer</span> Software Developer - General Dynamics Information Technology Scranton, PA • IT experience across all phases of developing, testing, defect tracking, management, and reporting.  • Professional experience in application development and design using Object-Oriented Programming, Java 8 /J2EE technologies.    Technology Summary    Languages:- Java 8/J2EE , HTML, JavaScript, CSS   APIs:- Rest and Soap  Frameworks:- Hibernate, Spring  Databases:- Oracle, MySQL 3.x/4.1/5.0, SQL Server 2005/2008,Sybase Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Software Developer General Dynamics Information Technology - Wilkes-Barre, PA March 2019 to Present ? Experience developing software systems utilizing Unified Process (UP), Rapid Application Development (RAD) and Agile methodologies  ? Experience in designing, architecting, developing and delivering Java Two Enterprise Edition (J2EE) applications;   ? Experience in the development of 3 and 4-tier web applications.   ? Experience in conducting user story writing workshops    ? Experience in hosting Agile ceremonies and Agile support tools   ? Experience in web application technologies such as HTML,XML/XSL JDBC, JNDI, LDAP, JavaScript, Java EJBs/applets/servlets   ? Experience in the use of CSS (Cascading Style Sheets)   ? Experience in usability assessment   ? Experience in Unit and functional testing automation Java Developer Tata consultancy services - Atlanta, GA January 2019 to March 2019 ? Planning & Analysis:  Uses critical thinking to approach problems and create solutions Collaborates with senior leaders on assignments.  ? Delivery & Support:  Collaborates and pairs with other product team members (UX, engineering, and product management) to create secure, reliable, scalable software solutions  Works under the direction of a more senior engineer to build a well-rounded skillset  Configures commercial off the shelf solutions to align with evolving business needs  Creates automation scripts for both infrastructure and test cases • Learning:  Participates in learning activities around modern software design and development core  • Reviews and discusses code from more senior engineers to understand best practices and design patterns.  • Familiarity with open source cloud and application platforms, Google App Engine development experience. Java Developer PNC - Pittsburgh, PA May 2018 to January 2019 ? Involved in all phases of the Software development life cycle (SDLC) with the Agile/SCRUM Methodology  ? Under general direction working with designs, develops, troubleshoots, debugs, and implements software code using Java 8, JavaScript, HTML, SQL, and XML for software components of the web applications.  ? Participated in object-oriented design, development and testing of REST APIs using Java.  ? Working with Test Driven Development using JUnit/TestNG testing frameworks.  ? working with version control using GIT/Bitbucket.  ? Working with JEE/JSP Containers such as Tomcat using Eclipse   ? Executed test cases and analyzed test results and found bugs and reported bugs to VersionOne and keep track of bugs.  ? Experience developing RESTful web services Spring Framework: Spring MVC, Spring boot, Spring Integration.  ? Developed the build scripts using Maven  ? Wrote test cases in Junit for unit testing of classes and implemented the logging using Log4j. Junior Java Developer Cognizant Technology solutions - Tampa, FL October 2016 to March 2018 ? Strong experience with Automation testing, testing tools, writing test plans, and reviewing test cases coordinating testing and test artifacts across all areas involved, and across all phases of testing (SIT, UAT, End-to-End, Regression, Performance and Functional Testing).  ? Proficient in testing methodology, automated test/load tools (i.e.: ALM, QTP, UFT, Selenium, JAVA, etc.)   ? Developed the application using RAD as the IDE and used its features for editing, debugging, compiling, formatting, build automation and version control.  ? Have 2 years' experience in SQL with certification in Access.  ? Help design, document and maintain system processes.  ? Experience in analyzing data to draw business-relevant conclusions and in data visualization techniques and tools   ? Knowledge in generating process documentation from ALM.  ? Working with team members to provide testing statuses, keeps team informed of new requests/changes in processes/procedures, including escalating testing issues and issues requiring management attention.  ? Input & track incoming calls, emails, & bugs with in-house software. Junior Programmer EDM Americas - Scranton, PA January 2016 to October 2016 Provided end to end solutions to ensure they are planned and resourced effectively for deadlines to be met.  ? Monitored imaging workflow through our imaging systems. Provided support for document imaging scanners IBML and Kodak.  ? Troubleshooted any workflow issues as needed to ensure image flow from beginning to end.  ? Provided basic, fundamental debugging on DIT created applications.  ? Updates and logs support tickets in the EDM Americas bug tracker system until issue resolution.  ? Serves as a liaison between the customer and upper level IT areas with respect to IT issue resolution.  ? Assists operations with different types of lookups/research using SQL database management systems.  ? Monitored help desk phone extensions, helpdesk e-mail, modules, applications, and file transfers as well as other support tasks.  ? Assisted IT management in any other functions necessary. Worked with Active Directory, VMware.  ? Maximizes use of hardware and software by training users; interpreting instructions; answering questions.  ? Provided Tier 2 support for the IT Department on technology related tickets and reported issues.    Languages ? English, Hindi, and Gujarati. Education Associates in Computer Information Systems in Computer Information Systems Luzerne County Community College - Nanticoke, PA May 2016 Skills Active Directory (Less than 1 year), Eclipse (Less than 1 year), Excel (Less than 1 year), Linux (Less than 1 year), Unix (Less than 1 year), VMware. (Less than 1 year), Git, Javascript, MYSQL, Java 8 (3 years), CSS