Java Full Stack Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> Full Stack <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Full Stack Developer - American Express Scottsdale, AZ • Experience in Analysis, design, and development, testing, documentation, implementation of various applications and web applications on Multi-Tier Distributed Architecture using JAVA, J2EE, and Spring, Hibernate technologies with Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC).  • Experience with Java EE Design Patterns such as Session Façade, Service Locater, Composite Entity, Data Access Object, Intercepting Filter, Dispatcher View, Composite view, Value List Handler.  • Extensive experience in Amazon Web Services (EC2, RDS, Redshift, Elastic Load Balancing, SQS, SNS, AWS (IAM) Identity and access management, AWS Cloud Watch, Elastic Beanstalk and Cloud Front).  • Extensive programming experience in Core Java concepts including Multi-Threading, Exception Handling, Collection API, Collections, Data Structures, Regex, Generics, Algorithms, Object Oriented Programming (OOPs) concepts like Polymorphism, Inheritance, Abstraction, Encapsulation etc.  • Extensive experience in design and implementation of client/server and web applications using Java/J2EE Technologies (Servlets, JSP, JSTL, JDBC, JMS, MQ, XML, Java Multi-threading API, Spring, Hibernate and REST/Restful Web Services).  • Experience in developing web application using various Frameworks such as Spring Framework, HibernateORM. Experience in implementing the various services using Microservices architecture in which the services working dependently, implemented Spring Boot Microservices to divide the application into various sub modules.  • Strong experience in Spring modules -Spring MVC, IOC, AOP, JDBC, JTA, DI (Dependency Injection), Spring Boot, Spring REST, Spring Eureka.  • Experience in developing light weight business component and integrated applications using spring framework using features like Inversion of Control (IOC) and configuring application context for spring bean factory.  • Good familiarity with Spring AOP for Logging, Transactions,andMessaging.  • Extensive Design implement and test services experience in a Micro Service-oriented architecture and has implemented the REST based Microservices using the Spring Boot, Spring Data with JPA ( Java Persistence API.  • Experience in system analysis, design, development and implementation of web-based application using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, AngularJS, Angular 2, Angular4, AJAX, jQuery  • Knowledge in DockerComponents like Docker Hub, Virtual Machine and Docker Registry, Docker containerized applications.  • Expertise in deploying applications on Application Servers and Web servers - IBM WebSphere, J Boss, Apache Tomcat, and Glassfish System Application Servers.  • Strong working knowledge on Relational and NOSQL databases like Oracle, MongoDB, MySQL, CouchDB, Cassandra, PostgreSQL, Redis, Teradata.  • Strong familiarity with Python Scripting, Docker, Linux shell Scripts, Configuration Management, Jenkins, PostgreSQL, Redis, Flask, PaaS / IAAS.  • Extensively worked on debugging using Logging Frameworks such as Apache Log4j, Performed Unit testing, Integration Testing& generating of test cases for web applications using Junit, and Log4J.  • Experience in using Maven, Gradle.  • Strong understanding on working with SCM/Version Control Management Tools Git, Git Hub, Git Lab and Bit Bucket  • Expertise in working with Integrated Development Environment (IDE) tools such as Eclipse, IntelliJ Idea.  • Extensive experience in working on design, development, testing, implementation, deployment, enhancements & production support in Linux/Unix and Windows environments/Platforms.  • Expertise in Unit testing using JUnit & Mockito, Integration testing, Smoke testing & System testing.  • Good knowledge in Configuring, Monitoring and automating Amazon Web Services(AWS) as well as involved in deploying the content cloud platform on Amazon Web Services using EC2, S3, SQS, SNS,andEBS.  • Highly motivated self-starter with Excellent Communication, Presentation, and Problem-Solving Skills and committed to learning modern technologies.  • Excellent analytical and critical thinking, creative problem solving, quick learning, interpersonal and client interfacing skills. Work Experience Java Full Stack Developer American Express - Phoenix, AZ November 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Working in Agile, Scrum Environment's and participated in requirement gathering, analysis, and design, Development, Testing, Implementation.  • Defining and constructed layers, server-side objects and client-side interfaces on Java/J2EE design patterns.  • Used Angular 4/Angular 2 Framework for the development of Single Page Applications (SPA), Web application using Ajax, DHTML and DOM scripting.  • Built Angular2.0 framework including MVC/MVVM architectures, different modules, specific controllers, templates, custom directives and custom filters.  • Updated the application with new features of Angular4 on some of the new features of Angular4 like new if else syntax, ng-templates, form validators, Router etc.  • Developing and implementing the Web Application by using Spring MVC framework.  • Utilizing Java 8 features like Lambda expressions and Stream API for Bulk data operations on Collections which would increase the performance of the Application.  • Created a Lambda Function to trigger UNLOAD from Redshift to S3 bucket. Created Jenkins Jobs for these wrote groovy scripts and shell scripts.  • Used Apache Camel routes to build customized routes and Spring XML and Camel blueprint to integrate with other Enterprise applications.  • Developed integration modules for disparate clients using Apache Camel.  • Module and used template routing for bread crumb and other features.  • Involved in the process of Design, Coding and Testing phases of the software development cycle, involved in designing Spring boot application and Hibernate ORM 5.0.2.  • Strong Knowledge on Hibernate and in using Hibernate Connection Pooling, HQL, Collections, Hibernate Caching, Hibernate Transactions.  • RESTful web services using Jersey for JAX-RS implementation and to transport detain JSON format.  • Using a Microservice architecture, with Spring Boot-based services interacting through a combination of REST and Apache Kafka message brokers  • Implement a fast rendering data layer powered by apache ignite for distributed data storage and query retrieval  • Developing Microservices using Spring Boot, Spring Security.  • Implementing the associated business modules integration using Spring and Hibernate data mapping.  • Using Spring dependency injection, annotations and Spring MVC components to implement business layer and navigation part of application.  • Created RESTful web services interface to Java-based runtime engine.  • Writing SQL queries, stored procedures and enhanced performance by running explain plans.  • Composed and executed MongoDB scripts to insert and update NoSQL database automating data changes and reporting and managing and maintaining Oracle and NoSQL databases in production domain.  • Worked with departments to maintain existing JIRA projects.  • Used the Maven to configure the POM file to build and manage the application.  • Using Maven goals for testing and packaging the various components and releasing on Apache Archive for easy accessibility and maintenance within the organization. Java Full Stack Developer TIAA Financial Services - Charlotte, NC February 2018 to October 2018 Responsibilities:  • Performed active role in Software Design, Development and Testing of the application. Implemented J2EE design patterns like Front Controller, DAO, DTO, business Delegate.  • Involved in requirement gathering for the project. Involved in Design and prepared activity diagrams, sequence diagrams and class diagrams from various Use-cases using Rational Rose.  • Involved in development of various Subcomponents, Validators, converters and handled various events Using JSF.  • Involved in coding for the presentation layer using JSP and JavaScript. Developed managed beans and mapped those beans into UI screens.  • Used Spring Web MVC framework to implement the MVC pattern. Developed business components using Spring framework.  • Worked on many-to-one, one-to-many and many-to-many relationships in Hibernate. Used HQL (Hibernate Query Language) for bulk operations using Hibernate.  • Designed a XML schema (XSD) of the XML documents using JAXPAPI to parse and process the XML documents. Java Developer Tvisha Technologies - Hyderabad, Telangana May 2014 to November 2015 Responsibilities:  • Analysis and understand the business requirements and implemented the process using Agile (Scrum) methodology. Worked on High level and low-level system design, planning, estimation and implementation.  • Developed presentation layer using JSP, JSF, HTML5, CSS3 and client validation using JavaScript, DOM.  • Implemented animation and styling using CSS3 and jQuery.  • Worked on High level and low-level system design, planning, estimation and implementation.  • Developed presentation layer using JSP, HTML, CSS and client validation using JavaScript, DOM.  • Used two-way data binding features of AngularJS to implement Data binding to bind various server controls to the data from database.  • Involved in writing JSP ( java Server pages) and Java Server Faces (JSF) components. Used JSTL Tag library to create standard dynamic web pages.  • Worked on XML and JSON for transferring and retrieving data between different applications.  • Used Web Services for creating rate summary and used WSDL and SOAP messages for getting useful plans from different module.  • Implemented Multithreading, Concurrency, Exception Handling and Collections whenever necessary.  • Designed and integrated the full-scale Spring / Hibernate persistence solution with the application architecture.  • Implemented Object Relational Persistence (Hibernate) for the domain model.  • Involved in design and development of the Hibernate Domain Model for the services.  • Worked on web services and associated business modules integration.  • Worked on development and implementation of the MVC Architectural pattern using Spring Framework including JSP, and Servlets.  • Involved in identifying and implementation of different J2EE design patterns like Service Locator, Business Delegate, and DAO.  • Worked in wide-area network to maintain all the device related data onto MYSQL database.  • Developed the DAO layer for the application using Spring Hibernate template support.  • Used JMSAPI for communication between the components.  • Collaborated with testers and developers and prepared test plans for producing high quality software applications.  • Used JUnit and build tools such as MAVEN. Worked on Log4j for logging errors, messages and performance logs and SVN for version control.  • Deployed and tested the application in UNIX on IBM Web Logic Application Server. Education Master of Science in Information Systems in Information Systems University of Mary Hardin Baylor - Belton, TX January 2016 to December 2017 Skills ECLIPSE, J2EE, HIBERNATE, INTELLIJ IDEA, SPRING, Javascript, Java, Angular Additional Information Skill Matrix:    Frameworks: Spring Boot, Spring Mvc, Spring Ioc, Spring Security, Spring  Batch, Spring Orm, Spring Aop, Hibernate Orm, Jpa, Spring Jdbc,  Apache Camel.  Web Application Servers: Apache Tomcat, Jboss, Glassfish, Web sphere  Ui: Html5, Css3, Bootstrap, JavaScript, Ajax, Jquery, Json, Jsp, Jstl,  Angular Js, Angular 4.  Data Base: Postgres Sql, MySQL, Mongo Db, MsSql, Oracle, Apache Ignite.  Ide: Eclipse, Intellij Idea, STS  Webservices & Message Services: Rest, Rabbit Mq.  Version Control: Git, Git Hub.  Build & Deployment: Maven, Jenkins.  Sdlc Methodologies: Water Fall, Agile (Scrum),  Testing: Junit, Mockito, Reflection.  Design Patterns & Architectures: J2EE Design Patterns, Singleton, Factory, Session Facade.  Cloud Tools: Aws Ec2, S3, Rds, Cloud Watch, Iam, Sns, Elb, Lambda, Dynamo  Db, Auto Scaling.  Operating Systems: Mac, Windows.