Java Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior Software Engineer Centerville, OH Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Java Developer CBTS - Cincinnati, OH September 2018 to June 2019 Construct an Angular web application for grocery ad sales intake process. This web app is increasing ad sales by decreasing manual data entry and increasing process automation leading to an overall reduction in customer time spent from ideation to contract signing.  • Built reusable components, modules, and libraries for various teams across the organization to use in their applications.  • Worked remotely with team including business analysts, UX, and designers, to create and groom user stories for the development team to complete during sprints.  • Created RESTful Spring Boot micro services for serving data to the front end.  • Deployed applications to staging, demo and production environments multiple times weekly using TeamCity CI tool.   • Demonstrated product enhancements and technical improvements to program wide audience on a rotating schedule. Senior Software Engineer Lexis Nexis - Dayton, OH 2016 to 2018 Newsdesk  Develop and enhance in collaboration with offshore resources a comprehensive media monitoring  application, which provides customers near real-time information for decision making.  • Created several custom reusable React components along with branded SCSS.  • Lead effort into adding Mocha JavaScript unit test coverage tool.  • Developed and implemented ESlint JavaScript style guide including initial pass of legacy code and requisite refactoring.  • Implemented control directives for removing legacy SCSS and simplifying new SCSS style guide.  • Part of the team that won back to back CODiE awards in 2017 for Best News Media Monitoring  Solution and 2018 for Best Content Analytics Solution. Web Developer Woolpert - Dayton, OH 2015 to 2015 General Web Development  Design and develop web applications for various municipalities in support of auditors, board of elections, and other GIS related needs.  • Developed custom Dojo widgets for ArcGIS applications relating to measuring features, printing  maps, table of contents, etc.  • Created clean maintainable code through the use of linters, and code reviews.  • Assisted teammates in creating and maintaining custom themes for websites utilizing the ArcGIS JS  API.  Footprint Project  Develop a cutting edge web application used by law enforcement and various other organizations using the latest ArcGIS JS API.  • Developed model/view architecture and client side data structures for all pieces of the application.  • Lead small team in effort to complete top priority features.  • Developed automated Grunt build scripts for compiling .NET code and JavaScript optimization.    ~~~~~~  ~~~~~~~~~~~~  640 Chipplegate Drive Centerville, OH, 45459 (937) 307-1497 steve.busch1@gmail.com Ruby Apprentice Littlelines - Dayton, OH 2013 to 2013 Worked on small team to create web applications of varying sizes including: an e-commerce store  and blog; a university course planner.  • Created RSS/ATOM feed for e-commerce store.  • Built several email marketing campaign templates for use with CampaignMonitor.  • Deployed web apps to production servers using Heroku service.  • Lead overhauling of test suite for university course planner, increased code coverage from approximately 10% to +80%. Improved speed of tests that were already in place reducing run time  by 75%.  • Utilized Ruby gems to create project planning web form with drag and drop file upload capabilities.  This was used as the main point of contact for new clients. Consultant Sogeti USA - Dayton, OH 2011 to 2013 PROFIT Project  Develop project planning, budgeting, and tracking tool for a global PMO utilizing VBA and Excel.  • Created user-defined functions for use within Excel workbooks.  • Lead small team of developers in implementing Excel VBA based solutions for project.  • Performed change management duties and tracked defects for various projects.  VBA Development  Develop Excel workbooks with embedded VBA macros for various lines of business to ensure compliance with regulatory agencies and internal auditing of the mortgage company.  • Researched business requirements for multiple lines of business.  • Researched and developed a report to substantiate the number of developers employed.  • Worked collaboratively with 2 other developers to integrate a MySQL db, a homegrown excel add-in,  and numerous workbooks. Education Bachelor of Science in Business in Management Information Systems Wright State University - Dayton, OH Skills API (1 year), JAVASCRIPT (5 years), Ruby (1 year), VBA (2 years), MYSQL (2 years), React.js (2 years), Java Additional Information Technologies: React, Backbone.js, JavaScript, SASS, HTML, CSS, jQuery, MySQL, Coffeescript, ArcGIS JS  API, Leaflet, OpenLayers, Ruby on Rails, VB.Net, VBA, C++, Java, JSP, Oracle  Methodologies: Kanban, Scrum, Waterfall, TDD, Agile  Testing: Jasmine, Mocha test runner, Selenium, RSpec, MiniTest, jUnit, test cases, test plans, defect  tracking, cucumber  Tools: Atom, Gulp, Eclipse, JIRA, Bitbucket, ESlint, Sublime Text, Visual Studio, Grunt, jshint, npm,