Java Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Developer - McKesson Corporation • Over 4 years of Progressive technical and functional experience specializing in the analysis, design, and development of various multi-tiered client-server applications using Java and J2EE technologies.   • Experience in design, development, coding, testing and implementation phases of SDLC.   • Good working experience with AGILE and SCRUM methodologies.   • In-depth knowledge on core java concepts such as OOPS, Collections, Multi-threading, generics, Exception handling, Thread pools, Execution services, concurrent utilities, File IO and Serialization.   • Good knowledge of Java8 features including Lambda expressions, Method references, Functional interfaces, Stream API, Default methods, Optional class, Collectors class, Parallel array sorting, etc.   • Experienced in front End technologies such as HTML5, CSS3, jQuery, JavaScript, ReactJS, NodeJS, Angular 4, Bootstrap, AJAX, XSD, Tag Libraries.   • Experience in developing scalable, efficient enterprise applications using JAVA/ J2EE technologies which include Spring, REST, SOAP, JAX-WS, JAX-RS, Hibernate, JSP, Servlets, Struts, JSTL, EJB, XML, and JMS.   • Experienced in Full stack front end technologies using Grunt, Gulp Server, Yeoman generator for Angular.   • Experience in spring framework like Spring IOC, Spring DAO, Spring Boot, Spring Batch, Hibernate.   • Experience in Spring Security for Authentication and Authorization of REST services using OIDC on top of OAuth.   • Experience in database modeling, design, and development of complex PL/SQL stored procedures, triggers, packages and views in relational databases: Oracle, SQL Server, PostgreSQL, MySQL, and IBM DB2.   • Focused on architecting NoSQL databases like Mongo, Cassandra, and Cache database.   • Expertise in designing Java, J2EE applications using Amazon Web Services and AWS Elastic Compute CloudEC2.   • Expertise with the employment of Spring Kafka and Zookeeper apart from JMS as messaging service.   • Experience in Micro Services-Spring Boot, Pivotal Cloud Foundry and Engagement using Spring Boot.   • Experienced in Development, Deployment, and testing of enterprise applications on Windows &UNIX platforms using IDEs such as Eclipse, Rational Application Developer (RAD), NetBeans, IntelliJ 14.x/15.x  • Expertise working on Application servers and Web servers like IBM WebSphere 8.0/7.0, BEA WebLogic   10.3/8.1and Apache Tomcat 5.x/6.x, Tomcat 8.0/7.0, Glassfish 4.1.   • Experienced in version management systems with Clear Case, Microsoft VSS, CVS, and SVN.   • Excellent Programming skills at a higher level of abstraction using Scala and Java.   • Good experience in unit testing, Jasmine and Junit, Automated testing using Java, TestNG, Selenium (IDE web driver), Integration testing using Continuum, Selenium, Hudson and Jenkins.   • Experienced in integration and deployment of applications using tools such as ANT, Maven, Gradle, and Drools & debugging through log4j.  • Experience in spring technologies like MVC, AOP, JDBC, ORM, and Webservices using Eclipse and integration with Hibernate as well as Struts.   • Experience with web-services and SOA related standards like RESTFUL/JSON/XML and SOAP/WSDL.   • Experience with Java API for XML-Based RPC (JAX-RPC) is an implementation of Remote Procedure Call (RPC) technology in the Java language.  • Good knowledge and experience in writing Junit test cases with Easy Mock, Mockito and Power Mock.   • Good debugging skills, deep diving into technical issues, collaborating with cross-domain experts, handling clients with different priorities and mind sets, both onsite and remote.   • Extensive knowledge in database transactions management for database related changes by integrating JDBC, Hibernate with Spring, also having good knowledge on Apache Camel. Work Experience Java Developer McKesson Corporation - San Francisco, CA October 2018 to Present • Worked on Design, Development, and Implementation in the field of Web Applications development using HTML, CSS, XHTML, JavaScript, jQuery, Angular JS, Bootstrap, AJAX, XML, JSON, Restful web services and Responsive web designing.  • Involved in the analysis, design and development phases of the Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) using Agile (SCRUM) development methodology to deliver regular updates to the business team and project managers.  • Worked in Integration of Amazon Web Services AWS with other applications infrastructure.  • Worked on web services using SOAP, UDDI, WSDL, REST and implementation using APACHE AXIS and APACHE CXF.  • Developed UI pages using HTML5, Angular 4, Bootstrap, CSS3, jQuery, AJAX and NodeJS.  • Build the reusable service components with Angular 4, Bootstrap and JSX to use across various modules.  • Used Selectors, Events, AJAX and Dom Manipulation components in Angular 4 directives, filters, Services.  • Built REST by building Nodes in the back-end to handle requests sent from the query Ajax calls.  • Implemented jQuery to develop the widgets and to perform the client-side validations.  • Implemented design patterns like MVC, Singleton, Business Delegate, Factory and Service Locator.  • Used Executor Service Multi-threading to implement Thread pool, parallel processing to run processes asynchronously using future calls to access the data.  • Complete understanding of the DevOps process with continuous integration using Jenkins, JIRA, GIT, Docker, Ansible, Nagios, CHEF.  • Processed data into HDFS by developing solutions, analyzed the data using MapReduce, Pig, Hive and produce summary results from Hadoop to downstream systems.  • Developed Spring Restful/Microservices and implemented Spring Eureka, Netflix, Ribbon as part of Services Discovery using Apache Axis.  • Used RabbitMQ Queues for implementation of multithreaded synchronization processes and used JMS queues for consumption requests.  • Team leader on numerous projects utilizing Java, Java EE, Enterprise Java Bean, and Apache Struts Web applications to create fully-integrated client management systems.  • Worked on developing Flex Rich Internet Applications (RIA) with Cairngorm MVC architecture and Mate Framework, Flex Unit for testing, BlazeDs for remote development services, Action Script.  • Good understanding on AWS Cloud infrastructure like VPC, EC2, S3, ECS, IAM services.  • Involved in development of services-based architecture utilizing open source technologies like Hibernate ORM and Spring MVC Framework.  • Worked on various JavaScript Web application related libraries such as Backbone.js, React JS, Ember JS, Require.js, Knockout, Angular.js, bootstrap and Google Web Toolkit.  • Developed and executed software systems utilizing JavaScript and Groovy.  • Worked on Core Java Such as OOPs, Collections, Exceptions Handling, Input/output (I/O) System, Swing, Annotations, Enums, Concurrency, Multi-Threading, Lambda and Generics.  • Can work on Continuous Integration (CI) like Jenkins, Hudson, Travis, Bamboo and Continuous Deployment (CD)tools like Electric Cloud and Nolio.  • Worked with application teams to install operating system, Hadoop updates, patches, version upgrades as required.  • Worked on MongoDB Schema using Mongos.  • Implementing different machine learning techniques in Scala using Scala machine learning library and created POC using Spark Sql and MiLB libraries.  • Installed, configured, and administration of NoSQL database clusters in AWS Virtual Private Cloud Network. Created architecture stack for data access with NoSQL database Cassandra.  • Used GitHub and Jenkins for building the CI/CD pipeline and day to day builds and deployments using Gradle.  • Used advanced Java 8 features like Lambda expressions for array operations, Streams, Method reference, Collections. Enhanced concurrency methods etc. throughout the application for well-defined programming.  • Used Annotations for Dependency Injection and Spring MVC for REST API s and Spring Boot for Microservices.  • Implementing or exposing the Micro service architecture with Spring Boot based services interacting through a combination of REST and Apache Kafka message brokers.  • Implemented micro service architecture using Spring boot and Spring REST to create REST endpoints and integrated Swagger to get dynamic documentation.  • Used Spring Framework AOP Module to implement logging in the application to know the application status.  • Worked on Spring Security for Authentication and Authorization of REST Services using OIDC on OAuth 2.0.  • Worked on circuit breaker patterns and fail safe in Spring Boot Micro Service applications using HYSTRIX and monitored the services using HYSTRIX Dashboard.  • Deployed Spring Boot based micro services into Docker container using Amazon EC2 container services.  • Familiar with Cucumber, Selenium Web Driver, Selenium commands and X-path and developed grunt tasks to run the unit tests on Jenkins.  • Worked on performance tuning with Oracle database. Designed and developed file upload and file download feature with Oracle BLOB and CLOB.  • Actively involved in the design of the application architecture in lines of their own Framework based on MVC2 Architecture with JSP Front End (HTTP Request/Response Integration) as View, Servlet as Controller and combination of EJBs and Java classes as Model.  • Worked in Building application platforms in the Cloud by leveraging Amazon Web Services, open source technologies & best engineering practices of CI/CD.  • Worked on developing microservices with Spring Boot.  • Used Spring Core Annotations for Dependency Injection Spring DI and Spring MVC for REST API, Spring Boot for microservices and Spring Batch for running batch jobs. Java Developer Amazon - Seattle, WA August 2017 to September 2018 • Wrote SQL queries, stored procedures, triggers, views, and enhanced performance with explain plans.  • Developed DAO layer using Cassandra and expertise in CQL (Cassandra Query Language), for retrieving the data present in Cassandra cluster by running queries in CQL.  • Developed API for using no Lambda to manage the servers and run the code in the AWS.  • Used AWS Cloud watch in alerting, maintaining and monitoring of production and corporate servers/storage.  • Worked on Docker Images and running them on Docker container.  • Designed and configured management reports and dashboards using Kibana.  • Performed GUI, Functional and Regression testing by automated using Selenium and Jenkins.  • Developed Automation framework and Worked on Test automation framework using Selenium web driver.  • Used JIRA to assign, track, report and audit the issues in the application and also worked with testing frameworks such as JUnit, Mockito.  • Used Node.js as a proxy to interact with Rest services and interacting with Database Involved in writing application level code to interact with APIs, Web Services using AJAX, JSON and XML.  • Worked on setting up a test environment for automated script execution using Java, Appium.  • Identified mobile elements using Appium Inspector and UI Automator Viewer.  • Used Appium to facilitate mobile testing by creating mobile Driver class with the required Mobile capabilities and also used JavaScript libraries like karma/ jasmine for UI test execution assertions.  • Configured and administered Jenkins for CI/CD into Tomcat Application Server.  • Worked on Spring Framework modules such as Spring MVC, Spring IOC, AOP and Spring JDBC, Spring Data, Spring REST, Spring JTA, Spring IO, Spring Security, Spring Boot with Thyme leaf template.  • Used IntelliJ for development and debugging Spring Boot applications and Used GIT for version control.  • Implemented Node JS, JSF and Backbone JS for developing the server-side web applications and network programs.  • Developed Kafka consumers to consume data from Kafka topics. Used Bootstrap and AngularJS, React.js and Node.js in effective web design.  • Automating test scenarios by writing java code and using selenium framework for cucumber testing.  • Responsible for creating web-based applications using React JS, Node.js, and Redux workflow. Build prototype for various required services such as Scheduling, Logging and Notification Service using third party Node JS based JavaScript library.  • Used WebSphere Application Server as part of production implementation.  • Mocha test runner and Chai test framework are used to test React JS components.  • Used JIRA tool for Issue/bug tracking, monitoring of work assignment in the system Log4J was used to monitor the error logs and used GIT as version control tool.  • Contemporary applications rely on relational databases, NoSQL databases and messaging infrastructure for achieving the internet scale. Cloud Foundry exposes MySQL, PostgreSQL, MongoDB, RabbitMQ and Redis as services that offer the database and messaging capabilities.  • Created and configured new JIRA projects and worked with departments to maintain existing JIRA projects.  • Installed and configured Flume, Hive, Pig, Sqoop and Oozie on the Hadoop cluster.  • Used JUnit and Mockito framework for unit testing the functionality being tested.  • Used JAXB, JAXP for parsing auditing information in xml format.  • Kubernetes is being used to orchestrate the deployment, scaling and management of Docker Containers.  • Worked on AWS (Amazon Web Services) and its features like EC2, S3, RDS, ELB, EBS, ESB, CloudFront, VPC.  • Used Spring ORM Hibernate Template as the ORM tool to communicate with the database.  • Implemented MVC architecture by applying AngularJS framework.  • Involved in coding for the presentation layer using Apache Struts Framework.  • Designed User Interface (UI) applications and professional web applications using HTML, XHTML, CSS, JAVASCRIPT, ANGULAR JS, JQUERY, AJAX, JSON and XML.  • SOAP web service interface implemented in Java using Apache SOAP and Axis to expose user master data to all the subsidiaries.  • Built a RESTful API to save and retrieve geo locations using a remote server in Java using Spring, MongoDB, Apache CXF, and JAX-RS  • Implemented MAVEN for building the application and GIT, SVN for managing and controlling the source code. Java Developer Accenture - IN September 2016 to June 2017 • Design, develop and implement Customer Requirements using J2EE, Java, Java Server Pages (JSPs) and XML.  • Involved in development of presentation layer using JSPs and Servlets with Development tool Eclipse IDE.  • Worked with MVC Architecture integrating Hibernate and Spring frameworks.  • Mailing system using java mail API to notify the staff when a customer submitted a policy.  • Worked on development of Hibernate, including mapping files, configuration file and classes to interact with the database.  • Use Testing frameworks in Test Driven Development (TDD) such as JUnit, Mockito, Power Mock, Easy Mock, Q Unit, Protractor, Cucumber and Selenium.  • Worked on developing UI based GUIs using Java Applets, HTML5, DHTML, JavaScript, JDBC, Typescript, AngularJS, Angular, XML, DOJO, AJAX, JSF, JSP, Java Persistence API (JPA), EJB, JNDI and JMS.  • Worked on developing application in Single Page (SPA's) using various JavaScript frameworks such as Angular JS.  • Implemented Object-relation mapping (ORM) in the persistence layer using hibernate frame work in conjunction with spring functionality.  • Involved in injecting dependencies into code using spring core module.  • Used Spring Core Annotations for Dependency Injection (DI).  • Involved in developing code for obtaining bean references in Spring framework using Dependency Injection (DI) or Inversion of Control (IOC).  • Enabling customers to better manage software development, deployments and infrastructure with tools such as Chef, Jenkins and GitHub.  • Used HQL and SQL for fetching and storing data in databases.  • Used Web services - WSDL and SOAP for getting required information from third party.  • Designed and Developed Stored Procedures, Triggers in Oracle to cater the needs for the entire application. Developed complex SQL queries for extracting data from the database.  • Worked with functional usage and deployment of applications in JBoss, WebLogic, WebSphere and Apache Tomcat Server.  • SOAP web service interface implemented in Java using Apache SOAP and Axis to expose user master data to all the subsidiaries.  • Worked with NOSQL Database such as Couch base. Data modelling, establishing connection with Couchbase and providing API layer to integrate with to create, update, read, and delete documents from database.  • Installed SONAR on Jenkins server and configure with the build process for the code analysis process for better code quality and code metrics, and rapid feedback for development teams and managers.  • Installing and configuring Kafka and monitoring the cluster using Nagios and Ganglia.  • Load log data into HDFS using Kafka and performing ETL integrations Experience with ingesting data from RDBMS sources like - Oracle, SQL.  • Developing test scripts using Angular Protractor testing tools for current release of the project.  • Fetching the records for SOAP and Restful requests from Oracle DB using SOLR search.  • Used JUnit, Mockito and Power Mocks framework for unit testing of application and implemented Test Driven Development TDD methodology.  • Worked with NOSQL Database such as Couch base. Data modelling, establishing connection with Couchbase and providing API layer to integrate with to create, update, read, and delete documents from database.  • Good Knowledge in coded Java applications on both client-side and server-side using JDBC and advanced multithreading, have profound knowledge on Bootstrap. Software Developer TCS - IN October 2015 to August 2016 • Involved in the requirement analysis, design and development of the application built in Java/J2EE using JavaScript, JSP, AJAX, JDBC and Web Services with JAX-WS.  • Designing and Developing Micro-services that are highly scalable, fault-tolerant using Spring Boot.  • Designed and developed User Interface of application modules using HTML, CSS and JavaScript and AJAX.  • Excellent understanding of java concepts like multi-threading and concurrency, Collection Framework, String, Exception handling.  • Involved in Design, development and testing of web application and integration projects using Object Oriented technologies such as Core Java, J2EE, Struts, JSP, JDBC, Spring Framework, Hibernate, Java Beans, Web Services REST/SOAP, XML, XSLT, XSL and Ant.  • Involved in writing JSP and JSF components. Used JSTL Tag library (Core, Logic, Nested, and Bean and Html tables) to create standard dynamic web pages.  • Developed Web Service client interface with JAX-WS from WSDL files for invoking the methods using SOAP, and deployed the application using the Web Logic as application server.  • Worked on Java, J2EE, Servlets, JSP, EJB's, JDBC, HTML, XML, and other web-based development tools.  • Unit testing, reproducing, analyzing and fixing defects identified during the Quality Assurance process.  • Used ANT build tool for building and deploying the application onto the production boxes.  • Implemented J2EE web-based system using the concrete principles of Struts; Tiles laid down by Java APIs several design patterns such as Struts framework, J2EE Business Delegate, and Database.  • Managed source repository using SVN for version control tool and also used Jenkins to perform continuous integration and continuous deployment.  • Worked on Spring Cache technique, Hibernate configuration and related module service class implementation.  • Developed User Interface for Application and Purchase System using JavaScript and jQuery.  • Developed Web Services to communicate with other applications using SOAP.  • Created continuous integration builds using Maven and SVN control.  • Prepared Test Cases to perform Unit, Integration and System Testing. Tested the developed components using JUnit.  • Deployed web components, presentation components and business components in Apache Tomcat.  • Involved in Unit Testing, Interface Testing, System Testing and User Acceptance Testing.  • Designed and developed Message driven beans that consumed the messages from the Java message queue.  • Implemented business logic using Java Beans for data collection from the front end and storage/retrieval from the backend MYSQL DB using Hibernate.  • Involved in designed and development of web interface using JSP, Servlets, JavaScript and JDBC for administering and managing users and clients.  • Designed and developed Business components and Integrated with Spring framework and developed various reusable Helper and Utility classes, which are used across all the modules of the application.  • Used RESTful for producing web services and involved in writing programs to consume the web services and also deployed the java application using Maven build script.  • Used Log4j for logging various levels of information like error, info, and debug into the log files.  • Used Java/J2EE Design patterns such as Singleton, Service Locater, DAO etc. and Spring IOC pattern and responses.  • Performed GitHub/GitHub-Desktop bash and Terminal commands to clone, fetch, merge and push the code and created pull requests for changes that are made.  • Designed enterprise API's and involved in developing the API's. Involved in testing API's using SoapUI and Postman. Education Master's Skills Java, Hibernate, Java J2Ee, Spring, J2Ee