J2EE Developer J2EE <span class="hl">Developer</span> J2EE Developer - Action Plus Insurance Oklahoma City, OK • 3+ years of IT knowledge and experience in developing complete Software Development Life Cycle(SDLC) of Java/JEE (J2EE) applications including Analysis and Requirement Gathering, Design, Development, Implementation Support, Enhancements and Maintenance.  • Experience in all the phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) includes Requirement Analysis, Design, Development and Testing.  • Worked under new technologies introduced in java8 like Functional interfaces and Lambda Expressions.  • Expertise in Application development using various frameworks such as Spring Framework.  • Experience in integrating the internal security model into new projects with Spring Batch, Spring Microservices and Spring Boot.  • Experience in integrating Microservices Architecture with Spring Boot and Docker.  • Experience using persistence framework like Hibernate/JPA for mapping Java classes with database and using Hibernate Query Language (HQL).  • Diverse experience utilizing tools in N-tier and Microservices architecture applications using Spring Boot, Spring Cloud config, AWS, Restful Web Services.  • Experience in using NodeJS and Express for making calls (GET, POST, PUT, DELETE) for triggering or fetching data from Restful API's provided by the backend team.  • Extensive experience in developing messaging module by using Spring JMS, Apache Camel.  • Proficiency with the application servers like IBM Web Sphere, Web Logic, JBOSS and Tomcat.  • Experiences in using build tools like Maven and ANT for build and deployment of applications.  • Experience in writing test cases in java environment using JUnit.  • Experience in generating logging by Log4j to identify the errors in production test environment.  • Experience in web services technologies like REST, SOAP, WSDL, JMS and Service Oriented Architecture (SOA).  • Expertise in Web Services architecture in SOAP and WSDL using JAX-RPC.  • Good experience in Spring modules like Spring AOP, DAD etc., Implementing Spring aspects for logging cross cutting concern.  • Knowledge of Webservices-REST/SOAP.  • Extensive knowledge and exposure in web based multi-tier and client/server using technologies such as HTML/HTML5, XHTML, DHTML, CSS 2/3, JavaScript, jQuery and Angular 4/2.  • Experience in developing applications using IDEs like My Eclipse, Eclipse and IntelliJ IDEA.  • Expertise through all the phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC)-Waterfall, Agile/Scrum in developing web applications using JAVA, J2EE Technologies.  • Self-starter and a Team Player with excellent communication, interpersonal, positive thinking and mentoring skills and a good aptitude for learning. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience J2EE Developer Action Plus Insurance - Del City, OK April 2019 to Present Del City, OK Apr 2019 - Till Date  Project created and maintained a web based application that allowed the insured to log in and view the claims regarding their account. The users could appeal a selected claim, print a new insurance card or update their information. It was also used as an accident report tool that made the work of the support team easier since the users could give their written description of the accident for said medical visit.  Role: J2EE Developer  Responsibilities:  • Involved in System Analysis, Design and development using OOAD methodology to capture and model business requirements.  • Responsible for creation of design artifacts using Enterprise Architect.  • Used Java 8 features like lambda expressions for communicating between business layer and database, stream API for Bulk Data Operations on Collections using both streams and parallel streams.  • Reviewed business requirements and discuss with application architect about the design.  • Used Value/Transfer Object and Singleton, Data Access Object, Factory design pattern.  • Developed Batch process framework using executive service framework to cascade multiple changes on multiple records in only one transaction.  • Used Spring Transaction Management extensively.  • Worked on AWS cloud services like EC2, S3, RDS, ELB, and EBS for installing, configuring and auto scaling.  • Responsible for developing java components using Spring, Spring JDBC, Spring Transaction Management.  • Designed the front-end screens using AngularJS, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, Bootstrap and Spring Boot.  • Involved in writing Java API for Amazon Lambda to manage some of the AWS services.  • Created and Implemented Microservices or REST APIS using spring boot, REST, JSON.  • Used Spring JDBC in persistence layer that is capable of handling high volume transactions.  • Implemented the service layer using Spring with transaction and logging interceptors.  • Used Spring framework for middle tier and Spring-JDBC templates for data access.  • Developed SOAP/REST based Web Services using both SOAP/WSDL and REST.  • Used AWS Lambda to manage the servers and run the code in the AWS.  • Used multithreading to improve performance in generating the reports in Java.  • Designed and developed SOAP Web Services Client program to consume existing SOAP web service using Axis framework.  • Tested SOAP web services using SOAP UI and REST services using POSTMAN.  • Created and compiled XML Schema to generate Java Bean classes.  • Developed DAO Layer by calling existing stored procedures.  • Used Maven for compilation and building JAR, WAR.  • Used Log4J for logging and tracing the messages.  • Used STS for developing, debugging, integrating and deploying the application.  • Maintained source code in GIT Repository.  • Written unit test cases using JUnit and Integration test cases and integrated with Jenkin jobs.  Environment: Java, Agile (SCRUM), REST API, Boot, STS, Microservices, Spring JDBC, Angular JS, AWS, XML, SOAP (AXIS) Web Services, Enterprise Architect, Web Services (SOAP and REST), Maven, Junit, Maven, Log4J, GIT, Oracle, UNIX. Java/J2EE Developer Kleberg Bank - Kingsville, TX August 2018 to March 2019 Kingsville, TX Aug 2018 - Mar 2019  The project involved different modules for internal use and external customer use. Internal module contained sub modules like Admin portal for employees to manage all banking accounting activities, Referral Management System, Security, and Content Management for both internal and external user modules. External Module for customers involved a process based approach involving grievance process, application process and other Credit Card related Banking processes.  Role: Java/J2EE Developer  Responsibilities  • Involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) of the application like Requirement gathering, Design, Analysis and Code development.  • Following Agile Methodology and interact with various stake holders in gathering requirements and business artifacts in the areas of gathering, design, coding and documentation.  • Used Amazon Cloud Watch to monitor AWS services and Amazon Cloud Watch logs to monitor application.  • Developed Java API to interact with the Amazon SQS used in sending bulk emails.  • Used AWS SDK for connection to Amazon S3 buckets as it is utilized as the object storage accommodation to store and retrieve the files cognate to the application.  • Involved in writing Java API for Amazon Lambda to manage some of the AWS services.  • Developed Web Services using XML messages that use SOAP.  • Implemented and tested the enterprise application with jQuery and Spring MVC.  • Created and Implemented Micro Services using spring boot, REST, JSON.  • Used Java Mailing or Messaging Service (JMS) API's for mailing detailed notifications depending upon the success and failure once the backend process is complete and also for mailing administrator of any system related problems.  • Used NodeJS to sign up for lightweight web server to hos application locally.  • Involved in Unit testing of application using JUnit and built the package using Maven and deployed the application on to WebLogic App Server.  • Apache Maven tool has been used for the build and deploy the application. Monitored the Error logs using Log4J and fixed the problems.  • Followed Agile/SCRUM software development methodologies.  • Performed a thorough unit testing and resolved several data related issues before migration to production.  Environment: J2EE, Spring, Hibernate, JSP, MVC, HTML5, CSS3, Spring Boot, AWS, JavaScript, Maven, AJAX, JDBC, JSTL, JMS, XML, SOAP, WebLogic, agile, SQL and Windows. J2EE Developer Wayfair March 2016 to July 2018 The aim was to implement a solution that allows a fully customized Website for online storeowners dynamically connected to inventory and every other engine through Web Services. The new applications enable customers to sign in, search their own product catalog, order based on their special pricing, and view past and pending orders with status. The Ecommerce engine is integrated real-time with every other business flow engine. The system also enables secure real-time or batch credit card processing, and an advanced and customizable shopping cart.  Role: J2EE Developer  Responsibilities:  • Gathered system requirements for the application and worked with the business team to review the requirements, and went through the Software Requirement Specification document and Architecture document.  • Redesigned the entire application using Spring, Dojo and Hibernate, which resulted in 30% decrease in response time, 25% less code and 15% increase in revenue.  • Designed UML Use case diagrams, Class diagrams, and Sequence diagrams using Rational Rose.  • Developed application using Spring MVC, JSP, JSTL and AJAX on the presentation layer, the business layer is built using Spring and the persistent layer uses Hibernate.  • Used Apache POI for accessing Microsoft documents through Java code.  • Implemented AJAX in suggestive search and to display dialog boxes with JSF and DOJO for some front end.  • Created dynamic HTML pages, used JavaScript for client-side validations, and AJAX to create interactive front-end GUI.  • Extensively used XML and Java Architecture for XML Binding (JAXB), to map java classes to XML representation.  • Extensively used Eclipse IDE for developing, debugging, integrating and deploying the application.  • Implemented Web Services with the help of WSDL, SOAP and JAX-WS to get updates from the third parties.  • Implemented build scripts using Maven to create WAR and deploy in application server.  • Used Log4j for External Configuration Files and debugging.  • Designed various tables required for the project in Oracle database and used the Stored Procedures in the application.  • Reviewed the code for ensuring adherence to Java coding standards.  Environment: J2EE, Servlets, JSP, Spring, Hibernate, MVC, Eclipse, JSTL, AJAX, JNDI, JMS, DOJO, WebSphere, XML, JAXB, SOAP, Maven, Log4j, Oracle, SQL, Windows. Skills Eclipse, Ejb, J2ee, Java, Hibernate