Back-end Java developer Back-end <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">developer</span> Back-end Java developer - Volvo San Jose, CA • Highly motivated Senior Java developer with 5+ years of experience in successful enterprise companies.  • Worked Strongly following Agile (Scrum) methodology.  • Hands on mastery on programming languages and technologies including Java/J2EE technologies in all phases of SDLC which involves design, development and execution of Web based applications and client-server multi-tier applications.  • Configured and developed Web applications in Spring, employed Spring MVC architecture and Inversion of Control.  • Hands on experience in UI technologies like HTML5, XHTML, CSS3, Bootstrap and AJAX to build responsive and dynamic web pages.  • Expertise in using JavaScript to build interactive web pages.  • Experience to SOA (Service Oriented Architecture) and experience in developing Web services using SOAP, XML-RPC and JAXB/JAXP.  • Good knowledge of Relational databases (MySQL, Microsoft SQL, PostgreSQL).  • Worked with various J2EE frameworks like JSP, JDBC, servlets and spring MVC.  • Expertise in using servers like Apache Tomcat, JBoss, IBM Websphere and Weblogic to configure and deploy applications.  • Excellent knowledge in Object Oriented Analysis and Design (OOAD) for developing use cases  • Good experience with RESTful services (JAX-RS), SOAP services (JAX-WS).  • Experience in Unix and Shell scripting. Work Experience Back-end Java developer Volvo - Sunnyvale, CA October 2018 to Present • Strong development experience in Java, J2EE, JAVAEE6, SOA, Servlet, JSP, Spring, JDBC, Java Beans, JMS, JNDI, XML, XML Schema, JSON, Web Services, SOAP, AJAX, Maven, HTML, JavaScript. Restful and SOAP Web services.  • Designed the Application layer using the Spring framework.  • Designed and developed the persistence tier using Hibernate framework.  • Designed and developed a Restful Web Services layer to interface with a Host system.  • Expertise in developing the middle ware components using the JMS, XML.  • Expertise in Java including Concurrent Programming, Multi-Threading and Java Collection.  • Expertise in using HTML, JavaScript, CSS, XML. Proficiency in following SDLC throughout the programming career, comprising of Requirements Gathering, Development, JUnit Testing, Integration, and Production.  • Used entities like Session, Session Factory and configurator to create database connections using Hibernate.  • Used design patterns like Singleton, Factory, Adapter and MVC in the project.  • Used Factory design pattern to utilize abstraction and hide sensitive class implementations.  • Wrote Parser classes using API's like JAX-P & JAX-B to marshal and unmarshal the XML.  • Used HTTPClient API to create RESTful clients to consume data from sources like data generators.  • Designed DAO objects for accessing RDBMS.  • Used JDBC for database connectivity to Oracle.  • Design and develop Servlets to implement business logic and deploy them on the Web Logic Application Server Work with Apache Tomcat Web Server.  • Involved in the design discussion and design implementation phases of the lifecycle.  Environment: Java 1.8, Spring MVC framework, Hibernate, REST web services using Jersey, Apache Tomcat, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, XML, Maven, POSTMAN. Back-end Java developer CapitalOne - Chicago, IL February 2018 to October 2018 • Involved in planning process of iterations under the Agile Scrum methodology (3 Iterations).  • Involved in creating and extracting data from database using SQL Queries.  • Extensively involved in coding with core Java concepts like Collections, Multi-Threading, Exception Handling, Java I/O, and Generics to implement some business logic.  • Worked on the REST Web Services and used Spring Framework. Developed the Spring Features like Spring Core, Spring IOC, Spring MVC, Spring DAO and Spring Boot.  • Development of framework component for application like centralized logging using Spring AOP.  • Worked on REST/Web API to create the services  • Migrating existing application into REST based Micro services to provide all the CRUD capabilities using Spring Boot.  • Increased code quality and productivity using Test Driven Development (TDD) and Behavior Driven Development (BDD), Refactoring, Pair Programming, and Agile Estimation and Planning.  • Creation and maintenance of data using Oracle database. Hibernate for database connectivity with Oracle.  Environment: Java 1.8, Spring MVC framework, REST web services using Jersey, Websphere 8.0,  HTML5, CSS3, POSTMAN, Hibernate. Back-end Java Developer Centronix Excel Pvt. Ltd - Hyderabad, Telangana April 2015 to November 2016 • Involved in setting environments to the application that were being developed.  • Program analysis & preparation of program specifications, observation logs, consolidation reports & recommendation reports  • Coding with Collections framework using Java, J2EE, XML and JavaScript.  • Writing JSP, JavaScript, HTML and CSS for the client front-end and writing Web services.  • Developed Web Services that included developing WSDL that included document/literal as well as literal styles, and SOAP Bindings; Used Webservices as middleware components for centralized data retrieval.  • Involved in Integration with WebServices as well as Integrated Hibernate with Spring framework  • Integrated Spring and Axis injecting service layer classes into webservices classes.  • Implemented Service Oriented Architecture using Java/XML binding.  • Extensively worked with Spring MVC Architecture and Spring ORM module.  • Developed business logic and presentation/controller phase; Handled Query Functionality in all the Modules.  • Wrote SQL queries and stored procedures for data manipulation with the Oracle database. Application used TOAD.  • Data Validations were performed by developing a java module to check the XSL, XML and XSD parsing were true.    Environment: JAVA 1.4/1.5 J2EE, IBM MQ Series 7.0, Servlets, JDBC, XML, Web Services 5.1, JSP2.0, HTML 5 & 4, Spring 2.5.6/3.0, Tomcat 5.0, Hibernate 3.2.6, XML, XSLT, UNIXShellScripts, Oracle9i/10g, SQL, PL/SQL, Eclipse IDE 3.7, Design Patterns. Back-end Java developer Centronix Excel Pvt. Ltd - Hyderabad, Telangana October 2013 to April 2015 • Gathering and analyzing user requirements and defining functional specifications.  • Designing, developing and testing web pages/web portals using JAVA/J2EE (JSP,  Hibernate, Spring), REST, XML, XSD, WSDL and SOAP.  • Designing and developing reusable business components using standard Framework and Java/J2EE technologies.  • Written Python and shell scripts to automate build and Deploy for Web development.  • Planning, organizing and evaluating the operations of information systems to develop and improve business processes.  • Involved in deployment support and Log monitoring for the production support.  ecosystem support.  • Developed CI (Continuous Integration) solutions using Git.  • Setup the continuous Integration (CI) and continuous Deployment (CD) process for the application using the Jenkins.  • Designed and implemented SQL database systems.  • Created segments of REST web administrations end to end, utilizing distinctive  annotations.  • Worked on data load from various sources i.e., Oracle, MySQL and Postgres.  • Utilized Spring structure including Spring Beans, Spring AOP and Spring Boot.  • Involved in planning process of iterations under the Waterfall and Agile Scrum  methodology.  • Involved in Unit testing in development and testing in UAT and production.  • Developed a core component of Analytics with Java, Agile, J2EE, Spring, Hibernate, JSP, XML, SOAP UI, WSDL, Oracle, Spring and REST.  • Extensively used complex SQL statements including joins and nested queries.  • Used gradle for creating the build scripts for the project.  Environment: JAVA 1.4/1.5 J2EE, Servlets, JDBC, XML, Web Services 5.1, JSP2.0, HTML 5, Spring 2.5.6/3.0, Tomcat 5.0, Hibernate 3.2.6, XML, XSLT, UNIXShellScripts, Oracle9i/10g, SQL, Eclipse IDE 3.7, Design Patterns.    MASTERS PROJECTS:  Hand Written Digit Recognition:  • Used KNN algorithm to recognize and predict the digits.  • Used Neural network design for prediction.  • Used gradient descent to make the learning of the algorithm more efficient.  • Used R, R studio, Jupyter Notebook. Education Master of Science Indiana State University January 2017 to December 2018 CS in Technology Guru Jambheshwar University of S&T May 2006 to May 2010 Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    • Programming languages: Java, C, R, Shell Scripting.  • Web Technologies: HTML5, CSS3, JS, JSP, XML.  • Frameworks: Spring framework, Hibernate, SOAP, RESTful web services.  • Web/ App Servers: Apache Tomcat, JBoss, Weblogic.  • Database: Postgres, MYSQL, JDBC API.  • Data Science (R Packages): Dplyr, Lubridate, Tidyverse, ggforce, ggplot2, knitr, kableExtra.  • Source control: GIT, CVS.  • OS: Linux & Mac (Advanced), Windows (Basic)