Application Developer Engineer Application <span class="hl">Developer</span> Engineer Application Developer Engineer - CIT IBANK South Plainfield, NJ Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Application Developer Engineer Citibank Financial July 2018 to Present • Primarily part of a team that is engineering and integrating a customer self-service CHATBOT into an existing banking application.  • Developed numerous pis using Java programming that receive and respond to requests from 3rd party vendors and existing services within Citi infrastructure.  • Based on business requirements composed several dialogs tasks to map customer intent flow  using kore platform.  • Trained bot to employ sentiment analysis using natural language processing (NLP) to enable  customers to interact in a conversational manner.  • Provided assistance for implementing entity detection through which user metadata is  provided for bot to engage users in a personalized discussion.  • Utilized the NLP Engine on Kore platform to assist bot in detecting customer intent based on initial dialogue and provide further suggestions.  • Trained bot through multiple utterances and scenarios using AI apis to implement smart push  notifications based on user behavior.  • Formulated a mechanism for recording user interaction patterns with bot to provide an analysis for improving user experience and suggest new cost saving enhancements. Java Developer CAPGEMINI June 2017 to June 2018 Migrated JSP pages into Freemarker(.ftl), also revamped existing pages by improving  frontend elements to improve customer visual experience.  • Developed a number of services from Struts version of project into Spring Boot framework  using Java programming in order to decrease development and integration time.  • Devised architecture flows to define the different communications occurring between various services and systems.  • Developed web pages using html, css, and implemented validations using JavaScript.  • Designed wireframes for visual components based on design team requirements.  • Performed Junit testing and used cobertura to corroborate code coverage of test cases.  • Utilized Git in order to track and coordinate code patches.  • Created use case, class, and sequence diagrams to describe application framework.  • Coordinated design and development teams progress to testing team for further end-to-end  integration.  INTERNSHIP    ALLTRONICSTECH NOL OGI ESPVT.LTD. (3 Months)  Android Developer  • Anti-Ragging Android Application  • Collaborated with client to perform initial stages of SDLC.  • Created wireframes for frontend UI development using Ninjamock.  • Developed backend systems using Java.    UNDERGRAD-PROJECTS  • VNRVJIET Android Application (5 months)  • Coordinated ideas between institute heads and team on UI related aspects.  • Researched and developed solutions to ensure that application execution is done on zero investment using all open source tools.  • Used Firebase api to implement analytics to learn about user behavior.  • Pushed regular performance enhancements and bug fixes based on user feedback.  • Webpage Analytics using Hadoop  • Used Map-reduce framework to implement webpage ranking algorithm  • Developed mappers and reducers using Java for a number of services like parsing,  ordering, and ranking of webpages. Education Bachelor's Skills JAVA (2 years), CSS (1 year), FIREBASE (1 year), Git (1 year), Hadoop (1 year) Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/chandu-nerella-52b6a1b0/ Certifications/Licenses Oracle Certified Associate, Java SE 7 Programmer November 2017 to Present Business English Certification, University of Cambridge June 2015 to Present Big Data-Hadoop, Edureka Certification April 2018 to Present Additional Information TECHNICAL PROFICIENCY    • Java, Oracle SQL, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Spring Boot, Freemarker, Python  • Cloud: AWS, Firebase  • Tools: Git, Jenkins, Junit, Jira, Cobertura  • Other: Hadoop, Kore AI Platform