Java/J2EE Developer <span class="hl">Java</span>/J2EE <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java/J2EE Developer Madison, WI • Over 3 years of IT experience that includes developing Web & Enterprise applications using JAVA and J2EE Technologies.  • Diversified work experience in Healthcare and Insurance domain.  • Knowledge of Open source framework using Spring Batch • Knowledge in Client-Server and N-tier web applications development, deployment and maintenance using Java, J2EE, Servlets, JSP, JDBC, Spring, XML, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Web Services.  • In depth knowledge of presentation layer like JavaScript, CSS and HTML • Knowledge of application/web servers like Tomcat.  • Areas of expertise include Analysis, Design, Development and Testing of Projects with excellent knowledge of Object Oriented Analysis and Design • Have strong knowledge of various Software Development Life Cycle Models like Agile SCRUM and Waterfall • Experience in different phases of software development life cycle like Designing, Programming, Testing and meeting the requirements of the clients • In-depth knowledge of Database like Oracle, MySQL and MS-Access.  • Familiarity with Android SDK and Eclipse IDE along with Android ADT plug in.  • Strong communication skills to work within a group or with the end users.  • Excellent skills in decision-making and critical thinking. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Java/J2EE Developer Siva Complete Solutions Private Limited July 2012 to September 2015 Project: Client is leading private insurance organization and is among the largest underwriters of commercial and industrial insurance in USA. Project is comprehensive Life Insurance, Investment Software, which caters to the full functionalities of any life insurance, Disability Insurance, Long Term Care.  Project: Claims Center  Responsibilities: ? Extensively worked on front end, business, and persistence tiers using the struts frameworks.  ? Developed application using struts framework that leverages MVC (Model View Controller) architecture.  ? Used jQuery, Node.js and JavaScript was used for custom implementations and client-side validations.  ? Developed presentation layer using JSP, HTML, CSS and XML.  ? Implemented custom SOAP web services using Java.  ? Used Web APIs for integrating few features in application.  ? Developed stored procedures, and functions.  ? Coordinated with the QA team for testing the application.  ? Involved in the release management process, Worked as L1 support for the project.  ? Involved in developing Unit test framework using JUnit. Wrote JUnit test cases for every java class.  ? Followed Agile software development practice paired programming, test driven development and scrum status meetings.  Environment: Java, Struts, JSP, Servlets, JUnit, Web services, XML, HTML, jQuery, CSS, JavaScript, Ajax, Oracle, RAD, Agile Methodologies  Customer Enrollment Hub  The Customer Enrollment Hub (CEH) program is a comprehensive solution that provides the single source of truth for customer demographic and profile information across all system. CEH is a highly flexible, configurable framework that allows the business to assimilate and store customer related information in a single operational data repository. Additionally, the CEH framework allows for business-driven data access views and relationships in this repository for presentation back to the enterprise community. The Customer Enrollment Hub (CEH) provides a centralized repository for all client identity and business rules which will allow to realize the following benefits: • Provides a single point of entry and reference that enables economies of scale to operations that now deal with numerous disparate systems • Customer information that provides a strategic foundation for all future customer facing products • Provides the data elements for centralized authentication and authorization • Provides a single user interface for maintenance of all customer profile information  Responsibilities: • Extensively worked on front end, business, and persistence tiers using the struts frameworks.  • Involved in design, development, and testing phases of software development life cycle.  • Designed and developed Service layer using Struts framework.  • Involved in designing and implementation of MVC design pattern using Struts framework for Web-tier.  • Developed presentation layer using struts tag libraries like logic, html, bean, etc in JSP pages.  • Implemented web page lay out using struts tiles libraries, and performed struts validations using Struts validation framework.  • Extensively used Hibernate concepts such as inheritance, lazy loading, dirty bit checking, optimistic locking, and transactions.  • Followed Agile software development practice paired programming, test driven development and scrum status meetings.  • Involved in developing Unit test framework using JUnit. Wrote JUnit test cases for every java class. Education Master's Degree in Computer Application in Computer Application Chinmaya Institute of Technology", Kannur University - Kannur, KERALA, IN December 2012 Bachelor's Degree in Computer Application in Computer Application Chinmaya Arts and Science College for Women", Kannur University - Kannur, KERALA, IN March 2009 Skills Java, Core Java, Java J2Ee