FULL STACK JAVA DEVELOPER FULL STACK <span class="hl">JAVA</span> <span class="hl">DEVELOPER</span> FULL STACK JAVA DEVELOPER - VERIZON Dallas, TX • Over 5+ years of experience in design, development, maintenance and support of Java/J2EE applications.  • Experience in Core Java concepts such as OOPS concepts, Collections Framework, Exception Handling and Multithreading and good experience in SOA engineering and Microservices Architecture utilizing REST and SOAP Web Services.  • Extensive involvement with server-side programming using Java technologies such as J2EE Servlets, JSP, JavaBeans, JDBC, JMSxpertise in Webpage Development utilizing HTML5, CSS3, Java Script, jQuery, Bootstrap, Angular JS, Angular2.  • Strong Experience in working with different modules of spring structure like Spring IOC, Spring AOP, Spring MVC, Spring DAO, Spring ORM, Spring Security, Spring Web Flow, Spring Boot and Spring Cloud and have implemented MVC Architecture using Struts Framework.  • Extensive experience as a Software Developer ( Java) with all the phases of Software Development Life Cycle Analysis, Design, Development, Testing and Implementation and proficient in utilizing IDE like IntelliJ, Eclipse and Net beans. Solid Development and arrangement involvement in Tomcat 5.1, WebLogic 8.1, WebSphere 6.1, JBoss.  • Experience in deploying various AWS cloud services like EC2, EBS, RDS and have experience in creating and maintaining Amazon S3, Elastic Load Balancing (ELB) and other services of the AWS environment.  • Expertise in debugging and troubleshooting existing code.  • Experience with unit testing utilizing JUnit and writing build scripts using Maven and Ant and expertise in testing and debugging new programs using and Developer tools and writing build scripts using gulp and grunt.  • Used JIRA to test and track the Issues and Bugs related to software or Application and worked with SQL, Stored procedures, Triggers, PL/SQL programming and JDBC.  • Experience in Docker engine and Docker Machine environments, to deploy the micro services-oriented environments for scalable applications.  • Experience in working with RESTful Web Services and implementing RESTful API's and hands on Knowledge in NoSQL Database (Mongo DB).  • Experience in building web applications using Spring Framework features like MVC (Model View Controller), IOC (Inversion of Control), DAO (Data Access Object) and template classes.  • Extensive experience in Java/J2EE programming - JDBC, Servlets, JSP, JPA, JSTL, JMS and have expert knowledge over J2EE Design Patterns like MVC Architecture, Front Controller, Session Facade, Business Delegate and Data Access Object for building J2EE Applications.  • Developed AngularJS Controllers, Services, filters and directives for various modules in the application and created custom directives, decorators, and services using AngularJS to interface with RESTful APIs.  • Expertise in Object-relational mapping using Hibernate and strong experience in XML related technologies including XSD, DTD, XSLT, XPATH, DOM, SAX, JAXB and XML Beans.  • Expertise in developing and consuming Web services including different technologies and standards like DTD, XSD, SOAP, WSDL, RESTful and Apache Axis and experience in configuring MQ-Series and experience in developing messaging systems using JMS.  • Good Knowledge of using IDE Tools like Eclipse, NetBeans, JBuilder, Rational Application Developer (RAD) for Java/J2EE application development and expertise in database modelling and development using SQL, PL/SQL, HQL in Oracle (10g and 11g), MySQL, DB2 and SQL Server environments.  • Experience as a Front End (User Interface) Developer in developing web applications using HTML, DHTML, XHTML, CSS, JavaScript, AngularJS, jQuery and AJAX technologies.  • Experience in writing Junit test cases and experience in configuring ANT, Maven, Grunt and Jenkins for build automation.  • Hands-on experience with Reporting Tool Crystal Reports to create reports in various formats and tuning the performance and working knowledge in multi-tiered distributed environment, OOAD concepts, good understanding of Software  • Experience in developing Use Cases, Activity Diagrams, Sequence Diagrams and Class Diagrams using UML Rational Rose and Visio as well as have experience in managing tasks, feature enhancements and issues/bugs using JIRA, HP Quality Center (QC), IBM Rational Clear Quest. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience FULL STACK JAVA DEVELOPER VERIZON - Dallas, TX January 2018 to Present Responsibility:  • Actively includes in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for example, Design, Analysis, Development and Testing.  • Included in total improvement of Agile Methodology. Partaken in Scrum handle that is utilized for arranging diverse cycles of the venture.  • Used UML to draw use case diagrams, class & sequence diagrams and used CSS (SASS) to develop UI Components such as Accordions and Modal Windows using pure HTML 5 and CSS3.  • Implemented data-binding using Node.JS for front-end development of a current web application and utilized JAVA 8 features like Lambda Expressions, Parallel Streams and practical.  • Used AngularJS framework for building web-apps and is highly efficient with PHP framework as well as using Restful services and used AngularJS framework to bind HTML (views) to JavaScript objects (models).  • Develop and support REST API for cross application communication using NodeJS and ExpressJS, used ORACLE and DB2 for data storage.  • Used Node.js as a proxy to interact with Rest services and also interacting with Database Involved in writing application level code to interact with APIs, Web Services using AJAX, JSON and XML.  • Utilized AWS Services platform to upload data into AWS S3 buckets and creating EC2 instances and to deploy the Dockized Container services Designed and developed the REST based Microservices using the Spring Boot.  • Building the AWS Infrastructure using VPC, EC2, S3, Route 53, EBS, Security Group, Auto Scaling, and RDS in Cloud Formation as well as configured S3 to host static web content, Elastic Load Balancers with EC2Autoscaling groups and deployed Cloud Stack using AWS OpsWorks.  • Managed servers on the AWS platform instances using Puppet, Chef, Ansible, Configuration management as well as developed and maintained ANT Scripts and managed daily production issues.  • Integrated the Front-End web interface with the React JS, AngularJS, NodeJS, JSP, HTML, CSS, and jQuery and have implemented AngularJS client-side validation as well as AngularJS modules.  • Designed and created Micro Services business segments and RESTful administration endpoints utilizing Spring boot and interfaces implemented Micro Services based Cloud Architecture utilizing Spring Boot.  • Utilized Spring Annotations and XML Configuration for Dependency Injection and using UI Bootstrap coupled with AngularJS to create popovers, Modal Windows, Alerts and Accordions to give the site expressive and dynamic functionality.  • Implemented Angular Router to enable navigation from one view to the next as customer performs application tasks • Wrote application logic using template driven and reactive forms.  • Applied Angular 2 features like building the components and binding the data using data binding methods implemented the lazy loading to decrease the initial payload of the application in the browser  • Implemented apache camel to integrate the different applications using protocols like http, Active MQ and JMS and implemented RESTFUL and SOAP based web administrations utilizing for JAX-RS and JAX-WS individually.  • Utilized Hibernate for protest Relational Mapping and utilized JPA for comment and was involved in creating the Hibernate POJO Objects and mapped using Hibernate Annotations.  • Designed and actualized application utilizing Spring Boot, Spring MVC, Spring IOC, Spring AOP, Spring Transactions, Spring JDBC and was in charge of actualizing the business necessities utilizing Spring Data and Spring Security.  • Implemented Batch employments utilizing Spring Batch made different thing peruses, thing essayists and thing processors and utilized Maven as fabricate computerization apparatus for sending the venture on Tomcat Application Server and extensively chipped away at Drools Rules Engine for composing business rules approval and externalization of parameters.  • Validations are done utilizing Soap UI and Ready API testing instrument structure in various conditions and used Jenkins for Continuous Integration and Continuous Delivery to assemble pipelines amid organization.  • Focused on Test Driven Development thereby creating detailed JUnit tests for every single piece of functionality before writing the functionality and used Couch Base Server is to give low-inertness information administration to expansive -scale intelligent Web Applications.  • Actively used the defect tracking tool JIRA to create and track the defects during QA phase of the project and built NoSQL schemas and maintaining sessions by MongoDB.  • Written SQL Queries and stored procedures to interact with Oracle DB and worked on Log4J to approve functionalities and JUnit for unit testing.  • Improved and maintained AJAX based rich client for improved customer experience, advancement completed under Eclipse Integrated Development Environment (IDE).  • Actively used the defect tracking tool JIRA to create and track the defects during QA phase of the project and closely worked with business system analyst to understand the requirements to ensure that right set of UI modules are being built.  • Used GitHub to keep up the form of the documents and assumed the liability to do the code converges from branch to trunk and making new branch when new element execution begins.  Environment: Java 11, Micro Services, Spring, Google App Engine, Spring MVC, Spring Boot, Spring Security, Spring DATA, RESTful, AWS, Mongo DB, HTML, JavaScript, Angular 4, AJAX, Log4J, JUnit, Maven, Apache Tomcat, GitHub, GIT, JIRA, STS. Sr. JAVA/J2EE DEVELOPER TD BANK - Cherry Hill, NJ July 2016 to December 2017 • As a Java developer involved in back-end and front-end developing team. Took part in developing, maintaining, reviewing and supporting quality code and services.  • Followed Agile Software Development Methodology and Test-Driven Development (TDD) to build the application iteratively and incrementally and enhanced and optimized the functionality of Web UI using RichFaces, JSF, AJAX, CSS, HTML and JavaScript.  • Fetched JSON data within Orchestration Layer with Spring Boot Application and displaying it in UI using ReactJS and developed various screens for frontend using ReactJS, Used predefined components from NPM and Redux library.  • Software is built as a web app on NodeJS with BackboneJS, ReactJS, CSS is compiled with LESS and HTML template engine in Jade and implemented various features of spring framework such as Dependency Injection, IOC, Annotations and Spring integration with Hibernate.  • Implemented application architecture of the System is based on Spring MVC and J2EE specifications and have experienced in Security-System development for Web Applications. Involved and developed all phases of security implementation using spring security system against modes of authentications: LDAP authentication, Database authentication and Pre-Authentication.  • Integrated application with Spring Security for form-based authentication and authorization by used spring security JSP tags to provide UI level spring security and worked on Spring Quartz functionality for scheduling tasks such as generating monthly reports for customers and sending those mails about different policies.  • All the functionality is implemented using Spring IO / Spring Boot and Hibernate ORM and implemented Java EE components using Spring MVC, Spring IOC, Spring transactions and Spring security modules.  • Implementing or exposing the Micro services to base on RESTFUL API utilizing Spring Boot with Spring MVC  • Kubernetes were used as the best ecosystem to deploy and manage Microservices as well as developed Applications using Rule Engines, Drools 4.x,and ILOG corresponding to validate the business User Roles.  • Migration of Existing Applications to AWS cloud and build servers using AWS, importing volumes, launching EC2, RDS, creating security groups, auto-scaling, load Balancers (ELBs) in the defined virtual private connection.  • Implementation of Auto Scaling for instances under ELB using ELB Health Checks and worked with AWS CLI and AWS API to manage resources on AWS for many services such as EC2, S3, VPC, Cloud Watch, ELB, Auto-scaling and SNS, created python script using AWS API Calls to manage all resources Deployed on AWS.  • Used Hive QL, Map Reduce, Cassandra bulk loads, Java Web Services, UNIX Shell Scripts, Active MQ's and implemented a distributed messaging queue to integrate with Cassandra using Apache Kafka and Zookeeper.  • Implemented the application using design patterns such as Session Facade, Business Delegate, Bean Factory, Singleton, Data Access Object, and Service Locator.  • Rewrite existing Java application in Python module to deliver certain format of data. Generated Python Django forms to record data of online users.  • Initially we have used NodeJS to mock REST services and built the UI app using that mocked backend. Later we integrated with the real backend system and coordinated with server-side development team.  • Used NodeJS to run Grunt tasks and build properly the project (compile, minify, Concat etc.) and implement modules into NodeJS to integrate with designs and requirements. Used Grunt, Bower, Express from NodeJS.  • Developed test cases for Front Jasmine and Karma and have used Rabbit MQ queues for implementation of multi-threaded synchronization processes and used JMS queues for consumption requests.  • Used PL/SQL stored procedures for applications that needed to execute as part of a scheduling mechanisms.  • Handled Java Multithreading part in back-end, one thread will be running for each user, which serves that user.  • Defined strategic initiatives on Continuous Integration & Delivery (CI/CD) model with Test-driven development, Extreme programming (XP), and build automation, in an AGILE development environment to help, respond quickly to business needs and to ship world class Quality products.  Environment: Java 7.0, Spring 3, Hibernate 4.2, Spring batch, Spring quartz, Spring security, Spring Jta, Spring Boot, Python, Kubernetes, JPA, JavaScript's, ReactJS, BackboneJS, NodeJS, HTML5.0, CSS3, JMS, Rabbit MQ, ILOG, JAXP (SAX & DOM), JBoss, Eclipse, Oracle 11g, Cassandra, Kafka, RESTful, log4j, JUnit, XML, Web Services, GIT. JAVA DEVELOPER Dini Communications, Inc - Edison, NJ January 2015 to July 2016 Responsibilities:  • Design, Development, testing and debugging of new software and enhancements to existing software and was resolving design conflicts and using best coding practices.  • Developed common reusable component libraries (CRUD Scaffolding) to be reused in different projects throughout the company's IT team using GWT, Sencha, spring data, JPA.  • Getting signoff from the users after User acceptance testing and used JavaScript, jQuery and ExtJs to create UI on the Front End.  • Developed major websites and services by including Mongo DB as backend software and used various libraries of JavaScript like jQuery, backbone.js, underscore.js and node.js.  • Translation of business requirements to information technology and developed business modules using Hibernate & Spring frame work technologies.  • Developed reusable custom directives with AngularJS using restrict, event handlers and templating. Leveraged two-way data binding through scope in applications built on AngularJS.  • Architected, designed and implemented a SPA (Single Page Application) in AngularJS which consume JSON from a Spring MVC, using Spring Security to secure the Application.  • Implemented nested views and routing using Angular UI Router as per the requirement. GUI was developed using JSP, HTML, and AngularJS and created reusable components in AngularJS using Custom Directives Filters, Services and Partials  • Experience in handling WebLogic scripts for server management and application deployment and configuration of application using the Spring, Hibernate, DAO's, Action Classes, Java Server pages.  • Used popular Node.js frameworks like Express and Loop back to mock a Restful API and developed and deliver presentations on JavaScript, Node.js, loopback and Strong Loop and developed API Gateway using Node.js and Used Postgres SQL as a Database for storing information.  • Involved in building database Model, APIs and Views utilizing python, in order to build an interactive web-based solution and web pages are developed using Java Server Pages, HTML, DHTML, EXTJS, AJAX, and JavaScript.  • Performed unit testing with Junit as well as used Cobertura tool to analyze the code covered by Unit test cases and used Oracle WebLogic 10.x as my Application Server for this application and have developed new modules using JSF 2.0 Framework  • Built an online system using XML, JavaScript, AJAX, Struts 2.0, JDBC and was involved in technical Documentation for the module signed and created SQL Server Database, Stored Procedures and used XML, JSP, JavaScript, AJAX, Servlets to drive the application / request user input from backend  • Involved in designing and developing Customized tags using JSP taglib and implemented Model View Control (MVC) architecture using Struts Framework and Spring framework.  • Developed browser-based Java Server Faces front-end to an AS/400 system and worked on Web Sphere Application Server as well as used Ajax to provide dynamic features where applicable.  • Used MVC pattern for GUI development in JSF and worked closely with JSF lifecycle, Servlets and JSPs are used for real-time reporting which is too complex to be handled by the Business Objects.  • Created several JSP's and populated them with data from databases using JDBC, working on Session maintenance was done using Servlets and developed and Designed Interfaces using JSP and Servlets used ANT automated build scripts to compile and package the application and used Jira for bug tracking and project management.  Environment: JAVA, J2EE, JDK 1.6, Servlets, JSP, XML, Web Services (JAX-WS: WSDL, SOAP), Spring MVC, JDBC, SQL, HTML, JavaScript, AJAX, SOAP UI Tool, SVN, SQL, Weblogic, Apache Axis 1.2, ANT, Clear case, JUnit, UML JAVA DEVELOPER ALLIED INSURANCE - Westerville, OH August 2014 to December 2014 Responsibilities:  • Involved in full Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) of the project: requirement gathering, analysis, code development, testing, deployment and maintenance and Microsoft Visio was used to design use case diagrams, class diagrams, sequence diagrams, activity diagrams.  • Implemented Model View Controller (MVC) Architecture based presentation using JSF framework and client webpages are built using HTML, CSS and JavaScript.  • Providing an environment and support to the Linux servers of different distributions like Redhat, CentOS, Solaris and AIX  • Involved in database programming in Oracle. Developed SQL Queries for performing CRUD operations in Oracle for the application and designing of the system as per the change in requirement using Struts MVC architecture.  • Used core java concepts like exceptions, collections while developing server-side services and used Maven for generating system builds and Bamboo for continuous integration.  • Worked on Eclipse for development and deployment of application in Web Logic Application Server and deployed GUI code to WebLogic application environment and standalone components to JBoss Server and responsible for coding, testing and documenting various packages, procedures, and functions for libraries.  • Used Log4j, JUnit for debugging, testing and maintaining the system state and wrote Junit test cases for spring controllers and web service clients in service layer using Mockito. Education Bachelor's Skills Angular, Node, Java, React, Javascript Additional Information SKILLS  • XML, X query & XSL, PHP, Mongo DB, Cassandra, Hadoop Environment, GitHub, Bootstrap, Test Driven Development, HTML5, Angular.js 1.5,2.0, 4.0, React.js, Framework, C++, JAVA script, CSS3, MySQL, Linux, ORACLE  TOOLS  • AWS (Cloud Watch, EBS system), Hadoop Environment, PHP, C++, JAVA Script, ORACLE, Bootstrap, Angular.js, React.js