Java/J2EE Developer <span class="hl">Java</span>/J2EE <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java/J2EE Developer - Nationwide Insurance Columbus, OH, OH • Around 7 years of experience in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle including Design, Development, Testing, Production, Customization, Implementation, Maintenance and Support.  • Expertise in Core Java with strong understanding and working knowledge in Object Oriented Concepts like Collections, Multithreading, Data Structures, Algorithms, Exception Handling and Polymorphism.  • Extensive experience in the Analysis, Design, Development, Implementation and Testing of enterprise application with Web Technologies, Distributed Technologies and Client-Server Architecture Environment, Mobile Technologies and Could Technologies.  • Worked on Telecommunication, Network Management & Monitoring, Network Discovery, and Network Configuration Systems.  • Worked with socket functionalities using TCP\IP protocol and familiarity with Http/Https, Web services, TCL scripting, Perl and XML.  • Excellent Programming skills and Development Experience with JDK 8, J2EE, Servlets, JSP, JSF, Swings, UI, EJB, Java Beans, GWT, Rich faces, JMS, JDBC, XSLT, JUnit and Web Services.  • On experience with Version control systems like IBM Clear Case, CVS, and SVN.  • Very good at building and Deploying EAR, WAR, JAR files on test, stage and production servers.  • Experience with Java 1.8 Features like Lambda expressions, Parallel Streams, functional interfaces and filters.  • Experienced with Jenkins methodologies includes CI (Continuous Integration) and CD (Continuous Deployment)  • Extensive experience in using Application Servers Web Sphere Application Sever 8.x/7/6.x, WebLogic Application Server 8.1, JBoss 4.0, Apache Tomcat 4.x/5.x/6.x.  • Experience in Developing Web Based GUI's using JSP, HTML, DHTML, CSS, JavaScript (and its Frameworks like JSON), Action Script, Angular JS, JQuery, EXT JS and Ajax.  • Experience in different patterns/methodologies like Model View Controller (MVC), Dependency Injection (DI), Inversion of Control (IOC), Service Oriented Architecture (SOA), Object Oriented Analysis and Design (OOAD), Unified Modeling Language (UML) and AGILE SCRUM methodologies.  • Experience with multiple Servers like IBM WebSphere, Web Logic, Sun Glass Fish, JBoss and Apache Tomcat/Camel.  • Experience in database connectivity (JDBC) for databases like Oracle, MySQL and TSQL.  • Proficient in developing various open source frameworks like Struts, spring, JSF 2.0, and ORM Technology like Hibernate 5.0.  • Experience in working on Spring Batch framework and Eclipse IDE environment with SalesForce.com Plug-in for writing Classes, Controllers, Triggers & Batching, Web Services, SOQL, SOSL, Components using Apex Language.  • Knowledge of developing single page web applications by using Angular with typescript/ ES and jQuery and working knowledge on HTTP access control CORS to enable cross-origin-resources sharing in the project.  • Good exposure to building Web Services (WSDL, SOAP, UDDI) using open source implementation like Apache Axis, RESTful API, XML, JAXP, JAXB, JAX-WS, JERSEY.  • Involved in Unit Test Cases writing and having good knowledge in JUnit.  • Worked with various JS libraries such as AngularJS, Prototype.  • Expertise in writing Micro services using Spring Boot.  • Experience in developing PL/SQL, Stored Procedures, and Triggers on Oracle Databases.  • Good work experience in writing SQL Queries with major Relational Databases.  • Good knowledge of Database Connectivity (JDBC) for Databases like Oracle ADF, SQL Server, MySQL, MS Access.  • Hands on experience in UML Modeling, Rational Rose and Design Pattern (J2EE) like Singleton Factory Method, Facade, Front Controller, Delegate Pattern, MVC Architecture.  • Strong Team Player, ability to Work Independently and in a Team as well, excellent analytical capabilities and Good Communication Skills.  • Establish and maintain productive working relationship with management, Clients and team members.  • Ability to learn quickly in work environment, excellent written and verbal communication skills, presentation and problem-solving skills. Work Experience Java/J2EE Developer Nationwide Insurance - Columbus, OH April 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Worked on Imaging and workflow applications which consist of following stand-alone applications which are built using Java Swings:  ? Vision (which supports life insurance)  ? Views (which supports annuities)  ? NRS (which supports public retirement plans)  ? OnTrack (which supports private retirement plans)  ? NF Capture (which is the core part of the imaging for incoming work into vision, views, OnTrack and NRS)  • Worked extensively on Oracle database to write useful SQL queries, functions, Stored  Procedures and triggers since most of the Workflow for these applications lies in the database.  • Experience in understanding and comprehending the complex legacy business logic which lies in the Stored Procedures and improvising them to the requirement.  • Reverse engineer the existing platforms, functionalities and access the feasibility of design within the time constraints to build efficient prototypes and solutions.  • Worked on the REST web services to host an interface to the customers where they could do a lot like generating reports, retrieve business documents, index the batches and process them.  • Worked on SOAP web service for IW web app, to provide a service to retrieve the unique access id for the customers when passing in different attributes and the doc id.  • Experience in using Spring framework to connect different components together for our web apps.  • Used plain JDBC to perform the CRUD operations, calling stored procedures, all in accordance to the requirements.  • Performed extensive test driven development using JUnit for unit testing.  • Performed Deployment, patch and Maintenance activities in build environments using Jenkins.  • Contribute to Technical Design and Architecture discussions and reviews, with clients in Integration of various new initiatives. Also involved in peer code reviews.  • Experience in understanding the overall picture of the applications and had written HLD and DLD documents.  • Participated in the DevOps initiative and practiced the concepts throughout our Sprint to speed up and deliver the finished product quickly without any hurdles.    Environment: Eclipse IDE, Windows 10, JDBC 4.0 and 4.2, Oracle 12c, SoapUI, Postman, HTML, GitHub, Unix, Java 6, 7 and 8, JAX-RS 2.3.5, JAXWS-RT 2.2.5, Spring 4.3.9, Spring-webMVC, Spring-jdbc, Maven, Jenkins, UCD, REST web-services, SOAP web services, Web Sphere Liberty server, Nitro Server, Apache Tomcat, Javascript, JSP, Angular js 1.2, SL4J, Agile Model - Scrum, Sprint and DevOps. Java/J2EE Developer Amtrak - Washington, DC October 2015 to July 2016 Responsibilities:  • Involved in all phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) of project including requirement Analysis, Designing, Building, Unit testing and Deployment.  • Design and developing web application using core Java and J2EE technologies and worked on various development activities on front-end redesign.  • Developing front end UI screens using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, LESS, Bootstrap, CSS3, Angular-UI and AngularJS.  • Redesigning the E-Z-Pass website to be feasible with HTML 5 and functionality changes according to client requirements.  • Creating custom, general use modules and components, which extend the elements and modules of core AngularJS.  • Implemented code according to coding standards and created AngularJS Controllers, Services, Directives and Filters.  • Tested all the application controllers extensively with AngularJS built-in testing features and Jasmine.  • Implemented spring modules Dependency Injection and Aspect Oriented Programming.  • Developing Controllers, Service Classes and DAO based on MVC architecture.  • Integrated Spring DAO for data access using Hibernate, used SQL for querying databases, designed & developed persistence service using Hibernate framework.  • Implemented Server caching using IBM proprietary API classes and used Log4J logging framework for logging messages at various levels.  • Designed and developed the REST based Microservices using the Spring Boot, Spring Data with JPA.  • Performing unit testing and reviewing the results with the team and participated in daily meetings with the business analysts to document the requirements and enhancements.  • Meetings with the offshore team to address the integrated application issues.  • Extensively used Liquid XML and SOAP UI for testing the web services.  • Worked with third party database tool TOAD to write/fine-tune the SQL queries.  • Coordinating with server admins in application deployments and server configuration.  • Travelled to offshore locations to train the resources and work with the QA analysts.  • Proposed and implemented various ideas like shared libraries, design patterns in developing, deploying and integrating the applications.  • Developed the message listener beans and session beans to read and process queue messages.  • Configured JMS queues and activation specifications on the application server.  • Configured the EJB container with listeners, data sources and session beans.  • Developed simulator applications using servlets and jsp to test the back-end jobs.  • Providing trouble shooting and error handling support for multiple applications.  • Used code version controlling using Tortoise SVN.  Environment: Java 1.7, EJB 3.1, Servlets 3.0, JDBC 4.0, spring 4.2, Apigee, hibernate 4.0, HTML 5, AngularJS 1.6, WebSphere 8.5, Oracle 10g, SOAP UI 5.2, TOAD, Liquid XML, Tortoise SVN, Win SCP, Windows, Linux. Java/J2EE Developer Equifax Inc - Atlanta, GA December 2014 to July 2015 Responsibilities:  • Involved in Object Oriented Analysis (OOA) and Object Oriented Design (OOD) Techniques using Unified Modeling Language (UML)  • Used Hibernate ORM framework as persistence engine, actively engaged in mapping, and hibernate queries.  • Implemented Java, J2EE, XML, Struts, and JavaScript.  • Developed User-interface using AngularJS JavaScript, HTML5, jQuery, Ajax and CSS3.  • Used Bootstrap and AngularJS in effective web design.  • Used Core Java 6: Collections, Exception Handling, multithreading and generics.  • Updated CSS layout to reflect the new changes as per the addition of new components.  • Worked with backing beans to implement the changes.  • Also produced spring-based web services.  • Developed Struts action classes, forms and Jsp pages with struts tags, validation, struts-tiles and modifying Struts-Config files and implemented file upload functionality for large amount of data.  • Performed extensive test driven development using JUnit for unit testing.  • Responsible for data validation on the Client side by using JavaScript and JQuery.  • Developed DDL to allow code reuse and DML to access database.  • Used Struts MVC in architecture in developing the application.  • Developed Server side validation by using Struts Validation Framework.  • Implemented Lookup Dispatch Action and Action class for developing the functionality using Struts.  • Developed User interface for the application using Struts tag libraries, jQuery, JSP, and JSTL.  • Used Hibernate for querying and maintaining database persistent objects and implemented the second level caching using Hibernate.  • Developed and Consumed SOAP and RESTFUL web services.  • Deployed the application on Apache Tomcat Server.    Environment: Java 1.6, JSP, Servlets, Struts, Struts Tag Libs, Validation Framework, Hibernate, Oracle, Java Script, jQuery, XML, Apache Tomcat 6.0, JavaScript, AngularJS. Java Developer ADHOC IT Solutions July 2012 to November 2014 Responsibilities:  • Participated in the discussion with business experts to understand the business requirements and mould them into technical requirements toward development.  • Developed the core modules for the services by using Struts, Servlets, JSP and Front end controllers to handle the application flow.  • Involved in managing Business delegates to maintain decoupling between Presentation & Business layers.  • Used AJAX and jQuery to implement auto-completion feature and to display search results.  • Validated all forms using Struts Validation Framework and participated in implementing Tiles Framework in the presentation layer.  • Used Web Services to extract and transform data from a wide variety of sources such as XML data files, flat files, and relational data sources, and then load the data into one or more destinations.  • Used JDBC to provide database connectivity with MS SQL data base.  • Created Tables, Stored Procedures, User Defined Functions, Views and Triggers for different data operation on the database using SQL server using Java.  • Effective execution of the prepared Test Cases.  • Extensively used Core Java concepts and implemented Collections, Multithreading, I/O, Exception Handling and Generics in logic design and development.  • Developed code for Java Multithreading. Implemented Executor Framework from multithreading to achieve better performance.  • Worked on Garbage Collection for memory issues to improve the performance.  • Involved in preparing the Test Plans for testing to be carried out effectively.  • Performed Page, Module wise Testing & Conditions Testing. Performed Testing using JUnit framework.  • Build & deployment the code using Ant.  • Following Coding guide lines & maintain quality of code.  • Worked on Log4J to validate functionalities and developed customized reports.    Environment: Java 1.5, JSP, Struts, Servlets, Java Script, HTML, CSS, AJAX, JDBC, Web services, JAXB, Windows/UNIX, Ant, JUNIT, Log4J, Eclipse, Maven, Tomcat 7, SVN. Education Yale University - New Haven, CT August 2016 to March 2018 Skills JAVA (4 years), JSP (4 years), TESTING (4 years), WEB SERVICES (4 years), HTML (4 years) Additional Information Technical Skills:    Languages: Java, J2EE, Android, C, C++, XML, SQL and PL/SQL.  Java/J2EE Technologies: JSP, Servlets, JDBC, RMI, JNDI, SAX, DOM, CMS, Rich faces,  SOA, JAXB.  Frame Works: Spring 4.x, Hibernate 5.0, Struts 2.x, Swing, Scala 2.x, EJB3.x/2.x, JSF 2.0 and JPA.  Web/Application Servers: Web Sphere 8.5, Web Logic 11g, CXF, Apache Tomcat 8.0, Camel, JBoss7, Sun Glass Fish 4.x.  IDE/Tools: Eclipse 4.4.2, Net Beans 8.0, RAD 6.0, GWT, WASD 5.0.  Web Services/Messaging: REST based Web Services, SOAP based Web Services, WSDL,  JAXB, JAX-WS, Apache AXIS 2, JERSEY, JMS, MQ Series.  Scripting Languages: HTML 4.0/5.0, DHTML, Java Script, VB Script, Perl, Shell, AJAX, CSS 2.0/3.0, jQuery  Testing and Build Tools: JUnit, Log4j, ANT, Maven, Dozer, Service Now Tool.  Databases: Oracle8i/9i/10g/11g, OracleADF, MySQL5.0, Sybase  SQLserver2005/2008/2012  Operating System: 10/8.1/7, UNIX, Linux.  Source Control: GitHub, CVS, Rational Clear Case, Jenkins and Subversion.