Java/J2EE Developer <span class="hl">Java</span>/J2EE <span class="hl">Developer</span> Atlanta, GA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Java/J2EE Developer Incomm November 2014 to Present 7+ years of Highly Creative, Motivated & Versatile IT Professional with as a Full Stack Developer on Developing, Implementing and maintenance of various Web based and Client-Server based business applications using Java/J2EE Technologies.  ? Full Versatile with Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) methodologies like Agile, Waterfall and Test-Driven Development (TDD) in both the Web and Enterprise based applications.  ? Extensive experience of AWS cloud services like EC2, Cloud watch, Cloud Formation, S3, VPC, ELB, AMI, SNS, RDS, IAM, Lambda, Route 53 and managing security groups on AWS.  ? Expertise in Scripting Language like HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery , Ajax, AngularJS 2/4, JSP, Node.JS, Bootstrap.  ? Hands on building Enterprise Applications and Distributed Systems using technologies such as Core Java, J2EE (Servlets, JSP, JSF, EJB, STRUTS, Hibernate, SPRING, SPRING MVC, JDBC, JMS) and XML.  ? Utilized Java 8 features like Lambda expressions and Stream API for Bulk data Operations on Collections which would increase the performance of the Application.  ? Extensive knowledge of XML-based standards and protocols (such as WSDL and SOAP), Service Oriented Architecture (SOA), development of XSD schemas and implementing both SOAP and REST web services.  ? Experience using Spring Modules - Spring MVC, Spring Boot, Spring DAO, Spring Data, Spring IOC, Spring Annotations, Spring AOP, Spring Transactions and Spring Security.  ? Designed and developed the REST based Micro Services using the Spring Boot and Spring Cloud.  ? High experience in using frameworks like Struts, Spring MVC, Hibernate and Design Patterns such as MVC, Session Façade, Front Controller, Data Access Object(DAO), Value Object, Singleton, Service locator for executing multi-tier, highly scalable, component based, Service driven Enterprise Java application.  ? Experience in writing ANT, Maven build scripts and configuring them using Log4j and writing JUnit test cases.  ? Experience in working with NoSQL database like MongoDB, Cassandra.  ? Worked on various web servers like WebSphere 6.0/9, Tomcat, Web Logic , JBOSS  ? Experience on Junit, Selenium in performing Unit testing, Automation testing and have good knowledge of Root cause analysis.  ? Strong experience in Finance, Health, Telecommunication and other domains using diverse technologies.  ? Experience in developing applications using different IDEs like Eclipse, RAD and Intellij.  ? Strong interpersonal skills, the ability to interact with people at all levels, and strong communication and presentation skills. Education Bachelors in Information Technology in Information Technology VIT University Skills Java, J2Ee, Java J2Ee, Spring, Hibernate Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    Programming Languages C, Java 1.5 - 1.8, J2EE, PL/SQL. Web Technologies HTML5, CSS3, XML, JavaScript, JSP, JSTL, jQuery, AJAX, AngularJS2/4, NodeJS.  Frame Works Struts 2.0, JSF 1.2, Spring 2.0 - 4.0, Hibernate 3.0 - 4.3 and JUnit 4.5. Microservices Spring Boot, Spring Rest  Databases Oracle 10g/11g, MYSQL, MongoDB, Cassandra Web/Application Servers Apache Tomcat, IBM Web Sphere and JBoss.  Testing JUnit, Mockito, Selenium Development Tools Eclipse, Net Beans, IntelliJ.  Version control GitHub, Tortoise SVN, Apache Subversion and CVS. Bug tracking JIRA, Visual studio.  Tools & Utilities Apache Maven, Gradle, Jenkins, ANT and Postman, SonarQube, spot bugs. Operating Systems Windows 7/10, MacOS, Unix and Linux    INCOMM, ATLANTA, GA Nov 2014 - Present    Java/J2EE Developer  Description: InComm is the industry leader in gift card business. Generation of Inventory for all InComm transaction processing systems. The project is to implement manage User requests, generates user data, build rule actions allows user access to generated inventory.    ? Involved in all the phases of SDLC including Requirements Collection, Design & Analysis of the Customer Specifications, Development and Customization of the Application using SOA.  ? Developed front-end content using HTML, CSS, Angular JS, Bootstrap, JavaScript, jQuery.  ? Designed and developed client side application in a clean MVC architecture and responsive web pages using Bootstrap.  ? System builds using Spring Model View Controller (MVC) architecture.  ? Implemented Dependency Injection (IOC) feature of spring framework to inject beans into User Interface and Spring AOP for reusability logging purpose.  ? Used Spring Core, JBPM & multi-threading as part of enhancing Bundler process with in Content Management System.  ? Used ReactJS to create Controllers to handle events triggered by clients and send request to server.  ? Wrote business rules using Drools and business logic processing customs declarations.  ? Participated in development of a well responsive single page application using ReactJS framework.  ? Designed and implemented business rules using DROOLS framework.  ? Used Hibernate ORM solution technique of mapping data representation from MVC model to Oracle Relational data model with an SQL-based schema.  ? Implemented and developed Restful web services with JAX-RS using Jersey as provider and implemented security.  ? Developed and Consumed SOAP based Web Services with JAX-WS specification.  ? Implemented and developed DAO layer using Spring Integration and Hibernate to persist the data to the database.  ? Implemented JBOSS application server integration with jBPM process engine and eclipse IDE.  ? Worked with java (Java8), using Spring, Spring MVC, Multi-threading, DBC, Hibernate, RESTFul Web Services and SOAP Web Services.  ? Designed and developed Microservices business components using Spring Boot.  ? Designed and prototyped parts of a NoSQL database with Sinfonia-style coordination.  ? Designed and implementation of low-latency, high-availability, and performant applications by using Node.js  ? Written complex SQL queries, HQL, created business tables and PL/SQL procedures to store and retrieve data from the database.  ? Developed service infrastructure components in Typescript for a unified web UI initiative.  ? Implemented Service Oriented Architecture using JMS for sending and receiving messages while creating web services.  ? Created forms to collect and validate data from the user in HTML5 and ReactJS.  ? Developed JUnit test cases for elements, web beans, handlers and view helper classes.  ? Used GIT to maintain the version of files and took the responsibility to do the code merges from branch to trunk and creating new branch when new feature implementation starts.  ? Designed and maintained databases and tested and implemented applications built using Python.  ? Wrote internal and external API services using Node.js modules.  ? Implemented MicroServices architecture using Spring Boot for making application smaller and independent.  ? Developed single page web applications by using Angular with typescript and jQuery.  ? Configured development environment using Web Sphere Application server for developer's integration testing.  ? Used Maven as build automation tool.  ? Involved in enhancement/modification of the product as per the client requirements.    Environment: Java 8, J2EE, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, Spring Core, Spring Security, Spring MVC, Spring IOC, REST, SOAP, JAX-RS, JAX-WS, Web Services, TypeScript, React.JS, Node.JS, Jersey, JMS, Rabbit MQ, Service Oriented Architecture, Groovy/Grails, Maven, Drools, JBPM, Web Sphere Application Server, GIT, NoSQL, Python, Agile Methodology and Eclipse.    OPTUMCARE, MINNEAPOLIS, MN Jul 2013 - Oct 2014    Full Stack Java Developer  Description: Optum is a behemoth in the healthcare industry over 5,000 hospitals in its portfolio. Optum works with about 300 health plans. It is a health care organization that meets patients where they are with care services including primary, urgent care, and advanced care.The project is about patient portal where you can look at patient personal details , medication , claiming of medical insurance , HMO and Medicare Advanced Plans    ? Involved in the complete SDLC (software development life cycle) of the application from requirement analysis to testing.  ? Followed Agile Methodology in analyze, define, and document the application, which will support functional and business requirements. Coordinate these efforts with Functional Architects.  ? Designed, Configured and deployed Amazon Web Services (AWS) for a multitude of applications utilizing the Amazon cloud formation.  ? Extensively used Core Java 1.8 concepts and implemented Collections, I/O, Exception Handling and Generics in logic design and development.  ? Developed the UI using HTML5, CSS3, JSP and JavaScript for interactive cross browser functionality and complex user interface.  ? Involved in designing the client side module architecture based on new Angular 2/4 Framework.  ? Used Jersey to implement Restful Web Service and used JSON form to transfer the data.  ? All the functionality is implemented using Spring Boot, Micro Services and Hibernate ORM. Used Spring Core Annotations for Spring DI, Spring MVC for REST APIs and Spring Boot for Micro-services.  ? Installed and configured JBOSS/Drools server with MySQL /Oracle persistence.  ? Designed and developed the REST based Micro Services using the Spring Boot and Spring Cloud.  ? Used Spring MVC module to develop MVC Architecture.  ? Using Hibernate ORM tool for Memory mapping object-oriented domain model to relational database  ? Developed POJO objects and used Hibernate as the Object-Relational Mapping (ORM) tool to access the persistent data from SQL Server.  ? Used Rest Controllers to replace the existing operations layer, which acts as bridge between business layer and the UI.  ? Used MongoDB as data storage and utilized aspects like replica sets, sharing and clever document design to make service extensible scale and feature wise.  ? Developed Unit Test Cases, Used JUnit for unit testing of the application.  ? Created UNIX shell scripting for periodic generation of reports.  ? Deployed Spring Boot based Micro services Docker container using Amazon EC2 container services and using AWS admin console.  ? Setting up the automatic build and deployment automation of project by using JENKINS and Maven.  ? Experience on implementation of version control software GIT repositories.  ? Provided Technical support for production environments resolving the issues, analyzing the defects, providing and implementing the solution defects.    Environment: JAVA 1.7, AWS, HTML5, CSS3, JAVASCRIPT, ANGULAR 2/4, MICROSERVICES, RESTFUL WEB SERVICES, HIBERNATE 4.2, SPRING 4, SPRING BOOT, SPRING MVC, ORACLE 11G, MONGODB, Drools, TOMCAT, KAFKA, MAVEN, JENKINS, JIRA, LOG4J, JUNIT, TESTNG, GIT.  CAPITAL ONE, MCLEAN, VA Dec 2012 - Jun 2013    Java/J2EE Developer  Description: Capital One an American Financial bank holding company specializing in credit cards, auto loans, banking and savings. It is the eighth-largest commercial bank in the United States. The current application is a part of online banking that a customer leverages to set up his online account and make e-bills payment as well as intra account transfers. As a part of the Online Banking Software Development Team I helped with various responsibilities to develop a robust functional application code.    ? Involved in Design, Development and Support phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) , Application is implemented using Agile Methodology where there is a daily SCRUM meeting to understand the status and resolve any issues.  ? Created webpages pages using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Restful and AJAX to create interactive front-end GUI.  ? Involved in writing Java API for Amazon Lambda to manage some of the AWS services. Used AWS Lambda to run the code in the AWS.  ? Developed application using Drop Wizard, Gradle, Hibernate, Web Services (RESTFUL).  ? Worked on Swagger API and auto-generated documentation for all REST calls.  ? Developed Spring Configuration files & used annotations to auto wire Java Components using Drop Wizard  ? Involved in developing latest version of Object Oriented JavaScript Libraries like Angular 2 and had hands on experience with Web Responsive using Bootstrap's templates.  ? Created Multiple Re-usable UI Directives by defining Angular 2 Directives, Attaching Event Listeners, Controllers & Updating DOM elements.  ? Used Spring Boot which is radically faster in building cloud Micro Services and develop Spring based application with very less configuration.  ? Designed and developed Micro Services business components and RESTful service endpoints using spring boot.  ? Developed the persistence layer using Hibernate Framework by configuring the mappings in hibernate files and created DAO and POJO.  ? Involved in writing database connection classes for interacting with Oracle database. Incorporated Singleton Pattern to implement the database access classes.  ? Imported data from various resources to the Cassandra cluster using Java APIs.  ? Used JUnit for unit testing the application and used Log4j tool for debugging the application and measure the Test coverage.  ? Implementing the Coding standards, review the code by SonarQube and fixing all the code review bugs.  ? Working on Google Voice for dependency Injection.  ? Used Git as the version control tool.  Environment: JAVA 1.6, J2EE, HTML5, CSS3, JAVSCRIPT, ANGULAR JS, AJAX, SPRING MVC, SPRING BOOT, SPRING AOP, SPRING BATCH, RESTFUL, HIBERNATE 3.6, Oracle, Cassandra, JUNIT 4.9, KARMA-JASMINE, APACHE CAMEL, GITLAB 7.0, MAVEN, JENKINS.  AXIS BANK, HYDERABAD, INDIA JUNE 2011 - Nov 2012    Java Developer  Description: AXIS bank provides funds or loans to people with small business requirements. Applicants get their loans sanctioned based on their credit history. The applicant information is maintained in a database along with the details of the loan for repayment. This data is filtered and that data is used for statistics for generating reports.    ? Worked in Waterfall Software Development methodology.  ? Involved in prototyping, proof of concept, design, Interface Implementation, testing and maintenance.  ? Created use case diagrams, sequence diagrams, and preliminary class diagrams for the system using UML/Rational Rose. Designed and developed front view components using HTML, CSS, JavaScript and JSP.  ? Developed Interactive web pages using AJAX and JavaScript.  ? Implemented Core Java concepts like Polymorphism, Inheritance, Multithreading etc.  ? Involved in developing various reusable Helper and Utility classes using Java, which are being used across all the modules of the application.  ? Developed Java classes for implementing Business logics using EJB (Stateless session, entity, message driven beans).  ? Deployed and tested the application with web server Tomcat.  ? Configured and tested the application with database server Oracle 10g.  ? Helped in database design and tuning. Created stored procedures, Views in the Database.  ? Used SVN for version control and developed Scripts by using Ant.  ? Involved in communicating with clients daily to ensure their requirements are being met.    Environment: JDK, CORE JAVA (MULTITHREADING, COLLECTIONS), JSP, SERVLETS, XML, HTML, JAVASCRIPT, AJAX, EJB 3.0, UML, RAIONAL ROSE, JDBC, APACHE TOMCAT, ORACLE 10G, SVN, ANT, WINDOWS, UNIX/ LINUX.