Java, Full Stack Developer <span class="hl">Java</span>, Full Stack <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java, Full Stack Developer - JPMorgan Chase Tampa, FL Java, Full Stack Developer Work Experience Java, Full Stack Developer JPMorgan Chase - Tampa, FL June 2018 to Present Roles & Responsibilities:  ? Effectively involved in daily stand up and sprint planning sessions as part of AGILE Scrum Methodology.  ? Successfully implemented Web Services and exposed the service to the inter application communication.  ? Developed web applications using Intellij.  ? Worked on Rest Web services and used Micro services architectural style to develop the application.  ? Worked on Spring IOC, Spring Boot, and Spring Cloud and also used ORM framework like Hibernate.  ? Coordinate with business and onshore team for clarification and make sure that the project is designing as per requirements in all stages.  ? Used databases like Oracle, MySQL and MongoDB  ? Worked with PTO items like AppDynamics, APICA, and HPSM Queue for monitoring the application.  ? Participated in meetings with business teams, understand requirements for 2 weeks duration as our project follows monthly deployments with daily stand-up calls.  ? Implemented the front end using Html5, CSS3, AngularJS, and Boot Strap JS and used Node JS to get the data from MongoDB database.  ? Responsible for creating Controllers, Service and DAO classes and bug fixing.  ? Responsible for code update into SVN and support for automated builds successful.  ? Responsible for fixing bugs open in development and production environment.  ? Responsible for update JIRA by changing the stories status like open, progress and closed.  Environment: Windows 7, Microservices, JAVA, Oracle, Spring MVC, Spring ORM, Spring Boot, Spring Cloud, Rest, Web Services, Hibernate, Html5, AngularJS, BootstrapJS, NodeJS, CSS3, JSon, Unix, Maven, Log4J Java/J2EE Developer Equifax - Alpharetta, GA July 2017 to May 2018 Roles & Responsibilities:  ? Developed application business components and configured beans using Spring IOC.  ? Involved in the Development of Spring Framework Controllers, Service and DAO  ? Used Rest Web services API and to call the services from the Consumer side.  ? Used Spring Framework for Dependency injection and integrated with Hibernate framework.  ? Developed applications using Hibernate persistent framework, developed persistent classes, hibernate-mapping files.hbm.xml file, hibernate query language  ? Developed Business Object, POJO and helper classes to access database.  ? Worked with Amazon Web services (AWS) Services like S3 (Simple storage service) for storing the Files and created EC2 (Amazon Elastic Cloud Compute) instances.  ? Developed Hibernate in Data Access Layer to access and update information in the database.  ? Worked on AJAX implementation for retrieving the content and display it without reloading the existing page and also worked on data structures and algorithms.  ? Developing business objects, which contains the business logic(Services) and which interacts with the database (DAO)  ? Responsible for writing Test Case and performed Unit testing and String Testing.  ? Involved in bug fixing for the code in production and developing the code for next release.  ? Designed and modified User Interface using JQuery, JavaScript and CSS.  ? The project was developed on Eclipse, GitHub as Version Control and also used Jenkins has Continuous Integration tool.  ? Performed SCM tasks like branching, merging and tagging the source code in Subversion.  ? Deployed to test on local Environment on Apache Tomcat and it was deployed on WebLogic 9.2 in test.  ? Used Log4J to print the logging, debugging, warning, info on the server console.  Environment: Core Java, Spring IOC, Spring MVC, Spring ORM, Spring Security, Rest Web Services, JSP, Hibernate3.0, Amazon Webservices(AWS), Log4J, HTML, JavaScript, CSS, JQuery, AJAX, JSON, Jenkins, Oracle10g, WebLogic9.x, WindowsXP, Eclipse, Ant. Java Developer Berkshire Hathaway Insurance - Chennai, Tamil Nadu October 2013 to June 2015 Roles & Responsibilities:  ? Gathered user requirements, analysed and wrote functional and technical specifications.  ? Employed Scrum concepts of Agile Development Methodology for software development.  ? Designed front-end, data driven GUI using JSP, HTML, JavaScript and CSS  ? Designed, implemented and deployed J2EE web application using JSF MVC and Spring IOC.  ? Used Hibernate for Object Relational Mapping (ORM) and data persistence.  ? Implemented business processes to develop email notification components using JMS API  ? Wrote SQL commands and Stored Procedures to retrieve data from Oracle database  ? Developed web services using SOAP, XML.  ? Developed the application using Singleton Data Transfer Object design patterns in the project.  ? Used log4j for logging and SubVersion for version control.  ? Configured and deployed web application in WebLogic using ANT tool.  ? Created Use Cases, Sequence, Object Model and Component UML diagrams using UML tool.  ? Developed custom reports using Crystal Reports and wrote test cases using JUNIT tool.  ? Facilitated the designing and testing of application using PUTTY.  Environment: JAVA 1.6, Struts 1.3, Spring IOC, Spring JDBC, JavaScript, HTML, CSS, Oracle 11g, SQL, PL/SQL, Tomcat 5.x, Log4J, Eclipse, and SVN Java Developer Premier Livestock - Chennai, Tamil Nadu July 2012 to September 2013 Roles & Responsibilities:  ? Involved in various stages of Enhancements in the Application by doing the required analysis, development, and testing.  ? Implementing Business logic and data base connectivity.  ? Design and modified User interface Using JSP, JavaScript and CSS.  ? Developed logic and code for the registration and validation of the enrolling customer.  ? Study the Project requirements and functionalities in both business and code level.  ? Attending the review meetings with SMEs and Coordinating with backend (mainframe) to get actual result to front end.  ? Responsible for writing test cases for testing the scenarios.  ? Involved in Unit, Integration, String, Production Testing.  ? Wrote the validation at the Client side and Server Side using JavaScript.  ? Responsible for code update into SVN and support for automated builds successful.  ? Performed and verified the functionality make sure it should work for all browser.  ? Used Log4j for unit testing and for logging frameworks  ? Informed respective manager on time whenever project is getting delay due to other teams and make sure to get done.  Environment: JAVA 1.6, Struts 1.3, JDBC, JSP, JavaScript, HTML, CSS, Oracle 9i, SQL, PL/SQL, Tomcat 5.x, Log4J, Eclipse, and SVN Education Master's Degree in Computer Science in Computer Science Rivier University - Nashua, NH 2017 Bachelor's Degree in Computer Science in Computer Science Guru Nanak University 2011 Skills ECLIPSE, J2EE, JAVA, HIBERNATE, SPRING