Sr. Java Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Java Developer - Commerce Bank • 6+ years of Java experience in the development of Java/JEE enterprise applications using JEE, Spring, Hibernate, Web Services, RESTful, AJAX, JSON, SQL, JUnit, and Maven.  • 5+ years of experience using programming languages: Java, Spring/IoC, Hibernate, JPA, Spring Data, Domain Modeling, RESTFul Web Services/ RESTEasy, Junit, Logg4j, XML, JSON, SQL, Design Patterns, JEE framework.  • 2 years of experience using tools and servers like Swagger, Java IDE/Eclipse, Maven, JBoss application and Web server, Oracle 11g, SOAP.  • Expertise in implementing Web services, Microservices, AWS, Docker & JMS for the synchronous and asynchronous connection between two applications running in different servers.  • Involvement in the full software development life cycle with needs on time to market, & quality of product.  • Experience with Frameworks including Spring MVC, Spring Batch, Spring Boot, Spring Integration, Spring Security, Hibernate.  • Experience with Cloud Computing Service environment like (AWS) Amazon Web Services (EC2, S3 and ELASTIC SEARCH)  • Solid experience on the technologies like HTML5, JavaScript, CSS3, AJAX.  • Experience on implementing integration solutions with RESTful Web Services.  • Experience in developing solutions for complex, enterprise-level software development and integration projects.  • 5 years of experience working within the Agile Scrum methodology to develop enterprise-level web applications in a Java Enterprise Edition (JEE) environment.  • Experience with Java Script frameworks-Angular, React, jQuery.  • Experience building large-scale web services, Microservices based applications in the cloud environment.  • Hands-on experience with AWS development, NOSQL, Spring batch.  • Experience on Service Oriented Architecture by publishing and consuming webservices which has been developed using SOAP, Restful protocols, XML, JAXB, XSD and Apache Axis2 framework.  • Strong experience in developing Single Page Application (SPA), using MEAN (Mongo, Express, Angular and Node) stack.  • Knowledge of unit testing using JUnit aiding test driven development in some scenarios.  • Expertise on IBM WebSphere Application Server, Oracle WebLogic application servers, JBOSS and Apache Tomcat Application Server.  • Experience with Spring Integration technology. Also having experience in running a microservices application in Kubernetes.  • Experience with Big Data.  • Experience in unit testing tools of JavaScript framework like Karma, Jasmine and Protractor for Angular, Mocha and Chai for React JS.  • Unit tested angular Code Jasmine and Karma.  • Extensive experience in NOSQL databases like MongoDB, couch DB and Elastic search.  • Worked on various security protocol and framework/tool - SSO, Oauth2, IBM Web Seal.  • Experience in developing Web Applications with various frameworks, Struts 1/2.0, Spring 2/3, Spring MVC, Hibernate 2.0/3.0 ORM, JPA, J2EE, JSPs, XML/XSL, HTML5, DHTML, JavaScript.  • Experience in TDD and version management tools GitHub, SVN.  • Excellent object-oriented analysis and design patterns/techniques with emphasis on Java/J2EE technology  • Have experience working with ASP.Net.  • Hands-on experience in Microservices, Spring Boot with the cloud technologies such as Pivotal Cloud Foundry (PCF) etc.  • Knowledge of UNIX (Linux) environment and scripting.  • Knowledge of the different AWS Offerings including serverless.  • Having knowledge of Open Source Frameworks including Spring and Spring Boot. Work Experience Sr. Java Developer Commerce Bank - Kansas City, MO March 2019 to Present • Followed Agile Scrum methodology for development of the product. Using Atlassian Jira Agile for Agile scrum project management/update.  • Designed and built security architecture using AWS Lambda, AWS API Gateway  • Implemented the application with XP methodology as Agile process, refactoring the existing code and writing new code.  • Developed the web pages Java, JavaScript, jQuery, backbone, handlebar, Ember and J2EE technology framework using Spring 2 MVC, JDBC, Hibernate, and Web Services with J2EE design patterns using Eclipse.  • Developed microservices with Spring and tested the application using Spring Boot.  • Implemented AWS IAM for managing the credentials of applications that runs on EC2 instances. Creation of REST Web Services for the management of data using Apache CXF.  • Upgraded existing website with HTML5, BOOTSTRAP3, CSS3, jQuery, Java Script, and Grunt build tools.  • Designed custom marketing assets (email marketing templates and newsletter templates) for each customer's preference based on seasonal promotion.  • Developed unit test for Angular components using Jasmine & Karma test framework. Also, for unit testing for end-to-end testing.  • Implemented independent functionalities as Microservices using Spring Boot, to deploy and maintain the code easily.  • Integrated the dynamic pages with Angular JS and jQuery to make the pages dynamic.  • Designed the front-end applications, user interactive (UI) web pages using web technologies like HTML, XHTML, and CSS.  • Implemented account creation module as a Single Page Application using AngularJS along with Angular validation.  • Used Hibernate as the ORM mapping tool and worked with Hibernate Query Language (HQL)  • Developed GUI using JavaScript, DHTML, DOM, XHTML, AJAX, CSS3 and jQuery in ongoing projects.  • Involved with bug fixing on functionality, performance and designing issues with JavaScript, JQuery, HTML5, CSS3 and AngularJS.  • Setup and built AWS infrastructure various resources, VPC, EC2, S3, Dynamo DB and RDS in Cloud Formation JSON templates.  • Microservices have been built using spring boot, spring cloud and deploying to AWS Cloud.  • Used Bootstrap and AngularJS, React.js and Node.js in effective web design.  • Developed reporting dashboards, which processes large amount data that are stored in Elastic Search and My SQL platforms and generates reports and displays in dashboards.  • Used SAX XML API to parse the XML and populate the values for a bean.    • Created Buckets in AWS and stored files. Enabled Versioning and security for files stored  • Used RESTFUL client to interact with the services by providing the RESTFUL URL mapping  • Analyzed and fixed issues related to REST Web services and Application responses.  • Created custom Plugins, templates, and functions for Angular JS application.  • Implemented Hibernate for data persistence and management.  • Analyzed and fixed issues related to REST Web services and Application responses.  • Added database function with Hibernate and JPA, to create add, update and delete function.  • Created next-gen version of mortgage lending application utilizing HTML5, Angular JS CSS3, Bootstrap, and jQuery.  • Used various Core Java concepts such as Multi-Threading, Exception Handling, Collection API's to implement various features and enhancements.  • Developed the customized Navigation and Maps APIs according to the application needs.  • Created applications interfaces from the PDF are given by the UX using HTML5, CSS3 and Bootstrap.  • Developed and consumed restful web services using Apache CXF Framework.  • Involved in creation of Test Cases for JUnit Testing.  • Performed code deployments to local Tomcat server for testing in Ubuntu Linux environment.  • Worked on Git Repository for code integration and version control.  • Continuous integration using Jenkins on tomcat.  • Used Maven and Ant for Build Automation ensuring proper settings, avoiding/solving any errors.  • Deployed the complete Web applications in WebSphere Application server. Sr. Java Developer Nordstrom - Seattle, WA November 2014 to January 2016 • Worked with BA in understanding technical requirements of project and prepared use cases for functions.  • Worked on Payment Processing Application, Money Transaction and Security based.  • Created instances in AWS as well as migrated data to AWS from data Center using snowball and AWS migration service.  • Developed the User Interface Screens for presentation using JSF, JSTL tags, HTML 5, CSS 3, DOJO and JavaScript.  • Fixing, Prioritizing, Reporting and Assigning of bugs both on the front and Backend using REST, JQuery, CSS.  • Developed WSDL and implemented Web Services in SOAP Server using Apache CXF using SOA.  • Implemented persistence layer using Hibernate.  • Working on AWS Elastic load balancing for deploying applications in high availability.  • Created custom directives in Angular JS for re-usable components and used filters, controllers, directives, services while coding in Angular JS.  • Design prototype Skelton for the UI and Responsive design implementation using web components and Google Polymer.  • Developing plan to train & transition software engineering teams to Test Driven Development (TDD)  • Established ATTD (Acceptance Test Driven Development) Approach for various cloud-based products company wide.  • Implemented Microservices based Cloud Architecture using Spring Boot.  • Designed and developed Microservices business components and RESTful service endpoints using Spring boot.  • Expertise in React JS framework to develop the SPA.  • Implemented client-side Interface using React JS.  • Developed and maintained PL/SQL procedures, functions and packages to transfer the data from the staging tables to the target tables.  • Worked on JavaScript frame work (Angular JS, Bootstrap) to augment browser-based applications with MVC capability.  • Data modeled and denormalized various RDBMS tables in Mongo dB JSON document model.  • Analyzed and refactored existing network-based PHP code and converted to use mongo dB in all web apps, parsed heterogeneous data files like xml, csv, json into mongo dB and vice versa.  • Migrating the projects from ANT to Maven and upgrading the build tools.  • Used Spring framework for Dependency Injection (DI)  • Used Git as Version Control System for the application.  • Worked on XML, XSD and XSLT to parse the request and create the new one based on the specification.  • Experienced with RESTful Web Services. Have also designed and developed REST interfaces in Java 8.  • Implemented Spring-Core for dependency injection and Spring ORM to integrate hibernate for the persistence.  • Launching and configuring of Amazon EC2 (AWS) Cloud Servers using AMI's (Linux) and configuring the servers for specified applications.  • Custom frontend development with PHP, Code Igniter, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Angular js and wrote PHP to interact with third party Json services.  • Written stored procedures and inner joins using RDBMS Oracle on Unix and Windows environment  • Used Spring framework for Dependency Injection (IOC)  • Configured JMS in the WebSphere application server to send messages on the queue.  • Experience in working with the JIRA an issue tracking system, and an environment with high deadlines. Sr. Java/J2EE Developer AT&T March 2013 to October 2014 • Involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) of the application like Requirement gathering, Design, Analysis and Code development.  • Generated Use case diagrams, Class diagrams, and Sequence diagrams using Rational Rose.  • Developed the applications using Java, J2EE, Struts, JDBC  • Deployed Spring Boot based microservice Docker Container using Amazon EC2 Container Services using AWS Admin Console.  • Developed XML applications using XSLT transformations.  • Worked on various use cases in development using Struts and testing the functionalities.  • Involved in preparing the High Level and Detail level design of the system using J2EE.  • Created struts form beans, action classes, JSPs following Struts framework standards.  • Implemented the database connectivity using JDBC with Oracle 9i database as backend.  • Involved in the development of model, library, struts and form classes (MVC)  • Used display tag libraries for decoration and used display table for reports and grid designs.  • Worked on core java, using file operations to read system file (downloads) and to present on JSP.  • Involved in the development of underwriting process, which involves communications without side systems using IBM MQ and JMS.  • Used PL/SQL stored procedures for applications that needed to execute as part of a scheduling mechanisms.  • Built applications for scale using JavaScript and NodeJS.  • Designed and developed Application based on Struts Framework using MVC design pattern.  • Developed Struts Action classes using Struts controller component.  • Developed SOAP based XML web services.  • Using Spring Boot which is radically faster in building Microservices and develop Spring based application with very less configuration.  • Used Jasper to generate rich content reports.  • Apache Ant was used for the entire build process.  • Used Rational Clear Case for version control and JUnit for unit testing.  • Designed and developed web interfaces and business logic using Spring, JSP, Servlets, JavaBeans, Spring JDBC, Java Script, HTML, and XML Technologies  • Configured WebSphere Application server and deployed the web components.  • Provided troubleshooting and error handling support in multiple projects. Head InfoTech, India September 2012 to February 2013 Java Developer    • Involved in designing, developing and implementation of Classes, UML diagrams showing generalization and other relationships, Sequence diagram describing the interaction of objects over time.  • Interacted with business analyst to understand the requirements to ensure correct UI modules been built to meet business requirements.  • Worked in developing dynamic robust UI screens using CSS, HTML, XHTML, JavaScript, Bootstrap, Backbone, and jQuery.  • Developed web pages using Forms, Components, Layouts, Events, Validations, Trees, Grids components.  • Used MVC architecture of Framework to simplify the code complexity and increase clean code.  • Worked on CSS preprocessor frameworks (SASS/LESS)  • Involved in writing application level code to interact with APIs, Web Services using AJAX, JSON and XML.  • Expertise in Core Java concepts such as OO Design, Multi-threading, Generics Exception Handling, Collections, Java Reflection, Annotations.  • Taken care of complete Java multi-threading part in back end components.  • Involved with all stages of Software Development Life Cycle.  • Involved in the analysis, design, and development phase of the application.  • As a team member, I was involved in preparing design documents - Technical Design, Functional Design Technical Domain documents, Application Interface Contract and Service Interface Contract Documents.  • Extensively involved in writing MySQL, PL/SQL queries, to interact with Oracle.  • Built web-based application using Spring MVC Architecture and REST Web-services.  • Involved in the Design, Development Phases of quotes, customer service modules.  • Developed the front-end using JSP, Struts, MVC, JavaScript, HTML and DHTML.  • Used Struts-validation Framework to provide Validation.  • Created XML document using STAX XML API to pass the XML structure to Web Services.  • Developed middleware business logic using Enterprise Java Beans.  • Release deployment planning and execution of releases.  • Used ClearCase for version control.  • Database Schema and tables were developed using SQL Developer.  • Worked in the development of DAO classes for the data access logic. Java developer Wex Technologies June 2011 to August 2012 • Involved in design, development and implementation of the front-end part of application.  • Worked with a team of graphic designers to create compelling websites user interfaces.  • Developed CSS classes to GUI web page controls and forms.  • Created search engine optimized websites and micro sites.  • Worked with clients and senior user experiences designer to understand the branding strategies and design goals to define strategy, layout and features for the websites /applications design.  • Coding, styling, testing of reusable JavaScript, CSS3, HTML widgets/libraries for complex UI controls responsible for JavaScript/AJAXUI upgrades and improvements.  • Developed Object Oriented JavaScript code and responsible for client-side validations using jQuery functions.  • Utilized various JavaScript and jQuery libraries to manipulate the events and other interactive features (Dynamic functionality)  • Involved in designing and developing the JSON, XML Objects.  • Developed data formatted web applications and deploy the script using client-side scripting using JavaScript.  • Developed MySQL queries to implement the select, insert, update and delete operations.  • Created HTML, navigation menu that is role-based menu items changes dynamically, derived from the database in the form of XML.  • Designed the email blasts using Adobe software and then implemented them using HTML and JavaScript.  • Produced semantically appropriate, standards compliant markup, and rich user interfaces.  • Used AJAX to send request to the server to check the functionality of the websites.  • Actively participated in meetings with clients to determine website goals and developing strategies.  • Developed callback functions to parse and handle JSON data returned from server.  • Tested cross browser functionality and fixed major layout bugs for supported browsers including IE6  • Developed and prepared test cases for unit testing with JUnit. Education Bachelor's