Full Stack Java Developer Full Stack <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Full Stack Java Developer - Edge Financial Technologies Chicago, IL ? 5+ Years of IT experience in all phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) such as  Planning, Analysis, Design, Implementation, Testing and Maintenance of Web Based,  Client-Server and N-tier Architectures  ? Extensive experience of designing and developing software applications with Java, J2EE,  EJB, JSP, JSF, Servlets, Java Beans, ORM, Web Services, JDBC, XML, CSS, SOAP, REST.  ? Strong experience with frontend technologies like HTML5, CSS3, Scripting languages like  JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX, Angular JS, Angular2/4, NodeJS, BackboneJS and good  knowledge in ReactJS, EmberJS.  ? Proficient in Java/J2EE Design Patterns including Singleton Factory, Model View  Controller (MVC), Data Access Object (DAO) and Business Delegate. Well versed with core  Java concepts like collections, multithreading, serialization, Java beans.  ? Responsible for designing Presentation Tier (web pages) using the concepts such as  Themes, Skins, HTML, XML, CSS, Java Script and JQuery using AJAX.  ? Extensive experience in design and architecture of J2EE based large applications and good  working experience in using different modules like Spring Core Container Module, Spring  Application Context Module, Spring MVC Framework module, Spring AOP Module, Spring  ORM Module, Spring Batch in Spring Framework.  ? Extensive experience in implementing MEAN Stack (MongoDB, ExpressJS, AngularJS,  NodeJS) with RESTful stands  ? Experience in writing numerous test cases using JUnit framework. Expertise in developing  dynamic web pages in HTML with AngularJS for UI and developed single page application  by using AngularJS  ? Worked on IDE's such as Eclipse/MyEclipse and WSAD/RAD for developing, deploying and  debugging the applications. Experience in developing applications using frameworks like  Struts, Hibernate and Apache CXF.  ? Experience on MS-SQL 2008, MongoDB, Sybase, MySQL and expertize in managing  MongoDB environment from availability, performance and scalability perspectives.  ? Proficient with development of RESTful Web Services using JAX-RS for exchange of JSON  and XML representations. Expertise in developing dynamic web pages in HTML with  AngularJS for User Interface and developed single page application by using AngularJS  ? Experience in Object Oriented Analysis and Design (OOAD) using Unified Modeling  Language (UML) and Rational Unified Process (RUP) using Rational Rose, Enterprise  Architect and MS Visio.  ? Experienced in using ANT and Log4j. Experience working with databases such as Oracle  8.x/9i/10g, MS-SQL Server 2008/2005, MySQL and using PL/SQL to write stored  procedures and functions for different Data Models.  ? Worked on integrating internal security model into new projects with Spring Batch, Spring  Microservices and SpringBoot.  ? Experience in AWS Cloud platform and its features which includes EC2, AMI, EBS, Cloud  watch, AWS SQS and AWS S3.  ? Experienced in a fast paced Agile Development Environment including Test-Driven  Development (TDD) and Scrum. Hands-on experience with Reporting Tool Crystal Reports  to create reports in various formats and tuning the performance.  ? Experience in using Integration tools like Jenkins, Cruise control.  ? Designed and developed custom Mongo applications specific to clients' needs and  proficiency in multiple databases like MongoDB, Cassandra, MySQL, ORACLE and MS SQL  Server. Worked on MongoDB database concepts such as locking, transactions, indexes,  Sharding, replication, schema design.  ? Experience in Configuration Management, setting up company Version policies, build  schedule using SVN, CVS and Git.  ? Expertise working on Application Servers and Web Servers like WebSphere 6.x/7.x,  WebLogic 8.x/9.x/10.x, Apache Tomcat 5.x/6.x/7.x.  ? Extensive experience in Database Development using SQL, PL/SQL, Stored Procedures,  Functions, SQL Developer & TOAD, Triggers and SQL Server Management Studio  ? Good experience in log4J implementation for persist the data into log files and experience  with Ant and Maven for the build and deployment of applications  ? Experience in developing test cases and test plans besides involving in Unit testing,  Integration testing and User Acceptance testing extensively.  ? Highly self-motivated and goal oriented team player with strong analytical, debugging,  problem solving skills. Diversified knowledge and ability to learn new technologies quickly.  ? Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Full Stack Java Developer Edge Financial Technologies - Chicago, IL January 2018 to Present Participated in Sprint Planning and Showcase meetings as part of SCRUM team.  ? Involved in coding and implementation activities for various components using Java, JEE,  spring.  ? Implemented the presentation layer using Spring MVC framework.  ? Developed the frontend interface using JSP with AJAX features.  ? Developed business functions using Java.  ? Developed various User Interfaces using HTML and AngularJS.  ? Developing complex Business Management and Business Intelligence functionality.  ? Designing and developing reports for the Business Analysis using Actuate Reporting  platform, followed Agile Modeling.  ? Implemented routing logic and navigation from screen to screen and implemented  functionality on the client side in AngularJS.  ? Worked with Web services components like RESTful Web services to interact with external  systems.  ? Worked on research team that developed Scala, a programming language with full Java  interoperability and a strong type system.  ? Improved stability and performance of the Scala plugin for Eclipse, using product feedback  from customers and internal users.  ? Developed SOAP based web services.  ? Used Hibernate as ORM tool and defined the mapping and relationship of each table in system and Oracle Database.  ? Implementation of Hibernate using the Spring Framework (Created the session Factory).  ? Involved in Unit testing and performed peer review of design and code.  ? Used ClearCase for source code control and JUnit for unit testing.  ? Developed test cases using Junit.  ? Used Maven to build tool and deploying the application.  ? Software Development is driven by pure agile methodology, short sprints in from of iterations and developed using Java JEE components.  ? Implemented Spring Web MVC framework for the applying MVC Implementation to the web application.  ? Involved in Designing and Developing UI Interface using JSP, CSS, HTML, Java Script, AJAX  and jQuery.  ? Involved in developing and configuring server side J2EE components like Servlets, JSP,  JDBC, JSON, REST Web Services, J2EE platform using Eclipse IDE, and deployments in JBoss App Server environments.  ? Worked in developing Spring related backend services (For the flex to access the database)  ? Used Springs Jdbc to offer abstraction for the business from the database related code.  ? Created database tables in Oracle and Teradata created required SQL queries, stored  procedures and used JDBC to perform database operations.  ? Environment:: Java /J2EE, JSP, Spring MVC, Spring, hibernate 4.2, Spring, Oracle, SQL,  HTML, jQuery, CSS, XML, Ajax, AngularJS, Bootstrap, SOAP, REST, Apache SoapUI, JSON and Linux. Full Stack Java Developer GlobalLogic - Chicago, IL October 2016 to December 2017 Developed application modules using Spring MVC, Spring Annotations, Spring  Beans, Dependency Injection with database interface using Hibernate.  ? Used Spring MVC front controller pattern to handle requests starting with dispatcher  servlet to handle incoming requests.  ? Developed RESTful web services using Spring Boot.  ? Produced and consumed the web services data in the form of JSON, XML.  ? Application is designed and developed using Java RESTful web services that  connects with Oracle database in the back-end and returns JSON data to Angular  framework on UI Portal side using spring, RESTful.  ? Used core Java concepts like multithreaded environment and Executor Framework to run the processes asynchronously using different future calls to access the data  ? Used AJAX to call the REST API methods and connect to the backend. Restful web  services have  ? Developed various screens for the front end using Angular JS, HTML, CSS3,  JavaScript.  ? Wrote database queries using SQL and PL/SQL for accessing, manipulating and updating MySQL database and no SQL database.  ? Used JIRA Tool for Bug, issue Tracking, assigning task among the Team in the Agile  team  ? Developed Maven configuration files to load the context of the application.    Environment:: Java /J2EE, Linux, HTML, Spring 4.0, React JS, Hibernate, RESTful, Agile  Methodology, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Servlets 3.0, Eclipse, jQuery, JUnit 4, GIT, Jira,  SQL. NY - Java Developer Steven Madden Ltd November 2015 to September 2016 Worked on Core Java to implement validations for different layers of the request file  Physical, Logical, and Transfer Request.  ? Used Spring DI to inject beans using both constructor and setter Dependency  Injection.  ? Worked on Spring JDBC to interact with the Oracle database for all the CRUD  operations.  ? Implemented Spring Modules for Designing, Developing & Testing of Service Layer  Business Components.  ? Developed REST based services using Spring MVC architecture and used JSON for the data transfer  ? Designed and Developed user interactive screens using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript,  jQuery. BOOTSTRAP.  ? Used Git as the central repository of all the modules. Worked and helped other  colleagues too in resolving their merge conflicts.  ? Developing the Micro services using Spring Boot that create, update, delete and get  the information from backend.  ? Used Java 8 lambda and streams for Iterating collections and performing operations.  ? Deployed applications using Lambda and Docker containers.  ? Using Multi-Threading concept to process multiple tasks concurrently to make  performance better.  ? Developed user-friendly interface to seamlessly combine the new module with Luxottica login system by using Angular JS framework and jQuery.  ? Created popup forms using Bootstrap Modals, AngularJS Models and AngularJS  Controllers.  ? Designed user interfaces in Angular JS, Ajax, Java Script, CSS that will be integrated  to Spring MVC.  ? Implemented AngularJS Controllers to maintain each view data. Implemented  Angular Service calls using Angular Factory.  ? Involved in writing SQL and Stored Procedures for handling complex queries and access them through Java Programs from Oracle Database.    Environment: Java, J2EE, Hibernate, Struts, spring, HTML5, CSS3, JSP, JavaScript, jQuery,  Bootstrap, Angular.js, AJAX, XML, Maven, REST, Oracle San Joe, CA - Java Developer Cisco August 2014 to October 2015 Responsible for the technical integrity of application and being an active developer and contributor to the team's delivery.  ? Used UI Development using HTML, and coded Java components which retrieve data using  SQL.  ? Configure the development environment using Eclipse, Servlets, JSP's in Web logic  application server.  ? I was involved in development of various modules including Customer Registration, User  Profile Management, and login screens using Servlets and Jsp Pages and implemented  Client-Side Validations through Java Script.  ? Worked with functional team experts to implement their functional knowledge into working Procedures.  ? One the requirements are implemented; the changes will be moved from development to Staging and finally to the Production.  ? Used CoreFTP and Harvest for version control and updating the changes from development to production throughout the application.  ? Involved in Web Application Deployment, Unit Testing, reviewing the code and defect  fixing.  ? Conducted code reviews against coding standards and made sure the best practices are  maintained in development process.    Environment: Java, JSP, HTML, CSS, CoreFTP, Harvest, SQL, Servlets 3.0, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript,  WebLogic, Windows OS, Unix. Education Bachelor's Skills Eclipse (3 years), Html (3 years), Java (4 years), Servlets (3 years), Sql (4 years), Node, React, Javascript, Angular Additional Information Skills  Java/J2EE Technologies Servlets, JSP, JSTL, JDBC, JMS, JNDI, RMI, EJB, JFC/Swing, AWT, AWS,  Applets, Multi-threading, Java Networking    Programming Languages Java1.6/1.7/1.8, C++, C, SQL, Scala, PL/SQL    Application/Web Servers: Oracle/BEA WebLogic 8.1/9.1/10.3, IBM WebSphere 5.1/6.0/6.1/7.0,  Jboss, Tomcat 5.0.28/6.0, Bug tracking, Jenkins.    Frameworks Struts 2.x/1.x, Spring 4.x/3.x/ 2.x, Hibernate 3.x, JSF 1.2/2.0, iBatis, Flex    UI Frameworks jQuery, AngularJS, NodeJS, ReactJs, Bootstrap.    IDEs Eclipse 3.x, IBM WSAD, IntelliJ, Dream viewer    Web technologies HTML/HTML5, CSS/CSS3, XHTML, JavaScript, Ajax, jQuery, AngularJS/2/4,  JSON, BackBonejs    Web Services JAX-WS, JAX-RPC, JAX-RS, SOAP, REST, SOAP UI    XML Tools JAXB, Apache Axis    Methodologies Agile, Scrum, RUP, TDD, OOAD, SDLC    Modeling Tools UML, Rational Rose, Visio    Testing technologies/tools JUnit, JMeter, HTML Unit    Database Servers Oracle 8i/9i/10g/11G, DB2, SQL Server 2000/2005/2008, MySQL, NOSQL-  MongoDB, Cassandra    Version Control Git, CVS, SVN    Build Tools Gradle, Maven, ANT    Platforms Windows 2000/98/95/NT4.0, Linux, UNIX, Mac, Windows  Containerization Tools Docker, Dockerswarm, Kubernetes    Cloud Developments EC2,S3,Elastic, ELB, Spring PCF(pivotal cloud foundry)