Business Analyst Business Analyst Business Analyst St. Louis, MO ? Over 8+ years of IT experience in various stages of Software Development which includes 5+ years of experience as Salesforce CRM Developer, Administrator, Business Analyst on Salesforce.com platform.  ? Experience in implementing technology-enabled business solutions.  ? Possess knowledge of CRM processes like Sales, Marketing, Customer Service and Customer Support, Business processes and recommended solutions to improve their processes using salesforce.com.  ? Experience in Administration, Configuration, and Implementation of Salesforce CRM and Salesforce SFA applications based on Apex Language and Force.com Platform.  ? Experience in SFDC development using Apex classes and Triggers, Visual Force, S-Controls, Force.com IDE, SOQL, SOSL.  ? Worked on Eclipse IDE with Force.com Plug-in for writing business logic in Apex programming language.  ? Proficiency in SFDC Administrative tasks like creating and customizing Profiles, Roles, Users, Page Layouts, Email Services, Approvals, Workflows, Validation rules, Reports, Dashboards, Tasks and Events.  ? Experience in data migration using Import wizard and Apex Data Loader.  ? Used Force.com Web services API and outbound messaging for implementing web services through WSDL in the application for access to data from External systems and websites.  ? Developed SFDC Customized Reports, Dashboards and Processes to continuously monitor data quality and integrity.  ? Experience in customizing Salesforce CRM for generating web-to-leads and web-to-cases.  ? Proficiency in Object Oriented Languages like C++, Java, JSP, Servlets and other Java technologies.  ? Experience in web technologies like HTML, XML, CSS, JSP, and JavaScript.  ? Experience in databases such as Oracle and MySQL.  ? Extensively worked on Salesforce.com sandbox and production environment including creating Sandboxes and refreshing it time to time. Deployment between Production and Sandboxes using Eclipse, Force.com Migration Tool, and Change Set.  ? Proficiency in installing and developing Lightening, App Exchange applications.  ? Hands on experience in implementing security and sharing rules at object, field, and record level for different users at different levels of organization. Also created various profiles and configured the permissions based on the organizational hierarchy.  ? Excellent debugging and documentation skills to achieve the complex business functionality.  ? Proficient in cloud based business applications, experience with data management and reporting, in combination with strong analytical skills.  ? Have working experience in Design and Development of UI's Using Visualforce, and HTML.  ? Good understanding of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) and Agile with expertise in Requirement gathering, Analysis, Designing, Development and Testing.  ? Worked closely with Business Users to enabled business process using SFDC.  ? Excellent communication and inter-personal skills; accustomed to working in both large and small team environments. Work Experience Business Analyst Oppenheimer - Wayne, PA December 2012 to October 2014 interacted with various business user groups for gathering the requirements for salesforce.com, Lightning and CRM implementation.  • Documented and shared the requirements with other SalesForce.com consultants for further implementation.  • Develop portal solution using Lightning Components  • Worked with Service Cloud technology and on-premise infrastructure integration for Salesforce.com.  • Implemented new customer support solution using Salesforce.com Service Cloud. Maintained and improved existing SalesForce implementation.  • Performed the roles of Salesforce.com Administrator/ Developer in the organization.  • Worked on various Salesforce.com standard objects like Accounts, Contacts, Cases, Leads, Campaigns, Reports and Dashboards.  • Designed and deployed Custom objects, validation rules, Page layouts, Custom tabs, Components, to suit the needs of the application.  • Provide and organize documents via Salesforce CRM Content or the Documents tab in Customer portal.  • Oversee and manage the implementation of the CRM application using salesforce.com methodologies.  • Defined lookup and master-detail relationships on the objects.  • Developed Visual Force Page according to the client's requirement.  • Developed several Apex Triggers, Classes during the project lifecycle.  • Worked with SOSL and SOQL queries to get data from different related objects  • Invocated the queries and Apex methods from JavaScript  • Deployed the code developed in the Developer Sandbox to the Test Sandbox and the Production sandbox.  • Involved in Creation of Test Data for all the business rules of all projects in QA as well as in UAT environment.  • Created Support Pages for end users using HTML, JQuery, JavaScript, and Visual Force.  • Involved in Unit Testing, for the customizations and developments done during the project.  • Interacted with testing and the development teams for the development and testing of the code.  • Used Force.com platform for developing feature rich and user friendly Visual force pages for enhancing Salesforce UI.    Environment: Saleforce.com platform, Service Cloud, Apex, CRM, Visual Force Pages, Data Loader, Workflow & Approvals, Reports, Custom Objects, Custom Tabs, Email Services, Security Controls, Sandbox data loading, AppExchange, HTML Java Developer Mahindra Satyam - Hyderabad, Telangana October 2010 to November 2012 Responsibilities:  • Actively participated in sprints and successfully implemented the project following scrum agile practice  • Designed and prepared the Use Case diagrams, Class diagrams, Sequence diagrams for current activity, shipment association, lookups and web service  • Developed user interface for the current activity screens, lookups, associations using JSF, Rich Faces. This is done with solid understanding of JSF life cycle and paid careful attention to performance improvement  • Developed the backing beans for the screens and responsible for development of framework level classes to support the exception handling, Tab handling.  • Did research on various inheritance strategies of open JPA in the context of the existing schema relations and came up with the test results of each strategy. This has enabled to take right decision on the strategy to follow.  • Customized the MyEclipse templates to generate the code for openJPA entities, Query classes etc This has significantly reduced the development time in this project and also become potential reusable code  • Implemented the business logic in EJB 3 components  • Developed web service for UFS system services using JAX-WS, JAXB. Integrated the JAX-WS with spring.  • Worked on understanding of the UFS business logic, which is in java code generated from forte code. And implemented the web service wrapper classes based on this logic.  • Involved in build script changes of UFS application to include the web service classes    Environment: XHTML, RichFaces 3.3.2, JSF 1.2, AJAX, Java 1.5, J2EE, Open JPA, EJB 3.0, Junit 1.4, XML, SOAP,  Web Services (JAX-WS), JAXB, Spring, SOA, Glassfish 2, Oracle 10g, Windows XP, Linux, MyEclipse 7.5, PL/SQL  Developer, SVN, ClearQuest, Forte, ANT, JBoss 4, Agile Education Bachelor's Skills JAVA (2 years), LINUX (2 years), ORACLE (2 years), SQL (2 years), WEB SERVICES (2 years), Salesforce, Business Analysis, SDLC, Sharepoint, Excel, Peoplesoft Additional Information Technical Skills:  Salesforce Technologies  Apex Classes/Controllers, Apex Triggers, SOQL, SOSL, Visualforce Pages / Components, Apex Web Services, Apex Custom Controllers and Extension, Workflow Approvals, Dashboards, Custom Objects, Case Management Automation, Integration]    Salesforce Tools Eclipse, Force.com IDE, Explorer, Apex Data Loader, Force.com Platform (Sandbox and Production).  Analytics Tools Tableau 8.2  Languages Apex, C, C++, Java  Web Technologies Web Services, Java Script, XML, HTML, CSS,  Database SQL, Oracle 8i/9i/10g, SQL Server,    Operating Systems Windows NT / 2000 / XP Pro / Vista / 7, Windows Server 2000 / 2003 / 2008, Linux Red Hat/SUSE/Mint/ Ubuntu/ Free BSD, OS X  Documentation Tools MS Office, MS Visio Pro, Adobe Frame maker, Snag IT  BIG DATA Ecosystems Hadoop, HDFS, Map Reduce, HBase, PIG, HIVE, Zoo Keeper, Sqoop, Oozie, Hue, Flume, MongoDB, Mahout    Charter Communications - St. Louis, MO Sept 2016 - Till date  Salesforce Developer    Responsibilities:  • Interacted with various business user groups for gathering the requirements for salesforce.com CRM implementation  • Involved in Salesforce.com Application Setup activities and customized the apps to match the functional needs of the organization  • Implemented the requirements on Salesforce.com platform and Force.com IDE Plug-in using Eclipse  • Worked with various salesforce.com objects like Accounts, Contacts, Leads, Campaigns, Reports, and Dashboards  • Worked with Apex Classes, Apex Triggers and Visual force pages  • Develop and Implement portal solution using Lightning Components  • Maintained user roles, security, profiles and workflow rules wherever necessary  • Created Sharing rules, Assignment Rules and Escalation Rules for Cases  • Developed various Custom Objects, Tabs, Components and Visual Force  • Integration with Cast Iron.  • Develop and Deploy SFDC Integrations with SAP and other applications using .Net environment and Force API  • Data Migration from Legacy Front Range to SalesForce  • Created custom Dashboards for manager's home page and gave accessibility to dashboards for authorized people  • Developed Custom Objects, Custom Reports and dashboard on regular basis for the sales performance and lead generation statistics    Environment: Saleforce.com platform, Lightening Components, Apex Language, Visual Force Pages, Data Loader.    Allied Telesis - San Jose, CA Nov 2014 - Aug 2016  Salesforce Admin/ Developer    Responsibilities:  • Created user Roles and Profiles, security controls and shared settings.  • Developed Custom Objects, Custom reports and configured Analytical Snapshots to dump the data into on a regular basis for sales performance and lead generation statics.  • Worked on various SFDC standard objects like Accounts, Contacts, Leads, Reports and Dashboards.  • Implemented field level security, profiles and audit trail setup.  • Developed Salesforce.com workflow rules and triggers using Apex for updating Users based on Location records.  • Develop and Implement portal solution using Lightning Components  • Created the workflows for automated lead routing, lead escalation, alerts and custom coaching plans.  • Developed Validation and Trigger code for objects and fields.  • Provided the training to the internal business users to use the application and develop their own custom reports.  • Customized the Dashboards to the track usage for productivity and performance of business centers and their sales teams.  • Developed various Visual Force pages as per the requirement.  • Experienced in the Unit Testing for the customizations and developments done during the project.    Environment: Force.com API, Controllers, Sharing Rules, Lightning Components , Java Script, Web services, Triggers, Controllers, Workflows, Email Updates.