Programmer Programmer Programmer - American Express, AZ Chandler, AZ ? 4 years of IT experience in Software Analysis, Design, Development, Implementation and Testing of Object Oriented  Applications and Web Services and Web based Enterprise Applications using Java/J2EE technologies.  ? Expertise in designing Java, J2EE applications using Spring,SpringBoot,Spring Data Hibernate(JPA), CXF SOAP & CXF  REST Web Services.  ? Knowledge in implementing a REST API/Microservice using Spring Boot.  ? Extensive knowledge in usingSpring-Data, Spring JDBC.  ? Experience in working on various Spring modules (Spring MVC, DAO and AOP) along with Hibernate as the back-end  ORM tool for implementation of persistence layer and mapping of POJOs.  ? Expertise in writing Soap based web services using AXIS/Rest API.  ? Good knowledge in CI/CD tools like Jenkins.  ? Having good knowledge with microservice architecture, with Spring Boot-based services interacting through a REST  endpoints.  ? Having good understanding in XML, XSD, and Parsing of XML & JSON.  ? Developed and deployed applications using Eclipse with servers like Tomcat, JBOSS(WildFly) &GlassFish.  ? Having good knowledge in Java 1.8 version (Functional Interface, Lambda Expressions and Stream API)  ? Designed and developed web based enterprise applications using J2EE technologies like JDBC, Servlets and JSPs.  ? Good knowledge in creating user interfaces using Java Script, AJAX, CSS and HTML.  ? Expertise in Object Oriented Analysis, Design / Development Methodologies, Use Cases, Sequence and Class Diagrams  using UML.  ? Expertise in using UML design tools like Rational Rose, Star UML, Enterprise Architect for creation of Use-Case  diagrams, Class diagrams, Interaction diagrams (Sequence diagrams, Activity diagrams).  ? Experience in GitHub, SVN and CVS for version control and comprehensive knowledge of Log4j for logging and MAVEN &  ANT for project build.  ? Experience with test-driven development using a various unit testing framework such as Junit &EasyMock.  ? Developed applications in environments of Agile and Waterfall methodologies.  ? Effective team player and excellent communication skills with insight to determine priorities, schedule work and meet  critical deadlines.  ? Strong analytical, problem solving, programming skills, logical implementation, trouble-shooting, Installation and  Configuration Skills.  ? Have experience in doing individual contribution and work as a team member as well. Work Experience Programmer American Express, AZ August 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  ? Worked on remediation of vulnerabilities across the applications  ? Generate the UNIT test coverage reports using the Jacoco plugin  ? Worked on the enhancements on the Rest Full Web Services  ? Worked on creating to new endpoint in the existing Rest API.  ? Developed specs for the APIs  ? Supported partner teams to integrate with our application Java Developer Sanoits Software Solutions Pvt Ltd January 2014 to March 2015 Responsibilities:  ? Involved in design and development.  ? Creation of low and high level design documents and functional specifications for the entire system.  ? Involved in coding for Points Only Contest.  ? Developed Java applications using Spring MVC Framework. and worked extensively in the Spring IOC/Dependency  Injection.  ? Implemented the persistence layer using Hibernate ORM.  ? Developed JSP pages for the presentation layer.  ? Developed Java Helper classes which used for transferring data between the layers.  ? Responsible for writing the SQL scripts to access/manipulate the data available in the Database.  ? Involved in developing and executing the Unit test cases.  ? Involved in preparing the detailed design document for the new/existing system changes.  ? Involved in Implementing the Design changes in the System.  Environment: Java, JSP, Servlets, Spring, Hibernate, XML, MySQL, Java Script, Apache Tomcat server& Junit. Education Cathay Bank NGI to ECP CLOUD - Los Angeles, CA April 2017 to February 2018 Skills Apache (2 years), Database. (2 years), Java (2 years), Junit. (2 years), Tomcat (2 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:  Language Java 8  Technologies Servlets, JSP, SOAP, REST, Spring, SpringBoot, Spring Data, Hibernate, Struts, JDBC,  Webservice, XML, JAXB, JSON, JavaScript, HTML, SQL and Junit  Software tools and Utilities Eclipse, STS, SQL Developer, Soap UI, Git , CVS, SVN, JIRA, Jenkins  Web Servers/App. Servers Apache Tomcat, Glassfish, WildFly  Database Technologies Oracle, MySQL  Operating Systems Windows & UNIX  Methodologies Agile & Waterfall