Fullstack Java Developer Fullstack <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Scottsdale, AZ • More than 7 years of experience in working on the various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) like requirements analysis, design, coding, testing, debugging and maintaining the websites. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Fullstack Java Developer Blue Square Resolutions - Scottsdale, AZ October 2016 to Present • Responsible for writing J2EE compliant  java code for application development effort which involved working with JSP, Servlets, JDBC, XML, EJB, etc.Design and Development of Objects using Object Oriented Design in  Java.   • Developed Scala, a programming language with full Java interoperability and a strong type system.  • Responsible for system design, database architecture, SOLR schema design, database population, SOLR query and SQL optimization. • More than 7 years of experience in working on the various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) like requirements analysis, design, coding, testing, debugging and maintaining the websites.  • Analysis, Development, Testing, Documentation, Deployment, Integration, and Maintenance of web based and Client/Server applications utilizing Java, J2EE, Spring, Hibernate, JSF, ibatis, Mybatis, JMS, XML, EJB , JSP, Servlets, JDBC, JNDI, HTML, DHTML, MongoDB, Multithreading, FullStack and Angular JS, NodeJS, ReactJS, JavaScrip, C#, Groovy, ESB,SQL, PL/SQL, MyEclipse.  • Worked with servers IBM WebSphere, WebLogic, JBoss and Apache's Tomcat. Knowledge on C and C++ with Object Oriented Concepts. Experience in using WSAD, RAD, RSA, Net Beans and Eclipse IDE for Application development. Thorough understanding and experience in stored procedures in Oracle, SQL and DB2.  • Exposure to IBM Message Broker, UML Rational Rose, Hibernate, Tiles Framework and experience with Spring, Spring MVC, Spring Batch Struts, Spring Security, Spring Web Sockets"PHP, JSF and Hibernate frameworks., JSF.  • Worked on Log4j configuration and setup and Implementation part.  • Good experience on JBOSS Drools and BRMS, JUnit, XSLT, SOAP, SOA and REST Web Services.  • Have architected and implemented Service-Oriented Architecture (SOA), batch, business intelligence, and transactional systems. Thorough knowledge with J2EE application platform configuration and performance optimization.  • Sound experience in messaging JMS, MQ series. Worked on Implementation of MVP architecture under GWT Framework. Experience with various databases like Oracle, SQ Server for stored procedures, forms, triggers.  • Developing websites using HTML 4.0/5.0, XHTML, CSS, CSS3, Ext.JS, JavaScript, Query, Ajax and JSON.  • Experienced in developing event driven applications using AJAX, JSON, XAML and XML. Worked with the JavaScript frameworks like HTML 5, CSS 3, JQuery and AngularJS. Incorporated the table less design methodology using CSS3 that follows W3C standards. Worked on web applications that required cross browser compatibilities like Chrome, Safari, Firefox, Internet Explorer and Opera. Involved in several web application development projects that required Responsive Web Design.  • Configure and monitor numerous MongoDB and NoSQL instances. Good Web Application debugging skills using Chrome Developers Tool and Firebug. Experienced in working with Tomcat, WebSphere and IIS web servers. Having hands on experience with Web Content Management. Good understanding or network protocols such as TCP/IP, HTTP etc.Knowledge in developing applications using Waterfall, Agile and SCRUM methodologies. Have good communication skills to discuss the projects with technical and non-technical SME's. Some of the attributes that would describe me would be Team player, Quick learner, Self-Motivated and Strong interest in Front End Development. Experience in using design patterns and UI frameworks such as MVC, Struts, Hibernate, NodeJS, Spring. Experience in version control tools like CVS, SVN and AccuRev to manage and control software development.  • Highly motivated team player with strong communication, analytical, documentation and organizational skills. Education Bachelor of Computer Science Engineering in Computer Science Engineering JNTU