Java Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Developer Austin To obtain a creative and challenging position in an organization that gives me an  opportunity for self improvement and leadership, while contributing to the symbolic growth  of the organization with my technical, innovative and logical skills. Work Experience Java Developer Forte Tech Solutions Private Ltd - Gachibowli, Hyderabad, Telangana June 2017 to September 2018 • Experience in implementing Web Services using SOAP, REST and XML/HTTP Technologies.  • Experience of Hibernate ORM framework with all features like contextual session, entity manager, Caching, hibernate tools, hibernate annotations, hibernate validator and hibernate JPA Implementation.  • Expertise in developing web based GUI development using JSP, JSF, Ajax, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Bootstrap and JSTL.  • Experience on Microservices (Spring Cloud).   • Experience on AWS Cloud services (RDS, DynamoDB, EC2, Elastic Beanstalk, ECS Fargate cluster and S3).  • Experience on No SQL Databases (MongoDB, DynamoDB and PostgreSQL JSONB).  • Experience on containerizing the applications with Docker.  • Experience on implementing Restful service cache with Redis.  • Developed web service clients to consume third party API's and REST services.  • Experience in Security Compliance program like PCI.  • Migrated application from WAS to Tomcat/Spring Boot.  • Work Experience in a variety of disciplines including Agile methodology and Waterfall Life Cycle.  • Extensive experience in Client Server, J2EE technologies and MVC frameworks using Spring.  • Excellent analytical, problem solving and team leading abilities.  • Specialist in Java SE (Core Java), Java EE technologies and knowledge of OO Principles.  • Experience in Camel Framework.  • Worked on code scanning tool SONAR and Jenkins build tool.  • Experience on CI/CD process setup.  • Experience in building, deploying and integrating Gradle and Maven.  • Working Knowledge on Swagger API for Restful Services.  • Experience on Retail, Healthcare and Banking Applications.  • Extremely strong client interfacing, communication, project co-ordination and management skills. Software Engineer Forte Tech Solution Private Ltd - Gachibowli, Hyderabad, Telangana September 2012 to October 2015 • Experience in implementing Web Services using SOAP, REST and XML/HTTP Technologies.  • Experience of Hibernate ORM framework with all features like contextual session, entity manager, Caching, hibernate tools, hibernate annotations, hibernate validator and hibernate JPA Implementation.  • Expertise in developing web based GUI development using JSP, JSF, Ajax, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Bootstrap and JSTL.  • Experience on Microservices (Spring Cloud).   • Experience on AWS Cloud services (RDS, DynamoDB, EC2, Elastic Beanstalk, ECS Fargate cluster and S3).  • Experience on No SQL Databases (MongoDB, DynamoDB and PostgreSQL JSONB).  • Experience on containerizing the applications with Docker.  • Experience on implementing Restful service cache with Redis.  • Developed web service clients to consume third party API's and REST services.  • Experience in Security Compliance program like PCI.  • Migrated application from WAS to Tomcat/Spring Boot.  • Work Experience in a variety of disciplines including Agile methodology and Waterfall Life Cycle.  • Extensive experience in Client Server, J2EE technologies and MVC frameworks using Spring.  • Excellent analytical, problem solving and team leading abilities.  • Specialist in Java SE (Core Java), Java EE technologies and knowledge of OO Principles.  • Experience in Camel Framework.  • Worked on code scanning tool SONAR and Jenkins build tool.  • Experience on CI/CD process setup.  • Experience in building, deploying and integrating Gradle and Maven.  • Working Knowledge on Swagger API for Restful Services.  • Experience on Retail, Healthcare and Banking Applications.  • Extremely strong client interfacing, communication, project co-ordination and management skills. Education M.C.A o Rajiv Gandhi College of Engineering and Technology - Kirumampakkam - Puducherry, Puducherry 2012 Skills HTML (3 years), Java (4 years), Javascript (3 years), JQuery (3 years), Spring (4 years), CSS (3 years), J2EE (4 years), Kanban (2 years), MySQL (2 years), Oracle (2 years), SQL (3 years), Hibernate, MVC, Soap, Rest, Core Java, Java J2Ee Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    • Programming Language: C, ORACLE, PERL, VBA, JAVA.  • Web Development  o Programming: HTML.  o Data Base: SQL, DB2  o Scripting languages: Javascript, CSS.  o Development Tools: Adobe Dreamviewer, Ecllipse.  • Operating System: Windows, LINUX.  • Application Software: Visual studio, MS-Office 2010.