Sr. Java/J2EE Full Stack Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Java</span>/J2EE Full Stack <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Java/J2EE Full Stack Developer - Academy Sports + Outdoor Katy, TX • 5 years of experience in developing enterprise applications in different domains like Health, E-Commerce and other related domains. Good in analyzing, designing and coding technical solutions using Java/J2EE technologies to satisfy business requirements.  • Experience in Agile software development process, Test Driven Development and Scrum methodologies.  • Proficient in applying design patterns like MVC, Singleton, Prototype, Adapter, Visitor, Observer, Decorator, Front Controller, Data Access Object.  • Experience in developing applications using Java/J2EE (Servlets, JSP custom tags, Struts, Spring, Hibernate, EJB's, Java Beans, JDBC, JMS, JSF), XML, Bamboo, JavaScript, HTML, Hibernate, Eclipse3.x, Tomcat6/7/8.0, WebLogic, Oracle and Unix Korn Shell Scripting.  • Implemented persistence layer integration with DB's using iBatis, JPA/Entities/Hibernate/JDBC API.  • Extensive experience in data processing and interfacing (Back-end/Front-end connectivity) skills using Oracle 9i/10g/11i (SQL, PL/SQL, Stored procedures), MySQL 3.2/4.x/5.x and Create Entity Relationship Diagrams (ERD) for various database systems - Oracle, DB2 etc.  • Experience with complete Spring framework- Spring Boot, AOP, Transactions, Security, Autowiring, ORM, MVC, Spring Data, Spring Hystrix, Hateos, Webflow and Spring integration with AWS.  • Experience with AWS Cloud - EC2, EBS, Lambda function, Auto scaling, SQS.  • Experience with NoSQL DB's like Mongo DB, Cassandra, Couchbase.  • Well versed with Core Java concepts like Collections, Multithreading, Serialization.  • Experienced in using UI frameworks such as Struts, Cross browser compatibility development.  • Worked with JMS API, Spring JMS, Active MQ, Rabbit MQ and MQ-Series API.  • Expert level skills on Angular JS, CSS3, HTML5, Node JS, JQuery, JavaScript, AJAX, JSON, Tag Libraries.  • Knowledge on Build tool Jenkins with configuring check styles, Test coverage.  • Experience with controlling/tracking systems Subversion, SVN, GIT.  • Good working knowledge of build tools: Ant, Maven and Gradle  • Experience on Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) designs.  • Continuous Integration and continuous delivery (CI/CD) as part of Devops environment.  • Experience in Web Service Technologies: SOAP, REST, Microservices, WSDL, Apache Axis, CXF, JAX-WS.  • Experience with WID, BPEL, BPM, Mediations, Workflow engine and SOA Architecture.  • Well experienced in using JUnit, Log 4J, JMeter, Test NG and SOAP UI for testing framework.    TECHNICAL EXPERIENCE:    Languages Core Java, J2EE, C, C++, SQL and PL/SQL  Java/J2EE Technologies Servlets, JSP, JSF, EJB, JDBC, JMS, JAXB, JAX-WS, Design patterns, JPA.  Frameworks Struts 2.x/1.x, Spring 3.x/4.x, Hibernate 4.x/3.x, JSF 1.2/2.0, iBatis, Spring Batch, Spring Boot, Maven, Bower, NPM  Application/Web servers IBM WebSphere 8.x/7.x/ 6.x/5.x, Apache Tomcat 5.x/6.x/7.x/8.x, JBOSS 4.x/3.x, Web Sockets.  Databases Oracle 10g/11g/12C, SQL server 2012/2014/2016, MySQL 5.7, DB2 11.1, PostgreSQL  Internet Technologies HTML 5, JavaScript 1.8, XML 2.0, CSS 3 and CSS 4, jQuery 2.11, Angular JS 2.0, BackBone.JS 1.3.1, Node JS 6.0.  Version Control SVN, GitHub and JIRA  IDE Eclipse, NetBeans 8.0.2, IntelliJ 2017.1, Spring Tool Suite (STS) 3.8.3  Operating system Windows 10, IOS, Linux Mint 18.1, Unix  Testing and Logging Frameworks JUnit, Log4J, SoapUI, JMeter, Test NG, easy mock and power mock. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Java/J2EE Full Stack Developer Academy Sports + Outdoor - Katy, TX June 2018 to Present Description: Academy Sports + Outdoor makes easier to enjoy Sports and outdoors. This Client has availability of instore and online shopping. It is present in 250+ Locations in 16 States, where more of the percent is on E-Commence. It also maintains wide range of Quality in goods like campaign equipment, sports and recreation products etc. with every low price every day. Academy Sports + Outdoor is supported my 23,000 team members throughout different locations like south, southeast, and mid-west.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in Scrum meetings, Sprint planning and estimation of the tasks for the user stories.  • Involved in various SDLC phases like Requirement gathering, Design, Analysis and Code development.  • Developed applications using new features of Java 8such as Local Va.  • Familiarity with Netflix OSS cloud services such as Eureka, Hystrix, Ribbon and Zuul.  • Diverse experience utilizing tools in N-tier and Microservices architecture applications using Spring Boot, Spring Cloud config, Netflix OSS components (Eureka, Zuul, Hystrix), AWS, Cassandra, My SQL, Restful Web Services.  • Implementation of Zuul proxy as the API gateway.  • Used Java8 features like stream and Lambda expressions.  • Applied Spring Circuit Breaker to potentially-falling method calls using the Netflix Hystrix.  • Zuul uses Netflix Ribbon to look up for all instances of the service from the service discovery (Eureka Server).  • Used spring-config-server to centralize all the application related properties.  • Working with Node.js as web server created a highly scalable server, Creating non-blocking functions.  • Using Express Framework to set up middleware to respond to the HTTP requests with the help of Node JS.  • React/Redux layer requests the template through CDN which caches the templates for a specific period.  • React has component-based approach to UI development and is comparatively faster due to its diffing algorithms which use Virtual DOM to handle re-paints to the webpage.  • Used Spring-Cloud to bring up an instance of Eureka and also created set of cloud microservices.  • Used a Microservice architecture, with Spring Boot based services interacting through a combination of REST and RabbitMQ message brokers.  • Used Spring Annotations to simplify the business logic for creating Spring MVC RESTful webservices.  • Design and Implementation of MongoDB database.  • The product API's, Category and bunch of Browse API's caching is done in Redis by getting data from WCS.  • Implemented MVC architecture with React components as Views, models, and controllers in Node.js for API development.  • Implemented a stream filtering system on top of RabbitMQ to reduce stream size.  • Splunk support for multiple types of devices, such as workstations, servers, network devices, virtual machines, mobile, and Internet of Things (IoT) devices.  • Service-now used to raise the incidents and work on the incidents related to customer.  • Used Git, Bitbucket as part of version control system for code check-ins.  • Used JIRA tool for tracking stories progress and follow agile methodology.    Environment: Netflix OSS (Zuul, Ribbon), Spring Eureka, Node JS, react Web services, Rabbit MQ, Spring, Spring boot, Web Services, Rest API, Microservices, Splunk, Grafana, Jira. Java/J2EE Full Stack Developer BCBS - Richardson, TX July 2017 to May 2018 Description: The Blue Cross and Blue Shield Association is 36 independent and locally operated Blue Cross Blue shield companies deliver health insurance coverage to one in three Americans across all 50 states, in addition, the BCBS Federal Employee Program (FEP) insures over five million federal employees, retirees and their families. The BCBS system offers a full spectrum of healthcare coverage, including coverage for large employer groups, small businesses and individuals, as well as Medicaid and Medicare plans. The coverage which was provided by BCBS also extends to individual and employers who live, work and travel internationally, and to those who travel to the United States.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in Scrum meetings, Sprint planning and estimation of the tasks for the user stories.  • Involved in various SDLC phases like Requirement gathering, Design, Analysis and Code development.  • Used XML Web Services using SOAP protocol to transfer the amount to other application that is remote and global to different financial institutions  • Wrote code Web Services (JAX-WS) for external system via SOAP/HTTP call and to fetch data from web services via JSON response and updating HTML pages.  • Used Web services (SOAP, REST) for transmission of large blocks of data over HTTP.  • Implementing a Continuous Delivery framework using Jenkins, CHEF, Maven in Linux environment.  • Experience with CI (Continuous Integration) and CD (Continuous Deployment) methodologies using Jenkins.  • Experienced with automating release process using Maven, Jenkins, and Jira as tools in diversified project environment.  • Responsible for design of WSDL files and schemas. Designed and hosted SOAP based Web Services.    • Working on AWS Auto Scaling for providing high availability of applications and EC2 instances based on the load of applications by using Cloud Watch in AWS.  • Used Java8 features like stream and Lambda expressions.  • Maintained Interface compatibility and concurrency in the project using Java 8 new features like default, static methods and Concurrency API.  • Experienced in all phases of SDLC using JAVA, J2EE (Servlets), MVC Framework, Spring, Hibernate, XML, JDBC, Webservices, SOAP, REST, WSDL, XML, Linux technologies.  • Working with Project Management Team Foundation Server, SharePoint, Microsoft Project, and JIRA and source code version control SVN environment.  • Proposed and developed Mainframe based tools to automate daily processes and tune existing system performance.  • Used GIT for version control, experience with GIT-Bash and GIT-Hub.  • MQ Visual Browse supports 3rd party security exit for connecting to remote queue managers.  • Ability to open and display multiple queues from multiple queue managers.  • Ability to open (subscribe) and display multiple topics from multiple queue managers.    Environment: Java and J2EE design patterns, Java7, Java 8, JIRA, Jenkins, Git, GitBash, SOAP UI, MQ Visual Browser, Mainframe, GUI URL access, DB2, AWS, Squirrel SQL Browser version, My Eclipse, Linux (Putty). Java/J2EE Developer Edward Jones Financial Corporation - St. Louis, MO January 2016 to May 2017 Description: This application enables clients to review the products offered by Edward Jones online and at a glance for the view, access, and service. The primary users of this application are Insurance policy owners, agents and customer service representatives. The main benefit of working with Edward Jones is the financial advisor. The financial advisor gets familiar with your financial situation and goals, then builds a customized investment strategy to help customers.    Responsibilities:  • Worked in Agile work environment for workflow management and content versioning.  • Active in coding some of the Core Java concepts such as collections, generics and multi-threading.  • Created the React.js express Server combined with Socket.io to build MVC framework.  • Setup Spring 4.x Job by configuring job Tasklets, Quartz Scheduler and Listeners for error handling, report generation and service retry mechanisms on failures.  • Used Spring Annotations to simplify the business logic for creating Spring MVC, RESTful web services.  • Used Spring Security to provide primitives for securing application access.  • Developed application service components and configured beans using Spring IOC, creation of Hibernate mapping files and generation of database schema.  • Developer message processing API's in order to update our local cache.  • Used Hibernate, object/relational-mapping (ORM) solution and technique of mapping data representation from MVC model to Oracle Relational data model with an SQL-based schema.  • Designed the project using MVC, Session Façade, Service Locator and Business Delegate patterns.  • Setup the continuous Integration (CI) process and continuous deployment (CD) jobs in Jenkins brew master instance, which reduces the time for the deployment of micro services.  • Built RESTful web service by building AngularJS Server in the back-end to handle requests sent from the front-end JQuery Ajax calls.  • Implemented the Web Service client for the login authentication, credit reports and applicant information using JAX-RS and Apache Axis 2.  • Deployed some of the payment applications on Pivotal Cloud Foundry and regulated application logs during this process.  • Developed consumer-based features and applications using Ruby on Rails, JavaScript, JQuery, HTML, CSS.  • Used Spring JMS to post and consume the messages from the IBM MQ Server.  • Created BSON Data and stored as documents, data types and conversions in MongoDB.  • Composed and executed MongoDB scripts to insert and update NoSQL database.  • Experience in scripting deployments to AWS, Monitoring infrastructure like EC2, EBS and SQS.  • Experience on queries, tables to find items based on primary key values in DynamoDB.  • Monitored the error logs using Log4J and fixed the problems.  • Prepared Junit test cases and executed them using Junit.  • Tested cases by using Selenium Test.    Environment: HTML 4, CSS 3, Bootstrap, AJAX, JavaScript, JSF 2.1, Angular JS 1.x, Spring 3.x, Soap UI, AWS, Maven, SVN, Perl, JIRA, Apache Kafka, Cassandra, XML, Jasper, Web sphere, SOAP/REST web service, Unix/Linux, Web Sphere Application Server, PL/SQL, Oracle 11g, Log4j, Cloud Foundry. Java Developer Centrica Informatics, UP - IN January 2014 to June 2015 Description: An application is developed to automate the Sales Order Transactions of company. This application keeps track of the information pertaining to the sales transactions such as Customer details, Product or Item description and their Pricing Schedule, Purchase Order details and View and Enquiry of the Order Screens. Designed and developed the Order Processing Module. Involved in the design and coding of this module. The system checks the database for availability and an invoice is prepared.    Responsibilities:  • Developed Servlets and Java Server Pages (JSP).  • Developed PL/SQL queries to generate reports based on client requirements.  • Enhancement of the System according to the customer requirements.  • Created test case scenarios for Functional Testing.  • Used Java Script validation in JSP pages.  • Helped design the database tables for optimal storage of data.  • Coded JDBC calls in the servlets to access the Oracle database tables.  • Responsible for Integration, unit testing, system testings and stress testing for all the phases of project.  • Prepared final guideline document that would serve as a tutorial for the users of this application.  Environment: Java 1.3, Servlets, J2EE, JDBC, Oracle 8, HTML, JSP, Eclipse, UNIX. Education Master of Science in Information Assurance in Information Assurance Wilmington University January 2016 to May 2017 Technology Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University - Hyderabad, Telangana August 2011 to July 2015 Skills Aws (3 years), Eclipse (2 years), Maven (2 years), Rest (3 years), Web services. (3 years)