Java/MuleSoft Developer <span class="hl">Java</span>/MuleSoft <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java/MuleSoft Developer - Bank of America Charlotte NC Charlotte, NC • Overall 4+years of Industrial experience in Software Development Life Cycle implementation, including Business Interaction, Requirement Analysis, Design, Development, Testing and Documentation phases.  • Very strong on Java concepts, Rest Services and J2EE technologies such as Servlets, JDBC, JSP, Spring, Hibernate, XML, XSD, SOAP, WSDL, HTML, JavaScript, CSS, Tag Libs, AJAX, JSON and JUnit.  • Used CI/CD tool Jenkins for building, deploying and automating the project.  • Good Working knowledge on Jira for issue tracking and project management also used Jira for bug-tracking and project management.  • Good knowledge on API Development.  • Experienced in implementation of JMS to exchange information using ActiveMQ as a message queue.  • Good Experience on AWS cloud services like EC2, IAM, S3, RDS, ELB, EBS and VPC etc.  • Good Experience on Building Enterprise middleware using Oracle SOA suite.  • Good working experience with using Array list, Map and Sets of Collections API and core Java Concepts like Exception Handling, multi-threading.  • Knowledge of SOAP UI testing Experienced with functional web services tests Skilled with creating automated web services testing processes.  • Extensively implemented J2EE design patterns such as MVC, Service Locator, Factory Pattern, Session Facade, Singleton, Service Factory, and DAO, DTO and best practices for building enterprise systems.  • Extensively worked on Web services technologies like SOAP, WSDL, REST API, JSON, and Test Driven Development (TDD).  • Integrated Spring with Hibernate using Hibernate Template to perform CRUD operations on database.  • Expertise in J2EE Middle tier applications using EJB 2.0/3.0 and Spring 3.0.  • Skilled at writing DB2, PLSQL, Stored procedures, Functions & Triggers.  • Good working knowledge of different IDEs like My Eclipse 4.x/6.x/7.x, RAD and Net Beans.  • Experienced in deploying J2EE applications on Apache Tomcat web server and Web Logic, Web Sphere, JBoss application server.  • Very strong experience in multiple large scale high volume search implementations.  • Very good understanding of RDBMS, OOPS, OOAD and DOJO.  • Experience in deploying applications on Windows and UNIX environments  • Experience in writing JUnit test cases for system testing, Used Log4j for logging.  • Wrote JSF back beans for UI components to handle events and implemented custom validator to validate different types of data.  • Experienced working with different software methodologies like waterfall and agile methodologies.  • Integrated logging frameworks such as Log4J and commons for logging and debugging the application.  • Experienced in working on UNIX and Windows environment.  • Experience working with using CVS, SVN& GIT Hub for Version Control.  • Extremely good hands on experience with creating and consuming REST services.  • Very Good Written, Oral and communication, problem solving, and inter-personal skills.  • Ability to work independently and as an active team player.  • Highly result-oriented and pro-active, proven abilities to learn new technologies quickly and implementing them successfully in project. Work Experience Java/MuleSoft Developer Bank of America Charlotte NC - Charlotte, NC August 2018 to Present Project Name: RPI Rehost  Project Description:  RPI is Request Processer Interface acts as a Middleware supports 500 clients with the secure transactions of synchronous and asynchronous data transfers.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in all phases of the Software development life cycle (SDLC) using Agile Methodology.  • Configuring the Mule process for fetching the data from topic and makes web service calls to the middle tier Mule ESB for processing.  • Developed API for file Flows, MQ Flows, HTTP Flows.  • Used Jira for issue tracking and project management.  • Use Best Practices to manage performance and develop reliable and scalable application develop reusable components.  • Used IBM MQ to exchange information over reliable channel in synchronous and asynchronous way with multiple Queue Manager and Multiple Nodes.  • Performed POC's with Aws Connectors.  • Used Jenkins for building, deploying and automating the project.  • Communicated with other departments by using Web Services with the help of SOAP, WSDL.  • Used HTML5 coding and CSS3 using Bootstrap to build responsive layouts.  • Migrated Perforce to Bitbucket for source code maintenance.  • Used HQL (Hibernate Query Language) and Query criteria to interact with data base (Oracle 10g).  • Built Enterprise middleware using oracle SOA suite.  • Developed hibernate DAO lasses to persists objects into database.  • Deployed applications on WebSphere.  • Business logic has been implemented using Array list, Map and Sets of Collections API.  • Used spring AOP to log agents' statistics on documents tab usage.  • Used AJAX and JSON to send request to server and updating GUI pages using callback functions.  • Created and ran functional and load tests on web services prior to implementation Using Soap UI.  • Worked on presentation layer to develop JSP pages and embedding CSS, JavaScript, DOM and HTML.  • Used Maven as a build tool in the application.  • Used DataPower Gateway for the robust XML Fire wall for the application.    Environment: Mule Soft, JMS, AWS, XSLT, Spring 2.5, Spring AOP, Spring WS, Hibernate, JSP, Java 8, Servlets, Oracle 11g, Log4j, XML, jQuery, AJAX, DOM, JavaScript, JSON, CSS, HTML, XHTML, Maven , WebSphere Application Server, GIT HUB, Bootstrap, JMETER, JBPM, IBM MQ Java/MuleSoft Developer Citi Group - Tampa, FL November 2017 to July 2018 Project Name: E-Dealer    Project Description: eDealer which acts as a front office, and middle office (RISK management application). eDealer Front office allows us to book deals of different types like FX, MM, FI and DD. Deal booked will flow to the back office system for accounts processing and warehouses for Reporting & Reconciliation purpose.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in all phases of the Software development life cycle (SDLC) using Agile Methodology.  • Configuring the Mule process for fetching the data from topic and makes web service calls to the middle tier Mule ESB for processing.  • Developed Api for transforming text to pdf and pdf to zip file and sending as an email.  • Used Rally for issue tracking and project management.  • Use Best Practices to manage performance and develop reliable and scalable application develop reusable components.  • Developed GUI using JSP, HTML3, CSS3, XHTML, framework to simplify the complexities of the application in TDD.  • Involved in Java code, which generated XML document, which in turn used XSLT to translate the content into HTML to present to GUI.  • Used JMS to exchange information over reliable channel in an asynchronous way by using ActiveMq as a message queue.  • Used XML technologies like XPath, XSLT and JAXB for data exchange and presentation.  • Used Jenkins for building, deploying and automating the project.  • Communicated with other departments by using Web Services with the help of SOAP, WSDL.  • Used HTML5 coding and CSS3 using Bootstrap to build responsive layouts.  • Used Perforce for source code maintenance.  • Used HQL (Hibernate Query Language) and Query criteria to interact with data base (Oracle 10g).  • Built Enterprise middleware using oracle SOA suite.  • Developed hibernate DAO lasses to persists objects into database.  • Used apache common digester to parse data from XML files and populate data into java beans.  • Deployed applications on J-BOSS 4.x/5.x.  • Business logic has been implemented using Array list, Map and Sets of Collections API.  • Used Spring Dependency Injection, spring application context features in the application.  • Used spring AOP to log agents statistics on documents tab usage.  • Used AJAX and JSON to send request to server and updating GUI pages using callback functions.  • Updated/modified JSP pages also used JQuery and its validator plug-in for validating Forms in the presentation layer.  • Created and ran functional and load tests on web services prior to implementation Using Soap UI.  • Worked on presentation layer to develop JSP pages and embedding CSS, JavaScript, DOM and HTML.  • Used Maven as a build tool in the application.    Environment: Mule Soft, Jasper Reports, JMS, AWS, XSLT, Angular.JS, Spring 2.5, Spring AOP, Spring WS, Hibernate, JSP, Java 8, Servlets, Oracle 11g, Log4j, XML, JQuery, AJAX, DOM, JavaScript, JSON, CSS, HTML, XHTML, Maven , IBM JRULES, JBOSS Application Server, GIT HUB, Bootstrap, JMETER, Bras Server, JBPM, ActiveMq (AMQ). Java/J2EE Developer AT&T Labs - Tampa, FL February 2017 to November 2017 Project Name: Metro Open Work Flow Manager (MOWFM)    Project Description: AT&T Inc. is an American multinational telecommunications conglomerate, headquartered at Whitacre Tower in downtown Dallas, Texas. AT&T is the world's largest telecommunications company. AT&T is the second largest provider of mobile telephone services and the largest provider of fixed telephone services in the United. MOWFM is a huge Network where we are providing a support for any fallout by an automated ticketing system, Based on expected fallout scenarios.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in all phases of the Software development life cycle (SDLC) using Agile Methodology.  • Configuring the Mule process for fetching the data from topic and makes web service calls to the middle tier Mule ESB for processing.  • Developed Api for my scouting like Organization API, Announcements API for creating an announcement.  • Used Jira for issue tracking and project management also used Jira for bug-tracking and project management.  • Communicated with other departments by using Web Services with the help of SOAP, WSDL.  • Use Best Practices to manage performance and develop reliable and scalable application develop reusable components.  • Communicated with the Business Analyst to understand and follow-up the requirements, production, support and maintenance.  • Developed GUI using Swings, JSP, HTML3, CSS3, XHTML, Angular.JS, framework to simplify the complexities of the application in TDD.  • Involved in Java code, which generated XML document, which in turn used XSLT to translate the content into HTML to present to GUI.  • Used JMS to exchange information over reliable channel in an asynchronous way by using ActiveMq as a message queue.  • Integrated the application with spring framework for implementing Dependency injection and provide abstraction between presentation layer and persistence layer.  • Used XML technologies like XPath, XSLT and JAXB for data exchange and presentation.  • Used Jenkins for building, deploying and automating the project.  • Communicated with other departments by using Web Services with the help of SOAP, WSDL.  • Used Jira for issue tracking and project management also used Jira for bug-tracking and project management.  • Good Experience on AWS cloud services like EC2, S3, RDS, ELB, EBS, and VPC.  • Used HTML5 coding and CSS3 using Bootstrap to build responsive layouts.  • Used GIT HUB for source code maintenance.  • Extensively worked on Bras Server for updating the new versions of Rules.  • Used HQL (Hibernate Query Language) and Query criteria to interact with data base (Oracle 10g).  • Built Enterprise middleware using oracle SOA suite.  • Developed hibernate DAO lasses to persists objects into database.  • Used apache common digester to parse data from XML files and populate data into java beans.  • Deployed applications on J-BOSS 4.x/5.x.  • Business logic has been implemented using Array list, Map and Sets of Collections API.  • Used Spring Dependency Injection, spring application context features in the application.  • Used spring AOP to log agents statistics on documents tab usage.  • Used AJAX and JSON to send request to server and updating GUI pages using callback functions.  • Updated/modified JSP pages also used JQuery and its validator plug-in for validating Forms in the presentation layer.  • Created and ran functional and load tests on web services prior to implementation Using Soap UI.  • Worked on presentation layer to develop JSP pages and embedding CSS, JavaScript, DOM and HTML.  • Involved in production bug fixes, analyzing and improving overall application performance Using JMETER.  • Used Maven as a build tool in the application.    Environment: Swings, Jasper Reports, JMS, AWS, XSLT, Angular.JS, Spring 2.5, Spring AOP, Spring WS, Hibernate, JSP, Java 8, Servlets, Oracle 11g, Log4j, XML, JQuery, AJAX, DOM, JavaScript, JSON, CSS, HTML, XHTML, Maven , IBM JRULES, JBOSS Application Server, GIT HUB, Bootstrap, JMETER, Bras Server, JBPM, ActiveMq (AMQ). Mule Soft Java/J2EE Developer Boy Scouts of America - Irving, TX September 2016 to February 2017 Project Name: BSA /ESB    Project Description: The Boy Scouts of America is the largest Scouting organization in the United States of America and one of the largest youth organizations in the United States with more than 2.4 million youth participants and nearly one million adult volunteers.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in all phases of the Software development life cycle (SDLC) using Agile Methodology.  • Used Mule ESB in designing the application as a middleware between the third party system and the customer side system.  • Implemented business logic using session beans for integration of EJB's into struts framework.  • Developed and implemented the MVC Architectural Pattern using Struts Framework including JSP, Servlets, EJB, Form Bean and Action classes.  • Configuring the Mule process for fetching the data from topic and makes web service calls to the middle tier Mule ESB for processing.  • Experienced in implementation of JMS to exchange information over reliable channel in an asynchronous way by using ActiveMq as a message queue.  • Developed API for my scouting like Organization API, Announcements API for creating an announcement.  • Used Jira for issue tracking and project management also used Jira for bug-tracking and project management.  • Designing and configuring the AWS Secure Notification Service (SNS) and Secure Email Service (SES) architecture of the solution and working with a client.  • Communicated with other departments by using Web Services with the help of SOAP and WSDL.  • Created Mule Flow using End Point, Connector and Component bean using Mule ESB to communicate client/server systems.  • Use Best Practices to manage performance and develop reliable and scalable application develop reusable components.  • Communicated with the Business Analyst to understand and follow-up the requirements, production, support and maintenance.  • Developed GUI using Swings, JSP, HTML3, CSS3, XHTML framework to simplify the complexities of the application in TDD.  • Installed Jasper server 4.7 server, iReport 4.7, administration of Jasper reports such as creating users, roles, assigning roles for users as per organization hierarchy  • Used XML technologies like XPath, XSLT and JAXB for data exchange and presentation.  • Used Jenkins for building, deploying and automating the project.  • Communicated with other departments by using Web Services with the help of SOAP, WSDL.  • Used Jira for issue tracking and project management also used Jira for bug-tracking and project management.  • Used HTML5 coding and CSS3 using Bootstrap to build responsive layouts.  • Used GIT HUB for source code maintenance.  • Implemented Spring MVC 3.2, which includes writing Controller classes for handling requests, processing form submissions and performed validations using Commons validator.  • Extensively worked on Bras Server for updating the new versions of Rules.  • Used HQL (Hibernate Query Language) and Query criteria to interact with data base (Oracle 10g).  • Built Enterprise middleware using oracle SOA suite.  • Developed hibernate DAO lasses to persists objects into database.  • Used apache common digester to parse data from XML files and populate data into java beans.  • Deployed applications on J-BOSS 4.x/5.x and JBPM.  • Business logic has been implemented using Array list, Map and Sets of Collections API.  • Used AJAX and JSON to send request to server and updating GUI pages using callback functions.  • Updated/modified JSP pages also used JQuery and its validator plug-in for validating Forms in the presentation layer.  • Created and ran functional and load tests on web services prior to implementation Using Soap UI.  • Worked on presentation layer to develop JSP pages and embedding CSS, JavaScript, DOM and HTML.  • Involved in production bug fixes, analyzing and improving overall application performance Using JMETER.  • Used Maven as a build tool in the application.    Environment: Swings, Jasper Reports, XSLT, JMS, AWS, EJB 3.0, Hibernate, JSP, Java 8, Servlets, Oracle 11g, Log4j, XML, JQuery, AJAX, DOM, JavaScript, JSON, CSS, HTML, XHTML, Maven , IBM JRULES, JBOSS Application Server, GIT HUB, Bootstrap, JMETER, Bras Server, JBPM, ActiveMq. SR. Java/J2EE Developer Equifax Inc - Alpharetta, GA December 2015 to September 2016 Project Name: Verizon Mercury Application.    Project Description: Equifax Inc. is a consumer credit reporting agency in the United States, considered one of the three largest American credit agencies along with Experian and Trans Union. Current Project We are working for Verizon wireless where we are providing credit scores and migrating the application from versata.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in all phases of the Software development life cycle (SDLC) using Agile Methodology.  • Wrote Java utility classes to access web services from server side.  • Implemented Spring MVC 3.2, which includes writing Controller classes for handling requests, processing form submissions and performed validations using Commons validator.  • Used CI/CD tool Jenkins for building, deploying and automating the project.  • Developed GUI using Swings, JSP, HTML3, CSS3, XHTML, Node.JS framework to simplify the complexities of the application in TDD.  • Integrated the application with spring framework for implementing Dependency injection and provide abstraction between presentation layer and persistence layer.  • Developed web pages using spring framework (Spring Core, and Spring AOP) and Struts in TDD.  • Used XML technologies like XPath, XSLT and JAXB for data exchange and presentation.  • Used Jenkins for building, deploying and automating the project.  • Communicated with other departments by using Web Services with the help of SOAP, WSDL.  • Used Jira for issue tracking and project management also used Jira for bug-tracking and project management.  • Good Experience on AWS cloud services like EC2, S3, RDS, ELB, EBS, Cloud Watch, Lambda and VPC.  • Used HTML5 coding and CSS3 using Bootstrap to build responsive layouts.  • Used GIT HUB for source code maintenance.  • Used HQL (Hibernate Query Language) and Query criteria to interact with data base (Oracle 10g).  • Built Enterprise middleware using oracle SOA suite.  • Developed hibernate DAO lasses to persists objects into database.  • Used apache common digester to parse data from XML files and populate data into java beans.  • Deployed applications on J-BOSS 4.x/5.x.  • Business logic has been implemented using Array list, Map and Sets of Collections API.  • Used AJAX and JSON to send request to server and updating GUI pages using callback functions.  • Updated/modified JSP pages also used JQuery and its validator plug-in for validating Forms in the presentation layer.  • Created and ran functional and load tests on web services prior to implementation Using Soap UI.  • Worked on presentation layer to develop JSP pages and embedding CSS, JavaScript, DOM and HTML.  • Involved in production bug fixes, analyzing and improving overall application performance Using JMETER.  • Used Maven as a build tool in the application.    Environment: Swings, Spring Core, XSLT, Jasper Reports, AWS, Spring AOP, Spring WS, Hibernate, JSP, Java 8, Servlets, Oracle 11g, Log4j, XML, JQuery, AJAX, DOM, JavaScript, JSON, CSS, HTML, XHTML, Maven , IBM JRULES, JBOSS Application Server, GIT HUB, Bootstrap, JMETER, Bras Server, JBPM. Education Technology Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University Master's in computer science in computer science University of Central Missouri - Warrensburg, MO Skills data base (3 years), DOM (3 years), GIT (3 years), Java (3 years), JSP (3 years), Java J2Ee, Spring, J2Ee, Rest