UI/ Java Developer UI/<span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> UI/ Java Developer - FedEx • Over 4 years of experience as a Software Development Engineer with increasing responsibilities involving analysis, design & development, implementation, testing and troubleshooting of client-server applications.  • Experience in developing Web based, Client/Server, Distributed architecture applications using Core Java and J2EE Technologies (J2EE Architecture, Servlet, JSP, JDBC, Jakarta Struts, Spring Framework, XML and Junit etc.)  • Excellent programming skills in JAVA and J2EE technology.  • Proficient in working with different software methodologies like Agile Scrum and waterfall model and design methodologies like OOAD and UML.  • Expertise in Implementing REST Web Services.  • Expertise with Struts and spring web application framework and MVC architecture.  • Expertise in working with various Spring modules: Spring IOC, Spring Web, Spring Security, Spring ORM, Spring JDBC, Spring Data, Spring Batch, Spring AOP modules.  • Expertise with web based GUI architecture and development using JSP, HTML, AJAX, JQuery, Java Script and CSS.  • Experience with Application servers like Web Sphere Application Server 7.x, 8.x and Tomcat.  • Expertise in databases like SQL Server, MySQL, Oracle 10g/11g.  • Hands on experience in UNIX shell Scripting.  • Excellent communication and planning skills in effectively gathering requirements from client.  • Ability and willingness to work in fast paced and dynamic environment. Work Experience UI/ Java Developer FedEx September 2018 to Present Web Administration is a dotcom ship management application which is used to set up preferences, privileges for a particular shipment. It is used to administer the shipping process across the company for which users are given certain permissions by company or Group admin to create and monitor the shipment.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in analysis of requirements.  • Implemented Rest Webservices using Spring and Hibernate.  • Used OAuth2 and Spring Security securing Rest Web services.  • Fixing production defects.  • Used Jenkins as CI tools to deploy applications into environments.  • Used SVN as version control system and Oracle as Database.  • Followed Agile practices.    Environment: JDK1.7, Spring 3.x, Hibernate, Oracle 11g, SVN, Tomcat, JSON, JAX-RS, JUnit 4.0, Spock, Log4j, Maven 3.x, Unix. Application/ Java Developer Harvard Business Publishing - Brighton, MA March 2017 to August 2018 Harvard Business Publishing is a non-profit organisation with a focus on improving business management practices. The Project Harvard ManageMentor of corporate learning market group deals with clients to create world-class leadership development solutions for managers at all levels in global organizations and governments.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in analysis of Requirements and change requests using Jira as a tracking tool.  • Creating High level and Low level design documents for the use cases.  • Using J2EE frameworks like Spring MVC, Spring Data JPA, Hibernate.  • Used Spring AOP to write events to database.  • Used EhCache for cache management.  • Used Object Oriented design patterns such as MVC, Singleton, Factory patterns.  • Used OAuth2 and Spring Security securing Web services.  • Involved in debugging and writing complex SQL queries in Oracle for Reporting.  • Used Maven as build tool and GIT as version control system.  • Used Jenkins as CI tools to deploy applications into environments.  • Developing Unit test cases for the code changes using Spock, Junit.  • Followed Agile practices.    Environment: JDK1.7, Spring 4.0, Spring JPA, Spring Security, Hibernate, Oracle 11g, GIT, Tomcat, JIRA, XML, JSON, XSD, JAX-RS, Intellij IDE, JUnit 4.0, Spock, Log4j, Maven 3.x, Unix. Mid-Level Java Developer MoneyGram - Dallas, TX April 2015 to February 2017 MoneyGram is a money transfer company which provides service to individuals and businesses through a network of agents and financial institutions. The user interface application Commit is used by associates at contact center where it has the ability to read an aggregated view of customer cases, recent transactions, servicing history, case history and status, customer information.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in Analysis of BRD and change controls in BRD.  • Involved in creation of HLD and LLD documents.  • Created Use case and sequence diagrams using Visio.  • Coordinating and Leading offshore development work.  • Used Struts MVC Architecture.  • Developed Web pages using java script, Jquery, CSS and HTML.  • Worked on performance issues on UI pages.  • Used Spring Framework for Service layer and DAO layer.  • Used Spring JDBC to access MSSQL database.  • Used JAXB for parsing XML documents to objects and vice versa.  • Created Rest web services using Jax-RS.  • Followed TDD (Test Driven Development).  • Used Jenkins as CI tool to trigger build.  • Used Junit for unit testing.  • Used Object Oriented design patterns like singleton, factory patterns etc.,  • Worked in Agile Test methodology and in scrum process.  • Analyzing logs in the client's production environment to fix any defects as part of production support.  • Used Maven as a build tool.  • Worked on making the UI application to run on various IE browser versions.    Environment: JDK1.6, Servlets, Filters, JavaScript, HTML 4, Jquery 1.8, CSS, Spring 2.5, Struts 2.x, MSSQL, TFS, IBM Web sphere 7, Microsoft Visio, XML, XSD JAXB, JAX-RS, Eclipse Juno IDE, Tomcat 7.0, JUnit 4.0, Log4j, Maven 3.x, Quality center tool, LDAP. Java/J2ee Developer Cigna HealthCare/Syntel - Bloomfield, CT September 2014 to March 2015 Cigna is a global health service company providing complete medical services and variety of incentive programs for benefit of its clients and customers The project I worked on is DReAM on Rewards Engine module which is the core module for incentives that need to be offered to the Cigna clients and customers.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in Analysis, design and coding.  • Involved in integration of java code with Flex UI.  • Used Spring Framework MVC Architecture.  • Used hibernate extensively along with Annotations with Oracle as Data source.  • Used JAXB for Marshalling and Unmarshalling of data.  • Followed TDD (Test Driven Development).  • Used Jenkins as CI tool to trigger build.  • Actively involved in executing SQL queries, Stored Procedures.  • Used TestNG for unit testing.  • Worked in Agile Test methodology and in scrum process.  • Used RALLY for sprint planning, task management and prioritization of stories and estimation.  • Actively involved in writing Unix shell scripts.  • Involved in creation of maven scripts.  • Participated in reviewing the code through FishEye.    Environment: JSDK1.5, Servlets, Spring Batch, Hibernate 3.x, Oracle 10g, Toad, UML, Microsoft Visio, XML, XSD, JAXB, Eclipse IDE, Tomcat 6.0, JBoss, TestNG, Log4j, Maven 2.x, TortoiseSVN, Unix, Reporting. Education Technology Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University - Hyderabad, Telangana Skills CSS (1 year), design patterns (3 years), Eclipse (2 years), GIT (1 year), HTML. (1 year), Java (4 years), java script (1 year), JDBC (1 year), JUnit (3 years), Maven (4 years), Oracle (2 years), Oracle 10g (Less than 1 year), Servlets (2 years), SQL (2 years), testing. (2 years), TestNG (Less than 1 year), Tomcat (4 years), Unix. (2 years), version control (2 years), XML (4 years) Additional Information Technical Skills:    Programming Languages Java, C, C++.  Scripting languages JavaScript, JSP, Linux/Unix.    Design Skills UML, Object Oriented&J2EE Design Patterns.  Web Technologies Spring, Servlets, JDBC, HTML, CSS, XML, XSD, Restful Web Service, Annotations.  RDBMS/Query Tools: Oracle 10g/11g, My SQL, SQL Server, SQL Developer, Toad.  Frameworks: Spring and Hibernate.  Application/Web Servers: IBM WebSphere, Apache Tomcat.  GUI Tools/IDE Eclipse, Intellij  Testing/Debugging Tools: Testing - Junit, TestNG Logging - Log4j, Build Tools - Ant, Maven  Version Control TFS, SVN, Git.