Java Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Developer Tampa, FL Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Java Developer Travel Centers of America May 2018 to January 2019 Description: TA serves as a rest and service stop to Trucks, providing the services on all the national highways. The eShop project helps for easy communication and ease of work-flow between TA service centers and Truck Fleets by helping automate/fast processing of Work orders, providing estimate, getting approval etc. It helps in getting the work done in minimal clicks and helps the Trucks to travel worry free all around the country.  Responsibilities: • Worked on modern web-based technologies (HTML, Java Script, jQuery, Bootstrap, JSON, XML etc.).  • Produced and consumed REST and SOAP services for sending and fetching of the data.  • Involved in analyzing the requirements, design, code development and unit testing.  • Designed and developed reusable service components using frameworks such as Spring, Hibernate, Java script and boot strap.  • Worked on backend process to create data models using Java to communicate to the client database.  • Developed user interface using JSP, AJAX, JSP Tag libraries to simplify the complexities of the application.  • Developed dynamic web content using Java script, jQuery, Ajax and bootstrap.  • Used jQuery to make the frontend components interact with the JavaScript functions to add dynamism to the web pages at the client side.  • Used bower/yarn for package management of the needed Java script libraries.  • Worked on cross platform user interface issues including IE, Chrome, Firefox and Safari.  • Used Log4j to capture the log that includes runtime exception and for logging info and are helpful in debugging the issues.  • Wrote unit test cases using Junit and Mockito for system testing and integration testing.  • Used Subversion and git as a repository and used configuration tools like Maven, bobble web, Jenkins for building packages and deployment of application components. Java developer Responsibilities Genpact - Hyderabad, Telangana June 2016 to July 2017 • Involved in all the design and development activities.  • Developed web application using JSF framework. Developed user interfaces using JSP, HTML and CSS.  • Coded with core java concepts like Collections, Exception Handling, Java I/O, and Generics to implement the required business logic.  • Used Servlets as controllers for MVC architecture and Hibernate in business layer to access client database.  • Developed Java Servlet on server side for handling requests and responses from the Web pages.  • Developed complex database objects like stored procedures, Functions, Packages and Triggers using SQL and PL/SQL.  • Involved in development and enhancement of REST based web services.  • Extensive experience of designing and developing software applications with Java, J2EE, EJB, JSP, Servlets, Java Beans, Web Services, XML, CSS, SOAP, REST.  • Used Git as a version control system to save the code and keep track of the changes occurred and maven as build tools for getting the dependencies.  • Implemented connectivity to databases using JDBC API from servlets and JSP through Enterprise Java Beans (EJB).  • Responsible for populating aggregated data using Shell scripts containing complex DB2 queries.  • UAT test cases preparation and validation of code and data. Jr. Software developer Responsibilities Horizon Services - Hyderabad, Telangana June 2015 to May 2016 • Utilizing various programming languages, analyze and develop new and existing software, working with strict timelines while upholding company quality standards.  • Upon assignment of a sub-system and/or application, proactively monitor to detect anomalies and adjust software accordingly.  • Implementing new change requests that are incorporated as part of application maintenance that requires design, code test and migrating the functionality.  • Documenting and Implementing disaster recovery and high availability of the sub-system and/or application that includes archiving, replicating, backup and recovery plans.  • Analyzed and improved the runtime of existing web services.  • Worked with the Spring Hibernate integration part of the application.  • Implemented multi-threaded applications to process results faster with low latency.  • Used Java Collection components (List, Hash Map) for caching data.  • Developing Servlets & JSP pages for administrative tools, using custom tags. Configuring the data.  • Used Eclipse IDE as the development environment to generate, edit, compile and debug the java code. Education Master of Science in Information Technology Florida Polytechnic University Bachelor of Technology in Computer Science and Engineering JNT University - Hyderabad, Telangana Skills Html (1 year), Java (2 years), Jsp (2 years), Servlets (2 years), web services. (2 years)