Job Seeker Des Moines, IA • Over 12+ years of experience in analysis, design, implementation and testing of Object Oriented Applications in Client/Server environments using Java/J2EE.  • Strong knowledge in Object Oriented Concepts, Object Oriented Design (OOD), Object Oriented Analysis (OOA), Programming and its implementation.  • Good knowledge of Algorithms and Data Structures • Diverse experience utilizing tools in N-tier and Microservices architecture applications using Spring Boot, Spring Cloud configs, Pivotal Cloud Fundry, AWS, Rabbit MQ, Kafka, Zookeeper, Cassandra, My SQL, Restful Web Services.  • Extensively worked on Any Point Studio and Mule Integration Platform and used it to interface application services by utilizing message routing, data transformation and service creation utilities.  • Hands on experience in MuleSoft Expression Language (MEL) to access payload data, properties and variable of Mule Message Flow.  • Good Exposure on Apache Hadoop Map Reduce programming PIG Scripting and Distribute Application and HDFS.  • Experience in working with frameworks like JSF 2.0, Struts 2, Spring, Hibernate, AngularJS, Javascript, JQuery.  • Expertise in Front End Development using UI technologies like HTML, JavaScript, JSF, Ajax.  • Knowledge of UI MVC frameworks like AngularJS • Expertise in design and development of various web- and enterprise-level applications using J2EE technologies like JSP, Servlets, JDBC, Oracle.  • Expertise in ORM frameworks like JPA • Good experience in Object Oriented Analysis & Design (OOAD) using different design methodologies/process frameworks like SDLC and tools like Microsoft Visio.  • Experience in using frameworks and tools like JUnit.  • Developed web applications by implementing Model View Control (MVC) architecture using JSF pages • Experience in using Java IDE tools like Eclipse, Any point Studio.  • Experience in using Relational databases to write complex SQL queries, and familiarity with databases like Oracle, MySQL, IBM DB2.  • Extensive experience in using SQL to write Stored Procedures, Triggers, Views.  • Experience of development in different environments like Windows, Unix • Experience in working with Virtual and Multi National Team.  • Excellent communication, interpersonal and analytical skills along with can-do attitude. Sponsorship required to work in the US Work Experience Wells Fargo Home Mortgage - Des Moines, IA January 2019 to Present Nov 2016 to March 2018 ] at Charlotte NC Sr Java Developer Equifax Inc - St. Louis, MO April 2018 to December 2018 Connectors and Data Acquisition Team https://www.equifax.com/business/interconnect/  At Equifax Inc, worked for Data Connectors team. Designed and developed automated batch processing modules that consumes data from business partners, transforms the data into various custom specific format and feeds to Data Loader.  • Used Java J2EE technologies, Spring, Hibernate, Webservices, Mule 3.9, Any point Studio 6.5, AngularJS 2, JavaScript, JQuery.  • Implemented service layer using Spring IOC and annotations and Controllers using Spring MVC.  • Implemented DAOs, entities using Hibernate API and Hibernate QL.  • All the functionality is implemented using Spring Boot, Hibernate ORM. Implemented Java EE components using Spring MVC, Spring IOC, Spring transactions and Spring security modules.  • Involved in Requirement Gathering, analysis, design and development of the project    WILL PROVIDE FULL RESUME IN THE EMAIL Java Technical Lead Wells Fargo CORE - Des Moines, IA April 2014 to August 2015 CORE: Common Opportunities, Results and Experience https://www.wellsfargo.com/mortgage/    Wells Fargo CORE processes majority of home loans for Wells Fargo Home Mortgage department. The platform required the uplift of current legacy sales platform for home mortgage to a new component platform. This upgrade involved the development of UI and reuse of common UI components which are present across different pages. These components would be integrated to web services to fetch the data for Closing/Funding related UI screens or tasks on home mortgage. Closing/Funding comprises of all key operations that are undertaken while applying for a home mortgage and as well as while processing the loan application.    Responsibilities: • Very strong experience using Java, J2EE (JSP, Servlets, JDBC, JMS), Spring, Hibernate, AngularJS, JavaScript, JQuery, React, Backbone, Web Services, SOA components, LOMBARDI (BPM). Used these tools to design the UI screens and Tasks.  • Develop the GUI, and write business logic code for server side such as Workflow Engines, Engine Routing Rules and client side implementation using Modeling Frameworks, GWT, GUICE, JavaScript, and XMI.  • Involve in discussions with business analysts to understand the overall business requirements and system functionality and come up with a plan to develop parts of the application.  • Responsible for building scalable distributed data solutions using Hadoop • Providing direction on best practices in designing and developing high performance middle tier.  • Implemented the Web Services for data exchange from the third party vendors. Server side development involving application servers and relational databases.  • Work in conjunction with the Product Design Team to produce complex system analysis, design, test case and implementation, documentation as requested, performance tuning and issue resolution.  • Responsible for the creation and execution of the Unit Test Cases for each coding assignment.  • Design and implement Singleton, Data Access Object, Data Transfer Object and Business Delegate design patterns and use SQL and Oracle for backend queries.  • Write documents for project progress reports, and code documentation. These documents may communicate highly complex information to individuals who may or may not be technically oriented.  • Participate in each sprint for development, enhancement of application features.  • Production support for UI Screen's and Tasks designed and developed.  • Direct interaction with end users for requirement analysis.    Environment: Java, J2EE, JavaScript, JQuery, AngularJS, React.js, Backbone.js, Spring, Hibernate, Web Services, XML, XSD, Web 2.0, Web Sphere 6.5, JBoss 7.0, Oracle 11g, CVS, Hadoop HDFS. Education MS in Computer Science in Computer Science University of Illinois - Springfield, IL 2007 Bachelor of Technology in Computer Science and Information Technology Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University (JNTU) Hyderabad - Hyderabad, Telangana Skills Ajax. (Less than 1 year), AngularJS (2 years), Ant (Less than 1 year), databases. (1 year), Frameworks (1 year), J2EE (2 years), Java (2 years), JavaScript (2 years), JBoss (1 year), JDBC (1 year), JQuery (2 years), JSP (1 year), Oracle (1 year), ORM. (Less than 1 year), Servlets (1 year), SQL (1 year), UI (1 year), USER INTERFACE (1 year), web services (1 year), XML (1 year) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Languages Java, SQL, XML, C++, C, WSDL, XHTML, HTML, CSS, Java Script, AJAX, PLSQL, JQuery.  Java Technologies  Java, J2EE, JSF, Struts 2, Spring, JAX WS, JDBC, Servlets, JSP, JSTL, JavaBeans, JQuery, Javascript, EJB, HTMLUnit, Selenium, Micorservices    Frame Works JSF, Primefaces, RichFaces, MyFaces, Struts and Spring, Mulesoft.  UI Frameworks AngularJS, JQuery  Development Tools Eclipse, Netbeans, Oracle JDeveloper, IBM RAD, Anypoint Studio  Application Servers WebLogic 8.1/9/11g/12c, Glassfish, JBOSS 5, Tomcat, Websphere,  ORM JPA, Hibernate, IBatis.  Build Tools Maven, Ant  Design and Modeling UML  Web Services SOAP, WSDL, REST, JAX WS, JAX RPC, Apache Axis, Apache CXF.  Databases Oracle 10g/9i/8i, SQL Server, DB2, MS-Access  Scripting languages Java Script, Shell Script  XML technologies DTD, XSD, XML, XSL, XSLT, SAX, DOM, JAXB  Version Control SVN, Git, Stash  Environments UNIX, Red Hat Linux, Windows 2000/ server 2008/2007, Windows NT 4.0, Windows XP.