Java Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Developer - NZONWEB SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT & CONSULTING SERVICES PRIVATE LIMITED ? Having 3+ years of experience as a Software Developer in IT industry.  ? Working experience in application framework like Spring.  ? Working experience in Persistance framework like Hibernate.  ? Working experience on web servicesss.  ? Hands on Experience Spring Boot.  ? Sound Knowledge in Oracle.  ? Working experience in technologies such as HTML.  ? Experience in writing Junit test cases.  ? Experience in developing applications using Apache Tomcat web server.  ? Capable of adopting to work on new Technologies and Environments easily.  ? Ability to learn new Technologies and tools quickly.  ? Excellent communication, interpersonal and analytical skills.  ? Demonstrated competence of a good team player, ability to work on multiple projects.  ? Has the motivation to take independent responsibility as well as ability to contribute and be a productive team player. Work Experience Java Developer NZONWEB SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT & CONSULTING SERVICES PRIVATE LIMITED March 2017 to Present Environment: Java, Spring and Webservices.  Description:  Integration Data Management Server is a central server application handles Parts and Transaction information from a warehouse and to E-Commerce Application, which launches a communication medium using secure web-service. Supportive administration with Transaction reports and Graphs are handled using report manager services.    Responsibilities:  * Involved in collecting the requirements from Business Analyst.  * Interact with Management to understand the requirements and clarifying the doubts.  * Worked for the user requirements and prepared the software functional activities.  * Coded all the POJO's required for this system.  * Involved in designing view pages using Spring MVC.  * Involved in coding DAO classes and mapping files using Hibernate 3.0.  * Also involved in coding of all Logging Activities using Log4J Framework.  * Participated daily in Scrum meets to discuss different issues in the project.  * Coordinated with co team members to develop high level business and technical Documents  Project #1  Title: National Pension Scheme  Role: Java Developer  Environment: Java, JSP, HTML, Jdbc, Oracle, Tomcat    Description:  New Pension System is a voluntary contribution of funds for a sustained period of time (till the age of 60years) to enable him to draw pension after he attains 60 years of age. The Scheme has been introduced by the Government of India and monitored by the Pension Fund Regulatory and Development Authority. It is basically for people who do not have the benefit of pension after retirement from service. The scheme gives an opportunity to the subscriber to build up his pension fund over a long period so that after retirement he can draw pension for his sustenance.  Responsibilities:    ? Involved in Client interaction on daily basis during scrum calls to understand the Business of the Client Creating Jsp Pages according to client requirement.  ? Involved in the Analysis, Design, Coding, modification and implementation of user requirements in the application.  ? Developing the Application using Spring Framework, Jdbc using Eclipse IDE    ? Responsible for writing Validations using Spring Framework.    ? Responsible for Involving in Debugging.    Declaration:  I hereby declare that the information furnished above is true and correct to the best of my knowledge.    Place (Mallesh) Software Engineer NZONWEB SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT & CONSULTING SERVICES PRIVATE LIMITED April 2016 to Present 2016. Education B. Tech J.N.T. University. Additional Information Technical Skills:  Languages: Java  J2EE Technologies: JDBC, SERVLET, JSP.  Client Server App: Web services  Frameworks: Spring, Hibernate, Spring Boot.  RDBMS: Oracle  Servers: Apache Tomcat  Front end Lang: HTML, CSS  IDE Tools: Eclipse IDE, My Eclipse IDE  Tools: Maven, Log4j, Git.    Operating Systems: Windows Family