System Engineer ( Java Developer ) System Engineer (<span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> ) Work Experience System Engineer ( Java Developer ) May 2017 to Present Achievement:  ? Successfully Completed Training and Certified on Oracle PL/SQL Developer.  ? Successfully Completed Training and Certified on Oracle Fusion Middleware 11g.  ? Received Accolades From Clients For adhering on time for completion of task assigned  ? Received accolades from clients for being a good Team Player.    Projects:    Project #1:    Client: Sprint Corporation (Telecommunications company) USA  Project Title: Sprint - EAI  Technology Used: Core Java, SQL, JDBC  Tools Used: Eclipse, Oracle 10g, Tortoise SVN, JIRA, ALM, ITSM, Putty and WinScp    Description:    Sprint is an American telecommunications company that provides wireless services and is an internet service provider. Sprint also offers wireless voice, messaging, and broadband services through its various subsidiaries under the Boost Mobile, Virgin Mobile, and Assurance Wireless brands, and wholesale access to its wireless networks to mobile virtual network operators. Sprint is a CDMA carrier which uses CDMA, EvDO and 4G LTE networks. Sprint Nextel decided to decommission the iDEN (Nextel National) network after merging with Nextel. Communications to re-purpose the network for LTE coverage; Sprint stopped offering Nextel Direct Connect walkie-talkie service. Instead, Sprint persuades many of its customers into their replacement service - Sprint Direct Connect which operates on the CDMA network.SprintLink is a global Tier 1 Internet service provider network, operating an 100G Internet backbone. Customers include large multinational corporations, government agencies, retail and restaurant chains, Tier 2 and Tier 3 ISPs, and medium-to-small businesses. SprintLink has physical presence in 155 countries, including the United States, Western Europe, East Asia, Australia, and India. The network wraps all the way around the world with buried fiber optics in the United States and Europe, and undersea fiber in the Pacific, Atlantic, and Indian Oceans. SprintLink is responsible for cable maintenance and administration in the TAT-14 Consortium. Sprint is upgrading its SprintLink core to 100Gbit/sec lines to offer increased bandwidth. Sprint offers its enterprise customers managed web-based services through its Sprint Web Services program. It allows enterprise customers to create managed web-based applications    Responsibilities:  ? Requirement gathering and analysis.  ? Mentoring the team members related to technology and process.  ? Additional task of creating documentation (Stub Creation, devbox setup documentation) for assisting developers  ? Getting involved in design discussions.  ? Suggestion related to performance improvements.  ? Optimization of SQL query.  ? Developing and maintaining project plan.  ? Managing project deliverables in line with Project plan.  ? Providing status updates to Project stakeholders.  ? Provide support to Production deployment and work on warranty tickets.  ? Developed DAO layer logic using Hibernate.  ? Creation and execution of unit test cases/scenarios.  ? Mapping of new requirements and updation of technical Specification Document accordingly.  ? Providing resolution of bugs in test environment.  ? Involved in development of new enhancements.  ? Communicating with business on various critical module, issues and clarification. Education B.Tech in Information Technology West Bengal Institute of Technology - Kolkata, WEST BENGAL, IN Krishna Vidya Mandir School Rajasthan New Tagore School Rajasthan Additional Information Technical Skills:    Programming Languages: Core Java  Database(s): Oracle, MySQL  Scripting: XML, HTML  IDEs: Eclipse  Tools: JUnit, Log4j, Mockito, SVN, JIRA  Server(s): Apache Tomcat