Java JEE engineer <span class="hl">Java</span> JEE engineer Java JEE engineer - Technology Solutions Provider Inc Silver Spring, MD • 2+ years of IT experience in design and development of various multi-tiered web based applications using Java/J2EE and Bootstrap technologies.  • Public trust clearance from US department of Agriculture.  • Certified in IBM FileNet manager V5.2 specialist.  • Motivated, Energetic, hardworking Innovative and team player with excellent Analytical problem solving and trouble shooting skills.  • Lead all stages of development (requirement analysis, design, implementation and testing) and quickly produce well-organized, optimized, and documented source code respecting Software Development Life Cycle, Software Development Methodologies (Agile)scrum.    • Work independently when required and continuously learn and improve skills.  • Advanced level skills in Designing and Implementing web server's solutions and deploying Java Application Servers like WebSphere, Tomcat, Glassfish, Cloudinary, Heroku, configuring Apache Web Server and configuring various Servlets engines.  • Expertise in developing light weight business component and integrated applications using Spring framework including Spring Security using Intelij idea.  • Experience in implementing various design patterns including Data Access Object, MVC and Singleton.  • Good experience in using RDBMS systems SQL server and MySQL.  • Good knowledge on Software Version Control System Git. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Java JEE engineer Technology Solutions Provider Inc March 2016 to Present Project: Soils, CPS, DP    Responsibilities:  * Was closely involved with design, development and implementation of the application.  * Enterprise Content Management application development and deployment utilizing IBM FileNet P8 ACCE (Administrative Console for Content Platform Engine), IBM Content Navigator.  * Configuration and Customization of IBM FileNet Content Navigator.  * IBM FileNet P8 API Creating Document properties, custom object properties, Document classes, Choice Lists, Security ACL, security policies.  * Enterprise Content Management application customization and deployment using Widgets customization using Dojo.  * Working with Technical Analysts and Business Analysts to understand short and long-term business needs and develop enterprise-wide solutions for Content management and Information governance.  * Participating in technology and functional planning processes to help develop development standards and solutions for the enterprise.  * Have worked on quark technologies.  * Tested the application on WebSphere Application Server.  * Created File uploader application using java technologies.  * Worked on quark technologies like installing and customizing.    Environment: ACCE, NAVIGATOR, PROCESS DESIGNER Java JEE Developer Wegiouning p.l.c November 2011 to March 2012 Project: Equipment Resource Tracing Management System    Responsibilities:  • Involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC)  • Gathered and analyzed the requirements.  • Designed and Developed application using Spring based MVC framework.  • Assisted in Spring Frame Work for Dependency injection and integrated with Spring Framework and Hibernate.  • Assisted in designing and developing at the back end using Hibernate Framework.  • Responsible for system testing.  • Working with stakeholders for gathering and analyses system requirements.  • Responsible for the design and implementation of the project given the SRS (Software Requirement Statement)  • Coordinated with Business Analysts to gather requirements and confirming tests scenario.  • Helped clearing ambiguity in requirements document.  • Tested components using Junit during development.  • Participated in meetings with the client where the Prototype was demonstrated, and Changes / enhancements needed were identified.  Environment: Development, Testing Education diploma in Computer science Hilcoe School 2009 Bachelor of Science in applied Physics and computer science University of Gondor 2006 Master of Science in Information Systems Strayer University Skills JAVA (2 years), DOJO (2 years), SECURITY (2 years), BOOTSTRAP (Less than 1 year), CSS (Less than 1 year), Java J2Ee, Rest, Hibernate, J2Ee, Spring Additional Information Technical Skills:    Desktop JAVA SE, DOJO  Web Development Java JEE(JSP-servlet, JPA, Hibernate, Spring(IoC, mvc, ORM), Web Services (RESTful) (X)HTML/CSS, Bootsrap  Databases SQL Server, MySQL.  Software/IDE Eclipse, IntelliJ, Netbeans.    Operating Systems Windows 08/NT/10/XP  Servers Tomcat(6.x/7.x/8.x), Glassfish(3.x/4.x)  XML Methodologies XML, XSD  Building Tools Ant, Maven  continuous integration Exposer in Jenkins  Testing Tools Junit, Postman    Software developer (wipro:-client Capital one)    From January, 2018 till now  On training    Java Trainings ( Java Boot Camp)    • Attended Extensive Java/J2EE Bootstrap Development Training by Experts (Workforce Development Montgomery College)  • Grasped great knowledge on Spring Security, Spring MVC, Spring DAO, Spring IOC, Spring JPA, Spring integration with Hibernate and jpa.  • Grasped great knowledge on Thymeleaf, Html, Css.  • Grasped great knowledge on Version Control ( Git, Github)  • Grasped great knowledge on IntelliJ IDE