JAVA DEVELOPER <span class="hl">JAVA</span> <span class="hl">DEVELOPER</span> JAVA DEVELOPER - Wells Fargo ? Over 6 years of experience in Design, Development, Implementation and Maintenance of Java & J2EE web and client-server based Internet applications.  ? Experience in Requirements gathering, Designing, Development, implementation and maintenance of software applications using  JAVA /J2EE technologies.  ? Good Working experience in Design, Development and implementation of several J2EE frameworks like (Model View Controller) Struts, Spring,  Hibernate.  ? Extensive working experience on migrating the large enterprise systems into Cloud Native Architecture model.  ? Proven working experience in migrating the legacy spring based applications into Spring Boot, Spring Cloud and Spring Cloud Data Flow technologies.  ? Excellent in designing the front-end pages using scripting languages like  Angular JS, JSP, HTML, Ajax, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery and its libraries.  ? Experience in using Design Pattern: Singleton Pattern, Factory pattern,  DAO, Façade Pattern (Session Façade Pattern), MVC Pattern, Business delegate Pattern, and Service Locator Pattern.  ? Expertise in developing various EJBs (session and entity beans) for handling business logic and data manipulations from database.  ? Extensive knowledge in using JDBC and ORM technologies like  Hibernate for persisting data to different relational databases.  ? Experience in programming SQL queries, triggers and Stored Procedures in Oracle and SQL Server.  ? Solid working experience in developing different type of Web services like  JAX-RPC, SOAP, Restful and Micro Services.  ? Expertise in using JUnit in performing unit test and Log4j for logging errors.  ? Good working knowledge of IDE like Eclipse, IBM RAD and NetBeans.  ? Expertise in configuring and using various Web Application servers like  WebSphere, WebLogic and Apache Tomcat.  ? Used XML, XSLT, JSON and Schemas for communication between different tiers of application.  ? Hands on experience in setting up repositories in Maven and Ant.  ? Well versed with core Java concepts like collections, multithreading, serialization, Java beans.  ? Good knowledge on source control tools such as Rational Clear Case,  SVN, GitHub and CVS.  ? Strong experience in using cloud orchestration technologies like Docker and Kubernetes.Experience in developing applications using Agile,  Scrum and Waterfall methodologies. Work Experience JAVA DEVELOPER Wells Fargo - Dallas, TX January 2018 to Present Responsibilities: ? Involved in the analysis, design and development and testing Phase of Software Development Life Cycle(SDLC) ? Design and Implemented the UI using HTML, JSP, CSS, AJAX and handled client-side validations using Java Script and jQuery ? Implemented application with Spring MVC framework which includes writing controller class for handling request, processing form submissions.  ? Developed code for consuming various web services using JAXB,  JAX-WS, SOAP and Restful ? Interacting with Business Analyst and Lead for understanding the requirement using Agile Methodologies and SCRUM Meeting to keep track the end client needs.  ? Wrote unit test cases using Mockito for all the testcases to maintain code quality and stability.  ? Accessed and Manipulated oracle database environment by writing  SQL queries in oracle SQL developer for testing purpose   ? Developed Business objects using POJOs and data access layer using  Hibernate framework ? Achieved dependency injection by creating spring services and DAOs to wire objects of business class ? Implemented DAO pattern to fetch data from database using Hibernate to carry out various database operations ? Used various design patterns like MVC, DAO and Singleton while developing the application ? Tested web services using SOAP UIs.Used Tortoise SVN as version control tool.Used Maven to build the application and deploy it on Tomcat server and for other environments used Jenkins automated build and deploy configurations ? Coordinated with testing team and Fixed defects at various stages of application development. Tracked defects using HP ALM Quality  Center ? Used JIRA for creating task and report hours for task that are related to the project. Raising questions for business and getting answer from them and tracking is done by JIRA ? Used Log4j to capture the log that include runtime exceptions and for logging info and are helpful in debugging the issues ? Involved in making release builds for deploying the application for test environments.  ? Involved in application production support and maintains activity  Environment: Java , J2EE, HTML, CSS, jQuery, JSP, AJAX, Java Script, JUnit,  Mockito, SVN, Maven, IBM UrbanCode Deploy, SOAP UI, Jenkins, HP ALM  Quality Center, Agile, JIRA, Eclipse, Oracle SQL Developer , Windows XP,  Apache Tomcat, Spring MVC, Soap and Restful webservices, Hibernate, Putty  Log4j. JAVA DEVELOPER US Bank - Dallas, TX October 2016 to December 2017 Responsibilities: ? Develop business requirements and specifications for specialized components, which may involve identifying alternatives at the system level.  ? Designing, developing and maintaining complex programs in specialty component system.  ? Designing the web application layout using highly advanced user interface design and development technologies like Angular JS, JSP,  JavaScript, JQuery and HTML.  ? Implemented Spring MVC, which includes writing Controller classes for handling requests, processing form submissions and performing validations.  ? Achieved Dependency injection by creating spring services, spring controllers and DAOs to wire objects of business classes   ? Designing and executing stored procedures for data migration from legacy data to SQL Server.  ? Developing Web Services using SOAP as a protocol to send request and response in the form of XML messages using WSDL.  ? Used Hibernate to deal with the database and wrote complex HQL to handle the persistence operations.  ? Working on ANT scripts to build the application generating JAR files for application deployment.  ? Developing Junit test cases for testing the functionality of the code and Involved in defect fixing and tracking using HP ALM quality center 11.  ? Used Clear case as version control tool.Followed agile methodology for the application development.  Environment: Java /J2EE, JSP, Angular JS, Spring 4.1, Hibernate 4.2, HTML, Software Engineer Caliber Point,India - IN July 2011 to September 2013 Responsibilities: ? Served as member of core technical team in development of project.  ? Developed code using Java and user screens by Html, JSP.  ? Worked on building UI of the application using JSF, also assembled various reusable UI.  ? Components in the web application. Involved in custom tag development using JSF ? Involved in database designing using SQL Sever2000, developed several Stored Procedures, user defined Functions, Views and maintained these database objects.  ? Implemented database layer using DAO pattern using JDBC.  ? Worked on importer application which was based on Java  Multithreading to import.Text files to database ? Developed code for work allocation and processing module.  ? Worked on various reports such as status report, inventory report    Environment: Windows, Sql Server 2000, Eclipse, Java, Servlets, JSF, JSP,  JavaScript. Software Developer Verizon - Dallas, TX 2012 to 2012 JavaScript, XML, Junit 4, Log4j, SQL Server 2012, Web Services, Clear Case,  IBM WebSphere 8.5, IBM RAD 8.5, ANT, HP ALM quality center 11.    Client: Verizon - Dallas,Tx  Designation: Software Developer  September 2015 to September 2016  Responsibilities: ? Developed and designed UI for a dashboard using Angular framework for a database of clients that deal with business connections.  ? Replatformed three web applications to integrate them into one GUI using Angular Js to provide ease of access to the clients.  ? Identified usability and develop functional and smooth, easy-to-operate and eye-catching web applications using EXT JS, Angular JS and react  JS.Monitored technical aspects of the front-end delivery for projects.  ? Interpreted and executed designs correctly as requested by client ? Worked with a geographically dispersed online team converting user-submitted designs into Angular JS code.  ? Coordinate and work closely with entire team to create and maintain the front-end code for features of several internal applications, including Java Developers , QA, web producers, content creators, and designers.  ? Rebuilt corporate website simplifying graphics navigation and overall modernizing to accommodate new technology such as Material design.  ? Logging the defects and mapping them to test cases.Involved in the Design and Review of test casesIdentifying the Test cases that are suitable for automation.  ? Design coding standards document to have proper governance.Brainstormed, refined, and sketched concepts for projects.  Helped write proposals and specifications. Researched tools.  ? Designed and developed Email application similar to outlook using  Angular 2.0 and material design.Involved in POC of Dashboards to track orders.    Environment: HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, AJAX, jQuery, MVC, Angular.js,  Backbone.js, React JS, Node.js, Responsive Design, Bootstrap, DHTML, DOM,  JSON, Dreamweaver, Image Converters, Image Optimizers, Firebug, Firefox,  SOAP, Agile Education Master of science(M.S UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS AT DALLAS - Dallas, TX October 2013 to August 2015 Bachelor in Technology MAHARASHTRA INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY - Pune, Maharashtra April 2007 to June 2011 Links http://altctrlelite.com