Sr. Full Stack Developer Sr. Full Stack <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Full Stack Developer - Huntington Columbus, OH * 4+ years of experience with Cross Platform (Web /Client-Server), application development and design using Object Oriented Programming ( Java /J2EE technologies) and functional programming (SCALA).  * Worked on full Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC), which includes requirements analysis, modeling, design, architecture, development, integration, documentation, testing, and deployment.  * Experience in Pair Programming, Test Driven Development, Waterfall model and Agile methodologies like SCRUM, KANBAN.  * Good knowledge and hands on experience in MVC Struts 1.x , Spring 2.x and ORM Hibernate 3.0 frameworks  * Extensive knowledge of XML-based standards and protocols such as WSDL and SOAP, Service Oriented Architecture SOA , development of XSD schemas and implementing both SOAP and REST web services.  * Extensive experience in using various UML, Rational Rose, design patterns and industry best practices such as MVC Model-View-Controller, Singleton, Facade, Factory and DAO, DTO, singleton.  * Strong experience in UNIX and Shell scripting.  * Good documentation skills on both functional and business requirements.  * Expertise in Distributed and Web environments, focused in JAVA Technologies Java collections, Threads, J2SE, JDBC, Struts, Spring, Hibernate Framework.  * Experience in using DOM4J, JAXB, JAXP parsing and XMLBean to process, validate, parse and extract data from XML files.  * Good knowledge and experience with multiple Servers like IBM Web Sphere, IBM Web Sphere ESB Enterprise Service Bus , Web Logic server, Apache Tomcat, JBoss.  * Extensive experience in working IDE tools like Eclipse, NetBeans, RAD, WID Web Sphere Integration Designer  * Extensive experience in implementation of the version control software SVN, CVS, Git.  * Experienced in generating logging by Log4j to identify the errors in production test environment and experienced in Ant, Maven and Gradle tools.  * Hands on experience using Messaging Services like JMS, MQ Series.  * Proficient in RDBMS concepts and experience in working with Oracle 9i/10g/11g, DB2 and MY SQL PL/SQL, SQL Plus, Database triggers, Procedures, Functions.  * Closely worked with Release Management Team in doing builds and deploying code into various environments like DEV/QA/SIT/UAT/Prod.  * Strong knowledge of Core Java technologies multithreading, exception handling, collection, functional programming, lambdas, streams, I/O, etc.  * Expertise in ORM and JPA technologies such as JDBC, Hibernate, and Spring DAO  * Expertise in writing queries, triggers, sequence, and stored procedures in major RDBMS including Oracle, DB2, SQL Server, and My SQL  * Outstanding knowledge of developing and consuming RESTful web services using JAX-RS, Jersey, Spring Web MVC, etc.  * Expertise with Client Scripting language and server-side scripting languages like HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, JSON, Bootstrap, Node JS, D3 JS, AngularJS 2.0, ReactJS, and BackboneJS.  * Strong experience in design and development of applications using Java/JEE components such as Servlets, Java Server Pages (JSP), Spring Application Framework (Spring Core, Spring JDBC, Spring MVC, Spring REST, Spring ORM), Hibernate ORM, Java Beans, JDBC, JMS, XML, and JavaScript.  * Experienced in Front End frameworks such as jQuery, Ajax, JavaScript, Nodejs, ReactJS, BackboneJS, AngularJs.  * Extensive development experience monolithic application and microservice component  * Familiar with various aspects of microservice architecture such as configuration server, service registry or discovery server, load balancing, circuit breaker, API gateway  * Solid hands on with the implementation of application layer security for RESTful APIs using JWT, Spring Security  * Extensive involvement in Front-end Web Application Development utilizing HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, JavaScript, Servlets, JSP, jQuery and AngularJS  * Solid knowledge in test driven development including writing integration test cases for the REST endpoints  * Experience with various build and CI&CD tools such as Maven, Gradle, Jenkins, etc.  * Used Git, GitHub, Bitbucket, CVS, and Subversion for version control  * Experienced with various application/web servers like JBoss, WebLogic, and Tomcat Work Experience Sr. Full Stack Developer Huntington - Columbus, OH September 2017 to Present * Involved in the complete SDLC including the design of System Architecture, development of System Use Cases based on the functional requirements.  * Involved in Daily Scrum (Agile) meetings, Sprint planning and estimation of the tasks for the user stories, participated in retrospective and presenting Demo at end of the sprint.  * Used JSP, HTML5, CSS3, and JavaScript to construct the dynamic web pages (presentation Layer) for the application.  * Worked with core Java technologies like Multi-Threading and synchronization.  * Used multithreading to process data in chunks to improve performance.  * Handed Java Multi-Threading part in back-end component, one thread will be running for each user.  * Developed internal coding using JEE technologies based on the MVC Architecture.  * Implemented Business Logic using Java, Spring MVC, and Hibernate.  * Achieved Dependency injection by creating Spring services, Spring controllers and DAOs to wire objects of business classes.  * Implemented DAO pattern to fetch data from database using Hibernate to carry out various database operations and avoid redundant database access statements.  * Designed and developed business components using Spring Boot, Spring Dependency Injection (Core), Spring AOP and Spring Annotations.  * Developed reports include Invoice Printings and Patient profiles. Assigned as lead developer throughout the design, analysis and coding phase of a Claims Processing System.  * Used Hibernate Transaction Management, Spring/Hibernate Batch Transactions and Hibernate cache concepts.  * Wrote SQL stored procedures and views, Reviewed normalized/Denormalized schemas for effective and optimum performance tuning queries and data validation in OLTP environments.  * Used a Microservices architecture, with Spring Boot-based services interacting through a combination of REST and Spring Boot.  * Used Microservices are designed with the individual database and project with no dependencies.  * Used Spring Data Framework to use the features of Spring JDBC and Spring ORM classes like JDBC Template and Hibernate Template to perform the database operations by connecting to Data sources available.  * Removed all the XML based configurations required to build the MVC application and maintained in the classes using Spring Boot.  * Developed user interface as JSF, prime faces, HTML and CSS and Bootstrap with custom tag libraries using JSF Framework.  * Developed build and deployment scripts using MAVEN as build tools in Jenkins to move from one environment to other environments.  * Used Microservices to communicate using synchronous protocols HTTP and REST.  * Used MongoDB as data storage and utilized aspects like replica sets, Sharding and clever document design to make service extensible scale and feature wise.  * Responsible for maintaining and expanding AWS (Cloud Services) infrastructure using AWS Stack especially worked with database setup and maintenance on AWS EC2.  * Used JIRA ticketing system to keep track of issues and tasks on individuals.  * Used GITHUB as version control tool. Sr. Java Developer Main line Health - Philadelphia, PA March 2016 to August 2017 * Involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) such as requirements gathering, modeling, analysis, design, development, and testing.  * Used Java8 features like stream and Lambda expressions.  * Maintained Interface compatibility and concurrency in the project using Java 8 new features like default, static methods and Concurrency API.  * Used Java 8 Method References feature to point to methods by their names and used functional Interfaces.  * Used Eclipse IDE as the development environment to design and develop the code.  * Designed and developed various modules of the application with J2EE design architecture, using Spring MVC framework, and deployed the spring components on WebLogic.  * Involved in the integration of Spring components for implementing Inversion of Control (IOC) using Dependency Injection and integration of other spring components like Dispatcher Servlets, Controllers, Model and View Objects.  * Used Spring MVC framework for implementing Model-View- Controller (MVC) architecture at the Web tier level to isolate each layer of the application so that complexity of integration will be reduced, and maintenance will be very easy.  * Used Spring AOP for solving crosscutting concerns like keeping logged data and transactions details etc.  * Designed and developed Micro Services business components using Spring Boot.  * Developed Restful Micro Services using Spring Rest and MVC.  * Used Hibernate ORM framework as persistence engine and wrote Hibernate Queries to automate the mapping between Oracle database and Objects in Java.  * Involved in writing SQL and Stored Procedures for handling complex queries with help of TOAD and access them through Java Programs from Oracle Database.  * Worked on setting up Maven scripts to build, package, and deploy application code to the target WebLogic Application Servers and worked on continuous integration servers like Jenkins.  * Focused on Test Driven Development there by creating detailed JUnit tests for every single piece of functionality before writing the functionality. Java Developer Gap Inc - San Francisco, CA October 2014 to February 2016 * Involved in SDLC cycle like Analysis, Designing, developing, Testing and deploying the Enterprise applications using Java and Object-Oriented Design Patterns based on business requirements.  * Followed Agile Software Development Methodology and Test-Driven Development (TDD) to build the application iteratively and incrementally. Participated in scrum related activities and Daily Scrum Meetings.  * Involved in working with technologies like Spring Framework, Hibernate and Restful Web Services in designing and development of the application.  * Worked with Spring modules like MVC, Core, AOP, Spring Security, Spring MVC, and Spring Boot.  * Worked on designing the User Interface by coding in JSP, JSF 2.0, HTML5, Bootstrap, AJAX, jQuery, JavaScript and Angular JS 2.0 to create the SPA (Single Page Application).  * Used jQuery, AJAX for service calls on pages to interact with the server for information.  * Used NoSQL database Cassandra for having high efficiency and good response for the request.  * Created the databases using Cassandra and involved in design and data modeling.  * Configured persistence-Context in Spring Framework and Hibernate as a persistence provider to interact with the database.  * Implemented Java APIs for retrieval and analysis on No-SQL database like Cassandra.  * Created POJO classes which are used by Data Access Object classes.  * Experience in replacing Hibernate with Native SQL Queries (JDBC) in places to handle large search.  * Produced Restful Web services using JAX-RS and Jersey Framework.  * Implemented Microservices with Spring Boot for real time Processing.  * Worked on implementing JMS to publish the message on to the Queue after processing.  * Worked on log4j & log back for logging the application logs.  * Executed JMS service by using Rabbit MQ and Queues for the batch processing.  * Worked extensively on Spring IOC for the dependency injection for managing application dependencies.  * Experience with AWS S3 services creating buckets, configuring buckets with permissions, logging, versioning and tagging.  * Utilized AWS Cloud Watch to monitor the performance environment instances for operational and performance metrics during load testing.  * Worked with AWS cloud management and chef automation.  * Worked on GIT Hub as the repository to checkout and commit the code.  * Expertise in writing SQL queries, PL-SQL stored procedures for the database and backend tasks.  * Developed Selenium Web Drivers Scripts to perform integration test of the application.  * Expertise in JUnit test cases with the data mocking by using Mockito for unit testing application classes.  * Configured and maintained Jenkins to implement the Continuous Integration (CI)process and integrated the tool with Maven to schedule the builds.