Java Full-stack Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> Full-stack <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Full-stack Developer - Cognizant Irving, TX • 4 and a half Years of experience in all phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) including requirements analysis, design specification, coding and testing of enterprise web applications using Java/J2EE technologies.  • Worked on developing rich user interfaces with standard components, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery.  • Good Understanding of Data Structures and Algorithms, Object-oriented programming concepts and usage with Java, C++, C.  • Worked with Node.js and similar back-end Express web application frameworks  • Hands on experience designing and coding web applications using Core Java, Spring Boot,  • Knowledge of Front-end Technologies such as, HTML, HTML5, CSS.  • Involved in design, development and testing of web application and integration projects using Object Oriented technologies such as Core Java, and JDBC  • Developed test code in Java language using Eclipse IDE  • Familiarity with SDLC, Agile Methodology-Scrum,  • Proficient and strong working knowledge of J2EE Architectural & Design Patterns, SOAP Web Services JAX-WS, JAX-RPC, REST, Spring Frame work, Struts, Servlets, JSP, JSF, JMS, EJB, Hibernate.  • Strong knowledge in Object Oriented Concepts, Object Oriented Design (OOD),  • Good working experience with IDE's Eclipse IDE.  • Experience in creating, analyzing Use Cases, Use Case Diagrams, Activity diagrams, Class diagrams using UML Tools like MS Visio.  • Agile methodology for Software Development.  • Team player, quick learner, excellent analytical, design and problem-solving skills. Work Experience Java Full-stack Developer Cognizant - Irving, TX January 2019 to Present Responsibilities:  • Working on Onelabs which is an internal application that cognizant uses to track its employees  • Created a trello like board where the employees can be moved and dropped to a new location  • Worked on MVC patterns in angular, when in angular the ts and html files are used as the view and controller.  • The ts file and the html files are used to design the MVC patterns in angular  • Worked on postman to test out the API we have worked on  • Worked on object-oriented programming, working on Spring Core, MVC, AOP, Node JS, Spring, JDBC, Hibernate. Deployed Spring Boot based Micro services in Docker and Amazon EC2 container using AWS.  • Expertise in developing Web based, Enterprise based applications in a three-tier architecture using Java SE 1.7/1.8, Java EE, HTML, CSS, JavaScript.  • Created UI forms on Angular6  • Expert in developing applications using all J2EE technologies like Servlets, JSP, JDBC, JNDI, JMS.  • Exposure to AWS services and implemented them into our onelabs project  • Worked on the Jenkins pipeline  • Created rest endpoints to connect the different micro services that our team has worked on  • Work on an Agile team developing REST APIs to support an agent internal operations too  • Exposure and worked on Junit and making Mockito testing    Environment: Java/J2ee, JSP, SpringBoot, Hibernate, SOAP, REST, JAX-RS, JMS, MQ Series, SQL, PL/SQL, JAXB, XML, HTML5, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, JSON, Eclipse, JBoss, AWS. Software Developer FEMA - Washington, DC August 2018 to December 2018 Responsibilities:  • Interacted with different lines of business users for gathering requirements and prepared Technical Design Document for the business use cases.  • Developed rich UI visual force pages using HTML5, CSS, JavaScript and jQuery.  • Collaborated with cross functional teams to define, design and ship new features.  • Developed test code in Java language using Eclipse IDE and Junit framework.  • Used Angular.js as the development framework to build a single-page application  • Implemented business logic in Middle Tier using pluggable components, which were specified in the customized xml documents using Spring framework.  • Prepared low level design, high level design, unit tests result documents and reports on the project  • Interacted with team lead and team members for design improvements and bug fixes  • Actively participated in daily standup team meetings and weekly status meetings  • Created custom Dashboards for PART Portal  • Implemented Node JS, JSF and Backbone JS for developing the server side web applications and network programs.  • Developed various Microservices using Spring Boot and Restful web services technologies  • Developed web Components using JSP, Servlet under J2EE Environment.  • Developed API for using AWS Lambda to manage the server less architecture and run the code in AWS.  • Developed J2EE applications (MQ Series) using WebSphere application server.    Environment: Java, Oracle, RDBMS, JavaScript, Node, jQuery, HTML5, J2EE, CSS, Git Spring, AWS. Jr. Java developer Aurotech - Silver Spring, MD June 2015 to July 2018 Responsibilities:  • As a developer, obtained comprehensive and clear business requirements by gathering all required information and analyzing the client requirements.  • Created stored procedures and PL/SQL statements to interact with the MS SQL SERVER database.  • Created Functional design specification document based on business requirements.  • Involved in migrating the CPP modules to java modules with spring framework.    Environment: JavaScript, SQL, J2EE, Spring, Education Bachelors of Science in Information Technology in Information Technology Penn State May 2015 Skills Eclipse, J2ee, Java, Spring, Jsp Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Languages C, C++, Java, SQL, Python.  Web Technologies HTML5, CSS3, PHP, JavaScript, JSP, J2ee, Java, Spring, Node JS. Rest,  Databases My SQL, MS SQL Server  Tools Eclipse, Talend, Angular, NetBeans, GIT, MS Office, AWS  Office Package MS Office  SFDL Methodologies Agile (RTC), Waterfall,  Operating Systems Windows