Java-J2EE Developer <span class="hl">Java</span>-J2EE <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java-J2EE Developer Austin, TX Over 3+ years of professional experience in analysis, design, development and testing of web and distributed n-tier applications using Java and J2EE technologies in areas such as Insurance, Financial Services, Healthcare, Telecom  Well versed with complete Software Life Cycle Development (SDLC) process which includes Analysis, Designing, Developing, Testing, Implementing and Documenting the entire life cycle using various methodologies like Waterfall, V-model, Agile, Scrum, Test Driven development  Proficient in implementing various J2EE design patterns like MVC, Service Locator, Session Façade, Data Access Object (DAO), Factory, Singleton, Data Transfer Object (DTO), Front Controller, View Helper and Business Delegate  Expertise in using HTML/5, DHTML, CSS/3, Java Script, JSP, Custom tags in designing web pages  Experience in application development using J2EE technologies like Servlets, JSP, JDBC, JNDI, EJB, and Web Services  Experience in designing, developing applications using Struts Framework and configured the validation framework for validations and Tiles framework for layout management  Expertise in developing distributing business applications using EJB implementing Session beans for business logic  Extensively experienced in developing light weight and integrated business applications using Spring Frame work  Experience in implementing the declarative enterprise services using Spring AOP and implementation knowledge on Spring web flow to manage the application page flows  Expertise in developing data models using Hibernate Object relational mapping (ORM) frame work and also used Hibernate Annotations to reduce time at the configuration level  Expertise in developing XML documents using DTD, SCHEMA Extensively worked on implementing Service Oriented Architecture (SOA architecture) using  XML Web Services (SOAP, WSDL and UDDI) Experience in working with various Web and Application servers including Apache  Tomcat, IBM Web Sphere, and BEA Web logic, J Boss  .Knowledge on JSF framework to simplify the development integration of user interfaces  Expertise in Object Oriented Analysis (OOA) and Object Oriented Design (OOD) using Rational Unified Process (RUP) and UML (Unified Modeling Language)  .Hands on experience in using various IDE's, Eclipse, MY Eclipse  .Experience in working with multiple operating system including Windows, UNIX and Linux  Experience in unit testing the applications using JUnit Framework and developed logging and standard mechanism based on Log4J  Experience in writing SQL Queries.  .Experience working with Oracle, My SQL and SQL Server.  Motivated team player with ability to work under minimal supervision possessing excellent communication, interpersonal, analytical and problem solving skills.  Highly adept at promptly and thoroughly mastering new technologies with a keen awareness of new industry developments and the evolution of next generation programming solutions. Work Experience Java-J2EE Developer Bank Of America - Plano, TX August 2017 to December 2018 The Project is about implementing payment technologies that will allow customer to view and pay their loan using their mobile device. The mobile user would be able to view all of their loan bills due, and choose to pay them using a previously stored or new Payment Method. Requirement has indicated that mobile functionality should work very similarly to the web based features.  Responsibilities:  Review the system requirements and attending requirements meetings with analysts and users  .Design applications by using web technologies like XML, XSL and XSLT  .Experience in parsing XML and preset it on the UI  • Experience in using JSP  •Experience in using ExtJS frame work for the presentation tier  • Involved in using ExtJS API used widget for the application  •Used Spring MVC to develop multi-tier web application presentation layer components  • Built data-driven web applications with server-side J2EE technologies like JSP and Servlets  • Writing Oracle Stored Procedures and packages for Oracle 10g database server  • Used Hibernate as Object Relation Mapping Tool for persistence  • Worked on Hibernate Caching Level 2 on WebLogic Application server  • Used CSS and JavaScript for client side validations  • Experience in consuming web-services and used into the application  • Developed complete Business tier by applying J2EE design patterns  •Configured and created application log files using log4j to trace application messages  • Used ANT builder and ANT for building application  • Used JUnit for testing the applications  • Followed Agile and Test Driven methodologies  Environment: Java JDK1.5, J2EE, JNDI, JavaScript, HTML, DHTML, CSS, Log4J, Ant, UML, LDAP, JSF, JSTL, Hibernate, Windows, Web Services, SOAP, WSDL, MyEclipse, Junit, XML/XSL, XSLT, DOM Parser. Jr. Java Developer Capital One Bank - Los Angeles, CA March 2016 to June 2017 An online banking system is developed for customer transactions. Major transactions include account transactions, credit card transactions and wire transactions. Customers can do banking from anywhere in the world using Internet. Other functionality includes payments of bills, account summary, current transactions, history of transactions, stop payments, check clearings, download transaction listings, online applications, enrollment for account holders and email facility  Responsibilities:  The online Screens were developed using JSP  Custom Tag Library has been used to create standard tag  .Used struts framework and coded the project by extending MVC Struts Framework  •Used Struts html tag libraries and bean tag libraries extensively while coding JSP pages  •Used Sessions extensively to track client sessions  •Involved in developing EJB'S for the core business logic using Session facade pattern and deploying them in Web Logic Developed triggers, Exceptions and Procedures for maintaining the integrity and correctness of the transactions in Oracle .Implemented and tested backup and recovery system for production environment  •Used Java Mail API for triggering an email to the account holders for some account updates ANT building tool was used to build and deploy components into Web Sphere server  • Coded the Selection Criteria Page, which was reused for some of the screens  • Coded the Consolidated Balance, Historical Consolidated Balance and Transaction Inquiry Screens and Responsible for Bug fixing    Environment: JDK1.4, Servlets, JSP, JavaBeans, EJB, JDBC, Eclipse Oracle 9i, STRUTS 1.1, RUP, Web Sphere, Windows 2003, Sun Solaris 8. Jr. Java Developer Nepal Telecome - Kathmandu, NP September 2010 to January 2012 Nepal    Responsibilities:  • Developed server side J2EE components using J2EE, spring, Hibernate API.  • Implemented MVC Architecture to separate the presentation, business and database logic in the application using Spring.  • Used Spring for Dependency Injection (DI) and AOP.  • Prepared Hibernate mapping files to perform the O-R mapping and enforce object relationships.  • Worked in Back end development of the application, involved in retrieving the data from Database.  • Used Oracle as the backend database and Hibernate as ORM Tool to retrieve Data Access Objects.  • Developed integration services using SOA, Web Services, SOAP, and WSDL.  • Used XML extensively in the process of communicating with several external applications.  • Developed XSL's to customize the display data from XML's obtained through other systems.  • Used SQL navigator and PL/SQL for the database enhancement.  • Preparing and executing unit test cases using JUnit.  • Used ANT Builder extensively for the code building and created Daily Rolling Log using Log4j.  • Used SVN for source code version control.    Environment: Java/J2EE, Java/J2EE, Hibernate, Spring MVC, XML, Web Services, SOAP, Oracle, PL/SQL, ANT, Log4j, JUnit, SVN, Windows. Education Bachelor's in computer Tribhuvan University - Kathmandu, NP 2010 Skills MySQL, PHP, ASP, Javascript