Java Full Stack Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> Full Stack <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Full Stack Developer - Ally Charlotte, NC PROFILE  • 5+ years of experience in working with the web based applications, hands on experience in the analysis, design patterns, development client and server applications, implementing and testing with the use of Java, and Core Java.  • Experienced in all phases of Software development life cycle (SDLC) including analysis, design, coding and testing, expertise in integration using J2EE architecture.  • Have very strong inter-personal skills and the ability to work independently and with the group, can learn quickly and easily adaptable to the working environment.  EXPERTISE AND SPECIALIZATION  • Experience in developing secure enterprise Java/J2EE applications using technologies such as JSP, Servlets, JAVA Beans, EJB, JMS, JNDI, JDBC, and XML.  • Proficiency in developing core modules in large cross-platform applications using JAVA, J2EE, Spring, JSF, Hibernate, JSP, Servlets, EJB, JDBC, Web Services (SOAP, REST), E-Commerce, Micro Services.  • Experience in User Experience (UX) design and development, User Interactive (UI) Web Pages and visually appealing User Interfaces using JSP, JavaScript, HTML5, CSS3, JQUERY, AJAX, JSON, DOJO, XML, XSL, XSLT, b.JS, EXT-JS, bootstrap.  • Used Struts MVC framework and WebLogic Application Server for APIs.  • Experienced in developing applications using Spring boot and with various modules in Spring framework like core, data, web, AOP etc.  • Have knowledge on C++.  • Experience in working with Spring MVC based applications using Rest based web services to handle JSON data formats.  • Designed user interfaces using JSF, HTML and Java Script and initiated backing beans used in JSF application and stores them in a scope.  • Have in depth knowledge on the Java/J2EE Design Patterns. Implemented various design patterns like MVC, Command Singleton, Data Access Object, Value Object Patterns.  • Have good experience in writing the SQL queries, PL/SQL Procedures, Functions and Triggers and Cursors.   • Have hands-on experience working with source control tools such as CVS, Clear Case, SVN, GIT and Surround SCM.  • Experienced in the deployment of the ear, jar and war using Jenkins, ANT and Maven deploy tools and performing other configuration changes for setting up the application in the integration testing environment.  • Expert in writing SQL queries and using Hibernate framework with Spring ORM in interaction with the RDBMS and familiar with Non-Relational Database like Mongo DB.  • Expertise in using Java IDE tools of Rational Application Developer (RAD), Web Sphere Application Developer (WSAD), Eclipse, Web logic Workshop, RSA and Net beans to develop dynamic web applications.  • Have strong exposure to Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) such as Web Services and hands on experience in developing and registering web services using JAX-RPC, JAX-WS, SAAJ, JAX-RS, SOAP, RESTful, WSDL, UDDI registry.  • Experience in writing Build Scripts using Shell Scripts, ANT, MAVEN and using CI (Continuation Integration) tools like Jenkins.  • Used JIRA for defect tracking system, GIT for version control and Jenkins, Bamboo for continuous integration.   • Extensive experience in Unit Testing, System Integration Testing, Integration Testing and Performance Tuning.  • Extensive experience in UML Modeling developing use case diagrams, class diagrams and sequence diagrams.  • Experienced in using J unit, Testing for unit testing & log4j and log back for logging.  • Experienced in various XML technologies like SAX, SAX JAXB, XSD, XPATH, XSTREAM etc.  • Extensive experience in Oracle and SQL databases and automated testing frameworks like Selenium.  • Have experience web servers and applications like Tomcat, Apache and platforms as UNIX, Solaris and Windows.  • Cloud monitoring project to handle product alerts/errors more efficiently for a better troubleshooting through parsing the logs, and a Cloud computing project to analysis services usage.  • Attends daily status meetings with the development, functional and project management teams to discuss status, project timelines and testing strategies. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Java Full Stack Developer Ally - Charlotte, NC December 2018 to Present Description:  Ally Bank, the company's direct banking subsidiary, offers an array of deposit and mortgage products and services. Ally Bank is a Member FDIC and Equal Housing Lender. This project is majorly based on Customer Information & Analytics (CIA) group web application through which Customer call center agents can access data from Banking, Auto Finance, Home Loans, Invest and Corporate Finance.    Responsibilities:  • Actively involved in the complete software development lifecycle tasks (design, coding, testing and documentation).  • Developed Single Page Applications (SPA) using AngularJS and Java with Spring Boot.  • Developed the single page application following Agile Scrum, participated in daily standups, sprint reviews, Kickoffs and used Jira for project management.  • Responsible for preparing the use cases and for designing and developing object models, class diagrams with UML Specifications.  • Designed and Developed UI for Customer Service Modules and Reports using Angular2.0, HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, JavaScript and jQuery Created web application prototype using JavaScript and AngularJS.  • Implemented nested views and routing using the Angular UI Router as per the requirement. GUI was developed using JSP, HTML, and AngularJS and created reusable components in Angular2.0 using Custom Directives Filters, Services and Partials.  • Developed pages using Angular2.0 directives, expressions, routing capabilities for bookmarking, filters, validations and Angular UI components such as grid, buttons, carousels, date pickers, modal dialogs and other input components.  • Developed views using Bootstrap components, Angular-UI and involved in configuring routing for various modules using angular UI router.  • Used Spring Boot to while developing the backend application and also used Spring Core Annotations for Dependency Injection Spring DI and Spring MVC for REST API s and Spring Boot for micro-services.  • Defined new validations through AngularJS for the form field validation implemented through HTML5.  • Developed the application using Spring MVC intensively that leverages classical MVC architecture and JavaScript for major data entry that involved an extreme level of data validation at the client side.  • Integrated Single sign-on using LDAP and Active directory on Spring security layer, successfully maintained users and groups integrity in the application.  • Created and injected Spring services, Spring controllers and DAOs to achieve dependency injection and to wire objects of business classes.  • Developed components of web services end to end, using different JAX-WS standards with a clear understanding on WSDL (type, message, port Type, bindings, and service).  • Used Junit and Mockito framework for unit testing of application and Log4j 1.2 to capture the log that includes runtime exceptions  • Used Karna and Wrote Test specs for the UI side testing validations.  • Worked on DDL and DML scripts for including new functionality to see the necessary icons UI with respective role types.  • Analysis on stories and defects discussed with delivery manager and business analyst.  Environment: Jdk1.7, HTML5, Angular 2.0, jQuery, JavaScript, Bootstrap, Spring Boot 2.0, Spring 4.0, Apache Tomcat, log4j, Hibernate, Kafka, Maven 3.0, GIT, Jenkins, Rest web services, Openshift, jQuery, JIRA, STS, HP ALM, XML, Oracle. Java /J2EE Developer Premier Inc - Charlotte, NC February 2018 to November 2018 Description:  Premier Inc. is a healthcare improvement company which has created one of the most comprehensive databases of actionable data, clinical best practices and efficiency improvement strategies. The project involves on the data processing and management where all the data uploaded by hospital clients is validated against our standard designed data ad generate the reports and statistics.    Responsibilities:  • Actively involvement in software development life cycle starting from requirements gathering and  • performing Object Oriented Analysis. Followed Agile SCRUM methodology and used Test Driven Development (TDD).  • Effectively interact with team members and business users from different regions for requirements capture and Analysis.  • Use JavaScript, JQuery, Angular JS, and AJAX technologies for front end user input validations and Restful web service calls.  • Develop the Service/Business Layer of the application using the Microservices Architecture which involves developing the services using Java J2EE and exposing the services as RESTful APIs using Spring Core module.  • Worked on the microservice modules and deployed them on to the Docker containers.  • Use the Prototype JS framework to implement the Asynchronous JavaScript And XML (AJAX) for invoking the Java Code from JavaScript asynchronously.  • Migrated a project module from using Bower to npm, resulting in which made all the necessary code changes in front end pages using Angular 2.  • Wrote test cases using Junit and Mockito framework and ensures that the test cases are updated as and when the functionality associated with the test case changes.  • Deploy and manage applications on JBOSS/Tomcat J2EE server.  • Managed the codebase using GIT for version control and used Jira for tracking the stories and issues.  • Used Log4j for logging and debugging the code.  • Creating DDL and DML SQL scripts for creation of database objects and also created views on Oracle database.  • Using Maven and Ant building tools for creating WAR files to be deployed in application servers.  • Attend weekly meeting to discuss current week activities/ schedules and future plans.  • Discuss issues, questions and had brainstorming on the ideas with Manager and all team members.  • A one on one meeting is arranged with development team lead to discuss about JIRA's which are raised in Production period.  • Active participation in analysis of the tickets with Project manager to start development and estimate the developer efforts on each production issue.    Environment: Java J2EE 1.8, Spring 5.0, Spring Boot 2.0, Struts 2.5, Hibernate 5.0, HTML 5, CSS 3, JavaScript, Dojo, jQuery, Angular 2, Node.js 8.11, MicroStrategy, Jasper, Docker, JBoss 9.0, Apache Tomcat 8.5, Junit, Cucumber, Oracle 12c, SQL Server 2016, NPM, Bower, Maven 3.0. Java /J2EE Developer Harris Corporation - Melbourne, FL November 2016 to December 2017 Description:  Harris provides mission-critical solutions to connect, inform and protect the world. Harris delivers its innovative solutions through its three business segments: Communication Systems, Electronic Systems and Space and Intelligence Systems. The project involved about designing the web application involving all the information and communication for the soldiers and officers which is operated through the tough books as a tactical communication system.  Responsibilities:  • Developed and implemented Spring MVC and spring security for the application.  • Defined and constructed layers, server-side objects and client-side interfaces based on J2EE design patterns, Implemented J2EE Design patterns like Business Delegate and Data Transfer Object (DTO), Data Access Object and Service Locator.  • Worked on Core Java SE 8 concepts like Streams API, Time API, Functional Interfaces, Multithreading, Transaction Management, Exception Handling, Lambda functions.  • Designing and implementing the User Interface OO, JavaScript, Node JS, and HTML.  • Worked with Angular CLI and Typescript in Angular 2.0 to create Controllers and Angular components for the Web Pages.  • Implemented the associated business modules integration using spring and Hibernate data mapping.  • Analysis, design and development of applications based on J2EE design pattern.  • Consume several REST web services which produce both XML and JSON to perform tasks, leveraged by both web and mobile application.  • Created a re-usable Java library for core business functions that was leverage by other teams these libraries included such things as web service consumer APIs, core platform APIs, common utility packages.  • Used Spring Boot which is radically faster in building cloud Micro Services and develop Spring based application with very less configuration.  • Used Spring Boot for building application with Spring initializers and bootstrapping the build configuration and develop custom solutions that act upon Jenkins information in authentic time.  • Installed, Configured and integrated web server's plug-in files and LDAP user directory with wildfly 10.1.  • Developed Apache Maven Project management tool POM file to automate the build process for the entire application such as manage project libraries, compiling, preparing war file and deploying in Wildfly 10.1.  • Developed the Web application using Node JS and Spring Security.  • Implemented Node JS as a server-side proxy for an observing various response time.  • Implemented modules into Node JS to integrate with designs and requirements.  • Used Node Package Manager (NPM) to manage modules & used it to install useful tools as Grunt and Express.  • Created the Node.js and EXPRESS Server combined with Socket.io to build MVC framework from front-end side AngularJS to back-end MongoDB, to provide broadcast service as well as chatting service.  • Experience with creating script for data modeling and data import and export.  • Extensive experience in deploying, managing and developing MongoDB clusters. Experience in creating JavaScript for using DML operation with MongoDB.  • Used Angular2 directives and services for developing single page web applications and multipage applications.  • Used Apache CXF as the Web Services framework to implement the REST APIs involved.  • Experience in introducing Docker tool compartment. Condition provisioning arrangements utilizing Docker.  • Developed unit tests with JUNIT and Mockito and built tasks to run the unit tests on Jenkins  • Worked on unit test cases using Karma and Jasmine on client side.  • Load data from various data sources into HDFS using Kafka.  • For continuous integration used Jenkins mainly to generate and send automatic emails regarding updates on project.  • Developed test cases based on business and functional requirement.  • Enhanced the performance of the application by identifying the bottlenecks and providing advanced performance tuning.  • Involved in Agile (Scrum) methodology and in Design, development, System Testing and User Acceptance Testing  • Used GIT as Version Control System for the application.  • Worked with Offshore team be in sync with stories or Jira we were working together.    Environment: Java 1.8, J2EE, CI/CD, Spring, Web Services , Microservices, Restful, SoapUI, Cucumber, Apache CXF, Apache Kafka, JUnit, JBPM, cloud, WildFly 10, NoSQL, GIT , IBM Clear Quest, MongoDB, HTML5, PYTHON, CSS, Node.js, JavaScript, Bootstrap, jQuery, AngularJS, Maven, XML, XSLT, Java Beans, Responsive Web Design, UML, Design Patterns, log4j, Agile Methodology Full Stack Java Developer Landstar System - Jacksonville, FL January 2016 to September 2016 Description:  Landstar is a unique global transportation system built for the 21st century. Compared to an ordinary logistics business, our network of independent agents and capacity providers offers you greater flexibility to meet your needs. The project involved about designing the web application in the front end and java in the backend to support the interface used by different clients every day.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in Requirements gathering, Analysis, Design, Development and Testing of application developed using AGILE SCRUM methodology.  • Architected, designed and implemented a SPA (Single Page Application) in Angular JS which consume JSON from a Spring MVC, using Spring Security to secure the Application.  • Interacted with the offshore vendor/teams to provide all the knowledge transfers and work on the development stories.  • Implemented nested views and routing using Angular UI Router as per the requirement. GUI was developed using JSP, HTML, and Angular JS and created reusable components in Angular JS using Custom Directives Filters, Services and Partials.  • Exposed RESTful web services using JAX-RS. Implemented Angular promises to handle asynchronous communication with our Restful API for various requirements.  • Developed pages using Angular JS directives, expressions, routing capabilities for bookmarking, filters, validations and Angular UI components such as grid, buttons, carousels, date pickers, modal dialogs and other input components.  • Used Angular JS Routing for navigation between nested HTML views in the application and created Angular Js custom directives that were used along with HTML elements for DOM manipulation.  • Performed unit testing using Karma & Jasmine at Server side and Mocha in client side following test driven development (TDD).  • Mainly involved in development and maintenance of the website using Python, HTML5, CSS, AJAX, J-Query, DOJO, JavaScript, Angular JS.  • Used Express JS to route different endpoints, made RESTful WEB SERVIVES to manipulate data in MySQL.  • Worked with Mongo DB write concern to avoid loss of data during system failures and implemented read preferences in Mongo DB replica set.  • Developed queues using AWS SQS with JMS for services to subscribe and listen events. Implemented logic to listen and to subscribe events.  • Worked on Mongo DB concepts such as locking, transactions, indexes, sharing, replication, schema design.  • Used Angular JS Routing for navigation between nested HTML views in the application and created Angular Js custom directives that were used along with HTML elements for DOM manipulation.  • Used Log4j API for logging in development, testing and production environments, configured to send email notifications.  • Implemented version controlling using GIT and used Jenkins for continuous integration.  • Configure REST controllers, view resolver components and implemented transaction management using Spring declarative transaction management with Spring AOP concepts.  • Wrote build & deployment scripts using Maven on UNIX environment and integrated using Jenkins.  • Used GIT for version control and used eclipse as the IDE for developing the application, Used Rational Clear Quest for defect fixing. Involved in guiding, mentoring new contractors to understand the application.  • Co-ordinated with QA lead for development of test plan, TDD, test cases, test code and actual testing responsible for defects allocation and resolution of those defects and used selenium.    Environment: Java 1.7, J2EE, JDK, HTML, CSS, Ajax, Angular UI, JQuery, Express Js, JavaScript, AngularJS, Node.js, Bootstrap, Spring, Hibernate, PL/SQL, AWS, Web Services (SOAP), JMS, RESTful, Multithreading, WebSphere 8, Apache, Maven, MongoDB, JMS. Software Developer HTC Global Services (India) Private Ltd June 2014 to December 2014 Description:  AT&T is the world's largest telecommunications company, the second largest provider of mobile telephone services, and the largest provider of fixed telephone services in the United States. This project involved about redesigning the user interface pages in the web application.  Responsibilities:  • Worked on an Agile (Scrum) Development Team to deliver regular updates to business team and project managers.  • Used HTML, CSS, and JavaScript for designing web application layout and form.  • Worked on local Storage to store & retrieve insensitive user data during transition between the different pages.  • Involved in designing the web pages using HTML 5, CSS3, JavaScript and Sencha EXT-JS , SASS, Mongo DB.  • Developed the application following MVVM architecture by developing models, view models in the application.  • Developed the views using various EXT-JS layouts and used various components such as grids, panels, inputs etc.  • Configured Ajax requests to load the data from the server using EXT AJAX and took part in testing the application.  • Responsible for refactoring existing jQuery/Ajax front-end web application into EXT-JS.  • Configured Sencha CMD to compile, build and create production ready code for the application deployment  • Used Web Developer tools, Firebug and IE developer toolbar for debugging and to check the browser compatibility and  • Responsible in implementing CRUD operation using Spring Jersey based JAX-RS implementation.  • Developed Spring Data Mongo repositories for performing data retrievals from Mongo db.  • Performed Java Classes to Mongo dB collection and document mappings using Spring Data.  • Configure and monitor numerous MongoDB and NoSQL instances. MongoDB Schema Design using DB Ref, Manual Ref, Embedded Data Model Design.  • Performed end to end testing using Selenium web driver, Jbehave and Testing.  • Developed server-side software modules and client-side user interface components deployed entirely in Compute Cloud of Amazon web Services (AWS).  • Developed scripts for build, deployment, maintenance, and related tasks using Jenkins, Docker, and Maven. Used GitHub as a version control, and JIRA for tracking bugs.  • Took part in setting up builds and deployments using Teamcity.    Environment: HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Sencha EXT-JS 5, MongoDB, Agile, SASS, Firebug, REST web service, Spring, Web Matrix, HP Quality Center, AWS, Jenkins, Docker, Maven, GitHub, Jira, Team City    Project: American Family Insurance {Jan'2013 - Apr'2014}  Description:  American Family Insurance, also abbreviated as AmFam, is a private mutual company that focuses on property, casualty, and auto insurance, and also offers commercial insurance, life, health, and homeowners coverage as well as investment and retirement-planning products. The project involved about developing the application enhancements in the Front end and as well as backend.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in various phases of Software Development Life cycle (SDLC) of the application like requirement gathering, Design, Analysis and code development using Agile/ Scrum methodology.  • Developed Object diagrams, Class Diagrams and Sequence diagrams using UML.  • Used HTML, JSPs, JavaScript, CSS as a front end GUI with middle tier framework as Hibernate using HQL and Struts using MVC framework.  • Traded data with web server using AJAX without reloading the web page and used JDBC to manipulate the data on the System database Server.  • Developed custom tags, JSTL to support custom user interfaces.  • Created Stateless and Stateful session beans for accessing and mutating Entity beans and used JMS to communicate between the components and configured on the server.  • Designed SOA implementations by Using Web Services-WSDL, UDDI and SOAP for getting credit card information from third party vendors.  • Designed and implemented XML parsing for XML order conformations, used JSF framework in developing user interfaces using JSF UI components, validator, Events and listeners.  • Used DOM for parsing the XML, XSLT Document and used JAXB parser for parsing the valid XML files.  • Created Managed bean used to instantiate backing beans used in a JSF application and stores them in a Scope.  • Designed various tables required for the project in Oracle database and used the Stored Procedures in the application.  • Framework leverages JSF features like Event handling, Validation mechanisms and state management.  • Have written PL/SQL stored procedures and involved in performance tuning of complex queries.  • Monitored the error logs using Log4j and fixed the problems and used JNDI to read the details of the login users.  • Used Multi-Threading to overcome the errors in the process of transactions and used JUnit to do unit testing for the modules developed  • Developed the different components of the application such as JSPs, Servlets, and DAO and used build ANT scripts and deployed the application on Web sphere Application Server.  Environment: Java1.6, JDBC, Servlets 2.5, J2EE, JSP, JSF 2.0, JavaScript, Rich faces Hibernate 3.2, Struts 2.0, DAO, CSS, HTML, XML, AJAX, DOM, JUnit, JTA, ANT, JMS, PL/SQL, Apache Axis, SOA, MVC, Web Services, IBM WebSphere 7, Oracle 10g, log4j, JNDI, Eclipse Software Developer HTC Global Services (India) Private Ltd January 2013 to December 2014 Education Master's in computer information and sciences in computer information and sciences Kent State University B. Tech JNTU Hyderabad - Hyderabad, Telangana Skills AJAX (6 years), Apache (6 years), bootstrap (6 years), CSS (6 years), Cucumber (1 year), Database (2 years), front end (3 years), GIT (2 years), HTML (3 years), Java (3 years), JavaScript (3 years), JIRA (2 years), JQUERY (3 years), J unit (2 years), Maven (3 years), Oracle (1 year), SQL (2 years), User Interface (2 years), Web Services (2 years), XML. (2 years)