AEM DEVELOPER AEM <span class="hl">DEVELOPER</span> AEM DEVELOPER - The Barbarian Group Avenel, NJ ? An AEM developer with more than 4 years of industry experience in developing and implementing Enterprise Solutions for Distributed Software products and distributed applications using JAVA technologies. And around 3+ years of experience in development, design and implementation of modules on AEM 6.0 and AEM 6.1, 6.2 and 6.3.  ? Design and implement solutions by leveraging Adobe AEM Sites.  ? Proficient with authoring, and deployment activities in AEM  ? Broad experience in Web Content Management System with Adobe AEM 6.0, AEM 6.1, AEM6.2 and AEM6.3  ? Strong Knowledge in building up an application on OSGi, Apache Sling, and Apache Felix Frameworks.  ? Expertise knowledge of Sightly. Created components using Sightly HTML Templating Language.  ? In Depth Knowledge in building blocks, CRX repository, using web content management components for customization and portion of websites.  ? Development of User Interfaces for both Classic UI and Touch UI utilizing Granite UI and Ext JS.  ? Experience integrating to external vendor products (translation services) and Adobe products like Analytics, Test & Target, Communities, and Forms etc. with Experience Manager.  ? Good Knowledge in AEM 6.3 features including Editable templates, new Sling annotations, Experience Fragments, Dynamic Media, new OSGI, context aware configuration, layout mode, mobile simulators.  ? Worked on a complete stack of AEM development project and delivered end-to-end implementation from requirements till production  ? In Depth Knowledge in DAM migration projects including DAM console customizations, migration of DAM assets from legacy DCM solutions onto AEM DAM and Scene7 cloud  ? Hands-on Experience in Sling technologies including sling servlets, sling mapping, sling models, sling Osgi config, sling context aware configuration, sling core.  ? Experienced in developing applications using three tier architectural frameworks such as MVC (Model View Controller) and STRUTS, SPRING framework.  ? Experienced in using XML and related technologies like XSL, XSLT.  ? Have experience in executing large scale business application which involved in improvement of CQ Component, Workflow advancement and integrated CQ with different applications and Template, Custom X types in Widgets, OSGi Bundles utilizing CQ5 stage.  ? Expert in configuring maven for AEM project using archetype and customize to add maven-release-plugin, sonar-plugin, content-package-maven-plugin  ? Worked on Integrations between business needs and technology solutions, helping to create technology solutions to meet clients' business needs.  ? Strong knowledge in creating Tagging, Personalization, Internationalization and Search Engine optimization in AEM suite.  ? Experience in developing applications using Waterfall, Agile (Scrum), driven methodologies and involved in all phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC)  ? Experienced in working with Version Control Tools like SVN, GitHub.  ? Experience of development in different platforms like Windows, LINUX. Work Experience AEM DEVELOPER The Barbarian Group - New York, NY January 2018 to Present working for Client SamsungUS:    Responsibilities:  ? Design and Develop Templates and Components in it as per the client requirements using AEM (6.3 and 6.4) Touch UI and for some cases, Classic UI for supporting different webpages.  ? Maintain OSGI Java classes for assets import, validation and fetch the data from CQ repository.  ? Authoring the pages in both the Business to Consumer environment and Business to Business environment.  ? Building the template and authoring the Product detail pages (PDP) with the given requirements from the client.  ? Building the template and authoring the Product finder (PF) pages as per the requirements given by the client.  ? Used Maven scripts to build the application and used the continuous integration server to deploy the bundles.  ? Registering the various amounts of products in the CIS database to create the pages using the templates.  ? Migrated project from AEM 6.3 to AEM 6.4 along with all the current instances using the in-place upgrade method.  ? Developed code using JSP, HTML, Javascript, jQuery and CSS in CRXDE to build code blocks for components.  ? Created Custom Workflows to add additional rendition for Images and email service to approve content.  ? Creating landing pages for various promos for Samsung website for all the fields such as Mobile, TV's and Home theaters, Home appliances etc.  ? Uploading assets such as images, videos and PDF's in scene7 or Akamai DAM in AEM.  ? Integrated third party API to fetch user data, consumed JSON data by making AJAX calls.  ? Used brightedge for Web analytics.  ? Utilizing Jira as a ticketing tool to monitor the progress of the task.    Environment: AEM 6.3, HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, Jenkins, Eclipse, Jira, Maven, Angular JS, JavaScript, Service API, AJAX, JSP, Java, Servlets, RESTFUL, XML, Junit. AEM Developer Hyatt Hotels - Chicago, IL June 2016 to December 2017 Responsibilities:  ? Designed and developed AEM building blocks including templates, components, dialogs, widgets and workflows.  ? Developed CQ custom workflow templates and modules for WCM lifecycle management and adobe target integration.  ? Maintained the Content Management System (CMS) and provide support for AEM application in authoring environment.  ? Wrote JSPs using custom tag libraries and AEM tag libraries.  ? Creating templates, page components, content components and client libraries using Adobe Experience Manager (AEM).  ? Work on Sling Servlets and OSGi Services to pull data from remote web-app services and also wrote custom business logic to maintain Content Repository Extreme (CRX).  ? Developing HTML, CSS, JQuery and ExtJS for designing and developing custom AEM components.  ? Worked on CQ component development for both classic UI and touch UI using Sightly.  ? Developed JavaScript to implement client side validations and AEM authoring validations.  ? Used Maven build tool to maintain Project dependencies and also use Jenkins as continuous integration tool for timely builds.  ? Documenting Java classes using API-docs and Rest Client. Assessed the impact of the issues created to have a right visibility for the problems/defects.  ? Interacting with business team for clarifications on the requirements of migration.  ? Used Jira for bug tracking and project management.  ? Participating in daily scrum meetings, story discussion, story points and in sprint planning.    Environment: AEM 6.2, J2SE, J2EE, DAM, Sling, OSGi, Eclipse, CRXDE Lite, Components, Templates, Sling Servlets, CRX, Sightly, Adobe Social, Adobe Analytics, DTM, JCR, EJB, XML, JavaScript, MS SQL, Oracle, PL/SQL, MS Visio, GIT, Web Services, SOAP, Jenkins, Maven, RESTful, Linux. JAVA/J2EE DEVELOPER ADP INDIA - Hyderabad, Telangana May 2014 to December 2015 INDIA  Responsibilities:  ? Involved in development of spread sheet module, which streamlines analysis, reporting and recording of accounting information.  ? Involved in the gathering and analysis of the specifications from the client  ? Developed UI using HTML, JavaScript, and JSP, and developed Business Logic and Interfacing components  ? using Business Objects, XML, and JDBC.  ? Designed user-interface and checking validations using JavaScript.  ? Managed connectivity using JDBC for querying/inserting & data management including triggers and stored procedures.  ? Worked as a developer on Core Java, Collections and multithreading.  ? Developed various EJBs for handling business logic and data manipulations from database.  ? Involved in design of JSP's and Servlets for navigation among the modules.  ? Followed the test-driven development paradigm ensuring 100% test coverage and best practices like refactoring to improve the testability and maintenance of code.    Environment: Java, XML, JDBC, Servlet, HTML JSP, JavaScript, Oracle, Windows. Education Bachelor's