Hyperion Developer Hyperion <span class="hl">Developer</span> Hyperion Developer, Web Developer Minneapolis, MN Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Hyperion Developer Hormel Foods - Austin, MN January 2017 to Present 1. Working on Hyperion Planning Applications and Essbase as a Programmer Analyst  2. Develop and maintain business support process using Hyperion Planning(Create data forms, business rules, composite forms, etc.), Essbase(Create Calc Scripts, Report Scripts, Rules Files, Set up variables), Financial Reporting, Smart View and Oracle SQL Database  3. Provide business solutions (development, testing, implementation) for Enterprise Performance Management (EPM) tasks Java Developer Minnesota IT Service at Department of Agriculture - Minneapolis, MN May 2016 to January 2017 1. Built the web-based system (Spring MVC) as a back-end developer  2. Designed and Built the web-based system using Java, SQL  3. Built the templates of front pages using the combination of JavaScript, JQuery, HTML and Bootstrap  4. Designed and setup the database using WebSphere DB2 Backend developer Future Generation Medical Pty Ltd - Minneapolis, MN November 2015 to March 2016 1. •Built the web-based system (MVC) as a back-end developer  2. •Built the whole system using PHP  3. •Built the template of front pages using the combination of PHP, HTML and CSS3 •Designed and setup the database using MySQL Education Master of Information Technology in all industries University of New South Wales March 2013 to December 2014 Bachelor of Computer Science in Computer Science and Information Technology Zhejiang University of Finance and Economics September 2008 to June 2012 Skills C (3 years), Java (2 years), Perl (1 year), SQL (3 years), wordpress (Less than 1 year), C++ (Less than 1 year), XML (Less than 1 year), JDBC (1 year), Tomcat (2 years), Google (8 years), HTML (3 years), CSS (2 years), Soap (1 year), PHP (1 year), MVC (1 year), DOM (1 year), Essbase (2 years), Hyperion (2 years), Unix System (2 years), Ksh Script (2 years), MaxL (2 years), MDX Query (2 years), ETL (2 years), Hyperion Financial Reporting (2 years), Javascript, Linux