RPA Developer RPA <span class="hl">Developer</span> RPA Developer - BNYMELLON Grape Creek, TX • IT professional with experience including RPA Process implementation using Blue Prism and good understanding of SDLC methodologies like Agile and Waterfall  • Experience in Robotic Process Automation (RPA) and expertise in Blue Prism  • Hands on experience in building Blue Prism processes and business objects for various business systems robots.  • Designing and implementation of RPA tasks using Blue Prism framework (Connectors, VBO, ACI, Process Studio, Control Room and System Manager) to update the Provider directory from excel, website data through screen scraping and using OCR (Optical Character Recognition) from printed material.  • Developed and configures automation processes as per the technical design document (TDD) to meet the defined requirements.  • Developed new processes and objects using core workflow principles that are efficient, well structured, maintainable and easy to understand.  • Expertise with Control Room Resource, Session management, Blue Prism Calculation functions and debugging of Process Solutions Extensively used Blue prism's process studio and object studio to develop and test the robot based on given business process model.  • Hands on experience in managing robot's workloads using Blue Prism Work queues.  • Working knowledge of ASP.NET MVC pattern: Controller Actions, View Engine, HTML Helper methods, Entity Framework Model.  • Multi-cultured Team Player with complete flexibility to work independently as well as in a team and have quick grasping capabilities to work with the newly emerging technologies.  • Good communication, interpersonal and quick learning skills with proven ability to adapt to different project environments Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience RPA Developer BNYMELLON - New York, NY January 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Reading the data from the spreadsheet into UIPath for further processing.  • Designed, Developed and tested Bot tasks using UIPath.  • Involved in creation of UI components like Sections, Flow Actions, and Portals.  • Created POC's using Automation anywhere and UI Path for tool comparison.  • Created solid models by spying through Application Modeler.  • Broke down processes into reusable objects using Object studio and utilized them to build processes in Process Studio efficiently.  • Provided Exception handling at every possible scenario for a robust error-free development.  • Worked closely with Process SME's to translate process in to Process  • Definition Document (PDD) & Solution Design Document (SDD) and educated SME's to work with Bots in production.  • Created Object Design Instruction for clear understanding of the activities performed during development. Made sure every small step is document to remove ambiguity.  • Created external scripts using VBS, VBA and HTA and integrated with Blue Prism to achieve process automation.  • Created reusable automation framework with Meta-Bots and reusable libraries with data externalization for RPA implementation.  • Automated tasks using web recorder and scheduled tasks to repeat as per requirements.  • Helped client in reducing the cost by 75% and reduced headcount by 40%, by deploying 30 Bots into production.  • Identifying and debugging the errors using Error Handlers.  Environment: UI Path, .Net, SQL server 2012, Hp-Load Runner, Quality Center, windows, excel, Agile Scrum, HTML, CSS, JQuery, Bootstrap, Visual Studio 2015, Git. RPA Developer Inovalon - Bowie, MD July 2017 to December 2017 Responsibilities:  • Involved in End to End development of Business Process using Robotic Process Automation.  • Performed requirement analysis by gathering both functional and non-functional requirements based on interactions with process owners, stake holders, and designing, Coding, Testing, Debugging, Documentation and Implementation of Business Process Solutions.  • Using Excel VBO object to perform operations in excel sheet while taking excel sheet data as input.  • Used process, objects, work queues, calculations stages to perform logical operations in Blue Prism.  • Supporting existing processes and implementing change requirements as part of a structured change control process.  • Interacting with windows application and created object and interacted all the objects in process studio and created work queues and running processes.  • Problem solving issues that arise in day to day running of Blue Prism processes and providing timely responses and solutions as required.  • Worked with the Business Analysts in identifying and defining the requirements.  • Extensively worked on debugging application for fixing bugs and Production support.  • Participated in application build and deployment process into different environments like DEV, SIT and UAT.    Environment: RPA, Blue Prism V5.0, V4.2 .NET, VBA, HTML, XML, JavaScript, SQL, Visual Studio Java/J2EE Developer Axiom Path, HYD June 2014 to July 2015 Responsibilities:  • Directed the implementation and performance tuning of Windows 2003 Server environment for client's global operations. Delivered a major improvement over old VPN system that catapulted productivity of remote sales force.  • Involved in Analysis and Design of the Project, which is based on MVC (Model-View-Controller) Architecture and Design Patterns  • Involved in developing prototypes of the product  • Extensively used Core Java concepts and implemented collections, I/O, Exception handling and Generics in logic design and development  • Developed activity, sequence and class diagrams using Unified Modeling Language and Rational Rose  • Designed GUI Components using Tiles frame work and Validation frame work  • Developed interactive web page using Struts, Hibernate, XML and Java Script  • Developed Controller Servlets, Action and Form objects for process of interacting with Oracle database and retrieving dynamic data  • Responsible for coding SQL Statement and Stored procedure for back end communication using JDBC. Experience in Data ware housing and ETL  • Worked on performance tuning on existing stored procedures and existing reports for the faster processing of reports  • Used Eclipse as the IDE and Struts Framework for developing the application  • Developed the JSPs for the application  • Created Struts -Config file and resource bundles for Distribution module using Struts Framework  • Implemented Action Form classes, Action classes for the entire Reports module using Struts  • Experience in migrating applications from JBoss to Web Sphere Application Server  • Used Apache Log4J logging API to log errors and messages  • Developed XML parser for File parsing  • Involved in writing Detail Design Documents with UML Specifications  • Involved in unit testing and system testing and responsible for preparing test scripts for the system testing  • Designed and developed web services like SOAP, XML schemas, JAXB and XSL and Involved in activities like code review and performance improvement  • Provided development support by resolving application defects and communicating defect status on a regular basis  • Developed Ant Scripts for the build process and deployed in IBM Web Sphere    Environment: Java, J2EE, WSDL, Web Services, Struts, WebLogic, Log4J, JSP, Servlets, JUnit, ClearCase, DHTML, JavaScript, Oracle 9i/10g, Java, J2EE, JSP, HTML, CSS, IBMWebSphere6.0, JavaScript, Servlets, JDBC, XML. Education Bachelor's In computer science engineering in computer science engineering JNTU Kakinada - Kakinada, Andhra Pradesh Master's in Information in systems Virginia International University Skills .Net (2 years), ASP (Less than 1 year), ASP.NET (Less than 1 year), C# (Less than 1 year), Citrix (Less than 1 year), database (1 year), Java (1 year), JQuery (1 year), MICROSOFT WINDOWS (1 year), MODEL VIEW CONTROLLER (1 year), Model-View-Controller (1 year), MS SQL SERVER (1 year), MVC (1 year), SQL (3 years), SQL server (1 year), Testing (1 year), UI (1 year), unit testing (1 year), USER INTERFACE (1 year), Visual Studio (2 years)