Software Engineer Software Engineer Software Engineer - DuPont Pioneer Work Experience Software Engineer DuPont Pioneer - Des Moines, IA July 2018 to Present • Terminated use of multiple visualization apps by consolidating the data in one app developed using React/Redux for crop breeders.  • Accelerated data access process by 1 day and reduced manual effort of updating data by building endpoints in Django REST. Tensor Decomposition and Filling Gappy Data, Iowa State University March 2018 to June 2018 Reduced the experiment runtime by 1 week by implementing tensor decomposition, regression and evaluating best  methods to fill in missing data in a dataset.  • ShopEasy, Iowa State University  Fall 2017 Developed an Android app that allows efficient shopping by determining the shortest path for a pre-defined shopping  list. Systems Analyst Intern OmniVista Solutions - Des Moines, IA January 2018 to April 2018 • Aided in faster decision making of end users by customizing dashboards in Charles River Development as per each user's needs.  • Enhanced existing code base in C# to slash the onboarding time by 3 days for new employees to get up to pace. TwitterTweaker September 2017 to November 2017 Designed a Twitter recommendation system based on topic popularity matrix using TFIDs and K-means clustering. Intrusion Detection System, Iowa State University March 2017 to May 2017 Designed an IDS in Python with NSL-KDD dataset to train the model and analysing AWS logs to retrieve data for testing the model. Java Developer Tata Consultancy Services - Pune, Maharashtra January 2015 to June 2016 • Prototyped a Business Intelligent Model in MongoDB replacing Oracle license to save cost of the product.  • Implemented a Budgeting Tool that helped customers manage their annual budget by reducing about 25% of their efforts.  • Eliminated manual operation of inserting, deleting and updating records by implementing automated scripts. Student Intern ARS T&TT - The Hague, NL May 2014 to October 2014 Researched on Fleet Management System(FMS) and deployment concepts of the Intelligent Transportation System to provide new  value added services for customer in order to increase the company revenue.  • Analyzed how India can be a potential market for car sharing to help the company expand their market. Intern Bharat Petroleum Corporation Limited - Mumbai, Maharashtra January 2014 to April 2014 • Expedited order editing of Fuel/LPG cylinders by 5 days by building a mobile-web application in JavaScript and Java.  • Retrieved data by consuming web-based services (REST and SOAP) to be displayed on the mobile web app. Education Master of Science in Computer Science in Computer Science Iowa State University May 2018 Bachelor of Technology in Computer Science and Engineering in Computer Science and Engineering Sikkim Manipal Institute of Technology July 2014 Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/shruti-shreya-sahu