Software Developer Software <span class="hl">Developer</span> Software Developer - CapitalOne ? Around 4 years of experience in the Industry with proficiency in Development, Maintenance, Testing and Production support of n-tier applications.  ? Experienced in Analysis, Design, Development, Integration, Deployment and Maintenance of Web services, Client Server and Web based applications using Java SE 8, J2EE/ Java, JSP, JavaScript, Servlets, JNDI, JDBC, JAXP, EJB, XML, XSL, and XSLT.  ? Knowledge in implementing a REST API/Microservices using Spring Boot.  ? Extensive knowledge in using Spring-Data, Spring JDBC.  ? Experience in working on various Spring modules (Spring MVC, DAO and AOP) along with Hibernate as the back-end ORM tool for implementation of persistence layer and mapping of POJOs.  ? Expertise in writing Soap based web services using AXIS/Rest API.  ? Good knowledge in CI/CD tools like Jenkins.  ? Experience in Java server-side development ? Experience working with different SDLC methodologies like Agile (SCRUM).  ? Strong knowledge of Object Oriented Analysis and Design, Software Design Patterns and Java coding principles ? Strong problem solving abilities and capable of articulating specific technical topics or assignments ? Hands-on experience in web services (REST, SOAP, etc.), service brokers, API gateways/proxies, API Development, SQL & NoSQL databases, virtual machines/IaaS, workflow tools, etc ? Created S3 buckets in the AWS environment to store files,sometimes which are required to serve static content for web application.  ? Used AWS Beanstalk for deploying and scaling web applications and services developed with Java.  ? Configured S3 buckets with various life cycle policies to achieve the infrequently accessed data to storage classes based on requirement.  ? Possess good knowledge in creating and launching EC2 instances using AMI's of windows and wrote shell scripts to bootstrap instance.  ? Good experience in log4J implementation to persist the data into log files and experience with Ant and Maven for the build and deployment of applications.  ? Expertise in using UML design tools like Rational Rose, Star UML, Enterprise Architect for creation of Use-Case diagrams, Class diagrams, Interaction diagrams (Sequence diagrams, Activity diagrams).  ? Experience with unit testing using JUnit and web services testing Soap UI, REST Client (POSTMAN).  ? Experienced with, JBOSS application servers and Apache Tomcat Application Server.  ? Experience in developing the GUI by using the tools like JSP, HTML, JQuery and Java Script.  ? Expertise in writing APIS's using Spring Data/JDBC by accessing Oracle, MySQL, PostgreSQL databases.  ? Experienced in implementing full life cycle of software development process (SDLC).  ? Used version controller tool like GIT, SVN and CVS.  ? Excellent analytical, logical and programming skills, Self Motivated, Self-Starter, Team Player can work with minimal supervision with effective Communication skills and Organizational skills combined with attention and Time management skills. Work Experience Software Developer CapitalOne - Richmond, VA August 2018 to Present Project: RTM( Real-time Messaging )   eAPI platform aka RTM platform provides real-time integration capabilities between IT systems used within Capital One. Given the importance of this platform for critical applications like EOS,IRIS,OLB,etc.,to function,they are engineered to be "Always on". Supporting 75+ clients to reach variety of back-end like Tsys,Fidelity ,Interpose,Mainframe,DGW etc.Via hundreds of web services ( SOAP/REST).    The project involved the development of Rest API and SOAP based Web services to perform the functional operation to support and credit card business. The project scope involved proxy layer services integrating with the Orchestration and Integration layer services which would interact with for performing the update or inquiry operation at back-end.    Responsibilities: ? Involved in the lifecycle of the software design process including ,requirement definition,prototyping,design,interface implementations,unit testing and maintenance.  ? Responsible for implementing middleware layer coding.  ? Designed and developed web services to provide the interface to the various clients running on both Java and non- Java applications using SOAP and REST.  ? Re-write existing legacy SOAP/BPEL services to RESTful API's ? Involved in migrating applications hosted on-prem to AWS cloud.  ? Responsible for writing JUNIT test cases(unit testing and Integration testing and fixing defects).  ? Responsible for moving(deploy code and configuration changes to UAT(IT environment for multiple consumer /Client test acceptance.  ? Involved in production support during maintenance period and bug fixes and issues reported in production environment ? As part of production L3 support team involved in memory?CPU observations in production systems.  ? Created the NAT gateways and instances to allow communication from the private instances to the internet through bastion hosts.  ? Involved in writing Java API for Amazon Lambda to manage some of the AWS services.  ? Used security groups ,network ACL',,Internet gateways and route tables to secure Zone for organization in AWS public cloud.  ? Created and Configured elastic load balancers and auto scaling groups distribute the traffic and to have a cost efficient ,fault tolerant and high available system.  ? Created S3 buckets in the AWS environment to store files,sometimes which are required to serve static content for web application.  ? Used AWS Beanstalk for deploying and scaling web applications and services developed with Java.  ? Configured S3 buckets with various life cycle policies to achieve the infrequently accessed data to storage classes based on requirement.  ? Possess good knowledge in creating and launching EC2 instances using AMI's of windows and wrote shell scripts to bootstrap instance.  ? Used IAM for creating roles,users, groups and also implemented MFA to provide additional security to AWS account and its resources ? Written Cloud formation templates in json to create custom VPC,subnets,NAT to ensure successful deployment of web applications.  ? Implemented domain name service (DNS) through route 53 to have highly available and scalable applications.  ? Maintained the monitoring and alerting of production and corporate servers using cloud watch service.  ? Created EBS volumes for storing application files for use with EC2 instances whenever they are mounted th them.  ? Experiences in creating RDS instances to serve data through servers for responding to requests.  ? Created snapshots to take backups of the volumes and also images to store launch configurations of the EC2 instances ? Written temples for AWS infrastructure as a code using Terraform to build staging and production environments ? Responsible for continuous Integration and Continuous Delivery process implementation using Jenkins along with Python and shell scripts to automate routing ? Implemented Continuous Integration using Jenkins and Git from Scratch ? Responsible for performing tasks like Branching ,Tagging and Release Activities on Version Control tools like SVN, GIT.  ? Implemented cloud Trail in order to capture the events related to API calls to made to AWS infrastructure.  ? Implemented Ansible to manage all exiting servers and automate the build/configuration of new servers.  ? Implemented message notification service using Java Messaging API(JMS)    Environment: JDK1.8,Weblogic10.3,Spring,Spring-Boot,AWS(EC2,VPC,,S3,EBS,RDS,Route 53,Cloud Watch, CloudFormation ,AWS Auto Scaling ,Lambda, Elastic BeansStalk, GIT,SQL,JIRA,AWS,CLI Scripting ,Jenkins,Terraform,Tomcat,JBoss,Oracle,Tomact8,Eclipse J2EE Developer St John's Research And Development June 2015 to July 2016 This is a web application, which is used by underwriters and managers to work efficiently in loan processing. Managers will assign loans that are received from different Loan Origination Systems (LOS) to underwriters through this website. The Underwriters have to process loans that are assigned to them and the website provides all necessary details for processing of the loan.  Responsibilities: ? Involved in System Analysis, Design and development using OOAD methodology to capture and model business requirements.  ? Responsible for creation of design artifacts using Enterprise Architect.  ? Reviewed business requirements and discuss with application architect about the design.  ? Used Value/Transfer Object and Singleton, Data Access Object, Factory design pattern.  ? Developed Batch process framework using executive service framework to cascade multiple changes on multiple records in only one transaction.  ? Used Spring Transaction Management extensively.  ? Responsible for developing java components using Spring, Spring JDBC, Spring Transaction Management.  ? Created and Implemented Microservices or REST APIS using spring boot, REST, JSON.  ? Used Spring JDBC in persistence layer that is capable of handling high volume transactions.  ? Implemented the service layer using Spring with transaction and logging interceptors.  ? Used Spring framework for middle tier and Spring-JDBC templates for data access.  ? Developed SOAP/REST based Web Services using both SOAP/WSDL and REST.  ? Used multithreading to improve performance in generating the reports in Java.  ? Designed and developed SOAP Web Services Client program to consume existing SOAP web service using Axis framework.  ? Tested SOAP web services using SOAP UI and REST services using POSTMAN.  ? Created and compiled XML Schema to generate Java Bean classes.  ? Developed DAO Layer by calling existing stored procedures.  ? Used Maven for compilation and building JAR, WAR.  ? Used Log4J for logging and tracing the messages.  ? Used STS for developing, debugging, integrating and deploying the application.  ? Maintained source code in GIT Repository.  ? Involved in the day to day sprint development activities and delivered per sprint timeline.  ? Written unit test cases using JUnit and Integration test cases and integrated with Jenkin jobs.  ? Coordinated with the onsite and offshore developer's w.r.t ongoing issues and follow up.  Environment: Java, Agile (SCRUM), REST API, Spring DI/IOC, Spring Boot, STS, Spring JDBC, XML, SOAP (AXIS) Web Services, Enterprise Architect, Web Services (SOAP and REST), SOAP UI, POSTMAN, Maven, Junit, Log4J, GIT, Oracle, UNIX. Java Developer St John's Research And Development February 2014 to June 2015 Responsibilities: ? Developed high performance object/relational persistence and query service for entire application utilizing Hibernate ? Generated Java Beans classes using hibernate mapping and plugin.  ? Written Hibernate Mapping files (.hbm.xml).  ? Developed the XML Schema and Web services for the data maintenance and structures.  ? Implemented DAO design pattern, builder design patterns.  ? Deployed application JAR file on WebLogic application server using ANT build script.  ? Designed database and created tables, accessed existing stored procedures by using prepare statement call.  ? Involved in coding for Junit Test cases, Ant for building the application.  ? Attended Project KT Session, prepared understanding documents.  ? Part of project maintenance team to debug and address on going issue.  ? Closely worked with QA team to identify and close bugs.  ? Maintained source code in SVN Repository.  ? Followed waterfall model and achieved delivery in tight deadlines.  Environment: Java/J2EE, spring, Hibernate, WebLogic, Web services (SOAP), Ant, Hibernate, XML, UML, Junit, log4j, Eclipse, SVN, Oracle, Windows/Linux.    St John's National Academy of Health Science, Bangalore , India  Project #1:  Java Developer  Responsibilities: ? Involved in project migration from Java 6 version to java 8 and Major frameworks.  ? Worked on application development activities like Analysis, Development, Testing phases.  ? Developed JSP pages for presenting layer using MVC.  ? Designed and developed the presentation/UI layer with JSP, Javascript, HTML, CSS.  ? Requirement Analysis, Design and Coding.  ? Responsible for coding User interfaces using MVC.  ? Working on required analysis, test case designing and execution the test.  ? Providing the support to the end users and troubleshooting the application remotely.  ? Prepared and executed unit test plans for developed module ? Extensively Worked with Eclipse as the IDE to develop, test and deploy the complete application.  Environment: Java 1.8, J2EE , Spring 3, Hibernate 3, Apache Tomcat 8.5, JavaScript, JSP,Servlet 2.5, MYSQL , Ant, Eclipse , Junit4.7, XML.    Project #2:  Web Developer  Responsibilities: ? Developed Web pages based on design specifications.  ? Integrated new features into existing Web applications.  ? Maintained templates and content management systems.  ? Assisted in testing and deploying Web applications.  ? Coordinated with Graphic Designers in developing animations and interactive content.  ? Ensured that Website was in compliance with image and branding requirements ? Also in charge of writing, developing and managing the content of websites ? Evaluated functionality and accessibility of Web Pages ? Involved in Analysis, Design, Development, Testing phases of the application.  Environment: Notepad++, Java, J2EE , Apache Tomcat 7, Java SDK, JavaScript, REST, Servlet 2.5, Junit4.7, Eclipse, XML. Education Bachelor's Skills Javascript, MySQL, Java (3 years), J2EE (2 years)