Java Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Developer - JP Morgan Chase Frisco, TX ? 6+ years of experience in Developing Web Application and API development.  ? Knowledge for checking the browser compatibility on different browser like Safari, Internet Explorer, Firefox and Google Chrome.  ? Worked on Angular directives, factory, form Validation, Services, SPA.  ? Extensively worked with MVC Architecture using spring, Hibernate, Apache Struts.  ? Expertise in Object Oriented Analysis, Design / Development Methodologies, Use Cases, Sequence and Class Diagrams using UML.  ? Proficiency in core java concepts like Threads, Exception handling, Generics, Strings etc.  ? Experience with unit testing using JUnit and knowledge of ANT and log4j tools.  ? Excellent working knowledge in IBM application servers such as Web Sphere, Web Logic and Apache Tomcat Application.  ? Strong knowledge of capital marketing and fixed income to interface between first office and middle office applications and is responsible for translating and managing trade message flow between upstream systems and the settlement system.  ? Strong experience in building the RESTFULL webservices.  ? Knowledge of OOPS, Inheritance, Encapsulation.  ? Extensive experience in Internet, client/server technologies using Java, J2EE, JSP, Servlets, JDBC, JNDI, Struts, Spring, Hibernate, Web Services, JMS, XML, XSLT, JAXB, HTML, CSS, Java script, Ajax and Shell Scripting.  ? Expert in using JSON (JavaScript Object Notation) a lightweight data-interchange format to build collection of name/value pairs and ordered list of values.  ? Good knowledge about latest technologies like HTML5, and CSS3 preprocessors SASS and LESS.  ? Created Responsive WebPages using Bootstrap classes and Media query to make pages look perfect in different media sizes like Phone, Tab, desktop.  ? Worked with Angular MVC at client side and Bootstrap.  ? Experienced working with third party plugins, APIs and Web Services using SOAP and REST.  ? Experience with browser testing, cross-browser compatibility, and cross-platform compatibility.  ? Experience in Software Product Development Life Cycle.  ? Expert in documentation using MS tools.  ? Built next-generation scalable websites that look great on all devices, computers, tablets and Smart Phones, in rich responsive design.  ? Working experience in agile process and Waterfall methodologies.  ? Strong multitasking ability to perform as per my ability to excellence ? Strong analytical and problem solving skills, self-starter and good team player.  ? Excellent communication skills, team player, quick learner and self-motivated. Work Experience Java Developer JP Morgan Chase - Dallas, TX December 2016 to Present I was involved in the design and development of Accounts Summary and Account details modules in the core banking application. redesigned bank's online banking application to provide rich and consistent user experience across multiple devices and browsers. I also updated online banking system, Customers can manage their accounts online more efficiently and worked on online banking applications like consumer banking and business banking applications.    Responsibilities: • Designed and developed a web services by using Java using Web API to receive and pass data to back-end.  • Used Maven for build application.  • Used GIT control system for tracking changes in computer files and work on those files among multiple people.  • Set up build automation & deployment to DEV, QA, PRD servers using TeamCity continuous integration platform. Built Regression suits using SOAP UI for automated regression test on CI platform.  • Coordinated with Architects and Security teams on defining SOAP, RESTful web services architecture and generating/managing artifacts documentation Confluence.  • Involved in gathering requirements and analysis meetings with business analyst and end users.  • Testing the functionalities in terms of requests and responses for the front-end JSON files.  • Extensively developed RESTful API's and SOAP webservices.  • Experience in Development and Documentation throughout the entire SDLC.  •Also have good expertise in automating the test scenarios using Cucumber.  • Troubleshoot and resolve medium to high complexity application defects.  • Follow good security coding practices to ensure the application is free of most common coding vulnerabilities • Up to date Knowledge with the latest industry trends in UI design and usability.  • Performed unit testing with the help of Junit.  • Good Working experience in using different modules like Spring Core Container Module, Hibernate, Spring Application Context Module, Spring MVC Framework module, Spring ORM Module etc. in Spring Framework • Strong communication, problem-solving, and planning skills, with ability to work independently or in a team environment.  • Followed Agile Software Development Methodology and Test-Driven Development (TDD) to build the application iteratively and incrementally. Participated in scrum related activities and Daily Scrum Meetings • Worked with all agile development and SCRUM process throughout the entire project.    Environment: HTML5, CSS3, JSP, JSON API,Typescript, Tortoise SVN, NodeJS, Bootstrap 3, XML, GIT, JavaScript, RESTful API, Java 7, 8, Spring, JIRA, Junit, Apache Tomcat, Log4j ,JSP, Agile Methodology. Developer R+L Carriers, Willington, OH April 2016 to November 2016 Resource Management application is used by internal users to keep track of various projects budget information. This application allows them to view all the projects which are submitted, Planning, Completed, and Cancelled. Once the budgets are allocated for the projects, Project manager can allocate the funds for the current years and upcoming years. I have implemented technologies such as MVC, Java, JavaScript and CSS.    Responsibilities: •Created tables, stored procedures, Views, triggers in SQL server 2008 • Utilized MVC-Model architecture using java design patterns like Facade, Factory, Observer and Singleton for the application development • Experience in using log4j, SLF4J logging frameworks • Expertise in JSP, Java Beans and Servlets for developing applications using MVC architecture.  • Experience in Core Java concepts such as OOP Concepts, Collections Framework, and Exception Handling, I/O System, Multi-Threading, JDBC, Generics and other new features in Java 7.  • Good Working Knowledge of Maven for project deployment, Log4j for logging and JUnit for unit and Experience with Jenkins Continuous Integration tool.  • Expertise in SOAP and REST Web services.  • Possess good expertise in web-based GUIs development using Applets, Java Script (JQuery), JQuery UI, JSP, HTML, HTML5, XHTML & CSS.  • Good knowledge on Java Messaging Service (JMS).  • Designing and developing Restful API and services using best practices to interact within the microservices and with the front end. Using spring MVC and spring rest. Security is provided via tokens(JWT) and Spring Security.  • Exposure to Oracle database with JDBC drivers in developing applications using SQL and Stored Procedures (PL/SQL), MySQL database techniques.  • Used AWS to build Java applications that work with Amazon S3, Amazon EC2, Amazon SimpleDB, and more.  • Good knowledge on AngularJS, Selenium.  • Developed and deployed J2EE applications on Application Servers and AWS, Web Servers including IBM Web sphere, Web Logic, JBoss, and Apache Tomcat.  • Develops microservices and has extensive experience using GitLab, Jenkins, Clustering other tools and technologies for developing a scalable application.  • Involved in the development of frontend of the applications using HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, and JavaScript frameworks • Developed and designed interfaces using HTML, JSP, Server-Side components using Servlets on Eclipse and used JPA annotations • Used multithreading for invoking the database and implemented complex modules containing the business logic using Collections • Used Maven for building the application and Git for source code control • Experience working with SQL and PostgreSQL.  • Used log4j for logging mechanism and developed wrapper classes to configure the logs • Coordinated with team members to resolved defects and resulting in a positive outcome using JIRA Experience in using log4j, SLF4J logging frameworks • Involved in the development of frontend of the applications using HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, and JavaScript frameworks • Developed and designed interfaces using HTML, JSP, Server-Side components using Servlets on Eclipse and used JPA annotations • Used multithreading for invoking the database and implemented complex modules containing the business logic using Collections • Used Maven for building the application and Git for source code control • Used log4j for logging mechanism and developed wrapper classes to configure the logs • Coordinated with team members to resolved defects and resulting in a positive outcome using JIRA    Environment: HTML5, CSS3, JSP,JSON API, Angular 2, Typescript, Tortoise SVN, NodeJS, Bootstrap 3, XML, GIT, JavaScript 5,6, RESTful API, Java 7, Spring, JIRA, Junit, PostreSQL Apache Tomcat, Log4j ,JSP, Agile Methodology. System Engineer Asntech Company - IN May 2013 to January 2014 Responsibilities: •Created tables, stored procedures, Views, triggers in SQL server 2008.  •Experience in working with all phases of SDLC.  •Worked on Front End technologies like HTML5, CSS, Bootstrap, JavaScript and AngularJS •Building and maintaining complex SQL, T-SQL Scripts, DB administrator and also Stored Procedures.  •Worked on SQL with java and C#.  •Experience working with Data Entry and dealing with clients.  • Designed & developed the UI application using Angular JS, Bootstrap, JQuery, Rest, Spring MVC, Spring Data JPA, Spring Batch, Spring Integration & Hibernate.  • Involved in multi-tier Java EE design utilizing Spring IOC and Hibernate deployed on WebSphere Application server connecting to Oracle database.  • Created Mule ESB flows using Mule Studio, performed payload transformation & developed middleware frameworks for routing the messages to appropriate systems.  • Developed a software test suite that tests file usage, database integrity, and processes restarting frequently using Python, JSON, and PostgreSQL Interacted with support team for requirements.  • Designed and developed various modules and services application with J2EE design architecture and frameworks like Spring MVC architecture and Spring Bean Factory using IOC, AOP concepts.  • Used Hibernate in persistence layer and developed POJO's, Data Access Object (DAO) to handle all database operations.  • Good understanding of typical integration technologies such as HTTP, XML/XSLT, JMS, JDBC, REST, SOAP, Web Services and APIs, • Developed the application with various Spring Framework modules like Spring MVC, Spring IOC, Spring AOP, Spring Boot, and Spring Security.  • Implemented modules into NodeJS to integrate with designs and requirements. Also made the application to Interact with 3rd party APIs and built RESTful APIs using NodeJS.  • Implemented features like logging, user session validation using Spring-AOP module.  •Troubleshooting the issues using fiddler and the issues in reports.  •Experience using Software methodologies like AGILE. Jr Developer Scottish Widows - Hyderabad, Telangana April 2012 to March 2013 Education Wright State University - Dayton, OH February 2014 to December 2015 Skills Apache (2 years), Bootstrap (3 years), CSS. (1 year), Eclipse (Less than 1 year), GIT (2 years), HTML5 (3 years), Java (3 years), JavaScript (3 years), JIRA (2 years), JQuery (1 year), JSON (3 years), JSP (2 years), MS SQL Server (1 year), Oracle (1 year), SQL (1 year), SQL server (1 year), Subversion (2 years), SVN (2 years), Tomcat (2 years), XML (3 years), Java J2Ee, J2Ee, Hibernate, Spring Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    Web Technologies: HTML4/5, CSS2/3, JavaScript, JQUERY, JSON, AJAX, XML  Mobile Web Skills: Responsive Design, Twitter Bootstrap  Developer Tools: Eclipse IDE, IntelliJ, Firebug, Dev tools, Fiddler, SVN, Perforce, GIT, MS Office, JIRA, Target Process  Backend Technologies: Java, JSP, Oracle, MS SQL Server,.NET  Dev Frameworks: CSS- SASS, SUSY, COMPASS, MODERNIZR, CSS3 Pie HTML- HTML5 Shiv.js, respond.js, React.js, Spring, Hibernate JS- Backbone.js, Handlebars, Require.js, Angular.js  Application Servers: Apache Tomcat, Web Logic  Browser: IE 7 & up, Firefox, Opera, Chrome, Safari