Software Developer Software <span class="hl">Developer</span> Software Developer | Java Developer | Full-Stack Developer Reston, VA • 4+ years of strong experience in Software Analysis, Design, Development, Implementation and Testing of Object-Oriented Applications and Web-based Enterprise Applications using Java/J2EE on Windows and Linux platforms.   • Extensive development experience building applications using Java/J2ee technologies Servlets, JSF, JMS, JDBC, XML, JavaScript and HTML5.   • Hands on experience in Java Multithreading, Servlets and XML related technologies.  • Good experience in implementation and Support projects relating to Spring, JSP, JSF as a Software Developer.  • Developed applications with spring boot, RESTful and Angular4.  • Exposure to Application Servers like Pivotal, Glassfish and Apache Tomcat Web Server.  • Have used SQL, RDBMS includes MS SQL, MySQL and worked in Stored Procedures & Triggers.  • Having strong experience in developing JPA with Hibernate.  • Expertise in various open source frameworks like spring (including Web Flow), and Web development technologies like AJAX and Object Relational Mapping Technology like Hibernate.  • Experienced in writing complex Queries, Stored procedures, functions, tables and views with major databases such as MS SQL and MySQL.  • Experience working with version control software GIT and build tools Maven and Jenkins.  • Strong knowledge and experienced with various J2EE design patterns like Factory Method, Singleton, Adapter, Decorator, Proxy, Iterator, Session Façade, Data Access Object, MVC.  • Experience providing and consuming Restful web services, and JSON.  • Highly motivated with the ability to work independently and can learn new technologies quickly.  • Excellent written and verbal communication along with strong interpersonal, analytical, and organizational skills. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Software Developer Verizon - Ashburn, VA September 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Working closely with customers and team members to understand current operating procedures, program objectives, and business requirements that drive the design and development of high-quality technical solutions.  • Involved with full systems life cycle to include planning, coding, testing, and documentation.  Resume  • Consulting with user to identify current operating procedure and clarify program objectives and making  recommendations about new code or reuse of existing code.  • Working in OOD methodology, Java, XML, MVC, RESTful, Web Services Deep knowledge of J2EE (JSP, Servlet,  EJB, JDBC).  • Working on Jira, Confluence, Jenkins, Artifactory and Cloud environment enablement, Apache Tomcat.  • Enhancing system architecture to improve continuous software integration and deployment model  within DevOps environment.  • Educating team members on collaborative cross team proposals for software delivery  improvements.  • Assisting with leading and building agile teams to deliver functionality with efficiency and speed of  delivery.  • Any other task as assigned by the Manager / Supervisor. Full-Stack Developer THE GENERAL AUTHORITY OF INVESTMENT (GAFI) - Cairo, EG January 2017 to December 2017 Responsibilities:  • Developed the single page application following Agile Scrum, participated in daily standups, sprint reviews,  Kickoffs and used Jira for project management.  • Contributed to design, development, and deployment of enterprise applications supporting ministry's mission.  • Designed and Developed UI for Review Dashboard application using Angular4, HTML and CSS.    Resume  • Developed Restful services using Spring and JSON object.  • Developed business service layer and data access layer using Spring and Mongo-DB (Spring Mongo-Template).  • Involved in making Spring and Hibernate enhancements to existing applications  • Participated in code review, mentoring sessions and used GIT as version control for GIT interactions.  • Used MySQL as backend database using Windows OS.  • Deployed the application on a Tomcat server on a Windows platform  Environment: Agile, Core Java 1.7, Spring, MySQL, Mongo-DB, Hibernate, RESTful, Eclipse, Tomcat, Jenkins. Java Developer MARASED TECHNICAL SOLUTION COMPANY - Cairo, EG January 2014 to December 2016 Responsibilities:  • Involved in Designing, coding, deploying and testing (SDLC) in various stages of the multiple projects.  • Followed agile methodology on daily basis for tracking work (JIRA), milestones.  • Developed action classes and front end flow using Spring MVC framework.  • Used spring core container Dependency Injection features to instantiate framework dependencies  • Used Web services (Restful) for transmission of large blocks of JSON data over HTTP.  • Extensively used Hibernate as an ORM framework to perform database operations.  • Used Hibernate Criteria API, HQL and native SQL to retrieve objects from database.  • Developed DAOs (Data Access Objects) and to access data from the database.  • Very good knowledge on Spring MVC framework to develop web applications  • Used Jenkins build tool to build the application on server.  • Worked on the JSF framework and dealing it with beans.  Achievements:  • Developed Namaa Workflow Management System administering elections for Saudi Arabian government and charities.  • Developed Maneh Workflow Management System for Ahmed Al Rajhi organization.  • Developed Al Sobea system for Muhammad & Abdallah Al Sobea organization.    Environment: Java/J2EE, JSF, Spring MVC, Hibernate, Web-Services RESTful, Angular4, HTML5, CSS, JS, Eclipse,  Maven, Tomcat 7/8, Ubuntu/ Linux, GIT, MySQL. Education Master of Science in Computer Science Maharishi University of Management - Fairfield, IA August 2017 to October 2019 Bachelor of Science in Computer Science Modern Academy for Computer Science - Cairo, EG Skills Java (4 years), J2EE (4 years), Spring (4 years), Hibernate (4 years), OOP (4 years), RESTful API (4 years), MySQL (4 years), HTML 5, CSS3, Javascript, Angular 4, Git, Maven, Jenkins, Tomcat, Agile, Design Patterns, Rest, Java J2Ee, Soap, Core Java, Angular, CSS Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/mahmoudalqurashi Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:  Programming Languages Java SE, J2EE, SQL  Design Pattern Factory Method, Abstract Factory, Iterator, DAO, MVC  SDLC Methodologies Agile, Scrum  Technologies Servlets, JSP, JDBC, HTML5, CSS, JavaScript, Angular 4, JSON  Framework Spring MVC, Boot, Validation, Security, Integration. Hibernate  IDE Eclipse, STS, Sublime, JIRA  Application Servers Apache Tomcat, Pivotal, Spring Boot  Version Control GIT  Databases SQL Server, MySQL  Build Tools Maven, Jenkins  Platforms Ubuntu/ Linux, Windows, MAC OS    CAREER NOTE:  Completed on-campus studies and currently taking distance education courses to complete a Master's Degree in  Computer Science (Available for full-time, W-2 employment).