Junior Java Developer Junior <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Junior Java Developer - Cisco • Having 3+ years of professional IT experience with full project lifecycle development in JEE technologies Requirements analysis, Design, Development, Testing and Deployment of software applications in Insurance, Financial, Health Sector and State Projects Domain.  • Expertise in creating the pages using HTML5, CSS3 webpages layouts and vast knowledge in usability and accessibility concepts  • Expertise in client scripting language and server scripting languages and Web Application Development using JavaScript, jQuery, JSON, AngularJS, Swing.  • Strong knowledge in cross browser compatibility issues and W3C standards. Good Knowledge in using Dojo Components and integrating back-end applications with AJAX driven web 2.0 front-end using OO JavaScript framework  • Developed web-based applications using Java, J2EE, JSP, Servlets, JSF, Hibernate, Spring, Web Services (SOAP and REST), micro services, SQL  • Experienced in implementing Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) with XML based Web Services (SOAP/UDDI/WSDL) using Top Down Approach and Bottom up Approach  • Having experience with Cloud Computing environment like Amazon Web Services (AWS)  • Experienced with Middleware Technology Messaging Brokers like JMS, ActiveMQ and Mule ESB (Enterprise Service Bus) in SOA (Service-oriented) Architecture  • Experience in Agile methodologies such as Extreme Programming, Waterfall Model and Test-Driven Development and Pivotal Tracker and JIRA tools for tracking stories in a Project  • Strong experience in writing complex queries, using Oracle, DB2, SQL Server, MySQL and NoSQL like MongoDB  • Experience using Web/Application Servers like Apache Tomcat and Oracle Application Server  • Hands-on experience working with Continuous Integration build-automation tools such as Jenkins, Maven and Apache Ant  • Significant experience in web tools like Spring Tool Suite, Eclipse, and Firebug  • Sound knowledge in working with compatibility issues with browsers like IE, Firefox, safari, Opera, Chrome  • Experience in preparing project related documents using Microsoft Office Suite like MS-Office, MS-Excel, MS-PowerPoint and MS-Visio Work Experience Junior Java Developer Cisco - San Jose, CA March 2018 to Present Project: Smart Labs (IOE)    Description: Provides an innovative approach to inventory management that addresses equipment loss, and which will provide loss Prevention and ready, easy access to available Asset (equipment). The system will allow the user to select an Asset on the given Asset device table, after selecting the asset it will redirect to location of an Asset on the floor map so an engineer who needs a particular piece can find it immediately. The user can filter the map based on provided icons such as Asset is available to use, condition of the Asset, status of the Asset etc. And also, user can check in and check out the Asset, also will provide the alerts to Asset administration whenever a new Asset comes into the lab/floor/building or moves out of the lab/floor/building. Basically, application provides tracking (locating equipment on map) of Asset and the time spent looking for a piece of equipment is reduced, lowers capital etc.    Responsibilities:  • Implemented Angular Controllers and services to bind the data.  • Used HTML5, CSS3 and Bootstrap for responsive web design  • Implements responsive design template to get a new interface in Bootstrap, HTML5.  • Developed UI to seamlessly combine the new module with existing login system using AngularJS  • Written jQuery functions to do client-side validation and Popup screens.  • Used AngularJS as the development framework to build a single-page application.  • Extensively used AJAX framework to develop the dynamic user interfaces and XMLHTTP Request object to directly communicate with the server.  • Developed end-to-end web application using Spring MVC framework  • Used Spring for dependency injection  • Used Spring security for basic authentication and also to connect LDAP sever to get the SSO functionality.  • Developed HQL queries with Hibernate to perform curd operation as per requirements  • Used Hibernate for building DAOs.  • Used Maven for preparing WAR files used to deploy J2EE components.  • Consumed the data from API's using RESTful services with spring rest template.  • Developed reusable and interoperable Web service modules based on SOA architecture using RESTFUL and micro Services.  • Imported certification files into java key store to get authenticate with certified API(URL)  • Created XML files using JDOM2 and parsed XML data from data base club files.  • Experienced in writing unit test cases using JUNIT, Mockito.  • Developed JMS Queues for asynchronous messaging and Web Services using SOAP/WSDL  • Exposing and consuming the services to the downstream/upstream applications using Apache CXF and REST services.  • Configured AWS Cloud watch to monitor AWS resources as well as application and troubleshoot AWS EC2 status check including System Status check and Instance Status check alerts.  • Configured development environment using WebSphere application server for developer's integration testing.  • Involved in development of Test Cases using JUnit for Unit Testing.  • Selected and implemented Agile development practices to the application requirements.  • Used Log4j for logging purposes.  • Used Stash for source code.  • RAD used as IDE tool for application development and debugging.    Environment: Java, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Ajax, JBoss, Bootstrap, AngularJS, JSP, XML, JSTL, Hibernate, Spring, JDBC, REST Web Services, Ant, Log4j, JUnit, AWS, Oracle, AXIS, Apache tomcat, RAD, Stash. J2EE Developer LUMITIX Solutions - IN April 2014 to June 2015 Description: The objective of Item Management is to set-up, maintain, and share Item information in a flexible system that easily supports Unilever's growth, increases speed to market and improves data accuracy, while reducing user workload. Guided Setup is one module of the project which functions as a wizard to complete the configuration and creation of various types of items like Single Items, Multiple Items and Assortment Items.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in the design and development of an entire Module - Guided Set Up. Developed user interface through JSP and Servlets.  • Developed Action classes and Action Forms using the struts framework.  • Developed Customs tags to display dynamic contents and to avoid large amounts of java code in JSP pages  • Connected to database through JDBC.  • Used SQL server to store the items in the database.  • Used Session beans for navigation of steps.  • Used Entity beans for storing the database in to database. Developed Session Beans as the clients of Entity Beans to maintain the Client state.  • Developed Ant Scripts to build and deploy EAR files on to Tomcat Server. Analyzed the EJB performance in terms of scalability by various Loads, Stress tests using Bean- test tool.  • Extensively used Eclipse while writing code as IDE. Written complex SQL queries, stored procedures, functions and triggers in PL/SQL.  • Developed test cases and used JUnit for Unit Testing.  • Used CVS for version controlling.    Environment: JavaScript, CSS, J2EE 1.3, WSAD 5.1, EJB, JSP 1.2, Web Sphere Application Server 5.1, Servlets 2.3, JDBC, XML (DOM and SAX), Struts, Oracle 8i, PL/SQL, PVCS, UML, Windows 2000/NT. J2EE Developer PB Systems - Bengaluru, Karnataka June 2013 to March 2014 Description: This project was developed for Isha Travels in which the user can login and select a travel package and schedule a holiday. For every package bought, the user gets Mileage points. The users can use the discount coupons received in mail or the electronic discount coupons which can be obtained by redeeming the mileage points. The system determines the availability of that package and whether the discount codes are applicable on that package or not. The users can also mix-and-match packages if the option is available for those packages    Responsibilities:  • Involved in coding front end using Struts framework concepts like Action Classes, validation.xml, Action Form Beans, struts-config.xml, Action Mapping, form Action Form, request HttpServlet Request, response HttpServlet Response  • Involved in development of data abstraction layer using Hibernate ORM framework with spring support.  • Developed Deployment descriptor using XML files  • Used ANT scripts to build the application and deployed on JBoss Application Server  • Used XML to transfer the application data between client and server  • Implemented Business processes such as user authentication, Transfer of Service using Session EJBs  • Backend application layer is implemented using EJB in JBoss environment  • Developed PL/SQL queries, Triggers and Stored Procedures to check the integrity of the data and actively involved in tuning SQL queries  • Used AJAX for dynamically updating the content  • Developed UI pages using HTML, Java script, JSP& Tag libraries  • Designed & developed the web-tier using HTML, JSP's, Servlets, Struts and Tiles framework  • Implemented Log4J for Logging Errors, debugging and tracking using loggers, appenders components  • Developed JUnit test cases for all the developed modules  • Interactively worked with testing teams in providing test cases and test scripts    Environment: HTML, CSS, Java script, EJB, , Java, Servlets, JSP, XML, XSLT, JMS, Struts, Web Sphere Application Server, Hibernate, PL/SQL, SQL, AJAX, JUnit, ANT, Log4j