Python Developer Python <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - Athene USA Iowa City, IA • Having 4+ years of Professional IT experience in Design & Development of applications using Python 2.x, 3.x, Django, Core Java, nodejs, Google Cloud Platform, AWS and extensive experience in system analysis, design, development and implementation of Web based and Client/Server application.  • Good knowledge in using version control systems GIT and Bitbucket repository.  • Proficient in using Relational Databases like Postgresql, MySQL, Oracle, DB2 and NoSQL database like Datastore Google Cloud and DynamoDB in AWS.  • Hands on experience in working with Google Cloud Platform, AWS Elastic Beanstalk, EC2, S3 Storage, IAM services in Google Cloud and IAM in AWS.  • Good Knowledge on Algorithms, Data Structures, OOPS concepts, Flowcharts.  • Involved in working with Web services like Google API's(gapi), REST & Mule API's.  • Involved in working with Connection Oriented, Connection Less Protocols and File Transfer Protocols (TCP, UDP, DHCP, SMTP, HTTPS, FTP, SFTP).  • Good knowledge in OKTA, SAML, OAuth2.0, OIM, LDAP and CI/CD(Jenkins).  • Involved in manual test execution and was involved in various testing phases like Sanity, Functional, Retesting, System and smoke testing.  • Developed and deployed Automated tested frameworks using Python-Selenium.  • Good Experience in Error Handling, debugging/troubleshooting and ability to write code with Zero Day attack.  • Experience in documenting the project using UML diagrams and Participated in several Data Backup, Data Recovery and Disaster handling drills.  • Effective in decision making & having ability to meet very tight deadlines, open to learn new technologies, quick learner, solid communicator, dedicated, self-motivated with exceptional team-building skills and Used Agile Methods for rapid development between cross functional teams. Sponsorship required to work in the US Work Experience Python Developer Athene USA April 2018 to Present DesMoines, IA  Description: Athene Holding Ltd. (Athene) is a leading retirement services company that issues, reinsures and acquires retirement savings products designed for the increasing number of individuals and institutions seeking to fund retirement needs.    Responsibilities:  • Design and Develop Data applications using Python 3.x version and automated deployments using CI/CD procedure via Jenkins and worked closely with Business and involved in gathering requirements.  • Hands on experience in Branching, Merging, Tagging and maintaining the version across the environments using SCM tools like GIT(Bitbucket).  • Involved in migrating a Legacy project into a new source system by transferring the Data in different format which include csv, json, xml and xlsx.  • Expertise in using various Python modules as per Business need and ability to write Test cases using unittest module in python.  • Involved in creating Flask API's also developed a python level application to consume Mulesoft API's.  • Created ETL (Extraction, Transformation & Loading) processes in Python performing business rule mappings of relational data into dimensional model.  • Involved in pulling data from different databases like Postgres, Oracle, DB2, MySql and designed a solution to do Balance & Control and Data reconciliation.  • Worked in an Agile Methodology and comfortable in maintaining documentation in confluence.  • Involved in scheduling Python jobs using BMC Control M tool and comfortable in writing core Python scripts.    Environment: Python 3.x, Postgresql, Oracle, DB2, Jenkins, Bitbucket, Jira, Confluence, Mulesoft, Docker, AWS, LDAP, ServiceNow, Pgadmin, Flask, Visio, BMC Control-M. Python Developer Motorola Solutions - Chicago, IL July 2016 to March 2018 Description: Motorola Solutions, Inc. is an American Data Communications company and is a global leader in mission-critical communications products, services and solutions headquartered in Chicago, Illinois. Motorola provides end to end solutions to clients.    Responsibilities:  • Design and development of Web Application using Python, java, nodejs and hosted in EC2 in AWS and troubleshoot various issues in Python code and fix them with code enhancements.  • Build a Secure FTP connection in between Servers and created a Data flow through scheduling Python Jobs.  • Involved in creating roles, groups in IAM and created new policies over storage buckets on S3 in AWS.  • Hands on in writing Python scripts interacting with Google Cloud Storage, Datastore, AWS RDS, Oracle, S3, Redshift.  • Designed the Project setup and completely involved in implementing the design of the Project Artifacts (Datastore, Storage buckets and creating Service Accounts) in Google Cloud Platform.  • Involved in consuming authentication and authorization services like Okta, OAuth2.0.  • Worked on backend of the application, monitoring the FTP server, maintain logs and involved in release plans.  • Involved in authorizing permission with in IAM and ADMIN services in Google Cloud and in AWS.  • Actively involved in analysis of the system requirements specifications and involved in client interaction during requirements specifications.  • Carried out various mathematical operations for calculation purpose using Python libraries Numpy and Pandas.    Environment: Python 2.7, JavaScript, nodejs, Angular JS, Google Cloud storage, AWS EC2, RDS, S3, IAM, Datastore, gsutil, Boto3, Eclipse, Html, CSS, Web services, MySQL, Django, LDAP, OAuth2.0, Google App Engine. Java Developer/Tester Crystal Graph - Hyderabad, Telangana November 2012 to July 2014 India  Description: Automated Solution for a Retail Chain: Developed a Prototype for a Retail Chain, which is a complete ERP solution getting all the modules integrated to a single system that directly connects all the modules, like Retail outlet, Central Repository, and Procurement Department to a single System.    Responsibilities:  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Java and Javascript.  • Executing the test cases and implemented Functional, Integration, GUI Testing, Regression Testing.  • Understanding the manual test cases from regression suit and identify the feasible test scenarios.  • Prepare test plan which is reviewed by internally and send to the clients for approval.  • Prepare traceability matrix between the requirements and functionality.  • Develop the test cases, review the test cases and execute the test cases.  • Wrote shell scripts to parse XML and CSV documents and load the data in database.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.    Environment: Java, C++, MySQL, Eclipse, Shell Scripting, HTML5/CSS, Apache Tomcat. Education Master's Degree in Information Assurance Wilmington University - Wilmington, DE 2016 Bachelor of Technology in Information Technology JNTU - Kakinada, Andhra Pradesh 2012 Skills Python, C, Java, Oracle, Postgres, DB2, AWS, Google Cloud, Jenkins, Datical, MS Visio, Javascript, CSS (3 years), Python, Java, Javascript, Flask, Django, ASP, Git, MySQL Links https://stackoverflow.com/users/6576500/ybn?tab=profile Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  Programming Language Python 2.x, 3.x, C, C++, Core Java, nodejs, Flask, Django, Java Spring.  Operating System Windows Family, Linux-Ubuntu, Amazon Linux  Database Postgresql, MySQL, Oracle, DB2, Google Cloud Datastore, DynamoDB  Web Technologies CSS, HTML, Java Script, Angular, Bootstrap.  Application Servers Apache Tomcat, Google App/Compute Engine, Elastic Bean Stack, EC2.  Deployment/IT Service Mgmt Tools Jenkins, Docker, ServiceNow, Jira, Confluence, DBVisualizer, Putty.  Design Technologies IBM Rational Rose XDE, Microsoft Visio 2003/2005  IDE Tools Wing IDE, PyCharm, PyDev, eclipse.