Full Stack Developer Full Stack <span class="hl">Developer</span> Extremely driven full stack Java developer with 3 years of technical development experience. Strong knowledge of object oriented programming philosophy coupled with knowledge of design patterns. Ability to work on rapid software development projects with the Agile Methodology. Versed in micro services and integration implementing with JSON RESTful web services.    Has the ability to adapt to new technologies and apply them successfully to meet the goals of the organization. Exceptionally talented technologist with strong communication, interpersonal and presentation skills. A positive attitude when confronted with challenges. Self-motivated developer, capable of working without pressure and little direction. Capable of working on tasks individually and in a paired or group setting. Work Experience Full Stack Developer Bloomington, MN August 2017 to Present Jostens.  Coordinate with the product development and engineering teams in developing codes to support new application features and issues.  • Participate in system design specification sessions to document technical specifications and to provide design options and solutions.  • Write and maintain codes using technical specifications to update existing application and/or to develop new application.  • Utilize programming principles, tools, and techniques to write application codes.  • Apply analytical, technical and programming skills to resolve application related issues.  • Provide coding effort, time and budget to project manager.  • Develop applications according to company's software development life cycle(SDLC) methodology.  • Ensure that the builds are properly deployed in development, system, acceptance and production environments.  • Review codes to identify any basic errors.  • Prepare test cases and strategies for unit testing and integration testing.  • Provide technical and functional support to testing teams.  • Assist technical writers in preparing project documentation.  • Follow best practices to perform application coding.  • Used Agile Software Development for developing the application.  • Used Spring framework.  • Used SVN repositories for version controlling.  • Used JIRA tool to for work tickets.  • Involved in code reviews and redesigning the modules as per the requirements  • Used JSP, HTML, CSS for designing the yearbook pages.  • Part of a scrum team responsible for rewriting an existing Silverlight client-side application into Angular 4.  • Created various reports by using Jasper report studio.  • Used Jenkins for building and deploying the Java as well as SQL files.  • Created Restful web services.  • Used SQL developer as a Database.  • Involved in design and development of RESTful (JAX-RS) web services.  • Involved in consuming, producing SOAP based web services using JAX-WS.  • Have integrated web services including SOAP as well as REST.  • Prepared Change Request business documents and involved in change and release management.    Technology Used: Java, J2EE, JSP, Struts, Hibernate, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, AJAX, Spring, Oracle, TOAD, Web Services, WebLogic Application Server Java Developer Edenprairie, MN January 2017 to August 2017 Optum  • Involved in Agile Software Development for developing the application.  • Configured various web sphere configurations in order to deploy web apps.  • Developed unit and functional test cases.  • Used SVN for version controlling.  • Involved in code reviews and redesigning the modules as per the requirements.  • Various controllers have been designed using spring.  • Created various optimized queries using SQL and PL/SQL.  • Proficiency in developing SQL, PL/SQL in JDBC with Oracle 9i/10g as well as client-server environments.  • Supporting production environment and also live error debugging.  • Created restful web services.  • Experienced in building and deploying J2EE Application Archives (Jar, War and Ear) on IBM WebSphere application server using Apache Ant.  • Used Log4J to print the logging, debugging, warning, info on the server console.  • Using Web Services (RESTFUL) to exchange data between portal and other modules.  • Extensively using SQL Developer as IDE for working with SQL in Oracle Databases.  • Writing SQL queries to fetch the business data using Oracle as database.  • Created JUnit Test Cases, Test Suites using JUnit for Java Service Layer which was developed using Spring MVC, Persistence layer using Spring Hibernate.    Technology Used: Java/J2ee, Spring, EJB, JDBC, JMS, SQL, Servlets, EJB, Spring MVC, Spring DAO, Web Services Restful, Ant, Maven, Tomcat, CVS, Eclipse, SQL Developer, Oracle. Software Developer Chick-fil-A - Atlanta, GA January 2016 to December 2016 GA  Chick-fil-A  • Used Agile Software Development for developing the application.  • Used Spring Boot framework.  • Used GIT repositories for version controlling.  • Developed unit and functional test cases.  • Used JIRA tool to for work tickets.  • Developed enterprise business components using Spring and DAOs.  • Involved in code reviews and redesigning the modules as per the requirements.  • Used AWS services like SQS and involved in designing logic for parsing xml and then sending the data to Amazon SQS.  • Used the KCL client library to consume the data from kinesis stream and do further process for putting the data into S3 bucket.  • Used Elastic Beanstalk for deploying the application.  • Hands on experience with Cloud Watch where we can monitor the logs after deploying the application into elastic bean stalk.  • Involved in creating various tables in PostgreSQL.  • Walked in various Retrospective and Sprint meetings for planning the stories.    Technology Used: Core Java, Java, JSP, JavaScript, HTML, XML, Oracle, TOAD, Spring, Spring Boot, Junit, WebLogic Application Server, AWS. Education Computer Science JNTU University Skills Apache (Less than 1 year), Api (Less than 1 year), C (Less than 1 year), Css (1 year), Databases. (Less than 1 year), Eclipse (Less than 1 year), Git (1 year), Html (2 years), Java (3 years), Javascript (2 years), Jira (2 years), jquery (Less than 1 year), Junit (1 year), Maven (Less than 1 year), Mysql (Less than 1 year), Quality manager (Less than 1 year), Subversion (2 years), Svn (2 years), Tomcat (Less than 1 year), web services. (2 years) Additional Information Technologies  Java, Spring, Spring Boot, Spring Micro services, API, Docker, jQuery JavaScript, CSS HTML, Amazon Web Services, C/C++, Jasmine, JUnit, TestNG    Tools  JUnit, Selenium, Agile, Git, SVN, Rally, JIRA Confluence, MySQL Workbench, Eclipse, Apache Tomcat, Jasper report, Rational Quality Manager, Maven NodeJS / NPM    Databases  MySQL, PostgreSQL    Methodologies  Agile, Waterfall    Industry Experience