Senior Java Developer Senior <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Developer Cincinnati, OH Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior Java Developer Target - MN October 2015 to March 2017 Project: Product Costing and Negotiation (PCN)    • We have used agile methodology in this project so there is no much documentation work and the deliverables were very fast.  • The objective of the project is to make it automated as much as possible.  • Developed action classes and used springs boot instead of spring framework.  • Responsible for designing & developing the UI Screens using Angular JS, HTML pages, Spring boot framework and JAVA-J2EE technologies.  • I have written JUNIT test cases for the modules I worked in this project.  • Used derby as a database for test cases.  • Used Stash and Team city for code repository and code build.    Environment: Java – J2EE, Angular JS, Bootstrap, Spring boot, Node Js, HTML, CSS, XML, JDBC , IBATIS, STS, JUNIT, Oracle, Maven, Teamcity, Stash, Selenium. Java Developer IGRID Technologies - Hyderabad, Andhra Pradesh May 2013 to October 2014 Project: Electronic Credit Card Application Processing System (ECAPS)    • Responsible for designing & developing the UI Screens using Angular JS with node.js, HTML pages, CSS, spring boot framework with Apache-Maven and JAVA-J2EE technologies.  • Involved in discussions with clients to gather requirements to fulfill the objectives.  • Implemented object relational mapping using JPA and Hibernate framework.  • Used SQL server as a database for application.  • Used derby as a database for test cases.  • Used Stash and Team city for code repository and code build.  • Responsible for overseeing the Quality procedures of the project.    Environment: Java - J2EE, Controllers, Angular JS, Node Js, Spring MVC, HTML, CSS, XML, JPA Hibernate, Eclipse Luna, JUNIT, Maven, Jenkins, Git Hub Jr. Java Developer IGRID Technologies - Hyderabad July 2012 to April 2013 Project: Employee Billing Management System (EBMS)    Worked as a part of web development team, carrying out tasks requested by the project manager, and ensures that website is build for customers precisely matched their requirements.  • Worked and maintained the front end functionality of the Website from scratch Using HTML, CSS and Java Script.  • Developed server side functionality of the website using JAVA and SPRING MVC.  • Involved in discussions with clients to gather requirements to fulfill the objectives.  • Interacted with several teams, to implement the requirements.  • I was responsible for preparing the technical documentation. Jr. Web Developer Shenll Software Solutions - Chennai, Tamil Nadu January 2012 to June 2012 • Responsible for analyzing the specification provided by the clients.  • Developing and maintain the front end functionality of the Website from scratch Using HTML, CSS and Java Script.  • Developing and maintain server side functionality of the website using PHP.  • Participating in team discussions to clarify what clients wants exactly.  • Interact with the Design team to get the graphics needed for the web site.  • Documented software and technical specifications. Education Bachelor of Science in Information Technology Gandhi Institute of Technology and Management Masters of Science in Information Systems Marist College Skills Java, Javascript, Angularjs Links https://github.com/rakeshkotha6/KNR-Solvents/tree/KNR