Full Stack Java Developer Full Stack <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Full Stack Java Developer - Hastings Mutual Hastings, MI • Extensive SDLCs experience including Requirement Analysis, Preparations of Technical Specifications Document, Design and Coding, Application Implementation, Unit testing and System Testing, Functional and Regression Testing and Production Support.  • Over 5 years of extensive development experience in an environment building n-tier applications for web deployment using Java, J2EE, Spring Frame Work, Spring MVC, Hibernate and Web Services.  • Experience in developing Front-End and User Interface using Struts, JSP, JSF, JQuery, Ajax, AngularJs, ReactJS, HTML, DHTML and CSS.  • Experience in developing single page applications using ReactJS.  • Experience in developing web applications using JSP, Spring MVC Frameworks, EJB, Hibernate, JBOSS, JDBC, Java Server Pages, Servlet, Web Services, JavaScript, JavaBeans  • Expertise in building device independent UI designs using frameworks like Twitter Bootstrap.  • Strong experience of developing data models using Hibernate POJO's, configuring Hibernate persistence layer, mapping Java classes with database using Hibernate and in Hibernate query language (HQL)  • Worked extensively with Waterfall, Agile, SCRUM Methodologies.  • Experience with Version Control Systems like Subversion (SVN), Git, Clear case and VSS.  • Developed AJAX functionalities using frameworks like JSON, POJO and JQuery.  • Expertise in building and deploying of EAR, WAR, JAR files and working with various version control systems such as ClearCase, SVN, and GitHub.  • Wide exposure with IDE's like Eclipse, NetBeans, IntelliJ, STS for Java programming.  • Experience in creating JSON scripts for Cloud Formation based on requirements and launch stacks.  • Good knowledge of in Unified Modeling Tools (UML) concepts and extensively worked in designing Use Cases, Class diagrams, Sequence and Object Diagrams using Rational Rose and Microsoft Visio.  • Proficient in SQL, PL/SQL writing DDL, DML and Transaction queries with development tools like TOAD and Rapid SQL on MySQL.  • Expertise in implementing Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) using Microservices and RESTful web services.  • Excellent analytical, problem solving and interpersonal skills. Ability to learn new concepts fast. Consistent team player with excellent communication skills. Work Experience Full Stack Java Developer Hastings Mutual - Hastings, MI May 2018 to Present Trust and verification portal (TVP) is a web based portal used to verify a new client's background before Hastings Mutual could do business with them. TVP enables Hastings Mutual business units to satisfy regulatory know your client entity checks on clients, partners, vendors and other organizations with whom Mutual Insurance does business with. This vital part of the onboarding process allows Mutual Hastings to perform due diligence to identify the risks of potentially engaging with fraudulent, money-laundering or other illegitimate organizations.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC).  • Responsible for creating High level and Component level design documents.  • Involved in developing SQL queries and stored procedures to insert, fetch and update records into the database using Spring JDBC.  • Used Spring Batch integrated with Quartz to schedule job to generate a fixed length file and FTP it to the mainframe location.  • Designing and developing REST based Web service calls using Jax-RS.  • Provided spring based RESTful Web service.  • Experience on implementing the AngularJS in creating animations based on CSS classes.  • Used routing feature of Angular JS for Single page application (SPA)  • Used AJAX and JSON to make asynchronous calls to the project server to fetch data on the fly.  • Used JQuery and Ajax for service calls on pages to interact with the server for information.  • Developed Complex database objects like Stored Procedures, Functions, Packages and created new web components and features.  • Involved with bug fixing on functionality, performance and designing issues with JavaScript and JQuery.  • Developed the front-end pages using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, AngularJs responsive web design and Bootstrap.  • Worked on Implementing the JavaScript/JQuery frameworks such as Angular JS for MVW/MVC framework.  • Followed Agile & Scrum Methodology for development of the applications.  • Automated test cases related to JDBC Connections and Web Services in Apache JMeter.    Environment: Java/J2EE, Spring MVC, Spring JDBC, Spring Batch, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Angular JS, JQuery, Ajax, IBM Web sphere MQ, Apache JMeter, Sql Server, Maven, GIT, Eclipse 3.8 and UNIX. Java Developer IQVIA (Formerly Quintiles) - Morrisville, NC October 2017 to April 2018 Hierarchical Condition Categorization (HCC): HCC is used to analyze the patient and identify the list of eligible  HCC's and calculate the risk associated with patient to fall under a category, which would eventually be  used for paying providers.    Responsibilities:  • Worked with business team in requirements gathering meetings to analyze the requirements and extract business rules from requirements.  • Designed and developed XOM classes with appropriate design patterns.  • Designed, developed and orchestrated the rules with proper packaging and appropriate rule flows.  • Worked on the client application for integrating with rules projects.  • Worked and assisted business users in using decision center and synchronizing the projects from rule designer and deploying the applications in various decision server environments.  • Extensively worked in rule designer to create XOM and rule projects from scratch.  • Coordinated and worked with business team for updating BOM with appropriate vocabulary.  • Worked with admin team in installing WODM in all environments with Websphere and DB2  • Extensively worked on XOM classes for updating with utility classes and methods for custom functionality in rules.  • Used IBM governance framework for configuring decision center with various roles and using release management.  • Supported QA by fixing defects to meet the QA standards.  • Worked on the client applications and microservices using java and spring boot.  • Developed various java classes and modules for application logic and database access inside java modules.  • Developed service classes in the application using java and spring frameworks.  • Assisted QA team in testing the application using decision validation framework.    Environment: JavaScript, CSS3, AJAX, HTML5, Micro Services, Spring, DB2, CRUD, JDBC, Git, GitHub, Junit, Scrum, UML, JSP, JSTL, Servlet, Maven, XML, JIRA, Apache Tomcat, LINUX, PHP Full Stack Java Developer Terabyte Systems, India - IN April 2015 to May 2017 Worked with a team of Java and GUI developers to develop, maintain and improve client websites. Involved in development efforts of internal online applications, collaborated with business owners to implement major enhancements.    Responsibilities:  • Prepared High-Level requirement documents upon gathering requirements and discussed with the technical team regarding the feasibility of the requirements.  • Developed internal web applications for the human resource department using JavaScript, JQuery, Ajax and HTML  • Involved in developing user interfaces using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX, and JSON.  • Developed web pages with functionalities like login, register, forget password, Email, Filters using JavaScript and HTML5.  • Used JavaScript to update a portion of a web page thus reducing bandwidth usage and load time in web pages to get user input and requests.  • Used Bootstrap, NodeJS and AngularJS for effective design of Web pages.  • Working on the spring framework like Spring IOC and Spring DAO.  • Configuration and deployment of application on to JBOSS application server.  • Performed Java web application development using J2EE and Netbeans.  • Involved in Requirement analysis, design and Implementation applying the Water fall model.  • Wrote Servlets programming and JSP scripting for the communication between web browser and server.  • Working with the JIRA tool for Quality Center bug tracking.  • Install and configure a LINUX server to publish applications and the Database  • Involved in packaging, deployment and upgrade of different modules of SAS on JBoss App server.    Environment: Java, JEE, JavaScript, JQuery, AngularJs, Bootstrap, Ajax, HTML5, CSS3, Spring, MySQL, SQL Server, WSDL, Netbeans, JBOSS, Water Fall Model, UML, JSP, Servlet, XML, JIRA Software Developer Reliance Tech - Hyderabad, Telangana January 2014 to March 2015 Services, India    Reliance Tech Services (A Co. of Reliance Communications Limited.) - Service Provider of network audit, fire protection & digital and high definition video in Hyderabad.    Responsibilities:  • Applied Use Cases diagram to validate and test web application design against the UI architecture.  • Created web pages for each project using XHTML, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Used JQuery to handle the client-side validations.  • Responsible for transforming designed mock-ups to web pages.  • Used to update the HTML pages using JQUERY AJAX via JSON response.  • Designed and developed AJAX calls to populate screens parts on demand.  • Developed Web applications that are cross - browser compatible.  • Responsible in creating the screens with table less design.  • Performing new-website support research in the areas of Latest Web Technologies, Usability, Accessibility, and User Experience.    Environment: HTML, XHTML, CSS2/3, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, JSON, JavaScript, Firebug DEV tool, Chrome DEV Tool, Illustrator, Dreamweaver, Visio and Eclipse IDE. Education Master's in Computer and Information Science in Computer and Information Science Kent State University - Kent, OH Skills Java/J2EE, Spring MVC, Spring JDBC, Spring Batch, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Angular JS, JQuery, Ajax, IBM Web sphere MQ, Apache JMeter, Sql Server, Maven, GIT, Eclipse 3.8 and UNIX. (5 years), Java Additional Information Technical Skills    Operating System: Windows, UNIX, LINUX  Languages: Java, C, MySQL, SQL, Python, VB.Net  Methodology: OOAD, SDLC Agile, Waterfall and UML  J2EE Skills: Servlets, JSP, JDBC, JJSTL, J2EE Design Patterns  and RESTful Webservices  Web Technologies: HTML, JavaScript, AJAX, AngularJS, CSS, XML, JQuery, Bootstrap  Frameworks: Microservices, Spring Framework, Angular  Design Patterns: MVC, DAO Pattern, Singleton Pattern, Front Controller, Factory Pattern  Database/Tools: Oracle 9i/10g/11g, SQL Server 2008/2012, Hibernate  Web/App Server: Apache Tomcat, WebSphere  IDE/Tools: Eclipse, IntelliJ, Maven build, Selenium, Weka  Testing Tool: Postman  Version Control: GITHub, Apache Subversion