Expert Expert Expert - Walmart ? Overall5 years of experience in analysis, implementation and testing of Object-Oriented Applications in Client/Server environments using Java/J2EE.  ? Experienced in Java Application Development, Object Oriented Concepts, Object Oriented Analysis (OOA), Object Oriented Programming (OOP) and its implementation.  ? Expertise in design and development of various web and enterprise-level applications using Java/J2EE technologies like Spring, Hibernate, XML, Strutsframework, JDBC, JMS, Java and Servlets.  ? Strong experience in implementing Service oriented architecture and Web Services using SOAP, RESTFUL API's.  ? Developed web applications by implementing Model View Control (MVC) architecture.  ? Experienced in frameworks:Struts framework, JSF, Spring, Spring Boot, Hibernate, Spring IOC, Spring Security, Spring Cloud, and Spring MVC.  ? Experience working with Service Oriented Architecture(SOA), which includes Web Services Description Language (WSDL) using SOAP protocol.  ? Expertise in XML technologies such as DTD/Schemas, DOM, SAX, JAX-B and XSLT.  ? Experience in configuring and deploying the applications on Apache Tomcat, WebSphere, WebLogic and JBoss Servers.  ? Experienced in writing complex SQL queries, Triggers and Stored Procedures in various databases such as Oracle, DB2 and MySQL.  ? Experienced in Installing, Configuring and Administering Oracle GlassFish Application Server v3/3.1.2 and Apache ActiveMQ v5.5/5.6.  ? Experienced in Development, testing and deployment of enterprise applications on Windows&UNIX platforms using IDEs such as Eclipse, IntelliJ and NetBeans.  ? Experience in using different version controlling/tracking systems GIT, CVS, Subversion.  ? Experienced in working with multiple databases like Oracle 10/11g, SQL Server, MySQL, PL/SQL and DB2.  ? Experienced in performing unit testing using JUnit, Mockito integration and deployment of applications using tools such asJenkins and Maven& debugging through log4j.  ? Good knowledge of utilizing Cloud technologies including One-Ops, Microsoft Azure.  ? Experience working with various SDLC methodologies like Agile Scrum, Domain Driven DesignandWaterFall Model.  ? Experience in document preparation including Requirement Specification,Analysis,design documents, Test cases and User Training documents and Technical Help documents.  ? Excellent verbal, written communication and presentation skills, problem solving and conflict resolution skills. Work Experience Expert Walmart - Bentonville, AR February 2018 to Present Bentonville, AR. Feb2018 to present  Description:  Worked as a Backend resource in Master Data team from Health and Wellness department. Developed an application named "Connexus" which is basically operated byWalmart pharmacist to access data from Golden Database(GDB) and perform all kinds of transactions related to patient's data. On the backend side the project I deal with Central Patient Record 2.0 where we developed API's and deployed those services in OneOps and Azure clouds.Spring and Spring Boot as frameworks, IBM DB2, Hibernate, Restful webservices, Apache Tomcat, GitHub, Soap UI, Looper, Jira and other tools are used.  Responsibilities:  ? Create and maintain APIs utilizing swagger framework backed by Hibernatedata access layer.  ? Written Spring Core and Spring MVC files to associate DAO with Business Layer.  ? Expert hands-on experience in working with Spring modules like SpringMVC, SpringORM, Spring JDBC, Spring Web Services, Spring JMS etc.  ? Wrote Spring Security based authentication and authorization layer.  ? Extensive experience in developing RESTful Web Services using Jersey andspring boot.  ? Experience in Unit testing using JUnit and Mockito.  ? Good Experience with configuration management tools like SVN and GIT.  ? Involved in writing application level code to interact with APIs, Web Services using AJAX, JSON and XML.  ? Continuous integration and continuous delivery with JenkinsLooper Build tool. Building pipeline, test jobs and deploying.  ? Created, monitored, and operated a CI/CD workflow composed GitLab.  ? Designed and developed the REST based Web services using the Spring Boot, Hibernate with JPA  ? Refactored existing monolithic application by identifying components that need to be transformed to Web- services architecture, with Spring Boot-based services interacting through a combination of REST.  ? Used the following tools everyday: Bash, Git,Looper, My Sql, DBeaver, Jira.  ? Developed Controller classes, DOA classes, beans, JSP's and Data Objects in Java.  ? Deployment and management of services on cloud platform like OneOps, and Micrsoft Azure.  ? Good Experience on DBeaver UI in building and testing the queries and accessing data tables from database.  ? Building, Testing of Webservices using SoapUI, Postman by using Mock services.    Environment: Spring 4.0, Spring boot 2.0, Hibernate, Java 1.8, Maven 3.0, Looper (Jenkins Continuous Integration), Spring Security,Webservices,OneOps,Swagger, Soap-UI, Junit, Log4j, DB2(RDBMS), Apache Tomcat, Eclipse. J2EE Developer Charter Communications - St. Louis, MO July 2017 to December 2017 Description: Service Order Administration (SOA) Gateway makes it possible for customers to switch from one telephone service provider to another without changing the telephone numbers. SOA application shall be developed as a suite of independently deployable, small, modular services. Each of the modular services are organized around capabilities and communicate through well-defined, lightweight mechanism to serve a business goal. Each of these services shall be independently deployable.BDD services module will handle the functionality related to parsing and processing the Bulk Data Download (BDD) files that are received from NPAC.    Responsibilities:  ? Implemented Agile (Scrum) Methodology that includes daily scrum with team, sprint planning and estimating the tasks for the user stories.  ? Developed code on core concepts Collections, Encapsulation, Multi-Threading, Inheritance.  ? Developed end to end application on Spring boot framework (Rest Api Application/Spring JPA using Crud repository).  ? Used Spring boot to provide defaults for code and annotation configuration to quickly start the application.  ? Developed dynamic responsive Web Application by integrating Angular JS with Bootstrap which is further integrated with Web Services.  ? Designed and developed Micro services business components using Spring boot.  ? Integrated BPM to Java services using custom built Web services (HTTP and REST).  ? Designed and developed Spring boot adapter services using rest API.  ? Utilized Spring Interceptor concept for detecting the suspicious calls.  ? Redesigning the existing web application with new technologies like Bootstrap, Angular.js.  ? Configuring the Docker Containers and creating Docker files for various applications and experience in continuous integration using Jenkins for timely builds, code coverage, running test.  ? Implement server patch deployment process for Windows Server AWS Instances.  ? Configured and maintained Jenkins to implement the CI/CD pipeline.  ? Form validations with the JavaScript libraries such as Node JS and Angular JS.  ? Services implemented with Rest methods of GET, POST, PUT and DELETE using Restify.js  ? Design and development of the new Technical flow based on JAVA/J2EE technologies.  ? Used advanced Java 8 features like Lambda expressions for array operations, collections. Enhanced Concurrency methods etc. throughout the application for well-defined programming.  ? Involved in analyzing business requirements and compose them into a technical use cases.  ? Involved in Spring Framework- Spring Dependencies and Spring Annotations.  ? Used Spring MVC on the web layer and business delegate and DAO on the business layer.  ? Designed and developed RESTFUL Web services for the application to seamlessly supporting all data exchange formats (JSON, XML etc).  ? Utilized Ansible, Gitto install and configure Linux environments with successful production deployment    Environment: Java, J2EE, UNIX, Hibernate, Spring Boot, Spring MVC, Spring IOC, Spring Security, Spring, Java Mail API, XML, jQuery, HTML, CSS, JSON, Git, GitHub, Jenkins, Maven, Angular JS, Junit. Java/J2EE Developer KOHLS Corporation October 2017 to October 2017 Description: Kohl's is an American department store retailing chain. Our team is working on products which integrate systems and tools to deliver a single view of the customer.This project was developed using Java EE 7, IBM WebSphere Application Server v8.5, drools 6.3, Tomcat 7.0, Spring 3.2, SOAP Web Service, Spring Security, RESTful, Servlet 3.0, JDBC, XML, JSON, Eclipse, JAX-RS, Oracle RDBMS.    Responsibilities:  ? Responsible for coordinating the design and implementation activities, collaborated with project managers and engineering teams.  ? Designed and coded application components in an agile environment utilizing a test-driven development approach.  ? Developed Controllers for Restfulservices using spring-web mvc.  ? Developed web services callers using Jersey framework.  ? Worked on MVC (Model View Controller) architecture using Springs/Strutsframework and various Java / J2EEdesignpatterns.  ? Experience with third-party APIsExperience with CSS pre-processors.  ? Servers installation and Maintenance of windows 2008 and RedHat 6.x & 7 Linux Server.  ? Designed and Developed Web Services using Restful and SOAP protocols.  ? Used Soap-UI and Rest Client for functional testing of the web services.  ? Used the DOM parser to parse xml's.  ? Consuming and exposing various Web services using JAX-RS and JSON to different systems for business services.  ? Involved in creating Database SQL and PL/SQL queries and StoredProcedures.  ? Implemented Singletonpattern for property loading, loading xml's and static data from DB.  ? Building model networks based on agreed low level design. The building part includes configurations in various transmission & access devices.  ? Used Hibernate for mapping java classes to the database.  ? Developed web services components using XML, SOAP and Axis2.  ? Developed Database interaction objects by implementing the DAO pattern.  ? Deployed applications on WebSphere application server and tomcat web server.  ? Used Log4j API for logging in the application.  ? Used GIT for version control across common source code used by developers.  ? Developed the application using Eclipse.  ? Periodic on-call/after-hours production support for scheduled maintenance routines, quarterly system updates and patches, and other items that affect operations.  Environment: Java EE 7, IBM WebSphere Application Server v8.5, Tomcat 7.0, Spring , Spring Security, SOAP Web Services, RESTful web services, Servlet 3.0, JDBC, Hibernate, Spring boot 1.2.6, JUNIT 3.8, Eclipse, Log 4j, JAX-B, JAX-RS/Jersey, JAX-WS, XML, Oracle RDBMS and JSON. Java Backend Developer May 2014 to July 2015 Java Developer vCentric Technologies Pvt Ltd - Hyderabad, Telangana January 2014 to July 2015 Description:vCentric Technologies Pvt. Ltd. is a wholly owned subsidiary of intelligence India and one of the fastest growing recruitment and staffing services provider in India. vCentric solely focuses on matching technical skilled professionals with the job opportunities with a variety of employers across industries.  Responsibilities:  ? Performed clientside validations using JavaScript and server side validations using in built Spring Validation Framework.  ? Designed and developed HTML5, JavaScript, Ajax, XML, MYSQL, apps working in a LINUX Web Server and Apache environment.  ? Implemented the data persistence functionality of the application by using Hibernate to persist java objects to the relational database.  ? Used Hibernate Annotations to reduce time at the configuration level and accessed Annotated bean from Hibernate DAO layer. Used HQL statements and procedures to fetch the data from the database.  ? Transformed, Navigated and Formatted XML documents using XSL, XSLT.  ? Developed the view components using JSP, HTML5.  ? Used JUnit Testing Framework for performing Unit testing.  ? Deployed application in WebSphereApplication Server.  ? Design and develop various modules of application and performed integration testing.  ? Provided solutions to various tickets from Jira.  Environment: Spring, Hibernate, Maven, Ant, JSP, JavaScript, XSL, XSLT, Servlets 2.5, WebSphere Application Server and Oracle db. Education Master of Science in C.S University of Cumberlands Additional Information Technical Skills:  Languages/API Java ( Java SE 6/7/8), J2EE, SQL and PL/SQL    Operating Systems Windows, Linux.  Frameworks Spring Boot, Spring, Spring MVC, Struts, Hibernate3.0/4.0, JDBC, RESTful,Junit.  Web/Integration Technologies JSP, Servlets,HTML5, CSS3, XML, jQuery, Json, Ajax, AngularJS.  Cloud Technologies OneOps, Microsoft Azure.  Architecture SOA (Service oriented architecture).  Web/Application Servers Apache Tomcat, IBM WebSphere, GlassFish.  IDE's Eclipse, NetBeans,IntelliJ Idea, Microsoft Visual Studio.  Database/Cache Oracle, MySQL, DB2 RDBMS.  Webservices SOAP, JAX-WS, WSDL, Restful, Jersey, Rest Template etc.  Version Control GitHub, SVN (Apache subversion).  Build Tools ANT, Maven, Looper (JenkinsContinuous Integration).  Others Log4j, Soap-UI, Swagger-UI, Postman,Mockito, Putty.  Bug Tracking tool Jira