Full Stack Java Developer Full Stack <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Full Stack Java Developer - Optum • Having 5 years of experience in developing Web Applications using HTML (4/5), CSS (2/3), JavaScript, TypeScript, Angular (2/4), Node.js, Express JS, jQuery, AJAX, XML, Bootstrap, JSON, Java/J2EE.  • Experience in working with Angular 2/4 modules, services, templates, directives, services and dependency injection to create a SPA.  • Hands on Knowledge on Azure Cloud Services for creating Web-Applications and Knowledge on Azure CLI.  • Knowledge in configuring Cloud platform such as VMs, Azure AD, Web Apps, DB's, Cloud Services, etc.  • Experienced on creating and managing Azure VM, VMware tools, Cloud Services, and Storages.  • Experience in Developing User Interface (UI) Rich Web Applications, and Web Service Applications using Front End/User Interface (UI) Technologies like Object Oriented JavaScript, Type Script, Angular JS, Node JS, Bootstrap, Media Queries, CSS Frameworks, Java.  • Expertise in Angular 2.0 framework and its ability to create simple and scalable code for SPA.  • Worked extensively on Angular 2/ Typescript SPA domains.  • Create desktop application with Angular 2/4 and Unit Test with Karma-Jasmine.  • Experience in building application with React JS, Redux, Require JS, in MVC architecture.  • Expertise in React.JS framework and integrate them to Node.js server-side code.  • Good Experience in handling Ext JS Ajax Request and Response using Java Spring and JSON  • Developed custom UI components and complex UI screens using Ext JS framework.  • Sophisticated knowledge and hand-on experience in creating rich front-end application using Ext JS 4.x/5.x/6.x Framework de.js, Express and MongoDB.  • Expertise in implementing the MVC architecture in backend applications Node.js along with Express JS.  • Extensively Worked on CSS Background, CSS Positioning, CSS Text, CSS Border, CSS Margin, CSS Sprites, CSS Padding, CSS Table, Pseudo Elements & Classes and CSS Behaviors in CSS.  • Highly skilled at front-end engineering using Object-Oriented JavaScript.  • Experience with various IDE's such as Eclipse, Sublime, Dreamweaver, and Notepad++.  • Involved in Asp.Net Web pages design using HTML and JavaScript and code behind Using C# and Ajax.  • Extensive experience in Amazon Web Services like EC2, Simple DB, RDS, Elastic Load Balancing, SQS, SNS, AWS Identity and access management, AWS Cloud Watch, Elastic Beanstalk and Cloud Front, Redshift.  • Experience in using Chrome Developer Tools and Firebug for debugging and troubleshooting the code  • Developed enhancements to Mongo DB architecture to improve performance and scalability.  • Extensive knowledge in Mongo DB concepts and good knowledge in Administration  • Good experience in automated build process by using Jenkins and Maven.  • Experience in Unit Testing (UIT), Integration Testing and in preparing test cases.  • Expertise in working on AWS to integrate the to integrate the Server and Client-side code.  • Used Jenkins for build Process to Generate Continuous Integration and Version Control is done by GIT  • Extensively used jQuery, JSON, AJAX and DOM scripting to create interactive web applications.  • Expertise in Video Coding by using HTML5, CSS3 and java Script.  • Extensively used the repositories like GIT and SVN.  • Good experience in unit testing by using Karma and Mocha.    Technical Skills Set  • Web Technologies HTML, HTML5, CSS3, LESS, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX, XHTML, XML, JSON.  • xEditors: NetBeans, Aptana Studio, Notepad++, Sublime text, Visual Studio, WebStorm, Adobe Dreamweaver, Espresso and Eclipse  • SDLC's: Agile (Scrum), Waterfall    • Web Server: IIS, Apache Tomcat 5.0.25, HTTP Web Server.    • Database: MS SQL server 2008, Oracle 10g/11g, Mongodb, MySQL 5.0, DB2.    • Frameworks: NodeJS, Ext.JS, AngularJS, Angular 2/4, React JS, Bootstrap, Backbone JS, MVC, MVVM and TestNG.  • Programming Languages: Core Java/J2EE, JavaScript, .net Framework core, Entity Framework ASP.net, C, C++, C#, VB, SQL, PL/SQ  • Development Tools: Adobe Photoshop CS5, Adobe Illustrator.  • Version Controls: SVN, TFS, GIT.  • Operating System: Windows-9X, Windows NT/2000, Windows XP/7/8 (Prof), Linux, Mac OS Work Experience Full Stack Java Developer Optum - Boston, MA July 2018 to Present • Incorporated cache replication across nodes using ehcache on JBOSS.  • Involved in multi-tiered Java EE design using spring MVC and REST web services deployed on JBOSS Server connecting to SQL database.  • Involved in application business layer development through spring framework.  • Involved in writing FTLs that invoked various JavaScript files which in turn invoked various methods in the java classes by configuring the java objects in a bean which is maintained by the Spring IOC container.  • Developed Java Messaging Service JMS with Message Driven Beans by configuring JMS Queues, Topics, and Connection Factories.  • Developed critical components of the application including Spring forms, Spring controllers, JSP views, and business logic and data logic components that include Hibernate Entities, Spring-Hibernate DAO and Spring models following MVC architecture.  • Developed JUnit test framework and executed unit test cases by using JUNIT for fixes.  • Designed and developed Patient profile Page according to HL7 guidelines using Spring MVC framework, Hibernate ORM Module, Spring Core Module, XML, JSP, XSLT, and XHTML.  • Used MySQL database for SQL, PL/SQL scripts, stored procedures, functions, triggers.  • Produced and consumed both micro services and web services.  • Designed and developed various helper classes needed - following Core Java multi-threaded programming and Collection classes.  • Developed front-end content using JSP, JavaScript, J Query, HTML, XHTML, CSS, Bootstrap and Angular JS.  • Used Salesforce, Rally, and Confluence for bug-tracking and Kanban.  • Developed Restful Web services for transmission of data in JSON/XML format.  • Developed build scripts using Maven and Jenkins for CI/CD.  • Responsible for code reviews of other team members.    Environment: Java, J2EE, HTML5, XHTML, JMS, CSS3, J Query, Bootstrap, JavaScript, AngularJS, Hibernate, Spring MVC, Spring IOC, Spring boot, Spring security, XML, XSLT, GIT, JSP, JUnit, Maven, Jenkins, JAX-WS, Restful, Microservices, Log4J, JBOSS, WSDL, Rally, Confluence, Sales Force. Full Stack Java Developer Aetna - Plano, TX September 2017 to July 2018 • Responsible for various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) such as requirements gathering, modeling, analysis, design, development, and testing.  • Designed and developed admin home page, user module (modify/search users, create user's screens with assigning various roles) using Spring MVC framework, Hibernate ORM Module, Spring Core Module, XML, JSP, and XSLT.  • Developed single page application and structured the JavaScript code using AngularJS.  • AngularJS Ajax module is used to handle RESTful calls to enable communication between view components and server.  • Produced and consumed both microservices and web services.  • Responsible for implementing the business requirements using Spring MVC, Spring Boot, Spring Data and Spring Security.  • Implemented Dispatcher Servlet as a controller in Spring MVC.  • Implemented the application using Spring MVC Framework and handled the authentication, authorization, and access-control features by using Spring Security.  • Developed various helper classes needed following Core Java multi-threaded programming and Collection classes.  • Developed front-end content using JSP, JavaScript, J Query, HTML, CSS, Bootstrap and Angular JS.  • Used Maven as a build automation tool for deploying the project on Tomcat Server.  • RESTful web services using Jersey for JAX-RS implementation.  • Install, monitor and maintain the development infrastructure including JIRA and Confluence.  • Developed Restful Web services for transmission of data in JSON format.  • Used MySQL for data storage and utilized aspects like joins, triggers, and interrupts.  • Hosted containers for both mono lith, microservices architecture and broke down the existing monolith application to microservices on (AWS) EC2 instance.  • Developed test cases using JUnit and the build scripts using Maven and Jenkins for CI/CD.  • Used Git to maintain the version of the files and took the responsibility to do the code merges and creating a new branch when new feature implementation starts.    Environment: Java, J2EE, HTML5, CSS3, JQuery, Ajax, Bootstrap, JavaScript, AngularJS, Hibernate, Spring MVC, Spring IOC, Spring boot, spring security, OAuth, XML, GIT, JSP, JUnit, Maven, Jenkins, JAX-WS, Restful, Amazon Web Services (AWS), Microservices, Log4J, Oracle, WSDL, JIRA, Confluence. Full-Stack Software Developer Courier Ventures LLC - Miami, FL April 2017 to June 2017 • Designed, developed and deployed a web application using PHP, JavaScript, HTML, CSS, Boot Strap and followed an MVC architecture.  • Created and maintained Application Programming Interface (APIs) using Postman and IntelliJ IDE.  • Designed and completed the User Experience Screens and databases based on the type of user, access levels etc.  • Contributed various work flows in our business models by following an Agile Methodology.  • Utilized Google Chart APIs for generation of QR Code based on the package ID to track packages on the go.  • Implemented a web-service API which returned a JSON object.  • Used PHP My Admin for managing the Database and tables and executed queries using MySQL.  • Utilized Google Map API for navigation of a package to the destination particularly used by package delivery team.  • Used J Query for validations on the front-end.  • Tested the web application using Selenium WebDriver.  • Used SourceTree and Bit-bucket for version control.    Environment: PHP, HTML, CSS, JQuery, BootStrap, SourceTree, MySQL, Bit-bucket, IntelliJ IDEA, Selenium WebDriver, PHPMyAdmin, MySQL. Java Developer ThermoTech - Vadodara, Gujarat August 2014 to June 2015 Environment: JDK, Spring framework, Eclipse, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Angular JS, JQuery, SCCM, Student Access, LiveZilla servers, Desktop-support, Windows Active Directory, PL/SQL.    Java Developer  ThermoTech, Vadodara, India August 2014 - June 2015  • Responsible for writing Spring Configuration XML file that contains declarations and other dependent objects declaration.  • Used AngularJS to parse the JSON file using the REST web services.  • Configured AWS Identity and Access Management (IAM) Groups and Users for improved login authentication  • Worked in agile methodology.  • Inserted Dependency Injection between components using Spring (IoC) concept.  • Implemented Asynchronous messaging between System Integration components using JMS [Spring JMS Template].  • Responsible for Setting up web services project using WSDL in SOAPUI and provided setup help to other team members.  • Extensively worked on SOA and web services to get the data and configured JMS queues on the server.  • Integrated Hibernate ORM with Spring-Hibernate framework to facilitate DML and DQL queries and represent object-database mapping.  • Followed SOA design and architecture to develop REST Web Service, generated and consume the services.  • Used Maven for the project dependencies.  • Provided SSL Handshake security to REST Web Services.  • Developed application service components and configured beans using Spring IoC, the creation of Hibernate mapping files and generation of the database schema.  • Worked on parsing the XML files using DOM/SAX parsers.  • Involved in creating various Data Access Objects (DAO) for addition, modification, and deletion of records using various specification files.  • Created tables, triggers, stored procedures, SQL queries, joins and views for multiple databases, using MySQL.  • Involved in JUnit testing of various modules by generating the test cases.  • Developed Maven profiles for the build process and deployed in the server.  • Developed logging aspects using Spring AOP.  • Designed and documented REST/HTTP APIs, including JSON data formats and API versioning strategy  • Involved in bug fixing of various modules that were raised by the testing teams in the application during the integration testing phase.  • Implemented Log4J for Logging Errors, debugging and tracking using loggers and appenders.  • Prepared technical reports & documentation manuals during the program development.  • Used GitHub for version control.    Environment: JDK, Angular JS, Bootstrap UI, Spring, Hibernate, JPA (EJB), XML, XML Schemas, XSLT, JMS, MySQL, Maven, Log4J, Web Services, JAXB, WebLogic Application Server, GitHub, Eclipse. Education Student Affairs Technology Center Florida International University - Miami, FL December 2015 to April 2017