Sr. Java/J2ee Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Java</span>/J2ee <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Java/J2ee Developer - ATOS Salt Lake City, UT • 5+ years of experience in Software Development Life Cycle in client/server environment with focus on architecture, development, maintenance and support.  • 5 plus years of experience with Java and Object-Oriented Methodologies for wide range of development from Enterprise applications to web-based applications.  • Framework along with Web Service/Database related technologies.  • Expertise in Design, Development, Deployment of Enterprise and Web Based projects using Web servers and various application servers including WebLogic and WebSphere/RAD.  • Expertise in Object Oriented Analysis and Design (OOAD), OOP (Object Oriented Programming) and applying OO principles in software development.  • Elaborated understanding and experience in implementing JAVA Design Patterns.  • Hands on experience in designing UML diagrams using EA and Rational Rose.  • Hands on knowledge in scripting languages including Perl, Unix Shell.  • Worked in Financial (Credits, Online Share Trading,Commodities trading) Domain , Supply Chain Management Domain and Public sector.  • Strong knowledge in writing complex database queries,functions,stored procedures, database functions and performance tuning of various queries.  • A highly motivated and results-oriented team player with innovative ideas, can-do attitude, track record in on-time and high-quality product delivery, exceptional analytical and creative problem solving skills.  • Developed desktop application using J2SE it contains Java with GUI(AWT and swings).  • Experienced in multi-tier Web Components based J2EE architecture (JSPs/Servlets/ Java Beans).  • Experienced in Custom tags (Image path Tag, Document Tag, Link Tag), Tag library and creating build scripts using ANT.  • Experienced with J2EE standard compatible application servers including BEA Web Logic Server, IBM Web Sphere/RAD and deployment process and integration / interrelationships within systems.  • Superior proficiency in JBoss, Hibernate, SWT and Java Swing  • Experienced in trace the logs using Log4j. Experienced to implement internalization.  • Experienced creating in data model, class diagrams, activity diagrams, use cases, sequence diagrams and flow charts using Rational Rose and Visio.  • Experienced in database, working with JDBC, PL/SQL, Oracle and SQL Server.  • Experienced Stored Procedure, Functions, Triggers and Views in SQL Server, Oracle.  • Experienced developing testing strategy using JUnit.  • Application knowledge in Supply Chain Management (SCM), Financial.  • Good Experience in Product Development and Project Maintenance.  • Team Player with ability to learn quickly in work environment, productive interpersonal skills with ability to understand and cooperate group requirements efficiently. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Java/J2ee Developer ATOS - Salt Lake City, UT April 2019 to Present Description: Atos, manufactures, markets and sells machinery and engines and sells financial products and insurance to customers via a worldwide dealer network. MESA is an application which helps to organize the manufacturing of large machinery and helps to place up the manufacturing process.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in all phases of Software Development Lifecycle (SDLC) like Requirements gathering, Analysis, Design, Development and Deployment of various modules.  • Prepared Functional Design and Technical Design Documents.  • Developed and implemented the MVC Architectural Pattern using Struts MVC Framework including JSP, HTML5 and Action classes.  • Developed the presentation layer using JSP, Struts Tag libraries, HTML5, XHTML, CSS 3 and client validations using JavaScript.  • Well versed with UI frameworks such JSF/Prime faces and Usability experience.  • Designed Angular JS container application that host components developed by independent teams.  • Created and maintained the configuration of the Spring Application Frameworks IOC container.  • Developed actions and models encapsulating the business logic.  • Experienced in building Web Services (Restful, JAX-WS and JAXB).  • Created WSDL and XML Schemas, also worked on the Web Services classes.  • Used Apache Axis Service Engine for creating and deploying Web Service clients using SOAP and WSDL.  • Developed and maintained the data layer using the ORM framework Hibernate.  • Applied J2EE Design Patterns such as Factory, Singleton, and Business delegate, DAO and DTO.  • Developed ANT Scripts to build and deploy enterprise beans, web application and enterprise applications on the development and test servers.  • Developed message components to send/receive and publish/subscribe WebSphere MQ messages.  • Used JQuery for performing client-side scripting and validation.  • Provided Log4j support to the application for debugging the system.  • Build PL/SQL functions and stored procedures and configured Oracle Database 10g with JNDI data source with connection pooling enabled.  • Used Clear Case for maintaining version control and synchronizing changes.  • Participated in Unit Testing using JUnit and Integration Testing.    Environment: Java 1.6, J2EE 5, Servlet, JSP, XML, Struts 1.2, Hibernate 3.0, Log4j, ANT, Web services, Oracle Weblogic 10.3, Oracle 10g, TOMCAT, JSF, Prime Faces, JUnit, JQuery, Jenkins, Apache Axis 1.2, AngularJS, UML, Jasper Reporting, Restful, WSDL, Clear Case, IBM WebSphere MQ 7.0, PL/SQL, TOAD for Oracle, HTML5, CSS 3, JBOSS , Rational Rose and Eclipse. Sr. Java/J2ee Developer LL Bean - Freeport, ME October 2017 to October 2017 Description: LL Bean makes it easy to initiate wires electronically through the Commercial Electronic Office (CEO) business portal and the CEO Mobile service, as well as through non-electronic channels. To quickly process same-day and future-dated domestic and foreign wire payments in U.S. or foreign currencies and take advantage of real-time exchange rates. You can also approve or reject outgoing wires and monitor wire activity in your accounts when you're away from your desk through your Smartphone. One can View wires reports on schedule and customize them to as per their needs on this award-winning Internet portal.    Responsibilities:  • Analyzed Business Requirements and Identified mapping documents required for system and functional testing efforts for all test scenarios.  • Performed Requirement Gathering & Analysis by actively soliciting, analyzing and negotiating.  • Customer requirements and prepared the requirements specification document for the application  using Microsoft Word.  • Developed Use Case diagrams, business flow diagrams, Activity/State diagrams.  • Adopted J2EE design patterns like Session Facade and Business Facade.  • Configuration of application using Spring 2.6, Struts 1.3, Spring JDBC, DAO's, Actions Classes, Java Server Pages.  • Developed the application using Struts Framework that uses Model View Controller (MVC) architecture with JSP as the view.  • Developed presentation layer using JSP, HTML5, CSS 3, JQuery.  • Experienced in building Web Services (SOAP, JAX-RPC and JAXB)  • Used Spring to develop light weight business component.  • Extensively used Spring IOC for Dependency Injection and worked on Custom MVC Frameworks loosely based on Struts.  • Developed Servlets and Java Server Pages (JSP), to route the submittals to the EJB components and render-retrieved information using Session Facade, Service Locator (design pattern).  • Developed J2EE components on Eclipse 3.2 IDE.  • Deployed the applications on WebSphere Application Server.  • Handled JMS messages (XML) for Activity Implementation in IBM MQ Workflow  • Implemented Spring JDBC to persist the data.  • Used Oracle10g database for tables creation and involved in writing SQL queries using Joins and Stored Procedures.  • Writing complex SQL queries and reviewing SQL queries for the other team members.  • Developed JUnit Test Cases for Code unit test.  • Used the Log4j frame work to log the system execution details to log files.  • Used Jenkins for continuous integration.  • Used Maven for build and deployment.  • Worked with configuration management groups for providing various deployment environments set up including System Integration testing, Quality Control testing etc.    Environment: J2EE, JDK 1.5, JSP, Struts 1.3, Eclipse 3.2, Spring IOC, Spring JDBC, Jenkins, Web services, IBM MQ Series, SQL Developer, JSF, Oracle 10g, Rational Clear Quest, JQuery 1.4, HTML, EJB 3.0, JMS, SQL, UML, Scrum, Jasper Soft Reporting, Maven and JUnit. J2EE Software Developer American Express - Phoenix, AZ January 2017 to September 2017 Description: Buy Online (BOL) is a web-based POS (Point of Sale) application with inbuilt inventory management functionality for American Express gift cards. It supports a multitude of querying and reporting functionalities. The project involved activities like requirement gathering, design and development for a Web site which is used for buying Gift cards through Buy Online site, which is a Business to Consumer Application.    Responsibilities:  • Application was developed using the Struts MVC architecture.  • Developed action and form classes based on Struts framework to handle the pages.  • Developed a web-based reporting for credit monitoring system with HTML5, XHTML, JSTL, custom tags and Tiles using Struts framework.  • Developed Servlets and JSPs based on MVC pattern using Struts framework and Spring Framework.  • Developed web-based customer management software using Facelets, Icefaces and JSF.  • Implemented Ajax Frame works, jQuery tools examples like Auto Completer, Tab Module and Calendar and Floating windows.  • Configured Struts-Config file for form-beans, global forwards, error forwards and action forwards.  • Designed and implemented Report Module (using Jasper Report framework).  • Created several JSP's and populated them with data from database.  • Developed Message-Driven beans in collaboration with Java Messaging Service (JMS).  • Developing Web Services using Apache Axis 2 to retrieve data from legacy systems.  • Developed Servlets, Action classes, Action Form classes and configured the struts-config.xml file.  • Used XML parser APIs such as JAXP and JAXB in the web service's request response data marshalling as well as unmarshalling process.  • Developed UI components for email and link sharing of documents and files for a Content Management System using BackBone.js and JQuery.  • Planned and implemented various SQL, Stored Procedure, and triggers.  • Used Hibernate to access My SQL database and implemented of connection pooling.  • Developed JavaScript based components using Ext JS framework like GRID, Tree Panel with client reports customized according to user requirements.  • Performed building and deployment of WAR, JAR files on test, stage, and production systems in JBoss application server.  • Used ANT for the build process.    Environment: J2EE, Java 1.4.2, Servlets, JSP, JDBC, EJB 2, MDB, JMS, JQuery, backbone.js, HTML5, JSTL, Ice faces, XML, Spring, Struts, Prime Faces, JSF, Hibernate, Web Services, JBoss Server, JSF, EXT JS, JAXB, Jasper Report, JUnit, SOAP, XML, JavaScript, UML, Apache Axis 2, ANT and MySQL. Java/J2ee Developer Health Highway Inc - Campbell, CA May 2015 to December 2016 Description: This healthcare application is designed to facilitate patients and physicians to interact online. Involves fixing appointments, patient registration, billing etc. This is a java enterprise application developed on web logic application server and backend is oracle.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in requirement analysis and played a key role in project planning.  • Designed and developed web components and business modules through all tiers from presentation to persistence.  • Developed the web pages using JSP, JavaScript, CSS, AJAX and servlets.  • Developed UI layout using Tiles.  • Developed java beans to interact with UI & db.  • Developed web application using JSF Framework.  • Created the end-user business interfaces.  • Designed and developed standalone module using swing and NetBeans.  • Used JQuery and JSF validation framework for front end validations.  • Frequent interaction with client and delivered solution for their business needs.  • Developed XML/XSL with JAXB.  • Developed EJBs and Customized Tag Libraries for JSP to reduce the complexity of application.  • Involved in designing XML documents for efficient message transfer between subsystems.  • Developed ANT script for building and packaging J2EE components.  • Wrote PL/SQL queries and Stored procedures for data retrieval.  • Created and modified Oracle Schema objects like Tables, Indexes.  • Created Test Plan, Test Cases & scripts for UI testing using Selenium.  • Used JSF framework in developing user interfaces using JSF UI Components, Validator, Events and listeners.  • Selenium Grid for distributed Testing and Load testing.    Environment: J2EE (EJB, JSP, servlets, XML, JAXB), JDBC, JMS, JSF, HTML, XML, XSL, XSLT, CSS, AJAX, DHTML, WebLogic, DB2, SWING, ANT, Oracle9i and Windows XP. Java/J2ee Developer Infozen Software System Pvt. Ltd - Lucknow, Uttar Pradesh February 2014 to April 2015 Description: The goal of this project is to develop Personal Loan Application System for customers to apply for personal loans online. Customers can apply for Loan online by filling out online form. Bank employees can search, filter, and view loan applications of customers. In the next step, Bank employees check the loan application against the business rules called RAC (Risk Acceptance Criteria) rules. Bank then provides personal loans to those who pass the RAC rules and have established good credit record.    Responsibilities:  • Developed Use Case diagrams, Class diagrams and Sequence diagrams to express the detail design.  • Implemented MVC architecture using spring framework developed Controllers, Form beans and configured the spring configuration file.  • Used validation framework in the application.  • Used JMS for communication for sending updates to various other applications.  • Worked with EJBs (Session and Entity) to implement the business logic to handle various interactions with the database.  • Worked on Messenger service in various modules to communicate with JMS for asynchronous communication within Loan Application System.  • Wrote stored procedures, functions and triggers in PL/SQL.  • Developed critical elements of the server framework like user authentication, access control.  • Implemented messaging interfaces for asynchronous communication.  • Deployed business components into WebSphere Application Server.  • Wrote SAX and DOM XML parsers and used SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface.  • Used XSL/XSLT for transforming and displaying reports. Developed Schemas for XML.  • Involved in design and developing re-usable web services using SOAP, XML, WSDL, UDDI, DOM, XML Schemas, JAXP, and XSL.  • Involved in writing the ANT scripts to build and deploy the application.  • Extensively used WSAD 5.1 while writing code & used CVS for version control.  • Utilized Hibernate for Object/Relational Mapping purposes for transparent persistence onto the Oracle 9i database using HQL.  • Consistently produced the highest quality code through disciplined and rigorous unit testing and integration testing.    Environment: Java, J2EE, spring 2.0, EJB 2.0, JDBC, Servlets, JSP 2.0, JSTL, XML, XSL, XSLT, JMS, JNDI, SOAP, Oracle 9i, ANT, JUnit, Websphere Application Server 6.1, WSAD 5.1, CVS, Log4J, JavaScript, Hibernate 2.0 and Windows XP. Education Bachelor's Skills ECLIPSE, EJB, J2EE, J2SE, JAVA, HIBERNATE, SPRING, JAXP, JBOSS, JMS, JNDI, jQuery, JSP, JSTL, RMI, SERVLETS, STRUTS, DB2, JDBC, SQL SERVER