Service Information Developer Service Information <span class="hl">Developer</span> Service Information Developer - Perspecta, VA Danbury, CT I have 5 years of experience developing java/J2E web applications. Over the  years I have worked with REST, SOAP, Spring, HTML/5, Angular, Primefaces,  Javascript and JQuery. I have worked on Oracle database, creating queries and  procedures as well as PouchDB, a client side database. I have worked with GIT  and SVN for version control. I have experience with testing tools such as  Selenium, JMeter, SonarLint and eCoburtura. I have worked in Agile environment  throughout the SDLC of the application. I have experience working as a lead on  project's sub-modules. Work Experience Service Information Developer Perspecta, VA December 2015 to Present I started as a contractor and then was converted into full-time employee in October 2016. The Electronic Facilities Management Systems (eFMS) is an  application built for the United States Postal Service (USPS) to keep records of the all the facilities of the USPS throughout the country. The eFMS  application has a total of 18 modules that work together to gather information on facility location, lease dates, assets, create correspondence, and inspect  facilities. The application is written in ColdFusion. One of the development  projects that I worked on is to translate the application from ColdFusion to Java 8.    Responsibilities  ? Analyze and understand the ColdFusion codes.  ? Use Java 8 with Primefaces to translate the code.  ? Created and modified SQL queries for Oracle database.  ? Used Hibernate in the retrieve data.  ? Used Maven to build the project.    Facilities Inspection Tool (FIT) is one of the module of eFMS that provides an inspection format for the facility inspectors while on the field. It is a  hybrid application working on Windows platform and iOS platform.    Responsibilities  ? Active participation in the SDLC of the application.  ? Took lead role in the system architecture of the application.  ? Took lead role in version control of the code.  ? Actively participated in requirement gathering from client.  ? Used BootStrap and HTML5 to make the web pages compatible to desktop and iPad version.  ? Used AngularJS to parse data from server and PouchDB  ? Created directives to manipulate data through AngularJS.    ? Used AngularJS router to implement Single Page Application (SPA)  ? Used various JavaScript and AngularJS technologies like Chartjs,  Angular-Chartjs  ? Used with BootStrap for UI.  ? Worked with Java1.6 and migrated to Java1.8  ? Created backend using JPA's entitymanager to connect to Oracle Database  ? Created complex queries for data retrieval and report generation.  ? Used PouchDB to store data locally on the iPAD for offline use  ? Used RESTful web services to connect to the server.  ? Used Hibernate and JPA to connect to the Oracle database.  ? Involved in peer code review    Environment: Java 1.6, Java 1.8, Primefaces, HTML5, CSS3, BootStrap, Hibernate,  SVN, Oracle 11g, Oracle 12c, Eclipse, RAD, Spring Web MVC, PouchDB, Maven Java/J2E Developer AG Technologies, MO April 2014 to October 2016 I worked as a Java web developer. I had the opportunity to work with various  clients in different locations. The following are the clients and applications  that I worked on. Java/J2E Developer AG Technologies, MO April 2015 to October 2015 The MMIS (Medicaid Management Information System) is built to help the residents and physicians of New York State who qualify for Medicaid under the  Affordable Care Act register themselves as members or providers. This  application allows the residents to access their portfolios whether they are a member of a HealthCare service or register themselves as a provider of a  HealthCare service.    Responsibilities  ? Extensively used VDIs for code development and testing.  ? Used Hibernate for database and also to manage Transactions  ? Design and developed online store builder web-based software using Java  Server Faces (JSF), Spring MVC Framework.  ? Used Version control tool GIT  ? Involved in collecting requirements from Business Users and Data Modeling  Team and designing and developing Tools using Java, Servlets, EJBs, and JSP.  ? Used IBM's WebSphere Application Server to deploy code.  ? Performed Unit Testing using JUnit  ? Used the MockIto for creating the mock objects and tested the cases for different test cases in Test Driven Development.  ? Worked with creating a User manual and User Training guide for the new  system.  ? Developed and used JSP custom tags in the web tier to dynamically  generate web pages.  ? Involved in coding front end using WSRP, HTML, JSP  ? Extensively used Agile Methodology for the Development.  ? Used VersionOne tool for agile development.  ? Involved in Code Reviews, Defect Fixing and knowledge transfer    Environment: Java 1.7, HTML, CSS, Hibernate, Servlets, JSF, EJB, Junit, GIT,  Oracle 11g, Eclipse, RAD, WSRP, Spring Web MVC, VDI Java/J2E Developer AG Technologies, MO April 2014 to March 2015 This web-based application was created to give customers the full experience  online ordering of office supplies from the largest distribution company in North America. The purpose of XcomV2 is to provide customers easy and secure  access to the shopping catalogue which is built using sterling commerce. This  application is also miniaturized to be compatible with iOS.    Responsibilities  ? Development of GUI for HTML and JSP Versions. Java Servlets were used as the common gateway interface between the client and server.  ? Java Beans were used to handle business logic as a Model and Servlets to control the flow of application as Controller.  ? Used Version control tool GIT, CVS    ? Involved in collecting requirements from Business Users and Data Modeling  and designing and developing Tools using Java, Servlets, EJBs, and JSP.  ? Front end validations are written using JavaScript  ? Performed Unit Testing using JUnit  ? Created JMeter scripts to evaluate performance of the application and used Jenkins for automation of the scripts.  ? Involved in writing selenium scripts for UI testing.  ? After integrating all the modules of the project it was deployed in Weblogic application server.  ? Worked with creating a User manual and User Training guide for the new  system.  ? Developed and used JSP custom tags in the web tier to dynamically  generate web pages.  ? Designed and implemented Struts (MVC Paradigm) components such as Action  Mapping, Action class, Dispatch action class, Action Form bean, and a form set for validation.  ? Involved in coding front end using Swing, HTML, JSP, Struts Framework    Environment: Java 1.6, HTML, CSS, JDBC, Servlets, JavaScript, JSP, EJB, Junit,  GIT, WebLogic, Oracle 10g, Eclipse, WebLogic, JMeter, Selenium, Spring Tool  Suite. Education Bachelor of Business in Administration University of Minnesota - Duluth, MN 2013 Skills HTML, jQuery, SQL Server, Javascript, XML, SQL