Full Stack Developer Full Stack <span class="hl">Developer</span> Full Stack Developer - Verizon Irving, TX ? Having 5 years' Experience in object-oriented programming analysis with extensive full Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) experience in Application Software Specifications, Design, Development, Testing and debugging, Maintenance.  ? Experienced in a fast-paced Agile Development Environment including Test-Driven Development (TDD) and Scrum and SAFe. (Scaled Agile Framework)  ? Extensive experience of designing and developing software applications with the JDK, J2EE, EJB, Annotations, Java, JSP, Servlets, Java Beans, JNDI, AJAX, JMS, ORM, JNDI, Web services, JDBC, JAXP, RMI, XML, JavaScript, JQuery, CSS, Web Services (SOAP & RESTful).  ? Having extensive work experience with Java 1.7 and 1.8 (JDK, JRE), J2EE, JSP, JavaScript, and Hibernate, Spring, Struts MVC.  ? Extensively used Java multi-threading to implement batch Jobs with JDK 1.8 features.  ? Worked on Java 1.8 upgrade using new library for refactoring, lambda, functional interfaces, streams -parallel processing and aggregations.  ? Worked on setting up the life cycle policies to back the data from AWS S3 to AWS Glacier.  ? Experience utilizing and making custom scripts and applications utilizing the AWS SDK and/or CLI Tools.  ? Hands on experience with amazon web services (AWS) and amazon cloud technologies such as Amazon EC2 (virtual servers) and Amazon Cloud Watch (monitoring).  ? Developed Cloud Compatible Micro Services using Spring Boot, java and related web technologies  ? Used Spring Boot which is radically faster in building cloud Micro Services and develop Spring based application with very less configuration.  ? Extensive experience as a User Interface/Front End Developer in developing web applications using HTML, XML, CSS, Java Script, JQuery, AJAX, AngularJS and ReactJS.  ? Proficient in Java/J2EE Design Patterns including singleton, Factory, Model View Controller (MVC), Data Access Object (DAO), and Business Delegate. Well versed with core Java concepts like collections, multithreading, serialization, Java beans.  ? Extensive experience in developing JEE based Web Services to expose useful functionality to web users through SOAP, describing them using WSDL, registering them using UDDI for easy availability to potential users and consuming using Axis2, Apache CXF and JAX-WS  ? Good Working experience in using different modules like Spring Core Container Module, Spring Application Context Module, Spring MVC Framework module, Spring AOP Module, Spring ORM Module etc. in Spring Framework.  ? Strong Object-Oriented Analysis and Design (OOAD), ERD documentation, UML artifacts modeling with Rational Rose and Enterprise Architect. Applied the requirements engineering, analysis, and design disciplines of the RUP to J2EE projects.  ? Experience in writing numerous test cases using JUnit framework with JPROB integration  ? Worked on IDE's such as Eclipse, RAD, IntelliJ, STS and JBuilder for developing, deploying and debugging the applications.  ? Implemented various levels of application and services using Spring-Framework, EJB3 Struts and ORM tools like Hibernate, Ibatis, and MyBatis for fast pace and efficient code generation.  ? Worked on various XML technologies i.e., writing DTD, Schema, Namespaces, XSL, Xpath, Xlink, XQuery, XHTML and SAX, DOM, JDOM parsers.  ? Experience working with databases such as Oracle, MS-SQL Server, MySQL and using PL/SQL to write stored procedures, functions and triggers for different Data Models.  ? Experience in database related work primarily creating complex stored procedures, Views, Triggers, Functions, using PL/SQL.  ? Experience in Configuration Management, setting up company Version policies, build schedule using Clear Case, SVN, CVS and Git.  ? Expertise working on Application servers and Web servers like Web Logic 10.0, JBoss 7.1.0, WebSphere 8 and Tomcat 8. Work Experience Full Stack Developer Verizon - Irving, TX June 2018 to Present Description: Verizon Wireless is an American telecommunications company, a wholly owned subsidiary of Verizon Communications, which offers wireless products and services. Verizon wireless customer can do all sorts of activities like activation of phone, downloading ringtones, changing bill cycle, paying their bill, changing mobile number, changing device, changing SIM card, device software upgrade, downloading widgets, Verizon apps, accessing NFL, TV etc. The purpose of this project was to support all real time customer level API's throughout the day [120-140 millions].    Responsibilities:  ? Responsible for all stages of design, development, and deployment of applications. Active role in Test Driven Development termed as TDD apart from Agile Software Development.  ? Actively participated in the daily SCRUM meetings with our team to produce quality deliverables within time.  ? Developed an application were involved in design changes using HTML5, CSS3, JQuery and Bootstrap.  ? Developed forms for user event handling and validations using JavaScript's and AJAX.  ? Designed, developed a custom, single-page, responsive web application on front end using Angular JS.  ? Developed user interface using JSP, JSP Tag libraries, third party libraries and Java Script to simplify the complexities of the application  ? Implemented Micro Services based Cloud Architecture using Spring Boot.  ? Involved in using java like Collections, Exception Handling, Multi-Threading, Serialization and Java 1.8 features like Lambda expressions, Stream API, and Method references.  ? Used LINQ to Entity Framework using lambda expressions for communicating between business layer and database and Coded in java 1.8.  ? Worked on Java 1.8 upgrade using new library for refactoring, lambda, functional interfaces, streams -parallel processing and aggregations.  ? Used Java 1.8 Lambda expressions and functional interfaces, wherever possible. Also, used Java8 features like Streams, Producer, Consumer, BiConsumer etc.  ? Designed and developed Micro Services business components and RESTful service endpoints using spring boot.  ? Implemented first-hand the best/worst practices for integrating Micro Services into existing system architecture.  ? Micro Services were being used as a strategy to gradually replace a core monolithic application while still adding business features.  ? Used object storage container to store the secured files and retrieved from API by using Amazon Web Services (AWS).  ? Implemented Micro Services based Cloud Architecture on Amazon Web Services (AWS) Platform and Cloud Foundry.  ? Designed and implemented application using Spring Boot, Spring MVC, Spring IOC, Spring Annotations, Spring AOP, Spring Transactions, Spring JDBC, CouchBase.  ? Implemented Batch jobs using Spring Batch created various item readers, item writers and item processors.  ? Involved in support for end to operations support for OSS/BSS (Business Support System) identify gaps and propose solutions and manage issue resolution.  ? Extensively worked on Drools Rules Engine for writing business rules validation and externalization of parameters.  ? Used Ref-UI for backend transactions in different environments.  ? Automate build process through Gradle Script build framework.  ? Used GoCD for Continuous Integration and Continuous Delivery to build pipelines during deployment.  ? Used HP ALM for defect tracking systems.  ? Worked on Log4J to validate functionalities and JUnit for unit testing  ? Implemented configured and customized Rally issue tracking software with agile plug-in across all company functions.  ? Used GitHub to maintain the version of the files and took the responsibility to do the code merges from branch to trunk and creating new branch when new feature implementation starts  ? Used Spring Tool Suite (STS) IDE tool for application development.    Environment: Java1.8, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, Ajax, AngularJS, AWS, Micro Services, Spring, Spring Boot, Spring Security, Spring batch, Servlets, Spring MVC, JUnit, Gradle, JMS, RESTful, Agile Methodology, Log4J, Web Sphere, GitHub, Rally, Spring Security, STS. Full Stack Java Developer AMEX, Sun Rise, FL October 2017 to June 2018 Description: American Express is a banking and global financial services company that provides customers for access to products, insights and experiences that enrich lives and build business success. The project was involved for creating UI Screens for Amex product/service and also developing an internal Java coding by retrieving data from client side, processing it and saving within the database. It also involved for fetching the data from database and displaying it to the user.    Responsibilities:  ? Actively involved in the analysis, definition, design, implementation and deployment of full Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) of the project.  ? Designed, analyzed and developed the front-end and back-end Servlets, Bootstrap for designing, HTML5, CSS3, Angular JS, Ember JS and AJAX, for developing presentation layer.  ? Developed user interface using JSP, JSP Tag libraries, third party libraries and Java Script to simplify the complexities of the application  ? Developed User friendly interface to seamlessly combine the new module with existing login system using AngularJS.  ? Involved in multi-tiered J2EE design utilizing Spring Inversion of Control and Hibernate.  ? Used Hibernate, Object Relational Mapping (ORM) solution, technique of mapping data representation from MVC model to Oracle Relational data model with an SQL-based schema.  ? Actively participated in the daily SCRUM meetings to produce quality deliverables within time  ? Implemented RESTful web services using Apache CXF, Jersey for JAX-RS  ? System built using Model-View-Controller (MVC) architecture. Implemented the application using the concrete principles laid down by several design patterns such as DTO, Intercepting Filters, Singleton and Data Access Object(DAO)  ? Spring Batch is used for Batch processing with which notifications are sent in timely manner.  ? Designed and implemented application using JSP, Spring MVC, JNDI, Spring IOC, Spring Annotations, Spring AOP, Spring Transactions, Hibernate, JDBC, SQL, ANT, JMS, Oracle  ? Designed and developed a JDBC driver that intercepts a create view DDL parses it, converts it to a relational model, and stores in the database.  ? Worked on using WebSphere server built in JMS provider for communicating with legacy applications  ? Configuring Jenkins jobs to make sure the project is built successfully in different development environment.  ? Automate build process through Maven build framework.  ? Proficiency in adoption of architecture paradigms such as SOA, Web Services, Middleware technologies.  ? Configured and build Asynchronous communication with JMS services with MQ services.  ? Used IBM RAD IDE tool for application development.  ? Spring MVC model integration for front-end request action controller  ? Configured connection pooling on Web Sphere server  ? Involved in fine tuning the Enterprise JBOSS image.  ? Developed Spring-based applications using Drools and Java.  ? Used Spring framework including Spring core/IOC, Spring Web, Spring Security.  ? Worked on Log4J to validate functionalities and JUnit for unit testing  ? Implemented configured and customized JIRA issue tracking software with agile plug-in across all company functions and acted as JIRA administer.  ? Used Tortoise SVN to maintain the version of the files and took the responsibility to do the code merges from branch to trunk and creating new branch when new feature implementation starts    Environment: Java, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, AngularJS, Hibernate, Spring, Spring Batch, Spring Boot, Spring Security, Servlets, XML, JSP, Spring MVC, Spring JDBC, JUnit, Jenkins, Maven, JMS, RESTful, MQ services, Mule ESB, JBOSS, JavaScript, JSP, Restful, Log4J, SOA, SOAP, WSDL, Agile Methodology, Tortoise SVN, JIRA, Drools, RAD. Java Developer GE Healthcare - Milwaukee, WI September 2016 to September 2017 Description: GE Healthcare provides transformational medical technologies and services expertise in medical imaging and information technologies, medical diagnostics, patient monitoring systems, drug discovery, biopharmaceutical manufacturing technologies, performance improvement and performance services help customers to deliver better care to more.  Responsibilities:  ? Involved in all phases of the Software development life cycle (SDLC) using Agile Methodology.  ? Involved in writing Spring Configuration XML file that contains declarations and another dependent object declaration.  ? Developed user interface using JSP, JSP Tag libraries, third party libraries and Java Script to simplify the complexities of the application.  ? Involved in developing the Graphical User Interface using HTML, JavaScript, CSS and JSP.  ? Developed User friendly interface to seamlessly combine the new module with existing login system using Angular JS.  ? Developed Java server Pages using JSP Tags, Spring-tags, minimal Scriplets, HTML for client-side validation and errors to ease troubleshooting.  ? Inserted Dependency Injection between components using Spring (IOC) concept.  ? Implemented Asynchronous messaging between components using JMS  ? Used Multithreading (Concurrent) in programming to improve overall performance using Singleton design pattern in Hibernate Utility class.  ? Used Spring Security to provide authentication, authorization and access-control features for this application.  ? Wrote Stored Procedures and complicated queries for IBM DB2  ? Implemented SOA architecture with Web Services using SOAP, WSDL, UDDI and XML using Apache CXF framework tool/Apache Commons. Worked on parsing the XML files using DOM/SAX parsers.  ? Designed and developed Hibernate DAO's using Spring Framework's Hibernate Dao Support and Hibernate Template.  ? Involved in the development of the User Interfaces using HTML, JSP, JS, Dojo Tool Kit, CSS and AJAX.  ? Involved in creating various Data Access Objects (DAO) for addition, modification and deletion of records using various specification files.  ? Used MQ series of messaging and queuing purpose in the application  ? Created tables, triggers, stored procedures, SQL queries, joins, integrity constraints and views for multiple databases, Oracle using Toad tool.  ? Wrote client-side validations for DOJO and XML files which checks for the valid values for the different events that are being logged.  ? Responsible for designing, coding and developed the application in J2EE using Struts MVC  ? Involved in Unit Testing of various modules by generating the Test Cases.  ? Performed configurations and day to day activities using WebLogic.  ? Involved in day to day handling of JIRA issues (production issues at time) that involved data inconsistencies that required to be solved in very less time.  ? Involved in Bug fixing of various modules that were raised by the testing teams in the application during the Integration testing phase.  ? Implemented PL/SQL procedures and views in Oracle Database using Altova Database Spy.  ? Implemented Log4J for Logging Errors, debugging and tracking using logger's components.  ? Performed deployment of applications on IBM Web Sphere Application Server.  ? Used GIT Version controller.  ? Used Eclipse as IDE for developing code modules in development environment.    Environment: Java, J2EE, XMI, Hibernate, SQL, PL/SQL, Spring, Spring Boot, Struts MVC, JMS, MQSeries, Micro Services, JavaScript, HTML, XHTML, XMI, IDAM, CSS, Bootstrap, Log4j, jQuery, Angular JS, WebLogic Application Server, Spring Security, JIRA, Maven, React JS, GIT, Eclipse Java Developer Wave Technologies - Hyderabad, Telangana June 2013 to August 2015 Description: Wave Technologies is a software company that provides financial services. Its service domain includes web design and development, custom software development and consulting. It is a web based application for banks and other lending institutions that is designed & developed to span the complete loan cycle from capturing the initial inquiry from prospective customer till the closure of a loan account.    Responsibilities:  ? Extensively use of Core Java features including collection, exception handling, generics and annotation in the logic tier to implement the mortgage calculator algorithms such as monthly payment for fix rate and ARM.  ? Designed the back-end server, build web service to provide result and generate report and also the front-end user interface.  ? Developed Presentation and validation layers using JSP, HTML and CSS3 Custom Tag Libraries.  ? Retrieved data from the web service for calculation using AJAX call.  ? Involved in designing the user interfaces using Struts Tiles Framework  ? Developed JUnit test cases for DAO and Service Layer methods.  ? Extensively used JQuery validation package to make client-side user input validation  ? Extensively used Cache to avoid the repeated logic calculation and access database  ? Used JSP, JavaScript and JDBC to create web Servlets  ? Created tables in database based on the Entity-relationship model that is provided by the database architect  ? Used SVN for version control  ? Used IBM RAD7 as IDE tool to develop the application and JIRA for bug and issue tracking.    Environment: Java, J2EE, JDBC, JSP, Oracle, JavaScript, HTML, CSS, Struts, jQuery, JUnit 4, AJAX, SVN, JIRA.