Java Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Developer - Western Digital Denver, CO, CO • Over 5+ years of extensive experience as a java developer with knowledge of designing and development of web application.  • Experience in working extensively on UI side JavaScript, HTML5, CSS3.  • Worked on developing enterprise web-based application based on Java technologies using J2EE, J2SE, Java Beans, Java Servlets, JSP's, JDBC, Spring MVC, Spring Core, Spring JDBC, and Hibernate.  • Extensive experience in developing Web services using SOAP, RESTful using JAX-WS, JAX-RS (using Jersey Library) and JAXB.  • Knowledge on developing XSLT for transformation of XML.  • Knowledge on developing XSD documents and validating over XML documents.  • Worked on relational databases like ORACLE, SQL Server and MYSQL.  • Strong knowledge of IDE's like Eclipse and Net Beans.  • Hands on experience in configuration and deployment of multi-tier applications using web containers like WebLogic and Tomcat.  • Experience in working with different operating systems like Windows and UNIX/Linux.  • Experience in using SharePoint tool for document management.  • Worked in various application methodologies including Agile, Waterfall model.  • Excellent team player with strong analytical skills with excellent interpersonal and communication skills with analytical ability.  • Experience in doing code reviews and report the review comments.  • Involved in improving development standard documents. Work Experience Java Developer Western Digital - San Jose, CA December 2016 to Present Responsibilities:  • Analysis and understanding of business requirements and implement the process using Agile methodology.  • Communicated with the team leads and business analysts for better understanding of the design requirements.  • Wrote front-end code for developing new pages using HTML, CSS and JavaScript.  • Developed server-side services using Java, Servlets, Java Beans, JDBC, Web Services (SOAP, RESTful, WSDL, JAXB, JAX-RS using Jersey and JAX-WS) and JSP.  • Controllers are written using Spring MVC framework, Used Spring JDBC API to interact with database.  • NetBeans IDE was used for application development.  • Used Cherwell tool for ticket tracking mechanism.  • Maven script is used to create WAR files and deploy applications to the server.  • Created SQL queries for pulling reports during unit testing for comparing the data between web services exposed vs the actual data.  • Used Beyond compare tool for comparing for the file system and folder structures.  • Used WinSCP for accessing file systems on the server using SFTP.  • Developed the unit test plans with the proposed and actual results.  • Involved in system integration testing support before deploying the application into production.  • Involved in production support after deployments.  • Worked on WebLogic server for deployments during developments.    Environment: Java, Spring MVC, Spring JDBC API, Maven, XML, PuTTY, JAXB, JAX-WS, JAX-RS, Jersey, Servlet, JSP, JDBC, JavaScript, CSS, HTML, Oracle 12c, SQL, Cherwell, WinSCP, WebLogic 12c, NetBeans IDE. Java Web Developer UnitedHealth Group - Santa Ana, CA October 2015 to November 2016 Responsibilities:  • Worked in Agile environment with meeting crucial deadlines  • Involved in the system study and analysis for the design and the development of the J2EE web application.  • Interacted with functional analysts on requirement gathering.  • Created technical design documents and effort estimates for the requirements that were ready for development.  • Implemented front-end code for developing web-pages using HTML, CSS and JavaScript.  • Used various JavaScript libraries for form field validations and other interactive features.  • Involved in Design and Development of Web application using Spring frame work and Hibernate.  • Experience in developing and consuming web services using SOAP, RESTful.  • Experience in using SoapUI tool for testing web services.  • Involved in writing SQL queries for interacting with database.  • Involved in creating annual reports for the users on transactional data.  • Involved in creating unit test scripts and document the expected and actual results during testing.  • Used PuTTY for accessing file systems on the server.  • Eclipse IDE was used for application development.  • Worked on Tomcat server for deployments during development.    Environment: Java, J2EE, Spring MVC, Hibernate, SOAP, RESTful, SoapUI, PuTTY, Java Beans, JSP, Java Script, CSS, HTML, Oracle 11g, SQL Developer, Eclipse IDE, Tomcat 8 Jr. Software Engineer SARK Systems India Pvt Ltd - Hyderabad, Telangana May 2013 to May 2014 Responsibilities:  • Requirements gathering and preparing the technical design documents.  • Estimate the technical work units.  • Design the data models for database for new work units.  • Development of Java web applications using JSP's, Servlets, JavaScript and HTML.  • Developed code to interact with database using JDBC API.  • Implemented exceptional handling, automatic critical process monitoring and reporting to ensure accuracy of data and processes.  • Developed technical workflow flowcharts using vizio tool.  • Preparation of unit test documents capturing proposed and actual results.  • Worked on Tomcat server for deployments during development.  • Used PuTTY for accessing file systems on the server.  • Created SQL stored procedures to verify the critical data model data to generate data integrity reports.  • Provided support for automation.  • Continuously supported the applications during and after go-live.  • Fixed bugs on priority which encountered in End-to-End testing.    Environment: Java, J2EE, Servlets, JDBC, JSP, JavaScript, CSS, HTML, Oracle, SQL Developer, Eclipse IDE, Tomcat Education Bachelors Sreenidhi Institute of Science and Technology Skills JAVA (4 years), JSP (4 years), ORACLE (4 years), MODEL VIEW CONTROLLER (3 years), MODEL-VIEW-CONTROLLER (3 years) Additional Information SKILL SET:    Languages Java, J2EE, C, MATLAB  Technologies HTML5, CSS3, XML, Java Script, Servlets, JSP, Java Beans, JDBC  Web Services SOAP, RESTful, WSDL, JAXB, JAX-RS, JAX-WS, Jersey, XSD, XML, RESTAPI  Databases Oracle 10g/12c, MySQL  Web Container WebLogic 11g/12c, Tomcat 7/8  IDE Eclipse, NetBeans  Tools Maven, GIT, JIRA, Cherwell, SSH, PuTTy, WinSCP, Beyond Compare, SoapUI  Frameworks Spring MVC, Spring JDBC, Spring Core and Hibernate  Operating System Windows, Linux/Unix