Backend Engineer (Scala) Backend Engineer (Scala) Backend Engineer (Scala) - Agoda Services Co. Ltd US A results-driven, customer-focused, articulate and analytical Software Engineer who can think "out of  the box". Strong in design and integration problem-solving skills. Expert in Scala, Java J2EE, J2SE, Angular  Typescript and SQL with database analysis and system design. Skilled in developing business plans,  requirements specifications, user documentation, and architectural systems research.    Strong written and verbal communications. Interested in a challenging technical track career in an  application development environment.    Experienced in:    • Engineering backend server and application development, all layers, from database to services  to user interfaces  • Analysis and design of code architecture, databases and user interfaces  • Implementing software development lifecycle policies and procedures  • Managing and supporting multiple projects  • Highly adaptable in quickly changing technical environments with very strong organizational  and analytical skills  • Overseeing all phases of software development lifecycle, from design and documentation to  implementation.  • Working in fast-paced, deadline-oriented environments.  • Outstanding technical skills; able to quickly learn new concepts and technologies. Work Experience Backend Engineer (Scala) Agoda Services Co. Ltd - Bangkok, TH June 2019 to Present Flights Booking Engine  Role: Software Engineer  A Highly available and scalable backend system application designed to process all the end to end  booking cycle from create booking to get booking status for flights. The system involved a web service  end points and multiple stages of flight booking were processed through independently running agents in RabbitMQ queue.    Technologies  • Scala, AKKA HTTP, SBT, RabbitMQ, Kafka, Docker, Mockito, MSSQL, Couche Base, Cassandra, KIbana, Graphana, Hadoop, Google Juice, Google Protocol Buffers, Codecov, Swagger, TeamCity,  Cspider    Responsibilities  • Worked on flight booking replication end point in API to replicate existing bookings across all the data centers using kafka consumers  • Worked on writing a new void pre-authorize cc payment process agent to void the payment if  booking gets fail in any stage.  • Worked on writing a scheduler for deleting booking data after retention period  • Implemented a suspicious check on all flight passengers and booker by writing a new process  flow stage. Software Engineer ( Java J2EE Developer) Halliburton - Islamabad, PK August 2017 to May 2019 ENI DVA Connector (DSIS)  Role: Lead Software Engineer  A custom JBOSS teiid connector with client API for exposing the data schema model and Seismic related  data from ENI's application DVA. Integrated the connector with existing data migration system.    Technologies  • JBoss, Teiid (Virtual Databases), JCA Resource Adapters, JDBC translator, Google Protocol  Buffers, Maven, Spoon Kettle, Java Restful API (JAX-RS), Oracle DB, postgreSQL    Responsibilities  • Went ENI Milan HQ for requirement gathering and project estimates on business trip  • Worked with ENI development team to write an API for exposing their DVA system native data  model and reading seismic data.  • Developed a custom resource adaptor directly connecting with API and providing connection  functionality to translator for metadata exposure and query handling.  • Developed a custom translator providing JDBC connection to any client for directly connecting  with DVA data source.  • Integrated the newly developed connector with the existing Decision Space Integration Server  (DSIS)  • Implemented the data migration of complex data types like Seismic, Horizon, and Faults 2D/3D  data between DVA, OpenWorks and Petrel by streaming callback interfaces.  • Worked on relational data model enhancements for the successful migration between multiple  data sources.  • Maintained the GIT repositories for feature and release branches.  • Implemented Maven in repo's for build and deploy the projects and their dependencies in JBoss  Application server.  • Went to ENI HQ Milan for deployment and integration testing of the system with UAT sign off.    Data Transfer Implementation in Decision Space Integration Server (DSIS)    Role: Software Engineer  A generic data migration tool based on TCA (teiid connector architecture) and spoon kettle ETL used to migrate well and acquisition data between different products on multiple models using virtual  databases.    Technologies  • JBoss, Teiid (Virtual Databases), JCA Resource Adapters, JDBC translator, JNI, Apache Thrift, Google Protocol Buffers, Maven, Spoon Kettle, Java Restful API (JAX-RS), Oracle DB, PostgreSQL    Responsibilities  • Worked on automation testing of EDM and OpenWorks Connectors on Docker containers using  Maven and JUnit at build lifecycle.  • Worked on Dockerization of existing EDM and OpenWorks Connectors.  • Implemented Generic File Streaming in OpenWorks Product Translator.  • Fixed many different kind of bugs in application such as memory leaks, connection leaks, cursor  leaks, closed socket and other, also solved many different issues with custom spoon kettle ETL  process.  • Added variety of new features in the existing custom spoon Kettle ETL process and custom  resource adaptor, translator.    • Worked on Maven during build process also modified pom.xml to use latest libraries and specifications.  • Implemented the data migration of complex data types like Seismic, Horizon, SurfaceGrid 2D/3D  data between Petrel and OpenWorks by streaming interfaces.  • Exposed stored procedures at OpenWorks translator to access Horizons and faults data on specific ranges from ODATA.  • Worked on relational data model enhancements for the successful migration between multiple  data sources.  • Maintained the GIT repositories for feature and release branches.  • Participated in every phase of software development life cycle. Software Engineer ( Java Full Stack Developer) MFSYS Software and Systems - Pvt. Ltd - Islamabad, PK October 2016 to July 2017 eSee Reports    Role: Lead Software Engineer  A BI Reporting and Analytical tool for the bank clients to review monthly, yearly based reports and other  financial analytics of customers. Application is fully integrated with the main Core Banking Application of the company.    Technologies  • Java Restful API (JAX-RS), JPA, Angular 2/4, Bootstrap 3, JQuery, JavaScript MySQL, DB2, Apache  Tomcat    Responsibilities  • Developed Front end of the web application using Angular 2 and then migrated to Angular 4+  • Added Webpack build support in angular web application for deploying.  • Added i18n Internationalization for multiple language front end support.  • Developed Java Restful API (JAX-RS) service with JPA for backend to handle client requests, also implemented JWT token authentication.  • Deployed the backend on Apache Tomcat and front end on Node JS servers.  • Worked on maven for build process and test cases.  • Migrated whole existing banking application Database from DB2 to MySQL.  • Managed the code repositories on SVN.  • Fixed bugs after QA testing.    Orange Money Pico- PAMF  Role: Software Engineer  A Project for the Orange Money Partner (Third Party) providing the payment system that allows customers to carry out simple banking operations and transactions with integration of company's Core Banking  Application.    Technologies  • Java Socket Channel Communication (NIO Framework), Java Restful API (JAX-RS), Java Swing, EJB  3.2, JPA, JDBC, MySQL, DB2, Apache Tomcat, Oracle WebLogic    Responsibilities  • Implemented an automated all transactions reconciliation process which failed due to technical  reason at any stage between the Orange Money and Core banking application  • Implemented saving transactions functionality which are account to wallet, wallet to account, get account balance etc.  • Worked on JAX-RS Restful API and Added custom parameters validation, error messages in case  of invalid JSON request. Also added live status management of the Restful API to orange  interlinked with core banking application.  • Managed the code repositories on the SVN.  • Added swing forms to manually run the processes, also added pages to validate customer, check  the transactions history and status, customers, balance history etc.  • Worked on maven for build process and test cases.  • Worked in build process, such as running build scripts to check out the code from svn, to build it and running Weblogic deploy, startup scripts.    CMB-CLOUD  Role: Lead Software Engineer  A Web Based Project of Banking Application using all functionalities of existing company's Desktop  based Java Core Banking Application.    Technologies  • Java Restful API (JAX-RS), EJB 3.2, JPA, JDBC, Angular 2/4, Bootstrap 3, JQuery, JavaScript  MySQL, DB2, Apache Tomcat, Oracle WebLogic    Responsibilities  • Migrated an existing angular 1 based web application to Angular 4+ with webpack build  Support  • Fixed plenty of front end and backend bugs and Added Internalization support with Arabic  rotation also.  • Migrated existing backend JAX-RS 1.0 to JAX-RS 2.0  • Managed the code repositories on SVN.  • Integrated the API with banking application server environment for transactions and other  functionalities. Education Bachelor of Computer Science in Computer Science COMSATS Institute of Information Technology - Abbottabad, PK 2012 to 2016 Secondary School Certificate in Pre-Engineering Army Public School 2009 to 2011 Skills DOCKER, Git, MYSQL, Android, Java (3 years), Scala (Less than 1 year), J2EE (3 years) Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/ali-imtiaz-39768a99 https://github.com/aliimtiaz10