Associate Software Engineer Associate Software Engineer Java Software Developer White Plains, MD To obtain a position with development group to serve as an Information technology specialist. Work Experience Associate Software Engineer Northrop Grumman - Windsor Mill, MD June 2019 to Present Java API Developer Tax Tech India Pvt Ltd July 2017 to August 2018 Program: Dataweb Identity     • Working on financial firm application to verify the customers' identity.  • Was part of API developer team to write micro service to get data in form of JSON to insert into the database for further use to verify the customer identity.  • Worked on Spring Boot, MAVEN building tool, MySQL Enterprise database, postman, and GITHub desktop for the API development.  • Created the static HTML form that shows example URI of API endpoint.  • Used putty or Cygwin to deploy the WAR file on the dev or test server.  • Managed software development projects using agile environment.  • Always appeared into spring planning, review, daily scrum, weekly backlog refinement and retrospective to satisfy the agile methodology in IT industry.  • Gave my input into the backlog refinement meeting to groom the story and applicable story point.  • Closely worked with team members, scrum master to learn and gain knowledge regarding the project update.  • Used JIRA business tool to track to progress of story.  • Gained basic knowledge of front-end technologies like AngularJS 1.7 to verify the user data and bundle the form data into JSON object to send to the REST controller with help of $http services. Java Software Developer Implicit Web Solution February 2016 to July 2017 Program: CTP - Center of Tobacco Portal    • Working on off-shore contract to develop tobacco import portal for internal users of agencies.  • Working mostly on java RESTful API development to capture the x-www-form-urlencoded data and store into the designated database table.  • Used Spring Boot, JPA-Hibernate and MySQL enterprise database to write APIs.  • Used MAVEN building tool to create platform independent project to generate the WAR to run on Apache Tomcat.  • Wrote deployment document for DevOps team to deploy recently created war file on dev or test server.  • Used Git repository for branching, committing, merging, and code review for daily code development.  • Thrived into the 3 weeks of sprint agile methodology and followed up into sprint planning, scrum meeting, backlog refinement, spring review and retrospective.  • Working closely with business analysist, tester and senior developers.  • Was creating and updating JIRA board according to story progress. Education Bachelor's in Information Technology Gujarat Technological University Skills Spring, Hibernate, Java, Java J2Ee, J2Ee, Core Java, Angular, Javascript, JEE, MVC, Rest, Angularjs, JSP Additional Information Java / J2EE  AngularJS 1.7   Agile Methodology  Spring Boot   GitHub Repo   MS Office  Spring MVC   Jenkin   SQL  MySQL   SVN   Windows  ORM / JPA-Hibernate   HTML   Linux  Maven   CSS   SQL Developer  MVC Design Pattern   JSP   SDLC Life cycle  Eclipse   IntelliJ   Skype  API Development   MySQL Workbench  RESTful Micro services  Developer Tools  Apache Tomcat   JIRA board  JSON   putty