Java J2EE Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> J2EE <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java J2EE Developer Fremont, CA • 3.5 years of experience in design and development of java oriented enterprise based application with strong understanding of Java and J2EE technologies.  • Strong design/development experience with SDLC including Business modeling, Requirements gathering, Analysis and design, Implementation, Testing and Deployment.  • Experience with Web Services (SOAP, WSDL, and SOA) and application servers including IBM Web Sphere, JBoss and Apache Tomcat.  • Excellent knowledge in developing advanced web-based applications design and development using Java, J2EE, Servlets, JSP, JSTL, Struts, Spring, Hibernate, ANT, Eclipse, XML, JDBC.  • Good understanding of J2EE Design Patterns and 3-Tier Architecture.  • Experienced in using IDEs like Eclipse, Net Beans for Java programming.  • Extensive use of XML for data Presentation and data Generation.  • Wide exposure with databases including Oracle, PL/SQL and MS SQL Server involving writing Stored Procedures and Triggers.  • Strong Technical background, excellent analytical ability, problem solving, decision-making, good communication skills, team player and goal oriented, with a commitment towards excellence. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Java J2EE Developer HP - Palo Alto, CA May 2014 to October 2015 SCE is a simple configurator used by HP clients to configure and quote the various HP hardware products for servers, storage and networking. I worked on a rule based configuration in which I wrote rules as to how the various components can be grouped together to build a working hardware setup. I was also involved in writing constraints which determined when the users see error and enable parts of the menu to be greyed out and dropdowns to be automatically populated    Responsibilities:  • Consumed HP internal REST web service to display price.  • Used HP internal UI framework - MAUI. Add new tabs/sections.  • Involved in bug fixing, debugging and troubleshooting related to production and environment issues.  • Worked closely with the BU & QA team.  • Took on additional responsibilities as mentoring other new engineers who had joined and helped ramp them up.  Environment: Java, REST, Eclipse. Quality Engineer Ebay Whitman Campus - San Jose, CA September 2011 to February 2012 Cloud group  This group was responsible for developing a private cloud for ebay and was used for deployment of applications.    Responsibilities:  • Re-factored the integration test framework for PaaS project.  • Wrote JBehave stories and groovy integration tests for automation of old and new tests.  • Worked with the PM's and developers for understanding and analyzing the code fixes and changes.  • Used JUnit for unit testing the application.  • Created test data, test cases & tested the application.  • Used Ant to compile java classes & package into jar/war archives.  • Developed unit test cases for the classes using JUnit.  • Manual testing was done on each & every feature for quality product.  • Used Git /SVN to check-in / check-out the code    Environment: Git, Maven, Ted, java, JBehave, tomcat, groovy, SOAPUI Java J2ee Developer Nike Inc - Beaverton, OR September 2007 to October 2008 Project: Material Maintenance Apparel    Description Designed and implemented a web application that communicates with web services for tracking of EPM (Environment Preferred Material) attributes of all Apparel Materials. Designed and developed the database schema.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in the process Design, Coding and Testing phases of the software development cycle.  • Created Web Services using SOAP to exchange data of apparel with Nike's Considered Group.  • Developed JSP pages with Struts framework.  • Web services were developed using Apache Axis2  • Developed Unit test cases for the classes using JUnit.  • Developed stored procedures to extract data from Oracle 10g database.  • Developed and maintained Ant Scripts for the build purposes on testing and production environments.  • Involved in building XML documents.  • Application developed with strict adherence to J2EE best practices.  Environment: Java, J2EE, JSP, Struts, Hibernate, SQL/PLSQL, Web Services, SOAP, JUnit, Apache Tomcat, Oracle 10g, XML. Software Engineer HCL Technologies - Gurgaon, Haryana January 2007 to August 2007 Project: My Page Portal  Description: The objective of the project is to develop and implement a Web Application which will manage the employee's intranet site, which manages the employee's personal information such as name, designation, office location.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in preparing engineering specification with OOA and OOD. Develop Use Case diagrams.  • Data Access Objects were used in conjunction with JDBC.  • Implemented Design Pattern Factory to add definition to the design.  • Designed and created classes in Java to generate HTML code that creates tables dynamically.  • Created Servlets to implement business Logic and deployed them on tomcat server.  • Involved in Unit/White box, Integration testing of the application,  • Created tables for Oracle 9i/8i Database.  • Provided maintenance support in production environment.  Environment: Java, JSP, Tomcat, Servlets, SQL, JDBC, ANT, CVS, JUnit Education UCSC Extention 2011 De Anza college - Cupertino, CA 2010 Master of Computer Applications in Computer Applications GGS Indraprastha University - New Delhi, Delhi Bachelor of Computer Applications in Computer Applications Guru Nanak Dev University - Amritsar, Punjab Skills Ant (2 years), database (1 year), Eclipse. (1 year), J2EE (2 years), Java (3 years), JDBC. (Less than 1 year), JSP (1 year), JUnit (2 years), Oracle (1 year), Oracle 10g (1 year), REST (1 year), Servlets (Less than 1 year), SOAP (1 year), SQL (1 year), Struts (1 year), tomcat (2 years), UI (1 year), USER INTERFACE (1 year), web services (1 year), XML (1 year), Java J2Ee, Core Java