Java Micro services developer <span class="hl">Java</span> Micro services <span class="hl">developer</span> Java Micro services developer - Tech Mahindra • 2.3 years' experience as a Software Engineer at Tech Mahindra, India.  • Worked as a java developer on developing internal tool ELMS using the Framework Hibernate.  • Have recent experience of various build tools like Maven and MS build and also have knowledge to integrate this tool into application using java code.  • Good knowledge in Scripting Languages like html, Ajax and js(javascript).  • Have a Good knowledge on Java language programming and implementing using Spring Framework.  • Agile scrum delivery experience.  • Proven ability to communicate with less technical users to understand requirements and implement appropriate solutions. Work Experience Java Micro services developer Tech Mahindra April 2018 to Present Team Size 10    a) Project Description  Bim-Paas (Business Interaction Management Platform as a Service) is envisioned to provide secure, bi-directional communication between providers and consumers to Business offers, sales process, resources-recipes and service management processes.BIM PaaS Provisions autonomous tenant instances for every participating individual customer, thereby, providing them to build custom solution for themselves in a Digital-Self-Serve mode.    Roles and responsibilities:  • Developed different services for Bim-Paas application which basically have different functionality by Spring Boot Utility using Micro services Architecture.  • Deployed the services on Kubernates on client Network.  • Developed different Solution using Java 8 for Services.  • Participate in daily scrum Meeting.  • Worked upon a memory-centric distributed database Apache Ignite. Software Engineer Tech Mahindra November 2016 to Present Technical Skills  Version Control SVN, GIT  Build Tools Maven  CI CD Tools Jenkins  Application Server Database Apache Tomcat Mysql, MongoDB    Skills  Source Skills Months Of Experience  Primary Skill category Java Technologies 18  Sub Skills Java 8, REST, java Collection, Apache Ignite Java developer Tech Mahindra February 2017 to April 2018 Team Size 5    a) Project Description  ELMS is test Environment Management Framework which provides Environment life cycle management. ELMS facilitates greater level of build and deployment automation, environment allocation, application and component mapping, environment support desk and proactive environment monitoring. it also provides greater level of flexibility to integrate with tools available in market and customize the feature as per requirement.    Roles and responsibilities:  • developed inventory and Mapped the different Entity of application using Hibernate and create the various mapping form(UI and functionality level both)  • Improving the business and operational parameters of the project and enhance customer satisfaction.  • Gave Demos to various clients and leaders.    Project2 BIM-PAAS Tech Mahindra 2018 to 2018 Sub Skills Hibernate, Spring, junit, Micro services, Swagger  Secondary Skill category 2 Scripting Language 5  Sub Skills JavaScript, html, Ajax Education B. Tech in Computer Science Engineering University of Petroleum and Energy Studies 2016