Java Full Stack Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> Full Stack <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Full Stack Developer - Charter Communications St. Louis, MO • Over5years of Professional experience in full SDLC (Software development life cycle) development involving requirement analysis, design, development, documentation, testing, implementation & maintenance of application software in real-time enterprise applications, Distributed n-tier architecture.  • Designed and developed Robust User Interface using AngularJS, JSF,JSP, JavaScript, React JS,jQuery, CSS and HTML.  • Experience in developing enterprise and Web Applications and Distributed Systems using technologies such as Core Java, J2EE (Servlets, JSP, JSF, EJB, Hibernate, Spring, WebServices, JDBC, JMS) and XML  • Hands-on experience in various modules of spring such as IOC, Security, Transactions, and Dependency Injection.  • Implemented the Design Patterns like Session Facade, Data Transfer Object (DTO), Service Locator, and Data Access Object (DAO).  • Strong Experience in Core Java concepts such as Multithreading, Exception Handling, Collection APIs to implement various features.  • Hands on experience in end to end development of Software Applications. Application domain areas include development for financial services and telecommunications.  • Experience in configuration and management of RDBMS system like Oracle, MS SQL Server 2005, and MYSQL  • Experience in configuring and deploying Web Applications using Web Logic, WebSphere, JBoss, Glassfishand Tomcat application servers.  • Experience inAngular JS, React JS, Node JS, Spring Boot framework.  • Well versed in Web applications, database interface, and product integration techniques,  • Adaptable to new technologies in a short span of time and implementing them in real-time projects. Work Experience Java Full Stack Developer Charter Communications - St. Louis, MO September 2017 to Present Description:Designed, developed, modified, and implemented web UI component and supported Charter Portals Legacy-TS Web Application. Developed Microservices for sending the Bi-Directional Updates between Upstream and Downstream Applications. All the modules are designed and developed using Java, JavaScript, Spring boot framework, Scala, AWS, Cloud foundry, REST services.    Responsibilities:  • Follow Agile Methodology in analyze, define, and document the application, which will support functional and business requirements. Coordinate these efforts with Functional Architects.  • Experience in Test Driven Development, paired programming and Unit Testing.  • Used Docker as a container for Creating, Deploying and running application.  • Deployed applications in Kubernetes Clusters, running on Docker Hub.  • Develop Java/Spring boot Based Microservices using Spring Boot.  • Used MongoDB to enable them to build stand alone API's faster, handle highly diverse data types, and manage applications more efficiently at scale.  • Develop the Controller to handle the requests and responses.  • Developed Microservices by using Spring boot Framework.  • Used Core Java to develop Business Logic as Spring Beans.  • Configure Spring Container to implement IOC/DI of the Spring Beans, and to manage the beans' life circle.  • Develop POJO objects and used Hibernate as the Object-Relational Mapping (ORM) tool to access the persistent data from SQL Server.  • Store procedure in the database and used Dynamic SQL to load the data.  • Use Jersey to implement Restful Web Service and used XML form to transfer the data.  • Use Rest Controllers to replace the existing operations layer, which acts as bridge between business layer and the UI.  • Using J2EE design patterns such as Business Delegate, Service Locator, Data Transfer Object, Data Access Object, Session Facade, Factory method, and Singleton pattern.  • Used Spring Framework to load the classes and IOC module to inject the attributes of the Managed Beans.  • Used JSON/ XML as response type in REST services.  • Design and develop Restful web services using JAX-RS.  • Deployed the services and UI app on to AWS Cloud Foundry using Ocelot Security.  • Developed reusable UI components using React JS.  • Used Middleware, Redux-Promise in application to retrieve data from Back-End and to also perform RESTFUL services.  • Involved in complete life cycle of software development including designing, developing, testing, and deployment of application.  • Involved in writing Service design documents and was part of Consumercalls during the handover of API's.  • Involved in writing Junit test cases to ensure Unit testing, Component testing and integration testing are done before handing over to QA team.  • Used Maven for dependency and configuration management to add dependent external jars and bundles, run and deploy the application.  • Used GitHub as code repository where Git is plugged in to IntelliJ IDE to commit files.  • Experience in working on Web Services using Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) usingSOAP and Restful Web Services.  • Expertise in major RDBMS concepts such as Oracle 12c/11g/10g, MySQL, MS Access, and proficient in writing PL/SQL Stored Procedures, Triggers, Views.  • Very good experience on Document Object Model (DOM) and Restful Web Services, WSDL, SOAP.  • Performed peer code reviews, involved in writing test cases,testing the applications.  • Distributed goals and continuous improvement measures with manager inputs  • Involve in the complete SDLC (software development life cycle) of the application from requirement analysis to testing.  Environments: Java, J2EE, Spring boot, Spring framework, REST, JSON, Agile Methodology, IntelliJ, Maven, Gradle,Windows, XML, Git, Web Services, AWS, Soap UI, React JS, Postman, Swagger, Spock and Dynatrace,JMS, PL/SQL, JPA, Hibernate. Full Stack Java Developer Edward Jones - St. Louis, MO March 2016 to May 2017 Description:EdwardJones, is a financial services firm.Web application developed for managing investments, wealth management, savings and insurance policies. Application developed using Java, Spring, Hibernate, and Oracle Database.    Responsibilities:  • Followed Scrum Agile methodology for iterative development of the application.  • Involved in complete life cycle of software development including designing, developing, testing, and deployment of application.  • Developed Use Case Diagrams and Class Diagrams.  • Involved in design and development of n-tier architecture.  • Developed the User Interface screens using Angular JS, React Js, Vue JS, JSP, java script, HTML 5, jQuery, and CSS3.  • Created custom, general use modules and components which extend the elements and modules of core AngularJS.  • Deployed Microservices in Pivotal Cloud Foundry.  • Used Angular JS to implement MVC pattern.  • Developed Single Page Applications (SPA's) using React- router.  • Developed custom services in Angular that could be used to communicate between different components in the application.  • Performed client-side validations over the forms using Angular Forms  • Used spring framework, Spring-AOP, Spring-ORM, Spring-JDBC modules.  • Implemented Spring IOC and Hibernate integration.  • Used Spring Validation framework for Validations.  • Designed Java Components and integrated using Spring framework for Hibernate Object/Relational persistence mechanism (ORM Mapping).  • Implemented Spring Dependency Injection/IOC and Connection pooling for Bean wiring.  • Wrote database queries using SQL and PL/SQL for accessing, manipulating and updating Oracledatabase.  • Implemented Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) using JMS for sending and receiving messageswhile creating web services.  • Worked on Java Multithreading and Collections Framework and Java Multithreading to refresh the cache at a given set of time interval.  • Involved in Design and development of application implementing MVC Architecture.  • Implemented Hibernate (ORM) to persist the data into Database and wrote HQL based queries to implement CRUD operations on the data by using XML.  • Developed Message Driven Beans (MDB) for asynchronous message consuming using JMS.  • Involved in writing queries in Hibernate query language (HQL) and hibernate named queries.  • Configured the Hibernate configuration files to persist the data to the Db2 Database.  • Used JSON as response type in REST services.  • Extensively used GIT version control system to co-ordinate with the team.  • Involved in Performance and SQL Query Optimization.  • Working on server side by using Spring Boot, Spring Rest Service.  • Implemented PL/SQL queries and used Oracle stored procedures, and built-in functions to retrieve and update data from the databases.  • Deployed applications on WebSphere Application server.  • Used Web services for transmission of large blocks of XML data over HTTP.  • Used Collections extensively to store, retrieve and manipulate objects in the business logic layer.  • Involved in Unit testing, Quality Assurance, User Acceptance Testing and Bug Fixing.    Environments: Java, J2EE,JSP, HTML5, Spring framework, Hibernate, Servlets, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, JDBC, REST, JSON, HQL, GIT, Gradle, Agile Methodology, AngularJS, React JS, JMS, PL/SQL, Hibernate, Eclipse, Maven, Unix, XML, Subversion (SVN), Bitbucket, Web Services. ITON Technologies January 2014 to January 2014 February 2016Role: Java/J2EEDeveloper  Description:Iton technologies offers Marketing solutions to businesses, agencies, and online publishers worldwide. It connects Advertisers with their audience across any form of digital media, using its massive local presence to deliver appropriate messages to the right audience, through the most relevant digital channels.  Responsibilities:  • Actively participated in agile scrum meetings and status calls on a daily basis.  • Created use cases, class diagrams, activity diagrams and collaboration diagrams.  • Developed dependency Injection using Spring Framework.  • Developed UI pages with HTML,CSS, JavaScript and AJAX.  • Designed the application by implementing JSF Framework based on MVC Architecture.  • Hands on experience with Object Oriented JavaScript code and responsible for client side validations using JavaScript and jQuery functions.  • Extensively worked with Servlets and spring based multitier applications in developing J2EE Components.  • Designed and developed the Data Access Layer modules with the help of Hibernate Framework for the new functionalities.  • Involved in creating Hibernate POJO objects and mapping using Hibernate annotations.  • Extensively used triggers, stored procedures, indexes, sub-query, joins, views & sequences.  • Performed code build and deployment using MAVEN.  • Used SVN for version control of the code and configuration files.  • Used Log4j to capture the log that includes runtime exceptions and created log files on a daily basis.  • Deployed the developed application on Tomcat application server.  • Meeting the dead lines in delivering the services.  • Validated the DB Queries and Stored Procedures for efficiency and performance.  Environments:JDK,J2EE, Spring, Hibernate, Bootstrap, REST,HTML, JMS, Servlets, JSP, JSTL, Struts, Tiles, JDBC, Eclipse,JBOSS Application Server Education Master of Science in Computer Engineering in Computer Engineering University of Houston Technology JNT University - Kakinada, Andhra Pradesh Additional Information TechnicalSkills:  Languages: JAVA, J2EE,Python.  Java/J2EE Frameworks: Spring, Hibernate, EJB, JSF.  Operating systems: Linux, Windows  Web Technologies: HTML, XML, Java Script, jQuery, JSON, REST,SOAP Web Services, AJAX, AngularJS,ReactJS,NodeJS, Express Js  IDE Tools: Eclipse, IntelliJ,RAD, JBoss, Spring tool suite.  Methodologies & Concepts: Agile, Waterfall system analysis and design.  WebServers/Application Servers: Tomcat,Web Logic, WebSphere, JBoss and Glassfish.  Build Tools: Ant, Maven, Gradle  Version Control Tools: SVN, CVS,GIT.  Bug Tracking Tools: JIRA, HP ALM, Bugzilla, Quality Center.  Database: Oracle Database, My SQL, PostgreSQL, MongoDB,Teradata,IBM DB2.  Tools:  IBM Clear case,Jenkins, Cloud bee's, Rational Clear Case, Apache Ant 1.6, Log4j, JUnit, Splunk, Dynatrace, HP Fortify scan and Spock    Cloud AWS, Docker, Azure,Kubernetes, Pivotal Cloud Foundry.