Java Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Software Engineer - JP Morgan Chase Malvern, PA • 5 years of IT experience worked as Java Developer implementing Information Systems in Client Server architecture and in software development using Java and J2EE Technologies.  Used Kafka for real time data Streaming  • Experience in designing and developing Web based Enterprise Applications using J2EE technologies using EJB, JSF 2.0, Struts and Hibernate ORM frameworks.  • Implemented SOAP and RESTful Web Services for all of my projects.  • Experience in Database Development using Oracle 10g/11g, DB2 and MySQL Databases.  • Experience with Version Controls like Git and SVN.  • Expertise in using ANT build tool to compile and package the applications.  • Experience in developing and deploying application using JBoss EAP, Apache Tomcat.  • Used Jenkins, TeamCity for automated application build.  • Wrote Junit test cases to test the developed code.  • Familiar with Bit bucket to create branch and get the code.  • Monitoring the error logs by using log4j.  • Expertise in debugging the issues using Splunk.  • Experience in designing the User Interface using AngularJS.  • Experience in developing the Docker images for deploying the application and setup.  • Involved in all phases of SDLC including requirements, design, development, testing and deployment. Work Experience Java Developer Pearson VUE, PA May 2015 to Present PCM (Pearson Credential Management): It manages credentials for Pearson. They are two modules - Admin and Candidate. In Admin side, we have involved in development of reviewing incoming candidate records, track incidents, process fulfillment requests, and merge candidates. In Candidate side, we have involved in development of searching candidate history, updating demographics, requesting certificates, submitting forms, and more.    Responsibilities:  • Implemented Agile Methodology for project management.  • Implemented Jacoco Code Coverage tool by using Ant tasks, and Jenkins plugin to create code coverage reports in dev environment and Jenkins.  • Worked in all phases of SDLC i.e., requirements gathering, design, development, testing and deployment.  • Extensively involved in coding the User Interface using AngularJs.  • Enhanced the application by changing to latest version of Jboss.  • Experience in Hibernate ORM tool.  • Used SVN for version control of sources code.  • Involved in analysis, design and development of various modules in the project by using J2EE.  • Used Ant to compile and package the application.  • Implemented JSF, JSP for UI design.  • Well experienced in using MVC architecture.  • Implemented Restful web service for project.  • Experience in Seam for UI design.  • Implemented logging mechanism across the application using log4j.  • Developed the Docker images for deploying the application and for setup.  • Experience in using New relic for seeing the performance issues. GRADUATE RESEARCH ASSISTANT Dr. Lillian Cassel May 2014 to May 2015 Worked extensively on ENSEMBLE and DATA SCIENCE projects for Dr. Lillian Cassel, Program director at University of Villanova.  Ensemble is a new NSF NSDL Pathways project working to establish a national, distributed digital library for computing education. Education Master of Science in Computer Science in Computer Science Villanova University January 2014 to December 2015 Skills AngularJs. (2 years), J2EE. (2 years), Java (2 years), Jboss. (2 years), JSF (2 years), Javascript, MySQL Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Programming Languages: C, C++, Java, Java script  Operating Systems: DOS, UNIX, Windows, Mac OS  J2EE: JSP, Spring, Servlet, EJB, JDBC, JSF  Databases: Oracle 10g, SQL Server, Access  Web Technologies: HTML, CSS, Xml, SOAP, REST  Automation/Build Tools: Jenkins, Teamcity, Docker  Version Control System: SVN, Git  Servers: JBoss, Apache Tomcat  IDE's: Eclipse, Netbeans, IntelliJ IDEA  Frameworks: Struts, Hibernate, Spring, AngularJS, log4j  Application Support: Splunk