Guide Guide Guide - Saraswati Trading company Birmingham, AL • 1 years of experience Rallis India Pvt. Ltd.  • 6 Months experience in Oops info solution Pvt. Ltd.  • Success devising innovative and tailored solutions to meet ever-changing business requirements within diverse industries  • Advanced skill with leading-edge programming tools complemented by proven ability to assimilate and rapidly utilize emerging technologies  • Proficient in working in a team  • Highly skilled software development professional bringing more than one years in software design development and integration. Advanced knowledge of Java language.  • Software Developer with strong knowledge of real-time systems, factory automation, and software configuration management. Work Experience Guide Saraswati Trading company January 2017 to Present farmers to solve the problems in the seeds, chemical and organic farming related issues.  ? Aware the farmer and business owner about the diseases and their control methods.  ? Educate the Farmer about the agronomy practices of different crops like, Rice, Wheat, Sugarcane, Corn etc.  ? Educate the business owner about the using the safe and environment protective pesticide    Language  Efficient in English and Hindi speaking and writing. Efficient in speaking Punjabi. Java Developer Oops Info Solutions Pvt Ltd - Chandigarh, Chandigarh July 2016 to January 2017 Communicated neutrally, empathically and comfortably with team members, clients, and customers.  ? Code websites using Java languages.  ? Worked effectively with design teams to ensure software solutions elevated client side experience.  ? Modified existing software to correct errors, upgrade interfaces and improve performance. Sales Representative Tata Rallis India - Chandigarh, Chandigarh July 2015 to July 2016 Identifications of high-yielding variety and multiplication of that. Meeting with farmers to educate them and answer their queries about the diseases and potential useful products related to the seasonal crop.    ? Create strategies in strengthening crop production and crop management.  Study, assess and evaluate the pest and control strategies.    ? Conduct research on latest trends in crop and soil management.    ACADEMICS PROJECT UNDERTAKEN  Project Title: "Comparative Study between Direct-Seeded Rice and Transplanted Rice with weed management"  Objective: To find best planting method of Rice in relation to suitable weed management practice  Description: Conducted an experiment on both planting methods of Rice and found that transplanted Rice is comparatively better than Direct-Seeded Rice and integrated weed management practice is significantly better in both planting methods in aspects of yield    Computer experience: Education B.Sc.(hons) in Agriculture Lovely Professional University 2011 to 2015 YEAR(s) in Biology Tagore Ball Niketan Senior Secondary School - Karnal, Haryana 2010 to 2011 Certifications/Licenses Agriculture January 2017 to Present It's for Selling and purchasing for agriculture products. Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS (Agriculture )    Agronomical skills: Gardening, Field Plot Techniques, Nursery Raising Techniques, Agriculture Statistical Skills, Modern Concepts of Crop Production, Integrated Pest and Disease Management, understanding data of plant breeding. Can work with other branches of Agriculture Science    Software's: Microsoft Excel, Power Point and Adobe Photoshop    TECHNICAL SPECIALIZATION(COMPUTER)  Mysql (Basic), HTML, Bootstrap, Frameworks (Spring, Hibernate, Struts), Jquery, Javascript, AJAX, CSS, JAVA (JEE, J2EE), C++, Android, Core JAVA (Oops, Swings, ), Software Testing (Manual testing, Automation testing).    SOFTWARE TOOLS/SKILL    Notepad, Android Studio, JAVA Netbeans, Turbo C++, Wamp Server, Eclipsejuno, selenium Web driver.    • Software development lifecycle expert    • Web-based software engineering    • Program testing software