Java/AEM Developer <span class="hl">Java</span>/AEM <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java/AEM Developer Collierville, TN • 4+ years of professional IT experience emphasizing on various phases of the development/ maintenance projects as a AEM and Java Developer.  • Experience in application development using Java/J2EE technology such as Java, J2EE, JSP, Servlets, EJB, Spring, JDBC, Hibernate, Web Services (SOAP & RESTful).  • Experience with Web Content Management (WCM) applications using CQ5/AEM 6.x.  • Knowledge on DAM (Digital Asset Management) features of CQ5, writing & customizing DAM asset workflows.  • Good experience in Adobe CQ5 suite including OSGi, Apache Sling, Apache Felix, DTM, AJAX, JSPs, bundles etc.  • Knowledge on employing JCR for developing applications on Adobe CQ5.  • Experience on development tasks of CQ5 software including building templates, components, Ext-JS custom components, setting up the security, page creation frameworks etc.  • Installed, administered & deployed Day CQ5/AEM, CRX platforms on to different environments.  • Application development experience using Core Java, multithreading, Collections, Generics and Swing.  • Experience with Hibernate 3.0 persistence framework and Dependency Injection using Spring framework.  • Experience with Design patterns like Singleton, Factory, Session Facade, Business Delegate, Data Access Object, Data Transfer Object.  • Hands-on experience in developing system and web application using ADO.NET and ASP.NET with C# as programming language.  • Experience of working with RDBMS like MySQL, SQL Server, Oracle and developing Stored Procedures, Triggers, Views, Functions and SQL Queries.  • Experience in Web application development using - HTML, CSS, JavaScript, XML, WSDL, UML.  • Experience in Continuous Integration and Continuous Delivery techniques being used during SDLC.  • Development experience with IDE's like Eclipse, JDeveloper, Netbeans, InelliJ IDEA and BlueJ.  • Experience in working on projects using Agile Methodology - Scrum, Sprint Planning. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Java/AEM Developer FedEx - Collierville, TN January 2018 to February 2019 Responsibilities:    • Designed and developed AEM building blocks including templates, components, dialogs, widgets and workflows.  • Developed CQ custom workflow templates and modules for WCM lifecycle management and adobe target integration.  • Maintained the Content Management System (CMS) and provide support for AEM application in authoring environment.  • Wrote JSPs using custom tag libraries and AEM tag libraries.  • Creating templates, page components, content components and client libraries using Adobe Experience Manager (AEM).  • Work on Sling Servlets and OSGi Services to pull data from remote web-app services and also wrote custom business logic to maintain Content Repository Extreme (CRX).  • Developing HTML, CSS, JQuery and ExtJS for designing and developing custom AEM components.  • Worked on CQ component development for both classic UI and touch UI using Sightly.  • Developed JavaScript to implement client side validations and AEM authoring validations.  • Used Maven build tool to maintain Project dependencies and also use Jenkins as continuous integration tool for timely builds.  • Documenting Java classes using API-docs and Rest Client. Assessed the impact of the issues created to have a right visibility for the problems/defects.  • Interacting with business team for clarifications on the requirements of migration.  • Used Jira for bug tracking and project management.  • Participating in daily scrum meetings, story discussion, story points and in sprint planning.    Environment: AEM 6.2, J2SE, J2EE, DAM, Sling, OSGi, Eclipse, CRXDE Lite, Components, Templates, Sling Servlets, CRX, Sightly, Adobe Social, Adobe Analytics, DTM, JCR, EJB, XML, JavaScript, MS SQL, Oracle, PL/SQL, MS Visio, GIT, Web Services, SOAP, Jenkins, Maven, RESTful, Linux. Java/AEM Developer Sony PlayStation - San Mateo, CA February 2017 to December 2017 Responsibilities:    • Understanding the client requirements and preparing requirement specification detailed design, coding, testing and documentation.  • Working on AEM product suite, including CQ/AEM, CRX, and CQ WCM.  • Development of templates, page components and custom components which are available in out-of-box components.  • Work on Sling Servlets and OSGI Services to pull data from remote web-app services and also wrote custom business logic to maintain Content Repository Extreme (CRX).  • Development of static web pages, landing pages, category landing pages using content management system, Adobe CQ5.  • Provided estimates, designs, and specifications for CQ5 templates, components.  • Creation of the content structure hierarchy (region, languages nodes, etc.) and modularizing the content according to functional units.  • Worked on in slightly Setup and configure Authoring and Publishing environments.  • Working in the DAM for the maintenance of the media files.  • Create and maintain customer-facing Adobe CQ5 content management systems.  • Participated in requirements gathering sessions, understanding the business requirements, converting them to functional specifications.  • Creating all web-related material by coding in Sightly, HTML, JavaScript, CSS, and through the use of applications such as Internet explorer and Firefox.  • Developing Servlets, JSP pages, Beans, JavaScript and worked on integration.  • Effectively supported the production instance by assisting the user and participated in the client meeting calls and project trainings.    Environment: J2SE, J2EE, AEM 6.2, DAM, Sling, OSGI, Felix, CRXDE Lite, Components, Templates, Sling Servlets, CRX, Sightly, Adobe Social, DTM, JCR, EJB, XML, XSLT, JavaScript, MS SQL, Oracle, PL/SQL, MS Visio, Eclipse, Web Services, SOAP, RESTful, JDBC, Hibernate, Linux, Windows 2003 Server. Java/AEM Developer 1 Alliance Group LLC - Virginia Beach, VA February 2016 to December 2016 Responsibilities:  • Responsible for analysis, design, development and integration of UI components with backend using AEM and Java/J2EE.  • Used Spring MVC framework to implement the MVC design pattern.  • Created JAX-Web Services to interact with other applications using SOAP and WSDL file.  • Developed web applications in AEM in coordination with software development teams  • Assisted in designing, coding and testing of complex software applications.  • Developed custom components, templates, and customized forms for Website  • Customized AEM sidekick for enhanced authoring experience.  • Designing and implementing customer engagement strategies to support multi-site, multi-channel, multi-lingual delivery environments  • Create OSGi Bundle for deployment through Apache Sling  • Customizing workflows for publishing  • Create and integrate content-driven applications on top of the AEM/CQ core platform  • Using Sightly, HTML, CSS, JQuery and ExtJS for designing and implementing custom CQ components.  • Perform CQ5 customization on foundation components, for customer's core CMS and workflows to extend functionalities, improve performance or fix issues on project level.  • Created HQL queries to perform various database operations.  • Involved in bug tracking for the application using the Jira and Bugzilla tools.  Environment: Java/J2EE, AEM 6.1, Sightly, HTML5, CSS3, JSON, JQuery 1.7, ExtJS, Apache Sling, Apache Jack Rabbit, CRX, CRXDE Lite, JPA, JDK, Spring MVC, Restful Web services, Apache Tomcat 7.0. Software Engineer 1 Alliance Group LLC - Gurgaon, Haryana June 2013 to November 2014 Responsibilities:    • Involved in design, development, and testing phases of SDLC (Software Development Life Cycle).  • Participated in the team meetings to discuss the status of the project.  • Used JSP and JSTL for developing UI components.  • Designed and developed Servlets and JSP's for system controls and dynamic content generation using MVC architecture.  • Developed GUI using JSP, HTML, CSS and JavaScript.  • Wrote code for connection statements to establish the connection to database using JDBC.  • Developed and tested the SQL code for stored procedures, triggers and transactions.  • Involved in database design using Normalization techniques.  • Utilized Multithreading and concurrency concepts.  • Contributed in the development of the business logics using the Servlets.  • Designed database queries for updating, insertion and retrieval of asset information and rates.  Environment: Java, Servlets, JSP, EJB, XML, JavaScript, MySQL, SQL, PL/SQL, MS Visio, Eclipse, JDBC, CSS, Display Tags, Apache Tomcat etc. Education Master of Science in Information Technology Valparaiso University - Valparaiso, IN January 2015 to May 2016