Java Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Developer Richmond, VA • 3+ years of experience in development of applications using Object Oriented Programming, Java/J2EE technologies  • Involved in multiple full life cycle SDLC implementation from project planning to Go-live  • Experienced in Object Oriented Analysis and Design (OOAD) using UML with Visual Paradigm.  • Developed applications using Core Java, Servlets, JSP, JDBC, Struts MVC, GitHub, Maven, Spring, Hibernate. Strong program experience in core Java, Java Script, Strut, J2EE  • Good understanding of the SOA technologies like SOAP, WSDL Web Services.  • Knowledge of Software Development Methodologies like Agile, Waterfall.  • Hands on experience with HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript and XML. Proficient in using application servers like JBoss and Tomcat Servers.  • Extensive experience writing simple to complex SQL queries, PL/SQL, Stores procedures and Triggers. Knowledge of databases such as MySQL, Oracle11g/10g, SQL Server2018/2014/2012  • Good experience in IDE's like Eclipse and NetBeans.  • Good experience in deploying and troubleshooting the applications.  • Planning and executing software projects with experience in Project management tools like MS Project and other MS Office products; Presented technical findings, proposed migration options and evaluation of Open Source/Commercial software for clients.  • Experience Working on different platforms like Windows 10/8/7  • Good communication and strong interpersonal skills to quickly adapt to new environment. Work Experience Java Developer Stryker November 2018 to Present Roles and Responsibilities:  • Took an active role in backend and front-end development of Confidential Web app using Stripes (MVC framework), JPA/Hibernate, Spring, jUnit, JSP, JavaScript, MySQL.  • Involved in design of application framework using J2EE guidelines and most J2EE design  • Wrote Core Java classes, JSP and HTML files  • Developed interactive and user-friendly web pages using JSP, CSS, HTML, JavaScript  • Connected the application to the SQL2018/2014/2012 database to retrieve data from various tables and provide the relevant data.  • Creating the Chat Application to be embedded within the JSPs designed.  • Worked with SCRUM team in delivering agreed user stories on time for every sprint  • Experienced with version controller like SVN and GIT (Bitbucket, GitHub).  • Created and tested several java classes in JUnit4  • Retrieved data from Oracle database through SQL commands and stored procedures  • Implemented MyBatis ORM tools to automate the mapping between SQL databases and java objects.  • Build components scheduling and configuration using Maven.  • Responsible for migrating Environment variables from site files of individual distribution centers to its corresponding database table  • Implemented Java-Thread programming.  • Developed client-side validations using JavaScript, AJAX to get dynamic data.  • Used Eclipse as Integrated Development Environment IDE.  • Providing solutions for microservice-oriented environment ( Java, Spring, JAX-RS).  • Providing solutions for performance testing / monitoring tools  • Add new features in web and desktop clients written by using Flex, HTML, CSS3 and JavaScript based technologies. Software Development Engineer Times Warner, NJ May 2017 to October 2018 May 2017 to Oct 2018  Roles and Responsibilities:  • Developed various Database interaction objects by implementing the DAO patterns and used JDBC as Model Component.  • Extensive experience in working an Agile, V model and Waterfall (SDLC) environment.  • Used Maven scripts for dependencies and building the application.  • Generated Spring XML files for the configured beans.  • Extensive hands on experience in developing Web Applications and Web Services using technologies such as Java/J2EE Spring Framework, MVC, RESTful Web Service, Ajax, jQuery, JSON, ActiveMQ, DB2, MySQL, Eclipse, Maven, Git, Jenkins, SOAP API, Agile methodology, JIRA, Confluence.  • Oracle database was used, wrote stored procedures for common queries  • Used Data Parser for parsing the XML document.  • As a Software Development Engineer in Test, involved extensively in design, development and maintenance of a test automation using JAVA, TestNG and Maven.  • Used Eclipse as the Java IDE in the development of the application.  • WebLogic and JBOSS were used as application servers for deploying the application.  • Migrated SQL SERVER store procedures to Oracle Store procedures  • Involved in Unit Testing and Bug-Fixing and achieved the maximum code coverage using JUNIT test cases.  • Created EJB to connect and to provide multiple services to the Flex UI  • Development of JMX Mbeans to schedule process.  • Handle administrative tasks associated with day to day maintenance.  • Designed UML diagrams - Class, Sequence, Collaboration diagrams on development of HLD and DLD functional documents. Lamda - IN September 2014 to November 2015 Roles and Responsibilities:  • Worked in an agile development process based on Scrum. Employed Model View Controller as structural framework of application, other design patterns like data transfer objects, service locator, business delegate and front controller were also used.  • Used AJAX and JavaScript to handle asynchronous requests and CSS was used to keep uniformity in look of the application.  • Configured Hibernate to work with different forms of mappings like one to one and one to many relational.  • Developed front-end screens using HTML and JSP technology.  • Used Eclipse as development tool, WebLogic as application server, and Harvest was used for version controlling.  • Developed PL/SQL queries with JDBC API to create, retrieve and update data.  • Implemented CSS (Cascading style sheets) at JSP pages for GUI look and feel.  • Involved in designing and development of JSP's using struts tag library definitions and JSTL and validating the client data using the Java Script.  • Implemented many functionalities for a few client/server applications using Java and Oracle 11g/10g.  • Worked on creating DAO classes to get connection instances with Spring JDBC and configured JDBC connections with Oracle 10g  • Designed and developed Web Services to provide service to clients using WSDL and SOAP.  • Designed and developed various components for user's application - Spring MVC, Web Flow and Hibernate iBATIS based web application.  • Used WebLogic as application Server and responsible for WebLogic server administration activities. Used JDBC for Data Access Layer. Education Master's in Information Systems & Technology in Information Systems & Technology Wilmington university Skills J2Ee, Spring, Java J2Ee, Hibernate, Java Additional Information Skills    Core Java, Java, J2EE, JDBC, JSP, Servlets, Hibernate, Struts, Spring, XML, JSON, AJAX, HTML5, CSS3, BOOTSTRAP, JavaScript, SQL, SOAP, GitHub, WSDL, Maven, Oracle11g/10g, SDLC, Agile, Waterfall, NetBeans, Eclipse, MS Access, MS Office, Windows 10/8/7, Linux