QA Automation Engineer QA Automation Engineer ? More than 2 years of experience in Software Development and Automation Testing.  ? Developed applications following agile methodology.  ? Involved in application development using Python, Java, Rest API's, PostgreSQL, Json.  ? Experience in Software automation in the areas of Web based, Client - Server applications and cli based application using Python.  ? Extensively used automated test tools like Selenium Web driver using python  ? Familiar with Object-Oriented concepts.  ? Experience in Web service development, REST API's, TestNG & Junit framework.  ? Good analytical, debugging and troubleshooting skills.  ? Excellent communication and interpersonal skills, quick learner and a team player.  ? Enthusiastic in learning new concepts in emerging technologies. Work Experience QA Automation Engineer November 2017 to Present Title: APIC-EM TEST/ DNAC Nov 2017 - Present  Domain: Software Defined Networking  Team Size: 5  Environment/ Technology: Python, Uniq, Selenium, JSON  Role: QA Automation Engineer  Responsibilities:  1. I was involved in GUI web and client-server applications using python and Selenium    2. I was also involved in Functional testing of web and client-server applications and cli based applications.    3. Involved in Creation of JSON Schema to validate REST API Services.    4. I was also part of Performance and Scale team which involves Manual and automation of end to end Performance test cases. Java Developer SpringMVC, PostgreSQL, TestNG April 2016 to October 2016 Title: APIC-EM DEV/ DNAC Apr 2016 -Oct 2016  Domain: Software Defined Networking  Team Size: 5  Environment/ Technology: Java, SpringMVC, PostgreSQL, TestNG  Role: Java Developer  Responsibilities:  1. I was involved in exposing the REST API's for the interacting with external IPAM servers like Infoblox and Bluecat.    2. I was involved in integration and development of these API's for the IPAM service. The integration and development of these API's was done using Java, Spring MVC and PostgreSQL. The JDBC was taken care internally in the framework using ResourceAccessProvider to interact with Database.    3. I was involved in unit testing these API's which includes developing unit test cases in TestNG Framework. The positive scenarios and negative were tested properly and suitable Exception handling scenarios were tested. Education BTech Panimalar Institute Of Technology August 2012 to 2016 CBSE SBOA School & Junior College - Bangalore, KARNATAKA, IN 2010 SBOA Matriculation and Higher Secondary School