Data Analyst Student Worker Data Analyst Student Worker Data Scientist Tempe, AZ Computer Science Engineer with 3.5 years of work experience in the field of Data Science and a 15-month research experience  at ASU in Natural Language Processing, seeking a full-time position in September 2019. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Data Analyst Student Worker Enterprise Marketing Hub, ASU - Tempe, AZ November 2018 to July 2019 • Look-alike modeling on Alumni Epsilon Data: Built a model to target under graduate students to pursue graduate studies  based on 150K alumni epsilon data. Performed Factor Analysis to create a model with a 75.77% Area under the ROC curve.  • SunDevil Rewards App Dashboard: Worked on Google Data Studio to build a dashboard visualizing various user statistics  and user retention. Optimized and removed redundant and existing SQL queries to reduce the run-time by 50%. NLP Researcher Arizona State University - Tempe, AZ April 2018 to July 2019 • Understanding Entities & Roles in Natural Language Inference: Adversarial Dataset creation (490K pairs of sentences) & Models that captures the notion of Entities & Roles beating the state-of-the-art (BERT) by 30%. (Submitted in EMNLP2019).  • Semantic Textual Similarity in both general and Bio Medical Domain: Dataset creation & Models.  • Named Entity Extraction of Medical entities like Drugs, Dosage, Route etc by modeling a Bi-LSTM CRF and comparing its  results with a Transfer Learning (TL) technique that provided a faster rate of convergence and a 2.5% increment in F1 score.  • Annotated data creation(6k) & Modeling of "Socio-Economic Status" & "Functional Status" indicators from Clinical Notes. Software Developer Intern Arizona Department of Economic Security - Phoenix, AZ July 2018 to November 2018 Developed a responsive web application to enable Arizonans reach their true potential, developed using React JS, Redux  and Sagas with Bootstrap4 in an Agile environment and unit testing done using JEST. Data Analyst Student Worker Enterprise Marketing Hub, ASU - Tempe, AZ March 2018 to June 2018 • Information Browsing Score (Text Analytics): Analyzed 2000 responses to an open-ended survey question to find topics  about the ASU website that impact the 'Information Browsing' scores using LDA Topic Modeling and Data Visualization to make recommendations for web standards and changes across the ASU web ecosystem.  • Student Questionnaire Analysis: Discovered what attracts students to ASU by analyzing their responses (500) to 4 open- ended questions using LDA. Compared question wise topics & found interesting correlations to aid Decision Makers at ASU. Associate Data Analysts; Java Developer; Java Developer Intern Publicis.Sapient - Bengaluru, Karnataka January 2015 to June 2017 • Worked in an Agile Environment, participating in Sprint Planning and breaking large Epics into smaller user stories.  • Log Analytics for Endur Log (AIEMS): Led to a 20% cost reduction by automating the Log Management System. Created a model to predict the statistical thresholds using tools of Inferential Statistics for all the errors for all the clients in R and  initiated and led the JIRA integration in Python.  • News Analytics for US Crude Oil Prices: Implemented Text Classification model in Python and led the development of a platform for the Business Analysts by leveraging online learning, improving the accuracy from 63% to 77%. Education Master of Science in Computer Science Arizona State University - Tempe, AZ August 2019 Bachelor of Technology in Computer Science and Engineering Vellore Institute of Technology - Vellore, Tamil Nadu July 2011 to May 2015 Skills DEEP LEARNING, LDA, MACHINE LEARNING, DATA VISUALIZATION, REACTJS, SQL Links http://linkedin.com/in/ishrivas