Java/J2EE Developer <span class="hl">Java</span>/J2EE <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java/J2EE Developer - EBE Technologies IL • 5 years of extensive development experience specializing in an environment building n-tier applications for web deployment using Java, J2EE, JSP, JSF, Servlets, JDBC, JMS, JavaBeans, JavaScript, HTML, XHTML & XML.  • An IT Professional with expertise in complete Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) like analysis, design and development of Multi-Tier Client/Server and Web based applications.  • Expertise in Object Oriented Analysis and Design (OOAD) based on Unified Modeling Language (UML) architecture using Microsoft Visio.  • Expertise in developing web pages using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, Ajax, AngularJS, Bootstrap with webpage cross browser compatibility and responsive web design and Server scripting language like NodeJS.  • Worked in Web application development using HTML, CSS, UML, JavaScript, J2EE (JSP, Servlets, JDBC, JNDI, LDAP, JSF), JavaBeans, XML, XSLT, Oracle, SQL, and MVC architecture.  • Extensive experience in concepts such as Java, J2EE technologies such as JDBC, JSP, JSF, Servlets, Hibernate, EJB, Spring, XML, XSD, XSL, JNDI, RDBMS, Web Services, Struts, Spring, Tiles, Hibernate, JMS, AJAX. Designing and Developing Single Page web applications (SPA) using AngularJS  • Experienced in working with XML technologies like XML, XSL, XSD, XSLT and DTD.  • Proficient in deploying J2EE components (EAR/WAR/JAR) on WAS 6.x/7.x and shell scripting.  • Developed scripts for automating tasks using Ant 1.7.  • Strong working experience of relational database management systems like DB2 and Oracle 9i/10g/11g and SQL Server 2005/2008.  • Expertise in J2EE Technology- Servlets, Struts, Spring, JDBC, JTA, JPA, Hibernate and JMS.  • Extensive experience in Java SOAP RESTful Web Services, AngularJS, NodeJS in order to create single web page applications.  • Worked with design and development of robust and highly scalable Web Service platforms and API's based on REST and SOAP for enterprise applications using AXIS, WSDL, UDDI, XML, JAX-WS, JAX-RS, JAXB, JAX-RPC technologies and Jersey frameworks.  • Experience on JQuery, AngularJS libraries.  • Experienced in building Web Services for Service Oriented Architecture (SOA).  • Good Understanding in databases such as Oracle, MySQL, SQL Server, NoSQL, Mongo DB and IBM DB2 databases to manage tables, views, indexes, sequences, stored procedures, functions, triggers and packages.  • Excellent working experience with different operating systems like Windows, UNIX and LINUX.  • Highly proficient in understanding new technologies accomplishing projects goals successfully.  • Exceptionally well organized, strong work ethics and willingness to work hard to achieve employer objectives.  • Excellent written and verbal communication skills, presentation and problem solving skills.  • Good team player and ability to work in fast paced environment. Work Experience Java/J2EE Developer EBE Technologies - Moline, IL September 2018 to Present Responsabilités:  • Involved in Analysis, design and development of application based on Spring MVC and Java Technologies.  • Developed the application using Spring Framework that uses Model View Controller (MVC) architecture and Object/Relational mapping Hibernate framework as the persistence layer for interacting with database.  • Created Single Page Application with loading multiple views using route services and adding more  • User experience to make it more dynamic by using Angular JS framework.  • Used Spring MVC, Spring Batch, Spring Boot, IOC and Eclipse IDE, GitHub, JSF, OOAD, AWS, RCP, Multithreading to develop intranet web application.  • Experience with Cloud technologies like Amazon Web Services (AWS).  • Implemented with Angular JS using its advantage including two-way data binding and templates.  • Using AngularJS created custom directives for data manipulations and to display data in company standard format in UI.  • Designed dynamic client-side JavaScript code to build web forms and simulate process for web application, page navigation and form validation.  • Used CSS preprocessor SASS to make CSS more efficient.  • Developed API for using AWS Lambda to manage the servers and run the code in the AWS.  • Developed interfaces to communicate with mid-tier and Data Base.  • Strong understanding and knowledge of Linux, automation and CI Tools like Chef, Hudson, Jenkins & Git with scripting languages (Shell, python, pearl and ruby)  • Involved in developing the persistence layer using Hibernate framework, Production, Acceptance and Integration.  • Extensively used MVC, DAO, Factory and Singleton design patterns.  • Implemented features like logging, user session validation using Spring-AOP module.  • Used spring framework to implement middle tier with Spring IOC.  • Worked on modules to replace the Mainframe dependencies by writing the REST WebServices calls.  • Developed a RESTful based service for data retrieval to make it independent of the current application.  • Involved in writing SQL Queries for Database CRUD Operations and verified the Data with the  • Used Eclipse IDE for developing code modules in the development environment.  • Implemented the logging mechanism using log4j framework.  • Used GitHub as Version Controlling System to track the files among the team members. Used  Environment: Java 1.8/J2EE, Spring MVC, Hibernate, JSP, AWS, JavaScript, Angular.JS, React.JS, CSS3, HTML5, XML, JSON, Bootstrap, JUnit, WebSphere Application server, Mongo DB, Restful Web Services, Oracle 11g, Maven, Microservices, No SQL, JUnit, GIT. Java/J2EE Developer Metova INC - Dallas, TX June 2017 to August 2018 Responsibilities:  • Involved in all phases of Software Development Life Cycle process using Agile Methodology.  • Worked on High level and low level system design, planning, estimation and implementation  • Developed presentation layer using JSP, HTML5, CSS3 and client validation using JavaScript.  • Developed Single page application and structured the JavaScript code using AngularJS.  • Design and develop template based User Interface using Bootstrap and AngularJS.  • Handled all the client side validations, slide show, hide and show controls, dropdown menus and tab navigation using JQuery.  • Worked on Java 1.8 features such as Lambda Expressions for making anonymous inline function calls by using Functional Interfaces which makes code readable and concise.  • Utilized Amazon Web Services (AWS) EC2 to deploy Docker containers.  • Create and configured the continuous delivery pipelines for deploying Micro Services and Lambda functions using Jenkins CI server.  • Worked on development and implementation of the MVC Architectural pattern using Spring Framework.  • Developed the application with various Spring Framework modules like Spring IOC, Spring AOP, Spring Boot, Spring Security, and Spring Batch.  • Used Spring MVC framework at the Web tier level to isolate each layer of the application so that complexity of integration will be reduced and maintenance will be very easy.  • Implemented Batch jobs to deal with large number of chunks using Spring Batch Framework to execute the similar jobs simultaneously.  • Designed and integrated the full-scale Hibernate persistence solution with the application architecture.  • Involved in design and development of the Hibernate Domain Model for the service.  • Involved in using JPA ( Java Persistence API) frameworks and APIs as JDO and Hibernate.  • Involved on development of Restful web services using JAX-RS in a Spring based project.  • Proficient in Application Development/Maintenance using Legacy RPI languages.  • Worked on XML and JSON for transferring and retrieving data between different applications.  • Wrote services to store and retrieve user data from MongoDB for the application on devices.  • WebSphere is used as an Application Server to Deploy the Application.  • Used Jenkins to execute the test scripts periodically on Selenium Grid for different platforms like desktop, tablet, and mobile.  • Experience in using JUnit and build tools such as MAVEN.  • Worked on Log4j for logging errors, messages and performance logs.  Environment: Java 1.8/7, J2EE, HTML5, CSS3, JQuery, Ajax. Bootstrap, JavaScript, AngularJS, Hibernate, Spring MVC, Spring IOC, Spring boot, spring security, OAuth, XML, GIT, JSP, JUnit, IBM WebSphere, Apache Restful, Amazon Web Services (AWS), Micro Services, Log4J, Oracle, Mongo DB, WSD, JIRA and Spring Tool Suite. Java/J2EE Developer T- Mobile - Bothell, WA September 2016 to May 2017 Responsibilities:  • Responsible for all stages of design, development, and deployment of applications.  • Analyzed and reviewed client requirements and design.  • Followed agile methodology for development process.  • Designed the front-end screens using AngularJS, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, J-Query, Bootstrap.  • Developed presentation layer using HTML5, and CSS3, Ajax.  • Used jQuery core library functions for the logical implementation part at client side for all the applications.  • Built responsive site using Bootstrap that fits devices of different visual sizes.  • Developed the application using Struts Framework that uses Model View Controller (MVC) architecture with JSP as the view.  • Extensively used Spring IOC for Dependency Injection and worked on Custom MVC Frameworks loosely based on Struts.  • Used RESTful Web services for transferring data between applications.  • Configured spring with ORM framework Hibernate for handling DAO classes and to bind objects to the relational model.  • Used Struts Framework in the application, which is based on MVC design pattern. Developed Action classes and Form beans and configured the struts-config.xml.  • Used JXLS to export and import data EXCEL sheet. Designed PDF, excel and print previews for all the reports in the application using HTML, JavaScript and SQL Stored Procedure.  • Used the Struts Validator Framework to validate the form data.  • Developed dynamic responsive Web Application by integrating Angular JS with Bootstrap which is further integrated with Web Services.  • Wrote SQL queries of differing complexities for the application. Designed and developed database objects like Tables, Views, Stored procedures, User Functions using PL/SQL, SQL Developer.  • Utilized Angular JS framework to bind HTML template (views) to JavaScript object (models).  • Used SVN version control to track and maintain different versions of the application.  • Wrote test cases which adhere to a Test Driven Development (TDD) pattern.  • Used JUnit, a test framework which uses annotations to identify methods that specify a test.  • Used Log 4J to log messages depending on the messages type and level.  • Built the application using Maven and deployed using WebSphere Application server.  Environment: Java, J2EE, Spring MVC, Hibernate, Struts, J-query, HTML, CSS, Ajax, Java script, AngularJS, Bootstrap, Tomcat, Oracle, Pl/SQL, JDBC, Apache, REST, Eclipse, WebSphere, Junit, Agile Scrum, JSP, JSTL, Maven, SOA, Log4j, SVN. Programmer Analyst Codefelix technologies - Hyderabad, Telangana September 2013 to June 2015 Responsibilities:  • Performed analysis for the client requirements based on the developed detailed design documents.  • Developed Use Cases, Class Diagrams, Sequence Diagrams and Data Models using Microsoft Visio.  • Developed STRUTS forms and actions for validation of user request data and application functionality.  • Developed JSP's with STRUTS custom tags and implemented JavaScript validation of data.  • Developed programs for accessing the database using JDBC thin driver to execute queries, Prepared statements, Stored Procedures and to manipulate the data in the database.  • Developed the application using J2EE architecture.  • Involved in developing JSP forms.  • Designed and developed web pages using HTML and JSP.  • Involved in developing business tier using stateless session bean.  • Used JavaScript for the web page validation and Struts Valuator for server side validation.  • Designing the database and coding of SQL, PL/SQL, Triggers and Views using IBM DB2.  • Developed Message Driven Beans for asynchronous processing of alerts.  • Used JDBC for database connectivity with MySQL Server.  • Used CVS for version control.  • Used Clear case for source code control and JUNIT for unit testing  • Involved in peer code reviews and performed integration testing of the modules.  Environment: Java, J2EE, Hibernate, Spring, JSF, Java Regular Expressions, Log4j, Developer IDE, SQL Server 2008, JBOSS. Education Design ISC IT Services July 2015 to April 2016 Skills Spring, Java J2Ee, Java, Hibernate, Rest, Core Java, Angular, J2Ee