Sr Full Stack Java Developer Sr Full Stack <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr Full Stack Java Developer - PepsiCo • 4+ years of experience in Design & Development of Enterprise Applications, Web Applications, and Web Services in Java/J2EE and related technologies.  • Proficient in JQuerry, JDBC, microservices, bootstrap4, XML technologies like XSL/XSLT, SAX, DOM, XPath, SOAP, WSDL, DTD, Schema, SOA, JAXB, JAXP.  • Well experience in Design and Development of database systems using RDBMS concepts including Oracle, PostgreSQL, MySQL and experience in writing SQL queries, PL/SQL, T-SQL, Stored procedures, prepared statements and triggers.  • Experienced on latest version of object-oriented JavaScript frameworks like Angular.js, Node.JS, Backbone, Bootstrap, Ext JS, Knockout JS, React JS, Ember JS, Expres JS, and Dojo toolkit.  • Well experience in Design and Development of database systems using RDBMS concepts including Oracle, PostgreSQL, MySQL and experience in writing SQL queries, PL/SQL, T-SQL, Stored procedures, prepared statements and triggers.  • Extensive experience with Amazon Web Services (AWS), Open stack, Docker Puppet, Chef, Ansible, AWS Cloud Formation, AWS Cloud Front and Experience in using containers like Docker and familiar with Jenkins.  • Experience with MVC JavaScript frameworks such as Backbone.js, Angular.js and Node.js.  • Experienced in designing and developing application based on Spring Framework, Spring Boot, Spring MVC, Spring Templates, Hibernate, Microservices, AWS Web Services using Axis and Jersey Frame works, Java 8.  • Responsible for creating web-based applications using React JS, Node.js, and Redux workflow. Build prototype for various required services such as Scheduling, Logging and Notification Service using third party Node JS based JavaScript library.  • Excellent working experience in different spring modules like Spring Core Container, AOP, MVC, Security, Data, Transaction Management, Cloud  • Extensive experience with Amazon Web Services (AWS), Open stack, Docker, Puppet, Chef, Ansible, AWS Cloud Formation, AWS Cloud Front and Experience in using containers like Docker and familiar with Jenkins  • Develops microservices and has extensive experience using GitLab, Jenkins, clustering other tools and technologies for developing a scalable application.  • Developed various web applications /web pages using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, React JS, NodeJS. Designed various web concepts like security (OAuth, SiteMinder and OpenID), session controlling, storage  • Experience in using various version control systems like CVS, Git, Bitbucket. GitHub and Amazon EC2 and deployment using Heroku.  • Extensive experience in developing various web-based applications using Hibernate 3.0, Apache Struts, Apache tomcat and Spring frameworks  • Experience in using JSP and Servlets to create web interfaces and integrating apache tools like Kafka.  • Extensively used Maven and ANT as build script for application build and deployment, Junit and log4j for unit testing and logging and Client side java script Unit testing tools such as Jasmine along with karma, coffee, Jest, mocha, chai scripts.  • Strong knowledge on working with Jasmin-Karma, Protractor for client side unit testing and Experience on working client side build tools like NPM, Grunt, Gulp, Bower.  • Proven knowledge in one or more NoSQL Document Store databases such as MongoDB, Cassandra.  • Experience in writing stored procedures, functions, triggers using Oracle and comfortable using databases MS SQL Server, My SQL and MS Access. Work Experience Sr Full Stack Java Developer PepsiCo - Harrison, NY April 2018 to Present • Implemented business logic, data exchange and created graphics using JAVA, struts and Spring MVC.  • Used JAVA, struts and Spring MVC to interface with the jQuery UI, Bootstrap and manage the storage and deletion of content.  • Developed the Web Based Rich Internet Application (RIA) using J2EE (Spring framework) and Macromedia/Adobe Flex.  • Developing Applications using latest Java/J2EE technologies such as Cassandra, Java 8, Junit.  • Extensively worked in designing and implementation of multi-tier applications using Java 8, J2EE, JDBC, JSP, HTML5, Spring Boot, AngularJS, Servlets, JavaBeans with Eclipse.  • Expertise in Big data architecture with Hadoop File system and its eco system tools MapReduce, HBase, Hive, Agile, Pig, Zookeeper, Oozie, Flume, Avro, Impala, Apache spark and Spark Streaming and Spark SQL  • Developed software's for AWS in Java 8 (using Spring Framework 5.0, MySQL 5.6, AWS Aurora, Lambda, API Gateway, S3, SNS, SQS, DynamoDB, EC2, EBS, Akamai WAF (web application firewall) and Apache Tomcat web server.)  • Developed restful Web-services using Grails framework in Python.  • Used Spring RESTful API to create RESTful Web Services, set JSON data type between front-end and the middle-tier controller  • Developed Spring Restful/Microservices and implemented Spring Eureka, Netflix, Ribbon as part of Services Discovery using Apache Axis.  • Implemented REST web service in Scala using Akka for CBPMAN log tracking application.  • Worked in developing front end technologies such as java script, Angular 2.0+, JQuery, HTML, CSS, JSON, JSP and Struts 1.0/2.0  • Team leader on numerous projects utilizing Java, Java EE, Enterprise Java Bean, and Apache Struts Web applications to create fully-integrated client management systems.  • Deployed Spring Boot based microservices in Docker and Amazon EC2 container using Jenkins  • Developed Microservices using Spring MVC, Spring Boot, and Spring Cloud.  • Used Microservices architecture, with Spring Boot based services interacting through a combination of REST and Spring Boot.  • Built Spring Boot microservices for the delivery of software products across the enterprise  • Providing service discovery for all microservices using Spring Cloud Kubernetes project  • Applications are monitored using the Splunk, New Relic and CloudWatch alarms.  • Used IAM to manage and create AWS users and groups and used permissions to allow and deny access to AWS resources.  • Wrote build & deployment scripts using Maven on Unix environment and participated in configuring Jenkins for build automation. Used Docker as CI/CD tool for integrating different code components.  • Development of new listeners for producers and consumer for both Rabbit MQ and Kafka  • Used Microservice with Spring Boot interacting through a combination of REST and Apache Kafka message brokers.  • Worked in building servers like DHCP, PXE with kick-start, DNS and NFS and used them in building infrastructure in a Linux Environment. Automated build, testing and integration with Ant, Maven and JUnit.  • Worked on implementing Microservices architecture by using containers.  • Developed the microservices using Spring Cloud with components of Netflix OSS (Eureka, Zuul, Hystrix, Ribbon, Feign)  • Oversee all stages of design, development, and deployment of new Java-based vendor application system for financial-services industry.  • Work directly with management, vendors, and third parties to ensure that Web-site's financial transactions and database management applications operate at peak efficiency.  • Used RabbitMQ to put messages on the queue to be consumed by Cassandra to journal various events while migrating data from ArangoDB.  • Used Docker Container to automate the deployment of applications inside as images which can be shipped easily and used anywhere it is required. Sr Full Stack Java Developer Frost Bank - Dallas, TX 2016 to March 2018 • Implemented business logic, data exchange and created graphics using JAVA, struts and Spring MVC.  • Developed restful Web-services using Grails framework in Python.  • Used JAVA, struts and Spring MVC to interface with the jQuery UI, Bootstrap and manage the storage and deletion of content.  • Developed application using JavaScript, AngularJS for frontend, JPA, RESTful web services, MySQL for Backend and deployed in AWS. Developed single page application by using Angular JS and ReactJS.  • Legacy UniData ported using Redback RBO data connection via Cold Fusion. Intranet programming for local data, also UniData/Redback with Cold Fusion.  • Cold Fusion Developer with Flash & Flash Remoting.  • Implemented MVC architecture in developing the web application with the help of Spring MVC framework.  • Worked on Payment Portal as primary Java developer using JSF ( Java Server Faces), JBoss Seam, Hibernate, JBoss and Seam as primary Java developer.  • Created Stacks using Amazon Cloud Formation templates to launch AWS Infrastructure and resources. Used AWS Lambda to run the code in the AWS.  • Used HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, AngularJS, jQuery for developing the front-end and Bootstrap to build a single page web app that communicate with back-end via RESTful API.  • Used Spring MVC Database API's and JPA ( Java persistence API) to access database objects.  • Written Angular services driven JSON consuming JavaScript functions to save User selections such as radio button, drop-down menu selections into a cookie.  • Used Rabbit MQqueues for implementation of multi-threaded synchronization processes and used JMS queues for consumption requests  • Leveraged AngularJS resources for all data access, encapsulating URLs and standardizing data access interfaces.  • Maintained the Parent and child elements by using State and Props in AngularJS.  • Used AngularJS to build high-quality, scalable and reusable components and Front-end solution.  • Responsible for implementing UI mock-ups, integrating third party react libraries, and handling/creating Redux store data.  • Developed web services using Restful technology to support JSON and XML.  • Implemented RESTful Web Services for the data transportation between multiple systems.  • Designed and documented of RESTful APIs for collection and retrieval of high-volume Max, Min and Mean statistical data.  • Deployed Spring Boot based microservices Docker and Amazon EC2 container using AWS admin console.  • Developed remote integration with third party platforms by using RESTful web services.  • Worked on MongoDB database concepts such as locking, transactions, indexes, Shading, replication, schema design.  • Used Spring Core, Spring Web MVC, Spring ORM, Spring JDBC, and DAO, Spring AOP.  • Implemented code to perform CRUD operations on MongoDB using MongoDB Java Driver module.  • Involved in Data Migration process using Azure by integrating with Github repository and Jenkins.  • Implemented responsive vector maps and charts on webpages using the data from MongoDB.  • Implemented automate scripts to back up the old records using MongoDB export command and transfer these backup files into backup machine using ftplib.  • Maintaining multiple copies of data in different database servers using MongoDB Replication concept.  • SOAP web services were developed in a top-down approach using hibernate and Oracle and the clients were generated with JAX-WS.  • Worked in Oracle 12C (RDBMS) database on simple queries and writing Stored Procedures for normalization and renormalization.  • Implemented and designed AWS virtual servers by Ansible roles to ensure deployment of web applications. Worked with multiple development teams to troubleshot and resolve issues.  • Created Server instances on AWS and installed Swagger for deploying Microservices.  • Designed, configured and deployed Amazon Web Services (AWS) for a multitude of applications utilizing the Amazon Web Services focusing on high-availability, fault tolerance and auto-scaling.  • Created S3 buckets and managing policies for S3 buckets and Utilized S3 bucket and backup on AWS.  • Deployed microservices to Ansible Playbook in Docker containers, managed by Mesos/Marathon  • Develops microservices and has extensive experience using GitLab, Jenkins, clustering other tools and technologies for developing a scalable application.  • Developed various web applications /web pages using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, React JS, NodeJS. Designed various web concepts like security (OAuth, SiteMinder and OpenID), session controlling, storage. Java Developer Southwest Airlines - Dallas, TX August 2015 to July 2016 • Client Interaction for the Application: interact with client, understand the requirements, and discuss for the approach.  • Data mining and Performance tuning from source system, interface systems until backend system Teradata.  • Warranty support after production roll over.  • Develop the application/module as per user story upon approach, testing & documenting the results.  • Setup environment and data for testing.  • Updating JIIRA tool as per each phase of agile development till handover to QA.  • Developing Spring Integration application using Camel as route builder, Spring Batch, Spring JMS, Spring JDBC, Core, AOP, JPA, JTA and Gradle as building tool.  • Worked on Core Java/J2EE/Multi-threading technologies.  • Batch programming developed using Spring 2.5 Schedulers.  • Experience on writing scripts using Apache JMeter.  • Experienced and expert in using GIT repository.  • Experience in developing/consuming REST webservices using Spring and Jersey.  • Used Splunk tool for any trouble shoots and used Jenkins for building the applications.  • Prepare deployment/release notes plan and ensure successfully implementation.  • Deployed Gradle built JAR files to apache Tomcat webserver for testing in development. Interacted with team members in daily SCRUM stand-up meetings discussing items worked on the previous day, current items and obstacles if any.  • Involved in daily Scrum meetings, Sprint planning and estimation of the tasks for the user stories, participated in retrospective and presenting demo at end of the sprint.  • Designed database tables (Data Modelling) and structures along with Data Architects.  • Deployed Spring applications into ApacheTomcat7.0 server which was hosted in Dev/ITest/UAT /Production environments.  • Support in Load performance and analyzing thread dump for any memory leaks.  • Performed User Acceptance Testing to ensure the final product is clean and all the requirements are met.  • Assisting in Test Strategy Planning and Resource planning.  • Risk management - Identify risks and communicate proactively.  • Trained and managed a team of offshore analysts in onsite/offshore model