Full Stack Java Developer Full Stack <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Full Stack Java Developer - Cync Software • Full Stack Java Developer with 4+ years of IT experience in all phases of Software Development Life Cycle in designing and developing web services and web applications using object-oriented methodologies.  • Experience in developing RESTful Microservices using Java, Spring, Hibernate, and Spring Boot.  • Experience in using spring concepts like Java Beans, defining bean dependencies and injecting dependencies, and Hibernate Query Language (HQL).  • Strong experience in building web services using various Spring Framework features like Spring IOC, Spring MVC, Spring AOP and Spring ORM.  • Experience in working with Test Driven Development, using JUnit and Mockito to write the test cases and mock required dependencies.  • Worked on dockerizing RESTful services by creating Docker images, pushing them to Docker Hub/AWS ECR and container orchestration using AWS ECS service.  • Hands-on experience in building Continuous Integration and Continuous Delivery (CI/CD) pipelines using Git, Jenkins, Groovy.  • Experience in developing single page applications using web technologies like Angular, HTML, CSS, JavaScript.  • Has good knowledge of Relational databases like MySQL, SQL server and NoSQL database like MongoDB.  • Experience in working with software development methodologies like Waterfall & Agile(Daily Scrum Calls, Sprints).  • Hands-on experience in using Java and C# languages.  • Expertise in creating Unified Modeling Language (UML) diagrams such as Use Case diagrams, Class diagrams, Sequence diagrams.  • Good at using Microsoft Project Management tool and ServiceNow, IT Service Management tool.  • Self-motivated and a goal-oriented team player with strong analytical and problem-solving abilities with effective communication and interpersonal skills. Work Experience Full Stack Java Developer Cync Software - Herndon, VA August 2018 to Present Cync is a cloud-based loan monitoring software for asset-based lenders (ABL) and factoring companies. Cync automates the ABL and Factoring processes and increases the productivity of medium and large-scale banks in USA.    Responsibilities:  • Designed, documented (Swagger) and developed Micro Services (Admin Service, Reports Service, Audit Service, Loan Processing Service) using Java, Spring Boot, Spring, Hibernate, JSON, JWT and MongoDB.  • Developed Single Page Application (SPA) using HTML 5, CSS, Bootstrap and Angular 6.  • Dockerized Micro Services and Angular applications and implemented container orchestration using AWS Elastic Container Service (ECS)  • Configured the CI/CD pipeline for Micro Services and Angular using Git, Jenkins, Groovy, Docker, AWS ECR, AWS ECS.  • Developed unit tests using JUnit and Mockito and Integration tests using Postman and Newman  • Implemented static code analysis and code coverage with SonarQube  • Used AWS SSM Parameter Store for storing environment specific config properties and also for storing secure config parameters like DB passwords.  • Worked in Agile environment with bi-weekly sprints and daily scrum meetings  Environment: Java 1.8, Spring, Spring Boot, Spring Rest Client, Swagger, JUnit, Mockito, Maven, Nginx, Postman, MongoDB, Docker, Amazon ECS, Jenkins, HTML 5, CSS, Bootstrap, Angular 6, Agile, Git Full Stack Java Developer Cleveland State University - Cleveland, OH June 2017 to August 2018 Responsibilities:  • Designed and implemented student, course microservices using Java, Spring Boot, Hibernate ORM and MySQL.  • Created regular Rest end-points that would be used to read with ID, read All, Update and Delete operations (CRUD).  • Developed the persistence layer using Hibernate Framework, created the POJO objects and mapped using Hibernate annotations.  • Used the Spring IOC feature to get Hibernate session factory and resolve other bean dependencies. Also, used Spring framework's AOP features and JDBC module features to persist the data to the database.  • Used Swagger Framework for Restful API documentation as Swagger gives the rich UI to test the API.  • Used Rest client - POSTMAN to test REST API services.  • Used MySQL relational database for the backend operations.  • Containerized microservices using Docker and Docker Hub.  • Configured and developed Maven project object model (POM) for Unit and Integration tests.  • Focused on Test Driven Development (TDD) thereby creating detailed JUnit tests for every single piece of functionality before writing the actual functionality.    Environment: Java 1.8, Spring, Hibernate, Spring Boot, Postman, JUnit, Mockito, Maven, Angular 2, Apache Tomcat, MySQL Full Stack Java Developer Western Union - IN June 2014 to December 2016 Responsibilities:  • Implemented a software functionality to gather customers data with a focus on code optimization and organization. Recommended improvements to existing software programs.  • Involved in the entire SDLC, from interpreting and facilitating requirements to developing software to supporting production deployments.  • As a Full Stack Developer in Java, involved in understanding SDLC using agile methodology and worked on front- end and back- end tools and frameworks.  • Designed and developed Agent microservice using Java, Spring, Hibernate and SQL server.  • Interaction with the clients to define business requirements and providing man-hour estimations for development and enhancements.  • Created GUI screens and implemented business logic using JAVA, HTML/CSS, Spring Boot and SQL.  • Documented the REST API using Swagger Framework.  • Automated the manual process of reading data from multiple tables in the database by deploying complex SQL procedures.  • Created cross-browser compatible and standards-compliant CSS-based page layouts. Used JDBC to manipulate the data on the System database Server.  • Created logical and physical data models putting to practice the concepts of normalization and RDBMS.  • Delivered detailed design of web application that includes UML case, class, sequence diagrams.  • Performed Unit, functional, integration testing and was part of 24x7 on-call and on-site support.    Environment: Java, Spring, Hibernate, Spring Boot, JUnit, Mockito, Swagger, Postman, HTML, CSS, Apache Tomcat, Maven, SQL server, Git Education Master's in Management Information Systems in Management Information Systems Cleveland State University JNTU, India JNTU Skills .net (Less than 1 year), Amazon elastic compute cloud (Less than 1 year), Apache (3 years), Aws (Less than 1 year), C# (Less than 1 year), databases (Less than 1 year), Ec2 (Less than 1 year), Eclipse (Less than 1 year), Ecr (Less than 1 year), Ecs (Less than 1 year), Java (4 years), Jdbc (3 years), Junit (4 years), Mongodb. (Less than 1 year), Ms sql server (2 years), Mysql. (1 year), Rest (4 years), Sql (2 years), Sql server. (2 years), Tomcat (3 years) Additional Information Technical Skills    Programming languages Java, C#, C  Web Technologies HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Angular  J2EE Technologies JDBC, REST, JPA, Spring Data, Spring Cloud, Microservices  Databases MySQL, MongoDB, SQL Server  Frameworks Spring, Hibernate, Spring Boot, JUnit, Mockito  Application/Web Server Apache Tomcat  DevOps tools GitHub, AWS Code Commit, Jenkins, Docker, Docker Hub, SonarQube  Development Methodologies Agile, Waterfall  AWS Services EC2, S3, ECS, ECR, ALB, SSM Parameter Store  IDE's & Other Tools Eclipse, Visual Studio, Jira, Confluence, ServiceNow, Swagger, Postman