Full Stack Java Developer Full Stack <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Full Stack Java Developer - Amex Work Experience Full Stack Java Developer Amex - Phoenix, AZ October 2018 to March 2019 • Involved in all phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) including analysis, design, development, and testing of the project.  • Used SpringBoot to create stand-alone spring applications.  • Used Spring Boot for building Micro services and developed Spring based application radically faster with very less configuration.  • Designed and developed Micro services business components using SpringBoot.  • Used Intellij Integrated Development Environment for coding, debugging and testing the application modules.  • Developing microservices using Java 1.8 version with spring boot frame work.  • Used Java8 features in developing the code like Lambda expressions, creating resource classes, fetching documents from database.  • Implemented data migration.  • Used Splunk metric log to monitor the log information of the services  • Used Bitbucket for version control, and to pull and push the code into the repository.  • Focused on Test Driven Development; thereby creating detailed Unit tests for every single piece of functionality before actually writing the functionality.  Environment: Java 8, AWS, Jenkins, Putty, Atlassian tools (Bit Bucket, Confluence, Rally), JAXB, MySQL, Postman, Microservices, RestAPI's, Junit. Full Stack Java Developer System Soft Technologies LLC - Herndon, VA August 2016 to October 2018 Java Developer in developing and deploying portal with agile methodology using JPA, Hibernate at the Back end and GWT as a front end with day-to-day enhancements along with Testing to reach UAT requirements.    Responsibilities:  • Designed and developed the application using Agile methodology and followed Scrum.  • Worked along with a team working in four different time zones and two continents.  • Worked on continuous integration pipeline using Jenkins to support various projects and delivery.  • Built Activiti based BPM engine to engineer and configure business process and management rules.  • Developed Application to asses JSON and XML from RESTful web service from consumer side using JavaScript and Angular 2  • Experience in implementing J2EE Design Patterns like MVC, DAO and Singleton.  • Worked on the REST Web Services and used Spring Framework and developed the Spring Features.  • Extensively used Core Java such as Multi-Threading, Exceptions, and Collections.  • Focused on Test Driven Development; thereby creating detailed Unit tests for every single piece of functionality before actually writing the functionality.  Environment: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, Ajax, SOAP, JSP's, Apache Tomcat, MySQL, Maven, JUNIT, Jenkins, GIT. Junior java Developer System Soft Technologies LLC - Hyderabad, Telangana February 2014 to August 2015 Java developer in developing web application to the company to perform the relationship between the corporate user and consultants. We develop this application for the user to communicate with the HR department like to apply the leave request and to submit the time sheets. The time sheet is tracked based on BPM flow.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in complete SDLC management - Requirements gathering, Design, Analysis, Development and Testing  • Analyzed object oriented design and developed sequence and class diagrams using UML.  • Developed UI using HTML, JavaScript, and JSP, and developed Business Logic and Interfacing components using Business Objects and JDBC.  • Designed and Implemented XML based services conforming to OPEN API standard. Implemented various SOAP  based service clients to interact with 3rd party soap services.  • Managed connectivity using JDBC for querying/inserting & data management including triggers and stored procedures for Oracle database.  • Spring beans are used for controlling the flow between UI and Hibernate.  Environment: Java 1.5, HTML, CSS, JSP, J2EE Servlet, MySQL, JDBC, XML, JQuery, Oracle 10g, Maven2.2.1, Junit. Education Bachelors of Engineering in Computer science Jawaharlal technological university Masters in computer science in computer science Virginia international university Skills Java, Javascript