Java- Developer <span class="hl">Java</span>-<span class="hl">Developer</span> Java- Developer - PostNord Collierville, TN Project Name: ISU(Information Support Dividend)  Client: PostNord  Role: Java- Developer  Tool & Technologies: Java, Oracle Database, Jboss Server, HPSM Tool  Team Size: 5  Duration: November 2017- till date  Description: ISU is a tool to deal with Letters delivery routes, Post-Box Assignment and Management, News-paper and Magazine delivery, redirection of mail and business reply mail. It is considered as a master data system which contains information about delivery offices, all Swedish addresses, persons and organizations living/located at these addresses and their address change history.    Tasks:  ? Understanding requirement and scope with onshore team.  ? Modifying the code or develop new logics in EJBs of the project based on requirements.  ? Running scheduled Batch jobs and Scripts in 'Oracle SQL Developer'.  ? Resolving incidents, updating and performing change implementations in Service Manager Tool called 'HPSM'.  ? High Level and low level design document creation..  ? Deploying EAR Ant build on JBoss Server.    Project Name: Integrity Replacement  Client: HMD Global  Role: Java- Developer  Tool & Technologies: Java, Rest API, Maven build-tool, Tomcat Apache Server, HPSM Tool  Team Size: 7  Duration: May 2017- October 2017(6 months)  Description: HMD Global was using PTC Integrity application for requirement management and ALM(Application Lifecycle Management).The business requirement was to replace the Integrity due to high licensing price of PTC Integrity Tool.So it was replaced with JIRA Tool which reduced the licensing price with all the functionalities of Integrity.Integrity was used along with a free source tool called TsarIT which is integrated with JIRA.    Tasks:  ? Worked in Agile Methodology, gathered requirement informations from business team and update the performed tasks in VSTS Tool.  ? Implemented functionalities of Integrity like fetching Attachments, Links, Scopes etc in Jira code.  ? Involved in creating Plugins for certain fields by using Groovy Script in Jira customisation.  ? Checked logs and fixed the issues in code.  ? Tested the functionality of import and export of Data from Tsarit Tool.    Project Name: Collections  Client: Nielsen  Role: Java- Developer  Tool & Technologies: Java, Junit(Mockito Framework), SonarQube6.2, FindBugs, PMD Tool  Team Size: 8  Duration: June 2016- April 2017(11 months)  Description: Nielsen is acting like a medium for our client to understand the impact of their production on the Customers.For this, a bar-graph report is generated based on age, gender, city(demographic informations) etc. to understand the interest of viewers of advertisements(static and videos) on different websites.For tracking the people views, a 'campaign-id' is appended with the advertisement URL which is sent to the publisher's web-page.Collections was responsible to collect the responses against each valid Campaign Id.    Tasks:  ? Done modifications in Collections and Servlet codes according to the requirement.  ? Written JUnit Test Cases for Legacy code of Collection, Used Mockito Framework.  ? Used various code quality analysis tools like SONAR, PMD and Findbugs.It Involves Code Coverage, Test Success, Violations, Rules Compliance etc.  ? Done changes in fields and their values in config file(generated by Collections) which is sent to down team.    Project Name: (AMS)Asset Management System  Client: Internal Project  Role: Team-member  Tool & Technologies: Java, JSP, JS  Team Size: 7  Duration: Feb 2016- May 2016(3 months)  Description: It was a Training project based on MVC architecture.The AMS has been developed because the Asset Management Team faces a lot of difficulty in managing the proper database manually through excel or any other manual file system.Also, it is very difficult to trace and update the changes.Thus, we need to automate the same.    Tasks:  ? Found bugs in the demo project source code like Validation of employee id or password based on SRS.  ? Reported the bugs on Service- Now Tools and Fixed them by providing all steps of Code-Fixing on the Tool. Sponsorship required to work in the US Work Experience Java- Developer PostNord November 2017 to Present Tool & Technologies: Java, Oracle Database, Jboss Server, HPSM Tool  Team Size: 5  Duration: November 2017- till date  Description: ISU is a tool to deal with Letters delivery routes, Post-Box Assignment and Management, News-paper and Magazine delivery, redirection of mail and business reply mail. It is considered as a master data system which contains information about delivery offices, all Swedish addresses, persons and organizations living/located at these addresses and their address change history.    Tasks:  ? Understanding requirement and scope with onshore team.  ? Modifying the code or develop new logics in EJBs of the project based on requirements.  ? Running scheduled Batch jobs and Scripts in 'Oracle SQL Developer'.  ? Resolving incidents, updating and performing change implementations in Service Manager Tool called 'HPSM'.  ? High Level and low level design document creation..  ? Deploying EAR Ant build on JBoss Server.    Project Name: Integrity Replacement Assistant System Engineer Current Organisation February 2016 to Present Job Domain Expertise: Transport and Engineering  ? Tenure: February 2016-till date Java- Developer HMD Global May 2017 to October 2017 Tool & Technologies: Java, Rest API, Maven build-tool, Tomcat Apache Server, HPSM Tool  Team Size: 7  Duration: May 2017- October 2017(6 months)  Description: HMD Global was using PTC Integrity application for requirement management and ALM(Application Lifecycle Management).The business requirement was to replace the Integrity due to high licensing price of PTC Integrity Tool.So it was replaced with JIRA Tool which reduced the licensing price with all the functionalities of Integrity.Integrity was used along with a free source tool called TsarIT which is integrated with JIRA.    Tasks:  ? Worked in Agile Methodology, gathered requirement informations from business team and update the performed tasks in VSTS Tool.  ? Implemented functionalities of Integrity like fetching Attachments, Links, Scopes etc in Jira code.  ? Involved in creating Plugins for certain fields by using Groovy Script in Jira customisation.  ? Checked logs and fixed the issues in code.  ? Tested the functionality of import and export of Data from Tsarit Tool.    Project Name: Collections Java- Developer Nielsen June 2016 to April 2017 Tool & Technologies: Java, Junit(Mockito Framework), SonarQube6.2, FindBugs, PMD Tool  Team Size: 8  Duration: June 2016- April 2017(11 months)  Description: Nielsen is acting like a medium for our client to understand the impact of their production on the Customers.For this, a bar-graph report is generated based on age, gender, city(demographic informations) etc. to understand the interest of viewers of advertisements(static and videos) on different websites.For tracking the people views, a 'campaign-id' is appended with the advertisement URL which is sent to the publisher's web-page.Collections was responsible to collect the responses against each valid Campaign Id.    Tasks:  ? Done modifications in Collections and Servlet codes according to the requirement.  ? Written JUnit Test Cases for Legacy code of Collection, Used Mockito Framework.  ? Used various code quality analysis tools like SONAR, PMD and Findbugs.It Involves Code Coverage, Test Success, Violations, Rules Compliance etc.  ? Done changes in fields and their values in config file(generated by Collections) which is sent to down team.    Project Name: (AMS)Asset Management System  Client: Internal Project Team-member Tool & Technologies February 2016 to May 2016 3 months)  Description: It was a Training project based on MVC architecture.The AMS has been developed because the Asset Management Team faces a lot of difficulty in managing the proper database manually through excel or any other manual file system.Also, it is very difficult to trace and update the changes.Thus, we need to automate the same.    Tasks:  ? Found bugs in the demo project source code like Validation of employee id or password based on SRS.  ? Reported the bugs on Service- Now Tools and Fixed them by providing all steps of Code-Fixing on the Tool. Education BTech in Electronics and Communications in Electronics and Communications Shri Ram Murti College of Engineering and Technology Bareilly, Uttar Pradesh Technical University - Bareilly, Uttar Pradesh 2015 Skills JAVA, ORACLE, ORACLE 10G, ANT, MAVEN, Spring, Hibernate, Java J2Ee, J2Ee, Rest Additional Information Primary Skill Summary:  ? 2.6 years of IT experience and technical proficiency in Java Development(Web-based applications and Desktop applications) for clients in EIS(Engineering and Industrial solutions) and TTH(Travel, Transportation and Hospitality) domains.  ? Analytical capabilities in understanding and delivering solutions to meet End-user needs with minimal supervision.  ? Hands-on experience in Core- java development, JUnit Testing, Maven and Ant build for application development and maintenance.  ? Worked on Oracle 10g for running batch jobs and checking data at back-end.  ? Good Communication Skills, sincere Team Player, self-motivated and assertive.