Java/J2EE Developer <span class="hl">Java</span>/J2EE <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java/J2EE Developer - Equifax Alpharetta, GA • 3+ years of IT experience in analysis, design, development, documentation, implementing and testing of software systems in Java, J2EE technologies.  • Strong Knowledge on Application Development using Software Development Life Cycle SDLC using various methodologies like Agile/Scrum.  • Experience in building enterprise applications using technologies such as Core Java 1.7/1.8, J2EE (Servlets, JSP), Spring, Hibernate, SOAP & RESTful Web Services.  • Strong experience in Spring Framework such as Spring MVC, IOC, AOP, Spring JDBC, Spring IO, Spring Boot.  • Extensive experience in developing Microservices using Spring Boot.  • Experience in core Java-Multithreading, collections, Interfaces, Synchronization and Exception handling, Servlets and JDBC.  • Experience in implementing Java EE design patterns such as MVC, Singleton, Session Facade, DAO, DTO, and Business Delegate in the development of Multi-Tier distributed Enterprise Applications.  • Experience working on deployment, installation, configuration and issues with Web and Application Servers like Apache Tomcat 6/7/8.  • Knowledge and experience in SQL queries, PL/SQL, stored procedures, functions and triggers to interact with SQL, MySQL, Oracle databases.  • Experience in using testing frameworks like Junit, log4j, JMockito and Selenium.  • Experience in building the UI using HTML5, CSS3.  • Experience in using build/deploy tools such as Jenkins, Docker and OpenShift for Continuous Integration and Deployment for Microservices.  • Experience in building automation and project management tools like Maven to manage project builds, release and documentations  • Experience in working with version control management tools GitHub, SubVersion, TortoiseGit and bug reporting tools like JIRA.  • Good working experience in GUI design and application development using IDE's like Eclipse and Net Beans.  • Excellent team player with good analytical, strategic planning and interpersonal and communication skills. Highly motivated, enthusiastic and self-starter. Work Experience Java/J2EE Developer Equifax - Alpharetta, GA June 2018 to Present Equifax is a Consumer credit reporting agency. It collects and aggregates information on individual consumers. Equifax sells credit monitoring and fraud-prevention services directly to the consumers and to credit reporting agencies. The web application provides functionalities such as profile management and user validation.  Roles and Responsibilities:  • Worked in agile framework as an individual contributor Responsibilities include - Interaction with Business team in story grooming, reviewing story/acceptance criteria.  • Successfully implemented Web Services and exposed the service to the inter application communication.  • Implemented REST Microservices using spring boot. Generated Metrics with method level granularity and Persistence using Spring AOP and Spring Actuator.  • Implemented service layer using Spring IOC and annotations and Controllers using Spring MVC.  • Worked on Rest Web services and used Micro services architectural style to develop the application.  • Worked on Spring IOC, Spring Boot, Spring Cloud and used ORM framework like Hibernate.  • Implemented the project as a multi-tier application using Spring MVC, Spring boot, Microservices & used core Spring concepts like MVC, AOP, IOC.  • Used databases like Cassandra and MongoDB  • Participating in meetings with business teams, understand requirements for 3 weeks duration as our project follows monthly deployments. We do daily stand-up calls with onshore team.  • Implemented the front end using Html5, CSS3, AngularJS, and used NodeJS to get the data from MongoDB database.  • Responsible for creating Controllers, Service and DAO classes and bug fixing.  • Responsible for code update into TortoiseGit and support for automated builds successful. Java/J2EE Developer Nivid Technologies - Sterling, VA May 2017 to June 2018 Our company provides services to its direct clients and I was involved in a project which involves the design and development of a Web based application to provide online insurance services. The web application provides functionalities such as policy management, profile management and claim reporting. The customer can access complete account information, policy information and report a claim.  Roles and Responsibilities:  ? Involved in Analyzing Software Requirements, Specification, Design and implementation of application using Agile (Scrum) methodology.  ? Extensively worked on both consumption & production of RESTful based Web services using JAX-RS & jersey parsers.  ? Implemented the project as a multi-tier application using Spring MVC, Spring boot, Microservices & used core Spring concepts like MVC, AOP, IOC.  ? Expertise in Core Java with strong understanding and working knowledge of Object Oriented Concepts like Collections, Multi-threading, Concurrency framework.  ? Developed applications using the latest Java/ J2EE technologies and worked with the latest features of Java 8 and Java 7.  ? Used GitHub for efficiently managing the source code versions with the development team.  ? Used Jenkins for continuous integra on and Maven for building the EAR file. Graduate Assistant Fairleigh Dickinson University March 2016 to December 2016 NJ  • Assist the Online Programs staff with student services, office organization, file maintenance and upkeep, preparing course materials for college fairs.  • Maintaining Social Media Pages for Petrocelli College and involved in meetings with faculty in creating and maintaining their pages.  • Worked with Datatel, Excel, Power Point and all other projects as required. Java/J2EE Developer Fluentgrid Limited - Hyderabad, Telangana June 2014 to December 2014 This application is developed for our employee recruitment system. This Recruitment System is a web-based tool used to make the recruiting process of an organization simple. This allows Job applicants to register their details such as skills, experience, education details and accomplishments into the system. It also allows employers to post their requirements on the internet which helped to announce requirements without any medium in between. It also sends automatic email updates with new requirements links to the registered candidates.    Roles and Responsibilities:  ? Employed Scrum concepts of Agile Development Methodology for so ware development.  ? Involved in creating the tables using SQL and connectivity is done by JDBC.  ? Developed the modules independently.  ? Business logic was implemented in Servlets.  ? Designed, implemented and deployed J2EE web application using Spring MVC and Spring IOC.  ? Participated in business meetings with Business Analysts & different Applica on teams to analyze the requirements.  ? Wrote SQL commands and Stored Procedures to retrieve data from Oracle database.  ? Developed the application using Singleton, Object design patterns in the project.  ? Built application using Maven and monitored the errors log using Log4J.  ? Worked as a team and contributed my best in developing the app.  ? Configured and deployed web application in Eclipse using MAVEN tool. Education Master's in Electrical & Computer Engineering in Electrical & Computer Engineering Fairleigh Dickinson University - Teaneck, NJ January 2015 to May 2017 Bachelors in Electronics and Communication Engineering in Electronics and Communication Engineering JNTU October 2010 to May 2014 Skills Apache (Less than 1 year), APACHE CASSANDRA (Less than 1 year), ASTERADATA (Less than 1 year), Cassandra (Less than 1 year), Control Systems (Less than 1 year), CSS (Less than 1 year), databases (Less than 1 year), Eclipse (Less than 1 year), GIT (Less than 1 year), HTML (Less than 1 year), J2EE (2 years), Java (2 years), JDBC. (Less than 1 year), JIRA. (Less than 1 year), JSON (Less than 1 year), JSP (Less than 1 year), JSTL (Less than 1 year), Linux (Less than 1 year), Maven (1 year), REST (Less than 1 year) Additional Information SKILLS  * Programming Languages: JAVA 7/8, C, XML, PL/ SQL  * Java/J2EE Technologies: J2EE, Servlets, JSP, JDBC, Hibernate, Spring,  Spring Boot, REST.  * Web Design Languages: HTML, XML, JSTL, CSS, JSON  * Databases: MySQL, Oracle, Cassandra  * Operating Systems: Windows, Linux  * Web Servers: Apache Tomcat, WebLogic  * Tools: Jenkins, SOAPUI, JIRA, Maven, Eclipse, Intellij  * Version Control Systems: GIT, SVN, TortoiseGit