Java Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Full Stack Java Developer McLean, VA Above 3+ years of IT experience in all phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) such as Planning, Analysis, Design, Implementation, Testing and Maintenance of Web Applications. Wide knowledge and proven experience in web development and maintenance. A self-starter, quick learner and capable of working independently to achieve milestones and deadlines. Adept at prioritizing, tracking and completing tasks to accomplish project goals. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Java Developer Hexaware Technologies - McLean, VA November 2018 to Present Client: Freddie Mac  • Project followed Agile methodology to provide business functionalities early and often  • Using Spring Boot and Java, created handler and client to process request and response for API services  • Worked on JSF and Angular 6 for UI enhancements for the applications.  • GUI integration Edit/Retrieval for the various screens.  • Experience in using Version One for full development cycle and for task assignment, bug tracking and fixture.  • Deployed the changes in various environments using Jenkins.  • Performed Unit and integration testing using Junit & Mockito  • Use of Maven, Eclipse, GitHub and DB2.  • Troubleshoot the issues during the development. Java Developer Technical Resources International, Inc - Bethesda, MD March 2018 to October 2018 • Troubleshoot issues in Java and database objects like Procedures, Functions, Packages, Triggers, Indexes & Views and implement necessary code changes to meet client requirements.  • Used Agile practices and Test Driven Development techniques to provide reliable, working software early and often.  • Used React.js for developing front-end UI components which are need to used data change over time.  • Developing and maintaining a web application using HTML , Bootstrap and CSS.  • Knowledge on developing and implementing the back-end services for web applications using Microservices Architecture and proficient in developing Microservices Spring Boot. Junior Software Engineer Alliance IT - San Ramon, CA June 2017 to February 2018 • Used Spring Framework to implement business logic Singleton, Factory, Model View Controller (MVC).  • Designed the application based on Spring framework using MVC design pattern Singleton, Factory, Model View Controller (MVC)  • Developed different components required for the application like Spring Services, Data Access Objects (DAO).  • Designed and developed JSP and Servlets to build the presentation  • Consumed Web Services to interact with external vendor. Full Stack Java Developer Tata Consultancy Services - Mumbai, Maharashtra April 2015 to December 2015 • Online Banking application used for Account creation, Payments, Approvals, and Calculations.  • Extensively use of Core Java features (collection, exception handling, generics, and annotation), JSP, JavaScript, and JDBC to create web Servlets in IntelliJ.  • Part of the Presentation and validation layers using JSP, HTML5, CSS3 Custom Tag Libraries, parsing the XML files and JQuery validation package.   • Analyzed SQL queries, stored procedures, Triggers and functions for the application in Oracle.  • Used SVN for version control, JIRA for bug and issue tracking.   • Performed configurations and day to day activities using JBoss. Education M.S. in Computer Science University of Bridgeport May 2017 B.Tech. in Computer Science JNTU April 2015 Skills JSP (3 years), CSS (3 years), ECLIPSE (3 years), JAVA (4 years), XML (3 years) Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/srinijak/ https://github.com/srinija84 Additional Information Technical Skills  Languages : Java, AJAX, JSON, React.js, HTML, CSS, XML, JavaScript, JQuery, Unix/Linux commands, Python, PHP, C#  Tools & Frameworks: Spring MVC, Spring Boot, Hibernate, ASP.NET, JSF, Maven, ERWIN, Eclipse, Visual Studio, Sublime Text, NetBeans, IntelliJ  J2EE Technologies :Servlets, JSP, JDBC, JMS, JSTL  Version Control Tools :GIT, Rational Jazz Server  Testing :Junit, Selenium Webdriver, TestNG  Database :MySQL, Oracle, SQL-Server,SQL   Web/App Servers :SOAP, REST, AWS(Amazon Web Services), SOAP, RESTful, Amazon Web Services (AWS), Micro Services Web Sphere, Web Logic, Apache Tomcat  Projects    Connecting Social Media to E-Commerce(IEEE paper) Jan 2017 – May 2017  Implemented this project based on the IEEE paper to recommend products to users of social networking sites to new users of the E-commerce website. Developed Java server Pages web application using JSP Tags, Spring–tags, HTML5, CSS, XML in Eclipse IDE. Database Design is done in SQLITE database.     Hospital Management System August 2016 – Dec 2016  This project is to help health care organizations focusing on delivery, security and interoperability opening up communications between patients, hospitals, specialists and labs. Used CENTOS in VMWARE WorkStation for writing Linux/Unix program which is menu driven, to populate these databases and then to fetch information from. The scripts used getop function and awk scripting as well.     Vehicle Insurance June 2016 – Sept 2016  The purpose of the project is to build an application program to reduce the manual work for managing the Insurance period, Registrations and Customer details. Developed over the Django framework all the business logic has been implemented in python. Front end logic using JSP with Mysql database.    Deploying an Elastic HPC Cluster June 2016 – Sept 2016   This was the course project for Cloud Computing Course. Developed this project to show how the resources are scalable in cloud for High Performance computing workloads. Built and configured a virtual data center in the Amazon Web Services cloud to support Enterprise Data Warehouse hosting including Virtual Private Cloud (VPC), Public and Private Subnets, Security Groups, Route Tables, Elastic Load Balancer and AMIs, Auto scaling to design cost effective, fault tolerant and highly available systems.    Software Quiz Jan 2016 – April 2016  The main aim of this project is to develop a single page web application where a user can play quiz on the spring framwork. Designed and developed the application using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, and Angular JS.Used different angular directives like ng-class, ng-show, ng-click etc. on this application. Written controller’s logic based on the business requirements. Styled different components of the web pages to look more attractive and responsive using CSS3 media queries