JAVA/ J2EE Developer <span class="hl">JAVA</span>/ J2EE <span class="hl">Developer</span> Software Engineer Fairfax, VA • Over three years of professional experience in Software Development Lifecycle such as Analysis, Design, Coding, Implementation Testing, and Deployment of Object Oriented and web based Enterprise Applications using JAVA/JEE technology.  • Developed multi-tiered object-oriented system architectures utilizing Use cases, UML Sequence, Class and Activity Diagrams.  • Exposure on domains like Telecom & Media, Healthcare, eLearning and Recruitment.  • Proficient in using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, AngularJS, Jquery, AJAX, BootStrap, XML, Node.js, XSLT, XSD, DTD and CSS Web Page Development.  • Well experienced in Spring framework Dependency Injection, Spring MVC, Spring Boot, SPRING DATA, Spring ORM using Hibernate.  • Expert in writing applications using Core Java concepts  • Developed Single Page Application using AngularJS.  • Expertise in designing and developing applications using JEE technologies like JSP, Servlet, JDBC.  • Strong work experience in application integration using RESTful Web Services such as JAX-RS, JAX-WS, JAXB, Spring Rest.  • Strong Experience working with databases like Oracle, MySQL and MongoDB.  • Proficient in writing & executing Unit Test cases using JUnit Framework.  • Expertise working on Application servers, Web servers like IBM Websphere, BEA WebLogic and Apache Tomcat.  • Extensive use of Build and Integration tools such as Ant, Maven and Jenkins.  • Worked on Repositories like SVN, CVS and GIT.  • Working experience in Agile Methodology.  • A Motivated self-starter with exceptional team building, strong leadership and interpersonal skills.  • Very good communication skills with Problem-solving attitude.  • Expertise in managing all post implementation support activities including responding to end user questions and resolving production issues.  • Highly organized with the ability to prioritize work load, manage multiple projects and meet project deadlines by following project standards and procedures as per client specifications. Work Experience JAVA/ J2EE Developer T-Mobile May 2017 to October 2017 Responsibilities:  • Implemented Restful Webservices using Spring RestTemplate.  • Developed Calendar API of Google and Microsoft to fetch Events using Oauth2 Implemenation  • Used OAuth2RestTemplate to make Restful Calls to Google and Microsoft Events Calendar API, Free  Busy API.  • Used Tomcat and Weblogic to deploy and test application.  • Involved in Agile software development lifecycle which involved designing, coding, testing, debugging and support.  • Developed Service Layer extensively using Spring MVC  • Used Spring JDBC for transaction implementation.  • Produced/consumed RESTful web services in Spring.  • Designed and implemented java classes to use JAXP parser to create Java objects so as to be able to modify the data received in the response.  • Used version control software like CVS, SVN  • Implemented logging using Log4j.  • Tested Rest API's using Postman Chrome extension while development.  • Reduced bugs in runtime by leading JUnit testing and Mockito Test Cases.  • Interpreted and displayed the XML/JSON data in the web page.  • Used Maven as build tool and Jenkins for continuous integration development.  Environment: Spring MVC, OAuth2RestTemplate, Restful Webservices, XML, JSON, JAXP, OAuth, Maven, IntelliJ IDEA, and Agile/Scrum, Tomcat, Oracle12C, Weblogic. Caller Ring Back Tone Infotech Pvt Ltd June 2013 to April 2014 Responsibilities:  • Gathered business requirements and wrote functional specifications and detailed design  Documents.  • Worked on various functionalities of IMS and CMS (Content Management System).  • Implemented bulk upload to read all audio files from Excel and source folder Path. Fetched metadata of audio files and uploaded to CMS.  • Clipped audio (mp3 and wav) file for ringtone using popular frameworks like Spring, Hibernate by applying OO design concepts, Factory design patterns, and best practices.  • Created RESTful Webservices.  • Wrote JUnit Test cases for Service & DAO Layer.  • Involved in taking updates from SVN Repository for all the modules and deployed application using Tomcat.  • Used Maven for Application builds.  • Gathered UI requirements and designed UI Screens (GWT, GXT, CSS).  • Involved in Design discussions with the Architect, Team Lead and Developers.  • Wrote technical documentation.  • Used Agile Methodology for Software Development Life Cycle.  Environment: Spring, Hibernate, HTML, CSS, GWT, GXT, JSP, JSON, JAXB, XML, RESTful Web Services, SVN, JUnit, Eclipse, Agile/Scrum. Java Developer Infotech Pvt Ltd March 2013 to April 2014 Pitching Manager Infotech Pvt Ltd March 2013 to May 2013 Responsibilities:  • Designed the database and flow of the project.  • Documented the detailed process flow with UML diagrams and flow charts.  • Identified Business Process Rules and Service Units involved in writing business requirement.  • Implemented DAO Layer using Hibernate for ORM & JDBC.  • Developed Service Layer extensively using Spring.  • Implemented Frontend using MVP pattern.  • Analyzed and applied skinning by modifying the base CSS and designed the whole layout of the application for improved look and feel.  • Wrote JUnit Test cases for Service & DAO Layer.  • Gathered UI requirements and designed UI Screens (GWT, GXT, CSS).  • Wrote technical documentation.  • Used Agile Methodology for Software Development Life Cycle.  Environment: Spring MVC, Hibernate, HTML, CSS, GWT, GXT, JSON, XML, RESTful Web Services, SVN, JUnit, Eclipse, MySQL, Tomcat, Agile/Scrum. Ignis Technology Solutions Pvt Ltd October 2012 to February 2013 Client: MOFW (Ministry Of Fisheries and Wealth, Oman)  Responsibilities:  • Designed and implemented user interfaces using the ADF-JSF components.  • UI was developed using ADF Faces (TaskFlows), Middle tier was implemented using ADF BC.  • Created tested and debugged the application using WebLogic Server.  • Written Service Layer components.  • Managed BI Team to delivery management BI reports.  • Designed BI Reports.  • Interacted with On-site PO to understand and freeze the requirement.  • Converted the business requirement into implementation.  • Code Review with team members.  • Managed the Build & Release to the client.  • Developed the Model, View and Controller layer using ADF.  • Involved in building the Initial Prototype which demonstrated the full capabilities of the ADF MVC Framework.  Environment: Oracle ADF{Faces, Taskflows, Business components}, WebLogic Server, Web services, Jdeveloper, Oracle database, Waterfall Model. Java Developer Ignis Technology Solutions Pvt Ltd April 2011 to February 2013 Ignis Technology Solutions Pvt Ltd January 2012 to September 2012 Responsibilities:  • Worked on various functionalities of ADTR, NIS, DIS, CMS models.  • Involved in requirement analysis, project planning, development, testing, implementation of projects.  • Identified Business Processes and wrote Validation Units while performing CRUD operations.  • Understood the different medical records involved in the healthcare and prepared the XML schema for validation and marshalling.  • Wrote customer validators for each Medical Records based on the requirement.  • Implemented Frontend using MVP pattern.  • Implemented DAO Layer using Hibernate for ORM & JDBC.  • Wrote JUnit test cases for ADTR, DIS, CMS and NIS Service layers.  • Gathered UI requirements and designed UI Screens (CSS, HTML, JSP, GWT).  • Wrote technical documentation.  • Used Agile Methodology for Software Development Life Cycle.  Environment: Spring, Hibernate, HTML, CSS, JSP, JSON, JAXB, XML, SVN, JUnit, CVS, Eclipse, MySQL, Tomcat, Agile/Scrum. Ignis Technology Solutions Pvt Ltd April 2011 to December 2011 Client: Talent Bridge  Responsibilities:  • Involved in designing UI, Service and DAO layer frameworks for providing the whole Talent Bridge as a PAAS(Platform As A Service).  • Worked on various functionalities of Lateral Hiring.  • Integration of UI and Service layer, Query optimization, worked on Resource bundling.  • Identified Rules and Service Units involved in writing business requirement.  • Wrote JUnit Test cases for Service & DAO Layer.  • Gathered UI requirements and designed UI Screens (HTML, CSS, JavaScript, AJAX, JSON).  • Wrote technical documentation.  • Used Agile Methodology for Software Development Life Cycle.  Environment: Spring, Hibernate, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, AJAX, JSON, SVN, XML, JUnit, Eclipse, MySQL, Tomcat, Agile/Scrum. Education Master of Science in Computer Information Systems in Computer Information Systems California University of Management and Sciences - Arlington, VA Bachelor of Science in Information Technology in Information Technology National Institute of Science and Technology Skills MySQL, java, software testing