Associate Software Engineer Associate Software Engineer Associate Software Engineer - Capital One Glen Allen, VA Work Experience Associate Software Engineer Capital One - Richmond, VA June 2018 to Present Working with an agile team to develop, test, and maintain web and enterprise-level business applications built using Java, Javascript, and various Javascript Frameworks (Vue, Angular, React)  ? Understands standard systems development lifecycle processes and applies our methodology effectively on client engagements.  ? Understands project and development plans and is able to clearly articulate roles, project goals, and timelines  ? Establishes responsible deadlines and personal work plans.  ? Maintain and update legacy codebases Associate Solutions Developer ICF Olson - Richmond, VA July 2017 to June 2018 Participate in the entire application lifecycle, focusing on coding and debugging  ? Write clean code to develop functional web applications  ? Troubleshoot and debug applications  ? Provide training and support to internal teams  ? Build reusable code and libraries for future use  ? Liaise with developers, designers and system administrators to identify new features Junior Java Developer Capital One - Richmond, VA June 2015 to July 2017 Working with an agile team to develop, test, and maintain web and enterprise-level business applications built using Java, Javascript, Python, and various other coding languages  ? Understands standard systems development lifecycle processes and applies our methodology effectively on client engagements.  ? Understands project and development plans and is able to clearly articulate roles, project goals, and timelines  ? Establishes responsible deadlines and personal work plans. Content Manager Allianz - Richmond, VA December 2014 to June 2015 Work with teams/team members to organize projects and workload  ? Use CMS to modify/manipulate content(Peoplesoft)  ? Effectively communicate with team members  ? Create/Edit dynamic email templates using HTML/CSS Education Associate Skills Git, HTML, JAVASCRIPT, VS CODE, JAVA, CMS, CSS, REST, JIRA, HTML 5, MYSQL