OSB developer OSB <span class="hl">developer</span> Oracle SOA/OSB Developer Dallas, TX, TX Work Experience OSB developer Oracle SOA/OSB - Dallas, TX, US January 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Involved in the development of Rest API's and SOAP webservices using Oracle Fusion Middleware. Developed complex BPEL and OSB Processing for heterogeneous systems Integrations.  • Experienced in installation of Oracle SOA/OSB 12c  • Experienced in HA Environments by utilizing WebLogic Clusters. Configured WebLogic Data Sources (Generic, GridLink), Files stores, JMS Servers etc. Used MDS to store Artifacts for BPEL artifacts (XSD, WSDL). Used Configuration files in BPEL and OSB Projects. Strong Experienced in using IDE - JDeveloper, Eclipse etc.  • Extensively used Oracle BPEL to build composite services and business processes.  • Worked with various adapters like DB, EBS, File, FTP, AQ and JMS to build the interface solution  • Configured JNDI, Integration Connections, DB Connections on Oracle Application Server.  • Worked on improving the performance of 11g Purge Process.  • Used various adapters like File Adapter, FTP Adapter, DB Adapter, JMS Adapter as part of a BPEL Process.  • Used Java Embedding activity for executing Java classes for complex business logic.  • Developed Exception Handling architecture in BPEL for the whole project to handle all the exceptions and alerts.  • Extensively used WSDL, XSD's while creating BPEL process models.  • Used Assign activity to define the copy rules and add expressions in a BPEL process.  • Written SQL queries to query dehydration store to monitor the transactions processing at a given interval.  • Worked on PL/SQL packages which will be invoked from SOA layer to insert the data into SLA tables  • Design develop common error handling framework, re-submission framework and audit trial framework for middleware components.  Environment: Oracle SOA / OSB 12C, Oracle SOA Suite 11g, Oracle WebLogic 10.3, Oracle Database 11g, Oracle BPEL Console, Oracle SQL Developer 10g, Oracle JDeveloper, TOAD, MS Office 2003, Microsoft Visual Studio 2005, Axis1.4, Java1.8/J2EE BPEL Consultant Oracle SOA - Erie, PA June 2016 to December 2017 Responsibilities:  • Involved in total SDLC of the project and involved in meetings with business groups for requirement gatherings  • Involved in the development of Rest API's and SOAP webservices using Oracle Fusion Middleware  • Developed complex BPEL processes, Subprocesses and OSB Processing for system integrations  • Developed BPEL Sync and Async processes. Used most of the BPEL Activities to develop BPEL processes. Used Oracle MDS as repository for shared Data  • Extensively used XSLT, XPATH for Transforming data/objects. Used Postman, Soap UI for testing the BPEL, OSB Processes  • Configured ESS Scheduler Jobs for scheduling purposes .ESS Scheduler - Job Definition, Job Schedule, Submit Job. Wrote various stored procedures and SQL scripts to manipulate database  • Created new classes with trimmed methods to make application better and error free. Developed user interactive (UI) web pages using web technologies like HTML5, JS and CSS3. Used JavaScript and jQuery performing front end validations  • Used AJAX for request response processing without reloading the complete page. Implemented RESTFUL Web Services to retrieve online View data for Holdings Report, Transaction History  • Created, modified and update database tables in MS SQL Server using the tools like Microsoft SQL Server Management Studio and Toad  • Used SVN (Concurrent Version System) as the configuration management tool. Prepared test cases to perform Unit and functional testing using Junit.  • Actively involved in getting the production issues resolved.  Environment: Oracle SOA 12C, OSB 12C, J2EE, JDK1.8, JDeveloper SQL Developer, SOAP UI, Postman, Spring MVC, Spring JDBC, Hibernate 3.0, Restful Web Services, MS SQL Server, XML, Apache Tomcat, JUnit, Log4j, Eclipse and CVS Java developer Digital Minds Software Solutions July 2013 to March 2015 Responsibilities  • Worked with business and user groups to identify and implement functional enhancements and new requirements.  • Extensively used XSL as a XML parsing mechanism for showing Dynamic Web Pages in HTML format.  • Developed complex intra Portlet communication across web applications using cooperative Portlets.  • Developed simple Portlet messaging, on a single page using Portlet API.  • Used Portal Enable, Portal Extend for personalization, content publishing, document management, productivity functions along with the scalable portal framework.  • Extensively used Portal toolkit plug-in for creating, testing, debugging and deploying individual Portlets.  • Involved in the development of Standard XML reports using the Xalan parser and XSLT style sheets.  • Developed billing system pages using Struts Framework and written some of the custom tags.  • Implemented SOAP protocol to get the requests from the outside System.  • Used Rational Clear Case as a source control for code changes.  • Used Spring IOC and MVC for enhanced modules.  • Followed coding and documentation standards.  • Involved the writing SQL quarries and Joins. Education Bachelor's