Software Developer Software <span class="hl">Developer</span> Software Developer • An IT professional with 4 years in developing web application using J2EE.  • Extensive experience in working IDE tools like Eclipse, WID (Web Sphere Integration Designer), IntelliJ and Worked in Web application development using HTML, DHTML, CSS, UML, JavaScript, Multithreading, J2EE (JSP, Servlets, JDBC).  • Good knowledge of XML-based standards and protocols (such as WSDL and SOAP), Service Oriented  Architecture (SOA), development of XSD schemas and implementing both SOAP and REST  Web services.  • Extensive experience in testing Web Applications and developing health care projects.  • Good in writing Test Scripts, Test Scenarios, Test Plans by reviewing functional documents for all levels of Testing.  • Experienced in generating reports using PENTAHO.  • Strong technical knowledge in software development life cycle, Agile/SCRUM.  • Highly motivated, organized and detail-oriented individual with excellent communication skills both oral and written.  • Proficient in Java and Spring Framework.  • Proficient in creating optimized Test Cases using Test Design Optimization.  • Experienced in Requirement, Test and Business Analysis.  • Experienced in object-oriented programming(OOP); developing, testing and debugging code; designing interfaces.  • Goal Oriented, Entrepreneurial spirit and self-motivated person with an excellent problem solving • Involved in working with users, identifying functional and technical gaps, estimating work to fulfill business requirements, designing custom solutions, programming, scheduling, documentation, and production support.  • Ability to utilize project methodologies and apply standards.  • Well versed in Data and content presentation techniques in MS Tools.  • More than seven years of experience in using the HP Quality Center tool (Defect Module, Reporting and Metrics) • Very good communicator, leadership skills and Relationship Management.  • Excellent knowledge in Requirement Analysis, Requirement Traceability Matrix, Defect Management, Defect Log/ Tracking, Metric and Reporting.  • Experience in documenting software defects, triage meetings, assigning and driving to resolution.  • Working Knowledge in Defect management, Quality Management, Coordination, Time Management, Developing Standards, Software Testing, Software Quality Assurance Process, Software Development Process, Quality Assurance (QA).  • Extensive experience in design and development of Mobile App Sites using Java, JSP and STRUTS Framework, Apache Tomcat Server and web technologies like HTML, CSS, JavaScript, and jQuery. Work Experience Software Developer Tata Consultancy Services January 2014 to November 2014 Responsible for end to end execution of an internal tool that consume patient's vital information within the patient healthcare feature.  ? The app provides the patient's health history through on demand filtering by last visit date, hospitalized dates, medication list, diagnosis etc.  ? Developed an user interactive webpage where the doctor can mark the symptoms or diagnosis on the illustrated version of human body.  ? Used Gitlab and source tree for version control.  ? Used JIRA for monitoring the task.  ? Implemented Spring MVC Architecture;Servlet targeting request module and flow of control generating JSP in Presentation layer.    Environment: JIRA, JAVA, J2EE, Spring, XML, DOM, HIBERNATE, EJB, RESTFUL API, ECLIPSE IDE Test Analyst Kaiser Permanente April 2013 to January 2014 Kaiser Permanente Healthcare project   ? Analyzed complex Requirement specifications and engineered Test cases to test the requirements.  ? Worked in finding Requirement defects and deviation and Involved in reshaping and solution Analysis.  ? Created requirement based Automation suites that were used for functional testing.  ? Created Test Strategy, Test Plan and Test Designs based on requirements.  ? Executed Test Cases, logged and tracked defects in ALM.  ? Involved in Requirement Complexity Analysis, estimation, Normalization and RTM preparations.  ? Participated in Test Summit and Test evidence walkthroughs and meetings.  Environment: JAVA, .NET, QTP, SQL, PLSQL, HTML, Java Developer Project # 3 Merrill Technologies January 2011 to January 2013 Merrill Technologies, India   ? Developed an end to end application that takes customer feedback as input and renders appropriate analyzed data based on product reviews, rating, date etc.  ? Developed the front end of the application using jQuery, HTML5, JavaScript, Angular JS, JSP.  ? Web Tier Development was done using MVC based Spring Framework in Eclipse IDE.  ? Used JDBC to invoke Stored Procedures and database connectivity to ORACLE.  ? Developed SQL, PL\SQL, stored procedures -database application scripts.  ? Designed and developed the business process and data process layer using EJBs ? Configured and deployed in Web logic application server.  ? Performed Unit Testing and Integration Testing using Junit.  ? Developed client-side validation code using JavaScript and JQUERY.  ? Implemented JQuery validation plug-in, modified JQuery validation plug-in to support custom validation, JQuery modal box, JQuery date picker, JQuery tooltip.  ? Worked with backend developers to convert HTML/CSS non-functional pages into dynamic JSP pages.  Environment: Core Java, J2EE, JSP, Oracle, Eclipse, EJB-Session beans, Entity Beans, JMS, XML, Oracle-SQL, PL/SQL, HTML, JavaSrcipt, CSS, AJAX. Education Master of Computer Application in Computer Application Anna University Tamil Nadu Bachelor of Computer Science in Computer Science University of Madras Tamil Nadu - Chennai, Tamil Nadu