Salesforce Developer/ Administrator Salesforce <span class="hl">Developer</span>/ Administrator Salesforce Developer/ Administrator Knoxville, TN • Over 6+ Years of IT experience that includes 4+ years of experience in Salesforce.com CRM Platform and 2 + years of experience with Java technologies. Involved in various stages of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) including analysis, requirement gathering, design, developer, enhancements, testing, deployment and maintenance of standalone object oriented enterprise applications.  • Around 1 years of experience with Salesforce Lightning (Lightning Design Systems, App Design and Lightning Components)  • Experience in SFDC development using Apex classes and Triggers, Visual Force, S-Controls, Force.com IDE, SOQL, SOSL.  • Experience with Salesforce.com Sales, Service Cloud and Force.com Platform.  • Experience in Force.com Apex Classes, Apex triggers, Visual Force, Batch Apex, Integration, REST, SOAP based Web Services, Force.com API, SOQL and SOSL, Sales force AppExchange and JAVA.  • Performed administration activities for SFDC, Analytics Reporting, Data Migration, User Acceptance Testing, End User Training Development & Delivery and System Testing.  • Hands on experience in implementing security and sharing rules and Apex Language.  • Strong Hands on experience with Salesforce Security features like creating Profiles, roles, Permission Sets, OWD, Role Hierarchy, Sharing Rules etc.  • Experience in creating the Validation Rules, Approval Process, workflows for automated lead routing, lead escalation and Email Alerts.  • Experience with Apttus CPQ to oversee design, estimating, citing, rebates, motivating forces, and recommendations on any gadget.  • Good work experience in designing various Webpages in Visualforce.  • Developed test scripts to automate process of testing in Selenium WebDriver.  • Experienced in Data Base testing, Smoke testing, Sanity testing, Integration testing, System testing, UA testing, E2E testing, Regression testing and Mobility testing, Reports testing.  • Monitor functional and integration test execution on Sales force CRM.  • Experience in using the Force.com Explorer to browse data model schema, custom objects, fields, build and test SOQL queries.  • Experience in using Force.com Web services API for implementing web services in the application for access to data from different users.  • Proficient in working with Eclipse IDE and Force.com Plug-in for writing business logic in Apex programming language.  • Experience in migrating data from various systems into Salesforce CRM using ETL tools - Informatica on Demand, Cast Iron (CI) experience, to synchronize data between Sales.com and web service endpoints. Data Junction (Pervasive) and Excel connector.  • Salesforce Data analysis with Tableau and Business objects.  • Experience with tools like Change Set, Force.com Migration Toolkit (ANT) for Metadata Deployment and have experience Source Control Systems like GitHub, Bit Bucket/Stash.  • Experience in working with Eclipse IDE with Force.com Plug-in environment for writing Business logic in Apex.  • Experience in using different data tools like Apex Data Loader, Import Wizard, SFDC Data Export, Mass Delete.  • Experience in using Servlets, Java Web Services and JSP.  • Experience in AJAX, Java Script and CSS, HTML, DHTML, Adobe ColdFusion.  • Experience in writing SQL and PL/SQL programming with DB2, Oracle and MySQL Server.  • Excellent written and verbal communication skills to keep executive staff and team members apprised of goals, project status, and resolving issues and conflicts.  • Worked in Scrum, an agile methodology for software development. Work Experience Salesforce Developer/ Administrator Rockwell - Collins, IA August 2016 to August 2017 Responsibility:  • Used the change sets to deploy code between the sandbox and production environments for final implementations and prepared Deployment documents.  • Developed and implements both the time dependent and time independent workflows as per the requirement.  • Involved in Salesforce.com Application Setup activities and customized the apps to match the functional needs of the organization.  • Closely worked with other Salesforce.com consultants while implementing the solutions for the need of organization.  • Created custom objects and defined lookup and master-detail relationships on the objects.  • Also created junction objects to establish connectivity among objects. Created workflow rules and defined related tasks, custom.  • Worked as Salesforce admin support governing user account creation, personal information setup, password reset, Roles & Profile creation, user group creation, updating company profile, Network access setup.  • Involved in gathering customer requirements from business user teams spread over the Sales, Marketing and Customer service.  • Designed custom formula fields, field dependencies, validation rules, workflows and approval processes for automated alerts, field updates and email generation according to application requirements.  • Expertise in building Visual Force Pages, Visual Force Custom Controllers, Components, Advanced Search Functionality, Custom Objects, Reports, Dashboards, Tabs, Tags and Components.  • Defined lookup and master-detail relationships on the objects and created junction objects to establish connectivity among objects.  • Used import wizard for insert, update, of data from Salesforce.com. Used it to read, extract and load data from comma separated values (CSV) files.  • Imported excel based customer information records in to accounts, contacts and assets using Data Loader and import wizard.  • Provide E2E Test Data support.  • Created various reports (Summary reports, matrix reports, joint reports), pie charts, dashboards.  • Used Change sets or Jenkins for deployment, once the Component merge has been done in Git and the source is ready, in to the other Salesforce instance.  Environment: Salesforce, Apex, Visualforce (Pages, Component & Controllers), REST/SOAP API Web Services, Pages, HTML, Java Script, Workflow & Approvals, Reports, Ajax, Custom Objects and Tabs, Data Migration, SOQL, SOSL. Salesforce Administrator Amex October 2015 to July 2016 Description: System administration for financial services and insurance company. Duties included user support, security, automation, analytics, documentation, user management, mobile configuration, and data management.  Responsibilities:  • Implemented Apex Classes, triggers, Integration, Visual forces  • Administered Salesforce CRM applications for Sales, Marketing and Support Departments  • Configured security and organizational hierarchy for sales for Salesforce implementation.  • Responsible for fund level portfolio analysis in an account for private clients.  • Troubleshoot and provide solutions for 3rd party vendors applications like Home advisor, AWS connect.  • Managed process improvement, automation and integration of this reporting tool and recommend modifications / improvements to different Marketing modules and processes.  • Document and communicate SFDC administration SOPs and act as consultant to regional admins.  • Involved in writing Test Cases, procedures, reports and approval of system release.  • Created test cases and scenarios for Regression as well as Back-end, GUI and System testing. Deployed the code developed in the Dev Sandbox to the Test Sandbox and the Production sandbox.  • Interacted with testing and the development teams for the development and testing of the code.  Environment: Saleforce.com, Apex Classes, Controller Classes, Triggers, Apex Data Loader, Workflow & Approvals, AWS, Reports, Custom Objects, Custom Tabs, SOQL, SOSL, Sandbox, Force.com IDE. Java Developer/Salesforce Migration SoftStandard Solutions September 2013 to January 2015 Responsibility:  • Involved in Analysis, Design, Development and Testing of the application.  • Incorporated UML diagrams (Class diagrams, Activity diagrams, Sequence diagrams) as part of design documentation and other system documentation.  • Developed UI using JSP, Tiles, Java Script, and CSS.  • Involved in Salesforce.com application setup activities and customized the apps to match the functional needs of the organization.  • Experienced in customizing standard objects, accounts, contacts, opportunities, products, price books, cases, leads, campaigns, reports and dashboards.  • Implemented the requirements on Salesforce.com platform and Force.com IDE Plug-in using Eclipse.  • Used Data Loader for insert, update, and bulk import or export of data from Salesforce.com subjects. Used it to read, extract and load data from comma-separated values (CSV) files.  • Developed the application using Struts framework.  • Used JDBC to connect to the database.  • Involved in Unit testing, System Testing and writing test cases.  • Design Database tables and Wrote SQL queries and stored procedures  • MySql Server administration  • Apache Tomcat server administration.  Environment: Java, JSP Struts 1.1, JDBC, J2EE, Salesforce, Apex, Visual force Apache Tomcat 5, HTML, JavaScriptand MySQL. Skills APEX (3 years), JAVA (2 years), SALESFORCE.COM (2 years), FORCE.COM (2 years), MARKETING (1 year) Additional Information Technical Skills:    Salesforce.com  Apex, Visual Force, SOQL, SOSL, Custom Objects, Apex Triggers, SalesforceLightning (Component, Controller, Helper, SLDS) Workflows, Approvals, Email-Templates, Web Services, Formulas, Validation Rules, AppExchange, Record Types, Mobile, Web service Integration, Custom Visualforce Pages.    Salesforce Cloud Sales Cloud, Service Cloud, Marketing Cloud, AWS  SalesforceIntegration Tools  Force.com IDE, Excel Connector, Salesforce to Salesforce, Sales Cloud, Force.com Migration Tool, Eclipse, Force.com Eclipse IDE Plug-in, Change sets, ANT.    Reporting Tools Tableau, Business Objects  Languages JAVA/J2EE, APEX, AngularJS,  Web Technologies HTML5, AJAX, JavaScript, XML, CSS3, jQuery.  Database PL/SQL, SQL Server, Oracle, MySQL    Operating Systems Windows, UNIX, Linux,