Salesforce Lightning Developer Salesforce Lightning <span class="hl">Developer</span> Columbus, OH • Over 6 years of IT experience which includes 5 years of experience as Salesforce.com consultant with proficiency as Developer & Administrator and 1 years of experience as a Java Developer.  • Good knowledge on Apex development in creating custom Objects, custom Tabs, Triggers, Apex Classes, Force.com API, Standard Controllers, Custom Controllers and Controller Extensions.  • Designed junction objects and implemented various advanced fields like Picklist, Controller/dependent picklist Custom Formula Fields, Field Dependencies, Validation Rules, Work Flows, sharing rules and Approval Processes for automated alerts, field updates, and Email generation according to application requirements.  • Developed Visual force pages, Visual flow and Custom Objects using Apex Programming on Force.com Platform.  • Experienced in building Custom Applications that includes administration, configuration, implementing and support experience with Salesforce.com platform.  • Excellent understanding of Org hierarchy, Roles, Profiles, Users, object level security, field level security, record level security and sharing rules.  • Experienced working with salesforce.com sandbox and production environments, also with Eclipse IDE Force.com Plug-in environments.  • Experienced using Salesforce Lightning UI. Created Lightning Apps combining Lightning Design System, Lightning App Builder and Lightning Component features.  • Good work experience in Custom Integration of Outbound Messages, Workflow & Approvals, Reports, Custom Objects and Tabs, Email Services, Security Controls, AppExchange Package and Custom Application, Sandbox Data Loading.  • Excelled in working with various salesforce.com standard objects like Accounts, Contacts, Opportunities, Products, Cases, Leads, Campaigns, Forecasts, Reports and Dashboards.  • Experience with tools like Apex Data Loader, Eclipse IDE and Force.com IDE.  • Worked with SOQL, SOSL, Visualforce, APEX, ETL, SOAP API Force.com and Web services API.  • In-depth understanding of SAAS, PAAS, and IAAS.  • Good knowledge on Salesforce CPQ (Configure Price Quote) process.  • Involved and engaged in creating a quote for customers.  • Minimized code in JavaScript Controllers by adding reusable functions in Helper Component.  • Updated the Apex Controller and Helper functions regularly, making the Component Context aware as per business requirement.  • Enabled Aura Framework, by adding Aura Attributes and Aura Handlers for Events to focus on logic and Interactions in Lightning Applications.  • Experienced in JAVA/J2EE technologies, Oracle and SQL.  • Experienced in scripting languages like HTML, CSS, XML and Java Script.  • Experience with Adobe Flash, Service Cloud, Sales Cloud and Chatter.  • Hands on experience in implementing the Salesforce Exact Target Marketing cloud.  • Exposure to different types of software development life cycle methodologies including Agile & Scrum methodologies and have experience in using applications like JIRA for issue tracking and project management.  • Expertise in all stages of SDLC. Experience in presenting proof of concept to idealize the complex customer requirement, requirement impact analysis, creating integration and application technical design documentation, estimating project timelines and highlighting potential risk.  • Ability to meet deadlines and handle pressure in coordinating multiple tasks in a work/project environment. Versatile team player with excellent analytical and presentation skills.  • Strong understanding of fundamental business processes, excellent communication and inter-personal skills with ability to work well in a dynamic team environment. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Salesforce Lightning Developer nationwide July 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Worked as enhancement team member and performed the roles of Salesforce.com Developer/Admin in the organization.  • Worked on standard objects like Accounts, Contacts, Cases, Opportunities, Products, Opportunity Line Items, Leads, Campaigns, Reports and dashboards.  • Customized page layouts for Opportunity, Contacts, and Accounts depending upon user roles, and groups.  • Created workflow rules and defined related tasks, email alerts, and field updates.  • Performed customization on Sales, Accounts, Contacts, Opportunities, Opportunity Splits, QuotePlans, Campaign, Campaign Members.  • Implemented the process covering Campaign, Leads, Accounts, Contacts, Opportunities, Forecasting, Quotes, Pipeline management etc.  • Knowledge on new release of lightning components and Lightning App Builder, experience building lightning components, embedding lightning components in VF pages, building apps using lightning components for mobile and tablets.  • Built Customized Lightning Components replacing the existing one's using Java script on the client side and apex on the Server side.  • Built Custom User Interface using Lightning components to insert custom object data on Opportunity by Sales representatives using Aura Framework, CSS, Boot Strap and JavaScript.  • Enabled Aura Framework, by adding Aura Attributes and Aura Handlers for Events to focus on Logic and Interactions in Lightning Applications.  • Experienced in Migration of Class Applications to Lightning.  • Experienced in converting Visualforce pages to lightning components.  • Administered, configured, maintained Salesforce.com application user profiles, roles, assigning Permissions, Validation Rule, upgrade installation.  • Designed, and developed the Custom objects, Page layouts, Custom tabs, Components, Visual force Pages as a Salesforce consultant.  • Personalized the user interface for each user or user group so customers are presented with the precise information they need using Customer portal.  • Created several reports and dashboards using salesforce.com platform.  • Assisted end users to use salesforce.com and analyzed and evaluated complex business requirements and recommended solutions.  • Developed and deployed workflows and approval processes for opportunities and products/assets management.  • Designed, Implemented and deployed the Custom objects, Page layouts, and Custom tabs to suit to the needs of the application.  • Provided Single Sign-On (SSO) services for multiple resources on one domain, across domains, or even across organizations, allowing the use of just a single authentication credential to access all resources.  • Performed Unit, Integration, Regression and User Acceptance Testing.  • Implemented web-based case management automation - Web to Case (on Case Object) to track and solve customer's issues.  • Created Custom Objects and defined lookup and master-detail relationships on the objects and created junction objects to establish many-to-many relationship among objects.  • Enabled Aura Framework, by adding Aura Attributes and Aura Handlers for Events to focus on logic and Interactions in Lightning Applications.  • Designed various HTML Email templates for Auto-Response to customers. Deployment of code from sandbox to production using Force.com IDE tool.  • Worked on Agile and Scrum Methodology for Salesforce custom app implementation.  Environment: Saleforce.com platform, Apex Language, Visual Force Pages, Quotes, QuotePlans, HTML, JavaScript, Eclipse IDE, Windows XP. Salesforce Administrator Birla Soft - Hyderabad, Telangana January 2014 to December 2015 Responsibilities:  • Worked in agile methodology and participated in daily meetings and presentations in the organization.  • Developed various Custom Objects, Formula fields, Master-Detail, Lookup relationships, Tabs, validation rules.  • Created various Profiles, Roles, Page Layouts and configured the Permissions based on the Organization hierarchy requirements.  • Imported data from excel sheets in to Leads, Accounts, Contacts and Opportunities using Data Loader and Import Wizard.  • Set up Marketing Campaigns, Campaign Hierarchies, lead Queries, Assignment rules, Web-to- Lead and Auto-Response rules.  • Worked on various Salesforce.com Standard objects like Accounts, Opportunities, Leads, Campaign, Events, Tasks, Contacts, Cases, Reports and Dashboards.  • Agile Development Methodology was followed for the implementation.  • Created and deployed Several Reports using salesforce.com platform.  • Experience on marketing cloud connect for integration purposes.  • Involved in creation of custom user Interface, organization-wide defaults, role hierarchy, process builder, workflows and workflow rules.  • Experience in Importing leads and contacts, modifying price lists, particularly if there are a lot of promotions and limited-time offers. Also changing delegation and escalation paths to account for absences or extended travel.  • Involved in Setting up or create Admin options, User Interface, organization-wide defaults, role hierarchy, workflows and workflow rules.  • Developed various Custom Objects, Tabs, validation rules, formula fields.  • Implemented custom Cascading Style Sheets (CSS) for Visual force pages.  • Created relationships among objects using Lookup and Master-detail relationships.  • Created various Profiles, Roles, Page Layouts, and Record Types and configured the Permissions based on the Organization hierarchy requirements.  • Experience in developing Salesforce Lightning Apps, Components, Controllers and Events.  • Extensive experience on S controls, Visual force pages and Page layouts according to the Business requirements.  • Installed the Call Center Applications and allowed the end users to maintain a track history of customer's complaints.  • Performed data cleanup and/or Data migration to/from salesforce.com.  • Designed and deployed Custom tabs, Validation rules, Approval Processes and Auto-Response for automating business logic.  • Created workflow rules and defined related tasks, email alerts, and field updates.  • Developed several Custom Reports & Dashboards that are used by Business user and Managers.  • Configured Campaign Management, Campaign Influence and Lead Conversion.  • Accustomed Picklists, Dependent Picklists, and Record Types to enforce data quality.  • Used Tab permissions, Record Type permissions and Field Level Security to implement Component-based security.  • Designed and modified Approval processes and created Approval steps which used email alerts and field updates.  • Worked with Approval processes that used E-mail Approvals and Parallel Approval steps.  • Created Dashboards and Dashboard Components and implemented multiple levels of Dashboards and scheduled Dashboard refresh.  • Created Lightning Apps combining Lightning Design System, Lightning App Builder and Lightning Component features.  • Worked on Many-to- Many relationships and created Junction objects to implement Roll-up Summary fields to aggregate data from child records on the parent.  Environment: Saleforce.com platform, Apex Language, Visual Force Pages, Data Loader, HTML, CSS, Java Script, Angular JS, S-Controls, Workflow & Approvals, Reports, Custom Objects, Custom Tabs, Email Services, Web Services, custom links and buttons, Security Controls, Custom Tabs, Sandbox data loading, data modeling, Unit tests and production environment. JAVA Developer AIRTEL - Hyderabad, Telangana September 2012 to December 2013 Responsibilities:  • Developed modules in Java and integrated with MySQL database.  • Responsible for coding using Java Servlets, Java Beans and XML.  • Worked with OOPS concepts such as Inheritance, Encapsulation, Abstraction and Polymorphism.  • Expertise in performing operations such as Collections, Exception Handling and Multithreading.  • Developed web applications using Spring MVC framework.  • Setup the class path for the Java JDK and managed the JVM ( Java Virtual Machine) settings.  • Involved in Analysis, Design and Development of different phases of Process Flow module.  • Designed and developed highly customized front end screens using Sencha Ext JS framework library, JavaScript, HTML, CSS as a Rich Internet Application (RIA)  • Designed Graphical User Interfaces using JSP's.  • Worked on various design patterns UML and Enterprise Application Integration.  • Implemented Action class and Action Forms using struts  • Worked on the design of the entire end-to end architecture for the Classification Web Application.  • Added Dynamic functionality to the user interface using Java Script.  • Implementation of components and wireframes using cross-browser compatible JavaScript, jQuery and AJAX.  • Experience in Programming with SQL, PL/SQL.  • Used JDBC for administering and managing users and clients.  • Implemented XSLT transformation for converting XML to HTML.  • Implemented database tables, middleware designing, client-side web programming and server-side java programming.  • Followed Scrum Agile methodology for the iterative development of the application.  • Scripting of Test cases base on the specifications received for the request.  • Utilized various Testing methodologies for testing application on various levels like system testing and integration.  Environment: Java 1.3, Java Script, Java Beans, Java Servlets, jQuery, Apache Tomcat, Eclipse, AJAX, Windows, PL/SQL, JDBC, XML, CSS, HTML. Education organization North Eastern University - Boston, MA July 2017 to June 2018 Skills APEX (4 years), CSS (4 years), HTML (4 years), INTEGRATION (4 years), INTEGRATOR (4 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:  Salesforce Technologies  Salesforce.com CRM, Apex Language, Apex Classes & Controllers, Apex Triggers, Apex Scheduler, SSO, Salesforce1, Lightning (components, apps and system designs), Aura framework, Visualforce (Pages, Components & Controllers), Exact target, Apex Web Services, Batch & Schedule classes, SOAP API, REST API, Bulk API, Metadata API, AJAX, Opportinuties, Quotes, Quoteplans.    Custom Integration  Outbound messages, Workflow & Approvals, Field updates, Reports & Dashboards, Custom objects, Standard objects, Integration, Migration, Email Services, Security controls, Force.com Sandbox, Force.com IDE, SOQL, SOSL, WSDL.    Salesforce Tools Force.com platform, Force.com Data Loader, Force.com Workbench, Eclipse IDE, Developer Console, AppExchange  Languages C, C++, Java/J2EE, Apex.  Web Technologies XML, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, GIT, SVN, Jenkins, SOAP/REST  Database SQL, PL/SQL, Oracle 9i/10g  Operating Systems LINUX, UNIX, Windows XP/7/10.  GUI and Tools Eclipse, Force.com IDE, Apex Data Loader.