Full Stack Developer Full Stack <span class="hl">Developer</span> Full Stack Developer - Syngenta Street, MD • Over 2+ years of strong software experience in design, development and deployment of web-based and Client-Server business applications using OOP, Java/J2EE technologies.  • Expert in Various Agile methodologies like SCRUM, Test Driven Development (TTD), Incremental and Iteration methodology, Agile Development &Testing using Software Development Life Cycle.  • Expertise in developing SOA (Service Oriented Architecture), REST and J2EE ++ based on SOAP.  • Extensive experience in designing professional UI web applications using front-end technologies like AngularJS, Node.js, HTML, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery AJAX, and Bootstrap.  • Transaction implementation (CMP, Message-Driven Beans), JMS, Struts, Spring, Swing, Hibernate, Java Beans, JDBC, XML, Web Services, Multithreading etc.  • Strong experience in Spring Framework modules such as Spring MVC, IOC, JDBC, IO, Spring Dashboard, Spring Boot, Spring Micro services, Spring REST.  • Proficient in applying design patterns like MVC.  • Proficient in frameworks like Struts, Spring, AJAX frameworks and ORM frameworks like Hibernate.  • Experience with Front end frame works with its components such as AngularJS, jQuery, NodeJS, ReactJS.  • Expertise in XML technologies  • Strong experience with MongoDB development (reports, schema design, map reduce functions) and migrations from SQL relational databases to NoSQL databases like MongoDB, Cassandra and CouchDB.  • Experience in database modeling, design and development of PL/SQLQueries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, Functions and Packages in relational databases: SQL Server 2005/2008, DB2 and MySQL.  • Developed applications using latest technologies like Spring 3.x/4.x, Hibernate3.2/4.x, REST based Web services (Axis2.0, JAX WS 2.0, JAX RS), Rule Engines (Drools4.1, ILOG), jBPM tools.  • Worked in Building application platforms in the Cloud by Amazon Web Services.  • Experience in using ORM tools like Hibernate, iBATIS, Mybatis for XML mappings and Java Objects.  • Experience in software configuration management using CVS, SVN, GitHub and IBM ClearCase.  • Experience with CICD-Ant, Maven, Gradle, Jenkins, CVS, Git, GitHub.  • Experience in working with web servers like Tomcat 8 and WebLogic 10.0.  • Hands on experience with build tools like Ant, Maven, Gradle and Logging tools like Splunk.  • Expertise in several testing environments like JUnit, Selenium, Jenkins, SoapUI and System Testing.  • Experience in creating Docker images, Containers, push/pull and integrating with Spring Boot.  • Expertise with employment of Spring Kafka.  • Proficient in using Amazon Web Services (AWS). Extensive experience focusing on services like EC2, S3 buckets. Work Experience Full Stack Developer Syngenta - Durham, NC July 2018 to Present Description: Syngenta is engaged in the manufacture, development, and distribution of crop protection products and seeds. It is global leader at providing essential inputs to growers of crop protection, seeds, seed treatments and traits. It provides software innovative products and applications for every step of the agronomic process and to understand their interplay and optimize the results for growers and the food chain.  Responsibilities  • Worked in an Agile Environment and participated in requirement gathering, analysis and design.  • Developed user interface using HTML5, AngularJS, jQuery and performed client-side validations using Java Script, AJAX, JSTL and CSS for making the Web Pages dynamic.  • Used AngularJS to create Controllers to handle events triggered by clients and send request to server.  • Involved in the development of project back-end layer using by most of core java features such as Collection frameworks, Interfaces, Multi-threading, and Exceptions.  • Implemented various features of spring framework such as Dependency Injection, IOC, Annotations and Spring integration with Hibernate.  • Integrated application with Spring Security for form-based authentication and authorization by using spring security JSP tags to provide UI level spring security.  • Implemented Reactive Form of Angular 5 to deal with form validation issues.  • Stored authentication and authorization detail in database, used these DB authorization detail with spring security annotation on method for apply method level spring security.  • Implementing or exposing the Micro services to base on RESTful API utilizing Spring Boot with Spring MVC.  • Created and Consumed Web Services using Restful & SOAP web services.  • Worked on Microservice architecture with Spring Boot based services interacting through a combination of REST and Apache Kafka.  • Deployed Docker contained Spring boot micro services in to AWS EC2 container service using AWS admin console.  • Experience with building Docker Images and running them on Docker container.  • Configured and Maintained AWS ECS Repository for Deploying Docker Image by Creating a task definition, scheduling tasks and configuring clusters in the AWS ECS Console, Experience In setting up of AWS RDS and Dynamo DB instances  • Used AWS SDK for connection to AmazonS3 buckets as it is used as the object storage service to store and retrieve the media files related to the application.  • Implemented Continuous Integration of automation framework using tool Jenkins  • Used Log4j for logging and debugging and used JUnit extensively for testing.  • Database development required in creation of new tables, PL/SQL stored procedures, functions, views, indexes and constraints, triggers and required SQL tuning to reduce the response time in the application.  • Implemented Continuous Integration of automation framework using tools like Jenkins.  • Integration of automation batch run job with Jenkins. Worked with Jenkins Continuous Integration(CI) tool.  • SVN was used for project management and version management.  • Deployed the application on Tomcat 8.0 application server.  Environment: Java 8, Spring 3.5, Hibernate 4.2, Spring batch, Spring quartz, Spring security, Spring Boot, JPA, Java Scripts, AngularJS 4.0, HTML5, CSS, JMS, AWS (S3, Auto Scaling, Cloud Watch, RDS, DynamoDB), Tomcat Application Server 8.0, Eclipse, SOAP, Restful. Java Full Stack Developer Value Labs - Hyderabad, Telangana May 2015 to December 2016 Description: Value labs is leading global technology company specializing in Digital Enablement and Product Development. Through its uniqueness .One Company model of engagement, it helps companies unleash the potential of digital technology to achieve real business. Its innovative solutions and a flexible engagement model help our clients stay ahead of the curve, drive revenues, and enhance market position.    Responsibilities  • Involved in all phases of the Software development life cycle (SDLC) using Agile Methodology.  • Developed business components using core java8 concepts and classes like Inheritance, Polymorphism, Collections, Serialization and Multithreading etc.  • Documentation functional specifications using Use case diagrams, Object diagrams, Class diagrams, and Sequence diagrams using UML.  • Implemented and developed UI components using Angular JS features like dependency Injection, Models, data binding and controllers.  • Developed Interactive web pages using AngularJS, ReactJs, HTML, CSS and JavaScript.  • Develop various screens for the front end using React JS and used various predefined components from NPM (Node Package Manager) and React Redux library  • Responsible for the technical direction and implementation of the Spring Batch framework according to new design with spring security.  • Implemented the MVC architecture using Backbone.js, Node.js and Angular.js, React.js.  • Integrated application with Spring Security for form based authentication and authorization by used spring security jsp tags to provide UI level spring security.  • Implemented Dynamic batch feature for batch processing with Spring batch.  • Integrated with the Polymer-CLI tool, for obtaining featured Progressive Web Application  • Developer Spring Quartz jobs to run the backend jobs and generated reports.  • Implemented Java EE components using Spring MVC, Spring IOC, Spring transactions and Spring security modules.  • This functionality is implemented by developing RESTFUL web services using Spring boot, Spring RESTFUL template  • Worked on the following AWS services like EC2, S3, DynamoDB, etc.  • Used JIRA for defect tracking and project management.  • Experience with Application Lifecycle Management (ALM) tools such as JIRA etc.  • Worked with core java technologies like Multi-Threading and synchronization.  • Handled Java Multi-Threading part in back-end component, one thread will be running for each user, which serves that user  • Experience with JIRA Upgrade with minimal down time.  • Used Mockito Framework for Junit.    Environment: Java 8, Spring 3.5, Hibernate 4.2, Spring batch, Spring quartz, Spring security, Spring, Spring Boot, JPA, Java Scripts, AngularJS, HTML 4.0, CSS, JMS,AWS,, Eclipse/RAD 8.0, Oracle 11g, SOAP, Maven, JUnit, MongoDB, Web Services , GIT. Education M.S. in Computer Science Texas A&M University Kingsville 2017 to 2018 Skills Java, Javascript