Senior Java J2EE Developer Senior <span class="hl">Java</span> J2EE <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java J2EE Developer Milpitas, CA Java J2EE Developer with 3+ years of experience in analysis, design, development and implementations of client/ server, database enterprise applications using Java, J2EE technologies.    • Experienced in Distributed and Web environments, focused in Java Technologies - Java collections, Design Patterns, JDBC, Spring Framework.  • Designed and developed web and enterprise applications using Core Java, Servlets, JSP, JDBC, JAX-WS, JAX-RS, Spring MVC, Spring Restful, Spring Boot, Mongo DB, XML.  • Good Experience in different modules Spring MVC, Spring Rest, AOP, IOC of the Spring Framework along with Hibernate as the back-end.  • Knowledge in developing both REST based web services.  • Hands on experience in using MVC (Model View Controller) architecture for developing applications using JSP, Beans, Servlets.  • Expertise in design and development of web applications using HTML, XHTML, CSS, JavaScript, AJAX, DOM, JSON and XML.  • Developed SPA (Single Page Web Applications) using RESTful web services and nodejs.  • Involved in client-side scripting languages like JavaScript, JQuery, JSON, nodejs, JSP.  • Experience in applying development approaches including MVC and event-driven applications using AJAX, Object Oriented (OO) JavaScript, UML, Object Oriented Design, JSON and XML.  • Worked on J2EE design patterns including Data Access Object, MVC, DAO, Factory, Abstract Factory, Singleton.  • Experienced in writing SQL Queries, Stored procedures, functions, packages, tables, views, triggers.  • Worked with NoSQL Databases like MongoDB to manage extremely large data sets.  • Experiences with build tools include Maven, Gradle and Jenkins. IDE tools like Eclipse, Visual Studio Code, JIRA.  • Experience in developing modern web application using AngularJS.  • Experience in working with RESTful web services using jQuery and AngularJS to fetch response data for user interface.  • Responsible for checking Cross Browser Compatibility and hence worked on different browsers like Safari, Internet Explorer, Mozilla Firefox and Google Chrome.  • Involved in Software development life cycle (SDLC) in Agile, SCRUM and Waterfall Methodology.  • Experience in using version control tools such as SVN and GIT.  • Excellent analytical and problem-solving skills and ability to work on own besides being a valuable and contributing team player. Work Experience Senior Java J2EE Developer Aptiv Automotive Solutions - Bengaluru, Karnataka May 2014 to November 2016 Location: Bangalore, India  1. Project Name: SRR3-SIL/HIL Analysis Framework (Audi/BMW)  ? Worked in Hardware-In-Loop and Software-In-Loop project for customer Audi and BMW.  ? The Analysis Framework is meant to be built as a platform to support MRR and SRR radar programs.  ? Developed prototype application based on MVC architecture.  ? Worked on the Servlets and JSP.  ? Used JIRA for bug tracking and project management.  ? It is designed to provide a common platform for testing and debugging issues seen during vehicle testing / development.  ? The Analysis framework have capability to read vehicle logs collected using Delphi logging tools or customer tools and be able to connect the read data into the Embedded library.  ? The data obtained will be passed through Spring Dependency Injection for the Report generation process.  ? Technology:  Environment: Java 1.6, MVC, XML, MySQL, PL/SQL Developer, HTML5, CSS, JavaScript, MyEclipse, TortoiseSVN and Windows.    2. Project Name: The Project Management Portal - GlassWall.  ? GlassWall - Project Management Portal provides holistic views of ongoing projects.  ? Used globally by Delphi Automotive Systems.  ? Worked on SQL, Stored Procedures, triggers and indexes using PL/SQL developer.  ? Used MySQL as backend database using Windows OS, Involved in development of Stored Procedures, Functions, Packages and Triggers.  ? Extensively written Spring Bean XMLs.  ? Extensively worked on View Technologies using HTML and JSP.  ? Built Web Application framework utilizing Spring MVC.  ? Developed REST using Spring Boot.  ? Used JIRA for bug tracking and project management.  ? Consumed Rest template based on RESTful APIs.  ? Technology:  Environment: Java, J2EE, Spring MVC, JDBC, RESTful Webservice,  UML, HTML5, JavaScript (AJAX), CSS, Oracle, Eclipse, SVN, JIRA, Windows.  3. Tools Owned, Created, Maintained and Enhanced    ? Parameter Comparison SSDS Tool:  ? This tool is used by BCM Team. SSDS is the Customer Specification Document. This SSDS Comparison Tool is used to compare and helps to find out the Difference between Previous and Latest version.  ? Managed and updated New Functionalities for SSDS Tool.  ? It generates the report out of it, which helps the team for figuring out Central Electronic Module's Data Implementation Control Routine Status, Data Identification Status, Signal identification Status, Snapshot identification, etc.  ? It reduces man effort and time for figuring out the minute changes in the data.  ? Parameter Comparison tool is used to compare and generate report between previous and current version of parameter sheets.  ? This helps to identify the newly added or removed Vehicle parameters in the newer version.  ? This reduces the man effort for comparing Thousands of data on a single click.  ? Used Excel VBA for creating this tool.    ? Synergy Automation Tool  ? Synergy Automation tool is used to automate and collect the whole domain data from Change Synergy website.  ? Used to collect the monthly statistical data of Domain and generates Report out of it.  ? Automation is done using Excel VBA for creating and updating Reports.    ? Proxy COM Signal Parser Tool  ? This Proxy Tool is developed using Perl script.  ? It uses ARXML file as input. The ARXML file will be used for inputting in systems.  ? This proxy tool creates intermediate proxy components between cores which reduces the CPU processing time & capacity by 90%.  ? We have created 3 intermediate Proxies for READ and WRITE operations between cores.  ? It updates the ARXML file by adding the proxy components and assembly and delegation connection, Implementation and application interface based on 3 proxies.  ? The validation task for the Rte components.  ? Identify the runnables, signal values and communication details by parse through the CAN-dbc file and rte-xml file. Web Developer Honeywell Technology Solutions - Bengaluru, Karnataka June 2013 to May 2014 India  1. Project Name: Whiteboard Broadcast    ? It's an online web portal called "Whiteboard Broadcast" developed in house  ? Involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC), analysis, redesign of architecture, analyzing the various technologies, preparing technical and support documentation.  ? Integrated spring and Hibernate, configured logging using log4j and developed exception handling for the application.  ? Developed Spring MVC controllers, services and DAO's.  ? Created triggers for efficient access control of the ClearCase operations, to invoke operations before or after the execution of vital ClearCase events. Troubleshooting of database performance related issues in MySQL and Oracle.  ? Worked in an agile development environment involving 2-week Sprints as well as Gathered requirements from the stakeholders.  ? Purpose: Honeywell Project teams used for Project Plan view diagram and reviews.  ? Technology:  Environment: NodeJS with HTML5 Canvas, Spring MVC, JavaScript, jQuery, SharePoint Lists, MySqL, Spring MVC, DAO, Apache Tomacat.    2. Project Name: Innovation Portal "Honey Comb"    ? It's an online Innovation Portal called "Honey Comb" developed in house  ? Purpose: Key stake holders including clients, engineers, designers, system administrators to publish innovative ideas  ? Built Web Application framework utilizing Spring MVC.  ? Wrote client side and server-side validations using Java Scripts.  ? Configured the Hibernate configuration files to persist the data to the Oracle 9i Database.  ? Developed DAOs using DI Design Pattern to insert and update the data.  ? Wrote client side and server-side validations using Java Scripts.  ? Defined required mappings in xml that are supported by MVC architecture and Spring framework.  ? Created the website content involving design, graphics, links, forms ensuring cohesion, functionality and aesthetics.  ? Technology:  Environment: HTML5, Canvas, CSS, Spring IOC, JavaScript, Jquery, Apache web server, RESTful Services, SharePoint Lists. Education Bachelor of Engineering in Computer Science Engineering Thiagarajar College of Engineering 2009 to 2013 Skills Java, Java J2Ee, Spring, Javascript, J2Ee, MVC