Lead Java Developer Lead <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Cumberland, MD • Familiar with basic knowledge in the industry of eCommerce, Banking, Healthcare, Retail and Insurance Domain.  • Expertise in core Java programming, proficient in concepts of Collections, Threads, Java Memory Management, etc.  • Expertise in using MVC frameworks like Spring MVC 4.x, Struts 2.x with implementation of Hibernate 4 ORM technology or JDBC.  • Experienced in application development using Waterfall, and Agile/Scrum Methodologies.  • Experienced in web application development using Servlets, JSP, JSTL, HTML 5, Java Script, CSS 3.0, AJAX Angular JS and jQuery.  • Expertise using XML technologies JAXP, JAXB and XSLT along with Loggers and Reporting tool JFreeCharts and Crystal reports.  • Excellent understanding of Object Oriented Design and Analysis.  • Hands-on experience in creating and deploying JMS components on JBoss 6.1.0.  • Proficient in Design Patterns: Singleton, Factory, Strategy, Facade, Observer, Adapter, Bridge, Proxy etc. and J2EE patterns such as MVC, DAO, POJO.  • Familiar with web servers, experienced in using Apache Tomcat 7.x/8.x, Jboss 6.1.0, Glassfish4, Jetty, Websphere6.0.  • Strong experience developing Web Services providers and consumers using technologies like SOAP and RESTful.  • Proficient in SQL, PL/SQL, HQL on various database servers such as Oracle 10g, MySQL, Mongo DB to data CRUD operations.  • Have knowledge on developing business logic using Drools.  • Experience in testing and debugging using JUnit and Log4j, along with Test Driven Development (TDD), Behavior Driven Development (BDD) pattern.  • Expertise using IDE tools such as Eclipse, IntelliJ IDEA along with building tools like Maven, ANT and tracking, version control tools like SVN, GIT, JIRA.  • Excellent communication skills and ability to work well within a team as well as working as an individual.  • Fast-learner with strong desire to new technologies and self-motivator with ability to finish multitasks. Work Experience Lead Java Developer SEI Investments November 2015 to September 2018 • Java/UI developer in a team using Scrum methodology. Using Rally as Agile management and quality control tool. Involved in sprint planning, feature and technical design, feature development, testing and review.  • Used Bootstrap, jQuery during front-end development, used Spring MVC, Struts, JPA, EJB and PL-SQL in back-end development. Wrote code in both service layer and business layer.  • Worked on Apache, WebLogic 12c Server and Oracle 11g database.  • Used Bitbucket and Source Tree as version control software. IntelliJ as IDE tool.  • Used Test Driven Development during coding, performed JUnit test using Mokito framework. Java Developer Marlabs Inc July 2015 to November 2015 • Used jQuery, HTML/CSS in front-end development, used Struts MVC in back-end development.  • Used AJAX to build single page application.  • Applied DAO design pattern, used Hibernate as ORM framework to connect to database.  • Responsible for writing complex SQL and HQL queries.    ACADEMIC EXPERIENCE Education Master of Electric Engineering in Electric Engineering George Washington University - Washington, DC May 2015 Bachelor of Science in Electronic Information Science and Technology Sun Yat-sen University - Guangzhou, CN July 2012 Skills JSP, Java, J2Ee, Hibernate, MVC, Javascript, Spring, Java J2Ee