Sr. Niche Developer Sr. Niche <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Niche Developer - DELTA AIRLINES • 3+ years of experience as a Java/J2EE Developer in analysis, design, implementation, integration, testing and maintenance of applications using Java/J2EE and Object-Oriented Client-Server technologies.  • Experience in working with various Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) methodologies based on Agile, Scrum, Waterfall Model.  • Good knowledge on core java with strong understanding of Multithreading, Collections, Exception handling, Garbage Collector.  • Experience in Front-End UI technologies like HTML, XHTML, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Angular JS, Angular JS 2.0, Boot Strap, AJAX and JQuery.  • Expertise at using frameworks and tools like Spring Framework 3.x/4.x (Spring Core, DAO, ORM, AOP, Spring Security), Spring Boot, spring cloud, Hibernate (Mapping, Cashing).  • Experience developing Service components using spring framework API's like IOC, AOP, JDBC, Transactions, JPA, Hibernate Integration, Web Service Integration (SOAP/REST).  • Strong understanding of Data Structures, Algorithms and Collections Framework.  • Extensively worked on n-tier architecture systems with application system development using Core Java JDBC, JNDI, JSTL, JPA, Servlets, JSP, EJB, JMS, Web services, Restful (JAX-Rs, Jersey) and SOAP web services.  • Experience with various MVC frameworks like spring, Angular.JS.  • Good Exposure on Web development using Java, AngularJS, jQuery, SOAP, REST and Micro services architecture.  • Good knowledge in Log4j, JUnit, JMeter, Selenium, Maven and Jenkins.  • Specialized in creating backend Node.js micro services and Restful APIs.  • Having experience in various RDBMS databases like Oracle, SQL server, MySQL. And NoSQL databases like MongoDB.  • Developed unit and integration tests for existing Micro services using JUnit, Mockito and Docker.  • Experience in deploying WAR, JAR, and EAR files in J-Boss, Web-Logic, Web sphere application servers in Linux/Unix/Windows environment.  • Experience in ANT and Maven build tools.  • Hands on experience in cloud automation using AWS Cloud Formation Templates, Chef, and Puppet.  • Experience in implementing Web Service client using SOAP, WSDL, REST and XML standard using SOA.  • Strong experience with Version Control like GIT, SVN and CVS.  • Possess strong working knowledge of Database Programming using SQL, PL/SQL, Triggers and Stored Procedures. Work Experience Sr. Niche Developer DELTA AIRLINES - Minneapolis, MN May 2017 to Present Currently working at Atlanta Delta office.    Description:  This project is mainly to refactor the existing Airport check in application known as SNAPP (Single Network Application) which is DELTA'S HIGH Critical Application. It is a SOAP based legacy application which needs to be migrated to RESTFUL application using REST web services, spring boot and deploy on a cloud based CICD pipeline in an agile environment. The legacy application working in the DELTA internal servers, here we have proposed many changes to the front-end application without changing the legacy application's functionality. We have proposed various solutions for it to a complete application so that there'll be high availability and low cost.    Responsibilities:  • Responsible for Scaled Agile Framework Methodology implementation and practices  • Used version one as ticketing systems.  • We used Restful web service to re write the existing legacy application which is in SOAP.  • Used Spring Actuator for health monitoring of the application.  • Implemented functionalities using Spring IO / Spring Boot with Hibernate ORM.  • Used SOAP UI, Postman, Spring Mock MVC, Spring 4Junit for testing the web services.  • Testing the existing legacy application response using SOAP UI and designing new RESTFUL APIs to achieve new response with same functionality.  • Make SOA calls to the legacy to access data for the refactored web services.  • Implemented core java concepts like OOPS, multi-threading, Collections and exception handling.  • All the API end points follow a spring MVC architecture and I have applied concepts of spring framework like dependency injection etc.  • Various modules of spring such as Spring Boot, Spring MVC, Spring core and Spring AOP etc.  • Worked on MySQL database, knowledge on writing CRUD queries and joint queries.  • Followed Test Driven Development as well, written JUnit test cases using JUnit and Mockito frameworks.  • Created Swagger documents used YAML files to define API contracts.  • Performed Swagger validation using validator tool to avoid errors in Swagger contracts.  • Used Lombok Project in spring to avoid boiler plate code.  • Since this is a TDD and CICD I have written Junit tests using Junit and Mockito frameworks.  • Worked with version control system GitLab to manage the code repository.  • Implemented Git merging and branching strategies to do user isolation and as well as feature isolation at branch level for easy rollbacks.  • We are currently doing a major data migration as a part of the current project.  • Good experience in solving SonarQube issues in order to maintain proper code quality. Used sonar lint plugin for this.  • Conduct Code reviews for other developer's code every day whenever there's a Merge Request and suggested changes.  • Migrated monolithic application to micro service architecture in order to increase the performance of the application.  • Used java 8 streams, lambdas and other functional programming concepts in order to implement good coding standards.  • Knowledge on integrating API's with front end angular6 application.  • Used slack and Microsoft Lync for communication purpose across the teams.  • Developing another project simultaneously using Adobe AEM with Angular 6 integration.    Environment: Java 1.8, J2EE, REST, Spring4.0, JSP, IBM WebSphere 8, Eclipse Oxygen/IntelliJ/STS, JUnit Jenkins, Nexus, SonarQube, Slack, GitLab, Postman, Microsoft Lync, Version One,mysql. Java/J2EE Developer Reliance Technology Solutions January 2014 to November 2014 Description: Developing new voice and video features that allow customers to connect with family and friends inside and outside of the Reliance network more easily and personally through their smartphones, tablets and TVs.  Responsibilities:  • Documented the design documents using class Diagrams and Sequence Diagrams using Rational Rose.  • Developed the web application using HTML, CSS, AJAX, JSP, JavaScript, JQuery.  • Used JSP, HTML on front end and Servlets as front controllers and JavaScript for Client-Side validations.  • Developed the application by implementing MVC Architecture using Spring MVC where servlets for Handling HTTP requests.  • Developed Spring Batch application for batch processing using spring.  • Designed and developed business components using Spring Boot.  • Implemented mapping (Object-relation) in the persistence layer using Hibernate framework with Spring functionality.  • Used Spring core framework to inject dependency, DAO and Bean objects, auto wiring Components.  • Coded Rest web services using Spring boot to rewrite existing application to micro web application.  • Implementation of the Business logic layer for MongoDB Services  • Developed and configured on Hibernate, Mapping files  • Configuration file and Node JS is used at back end to interact with MongoDB using Mongoose connector.  • Used SQL Queries in Java code to do select/update/delete depending upon the requirement.  • Developed the modernized outsourced UI using technologies like Ember JS and JQuery.  • Developed highly efficient pixel perfect front-end web applications using Ember JS.  • Responsible for modifying existing xml schema as per the requirements.  • Extensively worked with XML schema, XSL/XSLT to navigate xml files to process and parse XML files.  • XPATH is used to navigate Attributes and Elements in an XML Documents.  • Used JAXB for converting xml to java object and java object to xml.  • Performed Continuous Integration with Jenkins and Docker for build, ship, to run distributed applications.  • Created and executed the test scripts with Selenium WebDriver.  • Used SVN as source control management giving a huge speed advantage on centralized systems that must communicate with a server.  • Used Ant as a build tool automating the building, testing, publishing in executable file and Ant will loading all the dependencies from their repository.  • Involved in Unit Testing and Bug-Fixing and achieved the maximum code coverage using JUNIT test cases.  • Used Log4j to capture the log that includes runtime exception and for logging info and are helpful in debugging the issues.  Environment: Hibernate, Mongo DB, Mongoose Connector, JSP, Spring Core, Node JS, Ember JS, JQuery, Servlets, Hibernate, XML, XSLT, CSS3, HTML5, MySQL, JUnit, SVN, Web Services, Log4j, Jenkins, Ant. Education Master's in Computer Science in Computer Science University Of Colorado Denver - Denver, CO January 2015 to May 2017 Bachelor's in Computer Science in Computer Science Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University May 2010 to May 2014 Skills J2ee (2 years), java (2 years), Junit (2 years), Model view controller (2 years), Model-view-controller (2 years), MySQL, Javascript Additional Information Technical Skills:  Programming Languages C, C++, JAVA - JDK 1.5, 1.6, 1.7, 1.8, SQL, PL/SQL, T-SQL.  Java Core OOPs concepts, Memory Management, Multi-threading, Exception Handling and Collection APIs.  IDE & Reporting Tools Eclipse, IntelliJ.  J2EE MVC Frameworks  Spring 3, 4. (Dependency Injection, Spring MVC, Spring Core, Spring Context, Spring AOP, Spring DAO, Spring IOC, Spring JDBC, Spring with Hibernate).    Databases SQL Server MySQL 5.0, Cassandra, Mongo DB  Database Tools Toad for MySQL, SQL Developer for Oracle, Squirrel.  Application Servers IBM Web Sphere Application Server, Oracle Web Logic 10.3.2, JBoss 6.3, Apache Tomcat 4.1.x  Web Technologies HTML, HTML 5, DHTML, CSS, Bootstrap, Java Script, jQuery, AJAX, XML, SOAP.  ORM Frameworks Hibernate 2.0, 2.1, 3.0, JPA  Client & Server Scripting JavaScript, jQuery, Angular 1.x, 2.x.  Batch Scripting Ant 1.4, 1.5, 1.6, Maven 2.2, 3.0    Operating Systems Windows, Linux, Solaris, Unix.  Version Control SVN (Apache Subversion), CVS (Concurrent Versions System), GIT  Transaction Control JTA ( Java Transaction API), Hibernate Transactions  Logging Tools Log4j, SL4J.  Tools Junit, Selenium, Mockito, JIRA, Karma-Jasmine, Bower, SourceTree, Docker, oAuth.