SR. SOFTWARE DEVELOPER SR. SOFTWARE <span class="hl">DEVELOPER</span> SR. SOFTWARE DEVELOPER - EMPOWERID Columbus, OH • 2.5+ years of experience as a .NET developer in Software Design, Analysis, Development, Testing and  Implementation of Web and Client server applications using Microsoft .Net Technologies.  • Extensive experience in SQL Server Database, developing SQL Queries, Stored Procedures and triggers using SQL  Server 2016.  • Experience working on various stages of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) including Requirements gathering,  Analysis, Design, Development, Testing, Deployment, Production, Post-Production Support.  • Expertise in developing workflows on various concepts in Windows Workflow Studio.  • Experience in using LINQ to retrieve data from different data sources (LINQ to Objects, LINQ to Entities and LINQ to  SQL).  • Good working knowledge on Application development and maintenance life cycle process.  • Expert in Debugging and Troubleshooting applications using debugging tools provided by the Visual Studio .Net IDE.  • Efficient in developing PowerShell scripts to automate user account and mailbox creation.  • Developed Model View Controller applications using Windows Presentation Foundation.  • Certified EmpowerID developer.  • Good Team player, consistently recognized for excellent problem-solving and analytical skills by co-workers and  supervisors. Work Experience SR. SOFTWARE DEVELOPER EMPOWERID - Dublin, OH January 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Responsible for Requirements gathering, Design, Development, Testing, Communicating with customer,  Deployment and Post Production Support  • Architected Connectivity Tester Utility Tool - Client Server Application using Windows Presentation Foundation  that performs Windows Management Instrumentation, DCOM and Ping connectivity tests on computers.  • Integrated SOAP and REST APIs. Generated necessary stubs from the WSDL files for extracting the data from systems such as SAP Ariba & Salesforce Service Cloud.  • Implemented custom connectors to retrieve and manage cloud and on-premise data to provide identity and access management.  • Designed the application as MVC architecture with extensive use of XAML.  • Customized and Developed several complex workflows using C#, SQL Server Management Studio 2015 in Windows Workflow Studio. Created patches of the packages and deployed it in Client's environment.  • Developed permanent workflows that runs on a schedule basis to perform several tasks including recertification of users, Tracking employee status and Handling disabled group members and owners.  • Created several stored procedures and wrote queries in SQL Server Management Studio 2015.  Technical Environment:  .Net Frame Work 4.7.2, C#, Visual Studio 2017, Workflow Studio, SQL Server 2016, Windows Presentation Foundation,  XAML, MVC 5.0, IIS, HTML, CSS, JIRA, Debug View, Entity Framework, LINQ, Web API, SOAP, SOAP UI, REST, JSON JAVA DEVELOPER INTERN AMIGO OPTIMA SOFTWARE SOLUTIONS - Hyderabad, Telangana January 2015 to June 2015 Responsibilities:  • Performed Object Based Image Analysis on Geo-Satellite images pertaining to Geological Society of Africa.  • Developed ruleset using eCognition software tool.  • Classified objects into various categories (classes) based on its specifications.  • Estimated the material and cost involved in reconstructing the damaged roads.  • Implemented various algorithms including Regression and Multi resolution for segmentation of image.  • Excelled in finding, documenting, and reporting bugs, errors, interoperability flaws and other issues.  Technical Environment:  JAVA, Linux OS, Eclipse, eCognition Education Master of Engineering in Computer Science University of Cincinnati May 2017 Bachelor's Degree in Information Technology Sridevi Women's Engineering College May 2015 Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/geethika-pattela