MuleSoft Developer MuleSoft <span class="hl">Developer</span> MuleSoft Developer - Indigo Agriculture Boston, MA • Over 5+ years of experience in IT industry and around 4 years of experience in developing applications using Mule soft ESB.  • Experience in Waterfall & Agile/Scrum development methodologies.  • Experience in object-oriented programming, Mule soft ESB Development with extensive full Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) and experience in Application Software Specifications, Design, Development, Testing and debugging, Maintenance.  • Experience in using Any Point Studio in creating various flows to integrate API's, Databases and SaaS applications.  • Strong knowledge in documenting and designing RESTful API's as per RAML specification.  • Experience using Mule Data Weave Component and implementing Mule testing framework.  • Experience in Integration with Salesforce, NetSuite using Mules ESB.  • Experience in utilized different connectors, transformations, Async Flows, Dynamic Routing & Content Based Routing, Messaging and Exception handling using Mule soft ESB.  • Expertise in SOA (service-oriented architecture) frameworks and Web services integration via SOAP, REST, JSON, XML, XSLT, XPATH, X Query, WSDL JAX RS, JAX WS and Java.  • Good experience in using Mule connectors like FTP, FILE, SFTP, and IMAP etc. as a part of integration usage. Routing mechanisms like Scatter Gather integration patterns, Message Enricher, Content Enricher and Data Weave concepts.  • Experience in developing Web Applications with various Open Source frameworks: Struts Framework, Java Spring Framework, Java Spring MVC, and Hibernate.  • Experienced in integration patterns and concepts such as Migration, Broadcast, Bi-Directional Sync, correlation and aggregation.  • Experience developing on the Mule soft ESB platform to deliver SOAP & REST based APIs.  • Expertise in Java/J2EE programming - JDBC, Servlets, JSP, and JAVA WEB SERVICES.  • Good Knowledge of using IDE Tools like Eclipse, Net Beans, Rational Application Developer (RAD) for Java/J2EE application development.  • Worked on Relational Database (RDBMS) concepts, database designing, Normalization, PL/SQL Stored Procedures, Triggers and with SQL Server, Oracle and My SQL.  • Implemented Mule flows for different modules, which process files and emails from different systems and developed Mule ESB projects for the services with synchronous and asynchronous mule flows.  • Deploying and running applications on Cloud Hub and On-Prem environments using Maven and Jenkins to build and deploy them.    MuleSoft Certification Link:    • MuleSoft Certified Developer Level 1 (Mule 4)  https://training.mulesoft.com/award/certification/034a614d-fa64-32f2-959b-9ff3fc9ccd86/preview  • MuleSoft Certified Developer Integration and API.  https://training.mulesoft.com/award/certification/0340dcde-c7ef-3a75-b3ab-446f7de5cb0a/preview    Salesforce Certification Link:    • Salesforce Certified Administrator.  • Salesforce Certified Platform Developer.  • Salesforce Certified App Builder.  http://certification.salesforce.com/certification-detail-print?conId=0034A00002rSExdQAG Work Experience MuleSoft Developer Indigo Agriculture - Charlestown, MA February 2019 to Present Responsibilities:  • Followed the guidelines of Agile methodologies of SDLC for project management.  • Created admin/ developer roles in Any point platform.  • Used MuleSoft ESB in designing the application as a middleware between the third-party system and the customer side system.  • Worked closely with functional leads/PMs to understand the partner integration requirements.  • Integrated different enterprise applications based on the designed architecture.  • Configuring the Mule process for fetching the data from topic and makes web service calls to the middle tier MuleSoft ESB for processing.  • Good Experience in exposing REST API using RAML and SOAP through WSDL.  • Used Database Connectors to connect with respective systems using MuleSoft ESB.  • Integration of MuleSoft ESB system while utilizing MQ Series, Http, File system and SFTP transports.  • Used Active MQ for asynchronous messaging in the applications.  • Implemented data transformation using XPATH, XSLT, Data Weave, custom java classes.  • Developed SOAP based Web services using WSDL and consumed those, SOAP based WSDL's in flow using Web Service Consumer.  • Assisted in MuleSoft Upgrade from 3.9 to 4initially before beginning the Mule Project.  • Excellent experience in Data Weave for the data transformations along with custom Java Classes and used Data weave to transform xml to custom JSON files.  • Done with transformers, exception handling, testing & Security of MuleSoft ESB endpoint through OAuth.  • Developed RESTful based on RAML using both Any Point Studio and Any point API Platform.  • Utilized custom logging framework for MuleSoft ESB application and used MUnit to validate mule flows  • Architected Integrations using MuleSoft ESB environments for both on premise and Cloud Hub environments and initially used Postman for testing the flows.  • Experience in developing interfaces between Salesforce and Oracle EBS/OTM using Informatica Cloud/MuleSoft ESB technologies.  • Implemented choice, global, custom exception handling mechanisms based on the business requirement in MULESOFT ESB.  • Used both SOAP UI and REST POSTMAN testing tools for testing the Web services developed using SOAP and RESTful respectively.  • Done with preparation of design document specifications, troubleshoots and testing.  • Configured the automation tool Jenkins for Continuous Integration.    Environment: RAML, Files, SFTP, Active MQ, Data weave, EMMA tool, WSSR, WSDL, ESB, JUNIT, Selector expressions, XPATH, Exceptional handling, Salesforce, SAP, MMC, Postman, MUNIT, Cloud Hub, Agile, OAuth, SOAP, SOAPUI, REST, REST Postman, Jenkins, Maven. MuleSoft Developer J-pal MIT - Cambridge, MA June 2017 to February 2019 Responsibilities:  • Used Mule ESB in designing the application as a middleware between the third-party system and the customer side system.  • Experience in Configuring the Mule process for fetching the data from topic and makes web service calls to the middle tier Mule ESB for processing.  • Good knowledge in Creating Http inbound and outbound flows and tested it working functionality.  • Used Database Connectors to connect with respective systems using Mule ESB.  • Efficient Experience in Integration of Mule ESB system while utilizing MQ Series, Http, File system and SFTP transports.  • Used Active MQ for messaging service in the applications.  • Transformed data using XPATH, XSLT, Data Weave, custom java classes.  • Extensively used Mule components that include File, SMTP, FTP, SFTP, JDBC Connector, and Transaction Manager.  • Good Knowledge in Migration Mule ESB 3.5.1 apps to Mule ESB 3.7.3 and updated all the dependencies.  • Experience in MuleSoft Any point API platform on designing and implementing Mule APIs.  • Good hands on experience in documenting and designing REST API are using RAML File.  • Migrated deprecated Data Mapper mapping to Data Weave in MULE ESB.  • Developed RESTful/SOAP web services in Mule ESB based on SOA architecture  • Utilized custom logging framework for Mule ESB application and UPSERT data into salesforce objects  • Used Quartz connector to schedule the batch jobs.  • Deployed Mule ESB applications into MMC (Mule Management Console) and Used MUnit to validate mule flows.  • Architected Integrations using Mule ESB environments for both on premise and cloud environments.    Environment: Java, Any point Studio 5.4.0, Oracle-SQL, Mule ESB 3.7.3, ActiveMQ, Apache-Maven 3.3.3, Log4j 1.2.14, Nexus, FileZilla 3.14.1, Putty, Windows 7, GIT, JIRA, Confluence. Salesforce/Mule Soft Developer ACQUIA - Boston, MA September 2016 to May 2017 Responsibilities:  • Used Agile methodology was to emphasize on face-to-face communication over written documents and make sure that iteration is passing through a full software development cycle.  • Designed UML diagrams like Use case, Class and Activity diagram based on the requirements gathered.  • Done with integrations using connectors such as Sale force, Data Base, HTTP, FTP and File Connectors.  • Used MMC mule management console to monitor the request and response payload.  • Developed a RAML based REST web services API's using Mule ESB.  • Developing Mule ESB flows and integrations by using service-oriented architecture (SOA) and enterprise application integration (EAI) using Mule Runtimes.  • Developing Mule ESB projects for the services with synchronous and asynchronous Mule flows.  • Extensively used Mule components that include JAXB, File Transport, SMTP Transport, FTP/SFTP Transport and JDBC Connector.  • Worked on various Mule connectors / adapters, developing API, APM and developing services on Cloud Hub.  • Used Sales force OAuth connector to enable OAuth authentication before performing the integration process, because to retrieve all contacts from the log as well as to make the process records safe.  • Used sales force analytics cloud connector to make connectivity to the third-party applications from which services used by the mule ESB.  • To configure the fields synchronized used Bi- directional synchronization opportunity between the two salesforce orgs.  • Build and Deployment of services in Mule ESB server. Code walk-through, Mule Debugging and Error fixing.  • Configuring the Mule process for fetching the data from topic and makes web service calls to the middle tier Mule ESB for processing and put the data on the Cloud hub.  • Used Log4j to capture the log that includes runtime exception and for logging info and are helpful in debugging the issues.  • Used GIT Hub for the version control.    Environment: Mule ESB, Any point Studio, JAVA, Servlets, EJB, JDBC, JAXB, RAML, Nexus, Apache-Maven, Cloud Hub, XML, XSLT, CSS, Ajax, JSTL, Web Logic Application server 10.3, LDAP, Oracle 11g- PL/SQL, SQL, Log4J, SVN, Web Services - WSDL, SOAP, CXF, JAX-WS, JAX-RS, Jenkins. Java Developer ZMENIT - IN April 2014 to December 2015 Responsibilities:  • Involved in prototyping, proof of concept, design, Interface Implementation, testing and maintenance.  • Created use case diagrams, sequence diagrams, and preliminary class diagrams for the system using UML/Rational Rose.  • Designed and developed the persistence tier using Hibernate framework.  • Designed and developed front view components using JSP and HTML.  • Developed UI navigation using Struts MVC architecture. (JSP, JSF, tiles, JSTL, Custom Tags).  • Developed Java classes for implementing Business logics using EJB (Stateless session, entity, message driven beans).  • Deployed and tested the application with web server Tomcat, WebSphere.  • Developed Interactive web pages using AJAX and JavaScript.  • Worked on Report Module, generating PDF/ CSV according to the template.  • Configured and tested the application with database server Oracle and MySQL 5.0.  • Involved in developing various reusable Helper and Utility classes using Core Java, which are being used across all the modules of the application.  • Helped in database design and tuning. Created stored procedures, Views in the Database.    Environment: JDK, Core Java (Multithreading, Collections), Servlets, Struts, XML, HTML, Java Script, JDBC, JUnit, JMS, Apache Tomcat, Oracle Database, Unix/Linux. Education Bachelor's in Electrical in electronic engineering JNTU University Master's In computer science in computer science Rivier University - Nashua, NH Skills jQuery, Linux, HTML, XML, Javascript Certifications/Licenses Driver's License Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:  Programming languages C/C++, Java, JavaScript, SQL, MEL  Mule Mule ESB (Mule ESB 3.7, 3.6, 3.5, 3.3,2, WSO2), Mule Connectors, Cloud Hub  Web Technologies HTML, CSS, JSP, AJAX, Java Script  Java Technologies J2EE, Servlets, JDBC, JSP, JSTL, EJB, Struts, Spring, Hibernate  Web/application Servers Tomcat, WebLogic, WebSphere  Data Bases Oracle, MySQL, MSSQL Server, PL/SQL  XML Technologies XML, DTD, XSD, JAXP (DOM & SAX), JAXB, XSLT  Web Services JAX-RPC/JAX-WS, Axis2, SOAP, WSDL, CXF  Unit Testing MUnit, JUnit, Mockito