SALESFORCE ADMINISTRATOR/ DEVELOPER SALESFORCE ADMINISTRATOR/<span class="hl">DEVELOPER</span> SALESFORCE ADMINISTRATOR/ DEVELOPER - Wells Fargo Charlotte, NC • Over 4 years of experience on Information Technology in Development and Administration of SFDC (Salesforce.com) CRM platform using Visualforce, Java and Apex Technologies as Developer and Administrator.  • Experience in creating Custom Objects, Custom Formula Fields, Field dependencies, Relationships, Picklists, Custom Tabs, Validation rules, Work Flows, Approval Processes, -Page Layouts, Search Layouts and Triggers to meet the client's requirement and functionality.  • Expertise at administrative tasks such as User management, creating Profiles, Roles and Permission Sets, Workflow, Tasks and Events, Email notification and templates, Reports and Dashboards.  • Strong Knowledge of SFDC standard Data structures and familiarity with designing Custom Objects and Force.com platform and Force.com Sites.  • Expertise in development of Apex Classes, Triggers, Visualforce pages, Components, Email Services, S-Controls using Force.com IDE.  • Ability to collaborate with multiple business units to define the scope of a project, analyze business requirements, design and develop applications.  • Highly experienced in writing Apex Classes, Apex Triggers, developing Visual Force pages using standard and custom controllers.  • Extensive experience in creating lookup relationships and master-detail relationships on the objects and creation of junction objects to establish connectivity among other objects.  • Experienced in use of Standard and Custom controllers of Visualforce in development of custom Salesforce pages as required by business requirements.  • Good knowledge in working with Lightning Components for faster development and better performance.  • Experienced in performing CRUD (Create, Read, Update and Delete) operations of data using Data Loader, and Import/Export wizards from legacy CRM database into salesforce.com using apex scheduler on timely basis.  • Worked on Eclipse IDE with Force.com Plug-in for writing business logic in Apex programming language • Knowledge in SLDS, CSS framework for creating lightning like pages in Visualforce classic UI pages.  • Used data migration tools such as Apex Data Loader, Salesforce Import and Export Wizard and have knowledge of integrating Legacy system with Salesforce.  • Experience in integration of Salesforce.com with external applications by using Web Services API, SOAP and REST.  • Experienced in Web technologies like HTML, CSS, and Java Scripts and Java technologies like JDK, J2EE, JSP, JSF and Servlets, XML.  • Streamlined the server/database level security by creating the Windows and SQL logins with the appropriate server/db roles and object level permission.  • Expertise in working with Cross Functional Technical and Business Teams within an Organization.  • Sound knowledge in Version control systems like Subversion, ClearCase, VSS.  • Excellent written and verbal skills and Ability to adapt quickly to challenges and changing environment.  • A good team player with a strong work ethics, a positive attitude and ability to make the best use of resources. Work Experience SALESFORCE ADMINISTRATOR/ DEVELOPER Wells Fargo - Charlotte, NC September 2018 to Present Responsibilities: • Performed duties of Salesforce Global Cloud Administrator in the organization.  • Implemented mass data loads and recurrent pre-deployment testing.  • Performed the role of Salesforce Developer and Administrator.  • Extensively involved in Agile Scrum methodology which helps us reach our business team goals by gathering day to day requirements from Business Analysts and building them using Force.com • Worked on building E-commerce website using Communities and Site.com applications for the end customer as part of the UI interface enhancement.  • Worked along with Integration team in implementing Integration between Salesforce and end client website/portal, following security models through SOAP, RESTful API, etc, • Implemented Quotes templates and Agreement templates using managed package called Conga Composer and used Echo Sign custom manage package Setting to send those quote's and agreement to end user.  • Used Trigger framework Interface to implement different business logics in multiple apex classes so that if a single or multiple event occurs on single trigger, multiple classes can be called.  • Worked on Force.com Integrations with Oracle Database and Peoples soft using SOAP API via Enterprise Service bus acting as a virtual middleware security to consume or produce the web service's on salesforce side to handle Order Management system from SFDC to Oracle database.  • Implemented Visualforce Pages, Standard and custom Controller classes and Trigger's based on requirements gathered.  • Designed various HTML Email templates for Auto-Response to customers.  • Well experienced in Batch Apex framework provided by Salesforce.  • Implemented Bulk Upload application to process and insert more than 400 - 500 records at a single shot using Database. State full interface of Batch apex using Csv file as source after all the validation's are being passed through batch validations.  • Implemented Submission of Orders through Asynchronous call out's for placing Bulk Orders in a single shot and process each record and send the Asynchronous request and get response in Asynchronously as well.  • Used SOQL & SOSL with consideration to Governor Limits for data manipulation needs of the application using platform database objects.  • Handled the client-side requests with Java script and jQuery without sending the post request to the salesforce server in visual force pages.  • Used a tool named Snapshot, Force.com IDE migration tool for deploying the Force.com components (Apex Classes, Objects, Triggers, Visualforce page components, Visual Force pages) from sandbox to sandbox and sandbox to production environment.  • Worked on Issues reported by Force.com security scanner within an Org (Dev, SIT) sandbox to follow best Apex Coding Practices.  • Involved in production support for the application which already exists in Production environment.    Environment: Saleforce.com Unlimited and Developer Edition, Force.com plugin in Eclipse LUNA IDE, Developer console, Apex Data Loader 32.0, Jitterbit Data Loader, Conga Composer, HTML, Java script, CSS, Workflows, Reports and Dashboards, Force.com Excel Connector, SOQL and SOSL, Force.com Setup Portal, Custom Objects and fields, Custom Tabs, SOAP and Restful Web Services, Report Types, workbench.developerforce.com, Schema Builder, AJAX Toolkit, Microsoft Excel 2010, Snapshot, Force.com Migration tool, JIRA (Task Management Tool), Visual Paradigm, Java script, jQuery, Custom Settings. SALESFORCE DEVELOPER Molina Health Care - Plano, TX March 2017 to August 2018 Responsibilities: • Worked as enhancement developer, performed the roles of Salesforce.com Developer and Administrator in the organization.  • Responsible for setting up web services integrations.  • Implemented Inside sales telephonic plug-in application implementation.  • Worked closely with sales team and business analysts and performed detailed analysis of business and user requirements, designed the solution by customizing various standard objects of SalesForce.com (SFDC).  • Implemented Apex Data loader "Command Line Interface (CLI)" to automate the data loading process for the sand box refresh activity.  • Designed various Webpages in Visual Force for customers to select a variety of services offered by the org and integrate them with the pricing team.  • Designed, and developed Apex Classes, Controller Classes, extensions and Apex Triggers for various functional needs in the application.  • Maintaining test coverage for all the classes and triggers and supporting deployment activities.  • Worked on various salesforce.com standard objects like Accounts, Contacts, Cases, Opportunities, Products, Opportunity Line Items, Leads, Campaigns, Reports and Dashboards.  • Designed, and deployed to suit to the needs of the application.  • Used SOQL & SOSL with consideration to Governor Limits for data manipulation needs of the application using platform database objects.  • Used Data Loader for insert, update and bulk import or export of data from Salesforce.com Subject's Used it to read, extract, and load data from comma separated values (CSV) files.  • Defined lookup and master-detail relationships on the objects and created junction objects to establish connectivity among objects.  • Created workflow rules and defined related tasks, time triggered tasks, email alerts, filed updates to implement business logic.    Environment: Saleforce.com platform, Force.com ide, Apex, Visual Force (Pages, Component & Controllers), Pages, Data Loader, HTML, Inside sales telephonic plug-in, Doc E-sign, Java Script, Workflow & Approvals, Reports, Custom Objects, Custom Tabs, Email Services, WSDL, Security Controls, Sandbox data loading, Eclipse IDE Plug-in, Windows XP Pro SALESFORCE DEVELOPER Bose Corporation - Framingham, MA October 2016 to February 2017 Responsibilities: • Worked on Account and Contact Management, Opportunity Management, Contract Management, Product Management, Price Books, Asset Management, Territory Management, Security, Roles and Hierarchy.  • Implemented mass data loads and pre-deployment testing.  • Worked on advanced workflow rules & Approval processes.  • Designed Test Scenarios and Expected results for the Use Cases and documented them.  • Worked on Regression tests based on fixes and new enhancements.  • Worked on implementing new business logic using Apex code (Classes, Triggers and Visual Force Pages) • Created triggers to enforce the constraints on the fields and to schedule tasks.  • Created auto assignment rules using the workflow process to route tasks.  • Created Test Classes to check the validation of triggers and workflow rules with 90% code coverage.  • Standard and custom controllers were used to handle queries.  • Customized page layouts, search layouts to organize fields, custom links, related lists, and other components on record pages.  • Used the Change Sets to deploy code between the Sandbox and Production environments for final implementations and prepared Deployment documents.  • Implemented Service Cloud including: Service Console, Customer Portal & Communities, Case Feed, Knowledge Base and Entitlements.  • Used SOAP API's to create, retrieve, update or delete the records on the objects.    Environment: Saleforce.com platform, Apex Language, Visual Force (Pages, Component & Controllers), Workflow & Approvals, Reports, Custom Objects, Custom Tabs, Email Services, Security Controls, HTML, Java Script, Java, Web Services, WSDL, SOAP, Sandbox, Eclipse IDE Plug-in, Windows XP. JAVA DEVELOPER (INTERN) Pune, Maharashtra May 2015 to July 2016 Responsibilities: • Involved in full development cycle of Planning, Analysis, Design, Development, Testing and Implementation • Database schema design development and coding of DDL & DML statements, functions.  • Responsible for designing, coding and developing Mobile and Console gaming applications in J2EEusing MVC architecture.  • Configure application flow, controlling logic and navigation.  • Designed and developed base classes, framework classes and re-usable components.  • Designed web pages using JSP, HTML.  • Validations for the Client Side were done using JavaScript.  • Performance tuning, debugging issues in testing and deployment phases.    Environment: JAVA2, Servlets, JDBC, HTML, JAVA Beans, Spring Framework, Apache Tomcat, JSP, Oracle 8, Oracle 9i Lite, Google Atlas tool. Education Master's Skills apex (2 years), Database (3 years), Eclipse (2 years), Html (3 years), Java (3 years) Links http://Salesforce.com Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  Technical Skills  Apex Classes/Controllers, Web Services, Database, HTML, .NET, Salesforce.com Unlimited and Developer Edition, Force.com plugin in Eclipse LUNA IDE, Developer Console, Apex Data Loader 32.0, Jitterbit Data Loader, Conga Composer, Java Script, CSS, Workflows, Reports and Dashboards, Force.com Excel Connector, SOQL and SOSL, Force.com setup Portal, Custom Objects and Fields, Custom Tabs, SOAP and Restful web Services, Report Types, workbench.developerforce.com, Schema Builder, AJAX Toolkit, Microsoft Excel 2010, Snapshot, Force.com Migration tool, JIRA (Task Management Tool), Visual Paradigm, Java script, jQuery, Custom Settings, etc.,.    SFDC Technologies  Apex, Visualforce, Apex Triggers, SOQL, SOSL,  Apex Web Services, Salesforce Lightning Components, Sales Cloud, Service Cloud, Force.com IDE, Visual Studio 2010, C#,HTML, XML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery    Databases Languages MYSQL, Oracle 10g, SQL Server 2005, SQL Server, MS Access, C, C++, JAVA, APEX, HTML, XML, .Net, JavaScript, CSS.  Operating Systems Windows, UNIX/LINUX.