Android Application Developer Android Application <span class="hl">Developer</span> Android Application Developer - BCBS Chicago, IL • 8+ years of experience in analysis, design, development, implementation and testing client- server and enterprise applications using Java and J2EE technologies.  • Good understanding in Android OS, interactive application development and memory management.  • Proficient with common Android framework APIs like (Activities, Intents, Services, Broadcast, Content Providers, Authentication, Location, Camera, Scanner, Notifications, Maps)  • Developed elegant user interfaces with rich features.  • Adept in programming languages like Java, C, C++ with hands on experience in developing Android Enterprise Applications for mobiles and tablets using Eclipse, Android SDK and ADT.  • Experience in implementing Native libraries in application by using Android NDK.  • Designed GUI and interfaces with services for mobile applications.  • Experience in working with the latest API's Android Version 5.0 (Lollipop), Android Version 6.0 (Marshmallow), Android Version 7.0 (NOUGAT), Android Version 8.0 (OREO).  • Experience in using Fragments, Activity Framework, Flow and Motor Framework, Accelerator Framework, Action Bar Navigation, Menu designs and view controls, Loaders, Scroll View, List View and Recycler Views.  • Experience working with MVC (Model View Controller) and MVP (Model view Presenter), MVVM (Model view view model) frameworks patterns.  • Validated JSON response as per the given REST API'S.  • Also worked with Gradle wrapper and dependencies for Gradle configuration.  • Experience in using Storage options in Android like Shared Preferences.  • Designed GUI and interfaces with services for mobile applications, Asynchronous Programming in Android (such as Thread pool, Async Tasks and Services).  • Implemented the monetization of apps, which has capabilities to do in-app purchases.  • Good web designing and mobile skills using Activities (Android), HTML 5, Java Script, AJAX and XML.  • Skilled in developing APIs for middle ware Framework modules for mobile platforms using C and C++ and Java.  • Worked extensively in developing mobile-based and advanced web-based applications using Java, Servlets, JSP, Struts, spring, Hibernate, JDBC, UML, HTML, XHTML, JavaScript and Oracle.  • Experience working with Google Cast SDK for Media framework and Live Streaming Playback  • Proficiency in developing applications using Struts frame work, spring and hibernate.  • Worked on GUI applications using Java SWING and AWT.  • Experience in using Java Native Interface (JNI).  • Expert in writing client-side validations using validation framework, Java Script.  • Working on implementation of OMA-DM device management protocol for Android devices.  • Good experience in Object Oriented Design (OOD), analysis (OOA), modeling (OOM) based on Unified Modelling Language (UML).  • Worked with In - app purchases and payment gateway integration using various API's and SDK's.  • Good Experience with ProGuard and DexGuard files.  • Knowledge in designing and developing adaptive UI components, widgets for Android phones, tablets using Notifications, Adapters, Content Provider, Services, XML Parsing, SQLite.  • Experience in using Storage options in Android like Shared Preferences.  • Excellent debugging and problem-solving skills with Eclipse, IntelliJIDEA IDEA and RAD.  • Experience in various methodologies like SDLC, Agile development and Waterfall development.  • Undertaken full life cycle of Android Application Development which includes testing on device and simulator as well.  • Good exposure in troubleshooting and debugging android applications.  • Extensive experience in requirement analysis, functional analysis, excellent conceptual and logical thinking.  • Excellent working experience with variety of operating systems like Windows, Linux.  • Ability to grasp and master new technologies, excellent analytical and problem-solving skills.    Programming Languages C, C++, Core Java J2SE, J2EE, JavaScript  Development Tools (IDE'S) Android Studio, Eclipse, Android SDK, Android NDK, Visual Studio, IntelliJ IDEA  Operating System Windows8/7/XP/2008Server, LINUX Ubuntu/Mac OS  Web Technologies JavaScript, XML, HTML, HTML5, CCS, JSON, GCM, jQuery, REST Web Services.  Database Services SQLite, Room, SQL Server, DB2 and MYSQL  Version Control GIT (Bit bucket and GitHub), Source tree Work Experience Android Application Developer BCBS - Chicago, IL February 2019 to Present Google Play Store Link:  https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.hcsc.android.providerfinderil    Description:  The IL Blue Mobile app is from Blue Cross Blue Shield of Illinois (BCBSIL). It is designed to help you use and manage your healthcare insurance and coverage when you're on the go. Whether you're at the doctor's office, at work, or out running errands, the app makes it easier than ever to access your ID Cards, pay your bill (for eligible plans), see your deductible balances, and find Urgent Care Centers. The IL Blue Mobile app is for use by BCBSIL members and members of health plans with the BCBSIL provider network.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in the life cycle of the project including development, testing, re-design and deployment.  • Worked in an Agile software development-based environment.  • Extensively used custom List Views to view information on every screen, and to keep uniformity of the application.  • Implemented View Flow for providing navigation between different screens.  • Implemented Notification Manager to display updates on the notification bar.  • Implemented Fragments and Activities.  • Worked extensively with Eclipse, Java and Android SDK frameworks.  • Used Async Task for multithreading.  • Worked on linear, frame and relative layouts.  • Worked on toast, Dialog notifications.  • Different feed is used for the pictures to fetch the data and populate the gallery with corresponding content.  • Integrated location-based services using Google Maps API to display locations of the nearest hospital or urgent health care provider.  • Used SQLite to save user healthcare preferences, insurance information and optional medication history to refine the search.  • Provided subsequent releases which included feature changes, enhancements and bug fixes.  • Inserted suitable code to capture the various button and text field events and implemented the desired action for each of the widgets.  • Used services, Async tasks and Alert Notification API to implement event reminder feature into the mobile app.  • Involved in designing and implementation of variety of modules like 'Find Provider' where you can search every kind of doctor available near to your location.  • Involved in working with Location Manager and Restful Web service with JSON.  • Tested the application on various Android devices.    Environment: Android SDK 5.1,6.0 Marshmallow Android NDK, C & C++, JDK 1.6, 4.1, C++, SQLite 3.8, REST API, GCM, JSON, Eclipse IDE 3.5, Proguard, Ionic Framework, SQLite, Eclipse IDE, Android API's, RESTFUL Web service, XML, JSON, HTML, CSS, GPS service, Log cat, ADT Plug-in, GIT (version control), DDMS console, ADB server, emulator and Base device Android Developer General Electrics - Chicago, IL January 2018 to December 2018 Google play store link:  https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.ge.salesguide    Description:  General Electric Company (GE) is an American multinational conglomerate incorporated in New York and headquartered in Boston. The company operates through the following segments: aviation, healthcare, power, renewable energy, digital industry, additive manufacturing, venture capital and finance, lighting, and oil and gas.    Responsibilities:  • Worked in Agile methodology (Scrum) for project implementation.  • Highly involved in design, implementation and testing.  • Worked on OEM applications which built for customized Android displays.  • Worked with custom Android system and UI framework.  • Developed various application UIs which support in different custom displays.  • Worked on integration of services using AIDL for different applications to display the data from backend.  • Created triggers which would send the events to the back-office by utilizing dynamic broadcast receivers. Designed and modified User Interfaces using JSP, JavaScript, CSS and jQuery.  • Used Retrofit and REST services to establish a secure connection with the back-office and send events in the form of bundles.  • Integrated these classes into the AIDL and ensured the application sends the events to the back office when bound to a client application.  • Performed unit tests at regular intervals to ensure the application's validity and developed a test suite to help the testing team to preform integration and regression testing.  • Developed custom views by using custom widget library for the UI of the applications.  • Developed App screens and its workflow using Activity and Fragments which has views such as List View and Scroll View.  • Worked on memory optimizations in different phases of the development.  • Used RTC for tracking tickets.  • Participated in code reviews using Gerrit with large team.  • Involved in testing of different applications to increase the performance.  • Implemented JSON parsing in various applications.  • Agile methodology was followed with bi-weekly sprints and regular demos to ensure development was on schedule.  • Bitbucket was used as a code repository and JIRA was used to handle stories and track issues. Jenkins was used to perform CI/CD.  Environment: Intellij, Java, Jenkins, Tera Term, Git, Bit bucket, Android studio, Junit. Android Developer Zomato - Hyderabad, Telangana November 2015 to June 2017 Google play store link:  https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.application.zomato    Description:  Zomato is a local guide for finding just the place to eat, drink, relax, and play. Worked on user interface of the app and made it more transparent for the users and developed a way to filter out the spam reviews.    Responsibilities:  • Planned the application design and database, and executed server back end.  • Developed the User Interface layers for Activities and implemented Fragments within User Interface.  • Integrated location based services using Google Maps API to display locations of the nearest stores.  • Used Implicit Intent Functions to enable access for the application to use media, and other pre-built applications.  • Used shared preferences to store and retrieve persistent key value pairs across user sessions.  • Inserted suitable code to capture the various Button and Text field events and implemented the desired action for each of the applications.  • Designed various User Interface layouts using custom layouts, buttons, dialog boxes and Widgets.  • Followed agile technologies in front-end development life cycle of application.  • Experience working with remote data via REST and JSON and Android SDK.  • Implemented Notification Manager to display updates on the notification bar.  • Used custom Views and Adapters in various scenarios during project.  • Registered the Broadcast Receivers for the Android system announcements.  • Worked with Notification Service to notify the user and automatically log out for security purpose and update the apps version.  • Understood business requirements and translated them into technical requirements.  • Implemented all text and image related operations.  • Implemented Notification Manager to display updates on the notification bar.  • Implemented JSON web service calls for server interaction.    Environment: Android 2.0, 3.0, 4.0 versions, Java, Android SDK, ADT, Notification, Shared Preferences, Fragments, JSON, SQLite, HTML, JavaScript, CSS, Eclipse, XML. Java Developer Client - Atharvana Infotech Pvt ltd - Hyderabad, Telangana June 2014 to November 2015 Description:  The project is a web-based application in which users can register and purchase items. The project also has a warranty module using which the warranty of any item purchased can be checked. Users can also change their personal information.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in gathering requirements from different users and system specification.  • Actively participated in use case designing, functional and technical documentation.  • Used MVC architecture for developing the application.  • Developed the presentation layer using HTML, JSP, CSS and DHTML.  • Client-side validations are done using JavaScript.  • Developed JSP Custom tags which are required for the presentation layer.  • Created EJB to encapsulate the business logic and to represent the model in MVC Architecture.  • Involved use cases, class diagrams, activity diagrams and collaboration diagrams in UML.  • Involved in developing database modelling and database schema.  • Developed the application using Eclipse IDE.  • Used Data Access Object (DAO) as a layer between the business logic tier and the persistent storage tier.  • Created Tables, Views and Indexes on the Database, Roles and maintained Database Users.  • Configured Spring cache and Hibernate cache to avoid unnecessary database access.  • Followed and maintained standards and best practices in database development.  • Deployed application on JBoss server and used Maven as a build tool.  • Developed Unit test scripts for every module in the application.    Environment: J2EE, HTML, JSP, CSS, DHTML, EJB, JSP Custom Tags, JavaScript, Eclipse, UML, JDBC, JBoss, Maven, Oracle. Education Master of Science University of Illinois Bachelor of Technology in Technology JNTU - Hyderabad, Telangana Skills Ant (Less than 1 year), Apache (Less than 1 year), Apache Cordova (Less than 1 year), Cordova (Less than 1 year), Microsoft Project (Less than 1 year) Additional Information Methodologies Scrum, Agile, Waterfall, RUP  Others Microsoft Visio, Microsoft Project Manager, Apache Ant, Apache Cordova, PhoneGap    Skill set: