AEM/CQ5 Developer AEM/CQ5 <span class="hl">Developer</span> AEM/CQ5 Developer - VISA Austin, TX Sr. AEM, CQ5 Developer & Admin Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience AEM/CQ5 Developer VISA - Austin, TX August 2017 to Present Roles & Responsibilities:  ? Analyze and review the requirements of various modules and programmed to ensure that they meet the stated and implied needs of the customer.  ? Involved in requirement gathering and finalizing the requirements with business team.  ? Involved in migrating AEM 6.1 to 6.3 along with code, content, dam, users, workflows.  ? Setup and configure Authoring and Publishing environments, dispatcher along with rewrites/redirects rules and replication agents.  ? Used Sling, Apache tools, Felix, JCR for the new Content management system.  ? Assist in application deployment to Dev, QA, staging and Prod environments and migrations.  ? Getting clarifications and detailed information required for development by conducting various review meetings with product and business owners.  ? Worked with Java, CSS, AngularJS, HTML, JavaScript, HTL and JSP (JSTL) while coding the CQ5 reusable components.  ? Converted AEM Classic UI components to touch UI/Coral UI.  ? Used Servlets to implement business logic with JSP and converting business requirements to technical requirements.  ? Involved in testing the templates and components, making sure that the functional requirements are meeting.  ? Used Adaptive image concept to create image renditions.  ? Worked on AEM package manager to create, upload and manage content packages.  ? Configuring and maintaining Jenkins sever along with build & deploy Jobs as per needs.  ? Worked with Apache Maven for project build and deployment & GIT for Source Code Management.  ? Worked with JIRA for tracking (Modules, bugs etc.)  ? Involved in rotational servers patching activity for Linux servers.  ? Involved in production releases and fixing bugs on fly if required.  ? Followed Agile/Scrum methodology for development of each sprint and attending daily scrum meetings.  ? Reaching targets & goals to ensure the client expectations are met in given timelines without compromising quality.  ? Serves as a part of a development team that provides new services, enhancements, features, etc. for client website  ? Work closely with product and project teams  ? Perform Code review for the respective developed modules and giving demos to business owners.  ? Provided training to offshore team and involved in on-site and off-shore team coordination. AEM/CQ5 Developer XPO Logistics - Greensboro, NC June 2016 to July 2017 Roles & Responsibilities:  ? Created and maintained AEM 5.6.1, 6.0, 6.1 content management systems.  ? Created AEM Components with Custom Dialogs and with cacheable responses.  ? OSGi bundle containing components is created and OSGi services are accessed from AEM components  ? Used the existing Tag libraries in AEM for tagging the pages.  ? Managed OSGi configuration within the CRX repository.  ? Used Webservices and API's for calling the forms automation engine.  ? Configured Workflows with custom steps and implemented in the project.  ? Developed static web pages, landing pages, category landing pages using content management system.  ? Provided estimates, designs, and specifications for AEM templates, components, and workflows.  ? Built various web pages using HTML, Angular JS, CSS, Java Script and JQuery.  ? Setup and configured Authoring and Publishing environments, replication agents, AEM dispatcher to cache the landing pages in HTML and serve as the static pages from Apache.  ? Used Angular JS to provide services to different components of portal.  ? Worked on Angular JS for reading and Posting JSON data.  ? Created CQ templates, Workflows, and CQ Administration.  ? Configured replication agent and dispatcher for caching and load balancing.  ? Used Client libraries to minify JavaScript and CSS into one common file and load it on page load.  ? Extensively worked on front end, business and persistence tier using the HTML, CSS, and JavaScript, jQuery, ExtJS and Hibernate frameworks.  ? Worked on Custom OSGI services, workflows, scheduler jobs development.  ? Worked on dispatcher configurations for cache and load balancing.  ? Designed various modules using technologies like JSON, and JavaScript.  ? Created Responsive Designs using HTML, CSS3.  ? Dispatcher is configured to cache responses from an AEM publish instance, to increase the responsiveness and security of the externally facing published website.  ? Managed SDLC processes and associated artifacts.  ? Used GIT for version control and JIRA is used for tracking CQ5 Developer Axis Bank - Bengaluru, Karnataka June 2015 to December 2015 Roles & Responsibilities:  ? Effectively involved in understanding the site architecture and development of CMS components.  ? Created CQ5 custom templates and components based on the design of the page.  ? Integrated secure site with CQ5 content pages.  ? Involved in migration of the existing Documentum Content Model to CQ5.  ? Involved in development and production support.  ? Involved in migration of the existing team site content models to CQ5.  ? Developed OSGI services using sling framework and Maven bundles.  ? Involved in discussion with offshore/onsite team to understand the business requirement.  ? Involved in planning and estimation of time to complete for each and every template as per delivery concern.  ? Involved in high level design and documentation of template and components.  ? Guided and provided technical support to team-members.  ? Involved in development of various reusable components using CQ5 day tool, JCR170.  ? Integrated CQ5 with Enterprise offers platform.  ? Attended core priceless cities platform feature/function walkthrough meetings with client to understand business and functional requirements of the website.  ? Effectively worked with onsite and offshore site rollout teams for build, test and rollout. Java Developer Pidilite Industries Limited - Hyderabad, Telangana January 2015 to May 2015 Roles & Responsibilities:  ? Involved in gathering requirements from Business users and analyzing the requirements.  ? Study the use cases diagrams and analyzing the application in all aspects.  ? Drawing Class diagrams, Sequence diagrams, Activity diagrams using Rational Rose tool in UML.  ? Implemented JavaScript extensively.  ? Generated the Java classes from the created UML diagrams.  ? Documented for all the classes with detailed description.  ? Converted HTML screens to JSP screens with struts tags, Incorporating CSS in JSP's.  ? Created Form Beans and declaring the Mapping by using Struts.  ? Created the Action Classes for processing the requests and for forwarding to the next layer.  ? Created the Data Access Object design Pattern classes for accessing the database.  ? Validating sever side validations using Struts validations.  ? Created JavaScript files for grouping of Java Script methods inside these files.  ? Viewed the database design document and analyze the tables and get aware of the tables and relation between tables.  ? Mapped the data from EV to MC for some fields by writing the procedures.  ? Worked on Unit testing and deploying the application on WebLogic server.  ? Performance tuning of application for quick response.  ? Wrote procedures and queries in optimized way.  ? Involved in mapping Hibernate configuration files with Data base tables.  ? Performed the PMD test for checking coding standards. Education Master's Degree in Computer & Information Systems in Computer & Information Systems Sacred heart University - Fairfield, CT 2017 Bachelor's Degree in Computer Science & Engineering in Computer Science & Engineering JNT University 2015