Software Engineer in Honey Software Engineer in Honey Software Engineer in Honey - HCL Technologies Ltd ? Having 3+ years of experience in the areas of Software Developing, Testing, Devops and Cloud technologies.  ? Detailed technical knowledge and hands-on experience of DevOps, Automation, Build Engineering and Configuration Management.  ? Experience on CI (Continuous Integration) and CD (Continuous Delivery) methodologies with Jenkins.  ? Strong Experience in version control systems like GIT, SVN source control  ? Experience in system administration for Linux and Windows servers  ? Experience with Ansible and Puppet tools.  ? Experience on Docker containers and AWS services like EC2, S3, EBS, IAM and AMI.  ? Good Experience in SDLC, Agile Methodologies.  ? Extensive experience in JAVA, Spring, XML, JSON, Web Services, HTML, Maven and Elastic path.  ? Worked on the Atlassian software development and calibration Tracking System (JIRA).  ? Good Knowledge on kubernetes.  ? Good Analytical and problem-solving skills. Work Experience Software Engineer in Honey HCL Technologies Ltd October 2016 to Present well Technologies from Jul 2015 to Aug 2016.    Projects Summary:  Project 4: GLOBE - OC3 HCL Technologies Ltd June 2017 to January 2018 Globe Telecom - PH June 2016 to June 2017 MySQL, GIT  Maven, Red Hat Linux, Shell scripting, MySQL, Jenkins, Jira HCL Technologies Ltd February 2017 to May 2017 Developer Honey well pvt Ltd - Hyderabad, ANDHRA PRADESH, IN July 2015 to August 2016 Client: Ampower  Technologies / Tools: Java, Hibernate, Oracle, SVN  Team: 6  Role: Developer    Description:  Ampower is a place for professionals to showcase and market themselves. Think of Ampower as a profile page that has your bio, resume and reviews all at one place. Ampower gives you full control over your profile page. You can hide the review if you choose to. Hidden reviews are not displayed on your profile page or in any users' newsfeed. Ampower is a site for professional reviews only. We don't allow personal reviews on the site. Ampower approves all reviews before they are made public. All personal reviews will be declined.    Roles and Responsibilities:  ? Reviewed and analyzed the Business Requirement Document and Functional specification document.  ? Responsible for coding of DAO classes using Spring with hibernate.  ? Implementing Business logic.  ? Responsible for coding POJO Classes.  ? Involved in Unit Testing.  ? Developing Hibernate Configuration files for Oracle.  ? Developing at Client-side validations using Spring validator.  ? Preparation of weekly and monthly status reports.    Place: Hyderabad  Date:  (Phaneendra Babu Yelledi) Developer Globe Telecom - PH 2016 to 2016 Philippines  Technologies / Tools: Elastic Path 7.0, SOAP and REST web services, MySQL, GIT  Maven, Red Hat Linux, Shell scripting, MySQL, Jenkins, Jira  Team: 16  Role: Developer    Description:  Globe Telecom commonly shortened as Globe, is a major provider of telecommunication services in the Philippines. It operates one of the largest mobile, fixed line, and broadband networks in the country. Globe currently has about 65.8 million mobile subscribers, nearly 3.5 million broadband customers, and 859 thousand landline subscribers. This project is to keep omni channel for their products and services and to maintain their e-commerce site.    Role & Responsibilities:  ? Participated in the release cycle of the product which involved environments like Development, QA, UAT and Production.  ? Installed and configured GIT and communicating with the repositories in GITHUB.  ? Installing and updating the Jenkins Plug-ins to achieve CI/CD.  ? Experience in installation & configuration of configuration management tools like Ansible.  ? Implemented the Continuous Integration server (Jenkins) for automate the build process for Maven projects.  ? Performed all necessary day-to-day support for different projects.  ? Responsible for Branching and merging the code as per the schedule. Perform weekly build cycle and testing processes.  ? Used MAVEN as a build tools on java projects for the development of build artifacts on the source code.  ? Coordinate/assist developers with establishing and applying appropriate branching, labeling/naming conventions using GIT source control.  ? Implemented the setup for Master slave architecture to improve the Performance of Jenkins.  ? Used Apache Tomcat server for deploying the artifacts. Developer Globe Telecom 2010 to 2010 Description:  Globe Telecom commonly shortened as Globe, is a major provider of telecommunication services in the Philippines. It operates one of the largest mobile, fixed line, and broadband networks in the country. Bagel project is to subscribe standalone products or bundle plans and to get/subscribe freebies like Facebook, Netflix etc. Using USSD and SMS channels.    Roles and Responsibilities:  ? Specified Experience in configuring and deploying Java and J2EE applications into application server like Apache Tomcat.  ? Used SVN as source code management tool.  ? Developed build and deployment scripts using Ant as build tools in Jenkins to move from one environment to other environments.  ? Performed and deployed Builds for various environments like QA, Integration, UAT and Productions Environments.  ? Troubleshoot Build and Deployment issues, with little downtime.  ? Create, merge, and maintain branches for Subversion repositories  ? Creation and maintenance of scripts for development and deployment.  ? Used Ant as build tool on Java projects for the development of build artifacts on the source code  ? Used Apache Tomcat server for deploying the artifacts.    Project 1: Java Developer Symantec 2010 to 2010 Description:  Symantec is one of the world's leading Anti-virus company that deals in the security. Implementing and maintaining Ecommerce frame work for building an Online store where Symantec sells its Norton products, which involves Order management, E- payment, Electronic and Physical fulfilment, Customer service, Product catalogue, and Content management. eStore is the implementation of Symantec's online store which covers the retention business. The retention business includes renewals and upgrades from In-Product and Up-Sells once at the site.    Contribution & Responsibilities  ? Understanding the scope of the project.  ? Understanding and analysis the flow of the project.  ? Work on controller, service & model writing.  ? Work on job scheduling. Handle the logging work and analyze the flow to track errors and exception. Education Bachelor of Technology in Electronics and Communication Engineering Rajamahendri Institute of Engineering & Technology - Rajamahendri, ANDHRA PRADESH, IN Additional Information Operating Systems Windows/Unix/Linux  Cloud(Iaas) AWS  Automation/Configuration Management Tools Ansible, Puppet and Chef  Programming Languages Java  Build Tools Maven, Ant  CI Tools Jenkins  Database Oracle 10g, MySQL 5.6  Web/App Servers Apache Tomcat, JBoss  Bug Tracking & Testing JIRA  SCM Tools SVN and GIT  Cloud Computing AWS (EC2, IAM, S3, ELB and Auto Scaling)  Scripting Languages Shell, Groovy, YML  Command Line Editors Vi, Vim  Virtualization Docker, Docker Swarm  Monitoring Tools Splunk, Nagios, CloudWatch