JAVA DEVELOPER <span class="hl">JAVA</span> <span class="hl">DEVELOPER</span> JAVA DEVELOPER - Verizon Freehold, NJ * Over 4+ years of strong software experience in design, development and deployment of web-based Client-Server business applications using OOP, Java/J2EE, technologies.  * Solid Hands-on experience in end to end implementation of CI and CD (Continuous Delivery), DevOps processes using AWS Code Commit AWS Code Deploy, AWS Code Pipeline, Jenkins, and Ansible.  * Strong experience in unit testing tools of JavaScript Frameworks like Karma, Jasmine and Protractor for Angular, Mocha and Chai for React JS.  * Developed the Services using AWS Elastic Search, Restful Services using JAX-RS and Java.  * Implemented a Continuous Delivery pipeline with Docker, Jenkins and GitHub and AWS AMI's access-control features by using Spring Security.  * Used Object Relation Mapping (ORM) for converting data between relation database and object-oriented programming languages.  * Used Oracle, Microsoft SQL Server, MySQL, and Microsoft Access in writing PL/SQL, stored procedures, functions and triggers.  * Used JDBC Template's to connect with the Oracle database.  * Experience in Developing User Interface (UI) Rich Web Applications and Web Service Applications using HTML 4, XHTML, CSS 2, AJAX, Object Oriented Java Script, BOOTSTRAP Framework, RESTful services, JAVA, JSP, Scala.  * Complete understanding of the DevOps process with continuous integration using JIRA, GIT, CHEF PUPET, automation tools DOCKER container, Kubernetes.  * Expertise in XML technologies such as XSL, XSLT, DTD, XML schemas, XPath, XForms, XSL-FO and parsers like SAX/DOM.  * Worked on the SPRING framework like SPRING IOC and SPRING DAO, JDBC Templates, Transactions, Security, AOP, MVC, ORM etc.  * Spearheaded Application Developer conversant with developing Applications using J2EE Design patterns such as MVC, Singleton, Session Facade, Service Locator, Visitor, Observer, Decorator, Front Controller, DAO.  * Experience in working on various Frameworks like Spring, Struts, JSF, EJB and ORM Technologies like Hibernate, and IBatis, which implements JPA.  * Extensive development experience in different IDE's like Eclipse 3.x, Jbuilder 9.x/8.x, WSAD 5.x, IBM RAD and Altova XMLSpy.  * Developed and deployed Micro Services based applications using Spring Boot (Spring JDBC, Spring ORM) Spring Microservice, JSF, Hibernate and Spring Cloud.  * Expertise level knowledge in entire software development lifecycle (SDLC) process from business analysis to development, testing, deployment, documenting, maintaining and user training.  * Experience in preparing TDD/BDD and Unit testing.  * Hands on experiences with Core Java with Multithreading, Concurrency, File Handling I/O, Generics, Data Structures and Collections, Garbage Collection.  * Used JAX-RS for creating RESTFUL web service where the request and get response in JSON format.  * Large scale experience in working with broad range of Amazon Web Services (AWS) cloud services and it's features like Autoscaling, AWS Storage, ELB, EBS, VPC, Security Groups, Access Control Lists (ACL), Route53, RDS, S3, IAM, SNS, SES, Cloud Watch, SNS and SQS.  * Experience with Angular JS in developing web applications, developed single page applications using this JavaScript MVC framework Angular JS.  * Huge experience in J2EE platform including, developing both front end & back end applications using Java, Servlets, JSF, JSP, EJB, AJAX, Spring, Spring MVC, sql Struts, Hibernate, JAXB, JMS, JDBC, Web Services.  * Experienced in Front End frameworks such as jQuery, Ajax, JavaScript, Nodejs, ReactJS, BackboneJS, DHTML.  * Granted security and configured user access and limits using AWS Identity and Access Management (IAM) by creating new profiles and policies for user management in JSON.  * Collaborate in the automation of AWS infrastructure via Terraform, Ansible, and Jenkins - software and services configuration via chef cookbooks as well as Created GUI builder using NetBeans.  * Involved in design, implementation and maintenance of system architectures using application servers like WebLogic, WebSphere, Tomcat and JBOSS.  * Used NetBeans to develop asset of modular software components.  * Fluent in using Hibernate features such as HQL (Hibernate Query Language) and Criteria queries for effectively use of the relational Databases and prefer Second level cache (EH-Cache) to optimize performance.  * Expertise in developing SOA (Service Oriented Architecture) and J2EE Web Services based on SOAP, WSDL, UDDI, JAX-WS, JAXB, JAX-RPC using tools like Apache Axis.  * Extensively used SVN and IBM Rational ClearCase for version control, using JUnit testing framework and comprehensive knowledge of Log4j for logging and MAVEN&ANT for project build.  * Proficient in working with various technologies like Java/JEE, JSP, JDBC, Struts, Spring-3.0, XML, Web Services and Design Patterns.  * Developed persistence layer based on JPA framework for providing POJO persistence model for object-relational mapping.  * Very good understanding on NOSQL databases like MongoDB and Cassandra.  * Experience in using JSP and Servlets to create web interfaces and integrating apache tools like Kafka.  * Working with relative ease with different Software development methodologies like Waterfall, Agile (SCRUM) and Rational Unified Process (RUP).  * Storage, ELB, EBS, VPC, Security Groups, Access Control Lists (ACL), Route53, RDS, S3, IAM, SNS, SES, Cloud Watch and SQS. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience JAVA DEVELOPER Verizon - Freehold, NJ January 2019 to Present Responsibilities:  * Involved in multi-tiered J2EE design utilizing Spring Inversion of Control (IOC) architecture and Hibernate.  * Applied design patterns including MVC Pattern, Façade Pattern, Abstract Factory Pattern, DAO Pattern and Singleton.  * Used persistence frameworks, Hibernate ORM, JPA to map POJOs to a relational database.  * Made use of content negotiation (XML, JSON, text/plain) using JAXB, GSON, Jackson, and XStream.  * Extensively used JMX API for management and monitoring solutions.  * Developed application on Micro Service Oriented Architecture using Spring Boot and Node JS, Cassandra and MySQL to integrate and communicate with the already existing applications.  * Involved in developing front end screens using JSP, JSTL, DHTML, HTML, CSS, AJAX, JavaScript  * Developed Web services to allow communication between applications through SOAP over HTTP using Apache Axis2.  * Implemented Hibernate for data persistence in Workflow screens. Used RAD6, WSAD as IDE for development of the application. Worked with Weblogic, Tomcat as the application servers and JMS as the message Server.  * Performed Clear Quest defects, Database change requests logging using Clear Quest. Used Perforce as versioning system  * Developed RESTful services using Jersey, JAX-RS and Restlet to call third party vendors.  * Developed Struts Action Forms, Action classes and performed action mapping using Struts.  * Developed the automation environment for build, deployment, and configuration of Portlets onto the IBM websphere portal server using ANT scripts, XML Access scripts and JACL scripts.  * Used Spring Framework for Dependency injection and integrated with the EJB 3.0 using annotations.  * Generated Hibernate XML files for the configured beans. The business logic was written in EJB DAO classes and the service layer classes were configured in Spring-service.xml.  * Configured spring managed beans and their scopes.  * Implemented services that would route messages to different JMS queues based on message properties. These messages would be picked up by the appropriate ESB service which would in turn call the third-party partner web services (both RESTful and SOAP).  * Configured and built Spring MVC application on Tomcat web server.  * Worked on UNIX Shell scripts and Cron jobs.  * Investigate, debug and fixed potential bugs or defects in the implemented code.  * Implemented junit tests and mandated 90% min. code coverage.  * Designed builds which can grow and support builds using Gradle.  * Develop named HQL queries and Criteria queries for use in application.  * Implemented transaction management for ORM project using Spring Transaction Management API.  * Created and built project using Maven.  * Created Stored Procedures and other SQL scripts using PL-SQL.  * Implemented logging using log4j and Spring AOP.  * Implemented various cross-project functionalities using Spring AOP.  * Configuring the service on Weblogic/WASapplication server for successful deployment  * Modeled Flows with different flow state types.  * Used source control, used as plugin in eclipse.  * Involved in requirement gatherings and prototype development.  Provide post production support for the project during business hours. JAVA DEVELOPER Irving, TX January 2018 to January 2019 Responsibilities  * Designed and developed XML configuration-based Spring REST web services using Spring REST framework.  * Develop applications and components based on using a Java technology stack and develop high quality service-oriented architecture and micro-services  * Developed API for using AWS Lambda to manage the servers and run the code in the AWS.  * Involved in web designing using HTML 4/5, XHTML, CSS 2/3 and JavaScript.  * Agile software development technique is using, to manage product development, understand and resolve problems daily scrum strategy is used.  * Test Driven Development method is using to achieve better understanding, high quality in minimum time, Flexibility, best functionality, productivity and error free final product.  * HTML, CSS, JQUERY and AngularJS are using to implement application, web pages for user friendly interface.  * Using Hibernate as ORM tool to store the persistence data into the Oracle 10g database & deploy for SonarQube.  * Restful web services are used to enhance performance, scalability, JSON format and to display and change the response object in UI.  * Developed API for using AWS Lambda to manage the servers and run the code in the AWS.  * Different CSS styles are used to achieve attractive look and user-friendly environment.  * To control visibility of data, jQuery selectors like hidden, visible are used.  * AngularJS framework is used to keep separate server-side form client side and DOM manipulation from application logic.  * Developed API for using AWS Lambda to manage the servers and run the code in the AWS.  * Developed front-end screens using Struts, JSP, HTML, AJAX, jQuery, JavaScript, JSON and CSS.  * Designed and deployed AWS Solutions using EC2, S3, EBS, Elastic Load balancer (ELB implemented both server-side code and DHTML web pages.  * Worked with AWS Lambda using python to automate resource creation, perform compliance checks and cost optimization.  * Spring security is used for authentication, authorization and other security features for service layer methods.  * Performed data extraction and migration, data cleaning, analysis, and visualization using SSIS, SSAS, Tableau, and Power BI to support OneCloud Data warehousing solution on AWS.  * Created alarms in Cloud Watch service for monitoring the server's performance, CPU Utilization, disk usage, maintained user accounts IAM, RDS, and Route53 services in AWS Cloud.  * Involved in design and development of application in Java Persistence API (JPA) for interacting with relational database.  * To provide RESTFUL web services used JAX-RS and Implemented JWT token instead of traditional http headers.  * Different JAX-RX annotations are used for validation, input, and mapping and LOG4j logging framework is used for logging errors.  * Multithreading, collection framework, generics, externalization and core java techniques are used.  * JSON objects are used to response in web page or to build client-side restful web services and different OOAD Design patterns like Factory pattern, DTO are used.  * Enhanced code using functional interfaces, streams in java used Sequence diagrams, class diagrams are used for better understanding of architecture.  * Actively involved in spring components form object, command object, Dispatcher Servlets, controllers etc. and retrieved data form database using SOAP web services Apache Axis2.  * Focus on build tools like ANT and Maven.  * Jenkins and PCF used for deployments.  * Used GIT for version control.  * Implement Unit Testing codes using resolved bugs, JUnit, Eclipse debugging tool.  * Spring Configuration files contains Hibernate Session Factory, DAOs, Hibernate controller classes, mapping files, validation classes, dependencies between delegate classes, and the domain Objects. JAVA DEVELOPER Capital One - Plano, TX October 2016 to December 2017 Responsibilities  * Developed Views and Templates with JAVA and using Spring MVC's view controller and template language for the Web application.  * Used JAVA and Apache axis to interface with the jQuery UI, Struts and manage the storage and deletion of content.  * Implement features of the legacy application made in Cold Fusion.  * Worked to migrate sensitive data from a legacy cold fusion, oracle SQL stack to the industry's leading data management solution.  * Involved in the deployment of the application using JBoss, WebLogic servers.  * Developed Application servers for business solutions using Apache Tomcat, WebLogic, WebSphere and JBoss.  * Performed data validation in Struts Form beans and Action Classes.  * Built various graphs for business decision making using JAVA Graph Stream library.  * Used JAVA library Jaunt for web scrapping to extract data for building graphs.  * Designed and Developed User Interface using front-end technologies like HTML, Bootstrap, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, AngularJS, Bootstrap and JSON.  * Developed custom directives (elements, Attributes and classes) using JavaScript and AngularJs.  * Developed single page applications using Angular.js, Implemented two-way data binding using AngularJS.  * Used JMF API to put the data as time series and tabular format for easy timestamp data manipulation and retrieval.  * Developed a web application for developers to generate their own REST API calls in, JAVA, and Python.  * Worked with WEB API's to make calls to the web services using URLs, which would perform GET, PUT, POST and DELETE operations on the server.  * Created stored procedure, trigger on the database to provide/insert specific data from multiple tables for Web API services.  * Wrote code to support model-view-controller (MVC) pattern of JAVA Spring MVC framework in developing several modules for the application.  * Developed Application to access JSON and XML from Restful Web Service from consumer side using JavaScript.  * Installed and configured MS SQL Server VM in Azure Database and worked on cloud services, storage accounts, service buses, event hubs, app service plans and Azure active directory and SQL Azure.  * Developed remote integration with third party platforms by using RESTful web services.  * Used Restful APIs to access data from different suppliers.  * Designed REST APIs that allow sophisticated, effective and low-cost application integration.  * Implemented RESTful Web-Services For sending and receiving the data between multiple systems.  * Involved in development of Web Services using REST for sending and getting data from the external interface in the JSON format.  * Placed data into JSON files using JAVA to test Apache websites.  * JAVA Scripts that test and return REST API calls.  * Automated creation of AWS EC2 instances (Linux and Windows), RDS Instances, ELB (Elastic Load Balancer) using AMI, Cloud Formation and Ansible Playbooks.  * Wrote a microservice to turn our main app into a SAML Service Provider so authentication could be handled by our client's systems.  * Designed and managed API system deployment using fast http server and Amazon AWS architecture.  * Implemented AWS solutions using E2C, S3, RDS, EBS, Elastic Load Balancer, Auto-scaling groups.  * Implemented AWS client API to interact with different services as Console configuration for AWS EC2.  * Built development environment with JIRA, Git.  * Built Web pages that are more user-interactive using AJAX, JavaScript, and React.js.  * Used React JS for templating for faster compilation and developing reusable components.  * Designed Selenium IDE test routines for User Interface Testing of web-framework and applications.  * Persisted data from database, leveraging Hibernate and SQL Server 2008.  * Implementing or exposing the Micro services based on RESTful API utilizing Spring Boot with Spring MVC.  * Extensively used XML, JSP, JavaScript, AJAX, Servlets to drive the application / request user input from backend. JAVA DEVELOPER United Health Group July 2013 to December 2014 Responsibilities:  * Involved in various Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) phases of the project.  * Coding with core Java concepts like Collections, Exception Handling, Java I/O, and Generics to implement some business logic.  * Developed and configured the Java beans using spring and Hibernate framework.  * Well versed with core Java concepts like Collections, Multithreading, Remote Method Invocation (RMI), Serialization, and Java Beans.  * Used Spring Framework for Dependency Injection and integrated it with the Core Java and Hibernate.  * Used Web services - WSDL and SOAP for getting credit card information from third party.  Designing of underlying architecture along with other members of the team and preparing the base code for the application.  * CRUD related operations with Database are achieved using Hibernate JPA Repository.  * Logging of errors in application is achieved by Log4j and unit testing of the developed code is done by JUnit Framework.  * Implemented error checking/validation on the Java Server Pages using JavaScript.  * Configured Check Style in eclipse to ensure that Java code adheres to a set of coding standards Education Master's Skills Hibernate, J2Ee, Java, Spring, Java J2Ee