Android Java Developer Android <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Android Java Developer - AAA • 4+ years of experience as an android developer,Android SDK versions and Android de-  vice resolutions.  • Excellent hands on skills with Android application development tools, Android Studio,  Android SDK.  • Solid understanding of application life cycle, Android UX/UI.  • Experience in structuring and representing content on the web using HTML5, describ-  ing the presentation of a document within HTML or XML using CSS 3, client and server-  side scripting using JavaScript.  • Knowledge in version control systems (GIT) and UML (Modeling Language).  • Comfortable in tracking project progress using Bugzilla and designing multithreaded  implementations.  • Strong knowledge in network programming.  • Extensive knowledge in design patterns and implementation of MVC architecture in  application development.  • Using innovative ideas to present UI to user and optimizing code for effort using auto  layouts.  • Worked on crash repot generation and send crash report through Mailing in android.  • Worked on client/server applications as well standalone applications on different  mobile platforms.  • Extensive knowledge of Android application framework and Android SDK tools.  • Proficient with common Android APIs (Location, Camera, Media, Notifications, Maps,  Connectivity etc.)  • Vast knowledge of IDEs such as Eclipse, NetBeans and familiar with OOPS concepts.  • Proficient in implementation of Adapters, Services, UI development, Activities,  Fragments, Intents, Content providers and Receivers.  • Qualified and reliable for application development on Google play store. Expertise on  android architecture and design.  • Experience in Web Services using SOAP & RESTFUL API's which are used to establish  communication and interoperability between systems.  • Expertise in development, implementation, and testing of applications.  • Experience in identification and correction of issues related to memory to increase the  performance of an application. Familiar in integrating third party libraries.  • Prompt learner and capable of adapting to work in expeditiously governed result ori-  entated environments constantly delivering high-quality work.  • Efficient team player with good collaboration, leadership, interpersonal and communi-  cation skills. Work Experience Android Java Developer AAA - Lake Mary, FL December 2018 to Present Location: USA  Role: Android Java Developer  In Truck Ultra(ITU) application is used by AAA drivers to help the aaa members and non members who  are in need of emergency road service.  1.Integrated Waze in D3 In-Truck ULTRA/LITE to use the Waze mapping interface to route the driver to the member breakdown location or tow destination using the crowd sourced traffic information.  2.Automate D3 In-Truck ULTRA/LITE to send Enroute and ETA to dispatch when the driver is on his way  to the members breakdown location.  3.Integrated Glympse Service Tracker into ITU/ITL app With this member receives an SMS or email con- taining a link to the Service Tracker application that shows the members breakdown location and the  service truck in real-time    Responsibilities:  ? Involved in development and production support for the various clubs in AAA  ? Involved in bug fixing and resolving issues with the QA and production environment during production support.  ? Designed UI using views provided by Android and created custom views when required.  ? SVN,GIT,SOURCE TREE, BIT-BUCKET is used as a tool for version control.  ? Used TOAD for accessing the database. CYBER-ARK to access server.  ? Worked on promises to load the configuration and events.  ? Implemented Ajax functionality.  ? Worked with the Android SDK, and implemented Android Location Connectivity components.  ? Designed screens using MVC pattern for the application with Android Studio IDE.  ? Analysis of mobile application code for re-engineering.  ? Used Hibernate as an O/R mapping tool for selecting, inserting and updating the records  in the database.  ? Responsible for consuming the REST services, getting JSON response and parsing them to get the required information.  ? Implemented Google Maps API v2 , waze with forward and reverse geo-location.  ? Integrated location based services using Google Maps API to display locations of the nearest stores.  ? Implemented unique design for portrait and landscape mode.  ? Used SQLite to cache the data received from the RESTful web services.  ? Constructing HTTP requests, fetching server response and parsing feeds wherever required.  ? Used Android SDK and Eclipse IDE for development.  ? Used Android Asynchronous Http Client library, a third-party library for server call and shared  preferences.  ? Developed web apps for iOS (iPhone) and Android using frameworks like jQTouch, iWebKit.  ? Used various devices which include tablets and phone with a latest android OS to the application.  ? Worked with Dialog Fragments for Pop up and Used List Adapters, Spinners and Loaders.  ? Worked on Toast, Dialog notifications and Alert Dialogs and Developed Custom keypad.  ? Used HTML5, CSS, Java script, Java to develop native apps.  ? Developed client GUI modules using Swing, Java script and Flash.  ? Used GIT-hub for version control and Source Tree forco de-management.  ? Handled XML data using efficient parsing techniques such as DOM parser.  ? Used GIT-HUB as our project version controller, where used to commit and push the developed, working code  ? Work closely with the web application development team to ensure proper integration between mobile application and web application.  ? Followed Agile Methodology in developing the enterprise application.  ? Used Crashlytics, while testing the application, so as to verify the proper free-flow working of the application.  ? Tested the application on various Android devices.  Environment: Android SDK, Eclipse IDE, JSON, Relative Layout, Linear layout and Frame Layout, List  Views, Base Adapter, Dialog Fragments Activities, Toast and Dialog Notifications, Toggle Buttons, REST  Web Services, XML, Action-Bar, SQLite, Agile and GIT-HUB,Source Tree, Java, Java Script,STRUTS,JSP, node.js ,EJB2.0, Oracle 8i, Websphere application server 8.5. Android Developer Orvito Inc March 2016 to July 2017 Location: INDIA  Description:  Smart Switch Control(Switch Master) is developed based on open standards of WIFI. It is a more affordable, economical and user friendly home automation solution for con-  trolling remote appliances from your convenient place.This app works with wifi,which let user  perform control operations with a switch panel like on/off,dimming a bulb,fan.user can also create "scene" to control specified switches in his home. The user can control home appli-  ances using Phone and tablet .The most popular platform android has been used in the mobile and tablet for controlling the home appliances. By using this Smart Switch Control we can  able to control single node as well as group of nodes at a time.    Link: https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.orvito.switchmaster    Responsibilities:    • Involved in developing new features for applications (Android) used on phones and tablets.  • Developed apps using Android SDK 4.3. Integrated front-end and back-end code by communicating with back-end development team.  • Composed unit tests for mobile code and debugged critical issues related to an appli- cation such as crashes, concurrency problems, and memory leaks.  • Worked on integrating multiple systems to transfer data between layers of the soft- ware stack.  • Controlled Bugzilla workflows and managed tasks within the Agile framework.  • Improved application performance by fixing bugs. Developed top solutions by working  with the developers.  • Associated with artists, QA, and internal developers to maintain best practices.  • Maintained deliverables with product management team to product roadmaps.  • To display lists in an application used Web Views, List Views, and populated lists.  • Used Content Providers (Android) for sending texts and emails in the app. Used Ver- sion Control System (GIT).  • For user settings and data used Shared preferences and SQLite database. Used design  pattern (MVC) for mobile application design.  • Supported in developing the User Interface (UI/UX) and overall look and feel of an ap- plication.  • Worked on RESTful web services.  • Developed written resources manuals for step-by-step procedures. Stored and re- trieved key value pairs across user sessions using Shared preference. Monitored data  using SQLite Databases. Performed multithreading using AsyncTask.  • Extracted data and displayed it on the app using XML. Created a unique design that  suits both portrait and landscape modes.  • Involved in designing the layouts that are compatible with different screen resolu- tions. Navigated between different screens using Tab View.  • Retrieved the data from the server using JSON Object. Used Implicit and Explicit in- tents for managing activities.  • Involved in writing the application logic. Developed Restful web service to display the product details and the profile of a user.  • Used JSON to allow an application to communicate with the server.  • Provided an Authentication feature which restricts the usage based on Authentication  tokens and Authorization of a user.  • Used Activities and Fragments to develop screens and workflows for an application.  Customized toast's, buttons, dialog's, and several other widgets.    Environment: Core java, Bugzilla, Eclipse,Android studio, Agile Methodology, JSP,AQLite, CSS  3, GIT, MVC, JSON, XML, JavaScript, RESTful web services, Android SDK,Linux. Android Developer Orvito Inc August 2015 to March 2016 Location: INDIA    LINK: https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.orvito.homeintelligence.phone    Description:  Home Intelligence is developed based on open standards of WiFi Control. It is a more affordable, economical and user friendly home automation solution for controlling elec-  tronic appliances from your convenient place. The user can control your home appliances us- ing a smart phone like mobile and tablet .We created small nodes which connect wireless ac-  cess points which you already have at your home. Home Intelligence provides energy reduc- tion and provides safety through wireless cameras. The most popular platform android(Phone and tablet) has been used for controlling the home appliances user can control the Appliances  through smart phone anywhere in the world.  Responsibilities:    • Conceptualized, designed, developed and deployed mobile application on Android  platform.  • Developed patches, modules and components for newer version release of the product.  • Integrated 3rd party push notification service in mobile application.  • Integrated web-services for client/server interaction.  • Performed unit testing of the individual module.  • Implemented the network programming for wireless control.  • Implemented REST Web Service Model which includes retrieving and parsing JSON  formatted data.  • Customized push notifications implemented.  • Provided an Authentication feature which restricts the usage based on Authentication  tokens and Authorization of a user.  • Used Activities and Fragments to develop screens and workflows for an application.  Customized toast's, buttons, dialog's, and several other widgets.  • Identify and correct bottlenecks and fix bugs.  • Collaborate with a team to define, design, and ship new features.    Environment: Core java, Bugzilla, Eclipse, Agile Methodology, JSP,AQLite, CSS 3, GIT, MVC, JSON, XML, JavaScript, RESTful web services, Android SDK3.2,Linux. Android Developer Orvito Inc May 2013 to August 2015 Location: INDIA  Description:  Spindle is cloud IR based Universal Remote Control and it is a Simple controller for a wide of electronics from televisions, entertainment systems, projectors, thermostats  lights and blinds. The Spindle device will connect over Wi-Fi and communicate with a User  Interface for the Universal Remote Control is made available on the mobile and tablet. Spin- dle can be integrated with other remote devices, appliances and adds support for new re-  motes also. App will send commands in TCP to Spindle. Spindle will convert the TCP command to IR command for the specified remote control. A single application can control multiple  Spindles, making it the most flexible and expandable IR control system in the market today.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in developing new features for applications (Android) used on phones and tablets.  • Developed apps using Android SDK 3.2. Integrated front-end and back-end code by communicating with back-end development team.  • Worked on RESTful web services. Used database (MYSQL) for storing information  needed in the application. Used design pattern (MVC) for mobile application design.  • Extracted data and displayed it on the app using XML. Created a unique design that  suits both portrait and landscape modes.  • Retrieved the data from the server using JSON Object. Used Implicit and Explicit in- tents for managing activities.  • Used JSON to allow an application to communicate with the server. Implemented dif- ferent application tasks using Handlers and Threads.  • Composed unit tests for mobile code and debugged critical issues related to an appli- cation such as crashes, concurrency problems, and memory leaks.  • Controlled Bugzilla workflows and managed tasks within the Agile framework.  • Worked from start to end in the completion of a module. To display lists in an applica- tion used List Views, and populated lists.  • Used Content Providers (Android) for sending texts and emails in the app. Used Ver- sion Control System (GIT).  • Supported in developing the User Interface (UI/UX) and overall look and feel of an ap- plication.  • Used Activities and Fragments to develop screens and workflows for an application.  Customized toast's, buttons, dialog's and several other widgets.  • Performed multithreading using AsyncTask.  • Integrated 3rd party push notification service in mobile application.  • Involved in writing the application logic. Developed Restful web service to display the product details and the profile of a user.  • Improved application performance by fixing bugs. Developed top solutions by working  with the developers.    Environment: Core java, Bugzilla, Eclipse, Agile Methodology, JSP,AQLite, CSS 3, GIT, MVC, JSON, XML, JavaScript, RESTful web services, Android SDK3.2,Linux.