Appian Developer Appian <span class="hl">Developer</span> Appian Developer - Crawford & Company • Over all 5 years of professional experience in full life cycle system development involving analysis, design development, testing, documentation, implementation & maintenance of software applications in Web-based and Client/Server environment.  • Experience with various Software development Methodologies like SDLC, Object Oriented Analysis and Design (OOAD), Agile Software Development.  • Development of BPDs using PRPC BPM including process analysis, process modeling, Web services, REST services, Coaches, Coach views, Business Objects, Decisions, UCA's, Exception Handling, Ajax services and Task Routing  • Worked on the Implementation of system as an independent component to be supported/integrated with Appian based BPM applications to deliver management capabilities using AppianSAIL features such as Record Types, Record dashboards, SAIL Reports, Actions and SAIL forms.  • Experience in application development and deployment using servers such as BEA WebLogic 9.1, IBM WebSphere 6.0, Apache Tomcat 5.5, JBOSS.  • Strong understanding of database language SQL, PL/SQL Expertise in programming J2EE, (EJB, Servlets, JSP), PHP, XML/XSLT, Struts 1.0, Struts 2.0, Java Beans, Spring MVC, Hibernate 3.0, JDBC and Junit Framework, Appian 7.4, 7.5.  • Experience using Database Software Oracle 11g, Oracle 10g, DB2, Oracle 11i, MySql, Microsoft Access, Toad, SQL*Loader  • Worked on AppianBPMtool and software applications using JAVA for the development and deployment. Exposure to frameworks like Struts, Hibernate, Web Services.  • Extensive experience in Integrated Development Environment (IDE) like Eclipse, NetBeans, JDeveloper, Rational Application Development (RAD 6.0).  • Experience using source configuration management tools (SCM) such as CVS, IBM Rational clear case, Visual Source Safe(VSS)  • Knowledge of Front End Technologies: AJAX, JSP, HTML, CSS.  • Experience in working with UNIX, Linux and Windows XP, VISTA, 7, NT.  • Experience in Core Java programming with hands-on in Frameworks Spring and Struts, Java, J2EE, Servlets, JSP, JDBC, Struts, Spring, Hibernate, JavaBeans, JSF, MVC.  • Extensive experience in various types of UML diagrams including Activity diagram, Use Case diagrams, Behavior Diagrams (Sequence diagrams and Activity diagrams), and Data Flow diagrams. Work Experience Appian Developer Crawford & Company - Atlanta, GA May 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Hands on coding and development experience on Appian BPM platform.  • Define, design, and develop Appian / BPM shared components by doing a quick POC to prove the value add.  • Perform the detailed analysis of the business requirements provided, for Appian development.  • Worked on writing the new developers welcome kit and the project documentation.  • Provided the production support and resolved the issues in a timely manner.  • Had a good exposure to the agile tool JIRA in creating stories and story estimation.  • Actively participated in daily standup calls, sprint planning, and review and sprint retrospective sessions.  • Responsible for requirement gathering and understanding scope of the project.  • Actively interacted with the product owner and business analysts to obtain the requirements.  • Designed and developed the business process work flows according to business needs using Appian BPM tool.  • Acted as a bridge source between business analysts and the development team to clarify the requirements.  • Helps define and drive application standards and best practices across the Appian /BPM platform.  • Provided the Dashboards and to track the measure the impact of external innovation activities.  • Promoted and deployed the application onto different environments like Test, QA and Staging.  • Created and modified CDT's.  • Discussed the task status, pain points and action items during the daily standup scrum meeting.  • Interacted with the cross functional teams and come-up with the strategies for smooth flow of the project.  Environment: Appian17.X, 18.X, Web logic, DB2, Java, SQL, DB2, Websphere, Hibernate, weblogic, Spring MVC, Struts, Oracle 10g, MySQL, J2EE, Windows/ Linux, Unix, HP Appian Developer Bank of Tennessee - Nashville, TN November 2017 to April 2018 Responsibilities:  • Served as primary interface between development team and clients throughout all phases of analysis and development.  • Implemented procedures for gathering of requirements from clients for solution demonstrations. Development of business application- Processes, Rules and Forms.  • Executed processes for analysis, designing and development of scalable solutions to meet customer requirements.  • Participated in development of analytical and computational methods for problem solutions  • Provided technical assistance for troubleshooting and resolution of workflow system problems  • Responsible for building custom SAIL Forms.  • Implemented Task prioritization and SLA framework in process flows.  • Worked on the Implementation of system as an independent component to be supported/integrated with Appian based BPM applications to deliver management capabilities using Appian 17.1 SAIL features such as Record Types, Record dashboards, SAIL Reports, Actions and SAIL forms.  • Created Expression Rules that restricts the data entered from user end as per the Business Requirements.  • Managed end-to- end application support for all Appian applications deployed.  • Implemented procedures for gathering of requirements from clients for solution demonstrations.  • Created BPM workflows in Appian using the process modeler. Involved in the designing and implementation of all modules.  • Created views and business rules. Designed report using Report Builder. Managed client relationships. Managed projects and portfolios to ensure resource capacity, demand and off-shore utilization was optimal.  • Managed end-to- end application support for all Appian applications deployed. Used the latest versions of Appian 16.x to enhance the existing applications and upgrade.  Environment: Appian17.x, SAIL, Java, Oracle, SQL, PLSQL, Web logic, SOAP Web services, Windows, HP ALM Appian Developer CUNA Mutual Group - Madison, WI December 2016 to May 2017 Responsibilities:  • Involved in the designing & implementation of modules.  • Created process models for the work flows and worked on the record types to display multiple record views for the users to track the status of invoices and track there exceptions.  • Created interfaces using SAIL and also worked on reports.  • Involved in development of Appian sites as needed for the users.  • Exposing Appian BPM cloud data to external systems using Web API's.  • Implementing a process to start bi-weekly status for Managers.  • Designed database schemas with complex entity relationships.  • Worked on Smart services like Advance document templating and Dynamic document generator extensively.  • Involved in meetings with client for change request and also was involved in designing the plan for implementing the change requests suggested.  • Worked on implementing a Internal Scoring and reporting Application, used by both internal and external users.  • Managed end-to- end application support for all Appian applications deployed.  • Involved in pushing files from Appian cloud to Amazon S3.  • Involved in requirements gathering with stake holders.  Environment: Appian 7.x, My SQL, SAML, Appian Sites, Amazon S3, Web API's Java/J2EE Developer Wissen Technologies Madhapur - Hyderabad, Telangana March 2014 to May 2016 Responsibilities:  • Involved in development of Staffing sub-modules like Staffing Override, Interview Override, Resume Upload  • Interacted with the User Group to gather requirements  • Developed application using Netbeans IDE  • Designed the sub-modules based on the initial specifications defined by the user group  • Performed Analysis and development of Stateless Session Bean, Data Access object and Application Component for Screening and Short-listing module  • Involved in developing in all the tiers of J2EE application  • Configured JBoss Application Server and deployed the web components into the server  • Involved in debugging, testing and integration of the system  • Designed and implemented Java engine and API to perform direct calls from front-end JavaScript, AngularJS to server-side Java methods  • Worked with Spring Restful Web Services to interact with the JPA Objects created using ORM tools  • Applied J2EE design patterns such as MVC, Singleton, and Data Access Objects in the architecture  • Developing Hibernate XML Java object-to-database mapping documents  Environment: Core Java, J2EE, Servlets, EJB, JSP, JMS, Java Swing, HTML, XML, Oracle 9i, JBoss, Hibernate, Restful web service, Eclipse, Unix Education Masters in Information Technology in Information Technology University of Potomac 2018 Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:  BPM Tools: Appian BPM Suite 7.x, 16.X, 17.X, 18.X  Programming Languages: SQL, PL/SQL, C++, Java  Web Technologies: HTML, XML, SOAP, WSDL, Servlets, JSP, AJAX.  Web Servers: Tomcat, Oracle Web Logic, IBM Web Sphere, Apache Tomcat and JBoss  Operating Systems: Windows XP/7, UNIX, LINUX 8.0  App Servers: IBM Web sphere Application Server  Databases: Oracle 8i/9i/10g, PL SQL /SQL Server 7.0, 2000&2005  Development Methodologies: Agile, Scrum and waterfall