AEM Developer AEM <span class="hl">Developer</span> AEM Developer - Peakactivity, Florida Boynton Beach, FL • 4+ years of experience in IT industry in the fields of Analysis, Design, Development, Implementation and Testing of Software Applications using Java/J2EE technologies.  • Excellent experience with Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) process and Object-oriented analysis.  • Experienced in Waterfall and Agile methodologies and participated in Scrum meetings.  • Proficiency in Apache Tomcat Application Server.  • Work experience in integrating Automation scripts (Selenium WebDriver API) on Continuous Integration tools Jenkins for nightly batch run of the Script.  • Experience in working with Databases like Oracle, MySQL.  • Experience in front end technologies like HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, Bootstrap.  • Implemented Unit Testing, Debugging, System Testing using Junit.  • Ability to work flexibly and appropriate trade-offs to meet time constraints.  • Solid understanding of navigation and GUI for maximizing UI usability.  • Object Oriented programming and ability to handle complex architectural design.  • Proficient with authoring, and deployment activities in AEM.  • Exceptional written and verbal communication skills.  • Able to inspire and influence team members.  • Ability to cope in ambiguity and forge your own path in lockstep with team.  • Good communication skills, analytical skills, written and oral skills. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience AEM Developer Peakactivity, Florida November 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Gather requirements in conjunction with PO.  • Involve in estimation  • Code and implement new features or enhancements  • Participate in backlog grooming activists to point and scale stories  • Translate business goals into technical requirements, conduct code/design reviews, and drive the technical implementation of web projects throughout the project lifecycle  • Design and develop web applications using the Adobe platform, including guidance of site structure, components, templates, workflows, dialogs, object model designs ( Java APIs), and unit testing using AEM architecture (CRX, OSGI, JCR).  • Manage the technical delivery of custom development, integrations, and data migration elements of an AEM (Adobe Experience Manager) implementation.  • Create Components Using Sightly and HTML.  • Integrate AEM with other marketing products like Assets, Target, Campaign, and other internal endpoints.  • Resolve user-identified functional and technical issues relating to Adobe AEM/CQ.  Environment: AEM 6.4, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Bootstrap, JQuery, DAM, Java. AEM Developer T. Rowe - Price, MD January 2018 to October 2018 Responsibilities:  • Developed the static web pages for the "Mutual Funds" project.  • Provide hands-on, expert-level technical assistance to AEM backend developers for initiating their backend development.  • Support the definition of AEM development standards and frameworks, software architecture, design principles and ways of working.  • Deep technical expertise in web development technologies including Java Spring MVC HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, JSON, XML & web frameworks.  • Provide status updates and progress of projects to the Technology Managers, Product Owners.  • Manage the technical delivery of custom development, integrations, and data migration elements of an AEM implementation.  • We will work together in an agile, rapid development and prototyping environment.  Environment: AEM 6.x, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Bootstrap, JQuery, DAM, Java, GIT. AEM Developer Ford Motor Company - Dearborn, MI January 2017 to December 2017 Responsibilities:    • Responsible for analyzing the business user requirements and participated in meeting the users with Business Analysts.  • Create fully functional front-end applications.  • Designed detailed design diagrams based on the requirement specifications by using Rational Rose.  • Developed on Agile Methodology for the User Interface and backend Java development of the business Application.  • Developed the front-end featuring rich web interface implemented using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript toolkits.  • Experience with UML, Web application development or SaaS (Software as a Service).  • Communicate effectively with all departments in a rapidly growing SaaS company.  • Development of GUI for HTML and JSP Versions. Servlets were used as the common gateway interface between the client and server.  • Implemented Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) using JMS for sending and receiving messages while creating web services.  • Experience in using control tools like SVN, and GIT in the configuration management.  • Performed Unit Testing using JUnit.    Environment: AEM (6.x), CQ5, Java/J2EE, Struts, JSP, HTML, JavaScript, J-Query, CSS, JSON, WebLogic, SOAPUI, SVN, GIT, Eclipse. Java Developer Sonata Software - IN June 2014 to November 2015 Responsibilities:  • Involved in phases of SDLC of the project and it is including the design, Agile software development, installations, integrations and testing to complete the requirements.  • Interacted with collecting the business requirements, analyze and design the system with various UML diagrams in Rational Rose.  • Application has been developed based on Model View Controller (MVC) architecture Using Struts Framework.  • Developed JSP's, Action classes and EJBs for user transactions.  • Developed Generic Java Scripts functions for validations.  • Used HTML, JSP, JSTL tag libraries and struts tiles to develop the presentation tier.  • Used J2EE Design patterns and Data Access Object (DAO) in the integration tier layer of the project.  • Responsible for interfacing with client for review and analysis of the business requirement specification.  • XML code is used to transfer the application data between client and server. In server-side, Servlets is used to construct and parse the data in XML format and in client-side Java is used.  • Designed and developed stored procedures for data validation and access.  • Involved in coding for JUnit test cases, ANT building the application.    Environment: Agile, Java, J2EE, Hibernate, DAO, Windows, XML, Web Service, JDBC, JavaScript. Education Bachelor's