Full Stack Java Developer Full Stack <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Full Stack Java Developer - Cync Software Herndon, VA • Software Engineer with 4.5 years of experience in designing and developing user-centric, high-performance RESTful web services and web applications for clients.  • Specializes in Java, Spring, Hibernate, Spring Boot and RESTful web services.  • Experience developing RESTful Microservices using Java, Spring, Spring Boot and MongoDB.  • DevOps automation engineer with rich experience in Continuous Integration (CI) and Continuous Delivery (CD) using Git, Jenkins, AWS Lambda, Docker and ECS.  • Experience working in Agile Methodology (Sprints, Daily Scrum calls, Backlog Grooming and Demos).  • Experience with Dockerizing the Microservices and deploying in AWS Elastic Container Service (ECS).  • Experience in designing secure, highly available, scalable, cost effective and fault tolerant applications in both on-premise and cloud environments.  • Strong knowledge in industry secure coding standards, debugging, troubleshooting and technical problem-solving skills and ability to learn new technologies with minimal time.  • Proven ability in optimizing web functionality that improve data retrieval and workflow efficiencies.  • Experience in creating builds scripts using Maven.  • Independent learner with strong work ethic and communication skills. Work Experience Full Stack Java Developer Cync Software - Herndon, VA February 2019 to Present Project Description: Cync is a cloud-based loan monitoring software for Asset Based Lenders (ABL) and factoring companies. Cync automates the ABL and Factoring processes and increases the productivity of medium and large-scale banks in USA.  Environment: Java 1.8, Agile Methodology, Spring Boot, Swagger, JUnit, Mockito, Bootstrap, HTML5, CSS3, Angular 6, Maven, Apache Tomcat, SonarQube, MongoDB, Docker, Amazon ECR, Amazon ECS, Git, Jenkins.  Responsibilities:  • Worked on the implementation of a Microservice using Java, Spring-Boot, MongoDB in an Agile Environment.  • Developed responsive front-end pages using HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap and Angular 6.  • Developed reusable components, services and client-side routing using Angular and Typescript.  • Implemented REST endpoints to facilitate CRUD operations.  • Used Swagger Framework for REST API documentation.  • Performed Postman tests for RESTful service.  • Developed unit test-cases using JUnit and Mockito.  • Configured and developed Maven project object model (POM) for Unit and Integration tests.  • Wrote Docker files for containerizing different Micro Services.  • Worked on deployment automation to higher environments using Jenkins and AWS CLI.  • Participated in Code Reviews, Scrum meetings and sprint planning.  • Wrote Docker files to containerize the microservice and configured the CI/CD pipeline. UI Developer Texas A&M University - Kingsville, VA June 2018 to January 2019 Project: Student Registration Website  Project Description: The theme behind the project is a website which can be used by registered students of the university to view all available courses and register for it for the specific semester. The students can make the payment and view the registered course in their account.    Responsibilities:  • Designed user flows and wireframes using Photoshop mockups and converted comprehensive layout into working pages using JavaScript, Angular 2 and Java.    • Used Spring Hibernate in Data Access Layer to access and update information in the database.    • Used Spring Boot for quick development of the web application for APIs.    • Optimize code and graphics to ensure optimal page load time.    • Implemented RESTful web services to send the Request Parameters and get the Response parameters in JSON format.    • Developed a fully functional login and registration page with complete UI and validation with HTML5, CSS3.    • Hands-on experience in creating Angular modules, controllers, directives, and filters to deploy the entire business logic.    • Implemented various responsive form-based front-end components using Bootstrap Grid and Media Queries.    • Used Jenkins for integration and build the projects. Integrated SonarQube with Jenkins for continuous inspection of code quality.    • Used Agile as one of the prominent methodologies in the project and have a hands-on skill for it. Full Stack Developer Intern Cync Software - Herndon, VA January 2018 to May 2018 Environment: HTML5, CSS3, Angular 4, Java 1.8, Spring MVC, Spring Boot, Swagger, JUnit, Mockito, Maven, Apache Tomcat, SonarQube, Postman, MongoDB, Docker, Amazon ECR, Amazon ECS, Git, Jenkins, Agile  Responsibilities:  • Worked on front-end templates using HTML5, CSS3 and Bootstrap  • Developed components and services in Angular to fetch data from API endpoints and display on web page  • Used Postman to test the REST Endpoints  • Developed unit test-cases using Mocha  • Stored data in the form of JSON based objects in a collection using MongoDB  • Participated in Code Reviews, Scrum meetings and sprint planning Software Engineer Trill IT June 2013 to July 2016 Project 1  Project Name: HouzzExpert  Project Description: The project helps users to see the interior design services provided by HouzzExpert for home or office. The website showcases the projects completed and users can sign up for free to get estimate of a service.  Responsibilities:  • Designed and developed dynamic cross-platform websites using CSS, JavaScript, Angular 2, Java and Spring Boot.  • Experience in RESTful web services to integrate between Server side and Client Side.  • Hands on experience on CSS preprocessors such as SASS.  • Worked closely with the client to gather requirements and created the business requirement document.  • Worked in an Agile team, collaborated with other engineers and led a team.  • Worked with ECMA Script 6 features. For the build of JSX and ES2015(ES6) used Babel, webpack.  • Used Object Oriented Programming concepts to develop UI components that could be reused across the Web Application.  • Used Git for version controlling and regularly pushed the code to GitHub.    Project 2  Project Name: Venue Locus  Project Description: This project aims to help user find an appropriate place to arrange any of the important events. User can select the capacity of the hall, the price and the area of venue, user will receive the notifications regarding the most appropriate venue which suits requirements.  Responsibilities:  • Designed, documented (Swagger) and developed Micro Service using Java, Spring Boot, Spring, Hibernate, JSON, JWT and MongoDB.  • Worked closely with the client to gather requirements and created the business requirement document.  • Hands on experience on CSS preprocessors such as SASS.  • Successfully followed agile methodology in the Scrum Cycle model.  • Actively involved in Analysis, Design, Development, System Testing and User Acceptance Testing.  • Used Object Oriented Programming concepts to develop UI components that could be reused across the Web Application.  • Used Git for version controlling and regularly pushed the code to GitHub. Education Master of Science in Computer Science in Computer Science Texas A&M University - Kingsville, TX August 2016 to May 2018 Skills Eclipse, Java, Hibernate, Spring, jquery, Javascript, Angular, Nodejs Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:  • Programming Languages: Java, C, C++  • Web Technologies: HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, REST, Bootstrap, Angular 2, NodeJS, jQuery  • Java Frameworks: Spring, Hibernate, Spring Boot, Spring MVC, Spring Data JPA, Spring AOP, Junit, Mockito  • Databases: MySQL, MongoDB  • Cloud AWS: AWS ECS, AWS EC2, AWS S3, AWS Lambda, ECR  • Development Tools: Eclipse, Jenkins, Apache Tomcat, GitHub, Docker, Postman, Swagger, Jira, Confluence, SonarQube