Full Stack Developer Full Stack <span class="hl">Developer</span> Full Stack Developer - MetLife Bridgewater, NJ • Over 7 years of experience in designing and developing Java/J2EE Client and Server -side Enterprise Applications using object-oriented methodologies, enterprisetechnologies, frameworks and design patterns.  • Experience in messaging queue services like JMS, IBM MQ, Rabbit MQ, Active MQ and Apache Kafka.  • Experience in developing Apache Kafka as a distributed publish-subscribe messaging system and a robust queue that can handle a high volume of data.  • Involved in using Amazon Web Services like RDS, EC2, Redshift, SQS, SNS, Cloud Watch and S3.  • Designed and created highly scalable, highly available, fault tolerant, highly secured, distributed infrastructure (IAAS) using EC2 instances, S3, EBS, API Gateway, Elastic Bean Stalk, ECS.  • Deployed our Application on Pivotal Cloud Foundry which is used to reduce the development overhead by providing a ready to use platform.  • Good Knowledge on Docker components like Docker Engine, Hub, Machine, Compose and Docker Registry and worked on configuring Docker Tool Box and Kubernetes as deployment manager.  • Implemented the Zuul API-Gateway in the spring cloud for the dynamic routing, monitoring, resiliency and security.  • Used Spring Boot to develop and deploy both RESTful web services and MVC applications.  • Developed Micro services based on RESTful API utilizing Spring Boot with Spring MVC.  • Implemented exception handling in Java Spring boot for REST API by making use of Exception Handler and Controller Advice annotations.  • Using Swagger Framework, actualizing the RESTful API and Swagger gives the rich UI to test API.  • Implemented Business layer using Spring 4.0 (IOC, AOP), Spring MVC and persistent layer using DAO and Hibernate.  • Implemented security functionality OAuth 2.0, Spring security, SSL and site minder (SSO).  • Implemented secure authentication with LDAPOAuth2 for generating tokens in the application using Spring Security.  • Solid Experience with Java based ORM frameworks such as Hibernate, JPA, Spring Data and IBATIS.  • Implemented Hibernatefirst-level cache and Second Level Cache.  • Worked with NoSQL based ORM frameworks like Mongoose Connector and Cassandra Node Driver.  • Experienced in building applications using Maven, Gradle and ANT tools.  • Extensive hands on experience in setting up CI/CD pipelines using Jenkins, Bambooand GOCD.  • Experience in Integration tools Oracle SOA Suite/BPEL/Fusion Middleware, web-methods and Apache CAMEL.  • Involved in using Grunt as a JavaScript Task Runner which can be used as a command line tool for JavaScriptobjects. Grunt can perform repetitive tasks very easily, such as compilation, unit testing, minifying files, running tests, etc.  • Extensive experience in Front-End UI technologies like HTML4/5, XHTML, DHTML, CSS2/3(using SASS and LESS), Bootstrap, Angular JS, Angular2.0 in developing dynamic and responsive web pages.  • Good experience in Client-Side Scripting like JavaScript, ES6 to build highly interactive web pages.  • Experience in application ofclient-side JavaScript frameworks such as Backbone JS, Ember JS to create Controllers to handle events triggered by clients and send request to server.  • Developed various Typescripts (ES6) objects including Components, NgModules, Providers, Services and classes using arrow functions and optional types.  • Extensively used view rendering JavaScript frameworks like jQuery, React JS and HandleBar.JS.  • Experience in ReactJS which is JavaScript library used for building reusable UI components.  • Used ReactJS virtual DOM which is a JavaScript object. This will improve apps performance and it can be used on client and server side as well as with other frameworks.  • Implemented React JS and working with Redux and Flux architecture.  • Experience in developing MVC based Java script frameworks like Angular JS, Back Bone JS, Ember JS and KnockOut.JS.  • Experience in using MVVM frameworks and developing single page applications using Angular 2.  • Experience in developing Angular 2 advanced features such as interfaces, nested components, services, routing and modules.  • Experience in developing client-side validations using Angular 2 and in developing Custom pipes.  • Experience in designing and developing various Angular 2 Components (NgModules), Services(observable/promises), Directive and Pipes.  • Experience in using the Angular 2 Lazy Loading, to increase the performance of the application.  • Achieved the encapsulation of custom elements in Web Components using Angular ShadowDOM's.  • Developed unit test scripts using Karma and Jasmine for Angular 2 framework and Mocha for Node JS API end points.  • Experience in developing network applications using Node.js with an event-driven, Asynchronous approach and single threaded model with event loops.  • Good understanding on Server-side JavaScript structures like Node.JS with Express.JS.  • Experience in applications using SOA architecture with SOAP and used XML for messagecommunication.  • Used Express.js for development of RESTful web services and middleware configurations.  • Developed REST API services using Node JS, Express JS, Body-Parse and other node modules to serve the web application with JSON data.  • Extensively used XML documents with XSLT and CSS to translate the content into HTML to present to GUI.  • Developed SOAP services using Axis-2 and Apache CXF.  • Worked with NoSQL database Mongo DB and created pipeline from Mongo DB Cluster.  • UsedHystrix in the building fault tolerant and resilience in Distributed systems.  • Implemented Load Balancing of the servers using Eureka and Ribbon.  • Excellent experience with Relational databases like MySQL, Oracle, SQL Server, DB2 and No SQL databases likeCouch DB and Cassandra.  • Experience in writing complex SQL Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions.  • Used java SE8 features like stream, lambda expressions, functional interface and type annotations andworked with core java concepts like Multithreading, Transaction Management, and Exception Handling.  • Experience in architect, design, build and prototyping models using the design patterns like Session Facade, Service Locator, Singleton, Abstract Factory and Factory Method.  • In depth and extensive knowledge of Splunkarchitecture and various components. Expert in Splunk Development, Configuration and Administration and used Kibana to view using Elasticsearch (ELK).  • Experience in Deploying and Configuring Application & Web Servers such as Oracle WebLogic, IBM WebSphere, JBoss, Glassfish and Apache Tomcat.  • Wrote unit tests for JavaScript based Applications using Karma, Jasmine (Angular), Protractor, Mocha and Chai testing frameworks.  • Involved in writing test cases and test plans using TestNG, Spock, Mockito and JunitPower mock, HQL embedded DB to test databases.  • Proficient in creating rules using Business Rules Engines: Drools, ILOG.  • Proficient in using the WebPack to compile JavaScript modules.  • Used log4j which is a reliable, fast and flexible logging framework (APIs) written in Java, which is distributed under the Apache Software License.  • Used various version control software such as SVN, GIT, GITLAB, CVS, Big Bucket for maintaining code repositories.  • Worked on various SDLC (Software Development Life Cycle) from Waterfall to Agile (SCRUM) models. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Full Stack Developer MetLife - Bridgewater, NJ July 2018 to Present Description:  Metlife, Inc. is the holding corporation for the Metropolitan Life Insurance Company (MLIC),[2] better known as MetLife, and its affiliates. MetLife is among the largest global providers of insurance, annuities, and employee benefit programs, with 90 million customers in over 60 countries. Designed and built technical solutions for complex business problems based on MetLife standards, functioning as a top-level expert throughout the development lifecycle to ensure the ability of the code to deliver value to the business.  Responsibilities:    • Developed data transformer for converting legacy data from source tables to Avro format and fed into Kafka using Camel to process the file for multiple routes to different host locations.  • Handled consumer logs and monitor Kafka Metricsntact using Kafka Manager.  • Created AWS Lambda, EC2 instances provisioning on AWS environment and implemented security groups, administered Amazon VPC's.  • Implemented Spring Cloud-NetflixOSSStack along with NetflixZuul API Gateway with Eureka Service Registry for reverse proxy infrastructure and Hystrix Circuit Breaker for fault tolerance.  • Deployed the Dockerized Spring Boot application that is intended to be run on dev local machine using PCF (Pivotal Cloud Foundry).  • Deployed the Dockerimage of services building Docker file and build a continuous delivery pipeline for containers using AWSCode Pipeline and Amazon ECS.  • Deployed the DockerizedSpring Boot application using AWS Elastic Bean Stalk.  • Deployed docker containers on server nodes with master node using Kubernetes.  • Developed RESTFUL web services using Spring Boot and Apace CXF framework.  • Used complete annotation driven approach to develop the application using Spring Boot and was involved in setting up the Spring bean profiling.  • Worked with Spring Boot for automatic configuration and starter for Maven configuration and performed metrics and externalized configuration.  • Implemented Spring Boot to create a CRUD backend for our React-fronted application.  • Migrating existing Designed and developed RESTful web services using Spring Boot and Jersey framework.  • Extensively worked on Microservices for creating API's services with Spring Boot to modularize code and implemented Swagger for dynamic API documentation.  • Developed a Micro Service Oriented applicationwith React JS in the front end and Spring Boot services in the back end.  • Modules for the Front-end are integrated to Back-end using iBATIS framework.  • Gradle build tool is used to deploy the application on the web servers like JBoss.  • Integration of automation batch run job with Jenkins.  • Worked with Jenkins Continuous Integration and Continuous Deployment (CI/CD).  • Used Git for version control, and Jenkins for Continuous Integration and Continuous Deployment (CI/CD).  • Involved in development, design and implementation front end part of the widget-based application using HTML5, CSS3-LESS, AJAX, Bootstrap 4.0.  • For client-side view rendering services,used React JS typically used various predefined Redux libraries.  • Configured React-Redux for state management and React-Router for programmatic navigation.  • Experience in developing Node.js in a single threaded program and the same program can provide service to a much larger number of requests than traditional servers like ApacheHTTP Server.  • Implemented email and SSO integration using Node.js for backend.  • Implemented Store-Redux for holding the whole state tree of application and Reducer-Redux for describing actions.  • Used Axios AJAX request to data from back-end based on user interface input and post updated data back to backend.  • Mocha test runner and Chai test framework are used to test React JS components.  • Used Webpack module bundler and Babel java script compiler in accompanying React JS.  • Webpack module bundler and Babel java script compiler used accompanyingReact JS.  • Experience in developing and publishing RESTfulweb services using Node JS Asynchronous programming and express JS.  • Used Swagger specification for documenting REST API's which exposes description of a RESTful web services to different clients.  • Bottle micro-framework implemented with RESTful service and used WADL (Web Application Description Language) for modelling the resources provided by the services and relationships between them.  • Junit is implemented along with Mockito to perform unit testing on our RESTful web application.  • Implemented JWT (JSON Web Tokens) for creating tokens to assert claims in the application and thus providing authentication of RESTful services.  • Worked with NoSQL database Mongo DB and created pipeline from Mongo DB Cluster.  • Extensively used Git for version controlling and regularly Pushed the code to GitHub.  • Splunk is implemented in the application for log errors, exceptions, and business logic and log analytics.  • Behavioral and Integration testing is done using Cucumber and Selenium respectively.    Environment: JavaScript, React JS-Redux, HTML5, CSS3-LESS, AJAX, Bootstrap, jQuery, Spring Security, Rabbit MQ, Spring Data, Spring Batch, Quartz Scheduler, Hibernate, Spring Boot, Micro services, RESTful services, Netflix OSS, Eclipse Java EE IDE, Jenkins, Spring Cloud-Netflix, Splunk, MySQL, Docker, Apache tomcat, Jenkins, Netflix Zuul API, Ribbon, Eureka, Hystrix, JUnit, Mockito, Mocha, Chai, Selenium, Cucumber, Cassandra DB, Cassandra Node Connector, Gradle, JBoss, JIRA, JWT, WADL, Webpack, Babel. Full Stack Developer Cummins - Columbus, IN August 2017 to June 2018 Description:  Cummins is an American Fortune 500 Corporation that designs, manufactures and distributes engines, filtration and power generation products. Cummins also serves engines and related equipment, including controls, air handling, filtration, emission control, electrical power generation systems and semi trucks. The website functionality was extended by providing the retailers to login and perform online transactions like ordering engines online.  Responsibilities:  • Used Apache Kafka in cluster as messaging system between the APIs and microservices and worked on Splunk search processing language (SPL) queries, reports, dashboard and logging using Log4J.  • Created AWSLambda functions for AWS config rules using Node.js. Heavily used Lambda function on text object methods Context object properties using Node.js.  • Deployed EC2 instances provisioning on AWS environment and implemented security groups, administered Amazon VPCs.  • Worked with Netflix OSS Eureka servicein spring cloud for service registration and discovery and spring config for centralized configuration.  • Created various docker images from the docker containers and published these images in the Dockerhub repository.  • Created various Dockerimages from the Docker containers and published these images in the Docker hub repository.Deployed the Dockerized Spring Boot application using AWS Elastic Bean Stalk (EBS).  • Worked on Deployment Automation of all micro services to pull image from Private Docker registry and deploy to Kubernetes Cluster.  • Worked with various features in spring such as Spring AOP, Spring Transaction management.  • Implemented Spring Bean Factory using IOC Configured Bean properties using dependency injection.  • Migrating existing application into REST based Micro services to provide all the CRUD capabilities using Spring Boot.  • Used Spring Boot which is radically faster in building cloud Micro Services and develop Spring based application with very less configuration.  • Designed and developed RESTFUL web services using Spring Boot and Jersey framework.  • Used SpringDataJPA as the ORM framework to connect with MYSQL database.  • Utilized create-react-app to launch product to stay update with the most current Webpack and babel build configurations.  • Used Swagger specification for documenting REST API's which exposes description of a RESTFUL web services to different clients.  • Used GIT for version control and Jenkins for Continuous Integration and Continuous Deployment (CI/CD).  • Extensively used Git for version controlling and regularly pushed the code to GitHub.  • Developed Web pages from scratch using HTML5, CSS 3(using SASS) and JavaScript.  • Used Angular 2 component router for navigation. Worked with Angular 2 directives, components, pipes, and injectable.  • Programmed in Angular 2 to upload (post) files/images to the AWS S3 from the Front-end by installing NPM package of AWS-SDK.  • Created Typescript reusable components and services to consume REST API's using Component-based architecture provided by Angular 2.  • Involved in the development of services with Angular 2 injectable property, as to make the service available for dependency injection when creating components.  • Developed various single page applications (SPA) using REACT JS.  • Involved in responsive design and developed a single ISOMORPHIC responsive website that could be served to desktop, Tablets and mobile users using React.JS.  • Closely worked with Application using React.JS and Node.js libraries NPM, gulp directories to generate desired view.  • Involved in using Redux library and NPM (Node Package Manager) and used various screens for the front end using React.js.  • Used Postman tool to test the API workflow tested on the JSON files which are generated by the Node.JS with Express.JS.  • Performed Verification and validation process for the code written by making use of Jasmine and KarmaJavaScript testing framework by testing across various scenarios of the Angular 2 applications.  • Worked with the Node package manager (NPM) along with Gulp.  • Worked with SASS to build better and optimized Style sheets.  • Worked with ZUUL API Gateway for Authentication and Hystrix Circuit Breaker for fault tolerance.  • Used Node JS to run Angular 2 on server with mock JSON data and completed the UI development independent of server.  • Wrote services with Angular2 to store and retrieve user data from the Mongo DB for the application on devices with HTTP service.  • Developed application from scratch including Mongo DB server setup and Express.js server development.  • Used Mongoose API to access the Mongo DB from Node JS and used Angular CLI and NPM for scaffolding the Angular 2 application.  • Authenticating Users and to provide the security to RESTful web services using OAUTH 2.0.  • Used JIRA as the bug tracking system to track and maintain the history of bugs/issues on everyday basis.    Environment: Angular 2, HTML5, CSS 3, JavaScript, AWS S3, NPM, React JS, Redux, Gulp, Express.js, RESTful Web Services, Webpack, Babel, Jasmine, Karma, Spring Boot, Jersey, Micro Services, Rest Services, AWS, Node JS, Cassandra, GitHub, JIRA, Jenkins, Swagger, Netflix OSS Eureka, ribbon, Zuul API gateway, Hystrix circuit breaker, Docker. Java Developer Domino's Inc - Ann Arbor, MI October 2016 to July 2017 Description:  Domino's Inc. is an American pizza restaurant chain founded in 1960. The corporationis headquartered at the Domino's Farms Office Park in Ann Arbor, Michigan, United States. In Dominos e-commerce project my role is to facilitate the enhanced features to take orders through smart devices which will help Domino's Pizza customers to make orders by providing them various benefits such as Ease of access, Convenience, make order faster and saving the orders, Reduce the use of sales assistant.  Responsibilities:    • Utilized Futures and Spring Framework to make Asynchronous calls to the application.  • Developed Rest Web services using Spring MVC and migrated few services from servlets to Spring MVC.  • Responsible for using Spring MVC to develop REST web services within the application.  • Developed application on Spring framework by utilizing its features like Spring Dependency injection, Spring Beans, Spring Security, Spring JPA, Spring AOP, Spring IOC, Spring Web flow using MVC.  • Used Spring Gem Fire Cache Transactions with Springs Declarative Transaction Management and their annotations.  • Used Spring Transactions in the application and developed Session beans for the business logic at the middle tier level.  • Implemented the Spring IOC for the core business application logic and used Hibernate as persistence framework.  • Implemented Spring Batch for processing large volumes of records, including logging/tracing, transaction management, job processing statistics, job restart, skip, and resource management in the application using Quartzscheduler.  • Used Spring Batch framework to create custom readers and writers to work with the application. Used Spring Batch framework to update data in databases.  • Worked with Spring Batch to convert xml files to data base records.  • Created custom readers, processors, Validators, Field Extractors for various Spring Batch applications.  • Spring Security designed for authorization and authentication and manages the CORS and CRSF security issues.  • Designed the user interface screen and its functionality as per user requirements.  • Developed dynamic web pages using HTML, CSS,Bootstrap, jQuery and AJAX for building up a Monolithic application.  • Created responsive UI modules using Backbone JS with hard coded dependencyof Underscore JS in combination with Handlebar JS for templating.  • Used Backbone JS to utilize its minimal set of data-structuring (models and collections) and user interface (views and URLs) primitives for building aMVC work flow design.  • Performed a lot of DOM manipulations using native JS and jQuery for loading and manipulating dynamic content on webpages.  • Used jQuery in developing the Rich Internet Applications (RIA) with AJAX mechanism and JSON as a data exchange tool.  • Created Mock-up designs and developed various functionalities with JavaScript and jQuery.  • Used Log4J to capture the log that includes runtime exceptions.  • Designed new queries in app to enhance MySQL database performance.  • Developed stored procedures, triggers in MySQL for lowering traffic between servers & clients.    Environment: HTML, CSS, jQuery, Bootstrap, Less, CSS, Ajax, jQuery, JSON, Spring MVC, Spring Gem Fire, Spring Batch Framework, Spring Security, Drools Engine, MYSQL. Java Developer Faujnet Solutions Private Limited - Hyderabad, Telangana May 2013 to May 2013 India.  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  Description:  Faujnet is the leading career management firm for ex-military professionals. We run the largest career membership site integrating the Global Industry and the military community. I am responsible for the design, development and management of Java based applications and collaborate with web developers and software engineers to integrate java into business applications, software and websites.  Responsibilities:    • Worked on Struts framework and production support issues of the existing applications.  • Development of Action Forms, Action Servlets, Action and Validating Action Forms in Struts framework.  • Used Strut and spring frame works to design and develop applications. Implemented the project using Singleton, Factory Design Patterns.  • The Strut Validator frame works are used for server-side and client-side validations.  • Involved in developing the business components and responsible for developing the user interfaces using JSPs.  • Used the Strut Tiles framework for developing User Interface.  • Developed JSP's with Struts custom tags and implemented JavaScript validation of data.  • Primarily focused on the spring components such as action Servlets, actions, Model and View Objects, View Resolver.  • Used JavaScript for the web page validation and Struts Validator for server-side validation.  • Wrote the high performance multi-threaded Java code using singleton, mediator, visitor, facade, observer, template, factory, publish and subscribe design pattern.  • Involved in the extensive coding of JavaScript to handle the client-side validations.  • Coded JDBC calls in the Servlets to access the SQL Server database tables.  • Used SQL and PL/SQL queries to perform database operations on Web Sphere.  • Developed action classes and action form classes, created JSP's using Strut Tag libraries and configured in config.xml, web.xml.  • For encapsulating the dynamic functionality TLD (Tag Library Descriptor) and used JSTL tags for populating data on to JSPs. The Strut framework is implemented to enable JDBC Connection for data access.    Environment: Java (v6), JavaScript (v1.8), JSP, spring, Struts (2.x), EJB, SQL, PL/SQL, JDBC, Eclipse, Web Sphere (v 7.0). Associate Software Engineer Intergraph - Hyderabad, Telangana January 2012 to April 2013 India.  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~    Description:  Intergraph Corporation is an American software development and services company. It provides enterprise engineering and geospatially powered software to businesses, governments, and organizations around the world. My role is to contribute to the entire development life cycles, write well designed testable and efficient code. I should ensure that designs in compliance to the specifications.    Responsibilities:  • Developed applications using JAVA SpringFramework, Spring MVC and Spring Core.  • Developed stored procedures and triggers using PL/SQL on SpringJDBC template to access and maintain the application database.  • Used Maven build tool to maintain Project dependencies.  • Involved in requirement and impact analysis, designing the enhancements across the various modules and development using Java/J2EE components like JSP, Servlets and JDBC.  • Used different CoreJava concepts such as Multi-Threading, ExceptionHandling, Collection APIs to implement various features and enhancements.  • Implemented Business logic in the middle-tier using Java classes, Java beans.  • Used JIRA for bug tracking. Experience in working with version control system GIT. Used Maven build tool to maintain Project dependencies.  • Developed the presentation layer using Struts Framework, JSP, Servlets, JavaScript, jQuery and AJAX.  • JSP&JavaScript are used to create the front-end development. The UserInterface (UI) components are implemented using HTML, CSS.  • Designed and implemented RESTfulwebAPIs. Compiled the project modules on Maven and deployed them using ANTscript.  • Actively involved in client meetings and requirement gathering sessions to evaluate and analyse the IT business requirement standards.  • Worked with team members and business analysts in project planning sessions to create the working model.  • Implemented Junit and Java SIM test cases to test the application functionality and to ensure code coverage.  • Used Agile and Scrummethodologies to improve the efficiency of the applications.    Environment: Java, J2EE, JSP, Multi-threading, Eclipse, Struts2, XML, XSLT, XPATH, Design Patterns, IBM DB2, WebSphere Server, web services (Soap and Rest), UML, HTML, CSS. Education Bachelor's Skills Git (3 years), java (3 years), java script (4 years), Jira (3 years), Rest (4 years), Angular, Javascript, Node, React