Pega Consultant Pega Consultant Pega Consultant • 5+ years of IT experience which includes Analysis, Design and Development of Web based applications using Java/J2EE and Pega Systems (PRPC) technologies.  • Proficient in Pega Implementation cycle. The Implementation cycle includes modeling of business process, PRPC tool installation, development, testing, and deployment.  • Created various reports using List View and Summary View and Report Definition rules according to requirements.  • Experienced in developing Process Flows and Rule based Business Process Management applications on Pega Rules Process Commander (PRPC).  • Implementing user interfaces using Sections, Harness, and HTML Property Rules.  • Proficient with the Web Scripting languages CSS, JavaScript and HTML.  • Strong knowledge and experience in working with all the PRPC rules for developing Web Services with SOAP & Rest.  • Proficient with the J2EE like Hibernate, Servlets, and Java Server Pages.  • Proficient with the Servers like Web Logic and Apache Tomcat.  • Proficient with the Eclipse Integrated Development Environment.  • Proficient with the Struts, spring and Hibernate Frame Works.  • Proficient with the Web Scripting languages CSS, JavaScript and HTML.  • Proficient with the Java, JDBC, Servlets and JSPs.  • Proficient with the skirting languages like Unix and Linux.  • Expert in developing on Activities, Agents, Decision Rules, Flows, Integration and Reporting.  • Strong knowledge in implementing various PRPC components like Decision tables, Decision Trees, Decision Maps, Declarative expressions, Decision When.  • Proficient in Pega implementation cycle that includes PRPC development, testing, bug-fixing, and troubleshooting.  • Experience in both Agile Scrum & Waterfall Models.  • Proficient with the XML, JSON.  • Good at understanding business needs and customer requirements for developing applications with a focused approach.  • Good team player with strong work ethics, desire and ability to quickly learn new technologies and work in fast ever-changing environment.  • Good working knowledge in designing Use Cases, Sequence Diagrams, Class Diagrams using Visio.  • Good at understanding business needs and customer requirements for developing applications with a focused approach.  • Good team player with strong work ethics, desire and ability to quickly learn new technologies and work in fast ever-changing environment.  • Have always received good internal rating.  • Worked in client location in Paris and Netherlands.  • Got Promoted in FAST TRACK & Rewarded with " Developer of the Month" for addressing complex functionality and ensuring robust implementation.  • Rewarded with "Star of the Month" for my Out Standing performance, high productivity.  • Understanding the problems faced by team members and giving the best possible solutions.    • Strong knowledge in Core java, J2EE, Java Script, and Pega PRPC Work Experience Pega Consultant Capgemini February 2018 to December 2018 Project Description:  Multination program is an integrated and centralized application to design, Underwrite and execute multinational insurance programs. This system allows controlled master program creation, rating, pricing, quoting, binding, issuing and policy servicing.    Responsibilities:  • Conduct systems/requirement analysis in conjunction with Project Manager and Architect  • Conduct component level work estimation and assists in project plan development, execution and change control.  • Conduct component level systems design and development.  • Extensive experience in Creating Classes, Rule Sets, Access group, Flows, Harness and Section. Well versed on Creating Activities, Decision Rules like Decision Tree, and Decision Table, Decision Map and Declarative rules like Constraints, Expressions & on Trigger  • Except to develop prototypes and frameworks to contribute to overall technical solution.  • Conduct unit and integration testing, including development of test models.  • Assist with project estimation, reviews and configuration management.  • Provide testing of software before delivery to QA.  • Experience creating rules for Validation, Integration rules like Rule-RDB-SQL using methods like RDB save, RDB Open, RDB list.  • Conducted Business Review sessions to go over Business logic and UI Screens after development is completed for each requirement.  • Developed business flows, User Interface and identifying Work and Data properties  • Extensively utilized PEGA case management features, which include covers, folders.  • Followed PEGA Best practices and Guardrails during all phases of the application development.  • Resolved and closed the production tickets due to failure.    Environment: PRPC 7, Know You Customer 6.2.3, Java, Oracle Web Logic, SOAP, JMS, XML, Quality Center, PUTTY, WINSCP, Oracle Database 11g. Pega Consultant Capgemini January 2016 to January 2018 Project Description:  Discover is a financial services company that owns and operates Discover Bank. Discover exceptions processing system uses Pega PRPC tool to automate the disputes processing system by using a state of the art technology built by using PEGA Business Process Management tool (BPMS). BPMS is an automated process where it minimizes the human intervention and solves the disputes by using PEGA rule-based technology.    Roles and Responsibilities:  • Used BPMS Pega app for accelerating delivery of solutions for Credit and Debit cards.  • Working with the Business Users and Client in gathering requirements  • Prepared High-Level design approach docs for the use-cases.  • Experience in High Level Class structure, Workflows while following company standards and guidelines.  • Identified PRPC applications groups and identified the reusable components  • Designed and developed Workflows using MS Visio in PRPC.  • Defined activity steps and created methods in PRPC for the implementation of the Business logic.  • Developed Decision rules, Declarative rules and flow diagrams.  • Designed and developed SLA's according to the business requirements  • Unit testing of Developed Applications and solved tickets in ITF and MTF and Production environments.  • Mentored the teams that are working off shore by providing business insight and resolved functional and technical queries raised by the team.  • Supported Production defects and offered solutions to resolve it and given feedback to development team about the fix made and how to avoid such issues.    Environment: Pega PRPC 7.2, java, SQL, HTML, XML, and Oracle 10g, IBM Web sphere, Windows 7, MS Visio. Java Consultant Capgemini March 2015 to December 2015 Project Description:  File Hub: File Hub related to the files that TIAA receives from institutions for remittance center updates and on boarding of new institutions. The intent is to create a single process for receiving a file, validating IGO/NIGO, validating business rules specific to the institution/plan configuration, and sends the required data to downstream applications in the required format. The File Hub will provide end-to-end visibility of the status of file processing and transaction creation. It will also improve our ability to validate files consistently, identify errors, and work with the institutions more efficiently to remediate data issues.    Responsibilities:  • Requirement Analysis and Design.  • Developing JSP Pages and the views and controlled files using the Spring Web MVC Framework.  • Extensively worked with Java Collections classes like List,HashMap,set.  • Integrating the view Module with Oracle database using Hibernate.  • Developed various Java Beans components for Implementing business logic.  • Used Agile Development methodology for software development.  • Design JSON responses according to the request, send it back to the front end after logic processing.  • Managed Associations such as one-to many, many-to-one.  • Troubleshooting the problems and fixes the bugs in XSLT and java related programs.  • Unit testing using JUnit.  • Using JavaScript for Validations.  • Integrated, Build and testing Using Jenkins.  • Develop the code as per the new requirement documents.  • Responsible for creating ,reading, updating and deleting tables in the database as per requirements.  • Written Unit test cases based the code development.  • Involving in client calls like status calls, sprint-planning calls, retrospective calls, estimation session calls.  Environment: Core Java/J2ee, Agile, Web Services, Spring, HTML, Coherence, JSP, XML, Eclipse IDE, Multithreading, MQ, Java Script, Web Sphere, Unix, Oracle, Apache Tomcat.    April -2013 - January 2014 Java & UI Consultant(Front End Developer & Java Developer) Capgemini June 2014 to March 2015 Project Description:  The Barclays Banking application is created in order to provide an integral view on Barclays customers and their products. This application is operated by Barclays employees. Banking project is to create an application that will provide a customer view of private and business customers of Barclays. The application will be used by the back office of CD&CA and the Sales Forces. Personal Banking, Private Banking, MKB (medium and small business), Business Banking and Insurance.    Responsibilities:  • Created UI screen using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, AngularJS and JSP ,Understand the Technical Specification given by Client.  • Developing the tasks as per the requirements.  • Created Mock-up designs and developed Various functionalities with JavaScript and JQuery.  • Created CSS templates for use in all pages on the website working with CSS Background , Positioning, text, border, margin, padding, tables.  • Worked on Spring MVC UI Controller and JSP to integrate different modules of the application using Java, JQuery, html5,css3.  • Extensively worked on setting up the front end UI architecture for the portals.  • Tested the integration of the various application using SoapUI.  • Handing all aspects of the web application including maintaining ,testing, debugging, deploying.  • Worked on java classes and Interfaces as well.  • Involving in client calls like status calls, sprint-planning calls, retrospective calls, estimation session calls.  • Deploy the war file in the TC server for different regions like development, testing and production.  • Developing and Testing the Use case documents.  • Writing and Executing the Unit Test Cases.  • Solving the issues in development, testing and production regions.  • Develop the project from Scratch.  Environment: Java, Java Script, Angular JS, HTML5, CSS3, XML, Spring batch, J2EE Spring MVC, SPLUNK, Oracle Coherence, Apache Server, Eclipse, Agile , Mockups ,JSON ,AJAX Java & Pega Developer Capgemini January 2014 to June 2014 Project Description:  AIG Insurance has embarked on a Claim Transformation Initiative. This initiative intends to establish a Global Claims Platform which can be continuously enhanced to handle new Lines of Business and Geographies in turn resulting in consistent claim handling across all lines of businesses and geographies, improved customer experience and improved operational efficiency. One Claim offers a consolidated global approach to claims-entry, with an aim to improve performance around the speed and cost at which claims are processed to maximize the customer experience and improve overall service offered to our clients. Although initially for only UK Auto, in a phased approach OneClaim will be rolled out to cover all lines of business and all AIG operational units around the globe. OneClaim® positions AIG for efficient growth by providing a flexible end-to-end solution on a single global platform.  The solution effectively manages the claim lifecycle from intake to adjudication to client reporting for multiple countries, lines-of-business and AIG products in a consistent manner  The solution provides Common Architecture, Processes and Data Model which enables timely data capture for measurement and reporting  Standardized coexistence implementation - enables incremental rollout and seamless integration with in-country and AIG strategic applications  The system is capable of supporting 24 X 7 "follow-the-sun" model facilitating both In-country Claim Centers and Regional Claim Centers  Future deployment to additional countries will be faster and at a lower cost  AIG Commercial Insurance has embarked on a Claim Transformation Initiative. This initiative intends to establish a Global Claims Platform which can be continuously enhanced to handle new Lines of Business and Geographies in turn resulting in consistent claim handling across all lines of businesses and geographies, improved customer experience and improved operational efficiency.  Roles and Responsibilities:  • Understand and analyze the requirements.  • Developing Code following Guardrails and handling all the exceptional cases using pre-condition and transition.  • Arrange daily status calls to keep Onsite, Offshore Team and client partner Team on the same page.  • Class - Database table mapping.  • Tracing application logs for debugging.  • Design, development, testing, deployment and maintenance    Environment: PRPC 7.2, DB2, Java, Web sphere, HTML, XML, Windows. Education Master of Computer Applications in Computer Applications Chaitanya Bharathi Institute of Technology - Hyderabad, Telangana Bachelor of Computer Science in Computer Science Krishna Chaitanya Educational Institute Skills HTML, SCRIPTING, XML, J2EE, JAVA