Pixelverse, US- Founder, Project Manager, Solo Developer Pixelverse, US- Founder, Project Manager, Solo <span class="hl">Developer</span> Pixelverse, US- Founder, Project Manager, Solo Developer - HQGAMING STUDIO, LLC Los Angeles, CA I've programmed/built hundreds of computer software applications and utilities in several computer  languages since middle school. I have a notable amount of experience in working with GIT version source  control, building deployment tools such as Apache Maven or Gradle, multiple Object-Oriented  programming languages, multithreading/concurrency based programming, the Bukkit/Spigot API and much  more below. I started my personal company back in 2014 called APOLLOSOFTWARE, LLC. I used that  company as a platform to offer software development services; I've been running it ever since. Most of the  basis of what I learned, I essentially taught myself through trial and error and experiencing different work  environments from games to general application to web applications. I do not lack experience on the  hardware side as well. I assemble computers from scratch, normal desktops, high end gaming systems and  servers. I work very hard on everything I set my mind to. Efficiency and performance is very important to  me. I always find a way to execute a certain task that would require the least amount of resources but not  compromising on quality. I'm also a very focused person because getting the job done right is a must for me. I  care about the details and never overlook them. I've found that to be the key to my success. Work Experience Pixelverse, US- Founder, Project Manager, Solo Developer HQGAMING STUDIO, LLC January 2018 to Present Java)  www.pixelverse.net    ? Single-handedly programmed entire game (95.000+ SLOC)  ? Constructed and managed entire development team.  ? A Super-Advanced Pokemon RPG Server comprised of a fully comprehensive battle system, quest  system, particle animations, ai technology.  ? Communicated directly with the community gathering feedback on what server mechanics should  be added and tweaked.  ? No client mods required. Accomplished by only using server side modding, Senior Developer ( Java) Wynncraft June 2017 to January 2018 www.wynncraft.com    ? Worked on alongside a small team.  ? Completed solo task of refactoring and optimization entire codebase from scratch.  ? Still played by thousands everyday with no major issues.  ? Reported the status of my current assignment to a superior on a consistent basis. Solo Senior Developer ( Java) SethBling / Minecade February 2016 to June 2017 www.minecade.com    ? Collaborated with SethBling to create Mini-Games.  ? Worked on popular mini-games like SuperBrawlBuilder, MinecraftMaker.  ? Communicated regularly with SethBling to complete project that exceeded his expectations and fulfilled all requirements.  ? Played by several superstar youtubers: https://goo.gl/HLdp7E  ? Completed tasks in a timely manner, with minimal issues.  ? Patched any issues that arose during the testing of projects. DungeonRealms, US- Senior Developer ( Java) Keeling Systems, LLC February 2016 to June 2017 www.dungeonrealms.com    ? Worked alongside a team of talented developers from the Pixelmon Mod team.  ? Completed tasks in a timely manner, with minimal issues.  ? Repaired exploits and bugs in existing codebases/plugins.  ? Reported the status of my current assignment to a superior on a consistent basis.  ? Implemented entire networking framework, realm system, guilds and general mechanics.  ? Converted entire codebase to a modular system. Senior Developer ( Java) Infinicraft March 2015 to March 2015 www.infinicraft.com    ? Mainly a testing/experimental project.  ? Implemented mini-game lobby sign networking system.  ? Implemented two battle royale games. One consisted of custom weapons, machine guns, grenades, flamethrowers, RPG and mini-guns.  ? Implemented gun mechanic and projectiles with physics.  ? Successfully completed project at required date.  ? Repaired exploits and bugs in existing codebases/plugins. HQGAMING- Founder, Community Manager, Developer January 2013 to January 2013 Java)    ? My own Minecraft server that I created alongside a longtime friend.  ? Successfully achieved a 200 concurrent player count with smart marketing tactics.  ? Managed a large community and staff team of 25 members.  ? Consistently implemented innovative features that set server apart from others.  ? Created popular plugin called GymManagement which allowed Pixelmon server owners to properly  manage their player operated gyms. Skills Eclipse, Java, jquery, Load balancing, Api, Git, Gradle, Html, Javascript, Json, Xml, Database, Sql, Apache, Unix, Unix shell, Lua, Scala, Ant, Maven Links http://www.apollosoftware.io https://github.com/apollosoftware http://@io_apollo