AngularJS/UI/ Java Developer/Lead AngularJS/UI/<span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span>/Lead AngularJS/UI/ Java Developer/Lead San Luis Obispo, CA • A dynamic professional with almost 5 years of experience as a Java and UI Developer with insurance and cloud clients.  • Currently associated with HIH Inc. since May, 2019 and seeking for Contractual (Corp to Corp) position.  • IT experience in software development life cycle including User Interaction, Business Analysis, Design, Application Development, Implementation, Documentation, Testing and Deployment of enterprise applications in the domain of insurance and cloud (Agile methodologies).  • Extensively worked in Core Java (collection framework, Exception Handling and I/O Streams).  • Good working knowledge on the J2EE Design Patterns like MVC, Data Access Object, Data Transfer Object / Value Object.  • Experience in developing RESTFUL Web Services.  • In-depth knowledge of software design and software development life cycles using Core Java, JavaScript , J2EE, HTML5, CSS, AngularJS1 and ReactJS.  • Strong software developing expertise including Enterprise Architecture designing/modeling.  • Experienced in working on Agile methodology, Sprint planning, blueprint creation, Estimations, development, execution, reviews, testing and retrospective is done by an individual for the allocated responsibility under the supervision of Scrum Master.  • Played a vital role as a developer/lead involved in analysis, design, coding and testing of application.  • Used Maven scripts to compile the Java files and to build the jars and wars.  • Monitored the error logs using Log4j and fixed the problems.  • Very good experience in Web, OOPS and Client/Server environments.  • Experienced in working with geographically distributed large development teams.  • An experienced team player with excellent communication and interpersonal skills who has the ability to work independently under pressure can lead, motivate and influence others and can train and mentor subordinates. Work Experience AngularJS/UI/ Java Developer/Lead IBM April 2016 to October 2017 US (Cloud Sales and SA team) (Apr 2016 - Oct 2017)  Team Size: 10  Role: AngularJS/UI/ Java Developer/Lead    Description: PCM A development project which is meant for Analytics. IBM Sales team (Pricer) used to have a MS excel based tool for comparison of different deals. They use this data for different analytics for future ventures. We are replacing the legacy tool with an automated and most predictive analytics interface. As part of the Phase-1 development, currently we are working on exporting the MS Excel based data into DB2.    Responsibilities:  ? User story requirements and analysis to meet the stakeholder's requirements.  ? Actively participated in retrospective and presenting demo of the work done per sprint.  ? Sprint Planning: Discussing the current scope with client and raising the clarifications.  ? User Story Estimations: Estimating User stories and assigning points based on complexity along with Scrum Master.  ? Tasking out: Along with fellow developers creating tasks based on estimations.  ? Worked on a layered architecture for this module and performed end to end implementation and integration of the module.  ? Created various service classes, process and integrated to the backend system to retrieve date from DB or Excels.  ? Service layer and backend development for the module.  ? Developed independent modules to convert XLS and XML files to CSV.  ? Implemented PDF for this module.  ? Rewrite existing code and add new code on top of pre-existing code.  ? Peer Reviews and Sprint Reviews to meet coding standards.  ? Defect fixing to deliver high quality software.  ? Mentoring and assigning tasks to team members.  ? Created Sequence and Class diagrams using Enterprise Architecture tools.  ? Developed the application using Agile Methodology.    Technologies and tools: Java Spring, Hibernate, DB2, Automated testing. India as Application Development Specialist IBM July 2015 to October 2017 AngularJS/UI/ Java Developer IBM July 2015 to April 2016 US (Cloud Sales and SA team)  Project Title: IBM Cloud Enablement Tool (ICET) (Jul 2015 - APR 2016 & Feb 2017 - Oct 2017)  Team Size: 10  Role: AngularJS/UI/ Java Developer    Description ICET is a web-based application, which helps configure and solution the Cloud and infrastructure offerings (Bluebox, CMS, ICSS, AMM Core and AMM Migration). The output from ICET are excel spread sheets which can be used as an input for SDM (costing and pricing) tools. The application has a desktop version as well.  Responsibilities:  ? User story requirements and analysis to meet the stakeholder's requirements.  ? Actively participated in retrospective and presenting demo of the work done per sprint.  ? Sprint Planning: Discussing the current scope with client and raising the clarifications.  ? User Story Estimations: Estimating User stories and assigning points based on complexity along with Scrum Master.  ? Tasking out: Along with fellow developers creating tasks based on estimations.  ? Worked on a layered architecture for this module and performed end to end implementation and integration of the module.  ? Created various service classes, process and integrated to the backend system to retrieve date from host.  ? Designed Angular based MVC to manage front end.  ? Frontend and backend development for the module.  ? Developed Controller class and defined spring configuration mappings and hibernate mappings.  ? Developed new Interface to assist architect to edit or create new solution requirement for the clients.  ? Implemented export and import of excel for this module.  ? Designed and developed RESTful service interface.  ? Solved problems using a combination of JavaScript, JSON, and JQUERY.  ? Reverse engineered the existing dhtmlx grid and redesigned the grid using SlickGrid.  ? Peer Reviews and Sprint Reviews to meet coding standards.  ? Defect fixing to deliver high quality software.  ? Mentoring and assigning tasks to team members.  ? Created Sequence and Class diagrams using Enterprise Architecture tools.  ? Developed the application using Agile Methodology.    Technologies and tools: AngularJS 1, ReactJS, Java Spring, Slick Grid, Maven, POI (for excel reports), DB2, WAS 8.5, Tomcat (local), JavaScript, HTML5, CSS3, Automated testing. UI/ Java Developer Tata Consultancy Services May 2014 to July 2015 Description:  ? Maintain running totals of profit/loss arising from unit movement transactions  ? A number of reports can be specified, run, and displayed in a user-friendly format with the option to print;  ? Fund values are balanced at least once a day to consider any new unit movements and the latest unit prices;  ? Extract files are taken from the BMS database on a daily and monthly basis and copied to a Core Reporting Database to be used for additional reporting    Responsibilities:  ? Evaluated existing portal application and estimated time to fix defects to increase customer satisfaction.  ? Production support including analyzing and fixing defects  ? Involved in the complete software development life cycle - Requirements gathering, Analysis, Detail design, Development and implementation of the system.  ? Involved in design flow and scheduled the work to other Developers.  ? Developed client request validations and processed using JavaScript.  ? Implemented advanced java API and core java for coding sophisticated business logic.  ? Analyzed and added new features for customization of product.  ? Generation of 5 different reports in excel as well as .csv format, both through UI and Batch on daily weekly and monthly basis.  ? Optimized the time taken for these reports to download from 4 hours to minimum of 15 minutes.  ? Keep track of modification screen updates in the housekeeping logs displayed on screen.  ? Provide a robust, secure and scalable E-business platform to Business users.  ? Used JavaScript library for the UI Development.  ? Frontend and backend development for the module.  ? Monitored the error logs using Log4J and fixed the problems.  ? Defect fixing to deliver high quality software.  ? Created Sequence and class diagrams using Enterprise Architecture tools.  ? Mentoring and assigning tasks to team members.  ? Developed the application using Waterfall Methodology.    Technologies and tools: Java, J2EE, HTML, JavaScript, JSP, Servlet, Oracle, Waterfall Model    Client: - Confidential Assistant System Engineer Tata Consultancy Services March 2013 to July 2015 Client: - Confidential Java J2EE UI Developer Tata Consultancy Services November 2013 to March 2014 Description: A primitive online Associate Management System, where the employee's track records are all created and monitored whenever there is a change in the movement of the resources across teams in the organization. System to manage Associate allocation cycle, Asset management, Associate personal details, desk/system details, Supervisor details and Associate delegation.    Responsibilities:  ? Involved in analysis, design, development and implementation of this application.  ? Developed User Interface using HTML, JSP.  ? Worked on a layered architecture for this module and worked on end to end implementation and integration of the module.  ? Created various service classes, process and integrated to the backend system.  ? Validated the data using JavaScript.  ? Developed Servlets for retrieving/updating the data from tables in the database.  ? Worked on Exception handling for this module.  ? Monitored the error logs using Log4J and fixed the problems.  ? Designed and created the database tables to conform third normalization form.  ? Wrote PL/SQL stored procedures and triggers.  ? Frontend and backend development for the module.  ? Trained the users on using the software.  ? Phase I - Built and implemented the tool for Customer Management System.  ? Phase II - Built and implemented Asset Management Structure.  ? Defect fixing to deliver high quality software.  ? Creating test cases cover all the required scenarios and to verify developer code.  ? Mentoring and assigning tasks to team members.  ? Developed the application using Waterfall Methodology.    Technologies and tools: Java, JSP, Servlet, SQL, JSP, HTML, JavaScript, CSS, WAS    Client: - Confidential JAVA UI J2EE Developer Tata Consultancy Services March 2013 to June 2013 Description: An Application to ease the work of Super Administrator using JAVA/J2EE platform for managing the process of manufacturing Sim cards by Manufacturers according to the order placed by Service Provider.    Responsibilities:  ? Involved in analysis, design, development and implementation of this application.  ? Developed User Interface using HTML, JSP.  ? Worked on a layered architecture for this module and worked on end to end implementation and integration of the module.  ? Created various service classes, process and integrated to the backend system.  ? Validated the data using JavaScript.  ? Developed Servlets for retrieving/updating the data from tables in the database.  ? Worked on Exception handling for this module.  ? Monitored the error logs using Log4J and fixed the problems.  ? Designed and created the database tables to conform third normalization form.  ? Wrote PL/SQL stored procedures and triggers.  ? Frontend and backend development for the module.  ? Worked only on the phase II of the application which dealt with assigning service provider to the manufacturer's and administrators controlling the assignment.  ? Trained the users on using the software.  ? Defect fixing to deliver high quality software.  ? Creating test cases cover all the required scenarios and to verify developer code.  ? Mentoring and assigning tasks to team members.  ? Developed the application using Waterfall Methodology.    Technologies and tools: JAVA, J2EE, JSP, Servlet, SQL, JSP, HTML, JavaScript, CSS. Education Bachelor's in Computer Science & Engineering in Computer Science & Engineering Visvesvaraya Technological University July 2012 Senior Secondary School March 2008 Higher Secondary School March 2006 CBSE Army Public School - Bengaluru, Karnataka CBSE Army Public School - Bengaluru, Karnataka Skills UI, React, Javascript Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/pooja-bhadauriya Additional Information Technical Skills:    Programming Language Core JAVA, J2EE, JDBC, JSP, Servlets, Spring MVC, REST Web Services, Springboot  Web Technologies JavaScript, JQuery, XML, SlickGrid, AngularJS 1, JSON, HTML, HTML5, ReactJS  Web/App Servers Apache Tomcat6, WAS (WebSphere 8.5)  Development Tool Eclipse 3.2, Eclipse, RSA, RAD, RTC, Maven, Slack  Processes Agile (Scrum) practices, Waterfall  Database MySql, SQL Server 2000, Oracle