Java Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Developer - Humana • 5+ years of professional experience in Java/J2EE Applications with Node.js and complete life cycle of system  development in verious domains.  • Good experience in all phases of SDLC including design, development, testing, implementation and support using  Python and Java technologies.  • Expert in end - to-end software development in agile environment including requirement, analysis, architecture,  design, coding, testing, deployment and support.  • Expertise in Application Design & Architecture using Core Java, J2EE, Hibernate, Swing, Struts, Spring, Spring  Security, JSP, Servlets, Filters, JMS, JDBC, JNDI, JMS, EJBs, Web Services, AJAX, Java Script, HTML, Oracle,  Sybase, ANT, Maven, log4j.  • Experienced in the MVC Architecture using Struts & Spring Frameworks. JMS, JNDI and Hibernate.  • Extensive expertise in Spring ecosystem (Spring Boot, Spring Cloud, Spring Integration, Spring Cloud Data Flow  etc).  • Worked on GUI development using HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, JavaScript, jQuery, JSON, AJAX, JSP, JSP Tag  libraries, Servlets, JNDI, XML, and XSLT.  • Using Node Package Manager (NPM) to install the necessaries packages from my application using Node.js.  • Experience in Web Services Technologies like SOAP, WSDL, UDDI, JMS, Restful and Service Oriented  Architecture (SOA).  • Good experience in developing applications using various IDE's and text-Editors like Notepad++, Eclipse,  NetBeans, Visual Studio and Sublime Text.  • Experience with amazon web services (AWS) and amazon cloud technologies such as Amazon EC2 (virtual  servers), Amazon Dynamo DB, Amazon Simple DB, AWS Cloud Watch(monitoring), AWS Cloud Formation  (infrastructure templates), Amazon Cloud Search, Amazon SQS (message queue).  • Experience in developing Stored Procedures, Functions and Triggers using Oracle, MySQL, PostgreSQL and SQL  Server.  • Expertise converting highly coupled environments to developer and tester friendly environments using API's like  Docker.  • Knowledge in working with continuous deployment using Heroku and Jenkins.  • Created Javadoc for all the source code of the entire project, test Cases for JUnit Testing and Strong analytical,  debugging skills with experience in fixing ad hoc production issues.  • Excellent analytical and critical thinking, creative problem solving, quick learning, interpersonal skills. Work Experience Java Developer Humana - San Jose, CA January 2019 to Present Responsibilities:  • Design and development of Business Functionalities using J2EE Technologies in Agile/Scrum Execution.  • Designed and developed all UI Screens using Java Server Pages (JSP), Static Content, HTML5, CSS3 and JavaScript.  • Worked on server-side web applications using Node.js and involved in Construction of UI using jQuery, Bootstrap and JavaScript.  • Using node-MySQL a pure node.js, JavaScript client implementing the MySQL protocol and using a JavaScript  ORM for Node.js Bookshelf.  • Analysing SSIS System which was developed with IBM Mainframe and converting to Java/J2EE, RAD IBM, RSA  IBM with Spring RS, Oracle, Hibernate and PostgreSQL.  • Used Java Mailing or Messaging Service (JMS) API's for mailing detailed notifications depending upon the success and failure once the backend process is complete and also for mailing administrator of any system  related problems.  • Involved in designing, developing and testing of J2EE components like Java Beans, Java, XML, Collection  Framework, JSP, Spring and Hibernate.  • Used Spring/MVC framework to enable the interactions between JSP/View layer and implemented different  design patterns with J2EE, XML technology and involved in handling transactions using Spring Declarative  Transaction Management.  • Implemented PL/SQL queries, used Oracle stored procedures, and built-in functions to retrieve and update  data from the databases.  • Used cloud computing technologies Amazon EC2 and Amazon S3 web services for Cloud Drive, Cloud Search  and migrated corporate Linux servers from physical servers to AWS virtual servers.  • Used Node.js as a proxy to interact with Web services and also interacting with Database and Node.js  • is also used to handle multiple concurrent connections with minimal overhead on a single process.  • Used complete annotation driven approach to develop the application using Spring Boot and was involved in setting up the spring bean profiling.  • Developed the application using RAD as the IDE and used its features for editing, debugging, compiling, formatting, build automation and version control (SVN).  • Creating complete stack applications using Java, Docker, Scala, Node.js. Java Developer Vivma - IN June 2012 to December 2016 Responsibilities:  • Participated in gathering requirements from the HR team and analysed the requirements and designed the UML diagrams based on the OOAD principles.  • Involved in multi-tiered J2EE design utilizing MVC architecture Struts Framework, Hibernate and EJB deployed  on WebSphere Application Server connecting to an Oracle database.  • Worked on the Spring framework like Spring IOC and Spring DAO Architecture, develop, deployment of front- end and presentation layer logic of sites using JSP, HTML/DHTML, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Used XML Web Services using SOAP to transfer the amount to transfer application that is remote and global  to different financial institutions.  • Designed and coded highly-available systems/web applications with Javascript, Node.js and provided Node.js  for architecture and used Hibernate to access database and perform database updating.  • Debug the application using Firebug to traverse the documents and manipulated the Nodes using DOM and DOM Functions using Firefox (Firebug).  • Developed several REST web services supporting both XML and JSON to perform tasks. REST web services  leveraged by both web and mobile applications. Prepared technical artifacts including UML Class diagrams, Sequence diagrams etc., using Rational Rose.  • Created a web application which helps in managing administration using Java and J2EE.  • Developed testcases to support the built code. Education Masters of Science in Software Engineering in Software Engineering San Jose State University - San Jose, CA Skills Eclipse, J2ee, Java, Hibernate, Spring Additional Information Skills    Languages: Java, Python, SQL, PL/SQL  Web Technologies: HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, JavaScript, jQuery, JSON, AJAX, XML, Node.js  Frameworks: Hibernate, Swing, Struts, Spring, Spring Boot  J2EE Technologies: JMS, JDBC, JNDI, JMS, JSP, log4j, Servlets  Databases: Oracle, SQL Server, MySQL, PostgreSQL  Web Services: SOAP, AWS, WSDL, UDDI, JMS, Restful, JAX-WS  Build Deploy Tools: ANT, Maven  IDE's & text-Editors: Notepad++, Eclipse, NetBeans, Visual Studio, Sublime Text  Cloud: • AWS, AWS EC2, AWS load balancing, Heroku, Docker  Methodologies: • SDLC, Agile  Operating Systems: • Windows, Linux