Java Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Developer - Kaiser Permanente San Jose, CA • Having 6+ years of IT experience in Analysis, Design, Development, Implementation, and Testing of Client/Server, Distributed, Internet using Object-Oriented and RDBMS Concepts.  • Expertise in developing J2EE applications and deploying it in WebSphere 6.0, WebLogic11, and Tomcat, Webservices technologies.  • Strong expertise in development and deployment of web components that include Servlets 2.2/2.3/2.4, JSP 1.1/1.2/2.0 and business layer components that include EJB 2.0/2.1/3.0, Web Services, RMI, and JDBC 2.0/3.0,JNDI, JMS, LDAP.  • Extensively experienced in architectural issues and their solutions using various design patterns such as MVC Model-View-Controller, Singleton, Session Facade, Service Locator, Factory, DAO, DTO, and Business Delegate.  • Deployed WAR, JAR and EAR files and monitoring the Application servers and Web servers, troubleshooting performance issues using the Log messages and Log files.  • Extensive experience in developing applications using Java and related technologies using methodologies like AGILE, DRIVEN TEST  • Expertise in developing Java Beans and Custom Tag Libraries, providing client-side validations in JavaScript and providing interactive front end GUI using AJAX and rich Internet applications based on ADOBEFLEX.  • Extensive experience in design, development, and deployment of ETL components in DATA WAREHOUSING.  • Expertise in implementing Service Oriented Architectures SOA with XML based Web Services SOAP/UDDI/WSDL.  • Strong database experience in Oracle 8/9i/10g, MS-Access, SQL Server 2010, MySQLwith good programming skills in SQL and PL/SQL.  • Good experience in writingviews, Stored Procedures and database triggers with comprehensive knowledge on Performance Tuning and Query Optimization in Oracle Stored Procedures.  • Strong programming skills in XML related technologies like XML, XSL, XSLT, parsers like SAX, DOM, JAXP, schemas like DTD, XSD XML Schema  • Good working knowledge of Ant/Maven for project build/test/deploymentLog4j for error logging and Debugging, Junitfor unit and integration testing and XMLSpy for XML validation  • Experience in continuous integration using Jenkins for timely builds, code coverage, running test.  • Extensive experience with middle-tier popular J2EE application and web servers like WebLogic 8.x/9.x, WebSphere 5.x/6.x, WebSphere Portal 5.x and Tomcat 5/6.  • Experience in modeling applications with UML, Rational Rose, and Rational Unified Process RUP.  • Experience in IBM Rational Application DeveloperRAD, Rational Software Architect RSA, Net Beans, and Eclipse for an integrated development environment for building, testing, and deploying various applications  • Strong experience in using IDEs Integrated Development Environment like WSAD, Eclipse.  • Experience in working with operating systems like Windows XP/VISTA/7/8, UNIX, LINUX, SOLARIS  • Good team player with excellent communication, technical, multi-tasking and interpersonal skills. Also having Quick adaptability and systematic approach towards work. Work Experience Java Developer Kaiser Permanente - SanJose, California, US April 2018 to Present Description: Kaiser Permanente is an American integrated managed care consortium, based in Oakland, California, United States, founded in 1945 by industrialist Henry J. Kaiser and physician Sidney Garfield.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in all the phases of SDLC including Requirements Collection, Design & Analysis of the Customer Specifications, Development,and Customization of the Application.  • Used Hibernate framework in the persistence layer for mapping an object-oriented domain model to a relational database.  • Created data models and database structure for business entities in the MySQL database.  • Integrated 3rd party service REST & SOAP APIs such as payment gateway, identity, chat and calendar services.  • Built module for XML to JSON conversion for connecting with 3rd party SOAP APIs.  • Deployed the application on cloud AWS utilizing EC2, S3, RDS, SES, VPC, ELB, IAM, and other services.  • Bulk on-boarded 80+ services, 200+ service providers using SQL which reduced onboarding time by 90%.  • Installed node.js and utilized the NPM with Grunt for the build.  • Involved in the development of presentation tier using HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, Angular JS and JSP.  • Developed validations for forms data as well as a server-side using Angular JS validation.  • Configured Swagger-UI registered Microservice with Eureka server to monitor service health check etc. from Spring Boot admin console.  • Built a web frontend using Spring MVC Framework with JSP, HTML, CSS, AJAX, and JavaScript.  • Implemented Angular JS and AJAX for the better performance of the system and partial page rendering  • Hands-on experience in using Backbone.js to build a large web application with data that change over time.  • Involved in implementation of enterprise integration with Webservices and Legacy Systems using SOAP, and REST (Using Axis and Jersey frameworks)  • Involved in implementing ActiveMQ the JMS ( Java messaging service) for asynchronous communication.  • The backend application layer is implemented using EJB (Enterprise Java Bean) in a WebSphere Application Server environment.  • Created Stored procedures using PL/SQL for data modification (Using DML insert, update, delete) in Oracle11g.  • Used Spring Data Framework to use the features of Spring JDBC and Spring ORM classes like JDBC Template and Hibernate Template to perform the database operations by connecting to Data sources available.  • Developed user interface as JSF, prime faces, HTML and CSS and BOOTSTRAP with custom tag libraries using JSF Framework.  • Used Microservices to communicate using synchronous protocols HTTP and REST.  • Used MongoDB as data storage and utilized aspects like replica sets, Sharding, and clever document design to make service extensible scale and feature-wise.    Environment: Java 1.9, Spring 3.5, Hibernate 5.0, AJAX, JMS, XML, SOAP, WSDL, REST, JDBC, JAX-WS, JAXB, JavaScript, UML, HTML5, CSS3, AngularJS, SVN, Log4J, JUnit, WebSphere 8.5, IBM RAD, Oracle 11g, Maven. Java Developer Caterpillar - Peoria, IL June 2017 to March 2018 Description: Caterpillar Inc. is an American Fortune 100 corporation which designs, develops, engineers, manufactures, markets and sells machinery, engines, financial products and insurance to customers via a worldwide dealer network.  Responsibilities:  • Worked on the High level and low-level system design, planning, estimation, and implementation.  • Good understanding of Storm and Kafka for monitoring and managing Hadoop jobs.  • Experienced with AWS services to smoothly manage the application in the cloud and creating or modifying the instances  • Implemented Multithreading, Concurrency, Exception Handling and Collections whenever necessary  • Designed and implemented MongoDB based database and created REST enabled Web Services on Jersey framework.  • Involved in writing JSP and JSF components. Used JSTL Tag library to create standard dynamic web pages.  • Good knowledge on the Spring modules like Spring IOC, Spring MVC, Spring Web Flow, Spring AOP, Spring DAO,and Spring Security.  • Designed and developed RESTful Services to retrieving configuration JSON documents related to the customer.  • Implemented Persistence layer using Hibernate to interact with the Oracle 10g database, Used Hibernate Framework for object-relational mapping and persistence.  • Used Hibernate ORM tools which automate the mapping between IBM DB2 SQL databases and objects in Java.  • Implemented Spring Boot application with the embedded jetty server to run the application on the instance.  • Extensively used Java 1.8 features such as Lambda Expressions, Parallel operations on collections for effective sorting mechanisms and new Date-Time API.  • Worked on designing specific programs efficiently through knowledge of Multithreading using the API with the goal of increasing performance on a wide variety of applications.  • Developed the persistence layer using Hibernate Framework, created the POJO objects and mapped using Hibernate annotations.  • Used Gradle builds automation tool to build and deploy the application in the WebSphere Application Server.  • Used JIRA tool for Issue/bug tracking for monitoring of work assignment in the system and Log4J was used to monitor the error logs.  • Responsible for Continuous Integration (CI) and Continuous Delivery (CD) process implementation using Jenkins along with UNIX Shell scripts to automate routine jobs.    Environment: Java 1.8, J2EE, HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, jQuery, Spring MVC, Spring Security, Spring Boot, Hibernate, Apache Camel, JDBC, JIRA, Jenkins, Unix, GIT, Web Sphere Application Server and IntelliJ. Java Developer TCF Financial - Minnetonka, MN October 2016 to May 2017 Description: TCF Financial Corporation is a Wayzata, Minnesota-based national bank holding company. As of December 31, 2013, TCF had $18.4 billion in total assets and nearly 430 branches in Minnesota, Illinois, Michigan, Colorado, Wisconsin, Indiana, Arizona, and South Dakota, providing retail and commercial banking services.    Responsibilities:  • Understanding functional specifications, designing, and creating custom solutions to match the requirements.  • Designed and developed the front-end using HTML, CSS, and JavaScript with Ajax and tag libraries.  • Used Spring Core Annotations for Dependency Injection.  • Designed and developed Hibernate configuration and session-per-request design pattern for making database connectivity and accessing the session for database transactions respectively.  • Used HQL and SQL for fetching and storing data in databases.  • Worked on financial transactions like deposits, withdrawals, and transfer, debit, and visa or bills payments. Performed a thorough unit testing and resolved several data-related issues before migration to production.  • Implemented web services with Apache Axis.  • Distributed computing problems involving Data synapse and Oracle Coherence, web-based applications using ASP.NET front-end and Java/WebLogic web services back-end, etc.  • Development of agent authentication functionality for both Agent Desktop and general website Java/J2EE, Spring Framework, Coherence.  • The response is also persisted on its way back. Messages persisted to Oracle DB as SOR and Coherence Distributed Cache. Integrates with the SOA bus. The database is partitioned and streamed.    Environment: Java, JDK 1.5, Servlets, Hibernate 3.2, Spring, Apache Camel, Eclipse 3.2, Apache Ant, Web Services SOAP, JavaScript, HTML, CSS, XML, Clear Case, Clear Quest. Java Developer Shutterfly - Redwood City, CA August 2015 to September 2016 Description:Shutterfly, Inc. is an American Internet-based company based in Redwood City, California specializing in image publishing service. Shutterfly's flagship product is its photo book line.  Responsibilities:  • Designed client application using HTML, JSP, CSS and XML.  • Responsible for use case diagrams, class diagrams and sequence diagrams using Rational Rose in the Design phase.  • Used Spring Core for dependency injection/Inversion of Control (IOC) to have loose-coupling.  • Implemented application using MVC architecture integrating Hibernate and spring frameworks.  • Implemented the Enterprise JavaBeans(EJBs) to handle various transactions and incorporated the validation framework for the project.  • Used Spring Boot to create enhanced microservices and implemented the security for service layer methods using Spring Security to provide authentication and authorization to certain business functions.  • Developed the Spring Features using frameworks like Spring MVC, Spring DAO, Spring Boot, Spring Cloud, Spring Batch, Spring Security, Spring Integration.  • Developed Web Services to transfer data between client and server vice versa using SOAP, WSDL,and UDDI.  • Used "Agile Development Methodology" and tested the application in each iteration  • Wrote SQL and HQLquery to retrieve data from the Oracle database.    Environment: Java, J2EE, Spring, JDBC, JNDI, Hibernate, JMS, JUnit framework, Tomcat, Eclipse, Oracle 10g, XML/XSLT, HTML, JSP, JavaScript, SQL developer, Rational Rose, Subversion,and Junit. Java Developer Sasken Technologies Ltd - Hyderabad, Telangana February 2013 to March 2015 Description:Sasken Technologies Limited is a technology and service provider based in Bangalore, India, which provides product engineering and digital transformation services to global customers in industries.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in the complete Software Development Life Cycle including Requirement Analysis, Design,Implementation, Testing,and Maintenance.  • Deliver new and complex high-quality solutions to clients in response to varying business requirements  • Designing the front end using JSP, jQuery, CSS,andHtml as per the requirements that are provided.  • Extensively used jQuery selectors, events, Traversal and jQuery AJAX with JSON Objects.  • Developed Responsive web application for the backend system using Angular JS with HTML5 and CSS3.  • Used Spring AOP to enable the log interfaces and cross-cutting concerns.  • Developed payment flow using AJAX partial page refresh, validation,and dynamic drop-down list.  • Participation in meeting with the team, senior management, and client stakeholders.    Environment: JSP,jQuery,CSS,HTML5 ,jQuery, AJAX, AngularJS, Spring AOP. Education Bachelor's Skills Java, Hibernate, Spring, Jboss, Jdk, Jms, jquery, Jsf, Jsp, Struts, Wsad, Javascript, Node.js, Php, Scripting, Ajax, Tomcat, Weblogic, Websphere, Angularjs Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Languages Java 8 (JDK 1.4/1.5/1.6/1.7/1.8/1.9),PHP, Shell Script.  Frameworks Struts (2.x.x), spring (3.x/4.x), Hibernate (4.x/ 5.x), Apache Camel (2.x), Swing, Apache CXF.  Web Applications/Servers WebLogic 7.0, 8.1, 9.1, 10.1, Apache Tomcat 4.0, 5.1, 7.0 IBM WebSphere 5.0/6.1, JBoss 3.2, 4.0.,Glassfish 4  Web Technologies HTML5, CSS3, JAVASCRIPT, AngularJS, Angular 2, React JS, AJAX, Backbone.js, jQuery, SOAP and Restful, Node.js.  Server Scripting JSP, JSP-EL, Custom Tags,Spring 3 Custom tags, JSF Custom tags.  IDE Eclipse2.x /3.x , MyEclipse 6.0, WSAD 4.x/5.x , RAD 6.0, NetBeans 4.1/5.0, JDeveloper 10g, Jbuilder8.0, IntelliJ 4.5/5.1/6.0  Messaging Tools JMS, Java Mail.