Java Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Developer Irving, TX ? Around 5+ years of experience in the IT industry with expertise in Software Analysis, Design Development, Implementation and Testing of Object-Oriented applications using Java and J2EE.  ? Experienced working with different Software methodologies like Agile Scrum and Waterfall model. Hands on experience in all stages of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC).  ? Hands on experience in Requirement Analysis, High-level design using Design Patterns and Object-Oriented Programming.  ? Experience using J2EE Design Patterns like MVC and Singleton for reusing most efficient and effective strategies for new development.  ? Strong hands-on experience with Spring MVC, Spring Annotations, Inversion of Control (IOC), Spring Boot, Spring DAO, Spring ORM (Hibernate).  ? Good Knowledge on developing the UI pages from scratch using HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, JavaScript and jQuery, AJAX, Angular.js and React.js.  ? Expertise in the implementation of Core concept of Java, J2EE technologies: JSP, Servlets, JMS, Struts, Spring Boot, Hibernate, EJB, Java Beans, JDBC, XML, Web Services, Multi-threading.  ? Experience with Front-end JavaScript framework like AngularJS. Developed and consumes web services using SOAP and REST.  ? Good experience with Microservices (containers, load balancing, distributed cache).  ? Expertise in developing MVC architecture for web-based applications using Spring MVC frameworks and servlets, JSP, JDBC, Web Services (SOAP & REST).  ? Have experience on REST Micro services using Spring Boot for the customers to consume data.  ? Familiar with web services formats XML and JSON.  ? Used SOAP for Web Services by exchanging XML data between the applications.  ? Developed and consumed RESTful Web Services in multiple projects.  ? Experience in writing SQL, PL/SQL Procedures / Functions, Triggers and Packages on Database (RDBMS) packages like Oracle 11g, MySQL and MSSQL.  ? Good experience in working with Web / Application servers like Apache Tomcat, WebSphere and/or Web Logic, JBOSS.  ? Worked on CI/CD tools for creating Jenkins jobs, trigger the build and perform release cuts of the application.  ? Expertise in using version control tools like SVN, GIT and CVS.  ? Expertise in creating build files and using MAVEN and logging using Log4j.  ? Experience in Logging and tracing tool like log4j and SPLUNK.  ? Have experience to Develop scripts for build, deployment, maintenance and related tasks and using Jenkins.  ? Good knowledge on using JUnit for Unit Testing.  ? Experienced in Business/Technical Requirements Capturing, Configuration Management, Team Coordination and Software Engineering Processes. Work Experience Java Developer GM Financial - Arlington, TX June 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  ? Involved in analysis, specification, design, and implementation and testing phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) and used agile methodologies (SCRUM) for developing application.  ? Expert level skills in using Spring, Spring MVC, Hibernate, JSF, XML technologies and Struts framework with Tiles development experience.  ? Used bootstrap and AngularJS in effective web design.  ? Experience in Struts (MVC architecture), spring framework, J2EE Design patterns, spring IOC, Java and Hibernate.  ? Developed the front-end user interface by utilizing the tiles framework and writing pages and templates JSP, HTML, JavaScript, AJAX, CSS, jQuery and implementing tag libraries.  ? Configured application flow, controlling logic and navigation.  ? Involved in re-factoring the existing components to meet the current application requirements.  ? Involved in testing services for enhancements and changes, Bug fixes.  ? Used various PL/SQL statements to store and retrieve the data from database.  ? Implemented Front End code using JSP, Spring Framework.  ? Extensive knowledge in configuring and deployment of applications on tomcat and web logic servers  ? Hands on experience on Server-side validations using jQuery, java scripts JSTL and custom tags.  ? Hands on experience in using technologies like Ajax, JavaScript/jQuery, AngularJS, Bootstrap, HTML, JSON to make connections between the server and databases like MongoDB and MySQL.  ? Involved in reviewing and helping to develop stored procedures required for the application functionalities.  ? Developed queries that are required for the application development and implemented using different logics.  ? Extensively worked on debugging using Logging Frameworks such as Apache Log4j.  ? Performed Unit Testing, Integration Testing & Generating test cases for web applications using JUnit, Jenkins and Log4j.  ? Hands on experience with IDE's like IBM Eclipse, NetBeans, Spring Tool Suite (STS) and IntelliJ.    Environment: Java, J2EE, Spring, Hibernate, Web Services (SOAP and RESTful, WSDL), XML, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, AngularJS, Bootstrap, XSD schema, SVN (Tortoise SVN), SOAP UI, SQL Server, JDBC, Eclipse, Web logic Windows, Tomcat, Web services. Java Developer Eprima Technology - Kathmandu, NP July 2014 to March 2017 Responsibilities:  ? Developed and designed front-end using HTML, AngularJS, CSS, Microservices, Bootstrap and JavaScript with JSF AJAX and tag libraries.  ? Developed the entire application implementing MVC Architecture integrating Hibernate and Spring Boot frameworks.  ? involved in development of presentation layer using JSP and servlets.  ? Worked on development of hibernate, including mapping files, configuration file, and classes to interact with the database  ? Developed J2EE application development on Windows and Unix Platforms.  ? Designed and developed hibernate configuration and session per request design pattern for making database connectivity and accessing the session for database transactions respectively.  ? Implemented object-relational mapping in the persistence layer using hibernate framework in addition to spring functionality  ? Deployed and developed web services and integrating clients with services using SOAP and RESTful.  ? Involved in injecting dependencies into code using spring core module.  ? Used Spring Core Annotations for Dependency injection.  ? Involved in developing code for obtaining bean references in spring framework using Dependency Injections (DI) or Inversion of Control (IOC).  ? Used HQL and SQL for fetching and storing data in databases.  ? Working extensively with Hibernate Query Language (HQL) to store and retrieve the data from oracle database.  ? Developed Enterprise JavaBeans (EJB) for implementing application's business rules and policies.  ? Designed and developed Validations, Controller Classes and JavaBean components.  ? Using Web Services - WSDL and SOAP for getting required information from the third party.  ? Used Apache Ant for the build process.  ? Designed and developed Stored Procedures, Triggers in Oracle to cater the needs of the entire application.  ? Used Clear Case for version control and Clear Quest for bug tracking.    Environment: Java, J2EE, JDK, Servlets, Hibernate, JPA, Spring Boot, JSF AJAX, Web Services, Web Sphere, Agile Methodology, AngularJS, JavaScript, HTML, Bootstrap, AJAX, Micro Services, CSS, XML. Jr. Java Developer Prima IT Solutions - Kathmandu, NP March 2013 to June 2014 Responsibilities:  ? Involved in the requirements Analysis meetings and understand the requirements for the modules for development.  ? Followed agile methodology and participated in daily SCRUM meetings.  ? Developed Use Cases, Class Diagrams, Sequence Diagrams and Data Models using Microsoft Visio.  ? Extensive experience in developing screens using HTML and jQuery.  ? Implemented and maintained using Spring MVC  ? Worked SQL to retrieve data from Database.  ? Applied Springs IOC Container to facilitate Dependency Injection.  ? Designed and Developed End to End customer self service module using annotation-based Java Beans, JavaScript and Ajax.  ? Worked with XML and JSON contents.  ? Involved in Analysis, Design, Development, Testing and Maintenance using UML.  ? Worked on Database Stored Procedures, Functions, Triggers and Views.  ? Used GIT to maintain the different version of the project.  ? Used Log4j to print logging, debugging, warning, info on the server console.  ? Used Jenkins as a primary tool for implementing the CI/CD during code releases.  ? Used Eclipse as IDE tool to develop the application and JIRA and HP Quality Center for bug and issue tracking.    Environment: Java, Core Java, Collections. Spring MVC, JMS, HTML, JSON, jQuery, XML, JavaScript, CSS3, Ajax, SQL, Log4j, Jenkins, Eclipse IDE, GIT. Education Bachelor of Engineering in Computer Science in Computer Science Purbanchal University 2015 Skills Eclipse, Java, Hibernate, Spring, Jboss, jquery, Struts, Visual studio, Application server, C++, Javascript, Bootstrap, Json, Php, Xml, Ajax, Dreamweaver, Tomcat, Weblogic, Websphere Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Operating Systems Windows98, Windows XP/2000/2003/2007 server, Unix and Linux.  Web Languages and Technologies C++, JAVA, JavaScript, CSS3, HTML5, PHP  UI Frameworks Ajax, jQuery, Bootstrap  Webservices Technologies REST, SOAP, XML, JSON  Web/Application Server Apache Tomcat, Sun One, JBoss, WebLogic and WebSphere  Frameworks Struts, Spring Boot and Hibernate  Cloud Technologies Pivotal Cloud Foundry  IDE's Eclipse, Visual Studio, IntelliJ, Dreamweaver and Edit Plus