Java/J2EE Developer <span class="hl">Java</span>/J2EE <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java/J2EE Developer - JP Morgan Chase Cincinnati, OH • Java/J2EE Developer with over 6 years of Core Information Technology (IT) experience in analysis, design, development and implementation of Java, J2EE enterprise applications.  • Extensive experiences in web based multi-tier enterprise applications and Client/ Server Applications using Java/J2EE technologies and have good exposure in Model View Controller (MVC) Architecture based applications using (Struts Frameworks and JSP) on window platform with expertise in presentation, business and database layers.  • Hands on experience in implementing standard J2EE design patterns like Singleton Pattern, Factory Pattern, Abstract factory Pattern, MVC Pattern, Business delegate Pattern.  • Extensive experience in writing applications using Java/J2EE& related technologies such as Servlet, JSP, JDBC, Java Beans, XML, XSL, HTML and SQL, PL/SQL middleware technologies such as Web Services, SOAP, WSDL, REST for web base applications.  • Experience using Hibernate for mapping Java classes with database and using Criteria API and Hibernate query language (HQL).  • Experience with build and development tools like Gradle, Ant and Maven.  • Expertise in implementing various well-known Object-Oriented/J2EE Design Patterns and Session, Entity, Message Driven Enterprise Java Beans (EJB).  • Good working knowledge on SVN, VSS or CVS for code management and version control  • Proficient in handling and administering Web servers/application servers - WebLogic, JBoss and Apache Tomcat.  • Extensive experience in various RDBMS like Oracle 10g/8i, DB2 expertise in interacting with RDBMS through ODBC, SQL and PL/SQL.  • Programming experience in SQL and PL/SQL like Stored Procedures, Trigger, Functions, Materialized views etc using the database tools like TOAD, SQL Developer. Work Experience Java/J2EE Developer JP Morgan Chase - Cincinnati, OH January 2019 to Present Project: Global Client Reporting  This application is used by Client portfolio managers to generate Quarterly and Monthly Investment reports across various asset classes. I'm involved in the migration of static template reports to make dynamic so that users can dynamically add required components to the report without any tech support and generate the reports. These dynamic components are feasible to use across other regions like EMEA and APAC.  Roles and Responsibilities:  • Go through the assigned JIRA issue requests of the project and work with Business requestor to finalize requirements based on the technical possibilities.  • Understanding High Level Design and creating detailed technical Design documents.  • Developed code using server-side technologies like Spring Boot framework- Core, AOP, MVC, Data.  • Designed and developed the REST based Microservices using the Spring Boot.  • Developed and consumed Restful web services to accumulate data and generate reports.  • Developed individual components and design documents using Birt tool to generate reports.  • Built UI for different components using Angular, JavaScript, HTML, J Query and CSS.  • Deployed applications in AWS and read/write files in S3 instance.  • Involved in unit testing and regression testing before production deployments.  • Developed Junit test cases for the developed application.  • Doing code review for the projects done by other teammates/ peer code review.  • Used Jenkins tool to deploy the application in cloud and non-cloud environments.  • Tracking the defects/bugs till production phase.  • Interacted with Business requestor/ Client portfolio managers to finalize the requirements, UAT support and post-production support.  • Working with other teams (like back end or middle ware team), required for the project.  • Involved in post-production maintenance and solved the tickets.  • Involved in build and deployment of the application using Tomcat server.  • Implemented rules for code quality using Sonar, Code Pro, PMD, Check style, Find bugs.  Environment: Java, Spring Boot, Microservices, BIRT tool, Spring MVC, Spring Data, Spring AOP, REST web service, AWS, Oracle, Sybase, Angular, HTML5, Javascript, CSS, Tomcat, GIT-Bitbucket, Postman, Eclipse, IntelliJ, Junit, Maven, Log4j, Windows. Java Developer American Express - Phoenix, AZ November 2017 to November 2018 Description: The application mainly focuses on analysing the different price plans that can be offered to the customer based on the customer usage, number of lines, device type the customer is carrying, data usage, message usage among others. The customer information is fetched from different systems within the organization like the billing system, ECPD (Enterprise Customer Profile Database) system to get the above parameters for the customers. Complex logic is executed to get the accurate and most appropriate price plan for the customer.  Roles and Responsibilities:  • Participated in and is key contributor to various SDLC phases - Analysis, Design and Testing.  • Determined project impact from a technical perspective, assesses business needs and prepared technical requirements.  • Project was developed using Agile based SCRUM Methodology.  • Used XML parser APIs such as JAXP and JAXB in the web service\'s request response data marshalling as well as unmarshalling process.  • Prepared technical design documents and Unit Test Case documents.  • Responsible for application code development and quality and ensured J.B.Hunt product standards are implemented and conducted peer reviews.  • Developed the MVC application model using Spring framework and used Hibernate framework to interact with the database.  • Done server-side validation and client-side validation.  • Involved in supporting the Application after rolling out to the customers like data configuration and application level issues.  • Implemented SOAP based Web Services using Apache CXF.  • Invoked/Consumed the Web Services for fetching the account details of the client  • Involved in project testing phases - System Integration Testing, User Acceptance Testing and tracking/ resolving application issues.  • Responsible for deploying applications in development and DEV environments  • Used JUnit Testing Framework for performing Unit testing.  • Responsible for handling day-to-day technical issues, analyzed and determined root cause, facilitated resolution.  Environment: JDK 1.7, J2EE, Spring, Hibernate, Struts, JSP, Servlets, Oracle Database, AJAX, Java Script, Eclipse IDE, JUnit, CXF Web Services, Oracle, WebLogic 10, JQuery, SVN. Java/J2EE Developer CVS Caremark - Buffalo Grove, IL January 2017 to October 2017 Project: PeopleSafe  PeopleSafe is the customer support application. This application is mainly used by customer care representatives to present the claim/prescription information or any other enquiry service. This is a front-end web application.  Roles and Responsibilities:  • Involved in business meetings, designing, developing, unit testing, supporting QA and UAT phases and in production deployment phase in Waterfall methodology.  • Based on the discussions, creating the design and architecture approach based on the requirements by generating the mocks and working with the business to create the roadmap.  • Played the key role in developing, enhancing, updating and maintaining the code.  • Developed the application in J2EE/Core Java using an MVC based architecture (TCF framework) by Rational Application Developer with the integration of WebSphere Application Server as the Development environment.  • Used XML, JavaScript, JSON, JSP, JNDIs, HTML, CSS, JACKSON, JAXB in developing new functionalities and modules within the application.  • Integrated with backend Mainframe and DB2 to support complex and huge data.  • Implemented client-side application to invoke SOAP and Restful Web Services from Enterprise Service Delivery application and rendering them on PeopleSafe screens.  • Used JQuery plugins like data tables, autocomplete, date picker, dialog, menu, text editor, tabs and handlebars as front-end technologies for easy user interactions.  • Developed new fields, tabs and screens to accommodate the changes required by the business.  • Migrated the legacy front end application using Angular JS 2.0 for maintainability.  • As part of Business Continuous Enhancements team, involved in Reengineering/ Redesigning of the application and extensively involved in impact analysis related to tasks/ issues.  • Implemented the existing project modules using latest TLS and FIPS security standards based on the FIPS compliance policy.  • Using IBM iKeyman tool for checking the validity of JKS files and updating/creating them if necessary, with valid certificates for SSL handshake.  • Used Serena Dimensions tool for code repository, maintenance, building the application and deploying.  • Constructing all the components like work packages, build SRs, baselines required to perform build for each release and deploying the code to Development Environment and migrating the same to System testing environments and then to UAT by using Serena Dimensions Tool.  • Managed Serena Dimensions repository for branching, merging and tagging.  • Developed Ant build script for the application to be hosted on virtual machine for better performance and made it automated using task scheduler for auto build and auto deployment.  • Used Veracode tool by uploading the built component (EAR and JARs) for the application and to run the static scan to identify any vulnerabilities. Based on the report generated, ensuring that the code is corrected to evade the vulnerabilities during each phase of SDLC  • Expertise in debugging the build issues and deployment related issues.  • Worked closely with the production support team (Tier -1) during pre and post-production phases until the warranty phase ends.  • Attended meetings / working sessions with the integrating applications for resolving the issues and finding the route cause.  • Experience in troubleshooting webservice providing/consumption related issues, JNDI, Dynamic Outbound configuration or JKS related issues and provide RCA.  • Worked with the WebSphere Infrastructure team and CM team for the deployment related issues deployed automatically from Serena Dimensions.  • Building components around the analytics and audit to deal with the data from client and members so that it can be used for research and future development.  Environment: Rational Application Developer, JAVA/J2EE ,TCF Framework, EJB, FileZilla, Restful Web Services, SOAP, WSDL, JUnit, ANT, Serena Dimensions, UNIX, Putty, iKeyman, Web Sphere Application Server v8.5, JavaScript, Angular JS 2.0, HTML, CSS, JSP, XML, JNDI, XSD, JSON, JAXB, JACKSON, HPSM, HPQC, SOAP UI Java Developer GP Technologies - IN June 2012 to November 2015 Responsibilities:  • Involved in the analysis, design, and development and testing phases of Software Development Lifecycle (SDLC).  • Responsible for analysis, design, development and integration of UI components with backend using J2EE technologies such as MVC framework, Servlets, JSP and JDBC for database connectivity.  • Worked on Agile Methodology to meet timelines with quality deliverables.  • Implemented the presentation layer using Struts MVC framework.  • Creating HTML Web pages utilizing JavaScript and CSS.  • Involved in High Level Design and prepared Logical view of the Application.  • Involved in designing and developing of Object-Oriented methodologies using UML and created Use Case, Class, Sequence diagrams and in complete development, testing & maintenance process of application.  • Worked with HTML, CSS, and JavaScript in UI pages.  • Implemented MVC pattern using the Struts framework.  • Designed user-interface and checking validations using JavaScript.  • Involved in developing JSP pages and Actions and using Taglibs for the web tier and validating the client data using the Java Script.  • Involved in development of Web Services using Axis Framework  • Created Data Source and deployed web application in the WebLogic application Server.  • Developed client user interface using JSPs and Servlets.  • Used Version Control Tool SVN to perform Checking-out and Checking-in of codes from the repository.  • Used ANT scripts to build, test and deploy application.  • Used Eclipse IDE for the development.  • Responsible for the development of database SQL queries.  Environment: Java, Spring, JavaScript, Servlets, Hibernate, JDBC, JSTL, WSDL, RESTFUL, WebLogic, JUnit, Log4j, SVN, SQL, Oracle, Windows. Education Master's in Computer Science Skills Eclipse, J2ee, Java, Hibernate, Spring, Jax, Jaxb, Jboss, Jms, jquery, Jsp, Jstl, Servlets, Struts, Docker, Git, Html, Javascript, Bootstrap, Jenkins Additional Information Technical Skills:    Framework Spring Boot, Spring Batch, Spring Framework - Core, AOP, MVC, ORM, JDBC, Web flow, JMS, Hibernate, Log4j, Struts, IBM Message Broker,  Languages Java/J2EE, SQL, PL/SQL.  J2EE Technologies Servlets, JDBC, JSP, JSTL tags, Custom tags, Java Web Services-SOAP- XML, HTTP, WSDL, OAuth, SSO  UI technologies JSP, HTML, JavaScript, jQuery, DOJO, XML, XSD, XSLT, CSS3, JSON, AJAX, Bootstrap, Angular.  Web Services SOAP, JAX WS, JAXB, REST.  Testing frameworks Junit, DB Unit, Easy Mock, Mockito  IDE/Tools Eclipse, BIRT, RAD, IBM Message Broker toolkit, Bright spot, IntelliJ  Application servers Apache Tomcat, JBoss, IBM Message Broker, Docker  Operating Systems Windows, UNIX  Database Oracle, DB2, Postgres  Design Pattern MVC (Model-View-Controller), Singleton, Front controller, Factory pattern, Facade, Proxy, DTO, DAO.  Source control GIT, SVN, CVS  Methodologies Waterfall model, Agile scrum.  Tools SOAP UI, Jenkins, JIRA, Rally, PUTTY, ANT, Maven, Postman, BMC remedy.