JAVA/J2EE DEVELOPER <span class="hl">JAVA</span>/J2EE <span class="hl">DEVELOPER</span> JAVA/J2EE DEVELOPER - BSW HEALTH • More than 5 years of experience in projects in software analysis, design, implementation and development using Java/J2EE.  • Experience in Object Oriented Analysis in developing server side and front-end framework using J2EE patterns.  • Worked with Java, J2EE technologies including Spring, Struts, Servlets, EJB, XML, Tomcat, Oracle, SQL, JavaScript, jQuery, JSON, Angular2, Angular4 AngularJS, Node.js, JS, and JSP.  • Worked with Angular2, Angular4 as well as AngularJS.  • Knowledge on C++ with Object Oriented concept.  • Experience on Java Multi-threading, Collection, Interfaces and Exception Handling.  • Experience in designing User Interface (UI) applications using technologies and frameworks like HTML, DHTML, CSS, JavaScript, Angular2, Angular4, AngularJS, Node.js and JSP custom tags.  • Expertise in developing Middle Tier components using Enterprise Java Beans (EJB) and other remote components.  • Experienced in Spring Core, Hibernate framework and JPA.  • Worked in development of data models using Hibernate Object Relational Mapping (ORM) framework and also used Hibernate Annotations to reduce time at the configuration level.  • Experience in building Web applications using Spring Framework features like MVC(Model View Controller), IOC ( Inversion of Control), DAO (Data Access Object) along with the knowledge of AOP(Aspect Oriented Programming).  • Experienced in unit testing the application using Junit Framework.  • Knowledge and experience in Implementing Service Oriented Architecture(SOA) using XML based SOAP and RESTful web services.  • Used Maven tool to build and deploy J2EE applications.  • Used web server like Apache Tomcat to deploy applications and worked on deploying application on AWS cloud environment.  • Worked with microservices.  • Experience in database designing in Oracle/DB2/My SQL/SQL server.  • Proficient in Database programming using JDBC and SQL.  • Knowledge on GIT for code management and version control.  • Good communication, team work, and organizational skills.  • Understanding and experience of working on team, ability to adapt different cultural environment and work with people from different cultures. Work Experience JAVA/J2EE DEVELOPER BSW HEALTH - Dallas, TX September 2017 to Present It is a healthcare management system. It assists in managing the patient information for the hospitals. In the project the application needs to support different type of users and shows appropriate information according to the type of the user. Baylor user module team is responsible for logging, validation and session information. It provides access to patients for viewing their information and making appointment with the doctors. And doctors use it to keep track of all the patient information.    RESPONSIBILITIES:  • Involved in business required gathering and technical specifications.  • Analysis, design and development and testing phases of Software Development Lifecycle (SDLC) using Agile methodology.  • Created a Front-end application using Angular4, JSPs and Spring MVC for registering a new patient and configured it to connect to database using Hibernate.  • Implemented J2EE standards, MVC architecture using Spring Framework.  • Used object relational mapping using Spring with Hibernate and IBATIS.  • Created Entity using JPA and Spring Data JPA for execute queries to the databases.  • Effective use of Hibernate (ORM tool) in the business layer to create DAOs.  • Created Stored procedures using PL/SQL for data modification (Using DML insert, update, delete) in Oracle.  • Used Angular4 to develop client-side web application which included dealing with data.  • Implemented Servlets, JSP and Ajax to design the user interface.  • Developed Interactive web pages using AJAX, JavaScript, jQuery.  • Interaction with Oracle database implemented using Hibernate.  • Used EJBs to implement the business logic.  • Wrote Web Services using SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface.  • Automation of Web Services Testing using SOAP UI 5.0.0.  • Involved in implementing the JMS ( Java messaging service) for asynchronous communication.  • Backend application layer is implemented using EJB (Enterprise Java Bean) in WebLogic Application server environment and also creates microservices architecture.  • Deployment of application in Tomcat server.  • Experience in resolving issues in the production server.  • Involved in improving the existing design by minimizing dependencies between the layers with the help of design patterns.  • Involved in procedures and functions modifications.  • Involved in DB Design and Application design for Play Back Mock.    Environment: J2EE, Web Services, Springs, Hibernate, XML, XSD, Oracle 10g, Tomcat, HTML, CSS, JSON, jQuery, AJAX, JMS, SOA, Servlets, JSP, JAXWS, Unix, Angular JS, Angular4. JAVA DEVELOPER INFINITY INSURANCE - Oklahoma City, OK February 2016 to August 2017 Infinity insurance provides wide range of coverage options. The project was targeted to be used by insurance agents to issue policy for customers. Agents can also check the status of customers and their current policy rules as the current customers were going to have current policy rules and future customers were going to have future policy rules according to business. According to which policy number is auto generated, and the policy details were issued to customers.    RESPONSIBILITIES:  • Design and development of object using Object Oriented design in Java.  • Develop the changes using JSTL, Angular2, jQuery, JCP, JSP, Spring MVC, Spring IOC, Spring JDBC, microservices, Web services.  • Client pages are built using HTML, CSS, JSP, AngularJS, JavaScript/jQuery.  • Developed web layer using Springs framework and to manage the project in MVC pattern.  • Used JavaScript, AngularJS, and AJAX technologies for front end user input validations and Restful web service calls.  • Configure beans in spring configuration file with Spring IOC, Spring AOP concepts.  • Developed different modules using Java, Spring, and hibernate.  • Experienced in developing SOAP-based Web Services and Web Service Clients.  • Worked on XML for binding data to java objects.  • Involved in using Angular2 for the development of UI.  • Developed the Spring AOP Programming to configure logging for the application.  • Wrote JUNIT Test cases for Spring Controllers and Web Service Clients in Service Layer using Mockito.  • Configured Hibernate to reduce the number of hits to the configuration table data.  • Building and deploying applications on Web/Application Servers like Apache Tomcat.  • Implemented application level persistence using Hibernate and spring.  • Developed user interface using JSP, HTML, XHTML and Java Script to simplify the complexities of the application.  • Used version control management tool GIT.    Experience: JSP, Angular2, AngularJS, JSON, Spring IOC, Spring MVC, Spring AOP, Spring ORM, , XML, SOAP Web Services, RESTful web services, JMS, MDB, Hibernate, JUnit, Mockito, Maven, GIT, Oracle, Tomcat. Java Developer BancCentral - Alva, OK March 2015 to January 2016 BancCentral provides several features to the customers including saving/checking accounts, credit card, and lending options. The project had various application developments like Electronic payment processing, credit card validating system, and customer service support system.    Responsibilities:  • Followed MVC model and used spring frameworks for developing the Web layer of the application.  • Developed application using Spring MVC, JSP, JSTL and AJAX on the presentation layer.  • Built the business layer using Spring.  • Used hibernate for the persistence layer.  • Involved in SQL Server for new modules and developed the persistence layer based on Hibernate and also used microservices.  • Client- side validation using JavaScript.  • Developing or maintaining production-level cloud-based architecture in AWS.  • Extensively used Java Multi-Threading concept for downloading files from a URL.  • Involved in enhancement of existing application utilizing AngularJS.  • Developed User Interface and web page screens for various modules using JavaScript, and AJAX.  • Write front end code for developing new pages using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, and jQuery.  • Implemented the J2EE design patterns Data Access Object (DAO), Session Façade and Business Delegate.  • Worked on Eclipse for development and deployment of application in Apache Tomcat Server.  • Developed unit test cases using JUnit and Mockito and configured them through Maven to be part of continuous integration.  • Used GIT as version control management tool.    Environment: Java, Spring API, Hibernate, AngularJS, JSP, HTML5, Restful, CSS, JMS, Mockito, Apache Tomcat, JavaScript, AJAX, JavaScript, jQuery, XML, JUnit, Git, SQL  Server, Eclipse. JAVA DEVELOPER JK INDUSTRIES - KATHMANDU, NP February 2014 to December 2014 It was a retail company that supplied hardware all over Nepal. Our project needed to provide online services to customers for their orders. Along with the development of application, I was involved in analyzing the requirement of customers so that the customers need could be taken into consideration while developing the application.    RESPONSIBILITIES:  • Developed user interface using HTML, CSS, JSPs and AJAX.  • Deploying application on AWS.  • Client-side validation using JavaScript and jQuery.  • Designed the Application using Model View Controller (MVC) Architecture.  • Developed different modules using J2EE (Servlets, JSP, JDBC).  • Integrated the Application with Database using Hibernate.  • Communicated between different applications using JMS.  • Design, investigation and implementation of public facing website on AWS.  • Interacted with backend Oracle and wrote stored procedures, functions and cursors for deleting and inserting using PL/SQL.  • Developed test cases and performed unit testing using JUnit framework.    Environment: Java, JDBC, JSP, JMS, HTML, XML, J2EE, PL/SQL, SQL, Oracle, JUnit, Windows, AWS Skills Eclipse, Ejb, J2ee, Java, Hibernate, Spring, jquery, Jsp, Jstl, Servlets, C++, Git, Html, Javascript, Orm, Scripting, Xml, Css, Tomcat, Web services Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  Languages C++, Java, HTML  Core Java Multi-threading, Collection, Serialization, Exception, JDBC, I/O annotations.  J2EE technologies Servlets, JSP. Tag Libraries, JDBC, EJB, jQuery, JSTL, XML, JavaScript, Angular2, Angular2, Angular JS, HTML, CSS, microservices.  Frameworks/ORM Spring, Hibernate, JPA,  IDE Eclipse  Database Oracle, SQL server, My SQL  Web Services RESTful Web Services, SOAP  Version Control/Build Tools Git, Maven  Testing tools Junit, Mockito  Application Servers Apache Tomcat, AWS  Operating System Windows XP/7/8  Scripting jQuery, JavaScript, JSP