Java / AWS Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> / AWS <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java / AWS Developer - State Farm Insurance - VA Richmond, VA • AWS Solution Architect Associate with Eight years of professional experience in all phases of Software Development Life Cycle including System Analysis, Design, Programming, Implementation, Administration and Maintenance and Testing. Extensive exposure to onsite offshore communication and coordination.  • Proficient with different Software development methodologies including Waterfall, KANBAN,Agile (SCRUM) /SAFE using Agile tools like JIRA,Trello,Leankit,Rally.  • Experience in migrating applications from onprem server to cloud(AWS).  • Expertise in working with AWS services like S3, DynamoDB,ECS,Lambda,Batch,Cloudwatch,Athena,Step function using java/nodejs sdk for AWS and AWS CLI and AWS console.  • Expertise in application development core JAVA / J2EE platform and RESTful Webservices,testing the webservices using SOAP UI,Postman.  • Hands on experience on Golang,Python using GoLand ,PyCharm tools.  • Excellent exposure towards web Applications using web Standards, HTML/HTML5, CSS/CSS3, JavaScript, Bootstrap, AngularJS, JSON.  • Excellent Exposure to Java IDE tools of Rational Application Developer (RAD) Net Beans and Eclipse,Spring STS.  • Experience in deploying applications in Application servers like Apache Tomcat, and Web Sphere.  • Expertise in automated testing ,and Test Driven Development (TDD) using Cucumber framework and used JUNIT in performing unit test to determine the application functionality,wrote Acceptance tests(Happy path,JSR validation,Error scenarios).  • Three years of experience using IBM WebSphere Transformation Extender (WTX) product suite and WebSphere Message Broker (WMB) to develop data mapping and integration solutions,MQ series WMQ .Exposure to Business Process Management (BPM)  • Extensive experience in working on Installation, configuration and development of EDI applications using Design Studio (8.4.1), Event Server, Command Server, Database interface design  • Excellent development knowledge in WMB using ESQL and JAVA Compute Node.  • Worked extensively UNIX operating system (AIX ) using putty and WINSCP  • Experience in Configuring and setting up Production, Testing and Development Environments using SVN, PVCS,Github,Codecommit continuous Integration using Jenkins,code pipeline build and deploy jobs.  • Excellent Technical, Analytical, Problem Solving, Oral and Written Communication skills. Work Experience Java / AWS Developer State Farm Insurance - VA March 2019 to Present Responsibilities:  • Responsible for migrating Auto Payment Alert and Letters module to AWS cloud resolving on-prem dependency.  • Developing server less Applications using AWS services like s3, Lambda, Athena using Go, Python sdks.  • Used lambda functions, wrote Step functions, configured cron scheduler to trigger lambdas.  • Wrote Athena SQL Queries to create views from csv files in s3.  • Configured cloud watch to monitor logs for debugging.  • Managed Github for source code checkin checkout and Jenkins Bogie to build and deploy applications in Dev,QA and Prod on cloud.  • Responsible for production deployment of PAYREM,PAYRET,PAYCAN,PAYCHG,RETPAY Alerts and Letters to cloud and involved in pager duty.  • Did Prod validation for Autopay getting alerts to the Test cell and letters to the Test physical Address.  • Wrote Unit tests and Acceptance tests,e2e tests using Gherkin language and got it reviewed by Business.    Environment: AWS, Python, Golang , POSTMAN, Git, JSON, Jenkins, Cucumber, Pycharm, Goland,Visual Studio Code, Atom. Java / AWS Developer Safelite AutoGlass - Columbus, OH December 2017 to March 2019 Responsibilities:  • Involved in gathering requirements from Business Analysts,Product owner.  • Responsible for migrating applications from on-prem server to cloud.  • Developing distribution layer in java connecting to AWS services like s3, DynamoDB, ECS, Batch using java sdk for AWS.  • Worked on parsing xml requests, splitting them for processing in parallel using multithreading, accumulating those to form the result xml.  • Created lambda function and s3 trigger to trigger those lambda function, created batch job to be invoked by those lambda function.  • Created ECS task definitions and Batch job definitions for new docker images.  • Write java code /node js code to upload,download files from s3,submit ECS Tasks,submit Batch Jobs  ,read/write to Dynamo DB ,invoke lambda function synchronously.  • Configured S3triggers for Lambda functions based on requirements.  • Worked with AES ,KMS encryption for s3.  • Configured Dynamo DB tables ,fixed read write capacity based on the usage.  • Worked with trasferring console logs to cloud watch to monitor logs for debugging.  • Managed code commit for source code checkin checkout and code pipeline to build and create image that are to be used in ECS or Batch.  • Responsible for production deployment to the cloud and contineous support afterwards.  • Created AWS support cases based on issues and resolved quickly.  • Have Written Junits for code coverage,did fortify scan for java code and resolved issues before each release.  • Involed in L3 Support for Production Users.    Environment: AWS, Python, JAVA/J2EE, Unix, Spring STS, Putty, WinSCP, SoapUI, POSTMAN, Git, JSON, JavaScript, Unix, pg admin Java Developer Cornerstone Brands Inc - West Chester, OH May 2017 to November 2017 Responsibilities:  • Implemented spring boot ,spring mvc and spring batch frameworks.  • Involved in gathering requirements from Business Analysts.  • Having strong Programming, skills in Java, J2EE, Spring4.0, Hibernate4.2, REST Web Service ,Maven, Oracle11g  • Responsible for OpenStack project core infrastructure including code review, continuous integration systems, and developer tools.  • Worked in connecting and dropping files in S3 bucket, configured EC2 Security Groups, set up inbound/outbound connections to EC2 using Deputy Dispatcher.  • Developed Python scripts to get files to EC2 , PGP encryption etc.  • Experience in Integration of Amazon Web Services AWS with other applications infrastructure.  • Understanding of OOPS Principals, Design Patterns, MVC, Component based designing and Experience in REST and SOAP based Web Services API Application Development.  • Enhanced Spring Batch application for converging a fixed width file to delimited file with adding new fields, storing the copies of files in Mongo DB.  • Worked as L3 support and resolved the issues as on when needed.  • Created a highly-scalable, distributed system for running Web applications and Web services by working with architects and developers and ensuring the implementation of Restful Web services and API design.  • Worked with Dialog application for adding new alerts to Bank Statements.  Environment: Mac os, Unix, Spring STS, Mongo Booster, WinSCP, Soap UI, POSTMAN, Git, JSON, JavaScript, Jenkins, Dialog, AWS Java Developer ADP INC - Florham Park, NJ August 2016 to May 2017 Responsibilities:  • Implemented spring boot,spring mvc and spring batch frameworks.  • Involved in gathering requirements from Business Analysts.  • Implemented prototype with JSON (Payload) based Restful API's with Jersey to return mock responses to Apple for connectivity test between Apple and Discover.  • Implemented a Wallet REST service which is first point of contact in Discover for transactions from Apple with Set of APIs exposed by Apple.  • Integrating downstream REST services (Remote end points) using Apache HTTP client and unit testing with Jersey Client and Chrome Postman.  • Involved in writing the Android Pay specification for Discover E-wallets.  • Involved in configuring the components for Provisioning credit/debit cards on e-wallet.  • Implemented a Wallet REST service which is first point of contact in Discover for transactions from Apple with Set of APIs exposed by Apple.  • Involved in QE team and PROD end user testing support for Apple Pay, Android Pay and Samsung Pay  • Worked on the Rest APIs of the end to end flow supporting the functionality of e-wallet Transactions using json/xml messaging.  • Automated the API testing using behavior based scripting using cucumber framework over gherkin.  • Involved in Designing and Implementing REST services for all E-Wallet Applications.  • Lead a Technical team for the implementation of various functionalities for E-Wallet Applications.  • Source control and change management using GitHub, continuous integration and Unit Testing using Jenkins.  • Worked in Safe Agile with scrum methodology and used Rally for workflow.  • Involved in requirement gathering, interaction with product owners and end clients through formal meetings, email and conferences.  • Extensive exposure to onsite offshore communication and coordination.  Environment: Unix, Eclipse, SQL Developer, SecureCRT6.7, WinSCP, SoapUI, POSTMAN, Git, JSON, JavaScript. JAVA Developer CVS Health - Northbrook, IL September 2014 to June 2016 Responsibilities:  • Implemented spring boot ,spring mvc and spring batch frameworks.  • Involved in gathering requirements from Business/System Analysts.  • Designed the interfaces and worked with architecture team on their inputs / approvals.  • Designed and Developed the Message set which can validate the inputs and accept the information as agreed upon both end.  • Worked in Creating Best practice guidelines for development and deployment of Message Broker components.  • Worked in Agile with scrum methodology and used JIRA for workflow.  • Implemented Design Patterns like MVC, Factory and Singlet on while developing the application  • Responsible for designing UML diagrams like: Class and Sequence diagrams during the Analysis and Design phase of the application  • Following Test Driven Development and was involved in writing JUNIT Test cases which were also used in Integration Testing.  • Setting up meetings to resolve issues that requires input from different teams.  • Worked with IBM performance team for optimizing the code to enhance the system response and critical memory leak issues  • Involved in defect fixes and production support at the time of deployment of application  • Conducted unit and integration testing of business logic, data access, web UIs and verification and validation testing for the application.  • Created WTX maps for Transformation of EDIFACT messages to XML messages.  • Designed and Developed Message definitions based on input and input type such as XML, XSD, MRM, CWF and WSDL.  • Configured the environment in WAS and used RAD tool for transformation of slash data to xml messages.  • Configured MAVEN plug-in on RAD to deploy ear files to Websphere Application Server.  • Built and deployed the application to various environments using Maven Scripts  • Configured toolkit. Brokers, Queue Managers, define Objects, channels, SSL, Clustering, shared channels, shared objects.  • Involved in the development of Web Service Proxy, XML firewall for integrating multiple applications.  • Used SVN for version control.  • Used log4j framework for logging purpose.  • Involved in the Design and Development reusable Error Handling flow.  • Developed the message flows with various nodes Compute, Mapping, Database, MQ nodes, HTTP nodes, JAVAJMS nodes Flow Order Node, Try Catch node, Trace Node.  • Developed Message Flows for Real Time Systems using SOAP/HTTP nodes and using  • Transport as HTTP/HTTPS.  • Written java coding in java compute node to achieve bulk insert of data.  • Used Test component to build test scripts and execute.  • Flows were deployed to Brokers on AIX.    Environment: XML, WebSphere MQ 7.0, WebSphere Message Broker (WMB) Toolkit 8.0, WebSphere Transformation Extender v8.4, Websphere Application server(WAS), XSD, Altova XMLSpy ,Rfhutil, Soap UI ,ESQL , AIX,RAD 8.5.1. JAVA Developer Apple Inc - Sunnyvale, CA February 2014 to August 2014 Responsibilities:  • Implemented spring boot ,spring mvc and spring batch frameworks.  • Migrated the maps from IBM WTX 8.2 to WTX 8.4.  • Configured the Test environment for new architecture.  • Involved in designing multi threading solution for asynchronous transactions in the application to improve performance.  • Responsible for designing and coding high end complex solutions in java/J2EE technology.  • Currently involved in development of report generation which involves reading huge number of records from the database after creating sql queries based on sql expression and displaying them in multiple tabs in the excel file.  • Involved in system integration testing and regression testing of the application.  • Created EDI data for negative testing and positive testing in new architecture.  • Used WMB toolkit with WTX node to call maps for huge transformations.  • Designed WTX map for integration into WPS that would split data at user defined point for handling of large files.  • Configured the Production environment and implemented the changes in Production.  • Worked on ANSI X12, EDIFACT transactions, developed mapping from Oracle Flat File to EDI 850 , Corrected mappings from XML to EDI 850  • HIPAA Transaction 856ANSI X12 developing to a Comma Delimited file for dissemination into an Oracle database for Crystal Report generation and posting to secure server for client viewing.  • Interacted with Test and Prod Databases using Toad by writing and running scripts to configure all the config tables needed, established connection between Execution groups, config tables and MQs.  • Contacted suppliers to help guide through successful EDI 850 & 856 testing Supported infrastructure in a Windows environment, Facilitated certification testing from development to production  • Assisted with requested map changes EDI lead for integration efforts with new suppliers to define on boarding timelines provided gap analysis for internal formats to provider EDI and XML formats.  • Managed the entire EDI process from implementation to maintenance.  • Assisted development of flat file format for internal use in logistics and procurement of external customers.  • Developed standards for processing information through EDI process. Served as internal link for Carriers\Customer EDI integration Project management for data mapping and assisted development for logistics software.  • Resolved various technical issues in Production.  • Conducted unit and integration testing of business logic, data access, web UIs and verification and validation testing for the application.    Environment: XML, WebSphere Transformation Extender v8.2, WebSphere Transformation Extender v8.4, WTX Integration server, WebSphere MQ 7.0, WebSphere Message Broker (WMB) Toolkit 8.0, SQT, CQtool,Toad. Java Developer Deloitte - IN August 2012 to November 2013 Responsibilities:  • Implemented spring boot ,spring mvc and spring batch frameworks.  • Installed WMQ and WMB on test environment.  • MRM, CWF and TDS message sets are used to validate the date and convert it from one format to another format  • ESQL code tuning is done to reduce the complexity, redundancy and increase the efficiency.  • Tivoli monitoring tool is used for monitoring the environments.  • Performed administration tasks using MQSC commands.  • Used JCN node for integrating with Java applications that communicate with the SAP System.  • Developed application to extract data, convert to xml format, construct MQ messages and put it into Queue for Enterprise users.  • Involved with operational and warehouse team to develop a data movement tier  • Designed SQL's involving frequency of usage, finding DB2 access path, using proper index, and referential integrity. Introduce new index if this is using very frequently.  • Worked with Clusters of queue managers to simplify the overall administration process, to achieve workload balancing.  • Developed Scripts to deploy Message Flows and Message Sets onto Broker runtime component.  • Worked with the business partner for the user acceptance testing.    Environment: Websphere MQ 7.0 for AIX, WBIMB 6.1, DB2 8.x, Microsoft Visio, Tivoli suite. Java / J2EE Developer Tata Consultancy Services - IN June 2011 to July 2012 Intern)    Responsibilities:  • Involved in client requirements gathering, analysis & application design.  • Used Visio UML tool to draw use case diagrams, class and sequence diagrams.  • Implemented client side data validations using JavaScript.  • Implemented server side data validations using Java Beans.  • Implemented code MVC2 framework using JSP's JavaBeans & servlets.  • Implemented Entity Beans for Object Relational mapping.  • Implemented Service Locater Pattern using local caching.  • Worked with collections.  • Implemented Session Facade Pattern using Session and Entity Beans  • Developed MDB to listen to JMS queues.  • Performed application level logging using Log4j for debugging purpose.  • Involved in fine tuning of application, fixing bugs and capturing performance maintenance.  • Involved in testing phase and implemented test cases using JUnit.    Environment: Java SDK 1.2, JSP1.1, Servlets, CVS, JavaScript, and Oracle8, SQL, PL/SQL, Eclipse Education Master's Skills J2ee, Java, Hibernate, Spring, Jms, Jndi, Jsp, Servlets, C++, Html, Javascript, Bootstrap, Json, Scripting, Xml, Db2, Jdbc, Sql server, Mysql, Oracle Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:  J2EE Technologies Java/J2EE, JSP/Servlets, JDBC, JNDI, JMS, XML, SOAP and RESTFUL Web services, SOA, WSDL  Web Technologies Angular JS, HTML/HTML5, CSS, XML, JSON, JavaScript, Twitter Bootstrap, Spring, Hibernate.  Agile JIRA, RALLY, TRELLO  Operating Systems Linux, Windows NT/2003.  Languages Java, C, C++, ESQL, SQL, PL/SQL,GO  MQ Series Family WMQ6.0/7.0, WMQI, WBIMB, WMB 6.0/ 6.1/7.0, ESBv7.x/8.0, RAD 8.5.  Tools Toad, FileZilla,SQT V6.1, Ultraedit/ultra-compare, XMLspy  Databases MongoDB, DB2 (UDB) 8.2/8.1, Oracle 10g/9i, SQL server, MySQL.  Scripting Languages XML, HTML, Java Script  Protocols TCP/IP, FTP, SMTP, POP and HTTP.  Application Servers IBM WebSphere8.0/7.x  Web Servers Java Web Server  EDI Standards ANSI X12, EDIFACT