Sr. Java Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Java Developer - UBS Bayonne, NJ Work Experience Sr. Java Developer UBS - Nashville, TN September 2016 to Present Project: ZEUS  ZEUS is a central database which accommodate and provide a single glance of Investment Banking credit risk data to credit officers, risk control and reporting and data integrity users. It is a Java and Oracle based application that collates processes and de-normalizes credit risk information between 10 upstream and downstream through more than 4000 inter-dependent jobs and more than 50 calculators for each business day and month-ends. The processed data is reflected on a front-end call IRIS which is connected through a tomcat based middle tier webservice layer called HADES. ZEUS also have a reporting layer serving MIS system.    • Developed and implemented jobs like data loaders, data processors, calculators and exporters using Java, J2EE and JMS etc. which are used to load credit-risk data from upstream, process and calculate the exposures and then export it to the respective downstream  • Used development IDEs like Eclipse for Java and Toad for PLSQL development  • Wrote scripts for the jobs to execute them on the Unix server using Shell scripting  • Monitored and debugged Java logs on Unix server  • Used basic Unix commands to perform various operations on the Unix server  • Used basic Linux commands for file management and other operations  • Involved in developing responsive UI using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Bootstrap and SPA (single page application) using Angular 6, Typescript, Angular-CLI, NGRX, Bootstrap and Web pack.  • Used Angular router and implemented module wide routing and created different forms using Angular data driven and template driven forms.  • Developed Angular Components, Services, Filters and took part in developing unit test and integration test cases using Jasmine, Karma and Web pack.  • Used Spring Boot which is radically faster in building cloud Micro Services and develop Spring based application with very less configuration.  • Developed Micro services & APIs using Spring Cloud, Spring Security, Spring Boot, Spring Integration.  • Implemented Cloud capabilities like Centralized Configuration, Load Balancing, Service-to-Service call using Feign, Service Registry and Discovery using Eureka in Spring Cloud.  • Performed REST validations and created REST exception Handlers and used Postman to test REST services.  • Developed unit test cases using Junit, Spring to test REST microservices.  • Involved in consuming SOAP based web services so that the business application can integrate with legacy applications and facilitates for future applications.  • Used Java 1.8 Lambda expressions and Stream API to support functional-style operations on streams of elements.  • Worked on Java functional programming concepts like Streams, Functional Interfaces, new date time API and lambda expressions.  • Used Multi-Threading and collection framework including List, Map etc.  • Used Apache Maven as a build tool for building the Restful web-service.  • Perform peer reviews of code to ensure it meets coding and efficiency standards.  • Test high priority and high complexity functionality/defects.  • Delivering and implementing the project as per scheduled.  • Participate in project review and status meetings.  • Design and Development as per application requirements    Environment: Java 1.8, concurrent package, lambda expressions, streams, JavaScript, Servlets, JSP's, JDBC, EJB, JPA, Hibernate, IBM MQ , JAX-B, JAX-RS, SQL, Oracle 10g, SVN, GitHub, Ant, ServiceNow, Bamboo, Autosys, Eclipse, Unix, JUnit, Log4J, Angular , HTML, CSS, and Bootstrap, Oracle, Swagger, Microservices, JIRA. Java Developer HHSC, State of Texas - Austin, TX August 2015 to August 2016 Responsibilities:  * Designed and developed Class diagrams and Sequence diagrams using Rational Rose  * Design and developed the application using Jakarta Struts Framework which is based on Model View Controller design pattern  * Implemented Struts validation and Struts Tiles Framework in the presentation layer  * Developed user interface using JSP, JSP Tag libraries and Struts Tag Libraries to simplify the complexities of the application.  * Extensively used Hibernate in data access layer to access and update information in the database  * Used Dependency Injection feature of Spring.  * Developed REST web services using Spring MVC to extract client related data from database and used SOAPUI.  * Experienced with setting up the basic project setup from scratch using Spring-Hibernate based design.  * Used Perl and shell scripting to automate the batch process and run SQL scripts  * Used Spring DAO module for performing CRUD operations on database and implemented logging in the application using Spring Framework AOP module to know the application status.  * Developed Web services - WSDL and SOAP for getting credit card information from third party  * Used SAX parser for parsing XML files.  * Used Spring MVC Model View Controller to handle/intercept the user requests and used various controllers.  * Build, Test and developed application from Docker containers and deployed into PCF environment.  * Experience in Micro services development using spring boot and deployment in Pivotal Cloud Foundry (PCF).  * Implemented (SOA) to retrieve data from client side and made REST API calls and parsed the data to client and handled the security and Authorization using Spring Security.  * Used JMS API for asynchronous communication by putting the messages in the Message queue, such as PDF, Excel report generation  * Implemented various design patterns in the project such as Business Delegate, Session Façade, Data Transfer Object, Data Access Object, Service Locator and Singleton  * Developed Stored Procedures for Oracle 10g database.  * Used Struts framework for the MVC implementation and Hibernate as ORM tool for database communication.  * Performed unit testing using JUNIT framework and used Struts Test Cases for testing Action Classes  * Used ANT and Jython scripts to build the application and deployed on WebSphere Application Server  * Since it is Agile based project, involved in conducting standup calls and coordinating the team by assigning User Stories.  * Code review and industry standards have been checked using Check style tool.  * Review functional specifications to identify the gaps and its impact on the design.  * Review Technical Design Documents.  * Work with the team to clarify requirements and improve the design as required.  * Perform peer reviews of code to ensure it meets coding and efficiency standards.  * Test high priority and high complexity functionality/defects.  * Participate in project review and status meetings.  * Design and Development as per application requirements    Environment: Spring, JMS, Hibernate, Spring Batch, Eclipse, Jboss, SVN, Oracle, Check Style, PMD, Jalopy, JUnit, Maven, CSS, HTML, SQL Developer, Eclipse IDE, Oracle 10g Java Developer Ally Bank October 2013 to July 2015 Responsibilities:  * Involved in creation of Low-Level Design including sequence diagrams and class diagrams to comprehend the existing architecture.  * Developed the presentation tier using HTML, CSS, JSP, Servlets, JSTL, Ajax and Struts.  * Used Struts-Validator frame-work for all front-end Validations for all the form entries.  * Used Struts framework for the MVC implementation and Hibernate as ORM tool for database communication.  * Used Spring (MVC) architecture to implement the application using the concrete principles lay down by several design patterns such as Composite View, Session Facade, Business Delegate, Bean Factory, Singleton, Data Access Object and Service Locator.  * Involved in the integration of Spring for implementing Dependency Injection.  * Developed code for obtaining bean references in Spring IOC framework.  * Focused primarily on the MVC components such as Dispatcher Servlets, Controllers, Model and View Objects, View Resolver.  * Involved in creating the Hibernate POJO Objects and utilizing Hibernate Annotations.  * Used Hibernate, object/relational-mapping (ORM) solution, technique of mapping data.  * Developed the application using Eclipse 3.4 as the IDE and used eclipse standard/plug-in features for editing, debugging, compiling, formatting, build automation, test case template generation, mutator/accessor code generation, and version control (SVN).  * Involved in development of REST Web Services using Spring MVC to extract client related data from databases.  * Worked in Agile development environment.  * Asynchronous messaging is executed by utilizing JMS API for point-to-point messaging.  * Developed Web Services using WSDL, SOAP to communicate with the other modules.  * Involved in writing Oracle PL/SQL Stored procedures, triggers, views.  * Involved in the implementation of DAO using Spring-Hibernate ORM.  * Used WebLogic Application server to deploy and restart web applications.  * Implemented as well as exposed SOAP web services using Apache Axis.  * Implemented Java/J2EE Design patterns like singleton, MVC, Builder and Strategy patterns.  * Involved in the creation of exhaustive JUnit Unit Test Cases using Test Driven Development (TDD) technique.    Environment: JDK 6, J2EE, Spring, Hibernate, Web Services (SOAP and REST), JMS, JavaScript, JSP, XML, XSD, XSLT, Oracle PL/SQL, Maven, JUnit, Agile/Scrum Methodology, SVN Version Control, Oracle 10g, WebLogic Server, Eclipse IDE, DAO, Design patterns, Log4j. Java Developer Sonata Software Solutions November 2012 to August 2013 Responsibilities:  * Designing and developing Controllers and Action Forms using Spring Framework  * Developing font end applications using MVC Framework.  * Used Spring Framework for implementing Dependency Injection, AOP.  * Used Restful Web Services to retrieve data from different applications.  * Involved in end to end development and bug fixing.  * Consume REST Style services using JSON.  * Used Maven to build and deploy the application on tomcat server.  * Used XML SAX to parse the simulated XML file which has simulated test data  * Developing Intranet Web Application using J2EE architecture, using JSP to design the user interfaces and Hibernate for database connectivity.  * Designed and developed Controller Servlet, which will route request to Application Controller  * Extensively Worked with Eclipse as the IDE to develop, test and deploy the complete application  * Development of Hibernate objects for data fetching for batch and front-end processing  * Front end screens development using JSP with tag libraries and HTML pages.  * Designed and developed the new features in the existing application to meet the customer's satisfaction.  * Implementing JSP Standard Tag Libraries (JSTL) along with Expression Language (EL)  * Designed and developed the user interface screens, data base design changes and changes to user access modules.  * Active participation in WebLogic server and Oracle problems (killing instances, debugging server logs, applications logs)  * Written SQL Queries, stored procedures modifications to existing database structure as required per addition of new features.  * Extensively developed supporting Java Beans Components.  * Responsible for implementing the transaction management in the application by applying Spring AOP methodology.  * Used SVN for version control and used Eclipse as the IDE for developing the application.  * Used Oracle11g as backend database using Windows OS. Involved in development of Stored Procedures.  * ORM tool Hibernate 4 to represents entities and fetching strategies for optimization.    Environment: Java, J2EE, JSP, Spring 2.5, JQuery, Restful WebServices, Hibernate, JSON JPA, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Apache Tomcat 7.0, log4j, SVN, Oracle 11g, XML Skills Eclipse, Ejb, J2ee, Java, Hibernate, Spring, Jboss, Jms, jquery, Jsf, Jsp, Rmi, Servlets, Struts, Application server, C++, Html, Javascript, Json, Perl Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    Languages Java, C, C++, UML,PL/SQL  Scripting Languages JavaScript, jQuery, VBA, XSLT, Perl  J2EE Technologies Java Beans, Servlets, Applets, JSP, JDBC, EJB, JSF, JMS, RMI, Web-Services, WSDL  Frameworks Struts, Spring, Spring MVC, CXF, AXIS, JUnit, Spring AOP, Spring 4.3, Hibernate 2.0/3.0/4.x, Spring Security 3.2  DBMS/RDBMS SQL server 2005, Oracle 8i/9i/10g, Access, MySQL, Sybase, Toad  Web Technologies HTML, AJAX, JSON, JQuery, CSS, X/M,, XSL, XPATH, XQuery, SOAP,Restful  Servers Oracle WebLogic server 10.0/10.3.x, IBM Websphere 9.x/8.x/7.x/6.x, JBOSS Application Server 4.0, Apache Tomcat 4.0/5.0/6.0/7.0/8.0  IDE's  Eclipse, WebSphere Integration Developer (WID) , Rational Application Developer (RAD), NetBeans IDE, JDeveloper, Spring Tool Suite (STS) 3.8.3    Operating System Window2000/XP/Vista/7, 10/Windows Servers 2008/2012 and 2016, Unix, Red Hat Linux  Other Technologies ANT, Maven, CVS, Log4j, HQL, MS Visio, HP Qumu09ty Center, SVN, PL/SQL Developer, JUnit, JMock