Java Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Developer - Verizon Maryland, MD Maryland City, MD Work Experience Java Developer Verizon Maryland, MD August 2018 to Present Description: Verizon delivers the promise of the digital world by enhancing the ability of humans, businesses and society to do more new Verizon is a global leader delivering innovative communications and technology solutions that improve the way our customers live, work and play.    Responsibilities:  ? Extensively worked in designing and implementation of multi-tier applications using Java 8, J2EE, JDBC, JSP,HTML5, Spring Boot, AngularJS, Servlets, JavaBeans with Eclipse.  ? Working Knowledge of Network Switches and VLAN's; Cloudcomputing, F5, VPN, Routers and Firewalls, Load balancers and Web Content Filters, IP networking, Wireless network, IP based video conferencing solutions, network cabling and troubleshooting, network protocols such as TCP/IP, DNS and DHCP.  ? Diversified exposure in Software Process Engineering, designing & building a Web Application using Java/J2EE Technology, AWS& open source technologies.  ? Built application on Spring Boot running on Embedded Apache Tomcat.  ? Developed presentation tier using JSP, Java Script, HTML5 and CSS3 for manipulating, validating, customizing, error messages to the User Interface.  ? Used Maven for build automation tool to compile and generate EAR, WAR, and JAR files.  ? Created Angular 1 application using Angular-JS, Angular-UI, Bootstrap, HTML, CSS and JS  ? Configured Angular UI router to create routing for views and sub views in the application.  ? Developing Applications using latest Java/J2EE technologies such as Cassandra, Java 8, Junit.  ? Used SpringMVC components to implement business layer and Spring Boot for Micro-services.  ? Developed Restful web services using JAXWS, JAXRS and spring.  ? Web design and development, application development using Sketch, HTML, JavaScript and Dreamweaver.  ? Created Responsive Design (Mobile/Tablet/Desktop) using HTML5 & CSS3.  ? Developed the User Interface using HTML 5, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery and AJAX.  ? Used AJAX and JSON to make asynchronous calls to the project server to fetch data on the fly.  ? Updated the existing application to use John Papa standards for a better code quality.  ? Developed UI using HTML 5, Bootstrap, Java Script, and Angular JS for interactive cross browser functionality.  ? Worked on Twitter Bootstrap to create Responsive Web Design.  ? Developed and build Ant scripts, Maven for packaging the application code.  ? Implemented user interface guidelines and standards throughout the development and maintenance of the website using DHTML, HTML5, CSS3, and JavaScript.  ? Used AJAX and angular promises to make API calls.  ? Used Jenkins for Continuous Integration and deployment into Tomcat Application Server.  ? Worked on unit testing the application using Jasmine, Karma.  ? Implemented Angular Controllers to maintain each view data.  ? Implemented Angular Service calls using Angular Factory.  ? Developed services with Angular 2- injectable property, as to make the service available for dependency injection when creating components.  ? Designed and managed API system deployment using fast http server and Amazon AWS architecture and automated AWSS3 data upload / download using python scripts.  ? We setup the development environment using Node.js, NPM, Grunt, Bower, GIT.  ? Created RFP micro service to provide RestfulAPI utilizing Spring Boot with Micro-services.  ? Used Node JS to run ES6, Maven and Web pack tasks to build properly the project.  ? Involved in many requirement gathering discussions and closely worked with business as an SME.  ? Created custom directives and controllers to use across the application which reduces the duplication of the code.  ? Used GIT SVN for version management for staging and stashing.  ? Created stubbed JSON files ahead to determine Java engineers the structure for the form.  ? Created custom filters using Angular 2.  ? Performed form validations using reactive forms from Angular 2 framework.  ? Collaborated with designers to create responsive Single Page Applications (SPA) on with Angular 4Routing.  ? Maintaining Parent and child elements by using State and Props in React JS.  ? Expertise in analyzing the Document Object Model (DOM) Layout, DOM Functions, and Java Script functions, Cascading Styles across cross-browser using Fire Bug, Developer Tool Bar.  ? Experienced in working with redux architecture using complex Object-Oriented concepts in improving the performance of the websites.  ? Experience in using React JS components, Forms, Events, Keys, Router, Redux, Animations and Flux concept.  ? Pleasant Experience in React.js for creating interactive UI's using One-way data flow, Virtual DOM, JSX, concepts.  ? Wrote services to store data and retrieve user data from MongoDB for the application.  ? Worked on various form validations like field level front-end validations.    Environment:Angular JS 1.4/2, AWS, ES6, React JS, Web pack, Redux, GIT Hub, Node JS, Java 8, JavaScript, HTML5, CSS3, JQuery, Bootstrap JS, Backbone.JS, Mongo DB, Sketch, Dreamweaver, JSON, AJAX, DHTML, XML, Gulp, Grunt, Eclipse, Sublime Text. Java Developer Vetaran Affairs - Shalimar, FL May 2017 to July 2018 Description: The United States Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) is a federal Cabinet-level agency that provides near-comprehensive healthcare services to eligible military veterans at VA medical centers and outpatient clinics located throughout the country; several non-healthcare benefits including disability compensation, vocational rehabilitation, education assistance, home loans, and life insurance; and provides burial and memorial benefits to eligible veterans and family members at 135 national cemeteries.    Responsibilities:  ? Extensively worked in designing and implementation of multi-tier applications using Java 8, J2EE, JDBC, JSP,HTML5, Spring Boot, AngularJS, Servlets, JavaBeans with Eclipse.  ? Working Knowledge of Network Switches and VLAN's; Cloud computing, F5, VPN, Routers and Firewalls, Load balancers and Web Content Filters, IP networking, Wireless network, IP based video conferencing solutions, network cabling and troubleshooting, network protocols such as TCP/IP, DNS and DHCP.  ? Diversified exposure in Software Process Engineering, designing & building a Web Application using Java/J2EE Technology, AWS& open source technologies.  ? Built application on Spring Boot running on Embedded Apache Tomcat.  ? Developed presentation tier using JSP, Java Script, HTML5 and CSS3 for manipulating, validating, customizing, error messages to the User Interface.  ? Used Maven for build automation tool to compile and generate EAR, WAR, and JAR files.  ? Created Angular 1 application using Angular-JS, Angular-UI, Bootstrap, HTML, CSS and JS  ? Configured Angular UI router to create routing for views and sub views in the application.  ? Developing Applications using latest Java/J2EE technologies such as Cassandra, Java 8, Junit.  ? Used Spring MVC components to implement business layer and Spring Boot for Micro-services.  ? Developed Restful web services using JAXWS, JAXRS and spring.  ? Web design and development, application development using Sketch, HTML, JavaScript and Dreamweaver.  ? Created Responsive Design (Mobile/Tablet/Desktop) using HTML5 & CSS3.  ? Developed the User Interface using HTML 5, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery and AJAX.  ? Used AJAX and JSON to make asynchronous calls to the project server to fetch data on the fly.  ? Updated the existing application to use John Papa standards for a better code quality.  ? Developed UI using HTML 5, Bootstrap, Java Script, and Angular JS for interactive cross browser functionality.  ? Worked on Twitter Bootstrap to create Responsive Web Design.  ? Developed and build Ant scripts, Maven for packaging the application code.  ? Implemented user interface guidelines and standards throughout the development and maintenance of the website using DHTML, HTML5, CSS3, and JavaScript.  ? Used AJAX and angular promises to make API calls.  ? Used Jenkins for Continuous Integration and deployment into Tomcat Application Server.  ? Worked on unit testing the application using Jasmine, Karma.  ? Implemented Angular Controllers to maintain each view data.  ? Implemented Angular Service calls using Angular Factory.  ? Developed services with Angular 2- injectable property, as to make the service available for dependency injection when creating components.  ? Designed and managed API system deployment using fast http server and Amazon AWS architecture and automated AWSS3 data upload / download using python scripts.  ? We setup the development environment using Node.js, NPM, Grunt, Bower, GIT.  ? Created RFP micro service to provide Restful API utilizing Spring Boot with Micro-services.  ? Used Node JS to run ES6, Maven and Webpack tasks to build properly the project.  ? Involved in many requirement gathering discussions and closely worked with business as an SME.  ? Created custom directives and controllers to use across the application which reduces the duplication of the code.  ? Used GIT SVN for version management for staging and stashing.  ? Created stubbed JSON files ahead to determine Java engineers the structure for the form.  ? Created custom filters using Angular 2.  ? Performed form validations using reactive forms from Angular 2 framework.  ? Collaborated with designers to create responsive Single Page Applications (SPA) on with Angular 4Routing.  ? Maintaining Parent and child elements by using State and Props in React JS.  ? Expertise in analyzing the Document Object Model (DOM) Layout, DOM Functions, and Java Script functions, Cascading Styles across cross-browser using Fire Bug, Developer Tool Bar.  ? Experienced in working with redux architecture using complex Object-Oriented concepts in improving the performance of the websites.  ? Experience in using React JS components, Forms, Events, Keys, Router, Redux, Animations and Flux concept.  ? Pleasant Experience in React.js for creating interactive UI's using One-way data flow, Virtual DOM, JSX, concepts.  ? Wrote services to store data and retrieve user data from MongoDB for the application.  ? Worked on various form validations like field level front-end validations.    Environment: Angular JS 1.4/2, AWS, ES6, React JS, Webpack, Redux, GITHub, Node JS, Java 8, JavaScript, HTML5, CSS3, JQuery, Bootstrap JS, Backbone.JS, Mongo DB, Sketch, Dreamweaver, JSON, AJAX, DHTML, XML, Gulp, Grunt, Eclipse, Sublime Text, Java Developer UPS - Atlanta, GA January 2016 to April 2017 Description: United Parcel Service (UPS) is an American multinational package delivery and supply chain management company. Which is a part of the Greater Atlanta metropolitan area.  Responsibilities:    ? Involved in SDLC phase of requirement analysis, design and development of the web based intranet application tool using Java, J2EE, Hibernate, Spring MVC, Web Services, SQL and Oracle.  ? Developed multiple web Applications using Web Services (Restful) and Java for multiple modules in the application.  ? Extensive experience of Object Oriented JavaScript design pattern and JavaScript MVC Patterns Preferably Angular JS and React JS.  ? Developed UI build scripts to perform various build tasks such as minification of CSS, JS, execution of tests etc using Gulp.  ? Worked with React JS to build bootstrap components for UI web objects. Linked with API data to view render virtual DOM dynamically.  ? Responsible for transforming design mock-ups to W3C standards compliant HTML pages using XHTML, CSS, JavaScript, and JQuery, JSP/JSON, XML and XSLT.  ? Worked on various mobile frameworks like JQuery mobile.  ? Responsible for designing mobile applications.  ? Configured and built Spring MVC application on Tomcat web server.  ? Rewrite existing Python/Flask module to deliver certain format of data. Created script in python and ANT for calling REST APIs.  ? Implemented user interface guidelines and standards throughout the development and maintenance of the website using DHTML (HTML, CSS and JavaScript).  ? Developed callback functions to parse and handle JSON data returned from the server. The tech stack is LESS, and cutting edge server side technologies.  ? Created personal blog using Tencent Cloud Computing Virtual Machine; performed CVM purchasing and cloud product testing  ? Developed Web App for Cross device interaction between, desktop browser, iPhone and iPad, using advanced HTML5 Web APIs, SASS, CSS3, Web Sockets.  ? Deployed code on Apache Tomcat web application server.  ? Built XML based data exchanges; used DOM for parsing and XML creation out of Java code using NetBeans.  ? Developed and designed XML Schemas to transport and store data. XML was used to simplify data and allow for Platform Changes, as well as making data more available across the applications distributed platforms.  ? Develop solutions for migrating legacy or early stage technology to cloud environments for high performance distributed computing within cloud infrastructures.  ? Extensively used XSLT to transform XML documents to HTML.  ? Wrote custom JQuery plugins and developed JavaScript functions to build a bleeding-edge, AJAX-driven user interface.  ? Worked on JQuery Light box for creating image and video galleries.  ? Worked on creating an API layer on Node JS server and developing 3rd party Web apps with ANT to interact with the API server.  ? Worked in using React JS components, Forms, Events, Keys, Router, Animations, and Flux concept.  ? Responsible for React UI and architecture. Building components library, including Tree, Slide-View, and Table Grid.  ? Worked on React JS Virtual Dom and React views, rendering using components which contains additional components called custom HTML tags.  ? Implemented various screens for the front end using React.js and used various predefined components from NPM (Node Package Manager) and Redux library.  ? Used Express, EJS, jQuery, and MySQL.  ? Implemented dynamic page elements and form error validations using JavaScript.  ? Created AJAX calls to exchange (request / responses) information with database.  ? Developed social network services for user interaction using Ajax, JavaScript, CSS and DHTML.  ? Used Subversion (SVN) as a repository tool and as a version control.  ? Worked on Angular JS 1.4 features like Two Way Binding, Custom Directives, Controllers, Filters, Services and Project Architecture.  ? Familiar in writing Custom Directives in Angular JS, making use of modules and Filters objects according to the application requirement by business users.    Environment: HTML, XHTML, XML, XSLT, XPATH, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, JSP, JSON, AJAX, React Js, NPM, Redux, Flux, DOM, MySQL, Aptana Studio 2.0, NetBeans, Sub Version, MySQL, ANT. Java Developer Delta Airlines - Atlanta, GA May 2014 to December 2015 Description: Delta Air Lines, Inc., often referred to simply as Delta, is a major United States airline, with its headquarters and largest hub at Hartsfield-Jackson Atlanta International Airport in Atlanta, Georgia. It is an information technology enabler, which offers its services to consumers and enterprises worldwide. Providing services and solutions, it has been helping companies achieve desired outcomes.    Responsibilities:  ? Worked on analysis, design, development, deployment and testing of the application  ? Involved in designing Application based on MVC architecture  ? Created service layer using SOAP web services and JAXB  ? Designed and developed for the Presentation layer using MVCStrutsFrame work  ? Created the JSPs, Action classes and Action forms for the Presentation layer  ? Used Java/J2EE Design patterns such as MVC, Singleton, Service Locator, DAO  ? Implemented server side validation using StrutsValidationFramework.  ? Extensively used AWS to integration with Enterprise and web applications. Persistence layer implemented using Hibernateframework  ? Developed Persistence classes and hibernate, cfg, xml and other configuration files for Hibernate mapping to Oracle database  ? Used different HibernateAPIS like Configuration, Session Factory, Session and Hibernate Transaction Manager for writing the persistence logic  ? Unit tested with JUnit and involved in System testing, Load testing and User Acceptance testing and fixed the bugs  ? Developed build scripts using ANT tool for compilation and deployment purpose  ? Implemented logging using log4j and apache commons-logging framework    Environment: Java, Hibernate, Struts, Web sphere, SOAP, Oracle, CVS, ANT, JSP, Servlets, JUnit, ANT, log4j, HTML, JavaScript. Java/J2EE Developer Sun Software technologies - Hyderabad, Telangana December 2012 to April 2014 Description: Sun Software Technologies recognizes the fundamental need for businesses and IT departments to take a strategic approach to secure the talent resources required to accomplish their objectives. Some initiatives may require mission-critical skills for extended periods of time. Other undertakings may require shorter life cycles and are best suited for utilizing a third party consulting resource. Sun Technologies offers value added solutions to match your goals.    Responsibilities:  ? Extensively use of Core Java features including Collection, Exception Handling, Generics, and Annotation in the logic tier to implement the mortgage calculator algorithms such as monthly payment for fix rate and ARM.  ? Designed the back-end server, build web service to provide a result and generate a report and the front-end user interface.  ? Made extensive use of Java Naming and Directory Interface (JNDI) for looking up enterprise beans.  ? Developed Presentation and validation layers using JSP, HTML5, and CSS3 Custom Tag Libraries.  ? Retrieved data from the Restfulwebservice for calculation using AJAX call.  ? Created JUnit test cases for DAO and Service Layer methods.  ? Extensively used JQuery validation package to make client-side user input validation.  ? Extensively used SpringIOC features with spring framework for bean injection and transaction management.  ? Extensively used Spring Cache to avoid the repeated logic calculation and access database.  ? Used JSP, JavaScript, and JDBC to create web Servlets.  ? Created tables in the database based on the Entity-relationship model that is provided by the database architect.  ? Used SVN for version control.    Environment: Java, J2EE, Spring, JDBC, JSP, Web Services, REST, Oracle, JavaScript, HTML, CSS3, JQuery, JUnit 4, AJAX, SVN. Associate Java Developer Vintech Systems - Hyderabad, Telangana February 2011 to November 2012 Description: Vintech Systems are specialists in the supply, installation and service of accommodation specific products. Including electronic locks and locking systems, energy saving devices, in-room digital safes and energy efficient mini bars. Being part of the Zigbee alliance we can offer full system integration and in-room automation including automatic mini bars. We are an innovative company covering the entire Southern Pacific region. We pride ourselves on our high level of service and our respected position in the marketplace.    Responsibilities:  ? Coordinated software system installation and monitor equipment functioning to ensure specifications are met.  ? Actively involved in project development and bug fixing for the project. Worked closely with students, helped in the deeper understanding of concepts.  ? Involved in requirement analysis and client interaction, responsible for writing hibernate mapping XML Files, HQL.  ? Worked closely with business analysts, project managers and project leaders to analyze business requirements.  ? Used J2EE design patterns like Factory, Singleton. Involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) as requirement gathering, modeling, analysis, architecture design and development.  ? Worked in a fast-paced environment and meeting all the requirements.  ? Created applications involving JSP, JavaScript, JQuery and HTML. Extensively used various collection classes like Array List, Hash Map, Hash Table, and Hash Set.  ? Creating technical specifications, coding, unit and system integration testing for the enhancements and conducted reviews with end users.  ? Created new database connection for MYSQL.  ? Developed the application using Spring MVC Framework by implementing controller and backend service classes.  ? Followed Java coding standards while developing the application.    Environment: Eclipse, MySQL Server, JSP, JavaScript, jQuery, Java, C, HTML5 and CSS3. Education Bachelor's Skills Eclipse, Ejb, Java, Hibernate, Spring, Jboss, Jbuilder, Jdk, jquery, Jsf, Jsp, Servlets, Struts, Design patterns, Git, Groovy, Node.js, Oop, Python, Ruby, Javascript Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Languages Java 8 (JDK 1.4/1.5/1.6/1.7/1.8), Java Swings, JSF, JUnit, Log4J, Ant, Maven, Python, Ruby on Rails.  Methodologies/Design patterns OOAD, OOP, UML, MVC, DAO, Factory pattern, Session Façade, Singleton, Agile, Scrum, Test Driven Development.  Web Technologies  JSP, Servlets, Angular JS, JQuery, React.JS, Node.JS, EJB, Hibernate, Struts, Spring, JDBC, HTML5, DHTML and XML, CSS3, Web Services, WSDL, SOAP, MQ Series, Apache Camel, Kafka, Spring Boot, Express.js.    Web Services SOAP, Restful Web Services  Frameworks Struts, Spring, Hibernate, Spring MVC, Spring Web Flow, Spring IOC, Spring AOP, Groovy.  Application/Web Servers JBoss, Glassfish 2.1, Web Logic, Web Sphere, Apache Tomcat Server.  IDE Tools Eclipse (Juno, Galileo, Helios, Indigo), Rational Application Developer (RAD) and Net Beans, STS.  OR Mapping Hibernate, IBATIS.  Databases Oracle 11g, MySQL, SQL, Mongo DB.  Reporting/Messaging Tools Crystal Reports, BO XI R3, Active MQ, Rabbit MQ.  Cloud AWS EC2, RDS, S3, ELB, SNS.  Version Control Tools CVS,SVN, Clear Case, Git  Testing Selenium, Karma.  Tools  Rational Rose 2000, JBuilder 3.5/5.0, Visual Cafe 4.0, Visual Age Java 3.5, eclipse 3.X, MS-Office, Front Page, Ultra Edit 32, Clear Case, iReport -1.2.5.    Operating System Windows, Linux, Unix, Mac, Solaris.