Java Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Developer - one of the public government-sponsored enterprise, VA McLean, VA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Java Developer one of the public government-sponsored enterprise, VA October 2017 to Present Project Summary: Selling System (Loan Selling Advisor)  Integrates all secondary marketing functions, from pricing to funding, so sellers can easily deliver loans to Freddie Mac. Loan Selling Advisor is the solution for pricing, contracting and loan delivery needs, helps you easily deliver loans to them with greater certainty that they meet Freddie Mac requirements. Reskinning and Redesigning of existing screens are done as part of this project.    Responsibilities:  • Working with different teams, Tech Leads and Project Manager to understand the framework of the application and participate in requirements gathering.  • Involved in the migration of part of legacy system into microservice application.  • Created Technical design documents which includes system enhancement design and flow further involved in reviews for validating the design documents.  • Responsible for writing Web API controllers for providing REST services for making API calls.  • Working on developing business modules which sends events to downstreams.  • Worked on GIT for source code version control.  • Involved in Maven build script changes for the build and deployment.  • Support for Production release and Production bug fixes.  • Responsible for application support by performing root cause analysis and bugs fixing.  • Involved in daily SCRUM meetings for understanding status of work done and to be done to meet the deadlines.  • As part of BDD helped automation team in writing glue code for the Gherkin scripts.    Technology/Tools: JAVA, Spring, spring boot, Restful webservice, Eclipse, Splunk, Maven, Jenkins, Junit, DB2. Sr. Java Developer Cognizant Technology Solutions April 2016 to June 2017 Project Summary: NPP- New Payments Platform  The New Payments Platform (NPP) is an industry-wide payments platform for Australia. The New Payments Platform is new national infrastructure for fast, flexible, data rich payments in Australia. This has 3 major modules PTM, Gateway and reference data. The PTM will receive request from channel and validate, enrich and pass through to downstream via gateway. The refData support file processing to update Accounting system details in PTM system    Responsibilities:  • Working with application team, Project Lead and Project Manager to understand the framework of the application and participate in requirements gathering.  • Responsible for coding & implementing new functionality and modules.  • Responsible for processing different files from different Accounting system.  • Responsible for enhancements of existing system.  • • Involved in Unit Testing and Functional testing.  • Coordination with Onsite on requirement gathering phase being in Client location.  • Coordination during design phase with onsite and offshore team in Client location.  • Configuration of the Integrated Development Environment used, i.e., Intellij  • Developed with a central repository system: BIT bucket.  • Performed unit testing for developed screens and Concordion for functional testing.  • Involving Unit Testing, Integration Testing and Regression Testing in a regular basis to improve the performance of the application.  • Involved in Sprint methodologies of project like daily standups, sprint deliverables, retrospective meetings etc.    Technology/Tools: JAVA, Spring, Restful webservice, Eclipse, Splunk, Maven, Jenkins, Junit, Concordion Apache Camel. Sr. Java Developer Cognizant Technology Solutions - IN October 2015 to April 2016 Project Summary: PTM- Payment Transaction Manager  PTM - Payment transaction manager, it will onboard different channels to process the payments. On boarded GLMS channel global loan messaging system, which process loan for Australia and New Zealand region. PTM will process all kind of payments like BKT, IMT, RTGS and LVP.  PTM project is to create a unified payment engine which will replace all the current payment products and application that are in production. This newly created payment engine will serve as the gateway in the future for all types of payment processing for all channels in the payment eco-system supported by the bank.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in Requirements gathering, Analysis and design, Estimations, Code reviews.  • Involved in GUI code and server code development.  • Involved in coding the application using Spring, Javascript, SOAP, JQuery.  • Delivered code by maintaining quality using static code analysis (Sonar) tool, code complexity tool etc.  • Involved in Unit Testing and Integration testing.  • Log4j package is used for the logging framework.  • Created JUnit test case design logic and implemented throughout application.  • Involved in Sprint methodologies of project like daily standups, sprint deliverables, retrospective meetings etc.  • Deployed and tested the application on Weblogic server    Environment: JAVA, Spring, Hibernate, IntelliJ, GIT, SVN, JSON, JUnit, Powermock, Easymock, Maven, Jenkins. Java Developer HCL Technologies August 2013 to September 2015 Project Summary: DB ADAPTER  It is a toolkit for system integration; it can provide connectivity between business systems. It has services for message processing and enhancement. Delivery of business messages in real time (trades/prices). It is written on top of OpenAdaptor framework. It has Source, Pipe and Sink. Source provides ways of connecting to the application. Pipe provides value added services such as message level validation, filtering, encryption. Sink supports MOM products.  Responsibilities:  • Designed and developed several RESTful web services that support JSON for other developers to access to speed up development within the team using Spring MVC, Spring Web Services, JSON, Log4J, RESTful, PostgreSQL and Maven.  • Developed Spring REST services, JSON for communication of server and GUI.  • Used Jackson framework to convert JSON objects to Java Objects.  • Responsible for writing complex Stored Procedures, Functions for data in the application.  • Created Store Procedures, Functions, and Triggers in Development and Production environment for PostgreSQL.  • Developed reporting framework to generate Discovery configuration, Inventory, Compatibility analysis reports using dynamic reports.  • Deployed and tested the application on Apache Tomcat server.  • Responsible for running nightly build Jobs using Jenkins.  • Responsible for online code reviews using Gerrit tool, refactoring code of other developers.  • Worked on GIT for code control versioning.  • Involved in Unit Testing, Integration Testing and Regression Testing in a regular basis to improve the performance of the application.    Environment: JAVA, Spring, Hibernate, Eclipse, Restful webservice, Apache Tomcat. Java Developer HCL Technologies June 2012 to August 2013 Project Summary: GDD-New  PTM - Payment transaction manager, it will onboard different channels to process the payments. On boarded GLMS channel global loan messaging system, which process loan for Australia and New Zealand region. PTM will process all kind of payments like BKT, IMT, RTGS and LVP.  PTM project is to create a unified payment engine which will replace all the current payment products and application that are in production. This newly created payment engine will serve as the gateway in the future for all types of payment processing for all channels in the payment eco-system supported by the bank.    Responsibilities:  • Responsible for reviewing the existing design which was causing performance problem.  • Worked on new Enhancements as per change requests - Responsible for designing the Change Request including Impact Analysis and Effort Estimation.  • Involved in client interaction for Change Requests and design signoff. • Regular Project status calls with the client and onshore team. Effective communication. Java Developer HCL Technologies June 2009 to June 2012 Project Summary: FIX ENGINE  Provides an interface to external clients and ECNs to connect CITI applications through sockets over FIX Protocol. Internally it connects to Price Controller, ARLite, AutoResponse for price feed and deal execution through messaging system like TIBCO RV. An External tool called TCM6.2 facilitates FIX protocol processing on FIX Engine.  Responsibilities:  • Understanding the requirements of the client and act as a sole functional resource.  • Interacted with the client at all stages  • Writing the interfaces at different layer like Struts Action, JSP, and Core java  • Conducting the UT & IT as per the test cases and giving UAT support also  • Clarify any queries regarding the functionality of project.  • Development, testing and debugging  • Prepared Unit test cases  • Development of analytics to show in consolidated views using stored procedures, triggers in MySQL.    Environment: JAVA, Spring, ANT, MySQL Education Bachelor's Skills Eclipse, J2ee, Java, Hibernate, Spring, Git, Javascript, Json, Scripting, Svn, Xml, Ant, Maven, Angularjs, Mvc, Soap, Db2, Mysql, Postgresql, Sql, JEE, JSP, Java J2Ee, Rest, Core Java Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    Operating systems: Windows, Unix/ Linux  Technologies: XML, Web services (RESTful and SOAP), SQL, MVC  Languages J2EE Frameworks Java-J2EE, SQL, Web-Services(SOAP/REST) Spring, Hibernate, Apache Camel  Front End UI JavaScript JSON  Scripting Languages JavaScript, AngularJS.  Databases PostgreSQL, MySQL, DB2  Tools Eclipse, IntelliJ, Ant, Maven  Version control Tools GIT, SVN, CVS