Java Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Developer - State of MA Boston, MA • Over 8+ years of experience in analysis, design, implementation, and testing of Object-Oriented Applications in Client/Server environments using Java/J2EE.  • Experienced in Java Web-based, Desktop Based Development with Concepts of, Object Oriented Design (OOD), Object Oriented Analysis (OOA), Object Oriented Programming (OOP) and its implementation.  • Experience working with various Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) methodologies based on Agile, Scrum, Waterfall Model, Iteration.  • Expertise in design and development of various web and enterprise-level applications using Java/J2EE technologies Such as Spring, Hibernate, Struts framework, EJB, Servlets 3.x.  • Experienced in Middleware persistence framework like Hibernate/JPA for mapping Java classes to thedatabase and using Hibernate Query Language (HQL).  • Experienced in Front End frameworks such asjQuery, Ajax, JavaScript, Nodejs, ReactJS, BackboneJS, AngularJs.  • Experience with setup and maintenance of WebLogic Server, Apache, Tomcat, LDAP.  • Experienced in creating dashboards, reports using BackboneJS.  • Experienced in Full stack front-end technologies using GruntJS, Gulp Server, Yeoman generator for Angular.  • Implemented based on corresponding view components with view components JSP, Html, html5, CSS 3, XSD, XSTL.  • Experienced in implementing Service-oriented architecture and Web Services using SOAP, RESTFUL.  • Solid Hands-on experience in end to end implementation of CI and CD (Continuous Delivery), DevOps processes using AWS Code Commit AWS Code Deploy, AWS Code Pipeline, Jenkins, and Ansible.  • GUI development using Swing and Eclipse RCP.  • Experience with Java 8 features such as lambda expressions, Parallel operations on collections and for effective sorting mechanisms and new Date Time API.  • Experience in developing and a solid understanding of Service Oriented Architecture and Microservices Architecture.  • Red Hat JBoss was used for Building, deploying, and hosting enterprise Java applications and services.  • Proven experience in writing Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, Functions, and Packages using TOAD.  • Excellent experience with major relational databases - Oracle [ ] SQL Server [ ] DB2, My SQL.  • Performance optimization by indexing, grouping, map-reduce on NoSQL DB.  • Experience in software configuration management using CVS, SVN and IBM Clear Case.  • Hands on experience with build tools like ANT, Maven, Jenkins and logging tools like Log4J.  • Expertise in testing with JUnit using tools like JMeter.  • Expertise in using IDEs like Eclipse, Net Beans, and RAD for developing and debugging rapid web and enterprise Java applications.  • Good working experience in using ANT and Maven scripts for building and deploying the application in web/App servers.  • Expertise in developing REST APIs with Resource-basedURLs and HATEOAS techniques using Jersey and REST Easy implementations of JAX-RS.  • Extensive experience in working on multiple operating systems including UNIX, Sun Solaris, Linux,and Microsoft Windows.  • Goal oriented individual with excellent analytical, problem-solving, communication and interpersonal skills with the ability to interact with individuals at all levels and work independently. Work Experience Java Developer State of MA - Boston, MA August 2018 to Present Description:Mass.gov is committed to achieving meaningful accessibility to this online environment for all users, including users with disabilities. We follow specific Commonwealth enterprise standards designed to meet the needs of our citizens with disabilities. The Commonwealth enterprise standards are generally based on standards used by the federal government for technology accessibility for people with disabilities, as well as web content accessibility guidelines developed by the World Wide Web Consortium (W3C).    Responsibilities:  • Involved in the complete SDLC including thedesign of System Architecture, development of System Use Cases based on the functional requirements.  • Involved in Daily Scrum (Agile) meetings, Sprint planning and estimation of the tasks for the user stories, participated in retrospective and presenting Demo at the end of the sprint.  • Designed and coded controller classes using J2SE that would talk to real hardware controller to access their states and gave the user control over the hardware through the multithreaded UI.  • Used JSP, HTML5, CSS3,and JavaScript to construct the dynamic web pages (presentation Layer) for the application.  • Used Spring Boot framework for building cloud Micro Services and to develop Spring-based application radically faster with very less configuration.  • Used AngularJS 4.0 and Backbone.JS for client-side validation.  • Wrote SQL stored procedures and views, Reviewed normalized/Denormalized schemas for effective and optimum performance tuning queries and data validation in OLTP environments.  • Created Single page application using Backbone.JS and Node.JS to handle thedata flow.  • Used JavaScript latest version of libraries based on running in the Node.js environment.  • Analyzed the Maven dependency management in thebase code to annotate the dependencies on to Spring Boot application into Gradle for Micro Services.  • Implemented API controllers (SOAP and REST) and web services client classes to interact with downstream systems.  • Deployed and Monitored Micro Services Using Pivotal Cloud Foundry, also Managed Domains and Routes with the Cloud Foundry.  • Worked with core Java technologies like Multi-Threading and synchronization.  • Integrating SonarQube In the CI Pipeline for Coverage reports and Sonar Metrics.  • Implemented RESTful Web services to retrieve data from the client side and made REST API calls from Angular JS and parsed the data to project to theclient and handled the security and Authorization using Spring Security and OAuth.  • Followed Test Driven Development (TDD) during the entire development phase.  • Developed Business objects using POJOs and data access layer using Hibernate framework.  • Responsible for maintaining and expanding AWS (Cloud Services) infrastructure using AWS Stack especially worked with database setup and maintenance on AWS EC2.  • Achieved Dependency injection by creating Spring services, Spring controllers and DAOs to wire objects of business classes.  • Implemented DAO pattern to fetch data from database using Hibernate to carry out various database operations and avoid redundant database access statements.  • Used Hibernate Transaction Management, Spring/Hibernate Batch Transactions and Hibernate cache concepts.  • Used Spring Data Framework to use the features of Spring JDBC and Spring ORM classes like JDBC Template and Hibernate Template to perform the database operations by connecting to Data sources available.  • Developed user interface as JSF, prime faces, HTML and CSS and BOOTSTRAP with custom tag libraries using JSF Framework.  • Used Microservices to communicate using synchronous protocols HTTP and REST.  • Implementing or exposing the Microservices based on RESTful API utilizing Spring Boot with Spring MVC.  • Developed and used REST web services for the reporting framework.  • Focused on Test Driven Development thereby creating detailed JUnit tests for every single piece of functionality before writing the functionality.  • Developed build and deployment scripts using MAVEN as build tools in Jenkins to move from one environment to other environments.  • Used MongoDB as data storage and utilized aspects like replica sets, Sharding,and clever document design to make service extensible scale and feature wise.  • Used JIRA ticketing system to keep track of issues and tasks on individuals.    Environment: JAVA, HTML5, CSS3, jQuery, Ajax, AngularJS 4, Bootstrap, Node JS, JSON, J2EE, Spring Framework 4.2.0, Spring MVC 4.2, Spring Security, Spring Boot, Spring Data (Spring JDBC, Spring ORM), JSP2.0, Hibernate 4.0, Web services, RESTful, RAD, WebSphere, Maven, JIRA, JBoss, JUnit, TDD, MongoDB, Micro Services, GITHUB. Java Developer BCBS - Newark, NJ May 2017 to July 2018 Description: Blue Cross Blue Shield Association (BCBSA) is a federation of 36 separate United States health insurance organizations and companies, providing health insurance in the United States to more than 106 million people.Blue Cross was founded in 1929 and became the Blue Cross Association in 1960, while Blue Shield emerged in 1939 and the Blue Shield Association was created in 1948. The two organizations merged in 1982.    Responsibilities:  • Gathered user requirements, analyzed and wrote functional and technical specifications, we use SharePoint to maintain all our design docs.  • Followed Agile software methodology for software development (3-week Sprint)  • Worked on one of the UI based application and client focus more on thelook and feel of the UI. We use lots of customs components to design the UI. Chase standards and HTML, CSS, JavaScript, AJAX, AngularJs is being used intensively.  • Participated in the design and development of database schema and Entity-Relationship diagrams of the backend Oracle database tables for the application.  • Distributed computing problems involving Data Synapse and Oracle Coherence, web-based applications using ASP.NET front-end and Java/WebLogic web services back-end, etc.  • Designed and Developed Stored Procedures, Triggers in Oracle to cater to the needs for the entire application. Developed complex SQL queries for extracting data from the database.  • Used Spring MVC framework on the server side for creating RESTful services by giving JSON out and modifying the DOM object on UI, by making HTTP calls and used GET and PUT.  • Implemented Core - Java concepts like Inheritance, Polymorphism, Abstraction,and Encapsulation.  • Created multiple mid-tier services to interact with multiple validations and worked on entitlements services to do user validations Interaction and worked on applying security systems.  • Worked with Oracle database and used Hibernate (ORM). Created POJO/Data  • Objects in mid-tier service. Hands on experience in implementing lazy loading, first and second level of caching.  • Understanding Business Coordinating with theOffshore team in India and being flexible on gathering updated from theteam. Work closely with the Database team and testing team.  • Involved in thediscussion of Data Model design for complex logic.  • Worked on Jasper reports using iReport tool and integrated that JRXML into spring framework.  • Developed batch processes to perform the daily updates using Spring Batch module.  • Wrote SQL commands and Stored Procedures to retrieve data from Oracle database. Worked to plug this procedure in Java classes.  • Developed the application using Singleton, Business Delegate,and Data Transfer Object design patterns in the project.  • Integrated and developed UI components with business components. Worked on UI components and have worked intensively on HTML, CSS, AJAX, JAVASCRIPT. Also used IE/Firefox to debug and analyze the UI code. Interact with business on daily scrum and show them our daily progress on UI designs.  • Created Stored procedures using PL-SQL for data modification (For insert, update, delete) in Oracle by joining business tables.  • We are using crucible while we commit code into SVN for reviewing the code.  • Worked on spring integration for loading files in thedatabase and worked on modifying stored procs. Used Unix commands to connect to servers and using PUTTY run the batches  • Written JUnit test cases during the development phase and used assert functions to compare two objects.  • Worked on Cucumber for Shift left testing.  • Written feature files and step Definitions. Expertise in writing cucumber feature file and debugging, setting the Data objects by preparing the values  • Used log4j for logging and SVN for version control.  • Configured and deployed aweb application in WebLogic Server.  • Created SOAP-based web services also consumed other services  • Used JIRA for bug and issue tracking.  • Good experience in documentation of designs and flow charts. Also worked on designing DATA Models and maintain the existing documents in share-point.  • Worked on Oracle coherence for clustered applications.    Environment: Java (JDK1.6 & 1.7), JEE, Spring (IOC, AOP, Batch), RESTful web services, Hibernate, Eclipse, Oracle 10g, WebLogic 10.1, UML, XSLT, HTML5, CSS3, AngularJS, JavaScript, Ajax, Log4j, Jenkins, CVS, Maven 2.0, Tomcat 7.0, SOAP, EJB 2.0, iReport, SOAP, Jenkins, Crucible, Spring integration, JBoss, Unix, XML, WSDL, TDD. Java Developer Jackson National Life - Nashville, TN January 2016 to April 2017 Description: Jackson National Life Insurance Company (often referred to as simply Jackson) is a U.S. company that offers annuities for retail investors and fixed income products for institutional investors. Jackson subsidiaries and affiliates provide specialized asset management and retail brokerage services.    Responsibilities:  • Developed and Implemented Web Services and used Spring Framework.  • Used the lightweight container of the Spring Framework to provide architectural flexibility for inversion of thecontroller (IOC)  • Implemented the caching mechanism in Hibernate to load data from Oracle database.  • Implemented application level persistence using Hibernate and Spring.  • A used prototype javascript library for front-end validations.  • Implemented Persistence layer using Hibernate to interact with the Oracle database, Used Hibernate Framework for object-relational mapping and persistence.  • Developed Servlets and JSPs based on MVC pattern using Struts framework and Spring Framework.  • Write and tests Web Services calls manually and through automation.  • Used EXTJS 4.0Javascript Framework.  • Maintained JIRA for tracking and updating project defects and tasks  • Exposed various capabilities as Web Services using SOAP/WSDL13.  • Used JavaScript, Prototype, JSF and AJAX to support the functionalities of the front end.  • Responsible for analyzing various cross-functional, multi-platform applications systems enforcing, best practices and provide guidance in making long-term architectural design decisions.  • Responsible for build and release the code from theClear case, Subversion and Perforce.  • Utilized HTML, CSS, JavaScript, and AJAX for client-side developments and validations. Designed and developed Using Performance Engineering.  • Used AJAX (Asynchronous Java API for XML) for better performance.  • Applied model-view-controller design pattern using JavaBeans, Swing and conducted simultaneous queries and retrievals using Java multithreading techniques.  • Wrote GWT code to create a presentation layer using GWT widgets and event handlers.  • Created all the services to work with the various entities provided and rectified the services using REST APIs.  • Developed GUI using JSP, Struts, HTML3, CSS3, XHTML, Swing and JavaScript to simplify the complexities of the application.  • Simulated a vending machine using the Java Swing API.  • Developed UI screens using YUI, CSS, FLEX,and jQuery.  • Developed user interfaces using JSP, framework with AJAX, JavaScript, HTML, DHTML, and CSS.  • Resolved update, merge and password authentication issues in Bamboo and JIRA  • Involved in the creation of aninterface to manage user menu and Bulk update of Attributes using JS.  • Developed Web-based Dynamic Form Builder using DHTML, JavaScript Object-to-XML.  • Designed and developed the UI using Struts view component, JSP, HTML, CSS,and JavaScript.  • Executed automated Selenium scripts and reproduced failures manually.    Environment: Java 1.5, J2EE, Spring Framework, Soap, Hibernate, HTML 4.x, CSS2.x, JavaScript, Adobe CQ, JQUERY, Junit, AJAX, JSON, XML, YUI, APACHE TOMCAT server, Multithreading, Angular JS framework, SOAP UI, REST web services, spring web flow, Bootstrap, Spring JP. Java Developer KROGER - Blue Ash, OH March 2014 to December 2015 Description: The Kroger Co., or simply Kroger, is an American retailing company founded by Bernard Kroger in 1883 in Cincinnati, Ohio. It is the United States' largest supermarket chain by revenue, the second-largest general retailer and the seventeenth largest company in the United States.  Responsibilities:    • Involved in all phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) including analysis, design, development, and testing of the project.  • Agile methodology was used to develop the application.  • Implemented Coding Using Spring, Java,and J2EE Design Patterns.  • Designed the user interface of the application using HTML5, CSS3, JSF 2.1, JavaScript and AJAX.  • Used Spring MVC architecture to separate the presentation logic, control flow with business logic.  • Maintained CSS, HTML, XSL, XSLT, JavaScript, JSP, Angular JS, and Bootstrap for designing Webpages.  • Used Object Relational Mapping (ORM) for Java persistence API.  • Developed test cases by using JUnit and spring integration test framework.  • Focused on architecting NoSQL databases like Mongo DB, and Cassandra database.  • Designed and developed the persistence layer using Hibernate persistent objects.  • Worked on JavaScript libraries like jQuery and JSON.  • Worked as a Core Java Developer and responsible for Deployment and necessary configuration of Applications in WebLogic and WebSphere Application Servers.  • Created Typescript reusable components and services to consume REST API's using Component-based architecture provided by angular 2.  • Worked with GIT Version control system to track various aspects of the project.  • Developed build script using MAVEN to build, package, test and deploy theapplicationon theapplication server.  • Used JUnit to test, debugged and implemented the application.  • Auditing tool is implemented by using log4j.  • Designed use case and class diagrams using Rational Rose. Connectivity to the database is provided using JDBC.  • Worked on web services SOAP and REST technologies    Environment: Java, J2EE, MySQL, Hibernate, React JS, Spring, Junit, Mongo DB, Cassandra, WebLogic HTML 5, CSS 3, JavaScript, jQuery, Linux, Eclipse, WebLogic, AJAX, Angular JS, JSON, JSF. Java Developer Cito Infotech Pvt Ltd - Bengaluru, Karnataka December 2012 to February 2014 Description: Founded in 2009, Cito is focused on providing comprehensive IT Infrastructure Solutions & Services. Headquartered at Bangalore, Cito has a team of highly qualified professionals who are technology focused and committed. Our knowledge of technology and business along with extensive experience of our team has enabled us to work with our customers in improving their business. We adopt and implement cost-effective and secured IT infrastructure with best of breed technologies.    Responsibilities:  • Created Class diagrams and Use Case diagrams from design spec using Rational Rose. Implementation of J2EE Design Patterns like Singleton, Session Facade, Business Delegate, and Data Access Objects.  • Actively involved in thedesign of the application architecture in lines of their own Framework based on MVC2 Architecture with JSP Front End (HTTP Request/Response Integration) as View, Servlet as Controller and combination of EJBs and Java classes as Model.  • Designed and developed presentation layer using JSP which acts as View in a distributed MVC architecture, which involves model components and controller components.  • Used Entity Beans to manage the transactions with the database to deliver the content to the presentation layer and to store the data into the data layer.  • Wrote complex SQL queries and programmed stored procedures, packages,and triggers.  • Designed and developed a business tier using EJBs. Used Session Beans to encapsulate the Business Logic.  • Developed XML and XSLT pages to store and present data to the user using parsers.  • Involved in configuration and deployment of theapplication on WebLogic Application Server. Used CVS as Version Control System performed Module and Unit Level Testing with JUnit and log4j.  • Used Apache Ant for building the application. Gained a good knowledge of browser compatibility issues and their solutions. Executed and coordinated the installation of the project.  • Worked on web-based reporting system with HTML, JavaScript,and JSP.  • Involved in the Maintenance and Enhancement of the project.    Environment: Java, J2EE, JSP 2.0, Servlets, Struts 1.1, JDBC, XML, JavaScript, HTML, XSLT, Firebug, Lotus Notes 8.5, Putty, Toad for Oracle 10g, WebSphere Application Server 6.0, RAD 7.0, JAXP, Toad Data Modeler 3.4, ANT Java Developer Selectsys - Hyderabad, Telangana January 2011 to November 2012 Description: Selectsys America Inc is a global outsourcing solutions provider. We help scale up your enterprise and significantly reduce your IT and operational costs while maintaining a high level of customer service.    Responsibilities:  • Design and Development of the Object-Oriented applications using OOA and OOD techniques in all Business Areas using Rational Rose.  • Gained substantial knowledge about the concepts, design advantages, traps and pitfalls of successful object-relational mapping.  • Worked on bug fixing and Production Support.  • Developed class diagrams, sequence diagrams and object diagrams using UML methodology.  • Wrote Client-side validation scripts using JavaScript.  • Designed and developed subsystem using Java Servlets, JSP, J2EE Entity beans and Session Beans.  • Designed and developed web pages using HTML and JSP.  • Stored data in the Oracle database and accessed using Oracle JDBC drivers.  • Used Eclipse as IDE to create, test and deploy EJB components.  • Design and developed Oracle stored procedures, functions, triggers,andPL/SQL modules.  • Imported Client data into the database from an XML file by using the XML Parser.    Environment: JDK, J2EE, Servlets, JSP, EJB, JDBC, SQL, HTML, JavaScript, Eclipse, XML and CVS. Skills Eclipse, Ejb, Java, Hibernate, Spring, Jboss, Jbuilder, Jdk, jquery, Jsf, Jsp, Servlets, Struts, Design patterns, Groovy, Node.js, Oop, Python, Reporting tools, Visual age Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Languages Java 9 (JDK 1.4/1.5/1.6/1.7/1.8), Java Swings, JSF, JUnit, Log4J, Ant, Maven, Python.  Methodologies/Design patterns OOAD, OOP, UML, MVC, DAO, Factory pattern, Session Façade, Singleton, Agile, Scrum, Test Driven Development.  Web Technologies  JSP, Servlets, AngularJs, jQuery, React.JS, Node.JS, EJB, Hibernate, Struts, Spring, JDBC, HTML5, DHTML and XML, CSS3, Web Services, WSDL, SOAP, MQ Series, Apache Camel, Kafka, Spring Boot, Express.js.    Web Services SOAP, RESTful Web Services  Frameworks Struts, Spring, Hibernate, Spring MVC, Spring Web Flow, Spring IOC, Spring AOP, Groovy.  Application/Web Servers JBoss, Glassfish 2.1, WebLogic, Web Sphere, Apache Tomcat Server.  IDE Tools Eclipse (Juno, Galileo, Helios, Indigo), Rational Application Developer (RAD) and NetBeans, STS.  Databases Oracle 11g, MySQL, SQL, MongoDB.  Reporting Tools Crystal Reports, BO XI R3.  Tools  Rational Rose 2000, JBuilder 3.5/5.0, Visual Cafe 4.0, Visual Age Java 3.5, eclipse 3.X, MS-Office, Front Page, Ultra Edit 32, Clear Case.    Operating System Windows, Linux, Unix, Mac, Solaris.