JAVA Developer <span class="hl">JAVA</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> JAVA Developer - ASURION Herndon, VA ? Around 5+ years of experience in Design, Development, Implementation and Maintenance of Java&J2EE web and client server based Internet applications.  ? Hands on experience in all stages of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC).  ? Good Knowledge and working experience on Multi-Tier Architectures and Design using client-server and Web Technologies.  ? Hands on experience in Requirement Analysis, High-level design using design patterns and Object oriented programming and OOAD concepts.  ? Experience in using Core Java, J2EE, Spring, HIBERNATE, Web Services, JPA, SOAP, REST, Servlet, JSP, JNDI, JDBC, JMS, JTS, XML, HTML, Java Script, JSON.  ? Extensive experience in working on multiple operating systems like UNIX, Linux and Windows.  ? Experience in working with object modeling using UML implementing Software Development Process.  ? Experience in working on java-programming tools like Intellij, Eclipse, Net Beans, Maven, Ant, SVN and Gradle.  ? Expertise in distributed and web environments focused in Java technologies like Collections, Multi Threading, IO, Exception Handling and memory management.  ? Strong experience in designing and working with MySQL and Oracle  ? Good knowledge on SQL  ? Experience using J2EEDesign Patterns like DAO, DTO, MVC, SINGLETON and Factory Pattern for reusing most efficient and effective strategies for new development.  ? Versatile team player with excellent analytical, communication and inter personal skills.    TECHNICAL ENVIRONMENT Work Experience JAVA Developer ASURION - Sterling, VA August 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  ? Designed and developed insurance application front end and back end business functionality, used Spring, J2EE Design Patterns such as MVC and JSP/Servlets to develop the application.  ? Mentor junior team members technically, and to comply with business mission.  ? Involved in complete Software Development Life Cycle - analysis, design, development, coding, testing, deployment and operation.  ? Utilized Hibernate for persisting data while developing an application based on Spring Framework.  ? Spring MVC model integration for front-end request action controller and Spring AOP for logging purposes.  ? Used Spring IOC for dependency injection and developed controllers for handling Http requests and providing Http response.  ? Utilized HTML, CSS, JavaScript, and AJAX for client side developments and validations.  ? Developed user interfaces using JSP, JSP Tag libraries JSTL, HTML 5, CSS3 to simplify the complexities of the application.  ? Developed REST and SOAP based Web Services for data retrieval to make it independent of the current application.  ? Implemented RESTful web services using JAX-RS and Jersey as provider.  ? Used SOAP Protocol to communicate with Quote provider's insurance claims and premiums.  ? Designed various tables required for the project in Oracle 11g database and used the stored procedures in the application and Wrote Stored Procedures, Triggers and Functions on SQL Server as well as PL/SQL on Oracle to support both databases for the application.  ? J2EE application development on Windows and UNIX platforms using MVC pattern  ? Practiced the Agile methodology for development of the project.  ? Used Jenkins to achieve continuous integration process.  ? AJAX used for the Asynchronous data populating on pages  ? Write and use SOAP based Web Services for sending and getting data from the external interfaces.  ? Application support on different environments from QA to Production. Responsible for analyzing the issues, providing technical & functional support to the users and fix them.    Environment: Java/J2EE (1.8), Spring 3, Hibernate 4, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Jenkins, Ajax, Angular JS, Intellij, MySql, Log4j, SpringMVC, SOAP, XML, Oracle 11g, SQL Server, Agile/Scrum, Windows & Linux. JAVA Developer ACCENTURE - Reston, VA November 2015 to August 2017 Responsibilities:  ? Involved in all phases of Software Development Lifecycle including Requirements gathering, Design & Analysis of the Customer Specifications, Development and Customization of the Application.  ? Developed UML diagrams like Use Case Diagrams, Class Diagrams and Sequence Diagrams to represent the detailed design phase.  ? That was an application from scratch which replaces the legacy application.  ? Took the leadership in developing the Domain modelling and Service layer for the application.  ? Application designed and developed using Java Core, J2EE, JMS, JavaScript, HTML, Spring MVC, Hibernate, Spring Integration, RESTful Services.  ? Used point-to-point JMS Queues. Involved in integrating web components with different queue based messaging services.  ? Built data access layer using annotations to define entities, relationships and named queries.  ? Implemented persistence layer using Hibernate.  ? Developing the various web modules using Spring IOC, Spring Core and Spring Batch as required.  ? Used Hibernate to interact with the Database and MySQL to fetch the data.  ? Used Cucumber BDD (behavior driven development) Framework for test execution.  ? Manage the code changes in the project by using TFS tool and used GRADLE to build the web application.  ? Designing and working with MySQL.  ? Use Teamcity for continuous integration development.  ? Resolved programming issues and documenting modules and programs  ? Used Log4j libraries for logging informational messages, debug statements, warnings and errors.  ? Worked closely with QA team on defect fixing and also worked on JUNIT.  ? Develop JUNIT test cases, to test each class as part of unit testing.    Environment: Java 1.7, Spring Framework, Kanban, GRADLE, Hibernate, Data Structures and Collections, Apache Tomcat, XML, Rest, Junit, JavaScript, HTML SQL, JMS, Intellij, MySql, Log4j, SpringMVC, Singleton Design Pattern, DAO, DTO and Factory. JAVA/J2EE Developer USAA - San Antonio, TX February 2014 to October 2015 Responsibilities:  ? Participated in the Analysis, Design, Coding, modification and implementation of user requirements.  ? Developed UML diagrams like Use Case Diagrams, Class Diagrams and Sequence Diagrams to represent the detailed design phase.  ? Developed Servlets to handle the user requests.  ? The Application is designed using J2EE technologies based on MVC architecture.  ? Implemented Service tier and Data access tier using Spring and Hibernate.  ? Developed various Test cases for Unit-Testing the code using JUNIT.  ? Created several JSP's and populated them with data from databases using JDBC.  ? Designed and worked with Oracle database.  ? Developed server side functionality for Admin Interface features (adding a User, Modifying the User Details, Assigning Roles, Modifying Roles etc).  ? Used J2EE Singleton design pattern.  ? Worked on UI Pages using XHTML, HTML and JavaScript frameworks.  ? Developed Session Beans to process requests from the user interface  ? Developed DAO classes to perform the CRUD operations.  ? Developed complex SQL queries to insert, update and used JDBC to invoke Stored Procedures  ? Used GIT for version control.  ? Manage the code changes in the project by using GIT tool and used MAVEN to build the web application.  ? Used Log4J to capture the log that includes run time exceptions.  ? Collaborated with the Testing team to fix defects found during integration and system testing.    Environment: Java 1.6, Servlet, Spring, Hibernate, collections, Spring MVC, Spring IOC, SQL, JSP, JUnit, Maven, JavaScript, XML, REST, JSON, Servlets, JSP, JDBC, , core java, JavaScript, Oracle, HTML, LINUX, Eclipse, Apache Tomcat. Education Bachelor of Computer Science in Computer Science Punjab Technical University 2011 Skills J2EE, JAVA, HIBERNATE, SPRING, JSP, SERVLETS, GRADLE, HTML, JSON, SVN, XML, DATABASE, DB2, JDBC, SQL SERVER, MYSQL, ORACLE, SQL, MVC, SDLC