Java Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Developer - Nationwide Mutual Insurance ? Around 6 years of IT Industry experience as java developer in software development life cycle core area of object oriented and web-based enterprise applications using java/j2ee technology.  ? Experience in application/web servers like IBM Web Sphere, Web Logic Application Servers, JBoss and Tomcat Web Servers.  ? Proficient in n-tier application design and development using Java, J2EE, JSP, Servlets, Struts 2.0, Spring and Oracle.  ? Expertise in developing applications using Core Java, Multithreading, Collections, Swing development, Memory Management, Application utilities, J2EE, JSP, Servlets, Java Beans, Web Services (SOAP, WSDL, UDDI) AngularJS, JMS, JDBC, JSON, Ajax.  ? Expertise in HTML, XHTML, HTML5, ML5, CSS, AJAX, jQuery, JSTL specification, XML (SAX, DOM), XSL, XSLT, JAXP, JAXB, DTD, Resource properties.  ? Expert in Various Agile methodologies like SCRUM, Test Driven Development (TTD), Incremental and Iteration methodology, Agile Development &Testing using Software Development Life Cycle.  ? Experienced in Development, Testing and Deployment of enterprise applications on Windows, Linux and UNIX platforms using IDEs such as Eclipse, STS, Rational Application Developer (RAD), NetBeans, IntelliJ14.x/15.  ? Experienced in developing complex PL/SQL queries, Procedures, Triggers, Stored Procedures, Packages and Views in various databases such as Oracle, DB2 and MySQL, SQL Server.  ? Working Knowledge in JSON and XML technologies such as XSL, XSLT, XPath, parsers like SAX, DOM and JAXB.  ? Expertise in creating Jenkins CI pipelines. Experience in Jenkins to automate most of the build related tasks.  ? Strong understanding of Micro services patterns - Circuit Breaker/Hystrix, DDD, Aggregator, Proxy Chaining.  ? Developed applications using latest technologies like Spring 3.x/4.x, Hibernate3.2/4.x, REST based Web services (Axis2.0, JAX WS 2.0, JAX RS), Rule Engines (Drools4.1, ILOG), jBPM tools.  ? Proficient in using Amazon Web Services (AWS). Extensive experience focusing on services like EC2, Elastic Beanstalk, CloudWatch, CloudFront, Cloud Formation, IAM, S3, RDS, ElastiCache, SNS, SQS, AMI.  ? Experience with CICD-Ant, Maven, Gradle, Jenkins, Hudson, CVS, Git, GitHub.  ? Expertise in several testing environments like JUnit, Selenium, CURL, Jenkins, SoapUI and System Testing.  ? Experience in working with web servers like Tomcat 8, WebSphere 8.0, Jetty, JBoss 7.1.0 and WebLogic 10.0.  ? Experience in creating Docker images, Containers, push/pull and integrating with Spring Boot.  ? Expertise with employment of Spring Kafka and Zookeeper apart from JMS as messaging service.  ? Used Amazon Web Services (AWS) a secure cloud services platform, offering compute power, database storage, content delivery and other functionality to help businesses scale and grow.  ? Ensuring smoke test execution as part of the continuous integration (CI) process and providing timely reporting to make go/no-go decisions.  ? Responsible for creating and maintaining architecture for Restful API using Spring Boot.  ? Experienced in implementing Service Oriented Architecture and web services using SOAP, REST.  ? Good understanding of UML components such as Use Case diagrams, Sequence diagrams and Class Diagrams.  ? Active participation in entire lifecycle of software development. Activities include study of conceptual design as well as detailed design, coding, unit testing, system integration testing and support, and supported software configuration management.  ? Collaborate with a team of developers to create user friendly single-page apps. Work Experience Java Developer Nationwide Mutual Insurance - Louisville, KY July 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Involved in implementation of AGILE/SCRUM phases and developed and tested application during various iterations.  • Experience working with Spring Framework modules like MVC, JDBC Templates, Spring Security, DI(IOC) and AOP.  • Worked to create and inject Spring services, controllers and DAOs for DI and to wire objects of business classes.  • Used SOA technologies like REST to develop Web Services.  • Used Spring boot to implement the Project structure based on Spring MVC pattern.  • Worked with Spring Boot Actuator, Spring Cloud, and Netflix Eureka.  • Experience with HQL, Query, Criteria, Hibernate Mappings, Locking's and Lazy Loading Transactions.  • Used Hibernate to develop Stored Procedures and triggered stored procedures.  • Worked with various persistence mechanisms and APIs like JPA, JDO, Hibernate, EJB.  • Enhanced performance of the application using Hibernate EHcache for second level caching.  • Involved to develop and consume Apache CXF based Web Services as part of Payments Application.  • Exploited the advanced Java 8 features such as Filters, Enhanced concurrency methods, Lambda Expressions Streams, etc.  • Performed tests by configuring Karma test runner for the project and unit tests are written in Jasmine.  • Built Single page responsive web application (SOA) using Angular 4.0.  • Used Angular 4.0 Validations, Modules, Events, Expressions, Directives, Controllers and Filters to design pages.  • Used Angular 4.0 to create custom filters and external module and manipulated the routing.  • Verified functionality of internal business applications and resulting data by designing and developing Selenium tests.  • Worked on the creation of Workflows, Mappings and Scheduling Jobs in Informatics.  • Used Drools to develop Business rules and integrate with Application.  • Implemented deployment of the application in JBoss production server to run in Linux platform.  • Used TOAD to work with high volume and complex PL/SQL Stored Procedures and Pack.  • Used Hive queries to perform data analysis on Hive tables.  • Achieved clean separation of different layers like Adapter, Singleton, Factory, Abstract Factory, Service Locator and Façade by extensively using design patterns.  • Send messages to email (http end point) using Amazon web services SNS.  • Worked on XML Marshaling and Un-marshaling by using Castor, XStream & JAXB APIs for.  • Involved in the process of upgrading existing project from CVS to SVN and Hudson to Jenkins.  • Used Maven and Jenkins for continuous integration and participated in the process of builds and deployments.  • Experience in developing and deploying microservices solutions and holds knowledge and understanding of Microservice architectures, patterns, and related frameworks.  • Participated to develop and test features in Agile environment with Ruby, Ruby on Rails and MySQL.  • Used docker container images, tagging, pushing images, integration of Spring boot.  • Involved in developing and configuring to monitor solutions that provide full visibility to the different platform components using tools and services like AWS, Cloud watch and Splunk.  • Participated in Cloud Solutions on AWS utilizing EC2, S3, IAM, ECS and RDS etc.  • Organized the code and Developed UI with extensive use of Backbone.js framework.  • Involved in designing and developing applications on relational database MongoDB.  • Used Spring Boot based services to interact through a combination of REST and Apache Kafka message brokers and implemented and/or exposed the microservice architecture.  • Worked with Dev Ops team to monitor (via JMX) and coordinated Kafka operations.  • Performed unit tests on Jenkins using Grunt tasks.  • Worked with Development and Testing to develop Docker images for their pipelines.    Environment: J2EE, Spring Framework, Microservices, Spring MVC 4, MongoDB, Angular 4.0, Core Java, Spring Security, Hibernate 4.X, Magento, jQuery, JSON, AJAX, Web Services, SOAP, XML, Java Beans, XSTREAM, Apache POI, EXT JS, JavaScript, Eclipse, JBOSS, Agile Methodology, Design Patterns, Apache Maven, JUnit, HTML/Unit, XSLT, HTML5/DHTML. Java Developer SEI Investments - Oaks, PA December 2016 to June 2018 Responsibilities:  ? Designed, develop a custom, single-page, responsive Web Application on front end using Angular 4.0.  ? Designed pages using Angular 4.0 Validations, Modules, Events, Expressions, Directives, Controllers and Filters.  ? Extensively used Spring Framework modules like MVC, DI(IOC), JDBC Templates, Spring Security and AOP.  ? Created and injected Spring services, controllers and DAOs for DI and to wire objects of business classes.  ? Implemented the Project structure based on Spring MVC pattern using Spring boot.  ? Hands on experience Spring Boot Actuator, Spring Cloud, and Netflix Eureka.  ? Extensively used Hibernate Mappings, HQL, Query, Criteria, Lazy Loading Transactions and Locking's.  ? Developed Stored Procedures, triggered stored procedures using Hibernate.  ? Experience with various persistence mechanisms and APIs like JPA, JDO, Hibernate, EJB.  ? Used Hibernate EHcache for second level caching which resulted in enhanced performance of the application.  ? Developed Web Services using SOA technologies such as REST.  ? Developed and consumed Apache CXF based Web Services as part of Payments Application.  ? Developed Grunt tasks to run the unit tests on Jenkins.  ? Used advanced Java 8 features like Lambda Expressions Streams, Filters. Enhanced concurrency methods etc.  ? Design and develop Selenium tests to verify functionality of internal business applications and resulting data.  ? Experience with creating Workflows, Mappings and Scheduling Jobs in Informatics.  ? Developed Business rules using Drools and integrated with Application.  ? Deployed the application in JBoss production server running in Linux platform.  ? Worked with high volume and complex PL/SQL Stored Procedures and Packages using TOAD.  ? Design patterns are extensively used to achieve clean separation of different layers like Adapter, Singleton, Factory, Abstract Factory, Service Locator and Facade.  ? All the functionality is implemented using Spring Boot and Hibernate ORM.  ? Worked on AWS Cloud platform and its features which includes EC2, RDS, Cloud Watch, Auto scaling, Cloud Front, IAM, S3.  ? Built on-premise data pipelines using Kafka and Spark streaming using the feed from API streaming Gateway REST service.  ? Integrated Build tools like NPM, GRUNT with JENKINS.  ? Developed JSON services JAX-RS and JSON documentation using Swagger API.  ? Database development required creation of new tables, PL/SQL Stored Procedures, Views, Indexes and Constraints, Triggers and required SQL tuning to reduce the response time in the application.  ? Having knowledge on Ruby on Rails. Developed and tested features in Agile environment with Ruby, Ruby on Rails, MySQL.  ? Docker container images, tagging, pushing images, integration of Spring boot.  ? Experience in develop and configure monitoring solutions to provide full visibility to the different platform components using tools and services like AWS, Cloud watch, Splunk.  ? Experience in Cloud Solutions on AWS utilizing EC2, S3, IAM, ECS and RDS etc.  ? Developed UI with extensive use of Backbone.js framework that helped to organize the code.  ? Experience designing and developing applications on relational databases MongoDB.    Environment: J2EE, Spring Framework, Microservices, Spring MVC 4, MongoDB, Angular 4.0, Core Java, Spring Security, Hibernate 4.X, Magento, jQuery, JSON, AJAX, Web Services, SOAP, XML, Java Beans, XSTREAM, Apache POI, EXT JS, JavaScript, Eclipse, JBOSS, Agile Methodology, Design Patterns, Apache Maven, JUnit, HTML/Unit, XSLT, HTML5/DHTML. Java Developer Synchrony Financial - Chicago, IL July 2015 to November 2016 Responsibilities:  ? Gathering requirements on sprint planning meetings and working with business analysts for resolving design issues.  ? Using Java8 features in developing the code like Lambda expressions, creating resource classes, fetching documents from database.  ? Have worked on AWS for fetch the pictures and Videos from AWS to UI.  ? Developed REST web services to expose the Middleware services.  ? Implemented initial setup of angular4 application with node and npm modules.  ? Implemented layout of front-end web page with angular components and created angular services to interact with backend java application.  ? Written Map reduce and Spark codes in Java to run a sorting application on the data stored AWS.  ? Good knowledge in deploying the application jar files into AWS instances.  ? Interfaced with the My SQL back-end database by integrating Spring with Hibernate.  ? Developed angular forms, routes, injectable services, 2-way binding attributes, event emitters.  ? Written Type scripts for UI logic and written type scripts for unit testing of UI components.  ? Involved in Construction of UI using jQuery, Angular4, Node JS and JavaScript.  ? Configured Spring boot restful web services application and enabled actuator to monitor application health status.  ? Worked with Object-Oriented JavaScript such as Backbone.js, Knockout.js, Ember.js, Handlebars.js.  ? Used Scala collection framework to store and process the complex consumer information.  ? Integrated NoSQL database like HBase with Apache Spark to move bulk amount of data into HBase.  ? Have worked on AWS to integrate the server side and client-side code.  ? Modified existing and created new Hibernate objects-based Queries for data storage, retrieval, tuning and mapping.  ? Used NPM for installing required node.js modules and other published Angular NPM modules  ? Configured Mongo repository and developed persistence objects with Spring Data Module.  ? Developing business logic with Java core, collections and java 8 lambda expressions, streamers, Local Date objects.  ? Consumed Web Services to interact with other external interfaces in order to exchange the data in the form of XML and by using SOAP.  ? Created modal objects to integrate request and responses between front-end angular and java web services in JSON format.  ? Created DTO objects, JPA repositories and created native SQL queries to persist data to database.  ? Used log4J for application logging and notification tracing mechanisms.  ? Configured Maven and resolved life cycle dependencies and generated artifacts for deployment.  ? Developed Test Driver components with TDD added code in crucible to find defects and resolve them before quality testing performed.  ? Attending daily scrum meeting, sprint planning meeting, backlog refinements.  ? Involved in Agile/SCRUM process, attending daily stand up and completing tasks in sprints.  ? Involved in code review meetings and updating components as suggest by tech leads.  ? Developed and executed test strategy and coordinated QA testing in Agile Environment.    Environment: Java 8, HTML5, CSS3, Java Script, AWS, Spark, Scala, XML, GWT, Ajax, Angular4, Backbone.js, Knockout.js, AWS, Restful Services, Node JS, Mongo DB, Docker, Grunt, NPM, Jasmine, Jira. Java Developer Paycom - Houston, TX July 2014 to June 2015 Responsibilities:  ? Our team main target was to develop an Agents Sales Tool to get a very affordable quote to the customers coming to them for any policy.  ? Designed and implemented software solutions based on software requirement specifications.  ? Tested software implementation with respect to the requirements.  ? Worked on all phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) like Analysis, Design, Development, Implementation and Testing of the project.  ? Developed user interface templates using JSP, JavaScript, CSS, JSON and HTML.  ? Worked on Spring Controllers and configured using annotations to handle presentation requests.  ? Developed RESTful Webservices using Spring.  ? Developed the application using Intellij as IDE and followed the standard features for debugging and running.  ? Implemented the application using Spring MVC Framework, Spring Boot and handled the security using spring security.  ? Built dynamically generated dropdown lists using jQuery and AngularJS.  ? Designed pages using Angular Validations, Modules, Events, Expressions, Directives, Controllers and Filters.  ? Developed AJAX scripting to process server side JSP scripting.  ? Used Hibernate Framework to develop the persistence, used Hibernate annotations create the POJO objects and mapped.  ? Wrote prepared statements and functions with SQL queries in MySQL.  ? Created stored procedures, triggers using PL/SQL for data modification in SQL server.  ? Worked extensively on bug fixes on the server side and made enhancements on the UI.  ? Performed testing with unit testing, integration testing and web application testing.  ? Developed custom styles and layouts using Bootstrap framework and SASS preprocessors.  ? Created small scale requirement analysis and software specifications.  ? Used GIT as version control.  ? Worked as a part of AWS built team to migrate servers.  ? Deployed to AWS using Jenkins AWS Code Deploy plugin.  ? Developed the build scripts using Maven  ? Followed the Maven build life cycle to build the application and deployed into Apache Tomcat application server.  ? Developed software documentation for implementation data, drawing conclusions, writing reports, and communicating results.    Environment: Java J2EE, HTML5, CSS3, Java Script, jQuery, JSP, Spring MVC, MongoDB, Node.js Spring Boot, Hibernate, Web Sphere, Agile methodology, RESTful Web Services, XML, XSLT, SQL, Maven scripts, RAD, Log4j, JUnit, GIT, IntelliJ, Ubuntu Server. Java Developer Commerce Bank May 2013 to June 2014 Responsibilities:  ? Analyzed technical requirements and designed new components, web pages and controls to meet functional, performance and availability requirements.  ? Designed and developed components for all application tiers, including UX, business logic, database access and web services.  ? Developed, implemented and documented technical solutions to problems and features in an Agile development environment.  ? Developed dynamic and multi-browser compatible pages using HTML, CSS3, XML, XHTML, jQuery, and JavaScript.  ? Designed APIs and infrastructure to support a wide-range of devices and services.  ? Used mongo DB for data searching and sorting.  ? Developed user interfaces using JSP, JavaScript and AJAX.  ? Used JDBC for database connectivity with MySQL Server.  ? Wrote various queries using SQL and created a database using MySQL for the manipulation of data from the database.  ? Involved in projects related to entirety of Intranet and Internet applications by using web servers such as Apache Tomcat.  ? Developed JUnit test cases for developed modules; also performed Unit testing, Integration testing.  ? Made custom PL/SQL procedure calls to send and get information.  ? Developed database stored procedures and SQL scripts.  ? Provided graphs and communicated outcomes using R and SQLite.  ? Experience with Upgrading existing project from CVS to SVN.  ? Used SVN as version control.  ? Migrated servers from on Premises to AWS cloud as well as created EC2 instances in AWS cloud platform.  ? Used Puppet Manifests to work on AWS server provisioning and standardization.  ? Experienced with installation of AWS CLI to control various AWS through SHELL/BASH scripting.  ? Heavily used SOAP UI Pro version for testing the Web Services.  ? Performed coding, testing, implementation, and documentation of solutions, building and supporting various integrations with both external and internal systems.    Environment: HTML, CSS3, XML, XHTML, JQuery, JavaScript, Java, J2EE, JSP, AJAX, MySQL, R, SQLite, PL/SQL, AWS, Agile methodology, SOAP UI, AWS, mongoDB, JDBC, XML, SQL, JUnit, SVN, SHELL commands. Education Bachelor Degree in Computer Application BCA in Computer Application BCA South Gujarat University Surat Skills Eclipse, J2ee, Java, Hibernate, Spring, Javabeans, Jbuilder, jquery, Jsp, Jstl, Servlet, Servlets, Api, C#, C++, Gradle, Hbase, Javascript, Jenkins, Json