FullStack Java developer FullStack <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">developer</span> Java Fullstack Developer - Experian California City, CA Around 8 years of professional experience in all phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) including requirements gathering, analysis, design, implementation & maintenance and testing various methodologies using Java/J2EE, along with wide-ranging skills in web application development.Experience in developing Web Applications with various Open Source frameworks like: Struts Framework 1.3, Spring Framework, Spring MVC, and Hibernate 2.0/3.0.Expertise in several technologies like JDBC, Servlets, JSP, Java Beans, MVC, Struts, Spring, Hibernate, JSF, EJB, Java Mail API, SOAP, CSS, JavaScript, EXT JS, AJAX, XML, JSON, HTML5/HTML, XHTML, PHP, Java Beans, Maven.Expertise in Web Front End technologies, Spring2.5/3.0, Struts1.2, JSF, Tag Libraries, Struts custom validation rules, Java Script, DHTML, XML/XSL.Proficient experience in using the databases such as MySQL, MS SQL Server, DB2, Oracle 9i/10g/11g.Expert knowledge over Design Patterns like MVC Architecture, Front Controller, Session Facade, Business Delegate, Data Access Objects (DAO) and Data Transfer Objects (DTO) for building J2EE Applications.Good understanding of RDBMS through Database Design, writing queries and stored procedures using databases like Oracle 9i, MySQL and SQL Server.Experience in NoSQL databases such as MongoDB and Cassandra.Experience with Apache Tomcat Application Server, JBoss, WebLogic application servers and IBM Websphere Application Server.Migrated applications from internal data center to AWS.Experience in development of RESTful API and SOAP based web services and clients.Proficient with Agile Software Development principles.Expertise in configuring, using and administrating version control systems like GIT, Clear Case, Subversion and CVS.Implemented the Account Management micro service that used Spring Data to implement a JPA and Spring Rest to provide a Restful Interface based on Spring Boot application.Extensive experience in XML related technologies such as XML, DTD, XSD, XPATH, XSLT, DOM, SAX, JAXP, JSON and JAXB.Experience working with Front-end JavaScript frameworks like jQuery, bootstrap jS, AngularJS, Angular2. Hands-on experience in using the Integrated Development Environments such as Eclipse, Net Beans.Experience working with web services using SOAP, UDDI, WSDL, REST and implementation using APACHE AXIS and Jersey. Work Experience FullStack Java developer Experian , - California City, CA February 2019 to Present Developing backend applications using Spring, Hibernate, Java, JSP, HTML, DHTML, JavaScript and AJAX.  Implemented JSP, Struts Tag Libraries, JavaScript and CSS for developing User for creating/generating Hibernate classes and configuration XML’s and to also manage CRUD operations (insert, update, and delete).  Configured Java Messaging Services (JMS) on Web logic Server using Eclipse IDE.  Used Web Services to get price from external Business Entities.  Consumed Web Services as a gateway for the payment through the third-party.  Developed Web Services using SOA, SOAP, WSDL and JAX-WS, JAX-RPC programming models.  Worked on Apache Solr, Elastic Search to maintain the scalability and fault tolerance.  Developed several REST web services supporting both XML and JSON to perform tasks such as validation of the card details. Restful web services leveraged by both web and mobile applications.  Responsible for integration of different modules.   Created JUnit test cases, and Development of JUnit classes.  Developed ANT script to build .war and. ear files for the application.  Involved in Code Reviews of other modules, documents, test cases.  Wrote UNIX Shell scripts and used UNIX environment to deploy the application.  Responsible in coordination with Onsite team, attending daily and weekly scrum meetings to update the work status, issues clarifications etc.  Knowledge of CI/CD pipeline.    Environment: JDK 1.6, Core Java, J2EE developer, Spring, Hibernate, Sonar qube,Solr, WebLogic Server, Web Services, JMS, PL/SQL, XML HTML, JavaScript, JUnit, Oracle, intellij IDEA, AWS,SonarQube Java Fullstack Developer JP Morgan Chase - Columbus, OH April 2017 to January 2019 Roles & Responsibilities:  * Developed business module applications using J2EE technologies.  * Created a custom, single-page, responsive web application using Angular JS, JavaScript, Ext JS, HTML and CSS.  * Developed code in Java which creates mapping in Elastic Search even before data is indexed into.  * Design the Elasticsearch configuration files based on number of hosts available, naming the Cluster and Node accordingly. Using Curator API on Elasticsearch to data back up and restoring.  * Build Rest services using NodeJS and ExpressJS and used a full complement of Express, AngularJS, NodeJs, and MongoDB to store and present assessments.  * Designed and developed the UI using spring view component, JSP, HTML, CSS, JQuery and AngularJS.  * Used JQuery Mobile with HTML5 & CSS3 for laying out pages nd reducing scripting.  * Developed queues using AWS SQS with JMS for services to subscribe and listen events. Implemented logic to listen and to subscribe events.  * Also used JQuery Mobile in designing responsive web sites.  * Used spring validator framework for client side and server side validation. Also implemented dynamic loading of JSP's using AJAX.  * Create RFP (Request for Proposal) microservices to provide RestFul API and RAMLutilizing Spring Boot with Microservices.  * Built Spring based Java and Scala microservices to support enterprise web application.  * Used Spring Core for Dependency Injection/Inversion Of Control (Ioc), and integrated frameworks like Struts and Hibernate.  * Responsible for integrating the view components like grids, forms and charts with java restful services.  * Utilize Struts (MVC2) framework and developed JSP pages, Action Servlets and XML based action-mapping files for web tier.  * Docker is used for creating images that are deployed on AWS.  * Configured Docker container for branching purposes.  * Used Javascript for validation of page data in the JSP pages.  * Created continuous integration system using SVN, Maven, ANT and Jenkins.  * Used Struts Framework in the application which is based on MVC2 design pattern.  * Experienced first-hand the best/worst practices for integrating micro-services into an existing system architecture.  * Used Spring Framework for Dependency injection and integrated with the Hibernate.  * Developed Data Access Objects to handle HQL queries using Hibernate and Transfer objects.  * Used log4j for logging info and are helpful in debugging the issues.  * Involved in design, development and testing phases of project.  * Developing and maintaining the application based upon the requirements.  * Hands-on experience in creating and consuming RESTful Services using Angular JS.  * Developed View Controllers for all the views to handle all the events.  * Developed View models for binding the data to the controls.  * Responsible for producing custom Ext JS builds for deploying the code into test, UAT and production environments.    Environment: Java 8, J2EE, HTML5, CSS3, Angular Js, Node Js, Ext JS, JSP, Spring MVC, AWS, ANT, Maven, Jenkins, MicroServices, JavaScript, Bootstrap, JDK 1.7, Intileej, tomcat 7, Servlets, Spring 3.0, MVC, Oracle Database SQL, Mithra, Elasticsearch, JIRA, Confluence. Java Developer InVentiv Health - New York, NY October 2016 to March 2017 Roles & Responsibilities:  * Involved in Analysis and Design of the Project, which is based on MVC (Model-View-Controller) Architecture and Design Patterns.  * Involved in developing prototypes of the product and created UML Use Cases, Sequence diagrams, Class diagrams and Page flow diagrams using Rational Rose.  * Implemented the JSP's and EJB's to interact with Struts Framework to effectively handle the workflow of the application and developed Action Forms and Action Classes in Struts frame work.  * Developed Web Services to transfer data between client and server vice versa using SOAP, WSDL, and UDDI.  * Extensively used JSTL tags and Struts tag libraries. Used Struts tiles as well in the presentation tier.  * Designed GUI Components using Tiles frame work and Validation framework.  * Supported existing applications developed using Spring MVC, AOP framework.  * Designed and developed UI using HTML, JSP and Struts where users have all the items listed for auctions and performed JavaScript validations on the client side.  * Developed Authentication and Authorization modules where authorized persons can only access the inventory related operations.  * Interacted with external services to get the user information using SOAP web service calls.  * Developed Controller Servlets, Action and Form objects for process of interacting with Oracle database and retrieving dynamic data.  * Responsible for coding SQL Statements and Stored procedures for back end communication using JDBC.  * Performed JavaScript validations on the client side.  * Involved in writing Detail Design Documents with UML Specifications.  * Involved in unit testing and system testing and also responsible for preparing test scripts for the system testing.  * Used Apache Maven as build tool to continuously integrate the Web application.  * Participated actively in code review meetings with the team.    Environment: Java, Java Beans, JSP, Jbuilder, JavaScript, Servlets, Maven, Struts, EJB, SOAP, JDBC, LOG4J, XML, XSLT, HTML, Struts, Tiles, SAX, DOM, Tomcat, UNIX, Oracle. Java/J2EE Developer KCI Technologies - San Antonio, TX January 2015 to October 2016 Roles & Responsibilities:  * Responsible for gathering business requirements, review the requirements and converting them to detailed design documents and clarification documents.  * Developed backend applications using Spring, Hibernate, Java, JSP, HTML, DHTML, JavaScript and AJAX.  * Implemented JSP, Struts Tag Libraries, JavaScript and CSS for developing User for creating/generating Hibernate classes and configuration XML's and to also manage CRUD operations (insert, update, and delete)  * Configured Java Messaging Services (JMS) on Web logic Server using Eclipse IDE.  * Used Web Services to get price from external Business Entities.  * Consumed Web Services as a gateway for the payment through the third-party.  * Developed Web Services using SOA, SOAP, WSDL and JAX-WS, JAX-RPC programming models.  * Developed several REST web services supporting both XML and JSON to perform tasks such as validation of the card details. Restful web services leveraged by both web and mobile applications.  * Responsible for integration of different modules.  * Implementing the rules using Drools.  * Created JUnit test cases, and Development of JUnit classes.  * Configured log4j to enable/disable logging in application.  * Developed ANT script to build .war and. ear files for the application.  * Involved in Code Reviews of other modules, documents, test cases.  * Wrote UNIX Shell scripts and used UNIX environment to deploy the application.  * Responsible in coordination with Onsite team, attending daily and weekly scrum meetings to update the work status, issues clarifications etc.    Environment: JDK 1.6, Core Java, J2EE developer, Spring, Hibernate, Drools, WebLogic Server, Web Services, JMS, PL/SQL, Linux, XML HTML, JavaScript, SVN, ANT, Log4j, JUnit, JBoss, Oracle, Windows XP and Unix. Java Developer Putnam Investments - Boston, MA November 2012 to December 2014 Roles & Responsibilities  * Developed the web tier using JSP, Struts 1.1 and AWT.  * Designed and developed new J2EE Components like bean components to incorporate business level validations.  * Managed multiple requests by the same user using Multithreading.  * Involved in writing SQL scripts and creating backend database table for complex business operations.  * Involved in Unit integration, bug fixing and Code reviewing.  * Design, development and Testing of JSP pages.  * Developed several web pages using HTML, Style sheets, JSP and JavaScript to perform checking and validations at Client's side.  * Worked on JavaScript, JQuery and Ajax extensively for various user interactions, front-end validations, event handling and other visual effects.  * Implemented various design patterns - Singleton, Business Delegate, Value Object and Spring DAO.  * Developed J2EE components on Eclipse IDE.  * Used ANT scripts to build the application and deployed on IBM WebSphere Application Server.  * Involved in developing forms using JSP, HTML and JavaScript.  * Developed Action Classes that takes the request from the JSP and invoke the appropriate method in the business components.  * Identified and resolved programming issues, Servlets and EJB s performance tuning opportunities.  * Validate the input data using JavaScript.  * Used SVN as a source control for code changes.  * Used RDBMS for recording financial information. Software Developer NSL Technologies August 2011 to November 2012 Environments: J2EE, Spring, JSP, log4J, XML, AWT, JDBC, EJB, JavaScript, HTML, Eclipse Helios, Tomcat, JQuery, Ajax, WSDL, Struts 1.1, Servlets, Ant, IBM WebSphere, DAO and SVN.  Client: NSL Technologies, India Aug '11- Nov '12  Role: Software Developer    Roles & Responsibilities:  * Designed, developed, deployed physician finder, hospital search and Maps & Directions functionality Using Java and JSP.  * Used Web Sphere Studio for the development of Java Servlets and JSPs and deployed them using Web sphere.  * Designed and developed the presentation layer using AJAX for RUI (Rich User Interface)  * Used JSP Taglibs (JSTL) for the customization of the web pages.  * Created DAO for hospital search and home health Search.  * Developed the Servlets and Data Access Layer classes and used JDBC API for interaction with the Oracle Database.  * Involved in front-end designing using HTML, CSS and JavaScript with JSF Ajax and tag libraries.  * Testing the module, fixing the bugs and XML used to transfer the data between different layers.  * Used UML Methodologies for designing the gathered requirements.  * Was involved in creating Use Case Diagrams  * Documented the work done and gathered the specification changes.  * Debugged the issues using features of WASD.  * Coordinated with other teams in resolving software/hardware issues.  * Involved in writing unit test cases and unit testing.  * Created stored procedures using SQL Server and accessed them by using Java.  * Used Rational Rose to design class diagrams and sequence diagrams.    Environment: Java, J2EE, Struts, JSP, JSTL, RUP, UML, Web Methods, Servlets, JavaScript, PL/SQL, WebSphere5. 0, SQL Server, Oracle 9i, ANT, Rational Clear Case, web portal. Education Bachelor's in Engineering JNTU Skills HTML (7 years), JAVA (7 years), JSP (7 years), SQL (7 years), STRUTS (7 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:  Programming Language Java, C, C++, SQL, PL/SQL  Java Technologies J2SE, J2EE, JSP, Servlets, EJB, Swing, JDBC, JMS, Java Beans  Design Patterns  MVC Architecture, Front Controller, Session Facade, Business Delegate, Data Access Objects (DAO) and Data Transfer Objects (DTO), Singleton    Frameworks JSF 1.2/2.0/3.0, Struts 1.X, Spring 2.0/2.5, JPA, Hibernate 3.0, Apache ANT, Log4J, Nodejs  Web Technologies JSP, XML, HTML, CSS, Angular JS, jQuery, Nodejs  Web Services SOAP, WSDL, XML, SOA, JAX-WS, JAX-RS  IDE Eclipse 3.x, NetBeans 4.1  Version Control Git, Rational Clear Case, CVS, SVN  Web/App Server Apache Tomcat