Java Full stack Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> Full stack <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Full stack Developer - DTV Innovations Indianapolis, IN • 6+ years of experience in analysis, design, implementation, and testing of Object-Oriented Applications in Client/Server environments using Java/J2EE.  • Experienced in Java Web-based, Desktop Based Development with Concepts of, Object Oriented Design (OOD), Object Oriented Analysis (OOA), Object Oriented Programming (OOP) and its implementation.  • Experience working with various Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) methodologies based on Agile, Scrum, Waterfall Model, and Iteration.  • Expertise in design and development of various web and enterprise-level applications using Java/J2EE technologies Such as Spring, Hibernate, Struts framework, EJB, Servlets 3.x.  • Experienced in Middleware persistence framework like Hibernate/JPA for mapping Java classes to the database and using Hibernate Query Language (HQL).  • Experienced in Front End frameworks such as jQuery, Ajax, JavaScript, Nodejs, ReactJS, BackboneJS, AngularJs.  • Experience in Core Java concepts such as OOP Concepts, Collections Framework, Exception Handling, I/O System, Multi-Threading, JDBC.  • Implemented various J2EE design patterns like Singleton, Session, Builder pattern, Factory.  • Strong skills in RDBMS implementation and development using Oracle Servers and hands-on experience with SQL, PL/SQL.  • Experience in container-based technologies like Docker, Kubernetes, and OpenShift along with the development of Microservices architecture using Spring Boot.  • Hands on Experience in AWS Cloud in various AWS Services such as RedShift, Cluster, Route53 Domain configuration.  • Experience with setup and maintenance of WebLogic Server, Apache, Tomcat, LDAP.  • Implemented based on corresponding view components with view components JSP, Html, html5, CSS 3, XSD, XSTL.  • Hands on experience in implementing client-server business applications using MVC, SOA architecture and Micro Services.  • Experienced in implementing Service-oriented architecture and Web Services using SOAP, RESTFUL.  • Solid Hands-on experience in end to end implementation of CI and CD (Continuous Delivery), DevOps processes using AWS Code Commit AWS Code Deploy, AWS Code Pipeline, Jenkins, and Ansible.  • Experience with Java 8 features such as lambda expressions, Parallel operations on collections and for effective sorting mechanisms and new Date Time API.  • Experience in developing and a solid understanding of Service Oriented Architecture and Microservices Architecture.  • Proven experience in writing Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, Functions, and Packages using TOAD.  • Experience in software configuration management using CVS, SVN and IBM Clear Case.  • Hands on experience with build tools like ANT, Maven, Jenkins and logging tools like Log4J.  • Extensive experience in working on multiple operating systems including UNIX, Sun Solaris, Linux and Microsoft Windows.  • Goal oriented individual with excellent analytical, problem-solving, communication and interpersonal skills with the ability to interact with individuals at all levels and work independently. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Java Full stack Developer DTV Innovations - Indianapolis, IN January 2018 to Present Description: DTV Innovations is a US-based, privately held company that develops software and hardware solutions that enable television broadcasters to deliver programming reliably to their viewers    Responsibilities:  • Involved in the complete SDLC including the design of System Architecture, development of System Use Cases based on the functional requirements.  • Involved in Daily Scrum (Agile) meetings, Sprint planning and estimation of the tasks for the user stories, participated in retrospective and presenting Demo at end of the sprint.  • Used JSP, HTML5, CSS3, and JavaScript to construct the dynamic web pages (presentation Layer) for the application.  • Used AngularJS and Backbone.JS for client-side validation.  • Develop various screens for the front end using AngularJS and used various predefined components from NPM.  • Worked with core Java technologies like Multi-Threading and synchronization.  • Multithreading was used to process data in chunks to improve performance.  • Handed Java Multi-Threading part in back-end component, one thread will be running for each user.  • Developed internal coding using JEE technologies based on the MVC Architecture.  • Implemented RESTful Web services to retrieve data from client side and made REST API calls from Angular JS and parsed the data to project to the client and handled the security and Authorization using Spring Security and OAuth.  • Developed Business objects using POJOs and data access layer using Hibernate framework.  • Achieved Dependency injection by creating Spring services, Spring controllers and DAOs to wire objects of business classes.  • Developed reports include Invoice Printings and Patient profiles. Assigned as lead developer throughout the design, analysis and coding phase of a Claims Processing System.  • Used Hibernate Transaction Management, Spring/Hibernate Batch Transactions and Hibernate cache concepts.  • Used Microservices architecture, with Spring Boot-based services interacting through a combination of REST and Spring Boot.  • Used Microservices are designed with the individual database and project with no dependencies.  • Used Spring Data Framework to use the features of Spring JDBC and Spring ORM classes like JDBC Template and Hibernate Template to perform the database operations by connecting to Data sources available.  • Developed user interface as JSF, prime faces, HTML and CSS and BOOTSTRAP with custom tag libraries using JSF Framework.  • Used Microservices to communicate using synchronous protocols HTTP and REST.  • Implementing or exposing the Microservices based on RESTful API utilizing Spring Boot with Spring MVC.  • Developed and used REST web services for the reporting framework.  • Focused on Test Driven Development thereby creating detailed JUnit tests for every single piece of functionality before writing the functionality.  • Developed build and deployment scripts using MAVEN as build tools in Jenkins to move from one environment to other environments.  • Responsible for configuring Continuous Integration Server i.e. Jenkins and SonarQube.  • Used MongoDB as data storage and utilized aspects like replica sets, Sharding, and clever document design to make service extensible scale and feature wise.  • Implemented and maintained the monitoring and alerting of production and corporate servers/storage using AWS Cloud Watch.  • Used JIRA ticketing system to keep track of issues and tasks on individuals.    Environment: JAVA 1.8, J2SE, HTML5, CSS3, jQuery, Ajax, Angular JS, Bootstrap, Node JS, JSON, J2EE, Spring Framework 4.2.0, Spring MVC 4.2, Spring Security, Spring Boot, Spring Data (Spring JDBC, Spring ORM), JSP2.0, Hibernate 4.0,JBoss, JUnit, TDD, MongoDB, Microservices, GITHUB. Java Developer Abbott - Chicago, IL November 2016 to December 2017 Description:Abbott Laboratories is an American health care company with headquarters in Lake Bluff, Illinois, United States. The company was founded by Chicago physician Wallace Calvin Abbott in 1888 to formulate known drugs; it eventually grew to also sell research-based drugs, medical devices, diagnostics, and nutritional products. It split off the research-based pharmaceuticals into AbbVie in 2013. In 2017, revenues were $27.39 billion.    Responsibilities:  • The application architecture of the System is based on Spring MVC (Model View Controller) and JEE specifications.  • Implemented various features of spring framework such as Dependency Injection, IOC, Annotations, and Spring integration with Hibernate.  • Good knowledge of Spring& IOC, AOP, Spring MVC and springs integration with Hibernate and Struts technologies.  • Designed and developed RESTful service interface using Spring MVC to the underlying customer event API.  • Experienced in writing JUnit Test cases for Java and JEE applications.  • Worked on Spring Security for application authentication.  • Manage, integrate and secure ART store's services in the cloud (AWS, Cloud Bees, JIRA etc.).  • Good experience with Cassandra NoSQL Database.  • Implemented the REST apis and data transformers using the JAVA connector which involves the use of JAVA8 features Lambda and Streams.  • Identifying appropriate AWS service based on computer, data availability, security requirements and storage.  • Implemented application security including User Management, LDAP authentication, authorization (users have restricted access to app components according to their permissions)  • Implemented a role-based security system for web-based administrative applications  • Implementing security Single Sign-On application to share user management, authentication, and authorization among multiple applications.  • Good understanding of the principles and best practices of Software Configuration Management (SCM) in Agile, Scrum methodologies.  • Performed dependency injection of spring beans such as data source beans or Hibernate utility singleton bean to create one session factory for the entire application.  • Used Spring MVC to develop application architecture and JDBC to interact with Database. Also used Ajax to communicate with DB for certain functionalities.  • Ability to design application on AWS taking advantage of Disaster recovery.  • Experience in working with Spring Quartz framework and developed various quartz jobs.  • Worked on spring boot, Spring Rest full template to develop Application Level Micro Services.  • Implemented Micro Services based Cloud Architecture on AWS Platform and Cloud Foundry.  • Implemented and developed UI components using Angular JS features like Dependency Injection, Models, data binding, and controllers.  • Administered and deployed applications into WebSphere Application Server.  • Used Java Messaging Services (JMS) for the reliable and asynchronous exchange of important information such as payment status report.  • Worked with JAXB, SAXP and XML Schema for exporting data into XML format and importing data from XML format to database and JAXB in the web service request response data marshaling as well as the unmarshalling process.    Environment: Java 7.0, Spring 3.5, Hibernate 4.2, Eclipse IDE, Spring batch, Spring quartz, Spring security, Spring Boot, JPA, Java Scripts, AngularJS, HTML 4.0, CSS, JMS, Oracle 11g, Java Developer DIRECTV - Los Angeles, CA October 2015 to December 2016 Description: DirecTV is an American direct broadcast satellite service provider and broad caster. It provides television and audio services to subscribers through satellite transmissions. Services include the equivalent of many local television stations, broadcast television networks, subscription television services.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in software development life cycle (SDLC), which includes requirement-gathering, design, coding, testing.  • Designed and developed Business Services using Spring Framework (Dependency Injection) and DAO Design Patterns.  • Deployed Spring Boot based Microservices Docker and Amazon EC2 container using AWS admin console.  • Developed Project Specific Java API's for the new requirements with the Effective usage of Data Structures, Algorithms,and Core Java, OOPS concepts.  • Developed web service for web store components using RESTful API using Java & Spring.  • Experienced in developing web-based applications using CSS, HTML, JavaScript, jQuery, UML  • Experience in Object Oriented design, Systems Analysis, Software &Web Application development.  • Experience in implementing the Object-Oriented Programming Concepts and collections framework i.e. HashMap and Hashtable.  • Developed business modules using Hibernate & Spring framework technologies.  • Responsible for analysis, design, development,and integration of backend components using J2EE technologies such as Springs 3 and Spring JDBC and EJB's.  • Actively involved in requirements gathering, Analysis, Conceptual Design.  • Analyzing the execution plan and choosing the optimized query for the DB operation using SQL Developer.  • Having Experience on Oracle 11g, MS SQLServer,and MYSQL  • Extensive use of J2EE and EJB3 and JPA.  • Implemented Microservices architecture using Spring Boot for making application smaller and independent.  • Developed Project Specific Java API's for the new requirements with the Effective usage of Data Structures, Algorithms,and Core Java, OOPS concepts.  • Developed web service for web store components using RESTful API.  • Used XML, XSD and JSON messages for Data transfer. Used JAXB API and DOM for XML parsing messages.  • Developed application Specific thread safe XML APIs, XML Document Builder and parser utils, validators using java DOM Parser which is used among the components.  • Implemented Business logic in the middle-tier using Java classes, Java beans.  • Created and modified Complex SQL Commands.  • Database designing and tables, master data creation in the database.  • Involved in configuring Web.xml, Springs-context.xml.  • Used Soap UI for Dev to Dev testing.  • Good in writing build files with ANT, Maven.  • Used Sonar for maintaining the code quality and JUnit code coverage.  • Created and Modified Jasper Reports and having good Knowledge ofJasper server.    Environment: JDK1.6, J2EE, JDBC, Servlets, Spring, Spring MVC 4.1.5, Spring JDBC, EJB3.0, Jasper Reports Server, XML, Hibernate ORM 4.3.5, HTML5, JBoss Studio, JBoss Server, SVN, Maven, Windows OS, Log4j, Junit, , JIRA. Java Developer Energy Pac - Bangladesh - BD June 2012 to December 2014 Responsibilities:  • Developed multiple user tools with core Java and DB2 using eclipse IDE.  • Implemented multiple design patterns like factory, façade, etc.  • Extensive code reviews on adherence to design and performance.  • Extensive real-time production support.  • Wrote HQL queries as part of development.  • Designed and implemented XML parsing for XML order conformations.  • Wrote batch jobs and was involved in performance tuning of complex queries.  • Monitored the error logs and fixed the problems.  • Developed the different components of the application such as JSP, Servlets, DAO and Used SubVersion (SVN) for version control.  • Involved in the Development of Spring Framework Controllers. Developed Controller for the request, response paradigm by Spring Controllers using Spring-MVC.  • Developed additional UI Components and implemented an asynchronous, AJAX (JQuery) based rich client to improve customer experience.  • Built ANT scripts for automated deployment and for the build operation of the entire application.  • Developed web pages using HTML5/CSS and JavaScript, Angular JS  • Developed many JSP pages, used Dojo in JavaScript Library, jQuery UI for client-side validation.    Environment: Core Java, SQL (DB2), Design Patterns, Hibernate, DOJO 1.5, Eclipse IDE, JIRA, Education Masters Indiana University Purdue University Indianapolis - Indianapolis, IN Bachelors North South University - Dhaka, BD