AEM Developer AEM <span class="hl">Developer</span> AEM Developer - Hyundai Auto Ever Fountain Valley, CA • 7 plus years of IT experience majorly in software design, development, implementation and maintenance of enterprise web applications using Adobe Experience Manager, Core Java, JSP, Servlet, JAXP, JAXB, REST & SOAP services, Oracle, Tomcat, WebLogic • Having 3+ yrs. experience in AEM and currently working on 6.2 version.  • Extensively worked on AEM features like Templates, Classic/TouchUI Components, Sightly, Sling Servlet, Filter, Observation framework, Run modes, WCMUse ( Java/JS), Sling Models, MSM, i18N, DAM, JCR API, Eclipse AEM Developer Tools, OSGI, Workflows, Dynamic Media, etc..  • Strong hands-on experience in Angular 2/4 and JQuery.  • Have thorough knowledge on design patterns, non-functional requirements and best practices.  • Good exposure in Agile, Scrum and Iterative methodologies.  • Havestrong functional expertise in Web Content Management domain • Have good exposure on front end web technologies HTML, HTML5, JavaScript, JQuery, Angular, CSS, CSS3, Bootstrap, RSS, XML, XSL, AJAX, JSON, etc.  • Worked on Adobe Omniture & Tealium site analytics integration.  • Played a major role in setting up site search using Google Search Appliance (GSA) and integration.  • Hands on experience with build and deployment tools ANT, Maven and Jenkins. Have knowledge on Gradle.  • Worked on different hosting models like on-premise, SaaS, and cloud.  • Broad experience with Apache HTTP (rewrites, proxy, reverse proxy, etc ) and PHP.  • Hands on experience with application servers Tomcat, Spring TC& WebLogic.  • Worked on CVS, SVN and Git code repositories. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience AEM Developer Hyundai Auto Ever - Fountain Valley, CA January 2017 to Present Description:   • Involved in functional requirements understanding and technical design.  • Developed POCs for AEM and Angular components integration strategy.  • Developing Angular components using TypeScriptv 4 and using features like bootstrap, module, component, service, routlet, lifecycle hooks, events emitter, etc..  • Followed AEM best practices like using minimal number of templates for all the pages, reusable components, etc • Developed components in TouchUI flavor • Custom multifield component using ACS Commons.  • Developed content activate workflows.  • Implemented i18n and MSM for both English and Korean.  • Developed solution to consume third party SOAP and REST services using GET and POST method with AEM OSGI bundles.  • Configured AEM run modes, custom log, etc..  • Implemented custom solution for multiple renditions to images in DAM and viewport based display in front end.  • Used desktop companion tool to bulk upload assets to DAM.  • Configured VanityURLs solution on AEM and dispatcher with admin team assistance.  • Integrated ApacleSolr with AEM for site search.  • Configured Dynamic Media feature for image renditions for different viewports.  • Configured Sling Dynamic Includes feature not to cache dynamic sections of pages but rest all.    Environment:  AEM 6.2 (Templates, Components, i18n, Sling, OSGI, wokflows, jobs, JCR, HTL/Sightly, etc.), Angular 4, Java, Junit, Maven, Eclipse, Angular 4, AJAX, Bootstrap 4, HTML5, CSS3, etc AEM 6.x (Templates, Components, i18n, Sling, OSGI, wokflows, jobs, JCR, HTL/Sightly, etc.), Java, Maven, Eclipse, JQuery, AJAX, Bootstrap, HTML5, CSS3, etc AEM Developer Hyundai Auto Ever July 2017 to December 2017 • Involved in the development of the Components and templates • Enhancements to the existing components.  • Used Agile practices during the development • Followed the Test Driven Development for price API/Store front API consumption • Worked in exposing the REST APIs for feeds which include articles of the products • TDD approach in the API development.  • Unit testing and development of the selenium test scripts for the pages  Environment:  Java 7, Adobe Experience Manager 6.0, RESTful Web Services, GIT, Maven, Bamboo/Nexus, Log4J and jQuery/ExtJS. Java Developer Macquarie Bank Ltd January 2015 to June 2017 • Coding of different reporting modules using Java, Hibernate, JSP, Struts, Spring, HTML pages.  • Integrating the different modules and Delivering the build to the testing team.    Environment:  Java, JSPs, Struts, JavaScript, Hibernate, Spring, Sybase, DB2, IBMWebsphere Application Server Toolkit 5.0    Client VMS Java Developer September 2012 to December 2014 • Business requirements and change requests analysis and scoping.  • Effort and scheduling of work.  • Involved in the new features development and maintenance of the project • Involved in the developing the components using Struts, jsp, Servlets.  • Prepared use case, class and sequence diagrams.  • Designed and developed requisitions, role, skills and round module.  • Feasibility study and implementation of new Release management system.  • Involved in the creation of test cases and performed the Junit tests.    Environment:  Struts2.0, Jsp, Servlets, JSTL, oracle10g, Tomcat, Eclipse and Java Script. Java Developer IBS S/w Services PVT Ltd - Bengaluru, Karnataka May 2011 to August 2012 Description:  RSMS is a web enabled, platform independent, GIS supported, accident database management solutionwith a powerful data analysis engine. Both recording and analysis of accident data can be facilitated by the use of RSMS. Standardized reports generated through this application are useful in providing statistics for traffic researchers and specialists.  • Participated in project planning sessions with business analysts and team members to analyze business IT Requirements and translate business requirements into working model.  • Developed web application using Struts Framework • Developed user interfaces using JSP, HTML and CSS • Used JavaScript and struts validation framework for performing front end validations.  • Developed DAO design pattern for hiding the access to data source objects.  • Used Hibernate framework for the backend persistence • Used Eclipse as IDE tool to develop the application    Environment:  Java, Eclipse, HTML, CSS, JSP, Struts, JDBC, Tomcat, Oracle Education Indian Institute of technology Varanasi - Varanasi, Uttar Pradesh Bachelor's Certifications/Licenses Driver's License