Sr. Java Developer /Full Stack Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> /Full Stack <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Java Developer /Full Stack Developer - OptumRx Wilmington, DE • 6 years of experience with proven expertise in system development activities including requirement analysis, design, implementation and testing with emphasis on Object Oriented, J2EE and Client Server technologies.  • Excellent Expertise in all phases of Software Life Cycle for Developing, maintaining and supporting the Java, J2EE applications.  • Experienced in developing UML diagrams like use cases, class diagrams and sequence diagrams using Rational Rose and MS Visio tool.  • Experienced in various frameworks like Spring, Struts, Hibernate and JSF.  • Expert level skills in application development using Java, J2EE, Spring Framework, Struts, JSP, JMS, JSF, EJB, JPA, Servlets, JDBC, Html, XML, JavaScript, JQuery, JEE compliant application servers, multi-threading, client/server, design patterns of J2EE architecture.  • Expertise in Spring framework, including Spring IoC/core, Spring DAO support, Spring ORM, Spring AOP, Spring Security, Spring MVC, Spring Cache, and Spring Integration.  • Extensive experience with server-side programming and technologies such as JMS, JNDI and EJB.  • Strong web development skills with web 2.0 framework including HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX.  • Used XSLT style sheets to transform database-driven XML into HTML pages.  • Experience in Message driven programming using JMS and MQ Series  • Experience on JMS and APACHE CAMEL for implementing communication between components in application.  • Implemented MVC design pattern in J2EE Applications using Servlets, Java Beans, JDBC Data Access Objects (DAO) and JSP  • Hands on experience in responsive web designing and developing applications.  • Experienced with Java Multithreaded programming to develop multithreaded modules and applications.  • Excellent understanding & hands experience on Hibernate, Hibernate Query Language (HQL), Transactions and Exceptions.  • Expertise in Angular JS controllers, directives, factory and service resources, routings and events.  • Expertise in Java Script and AJAX calls. Expertise in jQuery plug-in and Angular components.  • Experience using Apache ActiveMQ, Apche CXF as messaging platform.  • Experience in SOAP Web services using Apache CXF, JAX-RPC, JAX-WS,JSONWebservices.  • Used HQL and DOJO for Data management  • Expert level skills in Java JSP Tag Libraries, Servlets, JDBC, JNDI, RMI and XML.  • Used Node.js as a cross-platform runtime environment for developing server-side web applications.  • Used Node.js, Angular JS, Angular 2, Bootstrap in creating web applications in a fast-paced environment.  • Excellent knowledge in the development of User Experience web and mobile based applications. Hands-on experience using one-way/two-way data-binding, filters, UI-routers and creating custom directives in Angular 2.  • Worked with Web Services using SOAP (WSDL), tested using SOAP UI tool and REST (WADL) services uses Apache CXF framework to communicate between the systems.  • Worked on JNI to connect to native libraries.  • Strong experience in using Design patterns such as Business Delegate, Data Transfer Object, DAO, Session Façade, Factory Methods, Service Locator and MVC.  • Experienced in UI development, UX design, Frontend development, rich user interface design, development, documentation, web 2.0 specifications, standards, media (screen, mobile, touch interface) compatibilities, application architecture, visual design, wireframes, project and team management.  • Experienced in e-commerce based web applications.  • Experience on architectures like Model-View-Controller(MVC), Service-Oriented-Architecture (SOA).  • Experience hosting and consuming Web Services using SOAP and RESTful(Jersey).  • Experience in Developing application on Groovy and Grails.  • Experience with NoSQL Mongo DB database.  • Experienced in Web/Application servers such as WebSphere, Weblogic, Jboss and Apache Tomcat.  • Experience in Test driven development using Junit.  • Experience in Agile Methodology, Waterfall Methodology and Scrum Software  • Hands on experience with version controllers like CVS (Concurrent Version Systems), SVN (Apache Subversion), CLEARCASE and GIT  • Experienced in building application using Oracle Application Express.  • Experience in working with Relational Database (RDBMS) concepts like database designing, Normalization, PL/SQL, Stored Procedures, Triggers etc  • Proficient in Test Driven Development (TDD) using Java JUnit API.  • Experience and Strong knowledge in SQL and PL/SQL in major database systems (Oracle, MySQL, MS SQL Server).  • Extensive working experience in Design and Development on Front End Technologies: JSTL, JSP, HTML, DHTML, JavaScript, Ajax, CSS, Bootstrap and XHTML.  • Used Apache Log4J for logging purposes.  • Build and deploy the EAR to Application Server using ANT.  • Setting up continues integration using Maven and Jenkins  • Closely worked with Release Management Team in doing builds and deploying code into various environments like DEV/QA/SIT/UAT/Prod.  • Flexible and easy adaptation to all kinds of work environment with good team/independent management for best quality end results. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Java Developer /Full Stack Developer OptumRx - Wilmington, DE October 2016 to Present Description: OptumRx is a global leader in providing technology based Business Solutions and Services. We are providing design and development services, consolidating major applications of OptumRx to create an RxBuilder service-oriented IT architecture. We are responsible for Developing RxBuilder Application for the Data Processing System and quality reporting systems. In the present application we are supporting the collection, analysis, reporting and clinical, survey and project data from Medicare Part D and Medicaid providers.  Responsibilities:    • Involved in SDLC Requirements gathering, Analysis, Design, Development and Testing of application using AGILE methodology (SCRUM).  • Involved in creation of dynamic web pages with the use of JSP and HTML. Form validation using JavaScript and design changes using CSS3.  • Experience in responsive web designing and developing applications.  • Developed the business logic using Spring and persistence logic using Hibernate  • Developed the spring AOP programming to configure logging for the application.  • Used XSL/XSLT for transforming and displaying reports.  • Used Spring Dependency Injection to get the Hibernate Sessions and Spring DAO Classes  • Provided data persistence by object relational mapping solution via Hibernate for application save, update, delete operations  • Developed and published Webservices using JAX-RSAPI.  • Contributed as key resource of the "Angular 2 Framework Team" in conversion of existing UI screens of the application to Angular 2 based UI.  • Developed Client applications to consume the web services based on both SOAP and RESTprotocol using JAX-RSAPI.  • Developed RxBuilder Application using JSF MVC framework using JavaScript as client side validation.  • Worked on developing complex SQL queries on Oracle 10g and SQL Server databases for implementing various database requirements and transactions.  • Used different parsers like Spring Castors and JAX-WS parsers.  • Used IBM tools like RAD8.5, Synergy, Data Studio and IBM Rational Change.  • Developed several shell Scripts to automate file transfers.  • Used XPATH to navigate through Attributes and Elements in an XML Document.  • Good hands on UNIX commands used to see the log files on the production server.  • Developed server side functionality for Admin Interface features (adding a User, Modifying the User Details, Assigning Roles, Modifying Roles etc).  • Implemented Two way SSL security for web services module.  • Used JMS ( Java Mailing Service) API for mailing detailed notifications depending upon the success and failure once the backend process is completed and also for mailing administrator of any system related problems.  • Used Apache Camel framework for connectivity to different APIs and transports.  • Created Typescript reusable components and services to consume REST API's using Component based architecture provided by Angular2.  • Configured and deployed the web application on WebLogic.  • Used Node.js to create server side applications for Java script codes to build real-time web API's.  • Integrated node server using Express framework to enable real-time Socket.io  • Created various Tables required for the project in DB2 database and used Stored Procedures in the application for frequent operations on tables.  • Performed Unit Testing both manually and automated using JUNIT.  • Actively involved in deployment EJB service jars, Application war files in WebLogic Application server.  • Used Spring Security to provide authentication, authorization, and access-control features for this application.  • Used Test Automation Cucumber for testing web application.  • Involved in building and deployment of application in Linux environment.  • Involved in writing maven scripts for building and deploying the code.  • Used Log4j to capture the log that includes runtime exception and for logging info which is useful for debugging.  • Managed and headed the monthly production release process from code review, testing, creating the release packages and deployment.    Environment: Java, JSP, Spring(MVC and Core), JSON, Servlets, WebServices(RESTful), Web Logic Application server, Angular 2, node.js, Spring JDBC Template, Tomcat Server 7.0, TOAD, SQL Developer, JUnit, XML, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX, UML, Maven, DB2, Windows XP, IBM RAD 8.5, Hibernate. Sr. Java Developer State Street - Boston, MA January 2016 to September 2016 Description: RMS is a multi-phase enterprise-wide Risk Management System (RMS) with the objective of delivering a modern, scalable, centralized application platform to support the ERM (Enterprise Risk Management) division of State Street for assessing risk and evaluating capital adequacy as per Regulatory guidelines. This initiative designs the compliance programs, consistent with the country-specific regulatory requirements that need to be developed at State Street. RMS establishes the technical platform for delivery of a diverse set of services at State Street, and provides the business the capability to adopt the most advanced and complex approaches for assessing risk and evaluating capital adequacy allowing delivery of multiple services to State Street clients using a shared point of entry and common management process    Responsibilities:  • Involved in SDLC Requirements gathering, Analysis, Design, Development and Testing of application using AGILE methodology (SCRUM).  • Developed the spring AOP programming to configure logging for the application.  • Used multithreading in programming to improve overall performance.  • Used Java Messaging Services (JMS) for reliable and asynchronous exchange of important information such as payment status report.  • Involved in creation of dynamic web pages with the use of JSP and HTML. Form validation using JavaScript and design changes using CSS3.  • Responsible for setting up Angular JS framework for UI development. Developed html views with HTML5, CSS3, JSON and Angular JS.  • Developed code to fetch data from back-end and populate on UI using AJAX, Angular-JS, JSON.  • Developed the UI panels using JSF, XHTML, CSS, DOJO and JQuery.  • Used Angular JS framework for single page application in a very clean and maintainable way.  • Configured and deployed the web application on WebLogic.  • Used Node.jsto create server side applications for Java script codes to build real-time web API's.  • Incorporated Basic authentication and JSON threat protection by using Apigee API gateway.  • Created reusable API proxies to on board internal / external services to Apigee. (Hands-on creation of API Proxy, Product, Developer App, Developer)  • Created Transaction logs using Apigee policies that will be sent to Splunk for monitoring requirements.  • Used Ember JS for making ajax calls (GET, POST) for triggering or fetching data from RESTful APIs provided by the backend team.  • Developed the business logic using Spring and persistence logic using Hibernate.  • Wrote GWT code to create presentation layer using GWT widgets and event handlers.  • Developed user interfaces using JSP, GWT frame work with AJAX, Java Script, HTML, DHTML, and CSS.  • Used Maven for building, deploying application, creating JPA based entity objects and compiling GWT application.  • Junit was used for Unit Testing and implementing Test Driven Development (TDD) methodology.  • Updating and configuring SSL certificates to Web Servers and Application Servers.  • Integrated SSO for login and authentication.  • Used XSL/XSLT for transforming and displaying reports.  • Used Spring Dependency Injection to get the Hibernate Sessions and Spring DAO Classes  • Provided data persistence by object relational mapping solution via Hibernate for application save, update, delete operations  • Designed and developed EJBs to handle business logic and store persistent data.  • Used Spring MVC for the controllers used Spring Security for securing the web tier Access.  • Developed and published Webservices using JAX-RSAPI.  • Developed Client applications to consume the web services based on both SOAP and RESTprotocol using JAX-RSAPI.  • Used JAX-WS (SOAP) for producing web services and involved in writing programs to consume the web services using SOA with CXF and Apache CXF framework.  • Worked on developing complex SQL queries on Oracle 10g and SQL Server databases for implementing various database requirements and transactions.  • Developed several shell Scripts to automate file transfers.  • Good hands on UNIX commands used to see the log files on the production server.  • Developed server side functionality for Admin Interface features (adding a User, Modifying the User Details, Assigning Roles, Modifying Roles etc).  • Created various Tables required for the project in Oracle database and used the SQL Stored Procedures in the application for frequent operations on tables.  • Performed Unit Testing both manually and automated using JUNIT.  • Actively involved in deployment EJB service jars, Application war files in WebLogic Application server.  • Implemented clustering of servlets for load balancing and expected performance delivery by the application.  • Implemented Dynamicformgeneration, auto-completion of forms and user-validation functionalitiesusing AJAX.  • Donedatabase server setup for MySql DB.  • Large Object Tuning(JVM Tuning) to reduce risk with heap fragmentation, high memory utilization, heap consumption, pause and increase throughput and improve the stability.  • Involved in building and deployment of application in Linux environment.  • Maintained and augmented company's Groovy on Grails external REST API layer:  • Involved in writing maven scripts for building and deploying the code.  • Used Log4j to capture the log that includes runtime exception and for logging info which is useful for debugging.  • Managed and headed the monthly production release process from code review, testing, creating the release packages and deployment.    Environment: Java, JSP, Spring(MVC and Core), JSON, Servlets, WebServices(RESTful), Web Logic Application server, Spring JDBC Template, Tomcat Server 7.0, TOAD, SQL Developer, JUnit, XML, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX, UML, Maven, Oracle 10g, Windows XP, SVN, Eclipse, Hibernate. Sr. Java Developer Johns Hopkins February 2015 to November 2015 Description: John Hopkins provides population health management solutions that are designed to manage the health care costs. We utilize leading-edge analytics and evidence based clinical standards to offer integrated population health program and services to support strategies for a variety of organizations including health plans, providers, employers, and state/local governments. John Hopkins management support customer strategies to achieve their health and cost goals through a patient-center, holistic approach to individual engagement and proactive prevention of illness promote healthier lifestyles and promote quality care.  Responsibilities:    • Developed the business logic using Spring MVC  • Used Hibernate as ORM Tool for the backend data persistence.  • Developed very interactive and complex UI using AJAX, JSP, jQuery, HTML, CSS.  • Implemented a Node.js server to manage authentication.  • Created HTTP servers using Node JS.  • Used Angular JS as UI for Node Jsweb apis.  • Creating Node.js web applications and MongoDB databases to interface with hardware.  • Done integration of Spring with Hibernate.  • Exclusively worked on AJAX for dynamic content pull up and for partial page rendering for better user interaction with the web.  • Used JQuery for developing client side validations and handling page events/AJAX calls.  • Used AJAX and JSON for asynchronous call to the servers.  • Synchronized data using Java MultiThreading in the Servlets by creating synchronized methods and extending the Runnable interface.  • Used JMS for communicating various clients and it's components  • Installed and administer Linux servers running Apache Web server, Tomcat, MySQL.  • Developed test cases and performed unit test using JUnit Framework 4.11 in Test Driven Development (TDD) approach.  • Used XSLT to transform XML files into different forms.  • Built a hybrid model for automation and writing test scripts in JAVA, Groovy and VBScript for both web and desktop applications.  • Implemented Message Driven Bean Using JMS.  • Published and Consumed Webservices using JAX-RS API  • Coded application components using Agile methodology.  • Developed the DAO layer using Hibernate as Abstract Factory, which is used across all Entities.  • Worked on payment processing of online transactions.  • Implemented MVC pattern in the application development using spring.  • Developed mail alert mechanism for alerting the users when their selection criteria are met.  • Used Angular JS as the development framework to build a single-page application.  • Extensively worked with XML schema(XSD), XSL/XSLT, XML to navigate in XML documents, and SAX to process and parse xml files.  • Implemented SOA architecture using WSDL specification in combination with SOAP and XML Schema to provide Web Services  • Implemented Salesforce.com web services client using Sales force web services API, Java, XML and partner WSDL.  • Designed DAO layers for batch jobs using Spring JDBC Template.  • Developed Web pages using Struts view component JSP, JavaScript, HTML, jQuery, ExtJs to create the user interface views.  • Involved in performance optimization concepts within applications like Code optimization, loadbalancing etc.  • Done database server setup for oracle DB.  • Performed Tuning, Load Balancing and optimization of WebLogic Application Server.  • Developed ANT script to build .war and .ear files for the application.  • Built and Deployed WAR, JAR files on test, stage and production system in Oracle Web Logic Application Server.  • Utilized Mongo database management system for keeping user generated data  • Performed Unit Testing both manually and automated using JUNIT.  • Monitored the error logs using Log4j and fixed the problems.  • Created interactive websites, applications, and presentationsusingCreative Suite 3, Creative Suite 4, and DOJO.  • Wrote PL/SQL queries, stored procedures, and triggers to perform back-end database operations.  • Used SVN version control to track and maintain different versions of the application.  • Configured Websphere Application Server on multiple platforms for both horizontal and vertical scaling.    Environment: Java, JSP, Spring(MVC and Core), JSON, Servlets, Web Services(RESTful), Web Logic Application server, Spring JDBC Template, Tomcat Server 7.0, TOAD, SQL Developer, JUnit, XML, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX, UML, ANT, Oracle 10g, Windows XP, SVN, Eclipse, Hibernate. Java Developer Novature technologies Inc - Hyderabad, Telangana April 2012 to August 2014 Description: Requestor Management is a Batching application where the requests sent from various requestor applications will be batched. We are focused in performing various rules for batching based on time and count. We are emphasized in interacting with other applications using web services. To implement the business logic and operational activities, we are using Angular JS, Java 8, EJB and Oracle.    Responsibilities:  • Responsible for gathering business requirements, review the requirements and converting them to detailed design documents.  • Used Agile Methodology for the entire modules.  • Extensively used Core Spring Framework for Dependency Injections of components.  • Developed the spring AOP programming to configure logging for the application.  • Used multithreading in programming to improve overall performance.  • Dynamicformgeneration, auto completion of forms and user-validation functionalitiesusing AJAX.  • Developed dynamic UI using JSP, HTML5, CSS, JavaScript, Ajax calls, Angular JS and Ext Js.  • Worked with Weblogic consultants to design JNDI connection and connection pools.  • Involved in writing the Groovy scripts to customize the output presented to user.  • Worked on Soap tool to Unit Testing SOA based applications.  • Done integration of Spring with Hibernate.  • Designed and developed EJBs to handle business logic and store persistent data.  • Designed Server Side Java e-commerce based applications based on Servlets, JSP, EJB, Struts, Hibernate, Spring, XML, Ajax on multiple server environments.  • Creation of REST WebServices for the mgrailanagement of data using Apache CXF.  • Designed and Developed Web Services to interact with various business sectors and used SOAP protocol for web services communication  • Used JDBC API for connecting and interacting with oracle 10g database.  • Involved in writing the Groovy scripts to customize the output presented to user.  • SVN was used as the Version Code. Helped in installing and maintaining the SVN throughout the Development and Testing Phase.  • Wrote test cases using Junit, Mokito  • Use FTP, SFTP Process to transfer the files to user directory from linux server.  • Deployed J2EE applications in WebSphere application server by building and deploying ear file using ANT script.  • Monitored the error logs using Log4j and fixed the problems.    Environment: Java, JSP, Spring(MVC and Core), JSON, Servlets, WebServices(RESTful), Web Logic Application server, Spring JDBC Template, Tomcat Server 7.0, TOAD, SQL Developer, JUnit, XML, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX, UML, Maven, Oracle 10g, Windows XP, SVN, Eclipse, Hibernate, Oracle ADF Business components, ADF faces. Java Developer AWATA Software Systems - Chennai, Tamil Nadu November 2011 to March 2012 India  Description: It is a telecom inventory maintenance system to take care of customer concerns. This project consists of Applications, Entries, Enquiries, and Complaints Modules. An Application consists of Application for New Phone Connection, Phone Transfer Connection, Temporary Phone Connection, Modifications, and Cancellation. Entries Module Consists of Bill Entry, Paid Bill Entry, Changed Number Entry. Enquiries Modules Constitute of Take care of Customer Concerns. The Complaints Module consists of Line disturbance, Phone dead, Incorrect billing.    Responsibilities:  • Preparation of Technical Specs using UML - including class diagrams, sequence diagrams.  • Designed, developed, and deployed server side Java, Servlets, and Java server pages (JSPs) for browser based conference software. Implemented Form classes, Action classes for the entire application domain module using Struts framework  • Developed advanced Java Script modules such as capture visitor information, browser version, button animation, timing object. Extensively used JSTL tag libraries  • Developed the Business Delegate classes to delegate the application flow from action classes.  • Created struts-config.xml, application-resources properties for the project.  • Used Session beans to implement Session façade design pattern.  • Involved in developing SOA Web Services using XML, XPATH, XSD, SOAP, WSDL and Apache Axis.  • Designed the database and also modeled the database  • Developed Data access bean and developed EJBs that are used to access data from the database.  • Developed data-centric web applications for the Oracle environment using APEX 3.2  • Developed the applications using WebLogic to create the transactional business logic like EJB, JSP of a WebLogic Application.  • Transactions for the result sets of queries were processed by business logic methods using Session Bean and Entity bean.  • Used JMS to established message communication. Publisher-Subscriber method was used for data loading and Point-To-Point method of JMS was used for event processing.  • Involved in the developing of ANT build script and deployment in WebLogic 9.2 on Linux platform.  • Used SAX for XML parsing.  • Advanced search functionality to retrieve Business/Residence customer information. Using java, JSP, Servlets, SQL, Oracle, JavaScript, DHTML, CSS.  • Used Log4j for logging mechanism and developed wrapper classes to configure the logs  • Extensively used PL/SQL for writing queries and Stored procedures in Oracle Database.  • Developed the Entity Beans to connect the database  • Used JUnit and Struts Test cases for testing the application modules.  • Used CVS for version control.  Environment: J2EE, JDK 1.5, Java Beans JSP 2.0, Servlets, Java Script, Java 5, Hibernate 3.0, JTA, Toad, Oracle 9i, PL/SQL, Log4j, XML, HTML 4.0, CVS, JUnit 4.0, Soap, JMS, FTP.Log4j, XML Bean, Webservices (SOAP), SQL Developer, Weblogic Application Server 9.2, EclipseIDE, Windows XP. Education B.E in Electronics and Communication Engineering Anna university Chennai - Chennai, Tamil Nadu April 2012 Skills Apache (5 years), database (5 years), Java (5 years), JavaScript (5 years), Linux (5 years), Java, JSP, Spring(MVC and Core), JSON, Servlets, WebServices(RESTful), Web Logic Application server, Angular 2, node.js, Spring JDBC Template, Tomcat Server 7.0, TOAD, SQL Developer, JUnit, XML, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX, UML, Maven, DB2, Windows XP, IBM RAD 8.5, Hibernate. (8 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Programming Languages J2EE,CORE JAVA, SQL, C, C++.  Client Scripting JavaScript  Server Scripting JSP1.2,2.1  Platforms Windows (7, Vista, XP, 2000, 98, NT), Red Hat Linux  Version Control Rational Clearcase, SVN, CVS,GIT  Databases SQL Server 2005, 2008, Oracle 9i,10g,11g, MySQL 4.1, 5.0, NoSQL  Database Tools Toad for SQL Server, Toad for Oracle, Toad for MySQL, and SQL Developer.  Frameworks Hibernate 3.0, Springs, Struts, JSF, Ajax  IDEs Eclipse, JDeveloper and RAD.  Webservice Specifications JAX-WS, JAX-RS(Restful)  Web/ Application servers WebSphere, Weblogic, Jboss, Glassfish and Apache Tomcat  Design Patterns  Session Façade, Business Delegate, Front Controller, Service Locator, Singleton, Observer, DTO, DAO, MVC, Iterator, Factory, Abstract Factory    UML Tools MS Visio, Rational Enterprise  HTML Editors MS Frontpage 2003, Adobe Dreamweaver MX CS4  JavaScript Frameworks Jquery, Angular Js, Node.Js  Build Tools MAVEN and ANT.  Methodologies Agile, Scrum, Test Driven  Transaction Control JTA, Hibernate Transactions  XML Tools Altova XML Spy, Edit Plus  Loggers Log4J, SLF4J