Java Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Developer - Nvidia, Santa Clara Santa Clara, CA • Over 8+ years of experience in analysis, design, implementation, and testing of Object-Oriented Applications in Client/Server environments using Java/J2EE.  • Experienced in Java Web-based, Desktop Based Development with Concepts of, Object-Oriented Design (OOD), Object-Oriented Analysis (OOA), Object-Oriented Programming (OOP) and its implementation.  • Experience working with various Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) methodologies based on Agile, Scrum, Waterfall Model, Iteration.  • Expertise in design and development of various web and enterprise-level applications using Java/J2EE technologies Such as Spring, Hibernate, Struts framework, EJB, Servlets 3.x.  • Experienced in Middleware persistence framework like Hibernate/JPA for mapping Java classes to the database and using Hibernate Query Language (HQL).  • Extensive experience in Text Analytics, developing different Statistical Machine Learning solutions to various business problems and generating data visualizations using R, Python, and Tableau.  • Experienced in Front End frameworks such as jQuery, Ajax, JavaScript, Nodejs, ReactJS, BackboneJS, AngularJs.  • Hands-on Experience in AWS Cloud in various AWS Services such as RedShift, Cluster, Route53 Domain configuration.  • Extensively used various transformers and components in Mule ESB.  • Experience with setup and maintenance of WebLogic Server, Apache, Tomcat, LDAP.  • Implemented based on corresponding view components with view components JSP, Html, html5, CSS 3, XSD, XSLT.  • Hands-on experience in implementing client-server business applications using MVC, SOA architecture and Micro Services.  • Extensive exposure to creating and consuming Web Services using annotations and tested them with functional testing tool Soap UI and exposed to create RESTful web services.  • Expertise in Bootstrap, Angular JS and Node JS (Express, Mongoose, Body-Parser, HTTP, Filesystem, Browser Sync, etc..) and used Log 4j for logging.  • Expertise in using Oracle SQL Developer GUI (Graphical User Interface) tool for database development, browse database objects, implement and edit SQL as well as PL/SQL statements.  • Complete understanding of Agile/SCRUM with the ability to conduct SCRUM meetings, coordinate team activities in a strict-deadline driven environment and maintain excellent client communication.  • Experienced in implementing Service-oriented architecture and Web Services using SOAP, RESTFUL.  • Experience with Java 8 features such as lambda expressions, Parallel operations on collections and for effective sorting mechanisms and new Date-Time API.  • Experience in developing and a solid understanding of Service Oriented Architecture and Microservices Architecture.  • Expertise in using IDEs like Eclipse, Net Beans, and RAD for developing and debugging rapid web and enterprise Java applications.  • Good working experience in using ANT and Maven scripts for building and deploying the application in web/App servers.  • Extensive experience in working on multiple operating systems including UNIX, Sun Solaris, Linux, and Microsoft Windows.  • Goal-oriented individual with excellent analytical, problem-solving, communication and interpersonal skills with the ability to interact with individuals at all levels and work independently. Work Experience Java Developer Nvidia, Santa Clara August 2018 to Present Description: Nvidia Corporation more commonly referred to as is an American technology company incorporated in Delaware and based in Santa Clara, California. It designs graphics processing units (GPUs) for the gaming and professional markets, as well as system on chip units (SoCs) for the mobile computing and automotive market.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in developing the application using Java/J2EE platform. Implemented the Model View Control (MVC) structure using spring.  • Involved in Analysis, Design, Coding and testing phases of the project management.  • Followed Agile Software Development with Scrum methodology.  • Involved in writing Controller Classes, Manager Classes and DAO Classes using Spring MVC Framework.  • Implemented spring configuration files for the beans defined and properties to be injected into them using Spring Dependency Injection.  • Extensively worked with Mocha framework on MEAN (MongoDB, Express, Angular, and Node) stack for rapid prototyping of applications for client demonstrations.  • Experience used Spring Boot which is radically faster in building cloud Microservices and develop a Spring-based application with very less configuration.  • Used Mule ESB in designing the application as a middleware between the third-party system and the customer side system  • Used Hibernate framework with Spring Framework for data persistence and transaction management.  • Responsible to enhance the web application UI using HTML, JavaScript, Angular JS, XML, JSP, CSS as per the requirements and providing the client side using javascript validations.  • Used Hibernate as persistence framework mapping the ORM objects to table using Hibernate Mapping files.  • Server instances are created on AWS. Tomcat, Swagger, and hawtio are installed and used for deploying Microservices.  • Responsible for setting up Angular 4 application using Angular CLI for UI development and took part in developing components, services, directives, pipes, etc  • Used Angular Http service to make GET/POST/PUT/DELETE to deal with API request and response.  • Created various template and data-driven form components using Angular Forms and define module-level routing for various components in the application using Angular router.  • Developed unit test cases using Jasmine, karma, web pack and used angular testbeds and async utilities to mock async calls.  • Worked with Angular Rxjs observables and used ng-redux to manage the state in the application.  • Worked closely with IBM rules engine to implement custom rule explorers to parse the rules, gather the type of data used and enrich the feed with actual data.  • Analyzed and refactored service implementation to reduce SLA by applying optimized solutions. Design and Implementing new features/enhancements.  • Creating web-services (REST-based) to interact with different data providing teams. REST APIs design and development - a framework based on Hibernate and spring boot. Used spring boot for creating custom REST APIs.  • Responsible for deployments of the application in pre-production environments.  • Updated many pre-existing functional tests to reflect enhancement/changes in the code. Creating test cases with good functional and code coverages and help with automation of test suites.  • Created RESTful APIs in Express and returned logic through AngularJS data binding.  • Configured various routes, directives for the grid, pagination, conditional validations, templating, dynamic loading, lazy loading, Shadow DOM, ngrx store.  • Worked as part of Microservices team to develop and deliver Maven projects to deploy on tomcat.  • Built NodeJS npm packages/libraries to support current and future Node Development.  • Implemented functionality like searching, filtering, sorting, validating using Angular JS and JavaScript.  • Coordinated with the onsite team for requirement transition and providing the necessary inputs required for the successful execution of the project.    Environment: Java 9.0, Spring 3.5, Hibernate 4.2, Eclipse IDE, Spring batch, Spring quartz, Spring Security, Spring Boot, JPA, Java Scripts, AngularJS, HTML 4.0, CSS, JMS, JAXP (SAX & DOM), Oracle 11g, WebSphere Application Server, Eclipse/RAD 8.0, Oracle 11g, SOAP, RUP, Maven, log4j, Junit, XML, Web Services. Java Developer UPS May 2017 to July 2018 Description: United Parcel Service (UPS) is an American multinational package delivery and supply chain management company. Along with the central package delivery operation, the UPS brand name (in a fashion similar to that of competitor FedEx) is used to denote many of its divisions and subsidiaries, including its cargo airline.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in the complete SDLC including the design of System Architecture, development of System Use Cases based on the functional requirements.  • Involved in Daily Scrum (Agile) meetings, Sprint planning and estimation of the tasks for the user stories, participated in retrospective and presenting Demo at the end of the sprint.  • Used JSP, HTML5, CSS3, and JavaScript to construct the dynamic web pages (presentation Layer) for the application.  • Used AngularJS and Backbone.JS for client-side validation.  • Develop various screens for the front end using AngularJS and used various predefined components from NPM.  • Worked with core Java technologies like Multi-Threading and synchronization.  • Handed Java Multi-Threading part in back-end component, one thread will be running for each user.  • Implemented RESTful Web services to retrieve data from the client-side and made REST API calls from Angular JS and parsed the data to project to the client and handled the security and Authorization using Spring Security and OAuth.  • Managing multiple AWS instances, assigning the security groups, Elastic Load Balancer, and AMIs.  • Created Mule ESB helper class to call the Mule flow, connecting end connectors directly from Java component instead of creating another Mule Flow.  • Developed applications in AngularJS and deployed into development, test and production environment successfully.  • Created custom directives, decorators, and services to interface with Restful WebServices using Angular.js.  • Designed services and factories and injected into various methods and designed customized filter techniques in the webpage using AngularJS.  • Developed various backend components and connected application with other third-party web services.  • Used grade-node- plugin to manage the install of Node and NPM (Node Package Manager) from Gradle  • Used various Node.js built-in modules like Filesystem, Http, serial port, web socket, and OS and various NPM modules.  • Defined the System Interfaces (XSD), created Mule ESB flows, performed payload transformation & developed middleware data Entity Mapping Solution.  • Implemented DAO pattern to fetch data from database using Hibernate to carry out various database operations and avoid redundant database access statements.  • Designed and developed business components using Spring Boot, Spring Dependency Injection (Core), Spring AOP and Spring Annotations.  • Developed reports include Invoice Printings and Patient profiles. Assigned as a lead developer throughout the design, analysis and coding phase of a Claims Processing System.  • Used Hibernate Transaction Management, Spring/Hibernate Batch Transactions and Hibernate cache concepts.  • Used Spring Data Framework to use the features of Spring JDBC and Spring ORM classes like JDBC Template and Hibernate Template to perform the database operations by connecting to Data sources available.  • Used Microservices to communicate using synchronous protocols HTTP and REST.  • Implementing or exposing the Microservices based on RESTful API utilizing Spring Boot with Spring MVC.  • Developed build and deployment scripts using MAVEN as build tools in Jenkins to move from one environment to other environments.    Environment: JAVA 1.8, J2SE, HTML5, CSS3, jQuery, Ajax, Angular JS, Bootstrap, Node JS, JSON, J2EE, Spring Framework 4.2.0, Spring MVC 4.2, Spring Security, Spring Boot, Spring Data (Spring JDBC, Spring ORM), JSP2.0, Hibernate 4.0, Web services, Micro Services, GITHUB. Java Developer DRW Holdings - Chicago, IL January 2016 to April 2017 Description: DRW was founded by Don Wilson, who got his start trading on the floor of the Chicago Mercantile Exchange in the late 1980s. Every trader on the floor had a three-letter acronym for identification - Don chose his initials, DRW, and the name stuck.    Responsibilities:  • Attended various meetings with users. Gone through and understand the client requirements.  • Developed application of Spring 4.x framework by utilizing its features like Spring Dependency injection, Spring Beans, Spring JDBC, Spring Web flow using Spring MVC.  • Worked on Spring MVC application with XML configurations and annotations. Used Dispatcher servlet to route incoming requests, controllers to handle requests and Model to send values to the user interface.  • Used Agile principles to implement the projects using two-week sprints, planning meeting, daily standups, grooming, estimation, and retrospectives.  • Developed a portal application from scratch to interact with third-party application token exchange model for authentication, get the data needed and Spring MVC to handle incoming requests and RESTful web services (Implementing JAX-RS API) with Jackson parser to send data on Web Service Calls in JSON format.  • Participated in front-end development using Angular 2, JavaScript, jQuery, HTML5, CSS 3.0 and bootstrap.  • Participated in Scrum meetings and project planning and coordinated the status sessions  • Developed the presentation layer by using Servlet, HTML 5, CSS 3, JavaScript, JSP's, JSON and XML.  • Maintenance of IMPACT application in Java and related technologies: IMPACT is a comprehensive case-work management application written in J2EE  • Special projects on a need basis for Court Appointed Special Advocates CASA assignment related to the modernization of IMPACT application and upgrading to Spring framework and Hibernate  • Java EE development in Eclipse, WebLogic Tuxedo middleware, Oracle SQL development in Oracle SQL Developer, version control using Serena PVCS and using WebLogic server  • Used Hibernate named queries concept to retrieve data from the database and integrate with Spring MVC to interact with back-end persistence system (Oracle11g).  • Extensively used the LOG4j to log regular Debug and Exception statements and involved in design, analysis and architectural meetings.  • Implemented Unit Testing using JUnit and involved in Integration Testing with Database Layer. Developed Apache Camel endpoints and used producer template to route messages to JMS queues.  • Implemented Spring IOC (Dependency Injection) and Spring Aspect-Oriented Programming (AOP) for the Business as well as Lookup Service Layer development.  • Involved in Writing and Executing SQL Scripts and responsible for fixing the issues and monitoring it to make sure it releases in time.  • Involved in publishing as well as consuming web services using Apache AXIS, JAXB, and JWSDP  • Used JWSDP for generating Java stubs, and skeletons from the existing XSD for interacting with the CME from the CRC.  • Implemented Session Façade, Command Pattern, DAO design patterns.    Environment: Java 1.7, Hibernate, Spring MVC, JDBC, JSP, Html5, CSS3, jQuery, JavaScript, Maven, JBoss, JUnit, Web Logic, Eclipse, Oracle 10g/11g, GIT, Apache Tomcat, Web services, REST, Windows 8.1, SVN, Eclipse, JIRA. Java Developer Fareportal - New York, NY March 2014 to December 2015 Description: Fareportal unique hybrid business model bridges the gap between an online travel agency and a traditional travel agency by providing a convenient online booking capability as well as a 24/7 personalized trip booking experience arranged by hundreds of trained and certified travel agents in multiple countries and in multiple languages.    Responsibilities:  • Participated in meetings with business owners and gathered and documented requirements for implementing KYC Know Your Customer, AML Anti Money Laundering and Compliance features in WUPOS  • Prepared high-level design and technical design documents  • Prepared Schemas XSD for communicating between WUPOS and Document Capture layer  • Developed presentation layer and visual layouts with Apache Tapestry in Java using HTML, CSS, AJAX, and JavaScript.  • Extended in-house Java profiler called Jensor to visualize function call graphs and extract performance metrics  • Reduced the memory utilization by 80% single-handedly in the above implementation  • Developed the POS application using Java 1.6, Tapestry Framework 5 and Jetty 6 Application server using IntelliJ IDEA Dev Studio 14.0.2  • Used Maven for the build, SVN for version control and JUnit for unit test cases  • Developed the business layer in Spring framework 2.5: This layer handles the security authentication and authorization, logging, communicating with an external system with CHIP gateway and communicating with other systems such as Agent Portal through Web Services  • Developed persistence layer using Hibernate and persisted data in Oracle 11g database.    Environment: Java, J2EE, Spring Framework 2.5, jQuery 1.3, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, AJAX, Hibernate 3.2, SOAP, XML, XSD, SOAP, Web Services, Apache Tapestry, Maven, SVN, IntelliJ IDEA 14.0.2. Java Developer Xilinx Technology Services - Hyderabad, Telangana December 2012 to February 2014 Description: Xilinx, Inc. is an American technology company that is primarily a supplier of programmable logic devices. It invented the field-programmable gate array (FPGA) and is the semiconductor company that created the first fabless manufacturing model.    Responsibilities:  • Consuming and exposing various Web services using JAX-RS and JSON to different systems for business services.  • Extensively worked with core java like collections, String Builder, and interfaces  • Development of UI models using HTML, JSP, JavaScript, AJAX, Weblink, and CSS.  • Primarily focused on the spring components such as Spring MVC, Dispatcher Servlets, Controllers, Model, and View Objects, View Resolver.  • Used JDBC to connect to the Oracle database and JNDI to lookup administered objects.  • Generated DAO's to map with database tables using Hibernate. Used HQL (Hibernate Query Language) and Criteria for database querying and retrieval of results.  • Used Spring IOC, AOP modules to integrate with the application.  • Developed SQL Queries for performing CRUD operations in Oracle for the application.  • Used Maven for generating system builds and Bamboo for continuous integration.  • Used LOG4J, JUnit for debugging, testing and maintaining the system state.  • Wrote JUnit Test cases for Spring Controllers and Web Service Clients in Service Layer using Mockito.  • Designed and developed the application using AGILE-SCRUM methodology.    Environment: Java/J2EE, Core Java, Jdk1.6, Spring Boot, Hibernate, Webservices, JAX-RS, Mockito, WADL, SOAPUI, JSP, JDBC, jQuery, AJAX, Html, CSS, Maven, log4j, Oracle, MS SQL, PL/SQL, SQL Developer, JIRA, JMS, APACHE AXIS, Source Tree, IntelliJ, GIT, UNIX, AGILE-SCRUM. Java Developer Cadence Design Systems - Noida, Uttar Pradesh January 2011 to November 2012 Description: Cadence is the only company that provides the expertise and tools, IP, and hardware required for the entire electronics design chain, from chip design to chip packaging to boards and to systems. We enable electronic systems and semiconductor companies to create innovative products that transform the way people live, work, and play.    Responsibilities:  • Developed multiple user tools with core Java and DB2 using eclipse IDE.  • Wrote HQL queries as part of development.  • Designed and implemented XML parsing for XML order conformations.  • Developed the web-services and analysis of SOAP envelope using SOAP UI.  • Have used DOJO toolkit to construct Ajax requests and build dynamic web pages using JSP, HTML5 and JavaScript, Angular JS.  • Developed the different components of the application such as JSP, Servlets, DAO and Used SubVersion (SVN) for version control.  • Involved in the Development of Spring Framework Controllers. Developed Controller for the request, response paradigm by Spring Controllers using Spring-MVC.  • Developed additional UI Components and implemented an asynchronous, AJAX (jQuery) based rich client to improve customer experience.    Environment: Core Java, SQL (DB2), Design Patterns, Spring, OOPS/OOAD (UML), XML, Hibernate, DOJO 1.5, Eclipse IDE. Skills Eclipse, Ejb, Java, Hibernate, Spring, Jboss, Jdk, jquery, Jsf, Jsp, Servlets, Struts, Apache spark, Design patterns, Hadoop, Node.js, Oop, Keras, Tensorflow, Subversion