Senior Java Developer Senior <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior Java Developer - Enerflex Houston, TX • Around 7 years of IT experience in Programming with Application Software Development in IT industry and dynamic experience in Software Development Life Cycle including requirement gathering, designing, programming, testing and implementation of major Systems.  • Expertise in application development using MVC architecture with JAVA, J2EE, JSP, Servlets, JDBC, Web services, Apache Tomcat server, Oracle under Windows.  • Well versed with complete Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) and various software development methodologies such as Agile Methodology and Waterfall model.  • Hands on experience in the design of J2EE architecture Web Applications, using technologies such as Java, Spring MVC, Hibernate, JSP, JDBC, Servlets.  • Expertise in Agile and SCRUM Methodologies.  • Good knowledge about using HTML 5, CSS 3, AngularJS and JavaScript.  • Good knowledge about using design patterns which include MVC (Model-View-Controller), Singleton, Factory, DAO (Data Access Object).  • Experience with deploying applications to cloud platforms (AWS, PCF, Docker).  • Expertise in developing data models using Hibernate (Caching, Relationships and Hibernate DAO) Object relational mapping (ORM) framework and configuring Hibernate persistence layer.  • Strong hands-on experience with Spring IO, Spring Boot, Spring Security, Spring Batch.  • Expertise in developing light weight business component and integrated applications using Spring framework, spring MVC, Spring Data, Spring Batch, Spring Boot, Spring Security using features like IOC and configuring application context for spring bean factory.  • Detailed experience with Spring Framework projects including use of features: AOP, DAO, Dependency Injection (IOC).  • Experience working with AngularJS, Angular2/5, Backbone MVC Framework, NodeJS.  • A thorough background implementing hybrid cloud strategies using public clouds such as AWS.  • Have Strong experience in using Web Services Technologies like SOAP(JAX-WS), RESTful (JAX-RS) &Microservices.  • Well versed in developing MongoDB, Micro Services web application using test driven methodologies (TDD) and Junit as a testing framework.  • Extensively worked with MVC Architecture using spring, Hibernate, Apache Struts.  • Responsible for creating and maintaining architecture for Restful API using Spring Boot.  • Experienced in AWS Cloud platform and its features which includes EC2, AMI, AWS VPC.  • Add project users to the AWS account with multi factor authentication enabled and least privilege permissions.  • Hands on experience with IAM to set up user roles with corresponding user and group policies using JSON.  • Experience in AWS platform and its features including IAM, EC2, EBS, VPC, RDS, Cloud Watch, Cloud Trail, Cloud Formation AWS Configuration, Autoscaling, Cloud Front, S3, SQS, SNS, Lambda and Route53.  • Good work experience in Service Oriented Architecture and Micro services architecture.  • Experience in Production support and Debugging of live applications.  • Have excellent analytical, programming and problem-solving skill. Estimation planning of the project through walkthroughs and meetings involving various leads from Development, QA and Technical Support teams.  • Adept in providing Analytical Support to key business Application issues.  • Installation, Configuration and Management of RDBMS and No SQL tools such as Dynamo DB.  • Creating S3 buckets and maintained and utilized the policy management of S3 buckets and Glacier for storage and backup on AWS.  • Managing multiple AWS instances, and AMIs.  • Used Amazon S3 to backup database instances periodically to save snapshots of data. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior Java Developer Enerflex - Houston, TX September 2018 to Present Description: Enerflex aims at transporting oil and gas through pipelines. The system is based on a 24/7 monitoring tool that has various points to monitor the flow of gas safe and secure. The development involved creating, testing and deploying control, monitoring systems at different level of the plant. The interface provides status of each unit that transports gas. Java J2EE, Javascripts, Microsoft office were used to develop and analyze software. Various physical parameters like temperature, pressure, velocity etc. are monitored and measured, stored and analyzed. Graphical representational software was mostly used to analyze data that were stored.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in analysis, design and development of e-bill payment system as well as account transfer system and developed specs that include Use Cases, ClassDiagrams, Sequence Diagrams and Activity Diagrams.  • Analysis, design and development and testing phases of Software Development Lifecycle (SDLC) using Agile methodology.  • Used the basic principles of MVC to incorporate the Angular7 framework to build client side application.  • Used MicroServices architecture, with Spring Boot-predicated services interacting through an amalgamation of REST, Cassandra and MQ message brokers, tested and deployed Identity micro services.  • Published and consumed Web Services using SOAP, WSDL and deployed it on WebLogic server Web Server.  • Used a MicroServices with Spring Boot-based services interacting through a combination of REST and Rabbit MQ or Apache Kafka message brokers.  • Used SOAP based web services to develop interfaces to integrate between front end systems and back end systems.  • Developed REST API's using Spring MVC and Spring boot, hosted all micro services on PCF.  • Involved in all the phases of (SDLC) including Requirements Collection, Design &Analysis of the Customer Specifications from Business Analyst.  • Developed WSDL's and XSD's for creating interfaces between different systems using SOAP based web services and also worked on using RESTful web services  • Also developed web services components using Apache Camel, SOAP, WSDL, JAXB, and JAX- WS with java.  • Automated the cloud deployments using python and AWS Cloud Formation Templates.  • Developed multiple single page applications using Angular 7.0, HTML5, CSS3, Angular Material.  • Handled operations and maintenance support for AWS cloud resources which includes launching, maintaining, troubleshooting, Elastic Load Balancers (ELB) and Relational Database Services (RDS).  • Used Spring Framework for Authentication and Authorization and ORM components to support the Hibernate tool.  • Analyized cassandra database and compare it with other open-source NoSQL databases to find which one of them better suites the current requirement.  • Designed and developed Application based on Spring framework using MVC design patterns  • Responsible for writing/reviewing server side code using SpringJDBC and DAO module of spring for executing stored procedures and SQL queries  • Backend application layer is implemented using EJB (Enterprise Java Bean) in WebLogic Application server environment and also creates microservices architecture.  • Worked with Core Java for business logic.  • Developed application using Java/J2EE technologies - SpringBoot, PCF and Microsoft Azure.  • Deployed application and related services on AWS.  • Used Oops based design to develop the interactive web application.  • Developed Web services for the services to get the data from external systems to process the request from client sides.  • Used Microservices to communicate using synchronous protocols HTTP and REST for implementing SOAP.  • Participated in requirement gathering and framework implementation sessions through Agile TDD methodology.  • Performed form validations using reactive forms from Angular7.0 framework.  • Configured an AWS Virtual Private Cloud (VPC) and Database Subnet Group.  • Create new SpringBoot microServices and deploying to PCF.  • Utilized SOAP UI to generate request XML's from WSDL to test the responses.  • Designed and developed the business logic layer and data access layer using different kinds of EJB's and Data Access Objects (Dao's).  • Developed new screens to the application using HTML5, CSS3, JSP, JavaScript and AJAX.  • Used JSON for validation, documentation data required by a given application.  • Followed the Agile methodology to implement the application.  • Used Log4j to capture the log that includes runtime exceptions.  • Developed the application using Eclipse as the IDE and used the standard features for editing, debugging, running etc.  • Involved in writing java API for Amazon Lambda to manage some of the AWS services.  • Configured an AWS Virtual Private Cloud (VPC) and Database Subnet Group.  • Involved in creating and Deployment of REST API and Microservices in Java J2EEE using Spring Boot.  • Built scripts using MAVEN that compiles the code, pre-compiles the JSP's, built an EAR file and deployed the application on the WebLogic application server.  • Used SVN as a documentation repository and version-controlling tool.  • Developed JUnit test cases for unit test of all developed modules.  • Created the design documents with use case diagrams, class diagrams, and sequence diagrams using Rational Rose.  • SQL queries for Oracle Database.  Environment: Java, Java Script, Angular 4, Angular, JSON, Spring IOC, Spring MVC, Spring AOP, Spring ORM, JAXB, XML, JAX-WS, SOAP Web Services, RESTful web services, JMS, MDB, Hibernate, JMX, EHCache, JUnit, Mockito, TestNG, Maven, Gradle, GIT, Oracle, Tomcat, LabVIEW, WebLogic. Java/J2EE Developer Signet Jewelers - Akron, OH September 2016 to August 2018 Description: Supporting critical applications, reports, and data used by the Commercial business as well as many other groups across the corporation. support Commercial application systems used by Traders, Schedulers, Confirmation, Contracts, Pricing, Risk, Compliance, Credit, F&PA, Accounting and all levels of Management to manage the business.  Responsibilities:  • Designed user interfaces, object model, application server logic and schema by analyzing requirements.  • Used J2EE patterns for designing applications.  • Designed UI pages using HTML, DHTML, JavaScript, JQUERY, JSP and Struts tag libraries.  • Monitored the performance of application using JProbe, also coded Struts Action Classes and Model Classes.  • Developed the applications under Agile and SCRUM methodologies & Microservices architecture.  • Developed strategies and supported tools to create an efficient integration and release process using Jenkins.  • Implemented Angular 2/4/ Router to enable navigation from one view to another.  • Using Model View Controller (MVC) architecture of Struts developed client User Interface.  • Used Struts Validation framework for client/server validations.  • Extensively used design patterns like Singleton, Factory, Abstract Factory etc.  • JMS is used for exchanging the information like Author publication status report between the author and company.  • End to end deployment ownership for projects on Amazon AWS.  • Experience working on Jquery , agile, Java; J2EE, Groovy, Grails, HTML, Javascript, CSS, web services, Oracle, MS SQL, JBoss, Spring, Hibernate, GIT, IDE, Eclipse Plugins, Eclipse Tools, JSON, Java, C++, JavaScript , SDLC, DVCS, WebSphere Portal User management APIs.  • Used EJB Session beans and entity beans to develop business services and the persistence.  • Implemented business logic using Java Beans for front end and storage/retrieval from the backend Oracle DB using SQL queries and PL SQL-Stored procedures, functions, sequences, triggers, cursors etc.  • Worked with NoSQL Cassandra to store, retrieve, and update and manage all the details for Ethernet provisioning and customer order tracking.  • Expertise in using source code control systems such as SVN, Huddle, and Jenkins for maintaining versions across various releases for Merchant Financing application.  • Followed coding guidelines while implementing the code.  • Extensively involved in Unit testing and coordinated with the testing team and fixing Bugs at various stages of the application development.  • Develop Message Driven Beans (MDB) & involved in building and accessing a Web Services using SOAP over JMS.  • Developing a mechanism for sending and receiving SOAP messages over JMS by MQ Series Engine  • Developed Web Services using Apache AXIS2 tool Framework.  • Generated WSDL files using AXIS2 tool.  • Implemented Web Services using SOAP protocol, UDDI, WSDL and Service oriented Architecture (SOA) Concept.  • Ran check styles, find bugs and configured EMMA tool for test coverage. Java Developer Mitec-Powertrain Inc - Findlay, OH October 2015 to August 2016 Description: This system provides a versatile interface for research and development of automobile propulsion system. The major functions of Interactive module is to capture test data, Recording signals from sensors, store and analyze them. The Interactive UI was built crisp and smooth using Angular, GoJs that enables flexible interface for users. One can build detailed information of reports in graphical representations. Most of the software was developed in an analytical perspective that is effective for R&D purpose. The software contains different imports and export options and the data can be represented in any forms possible.    Responsibilities:  • Participated in design and development as a Core Java and J2EE Software developer. Understanding software requirement and utilizing apposite technology to enunciate most apposite data flow between front end and back end technologies.  • Front-end designing using Angular, GoJs to develop an interactive User Interface.  • Pooling up most apposite design pattern for DAO and implementing interface to reduce code reuse. Understanding the Business Process and developing logic and software stack based on business flow.  • Developed internationalized multi-tenant SaaS solutions with responsive UI's using Java or ReactJS, with NodeJS and CSS.  • Using advanced level of HTML5, AJAX, JavaScript, CSS3 and pure CSS layouts. Implemented application level persistence using Hibernate and Spring. Developed various UI (User Interface) components using Struts (MVC), JSP, and HTML.  • Developed and designed new cross-browser accessible interfaces using JQuery and JavaScript. Involved in writing JSPs, JavaScript and Servlets to generate dynamic web pages and web content. Used WebLogic for deployment of applications.  • Used XML and JSON for transferring/retrieving data between different Applications.  • Developed stored procedures, triggers and functions with PL/SQL for Oracle database. Uses the DAO pattern for data access layer and JMS API for the messaging requirement. Used Javascript and JQuery for validating the input given to the user interface. Developed test cases and performed unit test using JUnit Framework.  • Configured Gulp to perform various UI build and test related tasks and used NodeJS NPM and Bower to manage the dependencies.  • Extensive use of Spring components like, SpringCore, Spring MVC, SpringBoot Microservices.  • Created distributed Oracle coherence domains, configuration and system design based on oracle coherence. Involved in intense User Interface (UI) operations and client side validations using AJAX toolkit.  • Design and development of many PL/SQL batches using JAVA with connectivity to Oracle for data maintenance and handling. Used SVN Subversion for software version control.  • Developed web applications using Spring MVC, JQuery, HTML5, Used Eclipse IDE for designing, coding and developing applications. Involved in the development of presentation layer and GUI framework using EXTJS and HTML. Client Side validations were done using JavaScript.  • Implemented a prototype to integrate PDF documents into a web application using iText PDF library. Customized Jasper Reports and SQL procedures according to the client requirements. Designing and creating business rules using Corticon Rule Engine. Utilized Agile Methodology (SDLC) to managed projects.  • Implement modules into Node JS to integrate with designs and requirements.  • Implemented RESTful Web services in Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) to retrieve data from client side and made REST API calls from AngularJS and parsed the data to client and handled the security and Authorization using Spring Security and OAuth authentication protocol respectively.  • Developed single page application using AngularJS, NodeJS, ExpressJS and MongoDB with ng-view directive.  • Resolving User Interface issues using various front-end technologies such as HTML, CSS, JavaScript, AngularJS, Bootstrap, jQuery and AJAX.  • Implemented various routing mechanisms in the webpage using AngularJS.  • Designed the UML, created class, sequential diagrams using Borland Together Architecture, modified code, configured WebLogic server and project in Oracle.  • Designed and implemented interface elements using Google Web Toolkit.  • Developed a Web 2.0 control console using GWT to manage data matching for data staging  • Uses the DAO pattern for data access layer and JMS API for the messaging requirement.    Environment: Java, Java Script, Angular 4, Angular, JSON, Spring IOC, Spring MVC, Spring AOP, Spring ORM, JAXB, XML, JAX-WS, SOAP Web Services, RESTful web services, MicroServices, JMS, MDB, Hibernate, JMX, EHCache, JUnit, Mockito, TestNG, Maven, Gradle, GIT, Oracle, Tomcat, Labview, WebLogic. Java Developer Value Labs January 2013 to July 2014 Responsibilities:  • Interacted with the Business Analysts in the development of requirements definition, use case analysis and implemented Functional Specification Document (FSD).  • Implemented "Model View Controller (MVC)" architecture to obtain "Layered Architecture" to isolate each layer of the application for easy customization and avoid the complexity of integration.  • Involved in writing JUnit test cases for Unit Testing service classes.  • Performing Load Test, Backend Failure Test and Memory Leak Test.  • Migrated the application from Web Sphere 6.0 to 7.0.  • Developed the Product Builder UI screens using Angular-JS, Node JS, HTML5, CSS, JavaScript and Bootstrap.  • Designed and developed Web Services using JWS JBoss Annotations.  • Provided UNIX scripting to drive automatic generation of static web pages with dynamic news content.  • Incorporated cache replication across nodes using ehcache on JBOSS.  • Participated in requirements analysis to figure out various inputs correlated with their scenarios in Asset Liability Management (ALM).  • Assisted design and development  • Involved in design and implementation of the application using Struts 1.2 framework  • Worked extensively on server side using SOAP Webservices.  • Developed Stateless Session EJB for Server-side processing.  • Installed, configured and deployed components on IBM Web Sphere.  • Used for asynchronous processing.  • Accessed back- JMS/MQ end data source of DB2 with JDBC API.  • Did unit testing using Junit  • Involved in performance tuning.  • Used CVS for version Repository maintenance.  Environment: Java, J2EE, Java SE 6, Struts 2.0, JSP, Servlets, JavaMail API, Node JS, AJAX, Web Sphere 6.0/7.0, IRAD Web Sphere Integration Developer 7.0, Serena Dimensions, Unix, DB2. Project: Capacity and Options Planning System (COPS) Java Developer Win Data Solutions - Hyderabad, Telangana June 2011 to December 2012 Responsibilities:  • Involved in the analysis, design, development and testing phases of Software Development Lifecycle (SDLC)  • Designed Use Case Diagrams, Class Diagrams, Sequence Diagrams and Object Diagrams using UML to model the detail design of the application.  • Developed the application front end using Struts Framework  • Developed action classes, form beans and Java Server Pages.  • Developed a web-based reporting for credit monitoring system with HTML, XHTML, JSTL, custom tags and Tiles using Struts framework.  • Developed Session beans which encapsulate the workflow logic.  • Involved in implementing and designing of Workflow Templates using BPM (Web logic Process Integrator) for middle layer business engine and email notification engine.  • Used Java/J2EE Design patterns like Business Delegate and Data Transfer Object (DTO) in the project which facilitates clean distribution of roles and responsibilities across various layers of processing.  • Developed Web services for credit card application.  • Designed various design Workflow Modules using BPM (Business Process Modeler) to implement Business Logic and Business rules using Ilog, JRules.  • Used SVN, CVS, Harvest, Clear case and Clear Quest for Version controlling and error reporting.  • Involved in working with Struts Tiles for the common look and feel for a web application.  • Implementation of JMS between Workflow module and backend Message forwarding Engine.  • Used PL-SQL for customer details updating at production and UAT level.  • Tested the application functionality with JUnit Struts Test Cases.  • Worked with QA team for testing and resolving defects.  • Used Hibernate framework to access the data.  • Extensively used ANT as a build tool.  • Experience with Eclipse IDE and Struts plug-ins. Education Bachelor in Computer Science in JNTUH Northwestern Polytechnic University - Fremont, CA Skills Eclipse, Ejb, J2ee, Java, Hibernate, Intellij idea, Spring, Jboss, Jbuilder, Jdk, Jms, Jndi, jquery, Jsp, Rmi, Servlets, Struts, Jakarta, Api, Gui, Java J2Ee Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  Languages JAVA, SQL, PL/SQL, XML, PHP  J2EE/Internet Technologies JDK 1.5, EJB, JMS, JDBC, JNDI, JSP, Node JS, Servlets, Struts, Spring, RMI, Hibernate, Web Services (REST, WSDL, SOAP),  RDBMS Oracle 7.x/8.x/9i/10g, My SQL, SQL Server, DB2.  GUI HTML, DHTML, HTML5, CSS3, SASS, Java Script, JSP, jQuery, AJAX, AngularJS.  OO Methodologies Unified Modeling Language (UML).  IDE IntelliJ IDEA, Eclipse, JBuilder and Net Beans, Sublime Editor, Notepad++.  Web Servers Jakarta Tomcat 5.0, Apache Web Server. REST API, SOAP API  Application Servers Web Sphere 6.0, Web Logic Server 8.1/7.0/ and JBOSS.  Operating Systems Windows NT/95, Windows 2000/2007, Windows XP Professional, DOS, Unix, Linux.  Framework Struts (MVC), Spring MVC, Hibernate.  Protocols HTTP, FTP HTTPS, and Telnet.  Utilities/Tools Ant, Log4j, Logger, Maven, AWS, Junit.