Java Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Developer New York, NY • Around 5 years of experience in IT as a Full stack Java/J2EE Developer and worked in the areas of Analysis, Design, Development, Production Support and Deployment of Web based applications.  • Expertise in the implementation of Core concepts of Java, J2EE Technologies: JSP, Servlets, JSTL, JPA, JSF, JMS, Struts, Spring, Hibernate, EJB, Java Beans, JDBC, XML, Web Services, JNDI, Multi-Threading.  • Having knowledge on Java 8 features like Lambda expressions and functional interfaces and Parallel Streams.  • In depth knowledge on core java concepts such as OOPS, Collections, Threading, generics, Exception handling, Multi-Threading, Execution services, concurrent utilities, File IO, Garbage Collection and Serialization.  • Experience and in-depth Knowledge of understanding in the strategy and practical implementation of AWS Cloud-Specific technologies including S3, EC2, (Virtual Private Cloud) VPC, (Relational Database Service) RDS, (Simple Queue Service) SQS, (Elastic Block Store) EBS, (Simple Notification Service) SNS, Cloud Front, Cloud Formation, Elastic Load Balancing, AWS Identity and access management, Elastic Cache, Cloud Watch, RedShift, AWS Lambda, Dynamo DB.  • Strong experience of using open source technologies including React, Node JS, Spring, Angular 6/4/2, jQuery, Apache Storm, Elastic Search, Redis, Mongo DB, Bootstrap, Junit etc.  • Good Knowledge on developing the UI pages from scratch using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, Google Web Toolkit (GWT), Bootstrap, AJAX, Angular 6, Backbone JS, Node JS and React.js.  • Expertise in design and development of various web and enterprise applications using Type safe technologies like Scala, Akka, Play framework, Slick.  • Good knowledge in Hadoop Architecture with various components such as HDFS, Flume, Pig and MapReduce.  • Hands on Experience with Middleware Technology Messaging Brokers like JMS, Kafka, Active MQ, Rabbit MQ.  • Experience in Creating and configuring the continuous delivery pipelines for deploying Micro services and lambda functions using Jenkins CI server.  • Experienced in React JS and working with React Flux architecture and Redux frameworks.  • Strong experience in Spring Framework modules such as Spring MVC, IOC, AOP, JDBC, JTA, IO, Spring Boot, Spring Microservices, Spring REST, Spring Annotations, Spring Transactions and Spring Security.  • Expertise in developing SOA (Service Oriented Architecture), REST and J2EE Web Services based on SOAP, WSDL, UDDI, JAX-WS, JAXB, JAX-RPC using tools like Apache Axis.  • Extensive experience in development of Web services such as SOAP using WSDL, JAXB, SOAP, JAX-WS and Apache CXF and Restful using JAX-RS, CXF, Rest easy, JERSY implementation.  • Strong experience in designing and developing data models and accessing from Java applications using SQL, PL/SQL, ORM tool Hibernate and has experience with NoSQL databases like MongoDB, Cassandra.  • Experience in developed logging and standard mechanism based on Log4j and SLF4j.  • Hands-on experience working with Continuous Integration (CI) build-automation tools such as Maven, GIT, GITHUB, SVN, CVS, Jenkins and Apache Ant.  • Have experience to Develop scripts for build, deployment, maintenance and related tasks using Jenkins, Docker.  • Experience in designing, developing, and deploying J2EE applications on Web sphere, Web logic, Apache Tomcat and JBoss application Servers.  • Experienced in writing and implementing unit test cases using Junit, Unit test, Selenium, Cucumber, Easy mock and Mockito.  • Strong experience on various development environments (IDE Tools) like Eclipse, IRAD, and My Eclipse.  • Experienced in performing automation using Selenium, Java and performing Behavioral driven testing using Cucumber and Jbehive.  • Experience in Test Driven Development (TDD), Waterfall model and agile methodologies like scrum.  • Experience in working with different operating systems like Windows and UNIX/Linux. Work Experience Java Developer HSBC - New York, NY January 2018 to Present Design, Development, Production Support and Deployment of Web based applications.  • Expertise in the implementation of Core concepts of Java, J2EE Technologies: JSP, Servlets, JSTL, JPA, JSF, JMS, Struts, Spring, Hibernate, EJB, Java Beans, JDBC, XML, Web Services, JNDI, Multi-Threading.  • Having knowledge on Java 8 features like Lambda expressions and functional interfaces and Parallel Streams.  • In depth knowledge on core java concepts such as OOPS, Collections, Threading, generics, Exception handling, Multi-Threading, Execution services, concurrent utilities, File IO, Garbage Collection and Serialization.  • Experience and in-depth Knowledge of understanding in the strategy and practical implementation of AWS Cloud-Specific technologies including S3, EC2, (Virtual Private Cloud) VPC, (Relational Database Service) RDS, (Simple Queue Service) SQS, (Elastic Block Store) EBS, (Simple Notification Service) SNS, Cloud Front, Cloud Formation, Elastic Load Balancing, AWS Identity and access management, Elastic Cache, Cloud Watch, RedShift, AWS Lambda, Dynamo DB.  • Strong experience of using open source technologies including React, Node JS, Spring, Angular 6/4/2, jQuery, Apache Storm, Elastic Search, Redis, Mongo DB, Bootstrap, Junit etc.  • Good Knowledge on developing the UI pages from scratch using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, Google Web Toolkit (GWT), Bootstrap, AJAX, Angular 6, Backbone JS, Node JS and React.js.  • Expertise in design and development of various web and enterprise applications using Type safe technologies like Scala, Akka, Play framework, Slick.  • Good knowledge in Hadoop Architecture with various components such as HDFS, Flume, Pig and MapReduce.  • Hands on Experience with Middleware Technology Messaging Brokers like JMS, Kafka, Active MQ, Rabbit MQ.  • Experience in Creating and configuring the continuous delivery pipelines for deploying Micro services and lambda functions using Jenkins CI server.  • Experienced in React JS and working with React Flux architecture and Redux frameworks.  • Strong experience in Spring Framework modules such as Spring MVC, IOC, AOP, JDBC, JTA, IO, Spring Boot, Spring Microservices, Spring REST, Spring Annotations, Spring Transactions and Spring Security.  • Expertise in developing SOA (Service Oriented Architecture), REST and J2EE Web Services based on SOAP, WSDL, UDDI, JAX-WS, JAXB, JAX-RPC using tools like Apache Axis.  • Extensive experience in development of Web services such as SOAP using WSDL, JAXB, SOAP, JAX-WS and Apache CXF and Restful using JAX-RS, CXF, Rest easy, JERSY implementation.  • Strong experience in designing and developing data models and accessing from Java applications using SQL, PL/SQL, ORM tool Hibernate and has experience with NoSQL databases like MongoDB, Cassandra.  • Experience in developed logging and standard mechanism based on Log4j and SLF4j.  • Hands-on experience working with Continuous Integration (CI) build-automation tools such as Maven, GIT, GITHUB, SVN, CVS, Jenkins and Apache Ant.  • Have experience to Develop scripts for build, deployment, maintenance and related tasks using Jenkins, Docker.  • Experience in designing, developing, and deploying J2EE applications on Web sphere, Web logic, Apache Tomcat and JBoss application Servers.  • Experienced in writing and implementing unit test cases using Junit, Unit test, Selenium, Cucumber, Easy mock and Mockito.  • Strong experience on various development environments (IDE Tools) like Eclipse, IRAD, and My Eclipse.  • Experienced in performing automation using Selenium, Java and performing Behavioral driven testing using Cucumber and Jbehive.  • Experience in Test Driven Development (TDD), Waterfall model and agile methodologies like scrum.  • Experience in working with different operating systems like Windows and UNIX/Linux. Java Developer Starbucks - Seattle, WA August 2016 to December 2017 ·         Involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) such as requirements gathering, modeling, analysis, design, development, and testing.   ·         Developed the view-controller components using JSPs, HTML5, CSS3, AJAX, JavaScript (jQuery).   ·         Implemented routing logic and navigation from screen to screen and implemented login functionality on the client side in Angular 4.  Developed website and created graphics for website using HTML, JavaScript, CSS, React.JS. Implemented REST based web services using JAX-RS annotations, consumed services from angular 4 modules.   ·         Hands-on experience in developing integration with Elastic search in any of the programming languages like  JAVA and JavaScript. Having knowledge of advance reporting using Elastic search and NodeJS. Developed the monolithic application and involved in migrating existing monolithic application in to Microservice Architecture based RESTful Service and deployments were done on AWS using Spring Cloud for AWS.    ·         Designed and developed Micro Services business components using Spring Boot. Responsible for creating an instance on Amazon EC2 (AWS), Pivotal Cloud Foundry and deployed the application on it. Involved in the development of Microservices for all the models using combination of Spring Boot and Spring Security.    ·         Installed, secured, and configured AWS cloud servers and Amazon AWS virtual servers (Linux) and used Spring Cloud for AWS.  Exposed microservices as both SOAP and Restful web services using Spring Soap, Rest controllers. Used XML Web Services using SOAP to transfer the amount to transfer application that is remote and global to different financial institutions.    ·         Worked on NoSQL databases like Cassandra and MongoDB and Apache Spark for cluster management with Apache Kafka as messaging system. Implemented a POC with Spark SQL to interpret complex JSON records. Used Cassandra as a storage for Spark analytics and worked on Mongo dB.   ·         Used Apache Kafka for holding large number of messages and using RESTful service pushing messages to Couchbase and used Spring boot and Couchbase starter for retrieving and storing data to Couchbase. Worked on Rest Web services for backend services, used Couchbase DB (NoSQL) for database services.  ·         Automated the installation and maintenance of Kafka, storm, Zookeeper and elastic search using salt stack technology. Implemented real time analytics pipeline using Confluent Kafka, storm, elastic search, Splunk and green plum.   ·         Worked on data transformation pipelines like Storm. Worked with operational analytics and log management using ELK and Splunk. Assisted teams with SQL and MPP databases such as Green plum.  ·         Extensively worked on Java persistence layer in application migration to Cassandra using Spark to load data to and Cassandra Cluster. Worked on AWS services to deploy static websites and dynamic Web Apps on EC2 using Elastic Beanstalk and Elastic Container Service-Docker.    ·         Involved in creating EC2 instances and installed required configurations and applications on it and created S3 buckets for storing object level data into it.    ·         Developed API's to read and publish data from Elastic Search cluster using native  Java Transport client as well as REST client. Worked on Spring Integration with the Elastic Search.    ·         Used Spring MVC framework for implementing Model-View- Controller (MVC) architecture at the Web tier level to isolate each layer of the application so that complexity of integration will be reduced, and maintenance will be very easy.    ·         Used Spring AOP for solving crosscutting concerns like keeping logged data and transactions details etc.    ·         Used Spring Batch for processing large amount of data like transaction management, job processing, resource management and logging.    ·         Used UNIX shell scripting to automate software installation and testing and Used kubernetes to manage applications by inspecting and performing CRUD on clusters and worked on docker with kubernetes to create pods for application and deployed across multi node kubernetes cluster.  ·         Used Angular 4 as framework to create a Single Page Application (SPA) which can bind data to specific views and synchronize data with server and Initiated Microservices application through Docker and Kubernetes cluster formation.   ·         Used Hibernate ORM framework as persistence engine and wrote Hibernate Queries to automate the mapping between Oracle database and Objects in  Java. Involved in writing SQL and Stored Procedures for handling complex queries with help of TOAD and access them through  Java Programs from Oracle Database.    ·         Worked with MongoDB to store non-relational data into collection and retrieve them whenever required.    ·         Used WebLogic server to route our JMS queue messages to different business floors and configured routes in WebLogic and used JMS in e-mail notification. Worked on setting up Maven scripts to build, package, and deploy application code to the target WebLogic Application Servers and worked on continuous integration servers like Jenkins.    ·         Hands on Coding to build REST Micro Services using Spring Cloud, Oracle, XSD, JSON, Spring Config, and Jenkins. Worked on developing RESTful endpoints to cache application specific data in in-memory data clusters like REDIS and exposed them with RESTful endpoints.    ·         Focused on Test Driven Development there by creating detailed JUnit tests for every single piece of functionality before writing the functionality.  Performed automation testing and authored test scripts using Selenium Web Driver, Selenium Grid and Junit.    ·         Worked in Agile TDD environment using SDLC tools like GIT, Jira, Jenkins, and Maven for build packaging and deployments of the application components.   Java Developer BNY Mellon - India May 2014 to December 2015 ·         Involved in various SDLC phases like Design, Development and Testing. Interact with business managers to transform requirements into technical solutions.    ·         Designed the application using the J2EE design patterns such as Session Façade, Business Delegate, Service Locator, Value Object and Singleton.    ·         Configured spring to manage Actions as beans and set their dependencies in a Spring context file. Developed presentation tier as HTML, JSPs using Struts Framework. Used AJAX for faster page rendering.    ·         Implemented the application using Spring IOC, Spring MVC Framework, Spring Batch, Hibernate and handled the security using Spring Security Developed internationalized multi-tenant SaaS solutions with responsive UI's using Java or ReactJS, with NodeJS and CSS.  ·         Implemented modules into Node.js to integrate with design and requirements & also back-end service using Node.js and REACT modules and implemented client side Interface using React JS.     ·         Developed General Ledger module, which streamlines analysis, reporting and recording of accounting information. General Ledger automatically integrates with a powerful spreadsheet solution for budgeting, comparative analysis and tracking facility information for flexible reporting.    ·         Developed client-facing Struts web applications by creating and modifying Java classes, JSPs, Struts Delegates and DAOs, AJAX.    ·         Implemented the MVC architecture using Struts framework. Developed various Action Classes that route requests to appropriate handlers, Coded Struts Action Servlets to process requests and forward to Struts Action classes.    ·         Developed JSP and  Java Helper classes for In-patient and out-patient Information. Wrote Action classes, Request Processor, Business Delegate, Business Objects, Service Classes and JSP pages.    ·         Application integration with Spring Web Services to fetch data from external Benefits application using SOA architecture, configuring WSDL based on SOAP specifications and marshalling and un-marshalling using JAXB  ·         Developed web pages using Servlets and XML for various modules and involved in environment set up with Ant, Eclipse, JBoss and SQL Server 2005.   ·         Used Oracle as the backend database and wrote PL/SQL packages, stored procedures, views and functions at the Oracle database. Used Cassandra, NoSQL database management system for keeping user-generated data by upgrading of Couchbase and Cassandra cluster.   ·         Developed multiple Angular 2 components which are compatible with latest versions of Type Script, angular CLI.   ·         Integrated the Java code (API) in JSP pages and responsible for setting up Angular 2 framework for UI development  ·         Used Replication Filters in CouchDB to filter precisely the data that needs to be replicated to different nodes. Used Couch base as a database for one of the micro services which talks to database using nickel queries within spring framework.   ·         Designed generic database Connection Pooling with JDBC using Oracle and involved in the SQL query optimization. Developed the components for parsing XML documents using SAX and DOM parsers.   ·         Involved in developing code for obtaining bean references in spring framework and used Spring MVC to implement the Model View Controller pattern. Used Spring IoC to inject data into  Java beans.    ·         Developed project in Eclipse IDE and created DB interactions using Hibernate. Provided management with technical documentation for  Java applications using MS Visio and MS Word.    ·         Worked on JDBC for data persistence and prepared high- and low-level design documents for the business modules for future references and updates. Deployed the application in JBoss Application Server in development and production environment.   ·         Implemented CVS as Version control system and used Maven as a build and dependency management tool to manage various dependencies.  Used ANT as build tool and Junit for writing Unit tests.    ·         Involved in the functional test of the application and tested  Java applications using Functional Testing, JBoss and log statements. Code Walkthrough/ Test cases and Test Plans.      Education Master's