Programmer Analyst Programmer Analyst Programmer Analyst - State of Indiana - FSSA (Deloitte Consulting), IN Indianapolis, IN • Eight years of extensive experience in architecture, design and development Retail Pharmacy Systems and Rhode Island Government Public Sector.  • Proficient in different software development life cycle (SDLC) methodologies.  • Top quality architecture and development skills using latest technologies including Java and oracle/PLSQL  • Excellent Java development skills using J2EE, Servlets, JSP, JDBC, Swing, Java.  • Solid background in Object-Oriented analysis and design. Very good at various Design Patterns.  • Very good knowledge of SDLC Lifecycles.  • Expert level skills in Designing and implementing web server's solutions and deploying Java Application.  • Skills in gathering requirements and creating Business Requirements Document (BRD) and Functional Requirement Documents (FRD), developing Use Cases, Test Approach, User Acceptance Testing (UAT), Requirements Traceability Matrix (RTM) and other client specific documents  • Knowledge and experience with Business tools that includes SharePoint, Team Track, MS Project Plan.  • Comprehensive knowledge of physical and logical data modeling, performance tuning.  • Hands-on experience in system and network administration.  • Excellent communication, presentation and interpersonal skills.  • Experience in defining Unit Test Cases analyzing bugs, interacting with QA teams in fixing errors.  • Captured business requirements through a range of analysis techniques (data flow diagrams, gap analysis, work & process flow diagrams).  • Excellent interpersonal dexterity with proven ability to converse, liaise, negotiate and relate with a wide range of personalities from diverse socio-economic and cultural backgrounds.  • Have excellent analytical, problem solving, communication and interpersonal skills, with ability to interact with individuals at all levels and can work as a part of a team as well as independently.  • Demonstrated leadership abilities and teamwork skills as well as the ability to accomplish tasks under minimal direction and supervision. Strong analytical skills with detail follow-through and skills in business process mapping and analysis.  • Excellent communication and presentation skills with experience in the development, implementation and integration strategies within a team-oriented environment, utilizing quantitative and qualitative analytical skills.  • Excellent team player with dedication and has very good learning ability.  • Good technical abilities and skills developed by a strong work ethic and self-learning.  • I have received various Project Level Appreciations like the start performer and best analytical person.    SKILLS SECTION    Operating System AIX UNIX, WINDOWS XP PROFESSIONAL, HPEXSTREME  Languages Java Core, J2EE, HTML, XML, JSPs, CSS, JSPs, Oracle PL/SQL  Defect Tracking HP Quality Center / ALM, SBM Team track  Query and Programming SQL, HTML  Databases SQL Server 2008 & 2012, Oracle 11g & 10g  Document Management SharePoint, ImageNow Work Experience Programmer Analyst State of Indiana - FSSA (Deloitte Consulting), IN - Indianapolis, IN June 2019 to Present FSSA is Family and Social Service Administration in the State of Indiana, IN.  ICES - Indiana Client Eligibility Systems is maintained by Deloitte Consulting LLC. This project owns the government correspondence, the tax processes and enrollments of the IN citizens into different programs like FS, Medicaid, LTSS, RCA Etc.    Responsibilities:  • Responsible for configuring the WebSphere and other Servers.  • Responsible for COGOS Reporting.  • Responsible for doing any database connectivity or ABEND issues.  • Responsible for any IOT Tickets.  • Responsible for developing various Correspondence/Notices using Core Java and HPEXSTREAM, J2EE, Oracle PL/SQL and UNIX.  • TMS Troubleshooting.  • Responsible for gathering the requirements from the Government and Developing Government notices  • Developed JTest by embedding the customized JTest rules into the tool to catch the coding standards violations in the Application Code.  • Involved in analysis, design, development, testing, implementation, and maintenance of module.  • Analyze and fix defects occurring in the Production environment.  • Worked on Jenkins for deploying the Release Build on the development environments from various branches and code tags.  • Delivered major change requests (CRs) in the project.  • SPOC of one of the major printing frameworks of the Application.  • Interacted with client and onsite team for requirement gathering and analysis.  • Carrying out impact analysis of CR and Defects.  • Follow-up with customers on satisfaction of solution and conducting User Acceptance Testing.  • Development of the various PUB files that are deployed on the PROD servers and are used for the Correspondence Process.  • Development of the Various Processes and Technical Process flows which are then utilized by the various developers for the development purposes.  • Involved in various technical discussions of the project.  • Involved in various Production deployment validation activities.  • Involved in daily defect triaging with the Clients.    Environment: Eclipse, PL/SQL Developer 7.1, Oracle 10g/11g, Putty, WinSCP, Serena Team track, Tortoise SVN 1.4.0, HP ALM QC 11.0, Toad, Putty, Jenkins, Splunk, HPEXSTREAM , WEBSPHERE, PTS , TMS. Java Developer RIUHIP(Deloitte Consulting), RI - Providence, RI May 2017 to May 2019 RIUHIP is the government project in Rhode Island.  It is maintained by Deloitte Consulting LLC. This project owns the government correspondence, the tax processes and enrollments of the RI citizens into different programs like SNAP, Medicaid, LTSS Etc.    Responsibilities:  • Responsible for developing various Correspondence/Notices using Core Java and HPEXSTREAM, J2EE, Oracle PL/SQL and UNIX.  • Responsible for gathering the requirements from the Government and Developing Government notices  • Developed JTest by embedding the customized JTest rules into the tool to catch the coding standards violations in the Application Code.  • Involved in analysis, design, development, testing, implementation, and maintenance of module.  • Analyze and fix defects occurring in the Production environment.  • Worked on Jenkins for deploying the Release Build on the development environments from various branches and code tags.  • Delivered major change requests (CRs) in the project.  • SPOC of one of the major printing frameworks of the Application.  • Interacted with client and onsite team for requirement gathering and analysis.  • Carrying out impact analysis of CR and Defects.  • Follow-up with customers on satisfaction of solution and conducting User Acceptance Testing.  • Development of the Various .PUB files that are deployed on the PROD servers and are used for the Correspondence Process.  • Development of the Various Processes and Technical Process flows which are then utilized by the various developers for the development purposes.  • Involved in various technical discussions of the project.  • Involved in various Production deployment validation activities.  • Involved in daily defect triaging with the Clients.    Environment: Eclipse, PL/SQL Developer 7.1, Oracle 10g/11g, Putty, WinSCP, Serena Team track, Tortoise SVN 1.4.0, HP ALM QC 11.0, Toad, Putty, Jenkins, Splunk, HPEXSTREAM  Company - Tata Consultancy Services, Ltd Java Developer CVS Health - Woonsocket, RI September 2015 to May 2017 Location: Woonsocket, RI    CVS Health is a leading pharmacy and retail chain based in Woonsocket, RI. CVS Health developed a java application to maintain inventory of both pharmacy and front store items. Maintaining the correct BOH, checking in the deliveries from vendors & CVS warehouse, BOH count at regular intervals, Orders and Returns from CVS external vendors (Cardinal & Mckesson) & CVS Warehouse, reporting drug loss to DEA/BOP and other mandatory state bodies were the primary goals of this application.  Responsibilities:  • Responsible for developing various Retail Pharmacy Application modules using Core Java, J2EE, Oracle PL/SQL and UNIX.  • Responsible for gathering the requirements from the CVS Business Teams and creating Application Design Documents for the development of the Application.  • Developed JTest by embedding the customized JTest rules into the tool to catch the coding standards violations in the Application Code.  • Involved in analysis, design, development, testing, implementation, and maintenance of module.  • Create procedures, functions and packages for different RxConnect modules and other functional requirements.  • Analyze and fix defects occurring in the Production environment.  • Worked on Jenkins for deploying the Release Build on the development environments from various branches and code tags.  • Delivered major change requests (CRs) in the project.  • SPOC of one of the major printing frameworks of the Application.  • Interacted with client and onsite team for requirement gathering and analysis.  • Carrying out impact analysis of CR and Defects.  • Follow-up with customers on satisfaction of solution and conducting User Acceptance Testing.    Environment: Eclipse, PL/SQL Developer 7.1, Oracle 10g/11g, Putty, Winscp, Serena Team track, Tortoise SVN 1.4.0, HP ALM QC 11.0,Toad , Putty ,Jenkins , Splunk.  Company - Tata Consultancy Services, Ltd Java Developer CVS Health - Woonsocket, RI March 2015 to August 2015 Location: Woonsocket, RI  CVS Health is a leading pharmacy and retail chain based in Woonsocket, RI. The project that I was involved in gathering requirements and the development of PCPS Patient centric Prescription solution. The intent of this system is to show the dose calendar on the prescription Label and various application channels .The project was implemented on both core and target acquired stores.    Responsibilities:  • Responsible for developing various Application modules using Core Java, J2EE, Oracle PL/SQL and UNIX.  • Responsible for gathering the requirements from the CVS Business Teams and creating Application Design Documents for the development of the Application.  • Involved in analysis, design, development, testing, implementation, and maintenance of module.  • Developed JTest by embedding the customized JTest rules into the tool to catch the coding standards violations in the Application Code.  • Designed the various Dat files for Label printing.  • Created a large number of Labels and Unit test cases.  • Create procedures, functions and packages for different RxConnect modules and other functional requirements.  • Analyze and fix defects occurring in the Production environment.  • Worked on Jenkins for deploying the Release Build on the development environments from various branches and code tags.  • Delivered major change requests (CRs) in the project.  • Interacted with client and onsite team for requirement gathering and analysis.  • Carrying out impact analysis of CR and Defects.  • Follow-up with customers on satisfaction of solution and conducting User Acceptance Testing.    Environment: Eclipse, PL/SQL Developer 7.1, Oracle 10g/11g, Putty, Winscp, Serena Team track, Tortoise SVN 1.4.0, HP ALM QC 11.0,Toad , Putty ,Jenkins , Splunk.  Company - Tata Consultancy Services, Ltd Java Developer CVS Health - Woonsocket, RI July 2014 to February 2015 Location: Woonsocket, RI  CVS Health is a leading pharmacy and retail chain based in Woonsocket, RI.  I worked on business requirements for RxConnect pharmacy application specifically to meet the functional & data needs required to support the ICD-10 CMS mandate (ICD9 to ICD10 conversion).  The focus of the project was to to implement the new ICD-10 codes structure of mixed-case alpha-numeric codes and description in RxConnect, RxCW, Acquisitions and associated Interfaces.  The functionality necessary to support the use of ICD-10 & ICD-9 codes, qualifiers and descriptions in RxConnect while also providing administrators the ability to include the appropriate Diagnosis code where dictated by the business case.  Implemented the update of HIPAA transactions from version 4010 to 5010.    Responsibilities:  • Responsible for developing various Retail Pharmacy Application modules using Core Java, J2EE, Oracle PL/SQL and UNIX.  • Responsible for gathering the requirements from the CVS Business Teams and creating Application Design Documents for the development of the Application.  • Involved in analysis, design, development, testing, implementation, and maintenance of module.  • Developed JTest by embedding the customized JTest rules into the tool to catch the coding standards violations in the Application Code.  • Create procedures, functions and packages for different RxConnect modules and other functional requirements.  • Analyze and fix defects occurring in the Production environment.  • Worked on Jenkins for deploying the Release Build on the development environments from various branches and code tags.  • Delivered major change requests (CRs) in the project.  • Created the CorpAdmin confirgurations screen to configure various settings of ICD in the Aplication  • SPOC of one of the major printing framework of the Application.  • Interacted with client and onsite team for requirement gathering and analysis.  • Carrying out impact analysis of CR and Defects.  • Follow-up with customers on satisfaction of solution and conducting User Acceptance Testing.    Environment: Eclipse, PL/SQL Developer 7.1, Oracle 10g/11g, Putty, Winscp, Serena Team track, Tortoise SVN 1.4.0, HP ALM QC 11.0,Toad , Putty ,Jenkins , Splunk.    Company - Tata Consultancy Services, Ltd Java Developer CVS Health - Woonsocket, RI July 2011 to June 2014 Location: Woonsocket, RI  CVS Health is a leading pharmacy and retail chain based in Woonsocket, RI. I worked on Medicare B Compliance project where the objective was to be compliant with government mandates in order to avoid payment rejections/delays & fines. This involved the design and implementation of Med B mandated AOB and ABN forms.  I was also involved in third party pricing enhancements to calculate patient pay, copay, tax & calculations of total amount to be paid by third party on TP transactions.    Responsibilities:  • Responsible for developing various Retail Pharmacy Application modules using Core Java, J2EE, Oracle PL/SQL and UNIX.  • Responsible for gathering the requirements from the CVS Business Teams and creating Application Design Documents for the development of the Application.  • Developed JTest by embedding the customized JTest rules into the tool to catch the coding standards violations in the Application Code.  • Create procedures, functions and packages for different RxConnect modules and other functional requirements.  • Analyze and fix defects occurring in the Production environment.  • Worked on Jenkins for deploying the Release Build on the development environments from various branches and code tags.  • Delivered major change requests (CRs) in the project.  • SPOC of one of the major printing framework of the Application.  • Worked on the printing code of various Med B forms.  • Interacted with client and onsite team for requirement gathering and analysis.  • Carrying out impact analysis of CR and Defects.  • Follow-up with customers on satisfaction of solution and conducting User Acceptance Testing.    Environment: Eclipse, PL/SQL Developer 7.1, Oracle 10g/11g, Putty, Winscp, Serena Team track, Tortoise SVN 1.4.0, HP ALM QC 11.0,Toad , Putty ,Jenkins , Splunk. Skills Oracle, Oracle 10g, Pl/sql, Sql, Jenkins, Svn, Eclipse, Splunk, Jira Additional Information Methodologies Waterfall and Agile  Tools  Eclipse, PL/SQL Developer 7.1, Oracle 10g/11g, Putty, WinSCP, Serena Team track, Tortoise SVN 1.4.0, HP ALM QC 11.0, Toad , Putty ,Jenkins , Splunk. , JIRA, JAMA, Oracle 12C