Sr. Java Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Java Developer - National Railroad Passenger Corporation (NRPC) • Around 8 years of extensive IT experience in web application analysis, design, development and deployment of enterprise application with strong expertise on Object Oriented JAVA, J2EE and Client Server technologies.  • Expertise in developing applications using Java, J2EE Standards, Java Server Faces, EJB, JSP, Struts, Spring, JDBC, JMS, JNDI, XML, UML, Hibernate, Oracle, MVC Architecture, Web Services, AJAX, RMI, UML, HTML, Java Beans, JavaScript and DHTML.  • Strong in J2EE application development using Java, Servlets, JSP, EJB, JDBC, XML, Struts, Web services, Spring, Hibernate, JMS, MQ-Series, SOAP, JAX-WS.  • Extensive experience in implementing MVC framework using Struts in J2EE architecture.  • Experience in working on various spring modules (Spring MVC, DAO and AOP) along with Hibernate as the back-end ORM tool for implementation of persistence layer and mapping of POJOs.  • Expertise on working with Presentation layer frameworks like JSP, HTML, XHTML, CSS, JSTL and JavaScript.  • Experience on OOP (Objective Oriented Programming) like Inheritance, polymorphism, Abstraction and Encapsulation.  • Expertise in XML (SAX, DOM), XSL, XSLT, XML Schema, DTD, Custom Tags, and JavaScript.  • Experience in developing J2EE applications on different IDE's like Eclipse, NetBeans, IBM Web Sphere Studio Application Developer WSAD, Rational Application Developer (RAD), JBuilder.  • Strong Understanding of J2EE design Patterns like Session facade, Singleton, Front Controller, Business delegate, Service Locator, DTO, DAO.  • Good exposure and experience with Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) such as Web Services including SOAP, WSDL, JMS ( Java Messaging Service), AJAX and tools like ANT, Junit.  • Good knowledge in advanced Java language concepts like Multithreading and Serialization used in distributed systems.  • Knowledge of using Apache Camel through Fuse Mediation Router.  • Hands-on experience in development of microservices and deploying in Docker.  • Experience Developing application using Groovy, Grails, GSP, GORM and Grails Plugins and Grails Rest Services.  • Experience in Spring Framework such as Spring Boot, Spring Batch, Spring IOC, Spring Resources, Spring JDBC, Spring Source.  • Experience working with versioning tools like CVS, SVN, GIT and Clear Case and build tools like ANT, Maven.  • Profound Knowledge in configuring and deploying web applications using Tomcat web server and application servers like Web Logic, JBOSS, and developed deployment descriptors for the EJB to deploy on IBM WebSphere.  • Extensively worked on debugging using logging Frameworks such as Apache Log4J.  • Good Understanding of relational database concepts and experience in Query construction using SQL. Extensive experience in writing, editing and maintaining database objects.  • Experience in using RDBMS concepts and worked with Oracle, DB2 and good experience in writing stored procedures, Functions and Triggers using PL/SQL.  • Experience in working version control tools like CVS, Clear Case and SVN.    TECHNOLOGY AND TOOLS:    Languages: Java, PL/SQL  Web Technologies: HTML5, DHTML, CSS3, JavaScript, AJAX, JQuery, AngularJS, Bootstrap  Java/J2EE Technologies: J2EE, Servlets, JDBC, Struts, EJB, Hibernate, Spring MVC, Spring Boot, Spring Security, SOAP, REST, JSF  Application/Web servers: IBM WebSphere, Apache Tomcat, WebLogic Work Experience Sr. Java Developer National Railroad Passenger Corporation (NRPC) - Washington, DC September 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Developing the Micro Services using Spring Boot that create, update, delete and get the assignment information from backend.  • Used Spring Boot for the application development. Designed the system based on Spring MVC architecture. Developed a business logic layer using Spring Framework.  • Used Spring Data Repositories to perform CRUD operations.  • Implement OAuth tokenisation for RESTful webservices using Spring boot.  • Involved in creating and Deployment of REST API and Microservices in Java J2EE using Spring Boot.  • Implementation of authentication for Restful web services using Spring Boot Security Starter.  • Developing the application for incident creation and retrieving the events using restful web services with spring Boot.  • Hands-on experience in developing integration with Elastic search in any of the programming languages like JAVA and JavaScript.  • Designed and developed Micro Services business components using Spring Boot.  • Developed API's to read and publish data from Elastic Search cluster using native Java Transport client as well as REST client.  • Worked on Spring Integration with the Elastic Search  • Installed, secured, and configured AWS cloud servers and Amazon AWS virtual servers (Linux)  • Used Hibernate ORM framework as persistence engine and wrote Hibernate Queries to automate the mapping between Oracle database and Objects in Java.  • Involved in client requirements gathering, analysis, design, development and testing of application using AGILE methodology (SCRUM)  • Involved in writing SQL and Stored Procedures for handling complex queries with help of TOAD and access them through Java Programs from Oracle Database.  • Worked with MongoDB to store non-relational data into collection and retrieve them whenever required.  • Written Producer APIs to read the Feed files (JSON) and publish Assortments, Products to Apache Kafka Topic by using custom Serializers.  • Used Java 8 Method References feature to point to methods by their names and used functional Interfaces.  • Used Spring AOP for solving crosscutting concerns like keeping logged data and transactions details etc.  • Used Spring Batch for processing large amount of data like transaction management, job processing, resource management and logging.  • Developed reusable and interoperable Web service modules based on SOA architecture using SOAP and RESTful services  • Having knowledge of advance reporting using Elastic search and Node JS.  • Extensively used STS for developing, debugging, integrating and deploying the application.  • Extensively used Maven to build the application and deploy on Embedded Tomcat Server.  • Maintained source code in GIT Repository.  • Responsible for creating an instance on Amazon EC2 (AWS) and deployed the application on it.  • Prepared JUnit and Integration test cases and integrated with Jenkins.  • Used JIRA for writing user stories and raising defects in a defined sprint.    Environment: Java 8, Spring 5.0, Spring boot, Hibernate, GIT, SVN, 1 Webservices (Rest, SOAP), MongoDB, LDAP, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Bootstrap, JSON, Splunk, jQuery, Angular, Angular- JS, Xml, Aws, Stored Procedures, JUnit, Ant, Windows, Agile/Scrum Java Developer Comcast - Philadelphia, PA September 2017 to August 2018 Responsibilities:  • Involved in development of REST Web Services using Annotations to extract client related data from Cassandra database.  • Extensively used the Java collection Framework Classes for Holding the Application objects.  • Involved in the creation of exhaustive JUnit Unit Test Cases using Mockito  • Used Maven Plug-in for configuring and building projects, used Bitbucket for version control, Log4j for logging and JIRA for tracking issues.  • Implemented Jenkins Job to migrate data from one schema to another in Cassandra.  • Migrate Jenkins Jobs from one server to another server.  • Analyze, Design and develop web and java applications using Servlets, Java Beans, Hibernate, Spring Boot, Microservices and Angular 2.  • Developed various Spring rest controllers for request mappings and created Angular application to send request to rest service.  • Involved in writing ORM code using hibernate and also developed Hibernate mapping files for configuring Hibernate POJOs for relational mapping.  • Used Maven as build tool in Spring Boot application.  • Worked on AWS services to deploy static websites and dynamic Web Apps on EC2 using Elastic Beanstalk and Elastic Container Service-Docker.  • Implemented unit tests and code following Test Driven Development  • Configured Maven for dependency management, Log4j for logging and debugging and Git for version control  • Used Jenkins as the Continuous Integration Tool as Jenkins Admin.  • Configuring Docker security groups and Cloud Formation Templates.  • Performed unit testing, system testing and user acceptance test.  • Utilized the Jquery, Angular JS, Javascript framework to render widgets on web pages.  • Used JBoss as application server to implement JMS and EJB components  • Followed Agile and Scrum Methodology in software development.  • Spring MVC Framework IOC (Inversion Of Control) design pattern is used to have relationships between application components  • Used Spring Framework AOP Module to implement logging in the application to know the application status  • Developed a fully functional prototype application using Javascript, jQuery and Backbone.js and Bootstrap, connecting to a REST- full server on a different domain.  • Worked on AJAX to develop an interactive Web Application.  • Used GIT for version control.  • Wrote and tested Java Beans to retrieve trading data and subscriber's information from MySQL database server.    Environment: Core Java, J2EE, Spring, Spring Boot, Spring MVC, Hibernate, Servlets, CSS, Aws HTML, JSP, JSON, XML, AJAX, JUnit, Java Script, MySQL, Agile, Scrum, RESTful Web Services, DOM, Angular 2.0, Maven, GIT. Java Developer Anthem - Thousand Oaks, CA July 2016 to August 2017 Responsibilities:  • Designed the application using J2EE patterns.  • Developed Java Beans for business logic.  • Developed the presentation layer using Struts Framework.  • Responsible for coding all the JSP, Servlets used for the Used Module.  • Developed the JSP, Servlets and various Beans using WebSphere 5.x server.  • Wrote Java utility classes common for all of the applications.  • Designed and implemented highly intuitive, user friendly GUI from scratch using Drag and Drop with Java/ Swing and CORBA.  • Extensively used multithreading concepts.  • Deployed the jar files in the Web Container on the IBM WebSphere Server 5.x.  • Hands-on experience in installing, configuring and deploying application on WebSphere Portal Server.  • Designed and developed the screens in HTML with client side validations in Javascript.  • Developed the server side scripts using JMS, JSP and Java Beans.  • Adding and modifying Hibernate configuration code and Java/SQL statements depending upon the specific database access requirements.  • Involved in Database design and development. Involved in SQL scripting. Involved in the system integration and testing.  • Design database Tables, View, Index's and create triggers for optimized data access.  • Developed Web Services using Apache AXIS tool.  • Designing of the system as per the change in requirement using Struts MVC architecture, JSP, DHTML.    Environment: Java 1.2.3, Servlets 2.2, Enterprise Java Beans 1.1, SQLServer, JSP, HTML 4.0, Java Script, UML, Weblogic 5.1, ASP .net, IIS, MTS, COM Component, Windows NT. Java Developer Toyota Motors - Hyderabad, Telangana October 2013 to June 2016 Responsibilities:  • Worked on complete life cycle, Design, improvement and testing utilizing OOA and OOD.  • Used JSP, HTML, and CSS for substance design and presentation.  • Created the web application utilizing MVC Struts system.  • Designed created and kept up the information layer utilizing Hibernate and performed setup of Struts, Application Framework.  • Used JSP, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX, CSS, and HTML as information and presentation layer innovation.  • Developed Hibernate mapping records and Hibernate arrangement for enduring information to the database.  • Developed client interfaces utilizing JSP, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery and Ajax with JSON.  • Design and create client interface utilizing HTML labels, AJAX, JQuery, and XMI.  • Worked on PL/SQL like associating with Database, composing Stored Procedures and troubleshoot and altered the issues.  • Implemented JAVA-J2EE advances incorporating specialization in XML, XSL, and XSLT.  • Used ANT for aggregation and building JAR, WAR and EAR records.  • Worked with Jenkins and Hudson for continuous Integration.  • Used Spring Framework for reliance infusion for Action classes utilizing Application Context xml document.    Environment: Core Java, Agile, AJAX, JSP, XML, JQuery, CSS, SQL, HTML, Hibernate, Struts, spring, JavaScript, Jenkins, Hudson, Web Logic, Windows. Java Developer Nivisol - Hyderabad, Telangana May 2011 to September 2013 Project Description: Worked on Mail order validation (web services) project. Technologies involved in this project are Web services (JAX-WS, SOAP and XML), Hibernate, WebSphere MQ and Mainframe (DB2-CICS)    Responsibilities:  • Worked as software developer for ECIL on developing a supply chain management system.  • Used Spring MVC Framework to develop Action classes and Controllers along with validation framework and annotations.  • Involved in development of presentation layer using Spring framework, and MVC design paradigm.  • Worked in implementation of MVC design paradigm of Spring framework, Object-Relational Mapping (ORM) using Hibernate and Oracle database at the back end.  • Configured Spring ORM that provides simplified templates for accessing databases through ORM technologies, such as Hibernate in our case to access the database.  • Developed SQL queries and views for handling database activities in Oracle/MS SQL Server.  • Project coordination with other Development teams, System managers, and developed good working environment.  • Used TOMCAT Server for deploying the application.  • Developed user interfaces using HTML, CSS, AJAX and JSF UI components.  • Implemented and maintained AJAX based rich client for improved customer experience.    Environment: Java, JSP, Servlets, Hibernate, JUnit, PL/SQL, DB2, HTML, JQuery, JavaScript, Ajax, Log4j, XML, DOM, Edit Plus, JBoss. Skills SQL (7 years), WEB SERVICES (5 years), ORACLE (3 years), SOAP (3 years), DB2 (2 years) Additional Information Relational Databases: Oracle 9i/10g/11g, DB2, SQL Server, MySQL, Mongo DB  Cloud Environments: AWS, Pivotal Cloud Foundry  IDE: Eclipse, NetBeans, IntelliJ IDEA, Spring Tool Suite (STS)  Operating system: Windows 10, Linux, Unix, Mac OSX    Methodologies: Agile, waterfall, Test Driven Development (TDD), Scrum  Build Tools: Ant, Maven, Gradle  Version Control: CVS, SVN, Git  Web Services: SOAP, REST, JAX-WS