SUN CERTIFIED JAVA PROGRAMMER SUN CERTIFIED <span class="hl">JAVA</span> PROGRAMMER SUN CERTIFIED JAVA PROGRAMMER - Novartis Chicago, IL • Over 8+ years of experience in analysis, design, development and implementation of Software Applications and Products with exposure to Big-Data and Java Development.  • Extensive experience with both core and advanced Java technologies which includes Spring MVC, XML, JavaScript, JEE, JSP, EJBs, JDBC, Struts, Servlets, JMS, JPA, Java API for XML Web Services, JSF.  • Extensive experience of over 5 years in developing Web Applications using Spring Boot and Hibernate.  • Extensive experience in using various design patterns such as MVC (Model-View-Controller), Singleton, DAO, DTO, JPA and Business Delegate in the development of Multi-Tier distributed Enterprise Applications.  • Knowledge of JavaScript frameworks jQuery. Experience in building application with React JS, Redux, Require JS in MVC architecture.  • Implemented SOA architecture with spring web services using REST, SOAP, WSDL and XML.  • Extensive experience in various agile methodologies like Test Driven Development (TDD) and SCRUM.  • Extensive experience in SQL, Thymeleaf, Stored Procedures, Functions and Triggers with databases such as Oracle, IBM DB2 and MS SQL Server.  • Experienced in using WSDL, SOAP, and Apache AXIS for Web Services.  • Expertise in client side designing and validations using HTML, DHTML, CSS, Java Script, AJAX, JSP, XML, JSF and Swing.  • Extensive experienced in implementing single page applications using Angular.JS directives, routing modules and Toplink.  • Working Knowledge in Open Source Distributed Database Management Systems such as Cassandra, HBase.  • Working knowledge of Big Data Ecosystem viz HDFS, HBase, Zookeeper, Hive, Oozie, Flume, Sqoop.  • Good experience in using Maven build scripts for the project build and deployment process.  • Hands on experience with Web/Application Servers such as Tomcat, WebLogic, WebSphere and JBOSS with wide variety of development tools like My Eclipse and NetBeans.  • Having good RDBMS concepts knowledge and worked with MySQL and Oracle.  • Exposure to MongoDB, Redis and other NoSQL databases.  • Have deep understanding of both Relational Database and also experience in non-relational database like MongoDB, Elastic Search.  • Expertise in client side designing and validations using HTML, DHTML, CSS, Java Script, AJAX, JSP, XML, JSF and Swing. Experience in using Maven and Ant for build automation  • Extensive experienced in implementing single page applications using Angular.JS directives, routing modules.  • Expertise in advanced JavaScript libraries and frameworks such as JQuery, Angular.js, Backbone.js, Prototype, Dojo, Node.js, Ember.js, Knockout.js, Ext.js and Underscore.js.  • Extensively worked on various J2EE servers (Web Sphere, Weblogic, Tomcat ) and IDEs Eclipse & IBM RAD.  • Knowledge with BEA Weblogic, Infrastructure, IBM Web sphere application server, Apache Tomcat Jboss and have good knowledge of J2EE standard compatible application servers.  • Experienced in MVC (Model View Controller) architecture with Struts and Springs framework involving various J2EE design patterns. Work Experience SUN CERTIFIED JAVA PROGRAMMER Novartis - Chicago, IL September 2017 to Present Sr. Java Developer    Novartis International AG is a Swiss multinational pharmaceutical company based in Basel, Switzerland. The Novartis Medical Information application provides health care professionals with accurate, succinct, and timely medical information.    Responsibilities  • Developed web application using Spring MVC framework and wrote code using Java, Servlets, JSP, JSF, Hibernate, spring, JavaScript, Ajax, and JSON.  • Developed source code in eclipse oxygen using Java, J2EE, Spring MVC architecture.  • Implemented application backend using Java, J2EE and EJB for Model View Controller (MVC) architecture.  • Used Java, Spring MVC and Guice to implement order receiving and filling API.  • Developed stand-alone, production-grade Spring MVC based Applications using Spring Boot.  • Designed DAO (Data Access Object) layer and data service layer.  • Developed web applications using Spring MVC, JQuery, HTML5, Bootstrap  • Implemented authorization and authentication with Spring Security thorough domain driven design.  • Created customers logging aspect using Spring AOP by single responsibility design.  • Designed and developed Application based on JSF framework, Spring Core and Spring ORM  • Designed and developed UI screens with Thymeleaf to static content.  • Worked with ejb3 and handled the persistence using the JPA toplink persistence framework.  • Worked on setting up the hibernate framework for persistence in the Deb collection web services.  • Created new algorithms and scripts for software in JavaScript, jQuery, Groovy, and Velocity.  • Designed and developed single page applications fot Linux, Unix and Mac using Angular 2, TypeScript, HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, and Materialize CSS.  • Involved to implement various screens for the front end using React.js and used various predefined components from NPM and redux library.  • Experience working on Grunt for minification of JavaScript files, compilation of LESS files into CSS and also for monitoring the application using solid principles,  • Worked on AJAX framework to transform Datasets and Data tables into HTTP serializable JSON.  • Created custom website UI templates in CSS/HTML for MODX, Joomla, and Wordpress.  • Worked on filebeat modules like Apache2, Mysql and Postgres to transfer the data into Apache Kafka.  • Pioneered the development and implementation of both MySQL and PostgreSQL databases.  • Define scope and solutions for interfacing the Oracle CC&B application with external systems.  • Performed data extraction and manipulation over large relational datasets using SQL, Python, and other analytical tools.  • Wrote PL/SQL procedures and queries in Oracle and invoked those procedures from the Java components.  • Tuning long-running SQL Queries, Procedures and Functions using SQL Profiler, SQL analyzer, Index tuning wizard.  • Converted the entire event flow as SOA based architecture and used kinesis and RabbitMQ as queues.  • Built the Web API on the top of Flask framework to perform REST methods. Used MongoDB and MySQL databases in Web API development.  • Developed framework for lightweight REST web services using JIRA, JSON, Spring MVC 3.0 as well as using JAX-WS, JAXB for SOAP web services.  • Building REST APIs with API led design solutions using RAML, also securing APIs with Oauth and various security policy enforcement from API manager.  • Implemented Authentication mechanism using JWT, front-end using HTML, CSS, AngularJS.  • Writing web services for Web using Eclipse and Intellij and deploying the project in JBOSS of WildFly 10 server.  • Configured and applied modern software development tools such as gulp, elasticsearch, Git, and webpack to streamline the web development process.  • Designed the REST services for gathering Windows server OS information using web api and tested the same using Postman and JMeter along with Swagger documentation.  • Developed UNIT test cases using Junit, TestNG, Mockito and configured them through Maven plugins to be part of continuous integration.  • Implemented integration testing using JUnit, SNS, SSL, Mockito, EasyMock.  • Functional monitoring and system monitoring on SonarQube servers (REST APIs using python)  • Built servers using AWS which includes importing necessary volumes, launching the EC2 instance, creating security groups, auto-scaling, load balancers, Route S3 and RDS as per the architecture.  • Configured ELB and auto scaling groups to distribute the DEVOPS TOOLS traffic.  • Built log files reader with Amazon S3, SSO, Kinesis, SQS, DynamoDB and Lambda.  • Worked with Docker for containing microservices and write docker file, ECS and Jenkins for Automated Integration and deployment process and Kubernates for deploying pods.  • Log and event forwarding (System logs, CloudWatch, CloudTrail, AWS Config), aggregation to Splunk SIEM Platform.  • Responsible for building scalable distributed data pipelines using Hadoop.  • Deployed the application using Codedeploy, AWS Elastic BeanStalk and Elasticache to monitor EC2 server performance using CloudWatch.  • Capable of designing modular applications using JAVA/JEE, proficient in implementing various Gang of Four Design Patterns.    Environments: Java, J2EE, Spring boot, DAO, MVC, Securities, AOP, ORM data, Thymeleaf,JPA Toplink, Hibernate, Hibernate Criteria, Angular 2, ReactJS, JavaScript , AJAX, HTML/CSS,MySQL, Oracle, SQL, PL/SQL, SQL Profiler, SOA , Rest, JSON, OAUTH, JWT, IntelliJ, JBoss Wildfly, Git, Swagger, JUnit, EasyMock, TestNG, JMeter, Postman, Sonarqube, Agile, Scrum, AWS, EC2, S3, RDS, API Gateway, Load Balancer, auto scaling, DynamoDB, Docker, Kubernetes, ECS, Cloudwatch, SES, SQS, SNS , elasticsearch, kinesis, hadoop, data pipeline, message broker activemq, elasticbeanstalk, lambda, elasticache, codedeploy, SSO, SSL, Lamdba, Maven, JSON, JIRA , Microservices, JMS , activemq, Tomcat, solid principles , domain driven design , single responsibility design , gang of four , composite , beahvioural, proxy, abstract, prototype, singleton Sr. Java Developer Merck & Co - Chicago, IL September 2016 to August 2017 Merck & Co. is an American pharmaceutical company and one of the largest pharmaceutical companies in the world. The MSD Manual Consumer App provides clear, practical explanations for thousands of medical disorders, giving consumers access to credible, easy to understand health.    Responsibilities  • Developed user specific Highlights(dashboard menu) section, Home page, Admin home page, user module (Modify/search users, create users screens with assigning various roles) using Spring MVC framework, Spring DAO Module, Hibernate ORM Module, Spring Core Module, XML, JSP and XSLT.  • Used Ibatis to implement the caching mechanism in Hibernate to load data from Oracle database.  • Implemented MVC architecture using Jakarta Struts framework, Worked on Spring Hibernate Applications.  • Developed Add, Edit and profile view web pages for the monitor module using JSP, JSF HTML, JSF CORE tags library.  • Developed the interactive web pages using Angular JS framework.  • Designed and modified User Interfaces using JSP, JavaScript, CSS and jQuery.  • Developed web pages using HTML/CSS and JavaScript.  • Delivered mobile app for book reading capability with HTML5 Sencha and online services using JIRA, JSON with Flash/Flex.  • Designed and implementing a Node.js based mobile text and voice messaging app and its cloud backend.  • Developed web applications using Spring MVC, JQuery, HTML5, Bootstrap for Virtual Infotech Inc.  • Java and JSP developer for J2EE web application on SVN, WAS, DB2 and AIX.  • Created Postgres and PL/SQL procedures, functions and complex SQL queries for admin services.  • Developed DAO API to manage the payment information using JDBC.  • Implemented OAuth 2.with detailed understanding of the flow and grant.  • Developed Ruby on Rails web applications using MongoDB and back-ground processes using elasticsearch and message broker activemq.  • Consistently leveraged as a mentor to both junior and senior engineers for git workflows  • Built a RESTful API to save and retrieve geolocations using a remote server in Java using Spring, MongoDB, Apache CXF, and JAX-RS.  • Consumed Web Services using Apache CXF framework for getting remote information.  • Created web services using SOAP for SOA to get data from Mainframes and content manager.  • Used Web services - BPM, iLog, WSDL and SOAP for getting credit card information from third party.  • Used Eclipse IDE for designing, coding and developing applications.  • Designed, developed and tested the Websphere Portal Application based on Model, View, Controller (MVC) architecture deployed on IBM Web Sphere Portal /Application Server.  • Extensively used WebSphere Studio Application Developer for developing, testing, and deploying applications. Used STRUTS Framework based on (MVC) Model View Controller architecture in WebSphere Application Development.  • Created test plans and JUnit test cases, JMeter, Postman and test suite for testing the application.  • Established a lightweight Scrum project management process and helped team meet sprint goals.  • Designed Use Case Diagrams, Class Diagrams, Sonarqube and Sequence Diagrams and Object Diagrams to model the detail design of the application using UML.  • Developed class diagram, sequence diagram by using Mockito and Rational Rose.  • Worked on GUI internationalization using JSP and Core Java.  • Worked in DevOps group running Jenkins in a Docker container with EC2 slaves in Amazon AWS cloud.  • Built log files reader with Amazon S3, SES, SNS, Kinesis, SQS, Cloudwatch, DynamoDB and Lambda  • To achieve Continuous Delivery goal on high scalable environment, used Docker coupled with load-balancing tool Nginx.  • Used Maven script for building and deploying the application by following agile methodology.  • Was responsible for Developing XML Parsing logic using SAX/DOM Parsers.  • Design and develop enterprise or application architectures and RFI/RFP delivery solutions using SOA(Service Oriented Architecture), web services, DODAF (Department of Defense Architecture Framework), and segment architecture.  • Used Java Messaging Services (JMS) for reliable and asynchronous exchange of important information such as payment status report.  • Hosted and configured applications in AWS, IIS, IBM Websphere, and Apache Tomcat under Windows and AIX platforms.  • Extensive Development using Zend Framework by PHP in a LAMP environment.    Environments: Java, J2EE, DAO, MVC, ORM, Ibatis,JavaScript , HTML/CSS, Postgres ,PostgreSQL, Restful API , JSON (1), OAUTH , XML, Eclipse , websphere, Git , SVN, JUnit , Mockito, JMeter , Postman , Sonarqube, Agile , Scrum, AWS , EC2 , S3 , RDS , Load Balancer , auto scaling , DynamoDB , Cloudwatch , SES , SQS , SNS , elasticsearch , message broker activemq, Maven, JSON, JIRA, BPM ,iLog, SOA, JMS , activemq, Apache Tomcat Sr. Java Developer GlaxoSmithKline - Dallas, TX January 2015 to August 2016 GlaxoSmithKline plc is a British pharmaceutical company headquartered in Brantford, London. ImmReg has replaced paper-based systems with a new web-based mobile app that helps track immunization.    Responsibilities  • Involved in writing Spring Configuration XML, file that contains declarations and business classes are wired-up to the frontend managed beans using Spring IOC pattern.  • With the Mybatis implementation, all the queries were separated away from the code and moved to the XML files. Used Spring IBatis XML configuration files to call the queries.  • Developed the application using Struts Framework which is based on the MVC design pattern.  • Developed server-side services using JSF, Apache CXF, Java, Hibernate, Spring, Web Services.  • Maintained the business standards and the requirements in EJB and deployed them on to WebLogic Application Server.  • Developed the UI panels using JSF, XHTML, CSS, DOJO and JQuery.  • Integrated the ExtJs/Sencha framework with Oracle BPM.  • Implemented Java Script validation frame work for client side & server side.  • Used JQuery to make the frontend components interact with the Javascript functions to add dynamism to the web pages at the client side.  • Designed and modified User Interfaces using JSP, SVN, JavaScript, CSS and jQuery.  • Utilize Dojo framework for performing front end validations.  • Wrote & maintained GWT, GXT, JavaScript including React, Redux, Eclipse, Servlets, JSP, CSS3.  • Creating GUI components using Ext JS on NetBeans.  • Worked on the MySQL migration project .To make the system completely independent of the database being used. Used Spring IBatis to implement this.  • Used TOAD for all database query testing and optimizations.  • Migrated the data from SQL Server 2005 to SQL Server 2008.  • Used DB2 as the database and wrote SQL & PL-SQL.  • Developed UNIT test cases using Junit, JMeter, Postman and configured them through Maven plugins.  • Design and Developed using web service using Apache Axis 2 on JBOSS.  • Developed the web services by using WSDL, SOAP using SOA. Created GUI builder using NetBeans.  • Used JBoss application server to deploy application into Production environment.  • Create and maintain AWS, Amazon EC2, S3 and RDS instance that supports the companies Redmine project management site and Mercurial CM.  • Created ClearCase VOBs and setup triggers and backups for a new project. Wrote roll out procedures and plans using agile methodology. Environment was mixed Windows and AIX, projects written in C++..  • Expertise in employing Water Fall Model and best practices for software development.  • Created Class Diagrams and sequence diagrams using UML.  • Developed user interfaces using JSP, JSF frame work with AJAX, Java Script, HTML, DHTML, and CSS.  • Developed Servlets and JSPs based on MVC pattern using Struts framework and Spring Framework.  • Used Ant for developing build scripts and deploying the application onto WebLogic.  • Working Closely with EMC Documentum to implement Engineering Design Storage Repository and Project Document Management.  • Ported application from GWT 1.5 to GWT 1.8 (and associated version updates to JDK & GXT).  • Used JIRA issue tracker to file the bugs.  • Deployed Applications on Apache Tomcat Server.  • Designed Interactive GUIs using Java Applets and Swing.  • Involved in Installation & Configuration of Cognos in distributed environments on Solaris.  • Developed order receipt report with bar code using lowage iText and jasper report.  • Worked on designing and creating business rules using IBM ILOG Rules Engine.  • Took complete Ownership of JRules by developing the complete architecture and integration with TSM application.  • CalWIN web based Application contains more than 1100 online screens in Java Oracle ADF and code base also includes COBOL (Micro Focus), C, and SQL.  • Expertise in working with IBM MQ Series and Websphere Message Broker on various platforms like Sun Solaris 8/9, AIX, SUSE Linux, and Windows NT/2000/2003/XP.  • Responsible in configuring and setting-up Apache Tomcat/Spring-TC Server for the development phase.  • Set up JBoss Server, Configured MySQL Cluster in Linux OS and installed OpenCall XDMS.  • Created directory structure flow using UNIX to receive and send data to internal and external systems.  • Using Ruby on Rails for development with backbone.js.  • Design & creation of multiple sites using: WordPress, HTML, PHP, XML, CSS, Javascript & more.  • Lead development and site building on Drupal-based projects. Mentor junior developers on site building and development best practices.  • Used ASP.NET technology for developing the presentation layer.  • Asp.Net Web Development. Front-end programming done in XHTML, JavaScript & CSS and ASP.NET controls with back-end coding in C.  • Designed and developed the individual components of the system using C++ and CORBA.  • Created web services using SOAP for SOA to get data from Mainframes and content manager.  • Developed and implemented Legacy system programs by using COBOL, DB2, CICS, JCL, JAVA and VSAM.  • Code development using PL/I, COBOL, JCL and DB2.  • Developed and implemented Legacy system programs by using COBOL, DB2, CICS, JCL, JAVA and VSAM.  • Developed Servlets and Worked extensively on SQL.  • Oracle, SAS integration for business intelligence and functionality.  • Developed Java Script and Action Script, VB Script macros for Client Side validations.  • Design online stores using ASP & JavaScript: develop custom storefront applications, and custom user-interfaces for client sites.    Environments: Java, J2EE, Spring, Mybatis, Struts ,JSF, JavaScript , HTML/CSS, Db2 , MS SQL, Rest , XML , Apache CXF, Eclipse, weblogic, SVN, JUnit , JMeter , Postman, Agile, AWS , EC2 , S3 , RDS, JSP, Servlets,Maven, ANT, JSON/ XML, JIRA ,jRules, SOA, Apache Tomcat Java Developer Verizon Communications - Palo Alto, CA January 2014 to December 2014 Verizon Communications Inc. is an American multinational telecommunications conglomerate and a corporate component of the Dow Jones Industrial Average. My Verizon App helps its customers to make payments, check data usages, rewards, on-demand support etc.    Responsibilities  • Involved in requirements gathering and analysis from the existing system. Captured requirements using Use Cases and Sequence Diagrams.  • Developed the application using Struts, Servlets and JSF for the presentation layer along with JavaScript for the client side validations.  • Managed Maven environment by setting up local, remote and central repositories with required configuration in maven configuration files.  • Refactored existing project to make it more Restful and ANT.  • Developed SOA based enterprise application in NetBeans using popular Java Web-Services technology including JAX-RS, AWS and RESTful Web-services.  • Developed and used JDBC custom tags in the web tier to dynamically generate web pages.  • Worked with Struts (MVC Paradigm) components such as Action Mapping, Action class, Dispatch action class, Action Form bean.  • Developed framework for lightweight REST web services using JSON, Spring MVC 3.0 as well as using JAX-WS, Axis2 for SOAP web services.  • Designed Restful, XML, WSDL and PHP web service for handling AJAX requests.  • Extensively worked on analytics applications with MongoDB.  • Used Spring to manage beans to use windows session state framework to persist session to the database.  • Used Maven for build framework and Jenkins for continuous build system.  • Access from the mainframe to the distributed system was through socket programming.  • Worked with Ember.JS frameworks for full stack web development.  • Implemented spring service layer with dependency wiring, transaction, DAO and annotations.  • Used Hibernate to do the object relational mapping between the tables and java objects.  • Developed web applications using Rational Application Developer (RAD) and deployed it in web sphere application server5.1.  • Developed Interactive web pages using AJAX and JavaScript.  • Deployed and tested the application with web server Tomcat, Web Sphere.  • Expertise in Agile and Waterfall Software Development Methodology including Scrum technology.  Experienced in using CVS, RAD, JIRA and Eclipse IDE for Application development.  • Wrote Test Cases using JUNIT as a framework.  • Developed GUI using Front end technologies like JSP, JSTL, AJAX, HTML, CSS and Java Script.  • Developed a code for Web services using XML, SOAP, PHP and used SOAPUI tool for testing the services proficient in testing Web Pages functionalities and raising defects.  • Participated in Code Reviews for better quality assurance and Debugged the application Module.  • Deployed the application on Apache Tomcat server and developed the Web Services using SOA.  • Experience using and creating custom scripts and applications using the AWS SDK and/or CLI Tools.  • Experience in developing scripts using Restful API models for the purposes of integrating workflows with AWS, EC2, S3 and RDS  • Developed custom Angular.JS directives to build custom reusable components to use across the application pages.  • Designed and Developed a Data Interface switch written in C/C++to convert dBase database calls into Oracle ODBC calls. This switch is used to connect to Oracle database from a dBase application.  • Used Java Messaging artifacts using JMS (MQ Series) for sending out automated notification emails to respective users of the application.  • Configured Web Sphere for messaging by defining Queue Destinations & Queue Connection Factories.  Used Bootstrap to improve user experience.    Environments: Java/J2EE, Servlets, JSP, JSTL, HTML, CSS, Java Script, Bootstrap, Struts, Spring, Hibernate, PHP, Mongo DB, Oracle, Javascript, Angular.JS, Ember.JS, JMS, Log4J, AWS, XML, SOAP, Restful Web Services, WebLogic Server, Tomcat, Maven Java Developer DHL - Boston, MA May 2012 to December 2013 The global leader in supply chain management & third-party logistics, implementing innovative logistics solutions across a wide range of industries. The Resilience360 mobile app enables near real-time global management and monitoring of shipment milestones across transport modes and external incidents capable of disrupting your supply chain - all at your fingertips.  Responsibilities  • Involved in requirement gathering, business analysis and design and development of business functionality.  • Developed source code in eclipse oxygen using Java, J2EE, Spring MVC.  • Created JSP pages for taking input of collect information about any adverse events.  • To analyze the input data first used oracle database to store the whole data, then after gathering data  worked ahead using Collections framework for effective results.  • Designed database schema on Oracle and written various stored procedures for DB operations.  • Implemented performance enhancement principles as Browser caching, DB connection pooling.  • Wrote RESTful services for incident reports.  • Developed UI modules using jQuery to represent frequent high priority incidents.  • Performed code deployment in development side and UAT.    Environments: Java, J2EE, Servlet, JSP, HTML, AJAX, XML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, JSON, Spring MVC, SQL, PL SQL, Oracle 10g/11g, SVN, Maven, UML, Tomcat. Java Developer JP Morgan Chase - Boston, MA July 2010 to April 2012 J.P. Morgan Chase & Co. is an American multinational investment bank and financial services company. Java developer worked on the full stack of E2E development.  Responsibilities:  • Understanding the business requirements and preparing the design document.  • Participated in all the phases of the system including designing, coding, testing, building, deployment and supporting the production environment.  • Drew sequence diagrams and Class diagrams using Microsoft vision and Star UML.  • Created new tables, Sequences and written SQL queries and PL/SQL in Oracle and My SQL.  • Introduced new user/actor called Dealer in the application and developed using struts2 and spring framework.  • Developed User interface using JSP, HTML, JavaScript, CSS, Ajax and jQuery.  • Developed event and event handlers and object initializing using Spring IOC framework.  • Developed MVC framework by writing action classes and light weight business logic classes using Struts2 framework and Spring framework.  • Used Spring MVC with Spring Restful Template to Produce and consume Restful Web Services.  • Used Hibernate Template of Spring Framework and Hibernate Interceptors.  • Developed database access mechanism by using by HibernateORM framework.  • Configured WebLogic JMS Servers, JDBC Data Sources, JDBC Connection Pools, and Bridge to provide interoperability between WebLogic JMS and IBM MQ Series.  • Developed asynchronous data retrieval using AJAX.  • Used Jenkins as a build tool and for deploying the modules to server.  • Used Tomcat as web server to store the static contents and JBoss as application server.    Environments: Java, J2EE JDK, Oracle, Eclipse, Spring, Windows, Web services, Hibernate, Agile Methodology, Servlet, Apache Tomcat Web server, Ant. Education Master's in Master of Science and Engineering University of Texas at Austin Skills Hibernate, Java, Spring, Java J2Ee