Sr. Java Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Java Developer - Atlantic Union Bank Radford, VA Work Experience Sr. Java Developer Atlantic Union Bank - Radford, VA March 2018 to Present Description:    The AUB Lending system is designed primarily to meet the origination requirements for loans that are classified as commercial loans as per the Atlantic Union Bank 's policy. The Application is a J2EE based system for automating the entire loan and credit processing workflow. It covers the lifecycle of a loan application, from the point of application creation through credit evaluation, approval, and report generation. Upon approval, the legal documentation aspects, post-closing activities and interface with legacy systems for account creation and collateral creation.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in all the phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) including analysis, designing, coding, testing and deployment of the application.  • Developed the application using Spring Framework that leverages classical Model View Controller MVC architecture.  • Developed UI using JSP, HTML5 Tag libraries, CSS3, JavaScript, AngularJS and AJAX.  • Used AngularJS 7.0 for Directives, Filters, Validation, and Data binding of UI components.  • Used Angular to build a Single Page Application (SPA) using Typescript.  • Developed reusable custom directives using AngularJS 7.0 using transclude, restrict, event handlers and templating.  • Used XML/XSLT for transforming common XML format and SAML for Single Sign-on.  • Developed Java Beans and Custom Tag Libraries providing client-side validations in JavaScript and providing interactive front-end GUI using AJAX.  • Used Joins Stored Procedures and Functions in Interaction with backend database using SQL.  • Involved in Use Case Diagrams, Class Diagrams and Sequence diagrams using Rational Rose.  • Developed the AJAX asynchronous calls to the server to validate and populate the pages that are directed through view resolver.  • Used Spring Core Annotations for Dependency Injection Spring DI and Spring MVC for REST APIs and Spring Boot for microservices.  • Wrote database interaction code and used JDBC API to connect MySQL.  • Created a custom analytics framework to gather useful user behavior data using Dynamo DB.  • Documented the requirements including the available code, which should be implemented using Spark, Hive, HDFS, HBase and Elastic Search.  • Used Core Java with knowledge of multithreading concurrency memory management.  • Build the application using Test Driven Development (TDD) approach.  • Used Oracle as database and involved in the development of PL/SQL backend implementation.  • Involved in stage deployments using Glassfish Server.  • Designed the front-end and wrote corresponding one-one REST methods to implement respective change requests.  • Developed RESTful web services using Java Servlets JSON JAX-WS and JAX-RS and persistence using Hibernate 5.0.2 and JPA framework.  • Developed REST exception handling controller advices to respond to bad requests and server-side exceptions.  • Developed a pipeline using Kafka, Spark and Hive to ingest, transform and analyze the data  • Involved in deploying systems on Amazon Web Services (AWS) Infrastructure services EC2, S3, RD5, SQS, Cloud Formation.  • Designed Restful XML web service for handling asynchronous AJAX requests.  • Worked with Java 8 lambda expressions and functional interfaces.  • Used Gradle for project management and build automation and continuous Integration using Jenkins.  • Used issue-tracking tool JIRA for bug fixing and life cycle traceability.  • Used Selenium, Cucumber for UI automation.  • Used log4j for logging errors, info, exceptions    Environment: JDK 1.8, Spring Boot, Spring MVC, Hibernate 4.0, JAX-RS Web Services, Apache CXF, jQuery 1.08, JQueryUI, AJAX, UML, JSTL, Oracle 11g, Web Sphere, Eclipse 4.2, Junit, XML, Log4j, Maven 3.1, Gradle, AWS, NodeJS, Bootstrap, Angular JS 7.0, HTML5, CSS3, Toad, Maven, Spring REST, Junit 4.1, Easy Mock, JIRA, Rally, Jasmine, Apache POI, Selenium, GIT, Bamboo CI, Cucumber, SOAPUI, JMeter. Java Developer Total Tree Health Care, Inc - Radford, VA September 2017 to February 2018 Description:    Total Tree Health Care, Inc assists in managing the patient information for the hospitals. It supports different type of users and shows appropriate information according to the type of the user. The user module is responsible for logging, validation and session information. It provides access to patients for viewing their information and making appointment with the doctors. And doctors use it to keep track of all the patient information. Development of the project was done in agile environment.    Responsibilities:  • Actively participated in meetings with Business Analysts and Architects to identify the scope, requirements and architecture of the project.  • Followed MVC model and used spring framework for developing the Web layer of the application.  • Developed application using Spring MVC, JSP, JSTL and AJAX on the presentation layer, the business layer is built using spring and the persistent layer uses Hibernate.  • Developed User Interface and web page screens for various modules using JSF, JavaScript, and AJAX using RAD.  • Data Operations are performed using Spring ORM wiring with Hibernate and Implemented Hibernate Template and criteria API for Querying database.  • Developed interfaces and their implementation classes to communicate with the mid-tier (services) using JMS.  • Extensively used JavaScript to provide dynamic User Interface and for the client-side validations.  • Used AJAX framework for asynchronous data transfer between the browser and the server.  • Extensively used Java Multi-Threading concept for downloading files from a URL.  • Used J2EE design patterns like Front Controller, MVC, Business Delegate and Session Facade.  • Write front end code for developing new pages using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, and jQuery.  • Involved in preparing Maven builds scripts, deployments, integration and configuration management of the entire application modules.  • Used Jenkins and Maven to manage automated builds from IBM Clear Case and to track promotion status.  • Used spring, Hibernate module as an Object Relational mapping tool for back end operations over SQL database.  • Developed the business components using EJB Session Beans.  • Created RFP (Request for Proposal) microservice to provide RESTful API utilizing Spring Boot with Spring MVC.  • Involved in Database design for new modules and developed the persistence layer based on Hibernate.  • Implemented the J2EE design patterns Data Access Object (DAO), Session Façade and Business Delegate.  • Developed unit test cases using JUnit and Log4j for logging.    Environment: Java, J2EE, spring, Hibernate, JSP, Eclipse 3.3, Maven, Jenkins, JUnit, Clear Case, CSS, HTML, XML, XSD, JavaScript, Oracle 10g, IBM WebSphere Application Server and UNIX. Java Developer Bajra Technologies - Kathmandu, NP February 2015 to July 2017 Description:    The company provides a web-based project designed and developed for the insurance agents. The agents issue policy for the customers through this application. Eligibility of the customers is decided based on the past records which are automatically populated by the program. If the customer is an existing customer, then the existing rules apply. If the customer is a new customer, then future business rules will apply. Agents can check the status of their customers and their current policy rules. Once policy number is auto generated, then the policy details are issued to the customer. Developed as a WTP (Web Tools Platform) project in J2EE Eclipse functionality. WTP allows for all Java code within the same Eclipse project.    Responsibilities:  • Implemented the project according to the Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC)  • Developed the web layer using Spring MVC framework.  • Implemented JDBC for mapping an object-oriented domain model to a traditional relational database.  • Created Stored Procedures to manipulate the database and to apply the business logic according to the user's specifications.  • Involved in analyzing, designing, implementing and testing of the project.  • Developed UML diagrams like Use cases and Sequence diagrams as per requirement.  • Developed the Generic Classes, which includes the frequently used functionality, for reusability.  • Exception Management mechanism using Exception Handling Application Blocks to handle the exceptions.  • Designed and developed user interfaces using JSP, Java script, HTML and Spring framework.  • Responsible for developing SOAP-based Web Services and Web Service Clients (JAX-WS, SOAP, WSDL and JAXB)  • Involved in Database design and developing SQL Queries, stored procedures on MySQL.  • Developed and maintained front end applications and web applications for ecommerce.  • Programmed session and entity EJBs to handle user info track and profile-based transactions.  • Involved in writing JUnit test cases, unit and integration testing of the application.  • Developed user and technical documentation.    Environment: JAVA, Spring Java Script, HTML, JDBC Drivers, Soap Web Services, UNIX, Shell scripting, SQL Server Junior Java Developer Nepal Telecom - Kathmandu, NP June 2013 to January 2015 Description:    The Nepal Telecom Mobile Billing System is an object-oriented, Customer Care and Billing system for telecommunication programmed in Java. The system provides interactive editing and query of customer data, of billing and system data. It allows the customer to view account history and allows managing his/her profile. Also, it provides pricing of the services booked and generation of the respective bills.    Responsibilities:  • Developing End-User friendly GUI using JSP, HTML, DHTML, JavaScript & CSS.  • Implemented MVC design pattern using Servlets, Java Beans and JSP and Struts.  • Used JSTL and developed required tiles and tile definitions for templating and defined configuration in the struts configuration.xml.  • Used various Core Java collections framework (JDK1.5) to build up application.  • Applied OO Programming concepts like Polymorphism and Inheritance to improve the existing Java/JEE based code base. Applied design patterns like Factory pattern, Singleton and DAO effectively.  • Involved in maintenance and enhancement of the application.  • Implemented AJAX calls using jQuery for dynamic and interactive, data retrieval and Messaging in JSON.  • Implemented CSS Manipulation, HTML Event functions, Java script Effects and animations using jQuery.  • Writing complex & cross browser JavaScript to validate the web pages.  • Analyzed and documented the business requirements of the customer.  • Prepared Junit test cases for the application.  • Developing the front-end application to process the online requests.  • Implemented client-side validations and identifying the data changes using JavaScript, jQuery.  • Produced SOAP web services using JAX-WS RI for building the business application layer.  • Worked on existing oracle stored procedures to improve the performance.  • Prepared auto deployment scripts for WebLogic 10.3 in UNIX environment.  • Using JUnit, wrote unit test cases to test various services and their capabilities and limitations.  • ANT tool has been used in the UNIX environment to build the applications.    Environment: JDK 1.5, JSP, Web Logic, JDBC, Struts, XML, DOM, SAX, XSLT, CSS, HTML, Web Services, WSDL, SOAP, RAD, SQL, JavaScript, DHTML, XHTML, Oracle10g, Toad, Log4j, ANT, SVN, UNIX. Education Master's Skills Eclipse, Ejb, Java, Hibernate, Spring Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:  Platforms Windows 2000/NT/ XP/Vista and Sun Solaris 2.8/2.9, UNIX  Programming JDK 8, 9, 10,11, C, C++  Server Scripting JSP1.2,2.1, JSP-EL, JSTL, Custom Tags, NodeJS  Client Scripting jQuery 2.0,2.1,2.2,3.2,3.3, jQueryUI, Dojo, AngularJS, JavaScript, CSS2, CSS3, HTML4, HTML5  Java Frameworks Struts 1.2, Struts 2.1, Spring MVC, JSF 1.1, JSF 2.1  Database Tools Toad for Oracle, Toad for MySQL, Toad for DB2, Toad for MS-SQL, MySQL Workbench  Databases MS-SQL Server, PostgreSQL, MySQL, Oracle  Middleware Specifications EJB 2.1, EJB 3.0, CORBA, RMI  Security JAAS, Spring Security  Version Control Tortoise SVN, GitHub, CVS, GitLab  IDEs Eclipse 4.5, 4.6, 4.7, 4.8, IntelliJ  Server Build Tools ANT 1.7,1.8,1.9, Maven, Gradle  Continuous Integration Jenkins  XML Technologies XSLT, JAXP, JDOM, SAX, DOM, XPATH, XML, XSD, DTD  Webservice Specifications JAX-RPC, JAX-WS, JAX-RS  Webservice Tools SoapUI 4.0,5.1  Webservice Implementations Axis 1.0,2.1, JWSDP2.1, Sun Metro, Sun Jersey, Apache XFire, Apache CXF  Whitebox Testing Junit 3, Junit 4, Selenium  Client Testing Jasmine  Application Servers WebLogic 12.1.2,12.2.1.0 WebSphere 8.0, JBoss 4.0, Glassfish 4.1.1  Web Servers Tomcat 7.0,8.0  UML Tools UML Model, Rational Enterprise, MS Visio  ORM Frameworks Hibernate 4.3.0, 5.0.2, TopLink, OpenJPA, iBatis  Defect Tracking JIRA  Methodologies Agile (XP, Scrum), Rational Unified Process (RUP), Waterfall, Kanban  HTML Editors Adobe Dreamweaver, Sublime Text  Cloud Computing AWS - EC2, RDS, S3, Dynamo DB  Microservices Spring Microservices, Spring Boot