Java Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Developer - ARVATO Dulles, VA ? Over 8 years of experience in System Design, Enterprise Software development and complex Client/Server Implementation, Web Development, Intranet/web-based n-tier architecture systems utilizing Object oriented /Internet technologies, Implementation of J2EE Technologies (Spring, Hibernate ORM, JavaScript, AngularJS, Webservices, JDBC, Servlets, JSP) in IT and Banking domains.  ? Expertise in J2EE and MVC architecture/implementation, Web Services, SOA, Analysis, Design, Object modeling, Data modeling, Integration, Validation, Implementation and Deployment.  ? Expertise in front-end development using JSP, JSTL, HTML5, DHTML, CSS3, JavaScript.  ? Experience in Spring frameworks like MVC, Security, AOP, JDBC, ORM, JMS and REST using Eclipse IDE.  ? Developed single page applications(SPA) using Angular 2.  ? Extensive experience in using technologies like JavaScript/jQuery, JSON to make connections between server and databases like Oracle DB and Web API.  ? Experience in developing Web interfaces using HTML5, CSS3, SASS, JavaScript and AngularJS.  ? Experience utilizing tools in N-tier and Microservices architecture applications using Spring Boot, Spring Cloud config, Netflix OSS components (Eureka, Zuul), AWS, Kafka, MySQL.  ? Developed Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) based J2EE applications that conform to SOA standards.  ? Worked on multiple secure client applications using Spring Security, Spring MVC and Single Sign-On (SSO) features.  ? Extensively worked using AWS services along with wide and in depth understanding of each one of them.  ? Skilled in deployment, data security and troubleshooting of the applications using AWS services.  ? Experienced with installation of AWS CLI to control various AWS services through SHELL/BASH scripting.  ? Skilled in AWS services like EC2, S3, ELB, Auto Scaling Groups (ASG), RDS, CloudFormation, CloudWatch, CloudFront, CloudTrail.  ? Worked with batch processing framework like Easy Batch and also developed micro services.  ? Involved in Design, development and testing of web application and integration projects using Object Oriented technologies such as Core Java, J2EE, Multithreading, JSP, JDBC, Spring Framework, Hibernate, Java Beans, XML, and Maven.  ? Kafka integration for the message queues between API's and devices  ? Used Microservice with Spring Boot through a combination of REST and Apache Kafka message brokers.  ? Expertise in Microservice using spring, Spring Boot, Spring Cloud to develop loosely coupled processes.  ? Proficient in using design patterns like Singleton, Abstract, Factory, Adapter and DAO.  ? Experience in using various Web and Application Servers like Apache Tomcat, WebLogic server.  ? Good knowledge in RDBMS concepts and experience in MySQL, Oracle.  ? Proficient in using Virtual Machine (VM) in software Machine Implementation using Linux OS.  ? Hands-on experience in writing complex database queries, stored procedures, and triggers.  ? Extensive hands-on experience in different aspects of enterprise software development including integration of Webservices (REST, SOAP).  ? Configured Log4j, JUnit, and developed unit test cases and determining application functionality.  ? Used different IDE's like Eclipse, STS.  ? Experience in designing Use Cases and Class Diagrams using UML.  ? Proven abilities in managing teams and implementing complete life-cycle of projects starting from technical design and build, system and functional testing, implementation and deployment.  ? Good working knowledge in all product life cycle phases, e.g. requirement, design & development, testing and post implementation support.  ? Experience in testing software using TDD in SDLC process.  ? Worked extensively in all development projects under Agile methodologies using Scrum. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Java Developer ARVATO - Dulles, VA April 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  ? Working in Insurance domain particularly life insurance and implemented project in Agile environment.  ? Using Java 7, struts 2.0, Cobra, Oracle Toplink, Spring Batch, Hibernate for development of our project.  ? To set the visual style of web pages and user interfaces used CSS (Cascading Style Sheets), HTML, JavaScript.  ? Implemented the web services development, invocation, inspection using SoapUI which helped in functional and security testing of the application.  ? Developed microservices with Spring Eureka to retrieve API routes and Implemented Spring Circuit breaker pattern, integrated Hystrix dashboard to monitor Spring microservice.  ? Developed Microservice and worked on Spring Boot, deployed applications on Pivotal Cloud Foundry.  ? The entire project is built with the Eclipse IDE by integrating it with the Apache Maven to resolve the dependencies within the application.  ? Implemented reader and writer to work with the application and update the data in database using Spring Batch framework.  ? Developed REST Webservices for file import by consuming and producing the JSON data.  ? Used JSON for transferring/retrieving customer information data and customer transactions data between different applications.  ? Implemented workflows to generate the loan and contribution changes for a plan and created the jobs to run according to the period.  ? Involved in writing SQL and PL/SQL functions and packages by using Oracle 11g D  ? Used Apache Cassandra for database management and JSON files for handling data in elastic search  ? Created and scheduled the jobs for the workflows developed and included in the nightly flow using CA WA ESP workstation.  ? Designing and Developing the web portal applications, web services and JBPM workflows.  ? Created test coverage for the web services by using Junit and Easymock.  ? Used SVN and migrated to GIT as the version control tool.  ? Involved in Unit integration, debugging the code, bug fixing, acceptance testing with test cases, code reviews.  ? Used Hibernate as ORM tool and defined the mapping, coordinated with QA team to ensure the quality of application.  ? Implement DAO pattern for database connectivity and Hibernate for object persistence.  ? Used Maven and VSTS for build, Jenkins as the continuous integration tool for the application development.  ? Used WebSphere application server for deploying in dev environments and used Tomcat in local environment.  ? Worked on extensive Performance testing to determine the responsiveness and stability of the system.  ? Expert in developing Java Selenium Web Driver/RC/IDE/GRID test scripts using Java, and Test Frame works using TestNG/Junit, ANT/MAVEN, Cucumber, Jenkins and Soap UI.  ? Key expertise includes testing & debugging GUI & Multi-Applications environment & automated testing using Selenium WebDriver.  ? Experience in customizing Selenium API to suit in testing environment.  ? Hands on experience in developing test Scripts to implement Scenario Outlines and Step Definitions for BDD (Behavior Driven Development) using Cucumber.  ? Experienced in using Jenkins as a Continuous Integration server to configure with GitHub and Maven.    Environment: Java 1.8, J2EE, Spring v4.1.0, Spring Batch, Hibernate 3.0, Web Services, Restful, Angular 2, JavaScript, Junit, Easymock, Log4j, My Eclipse, CA WA workstation, TOAD, SVN, GIT, Jenkins, Maven, SQL, PL/SQL, Oracle 11g, XML/HTTP, JSON, HTML5, VSTS, UML, IBM WebSphere, Apache Tomcat, Postman, Windows, Unix, Agile, scrum. Java Developer Bank of America - New York, NY April 2015 to March 2017 Responsibilities:  ? Designed front end using Spring MVC technology. Used Spring interceptors, filters and dispatcher servlets to design the application.  ? Developed Spring RESTful web services to deliver both XML and JSON content using Jackson Spring implementation to retrieve specific details for Insurance products  ? Use of Java Reflection to dynamically load and generate different type of reports from the premiums calculations performed by the agent.  ? Responsible for design and development of user interface using Flex Layout and Navigation, Data Grid menus, and skinning components.  ? Used the Java Mail API to create and send email's generated by the agents and sent to their clients.  ? Integrated the IoC container of Spring Framework to handle the creation of beans, dependency injection and transaction management.  ? Integrated Spring and Hibernate as ORM framework to perform the access to the database. Used to define a DAO layer to decouple and control the access to the database.  ? Configured persistence-Context in Spring JPA and Hibernate as a persistence provider to interact with Oracle database.  ? Created POJO's classes as Spring JPA entities in an Object Relational Mapping Architecture.  ? Used lazy loading and Hibernate. Initialize () to retrieve data only when it is needed thus avoiding overloading the architecture.  ? Refactored legacy stored procedures, extracted and converted logic from stored procedures into java components for better reusability.  ? Used Spring AOP Annotations to provide logging functionality in the system.  ? Used SVN Control Source Repository to check in, check out and merge code.  ? Use OOP features such as polymorphism to implement factory design pattern solutions to provide the system the right objects for the product related methods.  ? Using management and build tools such as Maven.  ? Deployed and managed the ear files on Windows environment.  ? Working closely with UI Developers to design and develop services required in the application front-end.  ? Tested the code using tools like JUnit.    Environment: Spring Framework, Hibernate, spring boot , Microservices, Oracle 11g, WebLogic, Eclipse, JPA, Junit, Restful, Maven, SVN. Java Developer AARP - Washington, DC October 2013 to March 2015 Responsibilities:  ? Reviewed the functional, non-functional requirements and high-level designs.  ? Worked with Agile Methodologies.  ? Used Spring Web flow for integration purpose in application development.  ? SOAP UI is used for web services testing.  ? Developed and integrated with server components using Spring, Hibernate.  ? Developed user interfaces using JSF UI components, Validators, Events and Listeners.  ? Developed sever side validations using JSF.  ? This system is a real time J2EE Fixed Income Trading system, high frequency, low-latency. I am the developer and support of this system.  ? Experienced in creating a connection to the Laserfiche server or share an existing connection.  ? Extensively worked with core java like collections, String Builder and interfaces.  ? Develop fixed income pricing analytics, architecture and implementation, providing solutions for real time price delivery, trade capture, order management and other aspects of trade flow  ? Designed and developed various Web forms using HTML, CSS, Bootstrap and JavaScript, React.JS  ? Compiled and built the application using Maven scripts and deployed the application.  ? Implemented Hash table and hash set for inserting and retrieving values.  ? Used MVC-Struts framework in the front-end to develop the User Interface.  ? Implemented enterprise applications using WSDL, SOAP and XML schema.  ? Developed different design methodology such as MVC patterns.  ? Used Hibernate for Object mapping.  ? Developed Message Driven Beans as Queue listeners for JMS queues.  ? Worked extensively in the backend SQL Server database.  ? Used Log4J for any errors in the application  ? Implemented interceptors using Hibernate and build and release Spring Boot framework.  ? Configuring SharePoint foundation services with TFS 2010.  ? Analyze and fix issues related to Soap Web services and Application responses  ? Used HTML, CSS and Java Script for developing user interface.  ? Used Spring Batch for scheduling and maintenance of batch jobs.  ? Used MAVEN as build management tool.  ? Used WSDL to post the services in the UDDI.  ? Worked with XPATH when need to identify objects in the screen.  ? Developed lookup tables and views to speed up queries.  ? Provide critical support to current order management systems being used as and when required.  ? Worked in Quality analysis and testing.    Environment: Java, EJB, Hibernate, JSF, Spring, Selenium, SQL Server 2008 R2, XML, JUnit, XSLT, IDE, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Apache Tomcat, Laserfiche, Log4j, SharePoint, TSF Java Developer Spark Solutions Pvt. Ltd May 2011 to September 2013 Responsibilities:  ? Involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC).  ? Used Rational Rose for the Use Case, Object, Class, Collaboration and Sequence Diagrams.  ? Created Servlets which route to appropriate EJB components and render retrieved information  ? Developed Session Beans to process requests and used Entity Beans to retrieve and update.  ? Implemented Executor Framework in Multithreading. Designing and implementing Multiple Process Service using Multithreading and Concurrency concepts to schedule and execute jobs.  ? Front-end is designed by using HTML, CSS, JSP, Servlets, JSTL, Ajax and Struts.  ? Used JavaScript for page validation and XML with SAX to transfer data between applications.  ? Wrote PL/SQL stored procedures, Prepared statement and used API.  ? Involved in writing and executing stored procedures, functions and triggers for Oracle.  ? Developed web application using Struts, JSP, Servlets, Java beans that uses MVC design pattern.  ? Involved in writing the exception and validation classes using Struts validation rules.  ? Used Eclipse as IDE tool for creating Servlets, JSP, and XML.  ? Designed and developed Message-driven beans that consumed the messages from the Java message queue.  ? Wrote SQL for JDBC prepared statements to retrieve the data from the database.  ? The application was deployed on the Tomcat Server.    Environment: Java, Multithreading, EJB, Session Beans, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Servlet, Struts, JSP, Oracle, JDBC, Eclipse, Tomcat. Education Bachelor's Skills Apache (3 years), Apache Cassandra (1 year), ASTERADATA (1 year), Cassandra (1 year), Eclipse (6 years), GIT (1 year), HTML (5 years), J2EE (3 years), Java (7 years), JSON (3 years), Oracle (6 years), Soap (3 years), SQL (5 years), Subversion (3 years), SVN (3 years), Tomcat (5 years), UI. (5 years), user interface (5 years), WebLogic (2 years), XML (7 years) Additional Information Technical Skills:    Application Servers Apache Tomcat, WebLogic, JBOSS  Content Management Web Content Management  Distributed Computing System Hadoop ecosystems  Technologies Java, J2EE, XSLT, XML, HTML, DHTML, JSON  Databases Oracle, SQL Server, DB2, Cassandra  Methods/IDE Eclipse, Pycharm, SQL Developer, Dreamweaver, spring  Tool Suite, Firebug, Notepad++, Net Beans, SOAP UI  Scripting languages C#, Python, Perl, PHP, Ruby, Shell  Operating Systems Windows, Unix/Linux  Version Controls SVN Tortoise, CVS, GIT, GitHub, Clearcase