Sr. Java Application Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Java</span> Application <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Java Application Developer - Capital One Investing LLC, Seattle -WA Austin, TX • 8+ years of extensive experience in object-oriented design/analysis, Java development, web services for service-oriented architecture, and data modeling, skilled at progressing from problem statement to well-documented designs and code.  • Good experience and knowledge on various development methodologies like Test Driven Development(TDD), Extreme Programming (XP), Scrum, Agile, UML and Rational Rose.  • Strong Design, Development and Deployment skills in Java, J2EE, Servlets, Applets, Struts, spring, Hibernate, AJAX, XML, JSP, EJB, JDBC, Web Services (SOAP, RESTful, WSDL) AWS.  • Proficient in using various design patterns such as MVC, Data Transfer Object, Value Object,  Singleton, Service Locator, Session Facade, Factory Pattern and DAO.  • Good experience in coding using Interfaces, Multithreading, Reflection.  • Excellent front-end, UI development skills using scripting languages like Angular JS, JSP, JSTL, JSF, HTML5, DHTML, AJAX, CSS3, JavaScript and its libraries.  • Used JavaScript to implement client-side validations.  • Hands on experience in design, implementation and maintenance of system architectures using application servers like WebLogic, WebSphere, Tomcat and JBOSS.  • Worked extensively on Management beans to handle various configurations.  • Strong experience in designing and developing data models and accessing from Java applications using SQL, PL/SQL, JPA, JDBC and ORM tool Hibernate.  • Expertise in implementing Service Oriented Architectures (SOA) with XML (SOAP/UDDI/WSDL) and REST based Web Services.  • Expertise in Developing web application using spring, Hibernate, Web Services (SOAP and RESTFUL) technologies.  • Worked with XML parsers like JAXP (SAX and DOM) and JAXB.  • Expertise in applying Java Messaging Service (JMS) for reliable information exchange across Java applications.  • Strong Experience on coding Queries, Procedures and packages in SQL.  • Experienced in database design, data analysis and development Oracle, and writing SQL queries, Stored Procedures, Functions, Packages and Triggers.  • Expertise in using and configuring various web and application servers like IBM Web Sphere Application Server, Oracle Web Logic, JBoss Application Server, Apache Tomcat, Glassfish  • Proficiency in programming with various Integrated Development Environments ( Java IDE's) like Eclipse, NetBeans, Intellij,RAD Life ray Android Studio.  • Experience in writing Ant,Maven and Gradle scripts for project development and deployment.  • Expert in using version control tools such as such as SVN, CVS and GIT.  • Experienced in writing and implementing unit test cases using Junit and Mockito.  • Highly motivated team player with the ability to work independently and adapt quickly to new and emerging technologies.  • Good Experience on (A.W.S.)Amazon Web Services (Amazon EC2, Amazon S3, Amazon Simple DB, Amazon RDS, Amazon Elastic Load Balancing, Amazon SQS, AWS Identity and accessmanagement, AWS Cloud Watch, Amazon EBS and Amazon Cloud Front), using the Elastic Search APIs (Document, Search, Indices, Cluster, etc.), High Availability Practices and deploying backup/restore infrastructure.  • Have excellent experience in migrating to Amazon web Services (AWS) from Datacenter.  • Articulate in written and verbal communication along with strong interpersonal, analytical, and organizational skills. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Java Application Developer Capital One Investing LLC, Seattle -WA March 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Participated in all phases of the SDLC including technical requirements, design, development, deployment and testing.  • Worked in Agile methodology environment including Test Driven Development with Continuous Integration/Delivery.  • Interpret written business requirements and technical specification documents  • Migrated several Java Batch Applications and Services from the On-premise infrastructure to AWScloud.  • Migrated the Java REST API builton the Drop Wizard framework to AWS cloud platform.  • Wrote the Gradle scripts to build the Applications and used AntHill Pro to get the build of the application and Deploy the application in AWS QA environment.  • Made code changes to upgrade the existing Database connections to SSL and upgraded the existing TLS versions for the Applications while migrating them to AWS cloud platforms.  • Worked on the latest AWS products like Amazon EC2,AmazonSimple Storage Service(S3), Amazon Route 53, Amazon EBS, Elastic Load Balancing, AWS Cloud formation, AWS VPC, Security Groups.  • Developed theAWS Cloud formation templates and Parameter files for various environments such as QA, Dev, INT, Pre-prod and Prod as per the AWS designdocument for various applications.  • Created the AWS environments in QA, Dev, INT, Pre-prod and Production and Deployed the application in those environments.  • Used Amazon Cloud watch to monitor environment for operational and performance metrics during load testing.  • Written CHEF cookbooks andCHEF Environment files for automating the deployment in the AWS Cloud infrastructure.  • We used GIT for versioning and maintaining the Application related source code and as well as the AWS Cloud and CHEFinfrastructure code for various environments.  • Used Splunk to capture the application logs and Chef logs from the AWS EC2 instances to verify and validate the deployments.  • Run the Splunk queries to obtain the application logs and analyzed and Monitored the application logs for the Applications running on the AWS cloud platform.  • Created the Encrypted and Unencrypted CHEF data bags for managing the Application specific property values in the configuration files.  • Run the Jenkins jobs to Upload the necessary CHEF artifacts into enterprise CHEF server.  • Used Aqua Data Studio to connect to the Sybase database and run the required stored Procedures and modify the data in tables by Using SQL Statements.  • Performed End to End testing in all the environments after migrating the application from On-Perm to AWS Cloud platform.  • Involved in planning the Rehydration for the AMI's which are deployed in the production and performed the Rehydration to the Production AWS instances.  • Involved in Cutover planning and validation, testing for the Batch applications, Services and API's which are migrated to the AWS Cloud platform.    Environment: Java 1.8/J2EE, Log4J, Restful Web Services, Gradle, AWS Cloud platform, Splunk, CHEF, Aqua Data studio, Swagger, Eclipse, Sybase Database. Jr. Java Application Developer Nintendo of America - Redmond, WA June 2015 to January 2017 Responsibilities:  • Participated in all phases of the SDLC including technical requirements, design, development and unit testing.  • Used JSP's HTML on front end, Servlets as Front Controllers and JavaScript and JQuery for client-side validations.  • Used Angular JS in dynamic binding of HTML web pages using the MVC architecture.  • Created controller Servlets for handling HTTP requests from JSP pages.  • Developed few web pages using JSP, JSTL, HTML, CSS, Java script.  • Worked on AngularJS framework to develop the page and make it responsive  • Developed RESTfulWeb Services for the project as per the business requirements.  • Involved in developing XML Schemas and used JAXB for marshalling/un-marshalling.  • Implemented MVC architecture by using Spring framework.  • Implemented the Spring dependency injection of the Database helper instance to the action objects.  • Used JDBC to invoke Stored Procedures and database connectivity to Oracle database.  • All the coding and testing was performed using IntelliJ.  • Maintained the existing code based developed in Spring and Hibernate framework by incorporating new features and fixing bugs.  • Involved in fixing bugs and unit testing with test cases using JUnit framework  • Used automated scripts and performed functionality testing during the various phases of the application development using Selenium  • Created Automation script using Selenium WebDriver. Executed scripts on different browser and different platform.  • Developed stored procedures and triggers using PL/SQL to calculate and update the tables to implement business logic using Oracle database.  • Involved in writing Hibernate Query Language (HQL) for persistence layer.  • Used Maven to build, run and create JARs and WAR files among other uses.  • Used automated scripts and performed functionality testing during the various phases of the application development using Selenium  • Created Automation script using Selenium WebDriver. Executed scripts on different browser and different platform.  • Worked with Jenkins in continuous Integration by using GIT tool and executed projects in Apache Maven and Ant.  • Used Log4j for application logging and debugging.  • Involve in Technology & Performance Optimization and Error Reduction Procedures.  • Maintain and enhance existing client applications and internal systems to improve integration.  • Wrote Test Cases which adhere to a Test-Driven Development(TDD) Pattern.  • JUnit was used for unit testing and implementing Test Driven Development (TDD) methodology.  • Involved in planning process of iterations under the Agile Scrum methodology    Environment: Java 1.7/J2EE, Spring3.0, Hibernate, Oracle,AngularJS, HTML, XML, CSS, AJAX, JavaScript, Log4J, Restful Web Services, Maven. Java/J2EE Developer American Express - Phoenix, AZ April 2012 to December 2013 Responsibilities:  • Involved in creating the workflow framework by using threads concept to execute spring beans sequentially, parallel and parallel for each.  • Responsible for design and implementation of various modules of the application using Spring-Hibernate architecture.  • Responsible for implementing the transaction management in the application by applying Spring AOP methodology.  • Designed and developed UI with AJAX, HTML, XHTML, DHTML and java script for more interactive web pages.  • Involved in creating the Xml schemas and WSDL documents by understanding the business requirements and the application as web service component by using JAX-WS.  • Published and consumed SOAP Web Services for transferring data between different applications.  • Provided security to Web Service using trusted certificates and created the DAO classes using Spring DAO module.  • Built standalone applications with Spring Boot.  • Created stored procedures and functions to process the data from Mainframe Systems.  • Implemented Spring ORM wiring with Hibernate provided access to Oracle 9i RDBMS.  • Hibernate Query Language (HQL) was used to perform various queries in the database.  • Wrote build and deployed scripts using Shell and ANT scripts and involved in performance analysis of the application and fixed problems/suggest solutions.  • JUnit was used for unit testing and implementing Test Driven Development (TDD) methodology.  • Used Eclipse IDE for developing code modules in the development environment.  • Implemented the logging mechanism using log4j framework.  • Used SVN version control to track and maintain the different version of the project.  • Worked on a variety of defects to stabilize application.    Environment: Java 1.5 /J2EE, spring 2.5, Hibernate, Oracle 9i, HTML, CSS, AJAX, JQuery, JSP, Servlets, Maven, CSS, Web Logic, JUnit, Eclipse, Log4j, SVN Java/J2EE Developer Citizens Bank - Chicago, IL May 2010 to March 2012 Responsibilities:  • Implemented User Interface in Model-View-Controller Architecture, which accomplishes a tight and neat co-ordination of JSP and Custom Taglibs.  • Implemented Dependency Injection (IOC) feature of spring framework to inject beans into User Interface.  • Developed Server-side components using Spring IOC, Hibernate and design patterns such as Business Delegate, session facade, Service locator, DAO's, DTO's.  • Developed and utilized J2EE Services and JMS components for message communication in WebLogic Application Server.  • Involved in the development of the application framework. Designed and developed various Business Delegates and EJB (Stateless Session Beans) to implement the business functionality and security to the system.  • Implemented data access mapping and framework using Hibernate ORM tool. Used DAO pattern to implement data access framework.  • Developed reusable and interoperable Web service modules based on SOA architecture using JAX-WS and Apache AXIS 2.0.  • Developed XML Schema, XSLT and WSDL using XMLSPY.  • Developed application vastly using NO-SQL to achieve non-relational mapping and to make horizontally scalable  • Worked on XPath and XQuery for transforming inbound calls and making outbound calls to business services.  • Configured development environment using WebLogicapplication server for developer's integration testing.  • Involved in integrating JMS providers with J2EE application servers by using J2EE Connecting Architecture.  • Developed Unit testing framework driven by Test First methodology, to develop test cases for business layer and User Interface using mock objects.  Environment: Java, WebLogic, Eclipse, Hibernate, Spring, EJB, JMS, Java Script, AJAX, Web Services, AXIS, JAXRPC, Maven, Clear Case, JUnit, Oracle, Sun Solaris. JAVA Developer Capgemini - Tampa, FL January 2009 to April 2010 Responsibilities:  • Analyze the prerequisites in the view of business data and user necessities.  • Implemented the m  • les utilizingModel-View-Controller (MVC) design pattern.  • Develop GUI related changes utilizing JSP, HTML and client validations using Java script.  • Developed Java beans, helper classes and Servlets for communicating with UI written in JSP.  • Wrote a controller Servlet that dispatched requests to appropriate classes.  • Developed Dispatch Action classes to define several business methods.  • Developed Servlet and Java Server Pages (JSP), to route the submittals to the EJB components and render-retrieved information using session façade.  • Developed value object mainly used to wrap the data and pass across the layers.  • Developed business logic utilizingStateless session beans for calculating asset depreciation on Straight Line and written down value approaches.  • Designed database Queries for updating, insertion and retrieval of asset information and rates.  • Created java classes to interact with database using JDBC.  • Used JMeter for Database Backend Testing with JDBC & ODBC Connection.    Environment: Java 1.4, Servlets, JSP, EJB2.0, J2EE 1.4, STRUTS, XML, XSLT, Java Script, Oracle 8iMs Visio, Eclipse, JDBC, CVS, Windows 2003 Server. Education Bachelor's Skills J2EE (7 years), JAVA (7 years), ORACLE (6 years), XML (6 years), WEB SERVICES (6 years) Additional Information Technical Skills:  Programming Languages JDK 1.5,1.6,1.7, 1.8, C, SQL, PL/SQL  Platforms Windows 2003, 2008 Server, Linux, Unix, Amazon Web Services.  Java Core Memory Management, Thread Classes, Exception Handling and Collection APIs  UML Tools MS Visio, Rational Rose Enterprise  IDE & Reporting Tools Eclipse, NetBeans, IntelliJ, JBuilder 2005, 2006  J2EE MVC Frameworks Struts 1.1 and 2, Spring 2.5, 3.0, JSF 1.2  Databases MySQL 5.1, Oracle 11g, 10g, 9i, 8i, MS SQL Server 2008, DB2.  Database Tools SQL Developer for Oracle  Application Servers IBM Web Sphere, Web Logic, JBoss, Apache Tomcat.  Web Technologies HTML, DHTML, CSS, Java Script, XML, SOAP, XSL, XSLT, XHTML.AWS  ORM Frameworks Hibernate 3.0, JPA.  Version Control Rational Clear Case, SVN, CVS, GitHub.  Middleware Technologies EJB 2.1, 3.0, JNDI, JMS ( Java Message Service).  Design Methodologies Rational Unified Process, Agile, Scrum, Test Driven Development, Rapid Application Development.  Testing JUnit 4.1, J-Mock, Easy Mock  Logging Tools Log4j.  Continuous Integration Hudson, Jenkins.