Java Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Developer - General Motors • Around 6 years of experience building high-quality applications for a multitude of diverse clients in core Java and Java EE software development. Solid background with algorithm and data structure.  • Extensive IT experience in server side development, distributed software architecture, object oriented design, messaging middleware and relational databases.  • Experienced in development, implementation and maintenance of web and distributed Enterprise applications using Java/J2EE technologies.  • Solid Java OOP programming skills like: multi-threading, class loading, generics.  • Expertise in server-side development with JDBC, Servlets, Java Beans, RMI.  • Expertise in working with Core Java concepts like Collections, Multithreading, Data Structures, Exception Handling and Serialization.  • Experience in MVC architecture, Spring framework, J2EE Design Patterns, Spring IOC, Spring Boot, Spring Security, Java Server Faces and Hibernate.  • Used and worked with RESTful web services.  • Working knowledge of HTML, CSS, JavaScript and AJAX.  • Familiar with UI components such as Popup Dialog, ViewPager, Button, TextView, ImageView, Gallery, ListView, GridView and CardView.  • Skilled in analyzing and defining solutions to increase efficiencies and reduce redundancy  • Specialize in Enterprise Application Integration and Agile Methodologies.  • Team player with good communication, interpersonal and analytical skills Work Experience Java Developer General Motors - Sunnyvale, CA October 2017 to Present Worked on development of application for data monitoring, vehicle date records maintenance for General Motors Company    • Used OOAD Technology, classes are designed in UML with the help of Rational Rose.  • Used Spring MVC framework to build RESTful web services.  • Developed and deployed business logic using Session Beans and Servlets.  • Created web pages and client side validations using HTML5 and CSS3 and JavaScript, AJAX, JSP.  • Used Hibernate framework for back end development and Spring dependency injection for middle layer development.  • Implemented core Java code with data structures and algorithms to the back-end.  • Involved in debugging the application.  • Used Maven to compile and generate EAR, WAR, and JAR files.  • Created custom exception classes to display appropriate error messages.  • Used JUnit for white box testing of application. Created test conditions/test data.  • Used Log4j for logging errors and publishing logging information to various destinations.  • Used Jenkins for continuous deployment.  • Developed the system interface with webservice and JMS    Technologies: Java, J2EE, Spring, JSP, HTML, Hibernate, JQuery, JMS, UML, PL/SQL Oracle, JUnit, Jenkins, Unix, Git. Java Developer Key Bank - San Francisco, CA January 2016 to June 2017 Worked on development of Business Loans qualification and Delivery system.    • Participated in various stages of the project life cycle, mainly design, implementation testing, deployment and enhancement of the application  • Developed complex RESTful web services using Spring framework for extracting product and warranty information.  • Implemented business logic using Session Beans, Servlets.  • Optimized the data model objects with core Java code.  • Wrote SQL queries, PL/SQL stored procedures and modifications to existing database  • Combined HttpClient and JWTs implement app authentication  • Used JUnit/Eclipse for the unit testing of various modules.  • Used Jenkins for CI and deployment.  • Developed content management system interface with Java API    Technologies: Java, J2EE, EJB, jQuery, JavaScript, Spring, Hibernate, Jenkins, XML, Tomcat, Oracle, Eclipse Java Developer Tata Consulting Services - Haryana, Haryana March 2013 to December 2015 Worked on design and development of applications for their clients    • Designed and implemented customized dashboard applications, extracting data from business systems to display relevant information and generate dynamic reports.  • Coordinated with the client and upper level management, as well as cross-functional teams to test the solutions for production issues and customizations.  • Performed software development utilizing technologies such as core Java, J2EE, Spring Framework, Hibernate, JSF, Servlet, and Oracle database.  • Interacted with business users and collected the requirements. Analyzed business requirements, designed and recommended solutions over Agile Methodologies.  • Developed web pages using HTML, CSS, JavaScript and AJAX.  • Worked with the deployment of code using Jenkins.  • Created backend tables/stored procedures and SQL for database access.  • Installed testing and production environments, and wrote test cases and documentation.  • Extracted data from ERP systems to build complete dashboard with detailed financial KPIs.  • Design web service and JMS interface to get data form customer SOA system    Technologies: Java, J2EE, Spring, JSP, Weblogic, JMS, Oracle, SQL, XML, Oracle, Linux. Education Bachelor's in Computer Applications Maharishi Dayanand University 2010 Skills JAVA (6 years), JAVASCRIPT (6 years), ORACLE (6 years), SQL (6 years), HTML (4 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Languages: Java, JavaScript, SQL  Web: HTML (HTML5), CSS (CSS3), JavaScript, jQuery, Servlet  Web Service: RESTFUL, XML, JSON  Web APP SERVER: Tomcat, Weblogic, WebSphere  Frameworks: Spring, Hibernate  Databases: MS SQL, Oracle, DB2  Tools: UML, Eclipse, Tomcat  Version Control: GIT  Platforms: Windows, Linux, Mac OS