Sr. Java Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Java Developer - United Heartland • Around 7+years of IT experience in analysis, design and implementation & testing of Object oriented applications in the client/server, webservices, distributed, integrated environments using J2SE andJ2EE.  • Solid experience in Java & J2EE technologies using Core Java-Collections, Exception Handling, Polymorphism, Inheritance, Serialization & Multi-threading.  • SDLC Process which includes translation of requirements into functional and technical specifications, Designing, Developing, Testing Implementation & Post production support using methodologies like Waterfall, Agile/Scrum.  • Developed web applications using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, AngularJS, JSON, Node.JS, Backbone.JS, jQuery, React.JS and Ajax.  • Great knowledge in designing and developing Java and J2EE applications using Eclipse.  • Experience in Java/J2EE technologies which involves JDBC, Servlets, JSP 2.0, JSF, Struts, XML, JAXB, Web Services (SOAP, REST), Hibernate, Spring Framework.  • Excellent knowledge of Relational Databases, SQL and ORM technologies.  • Good experience in implementing J2EE compliant applications using various frameworks like, struts, spring MVC Framework, Hibernate.  • Experience in Web/Applications deploymentin Servers like WebLogic and Apache Tomcat  • Experience using development environment tools like Eclipse, Rapid Application Development (RAD) and NetBeans.  • Extensive working experience with Servlets, EJB, java Mail, Tag Libraries, JSTL Tags, Design Patterns.  • Extensive Experience in cloud computing platforms like AWS (Amazon Web Services)  • Proficient in Java/J2EE Design Patterns including singleton, Model View Controller (MVC), Data Access Object (DAO)  • Extensive experience in using SQL to write Stored Procedures, Functions, Packages and Triggers.  • Excellent work experience on RDBMS like Oracle and My SQL, creating SQL statements & Sub queries.  • Excellent team player with good communication, analytical and problem-solving skills.  • Experience in working with different operating systems like Windows, Linux and Unix.  • Quick learner with ability to grasp new technologies, software and hardware.  • Committed to excellence, self-motivator, fast-learner and a prudent developer with good problem-solving skills and good programming capabilities. Work Experience Sr. Java Developer United Heartland - Milwaukee, WI May 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Developed the application under J2EE Architecture using Spring, Hibernate.  • Extensively using core java concepts like Synchronization, Collections, Multi-threading, exception handling for developing applications.  • Worked on different module of Spring including Spring MVC, Spring ORM and Spring Boot.  • Extensive use of HTML5 with Angular4, JSTL, JSPand jQuery for the presentation layer along with JavaScript for client-side validation.  • Integrated Spring and Hibernate ORM framework for persistence and used Hibernate Dao Support with Hibernate Template to access the data.  • Involved in developing EJB'S for the business logic using Session facade pattern and deploying them in Apache tomcat.  • Used MAVEN tool to build and deploy J2EE Applications  • Used Spring Rest Template to use the exposed REST web services  • Developed all the Junit test cases for all the different layer implementations  • Database profiling locks memory usage, no of connections, page fault etc., Export and import of data to and from Mongo DB, Runtime configuration of Mongo DB.  • Designed and implemented a generic Validation framework using XML, JAXB and Pattern API.  • Implemented JAX-WS web services to integrate Amdocs CRM with various third-party systems.  • Designed and developed Micro Services business components and RESTful service endpoints using Spring boot.  • Development of DAO layer using Hibernate Template, JDBC Template and Mongo Operations  • Designed deployed and supported highly available and scalable ping federate infrastructure in Aws and on premise that provide single sign in and federation solutions for internal accesses.  • Development of web modules and middleware components using AWS and Spring integration.    Environment:Java8/7/6, Spring4, JavaScript, Hibernate, Maven, HTML, CSS, JMS, XML, XSLT, SOAP, TDD, Unix, Web2.0, Oracle, SQL, JMS, MongoDB, JDBC, Spring MVC, Micro Services, JSON. Java Developer American Tower - Woburn, MA June 2015 to April 2017 Responsibilities:  • Involved in Design, Development and Support phases of Software Development Life Cycle.  • Responsible for developing Use case diagrams, Class diagrams, Sequence diagrams and process flow diagrams for the modules using UML.  • Used jQuery to make the HTML/HTML5, DHTML and CSS code interact with the JavaScript functions to add dynamism to the web pages on the client side.  • Used Struts and Tiles MVC architecture for the application development in Admin UI module.  • Implemented controller classes using Struts API and configured struts action classes and tiles definitions using XML configuration files.  • Used Hibernate an ORM tool along with Spring to perform all the Database actions.  • Used Hibernate to connect to the Oracle database to store and fetch.  • Developed various Apex classes, Controller classes and Apex Triggers for various functional needs in the application.  • Developed Web service client interface with JAX-RPC from WSDL files for invoking the methods using SOAP.  • Deployment of Web services, JSP, Servlets and server-side components in Web Logic Application server.  • Implemented Struts framework (MVC) and developed Action Servlet and Action Form bean.  • Used Spring Core Annotations for Dependency Injection Spring DI and Spring MVC for REST API s and Spring Boot for Microservices.  • Configure and administered of JDBC, JMS (Jobs MQ/IBM MQ) resource in Jobs applications.  • Implemented SSO for several applications deployed on JBOSS Fuse using SAML 2.0 Authentication Scheme (Smokie) with the help of Site Minder.  • Provided SQL scripts and PL/SQL stored procedures for querying the Oracle database.  • Enhancing the view layer of MVC architecture using JSP, jQuery.  • Developed JUnit test cases for all the developed modules.  • Deployed the applications on Apache Tomcat Application Server.  Environment: Java 1.8, Eclipse, J2SE, J2EE, JAX-RPC, JSP, HTML5, CSS, JSP, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, XML, Servlets, APEX Triggers, SOA, JBOSS Fuse, Struts, Hibernate, Spring MVC, Spring Boot, Restful Web services, Microservices, PL/SQL, Oracle, ANT, CVS, Junit. Java Developer Metropolitan Transportation Authority - New York, NY June 2014 to April 2015 Responsibilities:  • Part of team responsible for design, development of application  • Developed application using Agile methodologies  • Responsible to develop front end of application using HTML, JavaScript and database using PostgreSQL  • Used HTML5 and AngularJS to format the input forms and handled the input validations  • Developed web services using SOAP and WSDL  • Developed SQL stored procedures and prepared statements for updating and accessingdata from database.  • Interacted with the end users and documented the application.  • Involved in Unit Testing, User Acceptance Testing and Bug Fixing.  • Wrote Custom Tags for custom requirements of fields on GUI.  • Used tools likeMaven, Jenkins for building and integration purposes.  • SOUPUI is used for testing the application.  • Coordination with team, peer reviews and collaborative System level testing.    Environment: Java8/7/6, JavaScript, Hibernate, Maven, HTML, CSS, JMS, XML, SOAPUI, Unix, Web2.0, Oracle, SQL, PostgreSQL, JDBC, Spring MVC, Micro Services, JSON. Software Engineer Ericsson India Pvt. Ltd - Bengaluru, Karnataka June 2012 to May 2014 Responsibilities:  • Participation in requirement gathering meetings with client-side business teams tounderstand the requirements  • Preparation of User Requirement documentation.  • Implemented with HIPPA regulations and standards  • Used Install anywhere for creating installers for multiple platforms.  • Developed GUI with HTML, DHTML, XML, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Involved in developing Database access components using Spring DAO integrated withHibernate for accessing the data.  • Involved in writing HQL queries, Criteria queries and SQL queries for the Dataaccess layer  • Extensively used Spring AOP and Dependency injection during various modules ofproject.  • Followed Agile Scrum principles in developing the project.  • Using Hibernate with XML mapping as ORM.  • Extensively used Spring AOP and Dependency injection during various modules ofproject.  • Worked on support and enhancements for several Java/J2EE applications in OrderProcessing group.  • Managing Deployments, logging and common resources like data sources in Apachetomcat environment.  • Spending effort on paired programming to discuss the solutions, exchange knowledge onPair code, missed out exceptions and possible run-time scenarios.    Environment:Java6/7, J2EE, Eclipse, Windows, UNIX, JSP/Servlets, jQuery, Apache Tomcat, JDBC, XML, XSLT, CSS, Ajax, HTML, C++, Oracle, UNIX, Hibernate, Spring. Skills CSS (7 years), JAVA (7 years), JAVASCRIPT (7 years), JDBC (7 years), ORACLE (7 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    Languages: C, C++, Java.  Technologies: J2SE, J2EE, JDBC, Servlet, JSP.  Web Technologies: HTML5, CSS, JavaScript, Bootstrap, jQuery, AngularJS, JSON, NodeJS, Backbone.JS, React.JS, Ajax.  Databases: Oracle, MySQL, MSSQL, SQL Server, MongoDB.  Web Servers: Apache Tomcat, Web Logic, JBoss.  Frameworks: Spring (MVC, AOP, ORM, Web Service, DAO etc.), Hibernate ORM 5.0.2, Struts.  IDEs: Eclipse, NetBeans,  Build Tools: Dreamweaver, Maven, Jenkins, Git  Protocols: TCP/IP, HTTP, FTP, and SOAP.  Web services: Rest (JAX-RS), SOAP (JAX-WS)