Java Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Developer - Flagstar Bank Irving, TX • 6+ years of experience in working on the various phases of Software Development Life Cycle like Requirements Analysis, Design, Coding, Testing, Debugging, Documentation and maintaining the websites.  • Strong experience in J2EE application development using Java, Servlets, JSP, JDBC, XML, Struts, Web services, Spring Boot, Spring, Hibernate, Maven, SOAP, JAX-WS.  • Experience in working on various spring modules (Spring MVC, DAO) along with Hibernate as the back-end ORM tool for implementation of persistence layer and mapping of POJOs.  • Extensive experience in implementing MVC framework using Spring and Struts in J2EE architecture.  • Experience in front end technologies such HTML5, CSS3, AngularJS, JavaScript and Ajax.  • Experience on OOP (Objective Oriented Programming) like Inheritance, polymorphism, Abstraction and Encapsulation.  • Experience in developing XML documents using DTD Schema and parsing using SAX, DOM  • Experience in working with Tomcat application servers.  • In-depth knowledge and experience in implementing Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) using XML based SOAP/RESTful web services.  • Good knowledge in advanced Java language concepts like Multithreading and Serialization used in distributed systems.  • Experience in Spring Framework such as Spring Boot, Spring Batch, Spring IOC, Spring Resources, Spring JDBC, Spring Source.  • Experience in developing Microservices using Spring Boot  • Expertise in client scripting language and server-side scripting languages like JavaScript, JSON, AngularJS, JSF and JSP. Experience in designing Rich Internet Applications (RIA's) with jQuery and AJAX.  • Experience in retrieving database records using MySQL.  • Experience working with versioning tools like SVN, GIT build tools like Maven.  • Experience in using IDE's like Eclipse.  • Experience in working with ORM tools Hibernate (HQL) and JPA annotations  • Profound knowledge in configuring and deploying web applications using Tomcat webserver  • Experience in MVC2 Architecture using Struts, Spring with features like the Validation Framework and Internationalization.  • Experience in web forms in Angular 2 and their validations.  • Experience in developing applications using Waterfall and Agile.  • Experience in using Log4J to print info, warning and error data on to the logs  • Extensive knowledge of MVC architecture and J2EE Design Patterns like Factory, Singleton, Session Facade, DAO in the development of web based and distributed Enterprise Applications.  • Hands on Experience in UML designing use case diagrams.  • Experience in developing UNIT test cases using JUnit configure them through Maven plugins to be part of continuous integration.  • Experience in scripting deployments to AWS  • Experience in using Jenkins for continuous build system.  • Good interpersonal skills, excellent verbal, written and presentation skills and can work both independently and in a team.  • Capable of meeting stringent deadlines with excellent overall project life cycle experience and team spirit. Work Experience Java Developer Flagstar Bank - Troy, MI March 2018 to Present Flagstar Bank is the largest bank headquartered in Michigan. It is the primary subsidiary of Flagstar Bancorp, Inc, a bank holding company. It is one of the largest residential mortgage servicers and is on the list of largest banks in the United States.    Responsibilities  • Designed and developed applications using Agile Methodology and participated in daily stand up meetings.  • Participated in design and development as a Core Java 8 and J2EE Software developer. Understanding business and software requirement plus utilizing technology to enunciate data flow between front end and back end technologies.  • Involved in all phases of Software Development Lifecycle (SDLC) including Requirements Collection, Analysis, Development of the Application through Agile methodology.  • Extensively used Core Java, Spring API in developing the business logic.  • Developed Representational state transfer (REST) based services as part of the requirement.  • Designed and developed web pages using HTML, CSS, JSP, JavaScript, Angular 4.  • Developed web applications using Spring MVC, jQuery and used Eclipse IDE for designing, coding and developing applications.  • Wrote reactive forms Angular 4 and their Validations  • Involved in Documentation and use case design by using UML modeling includes development of Class diagrams, Sequence diagrams and use Case Transaction diagrams.  • Developed applications using Angular 4 single page applications SPAs to improve page performance.  • Used XML and JSON for transferring/retrieving data between different Applications.  • Experience in working with Angular 4 modules, services and dependency injection to create SPA.  • Used JavaScript, Angular 4, and AJAX technologies for front end user input validations and Restful web service calls.  • Implemented DAO layer using JPA (Hibernate framework) to interact with MySQL database.  • Configured and deployed the application using Tomcat and Web Sphere.  • Configured local Maven repositories and multi-component projects and scheduled projects in Jenkins for continuous integration.  • Developed UNIT test cases using JUnit.  • Used Git for Version Control tool and Clear Quest for bug tracking tool.  • Experience in deploying the application in the AWS cloud environment using cloud template  Environment: Java 8, Spring, Hibernate, Angular4, JSP, HTML5, Restful, CSS, Log4j, Microservices, JavaScript, AJAX, JavaScript, JSON, jQuery, XML, JUnit, Git, MySQL, Eclipse, AWS Java Developer Quicken Loans - Detroit, MI January 2017 to February 2018 Quicken Loans Inc. is a mortgage lending company headquartered in the One Campus Martius building in the heart of the financial district of downtown Detroit, Michigan. In January 2018, the company became the largest overall retail lender in the U.S. Unlike other large mortgage lenders that depend on deposits, Quicken Loans relies on wholesale funding to make its loans and uses online applications rather than a branch system.    Responsibilities  • Designed and developed applications using Agile Methodology.  • Involved in all phases of Software Development Lifecycle (SDLC) including Requirements Collection, Analysis, Development through Agile methodology.  • Implemented Spring MVC architecture using Spring, JSP & Java beans to migrate from Struts Framework. Used Spring Data Repositories to perform CRUD operations.  • Developed the Use Case diagrams and Class diagrams  • Developed web layer using Spring framework and to manage the project in MVC pattern.  • Developed RESTful Microservices using Spring technologies - Spring boot. Spring Security and Spring Data.  • Worked extensively on developing Repositories, Services && REST Controllers separating the User Interface with Data Layer.  • Developed user interfaces using HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery.  • Developed SQL queries and Stored Procedures for retrieving the data from several databases  • Used Hibernate as persistence framework for DAO layer to access the database  • Worked on securing REST API when accessing from UI using Token based Authentication.  • Extensively used Core Java such as Exceptions, and Collections.  • Developed SQL queries to interact with MySQL database and wrote SQL code for procedures and functions.  • Good OOAD skills and data modeling using UML (Use-cases, Class diagrams, Sequence diagrams etc.) . Used UML tools like STARUML.  • Extensively used Maven to build the application and deploy on Embedded Tomcat Server.  • Maintained source code in GIT Repository.  • Worked on Angular 2 to build front end.  • Prepared JUnit and Integration test cases and integrated with Jenkins.  • Used JIRA for writing user stories and raising defects in a defined sprint.  • Designed and developed Microservices business components using Spring Boot.  • Used log4j with Splunk Logging for logging error/debug messages and managing them.  Environment: Java, J2EE, Spring Core, Spring Data, Spring MVC, RESTful Web Services, SOAP Web Services, Hibernate, Eclipse IDE, HTML5, CSS, JavaScript, Tomcat, XML, Maven, Design patterns, JUNIT, Angular 2, log4J, WSDL, JSON Java Developer Fission Labs - Hyderabad, Telangana September 2014 to July 2016 Fission labs helps navigate clients to their next big product success. The company leverages technologies such as Cloud, AI, Big Data, IoT, and Machine learning to deliver intuitive, customer friendly, and scalable solutions that address clients core business needs whether we're developing for web, mobile, commercial, or enterprise clients.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in the analysis, design, development and testing phases of Software Development Lifecycle (SDLC)  • Developed RESTful Microservices using Spring technologies - Spring, Spring MVC and Hibernate.  • Responsible for writing J2EE compliant java code for application development effort which involved working with JSP, Servlets, JDBC, XML.    • Worked extensively on developing Services && Controllers separating the User Interface with Data Layer.  • Used Java/J2EE Design patterns like Data Access Object (DAO) which facilitates clean distribution of roles and responsibilities across various layers of processing.  • Extensively worked on production support for resolving tickets using JSF, J2EE and Spring Technologies.  • Worked extensively on developing repositories, Services and Controllers separating the User interface with Data Layer.  • Used JavaScript, AngularJS, and AJAX technologies for front end user input validations and Restful web service calls.  • Extensively tested web services in Postman to interact with other external interfaces to exchange the data in the form of JSON and by using REST protocol.  • Created controller Servlets for handling HTTP requests from client.  • Extensively used SQL queries to interact with database.  • Worked with business analysts to gather requirements.  • Created Controllers, Services, Repositories, DAOs, DTOs using Spring Core and Spring Web (MVC) modules.  • Used Spring Data JPA as data access layer to use Pagination support, dynamic query execution and to integrate custom data access code.  • Created forms to collect and validate data from the user in HTML and JavaScript.  • Used Log4J to for log management.  • Worked on functional automation test scripts using selenium Web driver.  • Used Hibernate framework as ORM for database transactions.  • Implemented Environment Specific logging using log4j.  Environment: JSP, JavaScript, HTML, CSS, AngularJS, Spring Core, Spring MVC, Eclipse, Spring Tool Suite, XML, JIRA, Oracle, Log4j, Web Services Software Engineer MindTree - Bengaluru, Karnataka January 2013 to August 2014 Mindtree Limited is an Indian multinational information technology and outsourcing founded in 1999. The company deals in e-commerce, mobile applications, cloud computing, digital transformation, data analytics, enterprise application integration and enterprise resource planning.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in Requirement gathering, Analysis and Design using UML and OOAD.    • Developed friendly user interface using HTML, CSS, JSPs and AJAX.    • Wrote client-side validation using JavaScript and jQuery.    • Implemented CSS Manipulation, HTML Event functions, Java script Effects animations jQuery.    • Designed the Application using Model View Controller Architecture.    • Developed different modules using J2EE (Servlets, JSP, JDBC, JNDI)    • Deployed the Application in WebLogic App Server.    • Wrote AJAX calls for dynamic and interactive, data retrieval and Messaging in JSON.    • Developed test cases and performed unit testing using JUnit framework.    • Tested and troubleshooted the frontend code for cross browser validation.    • Worked on production issues.    • Interacted with the Users and Documented the Application.    • Developed JSP pages using Custom tags and Tiles framework and Struts framework    • Using JUnit, wrote unit test cases to test various services and their capabilities and limitations.    • Configured and deployed the application using Tomcat Application Server.    • Extensively used Core Java such as Exceptions, and Collections.    • Defined XML documents for input and output sources of Web Services. Created schema documents for XML validation and developed XML schemas.    • Used SVN for Version Control.    • Used log4j with Splunk Logging for logging error/debug messages and managing them.    Environment: Java, JSP, Servlets, JDBC, JUnit, MySQL, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Ajax, Log4j, XML, DOM Education Bachelor's Skills CSS (6 years), HTML (6 years), J2EE (6 years), JAVA (6 years), JAVASCRIPT (6 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  J2SE Technology Multithreading, Reflections, Collections, Serialization, Beans, Hibernate, JSF, EJB, JavaBeans, JUnit  J2EE Technology Servlets, JSP, Tag Libraries, JDBC, JNDI  Version Control SVN and GIT  Architecture & Framework MVC, Struts, Spring, Hibernate, Spring Boot, Microservices  Database MySQL  IDE Eclipse  Web/App Servers Tomcat  GUI HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Angular JS, Angular 2, Angular 4  Query Languages SQL  Programming Language Java  Defect Tracking Tool JIRA  Tools Maven, Log4J, Junit, AWS