Senior Java Developer Senior <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior Java Developer - Capital One Plano, TX ? Information Technology professional with 9+ years of experience in Web Development, Enterprise Software development and complex Client/Server Implementation, Implementation of J2EE Technologies in Banking, Insurance and Airlines domains  ? Hands on experience in developing High Volume, Critical Enterprise wide systems using J2EE and Java Technologies.  ? Experience with Object Oriented Design and Object Oriented Analysis, Complete System Life Cycle, UML and associated tools such as Rational Rose.  ? Expertise in web development applications using Core Java, Servlets, JSP, Java Beans, EJBs (Session Bean, Entity Beans, JMS/MQ Series), JDBC, XML, JNDI, Java Mail, JMS, XML Parsers (DOM and SAX), JAX-WS, JAX-RS, JSON, Struts, Spring Framework, Spring Boot, SLQ/NoSQL, JPA, Hibernate.  ? Strong expertise in designing and developing web pages using front end technologies such as HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, AngularJS, JSON and AJAX.  ? Extensive experience with Spring Core, Spring IOC, Spring Boot, Spring Data JPA, Spring AOP, Spring Security, Spring Batch, Spring Transaction, Spring JDBC, Spring MVC, Spring Integration, JPA and Hibernate ORM.  ? Designed & developed the business components using core Java, Java 8, Lambda Expression, Java EE 7, RESTful API (JAX-RS) with REST, Spring framework, Spring Boot, Hibernate, JPA, Servlets, JSP, JSTL, JavaBeans, Design Patterns, PL/SQL, XML and JSON technologies.  ? Developed scalable RESTful services as Microservices using Spring Boot with Data JPA and Java8.  ? Expertise in various open source frameworks and tools such asStruts, Spring, Hibernate, Log4J 1.2.7 and Ant 1.6.7.  ? Extensive experience in front-end technologies like HTML5, CSS3, Java script, AJAX, JSP, JSTL, JQUERY, Groovy, Angular and other JavaScript libraries  ? Proficient in using java development IDEs like Intellij, Eclipse, Net Beans and Spring Tool Suite.  ? Good Experience in Implementing several object-oriented design patterns such as Model View Controller (MVC) frameworks, Front Controller, Business Delegate, Session Facade, Service Locator, DAO, DTO, Singleton, Object Factory and Composite View.  ? Expertise in implementing SOAP webservices and REST webservices.  ? Expertise in building Microservicesusing RESTfulAPI and deploying in the cloud.  ? Extensive knowledge on Core Java technologies such as Multi-Threading, Exception Handling,Inheritance, Polymorphism, Abstraction, Encapsulation, Generics, Collections, Lambda, Streams, File I/O and Unit Testing.  ? Strong in design and development of SOAP & Restful Web Services using WSDL, SOAP, JAX-WS, JAX-RS, JERSEY and WS-Security.  ? Experience in writing and executing unit test cases using JUnit and Mockito Framework  ? Experience in Configuring and deploying applications on Apache Tomcat, Web Sphere Application Server and BEA Web Logic server.  ? Extensive experience in PL/SQLinRDBMS withOracle, MySQLandNoSQL databases like MongoDB, Apache CouchDB.  ? Developed Stored procedures, Triggers, views, complex join queries; Strong and in-depth knowledge of various relational database systems and SQL.  ? Experience working in an Agile/Scrum development process  ? Good working knowledge on SVN and GIT for code management and version control.  ? Extensively used selenium, TestNG, SOAPUI, Postman for testing the web application and debugging.  ? Experience as Software Engineerwith onsite and offshore teams, leading the development of Web applications using different application/web servers  ? Experience in creating end to end CI/CD (Continuous Integration/Continuous delivery) solutions using Jenkins and Git.  ? Excellent Client interaction skills and proven experience in working independently as well as in a team.    Web/Application Servers Apache Tomcat, Glassfish, XAMPP, WebLogic, Oracle, Jetty  J2EE Technologies EJB, Servlets, JSP, JSTL, JNDI, JSF, JDBC, MVC,Struts,Spring, SpringBoot, JPA, Hibernate, Log4J, JUNIT, Webservices - REST and SOAP  Messaging System JMS, Java Mail  Language Java, Java 8, XML, JavaScript, Typescript, SQL, C++, python, Groovy  IDE Tools IntelIiJ, Eclipse, NetBeans, Spring Tool Suite, Visual Studio Code  Web Technologies HTML/HTML5, CSS/CSS3, JavaScript,XML, JSON,JSP, jQuery, AJAX, Angular, Node.js  Internet Protocols HTTP, HTTPS, FTP, TCP/IP, SOAP  Databases MySQL, Oracle, MongoDB, Couchbase  Testing Tools Junit, Jasmine, TestNG, Selenium, Postman, SoapUI  Version Control Tools GitHub, SVN Work Experience Senior Java Developer Capital One - Plano, TX May 2019 to Present Responsibilities:  • Analyzed the Business requirements to design and develop the various applicationcomponents.  • Worked in Agile environmentwith continuous integration and also in Waterfall methodologies.  • Designed and DevelopedREST web services using JAX-RS using Jersey which helped communicating through different modules of the application.  • Built Microservices using Spring Boot and Spring Framework and deployed in into AWS cloud.  • Developed services in Microservicesarchitecture using Spring Boot, REST and Hibernate.  • Involved in writing Spring Configuration XML, file that contains declarations and business classes are wired-up to the frontend managed beans using Spring IOC pattern.  • Implemented Micro Services Registration and Discovery with Spring Cloud and Netflix's Eureka.  • Used microservice architecture, with Spring Boot-based services interacting through a combination of REST and Apache Kafka endpoints.  • Designed and developed extensive Struts Action Servlets and Actions Forms to handle various requests.  • Creating tile definitions, Struts -Config files and resource bundles using Struts Framework.  • Involved in working with Struts Tiles2.0 for the look and feel for a web application.  • Used Node JS for heavy DOM manipulation  • Using Struts Model-View-Controller approach to help design new features and fix Jira bugs and request.  • Combined multiple Data Exchange processes, Domain objects consolidation to remove duplicated classes.  • Analyze and fix the production issues assigned in Data Exchange project.  • Support and maintain the production related issues.  • Worked extensively on SoapUI for mocking the back-end web service calls.  • Unified and configured error messages.  • Added JUnit framework to test new Java packages  • Developing Java beans, helper classes and Servlets for interacting with UI written in JSP.  • Developing and deploying J2EE components on application servers such as BEA Weblogic12.2 Server, Apache Tomcat.  • Designing and developing the presentation layer, Integrated the Java code (API) in JSP pages.  • Involved in design, configuration, development and bug-fixes.  • Developing Java modules, action classes and JSPs for retrieval of information from the error logs with different directories for different jobs  • Involved in the design, development and maintenance of the Front-end for the application using JSP, JSTL, Custom Tags and have strong HTML, XML, AJAX, JavaScript and CSS skills.  Environment:core Java, Java 8, J2EE, JDK, JDBC, Spring Framework, Spring Boot, REST, SOAP, JMS,JPA, ORM, Hibernate, JSON, XML Parsers, JSP, Servlets, EJB, Struts2, Java Beans, AJAX, JavaScript, Angular, Oracle server, Apache Tomcat, RDBMS, oracle, MySQL, NoSQL, MongoDB, Jenkins, Docker, AWS, JetBrainsIntellij Java/JEE Developer Country Financials - Bloomington, IL January 2015 to May 2019 Responsibilities:  • Participated in all aspects of Software Development Life Cycle such as user requirement gathering, business logic analysis, program specific designs and implementation.  • Developed the User Interface creating dynamic JSP, HTML5, CSS3, jQuery, JSON and Angular.  • Validation of the fields and programming of the behaviors of web pages was done using JavaScript library.  • AJAX was implemented to perform search functions and other asynchronous actions in order to increase performance of the page.  • Used JBOSS Server to deploy the whole application.  • Maven and its repository tools were used to build the project and manage the dependencies using POM XML.  • Used EJB to create the session beans where all the business logic classes and interface were encapsulated.  • Used Hibernate ORM to map the java objects, connect and perform CRUD operation with the relational database.  • Exchange of data was performed using SOAP and WSDL web services. Created WSDL XML and SOAP XML, SEI, java classeswith web service annotation for this process.  • Spring framework was used to perform the dependencies injection and plumbing of codes.  • Session objects were created to identify the different user.  • Used JNDI to look up and locate a resource data and objects.  • Used Groovy scripts for writing analyzing log file and database tables.  • Used JMS with ActiveMQ and Message Driven Bean to send the message and automated notification mail to the user.  • Used Log4J to handle the error and Debugging.  • Involved in developing store procedure, and performed query optimization and database programming language in database using MySQL.  • Tested application using the JUnit forUnit Testingfor TDD.  • Implemented Controller, DAO, Singleton and session Factory design pattern.  • Implemented the MVC framework by separating the business logic with the presentation logic using Spring MVC framework.  Environment: Java, J2EE, Spring 3.2.7, Spring MVC, SOAP,SOA, JUNIT, JSP, Servlets, Maven 3.1.1, Glassfish 4.0, Eclipse 4.3.2 Kepler, Hibernate 4.2.8, Log4J, EJB 3.0, DAO, MySQL 5.6.13, JMS, JNDI, XML, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript,Angular, AJAX, jQuery., Jenkins, Docker, Kafka Java/J2EE Developer American Airlines - Dallas, TX October 2011 to January 2015 Responsibilities:  • Estimation of work based on Agile methodology.  • Integrated three different vendors to a common platform using AJAX and implemented AJAX for server side validations, auto loading of data and to improve performance.  • Assisted external developers with API integrations and ensuring adherence to RESTful standards  • Used Apache's Jakarta STRUTS 1.1 as MVC framework for designing of the complete Web tier.  • Handled development and deployment of Session Beans (EJB) for each module to their respective instance of app server.  • Generated Class Diagrams, Sequence Diagrams with Microsoft Visio and RAD.  • Designed patterns implemented such as Singleton, Front Controller, Factory pattern, Data Access Object with Spring Framework and used ORM tool Hibernate to map POJO to RDBMS.  • Involved in writing and consuming Web Services using SOAP, WSDL, deployment, configuration and testing.  • Used Spring Framework for Dependency Injection and integrated with Struts Framework.  • Implemented logging mechanism using log4j.  • Wrote SQL, PL/SQL and stored procedures as part of database interaction.  • Extensively used Hibernate for Object Relational Mapping for data persistence.  • Unit testing, bug fixing in multiple environments (DEV/INT/CERT/PROD) and code review and refactoring of individual modules in the application.  • Developed the Ant scripts for preparing WAR files used to deploy J2EE components on Application server.  • Experience with Unix/Linux environments and shell and Perl scripting  • Release management and support. Participate in User Acceptance Testing.  • Ensured and maintained coding standards throughout the development process.  • Reviewed proposed test cases with technical analysts, business analysts, developers and documentation staff to ensure understanding of system requirements from a QA perspective in order to achieve a high level of quality throughout this project.  Environment:core Java, J2EE, JSP 2.0 Spring MVC, Servlets 2.4, EJB, Struts, JavaScript, AJAX, SOA, Web Services, WSDL, JavaBeans,Oracle, WebSphere Application Server 6.0, Rational Application Developer (RAD 7.0), Oracle 10g, Spring2.5, SQL Developer, Unix Shell Scripting, IBM-Clear Case, Jenkins, Docker, Kafka Education Bachelor's Skills Hibernate, Spring, Docker, Jenkins, Orm, Kafka, Linux, Unix, Unix/linux, Windows xp, Mac Additional Information Operating systems Windows XP 7,8,10, UNIX/Linux, Mac OSX  JPA/ORM JPA, Spring Data JPA, Hibernate, OJB  CI/CD and other environment Jenkins, Docker, Kafka, AWS