Groovy Grails Java Developer Groovy Grails <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Groovy Grails Java Developer - BNSF (Burlington Northern Santa Fe) Railway New London, TX • Over all 8+ years of experience in development and implementation of Web-based Client-Server applications using Java, J2SE, J2EE technologies.  • Working knowledge in multi-tiered distributed environment, OOAD concepts, good understanding of Software Development Lifecycle (SDLC) and familiarity of Service Oriented Architecture (SOA).  • Expertise in application development using JSP, Servlets, JDBC, JNDI, Spring, Hibernate, JSF, EJB2.0/3.0, XML, Web Services- SOAP, WSDL.  • Key participant in all phases of software development life cycle with Analysis, Design, Development, Implementation, Integration, Testing, Debugging, Production, Maintenance and Support of Software Applications in client server environment, Object Oriented Technology and Web based applications.  • Exposure to continuous integration tools like Jenkins.  • Strong Core Java background with experience in Collections, Multi-Threading, Java 8,    techniques, Logging and Performance Tuning.  • Extensive experience in Angular.JS for application implementation, proficient in creating modules, controllers, Route-Providers, factory services, ng-repeat, customizable filter, get/post methods and directives to realize functionalities like REST service with Ajax call, input validations, searchable and sortable contents.  • Hands on experience in writing light weight Node.js express server, and using technologies like Ajax, JavaScript/jQuery, JSON to make connections between server and databases like MongoDB and MySQL.  • Experience in working with different operating systems like Windows and UNIX/Linux.  • Application Enhancements in usability & Optimization in data transactions through Business rules using Java/J2EE components include JDBC, JPA, JSF, Servlets, JSP, JQuery, Java Beans, Spring 2.5 and Hibernate 3.0.  • Strong understanding of RDMS concepts and working experience of Relational Databases like SQL Server, Oracle, Casandra, My SQL and DB2  • Used Maven for application build and Jenkins for continuous integration and deployment. And Branching, Tagging, Release Activities on Version Control Tools like GIT, Bitbucket.  • Composure and hands-on experience with build tools: ANT, Maven.  • Working experience in IDEs: Eclipse, WebStorm, Brackets, MyEclipse, IntelliJ, RAD, JBuilder.  • Expertise in developing J2EE applications and deploying it in JBoss 4.x/5.x, Web sphere 9.0, WebLogic 10.x and Tomcat 6/7.  • Experience in Cloud computing window azure.  • Expertise in JAX-RS Restful, JAX-WS, RESTful Web API Web Services application development using WSDL, SOAP, JAXB, Python, SOAP/HTTP, SoapUI.  • Wrote Complex SQL queries, PL/SQL stored procedures, packages, tables, views, and triggers, and ensured data connectivity and data integration in using Oracle 11g/10g/9i/8i, DB2 and MySQL.  • Knowledge about Document Object Model (DOM), Functions, directives, routing and two-way data binding with AngularJS.  • Proficient in RDBMS concepts and experience in working with Oracle 9i/10g/11g, DB2 and MY SQL PL/SQL, SQL* Plus, Database triggers, Procedures, Functions. Work Experience Groovy Grails Java Developer BNSF (Burlington Northern Santa Fe) Railway July 2017 to Present Description: BNSF is a railway organization which provides the railroad services which critically links the consumers with the global market. The project deals with various invoices and the waybills of the organization providing the updated information in various data formats like X12, Flat Files, XML, Web Services etc.  Responsibilities:  • Worked on the development and testing of the infotainment module using Agile (Kanban) methodologies.  • Deployed and tested the application with WebSphere application server and involved in process for builds and deployments with Jenkins, Maven and Gradle.  • Developed and implemented security based application architecture using Spring MVC pattern with Java, Groovy and Grails to avoid security breaches like SQL injection, cross-site scripting, LDAP injection etc.  • Developed and implemented Log4j logging to capture the logs in production, pre-production, trial and development to capture the runtime exceptions, logging info and for debugging purpose  • Used Version One as the project management tool to manage the production defects and backlogs issues through testing, development and production outages with daily backlogs tracking.  • Developed dynamic web pages using AngularJS, JavaScript, Bootstrap, BNSF internal framework (GEL-Global Experience Language) to meet the standards of BNSF  • Created Web APIs to communicate between DB2(database) and UI (User Interface)  • Interaction with DB2 database is implemented using Hibernate.  • Extensively used Hibernate framework to access the database tables and stored procedures. Used Hibernate Annotated concepts for ORM (Object Relational Mapping)  • Involved in developing micro services components using Spring Boot and Spring batch along with test cases  • Developed Rest web application using Spring Boot and implemented single sign-on using OAuth2  • Used Angular2 to implement rich functionality in various pages like form validations, CRUD Rest operations, grid, search, sort, pagination, multi-selection, advanced directives, authentication etc.  • Used Spring core annotations for dependency injection (DI), Spring MVC pattern for REST service APIs, Spring Boot for micro services  • Used GIT for version controlling and coordinating among the team members. Responsible to maintain track of all the changes in the application  • Responsible for developing the efficient frontend web application using Angular2  • Used Jenkins as continuous integration tool and deployed the war on WebSphere Application Server (WAS)  • Involved in developing the code for obtaining the bean references in spring Framework using Inversion of Control (IOC)  • Expertise in web development technologies like Angular2, Bootstrap, JSP, HTML, JavaScript, CSS, JQuery  • Designed the user interface (UI) using Bootstrap templates and embedded form verification wit JavaScript  Environment: Java8, HTML, CSS, Openshift, Angular 2, JavaScript, JQuery, Grails, Sprint Boot, multithread, jQuery, DB2, Hibernate, SQL, Bootstrap, Gradle, Version One. Core Java/ J2EE Programmer Texas HHSC - Austin, TX November 2015 to June 2017 Description: Texas health and human services is a functional, efficient, effective and responsive organization. The project program consists Medicaid electronic health record(EHR) intensive program, deals with exchange of the medical information with local health information technology in-order to verify person's eligibility also checking their health history using their Medicaid ID card.  Responsibilities  • Worked on the development and testing of the infotainment module using Agile (SCRUM) methodologies.  • Implemented Model View Controller (MVC) architecture using Spring and Angular-Js Framework.  • Used Spring Core Annotations for Dependency Injection Spring DI and Spring MVC for REST API s and Spring Boot for micro-services  • Responsible for development of Business logic in Core Java  • Implemented client side Interface using React JS.  • Extensively worked with JMS API for sending messages between two or more clients.  • Used collection interfaces array list, hash map.  • Used JavaScript and Bootstrap for the effective Web Designing  • Consumed SOAP services and parses XML to Java Objects  • All the functionality is implemented using Spring IO / Spring Boot, Thymeleaf and Hibernate ORM. Implemented Java EE components using Spring MVC, Spring IOC, Spring transactions and Spring security modules.  • Experience in BASH Shell scripting in both UNIX and LINUX platforms.  • Used Spring ORM module for integration with Hibernate for persistence layer.  • Strong knowledge on Hibernate and in using Hibernate Connection Pooling, HQL, Collections, Hibernate Caching, Hibernate Transactions, Optimistic Locking.  • Involved in building and deployment of application in Linux environment.  • Deployed and tested the application with Apache Tomcat Server and involved in process for builds and deployments with Jenkins and Maven.  • Implemented Persistence layer using Hibernate to interact with the Oracle database, Used Hibernate Framework for object relational mapping and persistence.  • Responsible for developing Spring Controllers, DAO and replaced some JDBC code using Hibernate framework  • Involve in EOD process, create stored procedures in Sybase, Oracle and written shell scripts in Linux environment  • Experience in Hibernate 3.0 which includes integrating legacy databases, writing custom CRUD statements, integrating stored procedures and functions also performed polymorphic associations.  • Extensively used Java Multi-Threading concept for downloading files from a URL  • Generated WSDL for the integration of classes and Databases.  • Worked on JavaScript and jQuery for Data Validations and Dynamic tables.  • Developed Restful clients using Spring REST Template to consume restful services from other systems.  Environment: Agile, Spring MVC, Java 8, Spring Security, SOAP, Azure, Security, JIRA, J2SE, Spring Boot, Angular 2.0, Spring Data, Bootstrap, Spring AOP, Hibernate, RESTful, jQuery, JSF, JSON, GIT, Jenkins Core Java/ Backend Developer Aspen Marketing - West Chicago, IL December 2014 to October 2015 Description: The project deals with the leveraged data, analytics and integrated marketing solutions which develops the consumer experiences in which we build our client's brand and business. The projects hold the integrity and the innovation to deliver the world class marketing.  Responsibilities:  • Designed and developed the application using Agile Scrum methodology by breaking down the project to several sprints.  • Developed the MVC application per the user requirements using Spring MVC, JQuery, JSP, JSTL, HTML, JSON and CSS.  • Involved in the analysis, design/development and testing of Software Development Lifecycle (SDLC).  • Developed hibernate DAO Classes using Spring JDBC Template, worked with Hibernate for object relational mapping and connection management.  • Developed ORM mappings using Hibernate and wrote Criteria, Named and HQL queries for data retrievals in the DAO layer.  • Used WSDL and SOAP protocol for Web Services implementation  • Written UNIT-TESTS using Jasmine and KARMA to run tests.  • Strong experience in Security-System development for Web Applications. Involved and Developed all phases of security implementation using spring security system against All types of authentications: LDAP authentication, Database authentication and Pre-Authentication.  • Implemented persistence layer using Hibernate with JTA enabled.  • Implemented client-side application to invoke SOAP and Restful Web Services.  • Prototyping the new features and ideas using HTML, CSS SASS and D3.js.  • Wrote internal and external API services using Node.js modules  • Developed JavaBeans with Hibernate for necessary transactions like fetching the required data, updating the customer information.  • Built a RESTful Web API to save and retrieve agent information in Java using Spring MVC, Apache CXF and JAX-RS.  • Involved developing re-usable web services using SOAP, XML, WSDL, XML Schemas, and JAXP.  • Manage and deliver all system and software migrations (like Java version upgrade, OS migration from UNIX to Linux etc.) involving Organizational standards.  • Used Hibernate in the Backend which took care of the mappings from entity beans to database tables  • Wrote Operations and corresponding handlers to communicate with Oracle database sitting on Linux/Unix server  • Wrote services to store and retrieve user data from the MongoDB for the application on devices  • Developed the administrative UI using Angular.js and Node.js, React.js.  • Used a micro service architecture, with Spring Boot-based services interacting through a combination of REST  • Experience in using the Soap UI to test the Web services.  • Experience in writing code to create EJB stateless session factory to create Hibernate session.  • Designed and developed Oracle Forms Reports using Forms10g based on stored procedures.  • Wrote many shell scripts in Unix to call routines.  • Used WebLogic Application Server 10.3.2 and 10.3.5 for building and managing applications simultaneously.  • Responsible for creating and maintaining architecture for Restful API using Spring Boot.  • Mainly Created new validator pages using JSF framework and developed existing ones that plays a crucial role when the page gets submitted and also for page validation.  • Wrote Micro services to export/import data and task scheduling and Spring boot, Spring and Hibernate in the micro services  • Developed Junit tests using Mockito framework in a TDD (Test Driven Development) environment.  • Worked on the application support on different environments from QA to Production on WebLogic app server.  • Responsible for Creating custom, general use modules and components which extend the elements and modules of core Angular Js  • Created Web APIs to communicate between DB and UI.  • Involved in daily build processes, including monitoring builds, break/fix management, issue tracking (JIRA)  • Implemented the web side application using Bootstrap and Angular JS.  Environment: Java, Hibernate, Spring, Spring Boot, SOAP, Angular2, Kafka, MongoDB, J2SE, D3.js, Agile, Maven, Docker, Node.js, UML, Groovy, Cassandra, Unix, JAX-WS, Spring Security, JAX-RS, Log4J, JSF, jQuery, Swing, Bootstrap, Jira, Oracle 10g, Agile methodology. Java Developer Fidelis Health Core - Buffalo, NY October 2013 to November 2014 Description: Fidelis Care is the New York State Catholic Health Plan, providing quality, affordable, New York State-sponsored health insurance coverage for people of all ages and at all stages of life. They offer free or low-cost comprehensive health insurance, including Medicaid Managed Care, Medicare Advantage, Child Health Plus, and products available through NY State of Health. They also work closely with a variety of providers, schools, and community partners to reach residents who need health insurance.  Responsibilities:  • Worked with REST representational state transfer protocol for connection between end nodes in establishing connection in networks for network hyper media applications.  • Designed and developed front end components using JSF Framework and Ajax.  • Built dynamically generated dropdown lists using Ajax, jQuery and Angular JS.  • Implemented an application basing Struts MVC framework  • Used ReactJS to implement rich functions in various pages: form validation, crud, grid list, search, sort, pagination, multi-selection, tags-input, advanced/custom directives, authentication, unit tests, etc.  • Deployed the application on WebLogic Application Server and perform other administrative activities on WebLogic application server via Linux  • Wrote Python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Developed Restful Web Services to provide member documents like Benefits, EOB, UCD documents in PDF format from SOAP based enterprise services.  • Integrated Spring & Hibernate frameworks to develop end to end application.  • Used EJBs (Session beans) to implement the business logic, JMS for communication for sending updates to various other applications and MDB for routing priority requests.  • Worked with IDE as Eclipse Indigo and deployed into Oracle WebLogic Application Server & used Maven build tool to achieve more functionality for build process.  • Build REST web service by building Node.js Server in the back-end to handle requests sent from the front-end jQuery Ajax calls.  • Worked on performance tuning of cluster using Cassandra Configuration file and JVM Parameters.  • Wrote Micro services to export/import data and task scheduling.  • Developed the different components of application such as JSPs, Spring, Struts, Servlets, EJB's using WebSphere.  • Built application interface and web scrapping scripts using OO designing, UML  • Involved in the implementation of Web Services using Restful Web APIs.  • Analyzed the Maven dependency management in base code in order to annotate the dependencies on to Spring Boot application in to Gradle for Micro Services.  • Used JDBC connectivity to connect to Oracle database.  • Worked on web application implemented in JSP, HTML and Java Script.  • Involved in development of controller component using Servlets and view component using CSS, HTML and JavaScript for the client side validation.  • Used Design patterns such as Business delegate, Service locator, Model View Controller, DAO.  • Writing commands for data access and stored procedures in MongoDB  • Interaction with Oracle database is implemented using Hibernate.  Environment: Java, J2EE, CSS, Subversion, XML, JDBC 4.0, JSF, RAD, D3.js, AJAX, jQuery, IntelliJ, XML Web Services, SOAP, WSDL, SAX, DOM, JAXB, Log4J, JUnit, GIT, CMS, TOAD, Oracle 11g, Rest, SASS, JavaScript, Angular JS, Jersey, JIRA. Java Developer HDFC Bank - Hyderabad, Telangana March 2011 to September 2013 Description: The project deals with online payments, user management, balance & transaction reporting. This project is on Wholesale Banking and Payment Solutions. Application consists of 3 modules: User Administration - This module deals with user rights, data access profiles and roles, Online Payment Processing - This module deals with the online payments such as corporate payments and FI transfers, Portal Balance & Transaction Reporting - This module is used for balance & transactions reporting.  Responsibilities:  • Developed web pages using HTML, JSP, JSTL, JavaScript and AJAX (JQuery).  • Implemented Email module using Java mail APIs.  • Designed and implemented multithreaded UDF debug server which runs on master node, using C++, TCP/IP, Unix System calls and different thread synchronization models under UNIX environment.  • Involved in using Struts tag library to implement web interfaces and Struts Validator framework using MVC architecture.  • Developed Merge jobs in Python to extract and load data into MySQL database.  • Worked as a Configuration Controller for the Code Repository in Phoenix.  • Involved in build and deploying the application using Web Sphere Application server.  • Involved in solving the issues, development and maintenance in the Java Application.  • Was also involved in production support.  • Involved in converting database objects to Java objects conversion with the help of IBatis persistence framework  • Involved in front-end development using HTML, JSP, JavaScript, CSS.  • Worked extensively on XML, XSLT, XSD. Used DOM and SAX parsers for parsing the XML.  • Developed XML schemas.  • Developed struts config.xml and web.xml configuration files in the application  • Wrote complex SQL queries for retrieving and updating data in oracle tables. Wrote PLSQL block of code.  • Connected to Oracle database via JDBC.  • Developed front-end code with Ajax call in AngularJS and jQuery to retrieve data as JSON Object from controllers in back-end RESTful Server, then display the well-organized result in web pages by writing AngularJS controller, directives, services, and route providers.  • Worked on Multithreading concept.  • Involved in onshore offshore coordination and daily status updates.  • Involved in design and coding and production support.  • Enhancement of pre-existing code.  • Developed components to transfer files using SSH protocol using java.  Environment: Struts (1.3), JSP, Servlets, JDBC, UNIX, Toad, IBatis, Agile, Oracle, Eclipse, Web Sphere, Java, J2EE, AJAX, Struts, SOAP, HTML, XML, C++, Struts, JSP, CSS, ANT, XML, Tomcat, JUNIT, DB2, Rest, Eclipse, GIT, Log4J, WebLogic, Dojo Education Bachelor's Skills Eclipse, J2ee, J2se, Java, Hibernate, Java technologies, Spring, Jaxb, Jboss, Jms, Jsp, Java server pages, Servlets, Struts, Wsad, C/c++, C++, Design patterns, Html, Javascript Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  Languages C/C++, Java, J2SE, SQL, PL/SQL, UML, J2EE, HTML, DHTML, XHTML.  Web Technologies Servlets, JSP, JavaScript, Bootstrap, Angular JS, JSON, JDBC, JMS, XML, HTML5, CSS3.  Java Technologies  Core Java, Java Server Pages, Servlets, JDBC, Java Beans, Exception Handling, Multi-threading, String Builder, Event Handling, Swing Web Services.    XML Technologies. XML, XSL, XSLT, SAX, DOM, AXIS, Castor, XML Beans and JAXB  IDEs Eclipse, Net Beans, Red Hat Developer Studio, WSAD.  Web/App. Servers Apache Tomcat 4.0/5.0/6.0, Web Logic 8.1/9.1, Web sphere, JBoss. IIS  Tools Maven, Ant, Visio, Log4j, Junit  Operating systems Windows, UNIX, Linux, Sun Solaris.  Databases Oracle 8 / 9i / 10g/11g, HSQL, My Sql, MS SQL Server 7.0, DB2, Cassandra.  Design Patterns MVC, Singleton, Business Delegate, Service Locator, Session Facade, DTO, DAO, Factory Pattern  Frameworks  Struts, Spring (Dependency Injection, Spring MVC, Spring Core, Spring Context, Spring AOP, Spring DAO, Spring IOC, Spring JDBC, Spring with Hibernate), Hibernate, DWR, Log4j.    Version Control Rational Clear Case, SVN, GitHub.