Senior Java Developer Senior <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior Java Developer - Enuit Irving, TX ? Software developer with more than 7 years of experience and strong background in hands-on software development and engineering with Object-oriented and Java/J2EE technologies with top financial, health and retail firms.  ? Worked on software planning, requirement analysis, designing and building enterprise applications for manual and automation process.  ? Worked on software development methodologies like Waterfall, Agile development and Rapid Application Development  ? Diverse experience utilizing and implementing complex Client/ Server Intranet/ web-based N-tier and microservices architecture applications in Banking, Healthcare, and E-commerce platforms using Spring Boot, Spring Cloud config, AWS, MySQL, Restful Web Services. Experience in Service oriented architecture (SOA).  ? Strong hands-on experience with Spring MVC Controllers, Spring boot, Validators, Spring Annotations, Spring tag library, Inversion of Control (IOC), Spring LDAP, Spring Batch, Spring Scheduler, Application Context configuration, Spring Aspect Oriented Programming (AOP), Spring DAO, Hibernate, Spring Security along with Hibernate as the back-end ORM tool for implementation of persistence layer using HQL and mapping of POJOs.  ? Website development using HTML 4.0/5.0, XHTML, CSS, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, Ajax and JSON.  ? Hands-on experience with AngularJS  ? Hands on experience in creating components and documentation using ReactJS.  ? Very good experience in developing applications using Object Relational Mapping (ORM) Technologies Such as JPA and Hibernate.  ? Decomposed existing monolithic code base into Spring Boot microservices.  ? Experience in Publishing and Consuming web services using Soap/ WSDL and REST. Good work experience with XML, XSD, UDDI, Axis2 and JAX-RS.  ? Expertise in java programming concepts like Exceptional handling, Multithreading, Java Beans, Struts, IO, Collection Framework and JDBC.  ? Expertise in Front End web technologies like HTML, CSS, Java Script, AngularJS, Jquery AJAX, Bootstrap JS, and JSTL tag libraries.  ? Experienced in Spring modules like Spring Boot, Spring MVC, Spring AOP, Spring Batch in Spring Framework.  ? Expertise in deploying applications on apache Tomcat, JBoss, WebSphere, WebLogic and AWS.  ? Experience with backend Database languages like Oracle, DB2, SQL server, MYSQL, SQLite with SQL programming languages like PL/SQL Database environments. Strong in-depth knowledge of various database systems.  ? Configure and monitor numerous MongoDB and NoSQL instances.  ? Experience in TDD. Worked with Junit and hamcrest library for unit tests. Use of Mockito tools for mock injection. Integration testing. Bug tracking tools such as JIRA.  ? Experience in design patterns like Singleton, MVC, DAO, Factory, Front Controller, Session Facade.  ? Experience of different networking protocol like TCP/IP, UDP, Socket, Http, FTP to establish a data connection with network.  ? Expertise in Agile Software Development and Scrum technology.  ? Experience with Linux scripting using Bash, Python  ? Experience in using build tools like Gradle, Maven and Ant. Expertise with CI/CD tools and creating pipelines for application development using Jenkins.  ? Excellent analytical, communication, interpersonal and presentation skills. Capable to meet tight deadlines Work Experience Senior Java Developer Enuit - Houston, TX June 2018 to Present Project Description: The project is about trading goods and commodities. It encompasses the overall life cycle of purchase, sell, evolution of prices and calculation of taxes. Application allowed customers to activate different types of transactions like bill payments, processing the service information, and activation of payments. We are working on Agile Methodology to collaborate with SCRUM team members to work on Sprint deliverables and transforming existing system to a modern cloud-based system.    Responsibilities:  ? Worked as per Agile methodology to meet customer expectations, timelines and quality deliverables.  ? Developed the application using Spring MVC framework. Developed the UI using velocity templates, JavaScript, CSS, HTML.  ? Used J2SE standards to design java servlets and objects. Spring ORM wiring with Hibernate used for performing data operations and implemented HQL querying database.  ? Developed reusable component libraries to be reused in different projects throughout the company's IT team using Spring Data JPA.  ? Developed Spring boot application with microservices and deployed it on AWS using EC2 instances.  ? REST web services were deployed using JAX-RS API, used to bind data with Angular 4 framework at the frontend.  ? Developed the stored procedures to perform the CRUD operations on Oracle Database.  ? Performed unit testing using JUnit, power mock and Easy mock.  ? Used Spring Inheritance, auto-wiring, security, ORM Modules and spring quartz for scheduling task.  ? Implemented Spring with AOP in exception handling and logging.  ? Migrating existing applications into micro-services architecture using REST API's, spring boot.  ? Developed and deployed EJBs and other components in JBoss Application server.  ? Developed the action classes to execute the business logic and action forms to collect the input data from the users using JAVA, DAO and DB2.  ? Written XML files containing queries that is going to use an application and program to access them.  ? Responsible for Development, unit testing, integration testing and implementation of the application.  ? Used Log4J to store log messages.  ? Deployed Spring Boot based microservices Docker and Amazon EC2 container using AWS admin console.  ? Used advanced core Java features such as Annotations, generics, multithreading etc. throughout the application for well-structured programming  ? Posted messages to external vendor sites using Apache CXF and exposed services to other client applications.  ? Worked on latest version of object-oriented JavaScript frameworks: Angular 4.0, Backbone, Bootstrap.  ? Usined JASPER iReport 4.5.1 reporting tool for generating Financial and Case Management Reports.  ? Worked with Oracle 11g and MySQL databases to query and read data.  ? Developed Mobile Applications targeted for mobile form factor for Android, iOS devices using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery Mobile and framework component library based on AngularJS.  ? Used NoSQL (MongoDB) and stored procedures as part of database interaction.    Environment: Java, J2EE, Spring boot, Microservices, JSP, XML, MVC, EJB, JavaScript, CSS, HTML, REST, Angular 4, ReactJS, JUnit,AXIS, Maven, Servlets, JBosss, Spring, Hibernate, SOAP/REST, JavaScript, CSS, BootStrap, AngularJS, Tiles, Log4j, Sql, MongoDB, git. Senior Java Developer LegacyTexas Financial Group - Plano, TX January 2017 to May 2018 Project Description: The Project is based on web application. The goal of the project is to maintain all activities of Banking System. Any customers can view the policy details through web. The main purpose of the project is to provide the service to any customer so that they can pay the premium amount in any branch and they can pay the amount through online. This project helps the bank to proactively analyze risks, configure its product variations, handle dynamic business environment and offer it through multiple channels. Application was built using Restful API and services using Spring MVC to serve requests from clients. Application were deployed on EC2 instances.  Responsibilities:  ? Worked with other software engineers to design interfaces between software applications in order to complete design requirements and also drawing the UML and use case drawings for the design.  ? Responsible for writing highly performing code which runs in minimum time with maximum efficiency and successfully perform unit and integration testing of software to ensure proper and efficient execution as well as compliance to the business, security and technical requirements.  ? Build API's using technologies like Java, Spring Boot, Hibernate, Web services, JMS, Servlets and design patterns as core and MySql as backend databases.  ? Used SOAPUI for testing and developed JUnit test cases to test service availability.  ? Developed the application using Spring Framework that leverages classical Model View Controller, MVC Architecture.  ? Used Spring Boot to create Spring MVC and designed REST API's.  ? Created the front-end for the application using technologies like HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, AngularJS.  ? Used ng-directives and model for creating the application.  ? Used Angular data binding property for synchronization between model and the view.  ? Developed RESTful web-services using Java Servlets, JAX-WS and JAX-RS and persistence using Hibernate and JPA framework.  ? Deployed the application on AWS using EC2 instances and S3 buckets.  ? Used Maven for project management and build automation and Continuous Integration was done using Jenkins.    Environment: Java, J2EE, Spring, Spring Boot, Hibernate, Jenkins, Active MQ, JSON, Restful web-services, Maven, JavaScript, Junit, AWS, AngularJs, Java Servlet, JPA, AWS, HTML5, CSS Java Developer Leapfrog Technology - Seattle, WA January 2015 to December 2016 Project Description: The aim of the project was to provide front to back support, including integrated support during all phases of the deal life cycle, loan origination, servicing, and distribution. It records the company's entire loan and exposure related credit activities. Project has lots of other functionalities like reconciliations, conversion worksheet, administration and Online reporting which includes real time reports and reports from data warehouse.    Responsibilities:  ? Designed Class and Sequence Diagrams.  ? Developed user interfaces using Struts, JSPs, XHTML, CSS, Javascript and AJAX.  ? Used Struts tags (logic, bean, html, nested etc.) with JSP pages, JSTL.  ? Configured Struts-config.xml file for the Application and Developed Custom tag libraries.  ? Used Value Objects, Service Locator and Singleton design patterns.  ? Created CSS for formatting JSP pages  ? Used Validator framework of the Struts for client side and server-side validation  ? Developed Controller and Service classes for Vehicle Management.  ? Performed data loading using spring - Hibernate.  ? Developed Stateless Session EJBs and local Entity Beans and used the Session Facade Pattern.  ? Using AngularJS created custom directives for data manipulation and to display data in company standard format in UI.  ? Implemented business framework using Spring that leverages classical Model View Layer (MVC) architecture.  ? Developed batch jobs using the spring batch framework with Strategy Pattern.  ? Created UML diagrams like Class diagrams, Use case diagrams in different tiers of the module.  ? Used AngularJS and RESTful web services and implemented connection pooling for database access.  ? Enhanced the Web Application using Spring Framework and Spring JDBC Template.  ? Implementation of Spring JDBC Template in persistence layer of the application.  ? Implemented cross cutting concerns like business transactions, security, logging and monitoring mechanism using Spring AOP.  ? Used Dependency Injection feature of Spring MVC framework and O/R mapping tool Hibernate 4.0 for rapid development and ease of maintenance.  ? Used Hibernate object relational data mapping framework to persist and retrieve the data from database.  ? Used tiles for internationalization and configured tiles-def.xml files.  ? Used Eclipse as Java/J2ee IDE tool for creating POJO, JSP, and Java classes.  ? Developed a single page, mobile-first, cross-device/cross-browser web application for real-time location sharing utilizing AngularJS, JavaScript API.  ? Developed Mobile Applications targeted for mobile form factor for Android, iOS devices using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery Mobile and framework component library based on AngularJS.  ? Generated a complete maven project structure and added dependencies, plugins to pom.xml.  ? Modified complex PL/SQL packages, stored procedures and functions to suit the new requirements.  ? Performed deployment of applications on Tomcat Server and Glassfish.    Environment: Java, J2EE, Hibernate, Struts, Spring, EJB, JSP, Eclipse, AXIS, Oracle 10g, Maven, JSP, Servlets, Tomcat, ANT, XML, Spring, Hibernate, SOAP/REST, JavaScript, CSS, BootStrap, AngularJS, Log4j, Sql, MongoDB, Junit, github. Java Developer Naurakan Technology Inc January 2012 to December 2014 Project Description: Worked on the system which provides Patient Administration, Billing Management functions for the hospital. The major functions of Administration module are Allocating Registration, Recording Personal Details, Retrieving Patient history records from other hospitals. The Billing module allows Billing and receivables, looks into multiple modes of Payment and Rates Definition for Services.  Responsibilities:  ? Developed web services for data retrieval from legacy systems. Implemented application using Struts following MVC architecture in TDD environment.  ? Developed and designed cross-browser accessible interfaces using jQuery and JavaScript. Involved in writing JSP, JavaScript and Servlets to generate dynamic web pages and web content.  ? Designed the UML class diagram, also created class and sequential diagrams using different software. Created JSP pages and connected them to database with JDBC.  ? Implemented EJB session beans and J2EE singleton design patterns. Implemented Java servlets, created Web Pages using JSP for dynamically generating pages.  ? Developed forms using HTML and client-side validation using JavaScript. Implemented Singleton design patterns and EJB session beans.  ? Implemented and planned various SQL, stored triggers and procedures. Implemented JDBC to access Oracle database. Performed test, stage and production in building and deployment of war, jar files. Used WebLogic application server and Maven for the build application.  ? Created a standalone desktop application using Swing.  ? Developed test cases and performed unit testing using JUnit framework. Developed and modified the UI using technologies like HTML, CSS. Made improvements to the User interface depending on the user feedback.  ? Created and managed documentation to keep track of all the developed APIs.    Environment: Java, J2EE, Struts, Spring MVC, Singleton design pattern, JavaScript, HTML, SQL, Java servlets, CSS, JUnit. Education Bachelor's Skills ECLIPSE, EJB, J2EE, JAVA, HIBERNATE, INTELLIJ IDEA, SPRING, JAX, JAX-WS, JBOSS, JMS, jQuery, JSF, JSP, JSTL, RMI, SERVLETS, STRUTS, C++, DESIGN PATTERNS, Java J2Ee, Angular, Core Java, Soap, Rest Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Operating Systems: UNIX, Red Hat Linux, Windows, macOS  Programming Languages: Java, Python, PL/SQL, C, C++  J2EE Technologies: J2EE, Servlets, JSP, EJB, JDBC, MVC Architecture, Java Beans, RMI, JMS, Active MQ  J2EE Frameworks: Struts, Hibernate, Spring core, Spring boot, Spring AOP, Junit, JSF  Web Technologies: JSP, EJB, jQuery, JSTL, AJAX, XML,AngularJs, JavaScript, Angular 2.0, HTML5, CSS3  XML & Scripting Languages: JavaScript, HTML/DHTML, Ajax, XML, XSP, jQuery, CSS, Angular JS, PHP, React JS, NodeJS  Web Services: SOA Technologies- ESB, SOAP, REST, WSDL, UDDI, XSD, JAX-RS/JAX-WS, XML, Axis2.  Design/Analysis: UML, OO Methodologies, AOP, TDD  Database: SQL server, Oracle, MySQL and DB2, MongoDB, PostgreSQL  Web/Application Servers: Apache Tomcat, JBoss, WebLogic, WebSphere  Java IDE's: Eclipse, IntelliJ IDEA  Software Tools: Oracle JDeveloper, Oracle SQL Developer, ANT, WASAD, Junit, DTD, XML schema, UI, Postman, Jenkins  Configuration, Build Tools: GIT, MAVEN, Gradle, ANT, SVN  Design patterns: MVC3, Business Delegate, Business Object, Value Object, Front Controller, Database Access Object, Factory, Singleton, Session Facade.