Java Full Stack Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> Full Stack <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Full Stack Developer - Aspect Software • Over 9 years of software experience in all phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) including analysis, design, development, implementation, integration, and testing of enterprise applications and Object Oriented (OO) Client-Server technologies in various domains like Retail/Insurance/Finance/HealthCare.  • Experience in Agile Software development process, Test Driven Development (TDD), behavior driven development (BDD) and Scrum.  • Extensive experience in design and development of multi-tier applications using Java, J2EE, Struts, Hibernate, Spring MVC, JSP, JSF, JPA, JDBC, JNDI, EJB, JMS, Junit and Web Services.  • Strong working Knowledge on Amazon Web Services (EC2, S3, SimpleDB, Dynamo DB, RDS, ELB, SQS, IAM, Cloud Watch, EBS, Cloud Front, VPC, Elastic Beanstalk, Security Groups, EC2 Container Service (ECS), CodeCommit, CodePipeline, CodeDeploy, Auto Scaling, Security Groups, RedShift), using the Elastic Search APIs (Document, Search, Indices, Cluster, etc.)  • Having in-depth knowledge in server side java applications that includes JSP, JDBC and Servlets.  • Strong front-end UI development skills using HTML5, CSS3, Custom Tag Libraries, Java Script, AJAX and Bootstrap based on the W3C standards and Web2.0.  • Experience in making WebPages cross browser compatible, single page web applications using AngularJS.  • Experience in developing Responsive Web Design (RWD) using Bootstrap.  • Have good knowledge about MEAN (MongoDB, Express JS, Angular JS, Node JS) Stack.  • Hands on experience with Core Java with multithreading, Concurrency, Exception Handling, File handling, IO, Generics, Data structures and Collections, Garbage Collection.  • Expertise in web services both developing and consuming REST(JAX-RS) API and strong knowledge on SOAP(JAX-WS) and WSDL.  • Experience in working with relational databases like Oracle 11g/12 c, MySQL, DB2, MS SQL Server using SQL, PL/SQL and NoSQL databases such as MongoDB & Cassandra.  • Expertise in database programming involving Stored Procedures, Triggers, Views, Functions, Cursors and implementation with SQL Server.  • Experience in using Hibernate, iBATIS as ORM tools and JPA frameworks for database connectivity.  • Experience in Amazon Web Services (Amazon EC2, Amazon S3, Amazon Simple DB, Amazon RDS, Amazon Elastic Load Balancing).  • Proficient in programming by using the Integrated Development Environments such as EclipseNeon, IntelliJ IDEA and NetBeans.  • Hands on experience in using testing tools like Firebug, chrome or safari web inspectors and Junit, Mockito frameworks for application integration and unit testing.  • Expertise in Core Java with strong understanding & working knowledge of Object Oriented Programming (OOPs) concepts like Abstraction, Polymorphism, Inheritance, Encapsulation..etc. and also API's like JAVA Persistence API (JPA), Java Reflection API (JRA), Java Persistence API (JPA), Java Transaction API (JTA), Garbage Collection, Collections, Multi-Threading, Exception-handling.  • Experience with various IDEs like IntelliJ, Eclipse, NetBeans and Web sphere Studio Application Developer (WSAD) and Rational Application Developer (RAD), Visual Age Java, Tortoise GIT.  • Experience with Bug Tracking tools like Atlassian JIRA, Remedy, BugZilla, Service Now, Green hopper.  • Designed, developed, implemented, and maintained custom Ant tasks in Java and Groovy Experience in Microsoft Azure Cloud Computing development and support.  • Experience in continuous integrated build and testing and deployment using Hudson and Jenkins.  • Familiar in building java applications using tools like ANT, Gradle and MAVEN.  • Hands on experience in configuring and deploying web Applications using different web/application servers such as Web Logic 11g, IBM WebSphere, JBoss, Glassfish and Apache Tomcat 9.0  • Experienced in asynchronous processing of messages using RabbitMQ  • Worked with source code version control systems like SVN (Apache Subversion) and GIT for providing common platform for all the developers.  • Experience with Apache Solr enables you to easily create search engines which searches websites, databases and files.  • Exposure in using Atlassian products like Bitbucket, Jira, Trello and SourceTree for Issue tracking, Code review and release management.  • Designed and developed various web applications using scripting languages as Unix PowerShell, JavaScript, PHP, BeanShell, Tcl, Python, R, Ruby, Perl and JQuery Experience in Log4J for extensible logging, debugging and error tracing.  • Experienced in developing UML diagrams like Use cases, class diagrams and sequence diagrams using Microsoft Visio tool.  • Experience in analyzing, estimation, Project plan documentation like WBS, Gantt charts and Status reporting.  • Exposure in Desktop Application, Web Application and CRM Applications. Experience in strategies for software reusability, reducing software development time by 50% Work Experience Java Full Stack Developer Aspect Software - Phoenix, AZ January 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Involved in the analysis, design, development and system and integration testing phases of Software Development Lifecycle (SDLC).  • Followed Agile Scrum Methodology in analyze, define, and document the application which will support functional and business requirements.  • Developed Dashboards and UI pages with JSP, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, and used Bootstrap to create Responsive Web pages.  • Developed AWS cloud formation templates and setting up Auto scaling for EC2 instances and involved in the automated provisioning of AWS cloud environment using Jenkins and chef.  • Developed server-side software modules and client-side user interface components deployed entirely in Compute Cloud of Amazon web Services (AWS).  • Build Restful API web services using Node JS and Express JS and used a full complement of Express, Angular JS, Node.js, and Mongo DB to store and present assessments.  • Migrated the existing application from server-side rendering view technologies like JSP, Struts and Velocity to client-side rendering view technologies using AngularJS, Node js a popular JavaScript framework for modern browsers.  • Handled all client side validations, slide show, hide and show controls, dropdown menus and tab navigation using JQuery.  • Responsibility of maintaining and developing server-side code with JavaScript and Node.js runtime environment.  • Used Node package manager(npm) for managing the Node.js modules like Watchify, Browserify, Http-Fetch etc  • Implemented Single Page Design and customized directive and filter criteria by using AngularJS, which can allow data binding to specific views and synchronize the data with server.  • Performed Restful routing using Node.js which submits my form data to the Mongo DB database.  • Hands on experience in using Docker for managing & running the applications within containers.  • Implemented Restful Web Services using spring and used SpringBoot for microservices & consumed services using Spring REST template.  • AngularJS was used to parse the JSON file using the REST Web services.  • Involved in developing components on Reporting Dashboard with Spring MVC, Spring Framework and Hibernate &used Spring Security to secure the application.  • Implemented the authentication, authorization, and access-control features using Spring Security.  • Configured Hibernate session factory to integrate Hibernate with spring and used JPA/Hibernate to communicate with data layer and XML/JAXB to read XML data.  • Developed Azure Active Directory (AAD) authentication and OAuth authorization for API security.  • Wrote Hibernate configuration file, hibernate mapping files and define persistence classes to persist the data into Oracle Database.  • Used Java Message Service (JMS) for reliable and asynchronous exchange of important information.  • Used Swagger to test the developed RESTful API.  • Familiar with MongoDB write concern to avoid loss of data during system failures and implemented read preferences in MongoDB replica set.  • Managed servers on the Amazon Web Services (AWS) platform instances using Chef Configuration management.  • Performed configuration, deployment and support of cloud services including Amazon Web Services (AWS).  • Launch various AWS EC2 instance to deploy various application and maintained for production servers.  • Configured local Maven repositories and multi-component Ant projects with Nexus repositories and scheduled projects in Jenkins for continuous integration.  • Used Tomcatserver for the application development and deployment and JIRA for issue tracking.  • Implemented Test Driven Development (TDD) for developing and testing the application.  • Used Log4j API for logging in development, testing and production environments, configured to send email notifications and used Junit framework for Unit Testing of application.  • Co-ordinate with QA lead for development of test plan, TDD, test cases, test code and actual testing responsible for defects allocation and resolution of those defects.  • Used SVN for Source Control and Version Management of all codes and resources.  Environment: HTML5, CSS3, Java Script, JQuery, JSP, XML, Ajax, AngularJS, Node.js, Restful Services, Java 8, Spring MVC, Spring Core, Spring Boot, Spring Security, Multithreading, Hibernate, Oracle, Docker, JMS, MongoDB, Apache Tomcat Server 9.0, Shell Scripting, Microsoft Azure, Sub Version, Maven, Swagger, AWS, Puppet, Jenkins, Junit, TDD, Log4j, Eclipse, JIRA, SVN. Java Full Stack developer Capegemini - Cary, NC February 2017 to December 2017 Responsibilities:  • Involved in programming, testing, debugging, implementing and maintaining of Java EE client/server distributed application to meet the organization's needs.  • Developed web pages using HTML, CSS, jQuery, Angular MVC Framework, JSTL and AJAX.  • Performed AngularJS form validation and validation messages displaying with ng-show and created a custom validation directive for comparing two input fields.  • Used AngularJS to route different endpoints and created custom directives to display data in UI.  • Responsible for the redesign and implementation of the AJAX / synchronous implementation of the client Web portals for SOA Web applications.  • Worked on capturing the user events and rendering the appropriate action and dynamically rendering the UI based on user actions using ReactJS.  • Implemented BackboneJS and ReactJS to create a dynamically changing website.  • Configured and Integrated JSF, spring and Hibernate frameworks.  • Developed user specific Highlights(dashboard menu) section, Home page, Admin home page, user module (Modify/search users, create user's screens with assigning various roles) using Spring MVC framework, Hibernate ORM Module, Spring Core Module, XML, JSP and XSLT.  • Created the Spring Bean Factory for initializing services. Added security for service layer methods using Spring Security.  • Involved in developing code for obtaining bean references in spring framework using Dependency Injection / Inversion of Control (IOC), and Aspect Oriented Programming (AOP) on Spring Source Tool Suite.  • Used RabbitMQ for asynchronous message processing functionality to support batch processing modules.  • Designed and documented REST/HTTP APIs, including JSON data formats and API versioning strategy.  • Developed core search component using Apache Solr to handle fallback and custom functions.  • Developed end to end application on spring boot framework (Rest Api Application/Spring JPA using Crud repository).  • Consumed REST based Microservices with Rest template based on RESTful APIs.  • Testing internal routes and Get, Put, Post, Delete methods using Postman.  • Wrote complex SQL and PL/SQL queries using hibernates native SQL.  • Developed Maven scripts for compiling and deployment and Used Web Sphere 5.1.2 to develop the Entity Beans where transaction persistence is required and ran UNIX shell scripts and implemented auto deployment process.  • Developed RESTful web services to manipulate data in MySQL.  • Involved on migrating SQL Server databases to SQL Azure Database using SQL Azure Migration Wizard and deployed the application to Azure cloud.  • Used TDD to run the tests and refactor code to pass the test. Unit tested the complete application using Junit.  • Experience in Gradle Build tool and understanding the artifactory and repo structure.  • Used Splunk tool to search the application logs and used Log4j for logging.  • Participated in Retrospective meetings after every sprint to discuss about the overall ranking of the pervious sprint and to discuss about the drawbacks and scope for development.  • GIT was used for project management and version management.    Environment: Java 8, HTML, CSS, JSP, Servlets, JQuery, AngularJS MVC Framework, Node.js, JSTL, AJAX, SOA, BackboneJS, ReactJS, Splunk, Struts, Restful, Apache, Spring Core, Spring MVC, Spring Boot, Hibernate, Junit, Apache Solr, JSON, Postman, SOAP UI, Spring Tool Suite, Microsoft Azure, Web Sphere 5.1.2, Maven, TDD, Gradle, Unix Shell scripting, GIT. Sr. Java Developer Cardinal Health - Dublin, OH February 2016 to December 2016 Responsibilities:  • Involved in SCRUM process of AGILE methodology in Requirement gathering, Design, Analysis and Code development through iterations.  • Involving Servlets, JSP, CSS, XSLT, JavaScript for client side validation, AJAX for Interactive client GUI with Form Beans and EJB.  • Working experience on integrating back-end technologies (NodeJS) with JavaScript frameworks (Angular JS, React JS) and JQuery by using AJAX and JSON.  • Used AngularJS with JSON Object returned by Spring MVC Controller.  • Used AJAX in the JSP side to retrieve the records dynamically from the database and displayed on the front end, it avoids refreshing of total page.  • Writing Restful APIs in Express.Js and return logic on Angular data binding.  • Designed and developed Graphical User interface using JSF, HTML, XHTML, JQuery and CSS.  • Worked on Bootstrap CSS framework for Responsive Web Design.  • Using D3.js, developed map for specific area and some of the charts that easily make it easy to compare data.  • Created server and handled requests and responses from controllers by using Express.js.  • Used various Core Java concepts such as Multithreading, Exception Handling, Collection APIs to implement various features and enhancements  • Developed Business layer using Spring (IOC, AOP), DTO, JTA and Persistent layer DAO, Hibernate for all modules.  • Used spring core annotations for Dependency injection and Spring MVC for REST API s and Spring Boot for microservices.  • Configured JMS Server setup and DB Connection pool setup & deployed Returned items in WebLogic Server and Created Maven build file to build the application and deployed on WebSphere server.  • Implemented SOA architecture for EVS with web services using SOAP, WSDL and XML.  • Designed DAO and service layer for ORM mapping with hibernate which can be easily changed to other ORM tools.  • Configured data sources, DAO classes and integrated with iBATIS through spring.  • Wrote Hibernate configuration files, mapping files and defined persistence classes to persist data into MySQL Database.  • Updated legacy Ant build infrastructure to new Gradle based build system, enabling more robust test, build and release procedures.  • Used Eclipse 3.2 IDE for developing code modules and deployed on Apache Tomcat.  • Using UML Rational Rose, designed Use Case Diagrams, Class Diagrams and Sequence Diagrams and Object Diagrams to model the detail design of the application.  • Used Test driven methods to improve the code and find defects in the code.  • Wrote test cases for unit testing Junit and used JIRA for bug and issue tracking.  • Involved in discussions with the testing teams to see the tasks accomplished meets the Acceptance Criteria of the product owners.  • Monitored the logs using Log4J and fixed the problems and used SVN (Subversion) for source control along with Tortoise integration.    Environment: Java 7, AngularJS 1.4, HTML/HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Core Java, JQuery, Bootstrap, SOAP, WSDL,REST Web Services, AJAX, D3.js, JSON, Spring(IOC, AOP), XML, Maven, iBATIS, SOA,JIRA, MySQL, JMS, Agile/Scrum, WebLogic Server, Gradle, SVN, Eclipse, Apache Tomcat. Java/J2EE Developer Allegro - Kansas City, MO October 2014 to December 2015 Responsibilities:  • Responsible for the technical management of multiple teams across multiple concurrent projects.  • Participated in Agile (Scrum) methodology to ensure delivery of high quality work.  • Implemented entire application using Core java, java Collections, and Spring MVC design framework.  • Designed front-end using Java Servlets, JSP, HTML, CSS and JavaScript, D3.jsutilizing AJAX technology.  • Involved in implementing JQuery for providing interactive user interfaces.  • Involved in Upgradation and maintenance of new layout using the grid orientation model Bootstrap framework.  • Developed the application under J2EE Architecture using spring, Struts, Hibernate, Servlets, Web logic, and JSP.  • Wrote Hibernate Mapping files to develop relationship between object oriented domain module and relational database.  • Designed and developed web-based software using Spring MVC Framework and used Spring IOC dependency injection.  • Implemented data-binding and MVC for front-end development of a current web application.  • Involved in development of business domain layer using session and entity beans -EJBs.  • Implemented Web Services (REST) for transmission of large blocks of JSON data over HTTP.  • Implemented SOA to develop REST Based Web services using Apache Jersey.  • Multiple EAR file deployments in IBM WebSphere 8.0 Application Server.  • Implemented business logic using Session Beans, Servlets and PL/SQL stored procedures, triggers, functions in DB2 using the tool DB Visualizer.  • Automate build process by writing ANT build scripts and customized logs using Log4J.  • Developed the application using Eclipse IDE.  • GIT for version control and Jenkins for continuous integration.  • Automated test with Selenium using TestNG and Web driver.    Environment: Java 1.6, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Java Servlets, JQuery, D3.js, AJAX, JSP, Servlets, Hibernate, DB2, SOA, Junit, TDD, DB Visualizer, WebSphere Server 8.0, Spring 2.5 MVC, RAD, Jenkins, TestNG, Web Driver, GIT. Java Developer Zeta Interactive - IN January 2013 to August 2014 Responsibilities:  • Hands on experience in Web Application Development using Client Script design technologies like JQuery as well as HTML, CSS, XML, Java Script.  • Involved in coding front-end components using J2EE, MVC, JSP, JSF, JQuery, and AJAX.  • Worked on core java and java Collections concepts to implement the business logic.  • Designed, developed, and configured server side J2EE components like EJB, Java Beans, and Servlets.  • Wrote EJB POJOS for fetching patient SDE information.  • Designed and Developed java batches using spring batch framework.  • Extensive experience in Struts Tag Libraries and Custom-tag implementations in JSP to embedded business logic.  • Optimized the design using patterns like DAO, Factory, Singleton, Service Locator and Business Delegate. All code was written using the RAD.  • Mapped POJO (plain old java objects) to the tables already created in the database using the *. Hbm.xml files.  • Designed and Developed Web Services using WSDL, SOAP to communicate to the other modules and used SOAP UI for testing the web services.  • Used Grunt for build tool for configuring tasks, Karma Jasmine for Unit Testing and deployed application on to JBoss application server.  • Wrote stored procedures, complex queries using PL/SQL to extract data from the database, delete data and reload data on Oracle 10g database using the Toad tool.  • Involved in Junit Testing on various modules by generating the Test Cases Involved in building and deploying projects using Hudson and do end to end testing.  • Used CVS as a version control for applications.    Environment: HTML, CSS, JavaScript, AJAX, JQuery, Core Java, J2EE 6.0, MVC, EJB, JSP, JSF, SOAP, WSDL, Struts, DOM, PL/SQL, JDBC, XML, Oracle 10g, ANT, Web Services, Hudson, Eclipse, SOAP UI 4.0, Grunt, Jasmine, JBoss 6.0, RAD, CVS. Java Developer Mindlogicx - IN March 2010 to December 2012 Responsibilities:  • Involved in design, development, Object Oriented Analysis and testing the application.  • Developed the applications following Agile Scrum, participated in daily stand ups, Kickoffs and used JIRA for project management.  • Front end development using HTML, Java Script, and CSS.  • Used J2EE technologies like JSP, EJB and JDBC to develop business modules in the applications.  • Developed web Servlets using JSP,JDBC for processing the data on the server.  • Worked with core java by resolved data, application and connectivity issues related to java program functionality.  • Implemented Form classes, Action classes for the entire application domain module using Struts framework.  • Wrote EJB Pojos for fetching module information from database.  • Implemented the backend business logic with EJB.  • Designed and Developed Web Services using WSDL, SOAP to communicate to the other modules.  • Configured the Hibernate configuration files to persist the data to the Oracle 9i Database.  • Designed a proper XML Schema generalized for all the rules designed by the company.  • Used JDBC for communicating with MySQL database. Created& implemented SQL queries, Stored Procedures, triggers for retrieving the data from database.  • Analyzed Use Case Diagrams and created various UML Diagrams such as class and sequence diagrams.  • Involved in configuration management setup using CVS repository and build management using ANT.  • Performed unit testing using Junit, system testing and integration testing.    Environment: HTML, CSS, Java Script, XML, JAX-WS, Core Java, EJB, Struts, Servlets, JDK, JDBC, MYSQL, Stored Procedures, PL/SQL, Triggers, Linux, SOAP, JBoss, Junit, Sub Version and Eclipse. Skills Eclipse, Ejb, J2ee, Java, Hibernate, Spring, Jaxb, Jboss, Jms, Jndi, jquery, Jsf, Jsp, Jstl, Servlets, Struts, Css, Soa, Tomcat, Web services Additional Information Technical Skills  Languages JAVA, J2EE, C#, SQL, PL/SQL, C, C++  Databases SQL Server, MySQL, Oracle 10g/11g/12c, DB2, MySQL, SYBASE, NoSQL - Cassandra & MongoDB  Web Technologies JSP, JSTL, JSON, Servlets, XML, HTML, CSS, XSLT, JSF, JavaScript, JQuery, D3.js, Angular JS, Bootstrap, DOJO,JAXB 2.2.11, JMS, RabbitMQ  J2EE Technologies Struts, Spring, JDBC, JNDI, EJB, Java Beans.  Application Servers JBoss, WebLogic 8.1/10.3, Glassfish  Web Servers Tomcat 6.x/7.x/8.x/9.0, IBM Web Sphere Commerce Application Server  Web Services REST, SOAP, WSDL, SOA  Database Tools TOAD, SQL Developer, MySQL Work bench  Operating Systems Windows, Unix and Linux  Development Tools Eclipse Neon2, NetBeans, IntelliJ  Frameworks Struts 1.x/2, JSF 2.x, Angular JS, Spring 4.x/3.x, iBATIS 2.x, Hibernate 3.x/4.x  Design Patterns  Singleton, Data Access Objects, Value Objects, Template Method, Business Interface, Business Delegate, Service Locator, Model View Controller and Front Controller.    Version Controls SVN, GIT  SDLC Methodologies Agile, Waterfall and Scrum models