Java Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Developer - Cummins Los Angeles, CA • Over 8+ years of experience in analysis, design, development and implementation of Web Applications in Client/Server environment using Core JAVA/J2EE applications.  • Designed and modeled projects using techniques in UML - Use Cases, Class Diagrams etc. using Rational Rose.  • Experience in Scrum Agile & Waterfall model of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC), Object Oriented Analysis and Design through implementation and testing.  • Expertise in J2EE technologies like Servlets, JSP, JDBC, Java Beans, EJB and Web Services.  • Expertise in application development frameworks like Struts, spring, JSF and Hibernate.  • Implemented various Design patterns including Business Delegates, Data Access Object, Model View Controller (MVC) Architecture.  • Expertise in configuring the Spring Application Context with dependency injection and using spring web module integrated it with Struts framework and Hibernate.  • Experience in using IDM like Eclipse, MyEclipse, NetBeans, IBM RSA, Intellij, RAD, TOAD and GWT.  • Good Experience on Selenium IDE and creating Scripts in selenium --RC by using Java Experience in MVC  • Extensive experience in Quality Assurance using Manual and Automation tools which includes Selenium RC/IDE/Web Driver/ Grid, QTP, Cucumber, Quality Center, SOAP UI and JMeter  • Experience in Design and Development of database systems using Relational Database Management Systems MS SQL Server, DB2, Sybase and Oracle  • Experience in developing web services using JAX-RS, Jersey, JAX-WS, JAX-RPC and WSDL.  • Performed unit testing using JUnit, integration and deployment of applications done using tools such as ANT and Maven and debugging through Log4j.  • Developed and maintained complex stored procedures, triggers, functions and ad-hoc SQL scripts in a highly normalized Sybase database.  • Created robust user Interface (UI) using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Ajax, Angular JS, JSON, jQuery and XML.  • Involved in various projects related to Data Modelling, System/Data Analysis, Design and Development for both OLTP and Data warehousing environments.  • Interacted with the Data Modelling team to understand the designing of the data warehouse and data mart.  • Good experience in implementing solutions for SOA, Java Web Services like JAX-WS Web Services and JAX-RPC Web services.  • In depth knowledge in Maven, Selenium, TestNG and Jenkins  • Experience in Service Oriented Architecture and Integration technologies in the areas of Restful Web Services, SOAP Web Services, WSDL and XML.  • Extensive experience in working with various databases like Oracle11g, SYBASE, DB2, SQL Server and MySQL.  • Expertise in Core Java with solid background and working knowledge of Object Oriented Concepts like Inheritance, Polymorphism, Exception handling, Multi-Threading and Collections.  • Expertise in version control tools like SVN, CVS, GITHUB and IBM Rational Clear Case to manage and control software development.  • Knowledgeable with RDBMS concepts like writing SQL Queries, Functions, Stored Procedures and PL/SQL Packages.  • Experience in using issue and bug tracking tools like JIRA, Bugzilla, TFS  • Experience on SDLC, Water Fall and Agile/Scrum methodologies.  • Expertise in using ANT and Maven for building the projects and deploying the projects in servers and also using log4j and JUnit for debugging.  • Strong Programming Skills in designing and implementation of multi-tier applications using Core Java, J2EE, JDBC, JSP, JSTL, HTML, JSF, Struts, Spring, Hibernate, JavaScript, AngularJS, ExtJS, Servlets, JavaBeans, EJB, XSLT, JAXB, Mongo DB, Elastic search, Virtualization, Hypervisor, Cloud computing and OpenStack Platform.  • Excellent communication, teamwork, inter-personnel and presentation skills, fast learner and organized self-starter Work Experience Java Developer Cummins - Columbus, IN August 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Used Eclipse IDE for coding, debugging and testing the application modules  • Used different user interface technologies HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, Angular JS and JSON for developing the GUI of the application  • Developed dynamic web pages using HTML5, CSS3, jQuery, Bootstrap, Less, CSS3 (SASS) and AJAX.  • Implemented jQuery AJAX calls to retrieve the data from the data base  • Implemented and worked on claims processing, fraud analysis and reports generations in the application  • Developed action classes, Form bean classes and Struts configuration file using Struts framework  • Implemented the application modules using Spring Core layer (IOC), Spring Security, Spring AOP, Spring ORM, Spring Batch to develop the application  • Implemented Spring Services and business operations Dependency Injection  • Used Object/Relational mapping tool Hibernate to perform data base activities and transactions  • Implemented Hibernate POJO Classes, Hibernate Configuration file and Hibernate Mapping files  • Involved in the configuration of Struts Framework, Spring Framework and Hibernate mapping tool  • Used different design patterns like MVC, Singleton, Data Access Object, Value Object etc.  • Used Java Messaging Services (MQ Series and JMS) for developing messaging services to interact with different application modules  • Implemented SOA using Web Services and is frameworks Apache Axis, SOAP, WSDL and JAX-RS API  • Implemented Restful web services to perform some business activities  • Involved in configuring hibernate to access database and retrieve data from the database  • Used Teradata/Oracle Server as data base systems  • Created data base tables, stored procedures according to the application requirements  • Developed stored procedures and triggers with PL/SQL  • Implemented SQL injection security checks, html sanitization and other security mechanisms  • Implemented the application using Agile development methodology  • Involved in performance tuning, query optimization, maintaining coding standards and resolving JVM issues  • Experience in performing load testing and performance testing using JMeter and SoapUI  • Involved in peer to peer code reviews and cross checked whether coding standards are being followed  • Involved in code versioning, Check In, Check outs and code merging using Sub-Version  • Used JIRA tool for creating change tickets and handling production bugs and development tasks  • Involved in production support, resolving the production issues and maintaining the application server  • Configured JNDI resources, Data Base resources, MQ Series and other configurations on the Application Server  Environment: Java 1.8, J2ee, Servlets, Struts, Spring, Hibernate, Web Services, SOAP, WSDL, REST, Apache Axis, SQL, PL/SQL, XML, XSD, JAXB, JavaScript, Web Sphere 8.x, RAD, HTML5, XML, AJAX, Bootstrap, jQuery, Angular JS, JSON, Maven, SVN, SQL Developer, Teradata, Oracle, UML, JUnit, Log4j, TestNG, JIRA, Hudson Java/J2EE Developer Deutsche Bank - Jersey City, NJ August 2017 to July 2018 • Applied the latest development approaches including MVC, event-driven applications using AJAX, Object Oriented (OO) JavaScript, JSON, and XML.  • Built rich prototypes and applications using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, Ajax, JSON, AngularJS and Bootstrap. Converted data from database into JSON or XML format files and retrieve useful information using AJAX calls to display them on the browser.  • All these batch micro services are written in Python utilizing distributed message passing via Kafka message broker with JSON as data exchange formats.  • All these four micro services are deployed in Mesos cluster in AWS using Jenkins, Marathon, and Chronos  • Used AngularJS services, controllers and directives for front end UI, AngularJS MVC for cross-browser functionality and used Firebug for Firefox, Inspector tools for Chrome, IE developer toolbar for IE.  • Wrote scripts to massage data and feed to Sybase IQ/Oracle databases for alert generation and automated in batch cycle.  • Created RESTful APIs in Express and returned logic through AngularJS data binding. Wrote tests in Mocha on server side and Jasmine on the client side.  • Designed User Interface using with HTML5, JQuery, CSS3 and SASS. Involved in the developing functions to acquire data from API server using AJAX  • Developed and designed new cross-browser accessible interfaces by JavaScript, Bootstrap.  • Developed the front-end using both Core Java as well as Java Swing and also involved himself in incorporating business logic in SQL code (stored procedures) using Sybase  • Created Composite Applications, Home Security components and Adapters by using Oracle SOA technology.  • C#, .Net for creating the web pages of the application.  • Used Bootstrap and media queries to create a responsive website that fits all users and devices from desktop to tablet and mobile phone  • Used Angular Http services to display the content on the browser and took part in creating custom reusable components.  • Designed and developed the REST based Microservices using the Spring Boot.  • Implemented MicroServices architecture using Spring Boot for making application smaller and independent.  • Developed Spring-Jersey REST resources to serve the web application with JSON data Implemented JavaScript and JQuery technologies for validating the input given to the user interface.  • Implemented automation using Selenium WebDriver, JAVA, Selenium Grid, Cucumber, Maven  • Designed the system based on Spring MVC Model architecture. Developed a business logic layer using Spring Dependency Injection and client side Java-beans for DAO Design Patterns.  • Developed Hibernate with Spring Integration as the data abstraction to interact with the database and used dependency injection (DI) using Spring framework and annotations.  • Execution and selenium scripts and reporting defects  • Developed responsive applications using Bootstrap JS and Node.JS which allowed the same application to be optimized for both mobile and desktop resolutions.  • Used Hibernate for mapping java classes with database and created queries with Hibernate query language (HQL)  • Extensively used XML Web Services for transferring/retrieving data between different providers. Extensively involved in developing Restful Web services using Jersey framework (JAX-RS) and REST annotations.  • Extensively used IBM REST API in task assignment, reassignment, closure and ad-hoc task implementation.  • Experience with Selenium JavaScript executor.  • Wrote MongoDB models and schema by using Mongoose to query data. Manipulated data using CRUD operations of MongoDB and handled database access and data transmission based on RESTful web service.  • Developed Agile processes using Groovy, JUnit to use continuous integration  • Experienced in AWS Cloud platform and its features which includes EC2 AMI, EBS Cloud watch AWS Config, Auto-scaling, IAM, AWS and S3.  • Developed JavaScript MVC based web applications with front-end via Angular.js, jQuery, and backend via Node.js, JSON, AJAX with AWS storage for development of textual mining sharing-visualization applications.  • Maintained the code repository on Git through frequent and definite updates and built the application using Maven to deploy on Weblogic Server and used Jenkins for continuous integration.  Environment: HTML, XHTML, DHTML, CSS, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, XML, XSL, XSLT, JSON, MEAN stack (MongoDB, Express, Micro services, AngularJS, Node.JS), Notepad++, Sublime text, RESTful Webservices, JMS, JTA, Weblogic, Spring Tool Suite, Git, Maven, Jenkins, log4j, XML, Jersey, Grunt CLI, AWS, Hibernate, groovy Sr. Java Developer Agero, Cabot road - Medford, MA June 2016 to August 2017 Responsibilities:  • Involved in requirements gathering and analysis from the existing system. Captured requirements using Use Cases and Sequence Diagrams.  • Developed the application using Struts, Servlets and JSP for the presentation layer along with JavaScript for the client side validations.  • Managed maven environment by setting up local, remote and central repositories with required configuration in maven configuration files.  • Refactored existing project to make it more Restful and thread-safe.  • Developed and used JSP custom tags in the web tier to dynamically generate web pages. Worked with Struts (MVC Paradigm) components such as Action Mapping, Action class, Dispatch action class, Action Form bean.  • C#, .Net for creating the web pages of the application.  • Designed Restful, XML, XSLT and PHP web service for handling AJAX requests.  • Worked with the Ruby on Rails & Ember JS frameworks for full stack web development.  • Build micro services using spring boot for the delivery of software products across the enterprise  • Implemented spring service layer with dependency wiring, transaction, DAO and annotations.  • Used Hibernate to do the object relational mapping between the tables and java objects.  • Execution of selenium scripts and reporting defects  • Utilize Camel to integrate micro services with other micro services and RabbitMQ messaging exchanges  • Developed web applications using Rational Application Developer (RAD) and deployed it in web sphere application server5.1  • Experienced in implementing Microservices, Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) with XML based Web Services (SOAP/UDDI/WSDL) using Top Down and Bottom Up approach.  • Used Hibernate as persistence framework for DAO layer to access the Oracle10g database  • Developed Interactive web pages using AJAX and JavaScript.  • Deployed and tested the application with web server Tomcat, Web Sphere.  • Expertise in Agile and Waterfall Software Development Methodology including Scrum technology  • Wrote Test Cases using JUNIT as a framework.  • Developed GUI using Front end technologies like JSP, JSTL, AJAX, HTML, CSS and Java Script.  • Developed a code for Web services using XML, SOAP, PHP and used SOAPUI tool for testing the services proficient in testing Web Pages functionalities and raising defects.  • Participated in Code Reviews for better quality assurance and Debugged the application Module.  • Deployed the application on Web Logic server.  • Created RFP microservice to provide RESTful API utilizing Spring Boot with Microservices  • Developed the Web services using SOA.  • Developed custom Angular JS directives to build custom reusable components to use across the application pages.  • Configured Web Sphere for messaging by defining Queue Destinations & Queue Connection Factories.  • Used Bootstrap to improve user experience.  • Used Log4J to print info, warning and error data on to the logs. Java/J2EE Developer Sovereign Bank - Boston, MA January 2016 to May 2016 Responsibilities:  • Responsible for gathering requirements from the client business unit by participating in design discussions and implementation feasibility analysis with business analysts at all levels.  • Involved in Object Oriented Design/Analysis and constructing UML Sequence diagrams and Class Diagrams with Microsoft Visio/Rational Rose.  • Worked on SOA to develop RESTful Web service to generate and consume services from different modules. Implemented MVC Framework to make single page applications [SPAs] for responsive services.  • Developed the application using JSF Spring Framework that uses Model View Controller (MVC) architecture with JSP as the view and JQuery validation framework for front end validations.  • Developed the web application using JSF Framework involving features like Expression Language, action listeners, custom components, etc. Created conditional logics in pages using JSF tags and JSTL.  • Used MVC frameworks like Spring MVC along with JSF and Rich faces. Involved in developing front end screens using JSF, JSTL, JQuery, XHTML, HTML5, CSS, AJAX and JavaScript. Also, involved in adding the Internationalization to the existing application.  • Developed JSF managed beans and backing beans and configured JSF navigation in faces-config.xml of JSF MVC framework. Constructed JSF Portal Framework at Presentation Tier and Faces Servlet acts as the Front Controller.  • Experienced in using Twitter Bootstrap Framework responsive design. Developed UI screens and client side scripts incorporating Servlets, JSP, JavaScript and XML DOM parser.  • Used Spring ORM Support for Hibernate to manage Hibernate Resources and consistent exception hierarchy. Integrated Spring DAO for data access using with Hibernate and Spring Validation Framework for Server side validation.  • Used Spring MVC, Spring ORM and Spring Security modules to integrate with MySQL database to implement persistence layer in Hibernate  • Developed Business components using core javaconcepts like Interfaces, Polymorphism, Collections, Serialization etc. Used multithreading concepts to overcome errors in the process of concurrent quote transactions. Deployed the application in clustered environments for load balancing and Server failover conditions.  • Designed stored procedures, triggers and functions in MySQL and DB2 for business critical requirements.  • Developed generic database Connection Pooling with WebLogic Admin server using Spring, SQL query optimization.  • Involved in performing Unit and Integration testing (JUnit) . Strictly followed TDD using Agile methodologies.  • Used Apache JMeter for load testing and log4J for debugging with various levels. Used Subversion for version control across common source code used by Developers and deployed the applications on WebLogic Application Server. Utilized Gradle for continuous integration.  Environment: Java 1.6, J2EE, JSP, JSF, JSTL, Servlets, Hibernate, Spring MVC, Spring Security, MySQL, SQL, DB2, WebLogic, JMS, XML, JavaScript, JQuery, SOAP, SVN, JUnit, Log4J, Gradle, TDD, JMeter. JAVA/J2EE Developer Cox Automotive - Atlanta, GA November 2013 to December 2015 Responsibilities:  • Technical design, review and implementation across the project. Developed UML diagrams like Use case, class and sequence diagrams.  • Designed and developed User interface screens using AngularJS and followed Agile Scrum for application development.  • Extensively involved in the integration of the Front End web interface with the Spring MVC, Angular JS, JSP, HTML, CSS and JQuery.  • Developed unit test cases using Jasmine to test Angular controllers and services and developed custom validations using AngularJS  • Extensively developed stored procedures, triggers, functions and packages in oracle SQL, PL/SQL.  • Developed pages using AngularJS directives, expressions, routing capabilities for bookmarking, filters, validations and Angular UI components such as grid, buttons, carousels, date pickers, modal dialogs and other input components.  • Developed a cross-device/cross browser web application utilizing AngularJS, JavaScript API in conjunction with Bootstrap.  • Designed Client side validations using AngulaJs custom form validation that leverages various angular directives and integrated AngularJS Filters to format data for searching, ordering and conditional iterating.  • Used Spring framework and J2EE components, Utilized Spring MVC, IOC, AOP and DAO modules. Developed controller classes, backend processes, complex services and database interaction.  • Applied object oriented methodologies and core J2EE design patterns like Factory, Façade, Business Delegate, Service Locator and Singleton.  • Designed, developed and integrated Spring DAO layer with Hibernate. Generated Hibernate XML files for the configured beans.  • Developed message notification system using ActiveMQ to notify the changes and update across the internal client apps.  • Designed and developed RESTful web services, tested web services using SOAP UI and REST Client.  • Enhanced existing REST services using NodeJs, ExpressJS and Mongoose modules.  • Installed and configured JBoss server developer and test environments. Used ANT and Jenkins for Build process and continuous integration  • Configured & deployed Java applications on Amazon Web Services (AWS) for a multitude of applications utilizing the AWS stack, cloud formation.  • Supported QA and UAT defect resolution; used Atlassian Jira to publish daily defect reports to the management.  • Performed build management for the development and testing environment. Worked with release management to develop technical release notes for every code release.  • Involved in technical mentoring, production system support and customizing solutions.  Environment: Java 1.6, J2EE, Agile, MEAN Stack (AngularJS-1.3, NodeJS, Express JS, MongoDB), JSP, HTML, CSS, JQuery, JSON, JavaScript, Spring 3.2, Spring MVC, JMS, Hibernate 3.6, REST Webservices, AWS, JBoss 6.0, MyEclipse, UML, Log4j, JNDI, JUNIT, ANT, Jenkins, ActiveMQ, Atlassian Jira, log4j, SVN and Mockito. Java Developer Axis Bank - Hyderabad, Telangana July 2010 to October 2013 Responsibilities:  • Developed JSPs and Servlets using Struts framework.  • Involved in the Requirements collection & Analysis from the business team.  • Created the design documents with use case diagram, class diagrams, sequence diagrams using Rational Rose.  • Implemented the MVC architecture using Apache Struts 1.2 Framework.  • Mailing system using Core java mail API to notify the staff when a customer submitted a policy.  • Implemented session beans to handle business logic for fund transfer, loan, credit card and fixed deposit modules.  • Worked with various Java patterns such as Service Locator and Factory Pattern at the business layer for effective object behaviors.  • Worked on the JAVA Collections API for handling the data objects between the business layers and the front end.  • Developed Unit test cases using JUnit.  • Implemented the background work using Multi-threading which sends mails in bulk behind the scene.  • Implemented Tiles Framework for the views layout.  • Used Clear Case for source code maintenance.  • Developed the import/export utility, which allows user to import/export to/from MS-Excel, CSV and Database.  • Implemented the web services client to consume the third-party service API for validating credit cards.  • Used Java Messaging Services (JMS) for reliable and asynchronous exchange of important information such as payment status report.  • Developed ant scripts and developed builds using Apache ANT.  Environment: Struts frame work, core java, J2EE ( Java, JNDI, JSP, JDBC, Servlets and JSP), Apache Tomcat, SQL, HTML, Eclipse, Windows XP, MVC Design pattern, MySql, Rational Rose, SOAP, Tiles. Skills DATABASE (9 years), JAVA (9 years), JUNIT (9 years), WEB SERVICES (8 years), SOAP (8 years) Additional Information Technical Skill Set:  Languages Java, Java Script, C, C++, SQL, PL/SQ, UML and Unix Shell Script.  Java Technologies J2EE, EJB, JavaBeans, JSP, Servlets, JDBC, JSF, JNDI, JAXP, RMI, Micro services  Frameworks Struts2, Spring, Spring Boot, Hibernate, iBatis, JMS (MQ Series), JUnit, Cucumber, Log4j.  Web Technologies Ajax, JQuery, JSON, HTML5, DHTML, XHTML, XML, CSS3.  Web/Application servers IBM Web Sphere, Apache Tomcat, BEA Web Logic, JBOSS, Glass Fish.  IDEs/Utilities Eclipse, MyEclipse, Net beans, Intellij, RAD, TOAD, GWT  Database MySQL, JDBC, ODBC, Oracle 10g/11g, MS SQL, DB2, NOSQL (Mongo DB)  Modeling/Business Tools Microsoft Visio, Rational Rose, Drools  Version Control GIT, Tortoise SVN, CVS, Clear Case, Perforce.  CI/CD Tools Ant, Maven, GRADLE, Hudson, Jenkins, JIRA  Web Services SOAP (WSDL, UDDI, JAX-WS), RESTFUL (JAX-RS, JSON), Camel, Mule ESB    Operating Systems Windows 2000/XP?7, UNIX/Linux 5, Sun Solaris, Ubuntu