Java Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Remote Java Developer Sunnyvale, CA • Almost 10 years of experience in Software Development Life-Cycle (SDLC) phases of design, development, implementation, deployment, testing and maintenance as per quality standards using Agile, Scrum and waterfall methodologies.  • Good Experience in Application Software Development and Design, Object Oriented, Technical Documentation, Software Testing and Debugging.  • Excellent implementation knowledge of JDK 1.6/1.7 and 1.8, Spring, Hibernate, RESTFUL Web Services, AOP, Struts, JDBC, EJB.  • Consumed and Exposed both REST and SOAP based webservices very good experience with SOA model.  • Experience in RDBMS using MySQL, Oracle, SQL Server, PostgreSQL.  • Involved in configuring, deploying applications on IBM WebSphere Application Server, BEA WebLogic Application Server, Apache Tomcat on UNIX, Linux and Windows platforms.  • Extensive experience in Design, Development and implementation of Model-View-Controller (MVC) using Spring.  • Good experience in Database Design, writing stored procedure, functions, triggers, SQL queries.  • Developed the code for front end using EXTJS, AngularJS JQuery, JavaScript, AJAX, HTML, CSS and JSON.  • Good knowledge on TCP/IP tunneling and port management on cloud environments, installation of servers on cloud unix.  • Good experience on production support and client interaction.  • Experience in creating build scripts using Ant and Maven also have experience in Jenkins.  • Strong TDD (test driven development) and continuous integration experience using JUnit, Mock Framework. Worked on Cucumber framework  • Strong experience in developing the Restful applications on top of Spring Framework.  • Experience leading offshore team remotely and updating status to client accordingly  • Have good experience working with Cloud based servers and also AWS- Amazon web services  • Experienced in remodeling and improving the performance of the applications.  • Knowledge on Spring integration and batch file and hand on experience with Oracle SOA.  • Strengths include good team player, self motivated, quick learner, open to work with new technologies in a dynamic, fast-paced and deadline driven environment, excellent interpersonal, analytical and communication skills. Work Experience Java Developer Sprint September 2018 to Present • Gathered user requirements, analyzed and wrote functional and technical specifications, we use SharePoint to maintain all of our design docs.  • Followed Agile software methodology for software development (3 week Sprint).  • Worked on one of the UI based application and client focus more on look and feel of the UI. We use lots of customs components to design the UI. Chase standards and HTML, CSS, JavaScript, AJAX, EXTJS is being used intensively.  • Used Spring MVC framework on the server side for creating RESTFul web services by giving JSON out and modifying the DOM object on UI, by making HTTP calls and used GET and PUT.  • Developed multiple Controller, Service & DAO classes to interact with data layer and developed Entity classes based on the table structure.  • Involved in core integration to pick the file from FTP location and bring them into our staging tables and did all the validation on the java side  • Created multiple mid-tier services to interact with multiple validations and worked on entitlements services to do user validations Interaction and also worked on applying security systems.  • Worked with Oracle database and used Hibernate (ORM). Created POJO/Data  • Objects in mid-tier service. Hands on experience on implementing lazy loading, first and second level of caching.  • Leading on-shore offshore model Coordinating with Offshore team in India and being flexible on gathering updated from team. Work closely with Database team and testing team.  • Worked on Jasper reports using iReport tool and integrated that JRXML into spring frame work.  • Wrote SQL commands and Stored Procedures to retrieve data from Oracle database. Worked to plug this procedure in Java classes.  • Developed the application using Singleton, Business Delegate and Data Transfer Object design patterns in the project.  • Created Stored procedures using PL-SQL for data modification (For insert, update, delete) in Oracle by joining business tables.  • We are using crucible while we commit code into SVN for reviewing the code.  • Written JUnit test cases during the development phase and used assert functions to compare two objects.  • Used JIRA for bug and issue tracking.  • Good experience in documentation of designs and flow charts. Also worked on designing DATA Models and maintain the existing documents in Share-point.  • Responsible for system analysis, design and development in J2EE using MVC based architecture.  • Involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) as requirement gathering, modeling, analysis, architecture design & development and the project was developed using Agile Methodologies.  • End-to-end Project Management, including customization of product based on the customer's requirement, meeting delivery deadlines on development, testing, implementation phases of the system and customer relationship consulting.  • Implemented the design patterns like DAO Factory, Singleton, Service Locator and Business Delegate.  • Designing and editing GUI with innovation and creativity with the help of graphs, charts, other diagrams, etc.  • Integrated Spring (Dependency Injection) among different layers of an application.  • Developed Object Model from Hibernate mapping files.  • Using Spring validation framework for server side validation.  • Performed coding of Action classes, Business Layer and DAO, JDO and wired them using Spring Framework.  • Used Hibernate as ORM tool to store the persistence data into the MySQL database.  • Involved in Architecture, design and development using JSF/ADF, jQuery, and Spring MVC framework with AOP concepts.  • Design of REST APIs that allow sophisticated, effective and low cost application integrations.  • Developed Restful Web Services using JAX-WS.  • Used AJAX in suggestion list and to display dialog boxes.  • Developed Web Services using SOAP, WSDL and XML.  • Wrote views, Triggers, Stored Procedures using MySQL database.  • Created Stored Procedures using PL/SQL.  • Performed unit testing using JUNIT framework and used Test Cases for testing Action Classes.  • Monitored the logs using Log4j and fixed the problems and used SVN for version control.  • Used Maven to automate the build and deployment process.  • Involved in research activities for determining frameworks and technologies feasible for the development of application.  • Conduct knowledge sharing sessions among the team members in technical areas.  • Used Agile methodology to develop the application.  • Responsible for maintaining the code quality, coding and implementation standards by code reviews.  • Designed and developed shared library for commonly used services in the application.  • Developed the front end of the application using HTML, CSS, JSP and JavaScript.  • Created Java page flow [JPF] using MVC architecture built on Struts framework.  Clients  Java Developer Sep 18 - Till now Java Developer Wells Fargo October 2017 to October 2018 Java Developer ATD June 2017 to October 2017 Java Developer XPO Logistics June 2016 to May 2017 Java Developer Metlife Insurance March 2016 to June 2016 Java Developer JP Morgan Chase February 2014 to January 2016 Java Developer Fremont Insurance October 2013 to January 2014 Java Developer Ohio Dept Taxation May 2010 to September 2013 Education Bachelor's Degree JNTU 2007 Skills ECLIPSE, J2EE, JAVA, HIBERNATE, SPRING Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  Languages & Scripts Java (JDK 1.5/6/7/8), C/C++, Python, UNIX Shell Scripting, PL/SQL, C#  Project Methodologies SDLC, Waterfall and Agile  Operating Systems Windows, UnixLinux (Fedora/Ubuntu), Mac OSX  Web Technologies HTML, EXTJS, AngularJS, DHTML, JavaScript, AJAX, jQuery, XML, XSLT, XPATH, XSL, CSS, JSON  J2EE Technologies JSP, JDBC, XSD, JAXB, JAX-WS, SOA, SOAP, WSDL  Web/Application Servers Web Logic Server, Web Sphere Application Server, Apache Tomcat, Apache HTTP Server, IBM HTTP Server, JBoss  RDBMS Oracle (8i/9i/10g), SQL, DB2, MySQL, PostgreSQL  Frameworks Spring, Hibernate, Log4J, iBatis, EXTjs, AngularJS and Struts, Mockito for unit testing  Web Services SOAP, RESTful, Oracle SOA  DB Tools MySQLWorkbench, TOAD, Sql Developer, NaviCAT, PuTTY  IDEs Eclipse Neon1, RAD, NetBeans, RSA  Design Tools PhotoShop  Testing Tools JUnit, Mock Framework, Cucumber  Build Scripts Maven, Ant and Jenkins  Version Controllers SVN, CVS, ClearCase and GIT  Other Tech Stack AWS, WinSCP, PUTTY, Oracle SOA, Hybris, Google Analytics, CronTab, Paypal Mass payment Sandbox