Java Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Developer - HSBC, NJ Edison, NJ ? Java Developer with 7 years of experience in software design and development  ? Primary areas of technical expertise include Core Java, Multithreading, Spring, XML, JSON, JDBC, Oracle, MySQL, SQL, DynamoDB, RESTful Web Services, etc.  ? Hands on experience with web applications development  ? Proven experience in delivering all aspects of information technology services to clients, comprising strategic systems planning to full-scale systems design, development, and deployment of enterprise applications software  ? Work experience on developing application using Oracle and Spring Dependency Injection  ? Proficient in understanding and troubleshooting complex systems built using multi-threading  ? Experience in version control systems like GitHub and BitBucket  ? Involved in end to end life cycle of project from requirement gathering, design, implementation and testing  ? Hands-on experience on Multi-Threading, Collections, Exceptions, Garbage Collection concepts in CORE JAVA  ? Experience in testing using tools like JUnit  ? Hands on experience using Eclipse for Java based application development, and Visual Studio IDE for Asp.Net and C# based application development  ? Involved in deployment of application on Apache Tomcat server  ? Good experience in using SQL for back end development  ? Worked with Waterfall, Agile and Test-Driven methodologies  ? Implemented various design patterns like Singleton, MVC and Factory Pattern  ? Contributed individually as well as in team  ? Good communication skills, coupled with positive user interaction & team spirit Work Experience Java Developer HSBC, NJ December 2017 to Present Project: Diversified Investment Funds (DIF) Portal    DIF application is used by HSBC Trust services. It handles Mutual Fund products. Currently, Trust services offer 3 fixed Income based Mutual Fund products under the umbrella of DIF to their customers. The primary objectives of this system are strike NAV all DIF, provide client to service their funds, generate reports and provide accurate data for regulatory purposes.  Responsibilities:    ? Designed and developed application using Core Java, Multithreading, Spring MVC, SQL, and RESTful web services  ? Independently implemented DIF Customer Maintenance comprising of Customer search on various criteria, update/certify of customer details, annual/decennial list and generating Customer Activity Report  ? Worked on providing Single-Sign-On functionality within the organization  ? Effectively handled the testing / QA /UAT part - coordinating with QA and Business Users  ? Worked on complex SQL queries, and fine-tuned the queries for optimum performance  ? Contributed to application deployment on Apache Tomcat server  ? Tracked and resolved defects logged by Users and UAT groups via JIRA  ? Prepared and maintained enhancement and production support related documents as per quality processes to ensure quality goals are met    Environment: Java 1.7, J2EE 7, Spring, JSP, Servlets, Spring MVC, HTML5, JavaScript, CSS3, XML, SQL 2012, RESTful Web Services, Apache Tomcat 7.0, Maven, JUnit, AngularJS 1.5, JIRA, JDBC Template. Java Developer Citigroup, NJ September 2016 to November 2017 Project: CitiRisk Commercial Bank (CCB)    CitiRisk Commercial Bank is an Enterprise Risk Management Application. It targets local middle market and small-to-medium-sized companies in various industries. It analyses the obvious risk of non-payment or delayed  payment by foreign buyers. It offers attractive sales terms that accommodate the needs of foreign buyers but also minimize payment risk. V2 was proposed to enhance application features as well as the delivery of various  country specific functionality.    Responsibilities:  ? Created RESTful web services for all the major Citi Commercial Bank services  ? Used for Source Code Management systems like GitHub and BitBucket  ? Used JSON for various modules like Credit Analysis, Facility, Origination, RDM, EarlyWarning etc.  ? Built the project using Maven as build tool  ? Co-ordinated with offshore and onshore developers for implementing the other modules  ? Used JSONParser to create Json from a HashMap and vice versa  ? Created list of Objects by using HashSet to get values from Database  ? Used JSON for communication between UI and Web Service request and response  ? Used JUnit and Eclipse IDE for the unit testing of various modules  ? Managed sprints using JIRA  ? Used Log4j for logging errors and debugging application  ? Deployed the application on Apache Tomcat Server    Environment: Java 1.7, JSP, J2EE 7, Oracle 11g, Dynamo DB, JSON, HTML5, CSS3, jQuery, RESTful Web Services, Maven, JIRA, Log4j, Eclipse, Spring MVC, GitHub, BitBucket, Apache Tomcat 7.0 Java Developer Chenoa Inc December 2015 to July 2016 Project: Insurance Claim Management System    CCSI Insurance Claim Portal is used to manage insurance claims of clients. It stores and retrieves claim information about customers and their family members. It also generates reports of accepted or rejected claims.  Responsibilities:    ? Implemented modal popup windows using JQuery, JavaScript and Bootstrap  ? Used Oracle for efficient storage and retrieval of insurance claim data of users; provided customer support regularly  ? Upgraded legacy system's functionalities using JSP, HTML, CSS, AJAX, RESTful web services  ? Worked with QA team to resolve issues in existing system, and managed tasks on JIRA    Environment: Java 1.7, JSP, AngularJS 1.5, Spring MVC, HTML5, CSS3, Javascript, jQuery, Bootstrap, GitHub, BitBucket Java Developer Devak Infomark - IN February 2015 to November 2015 Project: Currency Collection System (CCS), T20 cricket management system    Currency Collection System is the repository of currencies and stamps across all dynasties of rulers in the history of India. Users can post their own collection online, and download watermarked images of other users' stamps, currency notes and coins.    T20 cricket management system is a web application which facilitates cricket News Management, FAQ Management and also quiz contests for visitors. Visitors can get complete information of all T20 cricket matches being played worldwide. Users can also participate and win prizes in quiz contests.    Responsibilities:  ? Gathered requirements from stakeholders, and implemented features for storing and displaying currency / stamp collections of users in currency collection system using ASP.Net, C#, Bootstrap, JQuery, SQL, HTML, CSS, Javascript  ? Used core Java, JSP, MySql for recording details of T20 cricket matches played by different countries  ? Enhanced user interface of T20 cricket management system, which improved users' experience of utilizing system  ? Deployed applications on Apache Tomcat, and configured applications on IIS    Environment: Java 1.7, JSP, MySql, JavaScript, JQuery, Bootstrap, SQL 2012, Asp.Net, C#, Bootstrap, Apache Tomcat 7.0 Software Developer ShawMan Software - IN June 2014 to November 2014 Project: Club Management System (CMS)    Club Management System is used to store and maintain information about club primary members and their dependents. Access to club's various facilities is enabled by this system. Emails regarding club's events are also sent to club members.    Responsibilities:  ? Developed n-tier web applications using core Java, JSP, Spring MVC, JQuery, HTML, CSS, Javascript, Asp.net, C#, Oracle, SQL stored procedures, triggers  ? Used GitHub and Team Foundation Server (TFS) for distributed version control and collaboration  ? Used JSON for various modules like Member Management, Account Management, Event Invitations, Birthday Reminders etc.  ? Used Maven as build tool  ? Resolved bugs and errors in existing system according to test cases given by testing team  ? Used JUnit/Eclipse for the unit testing of various modules  ? Enhanced features of existing application using waterfall methodology  ? Deployed application on Apache Tomcat server and on IIS    Environment: Java 1.7, JSP, J2EE 7, Oracle 11g, Dynamo DB, JSON, HTML5, CSS3, jQuery, RESTful Web Services, Maven, JIRA, Log4j, Eclipse, Spring MVC, GitHub, TFS, Apache Tomcat 7.0 Software Developer Smart Signals Pvt Ltd September 2011 to June 2014 Project: Vehicle Tracking System (VHS), Taxi Dispatch System (TDS)    Vehicle Tracking System is used by fleet owners to remotely track location of their fleet, and monitor fleet activity online in real time.    Taxi Dispatch System is an online cab booking system, which is used by agents to book cabs for their customers. It allows agents to efficiently search for customer details in the system while booking cabs nearest to their location.    Responsibilities:  ? Developed SQL stored procedures, triggers, functions in vehicle tracking systems for allowing fleet owners to accurately track their entire fleets simultaneously on Google maps in real time  ? Created Windows Services using Asp.Net, VB.Net and C# for sending alerts to fleet owners via email and SMS  ? Analyzed website traffic using Google Analytics  ? Used ASP.Net, C# and SQL to implement vehicle tracking systems  ? Performed Search Engine Optimization (SEO), which resulted in increased user traffic; mentored team members  ? Developed Taxi Dispatch systems using Core Java, JSP, Spring MVC, MySql, HTML, CSS, JSON  ? Created autocomplete feature for retrieving user records quickly in Taxi Dispatch System using JQuery and JavaScript  ? Implemented RESTful Web Services for dispatching nearest cabs by sending and receiving bids to and from cab drivers  ? Worked with source control management systems MS Visual SourceSafe (VSS)    Environment: Java 1.7, JSP, MySql, MS Visual SourceSafe (VSS), JSON, HTML5, CSS3, jQuery, RESTful Web Services, Maven, JIRA, Log4j, Eclipse, Spring MVC, GitHub, BitBucket, Asp.Net, C#, SQL, Apache Tomcat 7.0 Education Master of Science in Software Engineering George Mason University - Fairfax, VA Master of Computer Applications in Computer Applications Mumbai University - Mumbai, Maharashtra Bachelor of Science in (BSc) - Computer Science Mumbai University - Mumbai, Maharashtra Skills JAVA (6 years), SPRING (5 years), JSP (6 years), HTML5 (5 years), MVC (5 years), Java J2Ee, J2Ee, Hibernate, Rest, Soap Certifications/Licenses Java SE 7 Programmer Additional Information Technical Skills  Programming Languages Core Java, JavaScript, Asp.Net, C#  J2EE Technologies: JSP, Servlets, JDBC Template, Spring(IOC,DI,MVC), Web Services  Web Technologies: HTML5, CSS3, AJAX, jQuery, JSON, Bootstrap, AngularJS(1.5)  Databases: Oracle 11g, MySQL, SQL, DynamoDB  Operating Systems: Linux, Windows  Build Tools: Maven  Version Control: BitBucket, GitHub