Java Full Stack Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> Full Stack <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Full Stack Developer - AT&T Middletown, NJ • Sr. Java Developer with 6+ years of professional experience in analysis, design, development and testing of web and distributed multi-tier applications using Java and J2EE technologies.  • Well versed with complete Software Life Cycle Development (SDLC) process which includes Analysis, Designing, Developing, Testing, Implementing and Documenting the entire life cycle using various methodologies like Waterfall, Agile, Scrum, Test Driven development.  • Expertise in using HTML, DHTML, CSS, Java Script, XML and AJAX in designing web pages.  • Test-driven development-TDD with JUNIT. Proficient in integration testing of web applications and remote systems.  • Knowledge in Unified Modeling Language (UML) methodologies and experiences on design tools.  • Extensively experienced in developing light weight and integrated business applications using Spring Framework, Spring Batch and developed applications using Struts Framework.  • Expertise in developing data models using Hibernate Object relational mapping (ORM) frame work and also used Hibernate Annotations to reduce time at the configuration level.  • Experienced in implementation of Web services based on Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) using SOAP, JAX-WS, WSDL using Apache AXIS, CXF and Spring CXF and Cloud technologies like Amazon Web Services (AWS).  • Experience in design and developing Application leveraging MongoDB.  • Experience in applying best-practice design patterns and strategies to enterprise applications to reduce tight coupling, maximize performance, and reduce maintenance/extensibility risks.  • Experienced in J2EE application development using Enterprise Java Beans (EJB), JDBC, and Servlets.  • Experience in developing applications using Model-View-Controller architecture using Spring MVC.  • Experience in working with various Web and Application servers including Apache Tomcat, IBM Web Sphere, JBoss and Web logic.  • Knowledge on different databases like Oracle, My SQL, MS-Access, SQL Servers packages procedures, Functions, triggers using SQL Plus.  • Knowledge in migration of systems, upgraded many projects to higher java versions as well as migrating applications from application servers.  • Ability to diagnose, troubleshoot, and resolve technical problems.  • Follow product architecture guidelines to deliver best product performance and maintainability.  • Code review and suggest improvements for better performance and standard coding practice.  • Involved in the development of software architecture documentation like Technical Design Document.  • Participated in research of new technologies or tools as necessary to enhance or develop products. Sponsorship required to work in the US Work Experience Java Full Stack Developer AT&T - Middletown, NJ January 2019 to Present Responsibilities:  • Document and deliver sizing, external design, detail design, and other documents as required by the project.  • Reviewed Business Rule Document (BRD) and attended meetings with business team to understand the requirements.  • Prepared high-level design document for the approved BRDs.  • Reviewed low-level design documents and provide sign-off.  • Designed and developed Application based on Spring Framework, Spring MVC, Spring Templates, Hibernate.  • Involved in implementation of enterprise integration with Web Services and Legacy Systems using SOAP and REST services.  • Used J2EE design patterns like DAO and MVC to enhance the existing Java/JEE based code base.  • Experience in creating JavaScript for using DML operation with MongoDB.  • Developed Single Sign-on Using Spring Boot.  • Effectively implemented server-side REST APIs such as traffic simulator and traffic updater  using Spring Data, Spring Boot and Spring MVC.  • Designed and developed RESTful microservices using Spring Boot for the application to seamlessly integrate with supporting sub systems.  • Involved in the development of project back-end logic layer by using most of the core java features such as Collection Framework, Interfaces and Exception Handling programming.  • Test Driven Development, writing JUNIT test cases for the developed methods. Unit, Integration and System testing.  • Designed code for AOP (Aspect Oriented Programming) to put Logging by using Log4j.  • Successfully implemented Servlet Filters for adding Spring Security to application to restrict the access to unauthorized users.  • Design, develop, test and implement business applications using Spring, Hibernate, Web methods and Web Sphere Application Server.  • Developed Microservices applications using Spring Boot, Spring AOP, Spring Batch, Spring Rest Template, Spring JPA, and MongoDB.  • Used Spring Boot to create stand-alone spring applications.  • Integrated Spring and Hibernate together and worked on developing backend components and services using Hibernate and Spring.  • Installed and configured NoSQL databases like MongoDB and Cassandra.  • Having experience on managing life cycle of MongoDB including sizing, automation, monitoring and tuning.  • Manage configuration of Web App and deploy in AWS.  • Used Spring Batch framework to develop batches.  • Used Hibernate by creating its mapping file and coding for data access methods.  • Used spring JDBC template for persistence with data base.  • Developed UI using HTML, CSS and jQuery to display the data on the client side.  • Generated JUnit test cases for testing various Java components and used JTest tool for performance testing.  • Experience with Java 8 features such as Lambda Expressions for making inline function calls by using Functional Interfaces which makes code readable and concise.  • Developed applications using Java7 and new features of Java8(lambda expressions).  • Implemented User Interface (front-end) screens using JSP, HTML, JavaScript and AngularJS.  • Used AngularJS to decouple the client side of an application from the server side.  • Outstanding experience in industry standard databases like Oracle 10G/11G.  • Implemented JSON along with Ajax to improve the processing speed.  • Coordinated with testing team to develop and document test plans and test cases.  • Performed deployment during testing and development. Perform or support production deployment team as need basis.  • Involved in debugging the defects, code review and analysis of Performance issues.    Environment: Core Java/J2EE, HTML, JavaScript, JSP, JSON, CSS, Servlets, XML, XSD, XSLT, Spring, Spring Batch, Hibernate, Spring Boot, microservices, JSON, AWS, LDAP, Web Methods, TDD, JMS, JNDI, Web Services, Log4j, JSF, JUnit, Unix, AngularJS, Oracle, Git, ANT, RAD 8.5, WebSphere Application Server 8.5. Java Full Stack Developer Walmart - Bentonville, AR August 2017 to December 2018 Responsibilities:  • Document and deliver sizing, external design, detail design, and other documents as required by the project.  • Designed and developed Application based Spring Framework, Spring MVC, Spring Templates, Hibernate.  • Involved in implementation of enterprise integration with Web Services and Legacy Systems using SOAP and REST services.  • Used J2EE design patterns like DAO and MVC to enhance the existing Java/J2EE based code base.  • Involved in the development of project back-end logic layer by using most of the core java features such as Collection Framework, Multithreading environment with Concurrency and Exception Handling programming.  • Installed MongoDB, created setup replica sets, Sharding and clusters.  • Built Spring Boot based Java microservices to support enterprise web application  • Involved in batch processing using Spring Batch framework to validate feed files and load data into corresponding tables.  • Having experience on Migrating databases from Oracle to MongoDB with .CSV using Mongo dump and Studio 3T tools.  • Designed and developed RESTful microservices using Spring Boot for the application to seamlessly integrate with supporting sub systems.  • Successfully implemented Servlet Filters for adding Spring Security to application to restrict the access to unauthorized users.  • Test Driven Development, writing JUNIT test cases for the developed methods. Unit, Integration and System testing.  • Responsible for designing and developing custom web apps for business users using several modules of Spring Boot.  • Design, develop, test and implement business applications using Spring, Hibernate, Web methods and Web Sphere Application Server.  • Used Spring Boot which is radically faster in building cloud microservices and develop Spring based application with very less configuration.  • Used AJAX for implementing dynamic Web Pages where the content was fetched via API calls and updated the DOM (JSON Parsing).  • Involved in writing and editing the existing ANT Build.XML files in case of errors or changes in the project requirements.  • Composed and executed MongoDB scripts to insert and update NoSQL database; automating data changes and reporting.  • Converted and automated builds using Maven, scheduled automated nightly builds using Jenkins.  • Migrated corporate Linux servers from physical servers to Amazon AWS virtual servers.  • Involved in Daily Stand Up Meetings, Sprint Planning and Backlog Grooming for Agile Scrum Process.  • Used Hibernate by creating its mapping file and coding for data access methods.  • Used spring JDBC template for persistence with data base.  • Developed UI using HTML, CSS and jQuery to display the data on the client side.  • Designed new classes and functionalities using various JQUERY components for customer service.  • Generated JUnit test cases for testing various Java components and used Jtest tool for performance testing.  • Optimizing MongoDB CRUD Operations.  • Wrote SQL commands and Stored Procedures to retrieve data from Oracle 11g database.  • Coordinated with testing team to develop and document test plans and test cases.  • Performed deployment during testing and development. Perform or support production deployment team as need basis.  • Involved in debugging the defects, code review and analysis of Performance issues.    Environment: Core Java, J2EE, HTML, JavaScript, JSP, CSS, Servlets, XML, XSD, XSLT, Spring, Spring Batch, Hibernate, Spring Boot, microservices, AWS, AJAX, JMS, JNDI, TDD, Web Services, Log4j, JSF, JUnit, jQuery, Unix, Oracle, MongoDB, Jenkins, Maven, GIT, ANT, RAD 8.5, WebSphere Application Server. Java/J2EE Developer American General Life Insurance - Houston, TX January 2016 to July 2017 Responsibilities:  • Planning, analysis, design and implementation of different modules using Agile (Scrum) Methodology.  • Developed the application using JSP for the presentation layer along with JavaScript for the client-side validations.  • Used Spring framework for the server-side logic implementation.  • Configured different layer (presentation layer, server layer, persistence layer) of application using Spring IoC and maintained the Spring Application Framework's IoC container.  • Using Spring IOC (Dependency Injection) developed Java beans with getter and setter properties to be configured by Spring.  • Used Spring framework's MVC framework to better control the presentation, business and navigational aspects of the applications.  • Configured and implemented Spring Application Context to instantiate all bean classes in Spring MVC application framework.  • Effective use of hibernate (ORM tool) in the business layer in communicating with the Spring DAO and developed mapping files and POJO java classes using ORM tool.  • Modified existing and created new Hibernate objects-based Queries for data storage, retrieval, tuning and mapping.  • Developed user interfaces using Spring, JSP, HTML, CSS, JavaScript and jQuery with JSON, AngularJS.  • Used Hibernate 3.0 object relational data mapping framework to persist and retrieve the data from database.  • Designed and Developed Module based persistence layer under the guidance of DAO design pattern, ORM/JPA principles, using Hibernate.  • Implementation of new web services using SOAP and Apache-axis to provide HRMS services for the external systems.  • Experience in running web scale services on Amazon Web Services (AWS).  • Packaged and deployed the application in JBOSS Application server in different environments like Development, testing etc.  • Used log4J for application logging and notification tracing mechanisms.  • Involved in Daily Scrum meetings, Sprint planning and estimation of the tasks for the user stories, participated in retrospective and presenting Demo at end of the sprint.  • Responsible for bug fix code check-in and integration of the code with other components.  • Used J-Unit Testing for testing components.  • Used CVS as version control system.    Environment: Core Java, J2EE (JSP/Servlet, JDBC), HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, Ajax, Spring, Hibernate 3.0, Web Services, JSON, AWS, MVC design patterns, UML, XML, JBOSS Server, JMS, JNDI, Maven, Java beans, RMI, Junit, Toad with Oracle, CVS, My Eclipse IDE, UNIX. Java Developer AGS Health - Hyderabad, Telangana July 2014 to July 2015 Responsibilities:    • Designed and developed the application.  • Converted XML data into HTML specification to be displayed in the webpage.  • Involved in complete Software development life cycle using J2EE and Client GUI in Struts, JSP.  • Created a solution to replace legacy/Web Method system with a JMS, MQ based engine.  • Used simple Struts Validation for validation of user input as per the business logic and initial data loading.  • Used Spring Beans to encapsulate business logic and Implemented Application MVC Architecture using Spring MVC framework.  • Involved in writing Spring Configuration XML file that contains object declarations and dependencies.  • Worked on IBatis ORM for Data access platform.  • Worked on client-side technologies like HTML, CSS and java script in designing web pages.  • Used RAD, Eclipse for application Development.  • Implemented Frontend using Struts and back end using Spring.  • Expertise in developing interfaces and packages in ODI (Oracle data integrator).  • Brought in changes to the existing JSON response structure for the shipping page.  • Worked on JAX-WS, JAXB Web Services using SOAP and JAX-RS, Jersey for Restful web Services.  • Extensively used Log4J for logging, JUNIT as a test framework, ANT.  • Worked on UNIX Shell Scripting tasks.  • Involved in system testing and integration testing, and trouble shoot issues in multiple environments.  • Prepared complete documentation for developed portion of the system.  • Worked in Prototyping & Scrum/Agile Software Development methodology.  • Good knowledge on Project Documentation.    Environment: Core Java, J2EE, JSP, Servlets, HTML, CSS, Java Script, XML Beans, Struts, Spring AOP, Spring, Web services, ODI, SVN, Log4j, JMS, Eclipse, JSON, Quality Center, Apache Tomcat, Oracle 10g, Agile Methodology, SQL Developer, Web Logic Server, ANT, Junit, UNIX, Putty. Java Developer Amity IT Solutions - Hyderabad, Telangana May 2013 to June 2014 Responsibilities:  • Involved in Requirement Analysis, Design, Development and Testing of the risk workflow system.  • Involved in the implementation of design using vital phases of the Software development life cycle (SDLC) that includes Development, Testing, Implementation and Maintenance Support.  • Developed front-end screens using Struts, JSP, HTML, AJAX, jQuery, JavaScript, JSON and CSS.  • Implemented XSLT's for transformations of the xml's in the spring web flow.  • Developed POJO based programming model using spring framework.  • Used IOC (Inversion of Control) Pattern and Dependency Injection of Spring framework for wiring and managing business objects.  • Used Hibernate framework for Entity Relational Mapping.  • Used Web Services to connect to mainframe for the validation of the data.  • SOAP has been used as a protocol to send request and response in the form of XML messages.  • WSDL has been used to expose the Web Services.  • Developed stored procedures, Triggers and functions to process the data using PL/SQL and mapped it to Hibernate Configuration File and established data integrity among all tables.  • Involved in the up gradation of WebSphere and SQL Servers.  • Participated in Code Reviews of other modules, documents, test cases.  • Performed unit testing using JUnit and performance and volume testing.  • Implemented UNIX Shell to deploy the application.  • Used MYSQL database for data persistence.    Environment: Java/J2EE, JSP, JDBC, EJB, Struts, XML, HTML, Java Mail, Eclipse, Java Script, Ant, SQL, TOAD, Oracle, WebLogic, Windows. Skills Eclipse, Ejb, Java, Hibernate, Spring, Jboss, jquery, Jsp, Servlets, Struts, C++, Git, Html, Javascript, Bootstrap, Node.js, Json, Scripting, Svn, Visio Additional Information Technical Skills:  Operating System Windows XP/7/8, UNIX/LINUX  Languages Java, C, C++  Java Core Java, Multithreading, Collections, Exception Handling, Connection Pooling  RDBMS Oracle, SQL Server, MySQL, MONGO DB, DB2  Web Technologies JSP, Servlets, JavaScript, XML, AJAX, HTML, CSS, JQUERY, JSON, Angular JS, Bootstrap, Ext JS, Node.js  Scripting Languages Shell  Distributed Technologies EJB (2.0 & 3.0), JDBC  XML Technologies XML, XSLT, XPath  Web Services SOAP and REST  Protocols HTTP, TCP/IP, SOAP, SMTP, LAN and WAN  Application Framework Struts, Spring, MVC, Spring Boot, Spring Batch  Object Relational Mapping Tool Hibernate  Unit Testing Framework Junit  Design Tools Rational Rose, Microsoft Visio  Application/Web/ Servers Oracle WebLogic 11i, IBM WebSphere 6.1/7.0/8.5, Tomcat 6x/7x, Jboss  IDE/Tools RAD (Rational Application Developer), SoapUI, PL/SQL Developer, Eclipse, IntelliJ 7.0  Configuration and Build Tool Tortoise SVN, Maven, ANT, CVS, Git, JIRA