Senior Java Programmer Senior <span class="hl">Java</span> Programmer Senior Java Programmer - Hadoolytics Jersey City, NJ Work Experience Senior Java Programmer Hadoolytics March 2017 to Present Environment JDK, Spring, Spring Webflow, Oracle, JMS, JSP, Java Beans, Hibernate, RAD, XML, Log4j, Web Services, Micro-services.  Project Description  Hadoolytics is a global software company with primary focus on Cloud & Big Data services and solutions. Hadoolytics brings unparalleled experience in architecting and implementing both transactional and analytical use of cases associated with Big Data. They use the leading Cloud platforms, NoSql databases, and Hadoop to solve exceptionally challenging business problems and deliver real value to customers.    Roles & Responsibilities  • Analysis, design, development, testing, and implementation for buying control and inventory management business.  • Analysis, design, development, testing and implementation derived by changed requirement from client.  • Developed web application using Spring framework.  • Implementation of Web Design based on CSS3, HTML5, and Front-End Framework.  • Developed persistence layer using ORM Hibernate for transparently store objects into database.  • Project deployed on WebLogic server technology.  • Diagnosing and performing resolutions on Develop problems.  • Involved in providing Test Plans and Test Cases for Tester.  • Handled many different types of issues.  • Fixed high level and critical bugs in the application.  • Developed new pipeline processors assisting in commerce checkout and fulfillment extensions.  • Developed Custom Droplets and new search pages.  • Used dynamo components including Form Handlers and DSP tags in Java Server Pages.  • Worked with DevOps tools such as TeamCity.  • Used SVN version controls to check in/out files, etc. Also responsible for branching and merging the branch to mainly using Tortoise SVN tool. Senior Java Developer Clarivate October 2016 to March 2017 Environment Java 6, Tomcat 7, Java, Spring, Hibernate, ExtJS, Oracle, SQL Server, PostgreSQL, Project Description  Working on a legacy application that we are providing maintenance, by fixing bugs that are present.    Roles & Responsibilities  • Use java, sql to fix defects that happen in the legacy application, and once fixed, push them to production.  • Work with USA team to fix defects.  • Involved in Daily Stand Up Meetings. Java Developer Accenture July 2014 to October 2016 Environment  Java 1.6, JSP, HTML, CSS, Selenium, git, SourceTree, Jenkins, Rally, Teamwork, Javascript, jQuery, CSS, HTML, Apache. korn shell, bash, Oracle Database, Red Hat Servers, putty. Selenium IDE, Ant, IBM Websphere, Linux Server, Java, WebLogic, OC4J, IntelliJ IDE, svn.    Project Description  Description: Worked as a member in different teams with different technologies across different clients. When not in project with an Accenture client, received training in Microsoft Dynamics, AngularJS, Spring, Hibernate, Javascript and other technologies.    Roles & Responsibilities  1. Role: Java SDET  a. Use java and selenium framework to design test automation scripts.  b. Migrate old interface selenium script to work with new responsive interface  c. Work with USA team on a daily basis.  d. Work with creating test cases based on test documentation.  e. Creation of test deliverables to client.  f. Involved in Daily Stand Up Meetings, Sprint Planning and Backlog Grooming for Agile Scrum Process.  2. Role: UI Developer  a. Work on creation of mock up designs using javascript and jquery to show how a new product would work.  3. Role: Dev Op  a. On-Call support 24/7 for production servers.  b. Shell scripting to add or update functionalities to server process.  c. Work with oracle databases to make sure server were working correctly  d. Work with USA team on a daily basis.  e. Involved in Daily Stand Up Meetings, and Sprint Planning Agile Scrum Process.  4. Role: Developer  a. Creation of Ant script to help with deployments to websphere server  b. Creation of Selenium scripts to help validation of application after build was deployed to server.  c. Creation of Entity-Relationship Diagrams, for projects that were being migrated to WebLogic from OC4J  d. Validation of Builds for migrated projects on Weblogic  e. Deployment of Builds on Weblogic.    Project Name Bank Project Java Developer USAA January 2012 to July 2014 Environment  JDK 1.6, J2EE, Spring webflow, Wicket, HTML, JavaScript, Eclipse, StarTeam, IBM Rational Team Concert, Struts, IBM Websphere, Junit, Mockito, PowerMock, Smartbear, Selenium    Project Description  As a Java developer worked on adding new capabilities to existing modules, helping with migration from struts based framework to the wicket framework. Helped construction of junit of existing business logic, to help with migration to new business logic.    Roles & Responsibilities  1. Perform Unit testing with Junit, Mockito and Power Mock  2. Develop new functionalities for web application using Wicket Framework and Struts for Java.  3. Work with Springwebflow for managing users paths through the application.  4. Support to testing team and participate in defect triage meetings.  5. Helped with migration from Struts framework to Wicket framework.  6. Involved in Daily Stand Up Meetings, Sprint Planning and Backlog Grooming for Agile Scrum Process.    Project Name Larva Game Studios Java Developer Larva Game Studios August 2010 to January 2012 Environment Monodevelop, Unity 3d 3, Javascript, C#, SVN, Maya.  Project Description  Investigate and analyze different game engine to use for development, and then work with team to design, code and implement game behaviors.    Roles & Responsibilities  1. Check ease of use of different game engines, and scripting languages they use.  2. Program different game mechanism using unity 3d.  3. Use of C# and Javascript for coding in unity 3d.  4. Daily Stand up meetings. Skills Eclipse, J2ee, Java, Hibernate, Spring, Microsoft visual studio, Visual studio, C#, Git, Subversion, Sql server, Sql server 2008, Mysql, Oracle, Postgresql, Sql, Tomcat, Web server, Weblogic, Apache Additional Information Skill Summary    Operating Systems: Windows, Linux  Application Servers: Apache Web Server, Tomcat, WebLogic, IBM  Languages/ Technologies: Java, J2EE, C#, AngularJS  Framework / Services: Spring, Hibernate  Tools/ Software: NetBeans, Eclipse, Microsoft Visual Studio, MonoDevelop, IntelliJ, Git, Subversion  Data base Oracle, SQL Server 2008, MySQL, PostgreSQL