Software Engineer Software Engineer Software Engineer Tampa, FL Looking for acquire a position where I can apply my knowledge, and be part of the team that develop the company goals.    Known by self-train, optimism, high energy, self-organized and details oriented approach. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Software Engineer Cognizant Technology Solutions - Tampa, FL August 2018 to Present Working as a Software Engineer at Verizon FIM and 3GIS system project.     Responsibilities include:   • Design, development, implementation, code refactoring, quality assurance (QA) and unit tests of software programming applications.  • Work with a Scaled Agile framework; agile environment.  • Work with team members to support and/or design software architectures.   • Assist and complete trainings to learn new technologies; like AWS, Scaled Agile framework and more.   • Create Functional Design Specification (FDS) and User Requirement Specifications (URS) documents.  • Analyze and provide documentation with causes and solution of special tasks; e.g. Memory Leaks - Garbage Collector errors.     Programming Languages, Frameworks and Tools: Java, Java 8 , JavaScript, HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, Spring Boot, Spring MVC, DAO Structure Pattern, Oracle SQL, PostgreSQL, PL/SQL, AWS, SAFe Framework, POSTMAN, Oracle SQL Developer, Windows, Unix, JIRA, GitLab, Notepad++, Maven, Mockito, JUnit, JSON, JDBC, AJAX, and more. Full Stack Developer Kaligia Biosciences - Saint Petersburg, FL April 2018 to July 2018 • Design, modification, development and implementation of software programming applications.  • Consults with internal colleagues to gather information about program needs, objectives, functions, features and input and output requirements.  • Help design and code screen layouts, graphical user interfaces, printed outputs and interfaces with other systems.  • Converts designs and specifications into computer code. Compiles code into programs and corrects errors detected in compile process.  • Analyzes code to find causes of errors and revises programs.  • Consults with colleagues to prototype, refine, test and debug programs to meet needs.  • Participates in brainstorming and design reviews, understanding any effect on core process competencies.  • Maintains standards of excellence in all Software Development Processes.    Programming Languages and Frameworks:  Java, JavaScript, OOPS, HTML, CSS, AJAX, SPRING, MVC, SQL, PostgreSQL, YML, MyBatis, XML, Maven, Scrum    Tools:  Eclipse, IntelliJ IDEA, Bitbucket, JIRA, TRELLO, Windows, UNIX System Software Engineer Teksol Integration Group - Lakeland, FL October 2017 to March 2018 Work as System Software Engineer to develop an IOT environment.    The internet of things, or IoT, is a system of interrelated computing devices, mechanical and digital machines, objects, animals or people that are provided with unique identifiers (UIDs) and the ability to transfer data over a network without requiring human-to-human or human-to-computer interaction.    Programming Languages, Frameworks and Tools: Java, JavaScript, AWS, Redshift, NodeRed, Aginity, PLC, SQL, Cloudwatch, SISENSE, ElastiCube, JSON, HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, C++, JIRA, Bitbucket, Python, IntelliJ IDEA, Eclipse Java Software Engineer Fusionworks, Inc - San Juan, PR February 2017 to June 2017 • Work under SUI (Sistema Unificado de Información PR gov) as front-end developer.  • Implementation and code refactoring using Java, JavaScript, Groovy, CSS, HTML, Bootstrap.  • Version control and issue tracking with Bitbucket and JIRA.  • Working under SCRUM framework with the developer team.  • Interact with Spring framework, Oracle SQL, and MVC architectural pattern. Network Systems Technician Nokia Networks - Hato Rey, PR September 2012 to May 2014 • Complete trainings and apply the skills in a fast learning environment.  • Validated the correct installation, connectivity, programming and functionality of the 7330/7302 FTTN ISAM. Education Bachelor's in Computer Engineering Universidad Del Turabo (accredited by ABET) - Gurabo, PR Skills Java, Javascript, Groovy, HTML, Scrum, SQL, C++, CSS, Bootstrap, JIRA, Bitbucket, Matlab, Eclipse, IntelliJ IDEA, XML, C, Maven, MyBatis, PostgresSQL, AJAX, Spring, MVC, OOPS, Oracle SQL, Mockito, AWS, Tomcat Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/emilionarvz/ Additional Information Fully Bilingual: English / Spanish    RELEVANT COURSEWORKS: Data Structures and Algorithms, Object Oriented Programming, Programming Languages, Operating Systems, Software Engineering, Web Designs, Introduction to Databases.