Java developer <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">developer</span> Java developer - GE Healthcare Waukesha, WI • 6 Years of experience in Software Application Development, Object Oriented Programming and Web based Database Applications using JAVA/ J2EE technologies like spring, Hibernate, Web Services, Java Beans, servlets and JDBC etc.  • Experience on Java Multi-Threading, Collection, Interfaces, Synchronization, and Exception Handling.  • Expertise in Frameworks like Spring 4.0, Spring Modules such as Dependency Injection, AOP and MVC, struts, Hibernate ORM.  • Designed responsive layout for web page using HTML, CSS, JavaScript and jQuery.  • Experience in deploying web application using application servers like Web Logic 8.1, Web Sphere, JBoss 4.0 and web servers like ApacheTomcat 7/8.  • Expertise in using build tools like Maven, Ant tools for building of deployable Artifacts such as War, Ear from source code and environment configuration.  • Performed defect fixes in applications using Perl scripting language.  • Experience in developing single page Applications (SPAs) using Angular JS JavaScript framework by creating modules, controllers, ng-repeat, directives, Modules and routing etc.  • Expertise in developing Message Driven Beans to implement incoming JMS messages.  • Expertise with major databases such as Oracle 11g, DB2, SQL Server.  • Experience with database persistence layer like Hibernate 5.0 ORM.  • Experience in using version controlling system like CVS, SVN and GIT etc.  • Good understanding of Object-Oriented Design (OOD) methodologies using UML and applying design patterns.  • Extensive experience in database designing using RDBMS Concepts in Oracle, MYSQL and familiar with NoSQL Databases like MongoDB 3.x.  • Strong experience in developing software in Python using libraries- Beautiful Soup, numpy, scipy, matplotlib, python-twitter, Pandas data frame, network, urllib2, MySQL dB for database connectivity and IDEs - sublime text, PyStudio, PyScripter, Spyder, PyCharm, and PyDev.  • Proficient in building Restful web service by building Node.js, Backbone JS Server in the back-end to handle requests sent from the front-end jQueryAjax calls.  • Used XML scripting and JSON for transferring/retrieving data between different applications.  • Experience in working with Amazon Web Services (AWS) based micro services in S3, EC2 and IAM, Amazon Dynamo db.  • Proficient in implementing Object Oriented Programming (OOPS) Concepts including Encapsulation, Inheritance,  • Abstraction and Polymorphism, multithreading, Collection, Servlets, and memory management.  • Proficient in using various design patterns such as MVC, Data Transfer Object, Value Object, Singleton, Service Locator, Session Façade, Factory Pattern and DAO.  • Worked on JDBC for mapping the java objects to relational database and SQL queries to retrieve, insert and update the data from the database tremendous knowledge in working with databases like Oracle, DB2, MS SQL, PL/SQL and MySQL.  • Good expertise with Internet protocols specifically HTTP, TCP/IP, Linux.  • Knowledge on deployment, Database Migration, Cloud Migration, Monitoring, Metrics and logging systems on AWS.  • Experienced in all stages of a SDLC (Requirements analysis, Designing, Coding/Implementation, Testing, Deployment and maintenance) including Agile/Scrum workflow.  • Knowledge and experience with Big Data technologies and solutions, e.g., Cassandra, Hadoop, Spark, MongoDB  • Knowledge on Messaging Queuing service like KAFKAand connecting API between Application and Database.  • Highly adept at promptly and thoroughly mastering new technologies with a keen awareness of new industry developments and the evolution of next generation programming solutions. Work Experience Java developer GE Healthcare July 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Developed the application in AGILE/SCRUM fashion and collaborate with Business Analysts, Product owners, Scrum master, Scrum team and stake holders in the software development process.  • Designed and developed various CT web applications like Detector IQBAT Where all these tools is used by Field Engineers of GE.  • Involved in tube watch for parsing large chunks of data using NodeJS.  • Creating website layout/user interface by using standard HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, AngularJS, JavaScript, NodeJS, Ajax.  • Developed single page applications using Angular JS.  • Used D3 graphs for plotting CT sensor data on the web application.  • Used various NPM modules on the server-side operations.  • Built various NodeJS API's in server side.  • Building a web server to host a service tool which provides user account control, access control, file upload/backup functions. Parsing the uploaded file and displaying on the web browser by providing the user extensive features on the interface.  • Worked with team of developers on Python applications for RISK management.  • Generated Python Django Forms to record data of online users.  • Used Python and Django creating graphics, XML processing, data exchange and business logic implementation.  • Integrate data from various back-end services and databases.  • Parsing and filtering the large chunks of data to JSON objects using NodeJS &PCF libraries  • Working on the web applications which include security and session management.  • Involved in Express HTTP Server design.  • Responsible for entire web design process and its corresponding code check-in's.  • Involved in writing application level code to interact with APIs, Web Services using AJAX, JSON and XML  • Working on MongoDB, PostgreSQL database and Object-Oriented Programming.  • Properly following the build and application execution process with respect to any features/ enhancements and defect fixing.  • Worked on cache techniques using REDIS database.  • Used Mocha and chai for unit testing.  • Wrote JQUERY function while implementing various UI Screens across the whole web application (both consumers facing as well as internal application)  • Involved in developing various generic JavaScript functions used for validations.  • Used GIT for version control for defect tracking.  • Helped define and improve product experience for PCF Metrics.  Environment: JavaScript, CSS3, HTML5, angular, Node.js, Bootstrap, AJAX, Web, Git, jQuery, REST, Design Patterns. Java Full Stack Developer Verizon, New Jersey January 2017 to June 2018 Description: Client Invoice Services (CIS) is a robust internet and intranet Web application. This system deals with invoices, billing, premium, renewal and receipt. This system also deals with the vendor information according to client services. System generates different reports for their operations such as New Invoice, Premium, services and various summary reports. Client Invoice Services is primarily used by the vendors to know the information regarding the invoices of clients. This Intranet application also features a powerful search engine and helps keep track of invoices and various client activities like report generation, status maintenance etc. Effective Role Based Authorization is enforced on the application.    Responsibilities:  • Developed the application in AGILE/SCRUM fashion and collaborate with Business Analysts, Product owners, Scrum master, Scrum team and stake holders in the software development process.  • Designed and developed for the Presentation layer using JSP/Servlets and Spring MVC Framework.  • Involved in writing business logic using spring framework.  • Extensively involved in design and implementation of Webpages by using HTML5, CSS3, jQuery, JavaScript and working knowledge of AngularJS, bootstrap.js, and React js.  • Developed single page application, Components using AngularJS directives, Controllers, view, Services and modules and routing.  • Used JavaScript for client-side presentation and, data validation on the client side with in the forms.  • Developed Front-End code with Ajax call in Angularjs and JQuery to retrieve the data as the JSON object.  • Involved in rendering additional components with custom HTML tags using ReactJs.  • Custom NodeJS is used to simulate API response before client implementation was complete and proxy requests to finish client API's.  • Spring MVC framework is implemented to provide the controller framework.  • Implemented Restful web services to retrieve data from client side and made Rest API calls from Angularjs.  • Used JAX-RS servlets to implement the restful web services.  • Designed and implemented Restful web services using Spring Boot for the application to seamlessly integrate with supporting subsystem.  • Handled response data from RESTFUL web services using JSON and JQuery to update UI Interacted with java controllers (JQuery, Ajax, and JSON to write/read data from back end systems)  • Created GET/PUT request and response using RESTFUL web services.  • Built Spring Boot based java Micro services to support enterprise web application.  • Build a Rest API using spring Boot were consumed by ORMB to setup the rates.  • Involved in consuming, producing Restful web services using JAX-RS.  • Used Mongo DB as data storage and utilized aspects like replica sets, clever document design to make services extensibility scale and future wise.  • Experience in writing PL/SQL Stored procedures, Functions, Triggers and Complex SQL's  • Worked on database interaction layer for insertions, updating and retrieval operations on data.  • Implemented the persistence layer using Hibernate and configured Hibernate with spring to interact with the Database from the DAO.  • Create RFP (Request for Proposal) Micro Services to provide Restful API utilizing Spring Boot with Spring MVC  • Developing the back-end part with Hibernate i.e., ORM tool andUsed Hibernate for database and to manage Transactions.  • Involved in writing MAVEN script for creating destination folders, compiling, creating jar, war and ear files and copying the files to deployment folder.  • Wrote JUnit test cases for unit testing, integration testing, and automated functional tests, run automatically by Jenkins in the builds triggered by each push to Git.  • Used Jenkins for continuous integration to deploy application in AWS cloud  • Used JIRA for tracking the project Stories in Agile Methodology.  • Extensively used My Eclipse IDE configured and deployed the application into Apache Tomcat.  Environment: Agile, Spring 3.1, Git, Hibernate 4.2, HTML 5, AngularJS, NodeJS, ReactJs, JavaScript, Design Patterns, JUnit, Oracle SQL, Mongo DB, Spring Boot, Microservices, Web Services-Rest, Maven, AWS, Eclipse 4.3, Backbone JS, Web Logic 11g, Apache Tomcat 8, Jenkin. Java Developer New Jersey department of education - Trenton, NJ February 2016 to December 2016 Description: New Jersey Department of Education is a state Client, coming up with latest web based applications to serve the education system efficiently. Career and technical Education Data Management system (CTEDMS) is another web-based application which deals with approval and re-approval of new programs or already existing programs for different school districts in NJ.    Responsibilities:  • Worked as a full-stack Java developer for CTEDMS app.  • Extensively involved in Design, Development and Support phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) for the project.  • Prepared an entire Data Model for the application including object table relationships.  • Implemented application using Spring MVC and spring validation framework.  • Developed custom user interfaces for NJ DOE schools using jQuery, jQuery UI for client-side activities.  • Used spring form tag library and other JSP tag libraries for form validations and view interfaces.  • Used HTML, Spark, Bootstrap, CSS3, AngularJS to design the entire web application and make it mobile friendly application.  • Successfully implemented the MVC pattern by writing the JSP as a view and java beans i.e. POJO's as a model and Dispatcher Servlets as the controller.  • Implemented AJAX with JSON to support UI dynamic functionalities.  • Worked closely with the web application development team to ensure proper integration between mobile application and web application using Twitter Bootstrap.  • Successfully implemented the MVC pattern by writing the JSP as a view and java beans i.e. POJO's as a model and Dispatcher Servlets as the controller.  • Implemented AWS Micro Service Architecture, with Spring Boot-based services interacting through a combination of SOAP and Apache Kafka.  • Developed Web Services (SOAP) via WSDL, XML and XSLT for transferring data between different applications  • Involved in producing & consuming SOAP based web services using WSDL, SOAP, JAX-WS, SOAUP UI.  • Implemented custom logging mechanism with the help of Log4j for logging all user operations in the form.  • Used MAVEN Scripts for deploying the application on to dev, test and stage systems.  • Application layer and Services layer are primarily coded using Java on Spring Tool Suite (Eclipse) IDE  • Worked with CMIS client to support file upload and delete using AJAX.  • Used Spring JDBC to access the data stored.  • Used JUnit for unit testing application layer code and operation level testing for services  • SVN was used for all source code control and maintenance  • JIRA is used to track development tasks, bugs, enhancements and upgrades  • Implemented a continuous delivery pipeline with Docker for custom application images in the cloud using Jenkins.  • Used Docker, deployed a new running container, worked on the setup of Docker registry and published all the Docker images to that registry.  • Application is hosted on Tomcat application server during development and deployed it to Web sphere application later.  • Worked in an AGILE Environment: Attended daily Stand-up meetings and work was carried out based on bi-weekly Sprints  Environment: HTML, Spring MVC, Spark, Spring ORM, CMIS, jQuery, jQuery UI, JDBC, JSP, Bootstrap, AngularJS, AJAX, XML, MYSQL, WSDL, AWS, SVN, Log4j, Junit, RMI, RAD, EJB, Web Services - SOAP, Spring Boot, Micro services, Docker, Protractor, RAD, Kubernetes, LINUX, DB2, Spark, Oracle. Java Developer USAA - San Antonio, TX September 2014 to December 2015 Description: The United Services Automobile Association (USAA) is a Texas-based diversified financial services group of companies offering banking, investing, and insurance to people and families that serve, or served, in the United States military.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in SDLC requirements gathering, analysis, design, development and testing of application developed using agile methodology.  • Created user-friendly GUI interface and Web pages using HTML, CSS, JQuery and Java script.  • Used Spring MVC, Ajax and Dependency Injection for handling presentation and business logic.  • Used Spring IOC to maintain loose coupling between layers published the business layer as services and injected the necessary dependent components and published cross cutting concerns like Logging, User Interface exceptions, Transactions using Spring AOP and annotations.  • Developed application using Spring Modules following MVC design pattern.  • Primarily focused on the spring components such as Dispatcher Servlets, Controllers, Model and View Objects, View Resolver  • Responsible for designing Hibernate ORM mapping files based on business logic and Object relationship.  • Integrated spring and hibernate together and worked on developing backend components and services using Hibernate and spring.  • Extensively used HQL and SQL for querying databases.  • Developed Message Driven Bean for asynchronous sending Messages using JMS.  • Consumed Web Services to interact with other external interfaces to exchange the data in the form of XML and by using SOAP2.  • Used Oracle SQL Server for storing the data and extensively used PL/SQL queries along with stored procedures, Joins and functions for complex queries and data analysis.  • Written and modified SQL queries and stored procedures for the application to communicate with Database.  • Oracle used as backend, Worked on SQL queries for persistence of Business Objects.  • Established Database Connectivity using JDBC API, Hibernate O/R mapping with Spring ORM for MySQL Server.  • Packaged and deployed the application in IBM Web Sphere.  • Used Log4J for application logging and notification tracing mechanisms.  • Performed testing using JUnit and tested various test cases using Seleniumand on service providers like Browser Stack.  • Used Cucumber to write acceptance tests for web application.  • Used JIRA to track bugs, prioritize and discuss team's work in full context  Environment: Java, HTML, CSS, Java script, JSON, XML, AJAX, jQuery, DAO, Hibernate, Spring MVC, EJB, Cucumber, Web Sphere Server, MySQL Server, Selenium, EJB, JMS, Ant, Eclipse IDE, JIRA, LINUX, Web Service-Soap. Java Developer Info Tech - Hyderabad, Telangana August 2013 to March 2014 Description: The objective of Item Management is to set-up, maintain, and share Item information in a flexible system that easily supports Unilever's growth, increases speed to market and improves data accuracy, while reducing user workload. Guided Setup is one module of the project which functions as a wizard to complete the configuration and creation of various types of items like Single Items, Multiple Items and Assortment Items.    Responsibilities:  • Analysis, design and development of application based on J2EE and design patterns  • Involved in all phases of SDLC (Software Development Life Cycle) and used oops concepts.  • Developed user interface using JSP, HTML, JavaScript and CSS.  • Involved in developing functional model, object model and dynamic model using UML  • Development of the Java classes to be used in JSP and Servlets  • Implemented asynchronous functionalities like e-mail notification using JMS.  • Implemented Multithreading to achieve consistent concurrency in the application.  • Handled the exceptions using try and catch blocks.  • Used CollectionInterface to develop internal logic of the application  • SOAP service created with top down approach using Apache Axis2 framework, with marshaling and unmarshaling and producing WSDL file.  • Dependency injection using Factory Design Pattern and Spring IOC  • Using Spring Batch and JPA and implemented services to do backend processing.  • Exposed and implemented top-down and bottom-up SOAP web services.  • Used the spring framework for managing the navigation and page flow and working with applets development.  • Created SQL queries and used PL/SQL stored procedures.  • Used Test Driven Development approach and wrote many unit and integration test cases  • Involved in writing flexible queries at DAO layer.  • Used Eclipse as IDE tool to develop the application and JIRA for bug and issue tracking  • Followed strategy of TDD using Junit based testing where writing test cases first and then writing logic based on test cases to reduce QA cost.  • Used ANT tool for building and packaging the application.  • Code repository management using SVN.  Environment: Core Java, Struts, Servlets, HTML, CSS, JSP, XML, JavaScript, serialization, DAO layer, Spring, Applets, Integration testing, Cloning, WSDL, Water fall, OOPS, Eclipse IDE, AXIS2, EJB, Oracle, SQL, JDBC, JBOSS, Swing, JUNIT, Eclipse ANT, SVN, Apache Tomcat Server. Education Master's Skills HTML (5 years), JAVA (5 years), TESTING (5 years), USER INTERFACE (5 years), WEB SERVICES (5 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:  Languages C, JAVA, SQL  Enterprise Java JSP, Servlets, JDBC, JSTL  JSE Technologies Collections, Serialization, JMS, JavaBeans, Java Swing, JDBC  Mark-up/XML Technologies HTML, XHTML, JavaScript, AngularJS2, Node js, Backbone JS, React js, CSS, XML, AJAX, JQuery, JSON  Tools & Framework Struts, Spring, Hibernate, Spring Boot, Kafka  Web services SOAP, Restful, JAX-RS, JAX-WS, AXIS 2, PCF  Web/App Servers Web Sphere, Apache Tomcat, JBoss, Web Logic  Database Oracle 10g/11g, SQL-Server, MySQL server, MongoDB, Cassandra  O-R mapping Hibernate, JPA  Modeling/ CASE Tools Rational Rose, MS Visio Professional, MS Visio Tool  Testing Tools/ Others JUnit, Soap UI  Version Control CVS, SVN, GIT  OS & Environment Windows Vista/XP/2000, UNIX, LINUX  Design Patterns MVC, Singleton, Business Delegate and DAO patterns  Build-Automation Tools and Issue Tracking Tools Maven, Ant, Jenkins, Docker, Chef JIRA, Fire Bug, Pivotal Cloud Foundry