Sr Full Stack Developer Sr Full Stack <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr Full Stack Developer - Avnet Inc Lexington, KY • 8+ Years experienced in all stages of design, development, and deployment of Java/J2EE-based application system for Telecom-services/Healthcare services industry.  • Extensive experience in multi-tier, distributed & SOA based application development.  • Experience in designing, development, implementation, building software products & solutions across variety of business.  • Experience in design and architect experience in J2EE based application systems  • Experience in UI User Interface development using JSP, JSTL, JQuery, and AngularJS,NodeJS.  • Hands on experience in developing Single Page Applications SPA using AngularJS,backbone.js and Node.js  • Extensive experience in developing application software using Java, J2EE, Servlet, JSP, EJB 2.0/3.0, JAX WS, Spring framework, Spring Batch, Spring integration, ORM (Hibernate), JDBC, JNDI, JMS, XSD, XML, SAX, DOM, JAXB, XSLT, HTML, JavaScript.  • Experienced in reengineering, migration, Enterprise Application Integration (EAI), Unified Modelling Language (UML), Object Oriented Application Design (OOAD), performance analysis, optimization and security.  • Recommended alternate strategies, solutions and maintained and developed comprehensive architecture documentation also provided prototyping and architectural designs.  • Experienced in Java/J2EE design patterns, Enterprise Integration Patterns (EIA), ETL, E-R Data Modelling Spring frameworks, best practices, Quality assurance, Deployment and Support  • Experienced in Data Structure, Integration Broker, Messaging, Proof of Concepts (POC), re-usable and components developments  • Experience in caching, Data Replication and performance tuning.  • Experience in designing application using functional and non-functional requirements.  • Intensive knowledge in databases like Oracle 11g, SQL Server, PL/SQL, Queries, Triggers, DB2 Client, O/R Mapping, Hibernate, and JPA.  • Proficient in development of enterprise business solutions using Apache Tomcat, Web Logic and JBOSS application servers.  • Domain knowledge in banking, Insurance, Telecommunication, hospitality services and media  • Experience in Agile and Waterfall software model Methodologies Development  • Performed in the roles of Application Designer, Technical & Development Lead, Application Support, Project implementation and single contact point (SPOC) for project execution and deliverables.  • Extensive experience in implementation of the version control software SVN, VSS, CVS.  • Experience with Test-Driven Development TDD and Pair Programming.  • Experience in developing rich Internet applications using Ajax and JQuery.  • Skilled in developing application in python language for multiple platforms.  • Strong knowledge in principles, OOPS concepts, Configuration management, build process and release management  • Review and approved external party's systems and solutions as per specifications.  • Experience in SOAP, WSDL with JAXB, DOM and SAX Parser. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr Full Stack Developer Avnet Inc - Lexington, KY November 2017 to Present Intel IoT is an ecommerce application where consumers can purchase Intel's IoT products online. The application was developed for 2 types of customers where one being the direct consumer and other being a reseller. The application was designed to maintain the different kind of products, users with their order history and different types of terms and conditions based on the products and location of the consumer.  • Studied business requirements from the consumer and developed functional specification documents.  • Designed the complete website from UI perspective using HTML5, CSS and AngularJS.  • Involved in the design of Database schema with mapping of all primary features in the application.  • Designed and developed the complete server side of the application for phase 1 using EJB which majorly handles the user data and product data.  • Implemented 5 different user roles for the application, which displays content based on different roles.  • Implemented custom directives in Angular JS for the application.  • Implemented the pricing structure and complete cart functionality for the application.  • Implemented role based security using EJB in accessing the services  Environment: Java EE, JDK 7, EJB, Hibernate, Angular JS, Ajax, CSS, HTML, JSON, Maven, Oracle 11g, JAX-WS , Eclipse,  JBoss 8.0, Bugzilla, Nodejs. Sr Java Developer Macy's - Alpharetta, GA September 2015 to October 2017 OmniClient application is a complete migration and merger of existing tools B-Connected and MyClient as one. The main objective of the OmniClient tool development is to help the Sales Associates and their management ladder to track and maintain the customer relationship effectively. The application contains modules such as User Dashboard, My Clients, My To Do, Create List, News, FYI, Memos, Customer Profile, Manage Client, My book search, Customer search, Sales reports, Transaction report and Batch jobs. OmniClient is developed based on responsive design and supports PC, Mobile, iPad and POS devices. It provides role based access and features for the Macys and Bloomingdales users. It has integration and implementation for contacting customer through messaging and email.  • Designed, developed and tested using n-tier J2EE architecture in BEA Weblogic Application Server  • Involved in System Analysis and Design methodology as well as Object Oriented Design and development using OOAD methodology to capture and model business requirements.  • Implemented Desired Contact Method functionality using Spring MVC.  • Implemented Credit card sorting using HQL.  • Implemented create and update record for new customer when fetched form cloud database.  • Implemented the logic for updating the phone type based on the SOAP response.  • Involved in fixing bugs and minor enhancements of the modules.  • Implemented dynamically selected a tab based on its position within its peers, or its ID attributes which supports nested Ajax tabs.  • Used Log4j for logging the application.  • Agile methodology is used for development of the application.  • Developed views and controllers using Spring MVC and Spring Core.  • Business logic is implemented using Spring Core and Hibernate.  • Deployed project components onto IBM WebSphere 7.  • Support QA, Integration and Production Environment testing and fix issues.  • Peer code reviews.  • SVN activities    Environment: Java EE ,JDK 7, JSP, Spring MVC, JSF, Hibernate, OO JavaScript, Ajax, JQuery, CSS, HTML, JSON, WSDL, Maven, Oracle 11g , JAX-WS, SOAP web services , CSS, AJAX, Eclipse, Websphere7, JBoss 6.1, Toad, Squirrel Sql Client. Java/Full Stack Developer Home Depot - Atlanta, GA July 2014 to August 2015 Project- CPR to Rewards  The application was created to provide discounts to the Pro and DIY (military) customers to drive the sales. Worked on a module called "Managed Accounts' which provides the ability to assign one or more customers to a Territory via the Admin Portal. Customer to Territory relationship, and Territory to PAR relationships will continue to flow back to National Accounts Database from Rewards in order to maintain accurate historical data of these Managed Accounts.  Responsibilities:  • Developed HTML interfaces with an understanding of UI design principles and object-oriented program development  • Implemented JSON for massive data transfer between Client/Server, different component coding structure, AJAX calls consumed by XML Http Request object (JavaScript) and http service (AngularJS).  • Implemented different validation control on the web pages using Angular JS.  • Created continuous integration builds using Ant Jenkins. And deployed on WebSphere app server  • Used MVC Framework in the development for data binding and to consume RESTful web services.  • Responsible to provide shell scripts and cron jobs for stand-alone reporting processes Unix, Perl, Groovy, Ruby scripts  • Used Node.js, grunt to run angular.  • Developed Angular custom directives to make them integrate with Oracle Web Center sites.  • Built main application leveraging technologies such as Angular.js, Backbone.js.  • Implemented JSF MVC framework to make separate behavior and presentation in application.  • Used Jira to track the user stories and defects with agile technology.  • Used Stash repository to check in the code with Git.  • Exchanged data with the help of JSON files to exchange data between server and client.  • Managed time effectively meeting all the deadlines for the release of projects.  • Worked on multiple project timelines simultaneously within a deadline driven environment.  • Developed, modified, and implemented the Web site to ensure consistency of layout in accordance with client goals.  Environment: J2EE 1.6, Spring, Hibernate 4.0, Web Services, SOAP, REST, DB2, Eclipse, Enterprise Architect, Oracle 11g, JUnit, Log4j, Maven, IBM using RAD v8.0x. Sr Java Developer Macy's October 2012 to June 2014 OmniClient application is a complete migration and merger of existing tools B-Connected and MyClient as one. The main objective of the OmniClient tool development is to help the Sales Associates and their management ladder to track and maintain the customer relationship effectively. The application contains modules such as User Dashboard, My Clients, My To Do, Create List, News, FYI, Memos, Customer Profile, Manage Client, My book search, Customer search, Sales reports, Transaction report and Batch jobs. OmniClient is developed based on responsive design and supports PC, Mobile, iPad and POS devices. It provides role based access and features for the Macys and Bloomingdales users. It has integration and implementation for contacting customer through messaging and email.  • Designed, developed and tested using n-tier J2EE architecture in BEA Weblogic Application Server  • Involved in System Analysis and Design methodology as well as Object Oriented Design and development using OOAD methodology to capture and model business requirements.  • Implemented Desired Contact Method functionality using Spring MVC.  • Implemented Credit card sorting using HQL.  • Implemented create and update record for new customer when fetched form cloud database.  • Implemented the logic for updating the phone type based on the SOAP response.  • Involved in fixing bugs and minor enhancements of the modules.  • Implemented dynamically selected a tab based on its position within its peers, or its ID attributes which supports nested Ajax tabs.  • Used Log4j for logging the application.  • Agile methodology is used for development of the application.  • Developed views and controllers using Spring MVC and Spring Core.  • Business logic is implemented using Spring Core and Hibernate.  • Deployed project components onto IBM WebSphere 7.  • Support QA, Integration and Production Environment testing and fix issues.  • Peer code reviews.  • SVN activities.    Environment: Java EE ,JDK 7, JSP, Spring MVC, JSF, Hibernate, OO JavaScript, Ajax, JQuery, CSS, HTML, JSON, WSDL, Maven, Oracle 11g , JAX-WS, SOAP WebServices , CSS, AJAX, Eclipse, Websphere7, JBoss 6.1, Toad, Squirrel Sql Client. Java Developer Anabko Developers - IN May 2011 to September 2012 Responsibilities:  • Designed User interfaces using Ext.Js.  • Extensively involved in the integration of the Front End web interface with the controller using Spring MVC.  • Involved in creating JUnit based unit test cases using Easy Mock as the mocking framework for the objects under test.  • Analyzed code coverage report from Hudson to improve code coverage.  • Obtained experience in using Hibernate 3.0 framework to interact with Oracle database.  • Created POJO's and DAOs for the database entities using Hibernate Annotation mapping.  • Extensively used Spring MVC for servlet configurations both during application Development and Test.  • Implementing systems components or systems using relevant technologies and methodologies  • Used Subversion (SVN) for change management and used Maven based POMto facilitate build management.  • Reviewed existing code and recommended effective coding standards for code reuse and performance by making effective use of various designs patterns.  • Involved in working with the QA to assist in writing test code and debugging the defects in the application  • Extensively worked with Linux as the primary Operating System.  • Created documentation for the Application to assist QA and Business.  • Obtained extensive experience of the Agile development methodology  • Developed agile processes using Groovy, JUnit to use continuous integration tools.  • Environment: Java 1.5, Servlets, Oracle 11g, Groovy, Grail, Hibernate, Tomcat server, Apache Tomcat, Maven, SVN Education Bachelor's Degree in Mechanical Engineering in Mechanical Engineering PSG College Technology Skills Ajax (6 years), integration (6 years), INTEGRATOR (6 years), J2EE (5 years), Java (8 years), JavaScript (5 years), JAX (5 years), JAX-WS (5 years), JBoss (5 years), JQuery (3 years), JSON (6 years), Maven (8 years), MODEL VIEW CONTROLLER (6 years), MODEL-VIEW-CONTROLLER (6 years), MVC. (6 years), Oracle (8 years), SOAP (5 years), Subversion (5 years), SVN (5 years), WebSphere (5 years), Java EE, JDK 7, EJB, Hibernate, Angular JS, Ajax, CSS, HTML, JSON, Maven, Oracle 11g, JAX-WS , Eclipse, JBoss 8.0, Bugzilla, Nodejs. (8 years), C#, Nodejs, Angular, React, Node Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  Programming languages Java 6, PHP 5, HTML5,, SQL, JavaScript, C, C , XML  J2EE Technologies Java EE, JSP, Servlet, EJB, JDBC, JNDI, JSTL, JPA  Frameworks Spring MVC, Spring Batch, Spring integration, Hibernate 3.x, Struts 1.x/2.x, GWT,  Web Technologies AngularJS, Node.js , jQuery UI, Ajax, HTML5, DHTML, JavaScript CSS3, RESTful Service, JavaScript/jQuery, Bootstrap, JSON, XML JSTL, DOJO, , XSD, XML, XSLT, DOM, JAXP, JAXB  Web/Application Servers Apache Tomcat, JBoss, WebSphere 7.0/8.1, Web logic 10.3  Web Service SOAP, REST, WSDL, JAX-WS, CXF, AXIS, JAX-RS, WS-Security, SOAP UI  Data Bases Oracle 9i/10g,11g , MongoDB 2.6, MS SQL Server 2008, MySQL 5/6,DB2, TOAD, SQL Developer  Build Deployment Maven, Ant, Jenkins, Mule ESB  Big Data Tools MongoDB, Cassandra, Map Reduce  Design Tools Enterprise Architect, Oracle Data Modeler, Erwin 8.0  Best Practices/Process Gang of Four Design Patterns, Agile, Jtest, Log4j  Version Control Systems Apache Subversion SVN, CVS, Git and Github  Operating Systems Windows 2000, Windows XP, UNIX, Linux, Windows 7/8