Java Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Developer - Express Scripts, MO Wright City, MO ? Over 9 years of Progressive technical and functional experience specializing in the analysis, design, and development of various multi-tiered client-server applications using Java and J2EE technologies.  ? Experience in design, development, coding, testing and implementation phases of SDLC.  ? Good working experience with AGILE and SCRUM methodologies.  ? In-depth knowledge on core java concepts such as OOPS, Collections, Multi-threading, generics, Exception handling, Thread pools, Execution services, concurrent utilities, File IO and Serialization.  ? Good knowledge of Java8 features including Lambda expressions, Method references, Functional interfaces, Stream API, Default methods, Optional class, Collectors class, Parallel array sorting, etc.  ? Experienced in front End technologies such as HTML5, CSS3, jQuery, JavaScript, ReactJS, NodeJS, Angular 4, Bootstrap, AJAX, XSD, Tag Libraries.  ? Experience in developing scalable, efficient enterprise applications using JAVA/ J2EE technologies which include Spring, REST, SOAP, JAX-WS, Hibernate, JSP, Servlets, Struts, JSTL, EJB, XML, and JMS.  ? Experienced in Full stack front end technologies using Grunt, Gulp Server, Yeoman generator for Angular.  ? Experience in spring framework like Spring IOC, Spring DAO, Spring Boot, Spring Batch, Hibernate.  ? Experience in Spring Security for Authentication and Authorization of REST services using OIDC on top of OAuth.  ? Extensive knowledge of XML-based standards and protocols such as WSDL and SOAP, Service Oriented Architecture SOA, development of XSD schemas and implementing both SOAP and REST web services.  ? Experience in database modeling, design, and development of complex PL/SQL stored procedures, triggers, packages and views in relational databases: Oracle, SQL Server, PostgreSQL, MySQL, and IBM DB2.  ? Focused on architecting NoSQL databases like Mongo, Cassandra, and Cache database.  ? Expertise in designing Java, J2EE applications using Amazon Web Services and AWS Elastic Compute CloudEC2.  ? Expertise with the employment of Spring Kafka and Zookeeper apart from JMS as messaging service.  ? Experience in Micro Services-Spring Boot, Pivotal Cloud Foundry and Engagement using Spring Boot.  ? Experienced in Development, Deployment, and testing of enterprise applications on Windows &UNIX platforms using IDEs such as Eclipse, Rational Application Developer (RAD), NetBeans, IntelliJ 14.x/15.x  ? Expertise working on Application servers and Web servers like IBM WebSphere 8.0/7.0, BEA WebLogic  10.3/8.1and Apache Tomcat 5.x/6.x, Tomcat 8.0/7.0, Glassfish 4.1.  ? Experienced in version management systems with Clear Case, Microsoft VSS, CVS, and SVN.  ? Hands on experience on installation of python using Docker toolbox.  ? Developing scripts for build, deployment, maintenance and using Python and Bash.  ? Good experience in unit testing, Jasmine and Junit, Automated testing using Java, TestNG, Selenium (IDE web driver), Integration testing using Continuum, Selenium, Hudson and Jenkins.  ? Experienced in integration and deployment of applications using tools such as ANT, Maven, Gradle, and Drools & debugging through log4j. Work Experience Java Developer Express Scripts, MO June 2018 to Present Description: Prior Authorization means that a PBM needs to review and pre-approve a medication before a patient's plan will cover that medication. PA is a subsystem with Eligibility capability. PA can be used to allow members access to a drug which may not be originally allowed under the plan or to override drug costs, co-pays, plan limits, day's supply quantity, refill too soon, allow drugs to be dispensed retail instead of mail, to drive decisions based on Brand v/s Generic, etc. As a Java Developer you will assist in developing TIBCO solutions, participate in design reviews, conduct code reviews, create test plans and participate in testing reviews, and resolve moderate defects. This position will help in supporting the designs, documents, reviews, and maintenance of the components of software solutions for projects related to the support of varying Integration applications as needed. We're looking for a strong candidate that can work autonomously, has experience doing new development (not just maintenance or minor enhancements to existing systems), and someone who has strong problem solving and troubleshooting experience. Ideally this candidate would also be able to work with and guide junior developers during upcoming releases.    Responsibilities:  ? Involved in the analysis, design and development phases of the Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) using Agile (SCRUM) development methodology to deliver regular updates to the business team and project managers.  ? Worked with Angular 4 to develop Single Page Applications (SPAs).  ? Developed UI pages using HTML5, Angular 4, Bootstrap, CSS3, jQuery, AJAX and NodeJS.  ? Build the reusable service components with Angular 4, Bootstrap and JSX to use across various modules.  ? Used Selectors, Events, AJAX and Dom Manipulation components in Angular 4 directives, filters, Services.  ? Built REST by building Nodes in the back-end to handle requests sent from the query Ajax calls.  ? Implemented jQuery to develop the widgets and to perform the client-side validations.  ? Implemented design patterns like MVC, Singleton, Business Delegate, Factory and Service Locator.  ? Used Executor Service Multi threading to implement Thread pool, parallel processing to run processes asynchronously using future calls to access the data.  ? Used advanced Java 8 features like Lambda expressions for array operations, Streams, Method reference, Collections. Enhanced concurrency methods etc. throughout the application for well-defined programming.  ? Used Annotations for Dependency Injection and Spring MVC for REST API s and Spring Boot for Microservices.  ? Implementing or exposing the Micro service architecture with Spring Boot based services interacting through a combination of REST and Apache Kafka message brokers.  ? Implemented micro service architecture using Spring boot and Spring REST to create REST endpoints and integrated Swagger to get dynamic documentation.  ? Used Spring Framework AOP Module to implement logging in the application to know the application status.  ? Experience in Spring Security for Authentication and Authorization of REST Services using OIDC on OAuth 2.0.  ? Experienced circuit breaker patterns and fail safe in Spring Boot Micro Service applications using HYSTRIX and monitored the services using HYSTRIX Dashboard.  ? Deployed Spring Boot based micro services into Docker container using Amazon EC2 container services.  ? Experience in performance tuning with Oracle database. Designed and developed file upload and file download feature with Oracle BLOB and CLOB.  ? Experienced HQL, Named Parameters, Named Queries and Interfaces such as Expression, Query and Criteria for implementation of Hibernate template and extensively used Hibernate Cache.  ? Wrote SQL queries, stored procedures, triggers, views, and enhanced performance with explain plans.  ? Developed DAO layer using Cassandra and expertise in CQL (Cassandra Query Language), for retrieving the data present in Cassandra cluster by running queries in CQL.  ? Developed API for using no Lambda to manage the servers and run the code in the AWS.  ? Used AWS Cloud watch in alerting, maintaining and monitoring of production and corporate servers/storage.  ? Experience with building Docker Images and running them on Docker container.  ? Designed and configured management reports and dashboards using Kibana.  ? Performed GUI, Functional and Regression testing by automated using Selenium and Jenkins.  ? Developed Automation framework and Worked on Test automation framework using Selenium web driver.  ? Familiar with Cucumber, Selenium Web Driver, Selenium commands and X-path and developed grunt tasks to run the unit tests on Jenkins.  ? Used JIRA to assign, track, report and audit the issues in the application.  ? Worked with testing frameworks such as JUnit, Mockito  ? Experience in setting up a test environment for automated script execution using Java, Appium.  ? Identified mobile elements using Appium Inspector and UI Automator Viewer.  ? Used Appium to facilitate mobile testing by creating mobile Driver class with the required Mobile capabilities.  ? Used JavaScript libraries like karma/ jasmine for UI test execution assertions.  ? Configured and administered Jenkins for CI/CD into Tomcat Application Server.  ? Used IntelliJ for development and debugging Spring Boot applications and Used GIT for version control.  Environment: Java 8, Spring Boot, Spring Security, Eureka, Docker, Hibernate 4.x, Microservices, Angular 4, CSS3, Node Js, Ajax, HYSTRIX Dashboard, Oracle 12c, REST, Kafka, AWS IAM, JIRA, Git, Maven, Selenium, Jenkins, Mockito, Appium. Java/J2EE Developer American Express - Phoenix, AZ April 2016 to May 2018 Description: Maps component is responsible for providing the small merchants accepting American Express the promotions and publicity. This application uses Google Maps API, using their location, provides customer's list of merchants who accepts American Express and provides to the customers to know where he could get money saving benefit. The application also has a login experience, where a customer can save the merchant to his saved places. It also has the merchant details like share, direction, Website URL, Phone Number, Help, Trip Advisor and other Social Networking URL's. Marlabs, Inc., a Piscataway, NJ-based software and technology consulting company, has multiple openings for Java/J2EE Developer (for locations nationwide). Design, Development and testing of enterprise Applications using Java/J2EE Applications. Responsibilities Include: Analysis of client business processes and functional requirements; Design and implement middleware, API and UI components; Design, develop and implement tools to support communication with devices and integrate with back-end systems using multi-tiered approach; Design and development of monitoring tools; Develop logic and code, and execute code deployment tasks for the eCommerce website; Writing and implementing test cases,    Responsibilities:  ? Involved in the complete Software Development Lifecycle (SDLC) using the Agile iterative development Methodology. Interacted with the end users and participated in the SCRUM meetings.  ? Developing End-User friendly GUI using JSP, HTML, DHTML, JavaScript & CSS  ? Implemented CSS Manipulation, HTML Event functions, Java script Effects and animations using JQUERY.  ? Involved in development of application using struts, RAD and Oracle database.  ? Developed Data Access Layer using the Hibernate ORM framework.  ? Have coded numerous DAO's using Hibernate Dao Support. Used Criteria, HQL and SQL as the query languages in Hibernate Mapping.  ? Used Web Services for the transmission of large blocks of XML data using SOAP.  ? Used XML for data exchange and schemas (XSDs) for XML validation. Used XSLT for transformation of XML.  ? Written numerous test cases for unit testing of the code using JUnit testing framework.  ? Used Log4j to implement logging facilities. Used Clear Case for version control.  ? Used Ant as a build tool.  ? Configured and Deployed application on Web Sphere Application Server.  ? Description: JDA delivers end-to-end supply chain solutions that help you seamlessly connect your supply chain and profit more in an omni-channel world.  ? Developed front-end screens using JSP, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JSON.  ? Implemented Struts MVC design pattern and front controller pattern along with Action Servlet as a front controller for this application.  ? Developed SCM by using the JSP/HTML like one form for each functionality user interface, standard validations using the JavaScript, Servlets used as the controllers for the business logic and business logic using JDBC, XML parsing techniques etc ..Using MVC.  ? Developed Single Sign-On (SSO) functionality, through which we can run SCM from Oracle Applications.  ? Involved in developing the Routings and configured Routing Program as scheduled the concurrent request.  ? Developed Server-Side components for the business services for creating Items, BOM, Sourcing Rules, and substitute.  ? Involved in raising the Notifications to Oracle Users through Mailing Concept for intimating to start the next process using workflow.  ? Extensively worked on creating the setups for Organizations, Templates, Concurrent Requests, Cross Reference Types, User Creations, assigning responsibilities, creating value sets, Descriptive Flex Fields etc. in Oracle Applications.  ? Used CVS as version control system.  ? Configured internode communication between Cassandra nodes and client using SSL encryption  ? Developed Applications using Rule Engines, Drools 4.x, and ILOG to validate the business User Roles.  ? Administered and deployed applications into jBoss Server.  ? Used Java Messaging Services (JMS) for asynchronous exchange of information such as payment status.  ? Worked on creation of Docker container images, tagging, pushing images, integration of Spring boot.  ? Apache Ant was used for the entire build process.  ? Worked on Spring cloud for Routing, Service-to- service calls, Load balancing.  ? Worked on creation of custom Docker container images, tagging, pushing images, integration of Spring boot.  ? Used SVN as version management, Jira for defect management system.  ? Used JUnit for unit testing of the application and log4j for logging.    Environment: Java, J2EE Multi-threading HTML, CSS, JSP, Node JS, Spring boot, Web services, Micro Services, Maven, JavaScript, AngularJS, Junit, MySQL, Oracle9i/10g Web Sphere,Méthodologie, Jenkins, Docker, Design Patterns, Apache Maven, Junit, Jenkins, Log4j. Java/J2EE Developer UPS - Atlanta, GA September 2013 to March 2016 Description:  UPS is a global leader in logistics, offering a broad range of solutions, facilitating international trade, and deploying advanced technology to more efficiently manage the world of business. Rooted in the innovative use of technology, UPS's unmatched global network enables the broadest and most reliable solutions in the industry  Responsibilities:  ? Created custom directives and filters using AngularJS built-in $http service through dependency injection.  ? Created views and to hook up models to the DOM, Used AngularJS and synchronized data as SPA.  ? Performed DOM manipulations using Java Script for loading and manipulating dynamic content on webpages.  ? For data binding and reusability of HTML pages, Worked with some of the AngularJS directives.  ? Developed business components using core java concepts like Inheritance, Polymorphism, Collections, Serialization, Multithreading, etc.  ? Designed Prototype and project layout skeletons using ReactJS, jQuery and CSS/LESS and HTML.  ? Used JMS ( Java Messaging Service) API to mail notifications upon the success or failure when the backend processes are completed and to send mail notifications regarding any system related problems.  ? Implemented Internationalization using Spring MVC Interceptors and spring core modules.  ? Used Spring validation framework to implement the server-side validations.  ? Developed Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) implementing SOAP services using WSDL, JAX-WS.  ? Did load testing of SOAP Web Services using SOAP UI and Apache JMeter tools.  ? Developed POJO objects and used Hibernate as the Object-Relational Mapping tool to access the persistent data from SQL Server.  ? Configured JBOSS Application server and used Oracle database with Hibernate ORM framework and used the functionalities of Hibernate's second level EHC ache.  ? Worked on Oracle11g and get the data from the database to validate the users.  ? Hands-on writing Stored Procedures, functions, triggers, DDL, DML SQL queries.  ? National level complex problem-solving competition, using JAVA, Data Structures, and Algorithms.  ? Involved in generating JAXB classes from schema files.  ? Developed Test classes using JUnit and Easy Mock and test coverage using EMMA plug-in. • SVN was used for version control systems and source code management.    Environment: AngularJS, Java, J2EE, Spring core, JMeter, Spring MVC, Hibernate, SVN, SOAP, Oracle11g, JBOSS jQuery, React Js, HTML5, Splunk, Junit, Easy Mock, EMMA. Java Developer LCH Consulting - Vienna, VA July 2010 to August 2013 Description:  This project is about comprehensive and integrated Hospital Management System for a Super Specialty  Hospital. This package is used to computerize the activities of a servicing system. This package contains four modules. development, configuration management, and quality assurance plans; coding to meet requirement specifications; developing and maintaining development artifacts (e.g. design documentation, use case diagrams). Requires: Demonstrable hands-on experience integrating commercial and open-source products; hands-on experience using integrated development environments continuous integration tools; and hands-on experience developing web-based applications using a number of Java and related languages and frameworks with technologies.  They are Administration, Patient Care System, Health Services, and Auxiliary Services. Each module is having sub  modules with in this sub modules will maintain storing, registering, details of joining patient details, and over all day activities maintains one database    Responsibilities:  ? Used the Agile methodology to develop the application.  ? Coordinated the activities between onshore and offshore.  ? Collaborate closely with business owners, users, project managers, requirements analysts, testers, and other stakeholders in the software development process.  ? Middle tier development using Java in a J2EE environment.  ? Experience in Developing GUIs using Eclipse RCP/SWT and Core Java Design patterns.  ? Developed the presentation layer written using JSP, HTML, CSS and client-side validations were done using JavaScript, and jQuery.  ? Developing web-tier using struts framework.  ? Used XML Http Request Object to provide asynchronous communication as part of AJAX implementation.  ? Developed ORM mappings using Hibernate annotations and also established data integrity among all tables sitting on Oracle Database.  ? Used IBM WebSphere and JBoss as the Application Servers.  ? Used Java Messaging Services (JMS) for reliable and asynchronous exchange of important information such as payment status report.  ? Estimate effort for completing new features, enhancements, and defect fixes.  ? Participate in design review and code review activities of the team.  ? Creating custom tags for JSP for maximum re-usability of user interface components.  ? Testing and deploying the application on Tomcat.  ? Maintaining the database required for report generation.    Environment: Core Java/J2EE, WebSphere Process Server, JSP, Struts, Spring, OOAD, Oracle 9i, HTML, CSS, JSP, jQuery, JavaScript, AJAX, JMS, XML, Design Patterns, ANT, Tomcat, Rationale Rose. Education Bachelor's Skills ECLIPSE, J2EE, JAVA, HIBERNATE, SPRING, JAX, JAX-WS, JBOSS, JMS, jQuery, JSF, JSP, JSTL, SERVLETS, STRUTS, C++, CASE TOOLS, DESIGN PATTERNS, DTD, GRADLE Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:  Programming Languages Java 6/7/8, Java/J2EE, C, C++, DTD, Design Patterns, SHELL SCRIPTS, PHP, JAVA SCRIPT, SQL, PL/SQL.  Technologies Servlets, JSP, JSTL, JMS, SWING, jQuery, AJAX, XML, XHTML, DHTML, CSS, SASS, LESS, HTML, AngularJS, NodeJS, ReactJS, Ext JS, backbone JS.  Frameworks Struts 2.x/1.x, Spring 3.x, Hibernate 4.x/3.x, JSF 1.2/2.0, IBATIS.  Application/web servers Oracle WebLogic 8.1/9.1, IBM WebSphere 5.1/6.0/6.1/7.0, JBoss, Tomcat 5.0.28/6.0  Database Server Oracle 10g/11g, DB2, MongoDB, SQL Server, MS Access, and MySQL, Cassandra.  Cloud Environments Azure, AWS, Netflix Eureka.  IDE Eclipse, NetBeans, RAD and Rational Rose, IntelliJ14.x/15.x, Spring Tool suite2.x/3.x  Web Services AXIS, SOAP, JAX-WS, WSDL, JAX-P, JAX-B and Restful.  Build Automation ANT, Log4j and Maven 3.x, Hudson 3.x, Jenkins 2.x, Gradle and Drools.  Case Tools Rational Rose, Microsoft Visio, XML Spy, TOAD, AWS.  Methodologies Agile, waterfall, TDD (Test-Driven- Development), Scrum.  Operating Systems Windows, Unix, Linux, and MAC.