Java Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Developer - Protech Solutions Inc Township of Hamilton, NJ ? Having 7+ years of experience on Web & Client-Server application development and design using Object Oriented Programming, Java/J2EE technologies.  ? Hands on experience in designing, developing and deploying applications using J2EE technologies including Java 8, JSP, Servlets, EJB, JSTL, Struts, Spring, AJAX, JDBC, JNDI, Java Beans, Hibernate, Web Services and RDBMS.  ? Hands on experience with Model2 (MVC) architecture and Jakarta Struts/Tiles.  ? Hands on experience in using Jakarta Apache frameworks like Struts, Spring, ANT, JUnit and Log4J.  ? Strong hands - on experience with Spring IO, Spring Boot.  ? Experience in developing Microservices using Spring Boot followed domain driven design.  ? Hands on experience in Front-End technologies like JavaScript, Angular JS, CSS, and HTML.  ? Strong knowledge in Object Relation mapping using Hibernate.  ? Experienced in entire system life cycle (SDLC) including Analysis, Design, Programming, Building, Testing, Debugging, Maintenance and Enhancements of multi-tier, database driven  ? J2EE applications.  ? Worked on Enterprise Java Beans (EJB) that include Session Beans, Message Driven Beans (MDB) and Entity Beans  ? Experience on Core java technology which includes Multithreading, JDBC, RMI, network programming.  ? Extensive experience with Eclipse. Also worked on NetBeans, IntelliJ IDEs.  ? Experienced in the functional usage and deployment of applications in JBoss, WebLogic, WebSphere and Apache Tomcat Server.  ? Good knowledge of database connectivity (JDBC) for databases like Oracle, DB2, SQL Server, MySql, and MS Access.  ? Involved in test driven development using JUnit and Struts Test Case.  ? Hands on experience with Web Services using SOAP, WSDL, XPath, JAXRPC, XML Binding.  ? Experienced with J2EE standard and compatible application servers BEA Weblogic & IBM Web Sphere and also used IBM Message broker for disparate applications.  ? Proficient in using XML Suite of Technologies (XML, XSL, XSLT, DTD, XML Schema, SAX, DOM).  ? Proficient in using Jasper jrxml for creating and generating XL and PDF reports.  ? Experience in developing Jasper reports. Jasper Server, iReports, Jasper Server customization.  ? Excellent analytical capabilities and good communication skills. Ability to quickly adapt to new environments and learn new technologies. Work Experience Java Developer Protech Solutions Inc - Township of Hamilton, NJ April 2015 to Present Protech Solutions Inc., is a global information technology services provider for development, maintenance, and enhancement of automated systems. Protech is a professionally managed global provider of innovative technology and consulting services to both the public and private sector. Protech is currently working with the clients of different states child support projects in USA.    Responsibilities:  ? Involved in creating various configuration files like struts and spring configuration files.  ? Used spring dependency injection mechanism to inject application dependencies at runtime.  ? Used Struts validation frame work to validate the form fields.  ? Involved in creating various Hibernate mapping files and configuring the hibernate configuration file to persist data into the database.  ? Used various Cache providers like EHCache given by the Hibernate Frame Work to cache the results that reduce database hits for every DML operations.  ? Created dispatch action classes and use validation framework for validating fields.  ? Used Hibernate Query Language (HQL) for accessing data from Database.  ? Create database objects such as tables, views, stored procedures, Triggers etc.  ? Developed the applications using JSP, Struts and implemented MVC Architecture.  ? Designed the Java Server Pages (JSP) using Style Sheets (CSS), HTML and XML.  ? Involved in implementing the different web services like SOAP.  ? Used the Soap UI tool to test whether the expected and actual results of SOAP web service are same or not.  ? Involved in Analysis, Design and Implementation/translation of Business User requirements.  ? Expertise in Project Process Flow Management and thorough knowledge of software development life cycle (SDLC) in Agile and Scrum environment.  ? Created Hibernate Mapping files and modelled the database.  ? Experience in developing Microservices using Spring Boot followed domain driven design.  ? Implemented REST Microservices using spring boot. Generated Metrics with method level granularity and Persistence using Spring AOP.  ? Integrated Swagger UI and wrote integration test along with REST document with Microservices.  ? Used Jenkins for Microservices deployment.  ? Converted a monolithic app to microservices architecture using Spring Boot using 12-factor app methodology. Deployed, Scaled, Configured, wrote manifest file for various Microservices in PCF.  ? Involved in the implementation of DAO using Spring-Hibernate ORM.  ? Writing the front end look and appearance for the screens using JavaScript, AJAX, AngularJS and jQuery.  ? Responsible for writing J2EE compliant code using Java 8 for an application development effort. This involves working with JSP, Servlets, JDBC, XML, EJB etc.  ? Involved in the architecture of the modules according to the J2EE Standards like, client tier, web tier and business tier.  ? Developed web pages using HTML, CSS and implement Client Side (Front end) validations using JavaScript.  ? Creating and generating XL and PDF reports using Jasper, jrxml with the tool iReport 2.0  ? Design, develop and deploy user friendly and rich looking Financial and Billing reports using Oracle PL/SQL, Analytic Functions, SQL, iReport and deployed onto Jasper Server.  ? Experience in developing Jasper reports. Jasper Server, iReports, Jasper Server customization.  ? Preparing test cases by using Junit framework.  ? Involved in implementing Action Center flow of User Dash Board to upload the supported Documents.  ? Involved in Implemented the different Spring Batches.  ? Developed the application using Angular JS and spring boot framework.  ? Responsible for creating reports on application performance using HP load runner tool.  ? Developed and generated pdf reports using XSL.    Environment: Java 8, J2EE, Servlets, Jsp, JQuery, Angular JS, Spring 2.5,Spring MVC, Spring Security, Spring Batch, Struts 2, SOAP, REST webservices, Hibernate3, Web services, XML, JSON, XSLT, XSD, Agile, Web Logic 9.x, JSP, JUnit, UML, Eclipse, IBM RAD v9.6, iReport5.6, Jasper Studio 6.8, SQL, PL/SQL, Maven, SVN, HTML, CSS, SQL Developer, Oracle 10g/12c, UNIX. Java Developer Assurant - Wayne, PA March 2014 to April 2015 For nearly a century Assurant Solutions has been there for our customers, helping to protect their finances, possessions and peace of mind. We pride ourselves on our longevity and our ability to look ahead, anticipating the needs of our clients and providing customized solutions to meet consumer demand. From major appliances to mobile devices, from cars to computers, from payment protection to preneed plans, we share a single purpose. We help protect the things that matter most.    Responsibilities:  ? Involved in creating various configuration files like struts and spring configuration files.  ? Used spring dependency injection mechanism to inject application dependencies at runtime.  ? Used Struts validation frame work to validate the form fields.  ? Involved in creating various Hibernate mapping files and configuring the hibernate configuration file to persist data into the database.  ? Used various Cache providers like EHCache given by the Hibernate Frame Work to cache the results that reduce database hits for every DML operations.  ? Created dispatch action classes and use validation framework for validating fields.  ? Used Hibernate Query Language (HQL) for accessing data from Database.  ? Create database objects such as tables, views, stored procedures, Triggers etc.  ? Developed the applications using JSP, Struts and implemented MVC Architecture.  ? Designed the Java Server Pages (JSP) using Style Sheets (CSS), HTML and XML.  ? Involved in implementing the different web services like SOAP.  ? Used the Soap UI tool to test whether the expected and actual results of SOAP web service are same or not.  ? Used JAX- RS API to Create Restful web Service to interact with the Server.  ? Developed MAVEN scripts to build and deploy the application in the JBOSS Application Server.  ? Expertise in Project Process Flow Management and thorough knowledge of software development life cycle (SDLC) in Agile and Scrum environment.  ? Created Hibernate Mapping files and modelled the database.  ? Involved in the implementation of DAO using Spring-Hibernate ORM.  ? Writing the front end look and appearance for the screens using javascript, AJAX, AngularJS and jquery.  ? Responsible for writing J2EE compliant code using Java for an application development effort. This involves working with JSP, Servlets, JDBC, XML, EJB etc.  ? Involved in the architecture of the modules according to the J2EE Standards like, client tier, web tier and business tier.  ? Developed web pages using HTML, CSS and implement Client Side (Front end) validations using JavaScript.  ? Preparing test cases by using Junit framework.  ? Involved in implementing Action Center flow of User Dash Board to upload the supported Documents.  ? Involved in Implemented the different Spring Batches.  ? Created Nack files that handle abnormal situations like file missing and other System related exceptions.    Environment: Java, J2EE, Servlets, Jsp, JQuery, Spring 2.5,Spring MVC, Spring Security, Spring Batch, Struts1.1,Hibernate3, Web services, XML,XSD, Agile, Web Logic 9.x, JSP, JUnit, UML, Eclipse, SQL, PL/SQL, Maven, SVN, HTML, CSS, SQL Developer, Oracle 10g, UNIX. Java Developer JP Morgan Chase - Columbus, OH March 2013 to February 2014 JPMorgan Chase & Co. is an American multinational banking and financial services holding company. It is the largest bank in the United States. The J.P. Morgan brand, historically known as Morgan, is used by the investment banking, J.P. Morgan Asset Management, private banking, private wealth management and treasury & securities services divisions.    Responsibilities:  ? Involved in creation of Low Level Design including sequence diagrams and class diagrams to understand the existing architecture.  ? Involved in the integration of Spring for implementing Dependency Injection (DI/IoC). Developed code for obtaining bean references in Spring IoC framework.  ? Involved in development of SOAP Webservices using Apache Axis2 to extract client related data from databases.  ? Involved in writing Oracle PL/SQL Stored procedures, triggers, views.  ? Primarily focused on the Spring components such as Dispatcher Servlets, Controllers, Model and View Objects, View Resolver. Used Design Patterns such as Singleton, Business Delegate, Session Facade, Service Locator, Simple Factory Pattern, Data Transfer Object.  ? Used Web Services (SOAP & WSDL) to exchange data between portal and other modules of Citi Bank.  ? Implemented Spring-hibernate as Data Access Layer.  ? Utilized the JQuery, AJAX and JavaScript to render widgets on web pages.  ? Developed the application using Eclipse 3.5 as the IDE and used eclipse standard/plug-in features for editing, debugging, compiling, formatting, build automation, test case template generation, mutator/accessor code generation, and version control (SVN).  ? Involved in creating the Hibernate POJO Objects and mapped using Hibernate Annotations.  ? Used Hibernate, object/relational-mapping (ORM) solution, technique of mapping data representation from MVC model to Oracle Relational data model with a SQL-based schema.  ? Used WebLogic Application server to deploy and restart web applications.  ? Expertise in the use of Java/J2EE Design patterns like singleton, MVC, Builder and Strategy patterns  ? Fixing Bugs in different testing phases with the help of Log4J logs  ? Involved in the creation of exhaustive JUnit Unit Test Cases.    Environments: Java 1.6, J2EE, JSP, Servlets, SOAP webservices, Apache Axis2, Spring 3.0, Hibernate 3.0, XML, XSD Schema, PL/SQL, Apache Tomcat, Agile methodology, Oracle WebLogic 10.0 Server, Oracle 10g, Apache ANT, Unix, Junit 4.0 Java Developer MedicAlert Health - Turlock, CA May 2012 to February 2013 A team of MedicAlert call center operators are committed to the foundation's goal and to delivering outstanding service to healthcare professionals when relaying medical information. Call center staff undergo a thorough training program in order to assist with:    Responsibilities:  ? Development, enhancement and testing of the Web Methods flow services and Java services.  ? Used web services for interaction between various components and created SOAP envelopes.  ? Used Apache CXF, WSDL, XML for Creating SOAP web service.  ? Unit Testing of Web Services using SOAP UI.  ? Developed asynchronous messaging systems using JMS, MDB and MQ Series.  ? Created web service Connectors for use within a flow service, while also making the URLs abstract so as to change them at runtime without redeployment.  ? Created a Front-end application using JSPs, JSF, Swing, ExtJS 3.0, GWT and Spring MVC for registering a new patient and configured it to connect to database using Hibernate.  ? Used GWT UI Builder tool to make UI more Interactive.  ? Used Dojo for the client side development and validations.  ? Developed and configured Oracle Database 10g tables including Sequences, Functions, Procedures and Table constraints.  ? Created standalone Java programs to read data from several XLS files and insert data into the Database as needed by the Testing team.  ? Used JUnit for testing.  ? Ant Build tool configuration for automation of building processes for all types of environments - Test, QA, and Production.  ? Developed and provided support to many components of this application from end-to-end, i.e. Front-end (View) to Web Methods and Database.  ? Used SVN as a version-controlling tool for managing the module developments.  ? Prepared code documentation for future reference and upgrades.  ? Conducted code review for team members, involved in testing.    Environment: Java 1.5/1.6, Spring MVC, JDBC, JSF, REST, Hibernate 3.0, Core Java, Selenium, SQL, GWT, DOJO, Oracle 10g, Eclipse, PL/SQL, Windows XP, Apache Ant, Swing, ExtJS 3.0, MQseries, web Logic 9.1, J Unit. Education Bachelors in Engineering in Engineering JNTU Skills Eclipse, J2ee, Java, Hibernate, Spring, Jboss, Jsp, Servlets, Struts, Db2, Jdbc, Sql server, Sql server 2005, Oracle, Sql, C++, Html, Javascript, Bootstrap, Jenkins, Java J2Ee, JEE, MVC, Angularjs, Rest