Software Engineer Software Engineer Software Engineer - Healthesystems ? Around 5 years of experience in IT as a Full stack Java /J2EE Developer and worked in the areas of Analysis, Design, Development, Production Support and Deployment of Web based applications.  ? Expertise in the implementation of Core concepts of Java, J2EE Technologies: JSP, Servlets, JSTL, JPA, JSF, JMS, Struts, Spring, Hibernate, EJB, Java Beans, JDBC, XML, Web Services, JNDI, Multi-Threading.  ? Having knowledge on Java 8 features like Lambda expressions and functional interfaces and Parallel Streams.  ? In depth knowledge on core java concepts such as OOPS, Collections, Threading, generics, Exception handling, Multi-Threading, Execution services, concurrent utilities, File IO, Garbage Collection and Serialization.  ? Experience in developing the micro services to get the advantage of rapid performance and inter module communication across the application.  ? Strong exposure working with J2EE design patterns like MVC and Factory Design pattern, Value Object, Singleton and Proxy Design Pattern.  ? Proficiency in developing Model View Controller (MVC) Architecture based applications using Struts and Spring Frameworks.  ? Good experience with Multithreading, Collections and Exceptions.  ? Strong experience in RDBMS technologies like SQL, Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Functions.  ? Engineering web development, multi-tier applications, acting as all players from Database to user interfaces.  ? Framework (Core, Web, JDBC, MVC and DAO) and experienced in integrating Spring Web Flow with other frameworks like JSF.  ? Hands on experience in implementing client-server business applications using MVC, SOA architecture and Microservices.  ? Development experience in Agile based projects. Worked closely with client to handle Distributed Scrum teams. Work Experience Software Engineer Healthesystems - Tampa, FL November 2018 to Present Description:  OptumRx Rebate & Guarantee file layout changes.The claim file that Healthesystem sends to OptumRx needs to be updated. Those are the two files which Healthesystems needs to send to Optum.Guarantee file is the daily transaction file with all the transactions that come in the previous day and Rebate file is the Monthly file,with previous months data and it runs on 5th of everymonth.It goes and add previous months data in POS,Paper all kinds of transactions.  Responsibilities:  ? Implemented the project using the Spring MVC framework.  ? Used Spring Framework's Dependency Injection to have a loose-coupling.  ? Used various Java, J2EE design patterns like DAO, DTO, and Singleton etc.  ? Wrote JavaScript for validating the client-side user information based on their business rules.  ? Experience and strong knowledge of Object Oriented Programming.  ? Created and configured the continuous delivery pipelines for deploying Microservices using JENKINS CI server.  ? Wrote SQL Queries to interact with MySql Database.  ? Migrating non-decoupled code to GIT.  ? Used Jenkins for deployments.  ? Core Service is developed as maven jar that can be included by other Microservice's as their maven dependency.  ? Worked on large volumes of data and database performance tuning.  ? Developed end to end application on Spring Boot framework (Spring JPA using Crud repository).  ? Unit testing was performed using JUnit and Version control through Subversion.  ? Wrote Shell Scripts for executing batch statements.  ? Modifying Stored procs and worked on Legacy code.  ? Practiced agile development approaches.  ? Improving performance of source code using industry standard methodologies.  ? Used ABAT and VCRON for testing purposes.  ? Worked on production issues mainly researching the issue and proposing STF and LTF  Environment: JDK 1.6/1.8 Spring, Eclipse,SpringSTS,MS-SQL, Oracle 10g, SVN, XML, HTML, JavaScript, JUnit, BDD,Microservices,Cucumber,Maven,Bitbucket,Jenkins,Active Batch,Vcron,Vertice,Apache Tomcat,Spring Integration,VersionOne,Jira Application Developer ADP - Irvine, CA September 2018 to November 2018 Description:  Client user will be able to transfer cards using a proxy ID.Transferring ADP Wisely cards from one location to another using a proxy ID instead of account number while replacing a card.    Responsibilities:  ? Did Core Java coding and development using Multithreading and Design Patterns.  ? Did Core Java development and Support of Java/J2EE applications with emphasis on OOP-based web forms, business logic, database access components.  ? Preparing technical specifications, test plans for unit testing.  ? Hands on experience with Core Java with multithreading, Concurrency, Exception Handling, File handling, IO, Generics and Java collections  ? Development of Spring Boot applications with micro services.  ? Involved in developing custom tag libs, JSP, EJB's, Portlets and DB2 - stored procedures.  ? Actively involved in the code reviews.  ? Debugging and troubleshooting the bugs and resolving the issues.  ? Involved in bug fixing & production support and maintenance activities.  ? Performing Code merge using SVN and Deploying of code to Web sphere.  ? Effective communication skills and attention to detail.  Environment: Java 1.8, Spring, Hibernate, ItelliJ IDE, Java Script, ColdFusion,Websphere Application Server, SQL,, Maven, ORM, Weblogic 10, Web service (SOAP, RESTFUL),Spring Boot,Object Oriented design patterns,Jira Java Developer FedEx - Memphis, TN January 2017 to August 2018 Description:  It is an intranet-based point-of-sale (POS) system. This application allows agents and retailers to activate different types of transactions like bill payments, processing the service information and activation of sale, fulfillment of orders, returns and refunds, selling items and accessories can be done.  Responsibilities:  ? Responsible for Requirements gathering, Conceptual Design, Analysis, Detail Design, Development, System Testing, User Acceptance Testing, Data Validation, Version Controlling and deployment.  ? Design and developed web application using JSF, Spring Web Flow, spring and AJAX technology.  ? Used Selenium Web driver for automating functional testing and to identify various critical points in applications.  ? Followed agile methodology and participated in Sprints during development.  ? Coordinate activities and motivate others through leadership and a positive outlook, having Strong analytical and debugging skills.  ? Worked with HTML5, CSS, JAVASCRIPT, JSON in UI pages.  ? Designed and Developed Business Process layer components and integrated with Spring framework.  ? Web development techniques and advancements in UX and responsive frameworks  ? Designed and developed Web Services to provide services to the various clients using SOAP and WSDL.  ? Wrote Junit classes for the services and prepared documentation.  ? Integrated various modules and deployed them in Web Sphere Application Server.  ? Responsible for debugging, testing, maintaining and deploying the application.  Environment: Java 1.7/1.8, J2EE, JDBC, JSF, Spring Framework, Hibernate, JavaScript, Web services,, Servlets, DB2, HTML, JUnit, Web Sphere Application Server. Java Developer Barclays Capital - New York, NY January 2016 to December 2016 Description:  Payment engine imports transaction settlement, charge back and return information from various banks and reconcile the transaction status. TPE will provide settlement, charge back and return reports to government agencies and NIC accounting system and portal company.  Responsibilities:  ? Worked closely with Business Analysts in understanding the technical requirements of each project and prepared the use cases for different functionalities and designs.  ? Used agile practices and Test Driven Development techniques to provide reliable, working software early and often.  ? Used the JavaScript dynamic functionalities for different UI components and handled the exceptions.  ? Used Maven as Build Tool.  ? Implemented Executor Framework from multithreading to achieve better performance.  ? Implemented business objects and business logic of the application different modules of wholesale ( Java).  ? Worked with key stake holders to meet requirements and drive results with extensive usage of HTML4/5, CSS2/3, AJAX and JQuery.  ? Responsible for coding SQL Statements and Stored procedures for back end communication using JDBC.  ? Used SVN for version control.  ? Developed reporting and web service client applications using SOAP  Environment: Java/J2EE 1.6/1.7, HTML4/5, CSS2/3, JUnit, Apache CXF, spring, Angular JS, JQuery, JavaScript, JBoss, SQL Server. Java Developer Cybage Software Pvt. Ltd - IN June 2014 to December 2014 Description:  This Project automates the Maintenance, Auditing of Employees academic, Financial and payroll Information and having all the details of the employee's benefits; In addition to that this application gives the Information of the Organization structure and total maintainer's details of the organization.  Responsibilities:  ? Involved in coding using Java, JSP, Servlets & JavaScript  ? Preparing test cases and technical specification documentation.  ? Involved in Bug Fixing and Production Support Maintenance.  ? Integrated various modules and deployed on Websphere.  ? Involved in writing JSP and SQL to handle transactions.  ? System Integration Testing and Implementation.  ? Documented the defects using Quality Center and tracked them to completion by communicating and co-coordinating with the development as well as a support group.  ? Developed multiple user interfaces using XMIs/GWTs and HTML/ CSS.  ? Used Maven 2 and 3 for project builds.  ? Followed Test Driven Development (TDD), Scrum concepts of the Agile Methodology to produce high Quality Software.  Environment: Java 1.4, J2EE 1.4, JavaScript, Eclipse, My SQL, JSP, Servlet, spring, Web sphere Application Server. Jr. Java Developer Zolon Tech Ltd - Hyderabad, Telangana June 2013 to April 2014 Responsibilities:  • Designed and developed various User Interface (UI) screens using Java Script and HTML.  • Developed the data base connection using JDBC.  • Wrote queries, Stored Procedures, Functions and Triggers with MySQL database.  • Java Script is used for client side validations.  • Involved in Development and Execution of Test Plans, Test Cases & Test Scripts by reviewing the business requirements document, and technical specifications document.  • Documented Test cases corresponding to business rules and other operating conditions.  • Used Log4j to log the errors.  • Experience in 24 *7 production Support after Go-Live.    Environment:LINUX, MySQL 5.0, JDBC, Java, Servlets, Java Script, HTML, XML, Java Beans, Apache Tomcat and ANT. Education Master's Skills Eclipse, J2ee, Java, Hibernate, Spring, jquery, Jsp, Servlets, Design patterns, Scripting, Svn, Jdbc, Sql server, Mysql, Oracle, Postgresql, Sql, Tomcat, Web logic, Web services, CSS, Git, Javascript Additional Information TECHNICAL EXPERTISE:  Programming Languages Java/J2EE, Core Java.  Distributed Technologies JSP, Servlets, JDBC, Web Services.  Scripting Technologies Java Script, JQuery  Web Frameworks Spring, Hibernate, HTML5, CSS3  Databases Oracle, MySql, SQL Server, PostgreSQL  Web Services SOAP, WSDL, REST  Web/Application Servers Web Logic, Apache Tomcat  Dev Methodologies J2EE Design Patterns.  Operating Systems Windows, IDE Eclipse, Intelli J IDEA, Spring STS.  Version Control Tortoise GitHub, SVN