Java Microservices Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> Microservices <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Microservices Developer • Over 6+ of IT experience in analysis, design, development, documentation, implementing and testing of software systems in Java, J2EE and Internet technologies.  • Experience in working in environments using Agile (SCRUM) and Test-Driven Development (TDD) development methodologies.  • Experience in developing Microservices using Spring-Boot.  • Involved in designed fully distributed system with the use of Restful API and Micro Services.  • Experience in Java1.8 features like Parallel Streams, Lambdas, functional interfaces and filters.  • Hands on experiences on Core Java concepts like Collections, Generics, Multi-Threading, Concurrency, Exception Handling, Serialization, I/O Streams, Data Structures, Garbage Collectors, Reflections, Synchronization.  • Hands on Experience on advanced Java concepts like JDBC, Servlets, JSP, EJB.  • Familiar with Frameworks like Struts, spring, Spring-Boot, JSF.  • Experience in Spring framework (MVC/IoC/ORM/JDBC/AOP/BATCH/WEBFLOW/ Context).  • Implemented web services using REST, SOAP.  • Experience in developing SOAP based Web Services using Apache CXF and JAX-WS.  • Experienced in developing Restful Services using JAX-RS specification like Jersey.  • Worked with ORM Frameworks like Hibernate  • Good experience in Unit Testing Frameworks like Junit, TestNG, Mockito  • Used logging Frameworks like log4j, slf4j.  • Experience in using version control and configuration management tools like CVS, SVN, Git, Bitbucket.  • Experience with build tools like Ant, Maven, Gradle.  • Used different web application servers like Apache / Tomcat / Web Logic / Web Sphere / Glassfish.  • Worked with different databases like Oracle, DB2, MySQL, Microsoft SQLServer 2005, PostGreSQL.  • Expertise in database modeling and development using NOSQL Database such as DynamoDB, MangoDB.  • Extensive experience on multiple operating systems including Linux, Unix, Mac OS and Windows.  • Familiar with IDE's like NetBeans, Eclipse, IntelliJ.  • Familiar with UI frameworks like JavaScript, NodeJS, AngularJS.  • Hands on experience with web design technologies like HTML, CSS, XHTML, HTML5.  • Familiar with XML technologies like XML, XML parser like DOM, SAX, XPATH.  • Complete understanding of the DevOps process with continuous integration using Jenkins, JIRA, GIT.  • Experience with Cloud Computing Service environment like (AWS) Amazon Web Services (EC2, EMR, ECS, S3 and ELASTIC SEARCH).  • Domain knowledge and business expertise in Banking, E-Commerce, Insurance, finance, Telecom. Work Experience Java Microservices Developer Denver, CO February 2019 to July 2019 Responsibilities:  • Developed the functionalities using Agile Scrum Methodology.  • Extensive experience in Agile methodologies like Test Driven Development (TDD), BDD.  • Extensively used core java concepts like Multithreading, Collections Framework, File I/o and concurrency.  • Experience in Core Java concepts such as OOPS, Collections Framework, and Exception Handling, I/O System, Multi-Threading, JDBC, Generics.  • Used Java8 features in developing the code like Lambda expressions, creating resource classes, fetching documents from database.  • Used design patterns like Singleton, Data Access Objects, Factory and MVC patterns.  • Created POJO's and DAO's for the database entities using Spring JDBC annotation mappings.  • Developed microservices with Spring and tested the application using Spring Boot.  • Used Spring Core annotations for Spring Dependency Injection, Spring MVC for Rest API's and Spring Boot for microservices.  • Development of cloud hosted web applications and REST APIs using Spring Boot with embedded Tomcat.  • Deployed the application on Amazon Web services (AWS) and used it to provide a large computing capacity for scalable solutions.  • Deployed applications into Continuous integration environments like Jenkins to integrate and deploy code on CI environments for development testing.  • Implemented Rest based web service using JAX-RS annotations, Jersey provider implementation.  • Integrated ActiveMQ and spring JMS API to send and receive message for the application's RESTful API.  • Experience in design and development of Web services, JAX-RPC, JAX-WS, RMI, JTA, JMS and XML, XSD, XSLT, X-Path.  • Wrote build scripts using GRADLE.  • Developed the persistence layer using Hibernate Framework by configuring the 1:1/1:M/M:M mappings in hibernate files and created DAO and POJO.  • Experience in NoSQL database like DynamoDB installation, configuration and in designing MongoDB multi-shared cluster and monitoring with MMS.  • Configuring WebSphere Application Server on multiple platforms for both horizontal and vertical scaling for Work Load Management.  • Experience in working with NoSQL Database like DynamoDB to manage extremely large data sets.  • Used log4j to print the logging, debugging, warning, info statements.  • Used JIRA tool for Issue/bug tracking, monitoring of work assignment in the system.  • Experience on implementation of version control software Bitbucket repositories.    Environment: JQuery, XML, DAO, POJO, JPA, JAVA, Java8, Springs (IOC, AOP, JDBC) Frameworks, Spring Boot, Microservices, JSP, Hibernate Framework, AWS, RESTful Web services, SOAP, Gradle, DynamoDB, NoSQL, Log4j, Jenkins, JIRA, Bitbucket, GIT, Amazon S3, EC2, EMR, Lambda, Scala, Spark. Java Web Services Developer Capital One - Richmond, VA August 2018 to January 2019 Responsibilities:  • Developed the functionalities using Agile Scrum Methodology.  • Extensive experience in various Agile methodologies like Test Driven Development (TDD)  • Implemented AngularJS Controllers to maintain each view data. Implemented Angular Service calls using Angular Factory tested all application controllers extensively with AngularJS built-in testing facilities.  • Extensively used core java concepts like Multithreading, Collections Framework, File I/o and concurrency.  • Experience in Core Java concepts such as OOP Concepts, Collections Framework, and Exception Handling, I/O System, Multi-Threading, JDBC, Generics.  • Used Java8 features in developing the code like Lambda expressions, creating resource classes, fetching documents from database.  • Used design patterns like Singleton, Data Access Objects, Factory and MVC patterns.  • Testing and production support of core java based multithreading ETL tool for distributed loading XML data into Oracle database using JPA/Hibernate.  • Created POJO's and DAO's for the database entities using Spring JDBC annotation mappings  • Integrated with Spring Cloud projects to provide distributed tracing and other features.  • Developed microservices with Spring and tested the application using Spring Boot.  • Used Spring Core annotations for Spring Dependency Injection, Spring MVC for Rest API's and Spring Boot for microservices.  • Development of cloud hosted web applications and REST APIs using Spring Boot with embedded Tomcat.  • Deployed the application on Amazon Web services (AWS) and used it to provide a large computing capacity for scalable solutions.  • Deployed applications into Continuous integration environments like Jenkins to integrate and deploy code on CI environments for development testing.  • Implemented Rest based web service using JAX-RS annotations, Jersey provider implementation.  • Integrated ActiveMQ and spring JMS API to send and receive message for the application's restful API.  • Experience in design and development of Web services, JAX-RPC, JAX-WS, RMI, JTA, JMS and XML, XSD, XSLT, X-Path.  • Wrote build scripts using Maven.  • Developed the persistence layer using Hibernate Framework by configuring the 1:1/1:M/M:M mappings in hibernate files and created DAO and POJO.  • Experience in NoSQL database like MongoDB installation, configuration and in designing MongoDB multi-shared cluster and monitoring with MMS.  • Configuring WebSphere Application Server on multiple platforms for both horizontal and vertical scaling for Work Load Management.  • Experience in working with NoSQL Database like MongoDB to manage extremely large data sets.  • Used log4j to print the logging, debugging, warning, info statements.  • Implemented Selenium Web Drivers and Protractor For testing the UI components.  • Involved in setting up Test automation and developed cucumber feature files and used Selenium for automated testing with TestNG.  • Used JIRA tool for Issue/bug tracking, monitoring of work assignment in the system.  • Experience on implementation of version control software GIT repositories.    Environment: Agile, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX and Angular 2, XML, DAO, POJO, JPA, JAVA, Java8, Springs (IOC, AOP, JDBC) Frameworks, Spring Boot, Microservices, JSP, Hibernate Framework, AWS, RESTful Web services, SOAP, Maven, WebSphere Application Server, Mongo DB, NoSQL, Log4j, Jenkins, JIRA, Selenium Web Drivers, Protractor, GIT. Java/J2EE Developer Bandwidth Inc - Raleigh, NC March 2017 to August 2018 Responsibilities:  • Involve in gathering, analyzing and documenting business requirements, functional requirements and data Specifications for application development.  • Re-factor existing code structure to separate core business logic and Data Access Objects (DAOs)  • Implement Hibernate for data persistence and management.  • Analyze and fix issues related to REST Web services and Application responses.  • Design and develop the presentation layer using JSPs, JQuery and JavaScript.  • Involved in the Development of Spring Framework Controllers. Developed Controller for request, response paradigm by Spring Controllers using Spring-MVC.  • Developed Spring boot application with Spring Cloud.  • Worked on creation of Docker container images, tagging, pushing images, integrating Spring boot, created the Docker containers and Docker consoles for managing the application life cycle.  • Exposure to implementing RESTful-AngularJS driven interface and consuming JSON based RESTful APIs.  • Implemented Multi-Threading and Asynchronous WEBAPI calls to improve the performance of the application.  • Experience in describing data using XML (DTD, Schema) and working with XML management technologies like XSL, XSD, XSLT and Web Services using protocols such as SOAP and WSDL.  • Using Spring AOP Module to implement logging in the application for application status and deployed Spring Security for session fixation, clickjacking, cross site request forgery.  • Created and configured new JIRA projects and worked with departments to maintain existing JIRA projects  • Involved in SQL development using Stored Procedures, Views and Queries with Oracle and DB2.  • Build and deployed scripts using Maven on UNIX environment.  • Created unit test cases and mocked complex classes using JUnit, Mockito, and Power Mockito.  • Configured various interceptors for transaction management, security, Audit logging (database) and logging using Spring AOP.  • Designed and developed custom message adapter components using Apache Kafka that allowed message to travel through Microservices to base on RESTful API utilizing Spring Boot with Spring MVC.  • Implemented classes, interfaces, methods, constructors and objects definitions using Typescript.  • Used ANT scripts for automated deployment.  • Worked on Deployment Automation of all micro services to pull image from Private Docker registry and deploy to Kubernetes Cluster.  • Experience with RabbitMQ.  • Used RESTFUL client to interact with the services by providing the RESTFULURL mapping.  • Exported web services using JAX-WS Spring support. Extensive experience in production support.  • Implemented external customer page using Spring MVC pattern and IOC.  • Integrated Hibernate with spring by coding a Spring Configuration file.  • JIRA tool was used for bug tracking.  • Conduct functional and performance testing using cucumber and Selenium.  • Respond promptly and professionally to bug reports.    Environment: Java 1.7, Eclipse, Spring Framework 4.0, Hibernate, XSLT, Oracle 10g, JPA, Web Services, REST, Junit, WSDL, TDD, XML, Agile, Spring boot, Spring-Boot, Spring Boot, Mockito, WebSphere Server 7.0, DB2, Cucumber, Jenkins, AWS, Logging, Ant. Java/J2EE Developer Chevron, San Roman, CA June 2016 to February 2017 Responsibilities:  • Worked on AGILE methodology.  • Used agile practices and Test-Driven Development techniques to provide reliable, working software.  • Analyzed and designed a scalable system based on Object Oriented Concepts, the various J2EE design patterns.  • Developed java scripts for all client-side validation and developed User Interface (GUI) using JSP, CSS, JSTL, and XSL.  • Used JSTL tags for communicating between controller and JSP.  • Design and implementing Model view controller (MVC) architecture using spring framework.  • Wrote Hibernate classes, DAO's to retrieve & store data and configured hibernate files.  • Used Eclipse IDE for application Development. Used Jenkins Jobs for build automation to compile and generate EAR and WAR files.  • Fixed defects Identified in Production/ QA environments; Defects were tracked in Jira tracking Portal.  • Involved in raising questions for business, getting answers from them, bug fixing, and tracking is done by JIRA.  • Developed RESTful web services using JAX-RS, Apache CXF and spring frameworks and persistence using Hibernate and JPA ORM frameworks.  • Jersey implementation of JAX-RS is utilized to develop RESTful Web services.  • Consumed RESTful Web services (JAX-RS) provided by different vendor to use for Address verification and validation.  • Involved in creating and extracting data from database using SQL Queries, PL/SQL Stored procedures, triggers, and packages on Oracle database.  • Used HP Quality Center for defect tracking  • Provided the technical assistance to resolve Issues identified in production and demonstrate appropriate solution to the end users.  • Connected to Linux servers to view application logs in order to trouble shoot application issues using putty as an interface.  • Assisted Oracle DB development team in developing stored procedures and designing the database.  • Used Maven for build, cruise control is used continuous building.  • Involved in developing of test procedures for unit testing and testing of the module    Environment: Agile, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, Socket Programming, XML, JSTL JSP, JPA, JAVA8, Spring Frameworks, Hibernate, RESTful Web services, SOAP, Maven, HP Quality center, WebSphere Application, Mongo DB, NoSQL, Log4j, Jenkins, JIRA, LINUX, GIT, GITHUB. Java Developer Paychex - Webster, NY May 2015 to June 2016 Responsibilities:  • Involved in SDLC Requirements gathering, Analysis, Design, Development, Testing production of application using Waterfall model.  • Used the Collections API, Generics, multi-threading while developing code.  • Method references are used provided in Java8.  • Database development required creation of new tables PL/SQL stored procedures, functions, views, indexes and constraints, triggers and required SQL tuning to reduce the response time in the application.  • Involved in the struts upgrade to 2.X which involved in changes to action class.  • Developed Spring middleware components for implementing business logic and Implemented SOA based architecture using web services to build a loosely coupled system.  • Designed and developed Business components and Integrated with Spring framework and also developed various reusable Helper and Utility classes, which are used across all the modules of the application.  • Used RESTful for producing web services and involved in writing programs to consume the web services  • Deployed the java application using Maven build script.  • Used Log4j for logging various levels of information like error, info, and debug into the log files.  • Used Java/J2EE Design patterns such as Singleton, DAO, Spring IOC pattern and responses.  • Performed GitHub/GitHub-Desktop bash and Terminal commands to clone, fetch, merge and push the code and created pull requests for changes that are made.  • Designed enterprise API's and involved in developing the API's. Involved in testing API's using SoapUI and Postman.  • Implemented Swagger for the microservices for Documenting Rest API.  • Implemented Rest API Design Guidelines for the microservices.  • Involved in writing Maven scripts for automated deployment of the application and managed GitHub Projects and migrated from SVN to GitHub with merge and version and used Jenkins for continuous integration  • Involved in working with the QA to assist in writing test code and debugging the defects in the application.  • Responsible for making sure that all system upgrade logs were current and creating a report for management.    Environment: Agile waterfall, HTML, CSS, JQuery, XML, JSP, Java, Spring Frameworks, Hibernate, JDBC, RESTful Web services, SOAP, Jenkins, Maven, Log4j, Jenkins, JIRA, LINUX, UNIX, SVN, GIT. Java Developer Jenkins Vembu Technologies - IN June 2013 to May 2015 Responsibilities:  • Involved in Design and Development.  • Developed the application using Agile Methodology.  • Involved in writing the action classes and from beans for different modules using Spring MVC.  • Involved in writing the validation rules classes for general sever side validations for implementing validation rules as per the design.  • Developed back-end logic with Core Java using technologies including Collection Framework, Multi-Threading.  • Worked on enhancements using JSP, Struts, database stored procedures and wrote SQL queries.  • Created SOAP Web Services using WSDL, XML and SOAP for transferring data.  • Configured the deployment descriptors in Hibernate to achieve object relational mapping.  • Used Hibernate Cache for query to improve the application performance.  • Wrote backend scripts that performed maintenance tasks on the contract data using JDBC.  • Developed Stored Procedures and Triggers on Oracle Database.  • Used Maven to build the J2EE application.  • Build & Deployment in WebSphere Application Server.  • Understanding server configuration and diagnose problems in a time sensitive manner.  • Code walk through, modules integration and unit testing.  • Used Log4j for logging purposes.  • Designed use cases, sequence and class diagrams, activities, states, objects and components  • Used UML (MS Visio) for software design.    Environment: Java 1.7, Servlets, JSP, Junit, spring, Spring ORM, Hibernate, Oracle, Maven, Apache Tomcat Server, Eclipse, Log4J, SOAP, PL/SQL, HTML, CSS, JQuery, Swing, JSON, SVN. Skills Eclipse, Ejb, Java, Hibernate, Spring, Jms, jquery, Jsf, Struts, C++, Git, Html, Javascript, Reactjs, Jenkins, Json, Scripting, Svn, Xml, Css Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/lakshman-k-06011982 Additional Information Technical Skills:    Programming Languages C, C++, Java, SQL, PL/SQL, SCALA-SPARK  Scripting Languages XML, XHTML, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, JSON, AngularJS, NodeJS, reactJS  Tools Junit, TestNG, Mockito, JIRA,  Frame Works Struts, Spring, JSF, JPA, EJB, Hibernate, JMS.  Web services REST, SOAP  Databases Oracle, DB2, MySQL, MicrosoftSQLServer2005, PostGreSQL, DynamoDB, MangoDB.  Debugging Tools & CI/CD Jenkins, JIRA, GIT, Bitbucket.  Version Control CVS, SVN, Git, Bitbucket.  IDE Tools NetBeans, Eclipse, IntelliJ.  Web/App/DB Servers Apache / Tomcat / Web Logic / Web Sphere / Glassfish.