Android Developer Android <span class="hl">Developer</span> Android Developer - Matrix Medical Network, AZ AZ * 8 years of experience in Software development with Object Oriented technologies and Android applications with Java/Android technologies involving System Analysis, Design, Development, Testing and Implementation.  * Over 3+ years of experience on working with mobile application on Android platform, interactive application development and database management.  * Worked on mobile websites on JQuery framework, JavaScript, CSS and HTML5.  * Proficient with common Android framework APIs(Email, Web View, Google Maps, Telephony API, Camera, Contact Manager) and developing Android Framework Services using Intent, Services and AIDL.  * Experience in using Fragments, Activity workflow, Action BarNavigation, Menu designs and view controls, and Loaders.  * Developed user interfaces with rich features and architected multiple Android applications across versions.  * Developed user interface with features like camera integration and barcode scanner.  * Designed GUI and interfaces with services for mobile applications, Asynchronous Programming in Android (such as Threads, Async Tasks and Services).  * Extensive Knowledge on Android Market Place (Google Play) such us create a publisher account, Android In-App Purchase concept, Release free & paid Mobile App into market place.  * Possess strong knowledge and ability to code Android activities which bind to local Android services to perform expensive background tasks running in separate threads.  * Experienced in using debugging tools like Logcat, Log Viewer, ADB, fastboot and Hcidump.  * Experience with designing and developing web Applications using Java/J2EE (JSP, JDBC, Servlets, spring, Hibernate, Java Mail API), JavaScript, XML technologies and JSON.  * Worked on GUI applications using Java SWING and AWT.  * Expertise in implementing JavaScript for validation.  * Experience in various methodologies like of SDLC like Agile development and waterfall development.  * Knowledge and exposure to full Software Development Life Cycle including design, data modeling, software implementation, and documentation.  * Good understanding of Web Services, XML Parsing and JSON.  * Well Versed with Complete Life cycle Development process which includes Designing, Development, testing and Implementation.  * Possess excellent technical skills and exceptional ability to quickly master new concepts.  * Experience in On-site coordination for offshore development. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Android Developer Matrix Medical Network, AZ March 2017 to Present Matrix Medical is with health plans across the country to deliver in-home care to Commercial, Managed Medicaid and Medicare Advantage members. By delivering care in a comfortable and relaxed home setting, our Nurse Practitioners are able to take the time to listen, engage, educate and deliver personalized care. Nurse Practitioners collect the information from patients with the help of tablet and will submit it to doctors. Depends on the medical requirement the application in the tablet should update.    Responsibilities  * Participates in development phases of SDLC: from analysis, design, development, and test to deployment and support.  * Participates in designing software solutions by writing sections of Design Specifications, description of framework, interfaces, services, reports, business components, and interaction between the components under the guidance of the Architect.  * Responsible for ensuring quality delivery of code through static and dynamic testing techniques  * Is able to troubleshoot any issue of moderate complexity as well as provide support to production.  * Keeps abreast of the current technologies and technological trends.  * Act as technical resource to ensure the project is successfully completed.  * Adheres to IT standards and procedures.  * Designed the User Interface according to the requirements using UI Groups, UI components.  * Registered the Broadcast Receivers for the android system announcements  * Played a key role in writing application logic using Eclipse IDE and AndroidSDK.  * Designed complex User Interface screens using views and widgets.  * Used fragments to build small re-usable pieces that are easier to manage and allow for a more design and also can adapt to tablet.  * Experience with source code control management like subversion GIT.  * Experience with different integration tools.  * Experience in testing an android UI with Espresso frame work.  * Making the Restful Web Service Calls at the various stages in the app development cycle and parsing the JSON responses back from the web servers according to the application requirement.  * Implemented sorting options for search items based on drugs (brand, product).  * Involved in debugging and porting the application on various tablets.  * Implemented Stash for code review.  * Worked on debugging the application using Logcat, DDMS.  * Worked closely with QA team with fixing bugs and performance issue•  Environment: Android SDK, JDK, Eclipse IDE, HTML, JavaScript, C, Web Services, windows 7, Java, JDK 1.7, Maven, MS SQL Server, Eclipse, JBoss, JUnit, Windows. Android Developer Country Financial - Bloomington, IL March 2016 to February 2017 Country Financial and its alliances serve more than 1 million households and businesses and insure more than 1 million vehicles and a half a million homes throughout the United States. The organization currently has 2,669 employees and more than 2,000 financial representatives. In this organisation there is a store like snap n send which helps to secure the vehicle damage with one snap. It's an easy and understandable implementation.    Responsibilities  * Involved in application android development, defect validation, deployment and production maintenance.  * Developed the Mobile Agent application using Android Studio 0.8.14 and Android SDK package.  * Designed the User Interface according to the requirements using UI Groups, UI components.  * Worked with Google Maps Android API V2 to display the nearby stores based on user geo location.  * Integrated camera for capturing images of card and other documents.  * Integrated ZXing Library to scan barcode and display barcode image.  * Designed the Custom Dialog using the Fragment Activity.  * Designed the Custom Action bar, Custom Progress bar while making service calls.  * Implemented capturing the screenshot of the payment screen, Bitmap to PDF conversion features using Android NDK.  * A set of tools and build files used to generate native code libraries from C ,C# and C++ sources.  * Phone Gap build applications for mobile devices using JavaScript, HTML5, and CSS3.  * Implemented feature for sharing offer using Mail, Facebook, Twitter and other social networking sites.  * Web view create interfaces between your application code and your JavaScript code.  * This application include group chatting, voice chatting, ease of sharing images, videos, audio and a wide range of UI customizations.  * Created a local database using SQLite to store and retrieve the data.  * Implemented Git for code management.  * Worked with Application Activity Lifecycle callbacks for providing the security and showing the login screen when the app goes to background.  * Implemented Jira for project management.  * Responsible for adding the update module for checking the latest version of app.  * Extensively worked on designing the layouts to compatible with screens with different resolutions  * PL/SQL to write stored procedures, functions packages and triggers with hands on experience in SQL performance tuning operations  * Responsible for making the application compatible with the Latest Android Version Lollipop 5.0.  * Worked on testing the application using JUNIT testing framework.  * Implemented Stash for code review.  * Responsible for testing the application in stage, code review fixing the bugs and providing post-production support.  Environment: Android Version 2.3.3-5.0, Android Studio IDE, windows 7, Java, JDK 1.7, Google Maps API V2, Google Volley, NDK, PhoneGap JUNIT, Jira, DDMS console, Logcat, XML, JSON,C,C++ ,C#, and SQLite. Java / Android Developer Totsy - New York, NY October 2014 to February 2016 Totsy is a private sale web-site focused on the baby and kids segment. It is a privately held US incorporated company which is based in New York City, the company is solely funded by its founders and a few angel investors. In this application we designed Android Material Design is key to the fresh new look in Android. Because humans are wired to understand shapes, Material Design is inspired by paper and ink. But unlike its analog counterpart, Material Design is able to reform dynamically and surfaces that respond to motion and offer splashes of animated, color feedback. Material Design offers seamless animations from any screen to any other, even between activities and apps.  This application allows user to browse apparels and accessories which are available on Totsy. User can view product and add them to cart to initiate purchase. It also enables user to invite Facebook and Twitter friends to the Totsy Application. Web View is a HTML and Java script engine that's used to display websites. It's like having a browser run in your mobile application, but there's also a way to access stuff you can't access from a regular mobile website like the phone's camera, accelerometer, file system, etc. User can share Sales and Product details with friends using this application. Application sends notifications to users when upcoming sales are open.    Responsibilities  * Participated in user meetings to gather the requirements of the application.  * Developed Application UI using XML layouts.  * Developed Custom List Adapters to display Complex Lists.  * A set of tools and build files used to generate native code libraries from C ,C# and C++ sources.  * Consumed web services and Implemented Media Streaming protocols using RTP, HTTP Communication with JSON Data.  * Used SQLite Database such that the user can store and retrieve product and categories data.  * Integrated Face book library to establish Application and Product sharing between friends.  * Developed Categories and Product activities to display wide range of products available.  * Development of Upcoming Sell notification when new sells opens.  * Developed User Registration, Login and User Setting Activities.  Environment: Android SDK and Android SDK, JDK, Eclipse IDE, Java, JDBC, Struts, JSF, JSP, Servlet, HTML, JavaScript, C, C++,C# SOAP, Web Services, Maven, MS SQL Server, Eclipse, JBoss, JUnit, Windows. Sr Java Developer Commerce Insurance - Webster, MA January 2013 to September 2014 AFE (Agent Front End) used by the Commerce Insurance's agents to create quotes and to generate the coverage for the personal auto insurance. Using this application agents enter the information of insurance holder, vehicles and drivers. The back end system generates the quote. And this application allows the agent to create coverage using the generated quotes. Along with generating quote there is a portal where authenticated customers can file a claim, make payments, view payment history, search for nearby agents. Processing of a claim was done using asynchronous messaging system.    Responsibilities  * Responsibilities include understanding requirements, analysis, design, development and unit testing of web applications.  * Developed the backend code using MVC-2 architecture (Struts).  * Designed Application flow and Developed UML diagrams for the application using Rational Rose.  * Independently developed each layer and integrate them.  * Used Struts Validator Framework for validation from server.  * Used filter class for Single Sign-on.  * Created different modules using Action classes.  * Integrated Struts, Spring and Hibernate.  * Used Front Controller action servlet that handles the entire Http request coming to the server.  * Developed code that uses Authenticate Delegate, Quote Service Delegate and Account Management Service Delegate which uses business logic classes to perform various tasks for customers.  * Developed code for Proxy class used by Web Services clients, Message Façade used for JMS, POJOs for hibernate Entity Beans.  * Created DAO classes for customer related database operations.  * Implemented Hibernate (ORM Mapping tool) framework.  * Created web services for Client using WSDL which builds SOAP messages for agents.  * Frontend was created using JSP.  * Developed a Message Driven Bean (JMS) that process a claim once customer files it.  * Configured the Spring JDBC to provide database connectivity for the application.  * Involved in writing the Stored Procedures and functions for the application.  * Involved in code enhancement and defect fixing.  Environment: Eclipse, Web Logic 8.1 server/SQL server, Tomcat 5.0/6.0, Oracle 9i/10g, MS Access, JSP Struts 1.2, Hibernate 3.0, Spring 1.0, Top Link, XML, JavaScript, HTML, WSDL, Log4j, Subversion (SVN), and Maven. Java Developer Standard Charted Bank April 2011 to October 2012 This on-line banking system is used to get a host of banking services to be accessed using their check/debit card and also on-line bill payment, for e.g. account balance status, transfer of funds between two accounts electronically, bill pay service, last three transaction details, standing instructions etc.    Responsibilities  * Worked on Full Cycle of Software Development from Analysis through Design, Development, Testing, Integration, Deployment.  * Worked with internal and external business for requirements gathering, conceptualization, and realization and process improvements.  * Involved in design of the system using UML.  * Worked on designing and developing scalable and extensive frameworks.  * Worked on Agile, RUP and Test Driven Development (TDD) environment.  * Implemented front end (GUI) using HTML, JSP, AJAX, CSS, and JavaScript.  * Design and development of modules using MVC.  * Development using Struts, Spring, Hibernate frameworks.  * Developed Struts Action Classes, Action Forms and performed Action mapping using Struts framework.  * Performed data validation in Form beans and Action Classes.  * Modified Struts configuration files as per application requirements.  * Worked on XML, XSLT, XPATH, DOM, and SAX.  * Used RAD for developing the application.  * Prepared Unit Test Plan & performed Unit Testing using JUnit.  * Used Log4j for logging debug, info & error data.  * Created XML-SOAP Web Services to provide partner systems required information.  * Configured Web sphere Application Server to suit as per applications' requirement.  * Configured connection pools, data sources, queues.  * Prepared Design Documents, Deployment Documents and User Manuals.  * Used Dimensions as version control system for the source code.  * Addressed QA issues & provided fixes on short notice.  * Involved in User Acceptance Testing and monitored the application while migrating to production.  * Troubleshooting and resolve problems.  * Used Remedy for issue tracking.  Environment: Java, J2EE, Web Sphere, Ant, Clear Quest, Clear Case, Windows XP, Struts, Spring, Hibernate, HTML, JSP, CSS, JavaScript, AJAX, RAD, Log4j, XML, XSLT, XPATH, DOM, JUnit, Oracle. Java Developer Hyderabad, Telangana August 2009 to April 2011 The Service Automation (SAM) Program is to develop a technology platform which will facilitate effective automation of customer service business processes in order to consistently achieve high level of process efficiency. This system provides customer care case management and document creation process. This system will enable a user to search for accounts based on a customer inquiry, find a customer's account and track the interaction.    Responsibilities  * Worked on Full Cycle of Software Development from Analysis through Design, Development, Testing, Integration, Deployment.  * Extensively used MVC Framework.  * Development using Struts, Spring, Hibernate frameworks.  * Designed and developed User Interface of application modules using HTML, JSP, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery and AJAX.  * Design and development of modules using MVC.  * Developed Struts Action Classes, Action Forms and performed Action mapping using Struts framework.  * Worked on XML, XSLT, XPATH, DOM, SAX.  * Created XML-SOAP Web Services to provide partner systems required information.  * Used Web sphere Application Server for deploying the application.  * Used Rational Application Developer (RAD) for developing the application.  * Used Log4j for logging debug, info & error data.  * Involved in storing paper forms into IBM Content Manager after converting them to images (.jpeg, .tiff, etc) and also storing Electronic forms.  * Prepared Unit Test Plan & performed Unit Testing using JUnit.  * Actively involved in Walkthroughs and Peer Reviews.  * Used JIRA for bug tracking.  * Used SVN as version control system for the source code.  * Done Regression Testing to make sure that new Functionality is not impacting existing functionality in the system.  * Developed Test Plan and Test Cases.  * Involved in User Acceptance Testing by providing test data for users and by testing UAT defects in test environment before, the new code gets moved to UAT environment.  Environment: Java, JEE, Web Sphere, Oracle, Ant, HP UNIX, Windows XP, JIRA, Servlets, JSP, Struts, Spring, Quartz, Hibernate, Pega CPM, XML, XSLT, XPath, DOM, SAX, UML, Crystal Reports, JBOSS, RAD, SVN, Ant Education Bachelor's in Technology Acharya Nagarjuna University - Guntur, Andhra Pradesh Skills HTML (7 years), Java (8 years), JavaScript (8 years), Web Services (7 years), XML (7 years), Android SDK, JDK, Eclipse IDE, HTML, JavaScript, C, Web Services, windows 7, Java, JDK 1.7, Maven, MS SQL Server, Eclipse, JBoss, JUnit, Windows. Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    Technologies  Android 2.3-5.0, Android SDK, Java, JNI, C, J2EE (JSP 1.2/2.0,Servelets 2.2/2.3/2.4/2.5, EJB 2.0/2.1, ANT), Struts1.3, JavaBeans, JSF 1.2,Web Services, Spring2.0.x/2.5.x, Hibernate 3.0/3.1.1, JMS 1.1, JDBC 3.0, JavaScript 1.8.x, SOAP 1.2, J Unit 4.0.    Markup Languages HTML 5, XML, CSS3, XHTML.  Servers Web Logic8.1/9.2, Apache Tomcat 6.0/7.0, JBoss 5.0.  Debugging Tools Log cat, DDMS, J Unit.  RDBMS SQLite, db4o, Oracle 10g/11g, MySQL 5.1.69, MS-SQL Server.  IDE's Android Studio, Eclipse, NetBeans, IntelliJ IDEA.  Operating Systems Windows (2000/XP Professional, Windows 7/8), Unix, Linux, Macintosh.