Sr. Java/J2EE Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Java</span>/J2EE <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Java/J2EE Developer - 3M Kansas City, KS 8+ years of extensive professional experience in Software Development Lifecycle (SDLC) core areas such as Analysis, Design, Implementation, Testing and Deployment of Object Oriented, Client-Server, Web-Based, Distributed and Enterprise Applications with JAVA/J2EE technologies & developing applications with agile methodology.  • Strong experience in Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) and publishing web services (Soap, Restful) that include several components like SOAP, WSDL, XML, XSD, UDDI, Axis2 and JAX-WS.  • Roles include Senior Software Developer with proven track record in developing, implementing and reengineering the corporate Internet/Intranet high traffic web sites, content management systems with ability to work on multiple projects.  • Experience in designing and developing multi-tier enterprise applications using Java 1.7/1.8, JEE& related technologies such as Servlets, Struts, Spring, JDBC, Hibernate, JPA, JMS, XML, JSP, HTML and Web services.  • In-depth knowledge and experience in GUI using JS, Node JS, Angular JS, SQL, PL SQL, HTML, DHTML, CSS, XML languages.  • Expertise in Application development using various frameworks such as Spring Framework 3.x, 4.x.  • Sound RDBMS concepts and extensively worked with Oracle 9i 10g 11g, DB2, SQL Server 9.0 10.0 10.5 11.0, 12.0, MySQL and Toad.  • Implemented various levels of application and services using Spring-Framework, EJB, Struts, and ORM tools like Hibernate, JPA API for fast pace and efficient code generation.  • Experience using persistence framework like Hibernate/JPA for mapping Java classes with database and using Hibernate Query Language (HQL).  • Worked experience in Object Oriented Analysis, Design and Development of Applications with UML diagrams using Enterprise Architect.  • Expertise in Developing and Deploying Enterprise Java Beans (EJB) on Application/Web Servers like Web Logic, Eclipse, TomCat, WebSphere and JBoss.  • Hands on experience in Design Patterns, Data Structures, XML Schema/DTD validations and Ant build scripts.  • Experience in using CVS , GIT and Subversion.  • Exposure to complete software life cycle from client requirement analysis to deliver.  • Efficient in Defect Management for resolving Integration Issues, System Testing Issues, User Acceptance Issues, Production Issues.  • Hands on experience in writing Automation test scripts using Junit, Mockito.  • Experience in BIRT designs which are persisted as XML and these can access number of different data sources which includes POJOs, SQL databases, Web Services and XML.  • Efficient in Defect Management for resolving Integration Issues, System Testing Issues, User Acceptance Issues, Production Issues.  • Expertise in Report Designing using Birt-Viewer Report Designing tool, Forms designing using Adobe output Designer.  • Good Knowledge on Visual report designer using BIRT and which are then deployed in Java environment.  • Worked with Version Control Systems like GIT, WinCVS, CVS, SVN, VSS and Rational Clear Case.  • Expert in using MS OFFICE tools Word, Excel, Visio, Power Point of all versions from 2003, 2007, 2010 and 2013 to do Documentation, UML diagrams, Presentations etc.,  • Experience in using PL/SQL in Oracle, MS SQL Server for developing database to create its objects like tables, views, functions, triggers, RDBMS Design, DB normalization, ER modeling, SQL, PL/SQL, procedures, cursors, functions and stored procedures packages along with knowledge on SQL and HQL Queries  • Expertise in working with projects in Banking, Health and financial domains. Work Experience Sr. Java/J2EE Developer 3M - Austin, TX June 2016 to Present Description: ERC (Elizabeth river tunneling), where Electronic Tolling (AET) system for Elizabeth River Crossings, LLC (ERC) in the Hampton Roads area of Virginia for the collection of tolls at the Midtown Tunnel and Downtown Tunnel    Responsibilities:  • Involved in study of User Requirement Specification. Requested insufficient  • Information and helped clearing ambiguity in requirements document.  • Involved in design, develop and implementation of the application using Spring Boot.  • Implemented Hibernate/JPA for data persistence  • Designed and implemented application using JSP, Spring MVC, Spring IOC, Spring Annotations, Spring AOP, Spring Transactions, Hibernate, Oracle.  • Implemented JHipster framework for laying the micro services architecture.  • Developed micro services using Spring Boot.  • Involved in developing Class diagrams in UML showing generalization and other relationships, sequence diagram describing the interaction of objects over time.  • Used JMS template for publishing and consuming messages from Active MQ.  • Analysis and Design of various modules using SOA and J2EE stack.  • Implemented Spring data JPA for accessing persisting and managing data between java objects and a relational database.  • Implemented the application using the concrete principles laid down by several design patterns such as Singleton, Data Access Object, and Adaptor.  • Wrote annotated POJO classes, which contain business logic to map database tables with java objects.  • Created connections to database using Hibernate Session Factory, using Hibernate APIs to retrieve and store data to the database with Hibernate transaction control.  • Implemented persistence layer using various features of Hibernate 4.0 framework like HQL queries, Criteria etc.  • Worked with Tomcat as web server.  • Assisted Oracle DB development team in developing stored procedures and designing the database.  • Used GIT as versioning system and Maven for project builds.  • Wrote Unit test cases using Mockito.  • Interacted with Business Analysts to come up with better implementation designs for the application.  Design and Development of software components like Interface, Action Handlers  Environment: JAVA JDK 1.7,1.8, Hibernate 4.x, SOAP and RestFul WebServices, Spring Framework 4.x, Springboot 1.2, SpringData Jpa, HTML4.0/5.0, JUnit, Angular JS, Eclipse, JDBC, PL/SQL, XML, Windows XP, Oracle 12g, Web logic Application Server 10.3, Tomcat 7.0, Maven, Putty, JPA 2.1, Agile scrum. Java Developer SailPoint Technologies - Austin, TX October 2015 to May 2016 Description: Identity and Access Management System, IdentityIQ® is a complete governance-based IAM solution that provides fast, convenient access that keeps business users productive, and access controls that keep the business safe. IdentityIQ integrates compliance management and provisioning in a unified solution that leverages a common identity governance framework. I was involved in developing the backend architecture of the Customer Relation service using Spring framework 4.x. Also worked on XML for transferring information through different layers.    Responsibilities:  • Onsite - offshore coordination - point of contact from onsite for one of the production issues track and also driving the offshore team in providing necessary support services.  • For all application issues - performing RCA, coming up with detailed code level fixes, analyzing the efforts required, assigning to appropriate resource and driving the teams in fixing the issue.  • Used Spring MVC and Hibérnate Framework for data handling.  • Involved in implementing the Hibernate API for Relational Mapping.  • Implemented application using JSP, Spring MVC, Spring IOC, Spring Annotations, Spring AOP, Spring Transactions, Hibernate, Oracle.  • Developed Hibernate mapping configuration files to provide the relation between java objects and database tables  • Adapted various design patterns like Business Delegate, Singleton, Service locator, Session Façade, Data Transfer Objects DTO and Data Access Objects DAO patterns.  • Coded JSP pages and used JavaScript for client side validations and to achieve other client-side event handling.  • Used JS form validations for validating the client side data.  • Used Maven scripts to build and deploy war files to QA environment.  • Wrote JUnit test cases to test the server side Modules.  • Designed the user interface of the application using HTML, CSS3, and JavaScript.  • Worked on Java Script libraries like jQuery, Angular JS and JSON  • Developed JUnit test cases for Unit testing.  • Used Spring validation framework for performing data validations.  • Developed UNIX shell scripts to automate business process. This includes feeding data to database and creating CSV files to send the data to different vendors.  • Generated the Responses based on the Requests sent by the UI using the Json Objects.  • Analysis and Design of various modules using SOA and J2EE stack.  • Implemented various Design patterns for the application including Singleton, DAO, Bean Factory, and Session Facade.  • Involved in writing the ANT scripts to build the application.  • Involved in using Log4J to create log files to debug.  • Used the GIT Repository for versioning.  • Wrote test cases using Mockito.  • Used Maven for project builds.  • Participate in deployment support for the releases.  Environment: JAVA JDK 1.6,1.7, J2SE, J2EE, Angular JS, Hibernate 3.0/4.0, SOAP and Restful Web Services , Spring 3.2, JUnit, Mockito, JavaScript, JDBC, PL/SQL, XML, UML, Linux, IOS, Oracle 10g, Vertica, Cassandra 2.1, Tomcat 6.0, Maven, JPA 2.1, Jetty, Log4j, Junit4.1, MongoDB. Java Developer DST Brokerage Solutions - Kansas City, MO September 2013 to August 2015 Description: Account Onboarding: The Account Onboarding application provides broker-dealers and financial advisors with an electronic alternative to the traditional "check & app" mutual fund transaction process. The application will provide the capability to originate new mutual fund applications, initiate new fund, purchase transactions, or subsequent buys or sells. Accomplished in a paperless and electronic environment that completes with straight-thru-processing (STP) to the mutual fund companies.    Responsibilities:  • Extensively used SpringMVC and Hibernate Framework for data handling.  • Designed developed and maintained the data layer using Hibernate, Node JS, JSP, JPA API.  • Involved in implementing the Hibernate API for database connectivity.  • Developed Hibernate mapping configuration files to provide the relation between java objects and database tables  • Adapted various design patterns like Business Delegate, Singleton, Service locator, Session Façade, Data Transfer Objects DTO and Data Access Objects DAO patterns.  • Coded JSP pages and used JavaScript for client side validations and to achieve other client-side event handling.  • Used JS form validations for validating the client side data.  • Used Maven scripts to build and deploy war files to QA environment.  • Wrote JUnit test cases to test the server side Modules.  • Designed the user interface of the application using HTML, CSS3, JavaScript.  • Worked on Java Script libraries like jQuery and JSON  • Developed JUnit test cases for unit testing  • Used Spring validation framework for performing data validations.  • Developed UNIX shell scripts to automate business process. This includes feeding data to database and creating CSV files to send the data to different vendors.    Environment: Java 1.7, AngularJS, RESTFul, XML, XML Schema, DOM, HTML, Ajax, SQL, MySql, Tomcat, Maven, CVS, Agile, Node JS, WebSphere. JAVA/J2EEDeveloper Texas Health and Human Services August 2012 to September 2013 Description: Medicad, This application primarily used to monitor state contract. It allows to renewal current contract, modify contract and stores changes in contract. This application is used by Texas state employee and Texas vendor. It acts primary communication between state and vendor people. My role is to Design the patterns, transferring data through different layers, exposing the web services.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in the Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC): Requirements gathering, Design, Code, Integrating, and Deployment and production phases.  • Implemented Jakarta Struts Framework2.0 along with JSP2.0, Struts Tiles, and Struts Tag libraries to facilitate user interface design.  • Developed validations using Struts validation framework.  • Developed Stateless Session Beans to transfer calls from presentation tier to data services tier.  • Adapted various design patterns like Business Delegate, Singleton, Service locator, Session Façade, Data Transfer Objects DTO and Data Access Objects DAO patterns.  • Used Web Services to communicate with different application.  • JAXB parser for marshaling and un-marshaling.  • Working with WSDL and SOAP messages.  • Designed EJB2.1 like Stateless Session Bean for the Session Facade design pattern.  • Used Hibernate3.1 to store the persistence data into the Oracle9i database.  • Used Web Sphere MQ for enterprise level messaging system.  • JMS was used to send/receive asynchronous data from various message brokers  • Involved in writing the ANT scripts to build the application.  • Involved in using Log4J to create log files to debug.  • Used Rational Clear case for version control. Java Developer Unit Level Testing - Olathe, KS January 2011 to August 2012 • Worked in IBM RAD 6.0 to develop complete application  • Deployed the application on Web Sphere Application Server6.0 (WAS)    GARMIN Olathe, KS Jan 2011 - Aug 2012  Role: Java Developer  Description: Support Landing: Support Landing site is the home page for users looking for Garmin Support information. Users can access the Support Landing page through various links within the Garmin.com Support Site. This application provides products details, FAQS, Software details to the Garmin users.  Responsibilities:  • Interacted with business users to gather Check-in online module requirement.  • Develop the sequence and class diagrams and get it approved from the client  • Designing classes using design pattern methodologies such as Singleton, Service Locator, and DAO factory and session façade patterns. Involved in Performance tuning.  • Created the front end using Node Js, JSP, HTML, XML, and advanced JavaScript. Used Oracle as backend  • Performed Unit Cases for components using Junit. Configuration management - Clear case used.  • Provided support for user acceptance testing & performance testing.  • Used CVS as source code repository tool.  • Developed Application front end using Spring Framework 2.5.  • Followed Web Accessibility Guidelines while coding the website.  • Converted raw images and layouts from a graphic designer into CSS/HTML themes.  • Implemented client side validations in registration forms, login and logout forms using Java Script.  • Extensively used JQUERY, JSON, AJAX and DOM scripting to create interactive web applications like message posting and auto complete form validations.  • Used CSS in design of the templates and skins.  • Worked with the design of the templates and skins in CSS.  • Used Eclipse as development tool as well as for running Unit test cases.  • Coded Tested and debugged Java code and Servlets using Eclipse.  • Development, testing Servlets and JSPs in the typical MVC Architecture.  • Used Rational ClearCase as a source control for code changes.  • Used Maven for building the application.  • Provided production support by interacting with the end-users and fixing bugs.  • Involved in writing database packages, stored procedures and triggers.  • Involved in configuration and deployment of application on Jboss App Server.    Environment: Java 1.6, JavaScript, DOJO, HTML, Node Js, XML, XML Schema, DOM, SAX, SQL, Tomcat, Ant, Linux, Clear Case, Informix, Water fall methodology. Java Developer Nimaisoft Systems Private Limited August 2009 to December 2010 Description: The main purpose of this project is to create dynamic forms especially suitable to conduct online surveys. Different types of surveys can be set up using the dynamic form creation. It also has admin section where reports can be created with various statistics.  Responsibilities:  • Designed and developed user interface using Struts tags, JSP, HTML and JavaScript.  • Developed user specific Highlights (dashboard menu) section, Home page, Admin home page, user module (Modify/search users, create users screens with assigning various roles) using Spring MVC framework, Hibernate ORM Module, Spring Core Module, XML, JSP and XSLT.  • Involved in multi-tiered J2EE design utilizing MVC architecture (Struts Framework) and Hibernate.  • Implemented functionality using Servlet, JSP, HTML and Struts Framework, Hibernate, spring, Java Scripts and Web logic.  • Developed Scalable applications using Stateless session EJBs.  • Used Axis Web Services using SOAP to transfer the amount from an application that is remote and global to different financial institutions  • Involved in designing the user interfaces using HTML, CSS, and JSPs.  • Configured Hibernate, Spring and My Faces (JSF) to map the business objects to MySQL Database using XML configuration file  • The required changes to the record and save the updated information back to the database.  • Involved in writing shell script to export oracle table's data into flat files and performed unit testing using JUNIT and used Log4j for logging and automatic batch jobs.  • Developed stored procedures and triggers using PL/SQL in order to calculate and update the tables to implement business logic.    Environment: Core Java, JSP, Servlets, Struts Framework, Hibernate Framework, Oracle, UNIX Shell Scripts, XSL, XSLT, Eclipse 3.x, My Eclipse, HTML, UML, Java Script, JUnit, JAXP, XML Java, J2EE, Servlets, JSP, XML, DTD, Oracle GlassFish, Clear Case, Informix, Water fall methodology, Websphere. Education Bachelor of Science in Information Technology in Information Technology Padmasri Dr. B V Raju Institute of Technology University Skills Java (8 years), JSP (7 years), JUnit (7 years), SQL (7 years), XML (7 years), Javascript, Java J2Ee, Hibernate, J2Ee, Spring Additional Information Technical Skills    Languages: Java ( Java SE6, 7, 8),J2EE, JavaScript, C, C++ and UNIX (ksh) Shell Scripts.  Methodologies/Design Skills: RUP, TDD, Agile methodology, UML, OOP, OOAD and J2EE Design patterns.    Technologies  J2EE,JDBC, Apache Active MQ 5.0, JMS, JSP, JavaBeans, RMI, EJB, JNDI, JAX-WS, Apache CXF, JMS,EMS,JSF, JavaScript, CSS, Applets, AWT, Hibernate, HQL, JIRA.    Web Services: SOAP, WSDL, JAXP, JAXB, AXIS, JAX-WS, WSDL4J, Soap-UI, RESTFUL.  Servers: J-Boss, Web Sphere, WebLogic, Apache Web Server, Apache Tomcat.  Frame-Works/OR Mapping: MVC, JPA, Struts 2.0, Spring 2.x/3.x/4.x, JSF, SOA and Hibernate 3.0/4.0.  Web Technologies HTML4.0,5.0/DHTML,CSS2/3, Ajax, JS, NodeJS, Angular JS, JQuery, JSON, JSTL SAX, DOM, XML, DTD, XSD, JAXB, XPath and JAXP.  RDBMS/DBMS:  Oracle 9i 10g 11g, IBM DB2, MS Access 2003, MS SQL Server 2005, 2008, TSQL, SQL, PL SQL, Mark Logic, Triggers, Views, HQL, Criteria and Toad.    Version Control: CVS, Subversion, Visual Source Safe, Clear Case and Microsoft Visual SourceSafe.  Unit Testing Tools: JUnit, UAT, Regression Test and Customer Test, Cactus.  Other Utilities: Log4j, ANT, Maven