Full Stack Developer Full Stack <span class="hl">Developer</span> Full Stack Developer - Southwestern National Bank Fremont, CA • Over 5+ years professional experience in analysis, design, developing, support and testing web based, distributed n-tier and client/server architecture.  • Proficient in all phases of SDLC (analysis, design, development, testing and deployment) and highly competent in gathering user requirements.  • Experience in using Java, J2EE, EJB, JMS, WebServices, JSP, Servlets, Struts and spring, XML, JavaBeans, JDBC and Swing.  • Sound Knowledge of MVC Architecture, Struts framework, spring framework, Java Design Patterns and O/R mapping Hibernate framework.  • Strong knowledge in Spring Framework using Spring Boot, IOC/ AOP, Spring Transaction support (Declarative/ Programmatic), Hibernate in spring.  • Proficiency in Hibernate and the O/R mapping to map Java domain objects with the database, spring framework to easily configure J2EE applications.  • Expertise in design and development of various web applications with N-Tier Architecture using MVC and using the Struts and Spring Framework.  • Experience in working on various spring modules (Spring Core, Spring JDBC, spring boot).  • Sound Knowledge of MVC Architecture, Struts framework, spring framework, Java Design Patterns and O/R mapping Hibernate framework.  • Good Knowledge in coded Java applications on both client-side and server-side using JDBC and advanced multithreading  • Experience in HTML, DHTML, XHTML, Angular.js, CSS, JavaScript Libraries (Prototype, JQuery), AJAX, JSTL specification, Tag Libraries and XSLT, XSD, DTD and Resource Properties.  • Working knowledge of Java Web Services with real time knowledge using REST.  • Strong designing and implementation work experience in Java and J2EE technologies like Core Java, Enterprise Java Beans (EJB), Servlets, JPA and JSP.  • Good exposure and experience with Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) such as Web Services including REST, SOAP, WSDL, JMS ( Java Messaging Service), AJAX and tools like Maven, ANT, Junit.  • Experience in Implementing Service Oriented Architectures (SOA) with JSON based Web Services (RestFul).  • Experience in writing database objects like Stored Procedures, Triggers, PL/SQL packages and Cursors for Oracle, MySQL, DB2 and Sybase databases.  • Strong experience in client interaction and understanding business application, business data flow and data relations from them. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Full Stack Developer Southwestern National Bank - Houston, TX October 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Conducted analysis of organizational needs and goals for the development and implementation of application systems by involving with business personnel.  • Developed user interface using JSP, JSP Tag libraries. Implementation of front end JSP and backing beans.  • Implemented J2EE Design Patterns like MVC, Service Locator and Session Façade.  • Developed and implemented the MVC Architectural Pattern using Spring Framework including JSP, Servlets, EJB, Form Bean and Action classes.  • Designed and Developed End to End customer self service module using annotation based Spring MVC, Hibernate, JSP and JQuery.  • Developed various J2EE components like Servlets, JSP, SAX, XSLT, JAXP and JMS by using Eclipse.  • Developed User Interface screens for various modules like Action, Risk, and Lessons learned, MOM items using JSF, JavaScript using Eclipse IDE.  • Used Spring MVC design pattern while developing the application.  • Extensively involved in the integration of the Front-End web interface with the Spring MVC, Angular JS, JSP, HTML5, CSS3 and jQuery.  • Designed JSP pages for Initial applications, Submissions and Maintenance Involved in implementing Message Driven Beans using for JMS systems.  • Implemented JSF framework to simplify the development of various UI components.  • Implemented all the components of Spring Frame work (Controller classes, Spring Bean Configuration file (dispatcher-servlet.xml).  • Developed the business layer using Spring Boot.  • Used Spring Boot to collecting the data from users and packaged the data as JSON distributed to applications.  • Designed dynamic and multi-browser compatible pages using HTML5, CSS3, JQuery and JavaScript.  • Worked with Web technologies such as Angular, AJAX, JSON, HTML5, CSS, Node.js, jQuery, JavaScript and Bootstrap.  • Developed custom directives and created Angular JS services to consume in controllers.  • Performed deployment of applications on JBoss. Worked on changing of JBoss server config files to adapt in different environment.  • Worked heavily in AWS cloud resources to better achieve a lower cost and higher performance/uptime.  • Creation of REST Web Services framework for the management of data using Apache CXF.  • Developed and deployed EJBs into BEA Weblogic application server.  • Unit testing was performed using JUnit and Version control through Git.  • Involved in Unit testing of application using JUnit and built the package using Maven and deployed the application on to WebLogic App Server.  • Used agile methodology for the software development.  • Performed a thorough unit testing and resolved several data related issues before migration to production.    Environment: Java/J2EE, JSP, spring, Spring Boot, Hibernate, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JSON, JQuery, AJAX, Node.js, Bootstrap, Angular2, Angular.js, Eclipse, JSP, SAX, XSLT, JAXP, JMS, JBOSS, AWS, REST, GIT, JUnit, Maven, Agile and Windows. Full Stack Developer Ameriprise Financial - Minneapolis, MN August 2017 to September 2018 Responsibilities:  • Involved in Requirements gathering, analysis and design and documentation as the application was started from scratch.  • Involved in Analysis, Design, and Implementation of software applications using Java, J2EE, XML and XSLT and Web Services (REST, WSDL).  • Responsible for the overall layout design, color scheme of the web site using HTML5, XHTML and CSS3 and Responsible for creating detailed wire frames and process flows.  • Involved in designing, developing and testing of J2EE components like Java Beans, Java, XML, Collection Framework, JSP, Servlets, JMS, JDBC, and JNDI and deployments in WebLogic Server.  • Developed application using Spring MVC, JSP, JSTL and AJAX on the presentation layer, the business layer is built using spring and the persistent layer uses Hibernate.  • Used Eclipse IDE for writing code and BEA WebLogic as application server.  • Designed and developed Micro services business components using Spring Boot. Consumed REST based Micro services with Rest template based on RESTful APIs.  • Used Spring/MVC framework to enable the interactions between JSP/View layer and implemented different design patterns with J2EE and JSON technology.  • Did Spring POC on Spring Boot for the application development.  • Designed and developed very complex and large web pages using Angular JS library with AJAX and JSON.  • Developed RESTful Web services client to consume JSON messages.  • Used MDB to reduce the interdependencies of all the sub systems using JMS.  • Involved in designing and developing the front end of the application using JSP, Java script, AJAX, HTML5, DHTML and CSS3.  • Created User Interface Design using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, JSON, and Angular.JS.  • Used Angular JS grid to create the grid views for this application.  • Developed pages using Angular JS Data-binding, Filters, and Directives & Expressions.  • Build SOAP Web services based on AWS (Amazon web services).  • Developing EJB Message driven beans used for the publisher and subscriber model for sending E- mail.  • Used Log4j to provide central logging facility, comes under singleton design pattern.  • Involved in writing the ANT scripts to build and deploy the application.  • Worked on SQL queries and PL/SQL and actively involved in the production support.  • Followed Agile and SCRUM methodologies and participate in daily scrum stand up meetings during development process.    Environment: Java/J2EE, spring, Spring Boot, Hibernate, HTML5, CSS3, XHTML, Eclipse, Angular.js, XML, XSLT, JSP, JMS, JDBC, JSF, JSTL, Restful, JSON, AJAX, JavaScript, AWS, EJB, Log4j, ANT, SQL, PL/SQL and Windows. Java Developer Office Depot - Boca Raton, FL December 2016 to July 2017 Responsibilities:  • Participated in the complete software development lifecycle tasks (design, coding, testing and documentation).  • Responsible for preparing the use cases and for designing and developing object models, class diagrams with UML Specifications.  • Developed system preferences dynamic user interfaces and created web application prototype using JavaScript, CSS and HTML.  • Developed Spring MVC rest controllers, services for backend interactions.  • Extensively used Spring MVC for servlet configurations both during application Development and Test.  • Implemented the service layer using spring with transaction and logging interceptors.  • Designed dynamic client-side JavaScript, codes to build web forms and simulate process for web application, page navigation and form validation.  • Involved in design and development of RESTful (JAX-RS) web services for other application to communicate and tested web services using SOAP UI and REST Client.  • Consumed RestFul web service and performed data retrieval using Hibernate and integrated with Web Method via WebServices.  • Used Maven to build the application and deployed on Apache Tomcat Server.  • Implemented the logging mechanism using Log4j framework and used SVN version control to track and maintain different versions of the application.  • Review design and code and provide feedback to make sure that it meets standards and best practices.    Environment: Java, spring, Hibernate, HTML, XML, JavaScript, Restful, Maven, Soap UI, SVN, Apache Tomcat, Log4j and Windows. Java Developer Syena Infosoft Pvt Ltd - IN June 2014 to November 2016 Responsibilities:  • Involved in Analysis, Design, Development, UAT and Production phases of the application.  • Developed Form Beans and Action classes using Spring framework along with validation framework.  • Used spring, Tiles to provide a full-featured, robust framework for assembling presentation pages from component parts.  • Developed JSP pages for the presentation and used JSP tags.  • Developed the Business Delegate, Singleton, Service Locator, Session-Facade and DAO Layers.  • Developed XML files, Schema's and parsing them by using both SAX and DOM parser's.  • Designed and Developed XSL style sheets using XSLT to transform XML and display the information on the UI screens.  • Developed Stateless Session Beans which will in turn call DAO's to retrieve & update data into Database.  • Wrote deployment scripts for implemented EJB's using Ant.  • Used Log4j and commons-logging frameworks for logging the application flow.  • Involved in Unit Testing using Junit and Integration of Use Cases.  • Perform the promotion process of the developed and tested code into the production environment    Environment: Java, spring, JSP, XML, XSL, XSLT, EJB, JUnit, Ant and Windows. Education Bachelor's Skills Eclipse, J2ee, Java, Hibernate, Spring, jquery, Jsp, Jstl, Servlets, Struts, Git, Javascript, Angular, Bootstrap Additional Information Technical Skills:  Java/J2EE Technologies Java, JSP, Servlets/Applets, JDBC, JNDI, JMS, JSTL, Java Beans, Java Multithreading, EJB  Web Technologies HTML5, XML, XSLT, SAX, DOM, CSS3, JavaScript, XPath, AJAX, jQuery, Angular2, Angular.js, Bootstrap  Frameworks Spring, Struts, Hibernate  Bug Tracking Tools Rational Clear Quest, BugZilla  Design & GUI Tools Eclipse  App servers IBM WebSphere, Apache Tomcat, BEA Web Logic, JBoss  Databases/Tools Oracle, SQL Server, DB2, MySQL, Toad, PL/SQL Developer  Methodologies Agile, Waterfall  Design/Version Control UML, CVS, SVN, VSS, Git  Operating Systems Windows, Linux, UNIX