Full Stack Java Developer Full Stack <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Full Stack Java Developer - Great American insurance Cincinnati, OH • Over 8+ years of experience in full stack development by using the JAVA/J2EE technologies in all phases of SDLC which involves design, development and execution of Web-based applications and client-server multi-tier applications.  • Hands on experience in UI technologies like HTML5, XHTML, DHTML, CSS3 (SASS, LESS), Bootstrap and AJAX to build responsive and dynamic web pages.  • Expertise in using JavaScript/Type Script to build interactive web pages and hands-on experience in JavaScript frameworks like jQuery, ReactJS and Handle Bar JS.  • Expertise in obtaining MVC functionality by implementing ReactJS with Redux and flux patterns.  • Proficient knowledge on Angular 2.x/4.x with NGRX to obtain MVVM design flow, developed front-end applications by using Angular JS, Backbone JS, Ember JS, Knockout JS and ExtJS to obtain Model View Controller (MVC) design flow.  • Good knowledge in implementing ES6 features like arrows, block scoping, enhanced object literals, promises and modules.  • Experience in developing applications using Object Relational Mapping (ORM) frameworks like Hibernate, MVC frameworks like Struts, JSF and spring modules such as Spring MVC/JDBC/Security/AOP/DAO/ORM/OXM/IOC.  • Proficient experience in building dynamic SPA (Single Page Application) using MEAN full stack javascript framework.  • Developed web admin for sales application using AngularJS with bower, npm and gulp to handle plugins.  • Hands on experience in Automated and Manual testing with AngularJS framework (Karma, Jasmine, Protractor) and Mocha, Chai for ReactJS.  • Experience in Java 8 features likes Concurrency, Multi-threading, Functional interface, Lambda functions, Time API, Stream API, Collection API, Filter API, Exception Handling and Transaction Management.  • Good knowledge of Relational databases (Oracle, MySQL, Microsoft SQL Server, Postgre SQL, and DB2) and NoSQL databases (MongoDB, Cassandra and Redis).  • Expertise in using servers like Apache Tomcat, JBoss, IBM Web Sphere and Web Logic to configure and deploy applications.  • Enhanced and deployed applications based on Micro Services using Spring Boot and Spring Cloud.  • Proficient in using JSP to implement the view layer, using Spring2.0(IOC, AOP) to implement the business layer, and using Hibernate and DAO to implement persistent layer.  • Extensive knowledge in developing efficient, reliable, scalable enterprise and web applications using EJB, JMS, JSP, JNDI, Struts, JSF(Prime Faces).  • Expertise in providing authentication and authorization for web services using Open ID Connect (OIDC) with OAuth 2.0.  • Proficient in the implementation of Platform as a Service (PaaS) Pivotal Cloud Foundry (PCF) services such as Pivotal Functional Service, Pivotal Container Service and Pivotal Application Service to continuously deploy applications on the cloud.  • Experienced in setting up Amazon EC2 instances, virtual private cloud (VPCs), and security groups, Data Pipeline and Lambda.  • Strong Knowledge of behavioral testing and integration testing of the application using Cucumber and Selenium respectively Work Experience Full Stack Java Developer Great American insurance - Cincinnati, OH August 2018 to Present Description: Great American Insurance Group understands the importance of choosing a financially strong company. We are an organization built for the long term and are committed to giving you that strength.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in Requirements gathering, analysis, design, development, testing and Maintenance phases with a TDD approach.  • Designed and developed the UI using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Node JS, and Backbone.js, Ext JS, AJAX, and JSON.  • The presentation layer used Spring MVC to implement the MVC architecture design and facilitates user interface designed by the use of JSP's and tag libraries.  • Developed entire user interface using various Ext JS components like Form panels, Tab panels, Viewport,and Editable grids.  • Worked on the modernization of a legacy and outsourced UI technologies used were Angular JS 2, CSS, Node JS, Express JS and AWS (Amazon Web Services).  • Used AJAX and JSON to make asynchronous calls to the project server to fetch data on the fly.  • Developed a tool to retrieve and send data to third-party service provider this feature was implemented using REST.  • Involved with bug fixing on functionality, performance and designing issues with JavaScript, jQuery, HTML5, CSS3,and AngularJS.  • Used Bootstrap and AngularJS, React.js and Node.js in effective web design.  • Used RESTFUL client to interact with the services by providing the RESTFUL URL mapping  • Built MAVEN scripts for automated deployment and for the build operation of the entire application.  • Deployed the application in WebSphere Application Server 6.0.1 and Configured JMS in the WebSphere application server to send messages on the queue.  • Developed Controller for the request, response paradigm by Spring Controllers using Spring-MVC. Used JSON as response type in REST services.  • Designed and developed Micro Services business components and RESTful service endpoints using spring boot.  • Used ReactJS to create views to hook up models to the DOM and synchronize data with the server as a Single Page Application (SPA).  • Developed modules in the application using the Microservices architecture style.  • Developed Applications using Rule Engines, Drools 4. X and ILOG with corresponding to validate the business User Roles.  • Done with Web sphere server configurations, Data Sources, Connection Pooling, MQ Series Queues set up for messaging and deploying the apps on different servers in different environments like QA/IST/Production.  • Worked on Rest Web services as well as Node Rest framework for backend services and used MongoDB (NoSQL) for database services.  • Done with unit testing of all java classes using TestNG framework. Supports various kinds of testing activities starting from Integrated Unit Test, Sub System Test, System Test and User Acceptance Test.  • Used Active MQ messaging to set up communication between applications in ESB. And flows are created for JAX-WS and JAX-RS web services.  • Involved in deploying the application in UNIX and to connect to see logs for fixing UAT/Production defects.  • Coordinated with the Performance team to get thread dumps tuned java as well as DB code. Used Tomcat server for the application development and Utilized JIRA for task scheduling, quality control activities like defect tracking and fixing.    Environment: JAVA 1.8, J2EE, Servlets, JSP, Swing, Web Sphere Application Server 8.x, XML, HTML, WSDL, Maven, Java Spring MVC, SOAP, JavaScript, Jenkins, AngularJS, Node JS, Backbone.JS, Bootstrap, EXT JS, ReactJS, Ant, MongoDB, Google Maps API, Micro services etc. Full Stack Java Developer Verizon - Irving, TX May 2017 to July 2018 Description: Verizon is a global leader delivering innovative communications and technology solutions that improve the way our customers live, work, learn and play. the company operates America's most reliable wireless network and the nation's premier all-fiber network and delivers integrated solutions to businesses worldwide. With brands like Yahoo, Tech Crunch and Huff Post, the company's media group helps consumers stay informed and entertained, communicate and transact, while creating new ways for advertisers and partners to connect.    Responsibilities:  • Participated in the complete software development lifecycle tasks (design, coding, testing and documentation).  • Extensive knowledge and experience in developing Single Page Applications (SPA) using AngularJS.  • Responsible for preparing the use cases and for designing and developing object models, class diagrams with UML Specifications.  • Involved to implement various screens for the front end using React.js and used various predefined components from NPM (Node Package Manager) and Redux.js library. Involved in the implementation of DAO using Spring-Hibernate ORM.  • Responsible for React UI and architecture. Building components library, including Tree, Slide-View and Table Grid.  • Extensive experience with ReactJS/ Redux tech stack, implement React to build UI components, Redux for managing app state and interaction.  • Designed and Developed UI for Customer Service Modules and Reports using Angular2.0, HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, JavaScript and jQuery Created web application prototype using JavaScript and AngularJS.  • Implemented nested views and routing using the Angular UI Router as per the requirement. GUI was developed using JSP, HTML, and AngularJS and created reusable components in Angular2.0 using Custom Directives Filters, Services and Partials.  • Developed pages using Angular2.0 directives, expressions, routing capabilities for bookmarking, filters, validations and Angular UI components such as grid, buttons, carousels, date pickers, modal dialogs and other input components.  • Developed views using Bootstrap components, Angular-UI and involved in configuring routing for various modules using angular UI router.  • Involved in batch processing using the Spring Batch framework to extract data from the database and load into corresponding Loan App tables.  • Used Spring Core Annotations for Dependency Injection Spring DI and Spring MVC for REST API s and Spring Boot for micro-services.  • Exposed Stateless session beans as RESTful web services using JAX-RS. Implemented Angular promises to handle asynchronous communication with our Rest API for various requirements.  • Good experience in developing Ext JS applications with extensive server calls using AJAX and stronghold in handling the server data and exceptions to provide the interactive user experience.  • Developed components of web services (JAX-WS, REST, and JAX-RPC) end to end, using different JAX-WS standards with a clear understanding on WSDL (type, message, port Type, bindings, and service).  • Developed unit test cases using Jasmine and Karma as a unit test runner for various application modules.  • Used Junit and Mockito framework for unit testing of application and Log4j 1.2 to capture the log that includes runtime exceptions.    Environment: Jdk1.7, HTML5, Angular2.0, jQuery, JavaScript, Spring Batch, Node.js, Bootstrap, Spring 4.0, Apache7.0, log4j, Hibernate, Kafka, Maven, Tortoise SVN, Rest web services, AWS, maven, jQuery, JIRA, Eclipse Kepler,XML, MySQL. Full Stack Java Developer Essent Guaranty Inc - Winston-Salem, NC January 2016 to April 2017 Description: Essent Guaranty, Inc. provides private mortgage insurance services to single-family mortgage loans in the United States. The company provides private capital to mitigate mortgage credit risk for lenders and investors. It offers its products through sales representatives.    Responsibilities:  • Created web services, WSDL and web methods with Annotation in Hibernate, Used the spring container for the data source and to load hibernate specific classes.  • Designed Frontend with in object-oriented JavaScript Framework with Angular.js.  • Implemented Angular 2 services to connect the web application to back-end APIs to POST/GET the data used in the application.  • Messages like monthly statements, payment due were sent to customers through JMS, sometimes point to point or just publish. Deploying, managing, and operating scalable, highly available, and fault tolerant systems on AWS.  • Developed API for using AWS Lambda to manage the servers and run the code in the AWS.  • Wrote test cases using JUnit testing framework and configured applications on Web Logic Server.  • Developed various UI components using Angular JS, Spring (MVC), JSP, and HTML.  • Developed the different components of application such as JSPs, Servlets and EJB's using Web Logic Application Server and used CVS for version control.  • Explore single-page asynchronously data-driven UIs using REACT JS, REDUX and Node JS.  • Created Responsive Web Design using Bootstrap, SVG and other media queries to support all kinds of devices.  • Architected, designed and implemented a SPA (Single Page Application) in AngularJS which consume JSON from a Spring MVC, using Spring Security to secure the Application.  • Developed AJAX-driven application by invoking web services/API and parsing the JSON response.  • The followed agile process created and maintained User stories in JIRA. Actively participated in Sprint grooming, retrospectives and daily stand up meetings.  • Provide training on various educational technologies including Smart boards, Blackboard and Web 2.0 technologies.    Environment: Spring 4.0, Hibernate, Web logic, Angular JS 1.5, HTML5, CSS3, Linux, Apache CXF, JMS, Shell scripting, REST, JSP, JDK 1.8, SERVLET, MYSQL, JDBC, AWS, PCF, Eclipse, MAVEN, Agile, JIRA, Web 2.0, SOA. Full Stack Java Developer CHG Health Care - Salt Lake City, UT March 2014 to December 2015 Description: CHG Healthcare was founded in 1979 by Therus C. Kolff, MD to deliver medical care to rural areas of the western United States. The company is based in Midvale, Utah, though the postal designation of nearby Salt Lake City is used in its mailing address.    Responsibilities:  • Implemented the service layer based on a spring container and exploited spring's IOC features for bean management.  • Implemented the persistence layer using Hibernate-ORM. Worked on Spring Web Flow on Spring MVC for building flows in our web application.  • Implemented jQuery based accordion styles and handled complete jQuery in showing Rich Internet Application.  • Responsible for creating efficient design and developing User Interaction screens using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, and AngularJS.  • Coded in AngularJS MVC Framework to make single page app (spa) and complex price configurations pages.  • Developed application of spring 3.x framework by utilizing its features like Spring Dependency injection, Spring Security, Spring Web Flow with Spring MVC. Used spring's dependency injection for injecting entity manager and managed beans into spring beans.  • Used D3.js and Angular to construct data visualization. Developed a persistence layer based on JPA framework for providing a POJO persistence model for object-relational mapping.  • Created back-end services/ API using Express.js, which was used to query MongoDB.  • Used Concurrent Version System (CVS) as a source control tool. Developed unit test cases and suits on JUnit framework for unit testing. Used Maven for building, deploying the application, creating JPA based entity objects and compiling GWT application.    Environment: Spring 3.1, J2EE 1.7, Spring JDBC Template, Spring Batch, AJAX, XML, CSS, HTML 5, JavaScript, Oracle 10g/11i, Maven 3.0.3, MYSQL 6.1, jQuery, JUnit, REST, AngularJS. Java Developer Open Logix Solutions Private Ltd December 2012 to February 2014 Description: At Open Logix, we have an awesome team of technology and business professionals that make things happen. We strive to provide a great experience for our customers, employees, and partners.    Responsibilities:  • Gathered user requirements followed by analysis and design. Evaluated various technologies for the Client.  • Extensively used XML documents with XSLT and CSS to translate the content into HTML to present to GUI.  • Developed dynamic content of presentation layer using JSP.  • Developed user-defined tags using XML.  • Developed Java Mail for automatic emailing and JNDI to interact with the Knowledge Server.  • Used Struts Framework to implement J2EE design patterns (MVC).  • Developed JSP as the view, Servlets as Controller and EJB as the model in the Struts Framework.  • Worked on Web Logic application server to deploy JSP and EJB applications.  • Created and implemented PL/SQL stored procedures, triggers.    Environment: Core Java, J2EE, EJB 2.1, JSP 2.0, Servlets 2.4, JSP, JDBC, Struts, HTML, XML, Eclipse RCP, PL/SQL, Oracle 9i, Weblogic8.1, Spring MVC Framework. Java Developer Hucon Technologies - Hyderabad, Telangana January 2011 to November 2012 Description: Hucon Solutions is an Integrated HR Service Provider for all Corporates all over India. We are backed by a good ERP and enough experience in HR and related activities. Hucon Solutions was launched in April 2008, with an aim to grow into a one-stop shop for all HR requirements for clients in India.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in the Design, Development Phases of quotes, customer service modules.  • Developed the front-end using JSP, Struts, MVC, JavaScript, HTML and DHTML.  • Used Struts-validation Framework to provide Validation.  • Developed middleware business logic using Enterprise JavaBeans.  • Release deployment planning and execution of releases.  • Used Clear Case for version control.  • Worked in the development of DAO classes for the data access logic.    Environment: Java, J2EE, Struts, XML, SOAP, WSDL, AJAX, JSP, HTML, JavaScript, CSS, Log4J, JAXB, JUnit, Tomcat 5, JBoss 5.0. Skills ECLIPSE, EJB, JAVA, HIBERNATE, SPRING Additional Information Technical Skills    Languages C, Java.  Scripting languages HTML, DHTML, XML, JavaScript, JSON, XML, XSL, XSLT, JSP, JSTL.  Web Technologies  JSP, Servlets, Angular Js, jQuery, ReactJS, NodeJS, EJB, Hibernate, Struts, Spring, JDBC, HTML5, DHTML and XML, CSS3, Web Service ,SOAP, MQ Series, Spring Boot, Express JS    Databases Oracle, MySQL, MSSQL Server, Sybase, Postgre SQL, MongoDB.  IDE Eclipse, IntelliJ, Net Beans, IBM Rational Application Developer (RAD)  Web Servers JBoss, Web Logic, WebSphere, Tomcat, Jetty, Apache  Frameworks  Spring (MVC, AOP, ORM, Web Service, DAO, Social, Security, etc.), Hibernate ORM 5.0.2, Bootstrap, Struts, Tiles, DWR (Direct Web Remoting)    Tools Eclipse, Notepad++, GitHub, JIRA, Clear Quest, MS Project, Excel, MS Access.