Java Developer <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Java Developer - Intuit Santa Ana, CA • Around 8 years of experience in Object Oriented design and development of Multi-Tier distributed, Enterprise application using Java/J2EE and CICD technologies with Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC).  • Expertise in working with Agile methodologies like Test Driven Development (TDD) and Scrum Methodology.  • Developing inter-operable Web Services and its related technologies like SOAP, WSDL, UDDI, JAX-WS, JAXB, JAX-RPC using tools like Apache Axis, good understanding of Service oriented architecture (SOA).  • Hand on experience with Restful web services, used JAX-RS to implement RESTful applications in Java.  • Experience in using frameworks like Struts, Spring, JSF, Hibernate and build tools like ANT, MAVEN and log4J for logging.  • Experienced in developing the UI screens using JavaScript, JQuery, Ajax, bootstrap, HTML5 and CSS3.  • Knowledge in Object Oriented functional JavaScript and its libraries/ frameworks such as JQuery and ReactJS.  • Experience with implementing application using AngularJS and understanding Angular directives.  • Expertise in Core java concepts, such as OOP Design, Multi-Threading, Generics, Exception Handling and Collections.  • Experience in developing server side code with good knowledge of enterprise and persistence design patterns like Singleton, Factory Prototype, Business Delegate, Session Facade, Service locator, Decorator, Front Controller, Data Access Object and MVC.  • Experience in application development using JSP, Servlets, JSTL, EJB transaction implementation (CMP, BMP, Message-Driven Beans), JMS, Swing, Java Beans, JDBC, XML, Web Services, JNDI, Multi-Threading.  • Expertise in XML technologies such as XSL, XSLT, XML schemas, XPath, XForms, XSL-FO and parsers like SAX, DOM.  • Experience with application servers like Web Logic, JBOSS and IBM Web Sphere and Web Server like Apache Tomcat.  • Development of Service code using apache camel framework in JAVA/J2EE  • Excellent knowledge in working with various databases like SQL Server(RDBMS), MySQL, DB2, ORACLE and MongoDB (NoSQL).  • Proficient in SQL and wrote Stored Procedures, Triggers besides writing DDL, DML and transaction queries with development tools like TOAD and Aqua Data Studio.  • Extensive development experience in different IDE's like Spring Tool Suite, RAD, Eclipse and IntelliJ.  • Experience in development, deployment and troubleshooting Web based and enterprise based applications on Windows, UNIX and Linux platforms.  • Subversion SVN, CVS, IBM Clear Case, Git hub and Visual Source Safe as versioning software tools.  • Experience writing Junit using tools like JMeter and TDD for application integration testing and unit testing.  • Developed the JSON structure for the data transfer.  • Developed Hibernate configuration files and queries and Implemented DAO classes.  • Developed the Enterprise Service Bus (ESB) as a gateway between the business tier and UI to make the business tier separate from UI.  • Excellent written and verbal communication skills, Analytical, Problem Solving skills, strict attention to detail and ability to work independently, work within a team environment Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Java Developer Intuit - Mountain View, CA November 2018 to Present Description: The Intuit Build Platform (IBP) is the sub-system of Intuit CICD Platform that handles Intuit's build needs. It comprises of a Jenkins build farm hosted in AWS, GitHub, artifact repository Nexus and internal Build slave portal (BSP- internal tool developed on Java) - all scalable, secure, highly available, and prepared for disaster recovery.    Responsibilities:  • Working with Agile methodologies like Test Driven Development (TDD) and Scrum Methodology environment.  • Extensively used Spring IOC, Spring AOP, Spring Boot concepts and used Spring MVC framework to develop the application.  • Developed the view-controller components using Servlets/JSPs, JavaScript, CSS, HTML, Bootstrap and DHTML and JSTl  • Used SOAP (Simple Object Access Protocol) for webservice by exchanging XML data between the applications.  • Hands-on experience in development of microservices and deploying in Docker.  • Implemented Dependency Injection (IOC) feature of spring framework to inject beans into User Interface and AOP for Logging.  • Developed Hibernate configuration files and queries and Implemented DAO classes using JPA.  • Developed persistence Layer using Hibernate to persist the data and to manage the data.  • Developed the persistence layer using Hibernate Framework by configuring the 1:1/1:M/M:M mappings in hibernate files and created DAO and POJO.  • Transaction management was based on Spring AOP; and Spring IoC container was used for independency injection.  • Expert in using Oracle development tools such as Tool for Oracle Application Development (TOAD), Oracle Reports builder, SQL developer, SQL* Plus and PL/SQL Developer.  • Experience in working with NoSQL Database like HiveDB to manage extremely large data sets  • Created dynamic HTML pages, used JavaScript, JQuery, reactJS, NoSQL, Restful and AJAX to create interactive front-end GUI.  • Developed JSON structure for the data transfer in between the Goggle Web Toolkit (UI) and business tier.  • Log4J was used to monitor the error logs. Used GIT as version control tool.  • Used Jenkins as build management tool for continuous integration process.  • Developed the Enterprise Service Bus (ESB) as a gateway between the business tier and UI to make the business tier separate from UI.  • Using Multi-Threading concept to process multiple tasks concurrently to make performance better.  • Developed unit testing frame-work using JUnit test cases for continuous integration testing and used JTest Tool for performance testing.  • Actively used the defect tracking tool Rally to create and track the defects during QA phase of the project  • Working on User requests via ticketing system (JIRA) related to system access, logon issues, file system repairs, directory permissions, disk failures, hardware and software related issues.  • Configured development environment using JBoss application server for developer's integration testing.  • Developed the build scripts using Maven.    Environment: Java, Hibernate, Spring, XML, JSP, MVC, J2EE, JUnit, Maven, UML, JAX-WS, JAX-RS, Log4J, Oracle 11g, Agile methodology, GIT, JavaScript, Web Services(SOAP UI & REST) Angular.JS, Node.JS, JSTL, AJAX , Oracle, PL/SQL,JSON, (NoSQL) HiveDB, WebSphere Application Server, Micro Services , Jenkins, Putty, JPA , Python, JIRA. Java Developer Prudential Financial - Sunnyvale, CA November 2017 to October 2018 Description: AMLU (Anti-Money Laundering Unit) for entity and Individual Profile management services comprises of reputational data of Annuities, retirement and Insurance. These services are integrated to Eloqua/Arora registration forms to make consistent profile across all business units (PruDB-prudential dashboard).    Responsibilities:  • Built Java Web applications with technology stack includes Java, JavaScript, HTML5, CSS3, Spring Framework like spring boot, Unix, SQL, Hibernate and Restful webservice.  • Developed reusable and interoperable Web service modules based on SOA architecture using SOAP and RESTFUL.  • Implemented the project as a multi-tier application using Spring MVC, Spring boot, Microservices & used core Spring concepts like AOP and IOC.  • Experienced in managing public, private cloud infrastructures using Amazon Web Services (AWS) which include EC2, S3, Cloud Formation and deployed Cloud Front to deliver content further allowing reduction of load on the servers.  • Worked on Cucumber Automation framework to automated test cases and integrate it to Jenkins.  • Developed the java based web application and involved in migrating existing monolithic application in to Microservice Architecture based RESTful Service and deployments were done on AWS.  • Designed and developed application using Spring Framework-IOC/DI, Spring MVC, Servlets, POJO and EJB integrating with Hibernate framework.  • Primarily focused on the spring components such as Spring boot, Dispatcher Servlets, Controllers, Model and View Objects, View Resolver.  • Imported data from various resources to the Cassandra cluster using Java APIs.  • Supporting Production issues and follow-up with users and replicating it in stage, analyzing and fix it.  • Actively worked on Splunk like creating dashboard for 50X and 40X error codes, configuring alerts and Prod issues investigation.  • Hands on experience in design and development of Web services, JAX-RPC, JAX-WS, RMI, JTA, JMS and XML, XSD, XSLT, X-Path.  • Created JWT and SMSESSION token for test user from PruDB and adding it to session for Rest API call and validate payload.  • Launched Kubernetes to provide a platform for automating deployment, scaling and operations of application containers across clusters of hosts.  • Experience with container based deployments using Docker, working with Docker images, Docker-registries and Kubernetes.  • Asynchronous messaging is done using JMS and created Queue for point to point messaging.  • Involved in creating IAM user accounts, groups, adding user to the groups, generating custom policies.  • Integrated REST API with Spring for consuming resources using Spring Rest Templates and developed RESTful web services interface to Java -based runtime engine.  • Implemented functionality like searching, filtering, sorting, validating using AngularJS and JavaScript.  • Used JavaScript, Angular2 and AJAX technologies for front end user input validations and RESTful web service calls.  • Worked on the web page enhancements using HTML, CSS, NodeJS, JavaScript, Servlets and JavaBeans.  • Extensively worked on Jenkins to configuring and maintaining for continuous integration (CI) and for End to End automation for all build and deployments.  • Experience in branching, tagging and maintaining the version control and source code management tools like GIT and Bit Bucket on Linux and windows platforms.  • Used Bitbucket to manage repositories, maintained the branching and build/release strategies utilizing GIT includes configuring webhooks and knowledge on legacy perforce.  • Worked closely with application teams and support on various performance and configuration issues on daily basis.  • Supported Linux scripts to automate build process and managed Maven repository using Nexus tool and used the same to share snapshots and releases.  • Used ANT and MAVEN as build tools on Java projects for the development of build artifacts on the source code.  • Worked on Splunk and Dynatrace for issue debugging from logs and visualization of data.  • Strong experience with internal Build slave portal to configure and manage slaves for executing Jenkins jobs and queue management.    Environment: Java, Spring, XML, J2EE, JUnit, Maven, Agile methodology, GIT, JavaScript, Web Services (SOAP UI & REST) Angular.JS, AJAX, Oracle, PL/SQL, JSON, Application Server, Jenkins, Python, JIRA, AWS, Nexus, SonarQube, BSP, Chef, Docker, Cucumber. Sr. Java Developer Cisco System - San Jose, CA January 2017 to November 2017 Description: The Omni-channel ID Generator is a role-based self-service capability that will allow marketers to search and create codes (IDs) to be used in marketing journeys. The effective usage of the codes will enable tracking of customer behavior across channels and associate customer engagements to all campaigns. Ultimately, customers and prospects are engaged at the right time, through the right channel, with relevant and personalized content, offers and solutions.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in the Analysis of the front-end and middle tier using JSP and the Spring Framework.  • Developed action classes and action Forms & performed validations using commons, custom validator and Struts client-side JavaScript validation.  • Implemented Bean classes and configured in spring configuration file for Dependency Injection, Developed Controller Classes using Spring MVC, Spring AOP, Spring Boot, Spring Batch modules, handled security using Spring Security.  • Eclipse is used as Java IDE tool for creating JSPs, Servlets, and Struts Action Classes.  • Developed the user Interface Presentation screens using Struts Tiles, HTML and JSP.  • Used struts framework to develop Action Servlets, Action Form bean and configured the struts-config.xml file.  • Extensively used Core Spring Framework for Dependency Injections of components and integrated with Hibernate.  • Used the Struts validation and Tiles Framework in the presentation layer.  Developed user interface using JSP, JSTL, and Struts Tag Libraries to simplify the complexities of the application.  • Implemented the Custom classes and business model to retrieve the data from database for the account/tracking number.  • Consumed third party Web Services for authorizing payments to/from customers.  • Also written Oracle PL/SQL stored procedures to extract data from flat file to database checking for records that have not been exported successfully.  • Deployed and configured the data source for database in Web sphere application server.  • Created, executed, and documented, the tests necessary to ensure that an application and/or environment meet performance requirements.  • Used GIT as a documentation repository and version controlling tool and Maven as build tool.  • Used Log4j for logging errors, messages and performance logs.  • Developed various test cases such as Unit Tests and Integration Tests using TDD.    Environment: Java, Hibernate, Spring, XML, JSP, MVC, J2EE, JUnit, Maven, UML, JAX-WS, JAX-RS, Log4J, Oracle 11g, Agile methodology, GIT, JavaScript, Web Services(SOAP UI & REST) Angular.JS, Node.JS, JSTL, AJAX , Oracle, PL/SQL,JSON, (NoSQL)HiveDB, WebSphere Application Server, Micro Services , Jenkins, Putty, JPA , Python, JIRA. Java Developer Cisco Jasper - Santa Clara, CA October 2016 to December 2016 Description: Cisco Jasper Control Center is the automated connectivity management platform that puts you in control of your IoT business. Grow revenue, lower operational costs, and transform your customer experience with Control Center.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in project design documentation, design and code reviews.  • Implemented MVC-Model architecture using Struts and other J2EE design patterns, UML using Java Beans, Swing and conducted simultaneous queries and retrievals using Java multi-threading techniques for the application development.  • Created and configured struts-config.xml, spring.xml files to manage control flow.  • Designed, Developed and analyzed the front-end and back-end using JSP, Servlets, HTML, CSS, BOOTSTRAP, ANGULAR JS, Java Script, jQuery.  • Automated WAR deployment procedure in production environment running on JBoss EAP 6.x using UNIX shell script.  • Creating cluster environment using Jboss Fuse Fabric and Creating ActiveMQ with different topologies in Enterprise Integration.  • Developed front-end code with Ajax call in AngularJS and jQuery to retrieve data as JSON Object from controllers in back-end RESTful Server, then display the well-organized result in web pages by writing AngularJS controller, directives, services, and route providers. Also used Angular.js filter to make the data searchable and sortable.  • Developed database schema and creating db objects using Oracle and Used JDBC as persistence layer for interacting with Oracle database.  • Consumed Web Services (WSDL, SOAP, UDDI) from third party for authorizing payments to/from customers based on SOA architecture.  • Involved in building applications using build tool Jenkins and deploying them on Linux Servers with configuring and using Tomcat.  • Used Jenkins to automate compile and build the application to generate WAR and JAR files.  • Wrote custom directives in AngularJS according to the Application needs.  • Developed persistence Layer using Hibernate to persist the data and to manage the data.  • Used Hibernate ORM framework as persistence engine, configured hibernate.xml file and Involved in Mapping, Coding and Fine tuning of hibernate Queries.  • Used Action classes to service requests from Action Servlet and Business Data on server-side and invoke respective Spring Injected Beans to process Database transactions.  • Implemented Business Logic using POJO's and used Apache Tomcat to deploy the application.  • Developed Message based systems using Spring-JMS API and Message Driven POJOs.  • Developed Action classes, which communicate asynchronous messaging via JMS/MQ-Series to DB2.  • Experience in configuring build tools like Maven and ANT for the development and deployment.  • Used Clear Case as the version control system and application development using RAD.  • Configured and created application log file using Log4j and SVN for Repo control  • Implemented JUnit for application Unit Testing.    Environment: Java/J2EE, Struts, JMS, Spring, Hibernate, JQuery, WebSphere, Apache Tomcat, RESTFul, Unix, Maven, Windows, JavaScript, HTML, DHTML, AngularJS, CSS, MongoDB, Jenkins, JSTL, JSON ,Log4J, Ant, UML, RAD, JUnit, XML/XSL, XSLT, DOM Parser, Junit, DB2 Java Developer Northwestern mutual life Insurance - Milwaukee, WI June 2015 to October 2016 Description: Northwestern mutual life insurance is a leading global provider of insurance, annuities and employee benefit programs. Through its subsidiaries and affiliates, Northwestern mutual life insurance holds leading market. SSUI & CERT SYSTEM offer a full range of insurance and other financial product service details.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in all phases of the project, requirement analysis, design, coding and Unit testing in Agile Environment.  • Implemented GUI using Html, JSP, CSS, Tiles, Ajax, Jstl and Struts Taglibs.  • Used AJAX to dynamically load a portion of the page when it was not needed for reloading the entire page.  • Developed web services using WSDL.  • Involved in creation of UML diagrams like Class, Activity, and Sequence Diagrams using modeling tools of IBM Rational Rose.  • Creating cluster environment using Jboss Fuse Fabric and Creating ActiveMQ with different topologies in Enterprise Integration.  • Worked with the Business Analysts to analyze the required functionality and proposed solution.  • Used Payment Gateway service for Credit Card Transaction Implementation.  • Used Spring for auto wiring dependencies through introspection of bean classes to avoid explicitly specifying bean properties / constructor arguments.  • Implemented Spring ORM with Hibernate also worked in DAO layer of the application, written java code to access hibernate session factory using spring hibernate template, Hibernate Search Quires and written search, persistence, deletion for the persistence objects.  • Coordination with Developers and QA Testing Team regarding Testing issues like setting up builds, issuing tickets, setting up Testing and Development Environment.  • Architectural design skeleton of prototype which is a basic wiring of different modules of the application which includes UI components, data transfer objects, business implementation, ORM and services. Employed various core and J2ee design patterns like factory, DAO, Command, Business Delegate, MVC.  • Authored deployment plans which involve staging of build packages, properties files etc at different staging environments like dev, QA and also production deployments.  • Used Tortoise SVN for version control.  • Used JIRA for Change tracking, Life cycle traceability and for control of software development life cycle.  • Unit testing, debugging and set test conditions based on code specifications. Perform peer code reviews and performance enhancements.  • Offshore and onshore team meeting handled on regular basis to check with regular status and updates regarding the individual tasks.  • Worked closely with production support-maintenance team to coordinate the busy slots of overlap releases.    Environment: Java, JSP, JSTL, Ajax, Struts, Ajax, Hibernate, JDBC, JNDI, Eclipse, XML, XSLT, Web Services, UDDI, WSDL, Log4j, ORACLE, JBoss Application Server, SVN, Jenkins, JIRA, Windows XP, UNIX, UML. Java/J2EE Developer NSA, Inc - Collierville, TN April 2012 to June 2014 Description: NSA, Inc manufactures and sells its whole food-based nutrition products with the brand name Juice Plus+. Their products come in different forms such as Capsules, Chewable and beverages. Virtual office management system is a website developed for distributors to manage their customers online.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in analysis, design and high-level coding phase.  • Developed web application.  • Developed the application using J2EE Design Patterns like Singleton and Factory pattern.  • Used MVC at presentation layer.  • Developed front-end content using JSP, Servlets, DHTML, JavaScript and CSS.  • Involved in Java SQL development.  • Involved in Localization for customizing an application.  • Created Data Source for interaction with Database.  • Developed SQL Stored Procedures and Prepared Statements for updating and accessing data from Database.  • Involved in integration of layers (UI, Business & DB access layers).  • Coded classes to invoke Web Services.  • Monitored the error logs using Log4J and fixed the problems.  • Developed, implemented, and maintained an Asynchronous, AJAX based rich client for improved customer experience.  • Validated the UI components using AJAX Validation Framework.  • Implemented Ajax with JQuery to refresh user selections.  • Developed the Action classes and Form Beans.  • Developed XML Converter Classes based on JDOM and XPATH and XML technologies to Obtain and Persist Data.  • Developed and worked with JSP custom tags.  • Involved in system, Unit and Integration testing.    Environment: Java, Bootstrap, Hibernate, Web logic, Struts, JSP, JSTL, SQL Developer, CSS, Java Script, Web Services, Maven and ANT scripts, Ajax, Eclipse, Putty, Unix, Linux, SQL Server, Design patterns, CVS and SVN. Java Developer Price WaterCoopers - Houston, TX October 2010 to March 2012 Responsibilities:  • Configured and deployed the application in Web logic application server.  • Involved in raising questions for business, getting answers from them, bug fixing, tracking and updating the JIRA tickets and per assigned.  • Developing test requirements by decomposing the functional requirements and interacting with End-users, business analysts and developers.  • Wrote Junit test classes for the services and prepared documentation.  • Involved in Code Review Bug Fixes, Code Refactoring and Quality Processes.  • Considered Object Oriented Programming (OOP) concepts and best practices during the Design and Development phase of the application.  • Developed STRUTS forms and actions for validation of user request data and application functionality.  • Developed JSP's with STRUTS custom tags and implemented JavaScript validation of data.  • Developed programs for accessing the database using JDBC thin driver to execute queries, Prepared statements, Stored Procedures and to manipulate the data in the database  • Used Clear case for source code control and JUNIT for unit testing.  • Involved in peer code reviews and performed integration testing of the modules.    Environment: Java, J2EE, Struts, JSP, JDBC, EJB, ANT, XML, IBM Web Sphere, JUNIT, DB2, Rational Rose, CVS, UNIX, Clear Case. Education Bachelor's Skills Eclipse, Ejb, Java, Hibernate, Spring Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Languages Core Java, Java, SQL, PL/SQL  Enterprise Java Servlets, JSTL, Design Patterns, JMS, EJB, JSP, JNDI, JDBC, Log4J API, Java security  Mark-up/XML Technologies HTML, XHTML, JavaScript, CSS, XML, XSD, XSL/XSLT, SAX/DOM, AJAX, JQuery, JSON, Bootstrap, AngularJS, NodeJS and React JS  Tools & Framework  Struts, Spring, Hibernate, Spring MVC, Spring Web Flow, Spring IOC, Spring Boot, Spring AOP, JSF, Log4J, Junit, Jasper reports, soap UI    Web services SOAP, RESTful, UDDI, WSDL, JAX-RPC, JAX-RS, JAX-WS, JAX-B, Axis2, CFX  Web/App Servers WebSphere, WebLogic, Apache Tomcat, JBoss  Database Oracle, SQL-Server, MySQL server, TOAD, MongoDB  Development Tools Eclipse, IntelliJ, RAD, Spring Tool Suite  O-R mapping Hibernate, JPA  Version Control CVS, Tortoise SVN and Git  Design/Case Tools Star UML, Rational Rose, MS- Visio  Defect Tracking Tools Bugzilla, Jira, Firebug, Rally  OS & Environment Windows, Sun Solaris UNIX, Linux  Design Patterns MVC, Front Controller, Singleton, Business Delegate and DAO patterns  Build Automation ANT and MAVEN