Full Stack Java Developer Full Stack <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Full Stack Java Developer - Famous Software, Fresno • Having 5+ years of experience as full stack java developer in various domains like Banking, E-commerce.  • Expertise in Core Java Concepts such as OOP, Collections, Exception Handling, Synchronization, Multi-Threading and sound knowledge of Data Structures and Algorithms.  • Good knowledge of Design patterns like Singleton, MVC, Facade, Factory, DAO for application development.  • Extensively worked with Java technologies such as Java/J2EE, Spring, Hibernate and familiar with developing applications as microservices using Spring Boot.  • Experience of Database design in Oracle/ DB2/ MySQL/ SQL Server query-based programming and PL/SQL procedure programming and proficient in Database programming using JDBC and SQL.  • Good Experience in writing SQL Queries, Stored Procedures, functions, tables, views, triggers and data connectivity and data integration.  • Strong Expertise in front end technologies such HTML5, CSS3, AngularJS, Angualr2.0, Angular5.0, JavaScript and Ajax.  • Sound Knowledge of Bootstrap Framework for Responsive Web Applications.  • Experienced in implementing Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) with XML based Web Services (SOAP/UDDI/WSDL) using Top down Approach and Bottom up Approach.  • Involved in using Bootstrap and AngularJS for the development of UI.  • Used various web/app servers like Apache Tomcat, WebLogic, JBOSS.  • Experience in using Version Control Systems like GIT, CVS, Tortoise.  • Experienced in implementing Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) with XML based Web Services (SOAP). Used MAVEN tool to build and deploy J2EE Applications.  • Developed UNIT test cases using JUnit and Mockito and configured them through Maven surefire plugins to be part of continuous integration.  • Excellent analytical and communication skills. Good understanding of Software as a Service (SaaS).  • Hands on Experience in UML designing Use Case diagrams, State Diagrams, Activity Diagrams, Sequence Diagrams, Class Diagrams, and Object Diagrams.  • Familiar with the design, development of applications on AWS, heavy focus on RESTful APIs, infrastructure and test automation, and simplicity  • Analytical, highly adaptable professional with experience developing, deploying, and evaluating business and technology systems aimed at improving quality and efficiency.  • Success developing, executing, and analyzing qualification, integration, and development plans for diverse systems Dynamic communicator with outstanding interpersonal strengths leveraged to train users, conduct presentations, collaborate with end users, and ensure total client satisfaction  • Track record of out-of-box solutions for application testing and development with ability to direct multiple tasks to ensure on target completion of all deliverables. Work Experience Full Stack Java Developer Famous Software, Fresno December 2018 to Present Developed System to help manage the finances, orders, production, supply chain, procurement and human capital with emphasis on streamlining all the operations to increase the production and utilization of resources.  Roles and Responsibilities  • Participated in design and development as a Core Java and J2EE Software developer. Understanding software requirement and utilizing apposite technology to enunciate most apposite data flow between front end and back end technologies.  • Pooling up most apposite design pattern for DAO and implementing interface to reduce code reuse.  • Understanding the Business Process and developing logic and software stack based on business flow.  • Using advanced level of HTML5, AJAX, JavaScript, CSS3 and pure CSS layouts. Implemented application level persistence using Hibernate and Spring. Developed various UI (User Interface) components using MVC, JSP, and HTML.  • Developed and designed new cross-browser accessible interfaces using jQuery and JavaScript. Involved in writing JSPs, JavaScript and Servlets to generate dynamic web pages and web content. Used WebLogic for deployment of applications.  • Used XML and JSON for transferring/retrieving data between different Applications.  • Developed stored procedures, triggers and functions with PL/SQL for Oracle database. Uses the DAO pattern for data access layer and JMS API for the messaging requirement. Used JavaScript and jQuery for validating the input given to the user interface. Developed test cases and performed unit test using JUnit Framework.  • Created distributed Oracle coherence domains, configuration and system design based on oracle coherence.  • Design and development of many PL/SQL batches using JAVA with connectivity to Oracle for data maintenance and handling. Used SVN Subversion for software version control.  • Developed web applications using Spring MVC, jQuery, HTML5, Used Eclipse IDE for designing, coding and developing applications. Involved in the development of presentation layer and GUI framework using HTML. Client-Side validations were done using JavaScript.  • Implemented a prototype to integrate PDF documents into a web application using iText PDF library.  • Customized Jasper Reports and SQL procedures according to the client requirements. Utilized Agile Methodology (SDLC) to managed projects.  • Designed the UML, created class, sequential diagrams using Borland Together Architecture, modified code, configured WebLogic server and project in Oracle.  • Designed and implemented interface elements using Google Web Toolkit.  • Developed a Web 2.0 control console using GWT to manage data matching for data staging.  • Uses the DAO pattern for data access layer and JMS API for the messaging requirement.  • Used Backbone.js to create Data model to and to trigger event-handling on data change on UI interface.  • Used Microsoft Office Lync as office communicator.    Environment  Java, J2EE, Spring Core, Spring Data, Spring MVC, Spring AOP, Spring Batch, Spring, microservices. Scheduler, RESTful Web Services, SOAP Web Services, Hibernate, Eclipse IDE, AngularJS, Angular2.0, Angular4.0, JSP, JSTL, HTML5, CSS, JavaScript, WebLogic, Tomcat, XML, XSD, UML, Oracle, Maven, SVN, SOAP, Design patterns, JMS, JUNIT, Power Mock, log4J, WSDL, JSON, JNDI. Full Stack Java Developer FocusVision, Fresno September 2017 to November 2018 This is a web-based project designed and developed for insurance agents. The agents will issue policy through this application for their customers. Eligibility of the customers is decided based on the past records which are automatically populated by the program. If the customer is an existing customer, then the existing rules apply. If the customer is a new customer, then future business rules will apply. Agents can check the status of their customers and their current policy rules. Once policy number is auto generated, then the policy details are issued to the customer. Developed as a WTP (Web Tools Platform) project in J2EE Eclipse functionality. WTP allows for all Java code within the same Eclipse project.    Roles and Responsibilities  • Maintained constant communication with Business Analyst and Business Users to identify information needs as per business requirements.  • Used Spring as middle tier application framework, persistence strategy using spring support for Hibernate and declarative transaction management  • All logic exposed via interfaces and practices of Test-Driven Development followed consistently.  • Implemented the Model View Controller (MVC) framework.  • Designed and developed the UI using view component, JSP, HTML, CSS and jQuery.  • Used Angular validator framework for client side and server-side validation. Also implemented dynamic loading of JSP's using AJAX.  • Developed the database tier using JDBC2.0 in Eclipse IDE. Also, the connectivity was made secure using the necessary validations  • Used Spring Core for dependency injection/Inversion of control (IOC), and integrated frameworks Hibernate.  • Utilized Hibernate for Object/Relational Mapping (ORM) purposes for persistence onto the DB2 database. Extensively used Spring IOC architectural model to inject objects based on the selection of components like setter injection and Interface injection to manage the object references.  • Used Java Messaging Services (JMS) for reliable and asynchronous communication  • Tested Service and data access tier using JUnit in TDD methodology  • RAD as IDE for the application development and integration of the frameworks.  • Deployed the applications on IBM Web Sphere Application Server.  • For future migration build microservices on AWS.  • Used ClearCase for version management between various integration and development streams.  • Maven is used as a build framework  • Used Oracle 10g as the backend database. Involved in creating the SQL scripts for the database.  • Used Stored Procedures in the application.  • Worked with production support team in debugging and fixing various production issues.  • Prepared high- and low-level design documents for the business modules for future references and updates.    Environment  Java/J2ee, design patterns, spring, Hibernate, JMS, XML, RAD, WebSphere Application server, DB2, Clear case, Junit, AJAX, jQuery, Microservices, AWS, Angular2.0, Angular4.0.  Environment: Java, Spring MVC Framework, JSP, Servlets, Web Services (REST), Hibernate 3.0, Log4J, HTML, JavaScript, jQuery, XSLT, AJAX, Json, ANT, CSS, MySQL, Web Logic 9.2 Windows, XP, RAD. Full Stack Java Developer Birlasoft - Noida, Uttar Pradesh November 2015 to July 2017 The bank has decided to update the current technological platform based on to Java and Oracle technologies. Is required to analyze, design, build and implement the new technological infrastructure in base of the current capabilities and future expectations.    Roles and Responsibilities  • Applied OOP Programming concepts like Polymorphism and Inheritance to improve the existing Java/J2EE based code base.  • Designed and Developed application using Spring MVC, SOAP Webservices and Hibernate DAO layer and used various design patterns like Factory pattern, Singleton and DAO effectively.  • Involved in maintenance and enhancement of the application.  • Implemented AJAX calls using JQUERY for dynamic and interactive, data retrieval and Messaging in JSON.  • Implemented CSS Manipulation, HTML Event functions, JavaScript Effects animations jQuery.  • Developing Batch framework using java executor framework for processing the offline records using the entity model.  • Writing complex & cross browser JavaScript to validate the web pages  • Analyzed and documented the business requirements of the customer  • Developed Junit test cases for the application.  • Developing the front-end application to process the online requests.  • Implemented client-side validations and identifying the data changes using JavaScript, jQuery.  • Used Spring JDBC interact with the database in DAO layer.  • ANT tool has been used in the UNIX environment to build the applications.  • Prepared auto deployment scripts for Web Sphere in UNIX environment.  • Using JUnit, wrote unit test cases to test various services and their capabilities and limitations. Worked on existing oracle stored procedures to improve the performance.  • Highly skilled in using Version Control Management tools like SVN, CVS, and GIT    Environment  J2EE, JSP, Spring, DAO, Servlet, JSP, XML, JavaScript, JMS, JPA, ANT, JUNIT, JDBC, Log4J, Oracle, PL/SQL, Hibernate, Eclipse IDE, AngularJS, JSP, JSTL, HTML5, CSS, JavaScript, WebLogic, Tomcat, XSD, Unix, Linux, UML, Oracle, Maven, SVN, SOA, Design patterns, JMS, JUNIT, Power Mock, log4J, WSDL, JSON. Full Stack Java Developer QWYSYS - IN January 2014 to October 2015 Designed a new database schema for holding all kinds of related tax information. Objective was to build a central web-based application for the client who had multiple small sized businesses and wanted to integrate all the financial aspects into one portal.    Roles and Responsibilities  • Primarily a server-side development role, but with the potential to include client work  • Work with Relational Databases such as MySQL, Oracle and SQL Server  • Provide data administration support of the development and maintenance of production and non-production database environments for distributed applications  • Independently analyze, solve, and correct issues in real time, providing problem resolution end-to-end Evaluate, test and produce recommendations for the selection, user and deployment of DBMS software, data management tools and utilities, data warehouse and replication tools  • Design, implement and maintain all functions of database systems, including access, methods and time, device allocations, validation checks, organization, security, documentation and statistical methodology Configure SQL Server monitoring utilities to minimize false alarms  • Create queries on large data sets  • Baseline system performance and monitor for deviation, recommending and implementing improvements to slow running queries    Environment  Java, WebLogic App Server, JDBC, JNDI, Servlet, JSP, JMS, HTML, XML/XSL/XSLT, J2EE, PL/SQL, SQL, Oracle, Hibernate. Skills Eclipse, Java, Hibernate, Spring, Jboss, Jms, jquery, Database, Jdbc, Mysql, Oracle, Postgresql, Sql, C++, Design patterns, Git, Html, Javascript, Bootstrap, Redux Additional Information Technical Skills  Programming Language: C, C++, Java, SQL, PLSQL, Python  Scripting Language: XML, XHTML, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, AJAX, jQuery, JSON, Bootstrap, NodeJS, Angular 2.0, Angular4.0  Tools: Junit, Mockito, Selenium Web Driver  Frameworks: Spring, Hibernate, JMS, Spring Boot, React, JPA, Redux, Angular 5, HTML 5, Spring MVC, Spring JDBC, Spring Rest, JMS  Web Services: SOAP, Restful Web Services, AWS, Microservices  Database: Oracle 11g, MySQL, PostgreSQL, MongoDB  Debugging Tools: Jenkins, JIRA  Version Control: GIT, CVS, Tortoise  IDE Tools: NetBeans, Eclipse, Maven  Web/App Servers IBM Web Servers, WebLogic, Apache Tomcat, JBOSS  Design patterns: MVC, Front Controller, Database Access Object, Factory, Singleton, Session Facade.