Full Stack Java Developer Full Stack <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Full Stack Java Developer - US Bank Denver, CO ? Over 7 years of progressive IT experience with strong analytical, designing, Implementation of object-oriented Applications using Java/J2EE.  ? Strong background in software engineering, development, configuration, Cloud and IoT devices.  ? Experienced with Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC), Object Oriented Programming, Design and Web based technologies based on Agile, Scrum, Waterfall Model, and Iteration.  ? Expertise in design and development of various web and enterprise-level applications using Java/J2EE technologies Such as spring, Swing, Hibernate, Struts framework, EJB, Servlets.  ? Experienced in Front End frameworks such as JSP, XML, Servlets, JDBC, jQuery, Ajax, JavaScript, NodeJS, ReactJS, BackboneJS, AngularJS.  ? Experience working with back-end technologies like, web services, Java Persistence API, Enterprise JavaBeans and JDBC.  ? Experienced in setting up Amazon EC2 instances, virtual private cloud (VPCs), and security groups, Data Pipeline and Lambda. Setting up databases in AWS using RDS, storage using an S3 bucket and configuring instance backups to S3 bucket.  ? Experienced in implementing Service-oriented architecture and Web Services using SOAP, RESTFUL.  ? Extensive expertise working with MVC architecture, Struts and Spring framework, Java design Patterns and hibernate ORM framework.  ? Experience working with JUnit4 for implementing unit testing and other testing phases like Integration testing, system testing.  ? Extensive experience working with RDBMS such as MySQL, MS SQL Server, PostgreSQL, DB2, Oracle and NoSQL database like MongoDB.    Addition Skills    ? Java Technologies: Servlets, JavaBeans, JSP, jQuery, JMS, AJAX, Angular JS, JDBC, HTML, Ant, Log4JandJunit.  ? Markup Languages: SQL, UML, HTML, DHTML.  ? Frameworks: JSF Framework, Struts 1.2, Spring3.0, EJB3.0, JPA, Hibernate, Spring Batch, MVC.  ? Scripting Languages: JavaScript.  ? Programming Languages: Java, C, C++, C#, VB.Net  ? Web Servers: Apache Tomcat, Jboss.  ? Application Servers: Web Sphere, WebLogic Server. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Full Stack Java Developer US Bank - Denver, CO December 2018 to Present Responsibilities: -    ? Involved in requirements gathering, system design, analysis, implementation and setting up the development environment.  ? Extensively used JAVA8 Streams, Lambda Functions, Predicates, Functional Interfaces, Method References, Filters, Collections and default methods.  ? Involved in the development of the UI using HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, Ext JS, Angular JS and customized Data Tables and High charts into Angular JS Directives.  ? Extensively involved in coding with AngularJS to add functionalities and effects like Accordion, Infinite Scroll bar, Slider bar, Draggle/Droppable, Resizable, Progress bar.  ? Worked on the jQuery JavaScript Library that simplifies HTML document traversing, and event handling.  ? Hands on experience with MongoDB Installation, Configuring, Monitoring and Designing Shared Environment.  ? Implemented a responsive web design using Bootstrap and developed Microservices for different level of layers in flow of network.  ? Involved in implementing the Micro Services based on Restful API utilizing Spring Boot with Spring MVC.  ? Implemented the application using Spring IOC, Spring MVC Framework, Spring Batch and handled the security using Spring Security.  ? Migrating the application to Cloud environment using the Amazon web services- EC2, S3 and various services of AWS.  ? Worked in Amazon Web Services including migrating infrastructure to AWS cloud and maintenance of production web infrastructure.  ? Implemented Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) using JMS (MQ series) for sending and receiving messages while creating web services.  ? Extensive use of Spring Data in design and development of user interfaces and worked with HTML, DHTML, CSS, JAVASCRIPT, JSON in UI pages.  ? Created and injected spring services, spring controllers and DAOs to achieve dependency injection and to wire objects of business classes.  ? Extensively used the Spring framework implemented upon the MVC design pattern and developed RESTful Web services for transmission of data in JSON format.  ? Used PL/SQL stored procedures for applications that needed to execute as part of a scheduling mechanisms. Heavily used joins stored procedures, views, Unions in Oracle data base to fetch the data.  ? Extensively used Hibernate Relational mappings (One-To-Many, Many-To-Many) in the secondary project and Used GitHub extensively as versioning tool and used Maven for automated building of projects.  ? Implemented functionality like searching, filtering, sorting, validating using Angular JS and JavaScript.  ? Extensively worked on and having great exposure of Hibernate Cache, Query, Criteria and Transactions in secondary project.  ? Worked on creation of custom Docker container images, tagging, pushing images, integration of spring boot.  ? Good hands on experience in designing and developing J2EE compliant systems using IDE tools like Eclipse, Net Beans, My Eclipse and RAD.  ? Created customized AMIs based on already existing AWS EC2 instances by using create image functionality hence using this snapshot for disaster recovery.  ? Testing for Node JS is done using mocha and chai for spring boot used Mockito, Junit, JMeter, and Mock MVC and achieved Test Driven Development.  ? Created the Docker containers and Docker consoles for managing the application life cycle.  ? Used React-Autocomplete for creating google maps location search on the webpage and Involved in building applications using React JS by building re-usable UI Components.  ? Used Maven as build and dependency management tool for creating EAR, WAR and JAR file to be deployed in application servers and integrated with SVN, Jenkins, JMeter and Jenkins Jobs.    Environment: Java 8, JDK, HTML, CSS, Ajax, Angular 2/4, jQuery, ExpressJS, JavaScript, AngularJS, Node.js, Bootstrap, Oracle, React JS, Spring, Hibernate, Python, PL/SQL, AWS, Drools, Web Services (SOAP), JMS, RESTful, Multithreading, WebSphere, Apache, Maven. Full Stack Java Developer McKesson Corporation - San Francisco, CA, US March 2017 to November 2018 Responsibilities: -    ? Involved in requirements gathering, system design, analysis, implementation and setting up the development environment.  ? Extensively used JAVA8 Streams, Lambda Functions, Predicates, Functional Interfaces, Method References, Filters, Collections and default methods.  ? Involved in the development of the UI using HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, Ext JS, Angular JS and customized Data Tables and High charts into Angular JS Directives.  ? Extensively involved in coding with AngularJS to add functionalities and effects like Accordion, Infinite Scroll bar, Slider bar, Draggle/Droppable, Resizable, Progress bar.  ? Worked on the jQuery JavaScript Library that simplifies HTML document traversing, and event handling.  ? Hands on experience with MongoDB Installation, Configuring, Monitoring and Designing Shared Environment.  ? Implemented a responsive web design using Bootstrap and developed Microservices for different level of layers in flow of network.  ? Involved in implementing the Micro Services based on Restful API utilizing Spring Boot with Spring MVC.  ? Implemented the application using Spring IOC, Spring MVC Framework, Spring Batch and handled the security using Spring Security.  ? Worked in Amazon Web Services including migrating infrastructure to AWS cloud and maintenance of production web infrastructure.  ? Implemented Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) using JMS (MQ series) for sending and receiving messages while creating web services.  ? Extensive use of Spring Data in design and development of user interfaces and worked with HTML, DHTML, CSS, JAVASCRIPT, JSON in UI pages.  ? Involved in implementation of application using conventional design practices (Web-Service Oriented Architecture, MVC-Model View Controller)  ? Created and injected spring services, spring controllers and DAOs to achieve dependency injection and to wire objects of business classes.  ? Extensively used the Spring framework implemented upon the MVC design pattern and developed RESTful Web services for transmission of data in JSON format.  ? Used PL/SQL stored procedures for applications that needed to execute as part of a scheduling mechanisms. Heavily used joins stored procedures, views, Unions in Oracle data base to fetch the data.  ? Implemented functionality like searching, filtering, sorting, validating using Angular JS and JavaScript.  ? Extensively worked on and having great exposure of Hibernate Cache, Query, Criteria and Transactions in secondary project.  ? Good hands on experience in designing and developing J2EE compliant systems using IDE tools like Eclipse, Net Beans, My Eclipse and RAD.  ? Created customized AMIs based on already existing AWS EC2 instances by using create image functionality hence using this snapshot for disaster recovery.  ? Testing for Node JS is done using mocha and chai for spring boot used Mockito, Junit, JMeter, and Mock MVC and achieved Test Driven Development.  ? Created the Docker containers and Docker consoles for managing the application life cycle.  ? Used Maven as build and dependency management tool for creating EAR, WAR and JAR file to be deployed in application servers and integrated with SVN, Jenkins, JMeter and Jenkins Jobs.    Environment: J2EE, JSP, JavaScript, JDK 1.6, UML, Eclipse, Oracle, AWS, WebLogic Application Server 10.3, UNIX, JSP 2.0, SOAP, SOA, Spring 3.0, Spring MVC, Hibernate, React JS, Drools, RESTful, XML, CSS, HTML, Junit 4.4, SVN, Log4j, MongoDB, BackboneJs, TIBCO, Oracle10g, Jenkins, UNIX, Ant 1.8, Maven. Full Stack Java Developer Intuit Inc - Mountain View, CA May 2015 to February 2017 Responsibilities: -  ? Participated in front-end development using Angular JS, JavaScript, jQuery, HTML, CSS and bootstrap.  ? Written JavaScript functions for various validation purposes and written JavaBeans to contain data objects. Implemented session beans, entity bean, and message-driven beans.  ? Consuming and exposing various Web services using JAX-RS and JSON to different systems for business services.  ? Used HTML, CSS and JavaScript for developing user interface and worked closely with UI developer to design and develop services required in the application front-end.  ? Developed application based on Model View Controller (MVC) architecture and used git repository for managing the files in this project.  ? Implemented forms and action classes for the application using EJB and Struts Framework and developed EJB deployment descriptor using XML and used JAXB components for transferring the objects between the application and the database.  ? Implemented Multithreading concept to load data from files to table, transforming files from one format to other.  ? Reviewed codes in shell script, Java, J2EE, created subprograms, procedures, functions and diversely utilized Java tools in business, Web, Client-server environments including Java Platform, Enterprise Edition ( Java EE), Enterprise edition ( Java EE), Enterprise JavaBean (EJB), Java Server Pages (JSP), JavaServlets, Struts, And Java Database Connectivity (JDBC) technologies.  ? Used Multithreading concept to post data from files to tables involving transformation of file from one format to another.  ? Configured Struts-config.xml, Tiles-def.xml and various properties files provided by Struts Framework for the implementation module.  ? Developed dynamic web pages using JSP and used Struts Validation framework to perform input validation.  ? Build PL\SQL functions, stored procedures, views and configured Oracle Database 10g with JDBC data source with connection pooling enabled.  ? Installed WebSphere Application Web Server for handling HTTP Request/Response. The request and response from the client are controlled using Session Tracking in JSP.  ? Performance tuning of JVM heap size, garbage collections, Java stack and Native thread & production performance.  ? Developed Ant scripts and developed builds using Apache ANT and used Log4J to capture the log that includes runtime exceptions.    Environment: Java, J2EE 1.6, Agile Scrum, Spring IOC, Spring MVC, Spring RESTful Web service, Hibernate 3.2, JMS, AJAX, Struts JSP, DB2, MongoDB, Oracle, Servlets, Web sphere Application Server, AngularJs, Rational Clear Case, IBM Rational Clear Quest, Rational Requisite pro, UML, CSS, Java Script, GWT, HTML 5,, Ant, Windows, Toad, RAD 7.0, GIT, Log4j. Java Developer Datapoint info solutions Pvt. Ltd June 2012 to April 2015 Responsibilities: -  ? Involved in all phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) such as Analysis, Design, Development, Testing and Implementation.  ? Enhanced and optimized the functionality of Web UI using AJAX, CSS, HTML and JavaScript.  ? Implemented Spring MVC framework for developing J2EE based web application.  ? Spring was used for its MVC features, dependency injection, its AOP and its plug-ability with Hibernate.  ? Used MAVEN to add dependencies.  ? Used Log4J to capture the log that includes runtime exceptions.  ? Responsible for the complete design and development of the User Administration module.  ? Involved in developing the customer form data tables, stored procedures and triggers.  ? Written SQL queries and PL/SQL stored procedures.  ? Used SVN for version control.  ? Developed & Used Web Services (WSDL, SOAP & UDDI) in the Application.  ? Tracked the defects during batch monitoring and worked on them to closure through JIRA.  ? Participated efficiently in the Development and Testing phases of the project. Create program specifications and unit test plans for software programs.  ? Involved in preparation of functional definition documents.  ? Involved in the discussions with business users, testing team to finalize the technical design documents.    Environment: Java 1.5, HTML, CSS, Struts MVC, Maven, Spring, EJB, WebLogic, XML, JavaScript, Soap, Oracle, HTML, SVN, JUnit, RAD, LDAP, Apache Commons Libraries, Eclipse, Web Sphere Application Server. Education Bachelor's in Computer Science JNTU Skills ORACLE (7 years), SQL (7 years), Subversion (5 years), SVN (5 years), CLEAR CASE (1 year) Additional Information ? Operating Systems: Windows XP, Windows7, Windws2000, HPUX/ Linux, UNIX.  Versioning Tools: SVN, Clear Case, CVS.  ? Database: Oracle, SQL Server, DB2.