Full Stack Java Developer Full Stack <span class="hl">Java</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Full Stack Java Developer - Micron Boise, ID • Over 8 years of experience in Object Oriented Programming, design and development of Multi-Tier distributed, Enterprise application using Java&J2EE technologies.  • Well versed with complete Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) using various methodologies like Agile Methodology, Waterfall, and Test-Driven Development.  • Experience with design patterns like Singleton, Factory Pattern, Prototype, Business Delegate, Session Facade, Service locator, and Observer, Decorator, Front Controller, and DAO pattern..  • Expertise in developing UI using JSP, HTML5, CSS3, Java Script, Bootstrap, JQuery, Ajax, Angular JS, React JS and Node.js.  • Extensive experience in multiple Java and J2EE technologies such as Servlet, JSP, JSTL, Spring, Struts, Site Mesh, iBATIS, Hibernate and JPA, XML, XSD, HTML, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, JUnit, WSDL, SOAP, Restful Web Services (Rest let), Action Script 3.0  • Developed Web-based enterprise applications using Java/J2EE, Core Java, Servlets, JDBC, Hibernate, Web Services (SOAP and REST) and MVC Framework (Struts, Spring MVC).  • Hands-on experience on various AWS Cloud services like EC2, Route53, EBS, Auto Scaling, VPC, Cloud Formation, S3, RDS, Amazon Elastic Load Balancing, IAM, Cloud Watch and other services of the AWS infrastructure like Dynamo DB, SQS and EMR focusing on high-availability, fault tolerance and auto-scaling.  • Expert in Core Java with strong understanding of Garbage Collector, Collections, Multithreading, Event Handling, Exception Handling, and Generics.  • Strong experience in developing and consuming SOAP and Restful based Web Services.  • Expertise in XML technologies like DTD, XSD, XSLT and various parsers like DOM, SAX and JAXB.  • Experience using persistence framework like Hibernate, JPA for mapping java classes with Database and using HQL (Hibernate Query Language).  • Hands-on experience in developing front end using web technologies like JSP, JavaScript, JSF, Custom Tag Libraries, HTML5, CSS3, DHTML, AJAX, JQuery, DOJO, Angular JS, React JS and Node JS.  • Experience with Angular, JQuery, Bootstrap, VBScript, Perl, AJAX, Adobe Flex, Action Script, JSON, HTML, XHTML, DHTML, Tiles.  • Experience with working on NoSQL Databases like Mongo DB, Mark Logic, and Cassandra.  • Experienced in implementation of JMS to exchange information over reliable channel in an asynchronous way by using Active MQ, Rabbit MQ as a message queue.  • Have Knowledge on Stream frameworks like Kafka.  • Experience in developing XML based Web Services (SOAP/UDDI/WSDL) using Top Down and Bottom Up approach and REST based services with JAX-RS, Jersey, and Spring Integration.  • Strong experience in database design using PL/SQL to write tables, Stored Procedures, Functions, Triggers, Indexers and proficiency in writing complex queries to retrieve data.  • Expertise in using JDBC API and Hibernate for connection and access to databases.  • Good experience with Relational databases like Oracle, My SQL, MS SQL Server, IBM DB2 and No SQL databases like Mongo DB, Cassandra, and Dynamo DB.  • Experience with JUnit and Mockito in developing test cases and Log4J in determining application functionality.  • Having Experience on UNIX, LINUX, Python Shell Scripting, and Deployment of Applications in Server.  • Experience working with version control tools like Git Hub, Subversion (SVN) and CVS.  • Experience with build automation tools like Gradle, ANT and Maven for builds and deployments to different environments.  • Strong interpersonal and communication skills and self-motivated individual showing. Work Experience Full Stack Java Developer Micron - Boise, ID August 2018 to Present Description: Micron memory and storage solutions define what the world can do with data. Our more than 34,000 team members, in 18 different countries, work with countless customers to innovate every day and pursue the products that will shape how we live and work tomorrow.    Responsibilities:  • Followed Agile methodology and involved in daily SCRUM meetings, sprint planning, showcases and retrospective and used JIRA as a tracking tool for the sprints.  • Designed the front-end screens using Angular JS, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, Bootstrap and Spring Boot.  • Developed Angular controllers, services, filters and developed HTML templates with various Angular directives such as ng-app, ng-controller, ng-repeat, ng-if,ng-show, ng-hide,ng-change, ng-blur etc..  • Developed Grid's used in the system using Slickgridm and created custom grid directive to make the component reusable.  • Used various Angular UI Bootstrap components such as calendars, masks, up loaders, sliders, alerts, modal dialogs etc.for developing the UI.  • Configured Gulp to perform various UI build and test related tasks and used Node JS NPM and Bower to manage the dependencies.  • Developed unit test cases using Jasmine and Karma and performed end to end testing using Protractor and Selenium  • Developed REST controllers using Spring Data REST to serve the UI with required JSON data.  • Developed REST exception handling controller advices to respond to bad requests and server side exceptions.  • Consumed SOAP/ JAX-WS based web services using Spring framework and used SOAP UI for testing these services.  • Used REST Client and POSTMAN to test the rest based services and used Junit and Mockito to test the middleware services.  • Worked with Middleware using Message driven by POJO (MDP) after creating QCF, Queue on Web Sphere server, and using JMS template for asynchronous functionality for multiple users.  • Used Hibernate in the persistence layer and implemented DAO's to access data from database.  • Used Node.js to run Grunt tasks and build properly the project (compile, minify, concat etc.) and Implement modules into Node JS to integrate with designs and requirements. Used Grunt JS, Bower JS, Express from Node JS.  • Involved in enhancing existing MEAN (Mongo DB, Express, Angular and Node) stack applications and provided the required support.  • Build REST web service by building Node.js Server in the back-end to handle requests sent from the front end JQuery Ajax calls.  • Made the integration of data in several applications in favor JSON documents with dynamic schemas using Mongo DB (NOSQL) database.  • Created various Mongo DB collections and wrote services to store and retrieve user data from for the application on devices and used Mongoose API in order to access the Mongo DB from NodeJS.  • Used GIT as version control system, to keep track of all the work & all changes, allowing several developers to collaborate and used Maven as build and configuration tool and Jenkins for continuous integration tool.  • Involved in configuration and usage of Apache Log4J for logging and debugging purposes. Used RAD as IDE tool to develop the application.  • Took part in setting up the application with Jenkins and AWS and is involved in builds and deployments to Tomcat server.    Environment: Java, STS, Tomcat, Gulp, Spring Tool Suite, Spring, Spring Boot, Hibernate, Mongo DB, Restful Web Service, Oracle, HTML5, CSS3, JQuery, Angular JS, Node Js, Express, JavaScript, GIT, JMS, Jenkins, Agile, JIRA tool, Selenium, Log4j, Maven, AWS. Full Stack Java Developer Change Parts Inc - Ludington, MI May 2017 to July 2018 Description: Change Parts, Inc. offers a wide variety of bottle handling and cap handling solutions for virtually any manufacturer and virtually any machine type. We have successfully designed and installed solutions for over 150 different manufacturers based on the end users unique machine and bottle/cap requirements.  Responsibilities:  • Used Agile methodology throughout the software development lifecycle (SDLC).  • Worked in an Agile Environment and participated in requirement gathering, analysis and design  • Implemented Business Delegate, Design, Facade, Service locator, Singleton, Factory method, Template method, Observer, Data Access Objects, Transfer Objects JEE design patterns.  • Implemented the service layer based on a Spring container and exploited Spring's IOC features for bean management.  • Implemented JQuery based accordion styles and handled complete JQuery in showing Rich Internet Application.  • Responsible for creating efficient design and developing User Interaction screens using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery AJAX and JSON.  • Developed various UI(User Interface) components using Struts(MVC), JSP, and HTML  • Developed application on spring 3.x framework by utilizing its features like Spring Dependency injection, Spring Security, Spring Web flow with Spring MVC. Used spring's dependency injection for injecting entity manager and managed beans into spring beans.  • Working extensively with Hibernate Query Language (HQL) to store and retrieve the data from oracle database. Developed Enterprise JavaBeans (EJB 3.0) for implementing application's business rules and policies.  • Designed the user interface of the application using HTML5, CSS3, Java Server Faces 2.0 (JSF 2.0), JSP, JSTL, JavaScript, Angular JS, Node JS, and AJAX. Coded in Angular JS MVC Framework to make single page app (spa) and complex price configurations pages.  • Used Spring Security framework for login authentication, password hashing. Worked on Java Message Service (JMS) API for developing message oriented middleware (MOM) layer for handling various asynchronous requests. Worked with topic for creating publish/subscribe-messaging model.  • Used D3.js and Angular to construct data visualization. Developed persistence layer based on JPA framework for providing POJO persistence model for object-relational mapping.  • Used Concurrent Version System (CVS) as source control tool. Developed unit test cases and suits on Junit framework for unit testing. Used Maven for building, deploying application, creating JPA based entity objects and compiling GWT application.  • Used XML parser API'slike JAXB API within the web service for marshalling/un-marshalling.  • Used Business Process and Decision Management Design using Jboss JBPM and Jboss Drools Rules Engine.  • Involved in designing and development of web interface using JSP, Servlets, and JavaScript.    Environment: Spring,J2EE, Spring JDBC Templet, Spring Batch, AJAX, XML, CSS, CSS 3, HTML 5, JavaScript, Oracle 10g/11i, Maven, MYSQL, JQuery, JUnit, REST, AngularJS.STS(eclipse), Core Java, JSP's, Action Components, Tomcat web server. Full Stack Java Developer Broadridge - Newark, NJ January 2016 to April 2017 Description: Broad ridge Financial Solutions is a public United States-based corporate services company founded in 2007 as a spin-off from Automatic Data Processing. We provide advanced communications, technology, data and analytics solutions for the financial services industry and businesses.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in requirement analysis, design, development, testing of application using agile methodology.  • Used AWS (Amazon Web Services) as a cloud platform to deploy the application.  • Leveraged AWS cloud services such as EC2, auto-scaling and VPC to build secure, highly scalable and flexible systems that handled expected and unexpected load bursts.  • Used Amazon IAM to grant fine-grained access to AWS resources to users. Also, managed roles and permissions of users to AWS account through IAM.  • Utilized S3 buckets and Glacier for file storage and backup on AWS cloud.  • Utilized AmazonRoute53 to manage DNS zones and assign public DNS names to Elastic Load Balancers.  • Developed API for using AWS Lambda to manage the servers and run the code in the AWS.  • Developed Interactive web pages using AngularJS, HTML5, CSS3 and JavaScript.  • Developed Single Page Application (SPA) using AngularJS Framework and injected generic services using Angular2.  • Used NodeJS (Express) to create API which can provide or consume JSON.  • Integrated the IOC container of Spring Framework to handle the creation of beans, dependency injection and transaction management.  • Used Hibernate ORM to integrate with business application with Oracle Database where Hibernate template is used to implement business logic. Created XML configuration file for Hibernate Database connectivity.  • Experience with querying on data present in Cassandra cluster using CQL.  • Consumed Web Services by implementing spring's REST support is to make the development of RESTful Web services.  • Using Rabbit MQ as a Message Oriented Middleware for integrating applications.  • Created MULEES Bartifact and configured the MULE config files and deployed.  • Created shell scripts to deploy resource bundles on different environments.  • Worked with Git Version control system to track various aspects of the project.  • Used Maven as build tool on Java projects for the development of build artifacts on the source code.  • Used Log4j logging framework to write Log messages with various levels for logging across the application.  • Created and managed a Docker deployment pipeline for custom application images in the cloud using Jenkins.  • Developed test cases using JUnit and JMock for unit testing and integration testing as part of TDD.    Environment: Java, J2EE, Spring MVC, Hibernate, JSP, Angular JS, Node JS, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, AWS (VPC, EC2, IAM, Route53, Lambda, Cloud Watch, ELB, S3), RESTful web services, Rabbit MQ, ESB, Tomcat, Shell Scripts, Git, Maven, Log4j, Cassandra, Oracle, Docker, JUnit, JMock, Devops J2EE/ Java Developer Net Cracker - Waltham, MA March 2014 to December 2015 Description: Net cracker Technology Corp., a wholly owned subsidiary of NEC Corporation, is a provider of business support systems, operations support systems and software-defined networking and network functions virtualization solutions. The company also offers professional services, as well as managed services.  Responsibilities:  • Experienced in using Scala, Java tools like Intelli J, Eclipse.  • For updating the new modification and issues AJAX scripting is used.  • Implemented JSP, spring, Java Script and CSS for developing User Interfaces.  • For exchanging the text and communication with web service JSON is used extensively.  • Developed Rich UI applications using JavaScript, HTML, and CSS.  • Used the JavaScript alert dialog boxes with my Perl CGI program  • Implemented Collection Framework and used the Thread, I/O functionalities for meeting access.  • Used Hibernate for database and also to manage Transactions.  • Hibernate as an ORM tool for OR mappings and configured hibernate.cfg.xml and hibernate.hbm.xml files to create the connection pool.  • Used slick to query and storing in database in a Scala fashion using the powerful Scala collection framework.  • Implemented the DOJO API for powerful scripting.  • Expertise in design and development of various web and enterprise applications using Type safe technologies like Scala, Akka, Play framework, Slick.  • Working knowledge of various AWS technologies like SQS Queuing, SNS Notification, S3 storage etc.  • Created Single page web application frame work using Angular JS and HTML.  • Used Version control system GIT and web page screens for various modules using Html, CSS, JavaScript, and AJAX and Angular JS.  • Distributed Application Development using Actor Models for extreme scalability using Akka.  • Hibernate Persistence Strategy is used for database operations and Developed Hibernate as the data abstraction to interact with the database.  • Developed Session and Entity (CMP) beans (EJB) for crucial business logic  • Developed Message Driven Beans for asynchronous ordering process.  • Worked on XML Parsing (DOM/SAX), XML Schemas/DTD and XMLBeans.  • Extensively used JUnit for Unit Testing  • Added support for multiple Java Native Threads calling the same Perl interpreter  • Integration with the J2EE Services layer of Unity Platform, using Spring application context.  • Introduced the spring based architecture for the newly designed UI Infrastructure services to interact with the legacy services.  Environment: J2EE 6, Scala, Akka, Play, Slick, Java, JSP, JMS, Spring, Hibernate, Web Services (REST), EJB, JSON, JDBC, JavaScript, HTML, XML, AJAX, JMS, DHTML, Tomcat, Eclipse, Web logic 10.3.1/10.3.2, PL/SQL, Oracle, DB2, Windows, CVS. Java Developer MeritTrac Solutions - Hyderabad, Telangana December 2012 to February 2014 India    Description: MeriTrac's scientifically-designed end-to-end assessment solutions for recruitment enable organizations to execute competency-based assessment for talent hiring. Our assessment platform helps administer tests that be accessed by users anywhere, anytime and on any device  Responsibilities:  • Involved in gathering system requirements for the application and worked with the business team to review the requirements, and went through the Software Requirement Specification document and Architecture document.  • Developed presentation layer using JSP, HTML and CSS and JQuery, Ajax, JavaScript.  • Developed server-side services using Spring Web Services (SOAP, WSDL)  • Consumed and Developed Web services (REST) through JAX-RS in Apache Axis to interact with other components.  • Used Oracle10g database tool to build, edit, and format database queries, as well as eliminate performance issues in the code.  • Used Oracle10g database for tables creation and involved in writing SQL queries using Joins and Stored Procedures.  • Used Hibernate for Object-Relational Mapping and for database operations in Mongo DB database.  • Used tortoise SVN tool to keep track of all work and all changes in source code.  • Used JUnit for testing the application and Maven for building Projects  • Deployed the applications on WebSphere Application Server.    Environment: Java - JDK, JEE, Spring framework, Spring Model View Controller (MVC), Spring IOC, Apache CXF, J2EE, JAX-RS, Java Server Pages (JSP), Servlets JDBC, AJAX, Web services (SOAP & Restful, WSDL), JSON, Java Beans, JQuery, JavaScript, Oracle 10g, WebSphere, Agile Methodology, SVN, Maven, JUnit, HTML, CSS, XML, XSLT, HTML/DHTML, Eclipse, Mongo DB. Java Programmer SatCom Systems - Hyderabad, Telangana January 2011 to November 2012 India    Description: SatCom Systems is the well-known provider for developing and supporting different types of niche products. Track Share is a product which is developed based on wash-sale algorithm for tracking share buy and sell ratio as well as gross profit and loss for a particular duration due to sell or buy of those sales  Responsibilities:  • Technical responsibilities included high level architecture and rapid development.  • Design architecture following J2EE MVC framework.  • Developed interfaces using HTML, JSP pages and Struts -Presentation View.  • Developed and implemented Servlets running under JBoss.  • Designed the user interfaces using JSPs, developed custom tags, and used JSTL Taglib.  • Developed various java business classes for handling different functions.  • Developed controller classes using Struts and tiles API.  • Used J2EE design patterns and Data Access Object (DAO) for the business tier and integration Tier layer of the project.  • Wrote SQL Scripts, Stored procedures and SQL Loader to load reference data.    Environment: Java, J2EE ( Java Servlets, JSP, Struts), MVC Framework, Apache Tomcat, JBoss, Oracle, SQL, HTML, JDBC, EJB. Education Bachelor's Skills Ejb, J2ee, Java, Hibernate, Spring, Jboss, Jms, jquery, Jsf, Jsp, Jstl, Servlets, Struts, C++, Docker, Dtd, Git, Html, Javascript, Node.js, React Additional Information TECHNICAL QUALIFICATION:    Languages C, C++, Java,J2EE, JavaScript, SQL/PL-SQL  Java/J2EEEnterprise Technologies JDBC, Swing, JSP, Servlets, EJB, JSTL, JMS, spring, Struts, JSF, JPA, Log4j, LDAP.  Client-Side Programming HTML/HTML5, CSS2/CSS3, DHTML, AJAX, JQUERY, JSON  Tools & Framework  Struts, Spring, Hibernate, Spring MVC, Spring Web Flow, Spring HATEOAS, Spring IOC, Spring AOP, Spring Security, Spring Data, Spring Boot, JSF, JUnit, SOAP UI, Google Web Toolkit, Jersey.    JavaScript Frameworks Angular JS, node.js, Backbone.js, React.js, Requier.js, Ext JS.  XML Technologies XML, XSL, XSLT, DTD, XML Schema, SAX, DOM.  Database Oracle, SQL Server, My SQL, Mongo DB, Cassandra  Web and Application Servers Apache Tomcat, IBM Web Sphere, Web Logic, Jboss.  Methodologies SDLC, OOAD, Agile  Testing Tools JUnit, Selenium, Mockito, Docker.  Version Control Clear Case, CVS, SVN, GIT, Jenkins, Quick Build, Bamboo.  ESB products Apache Camel, Mule, Jboss fuse  ORM frameworks Hibernate, JPA, IBATIS, Spring JDBC Template, JDBC  Operating System Windows, UNIX, Linux. Mac OS X.