Guest Experience Specialist Guest Experience Specialist Guest Experience Leader- M&M World NYC Bronx, NY Work Experience Guest Experience Specialist M&M World NYC August 2018 to Present August 2018 to Now  • Demonstrating the five principles of mars, but also making sure to use five principles to influence my decisions on the sales floor. Ex. Quality and Efficiency   • Oversees sales floor operations with particular focus on cleanliness, fullness of product displays, signage quality, safety, customer service, and always make sure associates (including myself) are adding and upselling items.  • ALWAYS exemplifying a guest comes first attitude, remembering that the consumer is our boss.  • Delivering extraordinary customer service by making sure every guest that I interact with gets met with high energy, making them feel comfortable, and making sure that they know I am available.  • Upselling to guests, but doing so in a way that isn't robotic and ungenuine, that way the guests don't feel like I am just trying to meet a quota, but rather trying to give them a great experience in the store.  • Using our S.M.I.L.E. program, which includes inquiring and listening in order to help me engage with guests, but also see what products they are looking for, and how I can upsell those items and end a sale.  • Attending to/resolving customer complaints without always having to get upper management involved.  • Assisting the store in reaching the sales goals, via upselling no matter where I am or what I'm doing on the sales floor.  • Making sure that I treat the store as if I own it, making sure I do not develop a "that's not my job" attitude. Ex. Organizing, cleaning, assisting management and other associates wherever needed.  • Checking the sales every hour to see where the store is struggling. What didn't work/What is working well, and how do we continuously step it up on the sales floor.  • Checking average dollar sales and hit rates of associates, making sure performance is up to standards, and seeing where and how certain associates can improve. Front End SUPERVISOR WESTERN BEEF December 2015 to July 2018 • Mentored new sales associates to contribute to the store's positive culture as well as an extraordinary guest experience.  • Resolved all customer complaints in a professional manner while prioritizing customer satisfaction.  • Completed all point of sale opening and closing procedures, including end counts, safe counts, and back of house procedures.  • Handled all customer relations issues in a gracious manner and in accordance with company policies.  • Cleaned and organized the store, including the checkout desks, store displays.  • Communicated clear expectations and goals to each team member.  • Worked with the other management team to implement the proper division of responsibilities.  • Trained 6-8 new sales associate each quarter.  • Made sure to clearly communicate with employees different sale items of the week to make sure we push product, and in turn, increase sales.  • Supporting the Head Supervisor with the hiring of new associates.  • Assisted the Head Supervisor in training two associates on how to properly conduct supervisor roles and procedures.  • Fostered a positive work environment by consistently treating all employees and customers with respect and consideration.  • Not only being supportive of decisions for the management team, but also discussing how things can be improved upon. NETWORK ADMINISTRATOR ASSISTANT SOBRO January 2015 to November 2015 • Assisted the Network Administrator manager with the repairing and maintenance of the computers.  • Set up and helped with the installation process for different departments and areas.  • Answered calls and took messages for IT Manager.  • Photocopying and scanning documents for IT Department files and records.  • Maintained records of daily data communication transactions, problems and remedial actions taken.  • Ensured proper installation of cables, operating systems and software.  • Escalated unresolved issues to appropriate level.  • Identified and corrected performance issues. CASHIER FINE FARE SUPERMARKET January 2014 to December 2014 • Maintained knowledge of current sales and promotions, policies regarding payment and exchanges and security practices.  • Pleasantly dealt with customers to ensure satisfaction.  • Made sure that inventory is shelved appropriately and well-stocked.  • Prioritized helping customers over completing other routine tasks in the store.  • Completed all cleaning, stocking and organizing tasks in assigned sales area.  • Engaged with customers in a sincere and friendly manner.  • Responded to customer questions and requests in a prompt and efficient manner. Education High School Diploma UNIVERSITY HEIGHTS HIGH SCHOOL Associates in Media and Digital Film Production in Media and Digital Film Production HOSTOS COMMUNITY COLLEGE