Systems and Network Administrator Systems and <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems and Network Administrator - Edgewood College Evansville, WI Work Experience Systems and Network Administrator Edgewood College - Madison, WI 2013 to Present Hardened network by applying defense in depth strategies in utilizing Fortigate firewalls, McAfee Endpoint firewalls, and a Suricata IDS.  ? Further applied defense in depth strategies for secure account management policies utilizing  role-based access control and least privilege principles.  ? Led initiative to apply two factor authentication of highly privileged accounts through Microsoft  certificate management. Utilized Yubikey PIV functionality and TPM virtual smartcards.  ? Improved functional disaster recovery protection by engaging stakeholders and focusing backup  policies on business requirements, while cutting costs.  ? Became the go-to resource and led initiative to improve security and protection of institutional  email through McAfee MSME and Microsoft Office 365 EOP and ATP applications.  ? Grew end user competency in cyber security good habits through regular education in one on one, small group, and classroom sessions.  ? Partnered with college community to improve IT communication and end user engagement  ? Took ownership of difficult incidents and requests, organizing necessary resources, and taking  tickets to quick resolution.  ? Became a go-to consultant on cybersecurity policies, including the Incident Response Plans, a Disaster Recovery Plan, Acceptable User Policies, and Account Security Management, among  others.  ? Became a go-to resource for consulting on communication plans, including global emails, bulletin postings, and educational initiatives.  ? Conceived and executed professional development plan, forming and leding study groups to build stronger skills in ITIL core competencies. Technology Support Specialist Edgewood College - Madison, WI 2011 to 2012 Trained and mentored level 1 Technology Support Specialists to build competency of what  services are offered by the Information Technology Services Office and how to provide those  services.  ? Partnered with Campus Security to improve physical security by updating electronic open door  policies and applying role based access controls to swipe access management.  ? Took ownership of IT needs for satellite campus, maintaining endpoints and providing primary  tech support to building staff and all classes and special events. Technology Support Specialist Edgewood College - Madison, WI 2008 to 2011 Quickly resolved classroom-interrupting technical issues to facilitate best delivery of instruction  to students.  ? Enabled customer tech needs through non-disruptive deployment of software to PCs and Macs  using SCCM and Apple Remote Desktop.  ? Deliver fresh lab builds quickly through Symantec Ghost and Deploy Studio.  ? Empower student workers to meet high standards in communication and technical skill through training and guidance.  ? Increased customers baseline practical knowledge of IT tools through written help docs and on demand skill trainings. Education B.A. in English in English Center College 2008 Skills Active Directory, Customer Service, Networking, Technical Support, Vmware, Windows Certifications/Licenses ITIL Intermediate Certificate in Operational Support and Analysis April 2019 to Present ITIL Intermediate Certificate in Planning, Protections, and Optimization September 2018 to Present CompTIA Security+ November 2017 to November 2020 ITIL Foundations February 2013 to Present