Network Technician <span class="hl">Network</span> Technician Network Technician La Mesa, CA Enthusiastic and Innovative Information Technology professional, seeking a position where I can expand my skills and abilities while utilizing my knowledge of Information Technology in management, implementation, installation and design of network infrastructure. I consider myself responsible, creative, open to new knowledge with a great capacity of taking on any challenge and ability to establish comprehensive plans for executing task while working on my own initiative or as part of a team. Work Experience Network Technician Rady's Children Hospital February 2018 to May 2019 • Collaborated with team on the deployment of Cisco 3850 switches to replace Cisco 6500 switches that were almost end of life for IDF remediation project across the organization  • Worked with senior voice engineer for organization migration from four (4) to six (6) digit extension deployment  • Investigated, troubleshot and mitigated voice and network tickets on a daily basis  • Performed as needed in a weekly on call team rotation that requires consistent monitoring and awareness of network conditions  • Configured digital and analog lines which includes but not limited to digital phone lines, fax lines and analog phone lines  • Met with stakeholders to plan and configure phone lines for department transitions, relocation and reorganization  • Executed IOS upgrades using Cisco prime infrastructure (automation) and manual configuration to upgrade IOS image for Cisco 3850 switches across the organization to achieve a standard IOS image for all 3850 devices  • Added network devices using prime infrastructure, Solarwinds and Cisco Identity Service Engine (ISE) for management and monitoring of network devices  • Was in charge of all Internet Service Provider maintenance to ensure minimal impact to critical services, such that if the maintenance kick off, network services should failover to the redundant backup broadband connection  • Configured and setup Informacast IP speakers and also Cisco phones to announce emergency information to users within a defined range  • Setup call agents for extension mobility profile or registered agent to phones using Cisco Unified Communication Manager (CUCM) and Cisco Unified Contact Center Express (UCCX)  • Configured and troubleshoot user profiles on Calabrio voice recording and monitoring system across the organization, to help supervisors monitor call agent workflow for call centers  • Worked with team members to configure system call handler for the transferring and routing of calls to the appropriate department according to specific requirement Network Administrator Brothers International January 2018 to February 2018 • Monitored and managed Omnijoin network cloud and took corrective measures as needed.  • Performed routine patch maintenance and software updates to the Omnijoin cloud.  • Resolved network related tickets as a part of daily duties and responsibilities.  • Escalated and coordinated with Omnijoin network preferred internet service provider to mitigate issues that required escalation Network Technician Wells Fargo November 2017 to December 2017 • Uninstalled Cisco Routers, Switches, Servers, Access point and Cisco IP phones from the Wells Fargo Advisor location to a new location.  • Disconnected host PCs, Printers, Scanners from Wells Fargo Advisor location to a new location.  • Installed Cisco Routers, Switches, Servers, Access point and Cisco IP phones at Wells Fargo Advisor present location and ensured all Network devices were working at optimal capacity.  • Connected host PCs, Printers, Scanners and ensured the devices were working for users to carry out their daily activities.  • Provided technical support for 105 users on the LAN network and troubleshooting network issues to ensure optimal performance Network Engineer Petroleum Training Institute September 2014 to June 2016 • Installed, designed, setup and configured simple and complex network environments including cisco switches, routers, and other mission critical devices.  • Supervision and management of key Network critical equipment such as: routers, switches to support daily user requirement.  • Managed assigned projects with a high degree of responsibility and aided in maintaining company's vigorous project cycle.  • Developed network requirements, policy and translating requirements into specific device configurations.  • Conducted implementation and troubleshooting of security permissions and restrictions using ACL's.  • Hosted seminars with users of the Network to educate them on their role to ensure security of network devices is up tight.  • Designed and setup new VLAN's for layer 2 segmentation.  • Resolved network tickets throughout the organization.  • Remediated both simple and complex network tickets. Network Administrator Dekato Oil and Gas July 2013 to September 2014 • Assisted in maintaining the company's optimal uptime of 100%  • Identified and recommended mitigation strategies for network threats and risks.  • Assisted with the execution and streamlining process for the design, installation and sustainment of mission critical IT environments and supporting infrastructure.  • Provided network administration support for development, deployment, and problem identification/remediation of the enterprise network environment  • Regulated and implemented the installation of cabling infrastructure in accordance to industry standards.  • Implemented and supported strategic utilization with TCP/IP networking, to ensure networking devices were at optimal performance.  • Managed and installed Cisco routers and switches.  • Translated critical network transition to stakeholders with no information Technology background. Education B.S. in Computer Science University of Benin - Benin City, NG November 2012 Skills Customer service oriented, Customer service, Problem-solving Additional Information PROFESSIONAL TRAINING, SKILLS AND ABILITIES    • Basic Network Configuration (N+)  • Strong problem-solving skills  • Comprehensive decision-making abilities  • Excellent interpersonal skills  • Excellent oral and written communication skills  • Exceptional leadership abilities  • Management and supervisory skills  • Strong teamwork    • Exceptional troubleshooting skills  • Customer Service oriented  • Adaptable and flexible