Chief Information Officer Chief Information Officer Sales and Marketing Rochester, NY Ability to lead and coach a team and build morale among employees to increase productivity. Committed to producing exceptional results above what is expected with a focus on customer satisfaction. Ensuring that goals and objectives are completed in a timely manner with attention to detail and deadlines. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Chief Information Officer OrderSnapp - Rochester, NY August 2016 to Present Develops network maps and installation manuals for clients to remotely setup their restaurant network systems. Manage commercial routers from a dashboard and ensured compliance and functionality. Responsible for monitoring remote networks and isolating any errors that arise. Manage an on-boarding team of 7 people and assist in client-facing training opportunities. Coached employees to meet their full potential while increasing client satisfaction. Sales and Marketing Eagle Distributing - Victor, NY 2012 to August 2016 Responsibilities  I am responsible for creative selling in people's home. I protect people with state-of-the-art fire systems. My work has been responsible for protecting families from fires.    Accomplishments  Increased revenues from $425,000 in 2012 to $5 million in 2016. Ranked #2 for number of units/sales in the country out of 1,500 salespersons. Created new training programs that increased closing percentages from 45% to 70%. Ability to generate leads from cold- calling and door-to-door. Experienced in lead generation and mailing list creation. Ability to relate to customers and understand their needs while maintaining professionalism. Network Administrator Victor Advanced Chiropractic - Victor, NY 2012 to 2013 Responsibilities  I was responsible for ensuring computer network technologies were fully operational. I focused on ensuring patient systems were intuitive and created training manuals for employees. I also created new programs and processes to help employees keep track of clients.    Accomplishments  Built systems that help to build customer retention. Created programs that ensured customer relationships stayed strong while being able to promote new products and services. During 2012 - 2013, VAC experienced a $200,000 per year increase in revenue. Was responsible for maintaining employee morale. Developed work programs that helped employees not meeting their goals. Education Associate in Computer Network Systems ITT Technical Institute-Liverpool - Liverpool, NY 2006 to 2008 Skills Direct Sales, Marketing, Web Design, Computer Network Administration, Strong Interpersonal Skills, Team Leadership, Proficient in Excel (10+ years)