Network Administrator <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Network Administrator - People 2.0 Global Glenmoore, PA Work Experience Network Administrator People 2.0 Global - Exton, PA March 2019 to Present Hired to assist in growing the IT Department and infrastructure. Duties include maintaining cloud and virtual environments, server administration, workstations, routers, and switches. Interface with users and management throughout entire resource planning and network development process, creating network designs to meet unique needs of each client. Served as liaison to client and vendors ensuring support for systems.  Key Achievements:  ? Reduced cost by $60K by converting from pay-as-you go to Reserved Instances and Microsoft 365  ? Improved business continuity by designing and implementing Azure File Sync for file backup and availability  ? Currently working on improving cloud security by implementing 2FA and conditional access policies for all users. I currently have it implemented for all IT Admins and Executives.  ? Developed and implemented a patching schedule for all Azure servers using Update through Azure  ? Configured Azure Site Recovery for our on-premise servers to replicate to Azure in the event of a disaster  ? Configured and maintain Azure backup for all Azure servers. Project Manager Citadel Federal Credit Union - Exton, PA September 2017 to March 2019 Promoted to manage IT projects in a growing IT Department. Duties include: internal resource and external vendor management, managing projects on implementing new products and upgrading current infrastructure equipment, Interface with users and management throughout entire resource planning and network development  Key Achievements:  ? Oversaw the best Disaster Recovery test in company history  ? Oversaw the upgrade of the Avaya Call Manager from CM 4.0 to 7.0  ? Implemented other projects for Concur Expense, Signature Manager, new branch and office building planning, and replacing current Diebold ATMs with Hyosung ITMs.  ? Converted from an on-premises to O365/Azure infrastructure for 500+ users including provisioning MDM and upgrading Office clients to O365. Telecom and Server Administrator Citadel Federal Credit Union - Exton, PA August 2016 to September 2017 Hired to administer telecom and server infrastructure in growing the IT Department. Duties include maintaining and installing voice network resources/components, including servers, workstations, routers, and switches. Served as liaison to client and vendors ensuring support for systems.  Key Achievements:  ? Upgrade and administer voice infrastructure  ? Manage wireless network  ? Mentor and train less experienced staff  ? Provide user support for 250 local users and 200 branch staff  ? Provide executive IT support ranging from remote connections, mobile devices, and PC support.  ? Manage mobile solution and deployment Voice and Support Administrator Crane Payment Innovations - CPI - Malvern, PA April 2014 to August 2016 Hired to assist in growing the IT Department and infrastructure. Duties include maintaining and installing voice network resources/components, including servers, workstations, routers, and switches. Interface with users and management throughout entire resource planning and network development process, creating network designs to meet unique needs of each client. Served as liaison to client and vendors ensuring support for systems.  Key Achievements:  ? Upgrade and administer global IP Office VoIP network  ? Manage global wireless network  ? Mentor and train less experienced staff  ? Provide user support for 250 local users and 75+ remote users  ? Ran successful projects for network migrations and global VoIP system installations.  ? Provide executive IT support ranging from remote connections, mobile devices, and PC support.  ? Manage mobile solution and deployment System Administrator Alliance Pharma - Malvern, PA April 2014 to October 2014 Brought on to assist the firm's growing IT group in maintaining and installing network resources/components, including servers, workstations, routers, and switches. Interfaced with internal clients throughout entire resource planning and network development process.  Key Achievements:  ? Reorganize Active Directory for ease of administration and scalability.  ? Create mail groups for each specific department.  ? Create file and folder structure on file server for greater security and stability  ? Implement Group Policy for security features, drive and printer mappings, and updates.  ? Join remaining lab computers to Api domain for better security and administration.  ? Implement enterprise backup solution for virtual machines on the Xenserver.  ? Configure SSL VPN access for remote users.  ? Created pc images to streamline pc deployment System Administrator LLB Group - Glenside, PA October 2013 to April 2014 Brought on to assist the firm's small and mid-sized business clients in maintaining and installing network resources/components, including servers, workstations, routers, and switches. Interfaced with clients throughout entire resource planning and network development process, creating network designs to meet unique needs of each client. Served as liaison to client and vendors ensuring support for systems.  Key Achievements:  * Tasked to manage the account of LLb's largest client; Goodwill of Southern NJ and Philadelphia  * Credited for proactively working with 70+ clients to maintain and support IT systems, and plan the layout of new hardware that supported system updates and any modifications to existing network. Skills Infrastructure design, Problem resolution, Relationship management, Performance tuning