Video Teleconference Coordinator Video Teleconference Coordinator IT Technician Fullerton, CA Passionate IT professional, and dedicated veteran with over four years of experience with the United States Marine Corps as a Cyber Network Operator, Network Administrator, and System Information Technology Administrator. Able to identify customer requirements and priorities in order to deliver better user satisfaction. Supported organizational network of 4,000+ users on an enterprise level. Proven ability to define and implement thoughtful strategy in an IT environment, while leading others. Currently pursuing Bachelor's degree in Business Administration Information Systems at CSUF. Work Experience Video Teleconference Coordinator MITSC Mid Pacific - Kaneohe, HI June 2016 to August 2017 Coordinated and managed video teleconference of over 30 meetings between CEO, C- level staff, and lateral department heads between all Marine Corps installations in the Pacific and North American area of operations. Network And Server Administrator MITSC Mid Pacific - Kaneohe, HI September 2014 to August 2017 • Managed access networks, as a Network Services Technician, supporting two different networks and over 4000 users.  • Resolved issues and escalated problems with knowledgeable support and quality service.  • Remote Network and Server administration experience supporting multiple locations in Hawaii. Team Leader/ End User Support Specialist MITSC Mid Pacific - Kaneohe, HI September 2014 to August 2017 • Supervised network administrators and managed customer support experience, as well as ticketing system in Remedy/ITSM.  • Assisted end user support of over 4000 users, ensuring mission critical systems had minimal down time, while providing Tier 1 support.  • Provided remote assistance, software installation, user account management, and enterprise exchange email services for Marine Corps Base Hawaii network users. Asset Management Supervisor MITSC Mid Pacific - Kaneohe, HI September 2014 to August 2017 • Ensured quality, accounting, and functionality of over $10 million of network equipment.  • Facilitated the distribution and installation of more than 3000 network computers, work stations, and external media devices. Education General Studies Moorpark College - Moorpark, CA January 2018 to May 2019 Associate of Science in General Studies College of The Desert - Palm Desert, CA 2019 Skills Account management (2 years), Active Directory (Less than 1 year), Customer support (2 years), Data entry (Less than 1 year), Excellent communication skills (Less than 1 year), Maintenance (Less than 1 year), Network security (Less than 1 year), Problem-solving (Less than 1 year), Project management (Less than 1 year), Remedy ticketing system (2 years), Security (Less than 1 year), Stocking (Less than 1 year) Military Service Branch: United States Marine Corps Rank: Sergeant