Network Administrator <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Network Administrator - Loc Performance Canton, MI Work Experience Network Administrator Loc Performance - Plymouth, MI February 2019 to Present Manage daily network and server performance. Monitor network usage and report abuse. Work SpiceWorks ticket system to resolve a variety of network, system, and device issues. Provide support for HP switches, Axis security cameras, and Mitel VoIP phone systems. Ensure system patches and updates are deployed. Document all devices attached to the network. Monitor the network with SpiceWorks, the Dude, and WhatsUp. Deploy and monitor Aerohive wireless. Deploy and monitor Fortinet system. Migrate layer 2 network to layer 3 network with vlan creation and definition. Network Engineer Schoolcraft College - Livonia, MI August 2014 to February 2019 Support, deploy, and monitor network devices. Audit firewall and security rules for compliance and need. Configure, install, and maintain Cisco and Dell switches, firewalls, and network systems. Manage VoIP system with CUCM. Manage wireless with Cisco wireless controllers, Cisco Prime, and Cisco MSE. Design, build, and deploy Cisco ISE for wireless and port level security. Monitor network with Solarwinds and WhatUp.Work with server team and computer technicians to resolve campus wide issues. Maintain data colocation with monthly on-call rotation and scheduled updates and maintenance. Attend VMWorld and attend VMware classes to stay current on emerging technologies. Document all planned network changes and ensure change management documentation exist for recording implemented. Commtech 3 Xfinity-Comcast Cable - Plymouth, MI April 2012 to August 2014 Install, maintain, and troubleshoot internet, cable, and VoIP phone services. Run, terminate, and activate network and television cabling. Manage customer service center to resolve equipment, network, and billing issues. Troubleshoot network outages using company created monitoring tools. Education Masters of Science in Information Technology in Information Technology Central Michigan University - Mount Pleasant, MI January 2019 to Present Bachelors of Science in Networking & Voice Communication in Networking & Voice Communication DeVry University - Southfield, MI August 2012 to May 2014 Associates of Art in Information Technology in Information Technology University of Phoenix - Livonia, MI August 2009 to March 2012 Skills Wireless, Cisco, Dhcp, Network monitoring, Dns, Active Directory, Networking, Technical Support, Windows, Customer Service, Vmware, Windows 7