Field Installation Technician Field Installation Technician Jacksonville, NC Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Field Installation Technician Aeon Inc. - Jacksonville, NC January 2019 to Present • Provide installation and repair services to residential and business customers, including data, POTS, Internet service and equipment.  • Climb telephone poles and use ladders to renew services and connect communication lines.  • Flexibility to work in a variety of environments, from construction sites to finished corporate offices  • Install new phone and internet connections per service call  • Post secondary education in carpentry when needed to install cable outlets, wall fishes and aerial drops. Network Administrator United States Maine Corps - Camp Lejeune, NC December 2017 to July 2018 • Install, operate, and maintain Local Area Networks (LAN) and Wide Area Networks (WAN) to enable command and control missions.  • Duties include routing/switching configuration, premise wiring and installation of network components which established technical control sites, helped conduct fault analysis, circuit testing and end to end troubleshooting.  • Supervised a team of 20-30 Marines at any given time ensuring proper procedures and training were accomplished in a timely and efficient manner. Tactial Switching Operator United States Marine Corps - Okinawa, Japan August 2014 to December 2017 • Successfully performed and carried out the duties as platoon Sergeant where I supervised, trained and mentored 28 Marines.  • Supervised and documented the daily maintenance on (7) military vehicles including preventative maintenance and general repair inductions.  • Worked closely with the platoon commander to establish training schedules and evaluation of combat readiness of the platoon.  • Conducted training classes and demonstrated principles, techniques, procedures and methods of leadership, supervision and evaluation. Field Wireman United States Maine Corps - Twentynine Palms, CA February 2011 to August 2014 • Constructed, operated, and maintained wire networks to link key outposts, control points, and headquarters which provided reliable paths for the transmission of telephone, facsimile, and digital data messages.  • Duties included installation of telephones and switchboards, laying of wire and cable, recover wire, locate wire system faults and operate switchboards. Education None in Sociology Coastal Carolina University - Conway, SC June 2008 to June 2009 None Skills Carpentry (1 year), Electrical, Maintenance (3 years), Customer Service, Sales, Networking, Troubleshooting, Low Voltage, Coax Military Service Branch: United States Marine Corps Service Country: United States Rank: Sergeant February 2011 to August 2018