UC SUPPORT ENGINEER UC SUPPORT ENGINEER UC SUPPORT ENGINEER Hurdle Mills, NC Work Experience UC SUPPORT ENGINEER CRG January 2016 to January 2018 • Implemented and configured CISCO Unified Communications products such as CUCM, CUC, Jabber, CIPC, Agent Desktop, Supervisor Desktop  • Maintained a stable operating environment through the use of monitoring tools such as Syslog, RTMT and Solar Winds.  • Managed and Maintained Analog fax lines, Voicemails, Auto Attendants, Phone setup, and Alarms/Alerts.  • Maintained dial plan with calling restrictions by using a combination of calling search spaces, partitions, translation patterns, dial-peers, translation rules and translation profiles.  • Troubleshoot call routing issues using debugs and traces to identify and correct issues.  • Installed, configured IOS gateways running SIP, MGCP, H323 protocols  • Configured Informacast paging systems integration with CUCM  • Developed and maintain support documentation including support guides, knowledge base articles, procedures, and online customer information. Network Administrator VETERAN'S HEALTH ADMINISTRATION/OFFICE OF INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY - Durham, NC May 2010 to December 2015 508 FULTON STREET, DURHAM NC 27705  5/2010-12/2015    Served as VA regional Cisco Unified Communications Systems/ Network Administrator. Duties included installing, configuring and maintaining IP telephony infrastructure including servers, routers and switches.    IP TELEPHONY  Ongoing duties/accomplishments involved addressing and resolving a wide range Cisco VoIP issues including:  • DID/ Cisco Numbering Plan translations  • PRI/T1/Analog Router voice gateway configuration  • SRST emergency phone service using H323 protocol  • Install and configure voice gateways routers for proper call admission control to effectively manage bandwidth.  • Configure dial peers and route patterns to support local, long distance and 4-digit dialing.  • Configure SIP trucks in support of IP eFax solution  • Configuring UC codecs to allow for maximum bandwidth and call integrity  • Configured switch VLANs to support voice and data  • Ported over extensions from Avaya CS 1000 PBX to Call Manager to support phased transition of PBX end users to Unified Communications network.  • Installed, configured and maintained emergency alert system using IP infrastructure to deliver voice and data alerts.  • Configured Cisco video phones for use on VA network. Also, installed Tandberg video devices and configure proper VLANs and IP address assignments.  • Served as project manager and technical lead converting VA remote sites from traditional telephony to VoIP and adding to existing Cisco Unified Communications cluster. Explained, persuaded, advocated and negotiated, both verbally and in writing, the multiple tasks needed to ensure a seamless transfer of voice and data service to end users.  • Configured and installed multiple call handlers/auto attendants across the region. These actions streamlined menu options and improved call handling in support of continuous improvement of processes and technology.  • Configured Unified Communications network to support Cisco wireless phones. The wireless phones improved the nurse notification process delivering critical patient care information.    TRADITIONAL TELEPHONY  • Daily duties include using Nortel/Avaya CS1000 PBX Call Pilot, Telephony Manager and Contact Center to support of over 5,000 extensions.  • Installed, maintained NEAX2000 key system at VA remote sites  • Conducted pager strength testing and coordinated the installation of higher wattage amplifier and relocation of antennas to improve VA pager signal strength and footprint.  • Reprogrammed VA pager system to allow faster response times by doctors, head nurses, etc. This improved pager notification time from over two minutes for some pagers to fewer than five seconds for all pagers.  • Coordinated effort between engineering and paging system contractor to integrate new fire alert system into main paging system. BUTLER AVENUE VETERAN'S HEALTH ADMINISTRATION/OFFICE OF INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY - Martinsburg, WV April 2006 to April 2008 Served as a NEC certified telecommunications specialist for the organization and performed highly technical work dealing with the organization's voice and data communications systems. Performance highlights include:  • Implementing, installing, supporting and maintaining telecommunications network hardware and software, including Private Branch Exchange (PBX), voice mail systems, overhead paging systems, centralized attendant services, servers, jacks, wiring, blocks, and cable.  • Configuring Automating Call Distribution (ACD) system within the PBX to assist high volume call areas with call management.  • Installing client software and training managers overseeing ACD groups on how to access, customize and print ACD reports.  • Installing necessary software for implementing voice mail (VM) to user's desktop Outlook account.  • Creating and maintaining database of PBX system capacity. Database tracked switch unit capacity and usage to prepare for timely switch unit growth to accommodate expanding user population.  • Monitoring the installation and maintenance of telecommunications equipment and systems to assess the quantity and quality of work performed by cable contractors on new cable work including moves, adds, and changes. Did same for installation of new NEC AD64 voice mail system and NEC2400 PBX upgrades and coordinating with contracting officer to determine if terms of contract had been violated when unexpected problems arose.  • Maintaining telephone equipment location records, extension assignments, type of instruments, class of service and routing tables. Designing several database query programs to produce customized reports.  • Assisting senior staff in reviewing technical design and specifications of communications, fiber optics, copper and coaxial cable, infrastructure, services and equipment for newly established CBOC locations and relocation of Home Based Primary Care groups.  • Ordering, installing and testing ISDN circuits to support video conferencing applications.  • Providing user training on Tandberg video conferencing systems.  • Performing site surveys and establishing temporary workstation and phone connectivity for nursing station relocation and/or remodeling work  • Performing BlackBerry service initiation and activation.  • Installing necessary software on desktop and BlackBerry devices to provide email encryption and digital signature certificate capabilities.  • Training BlackBerry users on operation and feature usage.    FEDERAL TECHNOLOGY SERVICE (FTS)  10304 EATON PLACE-FAIRFAX VA. 22032  MAY CONTACT SUPERVISOR RICHARD WILLIAMS RETIRED    Applications Engineering & Technical Support  Provided expert technical guidance to contractor consultants in the analysis of technical requirements, preparation of technical evaluations, price analyses and scope determinations of proposed contract modifications in support of GSA FTS2001's long distance voice, data, video, and security services program serving federal agencies worldwide. Interpreted customer service requirements to develop technical and cost effective solutions appropriate for contract modifications to the FTS2001 contract, satellite, and FTS-LD Crossover contracts. Other work activities included:    •Studying, analyzing, evaluating, and developing written technical interpretations and recommendations to improve communications systems that were consistent with FTS management objectives, customer requirements, and current trends in technology;  •In coordination with customer agencies and GSA contracting office identified and developed customer requirements and wrote solicitation(s);  •Routinely preparing technical evaluations, price analysis and in-scope recommendations for FTS2001 telecommunications and satellite contract modifications;  •Preparing monthly written contract modification status reports for GSA senior management, customer agency management and Interagency Management Council.    FTS2001 Source Selection Board Technical Panel  Served as a voting member on the FTS2001 Source Selection Board Technical Panel. Duties included analyzing, planning, scheduling, and coordinating the evaluation of offerors (e.g. AT&T and Sprint) proposals in response to GSA's FTS2001 RFP. Provided contractual and expert technical guidance to other Telecommunications Specialists and contractor support personnel to resolve overlapping, conflicting, and/or difficult issues in order to achieve organizational and agency objectives. The evaluation determined how well each offerors proposed services would help the Government achieve its worldwide telecommunication objectives. Other work activities included:    • Through collaboration, facilitating and developing written panel consensus in the preparation of clarification questions and deficiency notices when proposals were found to be "Non-compliant" or "Ambiguous" with respect to the RFP mandatory requirements;  • Providing expert technical guidance in the writing of the preliminary and final FTS2001 technical panel reports to support adjectival ratings.  • Participating in interagency team meetings and continuing efforts to resolve previously unyielding problems. This work required extensive coordination and support of other experts both within and outside the organization to address such issues as interoperability and potential conflict with other equally important telecommunications systems.  • Conducting oral discussions/negotiations with offeror and agency upper management when additional information was needed to supplement or validate proposal information.  • Routinely participating in conferences, meetings, hearings, or presentations involving problems or issues of considerable consequence. Persons contacted sometimes had diverse viewpoints, goals, or objectives, requiring the achievement of a common understanding of the problem and a satisfactory solution by arriving at a compromise or developing suitable alternatives.