Network Administrator <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Network Administrator Raleigh, NC To use my combined networking and virtualization skills in a constructive environment to better my knowledge through real world applications and solve complex problems. Work Experience Network Administrator Global Knowledge - Cary, NC June 2018 to March 2019 • Daily maintenance of vCloud environment used in production.  • Provide solutions to clients that have hardened network environments to be able to use our labs efficiently.  • Monitor/Maintain volumes created by our storage solution.  • Proactively diagnosing/prevent infrastructure problems/solutions. Jr. Network and Support Administrator Global Knowledge - Cary, NC April 2015 to June 2018 • Detect, diagnose, analyze, and resolve customer problems associated with systems of network and server hardware and application software  • Evaluate and install systems, new software releases, patches, and system upgrades and resolve software related problems for Unix, Linux, and Microsoft operating systems.  • Analyze, test, and otherwise evaluate network and server systems to eliminate problems.  • Work with many types of hardware, and software, such as Cisco Routers and Switches, Juniper devices, VMware, Avaya, and Citrix  • Ensure that all networks and systems are functional and secure and running at acceptable performance levels. Sales Support Administrator/Database Entry TOSHIBA (TOSHIBA GLOBAL COMMERCE SOLUTIONS) - Research Triangle Park, NC January 2014 to April 2015 • Respond to requests for support from internal business partners ("BP") within agreed parameter  • To support the Sales Team with requests, entering data from the legacy database systems to Oracle.   • Enter contract header data as per written instructions into ERP system  • Load contract inventory data per written instructions into ERP system  • Identify any inventory issues and communicate those issues  • Request special bid pricing on behalf of a business partner as required  • Provide contract reports and schedules  • Provide ad hoc reporting on inventory and customer numbers  • Request contract approvals as necessary (e.g., special billing circumstances, retro approvals) Quality Assurance Manager PROFESSIONAL FITNESS - Raleigh, NC January 2011 to January 2014 • Earned reputation for resolving customer problems, including billing issues requiring the handling of confidential banking and credit card information.  • Ensuring correct data entry by representatives  • Overseeing production shipments, organizing contracts, and correct entries in to billing system  • Quality Assurance of phone calls and emails by reviewing recorded conversations Education Bachelor's in Cybersecurity Southern New Hampshire University Present Associate in Computer Information Systems ECPI University - Raleigh, NC July 2015 Skills Cisco (3 years), Windows, Technical Support, Windows 7, Active Directory, Customer Service Additional Information SKILLS    VMware (working towards VCP certification)  • Knowledge of vCenter and vCloud Director  • VM creation and deployment  • Troubleshooting/Resolving issues    Linux  • Basic knowledge of file structures    Networking (working towards CCNA certification)  • Configuring Cisco routers/switches  • Basic setup/troubleshooting of Juniper devices