Network Engineer/ operation support <span class="hl">Network</span> Engineer/ operation support Network Engineer/ operation support - AIG Technologies Fort Worth, TX Skilled Network Engineer and IT operations and Management. Experienced in local and wide area networks (LAN/WAN). A result-oriented professional with broad experience in technical services and a reliable team worker with excellent communications, interpersonal relation and high leadership skills. Adequate IT management possession and client orientation intuition, analytical thinking, flexibility, adaptability and motivated work spirit under pressure. Seeking a challenging and rewarding IT operations and Networking role where my experience, skills, and unique abilities, coupled with strong sense of motivation, would be of mutual benefit. Work Experience Network Engineer/ operation support AIG Technologies May 2018 to Present • Provide Network design, Installation, Monitoring, implementation and support for the local and all remote sites of the organization using Cisco devices such as Cisco routers 1600, 2500, 3600, 7200, 7500 Cisco Switches 2926, 3550, 3600, 3750, 4000 and 6509 series. Troubleshoot, Support and analyze network problems.  • Network Security configuration/troubleshooting and Network/Windows Debugging  • Circuit implementations varying from DWDMs and MPLS.  • Dial backup implementation for all the MPLS remote sites for failover purpose. Configured and troubleshoot Layer 2 & 3 technologies.  • Configured RIP, EIGRP, OSPF and BGP routing protocols. Supported and manage Wireless Network. IP, TCP/IP, VOIP.  • Supported Cisco, Juniper, and F5 devices.  • Supported and managed Windows Server administration, and virtualization (VMware), Active Directory, GPO, DNS. Exchange Online administration, Backup (Backup Exec and Druva). Microsoft office applications.  • Participated in on-call rotation, Windows and VMware patching, and routine maintenance  • Extensively utilized Remedy to record, resolve and track network issues.  • Troubleshoot and monitor system and network problems, diagnosing and solving hardware or software faults. Provide support, including procedural documentation and relevant reports  • Network Traffic filtering, Checkpoint firewalls, VPN concentrators. Network operation Center support and monitoring and Data center support and management.  • Troubleshoot DNS, DHCP and TCP/IP issues.  • Resolve technical problems with Local Area Networks (LAN) & Wide Area Network (WAN) and Routing protocols configuration.  • Coordinate to track, manage and reconcile asset database changes including decommissioning or disposal of assets. Network Operation Support Technician IBM/WALMART - Bentonville, AR April 2017 to April 2018 • Network design, implementation and support for the local and all remote sites of the organization using Cisco devices such as Cisco routers 1600, 2500, 3600, 7200 and 7500 Cisco Switches 2926, 3550, 3600, 3750, 4000 and 6509 series.  • Network operation Center support and monitoring (NOC). Responsible for the administration and support of Active Directory, GPO, DNS.  • Provided support for Exchange Online administration, Backup (Backup Exec and Druva).  • Dial backup implementation for all the MPLS remote sites for failover purpose. Data Center, HO, and Store Networking and monitoring.  • CISCO Network Switches/Routers Administration/Support/troubleshooting.  • Network Security configuration/troubleshooting and Network/Windows Debugging.  • Network encryption techniques and standards (SSH, SSL, MD5). Network routing architecture using protocol such as OSPF, BGP, EIGRP and RIP.  • Network trunking, VLAN, Port Security, STP configuration/Support, DHCP, VOIP, DNS, Group Policy Administration. Network/Windows/Linux Monitoring. Logical Network design using DMZ, WAN and client connectivity solutions.  • Network protocols (TCP/IP) and communication protocols in LAN/WAN environment.  • XEN Virtualization software Administration/Support. SUSE Linux OS, VMWare Virtualization Software  • Network Traffic filtering, Checkpoint firewalls, VPN concentrators.  • Redhat, Linux OS (RHEL 5/6), Python and Java Administration/Support.  • Responded to tickets, either electronically or go out to the data center.  • Researched, troubleshoot, repair, and test computer or computer-related equipment for internal and external customers in a data center atmosphere.  • Interface closely with development for short and long-term network fixes.  • Education/Mentoring of other team members. Rollout and project management experience.  • Network management including Proactive monitoring of LAN and WAN links as well as capacity planning.  • Racking, stacking and layer one connectivity establishment. Vendor management and liaison. Network Engineer/ Administrator Jubilee Consulting USA, Inc - Dallas, TX May 2015 to April 2017 • Network design, implementation and support for the local and all remote sites of the organization using Cisco devices such as Cisco routers 1600, 2500, 3600, 7200 and 7500 Cisco Switches 2926, 3550, 3600, 3750, 4000 and 6509 series. Troubleshoot, Support and analyze network problems.  • Circuit implementations varying from DWDMs and MPLS.  • Dial backup implementation for all the MPLS remote sites for failover purpose. Configured and troubleshoot Layer 2 & 3 technologies.  • Configured RIP, EIGRP, OSPF and BGP routing protocols. Supported and manage Wireless Network. IP, TCP/IP, VOIP  • Supported and managed Windows Server administration, and virtualization (VMware), Active Directory, GPO, DNS. Exchange Online administration, Backup (Backup Exec and Druva). Microsoft office applications.  • Participated in on-call rotation, Windows and VMware patching, and routine maintenance  • Extensively utilized Remedy to record, resolve and track network issues. Network analyst and quality Associate Ingram Micro Mobility Technology June 2014 to April 2015 • Extensive troubleshooting in installation and configuration of Windows Operating Systems; Disk Configuration and Installation and Configuration of DNS and Active Directory; Systems Policy and Group Policy; Systems Back-up and Recovery; Windows Performance Tuning and Windows Server.  • Responsible for implementation of Desktop GPOs. Evaluates hardware and software, including peripheral, output, and related equipment. Participates in the development and implementation of VDI-related operational procedures and standards. Interfaces with vendors to ensure appropriate resolution during network outages or periods of reduced performance. Develops and implements testing strategies and document results.  • Troubleshoots and resolves complex problems. Maintains current knowledge of relevant hardware and software applications as assigned.  • Responsible for the administration and support of Desktops, Thin Clients, diagnoses and troubleshoots problems with PCs, software, communications devices, responds to End User requests for technical support and assistance within established procedures.  • Provided support and assistance to Network Engineer(s) and Telecommunications Systems contract up line support staff. Assist in ensuring compliance with security policies and procedures. Responds to escalated requests for technical assistance. Education Master's in Information Technology Management Western Governors University - Salt Lake City, UT December 2017 to Present Bachelor's in English Obafemi Awolowo University - Ondo December 2006 to December 2010 Skills Bgp (4 years), Cisco (4 years), Eigrp (4 years), Exchange (4 years), Mpls. (4 years), Active Directory, Security, Vmware, DNS, MPLS Certifications/Licenses CCENT June 2017 to June 2020 CCNA July 2017 to June 2020