Network Administrator <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Network Administrator - General Dynamics Fort Lauderdale, FL Dependable and dynamic professional with solid and diverse experience in the field of Information technology. Proficient in networking IT Desk support, software and hardware. Analytical and adept at resolving complex network issues. Critical thinker who addresses customer support issues quickly and who consistently exceeds performance standards. Highly dependable in delivering effective issue resolution and user technical support utilizing various system, with strong ability to assimilate job requirements, and successfully implement and complete projects. Work Experience Network Administrator General Dynamics - Westwood, MA August 2016 to Present • Responsible for providing phone support, and troubleshooting, to NG911 Dispatchers.  • Creating trouble tickets as necessary, using the Remedy ticketing system and working closely with engineers, help resolve issues.  • Maximize customer operational performance by resolving IT issues  • Maintain upgrades and monitor all server and internal infrastructure equipment  • Responsible for providing verbal technical assistance to both technical and non- technical professionals by providing advice and training, to resolve complex issues in an efficient and timely manner. Service Desk Analyst Lifespan Corporate Services - Providence, RI August 2015 to July 2016 • Evaluated and recommended further enhancements to the network  • Responsible for hardware and software for system maintenance or end user applications  • Responsible for providing advanced level of technical support for resolution of networking Systems and business applications.  • Streamlined processes and procedures to consistently deliver on tight deadlines.  • Escalating issues to the appropriate Team, active directory and remote support  • Responded to customers via phone, email on daily basis IT Support Desk CVS Caremark - Smithfield, RI January 2015 to August 2015 • Resolved complex problems according to escalation procedures.  • Reported enhancement requests and defects received from customers.  • Responsible for answering and resolving technical support questions received from employees, involving both hardware and software issues.  • Providing caller with prompt, reliable, and accurate information while maintaining effective communications, and adjusting to the technical level of the customer. Education High school or equivalent in Physical Education/Psychology Bridgewater State University - Bridgewater, MA September 1978 to February 1982 Bridgewater State College - Bridgewater, MA Skills ROUTER, MULTITASKING, PROBLEM SOLVING, Desktop Support, Comptia, Help Desk, MAC, Service Desk, Active Directory, Apple, Tech Support Assessments Technical Support Skills — Proficient March 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/c5x1hdaw8zfjpw2k Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information PROFESSIONAL SKILLS  • Comfortable in working independently as well as a team member.  • Familiarity with Switches and Router Configurations for NG911 Project.  • Excellent multitasking, problem solving and resource management skills.  • Ability to troubleshoot from different perspectives.  • Excellent time-management and communication skills.  • Ability to analyze and resolve support requests, from the end users.