NOC Engineer NOC Engineer Avenel, NJ Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience NOC Engineer Align Communications - New Jersey September 2018 to Present troubleshooted various client devices using, logic monitor monitoring system.  work with various ISP to resolve client network outages.  troubleshoot MPLS, BGP,OSPF, Egirp.   Experience with Servicenow and connectwise.  Worked with esentire SOC, to secure all client environments.  shun malicious ips for various clients.  troubleshoot DNS and DHCP. Network Administrator Core Technology Solutions - Whippany, NJ September 2017 to February 2018 Work in a high volume 24/7 technical assistance center.    Part of a 5-6 man team providing support for 25+ network installs/cutover and handling an excess of 300 calls daily.    Communicate daily with clients and end users.    Have personally provided L2 support during network installs at 500+ locations for stores such as The Vitamin Shoppe, Paradies Lagardère, Universal Hospital Services, Coach, MAC Cosmetics, Restoration Hardware, Burger King, Floyd’s Barbershops, Pet Supply, Red Robbin, Bed Bath and Beyond.    Fielding calls from field technicians, Log field tech check in and out time, Collateral processing/quality control sign off sheets, photos, etc.    Completing workflow tasks in a ticket system, Data Entry, Router circuit certification testing.    Incident/Issue resolution or escalation to project managers, Creating Job ticket applications, Hiring technicians. IT Specialist MHS Inc - Edison, NJ September 2014 to August 2017 2012 Windows R2, Windows XP, Vista, 7 and 8, Windows 10, MAC.  • Application Systems: MS Exchange 2003/2010, SharePoint 2010, Active Directory, DNS, DHCP, EMC Networker - Backups and Restores. Citrix Xenapp 6.5 - Appcenter Administration.  • Virtualization Systems: VMware.  • Software: ISO 27001 Framework, NIST, Ubuntu, Kali Linux, Cryptography and Encryption, Email Security, Firewall Configuration, Wireless Network Security, Nmap, Vega and Retina Vulnerability Scanner, Nessus Vulnerability Scanner, Power Shell V3.0, Wire Shark, MS Office 2016, MS Excel 2016, MS Access 2016, MS Visio 2016. Education Bachelor's in Cyber security Southern New Hampshire University - New Hampshire January 2013 to June 2014 Associates in Information systems MIDDLESEX COUNTY COLLEGE - Edison, NJ January 2010 to June 2012 Assessment & Management LEARNING TREE INTERNATIONAL - New York, NY Skills It Specialist, Help Desk, Desktop Support, Information Technology Additional Information • Implemented, maintained and did troubleshoot system and network issues as part of operations.  • Installed Windows 2008 promoted as domain controller to build out the new AD Forest and domains.  • Installed applications servers like Exchange 2010.  • Installed and configured Windows Server 2008 using VMware virtual center.  • Installed and managed HP network printers and helped end users to map them  • Deployed workstations and installed Windows 7 as well as configured windows 7 with software like Microsoft Office 2010, Symantec, and Network Printers etc.  • Created Network Shares and defined security so only authorized user(s) have access.  • Managed services included AD, DHCP, DNS, and Print Services.  • Add computer to domain, create a group and add servers to it.  • Create Group policies, create and enable user claims, create Central access rule and policy.  • Configure Windows startup and recovery options.  • Reset Administrator passwords.  Rebuild PCs.