Information System Security Officer Information System Security Officer Network administrator Old Lyme, CT A United States Marine Corps Veteran pursuing a career in Information Technology with four years of accumulated skills and experience in the following:  • Security + Certified • Customer service • Cyber Security  • Process improvement • Microsoft Server • Cisco devices  • Service managing software • Active Directory • Network administration Work Experience Information System Security Officer UNITED STATES MARINE CORPS October 2018 to July 2019 Developed and administered system and information ownership and data classification guidelines, standards, and procedures. Developed, established, and maintained standards, procedures, and guidelines to promote the security and uninterrupted operation of computer-based application systems within the Marine Corps. Identified and addressed exposures to accidental or intentional destruction, disclosure, modification, or interruption of information that may cause serious financial and/or information loss to the Marine Corps. Protected Marine Corps assets and information processed by or stored in the Marine Corps information systems Network Systems Administrator UNITED STATES MARINE CORPS April 2016 to July 2019 Planed, installed, operated, and maintained robust networks using Cisco networking devices, General Dynamics TACLANEs, and Firewalls to establish secure network communications for Marine Corps exercises, operations and persistent environments. Configured over 15 LAN utilizing switches, routers, TACLANEs, VOIP, CME/CUCM, STIG controls, etc. in direct support of large scale Marine Corps training exercises. Data Systems Administrator UNITED STATES MARINE CORPS April 2016 to July 2019 Designed, implemented, and maintained data systems using Microsoft Server 2008, 2012, 2012R2 platforms. Facilitated communication infrastructure and services with Domain Controllers, Exchange Servers, Windows Server Update Service Servers, Public Key Infrastructure Servers, System Center Configuration Manager, and Information Security Servers. Telecommunications Control Officer UNITED STATES MARINE CORPS April 2016 to July 2019 Managed and configured smartphone devices, satellite phones, and wireless access points for senior VIP members. Oversaw and submitted all installation requests for fiber-optic cabling, copper cabling, and wireless access points. Reviewed and approved all billing and usage statements for smartphones and DSN phones. Helpdesk Administrator UNITED STATES MARINE CORPS December 2015 to July 2019 Was responsible for consistent coverage of large local area networks and its users, processing all problems and inquiries in a timely manner, providing the proper escalation when needed. Implementing the uses of Active Directory, Exchange Servers, LAN Sweeper, System Center Configuration Manager, and remote desktop connections to assist customers with local configurations. Administering repairs, upgrades, and completed configurations of devices and peripherals. Utilized Remedy ticketing system to track and maintain over 1200 network maintenance issues. Network Administrator UNITED STATES MARINE CORPS July 2015 to July 2019 Education High School Diploma Hamden High School 2015 Skills Security, Organizational Skills, Management, Networking, Active Directory, Windows, Technical Support, Customer Service, Microsoft Office, Vmware, Customer Service, Vmware, Microsoft Office Links http://LINKEDIN.COM/IN/MARSHALL-DARLING Military Service Branch: United States Marine Corps Rank: Sergeant Awards Navy And Marine Corps Achievement Medal 2019-04