Network Administrator <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Operations Specialist Rolling Meadows, IL Accomplished communications and customer service professional with proven track record of success within the United States Marine Corps and Bank of America Merrill Lynch. Work Experience Network Administrator United States Marine Corps Reserve - Chicago, IL July 2017 to Present • Expert in routing, switching, wiring, and installation of network components.  • Configure and maintain local area networks (LAN) and wide area networks (WAN).  • Establish technical control sites, conduct fault analysis, testing, and troubleshooting.  • Establish virtual private networks (VPN) and maintained internet protocol security (IPSEC).  • Monitor and maintain highest quality network operations to enable command and control. Operations Specialist - Dedicated Field Support Bank of America Merrill Lynch - Rolling Meadows, IL August 2015 to Present • Delivered high quality services in a contact center environment serving as the firm's field-based associates' primary help desk.  • Maintained knowledge on all operational procedures and processes to educate and coach fellow associates on proper execution.  • Worked in close liaison with other critical departments to facilitate a solution with one point of contact for callers.  • Processed valuable requests including money movement, account opening, funding, maintenance, and medallion signature guarantees.  • Provided partnership, research, and proactive support for all colleagues and clients.  • Management and balancing of risk, making sound decisions while achieving business goals.  • Expert ability to identify clients' needs, goals, and objectives to offer solutions and benefits. Education Associates in Science College of DuPage - Glen Ellyn, IL June 2020 Skills Data analysis, Risk management, Detail oriented, Clerical, Microsoft office, Technical Support, Windows, Networking, Cash Handling (2 years), Military Leadership Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/chris-vargas-313802162 Military Service Branch: United States Marine Corps Rank: Lance Corporal Additional Information SKILLS    • Military leadership, discipline, and work ethic  • Verbal and written communication  • Bank teller cash handling  • Proficient with Microsoft Office and Salesforce  • Risk Management  • Data analysis and processing  • Clerical and administrative duties  • Consistent and detail oriented