IT Support IT Support IT Support Engineer - Ansar Group Dubai Good work experience in the field of IT Support, Hardware & Network maintenance looking for IT  Support / Any Suitable job Work Experience IT Support Ansar Group - Dubai October 2017 to Present • Managed the IT relationship with the Services division during ERP Transition.  • Pos System Configuration and os installation And Nav installation support of Dynamic Nav.  • Printers Support for Barcode Printer and Cab Printer and Thermal Printer Hp Printers Hold Printer and scanners Document scanners and Handled Scanner.  • System hardware and software support peripherals,services,settings,directories,storage,etc   • PDT Portable Data Terminal (stock keeping) installation updation that types support for PDT.  • Virtual installations for Acronics through.  • Biometric and break card supports for staff finger data activation deactivation Machine support.  • Pos troubleshooting for EBN and Rio.  • Game server Reports taking and supports available. IT Support Engineer Akbar Travels Of India Pvt. Ltd January 2017 to Present Manage all phases of System Administration Including Planning, Designing and Establishing Network Infrastructure. Establishing Smooth Network Environment.    Installation, configuration and maintenance of systems, networks, printers, network cameras IP phone etc.  • Pos System Configuration and os installation And Nav installation support of Dynamic Nav.  • Pos troubleshooting for EBN and Rio.  • Printers Support for Barcode Printer and Cab Printer and Thermal Printer Hp Printers Hold Printer and scanners Document scanners and Handled Scanner. System& Network Administrator Akbar Travels Of India Pvt. Ltd - Mumbai, Maharashtra December 2015 to Present Configure hardware, peripherals, services, settings, directories, storage, etc. in accordance  with standards and project/operational requirements.  • Manage all phases of System Administration Including Planning, Designing and Establishing  Network Infrastructure. Establishing Smooth Network Environment.  • Administered/provided troubleshooting for various applications like MS Office products  • Perform daily system monitoring, verifying the integrity and availability of all hardware,  reviewing system and application logs, and verifying completion of scheduled jobs such as backups.  • Installation, configuration and maintenance of systems, networks, printers, network cameras  IP phone etc.  • Installation, Configuration, Maintenance and Troubleshooting of Airline Reservation  Software which includes vendors like Amadeus, Abacus, Galileo.Etc  • Maintenance of Cyberoam both server and client side.  • Providing support for clients in IBOSS (Integrated Business Operations Supporting System) an online accounting package - product of BenzyInfoTech. etc. IT support Sims Media Caster Sims Technologies - Calicut, Kerala April 2015 to December 2015 Role and Responsibility  • Perform daily system monitoring, verifying the integrity and availability of all hardware,  systems and key processes and verifying completion of scheduled jobs such as backups.  • Preparation of Updating the software  • Giving Technical support to staffs for issues and solve problems related to their Hardware,  Software and Network via online or personally visiting them.  • Other duties checking and resolve the issues of client software Data Entry Just Dial BPO Call CENTER VENGARA MALAPPURAM October 2010 to April 2011 Copy Pasting For Data Attending Call Support. Typing Job Taking training sessions of new  employees. Education BCA in Computer Application Nehru Arts And Science College Combathore - Coimbathore July 2012 to July 2015 Master In software Engineer MSE in Computer Course G-Tec Computer Education - Kerala Chemmad January 2010 to December 2012 Bharathiar University Coimbatore Skills C (Less than 1 year), Java (Less than 1 year), Mac (Less than 1 year), MICROSOFT WINDOWS (Less than 1 year), Visual Basic (Less than 1 year) Additional Information Software Skills  • C, C++, Java, Visual Basic &MS Office  • Operating Systems worked on:  Windows 98/2000/XP/VISTA/7/8, Ubuntu & Mac