Network Engineer <span class="hl">Network</span> Engineer Network Engineer - Greene Resources Raleigh, NC Work Experience Network Engineer Greene Resources March 2019 to Present 3  Network Engineer III is an intermediate level IT position directly supporting the network in all day to day activities. This role is an individual contributor who will work closely both within a team environment and individually to achieve specific goals. The successful candidate will be able to work well within a team, collaborate directly with other IT and business departments, and handle several different projects at the same time.  Location: This position is based in Raleigh, NC. No Remote.  DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES:  1. Senior knowledge of network technologies, design standards, and positive and negative attributes of those. Including- TCP/IPv4/IPv6 protocol suite, DNS, DHCP, Routing Protocols, Routing Domain architectures, LAN/WAN technologies, Data Center Fabric, Telecommunications Services, Information Security standards, Quality-of-Service, and Wireless Network technologies.  2. A broad understanding of IT security standards and best practices for network infrastructure/service design. Including- PCI, SOX, HIPAA, Defense-In-Depth concepts, Network Segmentation, Data Center Service Isolation architectures, AAA services, Group Identity Structures, Layered Security architecture, and a Cooperative Policy framework.    3. A solid understanding of Cisco Routing and Switching including VLANs, Ethernet, WANs, LANs, Spanning Tree, vPC, Port Channels, and industry best practices.  4. A solid working understanding of Cisco Nexus and UCS technologies, including Nexus Distribution and Access tier models, Nexus Spine and Leaf models, Cisco UCS and FI network architecture, APIC and SDN-based networks, and a multi-tier data center segmentation model.  5. Ability to understand the 7 layers of the OSI network model. Network System Engineer Boeing and Raytheon July 2018 to March 2019 Fulfills a critical role designing, implementing, and securing mission-critical network infrastructure for defense industry clients Boeing and Raytheon. Recruited to join a project that has been ongoing for a decade, with accountability for configuring Cisco ASA and Forcepoint firewalls and Cisco and Brocade switches impacting customer locations worldwide. Leverages extensive expertise in networking and information security to ensure the identification and mitigation of all vulnerabilities.  * Led the development and testing of the networking backbone, maximizing throughput and ensuring compliance with all SLA obligations governing uptime and availability.  * Collaborates with colleagues to ensure the timely and accurate deployment of software to routers and switches; authors documentation that served as a continuing reference for network configuration and support. Cyber Info Assurance Analyst United States Army December 2017 to July 2018 3  Assigned to the United States Army to perform system administration, patch management, information security, and the implementation of hardware and software applications for US STRATCOM. Served an integral role serving as the primary point of contact for all availability and performance issues impacting networks on a 24/7 basis, addressing and resolving as many as 30 highly complex trouble tickets each month.  * Spearheaded the automation of several key tasks to generate immediate notifications of network outages; additionally, created scripts for log transfers that captured substantial gains in efficiency and productivity, in one case capturing only the most pertinent portions of log folders to reduce the size of the transfer from 30GB to 30-50Mb, lowering transfer times from 2 weeks to 20 minutes.  * Maintained vigilance over Windows and Linux systems, performing scans using Tenable ACAS System Center to identify and mitigate security vulnerabilities; updated both active and passive scanning plug-ins for ACAS System Center.  * Leveraged expertise in Cisco ISE to administer and manage access to Cisco devices across the network.  * Examined deviations throughout systems and networks to identify and approve or deny variances from standard configurations, enclave policies, and local policies.  * Exercised the authority to develop recommendations for strong information security standards and safeguards based on the findings of assessments, audits, and analysis.  * Led the documentation of all certification and accreditation information and activity. Systems Administrator Boeing and Raytheon - Oak Harbor, WA January 2017 to November 2017 Served an integral role as a member of a team of system administrators, with accountability for the implementation of servers, computers, information security frameworks, and solutions to mitigate vulnerabilities. Administered all software licenses.  * Advanced from a state of zero subject matter knowledge to assume responsibility for the control and configuration of Linux and storage devices over a period of two months.  * Authored documentation to guide the deployment of Linux updates, while contributing to the documentation for the configuration of storage devices for virtual desktops, which continues to be used today as a key training and operations resource.  * Monitored log collection and aggregation using Splunk and Solarwinds, ensuring the rapid identification of issues before they escalated into larger problems; additionally, leveraged expertise in Wireshark to identify suspicious network traffic.  * Used Tenable ACAS System Center to scan Windows and Linux systems for vulnerabilities, and managed service and user accounts on ACAS; updated the active and passive scanner plug-ins.  * Applied expertise in information security systems to oversee the implementation and patching of the Information Assurance Vulnerability Management Program (IAVMP); enforced compliance with site Information Assurance and Security procedures, processes, and best practices.  * As part of the Certification and Accreditation process, contributed to security tests, evaluations, and validations. Communications Network Engineer United States Navy - Oak Harbor, WA August 2015 to January 2017 Engaged in extensive networking responsibilities for the US Navy, a key client of this IT Managed Services firm providing cyber security, managed IT, engineering, training, and testing services. Directed a three-person team of technical professionals dedicated to the success of implementation and support projects, serving in an on-site role. Led the installation, configuration, maintenance, and repair of Cisco network ports and switches. Trained new employees on procedures and technical skills.  * Configured and set up base-wide networks, including projects with total budgets of $12MM supporting 15,000 users in multiple facilities; developed roadmaps to govern the planning and future implementation of network upgrades.  * Collaborated effectively with stakeholders that included United States Navy personnel and DoD civilians.  * From 2015 to 2016, served in a key role supporting the Site Lead and gaining invaluable experience in networking, supporting as many as 40,000 sailors.    Early Career  IT Field Service Technician - United States Marine Corps, YOH Technologies, Havelock, NC  IT Field Service Technician - United States Marine Corps, Insight Global, Havelock, NC  Geek Squad IT Consultation Agent, Best Buy, Morehead City, NC Education Associate of Applied Science degree in Network Management Carteret Community College Skills Cisco, Dhcp, Lan/wan, Vmware, Dns, Remedy, Solarwinds, Nessus, Splunk, Wireshark, Linux, Crm, Scanning, Lan Additional Information Technical Skills: Windows, Remedy CRM, VMware, Linux, LAN/WAN, HP Service Manager, ACAS, Splunk, Cisco ISE, Solarwinds, HBSS, Nessus Vulnerability Scanning, Windows Server, DNS, DHCP, Switches, Wireshark