Network Engineer @ Olson Technology <span class="hl">Network</span> Engineer @ Olson Technology Network Engineer @ Olson Technology - MSP Chisago City, MN IT professional with 9 year background in network administration and managed services. Primary skill set is with enterprise network support. Highly experienced in Microsoft products and end user support. Work Experience Network Engineer @ Olson Technology MSP January 2019 to Present • Supporting end user desktops and network equipment via remote support/phone/email and onsite.  • Creating tickets and documenting support methods.  • Installing equipment and discovering reasons for outages. Network administrator of national infrastructure @ Year Up In house IT for NON-Profit March 2016 to September 2017 • Overseeing the purchasing and installation of Network infrastructure for classroom across the nation. ( Network, WiFi, Servers, Audio visual, NVR, PC imaging)  • Tier 3 support for all infrastructure related outages. Email, remote access, switching, routing, WiFi, printing.  • Mentoring students in IT classes and occasionally filled in as a substitute or guest teacher.  • Designing training and policies around technologies used by staff and students. Network Engineer TCG Network SERVICES (MSP) February 2015 to March 2016 • Implemented and maintained firewalls, switches and security appliances.  • Reviewed logs for all networking devices for unresolved abnormalities and problems.  • Communicated with vendors to resolve network outages and periods of reduced performance.  • Provided technical sales consulting on hardware networked devices.  • Worked closely with infrastructure teams to design redundancy for critical applications.  NOC Engineer @ Xand (DATA CENTER/ ISP - Managed Services)  05/2014 - 02/2015  • Identify, categorize and respond to network outages or latency.  • Monitor and maintain network and associated software.  • Working across departments or with contractors and staff to maintain network operations.  • Assisted with installation of new client's equipment going into COLO. System Administrator Papillon Grand Canyon Helicopters - Boulder City, NV August 2013 to April 2014 • Managed and monitored all desktop systems and infrastructure to ensure the high availability.  • Installed, configured, tested and maintained operating systems and application software.  • Monitored and tested application performance to identify potential bottlenecks and collaborate with developers on solution implementation.    networking specialist @ united states marine corps (Help Desk/ design /installation, administration)  01/2009 - 12/2012  • Built large scale enterprise networks to support over 25,000 users monthly for training. We would tear down and wipe configurations and start from scratch until deploying the network in Afghanistan, which is still in use today. Servers, desktops, switches, printers, routers, firewalls and wireless radio bridges. Education CERTIFICATE Electronics School 2009 Skills Cisco, Active Directory, Security, DNS, LAN, MPLS, VPN, firewalls Military Service Branch: United States Marine Corps Rank: E-4