Network Administrator <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Sunnyside, NY Seeking to obtain a position in your company where I can use my skills and talents to contribute to its future success. I would like to be part of stimulating and challenging environment while experiencing advancement opportunities. I look forward to excelling in the field of information technology with hard work, perseverance, and dedication. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Network Administrator Workforce Opportunity Services - Newark, NJ August 2019 to Present Medical Receptionist Getwell Medcare - Woodside, NY May 2018 to January 2019 • Greet and check-in patients, and collect personal, medical and insurance information.  • Utilize EClinicalWorks to schedule new and follow-up appointments for our patients.  • Answer phone calls to schedule and reschedule patients or answer patient questions. Contact patients to confirm their appointments.  • Scan and attach patient charts to their records. Maintain confidentiality of all patient records.  • Distribute forms to patients and make sure that all fields are completed properly. Register new patients and update necessary records.  • Provide administrative support to staff members of a high volume medical office. Assistant Store Manager DUANE READE PHARMACY - New York, NY February 2009 to March 2011 • Provided efficient customer assistance.  • Stocked, replenished and organized inventory and sales floor.  • Developed and created unique displays that attract customers to a desired product.  • Administered employee training to be a productive team member with product knowledge.  • Worked closely with the store manager for the smooth execution of company initiatives.   • Handled employees schedule and training.   • Negotiated with vendors for timely deliveries. Sales Associate CVS PHARMACY March 2007 to January 2009 • Provide efficient customer assistance.  • Stocked, replenish and organized inventory and sales floor.  • Photo Lab Technician - Managed photo orders in a timely and efficient manner. Education Bachelor of Business Administration in Computer Information System City University of New York - Baruch College - New York, NY August 2012 to September 2016 Skills C++ (Less than 1 year), LUA (Less than 1 year), HTML/CSS (Less than 1 year), Microsot Access (Less than 1 year), Microsoft Project (Less than 1 year), SQL (Less than 1 year), Retail Management, Team Lead, ASM, Front Desk Additional Information SKILLS & ABILITIES  * Proficient in C++, HTML, CSS, Microsoft Project, Microsoft Access 2016, LUA and Corona SDK  * Proficient in Microsoft Word, Microsoft Excel, Microsoft PowerPoint  * Employee supervision, training and counseling  * Resourceful; detail-oriented; skilled problem-solver and multi-tasker  * Effectively balance employee needs with company policy