District Lead Network & Systems Administrator District Lead <span class="hl">Network</span> &amp; Systems <span class="hl">Administrator</span> District Lead Network & Systems Administrator - Chandler Park Academy School District Southfield, MI Work Experience District Lead Network & Systems Administrator Chandler Park Academy School District - Detroit, MI July 2016 to Present Provided daily IT management of school district, which consisted of 3 physical locations throughout the Detroit area. The district consisted of 100-150 staff members and 600 - 1000 students.  ? Provides management, configuration and upkeep of a full Cisco environment consisting of Cisco 4506s, 3560s, and 2960 switches. Performs any switch configurations and changes as needed. Deployment and configuration of new/replacement switches.  ? Provides configuration changes and updates to client Sonicwall firewall, which includes VPN access, black/white listing of objects, intrusion prevention and daily monitoring.  ? Assisted with migration from Exchange mail server to Google services.  ? Worked on three man team whose focus was to condense virtual servers. Decommissioned exchange server, condense domain controller and roles, decommission of domain shared servers and implemented Google Drive across the district.  ? Provides daily monitoring of network VMWare hosted servers and provides.  ? Provides daily management of district Unifi Wireless Controller. Making any configuration changes needed.  ? Managed and implemented district Fog device cloning servers.  ? Managed and implemented Google Management services for district.  ? Management of domain, which includes DNS, Active Directory, Group Policy Services, print services, and application deployment.  ? Deployment and configuration of school's testing platforms, NWEA and MSTEP online testing.  ? Performed as the liaison between the district administration and various vendors.  ? Provided advanced support for critical issues and issues escalated by the IT dept. Information Technology Consultant IC Data Communications LLC - Detroit, MI February 2013 to Present General IT consultant for hiree's clients in the Greater Metro Detroit area.  ? Tasks include, system administration, network administration, level I and II technical support, end user training, onsite and remote technical management.  ? Clients include educational, small business and enterprise environments.  ? Acted as a liaison between client and the IC Datacom IT dept.  ? Management of ICDC internal technicians.  ? Assist with dispatching and time management of ICDC internal employees.  ? Provide training to entry level co-workers.  ? Tasks include disaster recovery, project management, knowledge-base documentation creation, network administration and management, Software applications deployments.  ? Performed client based network rollouts and upgrades.  ? Managed and configured internal communications via Google services and Connectwise Management systems.  ? Created per-client IT service request portals using Connectwise.  ? Creation and Management of Customer based knowledge base documentation.  ? Provide up to date client documentation. District Lead Network & Systems Administrator Plymouth Educational Center School District - Detroit, MI March 2013 to April 2018 Provided daily IT management of school district, which consisted of 4 physical locations throughout the Detroit area. The district consisted of 80-100 staff members and 600 - 1000 students.  ? Created daily schedules for the school's IT dept. Highlighting and addressing high priority action items and client administrative priority requests.  ? Created, implemented and provided daily monitoring, preventative maintenance and documentation on the status and health of priority network devices.  ? Managed Connectwise ticketing service request portal management project. Planned and systematically deployed district wide client portal access and integration. Created end-user "How To" documentation, as well as provided onsite assistance.  ? Worked with client to be one of the first schools in the Metro Detroit area to become Google based. Facilitated communications between client and Google services to provide Google For Education Management services, for free. Google for Education free of charge management of Google based emails for the entire district, and management and control of all Google based enrolled end user devices  ? Managed and facilitated Google Chrome based lab and cart deployments throughout the district.  ? Managed and maintained client Windows servers, from 2003, 2008, 2012. Performed all Active Directory tasks from end user management, device domain enrollment, group policy management and OU management.  ? Managed and maintained client Linux servers used for Fog device imaging. Created district master images and successfully deployed to client machines.  ? Implemented and managed backup services, which included local backups, as well as backups to Amazon AWS.  ? Managed and successfully rolled out first year online MSTEP student testing.  ? Deployment and configuration of Meraki MX routers. Configured device WAN settings, firewall configuration, port forwarding, VPN access, traffic shaping policies and dhcp settings/options.  ? Worked closely with district Administration in each building daily to ensure full technological support. Education BS in Network Operations and Security in Network Operations and Security Western Governors University June 2018 to Present Skills Active Directory, Networking, Technical Support, Windows, Customer Service, Vmware, Windows 7