Contractor Contractor Contractor - Apex Systems New York, NY Senior Systems Administrator and Military Veteran with a TS/SCI Security Clearance including polygraph and 10 years of proven experience in the United States Navy and Civilian Sector. Accomplished measurable results while leading teams in a dynamic, fast - paced environment. Comprehensive background in Cyber Security Services and risk management including responsibility for protection of assets, property, and equipment valued at over $6M. Extensive knowledge in Vulnerability Management and Security Operations. Recipient of multiple awards for outstanding performance and professionalism in the United States Navy. Secondary Education: Bachelor of Science in Computer Information Systems and an Associate of Science in Computer Information Systems.    Key Skills and Competencies    • Information Security • Troubleshooting • CompTIA Security +  • Team Building  • Threat Assessment    • Training and Development  • Policy Implementation    • Customer Service  • Microsoft Office Suite Work Experience Contractor Apex Systems - New York, NY November 2018 to Present Senior Security Administrator - Security and Patch Management for 3,000+ servers to ensure medical application availability for WINTEL.  • Patched 3,000 servers using Microsoft and Third party patches and upgrades via SCCM, manual update/installed, and PDQ Deploy.  • Managed and maintained 800+ Citrix cluster and standalone servers for medical application environment.  • Handled 1,500 SOM trouble tickets ranging from severity 4 up to severity 2 for major outages.  • Worked alongside network security management for planning and direction for server 2008 R2 refresh on 1,000 servers.  • Created 6 monthly reports given to the Senior Director to show decreasing vulnerabilities from 283,000 to 5,000 across the entire server environment.  • Built and imaged 30 virtual and physical servers to include clustered, SQL, application and Web services. Contractor BAE Systems Inc - New York, NY July 2018 to November 2018 Senior Systems Administrator - Operated and maintained 4 programs to ensure FBI functionality across multiple locations.  • Patched and managed 4,000 connections across 6 platforms for DOJ use.  • Worked closely with civilian phone providers to ensure cabling and line management is up to date and has minor degradation.  • Troubleshot over 500 software issues, 30 CPU and server issues, installed 3 firewalls and routers, and worked with developers to ensure smooth operation for the end user. Network Administrator and Team Lead - USS Essex (LHD-2) UNITED STATES NAVY March 2010 to July 2018 Led a team of 30 personnel in the Operation and maintenance of a Windows Server Environment to include CANES, GCCS-M, CAC2S, JSF-ALIS, Navy Cash, CVDS, NIAPS, NTCSS, and NFSA.  • Trained and led Sailors in the readiness, security, and maintenance of 175 VMware servers, 1,100 workstations, and 1,300 Active Directory user accounts.  • Migrated the entire server farm from fixed assets to a virtual environment, resulting in $10 million in lifecycle savings and a transition to a triple key authentication 895 bit encryption cyber security hard token architecture.  • Scan multiple network enclaves using ACAS and uploading to VRAM to identify patching vulnerabilities reducing them from 73% to 8%.  • Created and implemented 15 new network security standards including using SCCM to harden the internal network against threats reducing the incident rate by 85%.    Network Cyber Security Assistant Manager - NCTAMS PAC  Cyber security supervisor supporting 110,000 Sailors and DOD Personnel, two detachments, and 16 activities across 300,000 square miles. Provide critical cyber security services to 20 ships afloat and land-based organizations overseas.  • Accounted for the Computer Network Defense MSC, technical training, policy guidance and Subject Matter Expert augmentation  • Tracked completion of information assurance training for 485 personnel. Recognized by the director for tracking of over 6,000 qualifications ensuring maximum readiness.  • Led a Cyber Security Inspection team of 13 in network security training, troubleshooting assistance, and incident handling. Support recognized (for zero discrepancies) by USN organizational director during the 2014 quality assurance program inspections.  • Awarded Navy and Marine Corps achievement medal for cyber security acumen for network readiness enhancements to achieve compliance with the Cyber Security Inspection Certification Program.    Information Assurance Manager - USS New Orleans (LPD-18)  Network security manager responsible for implementing and managing all network security measures for an amphibious transport ship carrying over 1,000 Sailors and Marines in support of combat and peace keeping missions.  • Personally selected, from a group of highly qualified peers, by the Director of the USS New Orleans to serve as the ship's information security manager due to demonstrated performance in combat and peacetime shipboard operating conditions.  • Conducted daily inspection of $6M in sensitive computerized and encryption equipment with zero loss of equipment over a 3-year period.  • Processed 475 information assurance vulnerability software updates using SCCM ensuring maximum security protection for the ship wide area network (SWAN)  • Implemented 330 IAVA patches, conducted 1,500 network scans, and 158 VRAM loads, increasing command cyber security protection by 40%  • Set-up 200+ secure video teleconferences while afloat for the Director/Deputy Director and five senior ship managers; recognized for earning $50K+ for the Navy's Global Good Initiative.    Local Area Network Administrator - USS New Orleans (LPD-18)  • Accounted for ship wide Local Area Network Administration; kept ship's network running smoothly and conducted troubleshooting which led to the repair of over 100 computer malfunctions.  • Processed over 550 accounts and ensured the successful completion of all system backups, upgrades and maintenance.  • Qualified as line coach for M9, M16, M500, M240, and .50 Cal gun shoots to ensure safety on the line and increase shooting accuracy for 700 Sailors.    System Administrator - USS New Orleans (LPD-18)  • Managed and supervised overall administration, configuration, upgrades and maintenance of the shipboard network to include 27 servers; Ensured nightly system saves, scheduled jobs, and resolved day to day problems.  • Assisted in the preparation and reconfiguration of over 700 workstations and 3,000 user accounts for the Integrates Shipboard Network system as well as major LAN upgrades. Education Masters of Science in Information Systems Management Touro College - New York, NY 2021 Bachelor of Science in Computer Information Systems Wayland Baptist University - Plainview, TX 2018 Associate of Science in Computer Information Systems Wayland Baptist University - Plainview, TX 2016 Skills Active directory, Cisco, Dns, Tcp/ip, Citrix, Dhcp, Eigrp, Lan/wan, Ospf, Tcp, Telnet, Vmware, Ghost, Veritas, Backups, Java, Oracle, Sql, Optics, Ftp Additional Information SKILLS    Operating Systems: Windows XP, Windows 7 Professional, Windows 10, Windows Server 2003/2008 R2/2012 R2/2016    Hardware: Cisco 3865 series Routers, Cisco 2900 series switches, Hubs, Laptops, Workstation, Servers (HP, Dell, IBM), Cisco 7900 series IP phones, Printers, Plotters, Scanners and other peripherals, Nutanix, RAID    Software: Windows XP/7/10, VMWARE, VERITAS, GHOST Backups, SQL, Active Directory, C2OIX, Microsoft Office, Adobe Reader, McAfee, Symantec, EMC Networker, Microsoft Office, Office 365, Citrix, Oracle, Java, Nutanix    Networks/Protocol: LAN/WAN, TCP/IP, DNS, DHCP, POP3, SMTP, FTP, TELNET, SSH, NAT, EIGRP, OSPF, TFTP, ISDN, SKINNY, MGCP    Physical: CAT5e, RJ-45, RJ-11, Fiber Optics, F/O splicing and tipping, ST, LC, SC