Desktop Support/Office 365 Administrator Desktop Support/Office 365 <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Desktop Support/Security Manager - GREENFIELD SENIOR LIVING Woodbridge, VA I am an experienced Information Technology Manager with a demonstrated history of working in healthcare and private business industry.  I am looking for the opportunity to join a great company which can allow me to grow in my IT career and exposure to learn from my peers.    Experience in remote assistance using Connectwise Control and Microsoft Office 365ProPlus, Office 365 Business, Intune, Azure Active Directory, and Exchange. Asset management using Intune and Connectwise manage for ticketing system.    Knowledgeable in Win7 and Win10 for best practice utilizing GOPs and Security Policy local client and server. My Network experience covers areas' in the infrastructure and hardware such as mounting rack, switch, punching (patch panel), running new and repairing Cat 5e and Cat 6e (terminate using T568B standard). POE, WAP's, and understanding of Network topology.   I am a professional, with an outgoing personality and enthusiastic about life and challenges. With the wiliness to learn and take on any task. Team player, self-motivated, energetic, organized, critical thinker, problem solver, friendly, punctual, fast learner, responsible, detail-oriented, and a hard worker.  My experience ranges from supervisor to management. I have encouraged continuous process improvements and cost-efficient recommendations and developing promotional changes to impact both service, personnel, and budget.   Migration tenant to tenant cloud service Office 365 from GoDaddy to self-administration office 365 tenant. Total users  300 seats    Achievement:   Deployment Office 365ProPlus  Deployment of Office 365 groups (security groups, Distribution, and Office 365 groups)  Deployment of Skype for Business   Deployment of OneDrive For Business  Deployment of Intune   Configuration of MFA   Configuration of Azure Active Directory   Deployment of manage join Azure Active Directory devices  Implementation of full Cloud Domain   Deployment Office 365M (Business)  Deployment client management via Cloud IaaS  domain Azure Active Directory   Training material for end-users on how to utilize collaboration app (Skype, OneDrive, Teams, Word, and Excel)  Deployment of Cisco Meraki  Baseline service App deployment via Intune Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Desktop Support/Office 365 Administrator GREENFIELD SENIOR LIVING - Falls Church, VA October 2016 to Present Falls Church, VA  Desktop Support/Office 365 Administrator  GREENFIELD  SENIOR LIVING - Falls Church, VA  October 2016 to Present    In my current role as the Desktop and Office 365 Administrator, I resolve a broad range of system issues, troubleshoot software, hardware, SaaS, and escalated tickets from tier 1-2. I contributed to managing the infrastructure of firewalls, switches, WAPs (Meraki), UPS, Tablets and desktops clients. Planning and configuring clients at 19 Greenfield Communities throughout the East Coast. Test and deploy our cloud service office 365ProPlus and cloud domain Azure Active Directory. Coordinate with supplemental support vendors both local and nationwide to resolve any voice or data connectivity issues at each community.    • Conduct audits for active and non-active users updating profiles and licenses for Office 365ProPlus  • Office 365 deployment and migration  • Office 365 administration  •Deployment of Skype for Business   •Deployment of OneDrive For Business  •Deployment of Intune   •Configuration of MFA   •Configuration of Azure Active Directory   •Deployment of manage join Azure Active Directory devices  •Deployment of full Cloud Domain   •Deployment Office 365M (Business)  •Deployment client management via cloud domain Azure Active Directory   •Training material for end users on how to utilize collaboration app (Skype, OneDrive, Teams, Word, and excel)  app client, SMTP Primary contact for service escalations and troubleshooting  • Monitored the network via ConnectWise and Automated  • Conduct log-in Audit via AAD  • Resolve escalated tickets  • Conduct asset audit for all locations and users  • Complete site visits before and after IW (internal wiring)  • Break and fix of hardware (Lenovo workstations, Laptop, and DT Tablets) Configuration of local printers/troubleshooting  • Coordinate 24x7 help-desk support  • Update company policies to align with system and software  • Investigate Alerts AAD risky sign-ins  • Report on Malware and phishing  • Report on Sent and Received email  • Report on Users targeted by Phishing campaign  • Setup ATP anti-phishing policies  • Setup MFA (phone, text, and App).  • Set DLP policies  • Set Authentication methods and policies  • Office 365ProPlus Admin Center /Exchange admin  • Maintain and enforce technology policies, best practices, and procedures as determined by the VP of IT and Travel to locations as needed Desktop Support/ Network Technician K4 Solutions - Vienna, VA August 2015 to October 2016 Desktop Support/ Network Technician  K4 Solutions Inc. Corporate Headquarter    Setup workstation  Maintain workstation Images  Document problems and solutions  Install hardware components such as monitors, Keyboards, printers, replace hard drives and etc.  Install and maintained network projectors'  Upgrade hardware  Troubleshoot Windows 7 OS and Win 10  Perform advanced troubleshooting to isolate and diagnose problems on desktop equipment  Configure Microsoft Office 2013 and Online Office 365  Create new users and delete users' as requested by management  Create training material for users for new software  Manage procurement and purchase request for equipment as best suited for business needs  Provided telephone, in person and remote assistance when needed  Researched products and software to find the best solutions to anomalies  Administer LAN  Install and configure WAP's  Troubleshoot switch connections'  Network security via Cisco Router  Assign IP address  Run and repair Cat 5e  Install new switch port  Add and remove patch panel  Resolved Technical problems with LANs and WANs  Monitored Network to ensure Network availability to all system users Call Center Analyst/ Jr Desktop Support K4 Solutions - Falls Church, VA August 2015 to March 2016 Call Center Analyst  • Updated applicant's information  • Answered applicants questions regarding process and requirements'  • Search client systems for information (Stars and SharePoint)  • Provided general assistance on miscellaneous duties and activities associated with the program  • Take escalated calls from applicants  • Run daily reports (SLA)  • Audit agents' time sheets  • Provided soft skill training    Jr Desktop Support  • Troubleshoot VoIP issues (InContact soft phone)  • Set new workstations (downloaded system software and tested)  • Kept inventory of new equipment bought  • Re-image workstation after employee departure  • Resolved issues with workstations (no internet, adding printers', Wi-Fi connections, LAN and soft  phone system issues)  • Resolved technical problems with LAN (lost connectivity)  • Troubleshoot problems with switches (48)  • Install new RJ45 wall plug  • Install and configure access point  • Configured group policies (windows)  • Kept record of all issues and solutions via Google spreadsheet  • Implemented procedures to best meet GOS (Grade of Service)  • Created reports which best met the needs of the program using excel and Google business Technical Retail Support Team Lead Simply Wireless - Tysons Corner, VA April 2015 to July 2015 • Identified errors  • Explained best actions to be taken  • Educate sales rep on cause and how to avoid in the future  • Unlock system (cash drawer, credit card processing system, camera, and promo codes)  • Escalated issues to tech support II via remedy ticking system (spice)  • Tested upgrade sales versions  • Maintain call log  • Report multi issues to tier 2 tech support  • Submitted tickets via SpiceWorks  • Troubleshoot firewall and Sonic Wall's  • Answered calls and emails (Technical issues)  • Made suggestions on best way to train hires (sales rep)  • Kept updated with all new promos, price listing, procedure and system updates (versions)  • Provided alternative solutions when all systems were down Customer Service Quality monitor General Dynamic's September 2014 to March 2015 Customer Service Quality monitor  • The Customer service Quality Monitor had several responsibilities as a core member to assure SLA's  were met as stated by the contract.  • Conduct QA evaluations to assure Customer Service Representatives were performing in accordance  with established quality and performance guidelines.  • Evaluate interactions (via phone) to assure they met call center guidelines.  • Scored calls based on approved guidelines, definitions, quality standards and standards operating  procedures (SOP's).  • Effectively communicate results to agents verbally and written.  • Answered questions and assist contact center staff utilizing approved SOPs or knowledge base tools  as a reference.  • Identified and communicated call trends to contact center management; compiled and verified  statistical reports regarding quality metrics for review by management.  • Respond and review scored which were disputed and escalated by management.  • Present training material to CSRs as needed.  • Calibration of calls and joint monitoring sessions.  • Compiled with data privacy and security requirements.  • Maintain security clearance (Public Trust Clearance).  • Call screening: listen to recorded calls to ensure proper interactions was made and met requirements  so it can be evaluated by Q&A team.  • Label calls, save calls and share with management on a shared folder.  • Monitor both English and Spanish calls.  • Assist QA members to assure all workload was completed (monitoring load).  • Monitor 105 to 120 calls to assured they were labeled and complete for QA per day.  • Support Grade of Service (GOS) as needed during the shift.  • Answer incoming calls as needed to support call center during high call volume.  • Data entry of all incoming calls which were recorded Education General IT Northern Virginia Community College - Annandale, VA 2016 Skills Cisco (1 year), Exchange (4 years), Microsoft Office (5 years), Security (4 years), Solutions (5 years), Desktop Support (5 years), Help Desk Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/guilleni-galindo Certifications/Licenses Driver's License Assessments Basic Computer Skills: PC — Highly Proficient June 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to perform basic computer operations, navigate a Windows OS, and troubleshoot common computer problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/vxcxqsgvr-gmm3mf Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information Skills  MS Office (7 years), Bilingual Spanish (10+ years), CRM Software (8 years), Remedy (2 years),  Troubleshooting (6 years), Active Directory (2 years), general knowledge of networking (4 years),  SharePoint (2 years), Windows PowerShell (Less than 1 year), TCP/IP (1 year), TeamViewer (1 year), SharePoint (1 year), Lab-tech-Remote (3 years), ConnectWise (3 years), Cloud Solutions(4 years), OAC (Office 365 Admin Center) (5 years), EAC (Exchange Admin Center) (3 years), OneDrive (5 years),Office 365-implementation, and administration (5 years), Azure AD (5  years), Skype for business (2 years), Maas360 (1 year), Microsoft office 365 security (4 years), Cisco Meraki (WAP) (2 years), Desktop Support (5 years), Help Desk, Tech Support (5 years), Office 365ProPlus (4 years), cloud domain (5 years), Office Admin, Office 365    Links    http://www.linkedin.com/in/guilleni-galindo-4065a3126    Basic Computer Skills: PC - Highly Proficient  June 2019  Measures a candidate's ability to perform basic computer operations, navigate a Windows OS, and troubleshoot common computer problems.  Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/vxcxqsgvr-gmm3mf    Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued  development in any professional field.