Data Centre Engr Data Centre Engr Data Centre Engineer Sacramento, CA Work Experience Data Centre Engr Vzure Solutions, LLC - Newark, CA January 2019 to August 2019 • Installed Cisco hyper-converged solution Hyperflex for multiple clients in USA & Canada  • Rack/Stack Cisco HX nodes and Fabric Interconnects 6200, 6300, 6400  • In depth hardware familiarity of Cisco 220 & 240 M4 & M5 server nodes  • Multiple hands on deployments of Cisco Hyperflex using USCM  • Familiarity with troubleshooting UCS Service profiles in UCSM  • Configured Cisco Intersight for multiple clients  • Knowledge transfer for Cisco HX Connect and mentored cluster install  • Hands on experience with adding cisco blade servers as compute only nodes to HX cluster  • Hands on experience installing Nvidia T3 GPUs to 240 M5 7 node VDI cluster  • Hands on experience adding iSCSI/FC storage solutions to HX cluster during cluster install  • Hands on experience adding Veem as a storage solution in HX cluster VMWare Consultant Care New England - Warwick, RI May 2015 to December 2018 • Manage 3k+ user based VDI infrastructure.  • Flex App for application virtualization.  • Profile Unity for User/Groups Application management.  • Horizon View 5.2 - 6.1 User/system administration.  • AD for user/groups/pools management.  • Nutanix Server management.  • Wrote Group Policy administration and Active Directory administration  • VCenter and VShield administration and configuration VMware Administrator American Institute of Research June 2014 to February 2015 support.  • VMware VSphere, EXSI deployment, adding hosts and user management.  • Application virtualization using ThinApp.  • SCCM 2012 for image management and application deployment.  • Managing Gold images, applying patches and critical updates, adding applications in to the base  image per client requirements Network/Systems Engineer American Institute of Research June 2013 to June 2014 Managed desktop modernization/up gradation of 2K VM servers and 15K systems from MS 2008 - 2008  R2 and Win Xp - 7, Win 8 respectively.  • Assisted with assessment of remediation for Windows XP/outlook 2007 to Windows 7/ outlook 2010  and Windows 8/outlook 365 environment.  • Worked with Desktop manager with the analysis of product/application life cycle and support.  • Administration of SCCM v 2007 - 2012.  • Windows7 imaging, driver packaging and deployment using MAP, SCCM, Winshield.  • Administrated application packaging and mass deployment.  • SCCM 2012 implementation and deployment    Installed and provided updates for SCCM 2012  • Created reports and OSD images  • Experienced with Active Directory (AD) to Create/Reset/Close user accounts.  • Administration of Mac Server X.    IT Specialist Role Network Support Specialist American Institutes for Research - Washington, DC 2011 to 2013 R2, Windows XP, Windows Vista, Windows 7 & Windows 8. Apple  OSX 10.4 - 10.8. Configured software according to each department's needs.  • Successfully setup, diagnose and repair workstations/laptops.  • Install, configure, manage and support XenApp 5.0 Citrix application provisioning system.  • Install and configure Citrix XenApp clients and plug-ins on users machines so that they can access  resources published on the Citrix farm.  • Troubleshoot and resolved network and system issues.  • Configures and documented standard computer/workstations.  • Designed and created forms and reports.  • Trained and assisted users with hands-on troubleshooting of workstation equipment and peripherals.  • Directed and participated in the migration/deployment of Windows XP, Windows Vista and Windows7.  • Provide a full range of technical and troubleshooting support to users in need of assistance with their  computer hardware or software.  • Experienced with the Helpdesk ticketing system Contractual, Heat & Fogbugz to track, monitor and update tickets until completion.  • Provided support and troubleshoot for nComputing based Labs and Networks.  • User configuration in windows based environment; Win XP - Windows 8 and Mac 10.4 - 10.8  • Tested "Secure Browser" on wide range of Operating Systems from Mac 10.4 - 10.7, Windows XP - Windows 8 Ubuntu.  • Provide application training via phone, Remote Access or Desk side with employees as required.  • Provide primary support for applications such as Microsoft Office Suite, Email applications (Exchange  2007 and 2010).  • Provide a 25 member helpdesk team with level II/III technical support to resolve advanced, escalated  issues, regarding hardware, software, network and various peripherals for Hawaii, Minnesota, Oregon and Delaware State Education Departments and School Districts on daily bases. Education Bachelor's Skills Data Center, Datacenter, Stacking, Cabling, NOC, Ethernet, Hardware