System Support Specialist System Support Specialist System Analyst Miami Gardens, FL Work Experience System Support Specialist Igenomix USA, LLC - Doral, FL November 2018 to August 2019 • Daily task were to assist users with email issues with outlook  • provide troubleshooting for in house application Navision (Microsoft Dynamic software) and escalate to senior tech if issue continues.  • manage the AD account for the US and Canada Branches, provide the proper folder permissions, account creation and termination.  • utilize Exchange online to create email accounts, mailbox rules and mailbox delegation  • configure IT equipment so that it is on the domain, has the proper tools for lab techs or administration staff.  • Configure Rules and policy for both our Meraki AP and Sonic Wall Firewall System Analyst INTL FCStone INC - Miami, FL September 2014 to September 2017 • Day to day troubleshoot of Printer/Copiers  • Upgrade staff to O365, 70 computers  • Imaging desktop or laptop using Microsoft System Center  • Upgrade Hardware on workstations  • Remove Malware and virus issues  • Install Trading platform software such as CQG, QST and Bloomberg  • CQG & QST I had to install the correct version of the trading platform, verify with the vendor that all configurations on the application are pointing to their servers, create users accounts, and call vendor support for all new updates or other employee support issues.  • Bloomberg Application I had to go to their web portal to download the correction version and tools for the BBG application. Assist users in logging in and show them some of the shortcut features to get the real time charts that they wanted to look for. All troubleshooting issues were with opening up a ticket with BBG and having their techs guide me through the settings menu to restore any communication error or features not working properly.  • Remote assist users in other states using Dameware Remote software.  • Use AD Plus Manager to setup Active Directory Accounts and Groups Network Administrator Berges Law Group - Cypress Creek, FL January 2014 to September 2014 • Create user AD accounts, mailbox and place them in the correct OU  • Create email for staff via our Bluehost server.  • Create phone extensions via Bria softphone.  • Install all necessary software when building new hires pc  • Assist Owner with any and all Mac issues.  • Troubleshoot all printing issues  • Troubleshoot day to day issues with WAN/Lan connections  • Troubleshoot all issues with email accounts  • Troubleshoot all PC hardware and software issues. IT Support Technician Phelan Hallinan, PLC - Cypress Creek, FL December 2012 to January 2014 • Create user AD accounts, mailbox and place them in the correct OU  • Respond to email request for troubleshooting network problems  • Remote assistance to resolve third party vendor accounts  • Preforming day to day backup to our tape console  • Installing and configuring Mitel 5330 Ip Phone  • Maintain cannon printers and troubleshooting if necessary  • Image PC for new employees and install all proper software  • Shutdown profiles and phones when user is terminated with the firm  • Contact dell to replace damage equipment to be replaced  • Creation of VM machines for our teleworking clients    Achievements:  FCStone INC  • Image more than 80 computers to Windows 10 (on going)  • Installation of more than 100 user profiles to O365 (on going)  • Work alongside Microsoft support to assist in resolving multiple issue with O365 for my company  • Work with Dell to resolve multiple issues with their hardware in the Latitude 7240 and 7270 models    Berges Law Group:  • Build a file and print share server for the company  • Installed a ticket tracking system for staff to request IT support.  • Build a Main Server for DNS routing  • Mounted 8 Flat screen TVs  • Build a up to date conference room in where they have a small PC counted to a 42" TV. this included running a new Ethernet connection to this room.  • Set up a daily backup of the Servers  • Set the printers to be able to scan to specific folders in the File server that belong to each department.  • Rewired new Cat 6 cables to give the office the ability to add more staff and PCs.  • Upgrade and updated antivirus as well as operating system so that it can connect to the newly built server.    Phelan Hallinan; PLC  • Upon hire i passed all 8 Dell certifications to be able to order parts from dell.  • within a month I cleared out over 800 tickets that were back logged  • Set the network so that only users from had access to their department folders and nothing else.  • Combined multiple FedEx account into one primary account that help with staff order lables and reduce cost.  • Was part of a group of 4 techs that spent multiple nights getting rid of a virus that attacked our PA server  • Before leaving the company i was the leading tech in closing out 5220 tickets within a year span.  • Successfully closed out 87% of tickets with 1hr of being assigned to me; 92% within 24hrs and a 98% within 3 days. Education Associate of Science in Computer Networking Systems ITT Technical Institute - Fort Lauderdale, FL March 2012 Skills Cisco, Dns, Exchange, Networking, Dhcp, Active Directory, testing, access, Help Desk, Customer Support, Desktop Support, Data Entry