Junior Java developer, Android developer Junior Java developer, Android developer Junior Java developer, Junior Android developer 200 K Street NW apt 307 Washington DC Work Experience Junior Java developer, Android developer IT Solution Global - Columbus, OH March 2017 to Present Test java code for bugs and correct the code whenever requested to.    • Helpdesk: Perform troubleshooting using different diagnostic techniques via the phone or email  Troubleshoot, diagnose, and resolve technical hardware and/or software issues Network and systems Administrator University of Parakou August 2010 to January 2017 • Installed and administered the university servers (WEB, Files server, Database, Name server).  • Ensured availability of the resources as well as the databases integrity.  • Designed, engineered and administered 6 different remote campuses interconnection (Optical Fiber and wireless), with in average 300 computers (Microsoft and Linux) and other devices each.  • Established and supported wireless LAN controllers and access wireless points for 8000 users on the main campus and different staff offices in the remote campuses.  • Developed and maintained accurate and updated network documentation.  • Installed and performed repairs to hardware, software and peripheral equipment (10 to 15 times a week).  • Provided Helpdesk assistance via phone and email (About 30 cases a week).  • Designed and conducted technical training classes for staff members and students.  • Supported various IT projects as a key technical resource. Network Technician CERCO ICT August 2009 to October 2010 • Assisted for the design and engineering of the Computer Network of the University de Parakou.  • Performed troubleshooting of technical issues at all stages of campaign processes from implementation through execution and reporting.  • Built, installed and repaired computers.  • Assisted with installation of servers. Education Bachelor's Degree in Computer in engineering CERCO Institute 2005 to 2008 Skills Android, Bootstrap, Java, Linux, Unix, Mysql, Cisco, Git, Html, Php, Bash, Css, Microsoft office, Microsoft windows, Windows server 2003, Microsoft windows server 2003, Self-starter, Problem solving, French (10+ years), Ldap, LAMP Server, MySQL