Software Support Specialist Software Support Specialist Software Support Specialist N/A • To obtain employment with a company that offers a positive atmosphere to learn and implement new skills and technologies for the betterment of the organization.  • To develop working experience where I can use my related knowledge and eventually acquire new skills that would help me in my career advancements. Work Experience Software Support Specialist Gatessoft Corp October 2018 to 2019 Duties and Responsibilities  • Working with clients/employees to identify Software/Hardware problems and advising on the solution.  • Logging and keeping records of client/employees queries.  • Updating self-help documents so client/employees if the problem is more serious  • Remote the clients on their server or workstation to check and fix the issue regarding to the raise concern on system.  • Testing and fixing the faulty hardware and software. Network Administrator Trainee Blue Planet Vista Phil.Inc February 2018 to August 2018 Duties and Responsibities  • Monitoring Internet Connection.  • Set up computers and install software for various application and programs.  • Interact with staff on desktop problems and their solution.  • Maintain computer pheripheral devices like printers and resolve associate problems.  • Oversee and update assigned support service request.  • Test computers to ensure proper functioning of computer systems.  • Basic troubleshooting of VPN.  • Deployed, diagnosed and repaired desktop and laptops.  • Department of Interior and Local Goverment (DILG)  On-The-Job On Call Waiter Rizal St. Old Albay, Legazpi City October 2016 to May 2017 47 Examiner West triangle Quezon City November 2012 to April 2013 Housekeeping Attendant Balesin Island Resort Club September 2011 to May 2012 Education CCNA in Information Technology LP Innovative Technology Solutions & Consultancy June 2019 to June 2019 Bachelor of Science in Information Technology in Information Technology AMA Computer College Legazpi June 2017 Bachelor of Science in Tourism in Hotel and restaurant management Aquinas University ofLegaspi October 2010 Skills Cisco (Less than 1 year), desktop applications. (Less than 1 year), EIGRP. (Less than 1 year), LAN (Less than 1 year), MS office (Less than 1 year), OSPF (Less than 1 year), powerpoint (Less than 1 year), Router (Less than 1 year), routing protocols (Less than 1 year), TCP (Less than 1 year), TCP/IP (Less than 1 year), VLAN (Less than 1 year), Word (Less than 1 year), Desktop Support