Network Security Administrator <span class="hl">Network</span> Security <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Mount Laurel, NJ Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Network Security Administrator Philadelphia Federal Credit Union - Philadelphia, PA December 2017 to Present • Worked on Administrating and Installing Cisco AMP for endpoints. Quarantined threats and possible malware using Indicators of Compromise and the tetra engine on the network.     • Used Carbon Black protection to block all possible malware files from running on the network. Specific sets of files that were signed by a trusted publisher were allowed to run.     • Domain and IP blockers were used on the network such as Cisco Umbrella and Barracuda Web Gateway. The Cisco Umbrella and Barracuda Web Gateway were used to block malicious web domains.    • The Force-Point Data Loss Prevention system was used to monitor data in motion on the network at different domains such as; data being sent to printers, moving on the LAN and moving onto websites.     • Utilized Vulnerability scanners that include; DDI Frontline and Tenable Security Center. These scanners would perform penetration tests across all machines on the network and report their findings to a web console, that is hosted on a virtual machine.    • Implemented and Used the Security Information and Event Manager Logrhythm, to convert the data from logs to easily readable metadata and created custom rules tailored to the Philadelphia Federal Credit Union environment..    • Administered Cisco Identity Services Engine through its web console and aided in port configuration for implementing the proper authentication commands to enable its services on workstations. Network Administrator Serv Behavioral Health System, Inc - Ewing, NJ May 2017 to October 2017 • Assisted in upgrading the network and implementing new hardware to assist employees in creating a better workflow for a large organization composed of 50 locations.    • Worked exclusively with the virtual private network firewall, Fortinet and used security controls through group policies and anti-virus programs.    • Troubleshooted, installed and reinstalled various hardware systems such as; printers, routers, modems and switches    • Ensured that the Active Directory system had the correct settings and worked on the project to revamp the overall structure Commercial Customer Technical Service Representative Comcast - Horsham, PA October 2016 to March 2017 • Communicated with multiple small to medium business customers in the Comcast Technology Call Center to ensure that technical systems were serviced, repaired and maintained    • Solved and troubleshooted complicated equipment problems involved in Comcast X1 network    • Marketed Comcast business products to improve customer experience and encourage loyalty Information Security Analyst Willis Towers Watson - Philadelphia, PA September 2015 to March 2016 • Performed analysis of system activity in Microsoft Excel to prevent loss of confidential and sensitive data    • Supported weekly reporting to information security management and assisted with security related activities using the Fire Eye system.    • Administered the vendor review process to expedite solutions to security issues Assistant Medical Clerk The Asthma Center - Philadelphia, PA June 2013 to July 2015 • Assisted with data entry of confidential medical information    • Transferred materials and supplies between medical offices    • Interacted with medical personnel and patients Education Bachelor of Science in Computing and Security Technology Drexel University - Philadelphia, PA June 2014 to December 2016 Associate of Science in Computer Information Systems Burlington County College - Mount Laurel, NJ May 2012 to May 2014 Skills Information Security (1 year), Microsoft Excel (6 years), SIEMS (2 years), Cisco Firsight (Less than 1 year), Fortinet and Fortiwifi Firewalls (Less than 1 year), Cisco, LogRhythm Platform Administrator (LRPA) (Less than 1 year), Active Directory, Technical Support, Networking, Windows, Network Security, Siem, Cyber Security, It Security, Cybersecurity, Comptia Certifications/Licenses CompTIA Security+ October 2017 to October 2023 This certification covers many aspects of Cyber Security including; an understanding of ports and their associated services, going over how virtual private networks operate over the internet and encryption methods such as asymmetric and symmetric. Cisco Certified Network Associate (CCNA) July 2019 to July 2022 This training for this certification was thorough in many aspects of networking and had areas of focus for Cisco devices. Such areas of networking this exam went over include Routing Information Protocol, Access Control Lists and Troubleshooting DNS and DHCP servers. I also trained in using Routing protocols such as OSPFv2/3 and EIGRP. WAN technologies were also taught during instruction to pass the certification. Logrhythm Platform Administrator (LPRA) Level I Exam 7.3 Present Certification that covers all administrative tasks in Logrhythm such as responding to alarms and creating rules from logs observed and regular expressions.