Fulfillment Clerk Fulfillment Clerk Technical Support Specialist Cocoa Beach, FL Motivated and knowledgeable IT professional with 7+ years’ experience troubleshooting and resolving all types hardware and software related issues, as well as secure software QA testing, looking to grow both personally and professionally with a cutting-edge company. An enthusiastic team player seeking to build upon and expand my current knowledge and skills, while continuing to volunteer and advocate for equality. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Fulfillment Clerk Lowe’s Home Improvement - Rockledge, FL April 2018 to January 2019 - Manage and prepare all online orders so they are ready for customer to pick up.  • Locate item location and either pass order off to the associate working the department or pull the item myself (depending on how busy I am).  • Receive daily Special Orders from Receiving Dept. so they can be entered into order tracking system and prepared for customer.  • Resolve inventory and delivery issues for customers. There are times when the inventory count is incorrect so what is shown as available online is not always the case. Lowe’s also uses a third-party delivery service and sometimes there are communication issues as well as delivery dates that need to be changed.  - Handle all sales that are scheduled for pickup later. Software Test Tech & Network Administrator BAE Systems, Inc - Reston, VA March 2014 to December 2016 • Performed quality assurance testing and integration for BAE's STOP OS and XTS Guard  • Created functional, unit, and regression tests  • Built out, managed, and maintained the groups data center and testing lab  • Maintained and tracked all of groups IT equipment Technical Support Technician BAE Systems, Inc January 2011 to March 2014 Supported multiple sites ranging from 30 to 150 users analyzing, researching, and resolving  issues related to hardware, software, and networking  • Led multiple projects building out and setting up new sites and closing old sites, as well as,  moving users and equipment in and out of those sites  • Managed and tracked both assets and support requests in Maximo, Remedy and HEAT Education B.S. in ATTD Hodges University - Melbourne, FL December 2020 Skills NETWORKING (4 years), Git (2 years), HTML5 (Less than 1 year), JAVASCRIPT (Less than 1 year), jQuery (Less than 1 year), Customer Service, Java, Assembly, Project Management, Linux, Word Additional Information Skills     Certifications: ITIL V3 Foundations, Six Sigma White Belt  Platforms: Android, Linux (Ubuntu & CentOS), Mac & iOS, Windows 7/8/10  Hardware: Desktops, Laptops, Printers, Scanners, Smart Phones, Tablets  Networking: Cross-Domain, Active Directory, LAN/WAN/VPN,   Applications: HEAT, Maximo, & Remedy ticketing and inventory software, Microsoft Office Suite,   Design: Adobe CC, Visio, Paint.Net