Service Engineer Service Engineer Service Engineer - Microsoft Federal Way, WA Work Experience Service Engineer Microsoft 2011 to Present Test Lab Manager - Service Engineer II  • Analyzed needs of stakeholders to produce effective, repeatable test results for hardware and software partners.  • Designed and implemented enterprise networks and environments to reproduce issues and customer scenarios.  • Led testing team to qualifying hundreds of end user devices for Lync, Skype for Business and Microsoft Teams.  • Provision and maintain physical and virtual networks with various sub networks  • Implement Hyper-V with failover clustering to increase resiliency and availability of critical workloads in Server 2008R2, 2012 and 2016  • Worked with new technologies to define infrastructure architectures to support testing strategies.  • Managed 2 lab engineers.  • Automated system and topology deployment and testing architecture.  • Managed department budget between $150K-$400K, based on upcoming requirements as well as historical spend.  • Worked with vendors and partners on procurement, implementation and security.  • Installed and configured pre-release software, including daily builds and release patches for testing and troubleshooting.  • Configured and maintained phone, camera and meeting room devices for testing. Network Engineer, Government Contract ABN Technologies 2010 to 2011 • Implemented security based on Active Directory organizational units  • Built, Configured, and Tested multi-vendor network lab to meet requirements  • Implemented Server 2008r2 Domain with Private Key Infrastructure and Smart Card Login  • Designed remediation techniques to manage deployed Cisco access points via Wireless Services Module (WiSM) in a Cisco Catalyst 6509 chassis  • Developed instructions and documentation on deployment and maintenance of security controls on large scale network  • Acted as an intermediate project manager in charge of 5 engineers  • Integrated design with existing customer enterprise network and higher echelon commands. Contract Systems Administrator Robert Half Technologies 2009 to 2010 • Provided Tier 2 and 3 onsite support.  • Created and maintained stable corporate image in Windows XP with Office 2007.  • Configured and maintained windows update server.  • Maintained and tracked trouble tickets using Remedy Ticketing system.  • Utilized Microsoft Remote Desktop to assist remote users.  • Responsible for on-site server migration. Education Bachelor's of Science in Information Technology Western Governor's University Certifications/Licenses MCITP: Server Administrator Windows Server 2008 Present MCITP: Enterprise Administrator Windows Server 2008 Present MCSA: Windows 7 Present CCNA Routing and Switching May 2016 Expired CCDA May 2016 Expired Security+ Present