Low Voltage Installer/tech Low Voltage Installer/tech Low Voltage Tech Medford, OR My current objective is to mainly care for my family. Have a full time job  I am willing to learn anything. I am adaptive and can easily learn anything.  I am highly motivated and ready for any possible job that is given to me. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Low Voltage Installer/tech SOS Alarm - Medford, OR April 2018 to Present I know how to fully install and troubleshoot Camera systems of up to 62 channel dvrs/nvr  I know how to run low voltage cables in residential and business buildings.  I know how to install a full security system and trouble shoot them.  I know how to install routers, ap, and install bridge/clients.  Portforward IP adresses.  Can do acess control   Hardwire to wireless  Reapters   NAS setup offsite storage   Angel cam for olcc rregulations   Can run conduit emt/carflex  Extremely versatile at computers  I can solder   Concord system  Dmp  Dsc  Zerowire  Temp sensors   Napco  I do this job all up to code and I cut no corners and I love it. Also I am lead install tech at sos with excellent customer skills. Satellite Communications Technician Viasat - Bakersfield, CA January 2017 to January 2018 Installed a dish and pointed it at a satellite   Can rg59 or 6 to respective subs room   Installed and programmed modem  Used various tools. Crane Operator Assistant October 2014 to March 2015 Snelling Staffing Services, Bakers Field, Kern County, CA  • Supplied crane operator with tools and equipment.  • Guided pipes with a tagline, while being moved with the crane.  • Strapped and tied down pipes on trailers. Chainman/ Surveyor Assistant October 2014 to March 2015 Snelling Staffing Services, Bakers Field, Kern County, CA  • Staking, mapping, measuring land using GPS to establish accurate land markings.  • Assisting surveyor as needed.  • Berry and Associates offered permanent employment.    Wild land firefighting  2 days for 48hrs. Diamond Fire. Medford, Jackson County, OR  • Putting out spot fires, setting up tents, hiking, camping.  • Working with 20 man crew, listening to fire operations  • using tools like Pulaski or pick axe. Network Administrator Assistant 2013 to 2013 - 2013 Prime Skills Staffing Services, Bakers Field, Kern County, CA  • Desktop, hardware, software, and network support for at least 20 people.  • Data entry.  • Supervising and helping fruit taggers with labeling, shipping and receiving.    Currently working as a Satellite Technician for Exede    Current Employment Currently working as a Satellite Technician for Exede Satellite Technician For Linkus authorized Dish Network provider December 2015 December 20, 2015 to March 25 of 2015. Linkus, Medford, Jackson County, OR  • Use various tools, clippers, drill, saw, shovel, wrench, etc.  • drove company car and helped customers achieve their t.v. Service to their satisfaction.  • Installed satellite on to shingles or roof.  • Drilled into walls and did wall fishing. Education Devry University October 2014 local community college EMT and IT focus