Network Tech <span class="hl">Network</span> Tech Network Administrator Virginia Beach, VA Network Administrator with 6 years of experience providing administration and engineering support for U.S. Navy networks. Skilled at managing HBSS, vulnerability scanning, patch management and remediation utilizing McAfee ePO, ACAS and WSUS. Well versed in Windows Server 2008/2012 and RHEL systems inside VMware environments. Proficient troubleshooter of IP Connectivity paths including ADNS, Cisco routers, Alcatel switches, CSU/DSU, inline network encryption devices and EHF/SHF equipment. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Network Tech Submarine Force Operational Control Center - Norfolk, VA October 2017 to Present • Supported the U.S. Strategic Command persistent communication links between decision makers in Washington and deployed nuclear deterrent submarines.  • Coordinated time sensitive troubleshooting across 4 network enclaves and more than a dozen off-site locations ensuring 24/7 availability of strategic Communications.  • Established, troubleshot and maintained IP connectivity to Atlantic submarines utilizing Cisco routers, network encryption devices and EHF/SHF equipment.  • Managed the production and continuous monitoring of the Atlantic Submarine Broadcast providing at sea units with mission essential message traffic. LAN Administrator USS TRUXTUN - Norfolk, VA May 2014 to October 2017 • Provided administration and engineering support for the HBSS enclave including McAfee ePO, SADR, and HIPS.  • Conducted all vulnerability scanning, remediation and compliance reporting utilizing ACAS scanner, VRAM and WSUS.  • Performed system administration and troubleshooting on all network assets to include the Siprnet, Niprnet, CENTRIXS, NTCSS, and NIAPS Domain Controllers and Exchange Servers.  • Established and maintained IP Connectivity to the organization's LAN through T1, SHF and EHF connections.  • Performed software upgrades, hardware replacement and system monitoring on over 200 classified and unclassified assets.  • Completed monthly preventative maintenance on all network related equipment installed on-site including tracking anti-virus, backups, and WSUS statuses. Education High school or equivalent Skills Network Administration, Network Security, Troubleshooting, Cisco, Windows Server, T1, Cisco Military Service Branch: United States Navy Rank: E5 Certifications/Licenses CompTIA Security+ February 2018 to February 2021