Network Administrator <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Network administrator - Indiana Wesleyan University Marion, IN IT professional with proven expertise in supporting-and optimizing performance of networks, systems, hardware, and software; including installation, configuration, and preventative maintenance. Resolved network connectivity issues. Provided service focused technical support-both remote and onsite-to achieve effective troubleshooting, efficient resolution of issues, and maximum customer satisfaction. Completed projects on schedule. Exceptional communication skills. Able to quickly grasp and adapt to new concepts, technologies, and environments. Work Experience Network Administrator Indiana Wesleyan University - Marion, IN March 2017 to Present - configured and managed Cisco switches, wireless controllers, APs, and ASA firewall.  - configured and managed Aruba switches, wireless controllers, APs, Clearpass, and Airwave.   - configured and managed Palo Alto firewalls and Panorama  - configured and managed Avaya phone systems.  - configured and managed AVST voicemail system  - configured and managed Barracuda ADC Load Balancer  - configured and managed DHCP for wired and wireless devices Information Technology Technician Indiana Wesleyan University - Marion, IN February 2013 to Present - Installed and repaired hardware/software  - Answered user's inquiries regarding hardware/software issues  - Conducted computer diagnostics to investigate and resolve problems.  - Provided technical support Network Service Technician Indiana Wesleyan University - Marion, IN May 2015 to May 2016 - Configured and Installed routers, switches, and Access Points  - Diagnosed network problems involving hardware, software, power, and communication issues.  - Pulled and Terminated CAT5e cabling Education Businesses information system in Computer information systems Indiana Wesleyan University - Marion, IN September 2017 Skills Networking, Vmware Certifications/Licenses Cisco Certified Network Associate (CCNA) August 2018 to August 2021 Aruba ACMA V8 April 2019 to April 2022 Aruba ACMP V8 May 2019 to May 2022 Additional Information - Technical support, troubleshooting, and maximum customer satisfaction  - Expertise in supporting and optimizing performance of networks and computers  - Computer hardware/software installation and preventative maintenance    SKILLS / STRENGTHS  - Programming Languages: Python, C  - Operating Systems: Windows (Vista, 7, 8.1, 10), OSX, Linux  - Professional: Self-motivated, creative thinker; detail-oriented; excellent time management skills