Data Center Engineer Data Center Engineer Data Center Engineer - Waubonsee Community College DeKalb, IL Administrative position where 10 years of related experience will add value to operations. Work Experience Data Center Engineer Waubonsee Community College - Sugar Grove, IL September 2018 to Present Manage vSphere enviroment for multiple campuses  ? Managed and updated documentation for creation of server SOP and internal processes  ? Set up internal monitoring of servers and system processes  ? Created Windows and Linux servers.  ? Fixed security issues found by the Security Team Systems Administrator Elgin, IL April 2018 to Present Maintain entire IT infrastructure, including physical and virtual servers, Hyper V enviroment (which includes 3 2012 R2 servers (SQL, DC and ProcessPro), 1 2008 server and 1 Windows 10 Pro VM) network switches, wireless Aps, Active Directory, and multiple NAS devices.  ? Support over 20 users with Office 365, including add/remove users, manage distribution groups and aliases, and manage spam filter.  ? Set up disaster recovery plan with 2 points of recovery, 1 in case of file corruption on fileserver, 1 in case of complete disaster with AWS Glacier backup (Fire and or Acts of God)  ? Utilize Group Policy to create uniform workstations and user logins and renaming of local computer accounts, mapping of network drives and installation of Company requested software.  ? Created Computer Use policy, which includes MDM, VPN and local machine usage parameters.  ? Completely reconstructed file share permissions to strengthen security and company compliance. Systems Engineer TeamLogicIT - Schaumburg, IL July 2017 to February 2018 Monitor ticket queue and customer computer health via Kaseya and SystemWatch.  ? Created and maintained Office 365 and Exchange servers for existing and new customers totaling 600 users.  ? Troubleshoot, install and repair hardware and software at customer sites.  ? Set up and maintain VMWare ESXi servers (Which included server 2003, 2008 and 2012 R2) for 8 independent customer sites and maintained virtual machines on said servers. Systems Engineer United Airlines - Elk Grove Village, IL November 2016 to April 2017 Monitored level 3 ticket queue and incoming email for trouble tickets.  ? Worked with SCCM 2012 and HPCA for machine profile images.  ? Assisted Field Services Techs by modifying images in SCCM 2012 for deployment at airports around the world.  ? Wrote Powershell scripts to make Engineers more efficent.  ? Set up and shipped out Mobile Classrooms for trainers to teach airport operations. Network Tech ICS Solutions - Huntley, IL February 2016 to May 2016 Monitored service desk ticket queue and incoming email for trouble tickets.  ? Deployed newly imaged PCs to user migrating from Windows XP to 7  ? Maintained networking equipment in the MDF at the office.  ? Monitored and maintained Hyper-V servers, and the VM's residing on them, which included Ubuntu server, Server 2003 and Server 2008 R2  ? Did wireless assessments and installs for customers. Network Tech KSB Hospital - Dixon, IL February 2015 to May 2015 Monitored servicedesk queue for network related tickets.  ? Trained Level 1 help desk on new MDM procedures  ? Deployed newly imaged PCs to user migrating from Windows XP to 7  ? Did wireless assessments of several parts of the hospital Lead Tech Support Blue Collar Computing - Schaumburg, IL August 2012 to February 2015 Took help desk calls for multiple clients to resolve business affecting issues.  ? Troubleshot user workstation issues, including specialized software issues and installs.  ? Worked with Active Directory setting up group policies for users and computers.  ? Migrated 35 independent MSP customers from on prem Exchange to Office 365, totaling 400-500 users.  ? Monitored Connectwise queue and assigned tickets to other technicians based on their skill levels.  ? Traveled to customer sites when requested to provide onsite support and support tape backups Help Desk Representative Hallmark Services Corporation - Naperville, IL December 2008 to November 2010 Took help desk calls for our internal users to resolve business affecting issues.  . Troubleshot user workstation issues, including specialized software issues and installs.  . Worked with Active Directory setting up group policies for users and computers.  . Created user accounts, and set up Lotus Notes email accounts. Network Administrator National Van Lines - Broadview, IL July 2008 to September 2008 Maintained corporate network to ensure it ran smoothly for over 100 users.  . Troubleshot user workstation issues, including specialized software issues and installs.  . Worked with Active Directory setting up group policies for users and computers.  . Administered Ironport firewall, Imail mail server, and the domain controllers.  . Oversaw network health and stability. Education High School diploma Lyons Township High School 1996 Skills Networking, Wireless, Comptia, Linux, Red hat, Windows server 2003, Customer service, Excellent customer service skills, Hardware troubleshooting Additional Information SKILLS  ? 13 years of administrating Linux systems, including Red Hat, Debian, Ubuntu, and Arch.  ? 18 years of Microsoft experience, including Windows 9x, 2000, XP, and Vista, 7, 10 and Windows Server 2003/2008/2012/2016.  ? 11 years of networking experience, including wireless (WEP, WPA2) and wired switches, hubs, and routers.  ? 12 years of PC hardware troubleshooting experience, including Macs, PC's, and servers.  ? Excellent customer service skills, both in person and over the phone.  ? SCCM, ADUC, ADSS, ADDT and GPO experience.  ? CompTIA A+ certified