Consultant/Owner Consultant/Owner Consultant/Owner - MVWORKS LLC Houston, TX Network service professional and systems administrator successful at consulting, planning, and providing cost-effective solutions for medium, small businesses, and individual clients. Work Experience Consultant/Owner MVWORKS LLC July 2017 to Present Serve small-business and residential clients by developing and providing value-added software and consulting services at cost-effective rates. Manage all aspects of the business including bookkeeping, advertising, vendor & product research, client quotes and sales. Perform system repair and support service as well as structured wiring in homes and offices. IT Systems Administrator AVR Inc April 2017 to August 2018 Monitor, maintain and assist with improvements or repairs to the network infrastructure and all servers in production. Provide remote and in-person support for IT clients and for company personnel. Work to improve current service for the IT clients by improving overall security and management of notifications as well as setup automated processes for maintenance tasks to improve overall management and documentation. Work to develop a managed service model for clients that required IT support. Sr. Network Specialist / Consultant The Computer Hospital January 2013 to April 2017 Plan and assist with the development of the managed services program offered to customers that represent a small to medium size business (SMB). Managed 4 SMBs to ensure that their network environment and workstations are running efficiently with minimal downtime by providing cost-effective solutions in a timely manner. Consult with new clients. Research and recommend products. Education Bachelor's in Computer Engineering Technology University of Houston - Houston, TX August 2010 to May 2013 Skills Wireless (7 years), Structured Wiring (5 years), Backup and Disaster Recovery (6 years), Data Recovery (6 years), Microsoft Office 365 (7 years), Network Administration (7 years), Server Administration (7 years), Remote Support (7 years), Help Desk (7 years) Links http://linkedin.com/in/mevazquez Certifications/Licenses CompTIA Network+ March 2017 to Present CompTIA A+ October 2008 to Present Additional Information Bilingual - English & Spanish