IT MANAGER IT MANAGER Chicago, IL Information Technology professional with over 7 years of experience in network management, systems administration, and help desk support operations in the government sector. CompTIA Security+ certified. Six years of managerial and direct supervisory experience. Works well independently as well as in team settings. Currently maintains an active Department of Defense Secret Clearance. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience IT MANAGER U.S. Census Bureau - Chicago, IL April 2019 to Present • Manages 2 IT Supervisors and 5 IT clerks.  • Responsible for Area Census Office IT Operations; ensures all staff are properly documenting and resolving issues via Remedy Service and Ticket Management.  • First point of contact for all IT related issues and concerns in the Chicago Central Area Census Office.  • Utilize Mobile Device Management tools such as Air Watch to support mobile devices.(IPads,IPhones, and Celluar enabled laptops)  Responsible for the accountability, distribution, and recovery of over 2,000 electronic devices  • Provide troubleshooting remotely; via telephone or Skype for Business chat.  • Troubleshoot office applications such as Citrix VDI, Office 365, and Cisco Any Connect VPN.  • Provide support to office and field employees; assisting with Windows 10 and Apple IOS software issues. IT OPERATIONS SPECIALIST MB FINANCIAL BANK NETWORK OPERATIONS CENTER - Rosemont, IL September 2018 to April 2019 • Perform password resets, account unlock out, and computer domain lookups by utilizing Active Directory.  • Create and resolve tickets using ServicePRO Ticketing System.  • Establish/manage remote access for users through RDP connections  • Properly respond and escalate ATM system and server alerts.  • Provide Office 365 support to MB Financial employees.  • Operate and maintain peripheral equipment such as printers and consoles.  • Analyze, diagnose, and resolve system errors, malfunctions, mis-configurations, and job stoppages to maintain servers and prevent system outages.  • Monitor network devices and troubleshoot connectivity issues to maintain optimal uptime  • Monitor critical system Alerts using Microsoft System Console Operations Manager. (SCOM)  • Monitor infrastructure components, production printouts, reports, and files to ensure optimal performance NETWORK ADMINISTRATOR SUPERVISOR 25TH INFANTRY DIVISION - Schofield Barracks, HI July 2014 to May 2018 • Responsible for site survey, planning, and execution of over 75 mobile network team missions; supervised 4 teams consisting of 35 team members.  • Maintained 100% accountability and serviceability of approximately $1 million worth of equipment, facilities, and personnel with zero loss.  • Displayed seasonal leadership techniques to create a very flexible training module and Signal site certifications that helped new personnel on network communication operations.  • Provided oversight with the Warfighter Information Network-Tactical (WIN-T) systems increment update and migration.  • Installed, operated, and maintain Cisco Unified Call Manager and provided Voice over IP support.  • Successfully deployed a mobile network team of 9 members to El Paso, TX to support a training mission. Resulted in 100% reliable communication over the 3 week period.  • Provided extensive customer service to end users through verbal and written communication.  • Trained inexperienced soldiers on cross-domain violations and network security procedures.  • Ensured all network and system changes IAW company's change management policy.  • Implemented network security; trained on firewalls, network intrusion detection/prevention systems, and VPNs.  • Provided 1st line troubleshooting for Microsoft Exchange 2007 and Office 365 issues.  • Configured Group Policy Objects to create a secure Windows Infrastructure.  • Performed troubleshooting and maintenance procedures on network devices including switches, routers, and firewalls. UNITED STATES ARMY 2011 to 2018 HELPDESK MANAGER 25TH SIGNAL BATTALION - BAGRAM, AF 2013 to 2014 AFGHANISTAN  • Managed daily Help Desk operations with over 3600 customers directly supervising a team of fifteen team members.  • Supported Operation Enduring Freedom by serving as the Helpdesk NCOIC; provided customer service for all units assigned to Camp Eggers and the Greater Kabul Metropolitan area.  • Team processed over 10,000 work orders and trouble tickets, re-imaged and baselined over 200 customer systems.  • Managed the daily operations of the Help Desk equipment valued over $600,000.  • Provided Information Management Officer (IMO) training for elevated accounts to over 200 unit IMOs; ensured mandatory requirements were met prior to creating user and system accounts for customers.  • Conducted team level training on Remedy ticketing system and how to proper created trouble tickets; resulted in 97% of team trained.  • Led team to process over 7,500 user service accounts; enabled reliable access to NIPR, SIPR, and CX-I networks for Camp Eggers customer base.  • Created user accounts, organizational users groups and managed workgroup machines utilizing active directory.  • Maintained user, group, and computer accounts for the Department of Defense enterprise network.  • Managed Group Policy Objects (GPOs) throughout the Active Directory (AD) enterprise.  • Utilized Remedy ticketing system to manage, process, and resolve trouble tickets.  • Responsible for training and certifying over 85 newly appointed Information Management Technicians.  • Enhanced network security with implementation of daily Information Assurance Vulnerability Alert patches. Network Systems Technician 11th Signal Brigade - Fort Hood, TX 2011 to 2013 • Monitored and documented network performance using tools such as SNMPc and Solarwinds.  • Ensured standardization, compliance and enforcement of DoD policies and NOSC daily operating procedures.  • Operated a Mobile Network Operations System, responsibilities included the configuration and troubleshooting of the network, routers and switches.  • Installed and configured PCs, printers, and applications to the exacting specifications required for security and compliance.  • Provided technical support to organizational employees and trained non-technical workers on network information systems.  • Obtained 3 COMPTIA certifications in a 3 month period. (A+, Security+, Network+) Education BACHELOR'S OF SCIENCE in HEALTH/EXERCISE SCIENCE UNIVERSITY OF MISSISSIPPI May 2007 Skills Active directory, Cisco, Exchange, Networking, Remedy, Customer Service, Vmware, Network Administration Military Service Branch: United States Army Rank: SSG