Network Security Administrator <span class="hl">Network</span> Security <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Rawlins, WY Focused and detail-oriented professional geek with a passion for security, technology, goals, and improving efficiency for myself and my associates. Infosec proselytizer and open-source advocate. Comfy in front of a Windows or Linux terminal. ISTJ. Hand me a problem and let me at it. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Network Security Administrator Bank of Commerce - Rawlins, WY February 2015 to Present ? Provided significant savings and more rapid deployment during infrastructure refresh projects by managing customization and configuration  in-house instead of relying on MSP  ? Improved network security by personally applying endpoint vulnerability  research and remediation, as well as penetration testing and user  cybersecurity education and training  ? Supplied rapid resolution of technical issues for end users  ? Improved business continuity by introducing failover WAN circuit  ? Strengthened disaster recovery and incident response plans by streamlining processes and writing additional procedures  ? Enhanced efficiency in multiple departments by designing macro-enabled spreadsheets and scripts Computer Repair Technician EMPYRE SOLUTIONS - Rawlins, WY January 2013 to February 2015 Reduced PC disinfection time by a day and a half by combining, scripting, or multi-threading virus removal steps  ? Ensured consistency in customer experience by enhancing a checklist  for repair steps  ? Enhanced the repair process by introducing several open-source tools  that more effectively diagnosed or cleaned infected machines  ? Increased the scope of reparable machines by building a network boot  server Actor, Team Leader COVENANT PLAYERS - Oxnard, CA January 2010 to December 2012 Managed team of 3-4, delivered assignments and met project deadlines  ? Provided administration of CRM and database software for mobile team  ? On-call technical support for other team leaders  ? Organized itinerary spanning 2-6 U.S. states  ? Memorized one-act scripts and directed plays for true and improvised  stages Education High school or equivalent Homeschooled Skills ACTIVE DIRECTORY, EXCHANGE, VIRTUALIZATION, FIREWALL, CSS, Technical Support, Windows, Networking, Microsoft Office, Customer Service, Network Security, Router Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/chris-tuzeneu Certifications/Licenses Security+ July 2018 to July 2021 COMP001021367738 Certified Ethical Hacker (CEH) October 2017 to October 2020 C|EH v9  ECC40842317634 CCBTO May 2015 to May 2021 Certified Community Bank Technology Officer  By ICBA (Independent Community Bankers of America) Assessments Technical Support — Expert August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/dlfkdfvl9taw0nv Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information Have built and maintained several different servers including Ubiquiti UniFi,  pfSense firewall, secure banking kiosk, network print server, PXE boot, and  cloud storage server    Familiar with:  ? Microsoft Active Directory (Windows Server 2008-2016)  ? Microsoft Exchange  ? Virtualization platforms: VMware vSphere & Oracle VirtualBox  ? Microsoft Windows XP through 10 (including Office applications)  ? Debian- and RHEL-based Linux administration  ? Class C network development and maintenance  ? Automation using Python, Powershell, Excel/VBA, and batch/shell  scripts  ? HTML/CSS web development  ? Quickly understanding new software platforms and training users    Other notes:  ? Have been placed in many leadership roles; dealt with conflict  resolution, communication, adapting to personalities, leading different age  groups  ? Able to self-manage to meet or exceed personal and professional goals