Systems Administrator Systems <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator - Blues City Brewery Germantown, TN Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Administrator Blues City Brewery May 2015 to Present • Administered day to day operations including Active Directory, Hyper-V, network monitoring, Mitel PBX/VoIP, MDM software, creation of IT documentation, and Veritas and Acronis backup solutions.  • Managed Corporate IT projects for Memphis branch including working with contractors on security camera  installations, door access system modernization, WAN upgrades, and site-to-site replication. Designed and piloted Manage Engine MDM, Microsoft SCCM, PowerShell scripted on/off boarding, and digital signage  adoption company wide.  • Converted site from VMware VCenter to Microsoft Hyper-V, standardized and shifted workloads to new platform, deployed blade servers for cross site replication.  • Implemented Microsoft SCCM to manage 400+ systems; streamlining and centralizing application and image  deployment, patch management, and inventorying and reporting for all branches.  • Performed a complete site infrastructure refresh, decommissioning and replacing all end of life software and hardware (servers, workstations, printers, IP phones, and switches).  • Designed plans to shift business workloads to Azure and Office365, evaluated Azure Site recovery as a solution  for data backup and business continuity. Network Engineer Inception Network Strategies January 2013 to May 2015 Administrated servers running Windows Server 2003-2012R2 and CentOS6, monitored networks for viruses  and malicious activity, deployed patches, and maintained Active Directory.  • Provided end user support on Windows XP-8.1, Mac OS, Office 365, and proprietary medical and financial  applications.  • Designed and implemented disaster recovery plans including backups, offsite data replication, fail-over and data  integrity testing, created detailed site documentation and monthly reports for clients.  • Performed hardware/software refreshes, utilized Hyper-V and VMware VCenter to virtualize bare-metal  systems, and migrated workloads to new servers. IT Support Specialist Business Equipment Center February 2010 to January 2013 • Administered Windows 2003-2008 domain, maintained active directory, Eset Anti-virus, Barracuda email filter, and WSUS.  • Installed and configured Sharp and Konica Minolta multi-function printers and paperless office software for clients, provided end user support and training. Education Associate Skills Linux, System Admin, Active Directory, Linux Administrator, SCCM, System Administrator, Hyper-V, Microsoft Azure, Azure Storage, Powershell, Vmware, Redhat Certifications/Licenses MCSA: Windows Server 2012 Present MCSA: Linux on Azure Present LFCS: Linux Foundation Certified Systems Administrator December 2021 Microsoft Certified Azure Administrator Associate Present MCSE: Cloud Platform and Infrastructure Present