Junior System Administrator Junior System <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Junior System Administrator - Operation PAR Clearwater, FL Work Experience Junior System Administrator Operation PAR August 2017 to Present • Provide quality and timely support to all employees concerning hardware and software needs.  • Image, configure, and ship new devices (laptops, desktops, etc.).  • Provide operational support for laptop and desktop related issues including installation and configuration of applications.  • Utilize strong written and verbal communication skills to provide end user training on common applications and updates.  • Liaise with vendors to resolve support issues.  • Troubleshoot and resolve printer problems.  • Maintain and support IaaS and SaaS solutions for a wide range of IT needs.  • Monitor and support a growing fleet of network resources hosted in AWS - EC2, RDS, ELB.  • Manage and support Google domain and applications.  • Create and update documentation for troubleshooting, deployment, and general IT procedures.  • Assist with server administration and maintenance including patching, backups, and general upkeep.  • Maintain the integrity and continual operation of the corporate network including the intra-building wiring plant, wireless networks and remote users Technical Support Representative Just Add Power September 2017 to March 2018 • Provide technical support to custom installers implementing systems in a variety of settings.  • Understand the capabilities of the HDMI over IP product line to assist installers to configure audio/video distribution systems of all sizes. Research and troubleshoot problems.  • Expand technical knowledge to new products and applications as they are developed and released.  • Assist with customer order fulfillment.  • Excellent customer service skills. Ability to communicate verbally and in writing with clarity and completeness.  • Knowledge of computer networking, Cisco, Luxul and Linux.  • Knowledge of Blue Rae, Roku, DVD Players, Projectors, Direct TV and all Smart TV.  • Knowledge of Subnetting and VLAN. South Pinellas - IT Specialist St Vincent de Paul December 2015 to March 2017 • Managed technical resource in assisting users to resolve problems with equipment and data; monitors and prioritizes service requests to facilitate support and the exchange of information and advice; implemented solutions and liaisons with providers as required.  • Served as technical resource to departments regarding information services and hardware needs.  • Installed, configured, and upgraded workstation operating systems and application software, using standard business and administrative packages; may modify specific applications for use in operational departments.  • Installed, assembled, and configured workstation hardware, monitors, network infrastructure peripherals, printers, scanners and related hardware.  • Installed, configured, upgraded and investigated mobile phone and tablet hardware, operating systems and application software, using standard business and administrative packages. System Administrator Kizen Technologies - Ellenton, FL April 2015 to July 2015 • Completed all projects in a timely manner.  • Created user accounts in Active Directory and Exchange.  • Setup, imaged, installed and maintained Dell laptop equipment in a LAN/WAN environment.  • Setup, installed and troubleshoot Cisco phones using Cisco Call Manger.  • Maintained, tested, and investigated hardware and software, pertaining to a LAN/WAN, Cisco switches, Access Points and workstations, servers and other devices.  • Created and maintained, user accounts in VMware  • Maintained and made corrections to Microsoft Active Directory, DHCP and DNS server LAN Administrator Firstsource - Tampa, FL December 2013 to February 2015 • Maintained, tested, and investigated hardware and software pertaining to a LAN/WAN, Cisco switches, workstations,  • and other devices.  • Maintained, investigated and corrected the VMware, vShere when needed.  • Maintained and made corrections to Microsoft Active Directory, DHCP and DNS server. Interacted with various  internal IT support functions, Development, Operations, Networking, and external 3rd party vendors to trouble  shoot and resolved complex problems. Network Administrator IT Resources Corp March 2010 to April 2013 • Create and maintain 2003/2008/R2 Active Directory accounts for users, pc's, and groups along with creating Profiles, Groups, setting permissions  • Assisted remotely in the updating and replacement of Cisco Routers and Switches.  • Remoted in and changed IP configurations on iGel, Rental Man and Print Management Servers.  • Browsed into printers, and barcode machines to change ip addresses.  • Used SecureCRT to access timeclock, switches and routers to verify and change their configurations  • Directed techs and employees to test the equipment to secure changes were made correctly and equipment was working properly.  • Create, monitor, and manage Trackit tickets in a timely manner.  • Audit all desktop and laptops and ensure information is recorded in Trackit.  • Repair units returned from the field to meet criteria set in MIS levels.  • Provide individual assistance for end users on the technical use of hardware device.  • Responsible for distributing, tracking, maintaining, troubleshooting, and training on all communication devices with messaging system.  • Create and maintain 2003/2008/R2 Active Directory accounts for users, pc's, and groups along with creating Profiles, Groups, setting permissions  • Created service tickets using Autotask software.  • Maintain, troubleshoot and restore a variety of backups using vRanger, Buffalo, Acornis, Symantec, and Microsoft Shadow Copy.  • Problem solved issues which involved software, hardware or connection issues, time of occurrence for pc, printers and network, for over 20 vendors  • Maintain software updates with Kaseya Patch Management.    • Gulf Coast Center -Distributed Computer System Analyst -North Fort Myers, FL  • 01/07 to 3/10  • Create, maintain, and delete 2003 Active Directory accounts for users, pc's, and groups along with creating Profiles and Userfolders and setting permissions and accesses.  • Maintained and made necessary changes to the Print Server, File Server, and Application Server.  • Implemented and made necessary changes to Group Policy, DHCP and DNS.  • Used Remote Desktop and SCCM to access remote pc's and equipment.  • Maintain and restore a variety of backups using Microsoft Shadow Copy, Microsoft backup and BrightStor ARCserve Backup.  • Problem solved issues for approximately 500 pc's (running XP), 1000 users and 75 printers which involved software, hardware or connection issues.  • Handle trouble-shooting at time of occurrence for pc, network, switches, hubs, fiber, cat 5 network cable and servers, throughout 40 buildings.  • Create and maintain Lotus Notes and Novell Net Ware Manager User Accounts.  • Implemented and planned the replacement of 30 Cisco 2950 and 2960 switches and maintain them using Cisco Network Assistant.  • Maintain accounts for Sprint, Verizon, Nortec, and American Messaging pagers.  • Managed inventory of all IT equipment Statewide Asset Tracking System (DataLoader) (SATS)  • Reason for leaving: Facility closing    • EDUCATION: Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Information System FLORIDA GULFCOAST UNIVERSITY - Fort Myers, FL Links http://Join.me