Network Administrator <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Network Administrator - LEIDOS Fort Walton Beach, FL • Top Secret  • CI Poly  • CCNA Security (2017) Work Experience Network Administrator LEIDOS - Hurlburt Field, FL October 2016 to Present Full Motion Video (FMV) and ATM Network Administrator: Provided customer service support to Air Force, civilian, and contract personnel. Maintain and monitor ATM and FMV network infrastructure in direct support of U.S. military during real world operations. Perform configuration, maintenance, and trouble-shooting of multiple local and remote routers and switches of both classified and unclassified systems for mission critical live video feeds. Configure and maintain their KG-245As, KG-175 Ds, and KG-175Gs crypto devices by updating their monthly/yearly keys. Manage the KGs via GEM-X Lite. Utilize the command line interface using CISCO commands. Maintain/update the ACL. Maintain documentation by writing out SOP's to support network architecture for an organizations information network. IT Specialist Defense Media - Fort Meade, MD May 2016 to October 2016 I design, test, implement, and maintain the LANs/WANs. Monitor Palo Alto Firewall and network performance (utilizing Solarwinds). I troubleshoot and resolve complex problems to ensure no mass distribution of mission/critical application are affected and adhere to all information assurance standards and practices by taking proper measures to ensure optimum data and device security. I support remote access platforms and connectivity, create and update network documentation ensuring proper support of network operations. I provide products and new technology research for evaluation by immediate and higher echelon leadership. I have primary responsibilities for administrating the VoIP and VTC systems in DMA utilizing CISCO equipment as well as ensuring [that] all networks which includes GiG backbone, cabling, switches, routers, firewalls, IPS, hubs, multiplexers, modems, VoIP, VoSIP, VTC, and crypto equipment are maintained and in functioning. Additionally, I prepare operational plans and attending meetings where I provide advice and guidance. Network Engineer/ Administrator/Analyst (Plans Projects Installation Engineering) General Dynamics - Fort Belvoir, VA April 2015 to May 2016 40 hours + per week; Supervisor: Dave Mah 703-428-4890  Working along with other engineers I collaborate with my Government Counterparts on the projects being worked on and negotiate possible resolutions for the projects that I am working on. I have exceptional professionalism and sound judgment when there are problems with working with my government counterparts or other engineers at MSC's. I attend meetings and express information to the group effectively and make clear convincing oral presentations and also listen to others and explain my conclusion to them while working with them in a conscientious way. I am the primary administrator and current project manager (PM) for the implementation of the Dynamic Multipoint Virtual Private Network (DMVPN) which is considered to be enterprisal initiative from the command. This division priority establishes a connection between the Headquarters and its Major Subordinate Commands (MSC) worldwide. I write up Request for Changes (RFC), Ports Protocols and Services (PPS), draw network diagrams for both MSC sites and HQ, and I work with the Network Enterprise Center (NEC) to establish new connection for the DMVPN. Once approved, I work with the MSC engineers and test the connection before transition to operations. Other duties include updating leadership, answering technical questions, attending weekly staff meetings to update them on projects. When required, I go to MSC locations and help troubleshoot their connectivity issues and work with their network admins or engineers to stand up devices/systems/connections. I update remedy tickets and provide customer service to enterprise users regarding networking/IT issues. I updated routing information utilizing 'putty' for the DMVPN router.  I architected a worldwide circuit drawing (using VISIO 2013) in order to accomplish the mission for the command.  I do site surveys, upgrade circuit connections, along with creating BOMS (basic operation material) list for new designs. I am also thorough when performing work and conscientious about attending to detail. In addition to attention to detail, I also work with vendors that the Government is using in order to validate the heterogeneous environment will work with tacacs capabilities. I consistently keep the Government project manager that is assigned to this project up to date on all phases/updates of these projects.  I maintained documentation by writing out SOP's to support network architecture for an organizations information network and created VISIO drawings and submitted RFC's to the NEC.I also work on the LAN and WAN with the engineers to establish new technical implementations and designs for the command. I install and test the router as well as configure the MSC's router or provide guidance to their Engineer on how to for their router. I write out an SOP for whatever projects that I am working on. I also go on TDY to help MSC's to stand up their network if need necessary. I have privilege to look at their network design and once I do that I have clear understanding their network architecture and help them implement a design that helps our enterprise network as whole. Along with that, I make up a tracker to make sure that all projects are kept up to date and continuously monitored. I also train my contractor counterpart and help/inform him of my job description. Network Administrator/Anaylst Kunia, HI Altamira December 2012 to April 2015 40 hours + per week Supervisor: Dallas Smith: 828-260-5696  I worked in a Network Controlled Environment utilizing network management tools for our home site along with remote sites in monitoring all networks capabilities. I helped manage the integration of network connections throughout an organization to meet mission requirements. I worked on CISCO routers and switches by utilizing 'secure crt' and configured the routers and switches on both TNCC's end as well as remote user's end. I helped stand up the new network located in Hawaii as well as worked with the SES (satellite's enterprise service) end on trying to establish connectivity with remote end's site. I Set up and maintained VLAN's for local switches. I managed/was responsible the crypto equipment (KG175D) and used the taclane management server utilizing GEM for home and distant end site. In addition with management and getting the training on crypto equipment I also upgraded and configured new and older KG's. I was responsible for making sure that the key was up to date and request a new one through my crypto manager if it was coming up for expiration.  I worked on enabling TACACS and ACL's (access control list) by using the CLI for local as well as remote site's routers/switches due to security procedures. I also logged onto the ACS device to troubleshoot issues if there was any regarding tacacs.  I update remedy tickets and provide customer service to enterprise users regarding networking/IT issues. I also helped maintain our sites servers/switches/routers by doing a daily equipment check. If issues arise, troubleshoot and forward hardware issues to correct personnel.  The variety of tools to include: Fireberd, HST, SECURECRT, PUTTY, and CISCO Call Manager which were used for troubleshooting the network on TNCC's T1's, routers, switches and remote distant end's routers, switches, VOIPS, or their peripheral end equipment.  Worked testing connectivity by using BERT, HST's, Fireberd, and FLUKE fiber testers. VTC Technician General Dynamics - Schofield Barracks, HI October 2012 to December 2012 40 hours + per week Supervisor: 808-655-6089  I managed, maintain, configured and troubleshot the SharePoint website for personnel. In addition, I scheduled VTC meetings, troubleshot VTC equipment, and monitored the system performance. I also set up and tested videoconferencing connections between the HQ's end and distant end. Along with troubleshooting the VTC and SharePoint issues I provided them with system admin help regarding their NIPR and SIPR issues. I also helped maintain their crypto equipment and troubleshot their KIV-7M/fiber issues. I provided assistance to their civilian, military, and contracting personal with a timely with courteous customer service. Advanced C4 Solutions Network Administrator/Trainer/Senior Lead Tech Ronnie Rocker - Fort Belvoir, VA April 2010 to October 2012 40 hours + per week Supervisor: Ronnie Rocker: 703-706-1004  (Morning shift trainer and lead)  I provided customer service support to Army, civilian, and contract personnel. I assisted in the design and implementation of cabling solutions to support the enterprise network architecture and network communication requirements.I have an extensive knowledge in terminating the fiber lines in both single mode and multimode fiber. I also assembled server racks and put in necessary equipment in those racks. When I ran fiber, I placed conduit in the building in both ceiling and floor. (Dependent on type of building) and maintained distinction of cable for security purposes. I also maintained/conducted cable-management throughout the entire building and updated the cables so there was no issues regarding security concerns.  I set up, to include image computer workstations and peripheral devices and ensured network connectivity. I installed and maintained Windows XP/VISTA and other software products such as Adobe Pro, Flash Active Client, ClassifyIt, Tumbleweed, Microsoft Office 2003/2007, Visio, Project and other software required. Technical Support Technician L-3 COMMUNICATIONS - Fort Belvoir, VA October 2009 to February 2010 40 hours + per week Supervisor: Fred Harrid: 703-706-1251  I troubleshot a variety of systems to include Blackberry's by utilizing the Blackberry server. I used Veritas Network manager to do restores for customers. In addition, I utilized DameWare or Remote Desktop Connection, Remote Assistance, and provide on-site service for customer to see what issue customers were having on their end. Along with that, I maintained user accounts, networks profiles, and shares using Active Directory, Exchange 2007, and User Manager. I also Installed and maintained Windows XP/VISTA and other software products such as Adobe Pro, Flash ActiveClient, ClassifyIt, Tumbleweed, Microsoft Office 2003/2007, Visio, Project and other software required. I helped customers in setting up/unlocking Common Access Cards (CAC) and other user accounts and help users register their certificates so that they can access websites that require such certificates. If customers were having issues I had the capabilities of resetting profiles, fix profiles, make new profiles, and restore old profiles. I also assisted customers with providing them technical support, as needed such as creating, closing, and deleting accounts. I utilized remedy to maintain tickets and to provide status updates to users.  COMPUTER EXPERIENCE  WINDOWS 98, XP, VISTA, 7, MICROSOFT OFFICE, VISIO PROFESSIONAL 2007 & 2013, AutoCAD, MICROSOFT OUTLOOK, REMEDY, SOLARWINDS, ADOBE PRO, REMOTE DESKTOP, SECURE CRT, PUTTY, BLACKBERRY SERVER, VERITAS NETWORK MANAGER, and CISCO CALL MANAGER  NETWORK EQUIPMENT  Cisco/Juniper Routers/Switches/VoIP, Brocade Switches SATCOM, Palo Alto, Nexus, STE, TANDBERG MXP VTC, Fiber Optic cables, Terminal, T-1 Links KIV-7M, KG-175D, KG-175A, KIV-7M Fireberd, HST, and Fluke fiber testers. Five Rivers System Administrator Fred Harrid - Fort Belvoir, VA January 2010 to January 2010 40 hours + per week Supervisor: Fred Harrid: 703-706-1251 (L3 Lost contract and Five Rivers Took Contract over)  I provided customer service support, troubleshot, and resolved customer related issues in Windows operating system, hardware, software, and user interface environment. I troubleshot a variety of systems to include Blackberry's by utilizing the Blackberry server. I did requested restores by utilizing Veritas Network Manager from profiles to PST's. I also utilized DameWare or Remote Desktop Connection, Remote Assistance, and provide on-site service for customer to see what issue customers were having on their end. Along with that, I maintained user accounts, networks profiles, and shares using Active Directory, Exchange 2007, and User Manager. I also Installed and maintained Windows XP/VISTA and other software products such as Adobe Pro, Flash ActiveClient, ClassifyIt, Tumbleweed, Microsoft Office 2003/2007, Visio, Project and other software required. I helped customers in setting up/unlocking Common Access Cards (CAC) and other user accounts and help users register their certificates so that they can access websites that require such certificates. If customers were having issues I had the capabilities of resetting profiles, fix profiles, make new profiles, and restore old profiles. I also assisted customers with providing them technical support, as needed such as creating, closing, and deleting accounts. I utilized remedy to maintain tickets and to provide status updates to users. This contract took over L3 and promoted me from Support Tech to System Admin. Education Bachelor's of Arts in Government International Politics George Mason University 2006