Lead Tutor/CEO Lead Tutor/CEO Cypress, CA Work Experience Lead Tutor/CEO January 2017 to Present Tutored up to 25 students at any given time.  ? Used various methods to and created various lessons plans to meet each individual  student's needs  ? Taught courses ranging from basic arithmetic to upper division college math courses Network Engineer/Systems Administrator InSync Computer Solutions - Laguna Hills, CA May 2018 to March 2019 Managed both corporate and storefront location networks for Large Company with 78  locations across the CA, NV, and AZ  ? Coordinated and performed routine server checks and updates for all clients  ? Utilized Solar Winds and other automation to maintain compliance of FFIEC and other  management Servers and Workstations  ? Installed VoIP systems for all locations of our largest client. Maintained production of existing VoIP environments  ? Performed desktop, network, and server support directly with clients to adequately  recommend the most comprehensive updates to current networks for the cheapest cost  possible.  ? Documented all installations and procedures for updates as well as researched recently  released updates and patches to ensure client's environments would remain stable.  ? Setup Microsoft Exchange servers and remediated issues with current environments.  ? Setup networks and installed routers and switches to be managed 24/7.  ? Managed and setup Office 365 on multiple projects as environments migrated over from previous versions.  ? Travelled extensively for onsite support in urgent and critical environments.    Waites Tutoring, North Orange County, CA Systems Administrator/Auditor (Windows/Unix) IBM, INC - Costa Mesa, CA November 2010 to December 2016 Coordinated with a team to develop inventive ways to use IBM and third party software to maintain security and system compliance for thousands of servers nationwide  ? Managed constant TCP/IP scans and remediating security failures  ? Organized OS and Application Patching for servers across all sites  ? Standardized and documented processes and procedures ranging from vulnerability  remediation to server builds  ? Managed Middleware and OS Health Checks for high priority FFIEC and HIPAA servers  ? Developed and documented group policies for all servers ranging from basic security  vulnerability remediations to hardening high priority servers from install in order meet IBM  compliance standards and government regulations  ? Utilized VMware and Vsphere to create virtual images  ? Wrote Powershell scripts to automate some processes.  ? Configured and Installed QRADAR to send logs and better security within the Group 1 lab.  ? Prepared documentation for each server in preparation for corporate audit  ? Maintained 99% compliance for tens of thousands of servers across the world  ? Configured and managed domains using Active Directory and GPO's to streamline the baseline hardening process Teller/Banker Chase Bank - Anaheim, CA February 2010 to November 2010 Education Bachelor of Arts in Applied Mathematics in Applied Mathematics California State University - Fullerton, CA December 2016 Skills Active directory, Cisco, Exchange, Solarwinds, Lpars, Vmware, Aix, Linux, Pseries, Red hat, Voip, Microsoft exchange, Microsoft office, Training Additional Information Operating Systems  ? Windows Server (2003, 2008, 2012, 2016); Windows (2000 - 10)  ? AIX (4.3.x, 5.x, 6.1, 7.1)  ? IBM VIO for virtual I/O on pSeries  ? Linux (Red Hat up to 6.x, SuSE)  ? ESX and ESXi    Tools/Products  ? pSeries LPARs (partitions, micro-partitions, virtual I/O, VLANs, VMware, Microsoft Office, Remote  Desktop, Active Directory (GPO's), QRADAR, Cisco (Meraki and ASA/Switches and Routers),  SolarWinds, Microsoft Exchange, VoIP Systems    Additional Training