IT Director IT Director IT Director - Pulaski County Government Winamac, IN Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience IT Director Pulaski County Government - Winamac, IN August 2017 to Present • Managed and maintained day-to-day operations of physical and virtual servers, networking equipment, PCs, and printers.  • Implemented new Backup System  • Combined multiple domains and networks under one domain and networking scheme.  • Managed IT Department Budget and IT purchasing for all county offices. IT Specialist CDC Resources INC - Monticello, IN July 2016 to August 2017 Maintained mix of physical and virtual Windows servers, networking equipment, and desktops and laptops at offices, group homes, and assisted living locations.  ? Implemented new ticketing system and new client health and behavior reporting systems.  ? Implemented many cost saving methods involving the IT department that lead to significant savings company-wide. IS Coordinator Woodlawn Hospital - Rochester, IN August 2015 to March 2016 Maintained physical Windows servers operating critical software for Hospital and Clinics as well as networking equipment and desktops, laptops, and mobile touch screen PC's.  ? In charge of purchasing and imaging new PC's for clinics and hospital, including 30 PC upgrade for one clinic and then repurposing the Windows 7 PCs to replace XP systems in hospital.  ? Assisted in moving ER from touch PCs mounted on desktop medical carts to wall-mounted desktop units.  ? Managed Day-to-Day operations of Microsoft Domain using Active Directory, Group Policy, and Print Servers for over 250 users and computers as well as providing on-call support for after-hours issues at hospital. Network Administrator Fontana Fasteners - Frankfort, IN August 2014 to August 2015 Maintained a mix of physical and virtual, Linux and Windows servers operating critical software for Manufacturing Plant and Distribution Center.  ? Assisted with integration into Acument Global Technologies Network and Infrastructure after merger.  ? Worked to integrate new robotic packing lines into existing shipping and labeling systems.  ? Managed Day-to-Day operations of Microsoft Domain using Active Directory, Group Policy, and Print Servers for 200 Users and Computers as well as managing Cisco Networking equipment and providing networking on-call support for Acument's North American Plants and Operations. Network Administrator Starke County Government - Knox, IN January 2013 to September 2014 Maintained mix of physical and virtual, Linux and Windows servers operating critical software for county offices and officials.  ? Implemented new Inventory Management and Help Desk System and created and implemented Server Maintenance Plan as well as new web server and Website.  ? Managed Day-to-Day operations of Microsoft Domain using Active Directory, Exchange, Group Policy, and Print Servers for 150 Users and computers. R1Soft Technical Support Specialist II BBS Technologies - Houston, TX December 2010 to March 2012 Resolve and troubleshoot customer issues with the R1Soft CDP Backup software on Linux and Windows operating systems.  ? Provide on-call assistance to customers after business hours for emergencies. Technical Support Supervisor SoftLayer - Houston, TX November 2009 to December 2010 Managed team of 13 technicians as front-line support for Linux and Windows e-commerce and hosting servers.  ? Led group of supervisors to revise department policies, procedures and knowledgebase, articles and redesigned training schedule and training manual. Education Associate Science In Computer Info Systems in Computer Info Systems Ivy Tech Community College - Logansport, IN Skills .NET (Less than 1 year), Active Directory (3 years), Apache (Less than 1 year), Exchange (1 year), Linux (5 years), System Administrator, Vmware, Red Hat, Linux Administrator, System Admin Certifications/Licenses A+ June 2019 to June 2022 Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  Programming: C#, html, xhtml, php, css, bash, ruby, javascript, and Python  Software: Excel, Access, PowerPoint, Visual Studio, MySQL, PostgreSQL, Apache, IIS, Outlook, MSSQL, Exchange, Active Directory, Powershell, Domino.  O/S: Windows 3.1/95/98/2000/XP/Vista/7/8/10/Server 2000/2003/2008/2012 Linux: Redhat/Ubuntu/Fedora Core/Debian UNIX (FreeBSD)