System Administrator System <span class="hl">Administrator</span> System Administrator - ABM/City of Minneapolis Parking Division Chaska, MN I am currently seeking a part time position during the week and possibly weekends via working remotely at home. Weekday shifts would include hours from 4-10:30pm. If weekend shifts are only possible, my hours would include 8am-4pm. Work Experience System Administrator ABM/City of Minneapolis Parking Division 2018 to Present I currently administrator networks for the City of Minneapolis parking division. My day to day responsibilities include maintaining a merchant level 1 network and keeping up with PCI compliance. I run 15 large scaled parking ramps downtown Minneapolis. I am responsible for maintaining and configuring 4 firewalls and 120+ network switches, 30+ servers and day to day PC issues.    • Responsible for maintaining and engineering our company's network  • Responsible for Cyber security  • Responsible for Server Platforms and applications  • Manage and maintain a full-scale video management software. Network Administrator BerganKDV 2017 to 2018 My day to day operations include: building, maintaining and engineering business networks. I work with all types of vendors including Cisco, Extreme, Dell, Netgear, Soincwall, Watchguard, Fortigate, Ruckus.    • Responsible for meeting PCI requirements on credit card networks  • Responsible for advising and building company networks to fit their needs  • Responsible for quoting hardware from all different vendors  • Responsible for network security of company networks  • Responsible for multiple company's VoIP networks Sr. Service Desk Technician St Jude Medical 2014 to 2017 My day to day duties included administrative work with telephony provisioning/ network administration/ Infrastructure monitoring and Mobility administration. I am very well-known and recommended individual between the infrastructure teams personal.  • Responsible for resolving escalated tickets from our level 1 team  • Globally support and maintain switchport configurations on Cisco IOS.  • Globally supported and configured Cisco IP phones using cisco call manager.    • Administer other functionalities in Cisco Call Manager such as Route points, Translation patterns, device profiles, CSF and CIPC devices.  • Work directly in UCCX administration for call center agents.  • Support partner for WebEx and Cisco Jabber applications  • Execute server decommission request globally.  • Monitor and take action on infrastructure alerts such as Windows Server/ Network devices and Unix Servers. This includes over 2000 windows servers and 700+ network devices.  • Coordinate communications for major issues between the infrastructure teams in the company.  • Create, maintain, and publish IT documentation for our team and the Service desk team.  • Analyze and process our team's metrics.  • Support and maintain Verizon and ATT lines through carrier portals.  • Supported mobile devices including IOS and Android operating systems on multiple Platforms.  • Worked and supported devices using AirWatch. Service Desk Analyst St Jude Medical 2013 to 2014 As a service desk analyst, I was responsible for over the phone IT support for 20,000 St Jude Medical employees globally. I worked on a team of 20+ individuals and developed excellent customer service and technical skills.  • Responsible for first tier windows client-side based issues.  • Supported desktops, laptops, mobile devices, client side external and internal network issues and numerous applications throughout the company.  • Handled and processed IT requests from company employees.  • Created and processed documentation for the team.  • Responsible for monitoring network devices such as routers, switches and network appliances. Education Associate's in Computer Networking Systems in Computer Networking Systems Dunwoody College of Technology Skills Cisco, Network administration, Vmware, Cyber security, Best practices Additional Information Skills  System Administrator, Vmware, Cisco, network administration and design, Cyber security best practices