Network Administrator <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Network Engineer Ponchatoula, LA CompTIA Network + and Security + certified, Microsoft Technology Associate certified and CISCO Identity Service Engine (ISE) Subject Matter Expert for Marine Forces Reserve New Orleans. Active Secret Clearance. Accomplished Network Security and Net Admin Professional with 7 years of experience in Federal and Tactical environments. Demonstrated ability to independently resolve problems effectively in a fast-paced environment. Functions in a professional and courteous manner in difficult situations. Strong problem solving and trouble-shooting skills. Work Experience Network Administrator ACI Federal - New Orleans, LA June 2017 to Present • Lead Engineer multiple projects including Forescout configuration and implementation on an Enterprise level network.  • Performed advance network troubleshooting for sites across the US.  • Supported a Windows 10 software upgrade for all devices across the Marine Forces Reserve Network both unclassified and classified totaling over 10K devices.  • Troubleshoot Router and Switch configurations daily with little supervision.  • Implemented Aruba Clearpass for testing at a remote site.  • Conjoined Aruba Clearpass, Forescoute CounterACT and Cisco ISE on a live Enterprise network.  • Gained sole responsibility over all Cisco ISE servers totaling 8 for both unclassified and classified networks.  • Maintain 8 Cisco ISE servers as the ISE Subject Matter Expert (SME) for MARFORRES (Marine Forces Reserve New Orleans).  • Upgraded Cisco ISE and rebuilt 4 servers during the upgrade.  • Worked with Cisco Engineers to solve multiple issues pertaining to ISE and the DOD.  • Lead Researcher/Tester for new Cisco ISE network security tools for the Marine Forces Reserve in New Orleans. COOP (Services Migration) Pertinent Personnel June 2017 to Present • First Point of Contact for emergency COOP.  • Assisted with all Switch and Router IOS upgrades from May 2017 to present.  Network Administration Tier I: May 2017 - June 2017  • Provided Tier I troubleshooting for issues that came to the Net Admin Help Desk.  • Worked with FSR's (Field Service Representatives) on site connectivity issues.  • Performed basic troubleshooting. Network Operations Junior ACI Federal - New Orleans, LA May 2017 to Present IT Specialist Junior August 2016 to May 2017 • Prominent member of the Reserve Marine Corps MFD Team.  • Installed Multi-Function Devices (Large Office Printers) across the US.  • Assisted with hardware and software troubleshooting of all MFD's.  • Maintained 2000 Multi-Function Devices across the US.  • Completed Nation Wide project to replace all current MFD's with new Xerox MFD's.  • Completed State Wide project to replace all current MFD's with new Konica Minolta MFD's. Networking Team Lead United States Marine Corps - Camp Lejeune, NC August 2011 to August 2015 • Designed and installed network infrastructures for 2 separate forward operating bases in the Republic of Georgia while deployed  • LAN/WAN/BAN & VPNs Trained with real world experience.  • Provided Advance Network Support from the Network Operations Center (8 months while deployed) for 300 Marines.  • Selected to train other Marines in routing and switching.  • Assisted with building the infrastructure for the Network Operations Center for Camp Lejeune NC.  • Tracked $2M worth of routers, switches, and servers.  • Reimaged and configured desktop workstations:  • Hardware Troubleshooting/Repair and  • Upgrades Software Troubleshooting and  • Upgrades ( Network-wide)  • Setup networked devices including:  Routers, Switches, Servers, Mapped printers and other networked devices. Education Electronics Engineering ECPI University December 2016 to March 2019 High School Diploma Screven County HS August 2007 to June 2011 Skills ACTIVE DIRECTORY, BGP, CISCO, EIGRP, IPV6, Networking, Technical Support, Windows, Vmware, Security, VPN, firewalls, MPLS, DNS, Exchange Military Service Branch: United States Marine Corps Rank: E5 Sergeant Certifications/Licenses Network+ February 2014 to August 2021 Security+ September 2016 to August 2021 Microsoft Technology Associate November 2016 to Present Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    • IT Software and Hardware Repair  • Network Address Translation Troubleshooting (NAT)  • Server Deployment and Upgrades  • Network Security  • Advanced Troubleshooting  • Research & Development for CISCO ISE  • CISCO Identity Services Engine (ISE) Subject Matter Expert  • Role Based Authentication Policies  • Active Directory (AD)  • Wireless Infrastructure Engineering  • Virtual Networking & Troubleshooting  ? VPN  ? Defense Message Systems  ? VLAN  ? VM Servers  ? Virtual Desktop Infrastructure (VDI)  • Network Protocols & Network Troubleshooting  ? BGP  ? EIGRP  ? ACL creation  ? IPv6  ? PC Workstation Setup  ? IPv4  ? Configuring/Maintaining Networked Devices (Switches & Routers)