NETWORK ADMINISTRATOR <span class="hl">NETWORK</span> <span class="hl">ADMINISTRATOR</span> NETWORK ADMINISTRATOR New Wilmington, PA A highly qualified and determined information systems technician that has more than 6 years of technical training and knowledge. A tech who maintains their networks and servers with a balance of security and user friendliness. Can easily adapt to unforeseen situations while keeping a calm, professional atmosphere, but in return, solving the issue with steadfast dedication and precision. Comfortable with team-based environments and will not shy away from standalone work. While always looking to learn more, there is always room for training personnel with less experience. Work Experience NETWORK ADMINISTRATOR BECTECH INC October 2017 to June 2019 Employed under BecTech and contracted to go underway with the MDA's SBX-1 (sea band radar) platform. One of 3 techs on board that monitors and maintains a variety of equipment, to include; CCURE, IV&C, IAVA, Blue Coat, and VMware to name a few. Promoted to overall administrator for user accounts and Blue Coat proxy services.    - Optimized system security and performance with continuous proactive changes.  - Installed and configured 3 new data center racks with equipment to include Cisco 2901 routers, KVM switches, Cisco 3750 switches, 4 UPS's, and programed 2 new workstations to coincide with their respective racks.  - Drove the development of continuous improvement to the IT governance process. Implemented, maintained, developed and tested the installation and update of file servers, print servers, and application servers in all departments.  - Was the sole administrator for all Bluecoat Proxy services and firewall services and maintained DOD compliance.  - Lead the charge to install and maintain the IV&C CCTV camera network on board the vessel.  - Controlled and maintained the LAN/WAN network on board by form of 2 satellites.  - Supported and maintained the DTS TV system that is used by all personnel onboard the vessel. System includes more than 45 TV's, two transmitters and 2 receivers.  - Performed network system administration for SBX NMC Systems. Provided technical support for systems maintenance, repairs, installation, troubleshooting of non-BMDS electronic systems, such as DTS, IESS, Mission Integration Display System (MIDS), and NMC network US NAVY October 2011 to October 2017 Tactical Operations Command/Commander Task Force US NAVY November 2015 to September 2017 Lead HBSS, ACAS, and Exchange system administrator. Ran approximately 55 miles of new Cat-5, Fiber, and 10gbs cable throughout the commands building. Controlled and maintained system maintenance for 43 user workstations and peripheral equipment. SCI Networks system administrator US NAVY November 2012 to October 2015 lead VTC technician, SVoIP technician, extensive work with Cisco routers and switches. Manned a 20-person team for Damage Control, local element for EKMS, EKMS manager for SCI equipment.    - Consistently met deadlines and requirements for all production work orders.    - Recommended network security standards to management.    - Managed firewall, network monitoring and server monitoring both on- and off-site.    - Trained junior members of IT team regarding network security and troubleshooting of data circuits.    - Handled service requests, including initial troubleshooting and escalation.  - Trained users on how to properly operate equipment and software programs. Education High school or equivalent Skills Active directory, Cisco, Vmware, Voip, Cctv, Customer service, Networking, Windows 7, Technical Support, Windows Additional Information Skills & Abilities  - Customer Service  - User Support  - Technical Writing  - Cisco Routers/ Switches  - Bluecoat Proxy Services  - VMWare ESXI 5.5/6.5  - VoIP  - IV&C CCTV Cameras  - CCURE and iStar security panels  - HBSS  - Active Directory  - Program Installations  - Hardware Knowledge  - Troubleshooting