Network Administrator <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Network Administrator - Booz Allen Hamilton Lorton, VA • Seeking to obtain an IT position that optimizes my experiences as an IT specialist as well as having responsibilities for all aspects of IT including virtualization, networking and security Work Experience Network Administrator Booz Allen Hamilton - Springfield, VA September 2014 to Present • Responsible for maintaining our Production/Dev Test Netapp Flexpod  • Provide operational support to sites regarding issues with Camera and Radar malfunctions  • Help stand up Cisco UCS/Netapp Flexpod on VMware at the customers site  • Engineering solutions for various project and operational needs for U.S. Customs and Border Protection.  • Install new/rebuild existing Windows servers and configure hardware, peripherals, services, settings, directories, storage, etc. in accordance with standards and project/operational requirements.  • Perform daily system monitoring, verifying the integrity and availability of all hardware, server resources, systems and key processes, reviewing system and application logs, and verifying completion of scheduled jobs such as backups.  • Provide Tier III/other support per request from various constituencies. Investigate and troubleshoot issues.  • Repair and recover from hardware or software failures. Coordinate and communicate with impacted constituencies.  • Apply OS patches and upgrades on a regular basis, and upgrade administrative tools and utilities. Configure/add new services as necessary.  • Update and maintain any documentation such as Change Request, SOPs, and Installation Guide.  • Work with vendors (Cisco,Netapp, and VMware) to procure IT equipment and software. Network\Systems Integrator Engineer GloTech - Springfield, VA August 2013 to September 2014 • Perform integrations, configurations, and maintenance of software and hardware assets in a large multi-protocol environment using HP Proliant G7 Servers, NetApps, Cisco switches, VMware 4.1 and etc.  • Install/Configure Microsoft Server 2008 R2 and 2003 on Virtual Machines  • Perform setup, configuration, and troubleshooting of Blackberry Enterprise Server (BES) and Exchange 2010 server on Virtual Machines.  • Perform setup, configuration, and troubleshooting of NetApp Storage Solution and the expansion shell while also using Operations (OPS) Manger  • Configure Cisco switches (Catalyst 4500, 3700, 3500, 2900 series switches) with scripts and command line through the Hyper Terminal  • Configure thin clients with ghost images to be sent out to overseas post.  • Rack and configure Classified Tempest servers or HP ProLiant G7 servers to be shipped out to post Systems\VMware Administrator Optimal Solution Technology Inc - Washington, DC May 2012 to May 2013 • Design a Staging environment using VMware to help create a testing environment for new patches, software applications, new OS's, and etc  • In vSphere, I created reports on a weekly basis to monitor our VMware infrastructure  • Perform monthly patching using my WSUS server to push out Microsoft patching  • Install/update/patch servers and applications  • Travel to our Datacenter to do Change Request, maintenance work, or Upgrades to physical servers  • Install PKI certificates in my EVM environment  • Maintain management platform (ESXi) and hosted applications.  • Facilitate the deployment of applications into the environment.  • Configure vSphere client platform for monthly security scanning using the NESSUS application.  • Install/Configure Linux OS on Virtual Machines  • Support Virtual Machines that have Microsoft 2008 OS  • Configure EMC SAN by zoning to allocate the LUNS to VMware Infrastructure  • Run Daily Scans using the NESSUS applications to mitigate High, Mid, and Lows vulnerabilities  • Update/Create EVM (External Virtual Machine Infrastructure Implantation) administrative SOPs  • Research VMware license for pricing and expiration to consolidate into one contract Network Engineer Apex Systems, Inc - Fort Belvoir, VA April 2012 to September 2012 • Continuous monitoring of DTRA Enterprise IT Services and Systems such as unexpected changes in network performance, Bandwidth utilization, and resource utilization.  • Serve as primary interface between Network Operations and DTRA Enterprise IT System Owners  • Use network monitoring tools such as SCOM (System Center Operations Manager) and Solar Winds/monitor to determine the overall health and status of the DTRA Enterprise IT Services and Systems to include:  • Create tickets in Remedy for critical SCOM alerts, IT Outages and other troubleshooting needs, escalating if necessary  • Advise Shift Lead's of critical situations and resolution of issues impacting DTRA Enterprise IT Services and Systems.  • Track and monitor all Authorized Service Interruptions (Planned Outages) to include updating the CIO's Planned Outage calendar.  • Review the DTRA NOSC, NetOps and SPAM e-mail boxes. Take appropriate actions to acknowledge correspondence.  • Broadcast IT Outages, Scheduled Outages and Twelve Hour Status reports as well as accurately maintain Outage logs.  • Responsible for gathering and maintaining accurate contact information for all system owners and system administrators.  • Responsible for updating SPAM and Web Filter configuration settings.  • Provide alternate Help Desk services during non-core DTRA hours. System Administrator Link Solutions Inc - Washington, DC June 2011 to April 2012 • Ensure that peripherals are working properly by troubleshooting the print servers on the classification and un-classification servers  • Was a team lead for the Installation/Services Printer Team  • Conducted local training on the printer installation process for team members  • Assigned as team lead on printer projects while having 1-3 team members at a time report to me  • Create/maintain accounts in Active Directory on the unclass and class servers  • Installed over 50 different types of printers ranging from Xerox, HP, Canon and etc  • Update information on the Active Directory servers  • Update information on the print servers and network drives  • Set up a GhostCast server to image classified machines  • Create an image for unclassified and classified machines to be deployed  • Repair hardware failure through troubleshooting  • Surplus old PCs and install new PCs on the classification and un-classification sides  • Install/update computer software such as Adobe and Microsoft Suite  • Create a backup and recovery of users' network drives  • Articulate computer solutions with end users  • Implement the policies for the use of the computer system  • Coordinate with various IT specialist in different bureaus to fulfill their needs IT Generalist / System Administrator SRA, International - Washington, DC September 2010 to April 2011 • Support over 1500 users with technical and informative assistances in office, home and on travel.  • Assist Tier I and II technicians with hardware/software problems.  • Investigate and resolve customer trouble tickets for Domestic and International customers, with a variety of network implementations including, Point-To-Point Dedicated IP, VPN designs.  • Heavy emphasis on Internet Protocol network connectivity, routing and switching  • Utilize the Novell iManager and Active Directory.  • Repair and Troubleshooting connectivity issues dedicated IP Network and MPLS VPN Peerless IP network at the logical layer.  • Assigned to be the Blackberry administrator to maintain all of blackberry's issues. Communicate with carrier provider for information and updates, upgrading/surplus phones, maintain the phones in our inventory website, serve as a technical solution specialist and contact the Blackberry Enterprise to find solutions while handling sensitive information.  • Respond to user technical questions and general requests with IPCC telephone systems and Altiris (Deployment Console).  • Keep log on user problems with Heat Ticketing system to provide the accurate and speedy solutions.  • Physically install Cisco desktop phones as well as manually configuring them, also provide support to customers using the Cisco web interface to configure the Cisco phones.  • Maintain the IT procedure documentations for future use. Brought this project up to standard so the company will have a standard process to use.  • Test the new images to be deployed onto the Dell Laptops or desktops. Report any malfunction or bug of the software application.  • Organize teleconference meeting by using the "Cisco Unified Meeting Place".  • Support the user's remote access to our site and provide Mobile Key to access their office computer.  • Support users who want to secure their file by using McAfee Endpoint Encryption.  • Verified network issues between client and server.  • Assist users with Cisco VPN and Citrix connectivity issues.  • Maintain accurate, complete and up-to-date inventory records of all computers and printers.  • Trained customers on using equipment Technical Support Engineer Gates Hudson & Associates, Inc - Fairfax, VA July 2010 to September 2010 • Support over 300 end-users in 60 offices in VA, MD, and DC area.  • Heavy emphasis on Internet Protocol network connectivity, routing and switching  • Verify/Authenticate the use of Microsoft SharePoint for a project.  • Analyze CISCO routers, identify, troubleshoot, and resolve all routing and port issues  • Respond to client tickets using Help Desk Authority 8.  • Maintain all user accounts with Active Directory 2010.  • Backup/archive data on Dell NAS storage system.  • Set up accounts on Blackberry's through Blackberry Enterprise.  • Call vendors to escalate issues on equipment (Apple, Blackberry, Nextel, etc).  • Perform PC Maintenance, PC's malware and spyware, and install Windows update, Office products, Anti-Spyware/Virus, etc.  • Remote support with (Logmein.com) remote management software.  • Perform E-mail management, troubleshooting on Outlook and web based email using Exchange server 2010.  • Maintain the Terminal Server operation.  • Support Nextel phones and others (Blackberry's, HTC, Storm, iPhone).  • Troubleshoot computer hardware and software.  • Generate reports using PowerShell.  • Create digital documentation for projects using Microsoft Visio 2010.  • Troubleshoot high speed internet services/remote sites internet hardware (including making cat5 cables). Student Technology Assistant Virginia Commonwealth University, Dept of School of Pharmacy - Richmond, VA June 2009 to December 2009 • Create and maintain accounts using Active Directory Services.  • Support faculty member emails using Lotus Notes.  • Design room diagrams using Microsoft Visio.  • Maintain computer inventory using Spriceworks and Active Directory Service.  • Support staff and students on computer issues (Served as technical liaison to external vendors, such as: Apple, Dell, Western Digital and HP).  • Create and build images on computers using Ghost Client.  • Troubleshoot computer hardware, develop solutions for the issues identified and implement the solution:  • Replace hard-drive  • Replace motherboard  • Add memory  • Replace LCDs for laptops  • Setup & support Video/Tele Conference meeting to communicate with the INOVA Fairfax Campus, Roanoke Carillion Hospital, University of Maryland & other facilities.  • Maintain student computer lab computers, printers, and printer consumables.  • Support faculty, staff and student mobile devices (mainly iPod touch device).  • Configure and test network ports using LanScaper. Technical Support/Information Technology Division Intern Virginia State Corporation Commission - Richmond, VA May 2008 to August 2008 • Distribute/Configure client's hardware/software for a project.  • Develop mechanism to improve communication between technical support staff and the business user community.  • Install & configure Local/ Network printers.  • Manage inventory and surplus equipment.  • Perform system upgrades and data/application migration.  • Create images using Acronis and Ghost Client to backup and migrate to new machines.  • Configure laptop with PGP encryption. Education Bachelor of Science in Information Systems Virginia Commonwealth University - Richmond, VA December 2009 Skills Active directory, Vmware, Encryption, Networking, Unix, Ghost, Blackberry, Wireshark, Microsoft visual studio, Microsoft visual studio 6, Visual studio, Visual studio 6, C#, Magic, Visio, Linux, Erd, Rational, Rational rose, Ads Additional Information Computer Skills  • BUSINESS APPLICATIONS: Microsoft Office (including Access, Visio, Project), WordPerfect.  • LANGUAGES: C# (Beginner), Microsoft Visual Studio 6.0 (Beginner), PowerShell (Beginner).  • GRAPHICS/ANIMATION: Lightly use of Adobe Illustrator & Adobe Photoshop.  • OS: Windows XP, Vista, 7, Windows 2003, 2008 Server, UNIX, Linux/Fedora (9).  • OTHER: PGP Encryption , GHOST Client, Acronis, Midnight Commander (mc), VMware Workstation, IBM Rational Rose, Active Directory Services (ADS), Smartsync Pro, Parted Magic, WireShark, ERD Commander, Blackberry Manager, Intermedia, Lotus Notes.  • Networking - Configure Linksys routers, Create Cat5 Cables.