Sr. Network Engineer Sr. <span class="hl">Network</span> Engineer Sr. Network Engineer - State Farm Chicago, IL • Have Experience in Cisco Routing, Switching and Security with strong Cisco hardware/software.  • Proficient with network hardware and technologies including routers, switches, firewalls, Ethernet, Fast Ethernet, Gigabit Ethernet.  • Configured Cisco 2500, 2600, 3000, 6500, 7500, 7200 Series routers  • Configured Hardware Platforms Cisco Routers - ISR 4431, 3800, 3900, ASR 1002X and 7600, 9000.  • Configured Cisco Catalyst 2960, 3750, 4500, 6500 and Nexus 3000, 5000, 6000, 7000 series switches.  • Troubleshoot TCP/IP problems; troubleshoot connectivity issues in multi-protocol Ethernet, Environment.  • Switched telephone network (PSTN), PPP, ISDN, Frame Relay, TCP/IP, and VPN.  • Experience in monitoring and troubleshooting of ISE and Cisco MSE.  • Experience with Aruba wireless controllers & Access points.  • Monitored POS and web applications for latency or other connectivity issues - Solar Winds, NetQos, NTop,Splunk.  • Well Experienced in configuring protocols HSRP, GLBP, VRRP, ICMP, IGMP, PPP, HDLC, PAP, CHAP, and SNMP  • Configuring & troubleshooting MPLS VPN circuits, IP VPN, Internet circuits.  • Provided engineering support for network infrastructure such as proxies, load balancers, encryption, remote access servers (terminal servers/Citrix servers), Remote client access, Network Admission Control (NAC), VPNs, SSL accelerators, WAN optimizers, DHCP controllers, and performance analyzers).  • Performed IOS upgrades on CISCO routers and Switches.  • Experience in Configuring, upgrading and verifying the NX-OS operation system.  • Providing support for F5 Load Balancers version 10.2, ASM and APM  • Strong asp of current and future technologies including TCP/IP, IPv4/v6, RIP, EIGRP, OSPF, BGP, Frame Relay, ACL, VPN, Wireless LAN and configuration of VLANS.  • Had Substantial Knowledge including the configuration of Spanning Tree Protocol(STP), Per VLAN  • Spanning Tree (PVST), Rapid STP (RSTP) and Rapid per VLAN Spanning Tree Protocol (PVST+).  Proficient in operation of Cisco Nexus 5K switches with Fabric Extender using VPC, VLAN, STP and LACP.  • Hands on experience on Juniper firewalls and Wrote and tested 'Migration and Upgrade' MOP's for Juniper MX-960's in our customers core.  • Configuring and troubleshooting of SRX firewall series.  • Design & administer public wireless using Cisco 5500 WLC and Cisco Prime for network monitoring and configuration.  • Advanced proficiency with Cisco Wireless (APs, Controllers, ISE and Prime).  • Assisted in refresh of data center network refresh to Nexus 9k leaf switches.  • Configured and managed VLANs, 802.1Q Trunk, RPVST+, Inter-VLAN routing, HSRP and LAN security for Layer-2 and Layer-3 switching domains.  • Have Strong Knowledge and experience in designing, supporting and troubleshooting of IPSEC VPN's and Remote access SSL VPN'S  • Have Hands on experience in implementing F5 BIG-IP load balancer  • Experience in implementation of F5 GTM based on topology load balancing methods.  • Having experience in deploying BIG-IP F5LTM load balancers for Load balancing and traffic management of business application.  • Advanced knowledge of L2/L3 network protocols ( Fabric Path,vPC, VXLAN, Ethernet, RSTP/ MSTP, TCP/IP, IPv4/v6 routing, FHRP, EIGRP, OSPF, BGP, Multicast, MPLS, QoS)  • Configured Cisco Access Control Server (ACS) to enforce security policy in User Groups.  • Firewall technologies including general configuration, risk analysis, security policy, rules creation and  Modification of Check Point R65, R70 & R77, Palo Alto and Cisco ASA.  • Installed Operating System and configured kernel parameters for Linux /UNIX servers.  • Design and deploy Cisco ACS Server solutions including TACACS+, High Availability, Active Directory integration, etc.  • Hands on experiences on McAfee EPO with deploying and removing agent on client's machine,  • installation using Cisco 7500, 8500, 5508 Wireless LAN controllers, Cisco Prime Infrastructure equipment and Cisco Identity Services Engine (ISE).  • Involved in troubleshooting of DNS, DHCP and other IP conflict problems.  • Experience in troubleshooting NAT configurations, Access-Lists (ACL), and DNS/DHCP related issues within LAN Network.  • Hands on in deployment of GRE tunneling, SSL, Site-Site IPSEC VPN and DMVPN.  • Extensive work experience with Cisco Call Manager Express, CUCM and Cisco Unity Express.  • Extensive work& troubleshoot experience of VOIP Phones, Dial Peers, Dial Plan, DID and other  Tele-communication services linked to CME.  • Implemented traffic filters on CISCO routes using Standard Access List and Extended Access List. Work Experience Sr. Network Engineer State Farm - Bloomington, IL August 2018 to Present Key Responsibilities:  • Administer, troubleshoot and provide technical support for telecommunications, network (LAN/WAN) infrastructure, firewalls.  • Redirecting the traffic through Layer 3 switch using WCCP and ACLs to a specific server to optimize resource network usage and improve the response time.  • Deploy new devices in the infrastructure environment, which includes implementation of Cisco Nexus (N2248, N3172, N5548, N5696, N5672, N5596, N7018, N7010, N9396, N93180, N9504 and 9508), IOS platform (6500s, 3850, 3945, 9300 and 9500) and firewalls (ASA and FirePOWER.  • Migration of the End-of-Life hardware gear in the data centers and logistic centers to the latest Catalyst switches (9300 and 9500) and Nexus 9K (N93180 and N9504) infrastructure.  • Migration of L3 gateways/routers from N7K (N7010 and N7018) to Nexus 9K (9504 and 9508) in DC1 and DC2. Provide network infra and support for the UCS (Compute and Bare-Metal) and the Storage clusters, which includes console, management and the network connectivity with complete redundancy.  • Implementation of new management network in the Home Office (Plano, TX and Bangalore, India) for the remote access to the network, compute and storage devices.  • Configure and work on Routing Protocols (BGP, EIGRP, OSPF, IS-IS, HSRP and VRRP) and Switching Protocols (VTP, STP, RSTP, PVSTP+) on daily basis for new projects and support the existing environment.  • Configured VPC, FEX on Nexus 5K, 7K and 9K and configured multiple VDC's on 7K (7010 and 7018).  • Performed network administration tasks such as creation and management of VLANS, Port security, Trunking, RPVST+, Inter-VLAN routing, and LAN security.  • Primarily responsible for the implementation of ACI Infrastructure in both production data centers (DC1 and DC2), which includes the deployment of Nexus 9k switches and managing tenants with application profiles, EPGs, and contracts to a specific application.  • Deploying Cisco ACI (Spine and leaf switches) and APIC Controllers.  • Configured ACI Policies, Tenants, Bridge Domain, Private Networks, Contracts and Filters. Configured ACI integration with VMware.  • Worked on integrating existing Layer 2 and Layer-3 networks with ACI.  • Integrated of layer 4 - 7 services (ASA 5585) and FirePOWER Firewalls with ACI.  • Configuring and implementing load balancing features to an in-production web server cluster using Citrix NetScaler LB.  • Intensively working on Load Balancing migrations, which involves the migration of the applications/VIPs from NetScaler MPX hardware to upgraded NetScaler SDX devices.  • Have deployed multiple new VPX instances within the SDX physical hardware for multiple environment (Prod, NonProd, DMZ and PCI dedicated.)  • Performed Network Security Assessment and implemented security features such as network filtering, SSH, AAA, SNMP access lists, VTY access lists, EIGRP MD5 authentication, and HSRP authentication.  • Worked on TACACS+ and RADIUS server for AAA authentication and user authentication.  • Perform hardware refresh and IOS code upgrades and software backups for the security firewalls, network switches and routers, and load balancers.  • Identify and troubleshoot network issues using CLI and network management tools like Wire shark.  • Worked extensively in Configuring, Monitoring and Troubleshooting Cisco's ASA 5500 (5545 and 5585) and FirePower. Implementation of Access Lists for allowing/blocking desired traffic.  • Engage in ON-CALL rotation, which needs working on priority-1 and priority-2 cases in real-time providing immediate solutions to the issues impacting the live production.  • Key contribution includes troubleshooting of complex LAN/WAN infrastructure that include routing protocols EIGRP, OSPF, BGP and any switching issues.  • Provide customer service using ticketing systems to manage and solve IT issues. (JIRA)  • Perform backups of device configurations and solving port security issues.  • Monitor performance of network and servers to identify potential problems and bottleneck.  • Provide A/V and PA solutions and install, commission and maintain different kinds of A/V and PA equipment.  • Support Video Conferencing systems. Experience supporting Cisco VoIP and voice-mail systems. Sr. Network Engineer DTE Energy - Detroit, MI June 2017 to July 2018 Key Responsibilities:  • Designed, validated and implemented LAN, WLAN & WAN solution to client's needs.  • Testing includes call processing, routing protocol testing, testing network handover, automated as well as manual testing and troubleshooting the issues.  • Installed, reconfigured various Layer 3 routers (1800, 2500, 2600, 2800, 3800, 7200, 12010) and Layer 2 switches (2950, 2950, 4503, 4507, 6500, 6503, 6507).  • Cisco ASA Firewall install/implementation and administration were also part of duties in this administrator role.  • Racking of all network equipment, including Cisco 2960 access switches, Cisco 6880 distribution switches, Cisco 2951 Integrated Services router, Cisco 5508 wireless LAN controllers, Cisco ASA 5515 security appliances, Bluecoat ProxySG secure web gateways, and IBM X3530 M4 servers.  • Have hands-on experience working with the port-channels, layer-2 migration methods, which involves the replacement of CISCO switches with the latest switches (Nexus 5k and 7k series).  • Experience with moving data center from one location to another location, from 6500 based data center to Nexus based data center.  • Design Layer 2/Layer 3 network for cloud hosting data centers and enterprise networks.  • Install and setup Cisco Nexus 7K, 5K and 2K switches for the data center.  • Experience working with Cisco Nexus 3000 for deploying the OOB network for the data center.  • Rolled out existing flat structure of branch site with Cisco 3640, 3600, 3800, 7200 routers and used Cisco PIX510 to provide firewall security.  • Configured and designed LAN networks with Access layer switches such as Cisco 4510, 4948, 4507.  • Configured the Cisco Nexus 7018 routers, Cisco Catalyst 6509-E router and Cisco Nexus 5000 series switches.  • Implement ATM/Frame Relay between data centers utilizing Cisco routers & switches.  • Hosted weekly RTB status meeting with support technical teams to identify root cause of existing issues and determine resolution.  • Prepared daily RTB completion reports of data analysis and tasks and also the RTB scorecard.  • Create and maintain security and disaster prevention policies and procedures on Juniper M and E series routers.  • Deployed unicast OTV and multicast OTV creating multiple overlays through an MPLS core.  • Conducted design workshop involving Nexus 7706, 5k, 2k, 4500 with OTV, VPC protocol.  • Have worked with hardware like Cisco OSR 7613, GSR 1216 and Cisco (5k and 6k series) and also, Juniper series (M320, and MX 960).  • Conducted penetration testing for technologies and known security flaw concepts (XSS. Injection etc.).  • Implemented Layer 2 security policies to mitigate attacks by hard coding access port, Port-security violation policies, configuring all unused port in Black hole VLAN.  • Design OSPF and CRS routing for reliable Access Distribution and for Core IP Routing.  • Solving ticketing issues, which rise during testing routing protocols like IGRP, EIGRP, OSPF, IGP, BGP, TCP/IP, Static and Dynamic Routing, IPv4 and IPv6.  • Managed monitoring of product lines of Juniper routing (MX 960 and MX 320)/switching/security/security portfolio (MX, PTX, EX, SRX).  • Troubleshooting and monitored routing protocols such RIP, OSPF, IGP, EIGRP & BGP.  • Configuration rules and maintaining Palo Alto Firewalls & Analysis of firewall logs using various tools.  • Troubleshooting of Palo Alto Firewalls.  • Worked extensively in designing, Configuring, and Troubleshooting in connecting vendors to Morgan's network, cisco's 2921, 1841, 395E with ACL, NAT, Prefix list, Community, Failovers.  • Responsible for turning up, upgrading BGP peering and debugging BGP routing problems.  • Worked with LAN protocols like STP, RSTP, MST, VTP, VLAN and Port Channel Protocols like LACP, PAGP and also, performing troubleshooting in Frame-Mode MPLS in the core.  • Coordinate scheduling and routing for traffic/transportation.  • Performing on site and remote security consulting, which include penetration testing, web-based application testing and web services testing.  • Reviewing and approving method validation, transfer protocols, testing routing and switching protocol reports and data packages.  • Responsible for service request tickets generated by the helpdesk in all phases such as troubleshooting, maintenance, upgrades, patches and fixes with all around technical support.  • Tested the availability and uptime of Sprints network methods and tools like Wireshark, non- intrusive Loop testing, MW 24 hr block error test and Q-scope (Spirent test box).  • Provided Load balancing towards access layer from core layer using F5 Network Load Balancers.  • Upgraded load balancers from Radware to F5 BigIP v9, which improved functionality and scalability.  • Managed the traffic using the F5 load balancing techniques.  • Managed the F5 BigIP GTM/LTM appliances to include writing iRules, SSL offload and everyday task of creating WIP and VIPs.  • Daily operations of the RTP Global Client Service Center, to include reactive fault, ticket, change and outage management.  • Write & review test plans for IEEE 802.11a/b/g, 802.11e, 802.11D+H, 802.11R, 802.11n etc. as well as proprietary features.  • Segmented traffic into different classification using access control list (ACL).  • Configured and troubleshooting of HSRP on routers to improve uptime of collocation customers.  • Implemented TCP/IP and related services like DHCP/DNS/WINS.  • Project involves testing of Wi-Fi Certification Features like WPA2, WMM and WMM-PS, Wi-Fi WPA2.  • Experience of VMware ESXi and VMware Infrastructure and also, vSphere infrastructure.  • Perform systems engineering and quality assurance role for support teams offering managed corporate IT infrastructure support for MS Windows server and VMware vSphere 5.x technologies.  • Designing and Implementation of (LAN) VLANs, VTP, Spanning Tree (STP), Trunking (dot1q and ISL) and Ether channel.  • Upgrading IOS - Upgrading hardware and installing new devices, turning and make standardization. Network Security Engineer FedEx - Memphis, TN July 2014 to May 2017 Key Responsibilities:  • Assisted the network team in maintaining the campus network.  • Maintained a network lab with more than 30 routers (3k, 4k, 6k series), 50+ switches (2k, 3k series), firewall and other network devices like DHCP, DNS servers and VPN concentrators.  • Supporting data center consist of Nexus 7k, 6500, 3750x, 3850x, Various Cisco router 39xx, 29xx, 28xx and 4431 equipment and install new products and debug network insures.  • Experience working with migration from 6500 series devices to 4500 Series switches in Campus deployments at Core, Distribution and Access Layers.  • Review plans and design for remote DR conversion from CISCO 6500 to Nexus product line.  • Experience working with Cisco routers from 1600 to 12416 series, Juniper routers (M10, M20, M40).  • Juniper MX960 product and services as required and testing on MX960 in SPIP environment.  • Configured, installed, & managed DHCP, DNS, & WINS servers.  • Integrated L2 networking in Datacenter infrastructure design using OTV between the datacenters interconnected by DWDM rings.  • Provided senior network support for over 1500 ASA firewalls and F5 LTM support.  • Provided support of F5 BigIP and F5 GTM's load balancer network issues and changes.  • Maintained the health of 40+ wireless devices throughout the campus.  • Designed ACLs, VLANs, troubleshooting IP addressing issues and taking back up of the configurations on switches and routers.  • Responsible for managing and changing all RTB and CTB activities with the client.  • Switching related tasks included implementing VLANS and configuring ISL trunk on Fast-Ethernet and Gigabit Ethernet channel between switches.  • Successfully installed Palo Alto PA-3060 firewall to protect data centers.  • Design and configuring Overlay Transport Virtualization on Cisco NX-OS devices like Nexus 7000.  • Experience working with ASR 9000 series switches with IOS-XR.  • Implemented Firewall and IDS/IPS solutions to mitigate client risks and analyzed security issues.  • Solutions also took into security compliance standards like DoD STIGs, HIPPA and PCI standards.  • Assisted in backing up, restoring and upgrading the Router and Switch IOS.  • Upgrading IOS - Upgrading hardware and installing new devices, Tuning (Configuration), make standardization for the topology.  • Helped the network team to install new switches and routers and configure the IOS according to the requirement which included VLAN, OSPF, Subnetting, EIGRP, IGP, BGP, VTP, PaGP, spanning-tree, IP Subnetting, wireless access points, T1 circuits and PIM-SM using auto RP.  • Worked with LAN protocols like STP, RSTP, MST, VTP, VLAN, LACP and PAGP.  • Implemented Site-to-Site VPNs over the Internet utilizing 3DES, AES/AES-256 with ASA Firewalls.  • Experience with migrating from Cisco ASA 8.2 version to Cisco ASA 8.4 Version.  • Experience with convert PIX rules over to the Cisco ASA solution.  • Responsible for Cisco ASA firewall administration across our global networks.  • Assisted campus for VOIP network management and troubleshoot.  • Worked on Data, VoIP, security as well as wireless installations and technologies.  • Experience of VMware ESXi and VMware Infrastructure.  • Desktop support for users including, MS Office, Windows 2000/XP, MAC, Linux, Operated and staffed help desk support for more than 500 users and 5 computer Laboratories.  • Worked with new installations, upgrades, and maintenance of the LAN/WAN, Network Security, Internet, and set up and repair desktop PCs using Windows 2000/XP/MAC/Linux for 350 users. Sr. Network Engineer Mascon - Bengaluru, Karnataka January 2013 to June 2014 Key Responsibilities:  • Worked in Configuration and extension of VLAN from one network segment to other segment between different vendor switches (Cisco, Juniper).  • Provided Technical support in terms of upgrading, improving and expanding the network.  • Nexus 2000 and 5000 architecture support and configuration.  • Migration customer from aging 3750 switches to Nexus environment including Nexus 7010 switch.  • Providing technical security proposals, detailed RFP responses, and security presentation, installing and configuring ASA firewalls, VPN networks and redesigning security architectures.  • Key contributions include troubleshooting of complex LAN/WAN infrastructure that includes routing protocols EIGRP, OSPF, IGP & BGP.  • Configuration of ACL, NAT, OSPF, IGP, BGP, PPP, Frame Relay, Spanning-Tree, Trunking.  • Advanced Knowledge on TCP/IP, Cisco IOS, VolP and OSI model.  • Maintained physical topology and configuration for backward compatibility and security aspects.  • Installation, monitoring and optimizing all security related to layer 2 and layer 3 segments.  • Provides network design and implementation of LAN/WAN utilizing ASA 5500 and Juniper firewalls.  • Involved in configuring and implementing of Composite Network models consists of Cisco 3750, 2620 and, 1900 series routers and Cisco 2950, 3500 Series switches.  • Configured NAT, RIP, and EIGRP on 2901 and 3925 Cisco routers.  • Managed DNS, DHCP, BIG IP F5 load balancers and VMware.  • Experience on Cisco ASA, Juniper SRX, and F5 series of load balancers.  • Involved in customer escalations and troubleshooting issues related to connectivity, STP, VLAN, Trunking, VTP, Layer 2/3 switching, Ether channels, Inter-VLAN routing, log messages, high CPU utilization and parameters that can degrade performance of network.  • Configured RIP, OSPF and Static routing on Juniper M and MX series Routers.  • Data center to new Juniper M120.  • Configured VLANS to isolate different departments and implement LAN/WAN over 13 branches.  • Worked in setting up inter-vlan routing, redistribution, access-lists and dynamic routing.  • Configure switch VLANs and inter-switch communication. Build and setup network Laboratory.  • Configured VLANS on multiple catalyst switches performed troubleshooting on TCP/IP network problems, Administered Frame-Relay and networks.  • Troubleshoot issues related to VLAN, VLAN Trunking, HSRP failovers, related issues.  • Design and implement Catalyst/ASA Firewall Service Module for various LAN's.  • Actively involved in troubleshooting on network problems with Wireshark, identifying and fixing problems.  • Time to time upgrade network connectivity between branch and regional office with multiple link paths and routers running HSRP, EIGRP in unequal cost load balancing to build resilient network. Network Engineer/ Administrator Orkan Energy PVT - Bengaluru, Karnataka June 2011 to December 2012 Key Responsibilities:  • Installation and Configuration of wide variety of Cisco Routers such as 3600 series and Layer 2 switches such as 1900, 2900.  • Configuration and Troubleshooting of Routing protocols like OSPF, IGP and BGP.  • Configure and Troubleshooting FortiGate firewall Appliances to Restrict Inbound Traffic from Untrusted Sources as endpoint security.  • Configure the access policies and VPN policies in checkpoint firewall.  • Implementing and Troubleshooting VLANS, Trunks, VTP & STP.  • Coordinating with Local (sify and Reliance) and Global ISPs (CNW and TATA) to trouble shoot routing issues.  • Experience with protocols such as Frame Relay, IEEE 802.11 and VLAN, OSPF and BGP, DNS, DHCP, FTP, NTP, SNMP, SMTP and TELNET.  • Trunking, VTP, Layer 2/3 switching, Ether channels, Inter-VLAN routing, log messages, high CPU utilization and parameters that can degrade performance of network.  • Configured VLANS on multiple catalyst switches performed troubleshooting on TCP/IP network problems, Administered Frame-Relay and networks.  • Configured ACL & NAT through CLI.  • Installed, configured (through CLI & SDM) and managed CISCO routers and Catalyst switches.  • Set up Internet, implementing Networking products like Servers, Proxy servers, Switches, Firewalls, Routers.  • Taking configuration backups of all the Firewalls Routers and Switches on monthly basis. Coordination of Engineers at various located across the world.  • Providing node up time reports to customer on monthly basis and provide 24x7 supports. Education Punjab Technical University May 2012 Skills Backbone, Bgp, Catalyst, Cisco, Citrix, E1, E3, Eigrp, Juniper, Layer 2, Layer 3, Mpls, Ospf, Router, Sonet, Switching, T1, T3, Vlan, Vmware Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/simranjeet-s-6778b4185