Field Technician III, Northern Field Technician III, Northern Field Technician III, Northern - Charter-Spectrum Middletown, NY To obtain a position in computer support, where my technical, organizational and problem solving skills can be utilized. Work Experience Field Technician III, Northern Charter-Spectrum - Manhattan, NY 2017 to Present • Perform installations, troubleshooting and maintenance for voice, Internet and TV services  • Assist a range of clientele in understanding Spectrum products features and functionality.  • Test signal levels and investigate possible culprits of signal loss and service issues.  • Keep customers in the communication loop until problem is resolved. System Administrator 2014 to Present • Manage system network consisting of 150 computers, both UNIX and Windows servers across 12 locations.  • Installed and configured workstations for IP/IPX based LAN  • Maintain VOIP Phone system, configure extensions, auto attendant, call groups and perform firmware upgrades.  • Provide daily server maintenance, load catalogs and barcodes with Barcode Expert and monthly software updates.  • Backup Management, Reporting and Recovery  • Configure Jet streams and dumb terminals.  • Configure and implement Remote Access Solution: VPN, ISDN dial up, Fractional T1 System Administrator Arch Auto Parts - Queens, NY 2014 to 2017 Assistant Store Manager 2012 to 2014 • Managed day to day store operations, supervised staff and monitored daily financial transactions.  • Provided leadership and training to cashiers, drivers and stock clerks.  • Presented upper management with regular updates on store performance.  • Maintained thorough body of knowledge relating to product offerings, inventory, and sales promotions.  • Analyzed daily sales activity to eliminate errors and prepared end of day sales reporting.  • Worked with escalated customers to resolve concerns quickly and uphold a positive company image. Dispatcher 2011 to 2012 • Reviewed, scheduled and mapped deliveries for commercial orders throughout New York City and Long Island.  • Dispatched drivers and assisted in resolving impromptu requests and complaints.  • Monitored and maintained inventory, based on purchasing trends and seasonal needs. Network Technician II Georgetown, GY 2001 to 2003 • Supervised installations of fiber optic line throughout various geographic regions.  • Tested telephone lines using Frame Network technology.  • Opened and closed trouble tickets, as well as built and improved existing reports in the AS400 network.  • Prepared quality control reports upon satisfactory completion. Education Associate Skills Java, As400, Microsoft office, Pos Certifications/Licenses Driver's License Additional Information SKILLS    Proven ability to lead under pressure, successfully take on challenges and learn new concepts quickly.    COMPUTER SKILLS    • Microsoft Office  • AS400  • Ultimate POS  • Java  • ARRIS, RIO, and WorkAssure