Junior Developer Junior Developer Stayton, OR ? Software engineering/ Network Administrator experience in both private and government environments  ? Graduated with BS in Computer Science  ? Proficient with Java/J2EE, HTML, JQuery, CSS, Kotlin and PL/SQL  ? Experience developing with AWS cloud services Work Experience Junior Developer KFORCE Supporing HP's Software Solutions Team - Corvallis, OR November 2018 to August 2019 • Provided support for Mopria's Certification Tool primarily written in Kotlin and built with Gradle  • Implemented new features as direct by the Mopria Technology Work Group  • Executed Regression and UI Android testing using Appium  • Ensures 70% code coverage with JUnit and Mockito tests Network Administrator/Programmer Freres Lumber - Lyons, OR February 2017 to October 2018 Provided Computer Support to end users and administrators of various division  ? Set up and configured Windows/Linux servers for both testing and production environments  ? Set up and configured Cisco, HP and Ubiquiti switches  ? Developed and maintained a Jenkins continuous integration environment with Junit testing and EasyPMD static code analysis as well as Bitbucket code repository  ? Maintained and improved in house ERP program to meet business requirements of various divisions within Freres Lumber using Java/J2EE and JSF/Primefaces framework combined with AWS cloud services.  ? Designed and implemented wireless infrastructure in each manufacturing facility  ? Migrated to and administered Office 365  ? Designed and implement REST services to interface with various 3rd party software Software Engineer Montana Fish, Wildlife and Parks - Helena, MT January 2016 to February 2017 Montana  ? Team member of the Application Development Bureau  ? Design and built software to meet business requirements of various divisions within Montana FWP using Java/J2EE and Struts2 framework.  ? Served as Administrator for Content Management System producing public web content.  ? Maintained existing web application using JIRA ticketing system and Agile methodology to track bugs and time. Computer Support Specialist Lewis and Clark County - Helena, MT May 2014 to January 2016 Responsible for creating and resolving helpdesk tickets for various computer problems throughout the county  ? Installed new computers, printers and network equipment.  ? Supported Microsoft Office, Unidesk, VMWare, Novell and other third party products Education Bachelor of Arts in Computer Science in Software Engineering Design Carroll College - Helena, MT May 2016 Skills System Administrator (1 year), MYSQL (1 year), Javascript (2 years), Android (1 year), Git (3 years), Jquery (1 year), CSS (2 years), Java (3 years), Kotlin (Less than 1 year)