Network Administrator/Quality Assurance <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span>/Quality Assurance Network Administrator Amarillo, TX Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Network Administrator/Quality Assurance PBFCM, LLP - Amarillo, TX March 2016 to Present Test software before it releases to production. IT support for clients throughout the firm. Host Red Robin - Amarillo, TX January 2012 to May 2016 Host  Red Robin- Amarillo, TX  01/2012 - 05/2016    Monitoring the open sections of the restaurant for empty and cleaned tables, estimating wait times for guests, monitoring the guest, monitoring the guest wait list, and ensuring that the needs of the guest are met. Produce Clerk Amarillo, TX February 2014 to March 2016 Acknowledge, greet, and engage that guest. Perform all produce processing, sanitation, safety, and stocking procedures on all fresh produce production (fruits, wet vegetables, and dry vegetables) as outlined by company. Labor worker City of Amarillo - Amarillo, TX June 2013 to December 2013 • Picks up blowing litter and debris; constructs and builds fencing to control windblown litter; keeps work area clean and free of debris to prevent damage to incoming vehicles. Education Associate of applied science in network administration Vista college - Amarillo, TX Skills Networking (2 years), Computer Hardware (3 years), Typing (60 wpm), Troubleshooting (3 years), Customer Service (7 years), Servers (2 years), SQL (2 years), System Administrator (1 year), Technical Support (3 years), Active Directory (2 years), Windows (5 years), Windows 7 and 10 (5 years), Microsoft Office (3 years), Powershell (Less than 1 year), Python (Less than 1 year), Security (1 year), Windows 7 (5 years), MAC (2 years) Certifications/Licenses CompTIA A+ February 2018 Drivers License Assessments Technical Support — Highly Proficient June 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/ne3v0x2hpjtm1ky4 Basic Computer Skills: PC — Proficient June 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to perform basic computer operations, navigate a Windows OS, and troubleshoot common computer problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/wgmqaasvsciwoqan Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information SKILLS & QUALIFICATIONS  • Works well with people from diverse backgrounds.  • Set personal goals, monitors progress and assesses self-progress accurately  • Ability to ensure project or task is completed accurately and in a timely fashion.  • Strong team player; enthusiastic attitude motivates increased productivity in others  • Self-motivated and detail oriented; able to set effective priorities and meet or exceed expectations  • Maintain and administer computer networks and related computer environments including computer hardware, systems software, application software, and all configuration.  • Python   • Powershell scripting and automation  • SQL scripting  • Perform data backups and disaster recovery operations  • Diagnose, troubleshooting, and resolve hardware, software, or other network and system problems, and replace defective components when necessary.  • Configure, monitor, and maintain email applications or virus protection software.  • Setup and Install printers.  • Monitor network performance to determine whether adjustments need to be made, and to determine where changes will need to get made in the future.  • Confer with network users about how to solve existing system problems.  • Setup user in active directory.