VMware /Windows Administrator VMware /Windows <span class="hl">Administrator</span> VMware /Windows Administrator - Trend Micro -New Jersey New Jersey • Around 6 years of experience in the areas of VMWare, Linux/RHEL and Windows administration,  • Experienced in Installation, Configuration, and Troubleshooting VMware ESX &ESXi, 6.5, 6.0, .5.5, 5.1, 5.0, 4.1, 4.0, 3.5, vSphere 5.5, 5.1, 5.0, 4.1, 4.0, vMotion and Virtual Center 5.1, 5.0, 4.1, 4.0, Hypervisor.  • Profound knowledge in installing, Patching, upgrading and configuring Redhat, Linux 4.x, 5.x, 6.x and 7.xusing Redhat Satellite Servers.  • Practical work experience in Installing, Maintaining, Monitoring, Troubleshooting and Managing Blade Center server, Configuring and Zoning Storage Area Networks and SAN Switches and VMware ESX Server Administration.  • Experience in building datacenters including DEV, TEST, Production and DR facilities on multiple locationswith VMware, SRM, Redhat Cluster Suites.  • Network Switches -  • Managing Cisco Nexus1000v, Nexus 2248, Nexus 5548, Cisco catalyst 3560, Cisco UCS 61xx/62xx Fabric Interconnect and Cisco MDS 9148 SAN switches.  • Worked on Hardware IBM x-Series Servers for Linux, HP Blade centers and HP DL hardware iLO devices,Intel Family, IBM Bladecentes, IBM Console, HP Open View, Dell servers, CISCO UCS Blades & VMWarevirtualization.  • Installation/Configuration/upgrade of Hardware, Operating Systems, Software and Security related patches.  • Capacity planning of disk space and hardware resources required for production and development servers.  • Experienced in installation, configuration, administration, troubleshooting, tuning, security, backup/ recoveryand upgrading Linux (Red Hat &SuSE) in large environments.  • Windows Server-  • Microsoft Certified Solution Expert (MCSE). Implementing and managing Windows Server 2003|2008|2012 including configuring the zones, DNS Server settings, Active Directory Domain Services (ADDS), Active Directory Rights Management Service (AD RMS), read-only domain controller (RODC), Active Directory Federation Services (AD FSv2), Radius Authentication, Domain Pass through, File and Print Servers, Backup and Restore, Group Policy management, GPO configuring and troubleshooting.  • Responsible for OS maintenance activities like upgrading the OS, updating the services and third partysoftware.  • Administering storage backup and monitoring the services with TSM  • Performed all the LVM tasks like creating Physical volumes, Volume groups, Logical Volumes, and filesystem.  • Configuring and maintaining virtual server environment using VMWARE ESXi, VSphere, VCenter  • Clustering solutions for High Availability using tools such as, Redhat HA (RHCS), and MC Service Guard,Microsoft Cluster Services, Sun Cluster  • Administering the DevOps environment for tools development and transforming the work into Linux platform.  • Deployment of VMware PowerCLI tool for automation of vSphere and vCenter administration.  • Good scripting skills with strong knowledge of VMware PowerCLI.  • Automate disaster recovery by automatically failing over a customer in VMWare ESX using 3PAR RM &vSphere Recovery Manager with the help of PowerCLI Scripts.  • Performed installation and configuration of LDAP. Implemented Single Sign On using Open LDAP inenterprise environment.  • Deployment & system configuration Automation by Puppet and Cheff automation tools  • Performed patching of Linux servers on regular schedule.  • Setup, Implementation, Configuration of Backup/Restore solutions for Disaster/Business Recovery of clientsusing Data Protector on UNIX, LINUX & Windows platforms  • Performance tuning of Linux machines in the environment by kernel parameter tuning, identifying processthat hog the system resources and containing them.  • Experience working in customizing the Kickstart and Jumpstart scripts to automate the installation of variousservers used for various internal projects.  • Performed testing in Linux Environments in the Dev/Test/Prod Stages to help create a better standardizedenvironment and resolutions of any issues if any occurred.  • Experience in Active Directory, GPOs, DNS, DHCP, File & Print Server, IIS (Web Server), FTP, TerminalServer, Microsoft Clustering and Exchange Mail Server in Windows based server environment.  • Experience on RAID 0, RAID 1, RAID 5, RAID 6,RAID 10  • Installing KVM KernelVirtualMachine,configuring KVM Virtual Network, creating KVM Networked Bridge Interface, creating KVM Virtual Machines.  • Performed automation on vSphere and vCloud environment using VMware PowerCLI  • Experienced in creating VM for Linux, Windows and Solaris. LVM, ZFS and zone management  • Experience in deploying several sets of Linux guest builds from VMware Templates  • Migrated Physical Servers to Virtual Server and Virtual to virtual - using VMware Converter  • Experienced in different tools for monitoring the health checkups for machines like CMC and Nagios version2.10. Experienced in DMAN.  • Strong knowledge in DNS, DHCP and IP addressing  • Experienced in maintaining user accounts, profiles, security, rights, disk space and process monitoring  • Excellent understanding on ESX Architecture, guest OS installation, setting up of VM priorities, Cloning andSnapshots, Virtual Network, ESX Server, ESXi Server & Virtual Machines, Templates from VMs and deployingVMs from Templates  • Managing Data center environment  • Expertise in Thin provisioning, VMFS expansion, RAID technologies  • Hands on experience with the HP blade c7000 enclosures and the ML, DL, BL series servers  • Experience in Windows clustering Administration, troubleshooting and Microsoft failover clustering manager Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience VMware /Windows Administrator Trend Micro -New Jersey September 2017 to Present Trend Micro introduced Trend Micro Smart Protection Network, a cloud-client content security infrastructure that delivers global threat intelligence to protect customers from online threats, such as data stealing malware, phishing attacks, and other web, email, and mobile threats.    Responsibilities:  • Regularly reviewed Firmware levels on Host/Servers, Involved in analyzing and implementing OS patches, hot fixes as well as updates and Performed.  • SetupHorizonMirage Serverin VMware environment ESXI 5.5, Migrated CVD's to different End points, VDI for backup and restore of Operations. Deployed Windows migration of existing OS.  • Setup Sharepoint 2013 environment, OWA, SQL 2012 R2. Fixed SRM issues with SharePoint 2013 Server.  • Setup VDI environment in VMware environment ( ESXi 5.5).  • Daily administration of large-scale VMware environments  • Setup and Perform Veeam Backups and troubleshoot issues with backups.  • Ensured coordination/integration with Storage, Network, & Database systems specialists and Worked with IT management to plans and schedules system upgrades.  • Used PowerShell to execute commands/scripts, Installed remote server administration tools using Powershell, Used PowerShell, PowerCLI.  • Implemented the concept of Windows Clustering on the servers having critical applications running on it  • Performed routine maintenance on VMware environment such as vCenter upgrades, firmware upgrades, Patching, and  • Design, implementing and managing Active Directory(AD), Internet Information Server (IIS),  • Configure shared LUN's, Expanding and Shrinking of hard disk.  • Coordinate with specialized technical teams to provide support to ensure environment health.  • Experience in the Installation of desktops using VDI environment.  • Migrated and thoroughly documented the procedures to migrate from various environments to the latest version of Exchange 2010 and Windows 2008 R2.  • Supported Microsoft Exchange Server 2010/2013, Outlook, Outlook Web Access (OWA) / Web Mail, email queue and Exchange Push Mail for mobile devices.  • Present, plan, and articulate infrastructure needs and direction to senior management.  • Provided daily operational support working primarily with VMware vSphere and tools.  • Member of the VMware View VDI team build out covering large environment for virtual desktops.  • Heavily involved SCGTS virtualized resource optimization and storage consolidations project.  • Provided daily operational support working primarily with VMware vSphere and tools.  • Responsible production support of Active directory (AD), GPO, GPP, Domain users, Users and groups and given appropriate permissions, shares and privilege to access LAN and Domain environment.  • Experience in Microsoft Office Suite, Open Office, Visio, Outlook, Printing, and Windows networking.  • Deployed large number of VMs/adding Data stores/ VLANs/ adding NFS storage.  • Implementation and maintenance of Group Policies and Active Directory Replication.  • Testing of different recovery plans in SRM to ensure recovery of failover VM's.  • Handling Microsoft Exchange and also IT infrastructure transformation / exchange migration projects  • Administered Exchange 2013 environments  • Designed Conceptual documents and maintained proper documentation, Closely work with program managers to ensure timely delivery of expected deliverables  • Upgrade ArubaWirlessInstant Virtual Controller 6.4.  • Worked on ADSelf-service to automate users to manage, unlock, and reset their own passwords without the intervention of personnel.  • Worked on Airwatch application to fix users issues and daily administrator activities.    Environment: VMware ESXi 4.0, 4.1, 5.1 and 5.5,vSphere 5.5/5.1/5.0, vCenter 5.5/5.1/5.0, MSWindows Server 2012 R2/2008 R2/2003, ArubaClusters, SAN, NIC, EMC,Virtual Switches,Windows 7, 10, Windows Server 2003, 2007, 2008/R2 and 2012, SQL 2008/2012, DNS, Active Directory, ADSelfService Plus, AirWatch, Aruba Controller for Access Points, Barracuda Load Balancer ADC, Barracuda Spam & Virus Firewall V300, Bit9 Agent Install Packages Download, Bit9 Dashboard, Exchange Admin Center, Server Room Environmental Monitor, ILO, Lansweeper, Microsoft Lync Monitoring Dashboard, Microsoft Lync Server 2013 Control Panel, Microsoft Outlook Web App, Nimble Storage, Palo Alto 200, SharePoint 2013, Trend Micro Deep Security, VICON (Security Cameras), VMware Horizon View Administrator, VMware Horizon Workspace, VMware Horizon Workspace Configurator, VMware Mirage File Portal, VMware vRealize Operations Manager, VMware vRealize Operations Manager Administration, VMware vSphere Web Client.. VMware Administrator CallidusCloud - Dublin, CA June 2015 to September 2017 Callidus Software provides cloud-based sales, marketing, learning, and customer experience solutions worldwide. The company enables its customers to sell Lead to Money suite of solutions that identify leads, train personnel, implement territory and quota plans, enable sales forces, automate configuration pricing and quoting, manage contracts, streamline sales compensation, capture customer feedback, and provide predictive analytics for competitive advantage. It offers Lead to Money suite and technology solutions, which include sales performance management solutions, such as Commissions, Incentive Compensation Management, Producer Pro, Telco Dealer Pro, MySalesGame (Gamification)    Responsibilities:  • Hands-on experience in Deployment, requirement gathering, Installation, administration.  • Successfully configured ESX servers for HA and DRS capabilities.  • Configured and deployed Cisco computing clusters with VMware ESXi 5.5 and vCenter 5.5.  • Experienced in applying monthly updates to windows servers 2003/2008R2/2012 versions.  • Involved in SAN migrations from EMC DMX to VMAXand Clariions to VNX using zfsand Linux LVM on Redhat Linux.  • Good Knowledge on VMware products such as vRealize storage and networking.  • Maintained and Troubleshooted windows servers windows 2003, 2008R2 and 2012 versions Creating diskspaces forwindows servers.  • Install, configure and optimize reference implementations of partner solutions on NSX.  • Performing physical to virtual servers (P2V) migration without downtime.  • Involved in performing VMotion and Vstorage administration for successful data migration.  • Maintaining Backups of the VM's, taking snapshots.  • Managing VM's by vSphere Client and Web Client.  • Upgraded 100+ ESX hosts from ESX 5.0 to ESX 5.5 using VMware Update Manager tool.  • Administration of user and group accounts and providing appropriate rights to user accounts according totheirrequirements.  • Installation and configuration of EMC Power Path in ESXi for SAN Storage Path optimization.  • Involved in creation of virtual switches and configuration of NIC for a clustered environment.  • Troubleshoot and resolve the Storage related issues generated in the production, Development and testingenvironments using vCops.  • Configured VMware on clustered environment, Implemented VMotion, Virtualized Windows servers usingVMwareConverter P2V and setup Lab Manager.  • Administration, VMware configuration and Administration, Network devices, Security devices for datacenter.  • Use of powercli/esxcli for the migration process and for troubleshooting.  • Troubleshoot VMware problems and some powercli.  • Understanding and experience SAN concepts, snapshots, clustering and fail-over, file Permissionmanagement and disaster recovery.  • Successfully deployed and tested Disaster recovery solutions for selected business applications using EMC.  • Used VMware Update Manager to install critical and locally tested updates to the ESX Host.  • Grouped physical disks into logical volumes dynamically sized and resized volumes to fit in the application.  • Troubleshooted network issues between distributed V switch, Layer 2 switches and resolved slow performance between SAN network and VM networks.  • PowerCLI Scripts were developed to be dynamic so when VMs are added to host they are included in the scripts automatically. Goal was to have least amount of human intervention and save time.  • Upgrade current technologies with patches and firmware, as well as new versions.  • Utilize Zerto, vRealize Operations Manager, and PowerCLI to assist with daily tasks.  • Implement VMware vSphere technologies and utilize virtualization tools such as PowerCLI, Auto Deploy, and vCenter Operations Manager.  • Responsible for day-to-day operational maintenance, support, and upgrades for Windows servers andVMware.  • Performed software installations and upgrades to operating systems and layered software packages.    Environment: VMware ESX 3.5/4.0/4.1, ESXi 5.5/5.1/5.0, vSphere 5.5/5.1/5.0, vCenter 5.5/5.1/5.0, MS  Windows Server 2012 R2/2008 R2/2003, Clusters, SAN, NIC, EMC, Wintel Win 2008, 2012, Virtual Switches, Vblock, PowerCLI. Network Engineer/Wireless Engineer Varian - Palo Alto, CA February 2013 to June 2015 • Network Engineer supporting various aspects of the network infrastructure for Health Resources and  ? Services Administration (HRSA) through maintenance and management of hardware lifecycle.  • Provide administration for HRSA's enterprise network environment for all aspects of the  • network operations security, which includes Virtual Private Networks, firewalls, remote access,  • Network Admission Control, routing, switching, Intrusion Detection Systems, and network  • infrastructure  • Responsible for configuring security information and event management solutions to capture  • data from sources  • Develop and maintain security policies, and participate in regular system audits and  • certification processes  • Evaluate trends, forecast requirements, and implement security improvements  • Perform vulnerability validation and remediation within acceptable resolution time frames based  • on criticality Provides customer service by supporting clients with assessing their needs, helping in resolving their problems and satisfying expectations with quality products and services.  • Configure and manage Cisco Catalyst and Nexus switch platforms  • Use network device management software, Solarwinds, to deploy images and configurations,  • and manage and monitor network infrastructures  • Responsible for managing Cisco ASA, Cisco Secure ACS, VPN Concentrator, Cisco ScanSafe, Symantec Endpoint Protection Manger, QualysGuard Vulnerability Management.  • Trouble shooting/ACL configuration in Cisco ASA  • VPN creation for CHEP external contractor.  • Cisco Scansafe to whitelist and blacklist the malicious links.  • Symantec Manager configuration. Policies and exceptions configuration for Servers.  • Work with GSOC team - HP Arc sight for global logs and to trouble shoot.  • Aruba Wireless configuration and troubleshooting.  • Symantec Manger upgradation, working in Symantec.  • Managed and administered the CISCO equipment installed in the organization for its internal network.  • Assisted in customizing the firewall as per the requirements of the clients by adding new applications/programs to the existing networks  • Involve in installation, configuration and troubleshooting of Symantec endpoint security  • Proficient in researching traffic patterns to identify false-positives and/or malicious traffic within IDS (Intrushield, TippingPoint, etc), IPS (Snort), scanners (Qualis), proxy (BlueCoat) and firewalls (Cisco ASA)  • Ability to analyze a large volume of security events while maintaining a high quality of analysis  • Aruba S-3500 mobility access switch/ Azalea MSR wireless mesh routers (1200/2000/4000)  • Troubleshoot complex network issues using packet analysis tools such as Wireshark and  • Riverbed - SteelCentralAppResponse    Environment: LAN, WAN, Cisco 7200, Juniper ACX 1000, PTX 3000, Juniper Netscreen, Cisco ASA, Bluecoat Proxy, Cisco catalyst 6509, 4510, 4506, 2900 series switches, IPSec VPN, SSL VPN, Site-Site VPN, Access-Lists, Juniper SRX, J-Series Routers and firewalls and NAT. Education Bachelor's Skills Dhcp, Tcp, Tcp/ip, Vmware, Dns