Network Engineer & Business Consultant <span class="hl">Network</span> Engineer &amp; Business Consultant Network Engineer & Business Consultant - LightHouse Technologies MSP Mohegan Lake, NY Versatile IT professional with 10 years of experience and sound knowledge of Microsoft Office 365, Microsoft Azure, systems installation, patching, configuration and upgrading. Passionate to stay relevant with new technology and being able to use them in a productive manner. Work Experience Network Engineer & Business Consultant LightHouse Technologies MSP - Greenwich, CT Present Responsibilities:  ? Office 365  ? Azure AD  ? Correct Client O365 Azure AD/On Prem Sync errors  ? Firewalls (Sonicwall, Meraki and Barracuda)  ? Connectwise/Labtech  ? Mac OS X  ? 2nd level client support  ? Backup (Datto, Synology, Infrascale, Azure and Veeam)  ? Perform client environment monitoring and fine tuning  ? Setup VPN (Meraki, Sonicwall, OpenVPNCnnect) for client    Projects  ?     Implement Risk based MFA for clients  ?     Deploy Barracuda Sentinel for spear phishing  ?     Upgrade Client Firewall  ?     Upgrade/Patch Client Servers  ?     Setup Site-to-site VPN Network Systems and Technology Administrator Ventura Law - Danbury, CT January 2018 to January 2018 Responsibilities:  ? Implemented 100% in-house IT support  ? Managed and updated Windows servers and VM environment  ? Executed Carbon Black Defense, Webroot and Ninja RMM  ? Migrated 2 TB of data from on premise servers to SharePoint  ? Managed cloud to cloud backup for the O365 environment  ? Established Azure backup for on-premise servers  ? Upgraded Bridgeport and Norwalk office to our network and VOIP  ? Support daily user and hardware/software  ? Negotiated contracts with vendors  ? Implemented SSL VPN for remote access    Accomplishment:  ? Achieve a cost savings of $65K a year by moving IT support in house, installed up-to-date technology and 3rd Gen antivirus  ? Implemented NinjaRMM  ? Replaced Malwarebytes with Carbon Black Defense  ? Implemented Azure Backup for on-premise servers  ? Installed Druva Insync for Office 365 backup (Exchange, OneDrive and SharePoint)  ? Removed Citrix and managed site-to-site VPN and SSL VPN  ? Achieved a 90% satisfaction on IT customer survey  ? Managing moving legacy program to Azure using Azure VPN, VM's, File storage with Windows RDS  ? Created a disaster recovery plan  ? Configured email encryption rule for Office 365 Area IT Manager Hyatt Andaz 5th Avenue - New York, NY August 2016 to January 2018 Responsibilities:  ? Created and managed yearly IT budgets  ? Ensured all servers, network hardware and pc have adequate valid warranties  ? Managed hotel support tickets using Service-Now  ? Maintained hotel inventory with Service-Now  ? Executed Service-Now reports  ? Completed quarterly user access audits on all systems  ? Initiated and managed $90k upgrade of audio and visual crestron system  ? Executed Chip and Pin for Micros IT Manager Hyatt Regency Atlanta - Atlanta, GA June 2014 to August 2016 Created and managed yearly IT budgets  ? Upgraded servers/pc's/ network equipment as needed  ? Responsible for all Windows 7 computers and Server 2008 R2and 2012 R2 servers  ? Responsible for all server backups using Evault cloud based backups  ? Worked with various corporate teams with completing project & correcting issues  ? Managed all users/security groups/emails using FIM (Forefront Identity Manager)  ? Audited all users on a monthly basis  ? Completed monthly cost analysis for the IT dept to ensure it compares to GL  ? Managed vendor contracts Network Administrator American BOA - Cumming, GA March 2013 to June 2014 Managed LAN/WAN  ? Managed GPO's  ? Responsible for ShoreTel phone system, TrendMicro Interscan Messaging and Web security Virtual Appliance, Esxi 4 and 5 servers, Vsphere, Exchange 2012 and Active Directory.  ? Managed Esxi VM Hosts  ? Managed Wireless connection for complex of multiple buildings  ? Patch and Upgraded all servers  ? Created and implemented PC Imaging process and Windows License server Multi-Property Systems Manager Marriott International, Inc - Atlanta, GA March 2008 to March 2013 Support and troubleshoot hardware, software and network issues  ? Communicated effectively with senior leadership to explain technical issues  ? Worked with vendors to renew contracts, secured new bids, and update contracts  ? Ensured all hardware/software/PC's/users compliance with Marriott's policies  ? Created yearly budgets for four properties  ? Managed backups on all servers are current and accurate  ? Kept accurate and up-to-date maps of networks  ? Tested backups and UPS quarterly Education BS in Information Technology in Information Technology University of Phoenix May 2005 Skills Vpn, Active directory, Lan/wan, Tcp, Tcp/ip