Field Technician Field Technician Systems Administrator - Insidesales.com Elk Ridge, UT Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Field Technician Wasatch IT - Salt Lake City, UT October 2015 to Present I currently work as a dedicated field technician for a group of non-profit medical clinics.    I am responsible for all network systems, servers, phone system and personal computing devices.    It is a complex environment connecting several offices as one. This includes medical, dental and pharmacy systems. Systems Administrator Insidesales.com February 2014 to September 2015 Installed and Administer all internal systems between 2 offices  o Microsoft Server 12 for AD, DHCP/DNS, Print and File Services  o FreePBX for Phones  o Kaspersky Security Center for Endpoint AV, Encryption and Vulnerability  Management  • Admin for Hosted Exchange/Office365  • Currently rebuilding phone systems for HA  • Currently merging several new offices due to acquisition. This includes all  networks and systems Office Network Specialist Insidesales.com June 2012 to February 2014 Sole Network/Endpoint Tech for peer to peer network of 250 users  • Provisioned and supported Windows, Mac and Linux environment  • Expanded network several times to accommodate growth. There were 65  employees when I started, there are currently 800+. Network Tech/Systems/Help Desk Shelf Reliance May 2011 to June 2012 Solely responsible for maintaining all servers, desktops, user software and phones within the company. Most of the systems were Microsoft Server '03 with  XP, Vista and W7, but also Linux servers (Ubuntu, CentOS and Zentyal) and desktops, and a few Macs in the Design Department.  • Handled issues for over 100 users through a ticketing system, chat, remotely and over the phone  • Planned and migrated our entire network and systems to a new facility  • Responsible for security systems. These included configuring and maintaining the key fob system, cameras and alarms Office Network Specialist Insidesales.com June 2012 Education Bachelor's in Information Systems Security ITT Technical Institute-Murray Associate in Computer Network Systems ITT Technical Institute-Murray