System Administrator/ Network Administrator System <span class="hl">Administrator</span>/<span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> System Administrator/ Network Administrator - (OTSG) DHHQ Alexandria, VA RESULTS-FOCUSED NETWORK & SECURITY/IT PROFESSIONAL with strong background in resolving complex network issues and critical technology challenges in a fast-paced environment. Extraordinary performance standards and follow through of short term needs, coupled with a wide view lens of long term goals, can quickly resolve issues affecting network security, user access and production ability. In search of network administrator position allowing me to sharpen my IT chops and collaborate with other like-minded creative techs to solve challenging company issues, playing a pivotal role in department, company and client success. Work Experience System Administrator/ Network Administrator (OTSG) DHHQ - Falls Church, VA September 2016 to Present -Responsible for managing, maintaining Cisco Nexus 5K Switches, Cisco ASA Firewalls  -Assist in maintaining, configuring Palo Alto Firewalls  -Troubleshoot network outages including Site-Site VPN tunnels, VPN Remote Access  -Assist in installing/updating server room racks; manage devices through OOB Network  -Setup/deploy access switches, configure VLANs, port security, access/trunk ports  -Experienced in constructing DHCP server/scopes, reservations & exclusions  -Manage & configure virtual machines; VMware, Cisco UCS Fiberconnect  -Manage user & machine accounts in Active Directory; create/ utilize GPOs  -Deploy software, updates, drivers via System Center Configuration Manager (SCCM)  -Deliver system/software/hardware reports/queries via PowerShell to management  -Directly support The Surgeon General of the Army and her staff  -Deliver technical assistance to over 700 military, civilian and government contractors  -Operate within a PKI environment at Department of Health Headquarters (DHHQ) -Conduct new hire orientation; provide comprehensive training on IT infrastructure  -Create, enable, disable computer accounts in Active Directory  -Image Dell laptops, configure group memberships and deploy machines to new hires  -Install Windows security updates, patches and fixes; monitor & address machine security compliance through McAfee  -Repair, uninstall/re-install damaged hard drives. Recover crashed drives through data recovery techniques  -Troubleshoot a wide-range of network connectivity issues  -Investigate, research and resolve website access complications  -Provide support to Microsoft Office 2010, 2013 suite and Adobe Acrobat Pro software  -Troubleshoot, configure, maintain Xerox network printers Help Desk Analyst II Travel Leaders Group - Alexandria, VA May 2016 to June 2016 -Imaged more than 70 Windows 7 laptop and desktop computers through System Center Configuration Manager (SCCM)  -Installed Windows 7 computers via PXE Boot technology  -Tasked with PC refresh project; deploying new computers to local and remote staff  -Managed devices & users in SCCM and Service Desk  -Used Service Desk ticketing system to respond to user requests and project deliverables  -Install memory card, hard drives and video cards on HP laptops and desktops IT Associate Fair Labor Association - Washington, DC May 2013 to March 2016 Responsible for 90 users and 24/7 efficient operation of busy IT department for international organization, headquartered in Washington, DC. Responsible for conducting orientation and training new employees on protocols and efficient responses to help desk tickets through Zendesk. Create and manage user accounts in Office 365. Troubleshoot Outlook issues for users, while diagnosing and resolving a variety of software, hardware, and connectivity problems. Other highlights include:  ? Managed daily IT operations of office within one year quickly, transitioning from intern to acting manager  ? Consistently reduce IT budget by updating technology services for greater efficiencies  ? Facilitating and communicating with vendors and managed contracts  ? Communicate and report directly to upper level management to administer and resolve server issues via virtual machines, while managing file servers for the HR & Finance Departments  ? Write and publish approximately 60 IT help desk-focused articles for internal Knowledge Base Center, covering technical tips and tricks to help users leverage technology tools to their advantage IT Help Desk IKON - Arlington, VA December 2012 to April 2013 Leader for the AirWatch project: Configured and installed security management applications for iOS and Android mobile devices for more than 150 customers. Other duties included:  ? Software Application installations on Mobile Devices  ? Directed large scale project involving installation of a program on more than 250 client mobile devices  ? Troubleshooter for Tier 1 and Tier 2 level IT Help Desk queries, which included helping clients resolve numerous issues involving monitor and docking stations installations to resolving printer issues in a timely and friendly manner  ? Created and managed tickets on BMC Service Desk Express  ? Trusted advisor for highly confidential content including resetting passwords, creating profiles, and unlocking accounts. Education CCNA University of Maryland University College August 2016 Network+ Certification University of Maryland University College June 2015 Virginia Commonwealth University - Richmond, VA 2009 Skills ACTIVE DIRECTORY, CISCO, PKI, REMEDY, DEPLOYMENT, IMAGING, HELP DESK, MICROSOFT OFFICE, WINDOWS 7, DOD, CAC