Asset Protection Associate Asset Protection Associate Asset Protection Associate - Target Inc Virginia Beach, VA Work Experience Asset Protection Associate Target Inc - Virginia Beach, VA June 2016 to Present • Introduced and implanted viable loss control strategies by maintaining strong partnerships and trust with customers.  • Mitigated risk and oversaw internal and external shoplifter apprehension and detention.  • Checked CCTV for evidence of shoplifting.  • Wrote reports for internal and external crime, burglary or theft.  • Controlled reduction of loss inventory by protecting company assets.  • Established solid client base by identifying company resources, determining client risk factors and promoting solutions that alleviated risk potential.  • Enhanced training processes for both clients and departments to increase overall functionality. Network Administrator United States Marine Corps Reserve - Virginia Beach, VA May 2016 to Present • Optimized network operations by monitoring, troubleshooting and enforcing Department of Defense (DoD) security compliance.  • Ensured continuity of computer and telephone system services for users through technical expertise, assistance and project coordination.  • Performed system maintenance and upgrades, including patches, service packs, hot fixes and new security configurations.  • Installed, configured, and supported local area network (LAN), wide area network (WAN) and Internet system.  • Constructed and maintained Virtual Local Area Network (VLAN).  • Installed, maintained and supported all network and voice-related hardware, software and communication links for design.  • Performed necessary maintenance to support network availability.  • Drafted training materials and organized training sessions for 18 new employees. Tactical Switchboard Operator United States Marine Corps Reserve - Virginia Beach, VA July 2013 to May 2016 • Programmed Redcom Systems to provide reliable paths for the transmission of telephone, facsimile, and digital data messages.  • Installed telephones and operated switchboards while laying CAT5e UTP cable as well as running fiber optic cable.  • Devoted special emphasis to punctuality and worked to maintain outstanding attendance record, consistently arriving to work ready to start immediately.  • Trained and Supervised over 25 Marines in telephone installation and programming  • Utilized Cisco Call Manager to establish VoIP communication Education Information Technology Marine Corps Communications And Electronics School - Twentynine Palms, CA 2014 High School Diploma Landstown High School - Virginia Beach, VA 2013 General Studies Tidewater Community College - Virginia Beach, VA Skills Cctv (3 years), Loss prevention (3 years), Multi-line phone (3 years), operations (3 years), Report writing (3 years), switchboards (6 years), telephone (6 years), writing skills (5 years), Microsoft Word, Security, Communications, training, Cisco Switches and Routers (2 years) Military Service Branch: United States Marine Corps Rank: Corporal Certifications/Licenses CompTIA Security+ July 2019 to July 2022 Assessments Supervisory Skills: Directing Others — Highly Proficient June 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to motivate the performance of others through feedback to identify improvements or corrective actions. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/izm4amd-th2cthg Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.