vCIO - Virtual Chief Information Officer vCIO - Virtual Chief Information Officer vCIO - Virtual Chief Information Officer - Impact Networking Chicago, IL Work Experience vCIO - Virtual Chief Information Officer Impact Networking - Chicago, IL 2018 to Present • Provided technology roadmaps and project managed engineering team, internal communication for clients and validating delivery of projects, platforms and services.  • Managed current client's portfolios, infrastructure upgrades and moves through dedicated to increasing security and limiting the need for continuous onsites and helpdesk calls.  • Coordinated budgeting and purchasing decisions from hardware to software and maintained profitability of projects  & service metrics while providing insight to clients through project meetings and periodic/quarterly business reviews.  • Promoted from IT Business Development specialist after demonstrating capability in assessment of IT and business  directives with decision makers and internal engineering teams after accumulating IT services contracts.  • Addressed Cyber-response from initiating the breach protocol, providing insight to impact through post-incident  reports and evaluated internal process alongside breach vector to build remediation plans for future attacks. Sales Engineer Indigovision - Chicago, IL 2017 to 2018 Part of Indigovision's renewed investment in America, joining a small active group of 6 Sales Engineers supporting  Partners and Customers across the U.S.A. in utilizing our products properly and designing RFP/RFQ for installations and upgrades and building relationships.  • Traveling >75% to customer sites, and partner headquarters to conduct walkthroughs, training and certifications on  our products and services over the US Northeast territories and some International travel.  • Developed Demonstrations and presentations for decision makers new to Indigovision's product line.  • Assisted in training new sales managers and engineers on our products, perspectives and job roles.  • Maintained and developed technical documentation, knowledge, and resources for US Region and assisted Marketing  with resource management and allocation.  • Assisted with Trade show logistics and direction for ASIS 2017 booth and technology. Network Administrator II Velocity EHS - Chicago, IL 2016 to 2017 Leading Network Administrator, I led and participated in all networking and networking security projects  implementing and manage company-wide RADIUS, SSL management, IIS, 2FA RSA, Syslog Servers, TFTP/SNMP  Services to organize and planning for SOX/SOC2.  • Root cause analysis on active issues as well as proactive update/patches to continue and verify business continuity  with internal and external services for both employees and clients.  • Developed and Maintained Company Policy and Documentation on Corporate and Production focusing capacities, communications, networking and security-based content.  • Implemented a Project tracking system for task and project efficacy while keeping transparent access and filtered  content for reporting and alarm systems to Upper Management for presentations and direct company  communications/operations. Technician Level II Switchfast Technologies - Chicago, IL 2014 to 2016 Efficiently resolved tickets to improve Technician capability and availability through time management and building  standards, while maintaining 98%+ Overall Customer satisfaction rating for the year of 2015.  • Developed standards with management to improve network management and asset management to provide  customers with better solutions and streamlined their workflow for each company on Team 3.  • Proposed and Completed projects specializing in changes for Line of Business applications, Server/SQL/software  upgrades, etc. on Team 3 resulting in a loss of overall workload of 28% allowing for a smooth transition in the reduction of technicians from 7-3 over the course of 1 year.  • Worked closely with clients to manage relationship and work over resolutions for mutually beneficial operations, tremendous customer service and satisfaction ratings from both client and employee perspectives yielding 14 internal  Core Value award nominations. Computer Technician CMJ Technologies - Sycamore, IL 2013 to 2014 Diagnosed computers with software and/or hardware issues based upon logs as well as customer feedback; employed  solutions or worked with the manufacturer to provide a warranty (Lenovo Reseller).  • Executed Remote Managed Services for over 30 businesses ranging in sizes of up to 40 users with remote access, VPN, and GFI remote management software.  • Tracked customer's tickets utilizing logged time, detailed resolutions; created knowledgebase articles contributing to documentation accuracy.  • Developed and carried out solutions for client's mobile, remote, and infrastructure needs in order to have an efficient  and simple work environment (Exchange/Hyper-V/data backup or recovery).  • Worked with Windows XP/7/8.1 and Server 2003/2008/2012 Cyber Network Operator U.S. Marine Corps - Camp Lejeune, NC 2008 to 2012 Responsible for the installation, configuring, and management of data network systems in both stand-alone and client-server  environments, including Microsoft/Linux on Exchange, DNS/, CCNA network design and development practices well as other. Planning and executing the integration of multiple information systems in a network environment, evaluate and resolve  customer information systems problems, and effect required hardware and repair to maintain mission capability.    • Designed and implemented an asset management program for departments IT-related inventory valued at over $2.2  Million across several remote locations, with a 100% accountability rate over multiple quarterly audits; becoming the first Help desk of the Marine Corps to be approved for paperless records of serialized data and maintenance logs for  equipment.  • Created LAN/WAN communication with no formal SWAN-D SATCOM training on over 20 training exercises, becoming the only self-taught SATCOM expert in the Battalion, as well as training other Marines in the Data Systems  field on proper installation, maintenance and requirements for Satellite Communications.  • Due to Technical expertise was transferred into the Data Systems Occupation from my original intended occupation  after attaining a CompTIA A+ Certification, while leading 600+ Marines in daily duties, addressing medical, financial and military goals and mission directives.  • Meritoriously promoted two consecutive ranks due to a high level of discipline, job knowledge, organization and  preparedness within first year of enlistment in the Marines. several Personal Awards 2010 to 2010 Career/Leadership Development  • Received an Honorable Discharge with several Personal Awards.