Helpdesk Support Analyst Helpdesk Support Analyst Helpdesk Support Analyst Blue Springs, MO Work Experience Helpdesk Support Analyst Esolutions, Inc - Overland Park, KS April 2018 to June 2019 • Provide for first level support via Phone, Remote, or Deskside to resolve issue as quickly as possible.  • Responsible for New Hire Account setup in Active Directory, Computer Build and deployment to the Desk.  • Utilizing various remote tools to provide support to remote employees  • Maintained mobile management using Duo Mobile and AirWatch to manage all mobile device and Mac Computers.  • Support of mail using Microsoft Office 365 Online, Outlook, and Mobile Outlook.  • Advanced knowledge of Avaya IP office, Troubleshoot and configure user issues with incoming and outgoing calls. Helpdesk Analyst NFuzion IT/Kindred Home Health - Overland Park, KS August 2017 to February 2018 Provide inbound phone support to Corporate, Doctors, and Clinical Staff of over 10,000 Employees  ? Utilizing remote access to troubleshoot, install, or upgrade as needed in a Windows 7 environment.  ? Responsible for support of iPads utilized by clinical and nursing staff visiting patients at home.  ? Support for email applications such as Microsoft Outlook for computers, Microsoft Exchange for iPads  ? Responsible for enrolling mobile devices(iPhone, iPad, Android Phones) into Mobile Device Management System Network System Administrator Oppor LLC - Overland Park, KS June 2011 to January 2017 Responsible for Bukaty Companies network infrastructure. Only onsite tech for company of 75-150 employees  ? Provided helpdesk support in a Windows XP environment. Windows based PC's running Microsoft Office Suite 2010-2016. Support for Mac OSX when equipment is present in the environment.  ? Support for all corporate business systems (On and Offsite Locations) by answering incoming calls, creating tracking records using Connect Wise, analyzing/troubleshooting until resolved.  ? Create and manage user accounts in Active Directory, setup and manage Google mail accounts via Google Admin Console server management.  ? Primary contact for all third-party vendors to include Avid Communication, Progressive Communication Products, GFI Digital  ? Responsibility of all company equipment ordered from Dell. Build and deploy new equipment, replace old equipment as required.  ? Maintain and support of client audio visual hardware and software  ? Responsible for handheld equipment (iPhones & iPads), Troubleshoot and install applications. Configure mail to sync to iPhones or iPads. Hostess Brands TriCom - Overland Park, KS January 2011 to June 2011 Provide end user support for all corporate and plant business systems by answering incoming calls, creating tracking records, analyzing problems and determining/communicating resolution.  ? Act as primary interface between IT Department and Corporate/Plant users of IBC systems for creating user documentation and providing training and implementation support.  ? Primary after hours' support (On-Call Support) when needed. Perform on-site analysis, diagnosis, and resolution of complex desktop problems for executives and end-users. Recommend and implement corrective solutions, including off-site repair for users as needed. Helpdesk Administrator Nations Holding Company - Overland Park, KS June 2010 to November 2010 Provided helpdesk support in a Windows XP environment. Supported 200+ Windows based PC's running Microsoft Office Suite 2003/2007.  ? Supported proprietary software such as Signature Title Trax and Title Trax Hud.  Install, maintain, test and upgrade software, hardware, and custom application software. Knowledge of HTML & JavaScript.  ? Supported email client MS Outlook. Performed installs and configured for new employees. Troubleshot and document any issues with the software.  ? All trouble calls were tracked using DCL Tracking System. All trouble tickets were time stamped each time the ticket was viewed. All tickets had to have proper documentation.  ? Created security key entry passes utilizing the Topaz Security Software.  ? Responsible for new PC deployment for new hires, as well as configure and install software required by the department.  ? Supported Blackberry devices running on a Blackberry Enterprise Server. Add/Remove, configure, and setup Blackberry devices as well as troubleshoot basic usage issues.  ? Provided excellent customer service to customers when troubleshooting issues via phone or in person. Used each and every opportunity to train user if required to prevent further issues with the PC.  ? Maintain and support of client audio visual hardware and software Desktop Support Tech Balance Point Inc - Kansas City, MO February 2010 to June 2010 Assigned to Nations Holding Company to perform desktop support via phone.  ? Respond and diagnose problems through discussion with users and supervisor, and evaluation of trouble tickets. Includes problem recognition, isolation and resolution steps.  ? Perform basic troubleshooting on PC as well as some proprietary software.  ? Promoted to onsite support. Acted as Desktop Administrator for approximately 200-250 employees. Education Diploma in Network Technician Chubb Institute - Parsippany, NJ May 2003