NETWORK ADMINISTRATOR <span class="hl">NETWORK</span> <span class="hl">ADMINISTRATOR</span> NETWORK ADMINISTRATOR Skokie, IL Highly trained IT Support and Network Engineering with strong clinical abilities and a  successful career in both Hardware & Software and Structured Cabling facilities. Proactive  and organized with passionate commitment to first-rate patient care.    Skills  Administration and Management Complex Problem Solving  Customer and Personal Service Judgment and Decision Making  Social Perceptiveness Systems Analysis  Systems Evaluation Time Management  Active Learning Service Orientation Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience NETWORK ADMINISTRATOR VICTOR CHAN LAW OFFICE & ASSOCIATES February 2003 to October 2004 • Experienced Project Team Lead with vast IT experience.  • Skills include computer networking, analytical thinking and creative problem solving.  • Able to apply customer service concepts to IT to improve user experience for clients, employees and administration.  • Manage backup, security and user help systems.  • Develop computer information resources, providing for data security and control, strategic computing, and disaster recovery.  • Consult with users, management, vendors, and technicians to assess computing needs and system requirements.  • Provide users with technical support for computer problems.  • Purchase necessary equipment. IT SUPPORT / NETWORK ADMINISTRATOR AMA COMPUTER UNIVERSITY September 1998 to February 2003 • Fully support, configure, maintain and upgrade corporate customer's networks and in house servers and keep an eye out for needed updates  • Install and integrate new server hardware and applications  • Support and administer third-party applications  • Ensure network security and connectivity  • Monitor network performance (availability, utilization, throughput, goodput, and latency) and test for weaknesses.  • Maintain and administer computer networks and related computing environments including computer hardware, systems software, applications software, and all configurations.  • Diagnose, troubleshoot, and resolve hardware, software, or other network and system problems, and replace defective components when necessary.  • Set up equipment for employee use, performing or ensuring proper installation of cables, operating systems, or appropriate software.  • Install and perform minor repairs to hardware, software, or peripheral equipment, following design or installation specifications.  • Read technical manuals, confer with users, or conduct computer diagnostics to investigate and resolve problems or to provide technical assistance and support. Education Bachelor of Science in Electrical Engineering in Electrical Engineering TECHNOLOGICAL INSTITUTE OF THE PHILIPPINES May 1997 Skills Networking, Technical Support, Windows, Vmware, Customer Service, Windows 7 Assessments Proficiency with Microsoft Office: Mail & Calendar (Mac) — Familiar June 2019 Measures a candidate’s proficiency in using Microsoft Office Mail and Calendar tools to manage their workload. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/2gqmsqkuwaeofssm Technical Support — Proficient June 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/wcet5wp9ksf88mcf Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.