CTO / President CTO / President CTO / President - NY TechSystems LLC Lindenhurst, NY I have been professionally in IT for over 7 years dealing specifically in large and multi-  location networks. While I have been a Senior Engineer and Department Head for several  years, I take great pride in training staff and coworkers while implementing best practices  and new policies and procedures to help grow the company.  Technical skills include:  • All forms of infrastructure cabling (Cat5, Cat6, Fiber, Coax, A/V)  • Network Design and Systems Engineering  • Windows Server 2008-2016: Active Directory, Virtualization, Security, Exchange  • Data Backup and Data Retention and Disaster Recovery  • Support / Troubleshooting / Ticket Prioritization Work Experience CTO / President NY TechSystems LLC - Mineola, NY March 2014 to Present • Planned IT network infrastructure with clients to ensure that the systems are tailored and comply with their requirements and needs.  • Implemented IT network projects: Installed, configured and maintained network services, hardware systems and peripheral equipment/devices.  • Administer servers- Managed system back-up, database and restored protocols.  • Perform system analysis and troubleshooting in order to resolve problems on servers, workstations and other network devices. Technology and Marketing Manager Intercontinental Capital Group - Rockville Centre, NY July 2017 to February 2018 • Provide On-Site and Remote IT support to 150 end-users for desktops, VoIP Phones, Servers, misc. network equipment and software's.  • Project Manager - overseeing vendor relations for marketing, lead generation and CRMs Senior HIPAA Compliance Service Engineer IMS Online - Huntington, NY June 2016 to July 2017 • Sales/Service engineer - designing networks and services based on customer needs.  • Project Manager - Over seeing installs with 4 techs that report to me. (cabling, security  cameras, server install/migrations.  • Senior customer support representative - handled level I/II/III requests  • Preformed installs independently with own tools (Theater installs, server racks, Cabling, network roll-outs, etc.) CTO/ Network Administrator BizBloom - Plainview, NY May 2015 to April 2016 • IT Support for 325 users (resolving and handling support tickets)  • Web Master (website creation including additions and changes, press release updates)  • Hosted Exchange Email management  • VOIP Phone System Management  • Software Support (salesforce admin, velocify admin, dialer admin) CTO/ Network Administrator MCM Holdings Inc - Plainview, NY June 2013 to March 2016 • General IT Support for 180 users.  • Web Master (website creation including additions and changes, press release updates)  • Hosted Exchange Email management  • VOIP Phone System Management  • Software Support  • Asset Management  • CRM Management and Design (salesforce / velocify admin) Student IT- Administrator Nassau Community College - Garden City, NY September 2010 to May 2013 • Computer Lab Setup  • Networking peripheral setup/maintenance  • Asset Management  • Student Domain Active directory and Email access administration  • Server closet and rack setup Education Associates degree in Computer Science in Computer Science Nassau Community College 2010 to 2012 Skills Active Directory, Exchange, Vmware