Network Administrator <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Computer Network Defense (CND) Analyst Fayetteville, NC Adaptable, results oriented Network Engineer with a passion for building relationships and exceeding client and management expectations. Detail-oriented and proactive with strong troubleshooting training communication and analytical abilities. Work Experience Network Administrator Tec-Masters Inc - Lawton, OK May 2018 to August 2018 Designed, configured and implemented Core Network that included router, switch, and firewall configuration  ? Provided Network Support on Routing protocols such RIP, RIPv2, EIGRP, EIGRP2, OSPF and BGP  ? Troubleshooting and repairing hardware and network connectivity issues  ? Removing old equipment and performing data migration to new machines  ? Implemented Microsoft Deployment Toolkit Imaging system to streamline deployment and restoration of workstations.  ? Ensured full and incremental data backups were successful; performed data restore for users as needed Windows 10 Administrator The Select Group - New Orleans, LA December 2017 to March 2018 Installing, configuring and maintaining desktop and laptop PCs and peripherals, such as printers  ? Installing and configuring application and operating system software and upgrades  ? Troubleshooting and repairing hardware and network connectivity issues  ? Removing old equipment and performing data migration to new machines  ? Maintaining an inventory of installed software, managing software licensing, and creating policies and procedures for upgrades  ? Ensured full and incremental data backups were successful; performed data restore for users as needed Desktop Support Specialist US Army Forces Command Headquarters - Fort Bragg, NC September 2017 to December 2017 Configure information processing equipment into required operating configurations.  ? Set up equipment for employee use, performing or ensuring proper installation of cable, operating systems, and appropriate software.  ? Maintain record of daily data communication transactions, problems and remedial action taken, and installation activities.  ? Answer users' inquiries regarding computer software and hardware operation to resolve problems. Team Leader/Information Technology Specialist Department of the Army - Knightdale, NC June 2015 to August 2017 Determined schedules, sequences, and assignments for work activities, based on work priority, quantity of equipment, and skills of 14 personnel.  ? Monitored employees' work levels and reviewed work performance.  ? Inspected, tested, and measured completed work, to verify conformance to standards or repair requirements.  ? Developed and implemented procedures to increase productivity by 30 percent, streamlining maintenance.  ? Facilitated professional development of 14 personnel via: college, extension coursework, apprenticeships, technical certifications and mentorship. Information Technology Specialist PMCS and unit level maintenance on COMSEC devices - Fort Bragg, NC September 2010 to April 2015 Configure information processing equipment into required operating configurations.  ? Perform senior operator and systems administrator duties and unit level maintenance functions on assigned computer systems.  ? Install, operate and perform unit maintenance on multi-functional/multi-user information processing systems and peripheral equipment and auxiliary devices.  ? Install, operate, and perform strapping, restrapping, PMCS and unit level maintenance on COMSEC devices.  ? Troubleshoot automation equipment and systems to the degree required for isolation of malfunctions to specific hardware or software.  ? Troubleshoot software using established debugging procedures. Education IT Certification in Information Technology Certification New Horizons Computer Learning Center - Orlando, FL 2017 Skills ACTIVE DIRECTORY (Less than 1 year), BMC (4 years), CUSTOMER SERVICE (9 years), LAN (6 years), Vmware (5 years), System Administrator (5 years), Technical Support, Networking, Microsoft Office, Windows Additional Information Key Qualifications:  Secret Security Clearance VMWare Virtualization LAN/WAN/NOC Administration  BMC Remedy Ticketing System Risk Management Framework Customer Service  Windows OS Active Directory Troubleshooting  Effective Communication Microsoft Server Network Design  Cisco IOS Security Solutions Routing and Switching  EIGRP/OSPF/BGP DTP/VTP Wireshark  ACL TCP/IP NAT/PAT