Network Administrator IV <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> IV Rockville, MD Work Experience Network Administrator IV Chenega Technical Innovations - Center, Ma, US March 2016 to May 2017 • Led a campus wide wireless network upgrade comprised of over 150 new device installations and replacements; assessing coverage needs and re-architecting the wireless grid where required.  • Appointed to 3-man team charged with a campus wide upgrade of services; building, installing and integrating over 100 new Cisco IOS devices.  • Assisted in Data Center overhaul increasing service backbone from 1G to 10G as well as equipment consolidation, organization and turn in.  • Served as Network Administrator providing tier 1 and 2 support to a network of over 1800 daily active users. 25S, Satellite Communications Systems Operator United States Army January 2010 to December 2015 Team Leader/Shift Leader - Strategic Entry Point/ Network Operations Center    • Leader of a 6-man team that provided tier 1 and 2 support on voice, data and video services to over 2,400 users on an enterprise level network at a deployed Theater Network Operations Center.  • Accountable for managing and troubleshooting satellite networks spanning 4 countries providing communications to over 1,000 users at over 60 locations.  • Serves as the Communications Security (COMSEC) custodian managing monthly and yearly cryptograph key fills, maintenance and troubleshooting for 12 devices on 4 enclaves.  • Designed and led technical and career development for a 32-member team which enabled highly adaptive technicians capable of functioning as a team member and autonomously in austere environments.  • Led satellite operations and maintenance of the/Qatar Media Port supporting over 2,200 users in the 20 country Special Operations Command Central, Area of Operation.  • Coordinated and expedited the construction and transition of satellite networks to new networks and frequencies with minimal service interruption.  • Responsible for creating satellite acquisition and access files ensuring timely network access for outlying stations and assisted with any troubleshooting issues that arose.  • Responsible for 4-member team, site efficiency utilizing a variety of test, measurement and diagnostic equipment in support of Eighth Army and United States Forces Korea. Education A.A.S. Montgomery College January 2018 to December 2019 Skills Networking, Technical Support Military Service Branch: United States Army Rank: SGT Certifications/Licenses Security+ November 2017 to November 2020