Production Support Analyst and Documentum cloud Administrator Production Support Analyst and Documentum cloud <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Production Support Analyst and Documentum and Captiva InputAccel cloud Administrator - Fannie Mae Reston, VA To obtain a position where I can use my excellent IT skills. Work Experience Production Support Analyst and Documentum cloud Administrator Fannie Mae - Reston, VA September 2016 to Present Reston VA, Working as Production Support Analyst and Documentum and Captiva InputAccel cloud Administrator    KEY RESPONSIBILITIE  • Handled and assisted in the resolution of high priority production issues by reviewing server logs and analyzed the issues. Worked closely with application and business teams to resolve the issues without impacting the business agreements.  • Assisted in application quarterly releases, projects, and system maintenance/upgrades for Oracle WebLogic Apps, Linux/Unix Servers, and Oracle Databases.  • Provided 24/7 production support to the day to day activities. All the support activities are managed through BMC Remed, Service Now or other ticketing system for creating incident, change & problem management tickets for recurring issues.  • Effectively troubleshot, replicated and developed workarounds for end user issues.  • Executed maintenance solutions and perform post-resolution follow-ups to ensure problems have been adequately resolved.  • Communicated application problems and issues to management, development teams, end users, and business managers  • Experience with Weblogic and familiarity with TIBCO and Excellent problem solving and analytical skills  • Ability to handle multiple, simultaneous problems with changing priorities Service Now or other ticketing system  • Autosys or other job scheduling system, Understanding of log files, execution of scripts, autoSys and other production processes  • Experienced working on AWS  • Install, maintain and upgrade Documentum and Captiva software and patches.  • Experienced in Migration of Documentum In to Cloud  • Setup and administer various Documentum jobs.  • Worked on scanned documents process implementation by integrating Captiva InputAccel with Documentum.  • Monitored the installation process of specific applications and systems.  • Performed troubleshooting of the various process and systems.  • Diagnosed the basic system and document problems.  • Administered the system in accordance to the requirement  • Install and upgrade any Documentum and Captiva software supported in user machine as needed.  • Configured LDAP, AD and Windows domain authentication.  • Provided Documentum administration support for multiple user  • Performed extensive troubleshooting and root cause analysis in all Documentum and Captiva InputAccel production supports.  • Work with developers, Acceptance, users, and change control to release application to production.  • Work with Oracle DBA to create and maintain Documentum databases.  • Write, test and document monitoring procedures for Documentum and Captiva InputAccel.  • Provide support to end-users and developers in production, such as creating user accounts, groups, ACLs, folders, install license updates, etc.  • Work with software vendor support to troubleshoot and resolve application issues. Network Engineer Information Communication Technology - Addis Ababa, ET August 2010 to February 2013 KEY RESPONSIBILITIES  Provided support for users in a network enterprise environment including creation of user accounts, setting group policies, creating Exchange mailbox accounts, and installation of all required user applications.  • Performed installation and configuration of Windows 2003 domains in an enterprise network environment. Implemented Exchange 2003 services, performed administration of user accounts, configured Active Directory and designed hierarchical structure using organizational units.  • Installed and configured Windows Software Update Service, manually updated and installed services packs, drivers and applications to improve computer efficiency and performance.  • Monitored the network in order to identify any irregularities in user activity and provide quality documentation.  • Install wide range of network equipment.  • Configured a Helpdesk system to keep track of hardware inventory and increase the efficiency of network support.  • Performed daily backups of all servers using Net backup Admin while enforcing the company's required standards and procedures.  • Documented network problems and resolutions for future reference  • Carried out network performance monitoring and planning and troubleshooting and end-user support  • Performed Active Directory administration and configuration  • Developed disaster recovery plans and managed daily backup and recovery  • Worked as a team member with other technical staff to ensure connectivity and compatibility between systems  • Keep network infrastructure up-to-date and secured.  • Write and maintain network security policies and monitor compliance.  • Identify and recommend needed and optimal infrastructure improvements. Education Bachelor Degree in Computer science Ambo University - Addis Ababa, ET July 2010 Skills Production Support