Engineering Technician Engineering Technician Lawrenceburg, TN Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Engineering Technician Magneti Marelli Automotive Lighting - Pulaski, TN May 2017 to February 2019 ? Problem solving of the assembly lines Automation, Structure and General Operation  ? Administered Computer Network on each assembly line giving tech support to each team lead  ? All aspects of the line, including: pneumatic, mechanical, electrical and some programming of software  ? Implementation of combining (2) two assembly lines into (1) one saving the space and labor cost of running 2 lines  ? Responsible for the Traceability of 18 assembly lines running at the Pulaski Plant  ? Wrote and Illustrated Standard Operating Procedures for the stations on some of the assembly lines  ? Setup the network communication, pneumatic, mechanical and electrical of the new lines as they were implemented ? Network communication, PLC, sensors, scanners, vision systems, pneumatic cylinders and other electronic and mechanical devices General Residential Construction SELF-EMPLOYED/UNEMPLOYED - Lawrenceburg, TN May 2016 to May 2017 ? General Residential Construction  ? Electrical  ? Network Cable Installation  ? Cell Phone Booster Installation Network Administrator / Webmaster The Auction Gallery - Loretto, TN June 2011 to May 2016 ? Installed, administered and maintained the company network  ? Desktop support for clerk, auctioneer and sales desk associates  ? Designed, built and administered the company website (auctiongallery1.com)  ? Administered the company database and e-mail system  ? Constructed and deployed mass mailing of information E-Mails  ? Photographed, edited and processed every item to be auctioned  ? Uploaded all photos to company website or third party website  ? Laid out the graphic art work for the sale flyer  ? Sent the sale flyer to printer and sent out mass mailing. Education CompTia A+ and Network+ Certification in Computer OS and Network Technology Tennessee College of Applied Technology-Pulaski - Pulaski, TN None in Computer Sience Jackson State Community College - Jackson, TN Skills Active Directory, Windows, Technical Support, Networking, Access (2 years), Customer Service, Microsoft Office, Photoshop (2 years), Photography (10+ years), Excel (10+ years), Website Design (2 years), Electrical, Welding Certifications/Licenses CompTIA A+ Present CompTIA Network+ Present Assessments Mechanical Skills: Aptitude — Expert February 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to understand and apply mechanical concepts and processes. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/bohb3du5x5f4g8yd Troubleshooting for Maintenance Technicians — Proficient March 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply mechanical reasoning when repairing malfunctioning hydraulic, pneumatic, and electrical systems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/niiqikk41yxtv-xh Accounting Skills: Bookkeeping — Familiar March 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to calculate and determine the accuracy of financial data. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/ps3bli9flnpzo7qc Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.