Network System Administrator <span class="hl">Network</span> System <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Network System Administrator Kewaskum, WI A creative support professional with a record of increased responsibility. Proficient in prioritizing and completing tasks in a timely manner, yet flexible to multitask when necessary. Customer focused with diverse industry experience including insurance, manufacturing and internal/external IT Support. Enjoys learning new programs and processes. A team player who is attentive to detail and able to work in a fast-paced environment. Excellent oral and written communications skills. Work Experience Network System Administrator Randstad Technologies - Madison, WI November 2016 to June 2019 United Heartland New Berlin, WI  Primary function was to provide onsite IT Support for Hardware, Software, Networking, and Telcom.  • Utilized SCCM to Deploy Software and to Reimage computers.  • Utilized Cisco Call Manager to setup new desk phones and voicemail for new users. Also provided Telecom Support local and remote users.  • Answer user inquiries regarding computer software or hardware operation to resolve problems.  • Set up equipment for employee use, performing or ensuring proper installation of cables, operating systems, or appropriate software.    Key Professional Accomplishments  • Assigned to a team responsible for doing Audio Video Upgrades for selected Conference Room in all Accident Fund and United Heartland Office.  • Provided one on one support for Executive Management including CEO, Presidents, Vice Presidents and Directors.    Support Analyst - Global IT Service Desk for the Oshkosh Corporation  Primary function was to provide Service Desk Level 2 Support for all segments of the business.  • Provided a considerate, professional, and accessible point of contact for IT services.  • Responded to incoming support requests via e-mail and phone calls in a timely manner.  • Provided computer hardware, software, and application support for all departments and associated offices.  • Research and troubleshot problems using available tools such as a knowledge base and remote control.  • Manage, update, and maintain the service-desk problem tracking, inventory, client, and knowledge databases.  • Maintained a high level of detailed documentation. PC/LAN Administrator/Customer Support II / Technology Support Specialist Kohler Company - Kohler, WI October 2011 to October 2016 1  Primary function is to answer and handle incoming calls, record problems using current problem recording software. Taking ownership of the problem/question from start to finish performing problem diagnostics and resolution.  • Served as a support resource to Kohler Co. associates, including all remote facilities and subsidiaries within the Kohler Enterprise for problems or questions on all products and services that pertain to all Information Technology such as Personal Computer, Local Area Network and Wide Area Network.  • Provide support for Microsoft Windows 10, Windows 8, Windows 7, Windows XP, Windows 98, Windows NT and Windows Server Platforms.  • Utilized ADUC to unlock Active Directory Accounts and reset passwords.    Key Professional Accomplishments:  Volunteered for 3 to 6-month assignment at the Plant Accounting & Administrative Manager, AFO Sheridan, Arkansas to provide IT Support for all the AFO facilities in Sheridan, Arkansas. Provided 5 months providing IT Support for the facilities in Sheridan, AR. PC/LAN Administrator/Customer Support II Manpower Professional - Kohler, WI August 2010 to October 2011 for the Kohler Company  • Primary function is to answer and handle incoming calls, record problems using current problem recording software. Taking ownership of the problem/question from start to finish performing problem diagnostics and resolution.  • Serve as a support resource to Kohler Co. associates, including all remote facilities and subsidiaries within the Kohler Enterprise for problems or questions on all products and services that pertain to all Information Technology such as Personal Computer, Local Area Network and Wide Area Network. Education High school or equivalent in General North High School - Des Moines, IA September 1969 to June 1971 Skills CISCO, MICROSOFT OFFICE, Help Desk, Desktop Support, Comptia, Pc Support, Comptia, Desktop Support, Help Desk, Migration, Pc Support, Tech Support Military Service Branch: Navy Service Country: United States Rank: Chief Radioman August 1971 to October 1991 Commendations: Good Conduct x 4  Navy Achievement Certifications/Licenses A+ Certified Present MCDST Present MCP Present SDP, Service Desk Professional Present Assessments Technical Support — Highly Proficient August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/huf0yujvsc2sgkz Customer Focus & Orientation — Expert August 2019 Responding to customer situations with sensitivity. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/lko-vhlm-ihacdic Proficiency with Microsoft Office: Mail & Calendar (PC) — Proficient August 2019 Measures a candidate’s proficiency in using Microsoft Office Mail and Calendar tools to manage their workload. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/a7yhenbjstigl9o6 Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information Skills  ? Microsoft Office 365/2016  ? ServiceNow problem tracking software  ? Cisco Call Manager  ? SCCM to Deploy Software and to Reimage computers