Senior Technical Support Representative Senior Technical Support Representative Senior IT Technican San Diego, CA Computer and Information Systems Manager and Military Veteran with 9+ years of proven experience collaborating with cross-functional teams to produce successful outcomes. Accomplished measurable results while leading teams of 5 - 10 in a dynamic, fast - paced environment. Possess a comprehensive background in planning, directing, and coordinating activities associated with electronic data processing, information systems, systems analysis, and computer programing derived from conducting domestic and global operations in Japan. Possess extensive knowledge in the development of computer and information systems, coordinating operational activities, and developing organizational goals and objectives. Career supported by an Associate of Applied Science in Information Systems Management. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior Technical Support Representative Altice - Shelton, CT 2009 to 2016 Analyzed, tested, troubleshot, and evaluated existing network systems that supported the provision of Wi-Fi, proprietary content, and advertising services to 100K residential and business customers.  • Provided intermediate-to-advanced level technical knowledge of network and PC hardware to for at least 40+ customers per day-to-day; resulted in a 95% customer satisfaction rating over a 3-year period.  • Recipient of several Customer Service/Technical Support/In-Excellence Awards.  • Mentored, and trained junior Technical Support Representatives conducting preventive and corrective maintenance procedures on 24K+ network assets valued at $36M; resulted in a 92% operability rating over a 2-year period  • Supervised junior Technical Support Representatives during records maintenance operations using standard procedures and guidelines; resulted in 100% quality control rating for maintenance records with zero reportable findings  • Identified and resolved 100+ system and network issues; resulted in increased system access and becoming a Customer Service Specialist and Technical Support subject matter expert for Cablevision-Altice ISP staff. Network and Computer Systems Administrator United States Air National Guard - Syracuse, NY 2008 to 2012 Installed, configured, and supported LAN, WAN, and Internet systems and monitored segments of networks to ensure network availability to 2K+ system users.  • Maintained network functionality using standard operating procedures for preventive and corrective maintenance; supported 800+ system users with a 95% system functionality rating. Education Associate of Science in Information Systems Management Community College of the Air Force - Montgomery, AL 2019 Skills SHAREPOINT, C++, HTML, PYTHON, Ruby, Rails, Ruby on Rails, VISUAL BASIC, ACTIVE DIRECTORY, NETWORKING, VPN, CRM, PEOPLESOFT, UNIX, CHANGE MANAGEMENT, IMAGING, WIRELESS, LAN, MICROSOFT OFFICE, WINDOWS SERVER 2008, Tech Support, Customer Service, Help Desk, Apple, Iphone, Call Center, Troubleshooting Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/clinton-pollock Assessments Technical Support — Highly Proficient May 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/gorogrvsazle5axz Email — Proficient May 2019 Measures a candidate’s ability to effectively compose and organize email messages. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/olazlqknm-i7sq36 Critical Thinking — Highly Proficient May 2019 Using logic to solve problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/811zehxizpujls5g Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.