System/ Network Administrator System/<span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Derry, NH Work Experience System/ Network Administrator SemiGen Inc - Londonderry, NH April 2019 to Present • Experience with databases, networks (LAN, WAN) and patch management  • Knowledge of system security (e.g. intrusion detection systems) and data backup/recovery  • Responsible for the technical design, planning, implementation, and the highest level of performance tuning and recovery procedures for mission critical enterprise systems.   • Serves as a technical expert in the area of system administration for complex operating systems. Recommends the redesign and configuration of operating systems and system applications.  • Investigates and analyses feasibility of system requirements and develops system specifications. Identifies methods, solutions, and provides project leadership and management in order to provide a high level of service to the customers of the department.   • Creating server configuration and software install documentation  • Mange Active Directory, Create GPO's as need for the environment   • Managing Office 365 adding users creating groups, appling spam filters  • Root cause Analysis, diagnose and resolve unique, nonrecurring problems associated with application software and operating systems; determine the source of problems and classify their level, priority and nature.  Strong inter-personal skills   Solid problem-solving skills  Committed professionalism, showing up on time, working hard, and no office politics  Performing IT systems administration and engineering  • Knowledgeable with windows XP, 7, 10, server 2008, 12, 16  • Monitoring, maintaining network stability, collecting and analysing network functionality, memory utilization, testing IOS updates and implementations, resolving LAN, WAN, WAP, routers and MPLS circuit issues  addressing some reactive desktop, server, and network issues, assisting the whole team with what needs to be done  • *Managing client line-of-business applications  • Knowledgeable with Avaya Management console and phone programming.  • Team Player and able to work as an individual   • willingness to learn new technologies  • work well under pressure   • able to multitask with attention to details  • strong problem-solving skills System Administrator Velcro USA - Manchester, NH September 2018 to April 2019 • Migration of access databases to SQL into the Azure cloud  • Working with skype for Business creating skype users  • Proficient with Zoom giving users access troubleshooting zoom room issues  • Network closet mapping, port configurations switch installations  • Working on consolidating all major licensing such as AutoCAD Monarch, Minitab and such, finding a global solution  • Creating server configuration and software install documentation  • Training new technician as need  • Mange Active Directory, Create GPO's, and DNS records  • Managing Office 365 adding users creating groups.  • Root cause Analysis, diagnose and resolve unique, nonrecurring problems associated with application software and operating systems; determine the source of problems and classify their level, priority and nature.  • Work with hardware and software vendors to verify timely product delivery and ensure that new equipment is installed and ready to operate on schedule.  • Analyze and make recommendations for hardware and software standardization.  • Ensure desktop computers interconnect seamlessly with diverse systems including associated validation systems, file servers, email servers, computer conferencing systems, application servers and administrative systems.  • Assist Business and End Users with all manner of tickets using Managing Ticketing System addressing multiple tickets at a time, depending on the severity of the ticket. Tickets ranging from; Outllook virus removal, VOIP, various industrial and business applications such as MS Office 2016, and Office 365 SSO configuration Desktop Manager, System Administrator/ Network Technician Unitil Corp March 2017 to September 2018 • Responsible for managing the Tier one and tier two Service Desk includes Supporting tier two and three tickets. Managing 5 to 7 employees  • Training all of my new hires one on one  • Managed and corradiated 700 Windows 7 to windows 10 deployments application packaging and deployment through Ivanti  • Technical responsibilities included; resolving support tickets assigned to Tier 2 through MS Access from Tier 3 support, which required hands-on desktop configuration resolution, support of the Microsoft Office suite including heavy MS Access database support and MS Excel macros triage and development. Responsibilities also included LAN/WAN network infrastructure support, triage and issue resolution along with network security and password resets and desktop hardware replacement port configurations and trouble shooting.  • Created software packages and responsible for updating the Golden Image  • Managed Ivanti asset management, Patch Management, software deployment and basic Packaging  • Implementing ITIL standards  • Worked on Dell servers doing migrations on 2003, 2008 2012 and 2012 R2 configuring Raid controllers  • Rebuild DHCP servers Domain controllers and DNS servers  • Creating installation documents  • Expert with varieties of remote tool such as Ivanti Remote services  • Planning DR plans for desktop  • Mange Active Directory, Create GPO's, and DNS records  • Root cause Analysis, diagnose and resolve unique, nonrecurring problems associated with application software and operating systems; determine the source of problems and classify their level, priority and nature.  • Configuring trunk ports and Vlans installing switches in as a stack.  • Configure, deploy, maintain, troubleshoot and support computer workstations, laptops, printers, mobile devices, phones and other computer and telecommunications equipment.  • Install and support PC, laptop, tablet and mobile hardware and software  • Lead of hardware and software reviews and recommend purchases.  • Maintain inventory of installed software, manage software licensing and create policies and procedures for upgrades.  • Field service and visiting remote sites for support  • Work with hardware and software vendors to verify timely product delivery and ensure that new equipment is installed and ready to operate on schedule.  • Analyze and make recommendations for hardware and software standardization.  • Ensure desktop computers interconnect seamlessly with diverse systems including associated validation systems, file servers, email servers, computer conferencing systems, application servers and administrative systems.  • Document procedures, standards, best practices configurations, settings, installation sequences and back-out instructions.  • Manage Sophos Central Anti-Virus  • Lead project management in Implementation of the CMDB System/ Network Administrator (Site Lead) The Dannon Company May 2013 to February 2017 • Assist Business and End Users with all manner of tickets using CLIO Ticketing System addressing multiple tickets at a time, depending on the severity of the ticket. Tickets ranging from; Lotus Notes, virus removal, VOIP, various industrial and business applications such as MS Office 2010/2013,and Office 365 SSO configuration  • Security including monitoring, intrusion protections System Engineer Hanover Insurance Company June 2012 to May 2013 • Utilized knowledge of various management systems, such as Active Directory Symantec Management Console (password, Group Policies, permissions); MS products (SharePoint, SQL, Imaging using SCCM). Additional proficiencies with supporting Oracle Databases and SCCM.  • Monitoring, maintaining network stability, collecting and analyzing network functionality, memory utilization, testing IOS updates and implementations, resolving LAN, WAN, WAP, routers and Demarc issues  • Creating and Following producers, worked with a team on creating standards across North America, eliminating the differences from site to site.  • Expert with varieties of remote tool such as Bomgar, Logmein123. Windows remote desktops and PC Anywhere  • The ability to work as an individual or within a team setting.  • Assist Business and End Users with all manner of tickets using ServiceNow Ticketing System and asset management tool  • Expert in with exchange managing creating, removing accounts and troubleshooting communication issues  • SQL migrate, backup and restore, upgrade, create maintenance jobs, performance monitoring.  • Managing the setup of new employees through imaging laptops and desktops with SCCM, account creation in Active Directory creating user accounts, groups, and computer  • Strong communication skills and well organized with documenting processes and producers and with prioritizing tickets, depending on their severities Great at multitasking multiple tickets and projects  • Recognized by the customer for providing great customer service.  • Creating and updating computer images  • Utilized my knowledge of Cisco Switches, creating trunk ports, and VLANs. Configuring switch ports with the proper VLAN such as, Video, printer and Voice etc .. Configuration of WAP  • Building relationships with user prompting great customer server skills while attend to their day to day needs  • Negotiating pricing with external vendors.  • Exchange server administration creating and deleting accounts on prem to cloud Migration  • Knowledgeable with windows XP, 7, server 2003, and 08  • Servicing HP Printers  • Proactively sought out training to advance abilities within my prospective job scope.  • Managing EXS and EXSI Hypervisor servers, creating new VM's doing P to V and V to V  • Provide training of new employees, working with and alongside with HR  • Bilingual (Spanish and English). Desktop Support Specialist Monster (Atos) February 2012 to June 2012 • Utilized high-end Troubleshooting for printers, scanners, and Network (Windows Firewall, DNS, Advanced Sharing, Permissions), while supporting Windows XP, 7 Server 2008 both remote and on-site.  • Assist Business and End Users with all manner of tickets using ServiceNow Ticketing System  • Managed backup and imaging of Apple, Lenovo, and Dell  • Monitoring, maintaining network stability, collecting and analyzing network functionality, memory utilization, testing IOS updates and implementations, resolving LAN, WAN, WAP, routers and Demarc issues  • Worked with Microsoft Outlook/Exchange and integration with iPhone and Blackberry Devices.  • Provided mentoring and training to other support team to ensure strong team collaboration. Education CCNA New Horizons Learning Center - Waltham, MA 2010 MCSE ITT Technical Institute - Woburn, MA 2002 Skills IOS (2 years), maintenance (7 years), mobile devices (6 years), security (5 years), SQL (5 years), Vmware (3 years), Active Directory (10+ years), System Administrator (5 years), System Admin, SCCM (2 years) Additional Information Core competencies include:  I.T. Monitoring, Maintenance, Configuration, Design, Installation, and Security, Windows Server Administration, SQL, SharePoint, and Lync Linux OS Windows Desktop OS and Mac OSX, Microsoft and Adobe Office Applications, VPN Access, VMware, Mobile Devices including Android and iOS. PC Hardware, System Design, and Installation familiar with various ticketing systems