Medical System IT Support Medical System IT Support Massillon, OH To offer my services as a member of your IT Support team where I can apply my 9 years of Navy IT experience, education, and customer service skills to provide users with the highest quality of technical services. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Medical System IT Support Self Employed - Canton, OH April 2019 to Present • Only one out of three IT support technicians to troubleshoot and repair Ultrasound Unit to database connections over network systems.  • Completed installation of Medical Support programs after computer refresh. Helpdesk Supervisor Training Lead United States Navy Reserves - Canton, OH February 2018 to Present Helpdesk Supervisor United States Navy - Fort Meade, MD December 2013 to February 2018 • Supervised 12 personnel in the resolution of over 2,000 cyber anomalies affecting 3,100 customers across five local area networks.  • Tracked compliance across 33 organizations to reduce vulnerability and potential exploitation of 70 networks.  • Key Contributor for electronic distribution center power-upgrade; relocated $35k worth of IT assets, peripherals, and cooling equipment. Efforts enhanced network availability, reliability, and security for 3,100 customers.  • Facilitated over 70 hours of training for over 30 personnel that lead to job qualifications and advancement that increased mission effectiveness.  • Responsible for ensuring VTC connection for high level clients with a 98% successful connection rate. Help Desk Supervisor, Network Operations, VTC Assistant United States Navy Active Duty June 2010 to February 2018 Network Administrator, Data Base Administrator United States Navy - San Diego, CA December 2010 to May 2014 • Responsible for maintaining shipboard networks that included 4 domains, 20 virtual servers, Cisco switches and racks, and RedHat Linux databases.  • Performed an administrative audit of over 750 users ensuring complete account documentation and organized all documents by department for easy identification and storage, received Navy and Marine Corps Achievement Medal for my efforts.  • Completed over 1200 hours of preventive maintenance ensuring optimal conditions of task readiness and was instrumental towards the ship's successful maintenance certification.  • Demonstrated the ability to work in a fast paced and high volume work center  • Efficient end user application installer and tester. Education Bachelors of Science in Information Technology in Security Western Governors University - Salt Lake City, UT 2015 to 2017 Technical Training: Active Directory, CISCO Routers and Routing Basics, CompTIA Sec+, Exchange Server, Network Administration, Server Administration Center for Information Dominance Learning Site - San Diego, CA July 2014 to November 2014 Associate of Arts in Business Ashford University - Clinton, IA 2011 to 2013 Technical Training: NTCSS Manager, Server Administration (Redhat Linux) Center for Information Dominance Learning Site - San Diego, CA February 2012 to March 2012 Skills Security, Data collection, Collection, Tech Support, Active Directory, Help Desk, Service Desk, Desktop Support Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/kevinkramer23 Certifications/Licenses CompTIA Security+ July 2012 to July 2021 https://www.certmetrics.com/comptia/public/transcript.aspx?transcript=ST4TYZ511MR41BCK CompTIA Project+ May 2016 to Present https://www.certmetrics.com/comptia/public/transcript.aspx?transcript=ST4TYZ511MR41BCK CompTIA A+ March 2016 to Present https://www.certmetrics.com/comptia/public/transcript.aspx?transcript=ST4TYZ511MR41BCK Assessments Technical Support — Highly Proficient August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/tmsatuob-zclms71 Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information Analytical Skills  Data Collection  Tech Savvy  Operating Systems  Security  Safety Oriented  Teamwork  Supervision  Top Secret Security Clearance