IT Manager IT Manager Davie, FL Work Experience IT Manager A&D Mortgage - Hollywood, FL January 2019 to Present • Administration of Office 365   • Maintaining Azure Active Directory   • Creating and Management of Virtual Server  • Installation and management of NAS  • Installation and Management Cisco switches   • Creating a close environment network  • Implement of new user based polices in AAD IT Specialist The Computer GuyZ - Coral Springs, FL October 2018 to January 2019 • Managing over 400 workstations.  • Maintaining of Microsoft Exchange Mail server, Active Directory, Firewall.  • Maintaining Tickets.  • Creating new users and managing policy in Active Directory. Network Administrator MNV Energy LLC - Margate, FL October 2017 to March 2018 • Installation of POS system, including software and hardware.  • Centralizing of the POS system with Software Solution.  • Petrosoft Cloud Software Implementation, for centralizing all POS for HQ.  • Implementation of new Price Book with detailed cost to retail value.  • Trained other employees to use the software.  • Installation of Payroll system, including software and hardware. Network Administrator MZ Communications, INC - Sunrise, FL June 2013 to September 2017 Maintained and administered computer networks and related computing environments including computer hardware, systems software, applications software, and all configurations.  • Diagnosed, troubleshot, and resolved hardware, software, or other network and system problems, and replaced defective components when necessary.  • Performed data backups and disaster recovery operations.  • Configured, monitored, and maintained email applications or virus protection software.  • Implemented and provided technical support for voice services and equipment, such as private branch exchange, voice mail system, and telecom system.  • Configuration and Maintenance of VOIP Termination Server.  • Installation of VOIP Termination Software, such as Mera II, VOS3000. Help Desk Technician MZ Communications, INC - Sunrise, FL January 2011 to June 2013 • Answered user inquiries regarding computer software or hardware operation to resolve problems. Installed and performed minor repairs to hardware, software, or peripheral equipment, following design or installation specifications.  • Referred major hardware or software problems or defective products to vendors or technicians for service.  • Configured and defined parameters for installation or testing of local area network (LAN), wide area network (WAN), hubs, routers, switches, controllers, multiplexers, or related networking equipment.  • Evaluated local area network (LAN) or wide area network (WAN) performance data to ensure sufficient availability or speed, to identify network problems, or for disaster recovery purposes. Store Manager MZ Supermarket INC - Fort Lauderdale, FL July 2010 to December 2011 • Resolved customer complaints regarding sales and service.  • Determined price schedules and discount rates.  • Reviewed operational records and reports to project sales and determine profitability.  • Inventory Control Education Bachelor of Science in Network Administrator in Network Administrator DeVry University - Miramar, FL March 2011 to June 2012 Skills IOS (5 years), Mac (5 years), VMware (3 years), VOIP (6 years), Strategic Planning, Customer Service, Network Administration Additional Information Skills    Windows XP/Vista/7/8/10, Windows Server 2003/2012/2016, Microsoft Azure, Microsoft Office 365, Windows Active Directory, VMware, VoIP, Apple IOS, Apple Mac, POS, Petrosoft