NOC specialist NOC specialist NOC specialist - Petrolink Data Services \ Chevron Oil and Gas Houston, TX Cisco Certified Network Associate and Microsoft Certified professional within 7 years' comprehensive experience providing hardware and software technical support and customer support experience within the public and private sector. Technical hands-on capabilities with installation and configuration, remote monitoring, customer service, tech support, maintenance, and troubleshooting. possessing a good team spirit, deadline orientated and having the ability to organize and present. Skilled problem-solver able to communicate with users at all levels of technical proficiency. Troubleshoot, resolve and document user help requests for desktop, laptop, mobile, network, and peripheral problems. Problem Solving, Presenting Technical Information, Familiar with all environment like Oil and Gas, Manage service and NOC environment. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience NOC specialist Petrolink Data Services \ Chevron Oil and Gas - Houston, TX March 2018 to Present • Onsite or remote (VPN) customer support installation, configuration and integration of Routers, Switches, wireless access point, voice gateway, network printer and other telephony devices.  • Monitoring the VSAT and LTE networks. Analyzing, ranking and troubleshooting alerts and error conditions on the networks.  • Accessing workstations and hardware operating on a variety of operating systems and software products to facilitate network troubleshooting.  • Troubleshoot various issues such as internal questions/request (password request, ticket investigation, research Vendor position), and client issues or questions  • Respond to customer request and provide consistent communication as defined by SLA Policy.  • Interact with Network Providers, Vendors, and Clients on a daily basis; opening tickets and performing follow up with external organizations on client and other related issues  • Follow up with escalation team for status of support.  • VMware configuration, setup, Virtual Systems Build, configuration, SUSE Linux Enterprise Server (SLES) installation, and configuration, Production Software Deployment.  • Windows System Admin and Server Upgrade experience, build virtual servers, handle physical servers and troubleshooting system,  • Network problems. Diagnosing and solving hardware or software Faults, (HP switches: 5920, 5900, 5930) HP Servers: C7000, Apollo 6000, ProLiant DL360, DL380, Gen8, Gen9, Gen10)  • Plan, schedule, and implement network maintenance's that include firmware upgrades and hardware replacement, Linux installs, configurations and support. System Administrator CSAT Solutions LP - Houston, TX August 2017 to March 2018 • Install, configure, and troubleshoot of Microsoft Windows XP/7/8, Mac OS, Windows Servers 2003/2008/2012, Linux (Centos 6.0/6.3, Ubuntu 9.10)  • Install new updates and patches to all systems to maintain system operation.  • Manage AD, creating and managing user accounts, groups and access levels.  • Setup and configure complex wireless networking that supports secured access.  • Responsible for responding and resolving hardware/software issues.  • Responsible for assisting System administrator in areas of design, configuration, testing, and implementation of IT solutions.  • Integrating new technologies with existing systems and provide recommendations for improvement.  • Implement the special project of virtualizing the existing Windows and Linux base server using VMWare ESXi platform.  • Configuring and troubleshooting Cisco PIX, ASA, FWSM, ACE, Nexus 5K, 7K, 9K, and Juniper platforms in a multi-tenant infrastructure.  • Design and implement test plans including backup, disaster recovery and hardware implementation. Test, evaluate and recommend new software and hardware. Managed Services Engineer Ericsson Communication - Baghdad, IQ January 2014 to August 2017 • Deployed, maintained, and supported end-user workstations in a Windows environment.  • Managed migration of Windows 7 to Windows 10 that included testing, debugging, and user training.  • Resolved / escalated IT help desk tickets both in person and remotely.  • Performed hardware repairs / upgrades for workstations and servers.  • Created/ Added/ Deleted user profiles and group profiles, via Active Directory to assure proper  security/application access specific to the client's role(s)  • Wiped the hard drives of decommissioned desktops and reimaged reclaimed desktops.  • Provide support for managing all Network, Server, Applications and the Service Desk  • • Maintain & manage servers and virtual environments such as VMware & Hyper-V.  • • Setup and upgrade hardware parts of server HP ProLiant DL series, Dell 1950, and R610, racked the server, powered, cabled and labeled the network cable.  • • Install, configure, and troubleshoot of Microsoft Windows Server 2003 & 2008, Linux Centos 5.x/6.x including downloads software updates and patches.  • Creating Virtual IP address, Pools and Persistence profiles on F5 LTMs.  • Configuring and maintain access points through CISCO 4400 WLAN controller and upgrading WAN link using PPP Multilink.  • Setup wireless LAN Access points, resolve connectivity issues with Cisco, Linksys and Net gear routers.  • Monitor and maintain the performance network, CPU, memory, and allocated resource. IT Network Engineer Scope Sky Communications - BAGHDAD, IQ September 2011 to December 2013 • Performed the installation, configuration and testing of LAN/WAN devices  • Build, configure, deploy & support of Citrix NetScaler 10.1, 9.3, x - GSLB, Content filtering & Application Firewall. Managed CAG 5.0.4.x, Web Interface/Storefront support/configuration.  • Monitor performance of network and servers to identify potential problems and bottleneck  • Maintained redundancy on Cisco 2600, 2800 and 3600 routers with HSRP  • Real time monitoring and network management using Cisco Works LMS  • Provided technical support on hardware and software related issues to remote production sites  • Network cabling, dressing, labelling and troubleshooting network drops onsite  • Provided desktop support including creating images specific to client requirements and deal with issues pertaining to hardware and application.  • Responsibilities included configuration and installation of software and hardware  • Performed routine network maintenance checks as well as configure and manage printers, copiers, and another miscellaneous network equipment  • Handled the tasks of documenting network problems and resolutions for future reference  • Participate in on-call responsibilities in support of a seamless production environment. Education Bachelor's in computer and communication engineer Al-Rafidain University College - Baghdad Skills Active Directory (3 years), Cisco (6 years), Citrix (2 years), Firewall. (2 years), VMware (4 years) Additional Information Technical Summary:  MS Exchange, Active Directory, SharePoint, MS Office 365, Azure, ConnectWise, Track-it, TeamViewer, Citrix, Virtualization, VPN, VMware, Cisco Routers, Cisco Switches, ASA Firewall 5500, TCP, UDP, EIGRP, OSPF, BGP, MP-BGP, VRF, MPLS L2, L3, GRE, Nexus models like 7K, 5K, 2K and 9K series., SNMP, F5 BIG-IP LTM, AAA, 802.1x, Virtualization, VMware, , DHCP, , SAN, NAS, HPE Dl380 Dl390 C7000, ILO configuration, BMC remedy, JIRA. ServiceNow. PRTG, Nabors application InterACT schlumberger, Pason application. Real time data,