MIS/Assistant Network Administrator MIS/Assistant <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Assistant Network Administrator - Association to Benefit Children Bronx, NY Currently sitting as the Assistant Network Administrator of the Association to Benefit Children, the most valuable asset I have determined to be true in the last four years has been nurturing a true balance between practicality and service. During my undergraduate years at Middlebury College, I learned as a Helpdesk Technician that solving complex problems a moments noticed ensured seamless support for end-user, as well as Senior Administrators. I now look to accede within more challenging environments alongside like-minded colleagues motivated to foster improvements for their organization. Ultimately in pursuing my Cisco® CCNA, I hope to further my service by expanding my understanding of various complex network systems, peripherals, and security. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience MIS/Assistant Network Administrator Association to Benefit Children - New York, NY September 2015 to Present Manage day-to-day operations and oversee system maintenance, repair, and configurations  . Develop and lead scheduled project implementations to optimize company production  . Document operational changes and resolutions to hardware, software, and user accounts  . Research and submit recommendations to improve network support during monthly conferences  . Educate users on best practices with an emphasis on protecting company data Operations Technician Time Warner Cable - New York, NY March 2015 to August 2015 Performed underground and aerial residential service installations and disconnections  . Analyzed, maintained, and repaired peak hour signal drop systems and network utilities  . Implemented customer mobile software configurations alongside scheduled updates  . Communicated and escalated plant referral maintenance and construction projects Help-Desk Technician Middlebury College - Middlebury, VT October 2008 to March 2011 Implemented upgrades and patches to end-user desktops and laptops  . Assisted with asset management of department inventory  . Facilitated routine malware and anti-virus diagnostics on student devices  . Administered annual BIOS flashes for campus technical surveys Education Bachelor of Arts in Film and Media Studies Middlebury College September 2005 to May 2011 Skills Microsoft Office, Windows 7, Customer Service, TCP/IP (5 years), LAN/WAN (5 years), VPN (5 years), TLS (5 years), DHCP (5 years), Windows Server 2003 (3 years), Windows Server 2008 (4 years), Windows Server 2012 (4 years), Avaya IP Office Manager v.10 (3 years), Active Directory (8 years), VMware (5 years), VMSphere (3 years), 802.11 a/b/c/ac/g/n (4 years), Microsoft Office Suite (10+ years), Ricoh MP C-series (4 years), Firewalls (4 years), Technical Support (10+ years), Customer Relations (10+ years), Project Management (5 years), Database Management (5 years), Change Management (5 years), Access Control (10+ years), Network Security (4 years), Networking (5 years), DNS (5 years), Remote Access (10+ years), Cisco (5 years), Android (7 years), R2, Sip, Voip, iOS (6 years), Linux, System Administrator, System Admin Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/jamesstepney http://www.linkedin.com/in/jamesstepney Certifications/Licenses CompTIA A+ October 2014 to March 2020 CompTIA Network+ November 2014 to March 2020 CompTIA Security+ March 2017 to March 2020 Additional Information Key skills and achievements include:   • Superintends network and user domains across nine organizational branches and five school-based clinics    • Proven proficiency in determining, resolving, and mitigating future root causes of operational issues  • Establishes guidelines and policies for management of System, Network, and Security environments