Sr. Network Security Engineer Sr.<span class="hl">Network</span> Security Engineer Sr. Network Security Engineer - SABIC Houston, TX Accomplished Network and Security engineering professional with 8 years of real time experience in designing, deploying, migrating & supporting critical multi-site redundant Network environments.  • Knowledge of implementing and troubleshooting complex layer 2 technologies such as VLAN Trunks, VTP, Ether channel, STP, RSTP and MST. Implementation of HSRP, VRRP for Default Gateway Redundancy.  • Designed 10 gigabit networks using Cisco Nexus 7000 series switches, Checkpoint NGX firewall and Cisco 3800 series routers  • Experience testing Cisco & Juniper routers and switches in laboratory scenarios and then deploy them on site for production.  • Experience with convert Checkpoint VPN rules over to the Cisco ASA solution. Migration with Cisco ASA VPN experience.  • Enterprise experience with Nexus models like 7K, 5K, 2K series.  • Experience in configuring VDC, VPC and FCOE, upgrading NX-OS for Nexus Family Switches.  • Good knowledge of CISCO NEXUS data center infrastructure with 5000 and 7000 series switches includes (5548, 7010) including CISCO NEXUS Fabric Extender (223, 2248)  • Working in a Data Center focusing on Infrastructure, Operations and SLA along with process improvements in areas like Service Level Management, Continuity and Availability Management, Change Management, Performance Monitoring, Co-ordination with Telco company for Circuits.  • Experience on F5 Local Traffic managers (LTM), Global traffic manager (GTM) of series 6400, 6800, 3400, 5100, 3600 and 3DNS migration to GTM.  • Experience working with Juniper JUNOS version 12 and Version 13 for routing and switching protocols.  • In-depth knowledge of MPLS, H.323, VoIP, NAT, Accesslists, Tunneling, IPv6, IPv4, VLAN &EtherChannel.  • Experience in working with Cisco Nexus Switches and Virtual Port Channel configuration.  • Worked on F5 LTM, GTM series like 6400, 6800, 8800 for the corporate applications and their availability.  • Experience with configuring Nexus 2000 Fabric Extender (FEX) which acts as a remote line card (module) for the Nexus 5000  • Hands on experience in configuring and supporting site-to-site and remote access Cisco, IPSec, VPN solutions using ASA/PIX firewalls, Cisco and VPN client.  • Design and configuring of OSPF, BGP on Juniper Routers and SRX Firewalls.  • Good knowledge on juniper SRX240, SRX220 and SRX550 series Firewalls.  • Implemented Positive Enforcement Model with the help of Palo Alto Networks.  • Experienced in handling and installing Palo Alto Firewalls with exposure to wild fire feature of Palo Alto Networks.  • Perform Checkpoint and PIX firewall/IDS design, integration & implementation for Cyber Trap client networks.  • Hands on experience on configuring Cisco ASA 5540, 5580 firewalls.  • Experience in installing, configuring and troubleshooting Checkpoint Firewalls.  • In-depth in preparing Technical Documentation and presentations using Microsoft VISIO/Office.  Certification & Trainings  • Cisco Certified Network Associate CCNA  • Cisco Certified Network Professional (CCNP) Work Experience Sr. Network Security Engineer SABIC - Houston, TX 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Configured and maintained rule sets in the firewalls and updated them on the daily basis.  • Participate in security audits against industry standards such as ISO  • Knowledge of Cisco ASA firewall, VPN, GRE over IPSec tunnel configuration and Route-maps.  • Monitor and analyze clients network infrastructure to provide timely detection, identification of malicious intent such as intrusions, DoS attacks, Anomalous behavior, privileged account misuse.  • Extensive knowledge of and experience configuring and troubleshooting layer 3 routing protocols (EIGRP, OSPF, RIP, BGP) and High Availability on Cisco devices.  • Develop and maintain support documentation including support guides, knowledge base articles for reference  • Innovated with support of Palo Alto for remote and mobile users and for analyzing files for malware in a separate (cloud-based) process that does not impact stream processing.  • Reporting major task, plan of action, challenges faces for AMR region  • Researched, designed and replaced Checkpoint firewall architecture with new next generation Palo Alto PA3000 and PA5000 appliances serving as firewalls and URL and application inspection.  • PRTG Network Monitoring tool for Device uptime, Storage Utilization, Outages, Config Change  • Configured rules and maintaining Palo Alto Firewalls& Analysis of firewall logs using Panorama.  • Responsible for implementations and upgrades.  Monitor, Analyze and respond to security incidents in the infrastructure. Investigate and resolve security issues found in the infrastructure according to the security standards and procedures.  • Successfully installed Palo Alto PA-3000/PA-5000 firewalls to protect Data Center and provided L3 support for routers/switches/firewalls.  • Configured and maintained IPSEC and SSL VPN's on Palo Alto Firewalls and implemented Zone-Based Firewall and Security Rules on the Palo Alto Firewall.  • Actively search for potential security issues and security gaps that are beyond the ability of detection. Using security tools. Initiate and develop new mechanisms to addresses unidentified security holes & challenges.  • Provided tier 3 support for Checkpoint and Cisco ASA Firewalls to support customers, Backup and restore of Checkpoint and Cisco ASA Firewall policies.  • Perform configuration updates for user access requests, connectivity requests and security policy change controls. Support & troubleshoot hardware issues, configuration policy issues.  • Monitoring Traffic and Connections in Checkpoint and ASA Firewall.  • Manage project task to migrate from Cisco ASA firewalls to Check Point firewalls.  • Configured and Trouble shooted site-to-site IPSEC VPN tunnels using Cisco ASA 5540 for third-party connectivity.  • Managed all network and devices to include Cisco routers, switches, VPNs, SSL, Check point, Cisco PIX, Cisco ASA, Cisco FWSM as well as content delivery networks (CSS, Citrix Netscaler and F5 BigIP LTM and GTM 1600 and 3400 load balancers) enterprise environment.  • Designed and Implemented Cisco UCS pods in Nexus 7000 and Cisco 6500  • Experience migrating Cisco 6500 IOS to Cisco Nexus 7K in the data center environment.  • Configured network services equipment Riverbed accelerators in compliance with security policy.  • Successfully installed Palo Alto PA-7050 firewalls to protect Data Center and provided L3 support for routers/switches/firewalls. Sr Network Engineer MUFG Union Bank August 2017 to March 2018 Responsibilities:  • Create and test Cisco router and switching operations using OSPF routing protocol, ASA Firewalls, and MPLS switching for stable VPNs.  • Design, and configuring of OSPF, BGP on Juniper Routers and SRX Firewalls.  • Manage WAN / LAN, Telco Infrastructure.  • Work closely with Telco for WAN Termination, Bandwidth Upgrade, Troubleshooting of Circuits.  • Coordinate with Telco in event of Outage /failure and update stakeholder for the same.  • Dual WAN link from Verizon so as to overcome problem in case one link goes down. Engage Telco i.e. Verizon, AT&T, level 3 for MPLs/ Internet Bandwidth upgrade as required for Offices.  • Configured IPsec site-to-site VPN connection between Cisco VPN 3000 Concentrator and Cisco 3800.  • Good understanding and experience in Incident, Problem and knowledge on SLA Management.  • Worked on documenting risks, constraints and assumptions affecting the project.  • Manage changes to the project scope, project schedule and project costs using appropriate verification techniques.  • Performed risk management to minimize project risks.  • Configured Protocol Handling, Object Grouping and NAT on ASA Firewalls (5505).  • Migrated cisco3550 switches to 3750 PoE switches to provide support to Wireless APs.  • Troubleshooting WAN, LAN, Wireless & Telco.  • Total of 30 sites, 17 sites were moved to MPLS link using telco services from Verizon, AT&T, Level 3, while non-mpls sites were connecting using managed VPN service from Telco i.e. Verizon.  • Solar Winds Network Monitoring tool for Device uptime, Telco Outages, Config Change etc.  • Upgrade Wireless LAN infrastructure from Cisco Standalone WIFI to Cloud based Cisco Meraki Wireless LAN with support from Telco provider i.e. Verizon, AT&T and level 3.  • Well planned in accordance with the organization's Project Management guidelines to coordinate activities and resources across projects.  • Measure project performance using appropriate tools and techniques.  • Report and escalate to management as needed.  • Configurations of load balancing in F5, SSL/VPN connections, Troubleshooting CISCO ASA firewalls, and related network security measures.  • Experience deploying BIG-IP F5LTM Load Balancers for load balancing and traffic management of business application  • Experience with configuring Nexus 2000 Fabric Extender (FEX) which acts as a remote line card (module) for the Nexus 5000  • Responsible for Check Point and Cisco ASA firewall administration across global networks.  • Provided overall summary of all planned and ongoing Service Transaction Project as information for customers & other Service Management's Process.  • Creation of Firewall policies as per the requirements on Checkpoint, ASA, FWSM, and Juniper Firewalls.  • Working on security devices ASA, Juniper, Palo Alto Firewalls, Routers, and Switches.  • Configured Cisco routers for MPLS VPN connectivity and VRF tables on edge routers for customer usage of the MPLS network.  • Responsible for NAT traffic flow in the Juniper SRX 3600 and support Juniper Space.  • Team member of Configuration of Cisco 7206 router with VPN and Configuration of Catalyst switches.  • Experience with convert Checkpoint VPN rules over to the Cisco ASA solution. Migration with both Checkpoint and Cisco ASA VPN experience. Network Security Engineer Mazda - CA March 2016 to July 2017 Responsibilities:  • Technical Knowledge on Cisco PIX/ASA series, Juniper Net screen/SRX firewall gateways.  • Implemented site to site VPN in Juniper SRX as per customer.  • Configured and implemented Nexus 5K and 2K in lab environment  • Experience with configuring Nexus 2000 Fabric Extender (FEX) which acts as a remote line card (module) for the Nexus 5000  • Migration from Cisco to Palo Alto firewall & Cisco to Checkpoint firewall  • Integrated VoIP with PSTN and set up voice Gateway ensuring QOS for Cisco based Voice over IP and CDR for voice call Accounting  • Work with Telco to resolve Network/Voice issues i.e. WAN, MPLS, PRI, PSTN.  • Worked closely with Telco i.e. Verizon to provide high availability Internet/MPLS with Dual circuits from. Bandwidth upgrade (from 50 mbps to 100 mbps) for increased throughput to avoid latency for Clinical Trial Applications.  • Work with Telco Engineer in event of WAN circuits failure to help resolve issues.  • Involved in design and implementation of Data Center Migration, worked on implementation strategies for the expansion of the MPLS VPN networks  • Implemented HSRP on the Cisco 3550 Layer 3 switches and OSPF on 2 Cisco 3925 routers, the Layer 3 switch, Cisco 3550 Switches, Cisco 3524XL switches for fail over.  • Working with Cisco ASA 5585-X firewalls with Firewall rules, IPSec VPN, NAT, Active-Standby Failover, OSPF and Any Connect VPN technologies  • Configuration of firewalls 5520 series ASA for business to business connectivity and application of ACL rules for network traffic.  • Design/install/Configure Nexus 7k, 5k and 2k switches, PAN firewall and NetScaler Application load balancer.  • Experience with converting PIX rules over to the Cisco ASA solution.  • Maintain Security policy by monitoring PIX firewalls (515 and 520).  • Installed and designed four PIX 525 and two ASA 5505 in client areas. Notwithstanding that, arranged two PIX firewall for the Guest access.  • Established IPSEC-VPN tunnels with ASA 5500 series Firewall between some branch offices & headquarters.  • Configuring and managing F5 ASM (Application security manager). Develop security policies.  • Designed application mapping and application delivery using F5 BIG IP LTM.  • Experience in working with designing, installing and troubleshooting of Palo Alto firewalls.  • Implemented site to site VPN with IPSEC via. GRE ISKAMP  • Implemented Cisco site to site VPN for partnering with different partners around the world.  • Configured IPsec VPN access for client to site remote access.  • Experience with configuring BGP in the data center and using BGP as a WAN protocol and manipulating BGP attributes.  • Responsible for layer 2 securities which was implemented using a dedicated VLAN ID for all trunk ports, setting the user ports to non-Trunking, deployed port security when possible for user ports.  • Responsible for Cisco ASA firewall administration across our global networks.  • Involved in the redistribution into OSPF on the core ASA firewall.  • Migration of existing IPSEC VPN tunnels from Pre-Shared key to Certificate Authority for purpose of scaling. Network Engineer Datatron - San Francisco, CA November 2014 to February 2016 Responsibilities:  • Designing and installing new branch Network systems. Resolving Network issues, running test scripts and preparing Network documentation.  • Responsible for Working in high availability Nexus Environment and provide Layer 3 Network Support.  • Performed OSPF, BGP, DHCP Profile, HSRP, IPV6, Bundle Ethernet implementation on ASR 9K redundant pair.  • Translating Cisco IOS Route maps to Cisco IOS XR Routing policies.  • Working with Cisco Nexus 2148 Fabric Extender and Nexus 5500 series to provide a Flexible Access Solution for datacenter access architecture.  • Implemented Positive Enforcement Model with the help of Palo Alto Networks  • Physically deployed new Cisco Nexus devices, Catalyst and Nexus replacement blades, FWSMs, Cisco ASAs, Citrix NetScaler MPX and SDX chassis  • Configuring, Installing and troubleshooting on Checkpoint Devices.  • Isolated network traffic via F5 load balancers for GTMs and LTMs  • Migrated Cisco ASA firewall to next generation Palo Alto firewalls.  • Working with wireless technologies troubleshooting and configuration.  • Establishing VPN Tunnels using IPSec encryption standards and configuring and implementing site-to-site VPN, Remote VPN.  • Performed Configuration on ASR 9K Pairs includes HSRP, Bundle Ethernet Config, Assigning DCHP profiles.  • Implemented Load Balancing between Cisco L3 Switch by HSRP and GLBP.  • Successfully executed change on Nexus 9K and 7Ks to support redundant platform.  • Implemented Zone Based Firewalling and Security Rules on the Palo Alto Firewall.  • Working with Juniper JUNOS on M and MX series routers.  • Creating new nodes and Pools in F5 load balancers to support newly added servers in Layer 3 environment.  • Configuring, Monitoring and Troubleshooting Cisco's ASA 5500 security appliance, Failover DMZ zoning and configuring VLANs/routing/NATing with the firewalls as per the design.  • Successfully installed Palo Alto PA-3060 firewalls to protects Data Center and provided L3 support for routers/switches/firewalls.  • Worked on migrating the F5 LTM 5100 version 9.2 to 5100 LTM version 9.4 and F5 GTM configurations Network Support Engineer Sun Pharma - CA June 2012 to September 2014 Responsibilities:  • Hand on experience on IP Addressing, Sub netting.  • Experience in designing, implementation and operations of enterprise data networks as network engineer.  • Enterprise Switching with VLANs, Trunks, Spanning Tree, Port Spanning etc.  • Sound knowledge in LAN/WAN setup, installation, configuration, and troubleshooting.  • Experience in Layer 3 Routing Protocol configurations: RIP, OSPF, BGP, EIGRP.  • Experienced in trouble-shooting both connectivity issues and hardware problems on Cisco based networks.  • Performed Port channeling and LACP between downstream devices for VPC configuration.  • Installed and configured CISCO ASA and Checkpoint firewall.  • Performed Configuration on ASR 9K Pairs includes HSRP, Bundle Ethernet Config, Assigning DHCP profiles.  • Policy provisioning, access to specific segments of the networks through Cisco ISE.  • Configured network access servers and routers for AAA Security (RADIUS/ TACACS+)  • Responsible for Internal and external accounts and, managing LAN/WAN and checking for Security  • Implementation of name resolution using WINS & DNS in TCP/IP environment  • Key contributions include troubleshooting of complex LAN/WAN infrastructure that include knowledge and skill of 802.11 a/b/g/n LAN normal for wireless Technology.  • Configured and resolved various OSPF issues in an OSPF multi area environment.  • Involved in the removal of EIGRP from all devices and making OSPF the primary routing protocol. Network Administrator Capture Network Systems - CA February 2011 to May 2012 Responsibilities:  • Responsible for implementation and day to day operations of all associated hubs, routers, bridges, gateways and Network related equipment.  • Worked on necessary tools for Linux/Unix System, and Microsoft Power shell.  • Deploying the network infrastructure to meet the requirements.  • Created VLAN and Inter-VLAN routing with Multilayer Switching.  • Documenting and Log analyzing the Cisco ASA 5500 series firewall  • Monitor performance of network and servers to identify potential problems.  • Real time monitoring and network management using Cisco Works LMS (LAN Management solution).  • Satisfactorily Resolved Problems in timely manner with focus on providing a high level of support for all customers.  • Prepared Engineering documents and Network diagrams in Microsoft Visio.  • Delivered Departmental Efficiency through advanced engineering, technical support, and documentation procedures.  • Implemented cable multi-service operator (MSO) to capture traditional Telco subscribers with IP telephony and provide relevant QOS.  • Provided technical support on hardware and software related issues to remote production sites.  • Responsible for LAN and internet connection file and print server.  • Active participation on operational support for routing/switching protocols in complex environments including BGP, OSPF, EIGRP, Spanning Tree, 802.1q, etc.  • Managed various teams involved in site surveys, cabling specifications, Network equipment installation and configuration. Education Master's Skills Cisco, Security, Vmware, Active Directory, Exchange Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:  Cisco Platforms Nexus 7K, 5K, 2K, 1K  Cisco Routers 1700,1800,2500,2600,2800,3600,3800,3900,7200,7600  Cisco L2 & L3 Switches 2900,3500,3560,3750,4500,4900,6500  Juniper Platforms SRX, MX, EX Series Router and Switches  Networking Concepts Access-lists, Routing, Switching, Sub netting, Designing, CSU/DSU, IPsec, VLAN, VPN, WEP, WAP, MPLS, VoIP, Bluetooth, Wi-Fi  Firewall ASA Firewall (5505/5510), Checkpoint, Cisco ASA  Network Tools Solar Winds, SNMP, Cisco Works, Wireshark  Load Balancers Cisco CSM, F5 Networks (Big-IP)  Wan Technologies Frame Relay, ISDN, ATM, MPLS, leased lines & exposure to PPP, DS1, DS3,0C3, T1 /T3 & SONET  Lan Technologies Ethernet, Fast Ethernet, Gigabit Ethernet, & 10 Gigabit Ethernet, Port- channel, VLANS, VTP, STP, RSTP, 802.1Q  Security Protocols IKE, IPSEC, SSL-VPN  Networking Protocols RIP, OSPF, EIGRP, BGP, STP, RSTP, VLANs, VTP, PAGP, LACP, MPLS, HSRP, VRRP, GLBP, TACACS+, Radius, AAA, IPv4 and IPv6  Operating System Windows 7/XP, MAC OS X, Windows Server 2008/2003, Linux, Unix  Documentation MS Office, MS Visio