Network/VoIP Engineer <span class="hl">Network</span>/VoIP Engineer Network/VoIP Engineer - Education and Health Care Absecon, NJ Work Experience Network/VoIP Engineer Education and Health Care January 2015 to Present Full MSP and Co-Lo Voice Support for a wide variety of clients including  Government, Education and Health Care.  • Installation, Configuration and Managed Administration for hosted and premise  phone systems, including SIP Trunking leading VoIP brands (Cisco, Yealink,  Aastra, NEC and Zultys).  • Full Managed Services and Monitoring of MSAD domains, Server Management,  Exchange/Office 365 and Desktop Support.  • Installation and Configuration of full range of Network Equipment including  Firewalls, Routers and Switches, VLAN's, Routing, DHCP/Options, DNS and more. (Fortigate, Sonicwall, Cisco, Edgewater, HP, Netgear)  • Network Cabling including MDF/IDF Installations, Deployments, Moves and Changes.  • Proficient in MS Visio Network Diagrams, Detailed Documentation and Change  Control, Disaster Recovery and use of CRM Applications. C.I.T./ IT Administrator Hendricks House Inc - Township of Galloway, NJ May 2012 to January 2015 • Complete on-Site I.T. administration, including help-desk for 2 Windows Server  2008 R2 systems hosting 35 Windows 7 & 8 client PC's, phone and camera  systems, network, ADDS, DHCP, DNS and domain management services as well as secure electronic client file server system and complete EMail  administration. Communications Security Technician Systec Security Systems - Vineland, NJ March 2012 to May 2012 Installation, Maintenance and Troubleshooting of Burglar and Fire Alarm systems, IP and analog camera systems, A/V applications, networks and all included equipment. Education Stockton College CE Program - Township of Galloway, NJ 2010 to 2012 Atlantic Cape Community College - Mays Landing, NJ 2001 to 2002 Ocean City High School - Ocean City, NJ 1995 to 1999 Skills IP, Cisco, SIP, PBX, BGP, Telecommunication, Avaya, Shoretel Additional Information • Excellent people and communication skills.  • Exceptional adaptability, critical thinking, multi-tasking, organizational and problem  solving skills.  • Knowledge of past and current computer and technology systems including MS Server,  Windows, MS Office, Networking, Camera and Phone Systems.  • Knowledge of HIPPA/ Electronic Health Records systems, operations, functionality and  compliances.