Senior Systems Administrator Senior Systems <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Senior Systems Administrator - Shelby County Schools Cordova, TN Work Experience Senior Systems Administrator Shelby County Schools - Memphis, TN May 2019 to Present Responsibilities  ? Administrate and maintain windows updates and implement group policy in a large enterprise enterprise environment in Windows Server 2010/2012 r2  ? Administrate or modify users/ group level of permissions on the network  ? Administrate email accounts in MS Exchange 2013/2016  ? Create security groups, distribution list and user account when requirements are requested  ? Utilize PowerShell scripting to automate routine server administration for file shares and user permissions  ? Configure and Administrate vSphere ESXi 6.7 and vCenter Server Applicance 6.7 on a large enterprise network  ? Install and configure Windows Server 2012/2016 domain controller, Active Directory, DNS, and DHCP servers  ? Troubleshoot system errors by viewing syslogs from the servers and resolving the issues in a timely manner  ? Remote into multiple school servers via Remote Desktop Connection to deploy Windows and Lenovo updates Network Support Engineer masterIT - Memphis, TN November 2018 to January 2019 Responsibilities  ? Troubleshoot and resolved network issues including LAN/WAN, DHCP, TCP/IP, DNS, server, desktop, spyware and viruses  ? Configured security settings on access permissions for groups or individuals  ? Setup Microsoft Active Directory accounts, security groups and distribution list in Window Server 2008/2012/2016  ? Setup and administrated mailboxes in Microsoft Exchange 2003/2007  ? Restored data and files using Carbonite or Datto backup recovery tool  ? Monitored email activity using the spam filter Proofpoint  ? Monitored servers/devices and deployed applications using SolarWinds N-central  ? Monitored and supported AV Defender virus and malware alerts  ? Managed and supported SonicWall firewalls  ? Provided phone support related to network connectivity, password, or email issues  ? Identify the root cause of network problems using diagnostic testing tools  ? Synced SharePoint files with the local OneDrive  ? Supported mobile apps on Androids/Iphones Associate Network Administrator Tangoe - Memphis, TN March 2017 to November 2017 Responsibilities  ? Troubleshoot and resolved Jira help desk tickets onsite or remotely  ? Troubleshoot LAN / WAN connectivity, DNS, DHCP and Window 8/10 issues  ? Installed and configured multifactor authentication for Cisco VPN  ? Installed and configured Ring Central software for the telephone system and administrated user's phone number  ? Setup new accounts, security groups and distribution list in Microsoft Active Directory  ? Administrated accounts, email permissions, and Office product licenses in Microsoft Office 365  ? Trained users on Jira ticketing system, Ring Central phone system and Cisco VPN  ? Created Endpoint security reports through Kaseya Management System  ? Created SFTP accounts using PowerShell scripts through the Linux Server  ? Implemented and supported software deployment and network connectivity through Kaseya Management System  ? Documentation on software and hardware utilization  ? Liaison between the user and vendor to replace or repair equipment IT Support Analyst Shelby County Schools - Memphis, TN November 2014 to March 2017 Responsibilities  ? Provided technical support in laptops, desktops, printers and Smartboards  ? Administrated the monitoring agents called LanSchool and Computrace  ? Installed Windows updates and required software  ? Setup and disabled users and computers and password reset in Microsoft Active directory  ? Partitioned drives and created bootable USB drives to deploy imaging software to desktops and laptops  ? Performed patch panel maintenance on Cisco switches  ? Deployed applications/ Symantec Endpoint Antivirus through Microsoft System Center Configuration Manager (SCCM)  ? Troubleshoot email, software, hardware, network connectivity issues  ? Trained users on how to utilize software and test assessments and file backup process  ? Documented details in work orders for pending and resolve tickets  ? Written detailed documentation for software or hardware installation and configuration process Systems Analyst Wright Medical Technology - Memphis, TN April 2014 to September 2014 Contractor)    Responsibilities  ? Monitored and resolved tickets through ServiceNow ticketing system  ? Provided technical support on hardware and software  ? Used Clonezilla software to image laptops  ? Configured devices on the local domain and wireless network  ? Installed and configured applications on desktop and laptops  ? Setup workstations and phone system for users  ? Setup email accounts in Microsoft Exchange 2007 via VMWare vSphere v6 and Outlook 2010  ? Setup local domain accounts  ? Implemented group policy for computer's background in Window server 2008  ? Setup and configured Cisco phones for end user  ? Administrated inventory database on the network server Client IT Analyst American Esoteric Laboratories - Memphis, TN September 2012 to November 2013 Responsibilities    ? Troubleshoot and resolved technical issues related to network connectivity, printers, EMR database, and applications  ? Deployed Symantec Ghost through an imaging server  ? Performed database maintenance in the Atlas, Labgem, Antrim, and Apollo applications  ? Monitored inventory control and created inventory weekly reports  ? Trained medical staff on the Atlas Patient Portal application onsite or remotely  ? Installed printer drivers for Windows 7 and Mac operating systems  ? Created and resolved help desk tickets in Track-it ticketing system  ? Setup proxy setting for medical staff to access online resources  ? Migrated Windows 2000 to Windows 7 by uploading backup cache file to the database server Bank Teller Memphis City Employee Credit Union - Memphis, TN May 2008 to August 2012 Part-time)    Responsibilities  ? Developed productive working relationship with the business functional areas  ? Researched the Galaxy DMS software for bank statements and transactions  ? Provided assistance with online and audio banking passwords or unlocking accounts online  ? Provided customer service to customers by assisting with payments, withdrawals, issue cashier's check or opening new accounts  ? Being proactive to assist other team members and accomplished sale goals in person or over the telephone  ? Handled counting incoming or outgoing cash, filing deposit slips, and balancing numbers at the end of the day IT Technician LeSure Computer Services - Memphis, TN June 2010 to August 2010 Internship)    Responsibilities  ? Used Remedy ITSM software to create incident reports  ? Created help desk tickets in Remedy related to virus, software, hardware, user access and networking issues  ? Set up workstations and laptops with necessary peripheral devices  ? Troubleshoot to diagnose and resolved technical issues onsite or remotely  ? Configured domain settings and internet properties  ? Ensure security and permission in compliance to access resources on the network  ? Installed antivirus software to avoid malware and virus alerts  ? Set up LANs in enterprise setting environment within various departments and network printers Education Information Technology Training Lab Four Professional Development Center - Memphis, TN 2014 Bachelor Degree in Management Information Systems in Management Information Systems University of Memphis 2010 Associate of Applied Science degree in Microcomputer Networking Jackson State Community College 2005 Skills Dhcp, Tcp, Tcp/ip, Vmware, Vpn, Dns, Remedy, Solarwinds, Security, Firewall, Jira, Symantec, Systems management, Track-it, Lan, Microsoft office, Microsoft office 2010, Office 2010, Windows 7, Windows server 2003 Additional Information Technical Expertise:  LAN / WAN Support Windows 7/8/10 AV Defender  Firewall Support Microsoft Office 2010/ 2016 Office 365 System Center Configuration Manager (SCCM)  TCP/IP, DNS, DHCP, VPN, VMware vSphere ESXi 6.7, Vcenter 6.7 Remedy, Jira, Track-IT, Autotask Ticketing Systems Kaseya Systems Management  Windows Server 2003/2008/2012/2016 Symantec Endpoint Security SolarWinds N-Central