ITA 1 (Information Technology Administrator 1) ITA 1 (Information Technology <span class="hl">Administrator</span> 1) Network Administrator Phoenix, AZ Work Experience ITA 1 (Information Technology Administrator 1) New Jersey Courts - Trenton, NJ August 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  Assist in procurement of network hardware, and software in support of implementation and development efforts.  Support the deployment of workstations, network devices, servers, printers, scanners, firewalls, encryption systems, and all host security systems.  Administer all network hardware and equipment, including routers, switches, hubs, and UPSs.  Administer and maintain telephone equipment, protocols and routing queues necessary to meet business needs.  Perform network, server and security audits, review logs for errors and trends, and ensure proper function of network infrastructure.  Recommend and perform network improvements, upgrades, and repairs.  Ensure network connectivity of all workstations.  Utilize network monitoring systems to analyze network traffic, circuit usage, and troubleshooting.     Check help desk database for entries on networking resource issues; prioritize and respond to help desk tickets as appropriate.     Make configuration changes based on department directives, industry best practices, troubleshooting, and support for network dependent systems.        Technology Utilized:  Cisco ASR-9000, ISR-4400, ISR4300, and 2900 series routers, Cisco 2960 Catalyst switches, Solarwinds (NPM), HP Openview, Netflow, SNMPv3,EIGRP, NAT, QoS, and 4G. Network Administrator Northwest Federal Credit Union - Herndon, VA October 2016 to June 2017 Responsibilities:  Assist in procurement of network hardware, and software in support of implementation and development efforts.  Support the deployment of workstations, network devices, servers, printers, scanners, firewalls, encryption systems, and all host security systems.  Administer all network hardware and equipment, including routers, switches, hubs, and UPSs.  Administer and maintain telephone equipment, protocols and routing queues necessary to meet business needs.  Perform network, server and security audits, review logs for errors and trends, and ensure proper function of network infrastructure.  Recommend and perform network improvements, upgrades, and repairs.  Ensure network connectivity of all workstations.  Check help desk database for entries on networking resource issues; prioritize and respond to help desk tickets as appropriate.    Technology Used:  Cisco ASR routers, Cisco ASA 5500 series firewalls, Cisco Nexus 7000, Cisco Nexus 2000, Cisco Catalyst Switches 2960,3650& 4506, MacAfee Sidewinder, Juniper SRX 3400, LanDesk, Orion Solarwinds, OSPF, VRRP, ACL's, DMVPN, and Track -IT ticketing system. Associate Engineer Access Management, QVC, West Chester, P.A Cisco ASR May 2015 to September 2016 Associate Engineer Access Management, QVC, West Chester, P.A. May 2015 - September 2016    Responsibilities:  Responsible for controlling access to networks, applications, and data, for users and devices. Ensures processes around compliance and risk are followed utilizing governing practices and approvals. Uses Active Directory and Unix/Linux as well as other listed systems to create and modify user accounts, system accounts, groups, directories, databases, and files as requested by clients.  Technology Utilized:  Oracle Data warehouse - Stratus - Novell i Manager - Lotus Notes - DB2 -IBM- Active Directory - Linux/Unix- RSA- CyberArk- HP ALM - HP Service Manager-Dalet-Horizon-AQT Advance Query Tool - SQL Management Studio-Microsoft Exchange - Microsoft Lync -Microsoft Office - Microsoft Outlook Associate Engineer Atrion Networking Corporation - Warwick, RI December 2014 to April 2015 Responsibilities:   Setup and deploy Cisco (enterprise routers, switches). Troubleshoot enterprise level customers’ networks including multiple technical disciplines (LAN/WAN, NAC, etc). Configure and maintain customer networks, as well as providing monitoring and support. Manage a personal ticket queue that includes change management requests and troubleshooting varying issues. Engage other resources including clients, vendors, escalation points and management in order to resolve problems. Work with clients as an extension of their team and as a consultative escalation resource as necessary.        Technology Utilized:   • Switching: VLAN, VTP, STP,RSTP,HSRP  • Routing protocols: RIP v2, EIGRP, OSPF,BGP   • Security: NAT, PAT, VPN, ACL’s  • Tools: GNS3, Wireshark, Netflow   • OS: Windows XP/7/8,   • TCP/IP, ARP, DHCP, DNS   • Hardware: Switches (2900 series, 3750 series), enterprise routers (2600 series, 2800 series, 3600 series), and Advanced Security Appliances (ASA 5500). Network Analyst The American Mathematical Society - Providence, RI January 2013 to November 2014 Responsibilities:  Assisted the Network Administrator with maintaining and configuring the local and wide area networks. Responsible for installation, administration, and testing of routers, switches, cabling, and other related network components/equipment under the guidance of the Network Administrator. Provide support to desktop team in troubleshooting network failures and errors; includes diagnosing and resolving routine to moderately complex network related problems. Assist the Network Administrator with developing, monitoring, and implementing network security procedures for safeguarding all networking systems. Adhere to procedures for logging, reporting, and monitoring network data. Ensure the stable operation and efficient performance of company network. Monitor and analyze network performance across the organization’s LANs, WANs and wireless deployments. Identify and remedy network performance bottlenecks. Ensure network and IP connectivity of all workstations, application servers, and backend office infrastructure. Assist the Network Administrator with upgrades and repairs on network devices, including routers, switches, Powerlinks, firewalls, etc.  Prepare and ensure accuracy of documentation, procedures manuals and help sheets. Education Associate in Science degree in Information Technology/ Network Engineering New England Institute of Technology - East Greenwich, RI May 2013 Skills Windows, Networking, Active Directory, Technical Support Certifications/Licenses CCNA Routing and Switching January 2015 to Present CCNA Security December 2016 to December 2019 VMware Certified Associate 6 – Data Center Virtualization February 2017 to Present CCNP ROUTE 300-101 May 2018 to Present CCNP Switch 300-115 March 2019 to Present Additional Information Summary of Skills    • Professional demeanor gained through extensive interaction with the public, leadership roles in the military, domestic and international travel  • Excellent communication skills, both verbal and written  • Recognized for reliability, conflict resolution, fairness, persistence and a strong work ethic  • Easily adapts to working on projects alone or as part of a team  • Experienced with operating systems XP, Windows 7&8, Server 2003, 2008 & 2012  • Microsoft Office Suite: Word, Excel, Access, PowerPoint, Visio, and Outlook  • Knowledge in Cisco, HP, and Juniper networking systems  • Desktop operation system troubleshooting  • Desktop application and troubleshooting  • Experienced in computer hardware  • Cabling/Networking  • Network Monitoring