Vice President Vice President Vice President - Citibank To leverage my prior IT experience and current composite skill set to guarantee success implementing technology services as a strategic business advantage. I am looking to build my career and join a team that understands how IT improves performance and increases efficiency having extensive experience using a variety of programming languages It is easy for me to adapt to any environment. Work Experience Vice President Citibank April 2018 to Present Senior Technical Lead  ? Manages global teams of IT Software Asset Management Specialists and Analyst.  ? Defines next generation Software Asset delivery model and vision.  ? Oversee vendor reseller and OEM engagements to meet established service level targets and key performance indicators.  ? Develops knowledge of industry best practices and build industry network to establish benchmarks for managing IT assets.  ? Manages and approves Software Asset Lifecycle Management policies and procedures.  ? Interface and collaborate directly with Legal, Sourcing, Enterprise Business Operations, and Compliance entities to ensure effectiveness of various programs.  ? Maintain a comprehensive list of IT Assets owned by the firm and analyze trends to leverage in negotiations.  ? Manages automation related to software asset and inventory.  ? Research and develop standardized SAM processes.  ? Conduct license forecasting and design short or long-term strategic plans to meet existing and new demand.  ? Assist in contracts negotiation with suppliers, internal procurement teams.  ? Works closely with departments for budgeting and forecasting.  ? Produces and maintain various operations dashboards to track metrics.  ? Provide input and leads weekly and monthly status reports on SAM activities and reconciliation efforts.  ? Organize, normalize and analyze contract and purchase information to maintain an accurate and complete summary of licenses.  ? Assists clients in the collection, cleanse/normalization, and management of software discovery and inventory information.  ? Analyzes purchase records and other entitlement information (including contracts, EULAs, EAs etc.)  ? Research and understand Product Use Rights, license allowances, and contractual entitlements for software products and manufacturers (with a specialty in one or more manufacturers).  ? Produce and present analytical, and final results of license reviews Public Safety Technology Specialist Stephen F. Austin State University October 2017 to March 2018 Ensured public safety technology and equipment were in working order and regularly maintained and serviced.  ? Developed and evaluated problem determination and resolution techniques.  ? Maintained current technical expertise in the rapidly changing area of public safety technology and utilized state of the art problem determination and resolution techniques to install and maintain supported systems.  ? Upheld university policy guidelines as well as recommended new and improved guidelines to ensure the highest quality of service and availability for supported systems.  ? Installed and repaired various equipment and software related to public safety technology, data communications, microcomputer systems, and peripherals.  ? Maintained and serviced Parking Access Control equipment and software for parking garages, security cameras and related storage devices/hardware and software, burglar alarms, police technical equipment, door access control hardware and software, and departmental computer hardware and software.  ? Provided professional support to in-service training. Senior Network Analyst Xoriant September 2016 to September 2017 Performed complex network software and hardware configuration configurations. Intermediate investigation, diagnoses, resolution, recovery and closure for network change incidents across all network technologies.  ? Provided timely response to communications from the change team shift manager, internal colleagues within clients, vendors, various engineering groups and others during scheduled and unscheduled changes  ? Reviewed and implemented complex migration requirements across all network devices, including following and writing pre-determined script templates and identifying and escalating any concerns during the implementation of the template  ? Implemented complex configurations for repetitive and non-repetitive projects (short and long-term) created by engineering, Level 3 or SME's that were intended to further standardize various network devices to improve the stability of the network  ? Created complex network device scripts in critical environments using several programming languages and various custom tools to automate configuration changes without risk to the current environment  ? Accepted escalation from change team technicians and escalated complex change management issues  ? Participated in formal and informal cross skill training from colleagues, world industry experts, vendors, Level 3, SME's and the build teams. Leveraged on the job learning from peers. Led informal and formal training sessions with the change team technicians and Global Level 2 & 3 teams  ? Implemented manual complex changes during monthly global network maintenance windows  ? Reviewed multiple change records raised by peers and various support teams regarding configuration standardization, migration requirements, proper risk and impact analysis, adequate test plans and appropriate business and technology approvals  ? Designed and maintained complex databases for various projects. Created variety applications System Administrator Computer Sciences Corporation September 2015 to September 2016 Installed, investigated, and resolved routine and complex matters of significance with computer software and hardware equipment  ? Analyzed, logged, tracked, and resolved complex software/hardware matters of significance pertaining to networking connectivity issues, servers, and applications to meet business needs  ? Coordinated hardware/software installations and upgrades to ensure work is properly performed in accordance with company policy; recommended resolution to complex matters of significance and coordinated the implementation of the approved course of action  ? Coordinated and monitored troubleshooting to isolate and diagnose common system problems; documented system events to ensure continuous functioning; recommended course of action and implemented as approved  ? Oversaw the installation of client department-specific applications and systems; ensured installations are in accordance with appropriate operating procedures; determined revisions or updates to installation as needed  ? Coordinated testing, upgrades, and configuration of system files and services; ensured changes are in accordance with appropriate operating procedures; recommended revisions or changes based upon results  ? Prepared for and prescribed approaches to possible downstream implications  ? Utilized standard corporate tools to record change and problem activities for tracking purposes Technical Consultant Hitachi Data Systems November 2012 to January 2015 Provided onsite and remote technical expertise on Hitachi products and services  ? Services included: Design and planning, installation and configuration, documentation  ? Related products: Hitachi Command Suite, Hitachi Command Director, Hitachi Universal Replicator, True Copy, Thin Image, and HCP Anywhere  ? Storage services: Migration and replication administration, daily operation and sustainment of both enterprise and midrange arrays  ? SAN services: Port planning and design, zoning, capacity allocation, mapping and masking, troubleshooting, and performance recommendations  ? Provided analytical services using Hitachi's Tuning Manager and Command Director software  ? Developed documentation for best practices for fibre channel switch networks: Brocade and Cisco  ? Communicated with customers and Project Managers system specifications, hardware and software requirements, and project scope  ? Scripted database migrations and created advanced custom scripting for clients  ? Participated in large scale non-disruptive data center migrations of virtual and physical server environments  ? Worked with various disaster recovery plans using a variety of methodologies (Shadow Image, Copy on Write, HUR)  Hitachi Data Systems )  ? Contributed to lab developments focusing on Linux and Unix mainframe scripting and advanced computing processes  ? Fostered relationships and developed and identified opportunities for improving customer care and best practice recommendations  ? Delivered training, mentoring, and coaching of newly on-boarded Technical Consultants for both onsite and remote deliveries  ? Point of contact and served as Team Lead for development lab  ? Maintained technical delivery proficiencies and broadened skills by taking advantage of training opportunities for emerging technologies IT Administrator Rex Perry Autoplex December 2010 to November 2012 Oversaw daily technical operations for 3 business locations maintaining uptimes and loss of revenue  ? Managed and maintained Virtual Private Network  ? Troubleshot issues from end-to-end involving servers and desktops  ? Administered operational processes and backups for various SQL databases  ? Ensured integrity of both hardware and software-based firewalls  ? Installed and configured security programs supporting e-mail and Internet filters  ? Redesigned workstations to incorporate remote access software  ? Advised and implemented on newer technologies increasing profitability  ? Established relationships, developed new business accounts, and increased sales from outside vendors  ? Provided staff training Student Support Specialist Office of Instructional Technology, Stephen F. Austin State University June 2010 to December 2010 Provided end-user support for learning management software IT / Network Administrator Lehmann Eye Center May 2009 to May 2010 Introduced new technical operating efficiencies  ? Provided knowledge transfer to staff with cutting edge EMR technology  ? Conducted staff training planning and sessions  ? Maintained and improved various databases  ? Developed disaster recovery plan related to data storage  ? Maintained medical records and security compliancy    Other Jobs  Night Auditor / Hampton Inn  Call Center Agent / SBC inbound DSL Support  Carmike Movie Studios Education Associates in Applied Science in Information Systems Technology University of Phoenix Skills ACTIVE DIRECTORY, CHEF, CISCO, EXCHANGE, NAS Additional Information Skills and Expertise    Databases & Administration  SQL Server  PostgreSQL  MongoDB  Oracle  Predictable and Scalable  Kerberos  Active Directory Administration  Exchange Administration  SSO  LDAP    Cloud Platforms  AWS  Bluemix  Google Compute  Azure  Bear Metal cPanel    Automation  Chef  Puppet  Ansible  Jenkins  Docker  Work Fusion  Automation Edge  UI Path  Automation Anywhere    Storage Administration  Solaris / Sun  Open Volume Migration  Disaster Recovery  NetBackup  NetApp  Emc  Hitachi  Free Nas    Server Virtualization  VMware  Hyper-V  OVM  KVM  Citrix  Horizons    Programming  Batch, Bash,  Python  Node JS  PHP  SQL / SQLMS  Java  JavaScript  Perl  AJAX  RUBY  R / C / XLM  Html  jQuery  Angular  AIML  GO  C# / C    Big Data  Splunk  Apache Spark  Hadoop    Robotics  Raspberry Pi  Arduino  Serial Card / Bluetooth  Serial WIFI    Networking  Cisco  Juniper  Arista  Squid Proxy  Snort  F5  Bgp,  Ospf  Mlps