IS Analyst IS Analyst Billings, MT Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience IS Analyst Billings Clinic Hospital - Billings, MT November 2018 to June 2019 • Worked with over 300 programs and applications  • Maintained accounted for over 4000 users and administrators  • Worked with phone systems, servers and remotely with users to troubleshoot issues  • Daily and hourly checks of various systems throuought hospital  • Troubleshooting of medical equipment SharePoint Administrator / Developer Information Management Office October 2016 to October 2018 Provide SharePoint expertise pertaining to website develop and management over NIPR and SIPR.  ? Constantly creating and maintaining groups, permissions, and user permissions.  ? Building sites, subsites, and pages for various units across 2nd Marine Air Wing (MAW), while working closely either over the phone or in person with individuals who will be using the sites, using their vision as a template.  ? Partnered with SharePoint Site Managers from each unit to gather requirements for their respective sites, creating sites using SharePoint Designer, HTML, CSS, and JavaScript.  ? Provided support for the manual migration of 2nd MAW from SharePoint 2010 to SharePoint 2013, assisting in the creation of over 500 sites, and more than 500 pages spanning classified and unclassified networks.  ? Provided information and guidance to 185 Site Managers throughout the 2nd MAW.  ? Contributed to the creation of 15,000 user accounts to gain access to the new SharePoint portal.  Provided SharePoint user support by troubleshooting issues and conducting root cause analysis. IT Helpdesk Support July 2016 to October 2016 Was fundamental in creating over 1000 accounts for users to access both classified and unclassified networks in 2nd MAW  ? Administered 2nd MAW Share Drive access to users.  ? Provided Troubleshooting support for most machines in 2nd MAW headquarters, from PC's and laptops to Printers and Video Teleconferencing (VTC). Network Engineer Marine Wing Communications Squadron September 2015 to July 2016 Assisted and led the building and configuration of layer 2 and 3 devices.  ? Created user accounts  ? Created and maintained server builds to manage user accounts through organizational units.  ? Re-imaged and set up 150 laptops for Weapons Training and Instruction Operation.  ? Supported Weapons Training and Instruction in Yuma, Arizona. Largest Marine Corps bi-annual operation.  ? Supported building and maintenance of network for 3000 users spread over several hundred square miles.  ? Was layer 2 / 3 network engineer for "Main Side" encampment, as well as site lead of 1 other outlying site. Cyber Network operator course at Twenty United States Marine Corps - San Diego, CA December 2014 to September 2015 Nine Palms, Ca. Deli Manager Good Earth Market November 2013 to December 2014 Customer service skills were honed, provided outstanding service to customers and consumers including small businesses that we worked with.  ? Showed that I could multitask and keep multiple sections of the deli operating, especially during high tempo times such as lunch rushes.  ? Was quickly promoted to shift manager  ? Lead the stores in sales, accounting for over half of total income during my time with them.  ? Was the main lead and point of contact for a complete overhaul and remodel of the deli and fresh food section before leaving for USMC basic training.    Completed Course Work  ? CCNA Exploration Network Fundamentals  ? CCNA Routing & Switching Concepts  ? CCNA Exploration accessing the WAN  ? IT Essentials PC Hardware and Software  ? IT Essentials Network Operating Systems  ? SharePoint 2013  ? Corporals course leadership seminar (30 day course) Education Billings Senior High School 2009 Skills MICROSOFT SHAREPOINT (2 years), SHAREPOINT (2 years), CSS (1 year), HTML (1 year), JAVASCRIPT (1 year), Excel, training, Management, database, Receptionist Military Service Branch: United States Marine Corps Rank: E-4 Corporal Additional Information Qualifications Profile    ? Advanced knowledge of SharePoint administration and website development.  ? Extensive knowledge of Cisco routers and switches.  ? Strong knowledge of security settings and network hardening.  ? Strong knowledge of IT support, especially widows outlook, active directory, and win10 and win7 OS.  ? CompTIA Security+ Certified COMP001021261829  ? Security Clearance: Active Secret    CORE COMPETENCIES    ? Cisco Routers/Switches  ? Routing protocols  ? SharePoint/SharePoint Designer/ Web development  ? IPsec/GRE tunnels  ? VLAN trunking protocol  ? Inline encryption devices  ? Exchange Server    ? KG-175-D  ? Network Hardening  ? SolarWinds Orion  ? VM Ware 5.1, 5.5  ? Combat Operations Center (COC)  ? Access Control List  ? Windows Server    ? C2PC  ? Blue Force Tracker (BFT)  ? Tactical Common Operational Picture Server (TCS)  ? HTML/CSS/JavaScript  ? Chat Servers / Clients  ? Topology Diagrams