Network Technician <span class="hl">Network</span> Technician Server and Network Administration Visalia, CA support experience including virus removal, large scale network planning and execution, and remote  assistance. Experience with Windows, Linux, and OSX server management. Building computers for  10+ years, and managing servers for 4+ years.    AREAS Technical Repairs Building Rapport Customer Satisfaction  Communication Attention to Detail Coaching and Implementing Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Network Technician EMD Networking Services, Inc. - Visalia, CA October 2017 to Present Supporting a multitude of workloads in Windows environments. Managing and maintaining Windows Servers, SQL Servers, Apache webhosting, DNS, and router/firewall configuration and optimization. Systems Administrator EcoGrafx - San Luis Obispo, CA April 2015 to September 2016 Performed regular maintenance on workstations, along with creating documentation for errors experienced, technical support for clients and coworkers alike. Worked with OSX server, Linux servers, and Microsoft server 2012 in regards to file security, database administration and access, and some web development. Managed MySQL and MSSQL databases for both our personal use and a multitude of clients, setting up databases in odd conditions to work for specific applications and fit the unique needs of any customer requesting the additional assistance. Tier 1 and 2 technical support VoIP providers, Fusion Contact Centers 2013 to 2015 Education Ernest Righetti High School - Santa Maria, CA 2012 Skills Microsoft Exchange (3 years), Windows Server 2016 (2 years), Microsoft SQL (4 years), MySQL (2 years), Microsoft Hyper-V (2 years), Apache (3 years), Linux (5 years), PHP (2 years) Assessments Technical Support — Expert July 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/0pqjk1fdwg-utvjm Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.