Lead Applications Engineer Lead Applications Engineer B.A.S. GURU Cincinnati, OH To obtain a challenging position with a progressive organization where my skills will be utilized  and enhanced. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Lead Applications Engineer Complete Building Services August 2018 to July 2019 • Coordinated with the Director of Energy and Energy Manager on project's progress to ensure standards, cost targets and deadlines are met.  • Analyzed client's needs and implemented cost effective strategies to meet their needs.  • Designed and setup client's network topology to maximize stable communications throughout BAS.  • Created programs (based on sequence of operations) and GUI's in Honeywell Niagara 4 Platform and Schneider Electric Struxureware for user operation of BAS.  • Lead technical support for a team of (10) control engineers on troubleshooting of HVAC (Commercial Equipment) and Building Automation Systems.  • Created necessary documents in preparation for bids/submittals. (AutoCAD, Visio, BlueBeam, Office).  • Performed backups of site databases and created iso images of all workstations/servers.  • Troubleshoot/Serviced/Maintained all clients front end systems (Struxureware, INET, Honeywell AX N4 Platform, WebCTRL, Tracer)  • Troubleshoot/Serviced/Maintained all clients networking equipment (PLC's, Routers/Switches, Ethernet/Fiber, Servers, Workstations)  • Provided training to client staff of BAS during turnover of the system. Automation Specialist Building Automation System Integrators Inc April 2016 to May 2018 • Designed, installed and commissioned hardware and software systems for clients.  • Worked with customer's budgets and field equipment to provide the best energy management solutions.  • Identified new business opportunities by reaching out to mechanical contractors and promoting a variety of industrial automation products.  • Actively seek new sales opportunities, reducing reliance on current customer sales.  • Developed and presented proposals ranging from small jobs ($5000) to large jobs ($800,000).  • Created GUI's and programs for various Building Automation Systems.  • Troubleshoot and serviced all client Front End Systems (Siemens Apogee, JCI Metasys; CCT/PCT, Automated Logic WebCTRL, Tridium AX and N4, Andover Continuum Explorer) and PLC's.  • Isolated problems and repaired all mechanical, electrical and computerized systems.  • Performed system backups and updated software as needed.  • Provided estimate costs to existing/new customers for present/future system upgrades.  • Maintained and grew client/vendor relations.  • Provided 24/7 on call service for all clients.  • Provided training to staff members on the functionality of their BAS. Network Engineer/Automation Service Technician/Site Coordinator E.M.S. Technologies August 2012 to February 2016 • Provided 24/7 on call service to Department of Defense (FT.Meade) and Northrop Grumman (BWI) buildings.  • Troubleshoot, service and repair all PLC modules.  • Performed routine diagnostic checks on BAS. (WebCTRL/Supervision)  • Isolated problems and repaired all mechanical, electrical and computerized systems.  • Performed backups of the database (Derby/SQL 2005) and updated software for servers/WebCTRL.  • Performed backups of exchange server/SQL server with DPM (Data Protection Manager)  • Installed and configured all Automated Logic devices (sensors, controllers, routers)  • Integrated 3rd party devices into BAS.  • Created GUI's and programs for BAS.  • Coordinated work orders/purchases and recorded/restocked inventory. Network Administrator GMD Technologies April 2010 to May 2012 • Worked with the Sr. Network Engineer/President on various projects.  • Worked with the Sr. Network Engineer, performing server migrations. (2003/2007/2010).  • Provided support for 50+ clients in the DC/VA/MD region (clients ranged from 1 user up to 150+ users)  • Provided hardware and software support via email, phone, or travel (on-site).  • Installed/Configured/Maintained all hardware devices and software applications for all clients (desktops, laptops, phones, servers, backup drives, etc )  • Made necessary changes to network per client request.  • Troubleshoot and resolved software/hardware failure for all clients.  • Recommended hardware/software upgrades for all clients.  • Ordered supplies for GMD Technologies and all clients. Temporary Position - Facilities Maintenance Technician Assistant FTI Consulting Inc August 2009 to February 2010 • Performed day-to-day repairs, emergency maintenance, and preventive maintenance for four buildings.  • Moved and installed furniture for office relocations.  • Worked with the project managers to ensure normal and emergency services are provided including maintenance, HVAC, power and repairs as needed.  • Changed damaged/missing ceiling tiles.  • Inventory    References are available upon request.    Salary Requirements: Salary and benefits are negotiable but are to be  commensurate with position and duties fulfilled on par with similar  positions in the region. Education Computer Networking Technologies TESST University - Beltsville, MD 2010 to 2011 ITT Technical Institute - Owings Mills, MD 2008 to 2010 General Studies Anne Arundel Community College - Annapolis, MD 2004 to 2005 Anne Arundel High School - Gambrills, MD 2000 to 2004 Certifications/Licenses Niagara 4 Technical Certification December 2016 to Present Additional Information Software and Hardware Exposure    Software Active Directory, AutoCAD, Baracuda, Blackberry Enterprise Server, Bomgar, Splashtop, Cisco (VPN), Concerto, DNS, Data Protection Manager, Exchange Server 03/07/10, Exmerge, Quickbooks, Microsoft 365, Microsoft Office, Microsoft SQL Server 2005, Net Firewall, Network Security (McAfee, NOD32, Norton, Vipre, Webroot), Paradox, TCP/IP, Windows Server (2003/2007/2008 R2), Building Automation Systems (Apogee/Insight, Supervision/WebCTRL, Metasys, PCT/CCT, Struxureware/INET, Continuum Explorer, Tridium AX/N4)    Hardware Apple computers/devices, Blackberry phones, Cabling, Desktops/Laptops, Hard Drives, Monitors, Motherboards, Printers, Processors, RAM, Routers, Switches, Servers, Speakers, Wireless devices, PLC's (Siemens, Honeywell, Trane, JCI, Automated Logic, Schneider Electric, Tridium), VFD's, Fiber Optics