Cabrillo College Student Worker - Student Resource and Support Network / Office Administrator Cabrillo College Student Worker - Student Resource and Support <span class="hl">Network</span> / Office <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Office Administration / Human Services Watsonville, CA I am seeking a position in Human Services and Administration field. I have years of experience with Customer Service and enjoying working with the public. I have strong organizational skills and proficient computer skills.     I currently work as the lead Student Assistant in the Student Resource and Support Network office at Cabrillo. Our office provides support, resources and services to low-income students. As the lead Student Assistant, I provide training for new Student Workers and work one-on-one with our program specialists to assist with projects. I preform office administrative duties such as filing, answering phones and making appointments. I have strong organizational skills which I use to keep student files organized and up to date. I assist students, staff and the public with general questions, requirements for our programs and resources for on- and off campus. I am knowledgeable with computer programs such as excel, databases, scheduling systems and internet searching. I maintain confidentiality and have the ability to dealing with people who are in crisis. Work Experience Cabrillo College Student Worker - Student Resource and Support Network / Office Administrator Aptos June 2018 to Present Organize, maintain and file confidential files and records.  Assist students, staff and general public with questions regarding general college questions, program procedures, requirements and eligibility.   Provide students with on and off campus resources  Front desk reception duties such as answering phone calls and making appointments using SARs, mail delivery and distribution.  Train student workers.   Maintain social media.  Assist program specialists with special projects.  Data entry  Provide students with computer, webadvisor, canvas and registration help.  Develop spreadsheets, fax reports and scan documents. Visiting Angels / In-Home Caregiver September 2015 to January 2018 Santa Cruz  • Keep detailed record of patient's activities  • Assisted geriatric patients with daily needs; bathing, dressing, feeding  • Companionship; spending quality time with patient Phlebotomist Diagnostic Laboratories - San Jose, CA August 2013 to August 2014 • Drew blood from geriatric patients in nursing homes  • Properly filled out laboratory forms and labeled specimens    ? Education Associate in Human Services Cabrillo College - Aptos, CA January 2018 to May 2020 Phlebotomy Bay Area Medical Academy - San Jose, CA June 2013 to July 2013 High school or equivalent in Diploma Santa Cruz High School - Santa Cruz, CA June 2009 Skills FILING (1 year), ORGANIZATIONAL SKILLS, EXCEL, MICROSOFT OFFICE, DETAIL-ORIENTED, Service Desk Certifications/Licenses Computer Proficiency Certification May 2019 Additional Information Skills    • Excel, Microsoft Office, Internet and Datatel Proficient  • Strong organizational skills  • Knowledgeable with record keeping and filing  • Detail-oriented  • Able to work independently and as a cooperative team member  • Committed, enthusiastic and people-oriented professional    ?