Program Director/Faculty Program Director/Faculty Program Director/Faculty - The College of Health Care Professions Houston, TX Work Experience Program Director/Faculty The College of Health Care Professions - Houston, TX March 2017 to Present Hire, train, oversee, and evaluate instructional staff to instruct in the blended program (online and face to face).  Ensure that all course objectives are met in both face to face and online courses, review curriculum and textbooks with instructors, program managers, advisory board, and Campus President. Review student evaluations of instructors and programs, externship evaluations, employer surveys, and graduate surveys with the DOE and Campus President.    Accomplishments:  • Direct advisory committee activities for program and promote their Program among various community constituents to broaden visibility CHCP Programs  • Assists in the recruitment, development, and selection of faculty to teach blended courses in collaboration with the Director of Education; ensures that faculty has the appropriate credentials as required by CHCP and the accrediting body  • Assist Director of Education with administrative functions to ensure that the program runs smoothly and interfaces well with other departments. Network Administrator/Engineer Village Family Practice - Houston, TX June 2015 to March 2017 Provide assistant and support in the design, implementation, maintenance of the corporate voice and data network; configuration on Cisco routers/switches, configured and manage CUCM (Device Pool, Calling Search Space, IP Phones, End User Profile, Extension Mobility Profile, Cisco Unity Connection-voicemail, Call Routing and Gateway. Maintain network monitoring using Cisco ASA, Cacti and WhatsUp Gold. Maintain accurate records of all topology, maintenance, inventory, and security measures associated with the company's voice and data networks.    Accomplishments:  • Provide technical assistance in the planning and development of new projects and systems, conduct research of new technologies and implementation strategies; recommend and implement improvements; research and plan for new network protocols and network operating system implementations.  • Oversaw all implementation and configuration changes to any component of the corporate LAN, WAN and related networks. Including all hardware and software issues for all campuses  • Deployed four clinical sites with Cisco routers, switches, Voice, access point, WLC, and securities. Associate Professor/Department Chair DeVry University - Houston, TX April 2010 to June 2016 IT & Networking)  Organized, prepared, regularly revised and updated all course materials. Utilized appropriate educational technology to engage students and enhance learning which connects students and their current studies to real-world applications, using lab and library assignments and linking coursework to previous/future study in related disciplines. Published course terminal objectives, assignment/examination fees dates, and the weight distribution of various evaluation categories. Provided multiple evaluative formats for students to demonstrate their knowledge and earn their grades in the course. This help demonstrate consistency and fairness in the preparation and grading of exams and provide timely feedback to students.    Accomplishments:  • Developed strategies and syllabuses to teach the course for the entire semester or session, using DeVry University curriculum guides and meeting the university's academic standards  • Assists in training and mentoring of new faculty, class observations and support of adjunct faculty  • Participates in at least one academic initiative designed to support enrollment management, career services, or outreach to the community, including local high schools and community colleges. Local candidates strongly preferred, no relocation assistance available. Education Master of Business Administration in Commerce Management Our Lady of the Lake University - San Antonio, TX December 2004 Bachelor's Degree in Elementary Education The University of Iowa - Iowa City, IA December 1997 Bachelor's Degree Luther College - Decorah, IA May 1991 Business Management Degree West High School - Iowa City, IA May 1987 Doctoral of Philosophy in Business Administration Northcentral University - Prescott Valley, AZ Skills Cisco, Mpls, Switching, Vmware, Virtualization, training, Public Speaking, Microsoft Excel, Time Management, Documentation, Networking, Active Directory, Technical Support, Windows, Customer Service, Windows 7, Microsoft Office, Security, Sales Additional Information Technical Skills:  Cisco: Routing, Switching, VoIP, Security and Data Cabling (Routers 1841, 2500, 2600, 2800, 2900; 4321 Switches: 2950, 2960PoE, 3550PoE, 3750G/3850), MPLS  Virtualization: VMware ESXi Server, VMware workstation, Oracle Virtual Box  Microsoft: Server 2003/2008/2012/2016, HyperV, Window XP & 7/10, Office Suite 2003/2007/2010