Vendor Risk Management Consultant Vendor Risk Management Consultant Vendor Risk Management Consultant - Farm Bureau West Des Moines, IA Work Experience Vendor Risk Management Consultant Farm Bureau - West Des Moines, IA March 2019 to Present • Collaborated with internal audit to ensure vendor risk policy process was followed by business and IT.  • Analyzed products/services for risk score.  • Staff augmentation Statement of Work (SOW) for contractors - ensured there was not a lapse in contracts as well as updated the SOW and sent through the approval process.  • Used Service Now to process vendor request for engagements as the workflow for request. Network Administrator Casey's General Store - Ankeny, IA October 2017 to November 2018 • Network Administrator for DNS/DHCP and Network Management Systems.  • Experience working and managing four Linux servers - GUI front end and Fedora / Cent OS command line.  • Risk assessment of Linux systems to ensure servers are patched and software upgrades are maintained.  • Writes recovery documentation for the four Linux servers on how to recover data using snapshot repository and managed snapshot repositories of these four servers.  • Day-to-Day ticket processing.  • Software upgrades and patching.  • Defines and writes standards for compliance audits.  Accomplishments:  • Successfully recovered a DNS domain that was accidentally deleted and created written documentation for this recovery.  • Set up Network Management System: Intermapper which monitors links and hardware using probes.  • Completed training for DNS/DHCP management for Bluecat.  • Designed and Implemented a development and test lab for DNS and DHCP. Network Technician II December 2015 to September 2017 • Updating network diagrams and documentation with current topology.  • Installing Cat 5e, Cat 6 and Fiber and the removal of old cables.  • Installing network devices in racks, wire management, patch panels, sleeves, and CPU's.  • Operate hand tools, power tools, and cable tester tools.  • Build network closets and racks such as backboards and some experience in grounding.  • Implementing Cisco deployment at multiple sites for Cisco Wireless Access Points, Cisco Wireless Controllers, and Cisco Routing/Switching.  • Configuring, troubleshooting, and maintaining mission critical hardware on unclassified and classified networks.  • Helpdesk ticketing system by providing support to multiple networks and multiple remote islands throughout the Atoll.  Accomplishments:  • Running Cat 6 cable in the attic of a building to provide service to catering business.  • Assisted in the deployment of new networks by configuring and installing routers, switches, TACLANES, VOIP, and landlines for mission critical environments. Software License & Asset Compliance Specialist May 2011 to December 2015 Kwajalein Range Services - Space and Missile Defense Command  Located in the South Pacific May 2011 - December 2015  • Capture and maintain Disaster Recovery files that included critical software disc, hardware and software list, and a complete list of what is installed on all systems on the network(s).  • Identified unapproved software on the network using SCCM query and Active Directory to audit workstations on a daily basis to stay 20% compliant.  • Worked with software owners to understand the use of the software, it's function, and make sure we adhere to license agreements and standards.  • Provides weekly reports of software and hardware, licensing information, life cycle, and warranty information and tracked in a SQL database.  • Ensured Department of Defense and Army DIACAP policies are followed to ensure the Army Networthiness and Army Regulation 25-2 were adhered to.  • Followed DoD standards to ensure Freeware and Open Source Software followed DoD policies.  • Lead the Change Management Board meetings.  • Prepare and send out meeting invites, agenda, and meetings notes for the Change Management Board meetings.  Accomplishments:  • 85% completion of the Unapproved software list per the DIACAP Accreditation process.  • Wrote the process flow and mapping documentation to define the Certificate of Networthiness Compliance Standards. Education Bachelor of Applied Arts and Sciences in Graphic Design San Diego State University - San Diego, CA May 2004 Skills Change management, Database, Disaster recovery, Documentation, Database management, Governance, Compliance, Risk Management Additional Information SKILLS  • Change Management Board  • SAM Repository / Database Management  • Disaster Recovery Documentation  • ServiceNow Ticketing System & Incident Change