System Support Desktop Specialist System Support Desktop Specialist System Support Desktop Specialist Work Experience System Support Desktop Specialist Mphasis (MillerCoors) - Chicago, IL October 2017 to April 2019 System Support Desktop Specialist  Desktop Specialist Network Natural Leader  Dynamic and experienced Desktop Support Analyst with years of varied experience in the Desktop and network support, and some windows server's applications. Ensure comprehensive implementation of processes and policies to maximize production and streamline core operations. Consummate professional with strong business acumen, skilled interpersonal skills, and solid negotiation prowess. Innate ability to drive high-functioning teams in fast-paced and complex situations. Effective and proven track record of critical thinking, process improvement, and efficiencies.    Desktop Support Effective Communication Information Technology Strategic Vision Problem Solving Organizational Effectiveness Complex Systems Mobile Devices Network Protocols    Mphasis (MillerCoors) Chicago/IL 10/2017 - 04/2019 (Looking for local, downtown but also open to other locations)  Desktop Support / Network Support  * Work directly with multiple applications to better streamline operations including LogMeIn(Rescue) with remote rescue calling box, Bitlocker Administration and monitoring, Active Directory, Skype for Business, LAN Sweeper, SCCM delete computers, Tracking UPS, Mozy and Mozy Enterprise and Snow Ticketing System.  * Effectively support Windows 7 and Windows 10 including end users, remote users, as well as swapping out computers.  * Install multiple hardware and software systems in a fast-paced environment.  * Collaborate with a diverse and multifaceted staff to better keep communication.  * Deliver world-class customer service in a professional and courteous manner. Desktop Support Technician Elmhurst Hospital - Elmhurst, IL 2016 to 2017 * Successfully built and implemented Cow systems and image Wise systems on both desktop and network.  * Provided administrative support to all end and remote users ensuring smooth troubleshooting, deployment, and swap outs.  * Drove all move, add, and change installs in support of Windows 7 environment.  * Successfully isolated and resolved multiple customer and client issues until reconciliation.  * Worked directly with senior management, department leaders, and colleagues to better streamline operations. CSS Service Specialist - Consultant McGraw hill Financial & Education - Chicago, IL 2014 to 2016 * Drove multiple desktop support including working directly with Active Directory, Cisco routers, and support within a Windows environment through phone and in-person.  * Effectively utilized industry-specific knowledge to troubleshoot issues within a high-profile ticketing system.  * Upgraded and configured laptop, desktop, and software packages including Windows 7 and 8 to better streamline operations.  * Ensured proper setup, configuration, and diagnostics of high-profile and complex computers including laptop and desktop hardware.  * Assisted a diverse and multifaceted client base through remote administration utilizing LogMeIn.  * Troubleshoot a wide variety of issues including isolating and resolving end user desktop and software-related issues.  * Provided comprehensive support of videoconferences and multi-media events. Network / Desktop Support / Remote Resolution - Consultant PHHS CO - Waukegan, IL 2013 to 2014 * Collaborated with multiple local and remote users to ensure proper function of printers, software, and periphery hardware problems.  * Drove troubleshooting of Ping and Ipconfig, Windows 7, Office 2010, VPN, VOIP, and other mobile devices.  * Utilized industry-specific knowledge to setup and configure diagnostics of computers including IBM/Lenovo ThinkPad PC, and Dell laptops.  * Supported customers and clients remotely and over the phone regarding remote administration tools including Bomgar, video conferencing systems, Windows, and Apple operating systems.  * Isolated and resolved end user computer-related problems in a courteous and professional manner. Network Administrator Advocate Condell Hospital - Libertyville, IL 2010 to 2013 * Drove network and desktop support and network security utilizing Matrix Firewall within a Windows environment.  * Supported multiple software applications including HED-HOM, HPF, Netlearning, Micromedex, Laser Arc, and HEC among others.  * Ensured proper installation, implementation, administration, and maintenance of Remote Anywhere, VOIP, and LAN Desktop.  * Effectively performed data backup and recovery initiatives cementing data integrity.  * Planned and managed IT security, Citrix Admin, and SMS Testing.  * Served as liaison and first point of contact between data processing center and customers.  Education, Development, and Professional Affiliations Education H Washington College