Cloud / DevOps engineer Cloud / DevOps engineer Cloud / DevOps engineer - Vitel Global Communications Seattle, WA • Around 8 years of extensive professional experience in Compute Infrastructure Management and Microsoft Azure Cloud (IAAS & PAAS).  • Hands on experience in Azure Cloud, Routing & Switching, Service Delivery and Assurance, Process Management and with strong foundation of technical & Management Skills  • Experience in various Azure services like Compute (Web Roles, Worker Roles), Azure Websites, Caching, SQL Azure, NoSQL, Storage and Network services, Azure Active Directory, API Management, Scheduling, Auto Scaling and PowerShell Automation.  • Good Knowledge in Azure compute services, Azure Web apps, Azure Data & Storage, Azure Media & Content delivery, Azure Networking, Azure Hybrid Integration and Azure Identity & Access Management  • Knowledge of TCP/IP and Routing Protocols & Hands on experience with LAN & WAN services like Ethernet, Fast & Gigabit Ethernet, International Private Leased Lines and Intranet & Internet Technologies.  • Worked on Linux -Cloud platform for deploying API Management tools. Downtime/Health Notification, Splunk and Relics for monitoring.  • Hands on technology experience of designing and developing software applications with Microsoft .NET using C#, ClassicASP,VB.NET, ADO.NET  • Excellent knowledge in Azure compute services, Azure Web apps, Azure Data Factory & Storage, Azure Media & Content delivery, Azure Networking, Azure Hybrid Integration, and Azure Identity & Access Management.  • Expertise in Azure infrastructure management (Azure Web Roles, Worker Roles, SQL Azure, Azure Storage, Azure AD Licenses, Office365).  • Experience in Azure Fabric Services.  • Experience in full Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) that includes Analyzing, Designing, Coding, Testing, implementation & Production Support as per quality standards.  • Knowledge in using Package Managers like NPM and Bower. Experience in using Task managers like Grunt, Gulp and Brunch.  • Build automation using ANT/ Maven and implementation of Continuous Integration through Jenkins.  • Maintained centralized Build Servers for multiple applications, achieved DevOps outputs by automating infrastructure and deployments. Involved in Continuous Integration using Jenkins  • Implemented CI/CD pipeline for database using Jenkins and uDeploy. Helped developers in creating uDeploy snapshots, adding version to the snapshot during production installs.  • Strong ability to troubleshoot any issues generated while building, deploying and in production support.  • Experience in Agile methodologies such as Extreme Programming, Waterfall Model and Test Driven Development.  • Good in communicating with clients, customers, managers and other teams in the enterprise at all levels.  • Effective problem solving skills, outstanding interpersonal skills, good in written and verbal communication. Ability to work independently as well as within a team environment. Driven to meet deadlines. Motivated to produce robust, high-performance software. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Cloud / DevOps engineer Vitel Global Communications - Piscataway, NJ October 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Gathering the requirements details and their current IT infrastructure from an end users perspective and Build Windows Azure Infrastructure.  • Provide consulting and cloud architecture for premier customers and internal projects running on MS Azure platform for high-availability of services, low operational costs.  • Handle escalated Support tickets till closure for MS Azure PaaS platform.  • Setting up Virtual networks for site-to-site, Point-to- Site and Express Route.  • Design and Implementation of ExpressRoute for Private, Public, Microsoft Peering and Implementation of User Defined Routing.  • Experience working on Data Factory for migrating raw data from On-Prem to Azure cloud.  • Responsible for Patching Azure Virtual Machines using SCCM infrastructure.  • Deployed Azure resource manager based resources.  • Designed and developed web-based web application hosted on Azure.  • Deployed fully redundant RDS roles to support the custom application.  • Design and Implementation of Firewall appliances (Barracuda WAF/NG) in Azure and configure the same for IDS/IPS and to establish VPN connections.  • Experience in CI / CD using Jenkins for application process and in production support.  • Design de data model and creation the schema on SQL Azure.  • Experience with Azure Micro Services, Azure Functions and azure solutions.  • Experience working on Big data with Azure. Connecting HDInsight to Azure and working on Big Data technology.  • Experience working on Service fabric and Azure container service. Designed and deployed architecture for Azure Service fabric.  • Experience with Big Data on Azure - Data lake store, Data Factory.  • Migrating an On-premises virtual machine to Azure Resource Manager Subscription with Azure Site Recovery.  • Hands on experience on Implementation of User Defined Routing.  • Experience on Permission Management OS - SELinux, Windows File ACLs.  • Creating the automated build and deployment process for application, re-engineering setup for better user experience, and leading up to building a continuous integration system for all our products.  • Installed Jenkins/Plugins for GIT Repository, Setup SCM Polling for Immediate Build with Ant and Maven Repository Nexus, Artifactory and Deployed Apps using custom ruby modules through Puppet as a CI/CD Process.  • Used Bitbucket Server for secure, fast, enterprise-grade controls, like fine-grained permissions. Contributions to various other open source projects on GitHub/Bitbucket  • Worked on Continuous Integration (CI) pipeline consisting of GitHub, Docker, and Jenkins, Maven in order to support test, configure and deliver the JAVA based application.  • Advised Open source Kubernetes and Docker projects and design discussions in the Cloud Native Computing foundation.  • Experience executing the CI Jenkins build job for both Android and iOS application builds. Using GIT (Stash) tool as the source code repositories for all projects and Artifactory for all builds (ipa/apk) release repository.    Environment: Windows server 2008/2012/2016 Datacentre Server, VMWare, Hyper-V, F5 Load Balancer, Linux CentOS Server, SQL, SCCM, Barracuda, Big Data, Power BI, IAAS, PowerShell, Windows 7,10. Azure / DevOps engineer MPHASIS - New York, NY October 2016 to September 2018 Responsibilities:  • Design, build and manage the Windows Azure infrastructure for our customers depend on their requirement.  • Involved in the design and development of web application in C#.NET, ASP. Net, User Controls and deployment in the cloud environment.  • Worked on cloud computing using windows azure and SQL server on services like API managements service and SQL database service  • Setting up Virtual networks for site-to-site, Point-to- Site and Express Route.  • Design and Implementation of ExpressRoute for Private, Public and Microsoft Peering.  • Implementation of User Defined Routing.  • Setting up Azure Network Security with NSG and Endpoint ACLS.  • Design and Implement High availability with Storage accounts and availability sets, Disk Sanitization Process.  • Configuration of Internal load balancer, load balanced sets and Azure Traffic manager.  • Responsible for setting up monitoring in Windows Azure for infrastructure and the applications that is installed on that ecosystem.  • Worked on Architecting and maintaining the Infrastructure in Hybrid cloud environment using Microsoft Azure.  • Responsible for Continuous Integration (CI) and Continuous Delivery (CD) process implementation using Jenkins along with Shell scripts to automate routine jobs.  • Creating the automated build and deployment process for application, re-engineering setup for better user experience, and leading up to building a continuous integration system for all our products.  • Installed Jenkins/Plugins for GIT Repository, Setup SCM Polling for Immediate Build with Ant and Maven Repository Nexus, Artifactory and Deployed Apps using custom ruby modules through Puppet as a CI/CD Process.  • Used Bitbucket Server for secure, fast, enterprise-grade controls, like fine-grained permissions. Contributions to various other open source projects on GitHub/Bitbucket  • Responsible for Patching Azure Virtual Machines using SCCM infrastructure.  • Design and Implementation of Firewall appliances (Barracuda WAF/NG) in Azure and configure the same for IDS/IPS and to establish VPN connections.  • Work closely with Security team to make sure the infrastructure is highly secure.  • Designed and configured Roll based access roles based on the requirements.  • Deployed Azure resource manager based resources.  • Deployed fully redundant RDS roles to support the custom application.  • Implementation of SQL Always ON and TDE.  • Design and Implementation of Azure Site Recovery in both Disaster Recovery Scenario and for Migrating the workloads from On-Premise to Azure  • Configured Database replication by using clustering Technique.  • Implemented logging and auditing using Operational Management Suite (Operational Insights)  • Design and Implement the Backup and DR solution for Azure Infrastructure.    Environment: Windows server 2008/2012/2016 Datacentre Server, Linux CentOS Server, SQL, SCCM, Barracuda, Azure Cloud, IAAS, PowerShell, Windows 7,10. Cloud Engineer Christiana Care - Newark, DE November 2015 to September 2016 Responsibilities:  • Gathering the requirements details and their current IT infrastructure from an end users perspective and Build Windows Azure Infrastructure  • Created and managed Azure API Management account.  • Actively worked on deploying modern, Familiar and fast, cross-platform web apps  • Actively involved in Launching Windows and Linux Servers and experience in deploying cluster in the Azure cloud  • Development web service using Windows Communication Foundation and .Net to receive and process XML files and deploy on Cloud Service on Microsoft Azure.  • Converted .Net application to Microsoft Azure Cloud Service Project as part of cloud deployment App insight.  • Implemented Azure Storage, Azure SQL Azure Services and developing Azure Web role.  • Involved in the design and development of web application in C#.NET, ASP. Net, User Controls and deployment in the cloud environment.  • Azure AD - Implemented Azure AD using AD connects configured SSO and multifactor Authentication. Also configured SSO from Window 10 based computer which is joined to Azure AD. Implemented and managed AD synchronization  • Setting up Virtual networks for site-to-site, Point-to- Site and Express Route.  • Responsible to manage Reliable, economical cloud storage for data big and small In Azure Storage  • Responsible for Real-time stream processing in the cloud and Notification Hubs  • Actively involved in configuring private network in the cloud by using Azure Virtual Network & ExpressRoute and maintain Geo-route incoming traffic to app for better performance and availability  • Responsible to manage fast & modern global delivery network for high-bandwidth content and maintain Azure VPN gateways and DNS services  • Responsible to maintain reliable cloud integrated backup and Identity and access management for the cloud services  • Responsible to Safeguard cryptographic keys and other secrets used by cloud apps and services  • Design and Implement the Backup and DR solution for Azure Infrastructure.  Environment: ASP.NET, .Net Framework 4.0,Windows server 2008/2012Servers, Azure Cloud, Azure SQL Server, IAAS, Windows 7, PowerShell. System Administrator/ Developer MassMutual Financial Group - Springfield, MA July 2014 to October 2015 Responsibilities:  • Providing comprehensive Windows 2008 R2/2012 R2, 2016 servers, Xen Server OS, SQL Server 2008/2012, Barracuda Next Gen Firewall, Backup  • This role involved of IT infra Support transition from different IT services vendor to my current company  • Responsible for setting up monitoring in infrastructure and the applications that is installed on that ecosystem.  • Assisted with the installation and configuration of servers in datacenter  • Configured Dell PowerEdge 610 series servers and HP Dl 360 G7 servers with RAID 0, 1 and 5  • Configuration and maintenance of Ethernet network using cisco 3550/2950 Switches  • Configuring VLAN's, Inter-VLAN routing in the network  • Enabling port security on switches for security purposes  • Configuration and maintenance of DNS/DHCP server with LINUX server  • Configure SSIDs, VLANs and maintenance of Wireless network (a/b/g) with Cisco 1242/1140  • Writing shell scripts for network health check  • Ensure thorough documentation of network, configurations and network diagram as backup  • Using Microsoft Visio for building network diagram for the enterprise  • Experience in Configuring and troubleshooting hardware Device and Drivers. (HP, Dell, Lenovo)  • Enabling Disk Encryption using Certificates for IaaS Virtual machines for OS and Data Volumes  • Deployed Websites using IIS Web Server and controlled Traffic flow using Load Balancer  • Implemented Next Gen Firewall (Barracuda) as a Security layer between Internet and On-Prem  • Maintain three dedicated databases for individual user based on their specific needs  • Interpret data, analyze results using statistical techniques and provide ongoing reports  • Acquire data from primary or secondary data sources and maintain databases/data systems  Environment: Windows 2008 R2/2012 R2, 2016 servers, SQL Server 2008/2012, Barracuda Next Gen Firewall, Backup, Office 365. Systems/ Network Administrator BOKLAND CUSTOM VISUALS, INC - Albany, NY July 2012 to June 2014 • Replaced NEC dumb terminal system with a Novel Netware 3.0 environment to improve productivity and to implement collaboration. Implemented a TCP/IP network throughout the entire building which used other protocols such as NetBIOS and AppleTalk.  • Researched and implemented the company's financial system and maintained the software.  Designed and upgraded the graphics department to high end resolution digital output and installed high resolution film recorders to be used by the entire department.  • Independently worked with outside vendors to provide systems and services.    Environment: Novell Netware 3.0 and 3.11, Windows for Workgroups 3.1, Macintosh, AppleTalk, NetBIOS, TCP/IP. Education M.S in Computer Engineering in Computer Engineering SUNY - New Paltz, NY 2014 Bachelor's