Technical Account Manager Technical Account Manager Technical Account Manager Austin, TX Seeking a technical support role in an enterprise environment. Over 10 years of technical skills and a focus on customer satisfaction and enterprise SLA expectations. Experienced contractor seeking a full time opportunity.    CORE STRENGTHS:  Technical Support Customer Service Collaboration Networking Team Leadership  Cisco Routers Switches Firewalls Documentation  Subnetting OSPF / EIGRP / BGP / VPN AWS Cloud Client Relationship Management Account Management Work Experience Technical Account Manager Forcepoint - Austin, TX October 2018 to March 2019 Served as technical liaison between clients and frontline support team, interfacing with frontline network engineers and management while maintaining a 99.5% customer satisfaction score.  ? Delivered training classes to a key accounts (200+ licenses), increasing customer autonomy in solving minor issues internally, leading to a reduction in tech support cases by 20%.  ? Designed and executed client server migration plans for infrastructure upgrades and enhancements, resulting in stronger customer relationships.  ? Performed cybersecurity assessments and health checks for enterprise level customers.  ? Designed routing configurations using BGP, OSPF and EIGRP for client integration solutions. Customer Relations Manager Technology Partners - Austin, TX July 2016 to October 2018 Management of client relations and technical support with an emphasis on Cisco technologies.  ? Prospected for business leads via local networking groups and meetups.  ? Salesforce consultation, assisted clients with configuration changes, password resets, and report creation.  ? Performed root cause analysis on client system issues and provided recommendations based on industry best practices.  ? Developed subnetting plans with industry best practices for client networks in private and public IP spaces.  ? Consulting with client network administrators on management for DHCP and DNS. Network Engineer Milestone - Austin, TX April 2015 to July 2016 Management of 14 member network engineering team.  ? Designed ticket approval system, reducing duplicates and number of queues to manage.  ? Provided network support for client offices globally using Cisco, Juniper and Arista equipment.  ? Provided troubleshooting for BGP and OSPF routing protocols.  ? Designed in-house training checklist/program for new hires during on boarding processes, reducing the time from five to two weeks which enabled people to start working cases faster.  ? Resource manager for a 24X7 global network, insuring 99.95% uptime operations.  ? Designed VPN and DMVPN solutions for eBay corporate offices.    PROFESSIONAL NETWORK ENGINEER CONTRACTING: Senior Network Engineer AIG - Houston, TX July 2014 to December 2014 Senior Network Engineer Austin Energy April 2013 to March 2014 Senior Network Engineer Dell - Austin, TX November 2012 to April 2013 Senior Network Engineer Drilling Info, Inc - Austin, TX June 2012 to November 2012 Network Administrator Kelsey-Seybold Clinic - Houston, TX October 2011 to June 2012 Network Engineer Charles Schwab - Austin, TX October 2010 to June 2011 Network Engineer Cisco Systems - Dallas, TX December 2008 to July 2010 NETWORK ENGINEER CONTRACT EXPERIENCE:  ? Managed teams of up to 12 to execute network projects.  ? Implemented and supported Aruba 6000 controllers, aligning network with architectural plans.  ? Executed substation upgrade projects of Cisco hardware and software in compliance with NERC standards.  ? Created predictive site surveys using Aruba Airwave to determine new AP deployment requirement.  ? Network design and support for a multi-vendor environment equipment, including Cisco, HP and Dell routers and switches.  ? Management of wireless networks, using Cisco 5508 wireless controller, in support of a 24x7x365 environment.  ? Firewall configurations and setup via command line and ASDM for Cisco ASA 5505, 5525 and 5545.  ? Network alerting configuration and maintenance alerting using Solarwinds Orion.  ? Domain creation, DHCP configuration/planning and DNS management with Infoblox -1050 Appliance.  ? Port and flow troubleshooting utilizing StealthWatch and Infoblox PortIQ.  ? Managed IP transition project to convert existing devices on an enterprise wide basis to a new subnet in order to streamline routing.  ? Implemented configuration changes to Cisco Catalyst 6500/4900/3750/2900 and Juniper 2750 platforms via Remedy as a change control management system.  ? Delivered network documentation using Visio diagrams to reflect current and planned changes.  ? Performed integrated testing on pre-production devices to verify failover operation in regards to routing (HSRP/VSRP/GLBP) and switching (Spanning Tree Protocol).  ? Configured trunk tunnel connectivity between Cisco Nexus using NX-OS and UCS blade servers using the GUI interface.  ? Deployed, configured and performed troubleshooting procedures in a retrofitted network design that includes Cisco Nexus 7000, 5000, and 2000 platforms. Created VCP's and VRF's for the deployment. Used Cisco FabricPath to eliminate the need for STP for the new deployment. Education B.S. in Human Resource Management Northern Illinois University - DeKalb, IL Links http://linkedin.com/in/tonynowobielski