Network Designer <span class="hl">Network</span> Designer Information Systems Professional with 10+ yrs. of Experience Puyallup, WA Computer Related Skills and Competencies    Attention to Detail: Automated Information Systems – Information Systems Security Assistant responsible for the enforcement of cyber security policies and procedures to include; proper procurement of computers, laptops, encrypted hard drives, and printers, documenting violations of policy and retraining of violators and updating documentation for arriving and departing personnel for 250 personnel (Guam), 150 personnel (Polar Star) and 75 personnel (Steadfast).    Customer Service: 24/7 hour on call support for all staff with all technical issues to include; loss of cell phone service, loss of local telephone services interior and external lines, loss of internet and military internet network, local server outage; (domain controller, exchange server, application server, and data storage server), desktop services, local printer support, and interagency web services.    Oral Communications: Primary point of contact for all technical services while attach to electronic service detachment Guam, Coast Guard Cutter Polar Star, and Coast Guard Cutter Steadfast to include working with Government personnel (Navy Officers, Coast Guard Officers, Guam Governor Offices, King County Sheriff) and contractor for all new projects to include installation of Coast Guard Station Apra Harbor, Remodeling of Sector Guam, installation of a satellite equipment for Polar Star and redesign of shore connector for Polar Star.    Problem Solving: Planned, designed and contracted fabrication of the Coast Guard Cutter Polar Star shore tie connection. Previously approved design was proven to be faulty and detrimental to military network integrity. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Network Designer Chipton Ross - Kent, WA 2018 to Present - Support Global Network Operations to include monitoring, troubleshooting, tracking all global assets.  - Triage & Coordinate all global maintenances, resolving assets issues, and escalating major outages in compliance with all customer SLAs.  - Understanding all IP networks and Broadband RF Networks, their relationship with each other for training purposes of new personnel.  - Act as a liaison between multiple global multinational business for site visits, coordinating troubleshooting, software updates, hardware installation, and customer outages.  - Keeping the network safety, security, and integrity intact, at all times adhering to IP laws, NDA agreements and Federal Law. Network/Systems Administrator General Dynamics - Joint Base Lewis McChord, WA 2017 to 2018 - Contractor Supervisor for General Dynamics Information Technology on site  - Manages the usage and performance of Executive Airlift Communications Network (EACN), to include provide forecasts, gather trend analysis data on systems, and provide input for resource planning.  - Analyzes, administers and maintains voice, video and/or data communication.  - Maintain Network security and ensures compliance with security policies and procedures. Manage the Information Assurance Vulnerability Management (IAVM) program responsibilities to include receiving and processing USAF-directed network orders to include Time Compliance Network Orders (TCNOs), Network Tasking Orders (NTOs), and Notice to All Airmen (NOTAM).  - United States Air Force 627 Communication Squadron Alternative Property Custodian  ? Supervisor Antony Robertiello Wireless Network Technician Airopath, Inc - Seattle, WA 2016 to 2017 - Mapping Wireless Networks for clients for voice quality networks for large scale campuses.  - Analyzing wireless interference for client to insure quality network connectivity and bandwidth for large corporations to include 2,000+ employees over multiple company sites.  - Designing wireless networks for large scale corporations, on large campuses, or 200,000+ square foot warehouses.  - Provide site support to clients nationwide, with onsite analysis and on the go innovative changes to meet client requirements.  ? Supervisor: Sam Hahn Information Systems Technician U.S. Coast Guard - Washington, DC December 2015 to June 2016 2015-2016  - Cyber Security Analysts for the U.S. Coast Guard Cyber Command Analytics Division under mandate of the Federal CIO.  - Discovery, tracking, and documenting the sensitive network discrepancies of all 1900+ subnets.  - Monitoring, tracking, and planning for the implementation of access encryption for over 2300+ web servers through Tenable Network Security programs.  - Collaborating with over 20+ regional Information Systems Security Officers, to follow NIST security standard on an international network of over 100,000 objects  - Due to the nature of this work I cannot go into details, please contact me if you require more information. Information Systems Technician U.S. Coast Guard - Alameda, CA August 2015 to December 2015 -   Project Manager for contracting/developing a PIV access/CCTV monitoring system for MWR facilities on Base Alameda for physical security, facilities tracking, and theft prevention.  -    Administrator/ Network Security for the Base Alameda’s MWR Wi-Fi.   Managed/Developed baseline for all laptop platforms, in the Coast Guard Transition Assistance Program, to maintain security and control over volunteered PII information by discharged personnel. Information Systems Technician U.S. Coast Guard - Steadfast - Astoria, OR July 2015 to August 2015 - Administrated/Managed unit IT services to include; working knowledge of the architecture and topology of software, hardware, and networks of Unclassified, For Official Use Only, and Classified Network.  - Customer Service support for a unit of 70+ users assessing and providing support and information for their individually needs satisfying their expectations, having working knowledge of solutions of available products and services they are unaware all while keeping a professional appearance and demeanor, for the various ranks and position of authority.  - Subject Matter Expert for all electronics to include data storage, cyber security, user training, assisting in technical knowledge, computer networking, desktop applications, server operating systems and network applications for all labor, middle management and senior management assigned to unit. Information Systems Technician U.S. Coast Guard - Communications Area Master Station Pacific - Point Reyes Station, CA September 2013 to July 2015 -   Developed new standards, methods, and techniques that adjusted the level of technological change to the unit finance department by installing/implementing an electronic barcode tracking inventory system solve the human error component to tracking unit assets saving $10K in labor costs to Coast Guard that brought the unit finance department into Federal Compliance.  -   Installed/Implemented $2.5K barcode inventory tracking system for all Coast Guard property to a decommissioning unit with major uncertainty of decommissioning date. New system was able to track all Coast Guard property, without interfering with business requirements and integrated to existing technology.  -   Develop new system of policies and procedures for how delivery of customer service tickets was handled and what the proper response time should be.  -   Provided expert technical advice, guidance, and recommendations to other technical specialist on critical issues such as phone switch (PBX – Public Branch Exchange), cable management, public address system, and training dates for command and crew. Information Systems Technician U.S. Coast Guard - Polar Star - Seattle, WA May 2012 to September 2013 -   Support command/upper management decisions with technical advice, guidance, and recommendations on proper training for junior and senior technicians, IT related equipment should be me support and purchased (Shore Tie Connection System), and network groom for network file structure for a 50% productivity increase in crew.  -   Enforced interpreted cyber security policies, and strategies governing the delivery of technical services and hours, response time to casualties were under 5 minutes and customer service satisfaction reflected in my departing employee review of a 7/7 in grade.   -   Oversaw the support of all installed systems and services to include training all junior technicians on proper customer service and technical problems ranging from; printer errors and connectivity, computer security practices, user error, satellite connectivity, data storage, and cyber security practices.  -   Qualified and stood watches on all electrical and mechanical systems, to include 3 turbines, 3 shafts, and 9 diesel engines.  -   Designed and installed shore tie connection box that met all shipboard requirements for durability and compact ability.  While assigned as unit’s Information Security Systems Assistant, provided thorough auditing of the unit’s users records and provide meticulous training to decrease security violations by 10% for a workforce of 125+ Information Systems Technician U.S. Coast Guard - ESD Guam - Guam, MO July 2009 to May 2012 -   Applied new developments to previously unsolvable problems, fixed a Newbridge Mainstreet 3600 that handled all South East Pacific Communications for the Coast Guard, while working with the single engineer within purchasing company and Coast Guard command to develop new technologies to replace older model, while saving $40,000 by repairing and recovering hardware until such time a replacement could be found.  -   Ensured the integration of IT programs and services, with routine software patches, hardware firmware patches and eliminating vulnerabilities in Coast Guard Hardware by removing virtual access (via ports, and patches) and physical access (Telecommunication equipment access).  -   Primary point of contact for the planning, installation, configuration, testing and implementation of the United States Coast Guard Station Apra Harbor networking switches, routers, virtual server, and phone switch.  -   Coordinate with Coast Guard IT services for the installation, testing, operation, troubleshooting, and maintenance of the Virtual Private Network of all secure networking, interagency desktop applications such as MISLE, FEDLOG and internal desktop application CGMS, Goldwave, and CMPlus.  -   Defined overall project requirements such as planning and coordinating facilities wide rewire of all backbone and intermediate cabling, to better comply with Coast Guard standards saving $20K in labor to rewire Sector Guam’s Command Center, adhering to Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers standards  While assigned as unit’s Information Security Systems Assistant, provided thorough auditing of the unit’s users records and provide meticulous training to decrease security violations by 33% for a workforce of 250+ Education Information Systems U.S. Coast Guard - TRACEN Petaluma - Petaluma, CA December 2008 to June 2009 Associates of Arts and Science in Arts and Science Pierce Community College 2007 Skills Information Security (6 years), System Administration (10+ years), Information Technology (10+ years), Wireless (2 years), Network Administration (8 years), Network Security (8 years), Desktop Support (10+ years), Customer Service (10+ years), Change Management (6 years), Cyber Security (3 years) Military Service Branch: U.S. Coast Guard Service Country: United States Rank: Petty Officer Second Class February 2008 to June 2016 Certifications/Licenses Security+ July 2017 to July 2020 Security Clearance Present TS Clearance Additional Information • Cisco  • Eon Millennium Voice  • Information Systems Management School  • Confined Spaces Training  • On-Scene Leader  • Attack Team Leader  • Investigator  • Incident Command System 100, 200, 300, And 700  • Leadership and Management School  • 7 Habits of Highly Effective People  • Sexual Assault Victim Advocate