Sr. Network Administrator Sr. <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Sr. Network Administrator Marietta, GA Work Experience Sr. Network Administrator Raine & Company - Marietta, GA April 2017 to May 2019 This position manages systems in multiple (4) office locations totaling approximately 150 users. Responsible for effective provisioning, installation/configuration, operation, and maintenance of systems hardware and software and related infrastructure.  ? Managed a team of four IT professionals responsible for all corporate and local office systems, including applications, data center, servers and storage, PCs, and telecom. Reported to the CEO.  ? Designed and implemented entire Active Directory and security infrastructure consisting of 4 locations, 150 users, 250 computers and a data center that includes over 25 servers.  ? Completed a current state assessment; authored the firm's IT strategy and project roadmap.  ? Implemented changes resulting in over $80K in operating expense savings in the first year.  ? Planned and managed physical-to-virtual server migration; retired over thirty servers and saved over $20K in operating expenses.  ? Reorganized the Technical Services team to improve service levels and expand career opportunities. Transformed the Applications team to properly align skills with ongoing duties. Server Support Engineer Hewlett Packard Enterprises - Alpharetta, GA July 2016 to February 2017 In this role I was 1 of 30 Tier 1 server engineers that provided support for HPE's Proliant series servers. Some tasks included configuration of virtual machines, raid configuration, and other general break-fix troubleshooting.  ? Diagnosed and resolved end-user server hardware issues as well as new setup configuration.  ? Format, install, set up, maintain, and troubleshoot HPE Proliant Servers for end users via phone/email within defined SLA response time. Systems Administrator Concentrix/IBM - Norcross, GA December 2014 to May 2016 The position was a blend of help desk and desktop support responsibilities. Provided desktop support/ help desk traffic coordination to client of approx. 1200 users  ? Maintenance and monitoring of network systems, including backup monitoring and preventative maintenance  ? Regularly respond to and resolve client technical issues through remote support and onsite visits  ? Help desk traffic coordination for WAH AppleCare agents and other Concentrix employees  ? Format, install, set up, maintain, and troubleshoot desktop and laptop computers with and for end users Desktop Support Concentrix/IBM - Norcross, GA August 2013 to December 2014 The position was a blend of help desk and desktop support responsibilities. Worked on 3 tech staff that supported a client of approx. 1200 users in a call center environment.  ? Served as first point of contact for various Apple sales provisioning/registration systems, training systems, sales portals and account support, including registration and access assistance  ? Monitored ticket queues, analyze and perform Tier I support of all assigned hardware and software  ? Add or replace memory, new keyboards, motherboards, and other components  ? Format, install, set up, maintain, and troubleshoot desktop and laptop computers with and for end users Help Desk Support East Georgia State College - Statesboro, GA March 2012 to June 2013 Worked primarily inside the Student IT Services Room of the Statesboro campus in a 100% Windows environment. Delivered, tagged, set up, and assisted in the configuration of end-user PC desktop hardware, software and peripherals.  ? Ensured tickets were properly routed to systems engineers and external support groups  ? Assisted in outage management coordination and notification processes  ? Ensured VIP and priority tickets are properly acknowledged and assigned within set SLA's Education Georgia Southern University - Statesboro, GA 2003 to 2008