Sr Systems Analyst Sr Systems Analyst IT Support / Systems Administrator - Apple Bridgeport, CT Experienced IT Networks / Systems Administrator & Analyst consistently training and learning new technologies looking to seek the next step in my career. With a very high interest in Network Architecture and Cyber Security, I seek to grow my knowledge focused on such fields on a daily basis. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr Systems Analyst Cooperative Educational Services CES - Trumbull, CT December 2017 to Present Work wearing different hats, from solving issues from setting up or cloning a new computer, to setup new Cisco Managed Wireless Networks. Support 4 schools with any issue that could arise on any network connected system or networks themselves. Trained staff on new technologies that were introduced to them, helped them with any technology questions they could have, helped executives when necessary with any level of issue they had, at times supported the infrastructure from home when the need requires it.     Also introduced ces new Systems to make the It department work smoother and the school work more organized, managed over 400 computers and 1000 users, setup servers, decommission old ones and virtualize others as the need arose. Worked directly with the IT Manager on any network related issues or projects for the agency.    • Windows 7,8,10  • Server 2008,2012,2016  • Microsoft Exchange 2016  • Datto Backups  • Cisco Switches / Routers / WAP / WAC / IP Phones (cuccm)  • FortiNet Firewall  • Esxi 6.5, vCenter, vMotion  • FOG Cloning System  • Linux  • Powershell  • Active Directory  • Group Policy  • Network Security  • OfficeScan AntiVirus  • Windows 10 Migration  • PRTG  • PDQDeploy  • SpiceWorks Network Inventory  • Barracuda Spam Filtering   • Chromebooks Management  • training Network Administrator The Option Institute - Sheffield, MA September 2017 to December 2017 Supported 3 campuses connected via a Fiber LAN, performed network upgrades and updates as needed ranging but not limited to new access points installations, new wireless networks / troubleshooting current ones. Packet loss troubleshooting, network uptime troubleshooting. Worked with third parties on network upgrades / troubleshooting past my technical knowledge.     • Windows 7,8,10  • Windows Server 2008, 2012, 2016  • Microsoft Exchange 2010  • Microsoft Office Suite 2016  • Skype   • Ubiquity Switches / Access Points / Wireless Controller  • HP Switches / Routers   • Quickbooks 2013  • PRTG  • Spiceworks Helpdesk  • Microsoft OneDrive  Norton AntiVirus Management Console  Hyper-V 2012 IT Support / Systems Administrator Apple Rehab Corporate - Avon, CT October 2014 to June 2017 Had a variety of roles from IT support to System Administrator to temporary Network Administrator. Supported users with issues like printers, websites, passwords, vpn, software & server. Assisted the Network Administrator in the management / updating / patching of servers and workstations across the organization as well as troubleshooting and configuration of networking equipment such as wireless access points, wireless access controllers, firewalls, switches, etc. Assisted about 900 users in a 26 sites infrastructure via phone, e-mail or physically. Worked with third party's to solve issues and supported any kind of device that connects to the network like tablets, smartphones, internet radios and miscellaneous devices such as medicine dispensing units that work through our network. Also ensured that all sites were up and running daily and that our infrastructure was in a healthy state.    ? Windows Server Management (2003, 2008, 2012)  ? Kaspersky Security Center Management (Including updates, patches, workstations firewall and encryption)  ? Microsoft Windows Support (Xp, Vista, 7, 8, 8.1, XP Embedded)  ? Linux support for thin clients (Raspberry pi's)  ? Windows Password Recovery for Locked Laptops (Using Kali Linux)  ? Cisco WAP, WAC, ASA 5500 Firewall & Source Fire IPS (Time to time reports and support)  ? Barracuda Spam Filter  ? RDP Farm Support (Server 2003 and 2012)  ? VPN Support (Cisco AnyConnect)  ? Powershell Scripting / Very Basic Python  ? Teamviewer  ? Nmap & Wireshark Helpdesk Support Analyst United Health Group - Windsor, CT September 2013 to November 2013 Worked in their helpdesk team providing support for their password related or access issues, routed calls to the right queues depending on the issue they were experiencing, provided ticket status and updates to internal and external workgroups, and forwarded the issue to another workgroup if necessary in order to fix the employee's issue. Worked with a wide variety of systems to provide support such as:    ? HP IT Service Management: Ticketing System  ? Bomgar: Remote Support  ? Citrix: Remote Applications  ? AS400: Terminal System  ? UKS: Knowledge Base System  ? Active Directory: Domain Account Issues  ? Unix: Unix Account system  ? Windows XP/ 7  ? Smartphones and tablets (Android, iOS, Windows rt, XP, 7) Helpdesk Support Analyst Voya Financial - Windsor, CT November 2012 to September 2013 Worked on an e-mail migration project and with their Financial Application Support Team (FAST) to support their main website for Agents / TPA's and Sponsors. Worked setting up and configuring outlook profiles, load and fix PSTS if corrupted and made sure that their Outlook was working properly and all their information was there after the scheduled exchange migration. Also verified account information as well as client identity to perform various functions in relation to the ING websites. Worked with a ticket system to track and escalate issues to the correct department when needed and used remote support tools to better assist customers when needed.  ? Windows XP, Vista, 7, 8 & RT  ? Smartphones & tablets (Android, iOS, Windows)  ? IE 8, 9, 19, Chrome, Firefox.  ? ServiceNow Ticketing System  ? Remote Support Pc/Tablets/Mac Sales Associate Best Buy - West Simsbury, CT November 2012 to January 2013 Assisted customers with any product related inquiry they might have, including but not limited to networking, systems capabilities, features and differences among electronic products in the store. My duties also included helping Geek Squad agents solve any PC related issue that they needed extra assistance with. Ultimately I assisted customers with smart phones devices, mp3 devices, tablets, laptops, pc's, macs, hard drives, video cards and any tech related product they needed assistance with whether we had it in the store or not.  ? Educated customers when needed on Windows 8 or any other technology they might not be too familiar with (iOS, Android, Blackberry, Mac OS X)  ? Assisted customers in finding whatever software / hardware / peripheral they needed regardless of what it was (Printer, Memory Modules, Processors, Graphics Cards, Laptops, Desktops, Monitors, Cables, etc) Education A.A.S. in Information Systems Administrations Technical Institute July 2015 Skills Linux (6 years), Vmware (5 years), System Administrator (4 years), Microsoft Office (7 years), Group Policy (4 years), Network Administration (5 years), System Administration (5 years), Cisco Switches (5 years), Cisco Wireless (5 years), Cisco Firewall / SourceFire (3 years), Ubiquity Networks (Less than 1 year), Mac Support (5 years), Remote Support (7 years), Helpdesk Support (5 years), Windows Server 2003 (3 years), Windows Server 2008 (5 years), Windows Server 2012 (5 years), Windows Server 2016 (2 years), Microsoft Exchange 2016 (2 years), Microsoft Exchange 2010 (3 years), Hyper-V (Less than 1 year), Nmap (5 years), Wireshark (5 years), Encryption (4 years), Security Policy (3 years), Network Access Control (3 years) Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/mbaez