IT Helpdesk Tech IT Helpdesk Tech Systems/ Network Administrator San Diego, CA An experienced multi skilled systems and network administrator, security analyst and technical support specialist. I have honed my ability to problem-solve for a range of complex issues and archive excellent outcomes. I possess strong leadership skills and a wide breadth of technical knowledge regarding systems network management, data and disaster recovery operations, enterprise technology and large-scale IT, global program management. As a change-leading professional, I thrive in dynamic, forward thinking business environments. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience IT Helpdesk Tech Pirch, Inc - Oceanside, CA February 2019 to Present •    Providing On-Call Site and Remote Desktop Support  •    Unified Communications Systems Management  •    Providing On-Boarding and Off- Boarding Functions  •    Security Cards and Alarm Management.   •    Ticketing systems   •    Inventory Management   •    Systems Imaging and deployment   •    CRM Management   •    Mobile Device Setup Functions  •    Active Directory Management functions System Network Administrator Zunacle Tech November 2014 to October 2018 Led a team of two tech personnel. Together we managed a portfolio of 30+ clients which consist of both public and private firms cutting across a range of sectors including Legal, Education, entertainment, Finance, NGO's, Health, and IT.    •   Implementing IT security suites and management   •    Network Management, including Switches, Routers and Firewalls  •   Providing third-party IT systems maintenance   •   Providing system performance monitoring and NOC operations  •   Diagnosing software/hardware problems and proffering resolutions  •   Customer relationship and satisfactions management. Systems Analyst Hotel Excel & Towers Ltd February 2014 to October 2014 •   Maintaining network infrastructure  •   Windows Administration -Active Directory Services Implementing security suites, including IDS/IPS, anti-virus  •   Installing, troubleshooting and maintaining laptop/ desktop PCs.  •   Providing general technical support.  •    Network setup and configuration  •   Windows Server management functions Systems Engineer/ Instructor Erhies Technology Ltd January 2011 to November 2012 •   Instructing Microsoft Office suite, networking, & Windows Operating System training sessions.  •   Providing hardware and software installation, maintenance, and PC repairs.  •   Providing on-site support and troubleshooting of network equipment, including router, switches.  •   Responsible for providing post-help desk support to field locations.  •   Installing, troubleshooting and repairing desktop PCs.  •   Providing on- call, offsite technical support functions Jr. Systems Administrator Finance Lift Limited January 2010 to December 2010 •   Providing general IT support for in-house staff  •   Support facility infrastructure and network hardware cabling.  •   Providing routine backup of critical business data.  •   On-boarding and Off-boarding functions  •   Implementing systems security and maintenance, like anti-virus  •   Installing, troubleshooting and repairing laptops and desktop PCs. Education Bachelor's in Computer Science The Polytechnic, ile-Ife 2016 to 2018 National Diploma(Associate) in Computer Science Ogun State Institute of Technology 2011 to 2013 Diploma in e-Technology Computing in e-Technology Computing NIIT 2008 to 2009 Skills Active Directory, Imaging and Backups, Customer Relations, Data Recovery, DHCP, DNS, Firewall, HTML, Information Security, Microsoft Office, Microsoft Outlook, Mobile Devices, Networking, Windows, Technical Support, Windows 7, Security, Customer Service, Vmware, Sales, Apache, LAN/WAN, MAC Certifications/Licenses Certified Ethical Hacker (CEH) May 2016 to June 2023 Network+ Certification July 2019 to Present Diploma in Information Security (DIS 10) June 2016 to Present Nessus Fundamentals Certification May 2019 to Present CompTIA A+ December 2018 to Present