Desktop Support Intern Desktop Support Intern Desktop Support Intern Prescott Valley, AZ Diligent Electrical & Instrumentation Technology major currently attending Yavapai College, with 6+ years of work experience. Aiming to leverage a proven knowledge of desktop technology, end-user support, and preventive maintenance skills to successfully fill the I.T. Support role at your company. Frequently praised as hard-working by my peers, I can be relied upon to help your company achieve its goals. Work Experience Desktop Support Intern JUST TECH - Bethlehem, PA May 2017 to November 2017 • Provided excellent desktop support for remote customers which allowed them to successfully help their nonprofit clients.  • Created easy to understand and apply technical instructions for complex computer software that allowed clients to feel self-sufficient and perform their duties more efficiently.  • Added/removed users to the email server and network infrastructure which granted users access to their files and applications.  • Backup and verify client Azure backups to ensure that sensitive data was being protected and accessible.  • Perform data backups and disaster recovery operations.  • Diagnose, troubleshoot, and resolve hardware, software, or other network and system problems, and replace defective components when necessary.  • Plan, coordinate, and implement network security measures to protect data, software, and hardware.  • Configure, monitor, and maintain email applications or virus protection software. Mobile Technical Support U.S. ARMY - Shaw AFB, SC January 2014 to December 2015 • Provided mobile desktop support on various devices ranging from Mac, Blackberry, Windows and network devices which allowed the Commanding General to work reliably from anywhere including in austere environments.  • Managed user accounts that allowed the Commanding General and his staff to have access to their emails and files all around the world. Local Area Network Administrator U.S. ARMY - Fort Huachuca, AZ June 2010 to December 2013 • Managed a mobile Local Area Network which allowed Military Officers and staff to make calls and have access to secure a network, which allowed them to Lead their soldiers anywhere in the world.  • Lead a seven-person team that consistently outperformed other teams in command satisfaction when it came to network performance and uptime.  • Analyze network data to determine network usage, disk space availability, or server function.  • Configure security settings or access permissions for groups or individuals.  • Configure wide area network (WAN) or local area network (LAN) routers or related equipment.  • Identify the causes of networking problems, using diagnostic testing software and equipment.  • Install and configure wireless networking equipment.  • Install network software, including security or firewall software.  • Install new hardware or software systems or components, ensuring integration with existing network systems. Education A.A.S. in Electrical & Instrumentation Technology Yavapai College - Prescott, AZ May 2021 A.A.S. in Computer Networking Lehigh Carbon Community College - Schnecksville, PA May 2017 Bachelor's in Computer Information Systems CUNY John Jay College of Criminal Justice - New York, NY 2016 Skills Active directory, Exchange, Linux