IT Manager IT Manager IT Manager - Bauer Controls Detroit, MI IT professional with 8+ years of professional experience in Help Desk Support, Field Technician Support  and Network Support/Monitoring as well as Network Administration, I am looking to become an asset  to your company, while also continuing to develop in the Field of Information Technology. Work Experience IT Manager Bauer Controls - Plymouth, MI June 2017 to Present • Kept up-to-date on new developments in computer and network vulnerabilities, data hiding and encryption.  • Microsoft Project Honolulu installation  • DNS and DHCP setup and Management  • Incorporated feedback and recommendations from other staff members when modifying  software.  • Implemented and maintained firewalls, switches and security appliances.  • Upgraded and expanded network systems and their components.  • Completed remote repairs involving software solutions and hardware repairs.  • Defined security requirements for computer systems, including mainframe, workstations and  • personal computers  • Built server systems and installed into racks.  • Reviewed logs for all networking devices for unresolved abnormalities and problems.  • Communicated with vendors to resolve network outages and periods of reduced performance.  • Diagnosed system hardware and software problems using advanced root-cause analysis.  • Troubleshot and maintained all networking devices and infrastructure across the enterprise  • including switches, routers and firewalls.  • Documented all server and network problems and other unusual events in detail.  • Monitored system logs for all company computers and devices to maximize uptime.  • Designed and implemented networks in collaboration with project engineers.  • Migrated from on-premise Exchange to Exchange online  • Configured and Managed Hyper-V environment  • Consulted on all PC purchasing  • Developed Backup Strategies  • Upgraded Various network access-points and networking equipment Network Administrator Jack Doheny Companies - Northville, MI January 2017 to June 2017 • Monitored 200 company-wide trouble tickets.  • Configured and Managed Virtual Machines with Vmware  • Implemented and maintained firewalls, series switches and security appliances.  • Offered Desk-side Support  • Upgraded and expanded network systems and their components.  • Completed remote repairs involving software solutions and hardware repairs.  • Documented all server and network problems and other unusual events in detail.  • Managed, configured and Installed SAN Devices Noc Engineer Everstream GLC Holding Company LLC - East Lansing, MI April 2016 to January 2017 • Tier 1 and Tier 2 Trouble Ticket Troubleshooting  • T1 Support  • Cisco and juniper Switches and Router Troubleshooting  • Managed Linux-based DNS  • Call-Tracing  • Public Cloud Support  • Interpreted drawing markups and implemented drawing revisions provided by engineers.  • Internal Hardware and Software Support IT Student Assistant, On-Site Technical Support State of Michigan - DTMB - Lansing, MI August 2014 to April 2016 • Mobile Device Support  • Printer Management and Support  • Computer Imaging  • Computer Deployment  • Software Distribution with SCCM  • Active Directory Management Computer Technical Support Michigan State University - East Lansing, MI September 2013 to August 2014 • Mobile Device Management  • Managed Trouble Tickets  • Software and Hardware Repair  • Domain account Management  • MAC OS Troubleshooting Education Bachelor of Arts Michigan State University - East Lansing, MI 2019 High School Diploma Crockett Technical High School - Detroit, MI 2012 Certification in Information Technology Golightly Career and Technical Center - Detroit, MI 2012 Skills Dhcp (1 year), Dns (2 years), Exchange (1 year), Hyper-v (1 year), security (2 years), Strategic Planning, Customer Service, Network Administration, Vmware, Cisco, Active Directory, Disaster Recovery, Excel, VoIP, Vendor Management, IT Management, SQL, HTML Additional Information Technical Skills  • Collaboration tools  • Business process improvement  • Data analysis  • WSUS  • Microsoft Team System Linux (Ubuntu, Kali, Centos)  • Mitigation plan development  • Routing and Switching  • LAMP Stack  • Systems and Network Administration  • Variety of Open-Source Tools  • Database Administration  • Cisco Switches and Routers  • Virtualization (Hyper-V, VMware)  • Juniper Switches and Routers  • Fortigate UTM Devices  • Mixed-Platform Environments  • Scripting  • Technical Infrastructure Microsoft  • Exchange Management  • System Security, Backup and Recovery  • Microsoft Office 365  • Exchange Online  • DHCP  • DNS