Closing Cashier Closing Cashier Joplin, MO Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Closing Cashier Macadoodles - Joplin, MO June 2019 to July 2019 Work registers as normal until close, then stay for an extra few hours to clean the store up and prep for the next day by stocking shelves and counting registers. Member Services Representative Teleperformance USA - Joplin, MO April 2018 to November 2018 I worked at Teleperformance as a member services representative for a contracted insurance company. I would answer calls from members, verify their identity under very strict HIPAA guidelines, then resolve whatever issue they called about however I needed to.    This often involved doing a large amount of research in our extensive policy documentation, and sometimes reaching out to providers or medical groups to ensure the best possible care was provided to our members.    During my brief time at this position, I received multiple awards from my coworkers for my ability and willingness to assist them with their calls while I was between calls or on hold myself. When another representative was having trouble with a particularly difficult case, they would come to me first before asking our technical support staff. Local Inventory Associate WIS International - Joplin, MO September 2018 to October 2018 I worked briefly as a local inventory associate, mostly working Dollar General locations but sometimes other small stores. We would show up at 7am or earlier and inventory the entire store with as few as three people.    Unlike the traveling job for WIS, we would rarely ever stay in hotels and mostly traveled back home every night.    I was regularly the top counter or second highest ranked in our speed / accuracy ranking system. I left this position due to changes in management. Temp Express Employment - Ponca City, OK July 2018 to September 2018 I worked as a temporary laborer at a variety of jobs in Ponca City. It was mostly working for Dorada, the chicken processing plant, but would have the occasional change in pace to a different job.    At Dorada, I was responsible for the third-shift complete breakdown and cleaning of all equipment in the facility. We would shut power off to everything, disassemble it, and use power washers and very powerful cleaning agents to sterilize the entire facility.    Another big job was working a pumpkin patch. I weeded the patch for a few weeks then, as they ripened, I harvested the pumpkins and hauled them to our stockpile for transportation.    All of my work with Express Employment ended only because I no longer reside in Ponca City, OK. Traveling Inventory Associate WIS International - Joplin, MO January 2018 to July 2018 I was a traveling inventory associate, and would travel every week to stay in a hotel and work at mostly Walmarts in the surrounding area, sometimes other big-box stores. I would arrive at the job site ready-to-work at 7am and with around 30 other counters we would work our way through the entire store inventory to verify the store's count is accurate.    I was regularly a top-5 counter in our speed/accuracy rankings, and would often finish out the day by helping the rest of the top counters finish 1/3 of the store while most of the crew finished counting clothing.    I was trained on all departments so I could work anywhere they needed me instead of just going with the flow.    While I never achieved the pay of a top-rank counter (the reason I no longer work with WIS) I was actually ranked as such in the system on almost all of our jobs. Network Administrator Econolodge - Anderson, MO January 2016 to November 2017 I worked at this hotel for years as on-demand technical support and network administration. I personally installed most of their computer networking systems, and was responsible for repair and maintenance on the phone system as well.    Before I began employment here, the internet service was the biggest complaint received and after that went to a 9.5 the hotel moved up hundreds of ranks in the entire chain, from over 850 to under 80.    This was not a full time job and to compensate for that I would work part-time doing other things at the hotel, starting with some daily housekeeping and ending with my being night auditor as well as network administrator.    I left this position due to a change in ownership of the hotel I worked at. Cashier Walmart - Neosho, MO October 2016 to March 2017 I worked as a front-checkout cashier, handling customers' items and keeping them entertained with light conversation. I was responsible for making sure the entire transaction went as quickly and smoothly as possible for the customer. When there were no customers, I would clean and reorganize my assigned checkout lane. Education Associate in Computer & Network Administration Crowder College - Neosho, MO January 2013 to May 2016 High school or equivalent in GED GED Skills Customer Service, Call Center, CSR, Customer Care Assessments Call Center Customer Service — Expert April 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to demonstrate customer service skills in a call center setting. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/n-jb93ze2wfj3lee Accounting Skills: Bookkeeping — Highly Proficient April 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to calculate and determine the accuracy of financial data. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/zormn0zwgrat-c-9 Sales Skills: Influence & Negotiation — Proficient April 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to effectively use influence and negotiation techniques to engage with and persuade customers. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/spsds2h7s3bnwnyc Verbal Communication — Expert April 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to effectively convey information when speaking. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/n1dpqsqzwwh7uhlc Written Communication — Expert April 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to convey written information using proper grammar rules. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/6e8a37mumb8ghntm Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.