Senior Systems Administrator Senior Systems <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Senior Systems Administrator - ManTech Fredericksburg, VA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior Systems Administrator ManTech - Stafford, VA May 2016 to Present As Senior Systems Administrator, responsible for coordinating software upgrades, server maintenance and support including setting up backup server for the development environment, testing software installation of new software releases, and authoring installation procedures for security patches to mitigate vulnerabilities. Perform Red Hat, VMware, Cisco, and Juniper installation, configuration, and updates. Also provides peer review of documents such as SMs, IOMs and installations manuals. Installed and configured logging solution utilizing Elk Stack and Elasticsearch. Assisted in transitioning the environment from physical to a virtual environment. Perform security and privacy controls based on IAW NIST 800-5 and NIST 800-37.    Also responsible for maintaining multiple Secure First Look Site (FLS) systems with continuous ATO in a secure facility. Lead the preparation and hardening of the FLS systems through a Command Cyber Operational Readiness Inspection (CCRI) within the facility that resulted in a passing result. B52 Aircraft Electrician U.S. Air Force, 5th Bomb Wing - Minot, ND 2013 to 2014 As B52 Aircraft Electrician, responsible for managing, diagnosing, troubleshooting, and repairing B52 Bomber aircraft as new as 1962. Participated in regular nuclear training, anti-terrorism training, and warfare strategy training. Designed and established a Core Automated Maintenance Systems (CAMS) training guidebook. C130H Aircraft Electrician U.S. Air Force, 374th AMXS, Yokota 2010 to 2013 As C130H Aircraft Electrician, diagnosed, troubleshoot, and repaired C130H cargo aircraft. Supported successful mass TDY training in Alaska with only two E&E personnel on hand. Supported the humanitarian effort of Sendai's earthquake, and Fukishima incident with 12+ daily shift for 6 months. Established a training program and trained 30+ airmen in electronic core theory, troubleshooting, and in soldering/splicing. Volunteered 50+ hours in various programs to assist Japanese citizens. Network Administrator Burst.Net - Scranton, PA 2009 to 2010 As Network Administrator, built, installed, and maintained an environment with 11,000+ servers. Responsible for the expansion of the NOC by adding 3,000+ new servers. Responsible for providing technical support globally. Tracked, logged, and prioritized work orders. Assigned a supervisory role in the night time operations. Education Bachelor of Science in Information Technology in Network and Security Stratford University - Falls Church, VA Skills Cisco, Dhcp, Juniper, Storageworks, Tcp, Devops, Jenkins, Linux, Puppet Military Service Branch: United States Air Force Rank: E-4 Certifications/Licenses Security+ valid driver's license