System Engineer System Engineer System Engineer Atlanta, GA Exchange Engineer with over 9+ years of experience in IT field related to administration of various versions of Microsoft Exchange server.  His strength includes strong analytical capabilities, conceptualization skills. He is self-motivated and team player to work in a fast, busy, and under pressure environment. He has proven skills in project management and possesses excellent communication skills along with sound ability to interact with technical and business resources with clarity and flexibility. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience System Engineer GNC Corporation October 2017 to Present Worked on day to day exchange and Active Directory issues  • Troubleshooting Mail flow issues on exchange and also on external SMTP Gateway.  • Streamlined Journaling through Source One  • Built 3000 store tablets in Resource Exchange Forest through power shell  • Worked on design and implementation with regard to migration from exchange 2007 to exchange 2013 which includes Auto discover and EWS issues.  • Interacted with team members to solve issues related to users.  • Being On call service once a month  • Played active part in implementing DLP Solution with regard to emails. Messaging specialist BNY Mellon -Pittsburgh September 2016 to October 2017 Worked on Symantec Discovery Accelerator with regard to archiving users.  • Automate the search, retrieval of electronic information across content repositories, and reduce the time, cost, and potential risk of manual searches.  • Reduce IT risk by establishing a chain of custody process  • and reporting for archived content with audit trails.  • Conduct early case assessment with targeted searches and filtering capabilities.  • Provide case management capability for authorized reviewers/investigators with chain of custody tracking.  • Initiate legal holds without costly and disruptive manual IT collection processes.  • Place legal holds on potentially relevant information, regardless of the number of open cases, ensuring that it is not accidentally or maliciously deleted. Consultant Tata Consultancy Services-Texas August 2015 to September 2016 Messaging engineering experience within an enterprise environment - utilizing Exchange 2013/2010 Hands on engineering experience with Administration and support of O365 (office 365) in an enterprise (25,000+ end users) environment  • Expert understanding of Exchange roles and configuration, high availability, capacity planning, DAG's, PowerShell and other administration scripting tools.  • Troubleshoot and resolved escalated tickets and requests including shared mailboxes and folder permissions, retention policies, custom forms, Offline Address Book (OAB), Free/Busy  • Monitoring Queues on all exchange Server, configured alerts.  • Used exchange tools like, Eamon, Ex BPA, Database Recover Management tools for Exchange recovery  • Message tracking and troubleshooting to resolve mail issue using tools like ExTRA,  • Checking SMTP queues, directory look up, remote delivery  • Working with issues related to Spam Filtration in our SMTP Gateway  • Developed, implemented and reviewed Information Security policy procedures to secure computer and network operations  • Performing critical changes and performance tuning on messaging servers.  • Resolving Technical issues for Microsoft Exchange 200, 2007, 2010  • Managing Recipient spam list, safe aggregation list  • Ensure high availability of mail servers, monitoring exchange routing issues  • Expert understanding of Exchange Online Hybrid Co-Existence and Exchange Online management.  • Worked as part of corporate engineering/support teams  • Good decision making and communication skills  • Good understanding of regulatory requirements for messaging environments  • Ability to create engineering blueprints, detailed designs and author documents and test plans etc.  • Ability to think outside the box  • Ability to manage multiple complex technical engineering deliveries essential.  • Ability to estimate effort and manage, prioritize delivery (engineering projects and day to day issue / lifecycle requests) Exchange Engineer Sherman International Corporation July 2014 to August 2015 Professional Experience with Microsoft Exchange Servers 2003/2007/2010/2013 and Active Directory.    • Performing critical changes and performance tuning on messaging servers.  • Extensive expertise in Troubleshooting's for Microsoft Exchange 2003/2007,2010,2013  • Managed messaging environment with Exchange Server 2003/2007,2010,2013  • Monitoring Queues on all exchange Server, configured alerts.  • Performing Offline Defrag. on databases  • Administered, maintained email archiving and retention policies  • Performed cleanup of Exchange public folders and OUs for maintenance and preparation of migration  • Maintained and updated and repaired the Global Address List (GAL) and domain infrastructure, DNS, DHCP  • Authored and maintained knowledgebase articles for end users and help desk staff related to messaging.  • Configured, maintained and monitored Microsoft Forefront for message hygiene including spam filtering, anti-virus, secure mail, email encryption, message tracking, custom policies and filters, and requests. Messaging Administrator Sherman International Corp June 2013 to July 2014 • Administered, updated and monitored Exchange 2003.  • Troubleshoot and resolved escalated tickets and requests including shared mailboxes and folder permissions, retention policies, custom forms, Offline Address Book (OAB), Free/Busy  • Performed Active Directory administration - Group Policies (GPO), permissions cleanup, update AD schema  • Updated Exchange and messaging enterprise software to latest service packs and updates  • Restored databases and mailboxes from Symantec Backup Exec  • Scripted PowerShell commands to repair Exchange CCR mailbox databases  • Planned and executed Active Directory Migration from Windows Server 2003 to Windows Server 2008  • Migrated users, PCs and groups to Windows 7, Office 2003, office 2010, office 2013  • Troubleshoot: AD, Outlook/Exchange, and WebEx.  • Created and utilized technical documentation in knowledgebase for end users and IT  • Actively tracked, escalated and followed up on cases using Remedy ITSM  • Configured and troubleshoot DNS Forward/Reverse Lookups on Domain Controllers  • Performing critical changes and performance tuning on messaging servers.  • Resolving Technical issues for Microsoft Exchange 2003.  • Managing Recipient spam list, safe aggregation list  • Ensure high availability of mail servers, monitoring exchange routing issues  • Lead and support for deployment of encryption for laptops throughout the organization  • Administrated Linksys series routers  • Provided guideline for existing and new infrastructure design to be aligned with the organizational policies and procedures as well as security best practices  • Message Routing Issues  • Exchange Public Folder issues  • Setting up OWA, Certificates  • Filtration of Inbound emails  • Managing users with outlook, 2003, 2007, on client machines.  • Archiving and Back up Email stores  • Track message and verify integrity of exchange store.  • Monitored and analyzed logs from Firewalls, IDS and central antivirus systems  • Planned and conducted Information Security awareness program throughout the organization  • Conducted Vulnerability scanning and assessment for IT network and systems using Wireshark, Angry IP scanner, Path ping tools and did remediation activity with responsible system administrators  • Performed security assessments and vulnerability mitigation of Windows and Enterprise Linux systems. System and Network Administrator, IT Division Sherman International Corporation May 2012 to June 2013 Experience with TCP, IP and IP routing, LAN, WAN, OSI model and fiber optic technology.  • Experience with contract management and knowledge of technical task order creation and oversight.  • Extensive knowledge of 24-7 implementation and management of information technology support operations to include help desk, Call-in support and work priority management, and the use of Remedy.  • Implemented NAT and security policies on our Watch guard firewall  • Used various networking tools like pathping, Angry IP scanner, port query , Wireshark etc.  • Designed, implanted, monitored and troubleshoot new LAN/WAN, infrastructure for central and branch offices  • Performed daily backup and maintenance of Active Directory and Exchange Server along with testing of restore procedure  • Developed, implemented and maintained centralized antivirus system  • Ensured secure operation of in house computer systems, servers, and network connections. This involved constant monitoring and administering of windows 2003, 2008 servers and firewall logs, scrutinizing network traffic, establishing and updating virus scans  • Make sure fixes, patches on servers, service packs on windows servers and workstations are up to date.  • Check back up logs and changed tape backups on daily basis  • Gave role-based access control to restricting system access to authorized users Using DAC and MAC policy  • Experience with TCP, IP and IP routing, LAN, WAN, OSI model and fiber optic technology.  • Experience with contract management and knowledge of technical task order creation and oversight.  • Extensive knowledge of 24-7 implementation and management of information technology support operations to include help desk, Call-in support and work priority management, and the use of Remedy. Web Developer/Engineer Sherman Intl. Corp April 2010 to May 2012 Development of maintenance of the company's databases and Website. Specific duties of this position will include (1) applying knowledge of programming techniques and computer operating system (2) Designing and configuring systems    • Developing and implementing interactive links according to company's parts, spares and warehouse/ inventory databases.    • Formulating plans and outlining steps required to develop programs using structured analysis and inventory databases to create and maintain unified web based sales tools, inventory control, and finance and accounting systems. Education Bachelor's Certifications/Licenses TS/SCI clearance