CTO CTO CTO - CountrySilk, Inc Piscataway, NJ Work Experience CTO CountrySilk, Inc February 2018 to Present streamlined the process of company with PowerBI reports and service to deliver dashboards to key  streamlined the process of company with PowerBI reports and service to deliver dashboards to key  personnel in company. This helped in removing the extreme reliance of the staff on reporting  Trained the staff on subscriptions and alerts on the key events in the company so that no exception  goes unnoticed  developed ERP integrated tableau dashboards to bring 3PL warehouse, shipping , customer service and sales people together  Developing the in-house call center dashboards to improve the customer service standards  projects in pipeline include data integration between china and US offices using dashboards on hand responsible for EDI, ERP, Month closings, Audits , sales and financial reporting  developed overall business models and visual analysis tools for Managers to watch sales trends ,  warehoused cubes and cases with costs involved in accordance with warehousing contract with Public warehouse, streamlined shipping with shipping dashboard for shipping support executives to  track available to ship part of order with cubes,cases and dollar amounts. Senior Data Analyst CountrySilk, Inc 2008 to December 2008 NOVEMBER 7, 2017    Analysed , Conceptualized and implemented supply chain technical infrastructure in Countrysilk with ERP, EDI ,day to day automated reporting with crystaldesk and management dashboards with  Tableau Server to systematically remove inefficiencies by improving visibility of process throughout the company.  Involved in all stages of visualization life cycle from User Requirements analysis, Prototyping, Designing, Testing, Publishing ,maintenance and User Permissions using tableau server  collaborate with different SME's from different departments for their visualization needs and incorporate the changes accordingly.  Use tableau charts like Histograms, Bar & Pie Charts, Scatter & Box Plots, Geographical maps, Tree  & Heat Maps Bubbles, Circles, Area charts etc  Worked extensively with dimension hierarchy, interactive actions, data joins, data blending, table  calculations, data interpreter , pivoting data, groups, sets ( both static and dynamic),parameters, trendlines , dynamic dashboards and storylines in tableau for data visualization  Cater to the needs of users by consolidation reports using R Markdown reports for overall picture in a single report per day.  Initiated the incorporation of Machine learning project namely market basket analysis to improve the sales based on old sales by making recommendations to customers after the initial order is placed.  Used apriori algorithm from arules package with invoice history data from mas200.  Prepared business intelligence reports as well as dashboards for owners with tableau to control  business in better manner. Created different dashboards for business users based on their needs and data security using tableau desktop and server. This helped in reducing time to make business  decisions.  Conceptualized and designed sales support reports like Open order reports, Billing up-to-date report , YOY sales reports , profit margin reports, sell-thru reports,customers who bought last year but haven't  bought yet , customer's category wise analytics report before sales presentation , salesman's sales  reach reports , commission reports etc. Used SAP Crystal reports and power pivots for refresh able  reports.  Conceptualized,Created and automated reports with crystaldesk and mapilab for handling various day to day functions for business operations shipping orders schedule, inventory valuation, salesmen  performance , shipping load estimates etc.  Undertook Month closing and provided closing reports to CPA for Bank's requirements.  Processed and interchanged edi documents(850,856,810,753,997) using Qualedi , Cleo Lexicom , b2b Link and shiplink modules for Wal-Mart, JCPenney, Party City and Pamida  Coordinated with our edi Support consultants for setting up mappings  Secured and processed orders from VMS for Canadian tires and from Vendor Portal for Walgreen.  Identified the issues with the order process and designed and implemented scanning system to create an efficient order taking process. Used Logiciel Trdeshow system and a self developed excel vba  system.  Instrumental in making changes in Hong kong office by bringing them up on our ERP system  Assisted CEO in specialized projects namely complete Product line Consolidation, EDI Commitments  matching, Fine-line Reports, Sales Projections , Margin Reports ( by item, customer , Product-line and Salesperson ) and inventory diversions to east and west coast using crystal reports and DAX  programming  Coordinated with CFO and CPA for bank requirements for month closing reports , Yearly audits, Inventory valuations and physical counts.  Incorporated the auto response system in the company for management and sales people's inventory  reports requirements using crystal desk  Developed scanning system to scan orders at shows and showroom, which increased the salespeople's efficiency in taking orders and avoiding mistakes writing 8 digit style numbers. This  made tremendous improvements in further data processing too.  Coordinated with shipping department for implementing item labels ( UPCA) , case labels(SCC14) and pallets labels with teklynx labelview Pro for proper use of inventory with scanning system. Data Analyst 2008 to December 2008 Supported and trained staff on various Modules of Mas200 mainly Library Master, General ledger, Accounts receivable , Accounts Payables , Inventory Management , Sales Order , Purchase Order ,  Visual integrator and Custom Office  interchanged EDI transactions ( 850,997,753,754,856 and 810) with Wal-Mart , JC Penney and Pamida using AS2 Communication by using Cleo Lexicom,Qualedi, B2bLink, Shiplink and Inovis.  Qualedi was used as the translator and Lexicom as communication software.  Overall responsible for maintaining and innovating in supply change system using MAS200 and EDI along with acting as the front person for any customized needs for warehouse system data needs.  Successfully implemented multiple integration with 3PLs warehouse systems for seamless  coordination during shipping.  Conceptualize, design, test and integrate crystal reports with MAS200 as per the needs of the staff and management.  Identified the inefficiency of the printed catalogs and conceptualized the digital uptodate catalogs to  avoid selling already sold out goods .Responsible for designing and customization of crystal reports with dynamic insertion of pictures of items with data from MAS200 using ODBC. These reports are  acting as the main drive of the company as salespersons weekly inventory update as well as pricelist and customized presentations to the customers. CountrySilk, Inc 2005 to December 2005 TO YORKFORM PTY LTD., Gladesville Sydney March 2005 to March 2005 DECEMBER Supply Chain Analyst City East, Pymble , Carlingford , Stmarys and Rockdale 2005 to 2005 Was responsible for Establishing , Maintaining and supporting network between various store  locations namely Gladesville , City East, Pymble , Carlingford , Stmarys and Rockdale  Independently Installed and maintained Acumen POS and financial Accounting System at all the branches  Developed various reports for management control and smooth running of supply chain like purchase  orders to be received report , to be delivered orders ,run sheet , Discount Authorization report , Till  transactions for accounts , Banking Forms , Staff sales , Discounted orders , Order wise profit margin  report , Item wise profit Margin report , Order type profit margin report , pick list , club pricing , promotional pricing , area sales etc.  Developed reports using ODBC, excel, MS Query, VBA Programming and Pivot tables. Network Administrator October 2004 to October 2004 Administrating and troubleshooting order entry , order and pick slip printing for public warehouse , transferring orders electronically to warehouse, billing and closing of month for reporting to bank  Making reports for critical decision making like open order report , Credit Held report , Back Order  report , Future order report , account receivable report , aging report , sell thru report for different  categories of merchandise , order wise , customer wise and item wise profit margin reports for different categories , monthly cash receipt , monthly sales journal , available to sell inventory reports for salespeople , sales comparison reports for sales accounts for different years , order tracking report  in crystal for customer service etc.  Creating, maintaining and updating user profiles on JD Edwards as per the management's  requirements.  Actively supporting the management decision process by providing them the up-to-date information on the various aspects of business namely marketing, finance and buying. This includes running queries for different reports required by management.  Supporting the logiciel Tradeshow32, which was used to take orders from wirelessly using pocket  PC's. was responsible for printing reports , printing barcode labels , establishing network , importing  database and supporting sales team at the trade shows. CountrySilk, Inc August 2001 to August 2001 TO Network Support Executive Netkidswear.com March 1999 to August 2001 Support to Windows NT network and RunIt software for POS, Inventory, accounts payables and Reporting Area Manager 1999 to 1999 Joined the company through the campus interview to hold the position of City manager for Goa beeper  /pager station. In this project my responsibilities included the setup of base station with the equipment, making the dealer network, training the sales people of dealers and company and  providing time to time feedback to the Head office in Chandigarh. Achieved the top position in India  (sales wise ) and was transferred to head office as Area Manager to handle Maharashtra Telecom  circle Sales. Punjab Wireless Ltd August 1996 to August 1996 TO FEBRUARY Project Engineer Punjab Power Generation Machines Ltd July 1992 to July 1994 Joined the company through the campus interview held on the completion of civil engineering degree at Thapar institute of engineering and technology. Was absorbed in the company as Graduate  engineer trainee and promoted to project engineer status after 3 months. First project involved the  construction of a hockey stadium in sector 42 in chandigarh and my responsibilities included reading  blue prints of design , giving layout and instructions to labor and supervisors , supervising the whole  construction work , dealing with the government officials for raising running bills and helping in company's billing.  2nd project included the supervision of two powerhouse projects (Harabangi and Baranala) in Orrisa.  Responsibilities included translation of drawings on the project site, providing layouts, supervising  work and Liaised with the client (OPGC-Orrisa power generation corporation) for raising running bills. Education Diploma In Computer Applications in Computer Applications Punjabi University 1995 to 1996 Master Of Business Administration in Business Administration Punjabi University 1994 to 1996 Bachelor Of Engineering in Engineering Thapar Institute Of Engineering And Technology 1988 to 1992 Skills MACHINE LEARNING, TABLEAU DESKTOP, TABLEAU SERVER, QLIKVIEW, TABLEAU, SAP, PYTHON, GGPLOT2, MATPLOTLIB, NUMPY, SHINY, SQL, CRYSTAL REPORTS, MS OFFICE Additional Information SKILLS  Tableau Desktop Tableau Server Tableau Prep R Programming R Markdown Reports Shiny Apps  R packages namely tidyverse,ggplot2,Plotly,Rbokeh ,Highcharter Python (numpy, pandas ,matplotlib)  |SAP Lumira QlikView PowerBI reports and Dashboards gretl DAX Programming for Power Pivot  Power View Power Query msqry QueryStorm Crystal Reports Dream Writer QualEdi Cleo  Lexicom SAGE MAS200 Advanced MS Office B2blink Shiplink SQL SSIS Constant Contact  Email campaigns with analytics Machine Learning