Data Analyst Data Analyst Data Analyst\ Database Administrator Jersey City, NJ Work Experience Data Analyst JPMorgan Chase & Co - Brooklyn, NY August 2016 to April 2019 Supported a Sybase data warehouse used by Private Banking business for reporting and data extracts for the online business applications.  • Supported a new built that allowed users to view near real time restriction on instruments  • Provided technical validation support for changes to the data warehouse environment creating  automation scripts using HiveQL and Spark to validate data has properly moved from our legacy  platform to our strategic platform Hadoop.  • Worked on BAU team addressing database production related issues for our business stakeholders  • Volunteered to be a Technical Lead through our Technology for Good Program and built a prototype of a web application in Python using the Django Framework. WebSphere Engineer JPMorgan Chase & Co - Jersey City, NJ March 2015 to August 2016 Enterprise Engineering Services WebSphere Team which provide 24x7 Technical Support for Java Developers and Database Administrators.  • Engineered an upgrade strategy to upgrade IBM Domino to Apache 8.5.5.2  • Worked with business to build a WAS Cell in Development and Production to support an ATM one-time  passcode application.  • Worked with other mainframe teams to engineer solutions to decrease server start up times after IPLs. DB2 Systems Programmer JPMorgan Chase & Co - Jersey City, NJ July 2011 to February 2015 Member of our Production Engineering Services Team which provide 24x7 Technical DB2 support for  118+ DB2 subsystems, CA Database Administration Suite for DB2, InfoSphere Data Replication, Compuware FileAid/RDX for DB2, & DB2 Analytics Accelerator for z/OS.  • Supported Testing and DB2 validation of our Disaster Recovery environments  • Worked with IBM, CA, and BMC to identify and diagnose critical product defects and apply PTF and APARs where needed  • Configured alerts using DB2 MainView for determining when Thread Thresholds values had been  breached  • Worked with our Automation team spearheading our Alert Reduction Initiative to remediate  unnecessary pages and system alerts.  • Assisted in administrating and creating curriculum for our internal DB2 training class for new Analysts.  • Successfully completed and graduated JPMC's internal Mainframe training program: zUniversity.  • Supported Maintenance releases to apply critical maintenance to keep our environment current Quality Assurance Analyst JPMorgan Chase & Co - Syracuse, NY February 2010 to May 2011 Provided software testing support for the JPMorgan Chase's Bear Stearns merger.  • Managed SharePoint capacity and granted user access.  • Created test cases based on Business Requirements Documents for the MORCOM Trading  application.  • Created a data model and database for our team's Weekly Status Report application. Provided  Data Modeling support to logically reconstruct the back-end of a trading application. Network Administrator Assistant SoBRO - Bronx, NY June 2008 to August 2008 Basic server maintenance of Windows Server 2003  • Worked with staff to analyze and correct software and hardware problems daily  • Assisted in wireless printer configurations and installations  • Assisted with RAM upgrades of computer lab Education Bachelor of Science in Information Management & Technology in Information Management & Technology Syracuse University - Syracuse, NY Skills Data modeling, Db2, Oracle, Pl/sql, Sql, Sybase, Html, Javascript, Json, Python, Rexx, Visio, Xml, Smpe, Java, Ims, Linux, Erwin, Vmware, Cics, DBA, Sql Dba, Oracle Dba, Sql Server, MYSQL Links http://linkedin.com/in/quawansmith Additional Information Key Strengths  SQL Sybase|MS SQL DB2 on zOS HiveQL Oracle 12c PL/SQL Programming (Oracle) Data Modeling  (Visio, Erwin) Toad SQL Developer Linux (Fedora, Ubuntu, Redhat) VMware Python Java  VBScripting for Excel HTML CSS3 Javascript XML JSON GitHub z/OS SMPE CICS DB2 IMS MQ|  Rexx Intermediate Spanish Basic Conversational Portuguese