Network Administrator/Local Project Manager <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span>/Local Project Manager Arlington, TX I am a friendly, loyal and dedicated individual who is a quick learner and has the drive to succeed in any environment. I thrive in fast-paced settings and work well under pressure on my own or as part of a team. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Network Administrator/Local Project Manager Safari Telecommunications - Riverdale, NJ July 2016 to Present As a Network Administrator I helped create, build and maintain enterprise networks specific to the needs of the sporting event while onsite or remotely. Installed peripherals and provided level one support to onsite clients including but not limited to PGA of America, U.S. Golf Association, The Tiger Woods Foundation, NBC, Fox Sports, CBS as well as the various vendors associated with the event.    Experienced in configuring Cisco Catalyst switches and Cisco Meraki cloud based access points. Proficient in terminating RJ45, RJ11, and various fiber connections.     As a Local Project Manager I am responsible for the proper execution of site build. Managing a small team proficiently to ensure all needs are met within the allotted timeframe and provide constant support before/during/after the event. I ensured all team members associated with build/event adhered to company standards. Retrograde Team Lead Compass Systems, Inc - Lexington Park, MD March 2013 to December 2013 Was responsible for the day to day logistical operations in preparation for the U.S. Forces drawdown in Regional Command Southwest Afghanistan. Worked in correlation with international forces to ensure the proper inventory of remote sites and coordinated transport of mission critical items from Forward Operating Bases (FOB) of both US and ISAF forces to main hubs located in various locations around Afghanistan. Managed a team of 5+ personnel as well as transient personnel assigned to the logistical yard while they await travel to various Fobs across Afghanistan. Aerostat Operator/Test and Evaluation Team Neany Inc - Yuma, AZ February 2011 to February 2013 As an operator I was responsible for conducting intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance missions for both U.S. and ISAF forces deployed to combat locations in Afghanistan. Ensured proper maintenance of mission critical items to ensure flawless delivery of ISR data. Conducted onsite repairs and upgrades of network and communication components related to the mission. Education Certificate in Information Technology and Communications Systems J.M. Perry Technical Institute - Yakima, WA June 2014 to June 2016 Skills Microsoft Office, Fiber Optic install/repair, Networking, Analytical Troubleshooting abilities, Vmware, Strong Troubleshooting Skills, Imaging Thin Clients, Visio, RJ45/11 Termination, CAT5 cable testing, Logistics Military Service Branch: United States Marine Corps Service Country: United States Rank: E-4/Corporal February 2006 to February 2010 MOS - 3531 Motor Vehicle Operator. Provided logistical/security support for combat operations while deployed to Iraq (2007) and Afghanistan (2009). Commendations: Good Conduct Medal  Presidential Unit Citation  Navy Unit Commendation