Technical Support Team Manager Technical Support Team Manager Technical Support Team Manager - All Points Broadband Leesburg Manassas, VA Work Experience Technical Support Team Manager All Points Broadband Leesburg - Leesburg, VA October 2014 to Present Lead and manage a team of 7 technical support agents.  ? Assist with day-to-day operations including managing scheduling, attendance, workflow management, and delegation of responsibilities  ? Develop internal training and schedules  ? Act as coach and manager to team by developing creative and effective methods to motivate and encourage staff to meet goals set by upper management  ? Advanced troubleshooting and problem-analysis across people, processes and technologies  ? Serve as point of escalation for customers to resolve highly complex problems and discrepancies; collaborate with other departments as necessary to expedite resolution  ? Modernize network performance by carefully tracking functionality therein, resolve network mishaps and to minimize outages  ? Provide reports to upper management that prove and show positive network performance  ? Follow up with users to gather call-in feedback to gain knowledge on how to improve customer service  ? Program and maintain complex network systems and equipment including Ubiquiti, mikrotik, Cambium and BaiCellso  ? Perform quarterly staff performance evaluations.  ? Formulate and implement customer service policies and procedures  ? Develop job descriptions and work with HR to hire employees  ? Perform discipliner actions against employees and record actions taken with HR department  Systems Support Analyst  (Prior job title before promotion)  ? Assist users with technical issues that may arise  ? Troubleshoot Hardware and Software issues  ? Assist with copier printer issues  ? Unlock user accounts  ? Escalate tickets to Network team when warranted  ? Grant access to cloud drive files  ? Reset users' passwords as necessary  ? Configure and repair deficiencies with email services including SMTP, POP, IMAP and Exchange 2010 & 2013.  ? Furnish general PC and server support as well as DNS and DHCP support.  ? Assist management with various tasks as assigned Systems Deployment Technician Evolver Inc - Alexandria, VA December 2012 to October 2014 Perform Hard Drive, Video Cards, RAM, Swaps/ Upgrades.  ? Responsible for Backing Up All Client Data.  ? Restore/Transfer Client Data on New Systems.  ? Suggest New Hardware Purchases for Clients.  ? Trouble Shoot All Hardware & Software Issues.  ? Document Via Ticketing System All Steps Performed While Resolving the Issue.  ? Contact Manufacture Regarding Warranties as Well as Procure Internal Parts Etc.  ? Maintain & Update Asset Management Track List.  ? Escalate Trouble Tickets to Engineering Level as Needed.  ? Configure Exchange Clients, Along with Other Software for Client Use.  ? Perform Maintenance on Client Desktops & Laptops Various Makes and Models.  ? Virus, Malware, Spyware, Adware, Removal as Well As Registry Clean Up.  ? Patch Update Desktop Laptops Using Windows Update.  ? Provide Exceptional Customer Service.  ? Name, OU, And Join Computers to Domain  ? Map Network Drives  ? Reset User Passwords Unlock User Accounts in Active Directory.  ? Receive items from procurement department and prepare them for deployment  ? Perform asset management in order to track all IT assets  ? Prepare, configure and setup new hire IT setups  ? Perform office moves for current users  ? Prepare and maintain documentation on setup processes  ? Prepare and maintain weekly update updates to project managers    EDUCATIONAL ACCOMPLISHMENTS Network Systems Administrator Program ITT Technical Institute - Springfield, VA 2012 to 2014 GPA 3.6 Education B.S in Information Systems & Cyber Security Program ITT Technical Institute - Springfield, VA 2014 to 2016 High School Diploma Freedom High School - Woodbridge, VA 2004 to 2008 Skills Active directory, Server administration, Malware, Software implementation, Team management, Ms office, Data backup, Microsoft office, Ms office 2003, Office 2003, Microsoft windows, Mac, Mac os, Process improvement, Documentation, Asset management Additional Information Key Skills  Project Management Windows Server Administration Software Implementation Configuration  MAC OS/Windows Asset Management Active Directory Administration  MS Office 2003-2016 AV Endpoint Management Documentation/Policy Creation  Various Ticketing System Experience Virus/Malware/Spyware Prevention Data Backup Restore Transfers    CORE COMPETENCIES  ? Results-driven with exceptional practical judgment and memory for details with skills in developing process improvement, excellent team management directives.  ? Known Strategist who transforms issues into workable solutions and benchmarks for performance with little to no supervision.  ? Strong operational process improvement background well versed in working well within a team environment  ? Proficient in Windows & Mac OSX both Microsoft office and Microsoft Windows Server administration