Cloud Network Engineer Cloud <span class="hl">Network</span> Engineer Cloud Network Engineer - Tech Mahindra Redmond, WA Work Experience Cloud Network Engineer Tech Mahindra - Redmond, WA February 2016 to Present • F5 BIG-IP devices LTM (Firewalls/Load Balancers), MX960 CCE, Routing Protocols, VMWare vSphere, LTE, VOLTE; Tools Used: Ixia, Spirent. Worked on 'Sundance' project where all these devices and technologies were extensively used. Configured, administered, and updated F5 firewalls and Load balancers for the entire project. F5 TMOS upgrades, iRule, health checks and Troubleshooting were the main tasks in the project.  • Configured Site to Site VPN and IPsec over GRE for allowing access to various vendors.  • Configured Next Gen Palo Alto VM-300 on ESXi, KVM and Open Stack based Environments using Service Chaining.  • Automated the process of config file management and email-notifications on Arista device.  • Worked on MX and SRX Juniper product lines. Built and maintained SRX 5800, 5600 firewalls via Junos and STRM, NMIS.  • Created S3 buckets and managed policies. Leveraged AWS cloud services such as EC2, auto-scaling and VPC to build secure, highly scalable systems via AWS mgmt. console.  • Deployed Extra hop in lab to monitor all the wire data, analyze the network performance and t-shoot issues. Automated the process of extracting Network parameters and building graphs.  • Standardized Splunk forwarder deployment, configuration and maintenance in Linux platform  • Worked with REST API's to get and retrieve data from a virtualized node used to store messages.  • Apache Cassandra, Swift (Object Storage), Linux, Bash, Tools Used: IRIS, JDSU: Worked on 'Messaging' Project. The primary task was to manage specific nodes a message traverse through before getting delivered to the user. The idea was to make a message delivery prompt and fault tolerant in various scenarios.  • Currently working on 'Plug Fest project' with FB. Set up Juniper MX 240, ACX 2200 as per the project requirements, and also established IPSEC connectivity from TechM F5 to FB F5. Configured, supported and maintained network connectivity, reliability and redundancy. Played an important role in routing and establishing various VM connectivity from Redmond to MPK. Database Administrator Stone Gallery LLC - Tampa, FL January 2015 to February 2016 • Firewall, RDBMS, PHP -- Streamlined the entire process of online businesses, starting from the selection of stone by the user and further implementing tools to assist clients with their end project.  • Reviewed existing IT systems and internal processes; collected and analyzed data to identify areas for improvement within the IT infrastructure of the distribution company  • T-shoot and debugged IT systems to ensure error-free functionality and end-user satisfaction  • Effectively optimized the company's website and implemented SEO to improve the PageRank of the website. Also, configured the firewalls to enhance the security.  • Deployed Extra hop in internal lab to monitor all the wire data, analyze the network performance and t-shoot issues  • Launched Amazon EC2 cloud instances using AWS and configured them with respect to specific applications and regions. Responsible for S3 buckets creation, policies and IAM role based policies. Involved in migration and implementation of multiple applications from on premise to cloud using AWS services like SMS, S3, Cloud formation, Route 53, Glacier  • Standardized Splunk forwarder deployment, configuration and maintenance in Linux platform Graduate Research Assistant Florida State Univ - Tallahassee, FL August 2013 to August 2014 PHP, HTML, Java Script, CSS; Tool Used: Adobe Dreamweaver: Worked as a website developer for the department of Arts and Sciences at FSU, where my task was to develop new webpages according to the requirements of various departments and keep all those webpages updated. Software Engineer Tech Mahindra March 2011 to July 2012 - India  • Mainframes, Java: Worked as a software developer at Mahindra Satyam now Tech Mahindra. Intern Bharat Electronics Limited September 2010 to March 2011 - India  • FDD-LTE AND CDMA Systems Our team of 6 people were responsible for network integration of FDD LTE and CDMA systems. Education M.S in Computer Science Florida State University December 2014 B.Tech in Electronics & Communication Kurukshetra University - Kurukshetra, Haryana August 2010 Skills Apache cassandra, Cassandra, Splunk, Ipsec, Juniper, Ssl, Wireshark, Application layer, Vm, Vmware, Apache, Linux, Encryption, Firewalls, Networking, Iaas, Python, Bash, Database, Database systems Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/ankitsethi207 Certifications/Licenses AWS Certified Solutions Architect --Associate December 2018 to December 2020 Additional Information Skills    Platforms: Microsoft Windows, Linux (CentOS, Fedora,  Debian)  Security Skills: ACL's, VPC's, IPSec, GRE, SSL/TLS encryption    Security Devices: F5 BIG-IP LTM/GTM(Firewall/Load Balancer), Juniper: vSRX and SRX-5800, 5600, NG Palo Alto Firewalls VM-300, PA 5000 and 3000 series    Virtual Networking/Cloud Platforms -AWS Certified Solutions Architect Associate, RedHat IAAS Certified, ESXI, VMware vSphere  Juniper MX960 and MX240, Juniper ACX 2200, Affirmed Networks  Log Analysis: Wireshark  Network and Monitoring tools: IXIA, Spirent, Extra hop, Splunk  Wireless: LTE, VOLTE call flows    Programming languages- Python, Bash  Database Systems: Apache Cassandra  Networking Protocols: Routing, Application layer protocols