Office 365 Administrator Office 365 <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Office 365 Administrator - Verizon, New Jersey • Over 6+years of extensive experience in IT infrastructure on technologies like, Office 365, MS Exchange server, Skype for Business, VMware ESX/ESXi, Windows Server, Active Directory, and Networking.  • Worked including on-premises Exchange 2016, Exchange 2013, Windows server 2012, Windows server 2008, and Office 365, and supports more than 100,000 mailboxes.  • Expert in Microsoft Exchange technologies Exchange 2003, 2007, 2010, 2013, 2016, as well as Office 365 and Microsoft Lync 2010 and 2013.  • Experienced in Implementation and Migration of Skype for Business, Lync 2010, Lync 2013, Active Directory 2003, 2008 and 2012, System Center 2012.  • Planning, Configuration and Installation Lync 2010, Lync 2013 and Skype for Business 2015 Edge Servers for Federation and External Access.  • Deployment and Configuration Enterprise Voice solution for Skype for Business 2015 platforms.  • Working knowledge of Windows 2003,2008,2012,2016 servers.  • Designing and Deployment Skype for Business clients for the end users  • MAC devices troubleshooting for Skype for business issues.  • Good experience in Enterprise vault.  • Excellent understanding of Exchange Online Configuration and Email migration, FIM synchronization.  • Successfully created team sites on SharePoint Online and SharePoint migration to Office 365.  • Vast experience troubleshooting issues with Outlook, Exchange server, ActiveSync and OWA.  • Proficient in Power Shell scripting and process automation. Proven experience implementing high availability solutions for Exchange and Lync.  • Experience in networking and connection solutions VPNs, LAN, WAN, DNS, and TCP/IP.  • Experience in Implementation of P2V and V2V Migrations using SCVMM 2012, VMware Converter and Plate Spin tools.  • Implementation of PowerShell scripts to efficiently fix errors for the customer's support teams found through the Active Directory environment.  • Experience in deploying and managing Active Directory Federation Services (ADFS).  • Expertise in deployment and troubleshooting of windows 2008 and 2012 R2 Domain Controllers in Active Directory.  • Experience in Implementation of Group policy, Patching, Security updates and Microsoft Security hardening for Windows servers.  • Experience with windows clustering services and deploying CCR, SCR and LCR.  • Experienced in configuring Windows Server 2012 Active Directory Domains, configuring DNS, DHCP, trust relationship, permissions.  • Proven success working in high-volume, 24x7 technical call centers. Demonstrated strengths in rapidly diagnosing, troubleshooting, and resolving client issues.  • Having of practical experience in the IT field as a Networking Engineer, with proficient hands-on experience in the areas of Routing, Switching, Firewalls management, IP secVPN management, and Administration, troubleshooting  • Proficient in configuration & troubleshooting of routing protocols: MP-BGP, OSPF, EIGRP, OSPF, BGP and MPLS.  • Involved in configuration setup and troubleshooting of Cisco IOS and juniper devices to perform functions at the Access, Distribution, and Core layers.  • Hands on experience in troubleshooting and deploying of various IP Routing Protocols OSPF & BGP on Juniper routers.  • Implemented security policies using ACL, Firewall, IPsec, GRE tunneling, VPN, AAA Security TACACS+, and Radius on different series of routers.  • Excellent skills to implement VLANS, private VLANS, Voice VLANS, Installing VOIP capable wares, Port security, STP and RSTP (802.1W), standard and extended access lists for managing access based security, creating root views for administrative privileges.  • Extensive knowledge of deploying & troubleshooting TCP/IP, Implementing IPv6, Transition from IPv4 to IPv6, Multilayer Switching, UDP, Fast Ethernet, Gigabit Ethernet, Voice/Data Integration techniques.  • Adept in preparing Technical Documentation, MOPS and presentations using Microsoft VISIO/Office.  • Well organized, Self-starter, Quick learner, Self-Motivated, Team player with analytical, technical and communication skills. Work Experience Office 365 Administrator Verizon, New Jersey May 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Led Skype for Business 2015 design, administration of the service globally.  • Upgraded Office pro plus for more than 3000 users.  • Managed and configured Microsoft's Office 365 Azure directory so that it would properly synchronized with the on-premises Active Directory environment.  • Developed scripts to export and import inbox rules into Exchange Online.  • Utilized PowerShell scripts to automate the processes and tasks.  • Worked in conjunction with Mobile Device Management teams to troubleshoot sync issues with Exchange mail and calendars.  • Ensured that end to end optimal performance, capacity, and availability of the Office 365 for all clients.  • Performed Service Requests based on Standard Operating Procedures.  • Provided technical guidance for migration, configuration, and deployment of Office 365.  • Managed and maintained users, computers, and groups in domain.  • Resolved tenancy technical issues and monitored Office 365 Systems.  • Worked elaborately on MS SharePoint Administration.  • Performed Email migration with staged, cut over and Hybrid approaches.  • Created and maintained support documentation.  • End-user support, problem identification, problem resolution, and consulting experience.  • Experienced with Exchange Server administration both on Windows and Mac.  • Office 365 performance troubleshooting, operational readiness, and optimization of Microsoft Cloud platform.  • Migrated user mailboxes to Office 365 in batches and run reports on batch progression.  • Troubleshot free/busy information between Office 365 and on premises users.  • Created batches for user accounts and utilized PowerShell to move user mailboxes to Office 365, then monitored moves via migration reports.  • Worked on Azure AD Connect, Azure AD Sync and ADFS for Single Sign-On.  Environment: IDFix, Remote Connectivity Analyzer, AD Connect, PowerShell scripts, Exchange online, single sign on, Azure AD sync, Lync 2015, Office 365 pro plus.  • Configure and troubleshoot AD smart card authentication  • Install and configure users with VPN access & remote access Experience with System Center Configuration Manager (SCCM). Patching updates/ Application Inventory/ deploying software etc.  • Knowledge on TCP/IP, DCHP and DNS issues/concepts.    Environment: Azure AD Connect, DirSync, ADFS, Remote Connectivity Analyzer, PowerShell scripts. Office 365 Administrator/Data Engineer GEICO - Washington, DC September 2016 to April 2017 Responsibilities:  • Migrated ADFS 2.0 server farm to ADFS 3.0.  • Managed and configured Microsoft's Office 365 Azure directory.  • Used Azure AD Connect for directory synchronization and federation with ADFS 3.0.  • Completed Exchange Online Hybrid deployment using Exchange 2010 servers.  • Implemented pilot group for Exchange Online  • Migrated 2050 mailboxes to Exchange Online.  • Assigned and revoked licenses to user accounts for services within Office 365.  • Enabled test users to Skype for business online, and tested their functionality.  • Enabled all users for licenses for Skype for Business and enabled polices and conferencing.  • Migrated Blackberry, Android devices using Intune.  • Utilized Sync for mobile device connectivity for users both on premise and in Office 365 environment.  • Prepared Exchange 2013 for hybrid set up by applying all patches and updates to servers.  • Configured ADFS Server for single sign-on functionality  • Providing High Availability Solutions (DAG) for User Mailbox Databases.  • Performed PowerShell Scripts to automate processes and tasks.  • Managed on premise servers, public folders, and mailbox accounts, providing access, resolving connectivity issues, and server performance and utilization.  • Troubleshot Azure services synchronization with on premise AD and resynchronized using the Azure tools.  • Maintained system documentation logs and assisting in troubleshooting and diagnosis of system problems.  • Managed Symantec Security for SMTP and configured multiple policies as a requirement of business.  • Monitored mailbox moves using migration reporting and addressed issues with defective items and failed moves.  • Provided support and maintenance of Microsoft Office Outlook Web Access and Microsoft OfficeOutlook Email, Calendaring & Scheduling.  • Migration experience from On Premise Exchange to Office 365 cloud.  • Migrated Mailboxes from Multi Exchange environment to Native Mailbox servers.  • Involved in the migration of current Datacenter setup from 6500 based data center to Nexus based data center.  • Experience working with Cisco NX-OS 7010, 5020, 2148, 2248 devices.  • Involved in configuring VPC (Virtual Port Channel), VDC (Virtual Device Context) in Nexus 7010/7018 devices.  • Moving Traffic from ISG 2000 TO F5 Big ip 4800 chasis, Building Vlans and self Ip's for different networks on F5.  • Configured VLANs with 802.1q tagging. Configured Trunk groups, ether channels, and Spanning tree for creating Access/distribution and core layer switching architecture.  • Involved in the Support of network security and network devices such as routers, switches and wireless access points.  • Responsibilities also include technical documentation of all implementations including visio drawings.  • Experience using Solarwinds Orion for monitoring/backing up device configurations and monitoring bandwidth  • Experience using Solar winds Orion for monitoring/backing up device configurations and monitoring bandwidth.    Environment: Azure AD Connect, Dir Sync, ADFS, Web Application Proxy, PowerShell cmdlets, Skype for business, Migration, Office 365, OWA, Outlook, Office 365. Network Analyst/Exchange Admin CenturyLink, Utah February 2016 to August 2016 Responsibilities:  • Responsible in the maintaining and troubleshooting of EIGRP and redistribution of BGP on Cisco ASR 9010, ASR 1002 devices across locations and datacenter.  • Responsible for Firewall Administration, Rule Analysis, Rule Modification on ASA 5585.  • Experienced in handling and installing Palo Alto 5550Firewalls.  • Configuring, Administering and troubleshooting the Palo Alto 5550 and ASA firewall.  • Palo Alto design and installation (Application and URL filtering, Threat Prevention, Data Filtering).  • Successfully installed Palo Alto PA-5050 firewalls to protect Data Center and provided L3 support for routers/switches/firewalls.  • Strong Knowledge on implementation of security profiles such as Threat prevention and PAN-DB in security policies on Palo Alto.  • Hands on Creating and deploying of Operating System template images using VMware vSphere Infrastructure client and managing the servers.  • Hands on Creating of standard Virtual Machines and templates for VMware ESX, VMs, and Cloning  • Hands on experience PowerShell scripting to migrate existing data for new 3rd party tool  • Worked on Exchange 2013 and Outlook issues during domain migration and post migration with end users. Helped end users with getting the previous mailbox items and managing the Calendars accessing, Free/Busy and Public Folders issues.  • Worked on Mime cast email security and Cisco Iron Port DLPs also managed the email filtering options and TLS list on client's requirement.  • Worked on EPIC Go-Live project in TDR team also setup the shared workstation with auto AD logon for numerous PCs and COWsto avoid EPIC kick-out issues as per client requirement.  • Hands on Citrix Receiver applications troubleshooting support for EPIC end users in organization.  • Hands on experience with AD Manager Tool for monitoring AD lockouts, account/password expires and creating bulk list of AD accounts.  • Migrated (P2V, V2V) Servers by using VMware convertor and updating VMware tools on Guest  • Knowledge in designing and implementing of Active Directory and Network Fundamentals Protocols such as TCP/IP, DNS and Group Policy  • Expertise in creating user accounts, assign group rights, create Distribution Groups, Public Folders, maintains Windows folder security, create group policies etc.  • Maintaining virus protection, OS & service packs, general operations, and providing back-up and disaster recovery  • Manage and troubleshoot Lightweight Directory Access Protocol authentication for applications  • Represented as an active member with Service-Now ticketing tool in resolving the issues as soon as possible and minimize the tickets count as different projects keep going on.  • Administered User and Group accounts. This includes user password resets, user creation and disabling, user/team group creation, and membership management  • Install and configure users with VPN access & remote access Experience with System Center Configuration Manager (SCCM).  • Participated in Daily status check calls and Weekly Sync-up meetings.    Environment: Office 365, Microsoft exchange 2013 on premise, SCOM, VMware vSphere, ESX, vCenter, Windows 2012/R2, SCCM, Active Directory, ADFS, DNS, Outlook Anywhere, Mime cast, Cisco Iron Port, Cisco Any Connect, EPIC, Citrix, Nuance Dragon, Service-Now, Dell Quest tools, AD Manager. Windows System Administrator IGATE - Bengaluru, Karnataka May 2012 to July 2015 Responsibilities:  • Worked on troubleshooting customer related issues related to router Configuration, Layer 1/Layer 2 issues.  • Configured Virtual-link between discontinuous backbone areas in the network also established authentication between all OSPF routers using MD5 authentication.  • Created new users in ADFS, adding users to the group and assigning policies to the users, managed client machines, and taking backups for storage. Moreover, managed user passwords.  • Administration of Windows 2008R2 Active Directory, which consists of Windows 2008/2008 R2/2012 Servers  • Configured and maintained DNS, DHCP, and File & Print Servers.  • Designed, managed and maintained group policies.  • Provided server administrations support for operating system upgrade and well as system patch management and maintenance  • Created and managed security groups, organizational units, and user accounts, and performed password management and account access reviews for over 750 users using Active Directory.  • Provided local and remote support to LAN and WAN users, performed troubleshooting, diagnostics and evaluations to identify and resolve network issues and provided system administration support to various internal programs  • Windows Server administration and maintenance including Active Directory and Group Policy.  • Involved in Monitoring and basic troubleshooting of storage devices.  • Implementing user administration like adding, deleting and modifying user accounts.  • Troubleshoot windows infrastructure by resolving trouble tickets assigned by the users.  • Monitor all windows backup and perform fine-tuning every 15 days.  • Performed system backups and Recovery procedures    Environment: Exchange 2007, 2013, OU, Security Groups and Distribution Groups, DAG, security system, security, Power shell, Lync, Active directory, Active sync, VM ware ESXI. Skills CISCO, EXCHANGE, IIS, SCOM, VIRTUALIZATION Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Servers Windows Server 2003, 2008/R2, 2012/R2,2016 and Exchange 2003, 2007, 2010, 2013 Hybrid SPS 2010,2013,IIS  Messaging Environment Lync 2010/2013, Skype For Business and Office 365  System management tools VCenter, Citrix, SCCM, SCOM, AD Manager, Quest Migration tools, Service-Now  Operating Systems Windows NT, 2000, 2003, Windows XP, 7, 8.1, 10  Virtualization tools VmWare  Routers Cisco 2800,2900,3900,7200, ASR 1K, ASR9K,CRS, MX 960,104series, SRX5800,3600series  Switches Cisco 3560, 3750,3580,4500,6500, Nexus 7K, 5K, 2K, EX-4300, EX-4500, QFX-5100.  Routing OSPF, EIGRP, BGP, PBR, Route Filtering, Redistribution, Summarization, Static Routing