Networking Helpdesk Team Lead - Technical Support Specialist Networking Helpdesk Team Lead - Technical Support Specialist Networking Helpdesk Team Lead - Technical Support Specialist - Ingram Micro Depew, NY Work Experience Networking Helpdesk Team Lead - Technical Support Specialist Ingram Micro - Williamsville, NY 2017 to Present Answer customer inquiries on assigned product categories or lines within defined service levels. Provide excellent customer service while developing full solutions for customer. Demonstrate time management skills in order to effectively accomplish assigned tasks. Develop product knowledge and skills for creating appropriate solutions and customer service/selling skills. Support the Ingram Micro Sales Cycle by helping our customers realize the promise of technology.    During my time as a Pre-sales Technician, I have created OneNote pages to include additional resources for the Network and Wireless Help Desks, as well as the IoT BU. I have received eighteen commendations from customers and Value-Added Resellers (VAR) alike, for my outstanding technical and professional customer service. I was also designated as IoT Lead and Networking Help Desk Team Lead because of my performance in providing technical recommendations for new and existing network security and wireless deployments. Help Desk Network Administrator• Active-duty member United States Army - Fort Bliss, TX 2010 to 2015 with 5+ years troubleshooting and updating military software; control and maintain active directory.  • Provided helpdesk as well as, served as communications focal point and technical liaison for battalion level operations personally handling a full range of IT-related issues. Received and resolved requests for support in a timely manner which included but not limited to managing data, navigating software, updating settings, and assisting end users of all ranks and occupational specialties.  • Provided onsite customer training and developed easy navigational instructions thus allowing efficient computer operations for users. Interpreted and explained system features, regulations, directives, and basic troubleshooting procedures. Tailored information ensuring that it was appropriate to the communication needs of end-users. Enforced security protocols by forwarding requests for additional help which fell into the scope of clearance and verification access to information.  • Administered and maintained network infrastructure with machines and major components. Installed, configured and administered core infrastructure systems, to include but not limited to operating systems, software/hardware as well as, other diverse network components.  • Analyzed systems and computers in an effort to determine software and hardware upgrade/update requirement. Maintained and kept records of hardware and software inventories, user access, server licensing and security settings. Implemented, tested and debugged operating systems, connectivity, user accounts, and software installations.  • Due to the high degree of discipline, trained subordinated service members in the areas of custom and courtesies, drill, uniform inspections and physical fitness. Education Associates of Applied Science in Information Technology in Information Technology Vista College - El Paso, TX July 2017 Skills Cisco, Networking, Openview, Sms, Tcp/ip, Tcp, Vm, Vpn, Ethernet, Token ring, Iso, Hp openview, Sql, Excel, Lotus notes, Microsoft office, Outlook, Powerpoint, Word, Mac Additional Information TECHNICAL PROFICIENCIES    Platforms: Windows 9x/NT2000/CP/Vista/7,8,10, Mac OS, VM/370  Networking: TCP/IP, ISO/OSI, SMS/SQL, Ethernet, Token Ring, VPN, SSH  Tools:  Virus Protection Utilities, HP OpenView, Lotus Notes, Microsoft Office Suite (Word, OneNote, Excel, PowerPoint, Access, Project, Outlook), Cisco Finesse, Office 365