Senior Systems Engineer Senior Systems Engineer Senior Systems Engineer Chicago, IL Work Experience Senior Systems Engineer Akuna Capital LLC 2018 to 2019 Redesign and modernize Akuna's IT infrastructure to meet the rapidly changing landscape of technologies.  Key Achievements:  • Managed a department of eight direct reports, including datacenter, desktop and systems.  • Trained desktop and system engineers on various technologies including cloud, cybersecurity, virtualization, containers and storage.  • Implemented an asset management solution to scan and track all workstations, networking and servers. Allowed for Finance to pull reports to determine our total IT capital footprint.  • Modernized the backup infrastructure to utilize offsite cloud solutions with full integration in current backup solutions, eliminating physical media and offsite physical storage costs.  • Rolled out cybersecurity training across the entire firm to reduce phishing attacks.  • Lead compliance and cybersecurity audits for SEC and FINRA regulatory bodies.  • Streamlined all onboarding and offboarding by implementing SSO and RBACs for all applications  and third-party vendors.  • Redesigned the enterprise storage solution to meet all performance requirements for machine  learning and AI. Including designing offsite business continuity and disaster recovery.  • Implemented configuration management and automation to reduce build times from 6 hours to  30 minutes utilizing Ansible and Foreman to build in a hybrid infrastructure.  • Modernized telecommunication tools with Slack and Zoom to increase collaboration and efficiency. Redesigned all conference and flex rooms to allow employees to work anywhere.  • Standardized Akuna's cloud infrastructure to implement a hybrid infrastructure to meet all  future workloads. Allows for Kubernetes and distributed workloads to run anywhere.  • Created cybersecurity policies including Multi-Factor Authentication and Password policies. Enterprise Support Engineer Chicago, IL 2016 to 2018 Implement, Architect, and Engineer infrastructures for Fortune 500 companies at Rackspace.  Key Achievements:  • Optimize multi cloud, private cloud and dedicated environments for customers.  • Implement NIST compliance standards for security and vulnerability requirements.  • Lead security audits for financial and credit institutions at Rackspace.  • Oversee all customer projects to ensure proper expectations and goals are set.  • Work with customers to implement IT best practices for a variety of technologies.  • Define incident management and business continuity procedures.  • Provide capacity management for all customers to predict growth and trends.  • Guide Level 1, 2, and 3 system administrators to troubleshoot complex issues.  • Ensure all SLAs are satisfied based on legal obligations at Rackspace.  • Travel to customers' sites to strength customer relationships. Linux Engineer Ronin Capital LLC - New York, NY 2013 to 2016 Manage all Linux based systems in a Low Latency and High Frequency Trading Environment.  Key Achievements:  • Engineering Linux systems for maximum performance and lowest latency.  • Managing Linux systems in Co-Locations in Chicago, New York, London, Frankfurt and Singapore.  • Training junior level administrators in every day administrative tasks.  • Redesigned the automated deployment for all trading groups and systems.  • Organized and upgraded the EVault Backup environment.  • Redesigned and upgraded the ESXi VMware environment in Chicago, New York and London.  • Migrated Linux systems to a single sign on solution with integration into Active Directory.  • Implemented a scalable Nagios solution to monitor all aspects of the company. System Administrator Delta Dental of Michigan 2011 to 2013 Managed and supported a HP-UX/Red Hat infrastructure, hosting an in-house application comprising of Oracle, WebLogic, PeopleSoft, Tidal and Data Protector Software.  Key Achievements:  • Designed and implemented Disaster Recovery solutions.  • Migrated all users' access and groups for Unix/Linux systems to Active Directory/LDAP.  • Migrated HP-UX Itanium core systems to Red Hat x86 infrastructure.  • Design and implemented CFEngine configuration management infrastructure.  • Created system wide security policies based on SCAP/CIS/PCI security standards.  • Managed and deployed Red Hat systems on VMware ESXi 5.1/5.5.  • Designed and engineered the hardware refresh on all core systems.  Address: 1416 N Greenview Ave Unit 2, Chicago IL, 60642 Cell: 517-449-3469 Email: mfglatz@gmail.com Data Center Engineer Reynolds and Reynolds 2011 to 2011 Managed power consumption and equipment of multiple data centers and the Reynolds backup  solution. Network Technician Reynolds and Reynolds 2010 to 2011 Hired as a network technician for Reynolds and Reynolds, performed monitoring, and troubleshooting for multiple data centers. Education Certified Systems Administrator Michigan Technology University 2013 to 2016 Skills Netbackup, Active directory, Cisco, Fiber channel, Iis, Nagios, Networking, Puppet, Nessus, Nfs, Tcp, Cifs, Vnx, Hp-ux, Ux, Iscsi, Netapp, Ontap, Red hat, Solaris Additional Information Technical Proficiencies  Software: Nagios, Zenoss, Ansible, CFengine, Puppet, vROPs, EVault, NetBackup, Backup Exec,  Apache, Tomcat, IIS, Git, Subversion, Data ONTAP, AccuRev, Pacemaker, VXFS, Nessus,  Oracle RAC, OpenSCAP, Spacewalk, Cobbler, Foreman, Data Protector, Kickstart,  Vormetric, BIND, OpenLDAP, Active Directory, Group Policy, Network Provider Service,  DUO, Cloud Passage, Crowdstrike, Alert Logic, Elastic Search, Kibana, Logstash, Jira,  Confluence, Bitbucket, Jenkins, Rapid7, SCCM  Platforms: Linux (Red Hat, Fedora, Ubuntu, CentOS, OpenSuSE, SLES), FreeBSD, Solaris, HP-UX, ESXi  5.1/5.5/6.0/6.5/6.7, RHEV, Cisco IOS, Windows 7/8/10, Windows Server  2003/2008/2012/2016, Openstack, AWS EC2  Storage: EMC, NetApp, GlusterFS, Ceph, NFS, CIFs, PureStorage, VNX, Isilon  Networking: Network Segmentation, VLANs, Troubleshooting, iSCSI, TCP, Fiber Channel