Network Cable Technician <span class="hl">Network</span> Cable Technician Network Technician Manassas, VA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Network Cable Technician ccc company google data center - Leesburg, VA January 2019 to Present  Terminate and label cat3, cat5, cat6, and fiber optic cables   ? Troubleshooting, configuring, and working with fiber cables and coper cable   ? Critical data and infrastructure including telecommunication system, cabling terminating coax cable and   another   ? Setting up terminals and racks, installing data equipment including hubs    ? Troubleshooting T-1 problems, and identify hardware's   ? Reading of blue print, and identify cable network cable paths    ? Troubleshoot and test circuit, as specified, to ensure the correct diagnose   Network and windows Administrator Digital Realty Ashburn VA - Ashburn, VA January 2017 to January 2019 evaluate, test, and deploy all software and hardware upgrades to the networking infrastructure ? Proactive monitoring of all network devices, services, and servers using a combination of tools to ensure high availability and sla's.  ? Server migrations ? troubleshooting critical windows server issues ? maintain up-to-date knowledge of emerging tools and technologies ? Remote and on -site support ? assist with project planning and development ? Installing and integrating new server hardware and applications ? ENSURE NETWORK SECURITY AND CONNECTIVITY Network Technician in Comcast Sterling VA MONITOR NETWORK PERFORMANCE - Sterling, VA January 2014 to April 2016 Rack installation of cisco ASR 9000s and labelling equipment.  ? Understanding and implementing basic cisco network command.  ? Installing customers fiber cross connect and Ethernet cables.  ? Maintained a fully stocked and organized company vehicle with appropriate network tools.  ? Completed required paperwork including installation checklist, timesheet, service orders and inspection reports.  ? Termination and testing of Cat5 and Cat6 Ethernet cables and patch panels.  ? Maintained and referenced national cabling standard and compliances.  ? Performed major and minor preventive maintenance and repairs by troubleshooting Ethernet connections.  ? Terminated and testing of Cat5/Cat6 Ethernet patch panel and termination points.  ? Installed fiber cross connect according to customers circuit design.  ? Installed hard disk, CD drives, CPU cards, Memory and Power Supply on failed network equipment. Customer Service SECURITUS SECURITY SERVICES USA, INC - Ashburn, VA 2014 to 2016 Digital Realty Data Center Solution) Ashburn, VA | 2014 - 2016    Data Center Helpdesk/Protective Service GROUP FOR SECURITY, INC - Ashburn, VA 2013 to 2015 Ashburn, VA | 2013 - 2015   * Maintained organization's stability and reputation by complying with legal requirements.  * Performed daily reports by recording observations, information, occurrences, and surveillance activities, interviewing witnesses: obtaining signatures.  * Ensure exceptional customer service skills while maintaining a keen awareness of surroundings to identify and communicated remotely to diagnose and resolve advance technical issues.  * Follow the post orders provided for each assigned work site, which includes conducting routine patrols and assisting patrons.  * Monitored authorized personnel are escorted and provided appropriate access to facilities.  * Maintained safe environment for all data center personnel and ensuring    References Education Associate in cyber security Northern Virginia Community College - Manassas, VA January 2018 to December 2020 Professionalism and Leadership Northern Virginia Community College present Skills Network Administration (3 years), Troubleshooting hardware/software (3 years), CCTV operating security system (4 years), Call Center (2 years), cable technician (4 years), Cisco, Data Center, Active Directory, System Admin, System Administrator, Vmware, Linux