Resident Services Director/ Network Administrator Resident Services Director/<span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Cedartown, GA Hardworking, trustworthy individual with a vast knowledge of computers and patient caretaking who is also skilled at communicating and problem solving in a variety of environments. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Resident Services Director/ Network Administrator Felton Manor - Cartersville, GA December 2018 to Present • Develops and maintains a strong relationship with residents and their families  • Manages the medication program and ensures the medication is being given in accordance to the physician's orders.   • Assists with preparation and completion of monthly activity calendar  • Hires and supervises all personnel  • Updates and maintains database of current and former employees and residents  • Reads and responds to communication reports to address issues  • Develops and maintains care plans for residents  • Checks and maintains inventory  • Prepares and submits reports to State agencies and maintains records of employee training and certifications  • Interviews prospective residents and families in order to evaluate the level of care needed and to determine facility eligibility  • Remains in close contact with the pharmacy  •Balanced accounts for resident petty cash using Quick Books  •Performed duties pertaining to the role of Network Administrator Health Aide Howard Washington - Cedartown, GA April 2015 to Present Acted as a live in home healthcare aide assisting Howard Washington in returning to normal life after suffering a stroke. Tasks/duties included checking blood sugar level, preparing medicine, washing clothes, assistince with bathing, and transporting to and from appointments. Weld Associate Jefferson Southern Corporation - Rockmart, GA January 2018 to May 2018 As a weld associate the job duties were diverse. Scanning in and stocking parts, loading parts into jigs, performing part quality checks, and performing maintenance on my machines and computers. I acted as the line leader on Weld 019, leading a team of four in performing our duties and providing support and maintenance to the other members of my team.    On three separate occasions I produced 630 parts in one shift, one of the highest numbers ever achieved on my line. Customer Service Representative Jackson State University - Jackson, MS August 2015 to August 2017 Answered phones and provided service to customers including tracking orders, placing orders, assisting with questions to the best of my ability, and referring customers to the appropriate departments. MECHANICAL DESIGN INTERN/ NETWORK INTERN ESI Inc. of Tennessee - Kennesaw, GA 2012 to June 2015 Assisted Mechanical Designers with tasks ranging from documentation to basic CAD design work. Re-checked P&ID's and did markups, pointing out any inconsistencies or errors in the prints. Created a manual of ESI Standards for Drawings by compiling several sources of standards of good Drawings and re-tooling them to fit the ESI guidelines. Kept meeting minutes for Creative Outlet Committee within the MED group. Master of Ceremonies for the ESI Family and Friends Day Event and Awards Presentation in 2013. Assisted with network and PC issues. Education HIGH SCHOOL DIPLOMA Carlton J. Kell High School - Marietta, GA 2011 to 2015 TO JACKSON STATE UNIVERSITY IN JACKSON - Jackson, MS 2015 Skills Microsoft Office (Word, Excel, PowerPoint) (10+ years), AutoCAD (3 years), Advanced Typist (148 wpm) (10+ years), Windows (XP, Vista, 7, 8,10) (10+ years), Welding, Robotic, Home Health Aide (3 years), Mac OS X (5 years), Administrative Support (8 years), Assisted Living, Accounting (2 years), Quickbooks (2 years) Certifications/Licenses CPR/AED December 2018 to December 2020