IT Field Technician IT Field Technician Birmingham, AL Reliable, resourceful, and flexible IT support specialist with valuable experience in both network and desktop support. Fast learner and proficient with new technology. Work Experience IT Field Technician Logista Solutions - Bessemer, AL September 2018 to Present Traveled to various banking and insurance clients throughout the state performing desktop and network support. Network Analyst Computacenter Mercedes-Benz U.S. International - Vance, AL September 2017 to September 2018 24/7 operation of the largest campus area network in the state. Worked nights and on-call on a team to support production and business networks. Responsibilities included:  -Configuration, installation, monitoring, and troubleshooting of access and distribution layer network switches (Catalyst 2960, 2970, 3650)  - Network monitoring and analysis, packet captures, firewall scans  -Wireless and optical fiber installation and troubleshooting, cable patching, equipment installation  -Created, maintained, and updated documentation  -Learned ITIL. Worked with Project team and gained knowledge from CCIE-level engineers Systems Administrator Piggly Wiggly Alabama Distributing Company - Bessemer, AL December 2016 to September 2017 Provided desktop and network support to multiple department offices and 1 million+ sq. ft. distribution center. Managed the administration of Vocollect wireless voice software and hardware to warehouse employees. IT Service Delivery Specialist Commercial Metals Company CMC Steel Alabama - Birmingham, AL February 2014 to December 2016 Served as Level II IT helpdesk for local mill and remote sites in the region. Installation, maintenance, and troubleshooting of all hardware and software, helpdesk ticketing and documentation. Hands-on support for Client Engineering, Security, Network, Exchange, Server, Mobile, and other teams. Education B.S. in Information Technology Western Governors University Skills Active directory, Cisco, Dhcp, Network troubleshooting, Tcp, Tcp/ip, Wireless, Dns, Firewalls, Networking, Server administration, Solarwinds, Nmap, Wireshark, Visio, Ios, Optical, Optical networking, Excel, Windows 7 Additional Information SKILLS  Network:  -OSI model, network troubleshooting.  -IP management, subnetting, TCP/IP communication, DHCP, DNS.  -Cisco iOS, Cisco 2960/3650 model switches. Cisco Prime. Wireless surveys  -Optical networking / fiber troubleshooting. Cable patching, network installation  -Some experience with: Wireshark, Solarwinds, FortiGate firewalls, nMap. Can use putty, CLI, etc.    Desktop:  -Windows 7 & 10 software and hardware troubleshooting. 5+ years of support (software installation, PC troubleshooting, active directory/server administration, etc)    Soft Skills:  -Detail-oriented, security-conscious. Pro-active and engaged. Understands time management.  -Professional communication. Proficient in MSoffice (Excel). Familiar with Visio  -Fast learner. Proficient googler.