Check Administrator/Title Coordinator/Closing Coordinator Check <span class="hl">Administrator</span>/Title Coordinator/Closing Coordinator Check Administrator/Title Coordinator/Closing Coordinator - Volkswagen Group of America I am seeking a career opportunity in which I can exercise my experienced abilities in analytics and problem solving. I aspire to increase productivity in my skillset with effectiveness, attention to detail, and strategy. Being efficient at completing multiple satisfactory tasks is my goal.    Communication and Skills  SAP knowledge in relation to FICO Training Strong Analytical Skills  Problem Solving and Resolution Customer Service  Written and Verbal Communication Sales Strategies Work Experience Check Administrator/Title Coordinator/Closing Coordinator Volkswagen Group of America - Auburn Hills, MI January 2017 to Present • Administering and overseeing the repurchase and repair of vehicles effected in the TDI Emissions Settlement.  • Vehicle Record Request-submissions to varying states to find out lien holder and branding information.  • Surety Bonds  • Vehicle title research and releases  • Responsible for processing invoices and issuing payments- created a manual check process to record overpayments and track payment statuses.  • Assessing the validity of vendor accounts by reconciling monthly statements and related transactions.  • Manually calculating payments and mileage conversion to verify accuracy of payments using Excel and formulas.  • Communication with businesses that have filed claims for payments- implemented a process and worksheet show if businesses were "dissolved" how to legally verify the dissolution of business and how to proceed with payment and account reporting.  • Tracking incoming checks for claimants and lienholders, responsible for more than 1 million dollars at any given time.  • Creating pivots tables to create a visual understanding and interpretation of data received in reporting.  • Consistently perform Accounts Payable tasks with the accounting department to ensure timely payment to claimants.  • Communication with Volkswagen subsidiaries, banks, and states via Outlook.  • Ensures compliance with federal regulations involving the TDI emissions settlement and keeps track of real time updates that occur. Network Development Specialist McLaren Health Plan - Flint, MI July 2015 to January 2017 • Daily updates on provider files, network changes, address changes, addition and deletion of providers.  • PCP assignments.  • Termination of provider locations and records under the direction of the Network Development Coordinator.  • Worked closely with provider offices to ensure claims that need to be submitted and processed are done in a timely manner.  • Created excel spreadsheets that show paid and unpaid claims, demographic changes, and taxonomy. Customer Support Agent ViSalus Sciences - Troy, MI April 2012 to July 2015 • Exceeding Sales goals by enthusiastically encouraging customers to try new weight loss products.  • Solicited referrals  • Assisted management in training new agents. Created a workbook and training on "How to's" and "What to know" when you become a ViSalus team member. Education Bachelor's in Psychology University of Phoenix Present