Network Technician <span class="hl">Network</span> Technician Sr. Network Architect Mechanicsburg, IL • More than 19 years experience in IT Network Administration and Management with recognized strengths in Microsoft and Cisco technologies, problem-solving and trouble-shooting abilities, customer support, and project management.  • I've worked in multiple industries such as Law Enforcement, Legal Aid, Health Care, Transportation, Managed Service Providers, Government, and many other fields and can quickly adapt to the individual information technology needs of a client.  • Experience and education in various applied networking concepts including Routing, Switching, Firewall Security, LAN\WAN Architecture, Internet Backbone, Wireless, Fiber and Copper Termination and Configuration, Virtualization, SAN Arrays, VPN's, Backup and Disaster Recovery as well as many other industry standards.  • Ability to train, motivate, and supervise customer service employees and build a solid team foundation.  • The ability to take charge of a project and see it to completion, with or without direct supervision, and with the ability to be accountable while in or away from the office.  • Develop, plan, and implement custom procedures to steam line IT processes and workflows and assist in teaching those to the individuals needed to maintain consistency and viability.  • Work with less technical individuals and help them to utilize Information Technology to better suit their needs. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Network Technician Quality Network Solutions - Maroa, IL January 2019 to Present • Was the primary Network Engineer\Architect for the Managed Service Provider supporting various clients in the central Illinois Area. My primary responsibility was Senior Level Network Administration and Design and Advanced Trouble Resolution.  • Was responsible for all Networked Servers, Datto Backups, Firewalls, and Other Network devices managed under contract by the MSP.  • Designed procedures to properly identify, label, and monitor new or on-boarded clients  • I was responsible for the main network connectivity for each client and remote links to outside vendors. Devised firewall policies and VPNs to facilitate proper secured remote administration of client networks. Network Administrator Mcleod Express 2015 to 2016 • In charge of all day to day maintenance of All Servers (Windows and Linux), Telecom\Fortigate Firewalls with VPN Tunnels, Routers\Switches (Cisco & HP), SAN, and VMWare ESXi Virtualization Environment.  • Upgraded existing Windows 2003 AD and Remote Desktop Servers to Windows 2012. This included building a new Windows 2012 RDS Farm with both Desktop Hosts and RemoteApp capabilities  • Devised backup routines for all fileservers and consolidated all File Servers down to a single Windows DFS Share with Fault Tolerance and Disaster Recovery Capabilities.  • Upgraded FortiGate Firewall with latest model and instituted IPsec security on all VPN connections.  • Upgraded outdated HP Server Cluster with a new Dell Server Cluster and SAN Environment. Complete with new VMWare VSphere 6.0 with VMotion and Auto Tier Capable SAN Array. All VMWare Hosts were automatically backed up nightly via XSIBackup  • Installed new Microsoft SQL Server and migrated all existing databases to the new server. Windows 2003 End of Life Upgrade Project Manager Levi, Ray, and Shoup - ADM Inc - Decatur, IL 2015 to 2015 • Many of these servers were in remote regions of the world which required the ability to work with them remotely with onsite personnel to achieve the logistical support. This required the utilization of Dell Remote Access Cards (iDRAC), HP Integrated Lights Out (iLO), SCCM 2007, and various other technologies for many of the remote site installs that onsite personnel were not available.  • Many of the servers were migrated from Physical to Virtual servers at through VMWare ESXi depending on the necessity of the client site. This allowed the reduction of a great number of physical servers and saved the company in overall operating costs Information Technologies Manager House of Representatives - State of Illinois 2010 to 2014 • Upgraded an older Windows 2000 AD Network up to an industry standard Windows 2008 R2 AD Domain with Layer 3 Switching and FortiGate Security  • Replaced an outdated Blackberry Enterprise Environment with a Microsoft ISA\Exchange 2010 with OWA and Mobile Capabilities  • Implemented a Help Desk Style support system with an integrated ticketing system and automated problem resolution.  • Worked with various state agencies across the State of Illinois to upgrade Data and Audio\Visual Network of the State Capitol Complex.  • Implemented several cost reducing technologies that streamlined the usage of the existing infrastructure while utilizing new technologies to improve user satisfaction Network Administrator Internet Marketing Technologies - Williamsville, IL 2008 to 2009 Client Support  • Designated to reevaluate the current server farm for possible upgrade due to expected increase in traffic. Designed a fail-over Windows 2003 cluster system consisting of a 4 node Microsoft SQL Cluster, 2 node Microsoft IIS Cluster, and a ISA server that load balanced 2 T1 lines that were being used. This also included the creation of a new Active Directory domain with plans to install a Microsoft Exchange server in the future.  • Was in charge of Quality Control and Beta Testing of a new software platform designed to give web site owners easy contact with their customers directly through their existing web site without the need to install complex software on a web server. (www.supportmaster.com). Specifically helped design the Trouble Ticketing module of the system and brought it more in line with current enterprise trouble ticket systems on the market.  • Designed an automated telephone system for the support team that had 8 internal stations and 4 external lines tied to a VOIP phone switch with automated prompts. This included running the cable drops, installing the patch panel and jacks, and installing and configuring the monitoring and administration software. Education MCP in Microsoft Networking, Network Design and Implementation Levi, Ray, & Shoup - Springfield, IL January 1999 to December 2015 High school Skills Cisco (10+ years), Linux (6 years), security (10+ years), VMWare (7 years), web server. (10+ years) Certifications/Licenses Microsoft Certified Professional (MCP) Present Currently hold 5 MCP certifications. MCP Transcript available upon request Ditto Backup Support Specialist 2 Present FortiGate Security 1 Certified Present Additional Information Operating Systems  All Windows Desktops and Servers from Windows 3.11 through Present Day  VMWare ESXi - Advanced  Macintosh\Apple OS from 7.1 to Present Day  Cisco IOS - Intermediate  FortiOS - FortiGate Security Certified  Datto Support Specialist 2  Linux OS - Intermediate  Drupal CMS    Skills  Network Hardware and Software Configuration  Microsoft Domain Administration  Email Server Administration  Web Server Administration and Development - HTML, CSS. JavaScript, ASP  Mobile Device Integration and Administration  Corporate and End User Support and Training  Software Configuration and Troubleshooting  Network Security and Intrusion Detection  Many Other Abilities and Duties As Needed