IT Network Support / Computer Lab Assistant IT <span class="hl">Network</span> Support / Computer Lab Assistant Network Systems Administrator San Antonio, TX Seeking a position as a Network/Systems Administrator that will afford me the opportunity to employ  my superb technology skills and promote the highest level of customer service and problem solving and  decision making skills. Work Experience IT Network Support / Computer Lab Assistant Learning Schools of Texas - Carpe Diem July 2015 to January 2016 • Daily support of systems operation and troubleshooting.  • Respond to routine student technology issues, including classroom operations, account  management, and training to use campus systems.  • Generate reports for all data being tracked by the Carpe Diem systems to present to administration, instructors and parents.  • Maintain equipment inventory and tracking.  • Overall security and maintenance of campus network. Senior IT Network / Systems Administrator San Antonio Technology Academy May 2013 to July 2015 • Planned, Designed, Implemented, Configured, Debugged Campus LAN + Wireless Network.  • Responsible for creating all server roles including Active Directory, File / Print Services, DNS, VM Ware.  • Install all client workstation software via WDS and Active Directory Group Policies.  • Created and configured VPN for administrators & staff to access work documents in the convenience of their home or remote locations on personal devices.  • Provided 24 hour support via remote or on-site for campus network in case of emergency  situations or time critical configurations to meet standards designated by Texas Education  Agency.  • Developed a disaster recovery plan to execute in the event of a disaster to protect IT  infrastructure and sensitive data.  • Created and configured users, roles and permissions on the network to ensure secure operation  for administrators, staff and students.  • Administered all cloud-based services for daily operation including TxEIS (Student Information  System).  • Ensured timely and accurate reporting of Public Education Information Management System  (PEIMS).  • Implemented mini servers to broadcast campus wide news feed on Televisions to keep students, parents informed of calendar events and important daily messages.  • Purchase Equipment, software, and supplies as provided in budget.  • VM Ware to create Remote OS sessions over VPN and LAMP Server for Intranet Site.  • Webmaster for Campus - created website based on Drupal PHP Engine with a Custom  handmade theme.  • Registered as a CyberPatriot Mentor to coach students to enter the annual National Youth Cyber  Defense Competition.  • 2014 Project - Designed and deployed a campus wide network upgrade to all servers, switches, router, wireless access points and wiring to replace the pre-existing hardware and software.  Email migration to Google Apps for Education. Installed and implemented a campus wide  camera surveillance system. Lead Computer Technician / Sales Associate Office Depot January 2010 to March 2013 Exceed sales goal in the technology department resulting several Employee of the Month  recognitions.  • Diagnosed and repaired computers on the daily, and oversaw all service work orders.  • Copy and Printing services, designed printed media for clients.  • Provided end user training support to customers and clients on basic use and functionality of installed software, new or existing devices, and products.  • Trained and mentored other support technicians to be successful and confident in any situations  or issues they may encounter. Education Front End Web Development San Antonio Coding Academy - San Antonio, TX March 2017 to September 2017 Computer Science University of Texas at San Antonio - San Antonio, TX March 2010 to September 2013 Skills Linux, Lan, Microsoft office, Macos, Active Directory, Tech Support, Desktop Support, Networking, Windows, Technical Support, Mac Certifications/Licenses CIW Web Foundations Associate September 2018 to Present