Sr.Sysems Engineer Sr.Sysems Engineer Sr.Sysems Engineer - Infosys Naperville, IL Highly accomplished, dedicated, and results-focused professional, with a career history of proven expertise in networking combined with in-depth knowledge in all phases of System Administration and Cloud Server(AWS,Azure,GCP)Virtualization, from conception to completion. Adept at effectively and efficiently utilizing systems necessary in improving productivity, reducing costs, and achieving overall company goals. Armed with strong communication and analytical skills developed over numerous initiatives and assignments in technology assessment, system implementation, application deployment and technical project management. Exhibit a unique combination of interpersonal managerial style coupled with superior technical skills; thrive at building effective and cohesive technical teams. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr.Sysems Engineer Infosys(McDonands) - Lisle, IL January 2019 to Present • Provided L1/L2 level support to large and mixed Unix/Linux/Solaris environments  • Maintained documentation and SOPs for my clients and automated daily incidents  • Displayed outstanding interpersonal, verbal and written skills, along with customer service skills  • Demonstrated ability to own projects, proactively driving them to completion within timelines  • Installed and configured Linux hosts (generally, but not limited to, Redhat, Scientific Linux)  • Created, deployed, managed virtual hosts using VMware  • Deployed, configured, managed multiple Java applications, Apache and Tomcat installations  • Troubleshooted performance issues within the application, web and database tiers  • Used knowledge of open source/existing software to adapt solution  • Examined my clients' metrics to improve SLAs, QoS, MTTR  • Utilized automation tools like Puppet, Chef and CFEngine and Automated common tasks using Bash  • Served as the first level of escalation for issues in the Infosys Linux environment Systems and Network Administrator Jack Henry and Associates - Springfield, MO November 2017 to November 2018 •Monitoring JHA systems for optimum performance and availability.  •Installing, configuring and maintaining systems. Primarily application servers.  •Implementing system enhancements (software and hardware updates) that will improve the performance and reliability of the system.  •Troubleshooting and resolving customer and internally-reported system problems.  •Implementing and monitoring corporate security policies.  •Documenting and implementing system procedures, policies and events.  •Performing essential functions required for effective system backup and restore testing.  •Performing periodic recovery testing of DR plans.  •Managing data access and data permissions.  •Assisting in managing user accounts.  •Assisting support groups with applications installed on cloud servers.. LINUX SYSTEMS Engineer Lomix Technologies - Bolingbrook, IL February 2017 to October 2017 •Developing holistic solutions by analyzing client needs and employing critical thinking in the development of specifications and the evolution of design, implementation and test. Establish long-  term IT strategies for the enterprise environment to stay current with technology and to provide  required functionality.  •Performing standard system administration tasks, such as patching software and hardware upgrades, troubleshooting and problem resolution.  •Setting up and maintaining DNS servers.  •Installing Red Hat Linux Kickstart and managing LVMs.  •Performing day to day Linux administration such as logon scripts, directory services, file system  shares, and permissions.  •Working with the network, storage, and dev teams to prepare and configure new servers for the Prod, QA and Dev environments.  •Creating status reports, project plans and attend team meetings to coordinate activities.  •Installing, setting up and configuring RHEL, CentOS, Apache, OpenSUSE on HP and Dell hardware.  •Running, maintaining, and setting up schedule works (CRONTAB).  •Adding, modifying or deleting users' accounts on local systems using tools and manual procedures.  •Setting up and configuring APACHE, Nagios server & client and monitoring.  •Managing, monitoring and testing individual and group user access privileges and security. SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR INTEL CORPORATION - Hillsboro, OR November 2016 to January 2017 •Designing and investigating Linux groups, servers and workstations. Looking into programming  establishment methods. Executing new strategy for drive replicating, significantly lessening an opportunity to make new framework circles. Keeping up and bolstered Linux model plates, including  security refreshes, working with log documents, bug fixes, and highlight improvements.  •Providing live client support or VPN remote help and investigating, ticketing with Jira.  •Ensuring all server hardware, operating systems, software and proceduring aligned with organizational standards and strategic business plan.  •Evaluating, monitoring and enhancing IT infrastructure with an emphasis on availability, reliability, scalability, security, data confidentiality and system integrity.  •Git, Apache, nginx, postfix, OpenSSH server software and git/Gerrit source code control/review.  •Arranging and investigating Linux groups, servers and workstations.  •Investigating programming establishment strategies.  •Executing new strategy for drive duplicating, drastically diminishing an opportunity to make new  framework circles. LINUX SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR LOMIX TECHNOLOGIES BRIGEVIEW January 2012 to October 2016 •Providing new technology initiatives and leadership, and implemented creative solutions.  •Assessing execution of frameworks to see that they address business issues.  •Outlining an Automation Strategy to send RHEL Linux server works from uncovered metal and in a virtual domain  •Coordinating mechanization outline with Open Puppet, Vmware, PXEboot, TFTP, kickstart, DHCP, NTP  design.  •Running, keeping up, and setting up plan works (CRONTAB).  •Trying the outline in a DEV situation, guaranteeing the constructs are reliable, snappy and simple to convey  •Displaying equipment recommendations to meet present and future prerequisites  •Composing Technical Documents on Standard Operating Proceeding (naming traditions, best practices, introduce systems)  •Introducing, overhauling and keeping up Linux working frameworks.  •Introducing patches and other programming bundles utilizing YUM and RPM, APT, ZYPPER.  •Overseeing and observing server utilizing Nagios and custom contents. Education BACHELOR'S DEGREE IN BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION in Management in BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION TASHKENT RAILROAD ENGINEERING UNIVERSITY 2002 to 2006 Skills Apache, Linux, Red Hat (7 years), Active directory, Dns, System Administrator, Vmware, AWS, Embedded, SCCM, Azure (2 years) Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/odiljon-sharipov-44129490 https://onetechops.com