Sr. Helpdesk Administrator Sr. Helpdesk <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Sr. Helpdesk Administrator - ShowingTime Chicago, IL Work Experience Sr. Helpdesk Administrator ShowingTime - Chicago, IL 2019 to Present Responsible handling IT support activities for the organization, providing excellent customer experiences and working to resolve support issues in a prompt and professional manner. Tasks includes providing password and login  resets for end users, performing advanced system and network repairs, complete equipment set-up, handle employee  onboarding/off boarding, revise support procedures, and suggest changes as needed. Escalate system issues, participate in auditing activities, follow strict privacy policies, diagnose hardware problems using specialized tools or  computer programs, as well as maintain accurate inventory records of computer equipment and replacement  machines.  • Managed the Help Desk team by Implementing and evaluating new processes in order to improve timely resolution of incoming tickets.  • Worked closely with Department Supervisors and managers to understand their needs  • Set specific customer service standards in order to provide the best customer service experience  • Followed up with AC representatives, supervisors and managers to identify areas of improvements  • Contributed to improving customer support by actively responding to queries and handling complaints  • Coordinated with Local Administrators, software and network engineers regarding system upgrades and changes that affected user community  • Served as the first point of contact regarding all incoming queries via Fresh Start Help Desk service  • Provided technical assistance and support for incoming queries and issues related to computer systems, software, and hardware.  • Install, modify, and repair computer hardware and corporate software.  • Follow-up and update customer status and information  • Created and administered corporate image for local and remote workstations  • Created AD user accounts for new hires  • Created and maintained Exchange email accounts and distributions groups  • Created network share folders and created network security groups  • Installed and support corporate software for over 200 remote AC representatives  • Provided support for cloud based barracuda cloud service  • Set up new hires with equipment and appropriate access to the company's systems  • Provide remote support through phone, IM, remote tools, etc.  • Placed orders for new computer peripherals and as requested via ticketing system  • Troubleshoot wireless access issues  • Install and maintained remote Cisco VPN Client  • Assisted in resolving technical problems with Local Area Networks (LAN Network Administrator CALIFORNIA TRANSPORTATION CORRIDORS 2017 to 2019 Managed IT infrastructure for California tollways administration with Greater Los Angeles region. Monitored equipment performance and performed maintenance on servers, routers, switches, firewalls, WANs, LANs, directories, databases, security access systems and computer hardware. Ensured on-time performance of all hardware devices and network systems. Trained and developed staff members.  Created documentation and maintained record logs.  • Utilized VMware to perform remote logins on user devices to troubleshoot IT issues.  • Performed system upgrades and installed patches utilizing Shavlik  • Maintained Active Directory database; configured Windows Servers 2008/2012 R2.  • Wrote and deployed PowerShell scripts to automate processes.  • Managed administration of security badges and security permissions.  • Upgrad and troubleshoot third-party software applications.  • Set up and configured Cisco VPN systems.  • Managed implementation of cloud-based Office 365 solutions, including Exchange, SharePoint and MS Office applications.  • Maintained inventory of all network hardware equipment and other peripherals.  • Facilitated activities of third-party IT contractors. LAN Administrator PERYAM AND KROLL MARKET RESEARCH CORPORATION - Chicago, IL 2014 to 2017 Responsible for site-to-site security through IP SEC VPNs and on the corporate firewall. Developed, configured and maintained multiple IP SEC LAN to LAN VPN tunnels, VM hardware hosts and VMs. Hands on supervision of LAN and WAN installation, configuration, support and iOS updates utilizing Cisco routers, switches and firewalls. Maintained SAN VNXe. Accountable for maintenance of all network and software as well as analysis, troubleshooting and isolation of network issues.  Scope of management criteria includes:  • Managed Windows 2003, 2008 and 2012 servers. Setup and configure new server deployments.  • Monitored server performance and uptime.  • Performed monthly system upgrades including OS patches and virus definition patches.  • Managed user accounts, Active Directory, Group Policies, DHCP and DNS.  • Supervision and implementations of Outlook email accounts through MS Exchange.  • Accountable for optimal performance of Barracuda Web Filter and Spam Filter.  • Utilized Symantec Backup Exec. to configure and monitor backups.  • Trained and mentored staff on hardware and software functionality and upgrades. Other duties fulfilled include preparation of all network documentation and weekly reports.  Responded to on-site or remote support requests from end-users. Provided emergency service whenever needed.  ~ Professional Experience Continued on Network Technician WEBER STEPHEN PRODUCTS, LLC - Palatine, IL 2008 to 2013 Responsible for the set-up and configuration of all new PCs and Laptops. Performed maintenance on all hardware and software installations and upgrades. Created ghost images for all computers and monitored for flawless operational performance.  Installations, troubleshooting and upgrades included:  • Windows 2003 server for Service Desk Plus test environment. All Research and Development staff workstations and laptops Kaspersky Anti-Virus on all computers 2007 to 2007 • 2007 / 2007 Outlook accounts and Microsoft Office 2003 for all users.  • VPN client software and test accounts.  • Kaspersky Anti-Virus on all computers.  • Engineering software such as AutoCAD and Solid Works programs.  • All Research and Development staff workstations and laptops.  • Confirmed warranties on equipment and scheduled onsite repair service or parts delivery. Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Information Systems SOFTWARE SKILLS in Computer Information Systems SOFTWARE SKILLS DEVRY UNIVERSITY - Chicago, IL