Desktop Support/ Network Administrator Desktop Support/<span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Desktop Support/ Network Administrator Albuquerque, NM Obtain a position as a member of a professional IT development team in a progressive organization, whether in government, education or business. Work Experience Desktop Support/ Network Administrator Molina Healthcare - Albuquerque, NM September 2014 to September 2018 Assisted all employees with daily troubleshooting and setup. Ran help-desk ticket system, and also assisted local data center with server troubleshooting. Supported local clinic and assisted with transfer of all employees to new building downtown. Network Administrator La-Z-Boy-Z-Boy Furniture Galleries - Albuquerque, NM June 2011 to September 2013 Managed complete network and all devices and peripherals on the network. Upgraded complete POS system and transferred critical UNIX server to a hosted (cloud) environment. Also ran help desk and completed trouble tickets for all locations in a timely manner. Field Technician Sapphire Technologies - Albuquerque, NM August 2009 to April 2010 Repaired and maintained laptop computers for Dell customers through contractor Unisys throughout Bernalillo County and Valencia County. Customers included local, state and federal government departments, as well as a broad range of private sector businesses. Position required strong customer service skills and decision making. Installation, testing and follow up of computer and systems functionality. Technical Support E4E Business Solutions/Logitech - Phoenix, AZ October 2008 to February 2009 Provided technical support over the phone for international customers needing assistance with computers and audio/video for home theater setups. Worked two queues, one for regular customers and one for our high-end dealers (BestBuy, Geek Squad). Assisted average of 25 customers daily. Education Diploma Rio Rancho High School - Rio Rancho, NM 1999 Computer Science Business and Industry Institute (Mesa Community College) - Mesa, AZ University of Advancing Technology - Tempe, AZ Central New Mexico Community College - Albuquerque, NM Skills Technical Support, Windows, Networking, Active Directory, Desktop Support, It Specialist, Information Technology, Comptia, Help Desk, Network Support, Computer Repair Certifications/Licenses A+ Certified