Network & Datacenter Administrator <span class="hl">Network</span> &amp; Datacenter <span class="hl">Administrator</span> MIS Administrator McAllen, TX Enterprise Infrastructure Specialist with experience in design, implementation, and support for WAN/LANs, wireless networks, VLANS, DHCP and Active Directory. Additional experience includes disaster recovery, capacity planning and business continuity. Redesigned problem-solving skills and interpersonal skills with a wealth of experience in Windows, Macintosh, router/switch configuration, radios, and a number of other communication devices. Proven success as a Security Analyst with demonstrated ability to learn new technologies quickly and effectively. Innovative multitasking and time management skills combined with exceptional problem solving skills. Successful history of leading network infrastructure deployments and enhancements. Detail-oriented with a track record of delivering infrastructure enhancements on time and with minimal impacts to production. Expert in developing procedures that improve information security and business continuity.    • Corporate Network Administration  • LAN/WAN Design, Install and Maintenance  • IT hardware and software procurement  • Enterprise Information Systems Management  • Disaster Recovery & Planning  • SQL Server Administrator  • Sharepoint Administrator  • Exchange Server Administrator  • Enterprise Help Desktop Administrator  • Wordpress and HTML 5 Development  • Corporate Business Technology Consulting  • Microsoft 2008 Server & Windows 7&8 Certified  • SEO Infrastructure Administrator  • VoIP Telephone Administration Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Network & Datacenter Administrator L&F Distributors October 2014 to December 2018 While a Network Administrator at L&F Distributors I implemented and maintained a 50-server, 100% virtualized environment supporting Exchange, SQL, SharePoint, Active Directory, and a mixed Microsoft and Adobe development environment. Provided system and network administration support for Windows, OSX, and Cisco systems. Performed regular and system backups. Assisted in deployment of Cisco routers to multiple sites across the state. Devised plans and executed deployment of numerous computers in multiple locations across the state. Assisted system administrators with software packages on Cisco equipment, helped with installation setups, and revised existing documentation guidelines. Maintained and administered computer networks and related computing environments including computer hardware, systems software, application software, and all configurations. Created User Accounts in AD, Exchange 2010 Mailboxes, MS Lync Accounts, and Avaya Phone account and message box set up. Performed routine account maintenance upon customer request, including DNS updates, httpd changes, and mailman list setup and maintenance on Linux systems. Monitored network performance to determine whether adjustments needed to be made and determined where changes will need to be made in the future. Assisted in managing and supporting the computing security challenges. Configured and managed VM clusters in the datacenter environment. Provided day-to-day support, training, and technology implementation as well as long-term project management for small to medium sized corporate networks. Conceptualized and implemented systems upgrades. Worked with clients to analyze current network needs and identify areas in need of improvement. Researched and deployed innovative usage of technology to improve client productivity and efficiency.    ? Created User Accounts in AD, Exchange 2010 Mailboxes, MS Lync Accounts, and Avaya Phone account and message box set up.  ? Organized network team for cabling and PC LAN network setup at remote site.  ? Maintain a 24/7 high availability setting, to include on-call support, monitoring daily work production, preventative system maintenance, account creation, and password resets.  ? Worked with various IT organizations to set up basic operation and maintenance of the systems  ? Developed reputation for commitment to continuous improvement in areas of project management and technical support.  ? Recommended wide variety of technical solutions in order to improve productivity, including FTP access for telecommuters and clients, implementation of remote desktop, thin clients, and spam filters.  ? Educating customers and internal staff on VMware products offerings and best practices for combining solutions to create private and hybrid clouds.  ? Analyze and troubleshoot on an advanced level, performance of SAN-backed VMware ESX infrastructure to determine proper allocation of resources to a multi-department user population with widely varying needs  ? Customize layer 2 and layer 3 networking between VMware, networking components and storage for high availability and maximum performance.  ? Experience with 3rd party solutions in VMware environments including Veeam, Zerto, EMC Replication Manager, Symantec, TrendMicro, Liquidware Labs, and Cisco.  ? Good understanding of OSI Model, TCP/IP protocol suite (IP, ARP, ICMP, TCP, UDP, RARP, FTP, TFTP)  ? Good understanding of OSI Model, TCP/IP protocol suite (IP, ARP, ICMP, TCP, UDP, RARP, FTP, TFTP)  ? Switches: Basic Configuration & VLAN setup on Cisco WS-C3650, WS-C375 Switches. Lead System Administrator Total Imaging Solutions August 2012 to June 2014 Implemented and redesigned IT frameworks for numerous clients. Integrated a database for the Marketing Department, which included a daily report generation system and aimed to help the marketing and the sales dept. to register an increase in the printer sales. Revamped company website for integration with virtualization and social media analytics. Obtained corporate certifications for network managing and installing Konica Minolta products. Oversaw company Help Desk Department and resolved client's ticket inquiries. Offered onsite and remote support for company clients and followed up on network inquiries.  Demonstrated forward thinking by directing numerous beta testing on new software and device peripherals. Repaired network infrastructures and data synchronization backups. Performed data recovery on various fields of business and redesigned company websites for analytics tracking with integrated search optimization. Performed IT consulting for clients on a daily basis and was the IT guru among many businesses. Configured new employee onboarding and off boarding credentials and maintained AD and domain administration    ? Administered primary and back-up domain controllers, file servers, print servers, proxy server, and e-mail server. Implemented policies for employee use of Internet and e-mail. Planned and managed all networking projects, budget, configuration, installations and support. Configured and supported local data access.  ? Diagnosed hardware problems with modems, printers, cables, or telephones. Performed in-home repair of computer systems and related equipment. Managed file systems, storage devices, network servers and workstations. Configured and integrated TCP/IP, IPX/SPX, PPP, AppleTalk, and other  LAN network protocols in a LAN/WAN environment. Designed and constructed a wide-area network connecting satellite offices to corporate headquarters.  ? Oversaw setup of servers and desktop workstations. Performed troubleshooting of computer systems and related equipment.  ? Configured routers, firewalls, domain name services, and email, Wed and FTP services. Installed and configures various peripherals: scanners, modems and tape backups. Logged trouble tickets for users. Provide network supports, software development and related services in a help desk setting. Performed installation, configuration and troubleshooting for over 20 clients utilizing MS Exchange servers. Senior Network Administrator New Horizons Family Dentistry February 2010 to August 2012 Installation, support, and maintenance of computer system and servers. Performed daily backups and upgrades to multiple software's and platforms to provide a smooth user experience. Adding, removing, or updating user account information, resetting passwords, etc. Configuring and managing SonicWALL to ensure company integrity and keeping company information from being shared to unauthorized sources. Maintaining and programing NEC phone system so that calls are routed properly and messages and extensions work properly. Prepare weekly reports of network statistics, user logs, and other technical logs. Setting up portal logins to verify, submit, and follow up on claims. Submitting multiple claims to various insurance companies and collecting payment. Ensuring open and pending claims are closed within a timely manner. Submitting appeals if need to be to collect payments on open balances. Maintaining collection rate is above 90 percent and providing detailed explanation of age old accounts. Setup and credential new providers for our practice. Following up with provider relations on application statuses and appeals    ? Provided support to over 75 computers and over 15 printers through a Windows Server and VPN framework  ? Implemented and administered a Microsoft Windows 2008R2 Active Directory Services Infrastructure and install, configure and maintain hardware and software for multiple offices and locations  ? Performed hardware and software support and installation. Diagnosed hardware problems with modems, printers, cables and telephones and performed software and mechanical upgrades  ? Performed network integration and system tests. Routine maintenance on all types of computer equipment and printers and prepared presentation plans and materials. Developed schedules, resource allocation plans and system test plans.  ? Served as a webmaster for installation of the company's website and provided high quality computer graphics. Planned, administered and implemented projects from start to finish  ? Installed routers and hubs; updated and installed cabling for new network and maintained user's mail, print servers and server/user accounts  ? Implemented, support and managed network devices such as switches, routers and firewalls. Performed scheduled routing and emergency network maintenance Education B.S. in Science Network Administration in Science Network Administration University of Brownsville 2017 Associates in Computer Science in Computer Science University of Brownsville January 2015 High School Diploma Simon Rivera High School January 2009 Skills Active directory (5 years), firewalls (5 years), integration. (4 years), Integrator (5 years), maintenance (5 years), Technical Support (5 years), Networking (5 years), Windows (6 years), Customer Service (5 years), Vmware, Microsoft Office, access Certifications/Licenses CCNA March 2017 to March 2020 Assessments Technical Support Skills — Highly Proficient January 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/ufoazqv2b-e0vsz Basic Computer Skills — Expert January 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to perform basic computer operations, navigate a Windows OS, and troubleshoot common computer problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/61shwdhupxvuvgpf Problem Solving — Highly Proficient January 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to analyze relevant information when solving problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/xnxsdn299sijx3uz Email Skills — Expert January 2019 Measures a candidate’s ability to effectively compose and organize email messages. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/o6y6ksf1qhwdjdpa Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    Platforms Windows/Linux, OSX/IOS. Android/Chrome, Server, Oracle, etc.  Software  MS Office, Open Office, Photoshop, VMWare, Nexus, Remote Applications, TicketOS, Adobe Photoshop, Adobe After Effects, Adobe Premiere, HTML Intel Lab, Norton Ghost, Graphic Design Suite    Administration Windows/Linux System Administration, Active Directory, Network Administration  Databases MSExchange, Oracle, MS Access, MS SQL Server, MySQL, pHp 5.4 Server, Sharepoint Administration  Operating Systems Microsoft Windows (XP, Vista, 7,8,8 RT,10 ), Linux (Debi and Ubuntu)  Web/Programming Languages  C/C++ (2 years), JAVA (2 years), HTML5 (1 year), Python, PHP HTML, ASP.NET, JScript, Macromedia Dreamweaver (3 and above), IIS, Apache, XML, DOM, HTML 5, Java Beans    Network  Wireless routers, T1 / DSL, Ethernet / LAN, Cisco VPN, NEC Phone Systems ,Layer 2 & 3 Switches. Ciso ASA's, Extreme Wireless AP's, Extreme Netsight, Brocade Layer 2,3 Switches, VLAN Management and configuration.    ADDITIONAL SKILLS  ? Networking: TCP/IP, EIGRP, OSPF, RIP, STP, VPN, Firewalls, SonicWALL  ? Apple Devices: iPhone (4, 5), iPad (1, 2, 3, 4), MAC OSX, MacBook Pro, Apple TV, iPod Tough (1, 2, 3, 4), Mac Pro, FrontPage, Boot camp, Apple Software and Restoration  ? Backup Utilities: Acronis True Image, Windows Server Backup, basic knowledge of Commvault Simpana  ? Security: Security Policies, PCI-DSS, Anti-malware/Anti-virus (CA eTrust, Norton), Security Tools (Nmap)  ? Evaluate, test and deploy all software and hardware upgrades to the server and storage  ? Interface with vendors for procurement and maintenance of all IT infrastructures  ? Launched and managed SQL databases and provided detailed analytics  ? Designed, implemented and launched corporate websites with optimal SEO integration and high profile social media interaction.  ? Rebuilt, Redesigned, Reimaged, and replicated numerous Windows and Mac Servers and Computer hardware.  ? Designed and Hosted various websites with Optimization for SEO integration  ? PHP 5.4 Programming and SQL database management