Sr. Network Engineer Sr. <span class="hl">Network</span> Engineer Sr. Network Engineer - Global Foundries • Having experience in networking, installing, configuring and maintaining network devices.  • Strong knowledge in implementing IP addressing schemes, LAN/WAN protocols, IP Services, to fulfill network requisites in different environments.  • Hands on experience in configuring Cisco Catalyst 2960, 3750, 4500, 6500 series, and Cisco 2600, 2800, 3600, 3800, 7200, 7600 series routers, Cisco Nexus 7000 series, 5000 series, 2000 series data center switches.  • Expertise in the implementation of optimization, analysis, troubleshooting and documentation of LAN/WAN networking systems.  • Proficient in Configuring Virtual Local Area Networks (VLANS) using Cisco routers and multi-layer Switches and supporting STP, RSTP, PVST, RPVST along with trouble shooting of inter-VLAN routing and VLAN Trunking using 802.1Q.  • Proficiency in configuration of VLAN setup on various Cisco Routers and Switches.  • Worked extensively on Cisco Firewalls Cisco PIX (506E/515E/525) & ASA 5500(5510/5540) Series.  • Implemented redundancy with HSRP, VRRP, GLBP, Ether channel technology (LACP, PAgP) etc.  • Implemented traffic filters using Standard and Extended access-lists, Distribute-Lists, Route Maps and route manipulation using Offset-list.  • Hands on in deployment of GRE tunneling, SSL, Site-Site IPSEC VPN and DMVPN.  • Managed inventory of all network hardware, Management and Monitoring by use of SSH, Syslog, SNMP, NTP.  • Strong experience on Juniper SSG series Firewalls and Checkpoint R75, 76 Firewalls.  • Experience with F5 load balancers - LTM, GTM series like 6800 and 8900 for the corporate applications and their availability.  • Expertise in OSI layer model/TCP/IP.  • Experience in configuration of Cisco Unified Communication Manager (CUCM), Cisco Unity Connection, and Attendant Console, Cisco 7900 series IP Phones, CUCME  • Hands on Experience with Back up, upgrade and restring all OS for future disaster recovery purposes.  • Well versed and experienced in routing and switching protocols RIP, OSPF, EIGRP, BGP and VLAN.  • Exposed to handling and troubleshooting issues on NAT.  • Working knowledge on configuring access lists. Troubleshooting DNS/DHCP issues within the LAN network.  • Expertise in IP subnetting and worked on various designing and allocating various classes of IP address to the domain.  • Involved in troubleshooting network traffic and its diagnosis using tools like ping, traceroute, Wireshark, TCPdump and Linux operating system servers.  • Sound knowledge of Routing and Switching concepts and MPLS design.  • Proficient in Cisco IOS for configuration & troubleshooting of routing protocols: MP-BGP, OSPF, LDP, EIGRP, RIP, BGP v4, MPLS.p  • Worked extensively in Configuring, Monitoring and Troubleshooting Cisco's ASA 5500/PIX security appliance, Failover DMZ zoning & configuring VLANs/routing/NATing with the firewalls as per the design.  • In-depth knowledge and hands-on experience in Tier II ISP Routing Policies, Network Architecture, IP Subnetting, VLSM, TCP/IP, NAT, DHCP, DNS, FT1 / T1 / FT3 / T3 Sonet POS OCX / GigE circuits, Firewalls. Work Experience Sr. Network Engineer Global Foundries - Santa Clara, CA July 2018 to Present Job Description  • Configuring Static, IGRP, EIGRP, and OSPF Routing Protocols on Cisco 1600, 2600, 2800, 3600, 7300 series Routers.  • Worked on Route-Reflectors to troubleshoot BGP issues related to customer route prefixes also route filtering using Route-ma Extensive Knowledge on the implementation of Cisco ASA 5500 series firewalls.  • A hands-on role, which involves installation, management, and support of globally developed extremely complex, highly available Palo Alto and Cisco ASA firewall infrastructure.  • VLAN configuration and assignments.  • Verify and Troubleshoot VLAN mapping.  • Switching related tasks included implementing VLANs, VTP and configuring and maintaining multi VLAN environment and inter-VLAN routing on Fast-Ethernet channel.  • Worked on Layer 2 protocols such as STP, VTP and other VLAN troubleshooting issues and configuring switches from scratch and implementing.  • Worked on implementing Site-to-Site VPNs over the Internet.  • Engaged in assessment and mitigating network security issues, IPS/IDS  • Network Including NAT/PAT, ACL, IDS/IPS, Palo Alto firewalls and ASA/PIX Firewalls.  • Implemented security policies using ACL, Firewall, IPSEC, SSL, VPN, IPS/IDS, AAA (TACACS+ & RADIUS).  • Configuring switching and routing protocols (OSPF, MPLS, RIPV1, RIPV2, EIGRP, BGP, VLANS, IPV4, IPV6, STP, LACP, IPS, IDS and DHCP).  • Manage and deploy enterprise level wireless communications for Datacenter.  • Experience with configuring Virtual Server and Configuring Load balancing methods in F5 LTM.  • Support senior wireless network engineer in researching, planning and implementing wireless network security protocols and technologies  • Provided PKI engineering support in the operation of a number of PKI systems deployed at the Department of State.  • Manages and maintain enclaved server hardware, storage, switches, server operating systems, and Hardware Security Modules (HSMs).  • Issue PKI server certificates  • Maintaining of documentation on utilization, capacity and outages for Wi-Fi network.  • Designed and implemented DMZ for Web servers, Mail servers & FTP Servers using Cisco ASA5500 Firewalls.  • Worked extensively on Cisco ASA 5500(5510/5540) Series, experience with convert PIX rules over to the Cisco ASA solution.  • Managing health check of Network devices this is involves upgrading IOS on every quarter after checking the vulnerability of IOS and reviewing the configuration.  • Worked on migration of existing PIX firewall to ASA firewall, PIX OS upgrade from 6.3 to 7.0.  • Design and Implement DMZ for FTP, Web and Mail Servers with CISCO PIX 506, PIX515.  • Mapped, Network Diagrams and physical identification in MS Visio.  • Worked with engineering team to resolve tickets and troubleshoot L3/L2 problems efficiently.  • Perform extensive testing around the upgrade, migration and configuration functionality of our software.  • Configured Easy VPN server and SSL VPN to facilitate various employees' access internal servers and resources with access restrictions.  • Responsible for entire company network infrastructure that includes Cisco Switches, Routers, Firewalls, Access Points, Servers and PBX.  • Implementation of Site-to-Site VPNs and DMVPN over the internet using IKE Phase 1 and IKE Phase 2 based on traffic with ASA 5500 series Firewalls.  • Configure various LAN switches such as CISCO CAT 2900, 3550, 4500, 6509 switches and Access layer switches such as Cisco 4510, 4948, 4507 switches for VLAN, Fast Ether Channel configuration.  • Experience in migration of VLANS & Configured VLANs with 802.1q tagging, Ether channels, and Spanning tree for creating Access/distribution and core layer switching.  • Creation of firewall rules on Checkpoint Smart Dashboard and install policies.  • Management of corporate Checkpoint Firewall implementing security protocols and alleviating network attacks.  • Deployed Palo Alto Firewalls for web filtering and application control.  • Configured EBGP load balancing and ensured stability of BGP peering interfaces.  • Configured Cisco 2800, 3800 routers and 3750, 4500, 6500 switches as part of the implementation plan Network Administrator HCL America - Frisco, TX October 2017 to June 2018 Job Description  • Troubleshooting the TCP/IP networks for connectivity, outages and slow network issues and recommended appropriate and cost-effective solutions for the congestion.  • Managing health check of Network devices this is involves upgrading IOS on every quarter after checking the vulnerability of IOS and reviewing the configuration.  • Configured of Cisco PIX/ASA firewalls, IPS/IDS, F5 load balancers, AAA (TACACS+ & RADIUS).  • Manages reporting for IPS/IDS by monitoring suspicious user activity, network attacks, high bandwidths users, and suspicious websites.  • Configured High Availability using HSRP, VLAN's and spanning tree within the organization network.  • Implemented Layer 2 security by enabling STP, locking down VLAN trunking.  • Responsible for creating, modifying, removing VLAN confings as per the need.  • Set up HSRP, VLAN trunking 802.1Q, etherchannel, VTP and inter-VLAN routing using MSFC on catalyst 6509 and 6513 switches  • Configured ACLs to prevent access to internal network from unauthorized users on ASA firewalls.  • Advanced knowledge in Cisco ASA 5000 series, Palo Alto VM-300 series installation, configuration and maintenance.  • Provide remote and direct customer PKI troubleshooting support for routine and mission critical issues for both Windows and Linux users  • Managing and Configuring Cisco Unified Call manager 7.X, 8.X, 10.X and 11.X.  • Cisco Unity Connection (CUC), Unity Express, Jabber, and UCCX  • Implement security policies using ACL, IPSEC, SSL, and VPN on ASA.  • Configure new/replacement hardware including Cisco routers and switches, Cisco ASA firewalls.  • Devices monitored, assessed and maintained included Cisco ASA's, Check Point Firewalls and F5 Load Balancer.  • Network consists of Heavy Cisco equipment such as: Cisco 3560 2950 2924 switches, Cisco 6509 6513 5500 series Layer 3 switches, Cisco 3825 3640 7200 series routers, Cisco Pix firewall 500 series and Wireless Access points Cisco 1230.  • Responsible for installation and configuration of Cisco ISR-2901 AX used for providing granular visibility, control and optimization of Application layer.  • Worked on F5 BIG-IP LTM 8900, configured profiles, provided and ensured high availability.  • Responsible for configuring and troubleshooting Akamai IPA for monitoring and control internet traffic and site content.  • Worked on Layer 2 protocols such as STP, VTP, STP, RSTP, PVSTP+, MST and other VLAN troubleshooting issues and configuring switches from scratch and deployment.  • Responsible for deploying various network security & High Availability in Checkpoint Firewall.  • Network security involves web filtering on internet sites (User's restriction) checkpoint Firewalls.  • Configuring routing protocols OSPF, EIGRP, RIP, MPBGP, LDP and BGP V4.  • Configuring HSRP between VLANs, Configuring Ether-Channels, Port Channel on 6500 catalyst.  • Build Logical design and Implementation of Wireless Solution.  • Responsible for Cisco ASA firewall administration across our global networks.  • Configured various BGP attributes such as Local Preference, MED, Extended Communities, Route-Reflector clusters, Route-maps and route policy implementation.  • Actively participated in upgrading fast Ethernet, Layer 3 switched/routed LAN infrastructure from Cisco 3640 to Cisco 2811 ISR routers and switches at access level to 2950, 3550.  • Configured Nexus 5020, 5548 7010 and 7702 with multiple distribution VDC's running EIGRP for route propagation between them.  • Continual network monitoring of data center support, troubleshoot and diagnose hardware problems.  • Configured various Router interfaces like ATM interface, T3 & Channelized T1 interfaces.  • Configuring and troubleshooting CISCO catalyst 6509, 7609, 7613 with Supervisor cards, Cisco 3640, Cisco GSR 12416, 21418(with PRP and RPR processors).  • Configuring and implementing F5 BIG-IP LTM, GTM load balancers to maintain global and local traffic. Network Support Engineer Spotric & Systems - IN May 2016 to July 2017 Job Description  • Responsible for maintenance and utilization of VLANs, Spanning-tree, HSRP, VTP of the switched multi-layer backbone with catalyst switches.  • Implemented redundant Load balancing technique with Internet applications for switches and routers.  • Support Network Technicians as they require training & support for problem resolution including performing diagnostics & configuring network devices.  • Configured and troubleshoot OSPF and EIGRP.  • Hands-on experience in maintaining layer2 switching tasks which support VTP, VLAN, STP, PVST, RSTP and configure ether channel with LACP and PAGP along with inter-vlan routing troubleshooting.  • Tested authentication in OSPF and BGP.  • Installation & configuration of Cisco VPN concentrator 3060 for VPN tunnel with Cisco VPN hardware & software client and PIX firewall.  • In-depth expertise in the implementation of analysis, optimization, troubleshooting and documentation of LAN/WAN networking systems.  • Used Network Monitoring tool to manage, monitor and troubleshoot the network.  • Back up a Cisco IOS to a TFTP server and Upgraded and restored a Cisco IOS from TFTP server.  • Configured Cisco IOS Feature Set, NAT and Simple Network Management Protocol (SNMP) for Network Security implementation.  • Received inbound calls of technical nature, independently resolved customer complaints, concerns and inquiries regarding their Internet connection. Education B.E. in Electronics and Communication Engineering in Electronics and Communication Engineering Visvesvaraya Technological University September 2013 to June 2017 M.S. Electrical Engineering University of Texas at Arlington - Arlington, TX Skills Architecture (Less than 1 year), Bgp (2 years), Cisco (2 years), Cisco asa (1 year), Dos (Less than 1 year), Eigrp (2 years), firewalls. (1 year), Igrp (1 year), Lan (2 years), Lan/wan (1 year), Linux (Less than 1 year), Mpls (1 year), networking (1 year), Nexus (Less than 1 year), Ospf (2 years), Routing protocols (1 year), Tcp (Less than 1 year), Tcp/ip (Less than 1 year), Vlan (2 years), Vpn (2 years) Additional Information Technical Skills:  Switches: CISCO 2900, 3500,4500,5000,6500, Nexus 7k, 6k, 5k, 2k  Networking Technologies: LAN/WAN Architecture, TCP/IP, Frame Relay, VPN, LACP, VLAN, VTP, SVI, NAT, PAT, STP, RSTP, PVST, MSTP,VPC,VPD, PIM.  Networking Hardware: Cisco Switches, Cisco Routers, PIX firewalls  Routing Protocols: OSPF, IGRP, EIGRP, RIP, MPLS, IS-IS, IGP, EGP, BGP, and RSA  Firewalls: Cisco ASA, Palo Alto    Operating Systems: Windows, NT, Windows 98/XP/2000/2003/2007, MS-DOS, Linux