Full Stack Javascript Developer Full Stack Javascript Developer San Jose, CA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Full Stack Javascript Developer Laso Concepts - Culver City, CA 2017 Full-Stack developer responsible for end to end web app development. Joined denormalized data from multiple collections, through MongoDB aggregation pipeline use, leading to reduced round trips through the stack. Observed industry and team standards in relation to API design, ES6 coding style, CSS selector conventions, among other things. Implemented multi-profile system incorporating invitations, guided onboarding, and on-the-fly profile switching, to allow a single person to perform multiple roles. Leveraged Google Maps and Google Autocomplete APIs to support quick and accurate address input. Prototyped a variety of full-stack features, using AngularJS components, ExpressJs, MongoDB, and RESTful APIs meeting short deadlines. Developed paginated channel message retrieval system to support infinite scroll front end. Channel accessibility is determined hierarchically by the healthcare institution tenants and subordinate locations at which you are receiving treatment. Leveraged express routing stacks to cleanly enforce authentication, model validation, and authorization. Participated in daily standups, weekly client demonstrations and feedback meetings, strict peer code review process. Network Administrator United States Army - Fort Hood, TX 2004 to 2014 Performed a variety of tasks related to installing, managing network systems.  Oversaw administration of WIN-T Command and Control (C2) system and  upgrades providing users with satellite and terrestrial communications network  services utilized by 67% of U.S. Army's total force and necessary for global  operations. Provide customers with integrated communications support for  complex operations; meet IT needs for users through design, engineering,  implementation, and operation of classified / unclassified network infrastructure  and associated equipment. Install, configure, and maintain wide variety of  environments including network hardware / software, operating systems, servers,  application packages, Websites, telecom systems, and peripheral devices. Network Engineer I / Engineer Stanford Healthcare - Palo Alto, CA 2015 Monitored network performance and ensured system availability and reliability. Configured and installed various network devices and services (e.g., routers, switches, firewalls, load balancers, VPN, QoS). Performed network maintenance, system, and hardware upgrades including service packs, patches, hot fixes and security configurations. Monitored system resource utilization, trending, and capacity planning. Provide Level-2/3 support and troubleshooting to resolve issues. Maintained highly resilient networks using protocols such as EIGRP, HSRP, VRRP, BGP, OSPF, CDP, GRE Tunnels, and others. Cisco ASA firewall configuration and maintenance. Education Some college Skills AngularJS, Javascript, MongoDB, Node JS, Full Stack, CCNP, Node, React Links https://github.com/chenderson1 https://www.linkedin.com/in/cory-henderson-96785354 Military Service Branch: US Army Service Country: United States Rank: E-6 March 2004 to January 2014 Certifications/Licenses CCNP Routing and Switching November 2015 to November 2018 CompTIA Network+ Present CompTIA Security+ Present Additional Information SKILLS  Front End: JavaScript/ ES6, AngularJS, jQuery, CSS3, Bootstrap 3.0, HTML5, AJAX, Angular UI Bootstrap, Angular UI Router  Middle Tier: NodeJS, ExpressJS, Joi, Gulp, MongoDB Driver, MLab, AWS S3  Third-party APIs: SendGrid, npm / bower, Google Maps  Other technical: Agile / Scrum, Visual Studio Code, Robo3T, Visual Studio Team Services, GitHub, git, Chrome DevTools  Back End: MongoDB