Senior Network Administrator Senior <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Senior Network Administrator - EaglePicher Technologies San Francisco, CA Work Experience Senior Network Administrator EaglePicher Technologies - San Francisco, CA June 2018 to Present Primary skills used: Windows 10, Windows Server, Polycom VOIP/OnSip, Office 365, Active Directory, Azure, Hyper-V, Group  Policy, Cisco hardware, Network Management/Patching, Imaging and deployment, MDM, Sharepoint, VPN  Switch installation and patching  LAN and Wireless network support, administration, and installation  Windows Server administration, Active Directory, Group Policy  VOIP deployment and management  Coordinating with global teams, escalation  Process Documentation  Deskside support in start-up environment  Onboarding and Offboarding of new hires  Account creation and deletion  Hardware imaging and deployment Support Engineer II (Field Engineer) Rocket Science Consulting - San Francisco, CA September 2014 to June 2017 Supporting onsite clients in a wide variety of environments  Notable clients: TRX Training, NV Perricone MD, CCS Architecture, Freeslate/Unchained Labs, Tradeshift  Primary skills used: Windows 10/7, Mac OS, Office 365, Active Directory, Windows Server, Cisco Meraki, VMWare, Hyper-V, Datto, Autotask, Shoretel, G Suite, AWS  Mac and PC hardware and software support  Network and Systems Administration  Network patching and routing  Windows Server administration, Active Directory, Group Policy  Cloud storage and backup management  Wireless network engineering and deployment  Office 365 Administration  VOIP deployment and management  Hardware imaging and software deployment  Mobile Device Management  Virtualization including Virtual to Physical Server conversions  Adapting quickly to new environments  Maintaining and improving internal documentation for each client Desktop Support Technician II San Francisco Department of Technology - San Francisco, CA May 2014 to October 2014 Supporting 20,000+ users through a city-wide migration from Lotus Notes to Office 365  Primary skills used: Windows 8/7/XP, OSX 10.x, Office 365/2013/2010, Exchange Server, Bomgar Remote, Documentation, Active Directory, Sharepoint, IBM Domino Administrator (Lotus Notes Admin)  Supporting users over phone, remote administration, on and off-site  Worked with the Department of Health, Human Services Agency, and SFPD  Documented all processes for training city support staff on new OWA 365  Assisted in O365 training classes for SFPD Quality Engineer Adobe Systems - San Francisco, CA May 2012 to March 2013 Executing manual and automated test cases, filing bug reports, and communicating with Adobe and Google developers and managers  Primary skills used: Windows 8/7/XP, OSX 10.x, Linux, ChromeOS, Adobe Connect, Flash, Chromebook, OS Imaging  Executed test cases, with a meticulous attention to detail, for all areas of the product  Worked with Windows and Mac operating systems  Analyze results and write detailed reports that accurately isolate issues  Coordinated with Google and Adobe developers Project Management Crystal Dynamics/Eidos Interactive - Redwood City, CA March 2011 to May 2012 Redwood City, CA 3/2011-5/2012  ServiceDesk L2  Supporting 160+ users in a variety of development and administrative environments, as well as managing projects and hardware and software roll-outs  Primary skills used: Windows 7/XP, OSX, Active Directory, Exchange, Perforce, LANDesk, MS Office, RDP, Project Management, Procurement, Desktop Imaging and Deployment, Inventory/Asset Management, Networking, ServiceDesk Plus  Creating and maintaining Active Directory accounts, security groups and email distribution lists  Project Management and planning, small and large, working closely with other departments and their directors  Managing File and Print server permissions, shares, quotas and print queues  Maintaining relationships with vendors, negotiating pricing and saving the company money  Lead the global team through implementing and documenting the integration of Mac OS devices with our Microsoft Domain and Active directory  Completed studio-wide audit and migration of all company assets into WASP for future-proof asset management  Remote assessment and planning of site-wide hardware upgrades and roll-outs  Working with a variety of audio, visual, and 3D media technologies in a video game development environment  Creating and maintaining VOIP and FTP accounts Education High school or equivalent Skills Active directory, Cisco, Exchange, Firewalls, Networking, Imaging, Mitel, Polycom, Voip, Android, Ios, Deployment, Cloud storage, Raid, Html, Video conferencing, Ftp, Perforce, Os 10, Assembly Additional Information ? 15+ years IT experience including desktop support, network and system administration, cloud  storage, backup management, project management and department management  ? Advanced knowledge of both PC and Mac environments  ? Managed clients in the Bay Area for over 8 years including design, advertising, video games,  finance, fitness, government, software development, and architecture  ? Played a key role in the design of a successful media server product line, including hardware  design and engineering, UI, and software functionality  ? Managed and hired teams of technicians  ? Experience in process documentation and establishing company-wide standards and procedures  ? Highly adaptable, versatile, and independent self-starter    Skills    ? Windows 10, 8, 7, XP ? Switches, Routers, ? Video Game Developer  ? Mac OS 10.x Firewalls support  ? Exchange / O365 ? VOIP ? Media encoding and  ? Windows Server ? Mitel, ShoreTel, streaming  ? Active Directory Polycom, RingCentral, ? Perforce  ? Group Policy Onsip ? VOIP  ? Cloud Storage/Backup ? Documentation ? Disc Duplication  ? Backup Management ? Video Conferencing Systems  ? iOS & Android ? Adobe Creative Cloud ? All major Audio  ? Microsoft Office 365 & ? Quickbooks Production  all previous versions ? Remote Desktop, VNC, Environments  ? System imaging and Bomgar ? Large scale A/V  software deployment ? Windows Networking ? Project Management  ? Mobile Device ? Cisco Hardware ? Managing Teams  Management ? Basic HTML & Web ? Procurement  ? G Suite / Google Apps Design ? Hiring  ? AWS ? Dropbox ? Inventory  ? Autotask, Zendesk, ? FTP Management  ServiceDesk Plus ? RAID ? Music Production and  ? Cisco, Meraki ? Remote Monitoring Sound  ? Network ? Computer & Laptop Engineering/Design(15  Administration Assembly, + years)  Modification, & Repair