Financial Coordinator Financial Coordinator Financial & Treatment Coordinator Fall River, MA To obtain a position that will enable me to use my goal driven attitude, strong communication  skills and ability to work well with people.  ? Looking for a full-time position that has opportunities for growth. Work Experience Financial Coordinator New England Dental Associates - Franklin, MA January 2018 to Present • Daily front desk operations such as scheduling and handling patient calls, confirmation, etc.  • Responsible for verifying completed treatment prior to claim submission by reviewing day sheets.   • Preparing the doctors schedule and assure all patients receive an estimate prior to services are completed.  • Handle patient finances and follow through on collections and payment plans. Also responsible for billing office billing.  • Manage incoming and outgoing referrals by updating patient chart and scheduling follow up visits as needed.  • Verifying insurance benefits and strategize with patients in non clinical terms the best way to complete their treatment plan. Chewsi Dental Network Recruiter First Circle, Inc June 2017 to Present Responsible for enrolling providers into our dental network for our free mobile dental app.  ? Educates dental offices in using our technology within their practice software management  ? Assist in app development Dr. David Steinhof - Office Manager Steinhof Dental December 2014 to February 2017 Treatment Planning - Insurance verification and Billing - Practice Reports  ? Achieved office production goal March- April 2016 and October-December 2016  ? Bookkeeping - Payroll  ? Established a Dental Savings Plan for patients without insurance coverage.  ? Assist the doctor chair-side  - Endodontics, Oral Surgery, Basic and Major Restorative, Crowns & Bridge,  Partials and Dentures, and Implant Restorations.  - Digital and develop film x-rays. Assistant Administrator Coastal Career Academy November 2011 to January 2014 Interview potential students - Coordinate student class schedules.  ? Report to local Career Center on student progress - Student Reviews - Grading Education High school or equivalent Skills MICROSOFT OFFICE (10+ years), Dentrix (5 years), Google Docs (10+ years) Certifications/Licenses Driver's License Dental Radiology September 2015 to Present Additional Information SKILLS  ? Able to complete projects in a timely manner with strong attention to detail.  ? Dependable, motivated, love working in groups and able to lead.  ? Proficient in computers, Microsoft Office, QuickBooks, Dentrix, Dexis, TDO.