Sales and marketing Sales and marketing Orlando, FL I'm seeking a career that will utilize my present leadership ability, with Support, administrative, sales experience, and processor, and great customer service skills. Work Experience Sales and marketing La Familia Pawn & Jewelry January 2015 to Present • Floor lead  • Loan services.  • Customer service.  • Clean workstations.  • Maintain a presentable work environment.  • Assure customer leaves happy and satisfied.  • Attend weekly meetings to discuss performances and how we can improvise our skills for the greater good of the stores. Network administrator/Tech Compupat - Orlando, FL May 2014 to December 2015 • Wiring  • Network monitoring  • Install and support LANs, Wans, intranet systems  • Install and maintain network hardware and software  • Maintain integrity of the network, server deployment, and security.  • Ensure network connectivity throughout a company's LAN/WAN infrastructure is on par with technical considerations.  • Design and deploy networks.  • Assign routing protocols and routing table configuration.  • Maintain network facilities in individual machines, such as drivers and settings of personal computers as well as printers.  • Maintain network servers such as file servers, VPNgateways, intrusion detection systems.  • Administer servers, desktop computers, printers, routers, switches, firewall, phones, personal digital assistants, smartphones, software deployment, security updates and patches.  • Supervising employees  • Create and follow floor plans    La familia pawn & Jewerly Help Desk call center reps CBI Call Center - Sanford, FL August 2013 to April 2014 • Assist with irate customers with minimum supervision.  • Quicker learner and demonstrate strong interpersonal skills and leadership skills  • Perform insurance and clerical skills  • Processed application for accuracy and determine qualifications  • Responded to technical problems with Win/office products  • insurance authorization Education diploma ITT Technical Institute BA Skills billing (1 year), cash (4 years), cash management (4 years), Customer service. (4 years), customer service representative (5 years), excellent communication skills (6 years), multiple phone lines (5 years), order entry (Less than 1 year), RETAIL SALES (4 years), Schedule appointments (2 years), Sales (4 years), Marketing (5 years), Powerpoint, Customer Service, Word, Microsoft Office, training Additional Information HIGHLIGHTS OF QUALIFICATIONS:  • Outstanding customer service representative  • Call Center Experience  • Excellent organization skills with remarkable work habits  • People-oriented, excellent communication skills, work well in groups, self-motivated  • Outstanding verbal and written communication skills  • Oversee day to day office functions including benefits, administration, customer service, daily cash management, and order entry, strong sales skills, excellent driver and state of the art negotiation skills.    Administrative Skills:  • Schedule appointments and make executive reservations  • Accurately maintain records and handle irate billing problems  • Handle multiple phone lines and take accurate messages  • Various Computer skills and sales negotiation tasks  • Exceeds in a high-volume environment.  • Demonstrated excellent planning skills which resulted in increased profitability.  • Trained employees and received special merit awards for outstanding performance.  • Excellent at multi-tasking several projects at one time to meet deadlines for executives.