Quality Assurance Specialist Quality Assurance Specialist Graphic Designer/ Web Developer/ Network Administrator Oklahoma City, OK To work on challenging jobs and in a creative environment, and to utilize my full knowledge and skills that I  have learned from college, people and prior work experiences for the growth of the company and the  development of the community with all my efforts, dedication and determination. Work Experience Quality Assurance Specialist Lopez Foods Inc - Oklahoma City, OK April 2019 to Present Analyzed equipment and machinery malfunctions to identify root causes and resolve issues.    Thoroughly inspected Beef and Sausage products, quickly identifying defects and inconsistencies  Monitoring the products under the right temperature and and examining the O2 and CO2 level.  Identified and eliminated sources of quality problems to ensure customer's requirements are  continually met.    Inspecting the aspect of quality management and testing products for defects.    Reported critical information to the Food Safety Department and other key stake holders on a routine  basis.    Interacted effectively with FDA and other regulatory staff, food safety auditors, and customers to ensure timely implementation of any necessary corrective actions. Manager Riverside Gas and Grill - Guthrie, OK December 2015 to February 2019 Recruit, train and oversee a staff of 21 employees in a fast-paced restaurant.    Process paperwork for new employees and enter employee information into the payroll system.    Verify attendance, hours worked, and pay adjustments and post information onto designated records.    Encourage a positive work environment by advocating open communication and respect.    Record employee information, such as exemptions, transfers, and resignations, to maintain and update payroll records.    Create a new menu with locally-sourced and healthy ingredients.    Elevate the guest experience by spending time focusing on top quality food, service and a pleasing  atmosphere.    Demonstrate effective skills in safe food handling and conducted workshops with staff to promote  cleanliness and safety in the kitchen.    Train all front of house staff on restaurant policies and procedures, guest service techniques and communication skills to ensure positive experience.    Assign tasks and oversaw the direction of employees to ensure compliance with food safety  procedures and quality control guidelines.    Creat the work schedule for the restaurant staff.    Develop and maintain exceptional customer service standards.    Perform restaurant walk-through to gauge timeliness and excellent service quality.    Maintain cleanliness and sanitation across all food service, storage, and preparation stations.    Evaluated pest management strategies in order to keep facility pest-free.    Was also a Bakery master chief.    Deliver all sorts of delicious cakes, pies, cookies and puddings recipes which were all home made and fresh.    Manage all accounting and bookkeeping procedures. Network Administrator Chappell Supply & Equipment Co - Oklahoma City, OK March 2017 to February 2018 Supported the IT manager with department administrative duties.    Learned the Remote desktop connection and Mobile Device Management skills.    System Administration.  Help desk and Support Specialists.    End-User Analysis and Assessment Cost Benefit analysis using Spreadsheet software.    Configured basic Switch management and it's interfaces.    Maintained VLAN trunking Configuration and verification.    Operated Cisco routers and configured IPV4 addresses and static routers.    Microsoft Active Directory.  Cisco Networking  Performed the cable management system.    Set up and configured system user hardware and software applications.    Assessed performance of equipment and network infrastructure and made proactive improvements in line with company standards.    Peer relationships.    System administration.    Fully supported, configured, maintained and upgraded corporate customer's networks and in house  servers.    Installed and integrated new server hardware and applications.    Kept an eye out for needed updates.  Proficient with MS Office programs such as Word, Excel VISIO, and Microsoft server and workstation  Operating Systems and MS SQL Server.    Technical help desk experience.    Information Security.  Participated in pre-project analysis and technical assessments to develop user-friendly interface and correct functionality to meet business objectives.    Established hosting for each website and completed go-live process by uploading sites to host  account. Web Developer/ Graphic Designer Escol Era Information Pvt Institute April 2010 to July 2013 Designed stunning visual and graphic images to use on multiple platforms, which boosted company  recognition.    Designed print materials such as brochures, banners and signs.  Selected colors and themes while adding functionality to create new designs.    Established organizational vision and developed strategies to achieve sales, profit and loss and customer service goals.    Designed to edit two-dimensional images such as logos and posters using Corel draw.    Created graphics for website layouts, such as banners or navigation buttons using Adobe Photoshop and Dreamweaver.    Used a variety of programming languages, including HTML, CSS, and JavaScript, to create websites from templates or from scratch.    Worked closely with web designers and programmers to produce the website.    Constant communication with other colleagues in the business to develop and deploy their content and ensuring there is a clear establishment of what can be created within the specific time frame.    Researched different software programs, maintaining software documentation.    Implemented contingency plans in case the website goes down Maintaining and expanding/enhancing the website once built Managing a team might also be part of the job role.    Were responsible for updating our current online applications, as well as developing and implementing a usability testing process to insure that new website applications meet our company's  requirements. Education Bachelor's Oklahoma State University Institute of Technology - Okmulgee, OK September 2017 to May 2019 Associate Oklahoma State University Oklahoma City - Oklahoma City, OK May 2017 High School Diploma Higher Secondary School March 2012 Skills Html, Javascript, Php, Ms office, Css, SQL, Management, Graphic Design, Network Administration, Network Security, QA, Information Assurance, Quality Assurance Additional Information SKILLS    Attention to detail Payroll Specialist Tech support experience    Analytical thinking and Blueprint, document, and Computer science  complex problem solving schematics writing    Management and Proficient with 3d design Adobe creative suite  leadership tools    Exceptional programming Javascript/jquery Proficiency in css, php and  skills html    Technical and design Web design skills Creative and effective ideas  abilities    Excellent budgeting abilities Proactive problem solver Time-management skills    Desktop troubleshooting Data processing Complex problem solving  skills    Expertise in network Proficiency in ms office Technical support  security    Recruiting and training Team building experience Coaching background    Dependable and organized Inventory management