Manager Manager Manager, Identity and Access Management Phenix City, AL Insightful, results-driven IT professional with notable success in a broad range of corporate IT security initiatives while participating in planning, analyzing, and implementing solutions in support of business objectives. Analytical, detail oriented with strong programming skills; work diligently and long on tedious assignments. Highly seasoned and reliable Computer Technician with a strong technical background and excellent client service record. Adept at explaining complex technical concepts and processes to clients and non-technical staff in a clear and understandable manner. Able to multitask effectively and bring several simultaneous installation and repair projects to completion with full accuracy and efficiency. Maintain excellent interpersonal communication, time management, and problem resolution skills.    COMPTUER SKILLS  • Management: Experience for over 10 years.  • Experience with Languages: JavaScript, PHP, HTML  • Systems: Windows 98/2000/XP/Vista/7/10, Server 2003/2008 R2/2012/2016, Unix, Linux, AS400, Mainframe, Active Directory, SQL, Oracle, CORE Security, Cherwell  • Software: Microsoft Office XP-2016, Office365, Novell, WinZip, Symantec Ghost, Remedy 7.0/6.0, DameWare Mini Remote Console, TightVNC, UltraVNC, SCCM, VMWare, Putty, Powershell, Cyberark, Symantec Endpoint Protection (SEP), TippingPoint, ProofPoint  • EMR's: Athena, EClinicalWorks, Meditech 6, Aria, Varian Work Experience Manager Aflac - Columbus, GA February 2018 to Present Identity & Access Management Aflac  • Manages a team of people responsible for managing end-user identity, end-user application access, application resource access, directory maintenance, to include the user and application security lifecycle from provisioning to deprovisioning of access rights; analyzes trends in access requests and evaluates requests to ensure security measures are in place and user access is appropriate, approved, and applied in accordance with Global Information Security standards and policies; organizes and conducts training for team, prepares procedures, monitors workload to make recommendations for staffing, and provides monthly metrics.  • As required, work coverage shifts alongside staff to handle work tickets,  • Develop and maintain relationships with internal and external stakeholders, including regulatory and compliance teams.  • Possesses and applies expert knowledge of operational principles, practices, and procedures; interprets and applies division and organizational policies and procedures, and recommends changes or enhancements to procedures or processes.  • Provides technical direction in the delivery of service to employees and communicates training and performance needs to supervisors; uses various evaluation and feedback methods (checking work, problem time, etc.) to measure and communicate performance status to management. Security Systems Administrator Aflac February 2017 to February 2018 • Work closely with compliance, engineering, vulnerability, threat, desktop and Incident Response Team to provide whitelist and blacklist emails and sites.  • Manage, patch and verify updates are being pushed out for Symantec Endpoint Protection for vulnerability management.  • Manage, patch, update and monitor TippingPoint.  • Manage, update as needed and monitor ProofPoint.  • Manage SEP end-points on all 5000 PC's, VM's and servers.  • Run scripts as needed. Security Support Analyst Aflac August 2015 to February 2017 • Supports all information security access requests while maintaining access control lists for multiple systems.    • Troubleshoots and identifies user security and/or access issues and provides impromptu client training when necessary.    • Tracks and provides monthly, quarterly and annual reporting for internet access attempts, work order and Incident Report (IR) metrics to IT Information Security management.    • Identify and communicate internet access attempt patterns to Risk Management Team.    • Work closely with Disaster Recovery team to run DR tests twice a year.    • Assists with basic auditing of system access controls as well as basic forensics for Human Resources and the Aflac Legal department.    • Provides access control lists to Internal Audit as well as multiple Business Unit Analysts.    • Manage access through our third party vendors such as Paymetric and Paylogix.    • Provides new Aflac employees with basic Information Security policies and procedures during New Employee Orientation (NEO).    • Periodically assists with special projects and elevations involving other departments within Aflac's Information Technology and other business units.    • Train new employee's, as well as show Job Shadowing. Microtech Piedmont Medical Center - Columbus, GA March 2013 to June 2015 • Worked on several large projects, which include the deployment and setup of the Language Service carts at all locations.  • Asset management of all PC's, Laptops, Proxy Card Readers and all technical equipment.  • Deploy Privacy Screens in all public facing areas.  • Work with system administrators to keep ownership of all software up to date on the SharePoint site.  • Active Directory Services; Active Directory Group Policy Objects (GPO); Group Policy Management Console (GPMC); DHCP; WINS; and DNS.  • Create users in several systems and grant the appropriate level of access.  • Preform user assessments to verify least amount of privilege.  • Extensive experience in installation, administration and networking in various environments.  • Yearly reviews of security polices, procedure and guidelines related to the software used within the hospital.  • Setup security on IPad's to include physical security to IV polls and mobile devices for end users.  • Verify the physical security of server room and j  • Toning lines and patching lines.  • Work closely with fellow microtechs and network techs to accomplish the moving of ports and lines in several areas.  • Image PC's, deploy PC's, repair PC's and change out hardware. Network Specialist Beck & Associates NSI June 2011 to June 2013 Education Master's in IT Organizational Management and Leadership, Ashford University May 2019 to Present Bachelors in Computer Science in Computer Science Grantham University September 2015 Associates in Networking in Columbus Technical College March 2011 Skills Operations, Microsoft Word, Inventory, Inventory Management, Word, training, Customer Service, Network Administration, Vmware, Exchange Certifications/Licenses CompTIA A+ Present CompTIA Security+ April 2017 to April 2020