Network Security Engineer <span class="hl">Network</span> Security Engineer Network Security Engineer - TIAG Washington, DC Exceptionally skilled in installing, repairing, maintenance and troubleshooting computer hardware and peripherals. Works well independently, or in a group setting providing all facets of computer support. Working knowledge of networking and securing devices. Knowledge and understanding of numerous software packages and operating systems. Proven ability to manage multiple troubleshooting tasks simultaneously while maintaining the quality of results. Excellent analytical and problem solving skills. Work Experience Network Security Engineer TIAG October 2018 to Present Remote management, monitoring, and visibility to assets throughout the customer's environment utilize tools such as, but not limited to, SCCM, Remedy, ACAS, SCAP, and SYSMAN to provide desktop, laptop, and server asset inventory, remote control capabilities, and software and patch deployment.  ? Run vulnerability scans through ACAS Nessus vulnerability scanner tool, to create reports, view dashboards, run active scans, view scans, and results for work stations and servers.  ? Working knowledge of AD, GPO, Microsoft Server and Desktop operating systems.  ? Creating and modifying WMI queries via SCCM, and patching workstations and servers via SCCM with cumulative monthly updates, software, and application packages.  ? Creation and deployment of customized packages to meet operational requirements and remediate security vulnerabilities.  ? Customized reporting capability to provide enhanced insight into the operational environment.  ? Proactive monitoring and alert notifications of mission critical assets; provide infrastructure management and monitoring capabilities to include the server, network (wired and wireless), and virtualization environments.  ? Design, implement, and support other enterprise level applications to include, but not limited to, net-centric mass-notification systems, enterprise log collection, and asset portfolio management.  ? Support, maintain, and upgrade the operating systems, patching packages, and hardware upgrades.  ? Build automation into daily processes, including server builds, patching, and configuration analysis.  ? Manages all tasks related to Enterprise Management products, and other Cybersecurity compliance and remediation tools.    NuAxis Innovations System Administrator Department of Labor November 2016 to October 2018 Provide Malware reports and analysis using McAfee ePO.  ? Monitor DOL mailbox and respond to potential phishing email reports, spam etc.  ? General SIEM technologies (Splunk) monitoring, analysis, content, development, and maintenance. Run searches, as well as create alerts, dashboards, & automate reports  ? Assist with Incident Response, and create brief customer reports. Monitor server logs, firewall logs, intrusion detection logs, and network traffic for unusual or suspicious activity  ? Notify the user that their host contains unauthorized software or potentially infected and there is potential for data loss in remediation.  ? Experience installing, hardening, deploying, documenting, and troubleshooting network perimeter security technologies assist with maintenance of proper version of the installed software elements, including bug fixes, security  ? Conducts vulnerability scans, interprets results and provide scans to customer. Support cybersecurity IT internal and embedded inspection teams  ? Analyze malicious files to evaluate its attributes and functionality. Identifying indicators that can be used for malware detection, the relationship between a given sample of malware and other known samples/families of malware, and notable features that indicate the origin of the malware and its authors.  ? Monitor network, servers and security using solar winds software tool.  ? Deploy patches that require updates to the client's machine via SCCM and Big Fix Console.  ? Install and Deploy software via SCCM. Deploy applications such as Office Pro 32/64 Bit, MS Project, Visio, and Google chrome etc. (via the application management folder).  ? Maintain and meet deliverable schedules. Proactive in obtaining information from multiple internal and external teams to complete requirements on schedule.  ? Moves, Add, Disables, Deletes, Changes of users and machines on the domain using Active Directory service. Add/delete/modify Distribution list.  ? Analyze, diagnose, document, resolve and, escalate reported issues and outages in a timely manner using Service Now Ticketing system.  ? Renew Digital Certificates using the ActivClient Agent Software.  ? Responsible for patch management, vulnerability scans, and configuring and troubleshooting workstation peripherals.  ? Install, configure, and manage the equipment and software necessary to perform system backups and recovery of applications and data  ? Support, monitor, test, and troubleshoot hardware and software problems related to server hardware, software, or network equipment for Windows 10.  ? Configure, install and troubleshoot client-approved laptops, Tablets, printers, network-connected copiers, scanners and other office IT equipment  Configure, install and troubleshoot client-approved software.  ? Responsible for supporting and maintaining operating system workstations and servers, including web servers, in support of business processing requirements.  ? Ensures workstation/server data integrity by evaluating, implementing, and managing appropriate software and hardware solutions Desktop Support Specialist at the Department of Defense Health Agency Intellidyne, LLC May 2016 to October 2016 Star Award Primary Technician August 2016 to August 2016 August 2016- The honor in recognition of outstanding achievement while going "Above and Beyond".    ? Provided Tier 2 levels IT supports to 4,500 end users on a variety of technical issues.  ? Primary Technician for performing Software application installs, Computer updates, and running SCCM tools.  ? Created and managed over 300 new user accounts using Windows Server to maintain data storage, applications, and communications by using Active Directory regularly to Create, disable/delete, and Add permissions to accounts, Password resets, and Group policies.  ? Applied solutions day to day by restoring broken or intermittent connections, adjusting software configuration, installed patches and rebooted entire system.  ? Created customer incidents in Remedy, the call tracking software for every call answered  ? Blackberry Support, adding and deleting users to the HA/TMA network as well as other ad hoc tasks.  ? Install Server printers, local printers on user machines, and Assist with work station setup and Troubleshooting.  ? Coordinate with team to ensure rapid response times and follow-up with customers.  ? Ensure that all VIP calls are responded to immediately.  ? Develop professional working relationship with customer to better understand business needs.  ? Process customer orders, prepare correspondence, and fulfill customer needs to ensure customer satisfaction.  ? Identify, research, and resolve technical problems  ? Document, track and monitor the problem to ensure a timely resolution using BMC Remedy Ticketing System.  ? Respond to telephone calls, email and personnel requests for technical support.  ? Update and develop CAC policies and procedures.  ? Coordinate and consult with Customer, Engineering, Desk side Manager, vendors and team members to meet customer requirements.  ? Advise management of potential risks that may have impact on customer base and operating environment. System Administrator R. Emmanuel Consulting & Training Center April 2015 to June 2016 • Use SIEM technologies and other native tools to perform the monitoring of security events on a 24x7 basis.  • Log all issues accurately in the ticket tracking systems (ServiceNow)  • Encrypt nodes using Windows BitLocker. Run weekly vulnerability reports via BigFix and Nessus.  • Push Bi-weekly patches and software via IBMs Big Fix.  • Utilize Splunk for monitoring of security events daily.  • Use Splunk to Install Apps, Create Dashboards, Alerts, in order to simplify data and proactively monitor network for security incidents and anomalies.  • Create SOP's for various SOC duties including Nessus vulnerability scanning, RFC Review, SEP Application and Device Control, and incident handling procedures.  • Help migrate company to Exchange Server 2010 from Exchange Server 2007.  • Configure and manage Exchange Online Archive.  • Perform analysis on Cisco firewall, Cisco Source-Fire IDS, BlueCoat Proxy, Symantec Endpoint Protection Manager, and DHCP logs.  • Analyze and triage phishing emails reported to IT and assist with the management and maintenance of security tools.  • Provide post-migration end user support to users with new OS issues.  • Create/manage new user accounts including granting access to desired drives, folders, and manage Windows 8 and Windows 7 workstations.  • Ensure that Remedy/Spiceworks tickets are resolved and completed to the client's satisfaction  • Active Directory - Account creation, Password resets, Group policies  • Develop client SharePoint Foundation 2010 sites and provide support as needed  • Apply solution by restoring broken or intermittent connections, adjusting software configuration install patches, and reboot system  • PC refresh and migration XP to Windows 7 and 8  • Process incidents/requests in a high pressure, time sensitive environment via phone, email, instant messaging, fax and desk side  • Provide initial trouble shooting of problems including root cause analysis for desktop, laptop and printers (local/ network)  • Perform administrative tasks including account creation, password resets and granting access to drives, folders and files in accordance to security guidelines  • Create and manage Network accounts to include granting access to secured file shares  • Coordinate and support VTC/Audio conferences  • Provide level 2 end-user technical support for Windows 7, Microsoft Office, Network connection • Update ticketing system to reflect work in progress or completed Education South Carolina State University 2013 to 2015 High School Diploma Friendship Collegiate Academy 2013 Skills ACTIVE DIRECTORY, CISCO, DATA CENTER, DNS, EXCHANGE, LAN, security, VPN, Networking