Network Engineer <span class="hl">Network</span> Engineer Network Engineer - Broadleaf-Inc Severn, MD Work Experience Network Engineer Broadleaf-Inc April 2018 to Present • Meets DoD 8570.01-M requirements as Information Assurance (IA) Management Level I (IAM Lvl I) & Information Assurance Technician Level II (IAT Lvl II) Certified - Security+ CE  • Engineer networking solutions as required  • Configure routers and switches as changes require  • Apply applicable security patched as required  • Assist teammates complete tasks as assigned  • Ensure configuration management  • Perform backup as directed  • SCAP tool knowledge  • Complete Quarterly STIGS on all networking devices and several Windows Machines using NESSUS Security Scanner and retrieving updates from DISA websites when faults are found  • Extensive knowledge on TACLANE encryptors including 175g and 250s  • Maximizes network performance by monitoring performance; troubleshooting network problems and outages; scheduling upgrades; collaborating with network architects on network optimization.  • Secures network system by establishing and enforcing policies; defining and monitoring access.  • Updates job knowledge by participating in educational opportunities; reading professional publications; maintaining personal networks; participating in professional organizations.  • Accomplishes information systems and organization mission by completing related results as needed.  • Reporting network operational status by gathering, prioritizing information; managing projects  • Performing network maintenance and system upgrades including service packs, patches, hot fixes and security configurations  • Provide Level-2/3 support and troubleshooting to resolve issues  • Work within established configuration and change management policies to ensure awareness, approval and success of changes made to the network infrastructure  • Select and implement security tools, policies, and procedures in conjunction with the company's security team  • Establish Routing and Xconnects for customers  • Liaise with vendors and other IT personnel for problem resolution  • Solid understanding of the OSI or TCP/IP model  • Hands-on experience with monitoring, network diagnostic and network analytics tools  • Sustain the necessary data throughput rate by monitoring networking activity and maintaining existing equipment  • Respond to network connectivity issues and resolve any wireless communication issues within the confines of the office Network Cable Systems Installer/Lead Technician Army National Guard February 2011 to Present • Responsible for the maintenance of cable/wire communications systems, communication security devices and other associated equipment. This equipment needs to consistently work in order for the Army to direct the movement of its troops  • Perform test on cable communications systems and circuit groups  • Operate manual and motorized cable construction equipment  • Install and repair circuits and wiring  • Maintenance on power generators  • Communication security policies and procedures  • Installs, operates, and performs unit level maintenance on cable and wire systems, to include Digital Group Multiplexers, Remote Multiplexing Combiners, repeaters, restorers, voltage protection devices, telephones, test stations, intermediate distribution frames, and related equipment.  • Configure digital group multiplexers and remote multiplexing combiners for operations. Installs, operates, performs strapping, restrapping, preventive maintenance checks and services and unit level maintenance on communication security devices.  • Performs tests on cable communications systems to ensure circuit and system quality. Tests circuits/groups to detect and locate line faults. Operates manual and motorized cable construction equipment. Climbs poles, as necessary, and assists in the construction of tactical cable and wire lines. Clears and maintains rights of way.  • Recognizes electronic countermeasures and applies appropriate electronic counter-countermeasures as necessary. Operates and performs preventive maintenance checks and services on telephone line and other vehicles.  • Installs, operates and performs PMCS on power generators.  • Coordinates and supervises team member activities in the construction, installation, and recovery of cable and wire communications systems and auxiliary equipment.  • Coordinates remote trunking operations with switching central personnel. Interprets and updates line route maps and overlays.  • Coordinates team logistic requirements. Checks and performs PMCS and unit level maintenance on wire and cable systems and associated communications equipment. Ensures PMCS and maintenance functions are performed in accordance with published schedules. Network Administrator Strategic Resources, Inc September 2016 to April 2018 • Maintains computing environment by identifying network requirements; installing upgrades; monitoring network performance.  • Diagnosing and fixing problems or potential problems with the network and its hardware, software and systems  • Monitoring network and systems to improve performance  • Support and administer third-party applications  • Ensure network security and connectivity  • Establishes network specifications by conferring with users; analyzing workflow, access, information, and security requirements; designing router administration, including interface configuration and routing protocols.  • Establishes network by evaluating network performance issues including availability, utilization, throughput, goodput, and latency; planning and executing the selection, installation, configuration, and testing of equipment; defining network policies and procedures; establishing connections and firewalls.  • Maintains network performance by performing network monitoring and analysis, and performance tuning; troubleshooting network problems; escalating problems to vendor.  • Secures network by developing network access, monitoring, control, and evaluation; maintaining documentation.  • Upgrades network by conferring with vendors; developing, testing, evaluating, and installing enhancements.  • Updates job knowledge by participating in educational opportunities; reading professional publications; maintaining personal networks; participating in professional organizations.  • Protects organization's value by keeping information confidential.  • Set up user accounts, permissions and passwords  • Resolve problems reported by end user  • Define network policies and procedures  • Specify system requirements and design solutions  • Research and make recommendations on server system administration Strategic Resources, Inc 2016 to 2018 Cable Technician 2 American Systems, Inc June 2015 to September 2016 • Install, maintain, and service cabling infrastructure and devices for Data, Audio Visual, and CCTV; includes pre-wiring, installation, termination, testing, reporting, and labelling per specifications and drawings  • Test and troubleshoot issues with network communication  • Conduct thorough inspections of cable lines to ensure the system is working correctly  • Repair related poles and towers to resolve cable issues  • Pull, route, or label CAT5 or CAT6 cable  • Install various support structures, including cable racks, j-hooks, innerduct, and other related structures  • Communicate and collaborate with other members of the field service team to resolve complex issues  • Flexibility to work in a variety of environments, from construction sites to finished corporate offices  • Install network racks and cabinets in server rooms  • Interact with customers and prospects, ensuring all inquiries are handled professionally  • Preforming MACS (moves, adds, changes) on existing network connections  • Run copper and fiber cabling from D-Mark (Point of entry) into location that client is looking to place network service  • Check IP addresses for modems, configuring the modems to ensure they are operational and test the connection to make sure the connections are live and responsive  • Review, interpret and work with information on trunk orders, facility orders, message trunk orders, network design orders and/or circuit layout orders  • Responsible for maintaining a safe workplace and ensuring that safety is the highest priority in the workplace  • Test and check equipment and/or assists other employees in testing and checking equipment  • Working knowledge of test equipment (e.g., Tech Tad, Sidekick, volt-ohm meters, transmission measuring sets, HST-3000)  • Reading and comprehending blueprints and building documentation / redline work QA Analyst/Help Desk Technician Dimenisonal Helath Care Associates, Inc June 2014 to June 2015 • Responsible for providing technical assistance and support related to computer systems, hardware, or software. Respond to queries, runs diagnostic programs, isolates problem, and determines and implements solution.  • Write training manuals.  • Train computer users.  • Maintain daily performance of computer systems.  • Respond to email messages for customers seeking help.  • Ask questions to determine nature of problem.  • Walk customer through problem-solving process.  • Install, modify, and repair computer hardware and software.  • Clean up computers.  • Run diagnostic programs to resolve problems.  • Resolve technical problems with Local Area Networks (LAN), Wide Area Networks (WAN), and other systems.  • Install computer peripherals for users.  • Follow up with customers to ensure issue has been resolved.  • Gain feedback from customers about computer usage.  • Run reports to determine malfunctions that continue to occur. Youth Rehabilitation Specialist New Castle County Detention Center 2011 to 2014 Education B.S. in Criminal Justice University of Maryland May 2010 Skills TELNET, FIREWALLS, REMEDY, GHOST, COTS, SYMANTEC, WIRING, SITE INSPECTION, CABLING, COPPER SPLICING, SPLICING, CUSTOMER SERVICE, MAINTENANCE, BEST PRACTICES, ACROBAT, EXCEL, OUTLOOK, POWERPOINT, MICROSOFT WORD, WORD, Cisco, MPLS, DNS, Active Directory, Security Certifications/Licenses Security+ September 2016 to Present Additional Information Relevant Skills  Working Knowledge of: Microsoft Word; Excel, PowerPoint, Outlook, Acrobat Adobe, Government of the Shelf (GOTS), Commercial of the Shelf (COTS), Symantec Ghost Solution Suite, Ticket Management System (Remedy), Putty, TelNet, Cabling (Cat 5 & Cat6, Fiber), Excellent knowledge of best practices around management, control, and monitoring of server infrastructure, Experience with firewalls, Internet VPN's remote implementation, Ability to set up and configure server hardware, Familiarity with backup and recovery software and methodologies,  Great at organizing, prioritizing and multitasking, Structural Understanding, Electronics experience, Wiring layout, Copper Splicing, Site Inspection, Wiring Maintenance, Circuit Layout, Preventative Maintenance, STIG network devices, knowledge of RMF framework