Technical Support Representative Technical Support Representative Technical Support Representative - Customer Engineering Service Penitas, TX To secure a position working with information technologies and IT employers that allows me to continue growing professionally and contribute my technical expertise, programming, and customer service. Work Experience Technical Support Representative Customer Engineering Service 2017 to Present • Provide customers with field service technical assistance on major know printer brands in the market.  • Trained to service many major brand technical supports by phone or by customer's location.  • Supply field work to customers BREAK/FIX REPAIR  • Install and monitor photo labs, office printers on large brand models in the printer industry.  • Identified system problems and performed necessary system repairs  • Appointed Cell Lead in my district area or filed work  • Manage call distribution to fellow co-workers to keep work flow  • Document and arrange team meetings every day to plan the next due assignment with my team  • Field work all over Texas, Oklahoma, Chicago, and many more.  • Ongoing process in becoming a specialist with in my district. Computer Support Technician The Geeks Guru - Penitas, TX 2013 to 2016 • Assist customers on site and remotely with any computer issues they are having and needed to be solved as soon as possible.  • Train customers on site or remotely.  • Supply field work to customers residence and businesses by providing technical insight on how to setup their network system or BREAK/FIX REPAIR  • Installed and monitored networking hardware  • Installed networking cable to business and residential residence.  • Provide senior citizen tech help, by assisting them on how to communicate with their love one with any operating system device they have available.  • Implemented computer system hardware and software technologies Installed, tests, and repaired computer systems on site Field Technician / Network Administrator / IT Support ResturantDealers.com - Pharr, TX 2012 to 2013 • Managed the, monitoring, maintenance, upgrade, and support of all POS systems, including servers, workstations, operating systems, other hardware & software.  • Accomplish service tickets created for my department in a timely manner, by pre-configuring the systems and network hardware before arriving on site.  • Maintained appropriate documentation and procedures from every work site.  • Maintained and operated ticket system with appropriate documentation.  • Worked with owners and employees on POS computer device, to define and fix issues on their system by phone or thru remote.  • Provided great customer service on the field, while installing and networking their site with our new technology.  • Installed networking equipment and ran cabling Network / Copier Field Technician Digital Office Systems - McAllen, TX 2011 to 2012 • Installing and setting up network connection from bottom up to communicate with copier, and PC.  • Setup scan-to-PC, scan-to e-mail, scan to folder, making workload in the office more productive.  • Maintain and fix Copystar, HP, Sharp, and Muratec copiers and printers in-house and on the field.  • Drove company truck and car to deliver and pick-up new and damaged copiers and printers to customer's business location or to our office.  • Provided solutions using specific product knowledge and owner's manual Field Technician Time Warner Affiliate - Weslaco, TX 2010 to 2010 • Test and run cable outside and in attic for internet, TV and phone service.  • Document and report service ticket completion and activation though a laptop provided by the company.  • Create pole setup directly or create mid span to complete job service and gain service for customer. Tester/Programmer AirCom International - Dallas, TX 2008 to 2009 • Testing firmware on new cellular phone models before they entered the market.  • Document and reporting findings to Quality Control Center.  • Developing and optimizing database software to increase production time, using ASP.NET and Visual Studio 2008. Education Diploma Kaplan College - McAllen, TX December 2011 AAS in Software Applications and Programming ITT Technical Institute - Arlington, TX September 2007 None in Computer Aided Drafting and Design South Texas College - McAllen, TX Skills Customer Service (10+ years), Tech Support (10+ years), Troubleshooting (10+ years), Help Desk (10+ years), Apple (5 years), Iphone (8 years), Brother Technical Support (2 years), Time Manegment (5 years), Lexmark Technical Support (2 years), Kyocera Technical Support (1 year), Xerox Technical Support (2 years), Oki Data Technical Support (2 years), Desktop Support (10+ years), Networking (5 years), Vb.Net (3 years), Windows (10+ years) Certifications/Licenses DL600 Level 2 w/focus Present DL6XX Pre Work Present Hazard Communication March 2019 to March 2020 Blood borne Pathogens April 2019 to April 2020 RxSafe Complete Course Present Rimage Field Service Present Epson 7890 and SureColor L2 Present Fujifilm CX3240 Installation Present Driver Safety Program April 2019 to April 2020 HIPAA: Do the Right Thing April 2019 to April 2020 Synergy Medical Present Lock Out Tag Out Safety April 2019 to April 2020 Frontier 570 Level 2 Present Hazcom Present Zoom FLS Present Ricoh infoprint Present Hy-Ko All-Inclusive Service Present Assessments Technical Support — Proficient July 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/cwoh49y-drvv9xzq Customer Focus & Orientation — Highly Proficient July 2019 Responding to customer situations with sensitivity. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/eq5fhxgmyg6-l6ey Proficiency with Microsoft Office: Mail & Calendar (Mac) — Highly Proficient July 2019 Measures a candidate’s proficiency in using Microsoft Office Mail and Calendar tools to manage their workload. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/97qbvqbxo23jergs Proficiency with Microsoft Office: Mail & Calendar (PC) — Expert July 2019 Measures a candidate’s proficiency in using Microsoft Office Mail and Calendar tools to manage their workload. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/900-xoc98p3eqsux Spreadsheets with Microsoft Excel — Familiar July 2019 Measures a candidate’s Microsoft Excel knowledge including common tools, PivotTables, conditional & nested formulas, and custom visuals. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/qtoiguvxoiht4wca Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.