Supply Management Supply Management Reactor Operator/Shutdown Reactor Operator - United States Navy Chesapeake, VA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Supply Management United States Navy - Norfolk, VA March 2016 to Present Coordinate with naval supply system to order and return parts for essential repairs to the propulsion plant network and data acquisition system. Maintain adequate supplies on hand for quick repair and reliability of network functions. Reactor Operator/Shutdown Reactor Operator United States Navy - Norfolk, VA May 2015 to Present Maintain plant pressure and temperature within specified tolerances. Monitor all changes in plant conditions, evaluating trends and taking action as required by casualty procedures and operating procedures. Coordinate with other watch stations in the plant to perform various evolution's such as startups and shutdowns. Network Administrator United States Navy - Norfolk, VA October 2014 to Present Manage Confidential computer network for propulsion plant. Perform preventative and corrective maintenance on network consisting of 12 servers and approximately 100 clients. Troubleshoot and repair network software and hardware. Manage user accounts of approximately 450 users and corrective user technical issues. Maintenance Technician United States Navy - Norfolk, VA June 2013 to Present Perform both preventative and corrective maintenance on reactor instrumentation and control equipment and steam plant detectors. Experience in using test equipment such as SOLTEC Chart Recorder, Fluke multimeter, Haskell pump pressure test device, and Puget Sound Naval Shipyard differential pressure test device. Experience in reading electrical schematics and preparing methods of de-energization for safe work conditions. Maintain quality assurance requirements of steam plant and reactor plant fluid systems during maintenance evolutions.    Supply Management Education Nuclear Power Plant Operation Naval Nuclear Prototype School - Ballston Spa, NY 2012 to 2013 Electronics Naval Nuclear Power School - Goose Creek, SC 2011 to 2012 Electronics Technician 'A' School - Goose Creek, SC 2011 to 2011 Additional Information SKILLS  Operations (5 years), Computer Hardware (1 year), Maintenance (3 years), Troubleshooting (2 years), Testing (2 years), Electrical Safety (6 Years)