Software Development Manager Software Development Manager Software Development Manager - Alliance and Associates Middleburg, FL Results-oriented software engineering professional with more than 3+ years of experience in field.  Well-versed in promoting object-oriented approaches to real-time software development.  Analytical and detail-oriented.  More than 7 years of successful experience in customer service and support with recognized  strengths in account maintenance, problem-solving, trouble-shooting, sales staff support, and  planning/implementing proactive procedures and systems to avoid problems in the first place.  Possess solid computer skills.  Ability to train, motivate, and supervise customer service employees.  Proactive planning led to notable increased morale in managed departments. Work Experience Software Development Manager Alliance and Associates - Orange Park, FL January 2016 to Present Designed and implemented customer reporting systems.  Utilized MySQL, SQL, and MVC.  Ensured compatibility between multiple sites and languages.  Updated and Maintained programs and reporters upon request.  Designed and developed reports using SQL Server Reporting Services.  Collaborated with other developers to identify and alleviate number of bugs and errors in software.  Met with Senior Systems Operator on daily basis to provide detailed project report and milestone  updates.  Built databases and table structures following SQL and MySQL architecture methodology for web  applications.  Developed code fixes and enhancements for inclusion in future code releases and patches.  Maintained existing applications and designed and delivered new applications.  Gathered and defined customer requirements to develop well-organized project plans based on clear specifications.  Wrote code on Windows platform using Visual Studio. Network Administrator Full Moon Automotive - Dover, AR January 2010 to Present Designed and implemented computer networks.  Maintained a reliable, secure, and efficient data communications network.  Installed LAN components.  Tracked and renewed necessary software licenses.  Created Network redundancy and backups for continuity. Receiving Agent Full Moon Automotive - Hot Springs, AR January 2014 to January 2016 Current forklift operation license.  Extremely proficient in picking, packing and moving duties.  Functional knowledge of commonly-used concepts and practices used in a warehouse capacity. Engagement Specialist Full Moon Automotive - Hot Springs, AR January 2012 to January 2014 Actively maintaining call performance goals such as: Average Handle Time, Issue Resolve, and Transfer Rate.  Handling customer interactions professionally, as to maintain a healthy and long-lasting bond with the organization.  Quickly and effectively solve customer challenges.  Maintain quality control/satisfaction records, constantly seeking new ways to improve customer  service. Electronics Team Lead Full Moon Automotive - Hot Springs, AR January 2011 to January 2013 Establish and implement policies, goals, objectives, and procedures for their department.  Watch for and recognize security risks and thefts, and know how to prevent or handle these  situations.  Perform/Issued work activities of subordinates, such as cleaning and organizing shelves and displays and selling merchandise.  Answer customers' questions, and provide information on procedures or policies. Education Associate of Arts in Computer Science & Information Technology National Park College - Hot Springs, AR 2016 Bachelor of Science in Computer Science & Information Technology University of Arkansas At Little Rock - Little Rock, AR Skills Java, Javascript Additional Information Skills    Educated in Data Structures and Algorithms C++ proficiency  Introductory abilities using SQL, MySQL CSS proficiency  Effective communication skills HMTL5 proficiency  Strong work ethic Concept development  High self-motivation Programming  Ability to work independently and as a team Troubleshooting and debugging  Javascript proficiency Data management  Java proficiency Web development  C# proficiency