Help Desk Help Desk Help Desk Sierra Vista, AZ Transitioning Service Member who shows tremendous overall knowledge and expertise in the IT field. Specializes in Security and maintaining the Confidentiality, Integrity, and Availability of information. Cisco Certified Technician for entry level network administration and basic hardware repair of routers and switches. Vast troubleshooting and problem-solving skills in IT, acquired over 2 years in the military. Equally capable of completing any task assigned, alone or as part of a team. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Help Desk U.S. Army - Fort Campbell, KY 2017 to 2019 • Oversaw active directory, providing all users with account and hardware management  ? Solved hundreds of the organizations open trouble tickets and kept them below 3 at all times  ? Tracked trouble ticketing system and updated asset database to ensure all documents were correct and up to date  ? Securely replaced, updated and managed the corporations network infrastructure to ensure end of life equipment was being rotated out  ? Performed account administration for over 1000 personnel in an organization  ? Ensured all users met training requirements and regulations, resulting in 95% minimum overall compliance at all times  ? Maintained an 80% ticket completion rate without escalation  ? Operated a cybercafe that provided 100% of users on-demand desktop support    ? Trained end users on proper troubleshooting procedures and techniques, resulting in a customer friendly and efficient help desk  ? Directly provided senior Leadership with desktop and mobile device support Network Administrator U.S. Army - Fort Campbell, KY 2017 to 2019 • Successfully setup Local Area Networks multiple times, providing up to 32 users secure Internet and IP Phone Access  ? Successfully averted a simulated database breach that would have allowed attackers to reach a multitude of confidential data, resulting in a 0% loss of information  ? Provided companies systems with extended reach using relay communications sites  ? Ability to requisition immediate and cost effective solutions in response to a threat  ? Utilized a wide variety of IT intrusion response, troubleshooting and monitoring tools such as Wireshark and Nmap  ? Performed routine maintenance and timely backups on servers  ? Implemented tactical fiber optic backbone to satisfy organizations need for more bandwidth providing scalability for years to come  ? Repaired and spliced multiple broken fiber optic cables during routine training that saved the organization over $2000 Communications Security Manager U.S. Army - Fort Campbell, KY 2017 to 2019 • Securely deployed encryption keys that ensured priceless amounts of data remain confidential  ? Maintained responsibility of over $50000 worth of hardware with a net loss of $0  ? Employed, developed and troubleshooted "key chains" to allow for autonomous replacement of out of date keys  ? Implemented industry best practices and standards such as HIPPA, COBIT, ITIL Crew chief Imperial Landscaping - Huachuca City, AZ 2012 to 2017 • Successfully supervised the completion of multiple full scale operations of up to 5 personnel  ? Directed daily operations of team, analyzing workflow, establishing priorities, developing standards and setting deadlines.  ? Maintained a customer satisfaction rate of 90% over five years Education Computer Information Systems Degree(27SH) in Information Technology Arizona State University - Tempe, AZ Skills NETWORK ADMINISTRATION, SECURITY, FIBER OPTIC, HELP DESK, DATA ENTRY, Active Directory, Comptia, Helpdesk Support, Desktop Support, Secret Clearance, Service Desk, Tech Support, System Administrator, System Admin, Vmware Awards Distinguished Honor Graduate 2018-03 I achieved the highest overall grade with a 97.7% average throughout my Advanced Individual Training at Fort Gordon, GA. Certifications/Licenses Fiber Optic Installer December 2018 to December 2022 Credential ID: FOI214897 CompTIA Security+ January 2019 to January 2022 Credential URL: http://verify.CompTIA.org  Credential ID: 7QW9LGB3SCRQQG3G Cisco Certified Technician Routing and Switching December 2017 to December 2020 Credential URL: http://www.cisco.com/go/verifycertificate  Credential ID: 432116291076EQXI Assessments Technical Support — Expert June 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/hgh2km4utohplpjf Basic Computer Skills: PC — Expert June 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to perform basic computer operations, navigate a Windows OS, and troubleshoot common computer problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/qacs0ctggc2s0usk Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.