Help Desk Representative Help Desk Representative Help Desk Representative - Earth Networks Rockville, MD Work Experience Help Desk Representative Earth Networks - Germantown, MD November 2017 to Present Manage user accounts in Active Directory, Azure AD, Office 365, and Adobe Creative Cloud. Create  PowerShell scripts to automate tasks. Work cross-functionally to align project deliverables. Maintain  vendor relationships, negotiating prices and services.  Key Achievements:  § Increased security by developing and implementing a password policy comprised of a multifactor  authentication.  § Researched and secured a new backup provider, significantly decreasing costs.  § Key player assisting in a service migration project. System Engineer Intelsat - Tysons Corner, VA June 2012 to November 2017 Led systems administration support for a data center, server, storage, and network infrastructure.  Investigated and diagnosed root cause of network and system failures. Managed mobile devices via  MAAS360.  Key Achievements:  § Recognized by customers and senior leaders for possessing a strong work ethic and providing  superior customer service.  § Developed and maintained PowerShell scripts to gather remote site information, resulting in program removal and reduced costs. Junior Network Administrator The Jewish Federation of Greater Washington - Rockville, MD November 2010 to June 2012 Supported critical issues, troubleshooting and resolving issues quickly and efficiently. Performed monthly  Windows maintenance, running server updates and software upgrades in RAS servers. Ensured hardware and software PCI compliance and new operating system compatibility. Third-party vendor liaison,  delegating tasks to maintain project timelines.  Key Achievement:  § Appointed member of the Help Desk emergency on-call rotation team. Education Master Certificate in PC Networking Design & Security in PC Networking Design & Security John Hopkins University Skills Active directory (8 years), best practices (7 years), It support (8 years), Mac (2 years), Mac os (2 years) Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/matthewbamba/