Level 2 Technician Level 2 Technician Level 2 Technician - CAMS Bluewire Technology Houston, TX Work Experience Level 2 Technician CAMS Bluewire Technology April 2019 to Present Assist clients in troubleshooting issues with a variety of network and systems infrastructure, implementing requested changes and upgrades to existing network infrastructure, building hosted servers in a Vmware vCenter cluster, manage on-site servers hosting applications such as  Active Directory, On-Premises Exchange, Microsoft SQL Server, File Servers, and custom applications. Managing customer firewalls including  SonicWALLs, Cisco ASAs, and Fortinets. Managing Layer 2 and 3 switches, including Cisco Catalyst, Dell PowerConnect, Meraki and others Network Administrator Hollywood Casino Baton Rouge August 2017 to April 2019 Primarily responsible for maintaining, monitoring, updating and upgrading the Network Infrastructure consisting of both HP and Cisco Layer 2 switches, multiple Cisco Catalyst 3850 core Layer 3 switches, and Cisco ASA 5510s managed by the Firepower Management Console. Maintain and upgrade all VMware infrastructure, consisting of 4 ESXi 6.5 hosts managed by a vCenter 6.5 virtual appliance, maintain Nimble SAN which houses all production VMs. Verify Updates are pushed via WSUS to all servers and workstations. Maintain Active Directory and provision and archive user accounts. cipate in On-call rotation.    • Accomplishments:  • Created Python Script to automate the procedure for backing up all network configuration files on daily basis.  • Created Python Script to gather data from various layer 2 devices to aid in troubleshooting future issues.  • Implemented ACLs to only allow management from admin workstation IPs  • Migrated from single /16 subnet with singe broadcast domain to department based VLANs with /23 and /24 Subnets  • Migrated all edge switches from 10/100Mb to Gigabit  • Replaced nonfunctioning backup solution to Veeam for all critical VMware based servers.  • Implemented and configured Solarwinds to monitor and alert errors for Systems and Network Infrastructure.  • Implemented migration to EMC Data Domain for both VMware and AS/400 backups, replicating backups to a sister property Senior Systems Analyst L'auberge Casino and Hotel Baton Rouge June 2012 to August 2017 Maintained critical IT Infrastructure. Creation and removal of user accounts. Verify backup process and procedures. Automated applicable tasks such as user creation, asset inventory, log collection, application installation, workstation configuration, or any repetitive/low risk task. Server and desktop provisioning technologies commonly used include: Active Directory, PowerShell, Exchange 2010, Office 365, Windows Server (2003, 2008, and 2012), MS SQL Server, SCCM 2012, Hyper-V 2012, HP EVA SAN, HP Blade Onboard Administrator, EMC Data Domain, VMware vCenter 5.5, Veeam Backup and Recovery, Cisco Unified Call Manager and Unity Connection, AS/400    Accomplishments  • Created custom PowerShell module for various property specific tasks, such as user creation, data collection and customized software deployment.  • Automated the deployment and configuration of IBM's iSeries (AS/400) Client Access 5250 Workstation Sessions to end user workstations, accomplished via a PowerShell script. Previously, this was a manual 10-20 minute task which would commonly result in inconsistent configs.  • Created multiple scripts (Mostly PowerShell, .bat, and Python) which ran as Scheduled Task to collect Inventory of all Servers, PCs, and Network devices on a daily basis, exporting the reports (AD Name, user, make model, serial number, OS, CPU type, Memory, and disk space usage) to a centralized location. Customizable to alert via ticketing system if specific devices were missing after a specified amount of time.  • Created PowerShell Script which would perform a SQL query on the AS/400 in order to verify that all casino floor and customer facing workstations were set to use the correct session name and alert via ticketing system if they were not. This was done as a proactive measure to prevent a multitude of customer facing issues that would result from incorrect session name configuration.  • Implemented multiple IT monitoring solutions, initially Nagios and later Solarwinds.  • Coordinated with centralized project management and IT Infrastructure teams on a wide range of projects including application and systems implementation, major Infrastructure upgrades, migrations, compliance standardization practices, and yearly SOX audits.  • Performed complete end user workstation replacement (450+ Dell OptiPlex 9040s), over three week period. Utilizing a SCCM to push master image and migrated user profiles with Microsoft Deployment Toolkit. Techinical Support Analyst Pinnacle Entertainment February 2012 to June 2012 Worked at a centralized corporate help desk that provided first level technical support for internal end users in various geographic locations. Systems Technician L'auberge du Lac Casino Resort September 2010 to January 2012 Assisted senior staff to maintain applications: LMS, ACSC, Micros 9700, and AD. Repaired, replaced and provisioned new workstations. Maintained Windows Server 2003 File and print servers. Migrated users from physical workstations to VMware VDI. Verified Windows Infrastructure and AS/400 backups completed successfully. Performed Daily SOX Audit Education Associates of Applied Science in Computer Networking Technology Sowela Technical Community College January 2007 to April 2010