DevOps Engineer - (Technical Consultant) DevOps Engineer - (Technical Consultant) San Diego, CA Systems Engineer with 6 years of various experience in network configuration, server and computing systems optimization, hardware installation, administration, and maintenance within an enterprise organization, using business and information systems best practices. A comprehensive background in homogenous environments containing multiple versions of both Windows and Linux operating systems. A technology professional who strives to constantly refine his practice and hone skills to provide the highest pedigree of product for the customer.  Technical Skill and Core Competencies  * Strong and consistent work ethic provides quality work with attention to technical detail.  * Demonstrated consistent performance, professionalism, ability to provide quality work and complete tasks that garner the respect of colleagues and customers alike.  * Quick learner, who remains abreast of new technologies and processes.  * Versed in working with Waterfall, Agile and Kanban methodologies for systems development life cycle.    Technical Acumen (In order of experience)  * Testing Services, Windows Clients 7, 8.1, and 10, Windows Servers 2003 - 2016, VMware ESXi 6.X Active Directory, DNS, Group Policy Management, ACAS, SCAP, Ethernet/Fiber Network Cabling, Cisco Router and Switch CLI, PowerShell Scripting, Firewall/ACL Configuration (Junos' OS), Public Key Infrastructure, GitLab, Ansible, Red Hat Enterprise Linux 6.X & 7.X, Shell Scripting (Powershell & Bash, ) Exchange 2010 and 2013, and ServiceNow. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience DevOps Engineer - (Technical Consultant) Perspecta - San Diego, CA March 2018 to Present * Developed automation roles to complete manual tasks in a fraction of the time using Ansible, thus allowing Systems Administrators more time to focus on other tasks. Ultimately total cost of operation of the    * Developed software repositories for Red Hat Satellite services that deployed to development, test and production sites, the result of which maintained homogenous environments across multiple logical and physical networks.    * Led and instructed a community of practice for Ansible and GitLab, which hastened the onboarding of peers that had no coding background.    * Technical environment: Ansible (YAML), GitLab, Azure DevOps, Red Hat Enterprise Linux 6-7, Windows Server 2008 - 2016, VMware, Team Foundation Services, ServiceNow, Tenable Security Center (ACAS), OpenVPN, Pulse Secure, Active Directory, DNS and McAfee HBSS. Systems Administrator Perspecta August 2017 to March 2018 * Leveraged ticketing software, Team Foundation Services, to serve as an incident ticket repository and escalation platform. Rapid response and resolution time for all tickets, while performing as the technical team lead, with the fastest mean time to resolve compared to five other teams. Consistently recognized by internal and external customers as having superior performance.    * Deploy and manage Windows and Linux guest operating systems in a heterogeneous environment to varying specification of hardware and software provisioning. After the latest patches are applied, individual computer vulnerabilities are consolidated inside of Tenable Security Center and reviewed to ensure that systems are secured fully.    * Consistent, in-depth, use of Active Directory, DNS, GPMC and Exchange to apply all desired to configurations in each application. Created and maintained services across multiple domains to ensure a stable operating environment for enterprise users.    * Scripting support of the enterprise infrastructure by creating and monitoring user and computer accounts with integrated scripts for automated and rapid response to requests.    * Technical environment: Windows Clients 7 - 10, Windows Servers 2003 - 2016, VMware ESXi 5 - 6, Active Directory, DNS, Group Policy Management, ACAS, Network Cabling, Cisco CLI, PowerShell Scripting, Public Key infrastructure, Red Hat Enterprise Linux, Microsoft Exchange 2010 - 2013, client/server Security Hardening, vulnerability remediation, McAfee HBSS, and Symantec Data Center Services. Hardware and Software Test Analyst - (Contractor) Insight Global - San Diego, CA February 2017 to August 2017 * Performed testing of new or upgraded software and hardware validating that all functional use cases are operational. Compiled testing results quickly and accurately for customer approval.    * Upgrade and configure various technological capabilities such as: Voice over Internet Protocol, wireless routers/access points, and security software to meet client's requirements. Through cooperative and collaborative work with multiple engineers, new systems or software were deployed ahead of, or on schedule for a multitude of projects.    * A demonstrated ability to think collaboratively to troubleshoot a constantly evolving realm of technologies allowing for the hurdling of work stoppages. Stoppages include, but are not limited to, constant environmental changes within group policies, structure and migration of various organizational units. Through concise communications to ancillary engineering teams, issues were explained or mitigated in order to propagate rapid-response to resolve issues. Data Network Specialist United States Marine Corps - Camp Pendleton, CA February 2013 to February 2017 * Maintained battalion servers, computers, printers, cables and other equipment. Configured and installed routers, switches, and wireless controllers. Analyzed software, hardware and network systems for various transmission systems. Managed application patches, data backup, security changes and networking configuration.    * Had the highest internal customer ratings as an on call, Data Network helpdesk associate. Additionally had less than 1% rework on work items, resulting in 99% resolution of items on the first attempt.    * Technical environment: Active Directory, Microsoft Exchange 2010 - 2013, network cabling, DNS, router/switch rack and stack, router/switch configuration, and shell scripting. Education Computer and Information Science Cuyamaca College 2017 to Present Skills Devops, Linux, Hardware/Software Testing, Windows 7, Windows 8, Windows 10, Windows Server 2008, Windows Server 2003, Windows Server 2012, Windows Server 2016, VMware, Active Directory, DNS, DHCP, Group Policy Management, YAML, Ansible, Team Foundation Services, Kanban, Agile, Waterfall, Cisco VIRL, Cisco iOS, Juniper OS, Red Hat Enterprise Linux, Public Key Infrastructure, McAfee HBSS, Git, Network Cabling, Network Security, Network Administration, ServiceNow, Tenable Security Center, Red Hat Satellite, Azure Devops, Exchange Server, System Administrator, Powershell Military Service Branch: United States Marine Corps Rank: E-4 Certifications/Licenses Security+ September 2018 to September 2021 Secret Security Clearance Assessments Problem Solving — Highly Proficient January 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to analyze relevant information when solving problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/pz2qi5q9-7mnib1p Technical Support Skills — Expert January 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/urhulvoopyukrpc Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information * Secret Security Clearance  * Security + CE Certification    Technical Acumen (In order of experience)  * Testing Services, Windows Clients 7, 8.1, and 10, Windows Servers 2003 - 2016, VMware ESXi 6.X Active Directory, DNS, Group Policy Management, ACAS, SCAP, Ethernet/Fiber Network Cabling, Cisco Router and Switch CLI, PowerShell Scripting, Firewall/ACL Configuration (Junos' OS), Public Key Infrastructure, GitLab, Ansible, Red Hat Enterprise Linux 6.X &amp; 7.X, Shell Scripting (Powershell &amp; Bash, ) Exchange 2010 and 2013, and ServiceNow.