TIER II TEAM LEAD, NETWORK OPERATIONS TIER II TEAM LEAD, <span class="hl">NETWORK</span> OPERATIONS TIER II TEAM LEAD, NETWORK OPERATIONS - TelNet Worldwide Livonia, MI Work Experience TIER II TEAM LEAD, NETWORK OPERATIONS TelNet Worldwide - Troy, MI September 2018 to Present Oversaw a Technical Operations team consisting of Tier I and Tier II members. Duties including providing senior technical support, training and mentorship.    • Provide senior technical support for the speedy and definitive resolution of customer trouble tickets including: hosted PBX, SIP trunking (dynamic registration & IP based authentication), TDM PRI, and networking support including MPLS, static and dynamic routing protocols (BGP, OSPF).    • Triage multiple issues to identify if a larger impairment is present on the voice and or data networks.    • Respond to International Revenue Share Fraud cases, by analyzing call traffic via Equinox protector and Transnexus NexOSS.    • Created internal documentation including technical process and network diagrams.    TelNet Worldwide - Troy, MI NETWORK OPERATIONS TECHNICIAN April 2017 to September 2018 Oversaw critical monitoring of voice and data network core infrastructure.    • Monitor core network infrastructure including Cisco 7600, Genband, Broadsoft, and Juniper MX960, EX4300 and QFX5100 via SolarWinds, Graylog, and TransNav F10.  • Install and maintain network equipment for TelNet data center locations.  • Audit alarm and report logs from network infrastructure to ensure network health.  • Resolve advanced technical issues for customer and internal systems.  • Built, tested, and implemented ISUP and VoIP trunk groups with wholesale voice carrier partners. NODAL NETWORK SYSTEMS OPERATOR AND MAINTAINER Michigan Army National Guard - Taylor, MI November 2009 to May 2018 Manage, administer and oversee deployment of telephony and data networks for brigade sized element.    • Provided secure network over Warfighter Information Network - Tactical.  • Section Chief since 2012 and supervisor of five soldiers.  • Proficient with Cisco Unified Call Manager (CUCM) to manage VoIP network.  • Proficient with Cisco routers, switches, voice gateway routers, and telephony protocols (SCCP, SIP, H 323, etc.)  • Establish communication with tactical hub nodes and allow communication services based on mission requirements using OSPFv3 and DMVPN tunneling.  • Perform quarterly software updates to all Joint Network Node switch components.  • Experienced with help desk tasks such as phone support as well as onsite technical support. NETWORK&TELECOMMUNICATIONS ADMINISTRATOR Diplomat - Flint, MI August 2016 to January 2017 Management of the day to day operation of the corporate network and telecommunication systems for a medium sized specialty pharmacy.    • Maintain, provision, and administer VOIP telephony using the Cisco Unified Call Manager (CUCM).  • Log calls, create reports, and mange calls using Cisco Unified Contact Center Express (UCCX)  • Migrate from Cisco Unified Contact Center Express to Interactive Intelligence (ININ)  • Provide end user support for Interactive Intelligence call center agent.  • Filter web traffic using ASA firewall and Cisco Iron Port.  • Maintain, provision, and administer corporate LAN network utilizing Cisco switches, wireless access points and Routers.  • Provide Tier 2/Tier 3 technical support using Service Now.  • Diagnose and repair network outages.  • Develop and implement change management control for repairs and upgrades. SWITCH TECHNICIAN Ericsson - Detroit, MI December 2012 to March 2016 Managed day to day switch operation of wireless and wireline switch equipment for Sprint, a major telecommunications company.    • Perform provisioning of Cisco 9K routers and Cisco cell site Routers  • Maintained switch systems and equipment including Nortel DMS-250, Nortel NGVN, Alcatel-Lucent 5ESS, Samsung WSS, and Alcatel-Lucent Plexus 9000.  • Quickly setup, repaired and troubleshot circuits including Ds1, Ds3, OC3, OC12, and OC48.  • Performed preventative maintenance for fire suppression systems, auxiliary diesel generators, and site security systems to ensure functionality.  • Coordinated with other telecom companies to install new trunk groups, circuit activation/disconnects and trouble ticket resolution.  • Successfully worked with Field Technicians to augment cell site capacity and resolve network impairments.  • Diagnosed and replaced faulty equipment for switches and transport systems including Tellabs 5500, SONET and DWDM systems.  • Developed and wrote a new technical procedure to complete power wave antenna swaps for CDMA and LTE cell sites.  • Part of regular on-call shifts rotation to provide support and ensure network reliability. SWITCH TECHNICIAN Ericsson - Detroit, MI December 2011 to December 2012 Successfully performed above role as contract employee. Skills CISCO, JUNIPER, SS7, TCP, TCP/IP Military Service Branch: Army National Guard Service Country: United States Rank: Sergeant November 2009 to May 2018