Law Enforcement Officer Law Enforcement Officer Ringgold, GA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Law Enforcement Officer Dalton City Police Department - Dalton, GA March 2019 to Present Protect and serve the citizens of the community of Dalton, Georgia. Intelligence Analyst Army National Guard - Cookeville, TN September 2018 to Present Real Estate Agent/Realtor Fletcher Bright Company - Chattanooga, TN January 2017 to Present I am a licensed Affiliate broker in Tennessee and Georgia. I work closely with buyers and sellers to move residential properties. This job requires confident communication and customer service skills. Network Administrator United States Marine Corps Reserve - Chattanooga, TN August 2012 to Present Section Chief/ Supervisor. Take charge of junior Marines under my command using leadership and team management skills.  Install/program VOIP phones and various encrypted radios. Monitor and repair telephone switch boards. Teach junior Marines their responsibilities and duties in the Marine Corps as it pertains to their assigned job. Machine Operator Norfolk Southern Corp - Atlanta, GA November 2010 to March 2019 Operate and maintain heavy equipment machinery.  Worked in hazardous environment in all weather conditions seven and a half years injury free. Repair and build railroad tracks. Education High school or equivalent Lakeview-Fort Oglethorpe High School - Fort Oglethorpe, GA August 2006 to May 2010 Skills Microsoft Office (5 years), Excel (5 years), Leadership Training (4 years), Team Building (5 years), VOIP (4 years), Real Estate, Product Marketing, Sales, Powerpoint, Microsoft Word, Management, Customer Service Military Service Branch: United States Marine Corps Reserve Service Country: United States Rank: E-4 August 2012 to Present Take charge of junior Marines under my command using leadership and team management skills. Install/program VOIP phones and radios. Monitor and repair telephone switch boards. Commendations: Meritorious Mass  CERCOM  Letter of Appreciation Certifications/Licenses Real Estate License November 2016 to October 2018 Licensed Tennessee RealEstate agent, currently working for Fletcher Bright Company. CPR October 2017 to October 2019 Trained in:  Adult CPR  AED use  Choking(conscious and unconscious)  Good Samaritan Law Top Secret security clearance October 2018 to October 2028 Clearance gained through military. Additional Information Top secret security clearance gained through military.