Network specialist <span class="hl">Network</span> specialist IT Service Professional Conroe, TX I am an IT service professional with over 10 years experience in computer support and repair, including server support. I am passionate about additive manufacturing and other computer-aided manufacturing methods, and would love to apply my technical skills with computers to further my experience in the 3D printing world. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Network specialist Simplify IT (Peplink) - Moorhead, MN July 2018 to May 2019 Provided advanced support for Peplink network equipment in a variety of deployment levels and complexities.     • Helped discover a line of products that was failing prematurely to enable proactive measures to ensure customer satisfaction.   • Provided direct feedback to ticketing system developers to improve technician responses and problem resolutions. Systems Administrator International Marketing Systems, LTD - Fargo, ND March 2017 to July 2018 Managed the company's IT needs in full. Network, servers, endpoints, phones, and anything else that may have had some connection to technology.    • Completely overhauled their network equipment and cabling  • Upgraded them out of a 2003 ADDS setup to a 2012 setup  • Implemented a password management system (RoboForm)  • Switched their Antivirus software from a per-machine solution with various vendors to a centrally managed enterprise AV solution (WebRoot) IT Service Professional MinnDak Computer Services LLC - Fargo, ND September 2015 to February 2017 Provided professional IT support for local businesses, including monthly scheduled maintenance, 24-hour on-call availability, and emergency remote support.    • Carried out scheduled maintenance for over 180 server and desktop devices.  • Developed and implemented a new ticketing system (Autotask)  • Expanded the use of an existing RMM tool by developing best practice documentation and scripts for common tasks Technical Support Representative Tech Mahindra - Fargo, ND November 2014 to September 2015 Provided focused technical support for users of a high security information management system. Managed cases through email and phone communications.    • Achieved 100% "all-5" customer satisfaction survey results for the month of April 2015. Field Service Technician Electro Watchman - Fargo, ND April 2014 to November 2014 Worked with high end security systems throughout North Dakota and Minnesota. Installed wired and wireless systems, including any necessary cabling. Worked on intrusion detection, video and audio surveillance, and door access control systems. Education High school or equivalent Skills Windows Server (9 years), EXCHANGE (7 years), SQL (2 years), System Administrator, Active Directory, Linux, System Admin Certifications/Licenses CompTIA A+ June 2005 to Present Additional Information I have a knack for finding ways to better optimize systems that are in place. If I am given a system and told to make it better, I will dive in head first and do everything to make it better.