Systems Administrator Systems <span class="hl">Administrator</span> System Administrator Vallejo, CA Reliable, positive, and motivated IT professional with exceptional experience in Systems/ Network Administration. Abilities  include but not limited to hardware and software troubleshooting, Microsoft Server, Active Directory Domian Administration and IP  Phone systems. Work Experience Systems Administrator Think Connected - San Francisco, CA April 2017 to Present Responsible for overseeing multiple clients as the primary technician for an MSP while also providing support as a backup technician for other team members. Main responsibilities as the primary tech is be the liaison for everything technical for the customer. This includes, but is not limited to project management, systems administration, network administration and support. Performed the following; server migrations, Exchange to Office 365 migrations, firewall installation and administration, Wireless LAN deployments and troubleshooting, switch installations and administration, ISP cutovers, VOIP System Installation and support. Additional tasks include installation and support of Active Directory, DHCP, DNS, ADFS, iSCSI, NPS, AWS, MS Clustering, SCCM, Cisco Meraki MX Firewalls, MS Switches and MR Access Points and MDM. Also experiences with detailed documentation using ITGlue and remote support using Datto RMM. We also provide support and are the esclation point for our customer's internal IT staff. Systems Engineer 415 IT - San Rafael, CA December 2014 to April 2017 Provide remote and onsite support and Network/System Administration for over 20+ managed clients ranging from 10 to175 employees, also provide IT services for non-managed clients throughout the Bay Area region. Support environment  varies from client to client. Support includes but not limited to: Project Management, Exchange Server, Meraki MDM Client installs. Terminal Services, Cloud  Based Solutions, Office 365, Intermedia and other onsite and outsourced email services. EFS, ShoreTel and PBX Change phone  systems, Google Apps, SonicWall, Edgewater, VLAN's, Aruba, Various Routers and Switches, Salesforce.com, Quick Books,  Multi-Factor Authentication, Backup Solutions (BDR, Smart Vault, Symantec), Antivirus Software, McAfee Console, Proofpoint,  Apple Airport, Open Manage. Also experience with Cisco Meraki, and Content Filtering. Experience with various ticketing  systems, Connectwise and Zendesk. Knowledgeable of various Software solutions and SaaS. Knowledge and abilities are humbling yet insurmountable. Will discuss more at time of interview Assistant Network Administrator/LAN Support II Hansel Enterprises - Petaluma, CA November 2011 to December 2014 Supported an environment that consist of 500 employees, 9 sites, 15 servers (file, print, application, Symantec Endpoint, SUS, VPN, Cisco Unity, Cisco Call Manager 8.5, Websense, Exchange 2007, Active Directory, VMWare and Backup Exe). Responsible for building images and deploying new images using Ghost and Ghost Casting,  first line of contact for Help Desk and field support either via cell or ticketing system (Zendesk). Responsible for all Tier 1 and Tier  2 Support. Apart of many IT projects from network planning and design, server builds and deployment, (mounting switches, cross- connect, deploying new PC's and placing them on the domain, setting up new Cisco IP phones, setting up fax lines from MPOE to  punch block, setting up of new network printers). MS Office 2007/2010, XP, Windows 7 IT Contractor- Go2IT - Lorain, OH February 2011 to November 2011 On call as needed IT tech contractor for Go2IT group. Job varies from network design and implementation,  troubleshooting network issues, setting up workstations and installing applications for clients, MS Office, Outlook, Domain  joining, mapping network drives. Uninstall and Reinstall Network hardware (switches, routers, and printers etc.) also rewired  network, configured Cisco switches and network printers. Also reports to IT director for other tech services as needed. Student IT Mentor Hansel Enterprises - Santa Rosa, CA 2011 to 2011 Advised and assisted students with issues and questions surrounding coursework in the IT program; advised  students on time management and scheduled benchmarks for students to successfully master program concepts, knowledge and skills; assisted students with technical support for computer problems; tutored students in a variety of IT issues including data  security and control, strategic computing, network configuration, security and protocol, and disaster recovery; provided a positive  learning environment and performed additional duties as required. Education Associates in Microsoft and Information Security Empire College - Santa Rosa, CA September 2008 to February 2011 Skills System Administrator, System Admin, Active Directory, Vmware Certifications/Licenses MCPS: Microsoft Certified Professional Present Network+ Present Additional Information TECH SKILLS  Network Implementation Network Security Networking Protocols and Standards  • Group Policy • Content Filtering • OSI Model  • LAN/WLAN • Vulnerability Testing • Wireless  • Cabling/Topologies • PKI • Routing Protocols  • Exchange Server • Firewalls • TCP/IP Suite  • Active Directory • Smoothwall • DNS  • Window Server • IPSec • DHCP  • Infrastructure Design • Access Control • Network Troubleshooting  • Disaster Recovery • VPN (ping, traceroute, netstat, etc.)  • RADIUS