Systems Administrator Systems <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator - Dümmen Orange Columbus, OH Work Experience Systems Administrator Dümmen Orange February 2017 to Present Implement and maintain multi-user computer network and coordinate business operations with multi-national support team and remote locations. Gather information, design and put in place solutions for various business systems. Assist technical team with creation, implementation and subsequent enforcement of IT protocols/practices. Field Tech Compucom March 2016 to December 2016 West-Ward Pharmaceuticals: Assist with computer deployment and refreshes. Migrate workstations from old Boerhinger-Ingelheim system to the West-Ward domain. Troubleshoot software and hardware problems, work with active directory and group policies to ensure functionality with all West-Ward systems. Deploy software using SCCM and configure workstation backend using Power Shell scripts. Field Tech TekSystems October 2015 to December 2015 Honda HTM: Minimized end-user downtime by assisting with computer hardware and software problems. Update knowledge base for troubleshooting and installation processes. Support productivity software including Microsoft Office, Lotus Notes, Domino Server, Siemens LMS, and Autodesk. Support Desk Agent Buchanan Technologies 2013 to September 2015 Worked with eight independent clients, providing remote assistance with various protocols and software problems as well as password resets, remote desktop software installation and troubleshooting. Facilitated timely completion of workflows (terminations/new hires) Network Migration Specialist R. Dorsey Plus staffing 2012 to 2012 Assist in determining cost and viability of system-wide network migration at the Rittal Corporation in Urbana. Tasks included the testing of individual software for compatibility issues, Windows System Image capture and deployment, as well as migration timeline planning.    Skills: lead revise support train disciplined enterprising expert honest imaginative logicalrealistic self-reliant talented versatile certified IT help desk network migration PC desktop laptop Education Associate of Computer Network Administration in Computer Network Administration Edison State Community College - Piqua, OH Skills Cisco, Nas, Networking, Router, Desktop administration Additional Information RELEVANT SKILLS AND COURSES    • Operating Systems Concepts  • Microcomputer Hardware  • Project Management  • Cisco Networking Technology  • Excellent Typing Skills (50+WPM)  • Eagle Scout  • 3X National Novel-Writing Month finisher    • Networking Essentials  • Router Use  • Computer desktop support  • Virtual Desktop Administration  • Windows user migration  • Designed and built personal NAS server for home use