Manager of Network Operations Manager of <span class="hl">Network</span> Operations Manager of Network Operations Hattiesburg, MS Work Experience Manager of Network Operations Southern Pine Electric - Taylorsville, MS March 2017 to February 2019 Lead a team responsible for Network and Security Operations as well as Compute/Storage Infrastructure and endpoint devices, Active Directory, application installation and patching, Microsoft Exchange administration, endpoint and server security, VOIP and cellular telephones, and systems administration.  Responsible for installing, configuring, administering and maintaining a multi-cluster, multi-site VMWare infrastructure, with multiple Backup and Replication solutions including Windows Backup, VEEAM, and Zerto..  Reconfigured network infrastructure to provide capabilities for security, VOIP, RADIUS, Syslog, etc. for multiple locations.  Integrated automatic failover between multiple ISPs, WANs, firewalls and switches to maintain uptime seamless to the end-user.  Large scale WLAN administration utilizing on-site controllers integrated with RADIUS/Active Directory for authentication.  Implemented fledgling Information Security program, implementing end-user training and coordinating a group of vendors to provide top tier endpoint, server, and network security utilizing open source technologies.  Reconfiguration and administration of Active Directory, taking advantage of GPO and third party systems Network Administrator Southern Pine Electric - Taylorsville, MS November 2012 to March 2017 Handled all duties related to network engineering and administration.  Responsible for Server/SAN environment, VMWare / Microsoft AD/ Cisco infrastructure, and endpoint devices.  Troubleshoot server, network, and end-user environments. IT Technician Camellia Home Health & Hospice - Hattiesburg, MS December 2009 to November 2012 Responsible for Computer Hardware, Software and Network configuration and implementation. Education Information Technology University of Southern Mississippi August 2003 to December 2005 A.A.S. in Telecommunications & Electronics Meridian Community College August 2001 to May 2003 Skills Management, Excel, Operations, training, Inventory Control, MS Office Certifications/Licenses CCNA Routing and Switching June 2018 to June 2021 CCNA Security June 2018 to June 2021 Additional Information SKILLS    Microsoft Active Directory    Infrastructure Planning  Critical Thinking.  Research  Leadership  Network Design and Implementation  Information Security  End User support and training.