Network Administrator <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Lending clerical, mechanical and/or technological support Laredo, TX Computer Experience    Build PC’s from scratch including sautering on and/or replacing new components in motherboard or chipsets; configuring wireless routers and building small office cable and wireless networks (running cable and all) that support file and printer sharing. Advanced level application of all major Office software and operating systems; building and maintaining relational databases and spreadsheets; preparing presentations; troubleshooting, repairing and upgrading laptops and desktops; Typing more than 40 words per minute.    Mechanical Experience    In depth experience of inspecting, diagnosing and repairing mechanical and electrical malfunctions ;  Well versed with the concepts like trouble shooting and preventive maintenance of automotive vehicles;  Brilliant in determining which instruments and parts are required for the repair of the automobile vehicles    Administrative Experience    Lending clerical support to department managers and senior executives; preparing written and statistical reports for analysis of expenses, revenues, and production; maintaining electronic and manual filing systems; managing calendar and scheduling appointments; answering phone, photocopying and faxing.    Problem Solving    Proposing, planning and executing Internet training that benefited hundreds of candidates; restructuring database and filing systems for proficiency and accuracy, efficiently storing and retrieving information. Long and intermediate planning with Microsoft projects. Executing problem prevention strategies. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Network Administrator HQ Systems, LLC - Laredo, TX May 2009 to September 2011 HQ Systems LLC  2407 Colonia Loop  Laredo, TX 78046  (956) 324-6584    Re-employed May 2009 - September 2011  Supervisor: Martin Miranda  PC Technician/ Network Admin  On-Site PC tech/ Network Administrator. Performed on-site service calls for network problems and/or pc maintenance/repair.  Assisted in re-wiring and configuration of Laredo Entertainment Center's network (176,000 Square Feet).  Re-wired and configured entire La Posada hotel which includes over 340 guest rooms.  Had service contracts with over 60 clients including Medical offices, building contractors, local businesses and certain residential clients. In-Store PC Technician Circuit City - Austin, TX July 2008 to March 2009 Repair/upgrade carry-in PC's and electronics in general; Sautered new motherboards and chipsets together for clients who needed custom work; Performed Certified Factory Warranty Claim repairs for Dell, HP, Toshiba and Sony.    November 2008 Employee of the Month    December 2008 Time Warner Co. top seller of month PC Technician HQ Systems, LLC - Laredo, TX October 2006 to May 2008 Network Admin  Assisted in re-wiring and configuration of Laredo Entertainment Center's network (176,000 Square Feet).  Re-wired and configured entire La Posada hotel which includes over 340 guest rooms.  Had service contracts with over 60 clients including Medical offices, local businesses and certain residential clients. Appraisal Assistant/Property Management Clerk /Property Inspector Wright and Associates Real Estate - Laredo, TX October 2005 to September 2006 Assisted Appraiser in measuring and sketching properties. Alongside assistance for Property Manager by taking service requests, rental payments, scheduling maintenance on rental units and scheduling showings. I would also prepare late & 3 day notices as well as renewals. Education Laredo Community College - Laredo, TX 2003 to 2004 United High School - Laredo, TX 2003 Skills Customer Service, Sales, Networking, Computer Repair, Mechanical Sense Assessments Technical Support — Familiar August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/whubl7xa-usphzgc Basic Computer Skills: PC — Expert August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to perform basic computer operations, navigate a Windows OS, and troubleshoot common computer problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/cazmktgfjrlwxeh5 Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information Advanced Spanish (Fluent)    Japanese (Basic Conversational)