Network and Computer System Administrator <span class="hl">Network</span> and Computer System <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Network and Computer System Administrator - INNOVATIVE TECHNOLOGY SOLUTIONS Rocky Face, GA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Network and Computer System Administrator INNOVATIVE TECHNOLOGY SOLUTIONS - Dalton, GA May 2018 to Present Analyze network data to determine network usage, disk space  availability, or server function.  304 Eden Park Dr, Rocky Face, GA Configure and define parameters for installation or testing of local area  30740, USA network (LAN), wide area network (WAN), hubs, routers, switches,  Rocky Face, GA, 30740 controllers, multiplexers, or related networking equipment.  (706) 483-5111  kareemazzouz@yahoo.com Configure security settings or access permissions for groups or individuals.  Configure wide area network (WAN) or local area network (LAN) routers or related equipment.  Evaluate local area network (LAN) or wide area network (WAN)  Focused Computer Science major performance data to ensure sufficient availability or speed, to identify  network problems, or for disaster recovery purposes.  currently attending Chattanooga State  Identify the causes of networking problems, using diagnostic testing  Community College+University of software and equipment.  Tennessee Chattanooga, with 3 years of Install and configure wireless networking equipment.  work experience. Aiming to leverage a Test computer software or hardware, using standard diagnostic testing  proven knowledge of conflict resolution equipment and procedures.    and customer communications skills to Troubleshoot network or connectivity problems for users or user groups.    successfully fill the Available Part Time Research hardware or software products to meet technical networking or security needs.  Managerial Or Sales Positions role at Train users in procedures related to network applications software or  your company. Frequently praised as related systems.  quality-oriented by my peers, I can be I am intern at this companyEvery Friday I shadow and help solve IT and system related issues for various companiesI've learned vehemently about  relied upon to help your company achieve  various system and networking issues throughout my time there  its goals. Manager CREPE N MELT - Chattanooga, TN March 2018 to April 2019 Cook crepes quickly effectively and efficientlyBe able to manage and maintain quality of chocolateKeep a clean work environment for a  customer facing area(kiosk) Accurately keep track of stock to reorderEncourage customer purchasesmanage coworker skill set,  schedule, and expectations  Monitor food preparation methods, portion sizes, and garnishing and presentation of food to ensure that food is prepared and presented in an  acceptable manner.  Investigate and resolve complaints regarding food quality, service, or accommodations.  Coordinate assignments of cooking personnel to ensure economical use of food and timely preparation.  Count money and make bank deposits.  Schedule staff hours and assign duties.  Establish standards for personnel performance and customer service.  Perform some food preparation or service tasks such as cooking, clearing  tables, and serving food and drinks when necessary.  Test cooked food by tasting and smelling it to ensure palatability and flavor conformity.  Organize and direct worker training programs, resolve personnel  problems, hire new staff, and evaluate employee performance in dining and lodging facilities.  Review work procedures and operational problems to determine ways to  improve service, performance, or safety.  Record the number, type, and cost of items sold to determine which items  may be unpopular or less profitable. Waiter or Waitress TOSCANO ITALIAN GRILL - Chattanooga, TN July 2017 to April 2018 Check with customers to ensure that they are enjoying their meals and take action to correct any problems.  Collect payments from customers.  Write patrons' food orders on order slips, memorize orders, or enter  orders into computers for transmittal to kitchen staff.  Prepare checks that itemize and total meal costs and sales taxes.  Take orders from patrons for food or beverages.  Serve food or beverages to patrons, and prepare or serve specialty dishes at tables as required.  Present menus to patrons and answer questions about menu items, making  recommendations upon request.  Clean tables or counters after patrons have finished dining.  Roll silverware, set up food stations or set up dining areas to prepare for the next shift or for large parties.  Inform customers of daily specials.  Stock service areas with supplies such as coffee, food, tableware, and linens.  Explain how various menu items are prepared, describing ingredients and cooking methods.  Prepare tables for meals, including setting up items such as linens,  silverware, and glassware.  Assist host or hostess by answering phones to take reservations or to-go  orders, and by greeting, seating, and thanking guests.  Perform cleaning duties, such as sweeping and mopping floors,  vacuuming carpet, tidying up server station, taking out trash, or checking and cleaning bathroom.  Escort customers to their tables.  Fill salt, pepper, sugar, cream, condiment, and napkin containers.  Organize schedulesWait tables and keep a clean environment for customersSetting up everything for later shiftsKeep tabs on items and  well stocked storageDiffuse customer issuesRespond to phone calls and listen effectively Delivery driving Education B.S. in Computer Science CHATTANOOGA STATE COMMUNITY COLLEGE - Rocky Face, GA December 2021 Skills Problem solving (Less than 1 year), Technical Support, Active Directory, Networking, Windows Assessments Supervisory Skills: Directing Others — Proficient July 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to motivate the performance of others through feedback to identify improvements or corrective actions. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/sp5x1fpw0j1e44zm Technical Support — Expert July 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/cw-x7teiuwq2dpb Project Management Skills: Budgeting — Highly Proficient July 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to manage project budgets by appropriately allocating and monitoring financial resources. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/ccw-n-tnjc2aks2d Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information Spanish Conversation Skills  Levantine Arabic Communication Skills  IT Skills  Effective Problem Solving Techniques