Account Manager/Logistics Coordinator Account Manager/Logistics Coordinator West Covina, CA Work Experience Account Manager/Logistics Coordinator Jax & Bones - Baldwin Park, CA March 2018 to Present ? Schedules and coordinates domestic and international shipments using current vendors and partners, including parcel, LTL, FTL, LCL, FCL, and consolidated shipments.  ? Complete all  EDI transmissions(810, 850, 855, 856) and ensure compliance with customer Routing Guides   ? Works closely with the operations team (warehouse, production and operations) to stay on top of moving inventory inbound and outbound   ? Conducts daily sales order fulfillment processing based on production schedule   ? Analyze current inventory and forecast projected quantities for purchasing   ? Create custom barcode ticketing per customer’s requirements   ? Works with Freight Brokers to find best rates for all inbound and outbound shipments   ? Creates international BOL, Packing slips and Receipts for air and ocean freight   ? Accountable for assisting customer support with proof of deliveries and following up on shipment deliveries that have a deadline   ? Resolves all day to day operational needs, often completing a variety of tasks in addition to those listed within these responsibilities as necessary. Sales Manager Spark Electronic - Alhambra, CA January 2014 to June 2017 Manage sales leads; respond to inquiries about inventory and item performances.  • Travel and develop new relationships with potential clients through conventions and meetings.  • Manage finances for multiple e-Sales accounts using QuickBooks and Excel  • Direct and coordinate activities involving sales of manufactured products. Front Desk/ Concierge Best Western Plus Markland Hotel - Monterey Park, CA March 2012 to October 2013 Register guests as well as creating and modifying reservations.  • Provide guests with inquiries regarding the city, events, and attractions.  • Adhere to all cashiering procedures: open, secure and balance out shift banks to include the verification of all cash, credit card, and check transactions during a given shift.  • Work with a team to organize and sell bookings, transportation, and guest travel. Jr. Network Administrator Sudjam LLC October 2012 to February 2013 Installed New Hardware/ software onto servers as well as building servers for customers to their specifications.  • Maintained over 50+ servers providing hands on assistance for customers.  • Provided technical support to customers via phone, email, and face-to-face interactions. Education English Citrus College - Glendora, CA June 2016 to Present High School Diploma West Covina High School 2004 to 2008 Skills Customer Service, Logistics, Shipping