Systems Engineer Systems Engineer IT Professional Seeking Work in IT related field. Arlington Heights, IL 5 years of work experience in a variety of IT industries. Primary areas of focus include but not limited to:     ? Help Desk Technician ? Field Support Engineer ? Customer Service ? Systems Administrator ? Project Lead ? Security consultation ? New Employee Trainer ? PC/ Network Technician ? Office 365/Exchange ? Desktop Support Specialist ? Network Security Analyst ? Windows 7, 10, 2008, 2012, 2016 Work Experience Systems Engineer Hubbard Broadcasting - Chicago, IL July 2018 to July 2019 • Troubleshooting and assisting with the repair of employee workstations  • Building out new systems and workstations to be used in the production environment  • Create a test environment to implement new patches and/or software to the production network  • Windows feature updates  • Imaging  • WINS server management and ultimately a migration.  • Print server management  • Management of office inventory including systems, software, workstations, printers and print supplies.  • Work with printer manufacture to provide page counts for all printers in the office and order supplies as it was needed.  • Help employees with network issues and remote issues. Including but not limited to VPN access,  Teamviewer, Cisco Anyconnect.  • Implemented backup infrastructure and software to have a 3-2-1 retention plan put in place at our local  office for all servers.  • I was laid off due to a 7-figure market defecate in our local Chicago budget for the year. My position  was no longer needed due to the amount of staff being cut. Network Security Administrator\Helpdesk Engineer Technical Doctor Inc - Arlington Heights, IL September 2015 to July 2018 • Ticket Management for 175 MSP clients and services.  • Supported VMware for remote users working from home and International users utilizing remote tools.  • Identify, troubleshoot, and analyze computer related issues. Determine appropriate course of action, and conduct, repairs  modifications, and upgrade internal components Dell, IBM, HP, Mac, and peripherals Configuration of printers as needed.  • A Systems Administrator for all workstations, VDI, workstation builds, VDI builds, Laptop builds Image & configuring,  software updates and software deployments, user access, permissions, user accounts Active Directory  • Upgrade and deployment of servers and SonicWALL Firewalls and Cisco switches including the cabling, knowledge in PC  hardware and components such as monitors, keyboards, printers, usb, and disk drives  • Excellent Interpersonal and Communication skills both oral and written Demonstrated ability to quickly diffuse heated  customer situations and adapt easily to different personalities and environments.  • Provided on call support on troubleshooting assistance for network/ Security operations, and network engineering issues.  • Provide Tier 3 escalation Support for 1st& 2nd level calls.  • Worked with businesses and performed security risk assessments for network security and document privacy security with a focus on HIPAA compliance.  • Strong knowledge of Windows (7/10) (2008 & 2012 R2) operating systems, Mac, and Microsoft Office  2007/2013/2016/Office365/Outlook) suite  • Provided comprehensive hardware, software and network support for high level leadership, and the health care industry.  • Setup and supported Shadow protect Disaster Recovery's and Image Manager and trained new employees on system.  • Well-developed organizational skills and the ability to multi task and handle multiple duties and priorities simultaneously in a fast-paced environment  • Experience with various mobile technologies in a corporate environment including Tablets, IOS and Android.  • Experienced in workstation deployment of OS/Software updates and imaging and re-imaging Dell, IBM, Mac, VDI, Lenovo,  Desktop and Laptop,  Disaster Recovery's and Image Manager and trained new employees Network Project Manager Vinakom Communications November 2013 to April 2015 Schaumberg, IL  • Proficiency with the implementation of network projects from the ISP to the debark point in building.  • Supported ISP networks fiber, cable, analog for clients.  • Worked with ISP providers to implement services that Vinakom resold under their name to new customers.  • Responded to telephone calls, email and personnel requests for technical support. Documents, engineering, and monitored the problem to ensure a timely resolution.  • Performed network hardware implementation coordination of multiple teams of engineers to ensure all areas of the project  was completed on time.  • Monitored networks for service interruptions and worked closely with engineers and support to ensure the resolution to the problem was found quickly.  • Remote management of projects across the United States.  Summary: An organized, people-oriented, conscientious IT professional with diverse experience in Information Technology. With  the last 17 years in Help-Desk, Administrator and variety of IT related issues. Also have strong technical troubleshooting skills with expertise in PC compatible hardware and software.  Strengths include working with people, attention to detail, problem solving, technical writing, technical project lead, and Self-starter with ability to work independently and as a team member. Education Bachelor of Science in Information Technology in Network Security University of Phoenix Skills Active Directory, Vmware, Security, DNS, System Administrator, AWS, SCCM, New Product Development (2 years), Windows, Video Editing (2 years), Vendor Relations (4 years), Social Networking (3 years), Social Media Management (4 years), Network Security (3 years), Network Administration (5 years), Network Management (5 years), Sales Support (3 years), WINS (1 year), Active Directory (5 years), Firewalls (5 years), Networking (3 years), Research (3 years), Content Creation (5 years), Community Relations (3 years), Customer Service (4 years), Security (3 years) Assessments Technical Support — Highly Proficient July 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/9a5lz6jjor-t6tuw Mechanical Skills: Aptitude — Highly Proficient July 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to understand and apply mechanical concepts and processes. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/4rzoujak-dep7yer Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.