Account Clerk Account Clerk Account Clerk - Philadelphia Housing Development Corporation Philadelphia, PA To obtain a position in a respected organization to continue to grow professionally and personally, while utilizing and building on my skills, experience and my strong desire to learn and help others. Work Experience Account Clerk Philadelphia Housing Development Corporation - Philadelphia, PA April 2017 to Present Duties include: Perform a variety of general accounting support tasks in an accounting department including: Verifying the accuracy of invoices and other accounting documents or records. Update and maintain accounting journals, ledgers and other records detailing financial business transactions (e.g., disbursements, expense vouchers, receipts, accounts payable). Enters data into computer system using defined computer programs (AS400) Compile data and prepare a variety of reports. Reconciles records with internal company employees and management, or external vendors or customers. Recommends actions to resolve discrepancies. Investigates questionable data.. Housing Counselor II Penn Jersey Paper (PJP) - Philadelphia, PA April 2016 to Present Tenant Union Representative Network TURN - Philadelphia, PA September 2016 to April 2017 Shipping/Data Clerk CONCILO - Philadelphia, PA September 2013 to March 2015 Job Title: Housing Counselor  Duties included: Provide a range of services, including the following and Identifying mortgage assistance options that are suitable for their situation. Explaining required documents and, in many cases, submitting those documents to your mortgage company for you. Helping you create a budget that supports your mortgage and other expenses. Providing information about local resources that may also be helpful to the client. Also provided general office duties that consisted of data entry, filing, faxing, copying and answering phones, assisting the Director and Staff, ordering supplies and managing all incoming and outgoing mail, processed all applications for new clients, greeting clients and providing necessary information as needed for clients.  Job Title: OST (Out of School Time Program) Site Supervisor  Duties included: Supervised two OST Coaches of the day-to-day functions of youth in the OST Program and ensure that the Coaches and youths are maintained in a safe and healthy living environment. Disciplinary action and restraint procedures are performed as needed. Providing motivation, being an advocate and coaching youths. Establish and maintain regular communication with program managers and family members. Responsible for updating and maintaining all necessary documents, such as incident reports and log entries Administrator Assistant/ Office Manager Out of School Time Program - Philadelphia, PA December 2010 to October 2012 Job Title: Financial Literacy improvement program Coordinator  Duties include: Responsible for scheduling the 6-week workshop for residents. Created staff schedule for PHA representation for each FLIP workshop to be able to provide answers to any questions or concerns residents may have. Responsible for updating monthly report progress and tracking client weekly activities.  Job Title: ROSS IDA Coordinator  Duties include: Provide services for the ROSS Individual Development Account (IDA) program participants, whose main goal is homeownership. Maintain a referral and networking system for Housing Counseling agencies and Financial Literacy programs. Responsible for updating monthly reporting progress, tracking client activities and collecting bank reports from partners for account balances. Establish and maintain computer database with client information for applicant progress. Provide clients with one on one case management to better determine their needs. Answer questions, filing maintaining client files, and Establish and maintain regular communication with all parties involved (banks, homeownership department, FLIP and Housing counseling agencies)  Job Title: Family Self- Sufficiency Coordinator  Duties include: Provide ongoing case management for up to 200 Family Self-Sufficiency (FSS) program participants. Maintain a referral and networking system for essential and support services. Track escrow request, forfeitures and disbursements payments. Establish and maintain computer database for tracking client progress. Provide clients with one on one case management to set goals for self-sufficiency to better determine their needs and reach that goal. Answer questions, filing and maintaining client files. Education Diploma in Human Services Orleans Technical Institute - Philadelphia, PA 2009 to 2010 GED Temple University - Philadelphia, PA 2009 Skills Microsoft office (Less than 1 year), Ms office (Less than 1 year)