Network Administrator <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Network Administrator - Exelon Work Experience Network Administrator Exelon January 2018 to Present • Maintaining the Active Directory infrastructure between multiple domains across a multi trusted forest / domain architecture  • Manage Group Policy  • Administrator of user accounts and computers  • Manage servers and file share access privileges  • Maintain domain support systems such as DNS, DHCP  • Working with Power shell to streamline tasks  • Knowledge in Splunk  • Knowledge in Microsoft Azure  • Issue internal web certs to application teams  • Participate in 24/7 on-call rotation Access Management Exelon October 2015 to October 2017 • Active Directory, Enterprise Directory and Exchange Environment administration  • Create access control list and processing evidence that relate to NERC, CIP, SOX, and other regulations.  • Project Management/Administration  • Create user roles using Oracle Admin Tool  • Perform IT NERC CIP compliance activities at Exelon Corporation  • Create documentation and knowledgebase for access to Exelon applications  • Participate in 24/7 on-call rotation. Sr. IT Technician TEK Systems June 2014 to October 2015 • Solving day-to-day tickets put in by users, admins and VP's  • Administrator of user accounts and computers using Active Directory  • SCCM 2012 client is used to provide administration support.  • Project Administration. Leading the completion of Project.  • PC troubleshooting Windows Migration Specialist TEK Systems October 2013 to May 2014 • Imaged machines to Windows 7 to support XP to Windows 7 projects.  • Swapped out hard ware as well as backing up and restoring user data. IT Technician Swift Staffing June 2013 to October 2013 • Tier 1 Desktop Support Specialist solving day-to-day tickets put in by school staffing and administrators.  • Setup Computer labs and classrooms with switches and computers  • PC troubleshooting  • Troubleshooting printer network and local problems as well as computer software. IT Technician Pole to Win International April 2012 to December 2012 • Answer phone calls and enter in user problem and resolution in ticket system. If the ticket couldn't be solved it would get escalated to Tier II specialist.  • Windows 7 & XP support, computer hardware support. Education B.A in Information System Security & Network Computer Systems ITT Technical Institute Skills ACTIVE DIRECTORY, NETWORKING, REMEDY, BGP, CITRIX, Technical Support, Windows 7, Vmware, Microsoft Office, Cisco Certifications/Licenses CCNA Routing and Switching August 2014 to August 2017