Windows and SQL Server System Administrator Windows and SQL Server System <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Windows and SQL Server System Administrator - Central Library Consortium Columbus, OH Ambitious and professional IT certified professional with more than 5 years' experience in the IT industry.  Motivated in finishing projects on time and achieving high customer satisfaction. Outgoing, driven, and dedicated  worker with the ability to build strong relationships. Work Experience Windows and SQL Server System Administrator Central Library Consortium June 2019 to Present • Ensure all servers are backed up to meet the CLCs Recovery Point Objectives (RPO) and test backups to ensure CLCs Recovery Time Objectives (RTO) are met.  • Implement a schedule of preventative maintenance jobs in order to maintain the performance, reliability  and integrity of all systems.  • Install, configure and test monitoring services and utilities to minimize unexpected downtime.  • Develop and maintain CLCs firewall rule set and network infrastructure.  • Assist member libraries with maintaining PCI compliance in their Cardholder Data Environment.  • Manage security infrastructure to limit unauthorized access to data.  • Troubleshoot service outages as they occur.  • Using Hyper-V and other management tools, install and configure new Windows and SQL Servers.  • When performance issues arise, assist in determining the most effective way to increase performance  including: hardware purchases, server configuration changes, or index/query changes.  • Assist with application support for 3rd party and in-house applications and services when appropriate.  • Integrate on-premises services with cloud services such Amazon Web Services (Route 53 and S3) and Microsoft Azure.  • Provide input and recommendations regarding CLCs Disaster Recovery Planning and Security Policies. Systems Admin ACR Consulting Services January 2019 to May 2019 • Query performance and optimizing code for reporting  • Writing the queries to pull and optimize reports for TriWest  • Planning and coding the database tables in order to store the Zoho data in SQL  • Crafting table indexes in order to help in improving the database's performance in SQL  • Dealing with incoming faults in a professional, courteous manner over via email  • Supporting, configuring, maintaining and upgrading corporate customer's networks and in-house servers  • Installing and integrating new server hardware and applications  • Monitor performance and maintain systems according to requirements  • Manage network servers and technology tools  • Manage and setup SonicWall Firewall and VPN Service Desk Engineer Revolution Group August 2018 to January 2019 • Dealing with incoming faults in a professional, courteous manner over the phone and via email  • Correctly logging incidents and faults, categorizing and prioritizing them in line with team procedures  • Diagnosing and resolving problems to the customers satisfaction  • Identify and escalate repeat issues or service risks into service management teams  • Manage several scheduled tasks for customers, designed to ensure that the customers systems  • Maintain and develop own knowledge and skills to assist with first time fault resolution Helpdesk Analyst Vorys, Sater, Seymour and Pease June 2018 to August 2018 • Provide support to Partners and employees via phone, email, and in person during normal hours and after hours.  • Correctly logging incidents and faults, categorizing and prioritizing them in line with team procedures  • Perform incident management activities such as logging new events in order to meet established KPI  • goals  • Research solutions to complex support issues and new product requirements.  • Assist with creation of instructional documentation and maintenance for the Service Desk knowledge  base.  • Participate in activities for learning in order to enhance skills to be able to assist users.  • Be a resource for other IT projects as requested.  • Manage end user network accounts through AD.  • Assist in domain migration Network Technician Wilmington College August 2013 to April 2018 05/2016 - 04/2018  • Create new student and new employee accounts though AD  • Perform troubleshooting to system failures and identify bottlenecks to ensure long term efficiency of network  • Inspect LAN infrastructure and fix minor or major problems/bugs  • Test and configure software and maintain and repair hardware and peripheral devices  • Organize and schedule upgrades and maintenance without deterring others from completing their own  work  • Manage the college's VOIP phone system Education Master's in Information Systems Wright State University 2017 to 2018 Bachelor's in Communication Arts Wilmington College - Wilmington, OH 2012 to 2016 Skills Sql, Hipaa, Voip, Active directory, Dhcp