IT Specialist/System Administrator IT Specialist/System <span class="hl">Administrator</span> System Administrator Denver, CO Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience IT Specialist/System Administrator Magnitech - Naperville, IL April 2019 to Present Providing Network Support in accordance with the terms of existing service contracts  Management and deployment of two factor authentication software for increased endpoint security  Maintenance, support and deployment of file synchronization software for large scale environments   Administration for hosted Exchange environments  Deployment, administration, and support of back up and disaster recovery solutions  Management and administration of endpoint security software  Management of third party mail filtering software  Pre-sales engineering for potential new clients  Screen potential client sites for technology and document potential upgrade needs.  Monitoring Perch SIEM for potential threats Network Support Engineer Leapfrog Technology Group - Oakbrook Terrace, IL June 2018 to April 2019 Network Support Engineer supporting 2000+ devices including servers, routers, and switches.  Troubleshot and resolved LAN/WAN connectivity issues.  Volume licensing and open value renewal audits.  Domain controllers, Office 365 management, Security groups.  Vendor management, business relationships.  Development of clear and concise technical documentation on new and refined processes.  Network operation,hardware health, racking servers.  Data mining of process logs, Event Viewer and troubleshooting to resolution.  Answered user inquiries regarding computer software and hardware operation.  Provided recommendations for resolving defects and potential upgrades.  Pre-Sales engineering for potential clients.  Comb existing customers for potential new equipment.  Create and present quotes for hardware, software, and services.  Endpoint management and protection Network Engineer / Systems Administrator Prairie Technology Solutions Group October 2017 to June 2018 Plan, coordinate, and implement network security measures to protect data, software, and hardware. Provide end user support, as well as training users, Including 0365.  Perform Data backups and disaster recovery operations with various Enterprise level solutions.  Administration of Active Directory (Group Policy, Permissions, Account provisioning)  Exchange/0365 administration and support (User creation, spam filtering, customization)  Administration and configuration of SonicWall and Global VPN.  Administration of Endpoint protection (Malwarebytes, and TrendMicro) Management and deployment of Endpoint security software such as Malwarebytes Endpoint Security and Trend Micro. Technical Support CPT Network Solutions April 2017 to October 2017 Acted as a bridge between Technical Support and Special projects   Coordinated with Vendors to provide support and direction while on site   Responsible for remote support for tech’s in the field   Assisted in planning and execution to replace all networking equipment, and workstations for Gerber Collision Technical Specialist ADNET Systems, Inc - Elgin, IL January 2017 to April 2017 Provided Remote support for all Tech related needs, primarily Active Directory and 0365 Administration  Provided onsite support when requested for replacing workstations and equipment  Assisted with data recovery and backup solutions  Printer configuration and troubleshooting (HP, Xerox, Ricoh, Brother, etc) Chief Technical Officer Lzuruha July 2013 to January 2017 Monitor technological, social and scientific trends that could influence the company's business goals.    Maintain current information about technology standards    Define technology strategies and ensure that processes meet expectations for federal, state and community privacy and security.    Manage infrastructure for our game environment, forums, and Windows Servers    Implement Infrastructure changes and upgrades    Lead our team in server upgrades, events and variety of changes.     Vendor management and negotiations of partnerships for our sponsors and gaming teams  System Administrator Lzuruha Gaming July 2010 to February 2011 Forum Administrator Lzuruha Gaming January 2010 to July 2010 Review abuse reports and assign bans when required    Create and edit new Forums for a variety of discussions    Create and Engage in Community events to keep the community engaged in content Education Information Security Grand Rapids Community College 2012 to 2014 Skills Active Directory (5 years), Android (3 years), Avaya (2 years), Citrix (1 year), IOS (3 years), Desktop Support (5 years), Windows Server 2008 (5 years), Windows XP (5 years), Remote Support (5 years), LabTech / Automate (3 years), AutoTask (1 year), AutoTask Office (1 year), Trend Micro (2 years), Malwarebytes Endpoint Management (2 years), Sonicwalls (3 years), SonicWall VPN (3 years), VPN, LAN, Networking, Vmware (2 years), Security (3 years), Exchange, Webroot (2 years), Reflexion (1 year), SAGE (Less than 1 year), Azure (2 years), Cloud Computing (2 years), DNS, Firewalls, Cisco, Veeam (2 years), System Admin, System Administrator Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/michael-meyer-9b1309b5/ Additional Information SKILLS  Software: Office 365, Citrix, LabTech, AutoTask, ECW, RDS, Active Directory, Command Line, VMware, Avaya phone systems, ESET, Autotask Office,   Operating Systems: Win XP-Win10, Win server 2003 +, Linux, Android, IOS