Software Developer Software Developer Professional Software Developer West Jordan, UT Software Development Professional - Experience in Java, Python and PowerShell. Developed front ends using JavaFX, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery and Windows Forms. Database work mainly with MySQL, but also Microsoft SQL Server, Microsoft Access, and Oracle. Minor experience with Ansible, C#, PHP and Bash. GitLab for version control and source code maintenance. Experience working in secure facilities (SCIF) and small DevOps teams. Flexible, eager to learn, technically minded and solution oriented. Experienced and capable in both Linux and Windows environments.  Also experienced in systems administration, network administration and automation. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Software Developer Army Cyber Command - Fort Meade, MD January 2019 to Present Automated the deployment, configuration and management of Linux (RHEL/CentOS) cloud infrastructure using scripting languages and frameworks, such as Python and Ansible.  • Developed automated provisioning and configuration solution to deploy software packages and configuration updates.  • Ensured proper version control and source code management through the use of the industry standard tool Git.  • Developed and evangelized best practice coding standards and participated in peer code reviews.  • Mentored younger developers in best practices and enterprise processes. Cyber Operations NCO, Automations Specialist Utah National Guard - Williams, UT March 2017 to Present · Maintain network infrastructure such as servers and virtual machine instances or containers.  · Provide defensive cyber platforms and frameworks, such as Kali Linux and Metasploit.  · Analyze network traffic for signs of intrusion or malicious activities.  · Automate common tasks and processes to provide greater team efficiency. Systems Administrator, IT Helpdesk Support and Software Developer Homeland Response Force - Draper, UT September 2015 to December 2018 • Administrator for over 70 computers, performed updates, patches, routine maintenance and security posture compliance.  • Managed computer objects in Active Directory, especially to resolve domain related issues.  • Assisted personnel of the organization in solving account issues, problems with permissions on SharePoint, and the operation of the organization's information systems.  • Principally responsible for setting up and configuring a portable cloud server for use in emergency response scenarios. Server included Windows Server 2012 running Hyper-V  instances of MS SharePoint (on IIS), MS SQL Server, Active Directory, and Windows  Deployment Services.  • Wrote several automation scripts in PowerShell, including one adopted by the state IT  Department to make installing network printers easy for users. Network Administrator Utah National Guard - Williams, UT January 2015 to March 2017 · Operated and managed a network node which could provide internet access for up to 255 users via a satellite link in a tactical environment.  · Established VPN connections, managed local subnets, and configured Cisco routing and switching appliances.  · Provided voice connectivity with Cisco VOIP phones and a Cisco Unified Communication Manager server.  · Mentored other soldiers in networking theory and operation, as well as general soldier skills. Field Service Technician Applus Technologies - Murray, UT January 2015 to September 2015 Ensured customers where satisfied with the operation of their testing equipment and sold  replacement parts or equipment as necessary.  • Analyzed symptoms, diagnosed and repaired problems with emissions testing equipment and computer systems.  • Resolved network connectivity problems with analyzer computer systems running Windows 7.  • Disassembled and rebuilt OkiData b4600 laser printers. Education Bachelor's in Software Development Western Governors University July 2016 to June 2020 Skills Linux, Red hat, Git, Html, Javascript, CSS, HTML 5, MYSQL, Java (5 years), Python (1 year) Links https://gitlab.com/zerob414 Certifications/Licenses Certified Information Systems Security Professional (CISSP) January 2018 to April 2022 Certified Ethical Hacker (CEH) July 2017 to June 2020 Security+ July 2015 to July 2021 A+ Certified January 2017 to February 2020