Network Engineer <span class="hl">Network</span> Engineer Network Engineer - CenturyLink Denver, CO Work Experience Network Engineer CenturyLink - Littleton, CO October 2018 to Present SD WAN Network Engineer providing real time support for over 200 business class customers across a national  footprint while providing insight to customers on current network solutions.    ? Hands-on experience with creating and implementing network solutions in juniper environment    ? Experience in developing, delivering effective presentations, meetings, concepts and procedures    ? Network SME w/ 10+ years of experience with networking technologies    ? Deep understanding of LAN/WAN, TCP/IP, ATM, Frame Relay and ADSL    ? Demonstrated knowledge of broadband equipment, protocols, and data product    ? Install wide range of network equipment i.e. routers, switches, servers, etc..    ? Keep network infrastructure up-to-date and secured    ? Write and maintain network security policies and monitor compliance.    ? Identify and recommend needed and optimal infrastructure improvements    ? Troubleshoot various network issues affect solutions and collaborate with staff and outside vendors to resolve complex problems Level 1 Engineer All Covered Inc - Denver, CO November 2016 to October 2018 Part of a dedicated team providing superb remote customer service for three companies. Worked with a team of three providing help desk support, technical training, software installs, infrastructure support, preventative and  scheduled maintenance to keep equipment running at peak performance.    ? Troubleshooting Server and Workstation issues    ? Maintaining network infrastructure ensuring packet flow    ? Proficient in OPSF/BGP routing concepts    ? Evaluate complex computer systems to assess vulnerability and risk    ? Helps manage and create stand configurations for network equipment Senior Network Engineer TeamlogicIT - Phoenix, AZ August 2015 to January 2016 Managed over 120 clients using monitoring agents and responded to escalated Help Desk requests within SLA.  Assisted Engineering and Help Desk departments and supported all of client's information systems and servers.  Showed expertise in the implementation, analysis, optimization, and troubleshooting of LAN/WAN networks. Has  Strong "hands on" technical knowledge with MCSE, Comp TIA Network, Security certifications. Proven ability to lead and motivate project teams to ensure success.    Provided IT Managed Services within SLA's  ? Diagnose TCP/IP related using hands on trouble shooting techniques  ? Configure all types of servers as well as firewalls and switches  ? Document procedures with in depth attention to details for knowledge base Network Engineer Alexant Systems Corporation - Alexandria, VA August 2013 to September 2014 Installation and configuration of routers, switches, servers, and firewalls. Involved in testing, implementing, troubleshooting of windows Server 2003, 2008 R2, and Server 2012. Maintained WAN/LAN networks, LAN using  performance reports and monitoring applications in 24x7 environment. Manage backups for several terabytes of data.  Support remote locations using N-able N central remote services. Provide onsite engineering and technical support to network systems. IT Manager Contractor Metalogix Inc - Washington, DC March 2013 to June 2013 Setup Windows deployment service on server 2012 virtual machines in order to deploy machine specific  images via network PXE    ? Manages entire company active direct OU and forests    ? Created Windows images via Windows sys prep and tested on company pc's    ? Diagnosed and responded to computer infections within SLA standards, with zero loss of user data Network Administrator LimeLeap Inc - Washington, DC August 2012 to December 2012 Preserve IT infrastructure for 100 users on site and overseas while meeting service level agreements    ? Introduces cutting edge technologies to work environment to increase productivity    ? Implements security patches and updates to all workstation and servers using System Center Configuration  Manager and Microsoft Intune    ? Handles all help desk issues and provide step by step documentation to data base for future reference    Migration project of over 1000 information systems from XP to Windows 7 with minimal loss of user data    ? Assists in Help Desk Tier I /Tier III IT problems and implement cost effective solutions all while providing  excellent response time    ? Maintains user accounts in Active Directory 2010 while providing excellent customer service    2 Service Desk Technician The Inter-American Development Bank - Washington, DC April 2011 to September 2011 Provides technical customer support to over 3000 onsite users by analyzing current system specifications, advising on more efficient means while reducing costs    ? Plays a key role of several projects that include Windows 7 migration which resulted in an immediate increase is  overall productivity    ? Sustains, diagnosed and repaired laptop and desktop information systems using hands on troubleshooting  techniques    ? Reduced server downtime by troubleshooting a wide variety of network related issues on a day to day basis    ? Utilized Remedy ticketing software to keep track of work orders and prevent any breach of Service Level  Agreements all while maintaining COSO level standards IT Consultant Contractor The Carlyle Group - Washington, DC April 2010 to August 2010 Affords Tier II and Tier III Support for over 300 users based out of Washington DC, Hong Kong, London, and Los  Angeles with MS Office Suite (2003 and 2007), Windows XP Professional, and COTS applications.    ? Creates and maintains user accounts in Active Directory 2003, implemented SLA's, group membership, password reset, account restrictions and assisted with synchronization of two separate domains (new and old)    ? Opens, updates, and resolves user tickets using HEAT ticketing application with a zero breach percentage    ? Utilizes BES to activate/deactivate, maintain, troubleshoot, Blackberry Handheld devices while providing  excellent customer service    ? Proficient in Timbuktu and Logmein remote applications to access user accounts and perform hands on troubleshooting with a minimal amount of user downtime Utilized Remote Desktop Server to access various File  Servers, Host servers, and Production servers in order to grant permissions to folders, files and subfolders Imaged  over 50 desktop and laptops according to detailed specific requirements and tested units prior to implementation    ? Troubleshot and diagnosed computer virus infections, malfunctioning hardware components, and escalated  unresolved problems accordingly IT Specialist Contractor National Labor Relations Board - Washington, DC November 2009 to April 2010 Works as member of integrated project team to deploy and upgrade over 400 information systems at 32 offices  throughout the United States    ? Performs desktop, mail, and user data migrations with 0% loss of information    ? Provides Level 1 and 2 Help Desk support to resolve user issues with COTS and custom GOTS applications, Microsoft Office Suite, Windows XP Professional, peripherals, internet and network connectivity    ? Conducts hard drive analysis, firmware upgrades and secure configuration of systems' BIOSMaintained 100%  accountability of IT inventory by working with government personnel to bar code equipment, performs audits,    3  and update ITIL database Education Bachelor of Science in Psychology in Psychology University of Colorado at Boulder - Boulder, CO 2003 Skills Exchange, Cisco, Active Directory, DNS, MPLS, VPN, Vmware, Security