Senior Network Administrator Senior <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Senior Network Administrator - Lamar Advertising Prairieville, LA Hard-working professional with 7+ years of experience and a proven knowledge of network administration, configuration management, and local area networks. Interested in applying my communication and problem-solving skills to successfully fill a role at your company. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior Network Administrator Lamar Advertising November 2014 to Present • Troubleshoot network and technical issues with digital displays and relay information to vendors and technicians.  • Configure new modems and PC's for our network including downloading Lamar's  proprietary software onto the machines, adding templates, updating firmware, removing  outdated software, and whitelisting IP's  • Sit in on hiring process and train new employees on our network operations.  • Provide customer service to 152 Lamar plants across 43 States.  • Monitor over 3300 digital displays for network maintenance and performance.  • Visit with vendors to assess new digital displays Lamar will be purchasing to gather  information and relay that information back to our Network Operations Center. Technical Support Specialist Eatel July 2013 to December 2014 • Troubleshot internet, cable, and phone issues for 200+ customers per week.  • Served as a liaison between departments (dispatch, networking, servers) to complete tickets.  • Trained new technicians on Eatel's software, and troubleshooting techniques.  • Ensure customer satisfaction through phone calls, emails, and chats.  • Resolved issues for irate customers on a daily basis. Customer Service Specialist L'Auberge Casino September 2012 to January 2013 Ensured customer satisfaction in person and over the phone by listing promotions and issuing  comps when necessary.  • Issued player cards from the ACSC software Customer Service Representative Tanger Outlet Management Office October 2009 to August 2012 • Primarily guaranteed customer satisfaction and promoted sales of Tanger Club memberships.  • Completed register reporting and balancing, bank deposits, deposit logs, COI logs, and HVAC logs  • Trained new employees in customer service  • Helped plan and execute special events hosted by the Tanger Mall including Breast Cancer  Walk, Mommy and Me and TangerFit 5k Education Bachelor of Arts in Anthropology & Political Science LOUISIANA STATE UNIVERSITY 2012