Law Enforcement Officer Law Enforcement Officer Police Officer Dalton, Ga. Ringgold, GA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Law Enforcement Officer Dalton City Police Department - Dalton, GA March 2019 to Present Serve and protect the citizens in the community of Dalton, GA. Real Estate Agent/Realtor Fletcher Bright Company - Chattanooga, TN January 2017 to Present I am a licensed Affiliate broker in Tennessee and Georgia. I work closely with buyers and sellers to move residential properties. This job requires confident communication and customer service skills. Machine Operator Norfolk Southern Corp - Atlanta, GA November 2010 to March 2019 Operate and maintain heavy equipment machinery.  Worked in hazardous environment in all weather conditions seven and a half years injury free. Repair and build railroad tracks. Network Administrator United States Marine Corps Reserve - Chattanooga, TN August 2012 to August 2018 Take charge of junior Marines under my command using leadership and team management skills.  Install/program VOIP phones and various types of encrypted radios. Monitor and repair telephone switch boards. Teach junior  Marines their responsibilities and duties in the Marine Corps as it pertains to their assigned job. Education Lakeview-Fort Oglethorpe High School - Fort Oglethorpe, GA August 2006 to May 2010 Skills VOIP (5 years), EXCEL (Less than 1 year), MICROSOFT OFFICE (2 years), MS OFFICE (2 years), TEAM BUILDING (7 years), Real Estate, Security, Communications Military Service Branch: United States Marine Corps Reserves Service Country: United States Rank: E4 August 2012 to August 2018 Take charge of junior Marines under my command using leadership and team management skills. Install/program VOIP phones and various types of encrypted radios. Monitor and repair telephone switch boards. Teach junior Marines their responsibilities and duties in the Marine Corps as it pertains to their assigned job.   Commendations: CERCOM, Meritorious Mass, Letter of Appreciation Branch: United States National Guard Rank: E4 September 2018 to Present Military Intelligence analyst Commendations: CERCOM, Meritorious Mass, Letter of Appreciation Additional Information Skills    Microsoft Office (5 years), Excel (5 years), Leadership Training (4 years), Team Building (5 years), VOIP  (4 years)