Engineering Aide Engineering Aide Information Systems Security Analyst - United States Navy Atlanta, GA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Engineering Aide United States Navy - Atlanta, GA December 2018 to Present Duties include supervising and performing construction surveying, construction drafting, planning, estimating and quality control.  ? Prepared hydro-graphic, topographic and triangulation drawings and maps. Conduct material testing on soils, concrete and asphalt.  ? Established and operated a basic quality control system for testing soils, concrete and bituminous materials.  ? Prepare, edit and reproduce architectural drawings and sketches and construction site drawings using AutoCAD 2017.  ? Developed and designed grading and drainage systems and various civil engineering designs using Trimble Terramodel application software. Information System Security Analyst Heath, TX December 2016 to December 2018 Independently developed Assessment & Authorization (A&A) packages (Risk Assessment, SSP, IT Contingency Plans, etc.)  ? Conduct all steps of the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) Risk Management Framework.  ? Provide expert advice to developers, administrators, and others during system development life-cycle  ? Assist in the Security Control Assessment (SCA) process and implemented measures to improve security controls and enhance system security.  ? Set and maintain schedules and ISSO checklists and Developed Security Impact Assessments.  ? Manage Plans of Action & Milestones (POA&M) and assist with remediation.  ? Conduct and review vulnerability scans (Nessus, WebInspect, IP360, OPENVAS, EMAS) and made recommendations to senior leadership.  ? Supported various information security frameworks especially PCI DDS, ISO 27001/27002, HIPAA, HiTrust, SOC 2, CIS, FISMA and NIST.  ? Exposed to various cloud service providers and tools like AWS for Powershell, Microsoft Azure, Google Cloud and VMware.  ? Perform technical assessments of information systems security configuration to ensure compliance before the system moves to a production environment; conduct reviews and technical inspections to ensure compliance with the Federal Government policies and also identify vulnerabilities or security weaknesses. Recommends corrective actions and ensures proper vulnerability reporting.  ? Major client was Macy's Inc with a focus on regulatory compliance and audit. Information System Security Analyst Blue Gate Solutions - Atlanta, GA August 2014 to December 2016 Accountable for NIST standard risk management framework and architecture for the company.  ? Established and maintained a DoD information assurance compliant framework to ensure that information security policies, technologies and processes were aligned with the business regulations of the organization.  ? Ensured that risk identification, mitigation controls and analysis were integrated into application life cycle and change management processes.  ? Coordinated the implementation of computer system security plans with establishment personnel and outside vendors.  ? Managed technical reviews of assigned IA controls, track risk mitigation, documents compliance status in the DIACAP Scorecard for ATO has and planned Security Test and Evaluations (ST&E) for Site Assisted Visits (SAV).  ? Assessed certification packages (SIP, DIP, Scorecard, POA&M, topology, etc.) for completeness, accuracy, worthiness to ensure configuration and security compliance IAW DoD directives and instructions.  ? Provided technical expertise on accessing HBSS configuration requirements based on STIG implementation guidelines.  ? Designed and implemented a security assessment strategy to reduce risks via reporting and mitigating vulnerabilities, and assessing ports, protocols, and services based on DISA configuration standards.  ? Coordinated vulnerability scanning and control assessment of all assets, operating systems, and databases utilizing Retina and Nessus, as well as applicable security manual checklists to validate compliance.  ? Communicated to CIO on security gaps, patch management strategy, and developed improvements based on DoD 8500, AR25-1, AR25-2, and FIPS for reducing Category 1 security issues and maintaining IA posture.  ? Ensured the data recovery, data integrity, and database performance, availability, and maintenance were met through applying best practices and monitoring of policies, standards, and system processes relating to database management.  ? Maintained computer security files to incorporate new software, correct errors, or change individual access status.  ? Coordinated the implementation of computer system security plans with establishment personnel and outside vendors.  ? Responsible for developing functional guidance for system modifications and ensuring that all DOD guidelines were being adhered to.  ? Provided client side services to the VA and Burlington. Security Analyst Novant IT Solutions - Atlanta, GA August 2012 to August 2014 Developed and maintained system security plan (SSP), participate in formal certification, test, and evaluation activities.  ? Performed vulnerability assessment on multiple platforms to integrate remediation solutions to address findings.  ? Conducted data aggregation from different platforms for metrics generation.  ? Led a team to perform security awareness training on all systems.  ? Developed and maintained professional relationships with System Owners (SOs) and Technical Leads (TLs) of information systems in my group. Interviewed SOs and TLs about the operations and maintenance of their systems as part of assessment efforts.  ? Involved with coordination of security analysis of quarterly security scans and remediation of security findings documented in the POA&M in collaboration with System owner and Technical leads.  ? Worked with technical teams to implement system and application hardening while also involved in the running of various tests on these systems. Network System Administrator The Insurance Octopus - Manchester January 2010 to August 2012 United Kingdom  ? Provided system administration support for Windows systems including server, router, switches and workstation upgrades, backup and disaster recovery monitoring and security administration.  ? Performed daily, weekly, monthly maintenance, backups/restorative exercises, reviewing server logs for prospective issues, as well as ensuring that anti-virus software and security patches are routinely updated and functioning  ? Troubleshoot network device connectivity issues including IP addressing, DNS, gateway, and reverse proxy issues.  ? Assisted in Architectural and implementing new Firewalls at different locations across the country for connectivity to replace aging current windows based firewalls in the production environment.  ? Supervised the technical staff to troubleshoot complex issues faced by system users  ? Ensured daily activities are aligned with Network operations priorities and objectives  ? Prepared and delivered system performance statistics and reports weekly (disk usage, forefront reports)  ? Supported and maintained network hardware, network operating systems and system applications  ? Reviewed multiple computer systems capabilities, workflow and scheduling limitations in order to increase productivity  ? Conducted meetings with IT teams to gather documentation and evidence about their control environment.  ? Documented test results, exception handling process and remediation plans. Education United States Navy Engineering Aide 'A' School June 2019 Master's in Corporate Finance University of Salford September 2005 to January 2008 Bachelor's in Computer Science Olabisi Onabanjo University February 1997 to October 2002 Skills Css, Network administration, Networking, Html, Javascript, Technical support, Terramodel, Civil design, Autocad, Excel, Microsoft office, Powerpoint, Microsoft word, Word, Mac, Mac os Military Service Branch: United States Navy Rank: E3 Additional Information Technical Skills  ? Software installation and configuration.  ? Troubleshooting and technical support  ? Windows OS - Installation, configuration and troubleshooting.  ? MAC OS - Installation, configuration and troubleshooting.  ? Networking configuration and Network administration  ? Microsoft Office suite (advanced user of Microsoft Word, Excel and PowerPoint)  ? Terramodel Civil Design Suite  ? HTML, CSS, Javascript.  ? AutoCAD 2017  ? SAFe