Network Administrator / Data Center Engineer <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> / Data Center Engineer Network Administrator / Data Center Engineer - Change Health Care Nashville, TN • Cisco Certified Network Engineer around 7 years of professional experience in Network engineering, performing Network analysis, design, Implementing, capacity planning with focus on performance tuning and support of large Networks.  • Experience in handling Network Monitoring tools and Packet Capture tools (NAM, New Relic, OPNET, NetFlow, Wireshark, and Sniffer).  • Strong problem-analysis talent, driven by global view/attention-to-detail approach. "Hands on" technical knowledge. Dealt with the escalation problems for Routing, Switching and WAN connectivity issues using ticketing system like Remedy Ticketing System.  • Experience in layer-3 Routing and layer-2 Switching. Dealt with Nexus models like 7K, 5K, 2K series, Cisco router models like 7200, 3800, 3600, 2800, 2600, 2500, 1800 series and Cisco catalyst 6500, 4500, 3750, 3500, 2900 series switches  • Strong knowledge in Cisco Routing, Switching and Security with Cisco hardware/software (heavy Cisco shop) experience.  • Profound knowledge on various WAN technologies like E1/T1/E3/T3, HDLC, Frame-Relay and PPP.  • Comprehensive working knowledge of Cisco ACI, Cloud virtualization, TCP/IP, HTTP, UDP, SSL, BGP, MPLS, LDP, PIM, IGMP protocols.  • Responsible to evaluate, test, configure, propose and implement network, firewall and security solution with Palo Alto networks.  • Configuration and troubleshooting , managing security policies of CSM, integrated with ASA 5500 devices.  • Experience with Cisco's Application Centric Infrastructure (ACI) implementation (Nexus 9K, APIC)  • Experience with devices Palo Alto Network firewalls such as security NAT, Threat prevention & URL filtering.  • Strong Knowledge in WAN technologies including T1, T3, ISDN, HDLC, Point to Point, ATM and Frame Relay.  • Managed corporate Checkpoint and Cisco firewalls for DMZ and remote access gateways.  • Experience in Configuring and implementing VLAN, VTP, LAN switching, STP and 802.x authentication in access layer switches.  • Strong experience in Network security using ASA Firewall, Checkpoint, Palo Alto, Cisco sIDS/IPS and IPSEC/SSL VPN, F5 Load Balancer.  • Responsible for Checkpoint and Cisco ASA firewall administration across our global networks.  • Access Control Server configuration for RADIUS and TACACS+.  • Experience with designing, deploying and troubleshooting LAN, WAN, Frame-Relay, Ether-channel, IP Routing Protocols - (RIPV2, OSPF, EIGRP & BGP), ACL's, NAT, VLAN, VTP, BPDU, STP, HSRP & GLBP.  • Designing and implementing F5 BIG-IP load balancer.  • Strong knowledge and experience in implementing, configuring VPN technologies like IPSEC, MPLS.  • Experience with Cisco IOS XR on ASR9000, 12000 series routers.  • Experience with Project documentation tools & implementing and maintaining network monitoring systems and experience with developing network design documentation and presentations using VISIO.  • Experience with Windows server products and Linux server products.  • Experience in monitoring and analysing the load balancing of network traffic using Wireshark and Solarwinds.  • Experience in Physical cabling, IP addressing, configuring and supporting TCP/IP.  • Efficient at use of Microsoft VISIO/Office as technical documentation and presentation tools. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Network Administrator / Data Center Engineer Change Health Care - Nashville, TN September 2017 to Present Change Healthcare, is a provider of revenue and payment cycle management and clinical information exchange solutions, connecting payers, providers, and patients in the U.S. healthcare system. The company operates the largest financial and administrative information exchange in the United States    Responsibilities  • Supporting whole BGP operations including eBGP, iBGP support for CLOS full mesh Data Center network. Automation through puppet.  • Designing, installing, maintaining and supporting LAN, WAN and VoIP infrastructures. Provide high-level technical support for voice and data network systems, creates and maintains network  • Involved in the Team of Datacenter Operations to perform duties like setting, deployment and administration of Cisco Routers and Switches according to the organization requirements  • Data Centers and office's LAN/WAN maintenance, routing and switching configuration.  • Successfully Migrated multiple data centers from Net Screen to Fort iGATE Firewalls.  • Perform various scheduled maintenance tasks across numerous platforms and datacenters such as building VLANs and configuring switch ports on Cisco, Brocade  • Involved moving Datacenter from one location to another location, from 6500 based Datacenter to Nexus based data center  • Deploying Cisco Nexus 7k,5k,2k for the datacenters with Fabric Path  • Install, deploy, setup, and maintain enterprise grade hardware from various manufactures (i.e. HP, HPE, Sun, Cisco, IBM, Server Technology, Inc., F5, Sun/ Oracle Exa Data, Info blox, Net Optics Tap, Cisco ASAs, HPE Tipping Point, RSA).  • Goble/ Local network GTM/LTM/DNS application traffic load balance, Intranet /Internet traffic routing load balance design/ installation, maintenance and troubleshooting Responsible for managing IP address schema with in internal domain.  • Configured policy statements, and routing instances and support on MPLS-VPN, VRF.  • Troubleshooting complex datacenter environment, resolved many critical Severity 1 incidents  • Research and resolve wireless, switching, routing and security issues reported by Cisco Meraki customers and partners.  • Expertise in maintenance of layer2 switching tasks - VLAN, VTP, RSTP, configuration of ether channel with LACP and PAGP along with troubleshooting of inter-VLAN routing.    • Configured wireless security by implementing Cisco ISE and Aruba Clear Pass at the data center.  • Configure VRRP & GLBP and VLAN Trunking 802.1Q & ISL, STP, Port Security on Catalyst 6500 switches.  • Configuring protocols HSRP, GLBP, VRRP, ICMP, IGMP, PPP, HDLC, PAP, CHAP, and SNMP.  • Arista Switch installation and configuration, Simplicity Storage Solutions, Brocade switch installation and configuration.  • Troubleshooting the Network Routing protocols (BGP, EIGRP, ISIS and RIP) during the Migrations and new client connections.  • Work in a multi-vendor environment supporting Cisco Juniper MX/SRX Aruba Arista Brocade Palo Alto Firewalls Fortinet Firewalls and F5 devices. Troubleshooting various attributes in data center operations including API, device kick-start, server kick start, bash.  • Configured wireless security by implementing Cisco ISE and Aruba Clear Pass at the data center.  • Managing Infra queue issues, critical incidents, tasks and various alarms Senior Network Engineer CAPITAL ONE - McLean, VA October 2016 to August 2017 Responsibilities:    • Configured and deploying Cisco catalyst 6506, 4948E, 4510 switches and Cisco 3660, 3845, and 7609 series Routers.  • Worked extensively in Configuring, Monitoring and Troubleshooting Cisco's ASA 5500.  • Worked in migration of VLANS.  • Performed network monitoring, providing analysis using various tools like Wireshark, Solar winds etc.  • Involved in the troubleshooting aspects of complex network infrastructure using the routing protocols like EIGRP, OSPF & BGP.  • Packet capturing, troubleshooting on network problems with Wireshark, identifying and fixing problems  • Worked extensively on Data Center Palo Alto firewalls and F5 BIG-IP LTM.  • Configured Site-Site VPN on Palo Alto Firewall on one side and Fortinet on the other side.  • Implemented many number of security policy rules and NAT policy rules on Palo Alto, created Zones, Implemented Palo Alto Firewall interface, Palo Alto IDS and VLAN  • Implementation of Access Lists for allowing/blocking desired traffic.  • Configuring VLANs/routing/NATing with the firewalls as per the network design.  • Responsible for Cisco ASA firewall administration, Rule Analysis, Rule Modification.  • Configuration and maintenance of PIX and ASA firewall systems.  • Worked on change management documentation of Network infrastructure design using Microsoft Visio.  • Perform setup of test scenarios, both hardware and software components, and perform troubleshooting.  • Responsible for troubleshooting and resolving firewall software and hardware issues, including VPNs, connectivity issues, logging, cluster configurations, and hardware installations for Checkpoint and Palo Alto firewalls.  • Designing, implementing LAN/WAN configurations on Cisco 5K, catalyst 6500 switches.  • Installing, configuring Cisco Catalyst switches 6500, 3750 & 3550 series and configured routing protocol OSPF, EIGRP, BGP with Access Control lists implemented as per Network Design.  • Designed and deployed various network security & High Availability products like Cisco ASA, Juniper, Checkpoint, and Palo Alto.  • Involved in troubleshooting network traffic and its diagnosis using tools like ping, traceroute, Wireshark, TCPdump and Linux operating system servers  • Participated in configuring, upgrading and verifying the NX-OS operation system  • Configuring and designing VPN rules for Net Screen VPN Box and Checkpoints Firewall.  • Strong knowledge on networking concepts like TCP/IP, Routing and Switching.  • Designed, configured, implemented site-site VPN on Cisco ASA 5500 firewall.  • Implemented, configured redundancy protocols HSRP, VRRP, GLBP for Default Gateway Redundancy.  • Worked in projects converting P2P circuits into MPLS circuits, commissioning and decommissioning of the MPLS circuits for branch offices.  • Packet capturing, troubleshooting on network problems with Wireshark, identifying and fixing problems.  • Configured Bluecoat Proxy SG Web Application Reverse Proxy for securing and accelerate public web applications  • Implementing, configuring, and troubleshooting various routing protocols like RIP, EIGRP, OSPF, and BGP etc.  • Performing network monitoring, providing analysis using various tools like WireShark, Solarwinds etc. Senior Network Engineer QSSI - Columbia, MD December 2015 to September 2016 Responsibilities:    • Maintained various BGP attributes such as Local Preference, MED, Ex tended Communities, Route-Reflector clusters, Route-maps and route policy implementation.  • Performing troubleshooting on slow network connectivity issues, routing issues that involves OSPF, BGP and identifying the root cause of the issues.  • Involved in design and implementation of Data center migration  • Deploying and decommission of VLANs on core ASR 9K, Nexus 7K, 5K and its downstream devices.  • Implementing firewall rules and configuring Palo Alto Network Firewall.  • Performed OSPF, BGP, DHCP Profile, HSRP, IPV6, Bundle Ethernet implementation on ASR 9K redundant pair.  • Wireshark to analyze network protocol IPs and live network traffic and recommended solution for better performance optimization end to end network connectivity  • Configured, troubleshooting and Upgrading Palo Alto Firewall and Managing the Firewall via Panorama.  • Configured CIDR IP RIP, PPP, BGP, MPLS and OSPF routing.  • Assisted in MPLS migrations, implemented a backup for the existing WAN connection using site-to-site IP sec VPN tunnels.  • Configured, Installing and troubleshooting on Checkpoint Devices  • Configured and installing 6500, 4500 in Campus networks.  • Migration of Checkpoint to Palo Alto Firewalls.  • Configured and testing Multicast for both IPv4 and IPv6 routing in Data Environment.  • Conversions to BGP WAN routing. Which will be to convert WAN routing from OSPF to BGP (OSPF is used for local routing only) which involves new wan links.  • Configured HSRP between VLANs, Configuring Ether-Channels, Port Channel on 6500 catalyst  • Build Logical design and Implementation of Wireless Solution  • Worked on F5 LTM, GTM series like 6400, 6800, 8800 for the corporate applications and their availability  • Involved in the configuration & troubleshooting of routing protocols: MP-BGP, OSPF, LDP, EIGRP, RIP, BGP v4. Configured IP access filter policies.  • Troubleshooting tickets based on switches, routers, Palo Alto Firewalls.  • Deploying and decommissioning Cisco switches and their respective software upgrades.  • Performing the ACL requests change for various clients by collecting source and destination information from them.  • Maintained complex LAN/WAN networks with several VLANS and provided support for routing protocols and providing secure sessions over internet using IPsec and SSL encryption.  • Worked extensively on Cisco ASA 5500(5510/5540) Series, convert PIX rules over to the Cisco ASA solution.  • Supporting EIGRP and BGP based on the network by resolving level 2 & 3 problems of internal teams & external customers of all locations  • Worked on migration of existing PIX firewall to ASA firewall, PIX OS upgrade from 6.3 to 7.0.  • Building the VPN tunnel and VPN encryption.  • Involved in Configuration of Access lists (ACL) on ASA firewall for the proper network routing for the B2Bnetwork connectivity.  • To secure configurations of load balancing in F5, SSL/VPN connections, Troubleshooting CISCO ASA firewalls, and related network security measures.  • Provided proactive threat defense with ASA that stops attacks before they spread through the network.  • Designed and implemented DMZ for Web servers, Mail servers & FTP Servers using Cisco ASA5500 Firewalls.  • Troubleshoot the Network Issues onsite and remotely depending on the severity of the issues.  • Worked with creating VIP (virtual servers), pools, nodes and applying iRules for the virtual servers like cookie persistency, redirection of the URL.  • Created Visio Dean / Visio Documentation to give complete picture of network design for each building. Network Engineer AMC Computer Corp - New York, NY January 2015 to November 2015 Responsibilities:    • configured Site-to-site and remote access VPN solutions.  • Installed and configured Cisco 7200 series router and Cisco 2950, 4500, 6500 Series switches.  • Configured network using routing protocols such as RIP, OSPF, and BGP and troubleshooting L2/L3 issues.  • Worked on multiple projects related to Branch networks, Campus networks, extranet clients and Data Center Environments involving in data center migrations from one data center to another.  • Provided estimated bandwidth requirements for data replication, to best determine adequate timing for migration service levels  • Created data migration strategies to help with completion of migration of data center from one point to another.  • Configuration of Cisco 6500 (sup 720), 4500 (SUP 6) & 3750 Catalyst Switches for network access.  • Worked extensively on Cisco Firewalls, Cisco PIX (506E/515E/525/) & ASA 5500(5510/5540) Series  • Configuring RIP, OSPF and Static routing on Juniper M and MX series Routers  • Configuring VLAN, Spanning tree, VSTP, SNMP on EX series switches  • Time to time upgrade network connectivity between branch office and regional office with multiple link paths and routers running HRSRP, EIGRP in unequal cost load balancing to build resilient network.  • Design and implement Catalyst/ASA Firewall Service Module for various LAN's.  • Troubleshoots in Cisco Aironet 2700 and 600 series.  • Configured Client VPN and RSA Token ID technologies including Cisco's VPN client via IPSEC.  • Configuring ACL to allow only authorized users to access the servers.  • Participated in on call support in troubleshooting the configuration and installation issues.  • Installation, maintenance, troubleshooting local and Wide Areas Network (ISDN, Frame relay, DDR, NAT, DHCP, TCP/IP).  • Provided technical support in terms of upgrading, improving and expanding the network.  • Providing technical security proposals, detailed RFP responses, and security presentation, installing and configuring ASA firewalls, VPN networks and redesigning customer security architectures. Network engineer SAMYUTHA INFO TECHNOLOGIES - Hyderabad, Telangana February 2014 to December 2014 Responsibilities:    • Designed Internet connectivity infrastructure for meeting bandwidth requirements.  • Worked in datacenter environment, configuration changes as per the needs of company.  • Implementing and troubleshooting VLAN's, VTP, STP, Trunking, Ether channels.  • Implementation of Access Lists for allowing/blocking desired traffic.  • Configuring VLANs/routing/NATing with the firewalls as per the network design.  • Involved in the troubleshooting aspects of complex network infrastructure using the routing protocols like EIGRP, OSPF & BGP.  • Responsible for Cisco ASA firewall administration, Rule Analysis, Rule Modification.  • Manage project task to migrate from Cisco ASA firewalls to Check point firewalls  • Configuration and maintenance of PIX and ASA firewall systems.  • Worked extensively in Configuring, Monitoring and Troubleshooting Cisco's ASA 5500.  • Configured and deploying Cisco catalyst 6506, 4948E, 4510 switches and Cisco 3660, 3845, and 7609 series Routers.  • Perform setup of test scenarios, both hardware and software components, and perform troubleshooting.  • Performed troubleshooting on link state protocols like OSPF in single area and multiple areas.  • Implementing LAN/WAN configurations on Cisco 5000, catalyst 6500 switches.  • Implemented site-site VPN on cisco ASA 5500 firewall.  • Resolving various OSPF issues in an OSPF multi area environment,  • Implemented BGP WAN routing, converting OSPF routes to BGP (OSPF in local routing).  • Packet capturing, troubleshooting on network problems with Wireshark, identifying and fixing problems Network Admin GOMANET Technologies Private Limited - Hyderabad, Telangana June 2012 to December 2013 Responsibilities:    • Involved in troubleshooting of DNS, DHCP and other IP conflict problems  • Implementation of name resolution using DNS in TCP/IP environment  • Worked on Cisco Layer 2 switches (spanning tree, VLAN, VTP, trunking using dot1q).  • Worked on Cisco routers 7200, 3800, 2800 and Cisco switches 4900, 2900.  • Configuring OSPF, RIP, EIGRP protocols and IP sub-netting, Routers and Switches Supported and maintained networking devices, cabling and standalone systems as part of job duties.  • Installed and Configured Active Directory in Windows Server 2003 and helped System Admins to set up LAN network in the company.  • Maintained systems up to date with the latest OS patches.  • Installed different software on the systems.  • Install and managing network devices including Hubs, Switches.  • Layer 2 switching technology architecture, implementation and operations including L2 and L3 switching and related functionality. This includes the use of VLANS, STP, VTP and their functions as they relate to networking infrastructure requirements including internal and external treatment, configuration and security.  • Layer Three routing protocol configurations include but are not limited to distance vector and link state protocols such as: Directly Connected Interfaces, Static Routing, RIP, RIP2, IGRP, EIGRP, OSPF and other proprietary protocols used by Cisco. Education Masters Southern Arkansas University - Magnolia, AR Skills Aironet, Bgp, Cisco, Csu, Dhcp Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Operating Systems DOS, Windows 95/98, Windows NT/2000/XP/Vista/7/8.  IP Routing RIPv1, RIPv2, BGP, OSPF, IGRP, EIGRP.  Communication Protocols TCP/IP, UDP, DHCP, DNS, ICMP, SNMP, ARP, RARP, PPP, HDLC and ISDN.  Topologies Frame Relay, ATM, T1, T3, OC3, OC12, OC48, Ethernet, Cable Modem, xDSL and Wireless.  Network Peripherals  Hubs, Cisco switches (2900, 2924, 2950, 3550, 3560, 4000, 5500, 6500, 6509, 6513,), Cisco routers (2600, 2800, 3640, 3700, 3825, 7200, 7204, and 7206), Cisco 1200 Aironet Access Points, CSU/DSUs, network cards and Modems.    Firewall Security Cisco PIX 500 series, Cisco ASA 5500 series, Palo Alto, Checkpoint, Juniper SRX  Network Management Tools Whatsup, MRTG, HP Open view, OPNET Cisco WAN manager, Cisco works 2000  Sniffers WireShark, Solarwinds  Software Microsoft Office 97/2000, MS Visio    Environment:  Cisco6506/4948/4510 switches, Cisco3660/3845/7609 Routers, F5 Load Balancers, Wireshark, VLAN, Checkpoint, Palo Alto, OSPF, RIP, RIRP, BGP, MPLS, HSRP, VRRP, GLBP, ASA 5500  Cisco2948/3560/4500/3560/3750/3550/3500/2960 6500 switches and Cisco 3640/12000 /7200/3845/3600/2800 routers, Cisco Nexus 7K/5K, Cisco ASA 500, Checkpoint, windows server 2003/2008: F5 BIGIP LTM, Palo Alto, RIP, OSPF, BGP, EIGRP, LAN, WAN, VPN, HSRP.