Salesforce Administrator Salesforce <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Salesforce Administrator Miami, FL Professional Software Engineer with 10 years of experience supporting and optimizing performance of  workstations, networks, hardware and software. Expertise analyzing and modeling business processes,  translating their requirements into system specifications. Capable of quickly understanding how  Salesforce applications are used in order to provide efficient support to the user base. Detail oriented and  strong organizational skills with ability to carry out task with minimal supervision. Able to adapt to new  concepts, technologies and environments.    SALESFORCE SKILLS    • Certified Salesforce Administration (201).  • Setting Up and Managing Users: User Interface, User and Company Profile.  • Security and Data Access: Object and Record Access, Field-level Security, Profiles, Permission Sets,  Sharing Settings.  • Managing Data: Import Wizards, Data Loader, Data.com, Excel Data Manipulation.  • Object Customizations: Standard and Custom Fields, Business Processes.  • Automation: Workflow Rules, Process Builder, Lead Automation.  • Reports and Dashboards: Ability to create reports and dashboards based on business KPIs, apply best  practices.  • Quality Assurance: Data Quality, Validate Developer Implementations, Flows, Process Builder.  • Managing the Support Process: Managing and Resolving Cases in Service Cloud. Work Experience Salesforce Administrator SkyPlanner - Miami, FL January 2019 to June 2019 • Assisted in the administration of a Salesforce customer with 200+ users.  • Responsible for user management and troubleshooting the issues reported by the client. Some issues  needed to be escalated to the development team and I was responsible for interacting with the user and the development team to get the issue resolved.  • Assisted customer in the requirements gathering process for new business rules.  • Developed workflows, process flows to solve different business needs raised by the customer.  • Suggested new features that could apply for customers business needs every time Salesforce had a  release.  • Assisted with the creating of reports and dashboard to easily monitor relevant KPIs  • Execute data migration and data cleansing.  • Implemented rules to detect duplicates and put a process in place (validation rules, duplicates rules) to avoid them. IT Manager Nemesis Medical Group - Miami, FL 2016 to 2018 • Provided technical support and ensured proper maintenance of workstations, printers, and peripherals.  • Mounted new workstations and printers; installed operating systems, applications, drivers, and configured network properties and hardware.  • Assisted in disaster recovery plans; performed regular backups and created Ghost images of workstations prior to upgrades. Network Administrator TRD-Caribe 2009 to 2016 Havana City, Cuba    • Developed a project plan to upgrade all network infrastructures by building the backbone, cabling,  installing and configuring network devices.  • Coached the execution of projects in the field and being part of a team with 5 technicians.  • Installed, configured, and managed of Windows servers advanced configuration of roles and services.  • Created and monitored data backup procedures.  • Planned and updated risk analysis of the company and control completions. Education Bachelor's in Software Engineering Higher Polytechnic Institute - Havana 2006