System Administrator System <span class="hl">Administrator</span> System Administrator Austin, TX Work Experience System Administrator City of Edinburg - Edinburg, TX May 2018 to Present Install, configure, and maintain Windows Servers 2008/2012/2016, Hyper-V, VMware, SQL Servers, Office 365, and SAN.  • Provide support to 1,000+ city employees while maintaining healthy working relationships.  • Install, configure, and maintain W/LAN, WAN, Dell switches and firewalls, Cisco switches, routers, firewalls, VPNs (client and point-to-point) wireless controllers, WAPs, Meraki, and VoIP systems.  • Solve complex technical issues including malware removal, software deployments, and P2V migrations.  • Manage users, computers, and email accounts using Active Directory, Group Policies, and GSuite.  • Install, configure, and maintain backups and replication of critical data.  • Monitor, analyze, and optimize infrastructure systems performance and security.  • Install, configure, maintain, and monitor anti-virus software, IDS, SNMP, and Syslog servers. Computer/ Network Technician City of Edinburg Police Department - Edinburg, TX April 2017 to May 2018 Administered the Police Department's Digital Evidence, Windows Servers 2003/2008/2012, Video  Surveillance, and Backups while maintaining security and integrity of data.  • Provided on-site computer and network support for all Police Department personnel.  • Configured, implemented, and maintained the Police Department's W/LAN, WAN, Cisco switches, routers, firewalls, VPNs (client and point-to-point) wireless controllers, WAPs, and VoIP systems. Telephone Systems/Personal Computer Intermediate Repairer U.S. Marine Corps - Okinawa, JP July 2009 to May 2014 • Installed, configured, and diagnosed desktops, laptops, printers, satellite communication equipment, Cisco ISRs, analog and VoIP telephony equipment.  • Maintained equipment inventory and handled logistics of assets totaling in excess of $2 million.  • Provided Tier-I and II level support for Windows 7, Microsoft Office, and Unix Systems to 200+ end users. Education AAS in Computer Networking and Security Technology Texas State Technical College - Harlingen, TX January 2015 to August 2016 Military Service Branch: United States Marine Corps Rank: Corporal Certifications/Licenses Cisco Certified Network Associate (CCNA) Security Cisco Certified Network Associate (CCNA) Routing and Switching CompTIA Project+ CompTIA Security+ CompTIA Network+ CompTIA A+ Linux Professional Institute Linux Essentials Additional Information SKILLS  • Skills: Troubleshooting; attention to detail; customer service; resourceful; diligent; communication; management; time management; adaptability; teamwork; initiative; ability to work under pressure