INVENTORY TECHNICIAN INVENTORY TECHNICIAN INVENTORY TECHNICIAN - IBM Humble, TX Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience INVENTORY TECHNICIAN IBM - Houston, TX 2017 to June 2019 Maintain accurate records of all inventory transactions to enhance operational efficiency.  • Check designated receiving areas for incoming material deliveries and match shipment with proper paperwork.  • Work with staff at the stockroom to receive and issue materials/parts and deliver to all internal workstations.  • Enhance satisfaction by immediately reporting damages to aligned support Buyer, as per internal RMA process.  • Process returned parts (RMA) and ensure items are properly labeled, stowed on nonconforming shelves and returned to vendor as per PO instructions for materials that are deemed unacceptable.  • Verify database accuracy and spearhead computer hardware component identification.  • Maintain shelf and bin allocation for routine materials and assist with allocation of NPI (New Product Introduction) products.  • Perform cycle counts and physical inventory validation periodically upon request from supply chain group.  • Report all inventory variance by IPN (Internal Part Number) and update records to reflect accurate counts.  • Enforce inventory management policies and report all supply chain deviations to optimize resource utilization. NETWORK OPERATIONS CENTER ANALYST Technip - Houston, TX 2017 to 2017 Identified, categorized and prioritized incidents in accordance with current operational standards.  • Monitored a wide variety of complex information and network systems by utilizing SolarWinds, SCOM, SCCM and other monitoring tools.  • Performed network troubleshooting and system administration tasks with Active Directory, Active Roles Server, SAP and Mobile Device Management.  • Identified key issues and delivered innovative solutions in a timely manner for increased user experience.  • Created alerts, added/modified nodes, managed views, ran reports, troubleshot issues, reviewed performance reports and reported trends in hardware and application performance for continuous improvement.  • Analyzed and researched various mitigation strategies while demonstrating expertise regarding customer technologies necessary for improving customer operations. SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR Lowes Home Improvement - San Antonio, TX 2012 to 2016 Provided monitoring, troubleshooting and support of various Intel Storage and Unix operating systems, databases, utilities and system tools as well as the hardware on which they reside.  • Conducted systems support activities, such as network and server monitoring, troubleshooting, escalation and resolution as well as communicated written and verbal issue status with stakeholders and NOC Management.  • Utilized Change Management, Configuration Management and Release Management to modify, maintain and update software, including firmware, drivers, anti-virus and Windows Service Pack updates.  • Strengthened Service Delivery to meet customer Service Level requirements which include Disaster Recovery and Business Continuity planning, data security and recovery as well as Production level policies and procedures.  • Headed research, testing and successful implementation of effective monitoring tools.  • Prepared and conducted system and programming tests requiring interfacing of hardware and software while also performing routine upgrades and preventative SCCM maintenance for existing infrastructure. OPERATIONS TECHNICIAN SunGard - Houston, TX 2008 to 2012 Managed system functionality to ensure ongoing operations, including multifaceted responsibilities to configure, install and administer network infrastructure and telecommunications systems. Delivered effective project leadership.  • Assisted with technology installation to include securing of cabinets, racking of equipment and cabling of devices.  • Helped build Windows-based operating systems (Server 2008/200), device configuration and tape-backup operations using CommVault as well as facilitated efficient internal/external customer service to all clients.  • Verified that the facility inventory is consistently updated and accurate based upon moves, adds and changes.  • Worked independently and with project teams to ensure task-level plans are executed on track.  • Demonstrated understanding of facility support systems (power, HVAC, fire detection/suppression, security), responded to alarms as per department procedures and utilized SCCM for windows OS patching and upgrade.  • Led on-site vendor support for maintenance/upgrades and technical support for production and disaster recovery clients while issuing problem, change and request tickets for infrastructure and customer environments.  • Kept accurate records each shift and updated management on risk assessment, development and implementation.    Early Career Summary Education BACHELOR OF SCIENCE in MANAGEMENT INFORMATION SYSTEMS Southern New Hampshire University - Manchester, NH Skills BMC (Less than 1 year), Business Analysis (Less than 1 year), Business Continuity (5 years), Citrix (Less than 1 year), Disaster Recovery (9 years) Additional Information • Quality Assurance Control  • SAN, NAS, and EMC Storage  • Risk Management  • Storage Platform Proficiency  • Technical Support  • Information Systems Expertise    • Ensuring Data Protection  • Optimizing Operational Efficiency  • Servers and Networking  • New Systems Design & Development  • Infrastructure & Technical Analysis  • Virtualization    • IT Strategy Development  • Continuous Improvement  • System Administration  • Project Roadmap Execution  • Needs Assessments  • Migrations/Upgrades    Software Proficiencies    Citrix Client & Server MS XP & Vista OS Windows 2000 OS SAP Linux Exchange Netware MS Office Suite  McAfee Norton Visio EMC Clariion CX200,400 Dell Open Manage Novell Navisphere Unisphere SCOM Nlyte CommVault SolarWinds Active Directory Business Analysis Business Continuity Computer Hardware Data Center Disaster Recovery EMC Storage ERP Software Management Service Now BMC Remedy ITSM Ver 9.1  HP Insight Manager HP Integrated Lights Out