Technical Analyst Technical Analyst Technical Analyst - Travel Leaders Group & Altour Middleburg, FL IT Professional seeing to benefit an IT Department with complex technical expertise as well as exceptional soft skill that enable me to harmoniously interact effectively with both end user and staff to resolve whatever issues arise. Work Experience Technical Analyst Travel Leaders Group & Altour - New York, NY December 2018 to Present • Provide Level 2 and 3 IT Support for the network of Travel Agents and their associates  • Participate in projects ranging from PC refreshes to AD Cleanup. Caretaker Leave of Absence April 2018 to December 2018 Provided care for Ill parent Plant IT Technician RGBSI - Faurecia - Detroit, MI March 2018 to April 2018 • Provided Multi-Level support to end users via helpdesk and deskside support  • Resolved Help-Desk Tickets  • Imaged Computers for Deployment Via SCCM  • Monitored proprietary MES system and providing engineering team network support Network Engineer II Cybertek Engineering - New Albany, IN January 2018 to March 2018 • Provided both onsite and remote support to various clients  • Provided onsite support for Clark County Government Offices  • Completed site surveys for network installations  • Configured and Deployed Servers and Network Equipment at Customer Sites Systems Support Analyst Ceva Logistics - Louisville, KY June 2017 to January 2018 • Provided Multi-Level support to end users via helpdesk and deskside support  • Supported Launch of Sequencing Production Parts to Ford in an IT role, providing networking, data,  • and PC support.  • Coordinated and designed network layout for new building and worked with vendors to complete  • installation  • Configured and all Symbol handheld scanners, and Zebra printers for site. IT Coordinator Grupo Antolin Belvidere IL\ Louisville KY - Belvidere, IL March 2014 to June 2017 • Provided Multi-Level support to end users via helpdesk and deskside support  • Supported Launch of Sequencing Production Parts to Ford and FCA in an IT role, providing  • networking, data, and PC support.  • Transferred to Louisville, KY to help launch two new facilities  • Configured and all Symbol handheld scanners, and Zebra printers for site.  • Ordered all site computer related equipment and maintained asset tracking. IT \ Continuous Improvement Coordinator Eberspaecher Exhaust Technologies of the Americas - Belvidere, IL November 2012 to March 2014 • Provided Multi-Level support to end users via helpdesk and deskside support  • Supported Launch of Sequencing Production Parts to FCA in an IT role, providing networking, data,  • and PC support.  • Configured and all Symbol handheld scanners, and Zebra printers for site.  • Ordered all site computer related equipment and maintained asset tracking.  • Applied Lean tools to solve problems at the regional level with consideration to strategic corporate  • objectives.  • Lead project teams toward cohesive decisions and actions.  • Followed up on action items to ensure timely completion.  • Tracked sustainment audits and checklists.  • Established and documented operations processes that support continuous improvement of sound  • business practices.  • Collaborated with operations teams to develop and maintain performance metrics, measurements,  • methods and targets.  • Developed and revise business operations processes and coordinate technology solutions.  • Developed and used work aids, such as process flow charts, checklists, templates, and guides to  • assist teams in implementing defined processes.  • Communicated all progress, roadblocks and achievements with stakeholders.  • Captured, documented and shared best practices; transfer data across the region.  • Fostered a culture of continuous improvement by actively encouraging and enabling stakeholders  • across the region to adopt best practices.  • Assisted in achieving our vision of success by identifying and enabling other Lean leaders in the  • organization.  • Followed through on any assignments from manager for the development of continuous  • improvement initiatives. Level 2 Help Desk Analyst ABS Associates - Schaumburg, IL June 2012 to November 2012 • Provided Multi-Level support to end users via helpdesk  • Supported various clients ranging from Retail to Hospitals Technician \ Jr Network Administrator Automated Parking Technologies - Chicago, IL June 2011 to June 2012 • Provided Multi Level Support to end users via deskside and remote support  • Maintained Office Network Infrastructure  • Performed Site Surveys for Network Infrastructure at client sites.  • Completed Network Installations at client sites. Education BA in Information Technology Western Governors University - Salt Lake City, UT 2022 High School Diploma Prospect High School - Mount Prospect, IL 1996 Skills ACTIVE DIRECTORY, EXCHANGE, FIREWALLS, NETWORKING, VIRTUALIZATION Assessments Technical Support Skills — Highly Proficient February 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/ew-dxrc3dkjyxsac Basic Computer Skills: PC — Highly Proficient April 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to perform basic computer operations, navigate a Windows OS, and troubleshoot common computer problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/ywrk9hrnsztz2dtq Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information Skills    • Operating systems (Windows, MacOS, iOS, Android)  • Office 365 or Microsoft Exchange Administration  • Windows Server operating systems  • Networking  • Firewalls    • Virtualization (VM Ware, Hypervisor)  • Planning and Deployment  • Multi-Tier support  • Phone and Deskside Support  • Active Directory