Salesforce Lightning Developer Salesforce Lightning Developer Salesforce Lightning Developer - PWC Dallas, TX • Around 8 Years of experience in Software application Designing, Development and implementation, involving hands-on knowledge design and development using Java, Force.Com platform and Microsoft Technologies.  • 5+ Years of experience in development and implementation with Salesforce Customization, configuration, administration and development.  • Expert in capturing, analyzing, documenting and realizing the business requirements and design and architecture of solutions on salesforce.com platform.  • Extensive experience developing Lightning Components - both within the Salesforce Lightning Design System and by writing custom Lightning Components in Java Script within the Aura framework.  • Knowledge and experience in developing Custom Lightning Components, using Standard Lightning Components, building Lightning Apps using Lightning App Builder and Lightning Pages using Lightning framework, aura framework and Lightning Locker Service.  • Hands-on experience with Salesforce query language - SOQL, SOSL (Relationship, Aggregate queries) and DML operations and implementing best practices by tuning queries.  • Experience in developing custom UI using VisualForce Pages, Visual Force Components along with Controllers.  • Strong experience in data modelling using standard objects and customizing standard objects, custom objects and custom fields, rollup summary and relationships and even junction objects.  • Experienced in configuration and customization of Sales, Marketing, Service and Community Clouds by configuring Assignment rules, Escalation rules, Email-to-Case, Web-to-Case and Web-to-Lead.  • Proficient in developing Utility and Test Factory classes to create test data required for all test methods and targeted for 85% of code coverage at whole org level.  • Experience in SFDC Administrative tasks like creating / freezing / logging in as Users, Creating and assigning profiles, creating and assigning permission sets, creating custom tabs, page layouts, search layouts, Workflow rules, Approval processes, flows, Validation Rules, Formula fields, Reports and Dashboards, sharing rules, roles, security settings, etc.  • Hands on experience in advanced configuration in creating buttons, links, actions, Record types, Field Dependencies, dependent picklists.  • Hands on experience on Sales force Lightning for Customizing Reports and Dashboards for business use.  • Experience in Web Services integrations using SOAP and REST API.  • Involved in Code Deployments using change sets from Sandbox to production.  • Experience in Data Loading using Import Data Wizard and Data Loader.  • Managed Sandboxes for development, testing and training purposes.  • Good experience with web and database technical skills such as SQL, HTML, XML, CSS and JavaScript.  • Executed various levels of Unit, Integration, User Acceptance and Operational Acceptance testing using test cases to prove that system confirm to specifications of business and quality requirements. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Salesforce Lightning Developer PWC - Dallas, TX July 2018 to Present Description: PwC brings clients industry-specific technological expertise in a range of services spanning strategy and enterprise architecture, security, privacy and risk issues, information management, IT infrastructure and business applications.  Responsibilities:  • Interacted with various business users to gather the requirements, documented the requirements, and developed design documents to suit business needs.  • Worked with Lightning UX and assisted internal users with transitioning from Classic to Lightning experience.  • Worked with Business for transition from Classic to Lightning - including creating reports and report folder for lightning experience, creating lighting record pages.  • Built a custom lightning app using lightning app builder and standard lightning components, custom lightning components and app exchange lightning component bundles.  • Developed custom lightning component bundles - writing component, lightning controller, helper, CSS and design.  • Used the Salesforce Lightning Design System (LDS) for developing lightning look and feel quickly in lightning components - data table, progress bar, datepickers, file selector, etc.  • Used the Aura and Lightning framework, worked with lightning events (application and component events) and event handlers for responding to interface events both user triggered events and those fired by JavaScript controller actions.  • Created community using customer community and community plus licenses using Napili template.  • Part of team building new user experience using salesforce communities.  • Worked on lightning components, event registration, handlers for performing business logics and actions.  • Used Jitterbit Harmony to build integrations to import data sent by vendor in CSV format in to salesforce, whilst resolving duplicated records.  • Performed Data extraction, transformation and loads from external SQL Server Database and vendor provided CSV flat files.  Environment: Salesforce, HTML, Java Script, Jitterbit Harmony, Data Loader, Developer Console, Eclipse IDE, Lightning Framework, Salesforce Lightning Design System (SLDS), Aura Framework, jQuery, SQL Server, Force.com IDE. Senior Salesforce Developer State Street - Boston, MA January 2017 to June 2018 Description: State Street Corporation is an American financial services and bank holding company headquartered at One Lincoln Street in Boston with operations worldwide. It is the second United States bank on the list of oldest banks in continuous operation; its predecessor, Union Bank, was founded in 1792. State Street is ranked 15th on the list of largest banks in the United States by assets.  Responsibilities:  • Created custom applications on Force.com Platform for multiple business requirements for JCI's business processes.  • Created user interfaces for custom applications using the Custom Objects, Custom Tabs, Page Layouts, Record Types and Customization options.  • Used Master-Detail relationship, Lookup relationship, Lookup filters, Roll-Up Summary in master detail relationships.  • Created Workflows rules with field update, email alerts and outbound messages.  • Created complex Validation rules based on business requirements.  • Created Profiles, Permission Sets, Sharing rules, public groups and Apex Managed Sharing.  • Created various Reports (summary reports, matrix reports, pie charts, dashboards and graphics) and Report Folders to assist managers to better utilize Salesforce as a sales tool and configured various Reports and for different user profiles based on the need in the organization.  • Wrote Apex classes and controllers and extensions, test classes and triggers with minimum 90% code coverage using test classes for both positive and negative cases.  • Participated in Code reviews with Senior Salesforce Developer Lead and learnt and used salesforce coding best practices to develop and test code such as, not hard-coding IDs or strings or values, keeping SOQL queries and DML statements outside of loops, keeping if-else loops to minimum possible to keep cyclomatic complexity in check, bulkifying the code, creating only one trigger/process/process builder per object, etc.  • Helped in developing development and test framework including trigger factory and test data factory.  • Used Handler classes and helper classes to keep code as simple as possible.  • Used maps and lists and SOQL queries to build key-value pairs and lists for collections, sObjects, user-defined types and built-in apex types.  • Used SOQL & SOSL with consideration to Governor Limits for data manipulation needs of the application using platform database objects.  • Handled the client-side requests with JavaScript and jQuery without sending the post request to the salesforce server in visual force pages.  • Created Visualforce pages and components to override the standard functionality in customer portal. Carried out minor declarative changes and took the responsibility to manage releases into the production.  • Change set creation and validation of change sets and deployments from one org to another and to prod environment.  • Performed Data scrubbing, cleansing, deduping and transformation for data exported from SQL and OLTP databases.  • Troubleshooting data load issues when upserting data in to salesforce.  • Using Data Loader for insert, update, and bulk import or export of data from Salesforce Objects.  Environment: Salesforce, Visualforce (Pages, Components), Controllers, Apex Classes, Triggers, Data Loader, REST, Eclipse IDE, Jira, Workbench, SOQL, SOSL. Salesforce Admin/Developer Ann Taylor - New York, NY July 2015 to December 2016 New York City, NY july'2015- Dec'2016  Description: Ann Inc. is an American group of specialty apparel retail chain stores for women. The company headquartered in New York City and currently operates as a subsidiary of Ascena Retail Group. The stores offer classic styled suits, separates, dresses, shoes and accessories.  Role: Salesforce Admin/Developer  Responsibilities:  • Performed detailed analysis of the business process and prepared the requirement document (BRD) by interviewing key Stakeholders and used it as a baseline for further design and implementation.  • Developed and configured Dashboards, Reports and Report Folders for different user profiles based on the need in the organization.  • Designed, developed and deployed various data integration interfaces, Apex Classes, Controller Classes and Apex Triggers for various functional needs in the application.  • Designed & Deployed the Custom objects, Custom tabs, Validation rules, Auto-Response Rules, Page layouts, to suit to the needs of the application.  • Created page layouts, search layouts to organize fields, custom links, related lists, and other components on a record detail.  • Worked on various Salesforce.com standard objects like Accounts, Contacts, Opportunities, Opportunity products, and products.  • Developed custom user interface using Visualforce Pages, Components and Controller Classes.  • Designed various Reports (using the Report Build) and Dashboards to assist the University Admin Department to better utilize Salesforce as an Analytical Tool to expedite the Loan Granting Process.  • Importing and exporting of large volumes of data using the Data Loader.  • Created modern Enterprise Lightning Apps combining Lightning Design System, Lightning App Builder and Lightning Component features.  • Developed and configured various Reports and Report Folders for different user profiles based on the organization initiatives.  • Created Apex REST web service methods to inbound calls to Salesforce and supported response in JSON and XML format.  • Customized User Roles, Role hierarchies, Profiles and Sharing settings to ensure that the protected data is available only to the authorized users.  • Defined lookup and master-detail relationships on the objects and created junction objects to establish connectivity among objects.  • Customized different objects at field-level, implementing advanced fields such as Picklists, Field Dependencies, Custom Formula Fields and Validation Rules.  • Worked closely with project manager to define the scope, timeline, effort and resources necessary to complete business requirements and process work on project initiative.    Environment: Salesforce.com platform, Lightning, Apex Script, Visualforce Pages, Controllers, CSS, Encryption Fields, Custom Objects, Custom Tabs, Page Layouts, Reports, Dashboards, JSON, XML, Eclipse IDE Plug-in. Jr. Salesforce Administrator Flex Films USA - Elizabethtown, KY December 2013 to July 2015 Responsibilities:  • Interacted with various business user groups for gathering the requirements for Salesforce implementation and documented the Business and Software Requirements.  • Performed detailed analysis of business and technical requirements and designed the solution by customizing various standard objects of Salesforce.com (SFDC) and using other Platform based technologies like Visualforce, Force.com API, and Web Services.  • Customized tab worked with various standard objects like Accounts, Contacts, Leads, Campaigns, Cases and Solutions.  • Designed, Implemented and deployed the Custom objects, Page layouts, Custom tabs, Components to suit to the needs of the application.  • Created Custom Objects and defined lookup and master-detail relationships on the objects and created junction objects to establish connectivity among objects.  • Implemented Case Management Automation to track and solve Customer's Issues. Implemented Email-to-Case, Web-to-Case to enter generated cases to Case Object.  • Used the sandbox for testing and migrated the code to the deployment instance after testing.  • Provided the training to the internal business users to use the application and develop their own custom report.  • Prepared user manual and technical support manual.    Environment: Salesforce.com, Workflow & Approvals, Reports, Custom Objects, Custom Tabs, Email Services, HTML, Java Script, Java, Web Services, Windows. Network Technical Associate IN May 2011 to November 2013 Responsibilities  • Installed, configured, Windows 2003 servers, Active Directory Services, DNS, and DHCP.  • Migrated the Windows XP desktop environment to the Windows7.  • Handled permission access for Active directory, Domain users, Administrating users and groups LAN and Domain environment.  • Managed Operating Systems win2003, win2000, Win98, Win XP, Win NT.  • Troubleshooting on client machines regarding any network connectivity or hardware issues.  • Configured and Managed Microsoft Outlook 2003/2007 for the users.  • Supported LANs, WANs, Microsoft Servers, firewalls, Routers. Desktops, Microsoft Windows.  • Gather requirements for new initiatives where SharePoint can be leveraged to meet the business needs. Follow the SDLC preferred by the business user to deliver solutions quickly and efficiently with a focus on first-time quality.  • Excellent understanding of SAN, NAS storage architecture.  • Experienced with x86 / x64 Intel, HP, desktop, laptop and other peripherals  • With help of 3rd party software checking security of the machines and updating with recommended patches and fixing the bugs.  • Involved in network configuration TCP/IP and also creating/deleting the user accounts across the location.  • Thoroughly monitored routers and the Internet connectivity.  • Updated Antivirus on client machines. Coordinate hardware and software installations and upgrades to ensure work is performed in accordance with company policy.  • Creating a backup job and also took backup of data center on daily, weekly and monthly basis. Education Bachelor's Skills DATABASE, MS ACCESS, SQL SERVER, ORACLE, PL/SQL, SQL, C#, C++, HTML, JAVASCRIPT, SCRIPTING, VISIO, XML, jQuery, FORCE.COM, CSS, REST, APEX, INTERNET EXPLORER, ANDROID Links http://salesforce.com