Active Directory Administrator Active Directory <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Desktop Support Tampa, FL Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Active Directory Administrator Heidrick and Struggles - New York, NY June 2019 to June 2019 New York, NY) 12/2019 to 06/2019    • Level I/II/III Troubleshooting of Desktop hardware and software on a global scale  • Deployed and procured and configured laptops for new hires  • Managed Inventory for all sites in North America to South America  • Use PowerShell, VBS and Autoit to create install scripts.  • Migrate users from Windows 7 to a Windows 10 environment and Migrate user's email from 2016 to 365  • Active Directory Administrator - Create, Organize and manage user's permissions  • AWS- Create Images for virtual environments  • Manage networks and troubleshoot firewall and TCP/IP, and DHCP issues  • Responded to requests for technical assistance in person via phone and remotely  • Trained Users to utilize the helpdesk for all technical questions  • Hosted Lunch and learns for sites in North America  • Troubleshoot and configured Video conference rooms. Migrated the company to use Zoom. IT Analyst F.W. Webb - Bedford, MA October 2016 to October 2018 • Level I/II/III Troubleshooting of Desktop hardware and software, standalone and network printer, and a variety of network issues  • Answer phones and emails in a professional manner  • Configuration and deployment of Windows 10 desktops and laptops into a Window 7/XP environment.  • Managed the Postfix Email Server.  • Monitored Network Traffic and reported outages.  • Utilize my knowledge of TCP/IP, DHCP, DNS, File and Printing Services to proposed solutions to improve network performance  • Set up network devices on a DHCP server  • Assisted service providers during network outages Help Desk Analyst Marlborough, MA October 2015 to October 2016 • Provide level I/II IT support to internal customers. Resolved customer complaints with strong technical skills.  • Processed a daily average of 30 inbound technical support calls. Trained new employees and explained protocols clearly and efficiently.  • Updated and maintained a Wiki database of proven solutions and known issues with step-by-step tutorials with screenshots.  • Abide by the Standard Operating Procedures to resolve IT problems and service requests.  • Support Investors that require high touch and immediate service.  • Defused volatile customer situations calmly and courteously. System Administrator, The Mentor Network North Andover, MA January 2010 to October 2015 • Participate in a technical capacity on new and on-going projects, collaborating with project managers, application developers, and other business unit staff to delivery timely solutions that meet business requirements  • Implement and supported Dell KACE. Deployed Windows patches and Desktop software through Dell's K1000. Created and deployed Windows 7/8/10 images with Dell's K2000.  • Provided end user training including documentation, video tutorials, and live training sessions.  • Updated and created Standard Operating Procedures documentation.  • Created Windows 7, 8 and Windows 10 images. Test settings and customizations for quality assurance.  • Recipient of the certificate of outstanding achievement in service delivery and excellence in overall performance. Education Robotics and Artificial Intelligence Southern New Hampshire University 2014 Network Engineering Lincoln Technical Institute November 2009 to January 2011 Computer Engineering State University of New York - New York, NY September 2006 to May 2007 Skills Active directory, Cisco, Citrix, Vmware, Vpn, Encryption, Internet explorer, Application software, Scripting, Android, Symantec, Jira, Linux, Avaya, Windows 10, Outlook, Outlook 2010, Mac, Help desk, AD, Powershell, DHCP, DNS, Migration Additional Information Tech Skills  • Operating Systems: Windows 10/8/7/Vista/XP, Mac OSX, Linux, Android  • Application Software: MS -Office 365/2013/2010/2007/2003 Suite Outlook 2010/2007/2003/2000/98/97, Skype, Spark, Citrix, AD Manager, Active Directory, Avaya IP Agent, Cisco VPN, VMware, Symantec Endpoint Encryption, Sophos, Google Chrome, Internet Explorer and Firefox  • Scripting: Powershell, VBS and Auto IT  • Help Desk Systems: Servicenow, EZ Vista, Jira, Confluence  • Remote Tools: TeamViewer, VNC, Windows Remote Desktop Connection, PCAnywhere, Bomgar, Citrix Go to Assist