Sr. Network Administrator Sr. <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Sr. Network Administrator - Dell EMC Nashua, NH Several years of accomplished network, and SolarWinds administration. Possess a proven competence to affect change in a wide variety of technical environments. Adept to providing support, communication, and attention to detail in a fast-paced technical data center atmosphere, with a demonstrated ability to rapidly learn new technologies. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Network Administrator Dell EMC - Nashua, NH 2013 to Present Nashua, NH  Sr. Network Administrator (2013 - Current)  Support the Dell EMC engineering lab network.    • Primary network administrator at the Dell EMC, Nashua Design Center.  • Architected resilient core data center networking solution with IPv4 and IPv6 OSPF routing.  • Architected and administered global SolarWinds network monitoring deployment.  • Chassis switch administration on Brocade NetIron MLX-32, and MLXe-16.  • SilverPeak WAN optimization administration and implementation including VX8000 and VX9000 deployments.  • Network infrastructure troubleshooting involving multiple VLANs, both IPv4 and IPv6 subnets, spanning trees topologies (rstp, pvst, rpvst, ) routing points and policies, switching vendors, speeds from below 1G to 100G with both Cat5e, Cat6, Cat6a and copper Twinax, SFP+, QSFP+ and QSFP28.  • Static and dynamic routing utilizing OSPF, and OSPFv3 (IPv6) and policy-based routing (PBR) implementations  • Proactive network monitoring, optimization, alerting and troubleshooting utilizing SolarWinds.  • Multi-vendor configuration and administration of switches including Dell Networking, Dell PowerConnect, Dell Force10, Cisco, Arista, Brocade, Xtreme, and Juniper.  • Fundamental and working knowledge of the OSI and TCP/IP models.  • Server and SAN (FC and iSCSI) administration, licensing, zoning, and troubleshooting FC (fibre-channel) storage technologies within Force10 and Brocade FC switches.  • Implementation of topologies incorporating DCB (datacenter bridging), RSTP, STP, PVST, and RPVST, static and LACP LAGs, Dell Force10-VLT / Cisco-VPC domain configuration and troubleshooting.  • Development of HA solutions involving VLT, VRRP, and ESXi environments.  • ACL (Access Lists) configuration and implementation.  • Dell Compellent and Equallogic array administration utilizing both iSCSI and FC technologies.  • VMWare ESXi, vCenter configuration and administration of version 5 through 6.7.  • Collaborated with engineering development teams in a fast-paced environment with numerous flavors of operating systems to create enhanced test-environments and plans. Prototype Support Sr. Associate Deploy and support Dell 2012 to 2013 EqualLogic prototype server and array technologies.    • Bronze Award: Boeing CM Update Project  • On the Spot Award: India Regulatory Compliance  • Advanced configuration and troubleshooting of both servers and arrays.  • Configuration of customer facing Beta preview environment.  • Oversee and lead handling of all deployment, tracking, updating, support and maintenance of prototype arrays and servers.  • Unix/Linux/Windows remote monitoring and administration of arrays and switches.  • Collaborated with members of various engineering, development, and QA groups to achieve time sensitive goals in effective and procedural manners.  • Closely worked with engineering and hardware teams to develop custom update procedures and how-to documents for prototype technologies.  • Software bug reporting and out-of-box hardware functionality testing. Prototype Lab Technician 2011 to 2012 Install and deploy prototype equipment.    • Work closely with engineering teams, and project managers to achieve deployment plan goals.  • Completed several large-scale rack moves, and array deployments according to project plans.  • Firmware updating via console / serial of controllers, power supplies and batteries.  • Custom hardware assembly and disassembly including hard drives, custom PCB's and PSU's.  • Custom cabling including switch, array, pdu, server, and terminal server networking devices. IT Network Technician (Contract MTS Services - Keene, NH 2009 to 2009 Installation of communications cabling in industrial buildings    • Completed several onsite corporate IT cabling & routing projects using Cat6e cabling and crimping tools.  • Terminated wall jacks with both A & B classifications.  • Installation of patch panels, racks, routers, and switches.  • Worked directly with LAN and hardware team to efficiently complete the network infrastructure. Computer Technician Next Computing - Nashua, NH 2008 to 2009 Assemble, test, and support custom-built business and military computers.    • Built custom high end Intel/AMD-architecture workstations from the chassis up to testing, and troubleshooting.  • Stress-tested systems, workstations and servers before deploying to customer.  • Built to custom-spec designs per customer orders.  • Linux and Windows configuration, testing, and troubleshooting.  • Deploying multiple variations of CPU, GPU, and hardware setups including RAID HDD configurations from RAID 0 up to RAID 6.  • Operating Systems installation such as Ubuntu, CentOS, Debian, Suse, Windows 2000, 2003 Server, XP, Vista, 7, and Server 2008. IT Technician (Contract Comcast - Manchester, NH 2008 to 2008 Data insertion in SIM cards and media, and IT hardware and software support.    • Updated numerous amounts of SIM cards via file copy.  • Provided end-user hardware and software support on a variety of Dell workstations and server setups.  • Desktop workstation deployment in a corporate call center environment. Computer Technician Microtime Computers - Amherst, NH 2007 to 2008 Leading MIS services provider of machines, networking, peripherals, and data recovery.    • Client-facing role providing onsite and offsite IT and networking support. First point of contact for walk-in, and phone diagnostics / troubleshooting.  • Experience with driver troubleshooting, Windows system updates, wireless networks, and multiple displays.  • Operating Systems installation such as Windows 98, 2000, XP, Vista, and 7.  • Handled virus and spyware removal, with manual methodologies for cleaning, maintaining, and restoring computers and servers. Education A.S. Hesser College 2006 to 2008 Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/luke-wiedmer-b5853117