Technical Analyst of POS Implementation Technical Analyst of POS Implementation Technical Analyst of POS Implementation - Buffalo Wild Wings Corporate Office New Prague, MN Work Experience Technical Analyst of POS Implementation Buffalo Wild Wings Corporate Office - Golden Valley, MN November 2017 to Present • Configure, install, and troubleshoot software on thousands of terminals on Windows 7 and Windows 10.  • Help implement and configure EMV Chip Reader devices to 800 Corporate stores.  • Built and implemented a script for removing a security risked software from 500 stores removing over 3000 vulnerabilities.  • Team Lead role for mass implementation of POS hardware and configuration to all Buffalo Wild Wing Corporate Sites.  • Train and Supervise a team of 4 to 6 individuals.  • Help conceptualize, organize and conduct the process of the Implementation of all hardware and software.  • On job troubleshooting for POS devices, computer hardware, software failures, and networking connection issues.  • Help build and install windows 10 File Server images onto hardware.  • Organize and write documentation on processes for several projects. Network Administrator Student Dakota County Technical College - Rosemount, MN August 2016 to December 2018 • Had hands on experience with Operating systems such as Windows 7, Windows 10, Windows Server 2008, Windows Server 2012.  ? Set up a Windows Servers as if it were a work environment. Example: I had 1 Windows 2012 Server, 1 Windows 2008 Server, and w Windows 7 PCs. I used the 2012 Server to set up Hyper-V and the Domain Controller. Also used Active Directory to set up users, group policies and organizational Units.  ? Used Windows Deployment Service for PXE to allow users to have access to all the Windows ISOs.  ? Set up a Microsoft Exchange Server 2010 for mail.  • Worked hands on with VPNs and Remote Desktop.  • Worked everyday on Cisco routers and switches, setting up HSRP, DTP, Ether channels, Vlans, GRE Tunnels, ACLs, OSPF, EIGRP, and authentication methods like PAP and CHAP.  • Worked with SQL creating, migrating, and managing databases.  • Worked with Hardware and Computer Maintenance, I would build, manage, and troubleshoot PCs.  • Made myself fluent in Command Prompt writing batch files to help make computer processes easier.  • Worked hands on with multiple platforms of Firewalls.  • Worked with Data Recovery and Data Carving. Education Bachelor of Science in Network Operations and Security in Network Operations and Security Western Governors University 2019 to 2020 Associate Degree in Network Administration in Network Administration Dakota County Technical College 2016 to 2018 Master of Science in Information Technology in Information Technology Western Governors University Skills Acls, Active directory, Cisco, Encryption, Firewalls, Networking, Virtualization, Vlan, Bgp, Eigrp, Ipv6, Ospf, Router, Vpn, Data recovery, Hsrp, Authentication, Hyper-v, Linux, Security Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    NETWORKING:  • Strong understanding of Network Fundamentals.  • Worked with Cisco routers and switches for 3 years.  • Used Cisco's CLI to set up: Hot Standby Router Protocol (HSRP), Router on a Stick, OSPF, EIGRP, BGP, Vlan Trunking Protocol, Dynamic Trunking Protocol, Ether-Channel, CHAP Authentication, GRE Tunnels, Standard and Extended Active Control Lists (ACLs), and more.  • Familiar with IPv4 & IPv6 IP Addressing.    OPERATING SYSTEMS:  • Worked with: Windows 7, Windows 8, Windows 10, Widows Server 2008, and Widows Server 2012.  • Learning my way around Linux.  • Skilled with tools such as Command Prompt, Active Directory, Windows Group Policy Manager, Windows Registry and more.  • Familiar with Hyper-V and virtualization in general.    SECURITY: • General understanding of Virtual Private Networks (VPN), firewalls, encryption and data recovery.  GENERAL:  • Ability to work well in a team environment.  • Excellent skill set for critical thinking and problem solving.  • Proven skill set for a Professional Lead role.  • Works well at a fast pace and under high levels of pressure.  • Used skill set to help reduce times of processes at a corporate level.  • Skills in Microsoft Word, Excel, Power Point, Outlook, and Access.  • Outstanding at documentation.