Information Systems Specialist Information Systems Specialist Information Systems Specialist Hopewell, VA Work Experience Information Systems Specialist VCU Health System - Hopewell, VA March 2019 to Present Computer imaging using SCCM, Active Directory, as well as file transfer of end-user files with Easy Transfer.    Handles all of end users questions and resolves any issue while on-site in a polite, courteous, and quick manner.    Responsible for setup and operation of control center when fires or other incidents arise.    Responsible for break/fix issues and fixing them in a timely manner.    Lead security compliance team to determine, locate, and remedy over 500+ non-compliant mobile devices in the environment.    Improved data migration method used by Windows 10 Upgrade team reducing time spent transferring data by 50%.    Engaged end users and answered questions via email, phone, and Skype.    Removed malware, ransomware and other threats from laptops and desktop systems.    Collaborated closely with upper management to drive strategy through development and implementation of new processes.    Delivered in-depth training to users for Bitlocker, imparting knowledge of best practices for protecting data and minimizing errors. Network Administrator Telcom Systems LLC - Chester, VA August 2017 to March 2019 Facilitated smooth network operations for 50+ on-site users, and total of 15,000+ users across 50 locations.    Managed data backups and disaster recovery operations for 50+ person company.    Introduced VMWare infrastructure and management tools to create and manage virtual server computing environment.    Closed trouble tickets quickly and efficiently with rate of 20+ completed tasks per day.    Ensured continuity of computer and telephone system services for users through technical expertise, assistance and project coordination.    Performed system maintenance and upgrades, including patches, service packs, hot fixes and new security configurations.    Installed, configured, and supported local area network (LAN), wide area network (WAN) and Internet system.    Experienced in supporting Cisco and Mikrotik routers, switches, wireless access points and network servers.    Maintained network hardware and software and monitored network to ensure network availability to end users.    Diagnosed and resolved hardware, software and network problems and replaced defective components.    Identified issues and implemented troubleshooting techniques to alleviate downtime and system failure.    Researched and recommended network products, services, protocols and standards for network development. Information Technology Specialist Amazon - Chester, VA July 2015 to August 2017 Consulted with network engineering staff to evaluate hardware and software requirements for new system development.    Managed customers' expectations of support and technology functionality in order to provide a positive user experience.    Acquired in-depth knowledge of company operations, policies, and guidelines.    Delivered onsite technical support for 25,000 employees.    Remained up-to-date on the latest technologies and solutions applicable to company products in order to provide the best support to end-users.    Performed tests of functionality, security, and performance of different workstations and devices.    Liaised between management, sales team, development team, and the client to address any concerns or issues. Education Associate in Computer and Information Science, Cyber and Network Security ECPI University - Richmond, VA July 2017 to December 2018 Skills Analyst and Critical Thinking (5 years), Hardware and Software Monitoring (3 years), Data Backups (3 years), Network Repair and Service (3 years), Network Security Oversight (2 years), Effective Communication (5 years), System Upgrades (5 years), Server Expertise (3 years), Troubleshooting (5 years), Networking, Technical Support, Active Directory, Vmware, Windows, Active Directory, Customer Service, Networking, Technical Support, Vmware, Windows, Windows 7, Microsoft Office, Security Certifications/Licenses HP Color LaserJet Enterprise CP4020/CP4520 Series Printer Service and Support March 2019 to Present HP LaserJet Enterprise MFP M725 Series Service and Support Training (Revision 1) March 2019 to Present HP FutureSmart Firmware Training April 2019 to Present Servicing HP Desktops, Workstations and Notebooks for Service Technicians April 2019 to Present Networking Foundations: Networking Basics June 2019 to Present Learning Amazon Web Services (AWS) for Developers January 2019 to Present Cloud Architecture: Core Concepts October 2018 to Present VMware vSphere 6.5 Essential Training Part 1 October 2018 to Present