FORKLIFT OPERATOR/MATERIAL HANDLER FORKLIFT OPERATOR/MATERIAL HANDLER FORKLIFT OPERATOR/MATERIAL HANDLER - Interior Supply Inc Kokomo, IN Motivated professional and United States Marine, seeking a new career opportunity.  Exceptional communicator, hard working, punctual, quick learner, and high functioning in  adverse conditions. Compassionate and fair leader, continually honing leadership traits to  become a better professional and a better leader on the battlefield and in the workplace. Work Experience FORKLIFT OPERATOR/MATERIAL HANDLER Interior Supply Inc - Indianapolis, IN March 2019 to Present Loaded, unloaded and sorted cargo from delivery trucks as part of accurate and efficient  shipments from the warehouse to the customer.  • Coordinated daily work strategies, following oral and written instructions to properly move  and ship products.  • Promoted operational efficiency by maximizing loads on each transfer.  • Prevented load shifting or damage by using bracing and strapping techniques. NETWORK ADMINISTRATOR United States Marine Corps - Indianapolis, IN July 2017 to Present Experienced in supporting Cisco routers, switches, wireless access points and network  servers.  • Trained junior marines regarding network security, cryptic data and troubleshooting of data circuits.  • Identified issues and implemented troubleshooting techniques to alleviate downtime and system failure.  • Managed firewall, network monitoring and server monitoring both on site and off site. ASSEMBLY TECHNICIAN Indiana Mills Manufacturing Inc - Westfield, IN February 2017 to July 2019 • Performed quality checks on products and parts.  • Packaged finished products and prepare them for shipment.  • Rotated through all the tasks required in a particular production process.  • Shoveled, swept, or otherwise cleaned work areas. CORRECTIONAL OFFICER Miami Correctional Facility - Bunker Hill, IN April 2018 to March 2019 • Established healthy relationships and maintained professional boundaries with staff and incarcerated persons to maintain safety and security in the institution.  • Recorded incident reports, injury reports, and conduct reports.  • Maintained the custody and control of 204 incarcerated persons housed in a Maximum  Security Prison.  • Searched the building and grounds, living quarters and work areas for contraband. Education Information Technology Electronics School - Twentynine Palms, CA 2018 High School Diploma Northwestern High School - Kokomo, IN 2017 Networking Systems and Administration Integrated Training Exercise 6/12-24/18 - Quantico, VA Networking Systems and Administration Integrated Training Exercise 6/12-24/19 - Twentynine Palms, CA Skills Troubleshooting, Strong Verbal and Written Communication, Data Management, Well Disciplined and Punctual, Forklift Operation and Maintenance, Thrives in Adverse Conditions, Fair Leadership, Forklift, Shipping, Warehouse, Inventory Control, Forklift, Forklift Operator, Pallet Jack, Shipping, Warehouse, Inventory Control Military Service Branch: Reserves Rank: Lance Corporal of Marines Certifications/Licenses Forklift Certified March 2019 to March 2020 Secret Security Clearance Present