Helpdesk Computer Technician Helpdesk Computer Technician Stone Mountain, GA Work Experience Helpdesk Computer Technician Dekalb Community Service Board - Decatur, GA December 2014 to Present Helpdesk II  • Install, configuring and maintaining desktop and laptop PCs and peripherals, such as printers  • Installing and configuring application and operating system software and upgrades  • Troubleshooting and repairing hardware and network connectivity issues  • Removing old equipment old equipment and performing data migration to new machines  • Building new images and system prep image to server  • System backups  • Inventory and surplus of IT equipment  • Provide helpdesk support and resolve problems to the end users  • Monitor Service Desk for tickets assigned to the queue and process first-in first-out based on priority  • Assist with onboarding of new users  • Install, test and configure new workstations, peripheral equipment and software Jr. Network Administrator OmniTech Solutions June 2013 to August 2014 • Installation, maintenance, monitoring of multiple servers and applications.  • Setup/delete user accounts in 7/XP/2000  • Monitor Cisco router and switch connections for network access.  • Configure and design simple LAN/WAN solutions.  • Support Windows NT, PRO 2000, XP and UNIX AIX at the Junior Admin level.  • Work on special projects with senior System Administrators to increase knowledge.  • Team member of major Active Directory rollout institution wide.  • Configure and troubleshoot LAN/WAN Technologies in small network environment. Education Certificate in Network Engineering Omni Technical Institute 2014 Skills CISCO (1 year), ROUTER (1 year), CCP (Less than 1 year), CITRIX (Less than 1 year) Military Service Branch: Navy Service Country: United States Rank: E-3 August 1990 to August 1993 Communication Top Secret Commendations: Meritorious Unit Commendation Additional Information Technical Skills  • Working knowledge of Cisco Routers and Switches  • Knowledge of VoIP, CSU/DSU  • Configuration and troubleshooting of IGRP, EIGRP, OSPF, RIP routing protocols.  • Configuration of various WAN technologies ISDN, Frame Relay, DSL, DSO.  • Installation, configuration, and troubleshooting of DNS, DHCP, WINS, TCP/IP  • Knowledge of common sub-protocols, including SMTP, SMNP, HTTP/HTTPS, SSL, POP3, ARP, RARP, TELNET  • Experience configuring PPP and HDLC encapsulations on various Cisco Router platforms.    Software Skills:  Management Engine Plus, VNC, TeamViewer, Paper Vision, Avatar, Spice Works, MS, Office 2010, Packet Tracer, GNS3, CCP, VM, Wire Shark, Html, CSS5/6, Citrix XenApp  Lotus Notes, Symantec Ghost.    Operating Systems: Windows 8.1/10 and Cisco IOS