FSA/Unix, Windows/ Network Administrator FSA/Unix, Windows/<span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> FSA/Unix, Windows/ Network Administrator - DCS Corp Niceville, FL Work Experience FSA/Unix, Windows/ Network Administrator DCS Corp - Niceville, FL August 2018 to Present • Collaborated with customers, internal staff and other partners to determine planning, implementation and integration of system-oriented projects.  • Built and oversaw a network infrastructure comprising Windows, Linux and virtual products.  • Handled troubleshooting tasks related to the components for Local Area Networks, Wide Area Networks and voice systems.  • Created systems for the Defense Department that could be deployed by the military in remote locations.  • Developed and managed project plans while providing status updates to management.  • Traveled to client sites and answered questions via phone and email so that issues were remedied in a timely manner.  • Created, oversaw, and updated policies, information, standards, and guidelines on a regular basis.  • Management of organizational information and network systems.  • Perform assessments, development, implementation, management, maintenance and administration of Local Area Network (LAN), Telecommunications Infrastructure, and other customer-required information technology services..  • Coordination with Base Communications to move over 100+ users and all associated IT equipment to a temp facility for building renovations.  • Cybersecurity Liason/Information Assurance Officer.  • Providing technical support and troubleshooting to network, desktop, and/or systems hardware and software.  • Screening and diagnosing internal inquiries and work requests as they relate to maintenance of personal computers and related systems.  • Providing phone and help-desk support for local and off-site users. CST/System Administrator Infinite Services & Solutions - Eglin AFB, FL July 2017 to January 2018 supporting the 96th Communications Squadron/Test Wing on Eglin AFB.  • Windows 10 migration/Avaya VoIP migration team member.  • Troubleshooting and installing Windows 10 SDC.  • Windows Deployment Services configuration for pushing SDC images to compatible machines.  • Familiarity with DRA/IAO Express/REMEDY2 ticketing system.  • Provides training to unit CST's for reaching Win 10 compliance.  • Responded to customer service requests in a timely and effective manner.  • Installed software, modified and repaired hardware and resolved technical issues.  • Resolved customer issues in a clear, courteous and straightforward manner. CST/System Administrator Craig Technologies - Hurlburt Field, FL July 2016 to July 2017 • Performance Excellence Award Craig Technologies  • Client Systems Analyst supporting the 19th SOS/AFSOAWC Flight Training facility on Hurlburt Field.  • Provides Administrative support for both NIPR and SIPR networks.  • Analyzes internal/external customers' needs and determines equipment and software requirements  • Establishes system parameters and formats; ensures hardware/software compatibility.  • Coordinates and/or modifies user requirements in terms of existing and projected computer capacity and capabilities.  • Familiarity with the Air Force Standard Desktop Configuration (SDC), both Windows 7 and 10.  • Referred difficult issues to upper management while maintaining positive rapport with the customer.  • Troubleshooting Hardware/Software related computer issues.  • Prepared and presented technical proposals for clients.  • Maintained accurate hardware and software inventories. System/Domain Administrator Northwest Florida State College - Northwest, Florida, US March 2015 to July 2016 State College ? Niceville, FL  • System/Domain Administrator for the IT department at Northwest Florida State College.  • Managed groups and permissions for access to organizational resources.  • Designed, documented and executed maintenance procedures.  • System upgrades, patch management and system backups.  • Created end-user self-service tools and documentation.  • Troubleshot hardware issues and worked with service providers to facilitate repairs.  • Researched, documented and escalated cases to higher levels of support according to internal procedures.  • Assisted customers with technical issues via email, live chat and telephone.  • Installed software, modified and repaired hardware and resolved technical issues.  • Traced login attempts to track and resolve account lockouts. Education BS in Cybersecurity and Information Assurance Western Governors University AAS in Network Systems Technology Northwest Florida State College - Northwest, Florida, US AA in Computer Engineering Northwest Florida State College - Northwest, Florida, US Skills Linux, System Administrator, Redhat Additional Information • Windows Systems Administrator with over four years of IT experience supporting the Department of Defense.  • Provide technical analysis and direction concerning collateral & SAP computer security plans and policies, including systems accredited under the Risk Management Framework (RMF) per National, DoD, IC and SAP guidance such as NIST 800-37, DoDI 8510.01 and JSIG, as well as legacy accreditation guidance such as DCID 6/3, JAFAN 6/3, DIACAP, and NISPOM.  • Quickly become technically proficient in new Information Technology (IT) architectures to include design, installation, and configuration tasks associated with virtualization, storage solutions, web based access, Cross Domain Architecture, and Multi Level Security technologies.  • Accomplished in Network, System, and Security engineering.  • Proven performer consistently delivering products and services that exceed expectations.