Firewall Engineer Firewall Engineer Firewall Engineer - Philips Healthcare • Security Engineer with hands on experience in the arena of Security Design, Implementation and Support especially firewalls, intrusion prevention system, load balancers and Proxy.  • Enterprise scale design, installation, upgrade and support of network & security products especially firewalls and security gateways including Palo Alto, Cisco ASA, Check Point and Fortinet.  • Working with Advanced blades of Check Point such as URL/APP Filtering, ANTI-VIRUS and ANTI-BOT  • Experience managing Palo Alto firewalls for content filtering, APP-ID, URL filtering, IPsec VPN and Global Protect VPN.  • Monitoring and troubleshooting traffic using Smart View Tracker.  • Experience with Management Platforms such as FortiManager, Provider-1/MDM and Panorama.  • Experience with Check Point IPS Blade.  • Advanced troubleshooting experience using TCPDUMP, FW Monitor, Packet Capture and Wireshark.  • Experience with Project documentation tools & implementing and maintaining network monitoring systems and experience with developing network design documentation and presentations using VISIO. Work Experience Firewall Engineer Philips Healthcare January 2019 to Present • On-call to work, identify and provide best possible solution to resolve issues.  • Provide network support and troubleshoot the issues for customer environment.  • Provide on-call support for end-users for all in place security solutions.  • Perform firewall migration from Cisco ASA firewall to Palo Alto firewalls.  • Troubleshoot the VPN tunnels by analyzing the logs in firewalls.  • Perform backup and upgrades time to time on Palo Alto and Cisco ASAs.  • Implement zone-based firewalling and security rules on Palo Alto firewalls.  • Implement firewall rules using Palo Alto Panorama and Checkpoint Smart Dashboard/Provider-1.  • Working with Checkpoint security system 61k and gateways 15k 12k and 4k series.  • Worked on service requests with Check Point to resolve 61k security system issues.  • Installed Jumbo hotfix Take 162 on Check Point Smart Console in high availability.  • Working on PCI remediation for Check Point firewall rule base clean up.  • Created Certificate Signing Request and installed the Certificate for Cisco ASA firewalls using ASDM.  • Created and updated the network design changes and presented using Visio.  • Work on trouble tickets in Remedy ticketing system which comes to our queue. Network Engineer AAA February 2018 to September 2018 • Implemented and provided support to Secure Enclave environment of Fortinet gateways and Checkpoint firewalls.  • Experienced configuring ADOMs on FortiManager and assigning new policies to different VDOMs.  • Implemented huge number of tasks of firewall change via BMC remedy  • Integrated Checkpoint Firewalls with IDS software blade and added IDS exceptions, per the behavior upgraded to IPS.  • Installed VDOM licenses on FortiGate cluster and configured the FortiGate firewalls.  • Experienced with FortiAnalyzer for log analysis and reporting.  • Implementation experience on IPsec Site to site VPN on FortiGate firewalls.  • Troubleshooted Phase 1 and Phase 2 issues on the B2B VPN Tunnels between various business partners.  • Created new ADOMs under Devices & Groups in FortiManager to accommodate FortiGates running on different FortiOS.  • Responsible for managing global and local policies of FortiGate firewalls using FortiManager 4000E.  • Created object, groups, updating access-lists on Check Point firewalls, apply static, hide NAT using smart dashboard.  • Experience building firewalls at the data center and implementing the initial policies and configuring NAT etc.  • Configured clustering Active/Standby using Cluster XL and troubleshooted any sync issues.  • Firewall objects ( network/services) and policy Optimization and Rule clean up as well.  • Troubleshooting connectivity issues on the Check Point firewall using smart view tracker, monitor health of the appliance using SmartView monitor etc. Command line troubleshooting for packet level debug.  • Backup and restored of Check Point firewall policies as well as security gateway configurations.  • Managed global policies of America and EMEA region via Multi-Domain Security Management.  • Created CMAs on Check Point SmartDomain Manager to control and implement policies centrally.  • Respond and escalate open tickets to track and document resolution on internal and external threats.  • Worked with appropriate technical system owners and application owners for vulnerability remediation.  • Planning and performing upgrades of network systems hardware and support systems in accordance with ITIL best practices. Firewall Engineer EON Networks February 2017 to November 2017 • Installed and Configured Next Generation Palo Alto firewalls.  • Build up Palo Alto Firewalls in the network and build high availability.  • Implemented and support of network topologies in according to customer requirements.  • Experience with deployment of IPsec VPN on Palo alto devices.  • Experience with various Palo Alto Security profiles including Anti-virus, APP-ID and URL Filtering.  • Worked with Device Group policies and Objects in a shared environment with firewalls, managed centrally with Panorama.  • Experience with Template Stack and Device Groups with Panorama to manage multiple Palo Alto devices.  • Build B2B IPsec with Business Partners and troubleshoot connectivity issues through VPN with Palo Alto (PAN) devices.  • Worked on B2B VPN Tunnels with business partners on ASA firewalls.  • Participated in 24*7 on-call support and implementing changes in different time zones as per the client requirements  • Build High Availability using Active/Standby HA mode on Cisco ASA.  • Experience implementing Failover with Cisco ASA for High Availability Active/Standby.  • Firewall Policy Provisioning using Change management procedures. (ITIL based approach)  • Experience with Tufin for performing the policy optimization and firewall changes  • Actively worked with users to convert their firewall port opening requests into firewall change requests and process them through the Remedy change management system. Intern Network Administrator CACI July 2013 to May 2014 • Perform daily maintenance, troubleshooting and configuration of network components.  • Configured VLANs with 802.1q tagging, trunk groups, etherchannels and Spanning tree on Cisco 6500, 3750 and 3550 switches.  • Layer 2 switching technology architecture, implementation and operations including L2 and L3 switching and related functionality including VLAN, VTP, Spanning Tree.  • Configured BPDU Guard, uplink fast and port security and troubleshooting the LAN issues.  • Configured and supported Check Point security gateways.  • Review Firewall rule conflicts and misconfigurations as well as redundant rules.  • Built site-to-site VPN using FortiGate firewalls and troubleshooted Phase 1 and Phase 2 issues.  • Performed day to day operational roles like writing access-list, configuring and troubleshooting NAT on Fortigate.  • Backup and restore of Check Point firewall policies as well as security gateways configuration.  • Built site-to-site VPN tunnels on Cisco ASA and Check Point firewalls.  • Cisco IOS Upgrades using TFTP server, Backup and Recovery of Network Device Configurations.  • Troubleshooting end user connectivity issues through the firewalls and network.  • Troubleshoot IPSec Site to Site VPN connectivity including Phase1 (ISAKMP) & Phase2 (IPSEC)  • Worked with Cisco based Router access list and Route maps and prefix lists. Skills Cisco asa, Cisco asa firewalls, Ipsec, Ips, Tcpdump