Support Engineer Support Engineer Support Engineer - SAP America Orlando, FL To obtain a full-time job within an organization that will give me the opportunity to advance my professional career in the Information Technology Field Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Support Engineer SAP America - Lake Mary, FL August 2017 to Present Project Description: Working on SAP Cloud Recruiting Management application (RCM) and Recruiting Marketing Application (RMK) and which is used by the external customer of SAP to execute the recruiting deliverables. Here I identify configuration issue, and system defects.    • Act as the first point of contact for all SAP Sales Cloud customers, consultants and partners requiring application support, triaging incoming web, phone and email case requests.  • Research, analyze and troubleshoot to diagnose and resolve technical problems.  • Update support case tracking system to provide accurate and current documentation of issues.  • Coordinate with Quality Assurance and Engineering, aiding in identifying, reporting and resolving product defects.  • Investigates, analyze complex, real world, unique problems; and resolve critical system issues for Enterprise level Fortune 500 companies.  • Properly document communications and actions for customer issues in our CRM system.  • Recommend known technical solutions and develop workarounds for corrective action.  • Contribute regularly to the internal and external Knowledge Base.  • Using Splunk with analyzing system data when troubleshooting system error, defects or configuration issue within SAP Recruiting management application.  • Using Jira tool for documenting and reporting system defects to DevOps and keep track of the reported issue life cycle. Setup Configuration Specialist (SCS) Aon Hewitt - Orlando, FL July 2016 to August 2017 • Reviewed analysis documents prepared by the Systems Analyst and configures (using graphic user interface tools) the TBA System to fix a system defect or complete a client request/change. Completes high level testing to ensure no major defects are in the code.  • Executed test plan (including regression testing) by identifying/creating test participants and performing calculations for expected results. Determines if configuration performs accurately, reflects requirements, and has zero negative impact to existing provisions.  • Documented defects when actual results do not meet expected results.  • Analyzed issues/defects and debugs the system when configuration is not producing expected results.  • Researched issues to determine if source of error is with the test data, test plan, or configuration.  • Resolved issues with test cases or set-up and re-tests configuration. Escalates issues as appropriate.  • Experience with system testing and software quality assurance best practices and methodologies.  • Knowledge of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) principles/concepts.  • Interpreted and understand conditional statements (i.e., If/Then/Else).  • Applied basic relational database concepts (table relationships, keys).  • Experience with writing basic SQL and DB2 queries.  • Troubleshooted basic system defects and errors.  • Ability to interpret and understand typical client requirements documentation.  • Knowledge of applicable data privacy practices and laws.  • Ability to communicate ideas in both technical and user-friendly language.  • Experience with navigating and executing statements in Blue Zone/IBM Mainframe System. IT Technician Aon Hewitt - Orlando, FL July 2015 to June 2016 • Provided configuring and moving a workstation to inputting data into local operational processes, like PC inventory, to escalate a technical issue to teams  • Support PC / Laptop setup/ Tablet (Windows 7 and Windows 8)  • Experience with mapping/ configuring and Novell NetWare drive  • Basic PC / Laptop and peripheral repair process (Dell 780, Lenovo laptop and Windows Surface)  • Audio-Visual (A/V) support/setup (Polycom phones, LCD projectors)  • Generates and maintains detailed technical documentation including software installation guidelines, troubleshooting processes  • Build, prepare AON Hewitt builds for specific ECAT client testing  • Refresh of loaner laptop process  • Aided with reseeding RSA token for VPN user.  • Asset Disposal processes  • Associate move/termination processes  • Ticket Management Remedy and Service Now support ticket system  • Basic printer troubleshooting  • Basic network connectivity troubleshooting  • Basic software installation processes  • Remote troubleshooting and resolution offsite location  • Experience with troubleshooting and configuring Lotus Notes, Juniper VPN, Citrix and Outlook  • Performs Laptop training and educate new-hires and colleagues on how AON technology work Network Administrator Virgin Island Waste Management Authority - Saint Croix, VI May 2014 to August 2014 VI    • Prepare the AD forest and domain for the installation of Windows Server 2008 R2. (ADPREP/FORESTPREP)  • Uninstall local anti-virus from all user machines and add to Symantec server edition.  • Upgrade all XP machines to Windows 7.  • Deploy updates to all computers on the WAN and ensure all updates are current.  • Create and update group policies.  • Aid in resolving Help Desk tickets.  • Perform requested analysis on system data.  • Assist and learn how to develop web reports.  • Organize IT hardware, supplies, etc.  • Perform daily IT tasks as assigned Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Information Systems in Network Administration Cookman University - Daytona Beach, FL August 2010 to May 2015 Skills Db2, Mysql, Oracle, Sql, Mainframe, Wireshark, Html, Javascript, Subversion, Svn, Xml, Intrusion, Linux, Css, Lotus notes, Microsoft office, Tech Support, Desktop Support Additional Information COMPUTER SKILLS    Troubleshooting basic networks  HTML/CSS, XML  MySQL/SQL  Microsoft Office Suite  JavaScript  Wireshark  Sophos Intrusion Prevention Systems  Linux  Blue Zone/Mainframe System  Lotus Notes  Subversion SVN  Advance Query Tool (AQT)/IBM DB2  IBM Main Frame  Business Content Studio  Oracle