Engineer Engineer Engineer - Cloud San Jose, CA • Over 4 years of experience in IT industry with strong expertise in Continuous Integration / Continuous Deployment process, System and Linux Administration  • Experience in Amazon AWS service like Elastic Compute Cloud (EC2), Simple Storage Service(S3), CloudFormation, CloudWatch, CloudFront, Lambda, Route 53, Auto Scaling, ELB, RDS, AMI, IAM, VPC.  • Experience with Linux family, install, configure and maintain Red Hat/Centos flavour of Linux Operating system.  • Experience in designing Kubernetes cluster using AWS-Kops (EKS), and configuring and deploy the Kubernetes dashboard to access the cluster via its web based user interface.  • Experience and knowledge in orchestrating Kubernetes cluster on AWS.  • Experience with both SOAP and REST services for information exchange.  • Experience in various stages of software development life cycle that included analysis, design, development, deployment and testing of an application for business outputs.  • Experience with Docker and Kubernetes on multiple cloud providers, from helping developers build and containerize their application (CI/CD) to deploying either on public or private cloud.  • Experience in installing and configuring of OpenShift platform in managing Docker containers and Kubernetes Clusters.  • Experience in Container management using Docker by writing Docker files and set up the automated build on Docker HUB and installing and configuring Kubernetes.  • Experience in Agile software development a framework that delivers customer collaboration and interaction with processes and tools.  • Experience in managing and securing the Custom AMI's, AWS account access using IAM.  • Install and maintain Kubernetes on-prem cloud servers, configure master and minion nodes to establish the cluster.  • Instruct developers to Install mini kube to implement pods and test on DEV environment and provide YAML files for promotion to higher environment.  • Manifest YAML files to Kubernetes cluster on corresponding namespaces of applications to deploy the components as - pods, services, secrets, etc. Write Docker file to build/push new images to the repository and pull those to run as containers  • Experience in creating and maintaining the databases in AWS using RDS.  • Involved in Configuring and Networking of Virtual Private Cloud (VPC)  • Experience in IPv4 and IPv6 Addressing, IP Sub netting, Fixed Length and Variable Length Subnet Masking (VLSM), OSI and TCP/IP models.  • Experience in Kubernetes and Docker for deploying and scaling the workloads and integration in Networking, Storage and Security.  • Build Customized Amazon Machine Images (AMIs) & deployed these customized images based on requirements.  • Worked on DevOps tool Chef in provisioning AWS machines.  • Experience setting up instances behind Elastic Load Balancer in AWS for high availability.  • Experience in System Administration System Builds, Upgrades, Patches, migration, Trouble Shooting, Security,  Backup, Disaster Recovery, Performance Monitoring and Fine-tuning on Red Hat Linux Systems.    • Experienced in installing firmware upgrades, kernel patches, systems configuration, performance tuning on Unix/ Linux systems.  • Hardworking system/ network administrator proficient in hardware, software and security planning.  Able to select, install, configure and manage components. Flexible schedule and adaptable approach. Work Experience Engineer Cloud April 2019 to Present Apple CA  • Building/Maintaining Docker container clusters managed by Kubernetes Linux, Bash, GIT, Docker, on AWS (Amazon Web services). Utilized Kubernetes and Docker for the runtime environment of the CI/CD system to build, test deploy.  • Managed Kubernetes charts using Helm and creating reproducible builds of the Kubernetes applications, managed Kubernetes manifest files and Managed releases of Helm packages.  • Developed Ansible scripts in YAML for an automated server provisioning and Docker images, reducing the time between provisioning and deployment.  • Expertise in writing Ansible Playbooks, modules and roles. Utilized Ansible for configuration management of hosted Instances within AWS.  • Experienced in writing Bash and Python scripts, Included Boto3 to supplement automation provided by Ansible and terraform for tasks such as encrypting EBS volumes backing AMI's and Scheduling Lambda functions for routine AWS tasks.  • Experienced in building sophisticated and highly automated infrastructure using automation frameworks such as Cloud Formation, terraform and Ops Works.  • Extensively worked with Scheduling, deploying and managing container replicas onto a node cluster using Kubernetes. And worked with building Kubernetes run time environment of the CI/CD system to build, test and deploy in an open source platform.  • Provisioned the highly available EC2 Instances using Terraform and cloud formation and wrote new plugins to support new functionality in Terraform. Engineer Cloud June 2018 to April 2019 CA  • Configured EC2 instances with different Ami (Amazon machine Images) and different types of instances suitable or different criteria.  • Configured Elastic Load Balancers with EC2 Auto scaling groups  • Auto scaling groups, CloudWatch, CloudFront, IAM for installing configuring and troubleshooting on various Amazon Images.  • Created Multi branch Pipeline Jobs for Builds and Deployments, installed several plugins in Jenkins to support multiple tools required for the implementation of projects.  • Automated CI/CD pipeline for the monitoring tools Docker containers and written script to test them.  • Build servers using AWS: Importing volumes, launching EC2, creating security groups, auto- scaling, load balancers, Route 53, SES and SNS in the defined virtual private connection.  • Creating alarms in CloudWatch service for monitoring the server's performance, CPU Utilization, disk usage etc.  Managed users and groups using the Amazon Identity and Access Management (IAM).  • Maintaining the user accounts (IAM), RDS, Route 53, SES and SNS services in AWS cloud.  • Enhanced team productivity and automated repetitive tasks by using batch files, PowerShell, VBScript and WMI.  • Troubleshoot LAN/WIFI connectivity, configured permissions folder rights.  • Performed software installations and upgrades to operating systems and layered software packages.  • Resolved any circuit, data issues, security and access control issues to ensure 24/7 system access.  • Managed domain users and groups in AD and create group policies in order to keep the network secured. System Administrator Tesla Motors, CA September 2017 to April 2018 • Experience in Software Integration, Configuration, building, automating, managing and releasing code from one environment to another environment and deploying to servers  • Involved in supporting cloud instances running Linux and Windows on AWS, experience with Elastic IP, Security Groups and Virtual Private Cloud in AWS.  • Extensive experience on configuring Amazon EC2, Amazon S3, Amazon Elastic Load Balancing IAM and Security Groups in Public and Private Subnets in VPC and other services in the AWS.  • Managed network security using Load balancer, Auto-scaling, Security groups and NACL.  • Experience in Python programming for deployment of Java applications and implementation and automation of Shell scripts for release and build automation  • Experience in migrating build.xml into pom.xml to build the applications using Apache MAVEN  • Engineered Splunk to build, configure and maintain heterogeneous environments and maintained log analysis generated by various systems including security products.  • Extensively worked on Jenkins CI/CD pipeline jobs for end-to-end automation to build, test and deliver artifacts and Troubleshoot the build issue during the Jenkins build process.  • Implemented Jenkins Code Deploy plugin to deploy to AWS and used to automate the build process and deploy the application to Tomcat server.  • Created Route tables to route the traffic to find whether it is public or private network.  • Used Bootstrap Script for launching large number of instances in AWS  • Utilized AWS CLI to automate backups of ephemeral data-stores to S3 buckets, EBS and create nightly AMIs for mission critical production servers as backups. Junior System Engineer McKesson Corporation CA August 2016 to July 2017 • Designed test cases and test plans and developed an embedded software data driven test automation framework in Linux/Python.  • Launching Amazon EC2 cloud Instances using Amazon Images (Linux/ Ubuntu) and Configuring launched instances with respect to specific applications.  • Developed an autonomous continuous integration system by using Git, Jenkins, MySQL and custom tools developed in Python and Bash.  • Rewrite existing Python /Django/Java module to deliver certain format of data.  • Used Django Database API's to access database objects.  • Wrote Python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Generated property list for every application dynamically using Python.  • Using OPPS concept using Python programming concept.  • Involved in various phases of the project like Analysis, Design, Development, and Testing.  • Developed rich user interface using Django framework.  • Developed a Front-End GUI as stand-alone Python application.  • Skilled in Object-Oriented Design and Programming using Python.  • Analysed various data sources such as websites and developed Python code to extract structured and unstructured data. Network Engineer Intone Networks June 2013 to May 2015 • Network Administrator Junior responsible for LAN and WAN network operations, systems disaster recovery, database and systems backup, and network security.  • Played key role in management of IT department.  • Document network problems and changes working in diverse management environments.  • Performed network documentation and created disaster recovery plan.  • Exceptional experience working in fast-paced, deadline-oriented environments.  • Configured and supported multiple remote site installations.  • Configured and installed routers switch and wireless controllers.  • Troubleshoot various network issues affect solutions and collaborate with staff and outside vendors to resolve complex problems. Education Master of Science in Information Security Systems University of the Cumberland's 2018 to 2019