Data Engineer - Financial Performance & Analytics Data Engineer - Financial Performance &amp; Analytics Data Engineer Seattle, WA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Data Engineer - Financial Performance & Analytics Expeditors International of Washington - Seattle, WA May 2017 to Present Developed financial analytics web application. Used React to create front-end analytics dashboards.  ? Developed back-end of application with Python and Django REST Framework to create API  endpoints.  ? Build new ETL pipelines reducing data ingestion, manipulation, and loading times and modify  existing pipelines to include new data for users.  ? Design and maintain data models for financial and operational data warehouse to support new and existing analytics solutions.  ? Optimize performance of data warehouse and queries, making sure data retrieval is efficient to get  the data to the users faster. Business Intelligence Engineer - Financial Performance & Analytics Expeditors International of Washington - Seattle, WA February 2016 to May 2017 Led development of internal Financial BI solution to serve over 500 global leaders.  ? Developed front-end dashboards in OBIEE to visualize and analyze financial and accounting data.  ? Explored and implemented the use of Jupyter Notebooks for ad-hoc proof of concept analyses for stakeholders before final dashboard creation in Oracle BI.  ? Implemented user tracking in OBIEE to keep track of BI tool activity and our top/bottom users.  ? Managed and troubleshoot the multi-dimensional data cubes developed in Oracle Essbase.  ? Created automated backups of Oracle reports and server files in absence of a proper backup system. Network Administrator - Information Services Expeditors International of Washington - Seattle, WA July 2015 to February 2016 Provided troubleshooting and technical support for network systems to over 250 global locations.  ? Managed network migration of critical internal applications with other departments and branches.  ? Configured, maintained, and upgraded hardware/software to support a highly available network. Education Bachelor's Degree in Information Systems Washington State University - Pullman, WA 2011 to 2015 Skills Business Intelligence (1 year), CSS (Less than 1 year), Databases (Less than 1 year), Django (2 years), Essbase. (1 year), Excel (Less than 1 year), Git (Less than 1 year), HTML (Less than 1 year), MySQL (Less than 1 year), Oracle (1 year), Python (2 years), REST (2 years), SQL (Less than 1 year)