Network Administrator <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Network Administrator - United States Marine Corps Camp Lejeune, NC Reliable and committed Marine with a solid history of achievement in the communication and manufacturing field. Motivated leader with strong organizational and prioritization abilities. Areas of expertise include communication skills, flexibility, and a strong work ethic. Work Experience Network Administrator United States Marine Corps September 2015 to Present • Instruct and supervise operations of department, analyzing workflow, establishing priorities, developing standards and setting deadlines.  • Install, operate, and maintain local area networks and wide area networks to enable command and control.  • Routing and switching configuration, premise wiring, and installation of network components. Laborer Mid America Feeds - Talala, OK September 2014 to December 2014 • Load product from conveyor onto truck by hand.  • Operating equipment to load product onto truck. Saw Operator/CNC Operator Target Completions - Broken Arrow, OK April 2014 to June 2014 • Measure completed workpieces to verify conformance to specifications, using micrometers, gauges, calipers, templates, or rulers.  • Examine completed workpieces for defects, such as chipped edges or marred surfaces and sort defective pieces according to types of flaws.  • Read work orders or production schedules to determine specifications, such as materials to be used, locations of cutting lines, or dimensions and tolerances.  • Grind out burrs or sharp edges, using portable grinders.  • Load workpieces onto saw table using forklift.  • Adjust machine controls and change tool settings in order to keep dimensions within specified tolerances. Education GED Adult Learning Center - Tulsa, OK July 2012 Skills Time management, Networking, Active Directory Military Service Branch: United States Marine Corps Rank: Cpl Certifications/Licenses CDL Class A July 2019 to Present Drivers License Additional Information Skills  • Ability to work under pressure • Judgment and Decision Making  • Time Management • Active Listening  • Patience • Transportation  • Mechanical