System Administrator System <span class="hl">Administrator</span> System Administrator - People tech group Bellevue, WA Detail-oriented, dedicated individual and confident communicator with exceptional problem-solving, technical and analytical skills. Currently looking for full - time opportunities in the field of Telecommunication and Computer Networking. Seeking a position that will utilize my skills and abilities to the maximum in a resourceful, innovative and flexible environment. Work Experience System Administrator People tech group - Bellevue, WA August 2018 to Present Managing Microsoft datacentres as a part of the MCIO (Microsoft cloud infrastructure Operations) team.  ? Configure and troubleshooting cisco catalyst / nexus switches on production level.  ? To engage and coordinate with various teams (incident management, site team) for fast resolution of incident.  ? Working in environment consisting of servers and Cisco switches connected through optical fiber and Ethernet cables.  ? Understand the hardware requirements of the topology and establish new cluster in the network infrastructure  ? Responsible for maintaining monthly network inventory- IP. Document the port details of all the production switches.  ? Create cable maps and backbone diagram for existing infrastructure and new cluster/ network design and implementation.  ? Monitoring network switch through Cacti and generating email alerts on devices using SNMP script.  ? Patching hosts and virtual machines with latest security updates every month and validation.  ? Understanding of 24x7 Critical Support systems. Network Engineer Inabia Solutions and Consulting - Redmond, WA April 2018 to August 2018 Configuring, maintaining and supporting windows server and switch connectivity.  ? Provide Layer-2/3 support and troubleshooting to resolve issues.  ? Configuring and monitoring routers, switches and servers through Nagios.  ? Configuring Hosts with ILO for remote access. Responsible for NIC card configuration and troubleshooting  ? Experienced configuring in all Layer 2 technologies like VLANs, VLAN Trunking Protocol (VTP), Dynamic Trunking Protocol (DTP), Spanning Tree Protocol (STP), RSTP, MST and Per VLAN Spanning Tree (PVST). Network Trainee Microtrain - Chicago, IL September 2017 to December 2017 Implemented IP networking, subnetting, NAT. Document the port details of all the production switches.  ? Creating Network and Rack Diagrams with Microsoft Visio.  ? Implemented Static/OSPF/ RIP/EIGRP/BGP routing protocols.  ? Experience with different Network Management Tools and Sniffers like Wireshark  ? ATS computer Jr. Network Engineer LACP and PagP June 2015 to December 2015 Implemented various networking protocols: DTP, VTP, STP and ether-channel (LACP and PagP).  ? Responsible for network designing, implementing protocols and monitoring the devices.  ? Password Management for all production network switches. Telecom Intern Quadrant Televentures Ltd June 2014 to December 2014 While training worked on GSM equipment, fiber-optic technology, DSL, and ADSL.  ? Handled and addressed customer complaints using Web Oxygen Software.  ? Answered queries related to the troubleshooting of the Digital subscriber line broadband modem with a ticketing system. Education Master of Science in Electrical Engineering in communications, Communication engineering Illinois Institute of Technology - Chicago, IL December 2017 Relevant coursework Amritsar College of Engineering and Technology May 2015 Skills Networking (4 years), Network Administration (3 years), Network Management (3 years), Telecommunications (2 years) Assessments Technical Support — Highly Proficient July 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/6ylfnyocge-jqvh Basic Computer Skills: PC — Highly Proficient July 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to perform basic computer operations, navigate a Windows OS, and troubleshoot common computer problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/o-2pxgpmpex7eups Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.