IT System Administrator IT System <span class="hl">Administrator</span> IT System Administrator - Buckeye Mountain Belt railway of Chicago Calumet Park, IL Work Experience IT System Administrator Buckeye Mountain Belt railway of Chicago - Chicago, IL January 2019 to Present • Buckeye Mountain representative will handle break/fix, configuration issues, troubleshooting, software installations, hardware repair (including in-house repair or coordinating depot services.  • Handle escalated issues that Level 1 support is not equipped to handle. Level 2 will sometimes escalate to Level 3, depending on the issue and the way the Help Desk operates.  • Provide onsite Tier 3 deployment assistance, coordination, and support.  • Provide Desktop support for software installations, network connection troubleshooting, desktop re-imaging, MS Office suite support, and desktop hardware setup.  • Provide subject matter expertise and resources to install, maintain, configure and optimize PC. IT Manager United States Army - Savannah, GA August 2015 to September 2018 • Maintained network functionality by ensuring each tier was configured properly resulting in successful operations for end users. Created and implemented work place policies and procedures to improve effectiveness and quality of work.  • Conducted over 50 work place quality assurance inspections resulting in: 98% pass rate, maximized operational readiness and elevated team competency. Network Node Maintainer and Analyzer United States Army - Seoul, KR August 2015 to August 2016 • Organized monthly meet ups on topics including: help desk automation, work place and organizational skills, computer hardware and software troubleshooting, August 2015 - August 2016  • Network Node Maintainer and Analyzer / United States Army, Seoul, South Korea  Identified discrepancies within our systems and analyzed incoming and outgoing data. Managed the creation of all new networks and allotting IP's to the appropriate location. Links http://linkedin.com/in/brandon-farley-758b9973