Data Research Analyst Data Research Analyst Data Research Analyst San Antonio, TX By leveraging the years of experience in Information Technology, provide a better understanding how Analytics tools work with various technologies and operation systems. Utilizing my Master's Degree in Data Analytics to efficiently create trend analyses and predictive modeling, as well as provide customers with easy to understand visualizations of trends in their data. Work Experience Data Research Analyst UCS - San Antonio, TX September 2018 to Present Analyze medical data for customer to determine the efficiency of various aspects of hospitals, clinics, employees, and services then create reports to demonstrate findings. Systems Engineer SalientCRGT - San Antonio, TX January 2017 to September 2018 • Data analysis for customer using ACAS scans, and SolarWinds to monitor overall health status of customer network. Utilized Oracle databases to create queries for monthly results reporting. Prepare customer for upcoming merger. Provided input for upcoming RMF certification of customer Information Systems.  • Ad Hoc Queries for results reporting using SQL Plus and PL/SQL against Oracle Database  • Created relational model for AFDTL database architecture  • Began staging Information Systems for RMF Accreditation  • Installed Tableau Desktop for customers, created customized Dashboard Queries using ODBC connection to pull from customer database. Subject Matter Expert KGS - San Antonio, TX October 2016 to January 2017 San Antonio, TX  SME Tier IV October2016 - January2017  • Data analysis for USAF using ACAS scans, SCCM servers, SQL servers for cyber readiness inspections.  • Analyzed and reported on discrepancies found between SCCM and ACAS.  • Fielded questions on upgrade paths for USAF current Microsoft Servers.  • Created documentation for SQL queries against SCCM servers.  • Subject Matter Expert at teleconferences, situational awareness meetings, and point of contact for all cybersecurity accreditation related questions within USAF. Network Support Technician FedITC - Scott AFB, IL May 2016 to August 2016 • Resolve networking issues within various networks.  • Install and Monitor Tenable Solutions ACAS scanner/scan zones  • Research ACAS scan results and recommend proper patching to servers within Air Force Network  • Recommend solutions for possible cyber threats discovered through daily monitoring  • Monitor health status Network environment using SolarWinds, vSphere Web Client, and WireShark  • Set up a variety of subnets for classroom environments as needed  • Used Active Directory and SCCM client to manage environment  • Set up network racks, switches and routers following network diagrams.  • Top Secret Interim Network Administrator Apex Systems - Scott AFB, IL October 2015 to May 2016 • Resolve incoming help desk requests via Remedy ticketing system, email, phone, or in person for all aspects of Exchange servers.  • Basic troubleshooting of VoIP/VoSIP issues  • Research ACAS scan results and patch Exchange servers to meet USAF standards for security  • Monitor health status of over 250 Exchange servers and troubleshoot any issues found during monitoring.  • Used Active Directory and SCCM client to manage Exchange environment at Scott AFB  • Monitor overall health and troubleshoot issues pertaining to over 800,000 mailbox accounts including Database failover, corruption, and high availability.  • Use vSphere monitoring tool for managing servers and monitoring overall health in real time.  • PowerShell scripting to monitor aspects of Exchange environment not covered with vSphere and troubleshoot customer tickets.  • Monitor Event logs and Failover Manager to ensure healthy Exchange environment.  • Administer Good Mobile for Enterprise Servers.  • Administer Blackberry for Enterprise Servers during decommission phase/Migration to Good Mobile.  • Created documentation for customized installation of Microsoft Exchange servers  • Monitor and Maintain SQL databases for size and integrity of data  • Maintain classified exchange environment Education Masters of Science in Data Analytics Western Governor's University January 2018 Skills SAS (2 years), SQL (7 years), Tableau (2 years), Excel, Powerpoint, access, testing, MS Office, HTML, Microsoft Office Certifications/Licenses SAS Certified Base Programmer for SAS 9 July 2017 to Present SAS Certified Statistical Business Analyst Using SAS 9: Regression and Modeling January 2018 to Present Oracle Database SQL Certified Expert June 2017 to Present