System/ Network Administrator System/<span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> System/ Network Administrator San Jose, CA A passionate technologist with over 3 years of experience seeking to obtain a position in an organization to attain best in class industry experience to further career as an IT professional. Work Experience System/ Network Administrator Ravinia Festival - Highland Park, IL August 2018 to April 2019 • Managed Exchange Admin Center; creating mailboxes and user accounts.  • Regular administration of AD and Windows Server  • Install LAN, PC/Desktop, workstations, network devices and telecommunication equipment.  • Performed and maintained backups of system and networking devices.  • Assisted in troubleshooting and maintenance of all networking devices across the enterprise including switches, routers and firewalls.  • Provide support to end users and document issues, and resolutions Jr. System Administrator Insight Enterprises Inc - Hanover Park, IL April 2017 to May 2018 • Install and configure workstations hardware, software and peripheral devices  • Administer user accounts and assign a security level and assign configuration of authentication and authorization of directory services using AD.  • Administer desktop computers, printers, software deployment, security updates and patches.  • Resolve technical problems with Local Area Networks (LAN)  • Troubleshoot and support Microsoft Office suites, Windows 7, 8 & 10 OS.  • Experience with VPN, DNS DHCP, TCP//IP  • Installing and replacing PCs, Laptops, Printers and Scanner and peripheral hardware  • Troubleshoot, diagnose problems, implement corrective action procedures within prescribed guidelines and/or escalate to other technical resources as appropriate  • Provide Tier 1 & 2 support via phone calls, emails and IM  • Maintaining and updating service requests IT Lab Assistant College Of Lake County - Grayslake, IL July 2016 to April 2017 • Monitor computer labs and ensured students adhered to college usage policy  • Assist students with technical issues with computers, printers, hardware and software  • Manage ticketing system for IT user support  • Perform installation and upgrade for workstations and printers on LAN  • Provide application support, system troubleshooting and network configuration Call Center Team Leader College of Lake County November 2015 to July 2016 • Interacted with current, former and prospective students via phone to follow up on interest in CLC and to provide reminders of important College deadlines, processes, events.  • Maintained student information database to have the most up to date information  • Maintained records of telephonic interactions, orders and account information Education Associates In Computer Science in Computer Science College Of Lake County - Grayslake, IL Skills Active directory, Dns, Exchange, Networking, Tcp/ip, Dhcp, Lan/wan, Switching, Tcp, C++, Coding, Html, Css, Firewall, Sql, Java, Project manager, Microsoft exchange, Lan, Microsoft office Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:  ? Knowledge of Networking Protocols- TCP/IP, LAN/WAN, DHCP, DNS.  ? Hand-on experience on Routing, Switching & Firewall devices.  ? Microsoft Windows Server 2016, 2012 and 2008.  ? Managed Microsoft Active Directory and Microsoft Exchange Server  ? Expert in Win 7, Win 10 and Macintosh operating systems  ? Proficient in all Microsoft Office applications  ? Intermediate level coding in C++, Java, HTML, CSS and SQL  ? Incident Management/Ticket Management system experience    COMMUNICATION SKILLS  ? Excellent communication skills both written and verbal  ? Empathetic and personable listener, persuasive speaker  ? Good presentation and public speaking skills  ? Proficient in English, Hindi, Urdu.    LEADERSHIP SKILLS  ? International Peer Mentor at the College of Lake County (Since 2016)  ? Project Manager at a Startup  ? Ability to lead a team with dedication, passion and hard-work