Adjunct Instructor Adjunct Instructor Adjunct Instructor - Prairie View A&M University -Prairie View Houston, TX Electrical Engineer trained in analog, microelectronic, power and digital signal processing. Seeking full time position in a  dynamic company where my skills and experience can add values. Work Experience Adjunct Instructor Prairie View A&M University -Prairie View January 2018 to Present Graduate Teaching Assistant Prairie View A&M University -Prairie View October 2012 to December 2017 Teach students (seniors, juniors, and freshmen students) - Face to face class (PowerPoint presentation) - Laboratory (In this I teach student how to build electric and electronic circuits). It is to verify some physics  law. The software analog discovery is used to perform the simulation. Also I teach students how to use this  very important software for engineers. Graduate Research Assistant Prairie A&M University - Prairie View January 2012 to December 2017 Conducted research and work in the Laboratory (for experimental) -Software used: Matlab, Labview, Comsol  Multiphysics, Opnet, Analog Discovery-compute, Laboratory equipment.  One of the research area is on electromagnetic scattering by random rough surface.  The research is about using Markov Monte Carlo Method to analyze electromagnetic scattering by random  rough surface (One-dimensional, two-dimensional rough surface) and the Finite state Markov Chain technique  is utilized here for the first time to solve electromagnetic scattering problems. Computer network administrator assistant Laboratory Central of veterinary of Bamako - Bamako, ML May 2004 to March 2006 Bamako, Mali Computer Networking Laboratory Central and Veterinary of Mali 2006 to 2006 Router and switches configuration  . Computer Network System Maintenance.  . Wireless network system configuration Education Ph.D in Electrical Engineering Prairie View A&M University - Prairie View, TX December 2017 Master's in electrical engineering Prairie View A&M University - View, TX December 2013 Bachelor's in Physics and Chemistry Education Ecole Normal Supérieur - University of Bamako - Bamako, ML July 2006 Bachelor's in Applied Physics Faculty of Science and Technique - University of Bamako - Bamako, ML June 2004 Skills MATLAB, SIGNAL PROCESSING, VLSI, FPGA, SIGNAL DESIGN Additional Information Skills    • Computer skills: Verilog (for Digital Design), FPGA/CPLD Design, Python Matlab, Comsol Multiphysis,  Multisim, Opnet Software  Relevant Coursework Completed  • Digital Signal Design, Advanced Quantum Devices, Advanced Characterization of Material & Devices,  Advance Digital Signal Processing, Advance Power Electronic, Advanced VLSI Design, Power Gen Oper  Control, Advanced Electric Drives, Electromagnetics, Numerical Electromagnetics,  • Mathematic and Statistic courses:  Engineering Probability and Statistics, Stochastic Processes, Numerical Methods, Engineering Analysis I,  Engineering Analysis II.