Network Administrator Assistant <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Assistant Network Administrator Ludlow, MA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Network Administrator Assistant M&M Consulting - Springfield, MA April 2017 to Present Interacts with all of staff on a daily basis to ensure the highest quality security and confidentiality of all client files. Responsible for all aspects of company's personal SharePoint. Creates portals with secure access within SharePoint for clients. Makes sure all the company information is up to date. Prepares new laptops for incoming employees and will retrieve the IT equipment from those that have left the company to be wiped clean. Technology Coordinator Ludlow Boys & Girls Club - Ludlow, MA January 2014 to Present Creates curriculum and instructs fourth through middle school aged children on Claymation and Robotics. Creates computer products for the Club and is the go-to for all computer needed guidance. Duties include answering the phone, faxing, making copies and general customer service. Also helps with rewiring of computers and general upkeep of laptops/computers in the building. Is still called upon to help with Counselor duties on a fill-in basis during summer camp and vacation weeks. Technical Licensing Support Rep OriginLab - Northampton, MA September 2016 to March 2017 Assist customers with the licensing process for our software products.  Communicate efficiently with customer via phone, chat or e-mail, ensuring that their experience with Origin is positive.  Build and maintain relationship with new and existing customer sites.  Work closely with our Sale team to identify growth opportunities.  Work closely with our Technical Support Teams to identify and resolve technical issues related to licensing. Group Leader Ludlow Boys & Girls Club - Ludlow, MA September 2011 to January 2014 Counselor responsible for the care of Kindergarten, First, and Second Graders in the before school program and Kindergarten during the after school program. Worked also with First, Fourth and Fifth Graders. Provide a safe and nurturing environment, maintaining structure, and encourage members to participate in program areas/activities. Keep parents updated on news relevant to their children's well-being. Customer Service/Sales Clerk Event Network - Basketball Hall of Fame - Springfield, MA March 2010 to April 2011 Sales Clerk responsible for managing all credit card and cash transactions in the gift shop to include high profile events for the facility. Successfully handled high volume of sales. Responsible for gift shop merchandise stocking and inventory. Dealt with diverse customer population.    Abilities/Strengths:  • College major: Computer and IT Security Program  ? Courses included Computer Basics: Concepts & Applications and Information Systems Fundamentals, Unix Operating System, Windows Operating Systems, and Networks  • Excellent customer service and verbal communication skills  • Motivated to learn new and additional computer processes and designs.  • Dedicated, cooperative and enthusiastic.  • Nurturing Self-starter with a positive can do attitude.  • Promote and stimulate program participation; provide guidance and role modeling to children  • Effectively implement and administer programs, services and activities for children.  • Monitor and evaluate programs, services and activities to ensure safety of children.  • CPR and First Aid Certified - June 2015 Education Associates in Computer & IT Security Program Springfield Technical Community College - Springfield, MA August 2015 Holyoke Community College - Holyoke, MA High School Diploma Ludlow High School - Ludlow, MA Skills Microsoft Office (10+ years), Computer Hardware (2 years), Customer Service Skills (4 years), Unix Administration (Less than 1 year), Medical Terminology (Less than 1 year), Security + (1 year), Customer Service, Help Desk, Tech Support, Technical Support, Windows, Networking, Active Directory, Javascript Awards Volunteer of the Year 2018-11 Award given to recognize an outstanding individual that exemplifies great community service to Veterans and their familes. Certifications/Licenses Security+ August 2018 to August 2022 First Aid CPR AED June 2016 to June 2018 Certified in First Aid, CPR, and AED with adults/children Groups Family Support Group Present Help out at Family Support Group at Barnes Air National Guard Base. Additional Information Constantly helping out with the Veterans of Foreign Wars Organization. My mother is the District 7 Commander in MA and I volunteer my time and help out with varies events that the VFW has.   Volunteer of the Year for Sgt. Joshua D. Deforges Post 3236.