IT Support Specialist I IT Support Specialist I IT Support Specialist I - Griffin Networks Halethorpe, MD Work Experience IT Support Specialist I Griffin Networks - Gaithersburg, MD March 2017 to Present • Provide IT solutions to Griffin Networks' clients based in the District of Columbia, Maryland, Virginia (DMV) both onsite and remote.  • Provide network administration and general technical support for 150 users onsite and 50 field employees for HBW construction, there days a week.  • One day a week support for Cassidy & Associates which employs 45 professionals, remote/onsite.  • One day on call for other clients as needed.  • Assist senior network administrators with building new networks and network migrations as well as Microsoft Office365 email migrations.  • Work daily with Microsoft Azure Active Directory and Microsoft Server running Windows Server 2008/2012 R2 - setting up group policies, new user accounts and user groups, configuring security policies, giving access permissions, and setting up folder/file permissions.  • Expert in troubleshooting network connectivity issues and basic computer related issues, installing and configuring wireless hubs, routers, switches, and various transmission media.  • Train clients and users how to use Office365 features such as outlook, SharePoint, OneDrive, office365 portal etc. as well as educating end user security.  • Install hardware and software, troubleshoot daily IT issues, and maintain clients' computer systems or networks.  • Setup and configure VPN, Microsoft Exchange emails accounts on windows, Mac, iPhone, iPad, MS surfaces and other mobile devices.  • Knowledge of variety of remote programs and use Bomgar, LogMeIn, TeamViewer, MS RDP, VNC etc. on a daily basic.  • Deploy software such as such as SAGE and Pvault, Treat, anti-virus (Sophos, Kaspersky, Avast and Webroot) etc.  • Manage MaaS360, mobile device management system offered by IBM to remotely control and manage the company issued smartphones, tablets/iPads, and laptops.  • Create user-friendly instructions on how to use a specific program for users.  • Maintain, Develop, and manage licensing controls, software and hardware inventory for local or wide area computer networks. Computer Networking/Software Technician Capitol Heights, D.C July 2016 to March 2017 • Perform on-side evaluation for network infrastructures and designs and survey the required equipment and materials for the networks.  • Estimate the cost and time frame for newly established small and existing network infrastructures and designs.  • Plan for small networking projects and execute the projects and install variety of hardware ( network cable, pc, printer, camera, and monitor).  • Configure and monitor security camera systems for up to 16 cameras, router, switch, firewall, IP forwarding, network and O/S.  • Configure settings of Dell (mainly) and other computers windows 7, 8, 10, Mac, and XP as well as troubleshoot computer/networking related issues.  • Repairing/Servicing of computers and related peripherals including printers, scanners, touch screens, monitors.  • Maintain existing networks and document the issues and solutions for future reference. Computer Lab Consultant Howard Community College - Columbia, MD July 2012 to December 2016 • Troubleshoot and configure general lab computers, printers, and scanners.  • Reset passwords for students, staffs, and faculty through Howard Community College server portal, via phone, email, and in person.  • Setup emails and wireless network on tablets, phones, and mobile devices.  • Respond /receive calls from or to users and facilitated the resolutions and directions.  • Create tickets and requested to network administrator for further assistance.  • Assist novice students how to use Microsoft Office (Words, Excel, Access, and PowerPoint). Education Bachelor's in Computer Network and Cyber Security in Computer Network and Cyber Security University of Maryland University College - Adelphi, MD April 2016