IT Specialist IT Specialist IT Specialist - Boys & Girls Clubs of Metro Denver Aurora, CO Work Experience IT Specialist Boys & Girls Clubs of Metro Denver September 2018 to Present • Provide on-site and remote technical support for administrative office and eighteen club sites in the Denver Metro area.  • Manage Active Directory, Group Policy, Office 365, Windows 7, 8.1, and 10 desktop, laptop, and tablet environment.  • Deploy new computer equipment using Microsoft SCCM, Windows 10, iPads, with Apple Configurator 2 and Microsoft Intune.  • Document service and solution in the in-house ticketing system.  • Maintain Inventory database. Systems Administrator Adams 14 School District August 2016 to May 2018 • Refreshed district Hyper-V virtual infrastructure in primary data center in the district administration building and secondary site at the high school.  • Provided support, upgrades, maintenance and user support for enterprise applications.  • Managed Active Directory and Microsoft Exchange/Office 365/Google Apps environments.  • Developed new and modified existing PowerShell scripts and supported SAN environment, SQL Servers, file services and core district enterprise systems including the finance, special education, transportation, email archive, web servers and human resources. System Administration Manager Statebridge Company, LLC - Greenwood Village, CO February 2015 to March 2016 • Researched, tested, configured, and implemented a third-party thin-client product to extend the service life on 100+ outdated desktop computers and saved the company over $10,000 in new equipment provisioning for new hires in Q3 and Q4, 2015.  • Managed all hosted services vendor relationships, contracted projects, and software license contracts.  • One direct report support technician to provide Tier I on-site and remote desktop support and system administration.  • Redesigned the network services for a two building campus for dual gateway redundancy and automatic failover with multiple ISPs.  • Advised information technology strategies, policies, and procedures by identifying problems, evaluating trends, and anticipating requirements. Hyper 2012 to 2016 V 2012/2016, VMware ESXi through 5.5, Linux, MacOSX through 10.8, iOS, Android, Stratodesk NoTouch thin client, Wyse thin client.  Network Protocols: TCP/IP, Wireless 802.11a/b/g/n, iSCSI, SAN, NAS  Network Services: WINS, DHCP, DNS, Active Directory, MS GPO, WSUS, MS Terminal Services, Linux based thin client services for VDI, Macintosh Services for Windows, VLANs, VPNs, MPLS, VoIP and PSTN T1s.  Hardware: HP, Dell and other routers, L2/L3 switches, Sonicwall and Fortigate firewalls, 8x8 Virtual Office and Virtual Call Center, Mitel, Shoretel, and Avaya IP Office PBX systems.  Applications: Veeam Backup and Replication, Symantec Backup Exec/Ghost, NovaStor Enterprise Backup, MS Office, Visio, MS Exchange, Outlook, MS Access, MS SQL server, Internet Explorer, Google Apps, Citrix GotoAssist, ManageEngine ServiceDesk Plus, TrackIT, Spiceworks, Acronis, Carbon Copy Cloner, and other popular PC and Macintosh client-server and desktop software.  Programming Languages: PowerShell, VBScript, MSDOS Batch, IT Manager Reconstruction Experts, Incorporated - Arvada, CO August 2012 to November 2014 • Brought an IT department of outdated, mismatched hardware, and operating systems into a modern VMware cluster of virtualized servers and hybrid cloud services.  • Managed all budgeting, procurement, managed services, and vendor maintenance and software license contracts.  • Hired one support technician to provide on-site and remote desktop support and system administration.  • Redesigned the wide-area- network to serve the needs of six branch offices in three states and the corporate office in Arvada with a single telecom provider in all locations reducing costs while significantly improving bandwidth with MPLS over fiber.  • Introduced IT services as OPEX versus CAPEX model to match the business model of Reconstruction Experts.  • Our data center will be instantly available in the cloud for BC/DR and will eventually migrate to the cloud entirely.  • Our IT services are scalable, mobile, secure, and always available. IT Manager SafeHaus Technology Services, LLC October 2010 to August 2012 • Redesigned the entire IT structure to improve performance and usability for critical business applications.  • Repurposed poorly implemented physical servers into VMware hosts, hosting more than a dozen servers.  • Implemented a new server room backbone network configuration eliminating communication bottlenecks and QoS issues.  • Reinstalled and updated Law Practice Management software, financial systems, and MS Exchange services.  • Created new Remote Desktop Services for offices in ten states improving quality of service and efficiency.  • Managed the project to connect all remote offices to an MPLS network to meet industry security standards.  • Designed and built thin-client workstations utilizing older, end-of-life computers, extending their ROI and performance by using Microsoft RDP to run applications on Microsoft Remote Desktop Services.  • Provided technical support for employees in ten remote offices.  • Implemented an open-source help desk application to track trouble tickets and measure response time. GSA Senior Support Analyst TeleTech - Englewood, CO October 2009 to August 2010 • Provide Tier 1 support in a 24/7 network operations call-center environment gathering initial incident details and using relevant application troubleshooting techniques to either resolve the issue at hand or route to tier 2.  • Track and fully document incidents/requests from initiation through resolution using TeleTech Service Desk ticketing system to meet all client Service Level Agreements.  • Manage severity-1 bridge conference calls to bring together TeleTech client application Tier 2/3 engineers and technical account managers for critical problem solving.  • Pro-actively monitor all hardware/software dedicated to client project.  • Document and provide peer training for processes unique to client. Network Administrator Colorado Historical Society - Denver, CO September 2008 to June 2009 • Member of Policy, Procedure and Standards sub-committee of the Data Center Consolidation Project with the State of Colorado.  • Design, specify, implement hardware /software solutions to support network infrastructure.  • Provide Tier II desktop support and backup support for Support Technician using ISS Tech+Center help desk ticketing software in a Windows Active Directory and Macintosh OSX environment.  • Developed and conducted user training for new e-mail procedures.  • Improved network management processes employing industry standard tools and best practices.  • Responsible for day-to-day network management, user add, move, change, system backups and system infrastructure maintenance and troubleshooting in an Active Directory/Exchange environment.  • Project Lead for e-mail and Blackberry server migrations to state data center.  • Worked half-time for Historical Society and Department of Labor and Employment for two months on Active directory, GPO, and /MS SQL related projects. Education B.S. in Information Systems Management University of San Francisco - San Francisco, CA 1994 Skills Desktop Support, Help Desk, MAC, SCCM, Macintosh, Active Directory, Tech Support