Email Support Student Worker Email Support Student Worker Chandler, AZ Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Email Support Student Worker Arizona State University - Mesa, AZ May 2018 to May 2019 • Service-now portal, O365+, EDNA, EPO, DL management  • Provided quality customer service over wide range of user issues regardless of relation to department.  • Consistently delivering top performance with %12.5-%18.5 cases successfully closed over the average %9.09 Teaching Assistant (TA) Arizona State University - Mesa, AZ August 2017 to May 2018 • Graded class materials, proctored exams, and provided project assistance.  • Participated in identifying violations of academic integrity.  • Provided tutoring assistance. Grader Arizona State University - Mesa, AZ May 2017 to August 2017 • Graded all class materials, proctored exams, and determined grading system.  • Investigated and recognized 3 cases of academic integrity. IT Specialist/System Administrator U.S. Army - Camp Humphreys TC March 2013 to March 2014 ·        Restructured, managed and maintained SharePoint data server and website as sole admin. Implemented site-wide design, access, and directory structure changes.  ·        Managed file, virus, Exchange, and backup servers. Implemented scheduled backups for VIPs, created users, computers, and security groups in Active Directory, and provided on-site support for users both in person and over the phone.  ·        Senior technical specialist for troubleshooting complex user issues, configuring networked printers, and identifying network configuration errors. Proficient at troubleshooting both hardware and software issues.  ·        Maintained technical support for secure and non-secure VoIP video meetings. IT Specialist/System Administrator U.S. Army - Fort Story, VA March 2010 to March 2013 ·        Created NIPR/SIPR/CXI system images for DOD network deployment. Familiar with Ghost, WDS, and SCCM. Utilized VMWare as a test environment for patch and software compatibility issues between Windows XP and Windows 7.  ·        Kept all workstations IAVA compliant and ran daily Retina scans ensuring all systems were up to date. Logged into and manually patched workstations that did not receive patches from WSUS or SCCM.  ·        Played a key role in the migration from Windows Vista to Windows 7 at Fort Story. Upgraded over 300 workstations in-place through SCCM and restructured Active Directory OU's to prevent duplicate names and mislabeled devices.  ·        Daily use of Remedy and interaction with customers. Friendly and able to clearly explain both problems and solutions to users, peers, and management.   ·        Supervised a team of seven soldiers to provide both software and hardware support to over 400 users with over 200 workstations and 50 network printers IT Specialist/ Network Administrator U.S. Army - Yongsan March 2009 to March 2010 ·        Diagnosed and corrected performance issues on file, exchange, and backup servers. Maintained network connection to users nation-wide to provide consistent, uninterrupted service.  ·        Ran cables, installed and configured switches, built servers, created baseline images using Ghost imaging software, and provided on-site support for all users.  ·        Provided after-hours support for applications and project efforts when needed. Education Master's in Engineering Arizona State University (Polytechnic) - Tempe, AZ August 2018 to May 2019 Bachelor's in Mechanical Engineering Arizona State University (Polytechnic) - Tempe, AZ August 2014 to May 2018 Skills Engineering (5 years), Excel (10+ years), Simulink (2 years), Matlab (3 years), Labview (3 years), CAD (3 years), Mechanical Design, Project Management, Engineer, CNC, FEA, 3D Printing Military Service Branch: Army Service Country: United States Rank: Specialist/Corporal November 2007 to November 2015 6 Years Active, 2 Years IRR  2 Tours South Korea Certifications/Licenses Fundamentals of Engineering (FE) Exam - Mechanical Engineering August 2018 to Present Also known as Engineer in Training (EIT) Exam, and Engineering Intern (EI) Exam. Required to show basic proficiency in engineering principles and a prerequisite to getting licensed as a Professional Engineer (PE). Security+ 2009 to Present Assessments Basic Spreadsheet Proficiency with Microsoft Excel — Highly Proficient February 2019 Measures a candidate's knowledge of basic Microsoft Excel techniques, including sorting, formatting, and filtering of columns or rows. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/h2or-kmnry0m64bv Critical Thinking Skills — Expert February 2019 Measures a candidate’s ability to use logical approaches when solving problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/c-a68hmtpi8a-gq Problem Solving — Highly Proficient February 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to analyze relevant information when solving problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/dybzfzv-xfdua1ey Data Analysis — Expert February 2019 Measures a candidate's skill in interpreting and producing graphs, identifying trends, and drawing justifiable conclusions from data. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/vbcqrxyh1qad4ykq Mechanical Skills: Aptitude — Expert February 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to understand and apply mechanical concepts and processes. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/iajumibv5urdd1bv Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information Academic Engineering Projects:                                                                           August 2017 to May 2018   Elevator System Design and Programming   Wind Turbine Design   Automated Vehicle Maze Navigation   Vibration Isolator for Nepalese Fish Transport   Transient Heat Transfer Analysis: Microchip Cooling   Machine Vision and Learning: Identification and Classification of Unknown Objects   Robotic Pick-and-Place Operations    ·        Engineering Team Management  ·        Product Design  ·        Data Analysis  ·        Design of Experiments  ·        Software Development  ·        Product Testing  ·        Mathematical Simulation  ·        Robotic System Programming  ·        Machine Vision  ·        Machine Learning  ·        FEA  ·        Manufacturing  ·        Sustainable Systems