IT Specialist IT Specialist IT Specialist Lithonia, GA Ambitious IT professional with experience in computer software and hardware troubleshooting, system administration, training development, IP Configuration and Security. Seeking to take the next career step with respected organization dedicated to world class quality. Results-driven individual who thrives in high-pressure environments. Proficient in providing excellent end user, desktop, remote, and customer support. Personal qualities include: excellent problem-solver, adaptable, confident, autonomous, and Goal-oriented. Work Experience IT Specialist Elbert County Board of Education - Elberton, GA May 2018 to Present Provide first and second level ERP and technical support via Fresh Desk ticketing system  ? Elbert County main IT support specialist for Middle School and High school while managing over 75 Teachers and 1000 Students through Active Directory  ? Create new image Window 10s builds for laptops for new students and installing requested software for each grade level  ? Provide monthly training session for students on troubleshooting steps and training on using required software  ? Installing all of Promethean Boards for Elbert County Elementary, Middle, and High school, while conducting training on usages of Promethean boards for teachers  ? Create and oversee all of Elbert County security badges with credentials access rights  ? Support & update over 700 devices such as laptops, Chromebooks, projectors, desktop, printers, tablets, phones and promethean boards  ? Supervise daily activities of Computer Security Assistant and Internet Administrator Network Administrator Savannah State University - Savannah, GA September 2017 to May 2018 Support Active Directory for Savannah State New Hires (Account creation, Credentials Access, Group Policy, Password)  ? Configure and assigned Dell EqualLogic Storage Array Network (SAN) volumes using ISCSI connectivity  ? Network support and Cisco IP configuration for all of Savannah State employees  ? Install and Configure, Microsoft Hyper V Virtual server, Microsoft Server 2016 on physical hardware  ? Support all End-Users through Service Now ticket system: In-person support & Remote Support Repair Tech/AS Manager Sprint Cellular - Savannah, GA July 2014 to September 2017 Handled all aspect of the sale: Completing customer contract, upgrades, new activations and warranties  ? Train sales associate on troubleshooting new device and repairing crack and damage devices.  ? Certified Phone Tech (Samsung, LG, Apple, Motorola, Sony, HTC)  ? Diagnosed customer phone by following correct procedures depending on the model of the phone  ? Tested phone, repaired problems, upgraded software, replaced parts, cleaned phones, restored phones Education Bachelors of Business Administration in Computer Information Systems Savannah State University - Savannah, GA May 2018