Support Specialist II Support Specialist II Phoenix, AZ Hardworking, dedicated, and success driven individual who continually demonstrates initiative and ingenuity is seeking a challenging technical position with growth potential; the ideal position will provide an opportunity to utilize customer service experience, technical training, and business knowledge while providing your organization with creative problem solving, multi-tasking, and excellent productivity. Work Experience Support Specialist II American Technology Specialists - Tempe, AZ April 2018 to Present I provide daily IT management of GSAZ (Girl Scouts of Arizona)    • Create daily schedules for the IT dept. Highlighting and addressing high priority action items and client administrative priority requests for over 175 users.  • Managed Connectwise ticketing service request portal management project. Planned and  systematically deployed district wide client portal access and integration. Created end-user “How  To” documentation, as well as provided onsite assistance.  • Created, implemented and provided daily monitoring, preventative maintenance and documentation on the status and health of priority network devices.  • Deployment and configuration of Cisco, Openmesh, Mitel, VMWare devices. Configured device WAN settings, firewall configuration, port forwarding, VPN access, traffic shaping policies and dhcp settings/options.  • Managed and maintained client Windows servers, from 2003, 2008, 2012 2016. Performed all Active Directory tasks from end user management, device domain enrollment, group policy management and OU management.  • Worked closely with Administration daily to ensure full technological support.  • Manage all IT, supporting Wireless, VOIP, Internet, Audio\Video Conferencing infrastructure. Computer Network Technician IC Data Communications LLC - Detroit, MI 2012 to 2018 Supervise a team of five (5) technicians  • Schedule technician visits with clients  • Manage client accounts by interfacing with them to address technical and business concerns  • Configure and troubleshoot client networks (Small business, K-12 school districts)  • Building and maintaining 2003, 2008, 2012 Windows servers  • Adding, deleting, and modifying Active Directory, Group Policy  • Configuring and troubleshooting Routers Cisco 800 series, 5500 and 5505 ASA's, Linksys 24 and 48 port switches (1900, 2500, 3500)  • Built and maintained Virtual network environments (VMWare, ESXi)  • Patched wire and pulled cable (Coaxial, Cat5, Cat6)  • Configured and installed switches and routers (Cisco, Linksys)  • Maintained and backed up servers (Acronis, Arc serve, NT Backup)  • Repair and built computers, Desktop support  • Setup, configured and repaired printers (Xerox, Ricoh, Fiery)  • Google Apps Administrator (clients from Exchange  • Clients included Next Energy, Tech Town, and Walker-Miller)  • Video surveillance setup cameras, configured DVRs, remote access  • Audio/Video - setup home theater systems  • Telephony/Communications - VOIP Allworx, Cisco, Clear rate Computer Network/Field Technician Tech Enterprises - Saint Clair Shores, MI 2011 to 2012 Technical (Hardware/Software Applications)  • Desktop/Laptop Service Repair Technician (Windows/Mac) Virus/malware, Email  • Network Support Technician (Wireless lan, Wan, Windows servers, linux, Vmware)  • Serviced Client Networks  (Supported client technology needs, Network Design, Infrastructure support, Desktop help support, Remote support) Systems Administrator Precision Fiber LLC - Detroit, MI 2010 to 2011 Managed Networked Video Surveillance Systems at the Detroit Medical Center Hospital  • Maintained 100+ PC based DVRS  • Ensured network connectivity between all network devices  • Maintained the performance and integrity of systems (EYEMAX, BOSCH)  • Installed and configured camera software (EYEMAX)  • Responsible for system checks and upgrades  • Formatted, cleaned and replaced hard drives (SATA, IDE)  • Interacted with all levels of management Education University of Arkansas at Pine Bluff - Pine Bluff, AR 2005 to 2006 South Lake High School - Saint Clair Shores, MI 2001 to 2005 Skills Active Directory (10+ years), Cisco (10+ years), Exchange (10+ years), linux (5 years), VOIP (10+ years) Certifications/Licenses A+ Certified January 2010 to Present Network + January 2010 to Present Cisco SMB - Specialization for Engineers April 2015 to Present Cisco SMB - Specialization for Account Managers April 2015 to Present Additional Information Technical Skills:  • Implementation, management and support of Windows servers 2003-2012.  • Knowledge and experience of DNS, DHCP, VPN, VLAN, VOIP, AD, GPO.  • Proficient in Implementation, management and support of cloud services such as AWS, Google  Apps Services, Office365, Cisco Meraki Management Console, VOIP services, Unifi.  • Proficient in network deployment and management.  • Proficient in configuration and implementation of Cisco enterprise routers and switches.  • Expertise in Windows XP, 7, 8, 10, Chrome O/S, Mac OSX  • Experience with WAN related services.  • Experience with VMware.  • Experience with end user related software such as Citrix, Quickbooks, Peachtree, O365, Google services.  • Expertise in hardware and software support.  • Experience with remote management software such as Labtech, Ninja, and Auvik.