Office Manager Office Manager Contractor/IT Department Shreveport, LA Seeking a position that will allow me to utilize my networking and administration skills as  well as expand on my knowledge in the field of Data Networks and System Administration. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Office Manager Fairway Transport - Mansfield, LA January 2019 to Present Office Management Including:  Quality assurance and initial processing for Billing  Invoice Processing for Billing  Receiving of signed invoices and sending to Accounting for Collection Senior Systems Administrator/ Network Engineer Bayou Internet & Communications - Monroe, LA 2007 to 2012 Responsible for all day to day operations    ? Configuration of Mikrotik/Cisco firewalls, routers and switches.    ? Administration of FreeBSD, Sun, Centos, Debian, Redhat and Windows 2k8, 2k3 and 2k    systems.  ? Setup of wireless 5.8, 2.4, etc working with Skypilot, Orthogon, Motorola, Trango,    Breezcom, Seneao, Ubiquiti, Engenius and Meraki.  ? Setup and maintenance, as well as securing of Apache1 and Apache2, along with perl,    mysql, php, and other modules needed for customization.  ? DNS, DHCP, named, radius, load balanced pop server, courier, sendmail, imap, rsync,    nfs, ldap.  ? Setup of video and audio streaming servers    ? Setup and administration of content filters and spam filters    ? Setup of customer firewalls with Cisco pix, sonicwall, netscreen, watchguard, netgear pro,    and others.  ? Support of BGP between multiple DS3 lines and Ethernet on Cisco routers.    ? BBG (Broad Band Gateway) tunnels for dsl on Redback and Cisco.    ? PRI (Dialup Lines) on Ascend (Lucent) Max and TNT    ? T1 Setup both point to point and frame on Cisco, Redback, and TNT    ? VOIP setup with asterisk, gnet, polycom, cisco, linksys, grandstream and others.    ? Setup of virtual Linux instances with Xen virtualization. Operations Manager/Computer Repair Cities OnLine, LLC - Monroe, LA 2003 to 2007 Responsible for day to day functions of a small ISP also responsible for all CPU repair    ? Administered multiple Windows networks for business customers    ? Setup and maintained VPNS, and access for remote locations. Education Some college Skills BGP (5 years), CISCO (5 years), NFS (5 years), MOTOROLA (5 years), IMAP (5 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  ? Networking Concepts: OSI Model, TCP/IP, Static Routes, Access list, Route Map, Route  Redistribution  ? Routing Protocols: RIP, EIGRP, OSPF, BGP, MPLS  ? LAN Protocols: IEEE 802.1q, VTP, STP, RSTP, HSRP, GLBP, VRRP  ? WAN Technologies: Frame Relay, ATM, PPP, HDLC, DS-3, OC-3  ? Hardware: Cisco 2600, 7200VXR, GSR 12000, PIX, RedBack, Sonicwall, Netgear,  Linksys, T-P Link, SkyPilot, EnGenius, Ubiquiti, Motorola  ? Windows Server 2000, 2003, and 2008  ? Microsoft Windows 8/7/Vista/XP/2000, UNIX  ? UNIX: optimizing and recompiling custom kernels, qpopper, imap, ircd, named, primary  and secondary DNS, sendmail, user quota management, management of user accounts,  securing and testing of the security of the web server, virtual dns assignment, multiple dns  assignment, ftp, apache, virtual web servers, mrtg, procmail, web based mail servers,  clustering mail servers, nfs, rsync.