Linux System Engineer Linux System Engineer Linux System Engineer District Heights, MD Work Experience Linux System Engineer Teradata - Boston, MA June 2015 to June 2016 Primary Field Support Engineer for clients Pfizer, Staples, BJ's, Massachusetts Mutual  Financial group and Key Bank in Western New York.  ? Supported Teradata platforms such Data Warehousing Appliance, Aster Analytics and Hadoop Products.  ? Responsible for support of DBS (Database), DBS Controllers Nodes, Disk Arrays, Bynet  cabling and switches and Server Management.  ? Provided installation services and full system support that included hardware and software.  ? Participated in planning stages of installations and upgrades as well as project  coordination during these activities and provided system support.  ? Established and maintained a high level of customer satisfaction.  ? Worked closely with the local sales team to assist on support strategies and adherence to TSCS methodologies. In addition, provided Teradata leadership in customer closed loop  corrective actions process development and implementation.  ? Worked remotely (virtually) with a team of Customer Services Representatives devoted  to providing World Class service in support of Teradata customers located in the New  England region Network Support Administrator Pfizer Pharmaceuticals - Needham, MA June 2009 to May 2015 Member of team that monitor's Pfizer largest 24x7 Data Center.  ? Performed physical replacement of network cabling (WAN, SAN and VLAN etc.)  ? Performed physical reboot of UNIX servers, Windows servers, SL500 backup libraries  and AS/400 devices  ? Coordinated physical reboots and cable changes for network devices such as routers, hubs  and switches.  ? Installed and configured Fiber Optical cabling.  ? SP&R (Server Provisioning & Retirement) - Provide physical installation of new servers  into the Datacenter environment. This entails the cabling and physical racking of the server but does not include installing the Operating System  ? DC Facilities responsibilities - environmental walkthrough, visual server checks, Data  Center Access Control, etc Mobile Content and Messaging Technical Support II VeriSign Inc - Watertown, MA September 2008 to April 2009 Supported client server technologies and mobile networks such: ICSMS, ICMMS, and MCDN.  ? Provided daily support to US Mobile carriers such as AT&T wireless, Sprint PCS, US  Cellular, Verizon, T-Mobile and Alltel wireless etc.  ? Sent notifications informing clients of system maintenance and network upgrades.  ? Worked on single user issues for SMS and MMS (Picture Mail) using Salesforce as the ticketing system.  ? Updated SMS/ MMS routing for US and International numbers after transferring from one carrier to another carrier. Desktop Support Specialist IBM - Boston, MA July 2008 to September 2008 Installed and configured Windows NT/2000/XP/professional and applications.  ? Resolved daily users and customers problems related Hardware, Software using latest  upgrades for their PCs and Notebook systems.  ? Maintained inventory database for all equipment, assigned hardware/software assets and manage warranty/service agreement information.  ? Imaged PC desktops and laptops using an enterprise imaging solution.  ? Effectively communicate with all levels of management supporting desktop, laptop, and network and phone system needs of staff.  ? Provided onsite and remote support assistance to staff regarding company supported  hardware, software, and applications. Technical Support Specialist I Millennium - Cambridge, MA August 2007 to January 2008 Configured and installed windows XP, installed and deployed Enterprises Symantec  Antivirus and Ghost Imaging, performed systems upgrades, patches, new applications and equipment support.  ? Supported and maintained user account information including rights/permissions,  password reset, group management, security and systems through Windows 2003 Active  Directory.  ? Troubleshoot network performance issues, provided technical support and guidance for remote users and general users using exchange server and offered VPN and remote access  support to remote users.  ? Maintained support of Windows desktop environment, personal computers, email, local  and wide area networks, Windows servers, Windows XP, network switches (Cisco), network cabling and other related equipment devices, systems, wireless networks and  DHCP servers.  ? Supported team during implementation of new software/ hardware solutions, and contribute to organizational policy with regard to quality standards and strategic planning  according to company's policy with project reports to ensure that all company's software  licensing laws, agreement and purchases are adhered to. Education Computer Science Cambridge College - Cambridge, MA March 2007 to June 2008 Information Technology Shaw University - Raleigh, NC August 2005 to May 2006 Skills Active directory, Cisco, Lan/wan, Remote access, Vlan, Vpn, Dns, Firewalls, Nas, Openview, Remedy, Sms, Linux, Sun, Oracle, Ghost, As400, Scripting, Hp openview, Customer support Links http://linkedin.com/in/tfodayprofile Additional Information Technical Profile:    ? Over 7+ years with network engineering, ideally supporting 24×7 environment  ? Protocols: IP protocols, routers/switches, firewalls, DNS, SNMP.  ? OS: Linux and Windows  ? Storage: SAN and NAS. (EMC & Cisco expert). Fiber Optical, VLAN and LAN/WAN  expert  ? Scripting: Bash and Powershell  ? Hardware: Sun Fire and HP Proliant Enterprise Server Lines, Cisco Enterprise Routers  (7200, 7600 series), Switches (6500-E class), 9124 Multilayer Fabric switch and Cisco  2800 and 3800 Series. IBM AS400 and Oracle SL500 Libraries.  ? Software: Suse, REDHAT, Windows Server 2008 and 2012. Microsoft Office 2000,  2003, 2007, O365;  ? Remote: VPN and Remote Access support.  ? Active Directory, Linux Deployment.  ? Ticketing: Remedy, Manage Now, Salesforce and HP OpenView Service.  ? Mobile messaging platforms: SMS, MMS, PMG and MCDN  ? Knowledge and experience with Symantec, Norton Ghost and Scrub Utility  ? Administration of installation, system maintenance both hardware and software including  upgrades.  ? Performed system analysis, account development and planning.  ? Revenue generation including asset totalling $20 million of hardware and software  ranging from cabinets, servers, switches, power supplies, disk arrays and cables.  ? Management and individual development for mission critical customer support.    Professional Skills:    ? Professional demeanor and strong business image.  ? Self motivated  ? Excellent at Multitasking and organizing.  ? Ability to communicate written, verbally with team and end users.  ? Ability to deliver highly complex technical information into terms and concepts that the  end users can readily grasp.    Signed:  Tamba Foday-Ngongou