IT/Operations Specialist IT/Operations Specialist IT/Operations Specialist - Chicago Low Income Housing Trust Fund Chicago, IL Work Experience IT/Operations Specialist Chicago Low Income Housing Trust Fund - Chicago, IL November 2017 to Present * Developed first level troubleshooting documentation of key internal applications for the Help Desk.  * Recommend and implement policies, procedures and standards preserving the integrity and security of data, reports and access. Ensure all deadlines and requirements are met for production work orders.  * Create and maintain databases, network accounts and programs for specific department needs.  * Provide base level IT support to non-technical personnel, train end-users on hardware and software.  * Works closely with team members to meet or exceed all customer service requirements.  * Developed automation software to expedite outdated work processes.  * Operations Supervisor for six program coordinators  * Office 365 administrator.  * Successful email database migration from Dreamhost to Office 365.  * Maintenance of WordPress website.  * Creator and administrator of cloud base share drive.  * Purchases of IT related products and balancing of IT budget.  * Creation of several reports that analyze program coordinator's workflow  * Quarterly reporting of funding to the City of Chicago Department of Housing  * Setup of VOIP phone system  * HR functions; processing time off requests, performance reviews, reporting on keep performance indicators to ED, and paycheck processing Help Desk Manager FRIEND FAMILY HEALTH CENTER - Chicago, IL January 2016 to November 2017 * Ensure network, system and data availability and integrity through preventative maintenance and upgrades, collaborate closely with network administrators and server engineers.  * Participates in the IT Support of 7 locations on the south side of Chicago.  * Supports a total of 250 users.  * Provide base level IT support to non-technical personnel, train end-users on hardware and software.  * Works closely with team members to meet or exceed all customer service requirements.  * Install software, modify and repair hardware, resolve various technical issues and escalate as needed.  * Works closely with the health information management team on managing electronic medical record systems.  * Assists with creating reports within electronic medical record systems for C-Level Executives. NETWORK ADMINISTRATOR II ONEPOINT PATIENT CARE - Morton Grove, IL February 2015 to December 2016 * Ensure network, system and data availability and integrity through preventative maintenance and upgrades, collaborate closely with network administrators and server engineers.  * Participated in the IT Support of eight pharmacy locations in eight different states.  * Supported a total of 220 users.  * Weekly Proactive Management of remote locations that consisted of phone and email communication to address any open IT issues.  * Developed first level troubleshooting documentation of key internal applications for the Help Desk.  * Developed User Creation / Termination procedure document that integrated Active Directory, internal applications, and phone system.  * Recommend and implement policies, procedures and standards preserving the integrity and security of data, reports and access. Ensure all deadlines and requirements are met for production work orders.  * Monitor network performance and provide statistical reports for real-time and historical metrics.  * Advocate for end-users to perform testing and problem analysis for server, desktop and IT infrastructures.  * Manage firewalls, conduct network and server monitoring, modeling and analysis both on- and off-site.  * Design, install, maintain and support telephony network and VoIP applications.  * VoIP application user creation, deletion, license management, and troubleshooting of tier 1 and 2 issues.  * Install software, modify and repair hardware, resolve various technical issues and escalate as needed.  * Create and maintain databases, network accounts and programs for specific department needs.  * Provide base level IT support to non-technical personnel, train end-users on hardware and software.  * Works closely with team members to meet or exceed all customer service requirements.  * Ensure proper installation and oversee daily performance of cables, operating systems and software. Service Sales Rep Cintas First Aid and Safety - Elk Grove Village, IL May 2014 to November 2014 TECHNICAL SUPPORT SUPERVISOR VERIZON WIRELESS - Elgin, IL August 2010 to September 2013 * Consulted customers on the cell phones and services meeting very competitive sales goals.  * Performed initial client assessment and analysis to research process to assist small business customers.  * Troubleshot smartphones, feature phones and tablets, educated customers on how to use their devices.  * Addressed and effectively resolved various issues with cable services and phone internet services.  * Provided tier 1 and 2 technical support which included resets, checking area for outages, software updates, manual and automatic programming.  * Created trouble tickets for the highly complex issues and ordered replacements when necessary.  * Supported onboarding and orientation processes, educated and trained new hires.  * Managed 10-16 technical support call center representatives. Sales Associate Headway Corp - Chicago Ridge, IL February 2010 to April 2010 Teller J.P. Morgan Chase - Chicago, IL December 2008 to October 2009 Education Master of Science in Operations and Project Management Southern New Hampshire University - Manchester, NH March 2020 Bachelor of Science in Information Technology Capella University - Minneapolis, MN August 2016 Associate of Science Daley College - Chicago, IL April 2016 Skills Sap, Ms access, Microsoft sql server, Microsoft sql server 2012, Sql server, Sql server 2012, Mysql, Sql, Active directory, Cisco, Exchange, Solarwinds, Citrix, Ms project, Microsoft sharepoint, Sharepoint, Tableau, C/c++, C++, Html Additional Information AREAS OF EXPERTISE    Effective Communication  Team Leadership & Adaptability  End-User Support  Corporate IT  Business Needs Identification  HIPPA    TECHNICAL SKILLS  Operating Systems: Windows XP / 7/ 8 /10, Windows Server 2008 and 2012, Microsoft SQL Server 2012, Mac OS, Microsoft Exchange 2007, 2010, 2013, Mobile device operating systems.  Hardware: HP, Dell, Nutanix, Lenovo, Microsoft  Network: HP Switch, SonicWALL Routing, PRTG Monitoring, SolarWinds, Cisco Meraki  Languages: Java/C/C++, HTML 5, MySQL.  Telecom Systems: ShoreTel, Concord Cloud Fax, Sfax  Remote Support Systems: Bomgar, LogMeIn Pro, FreshService Ticketing, Connectwise, Axosoft, SQL Sentry, Sophos UTM, VNC  Healthcare Technology: Arxium Medselect, Softwriters Framework, Integra DocuTrack, Cerner, Epic, (Alliance) Centricity  Software: Active Directory, Microsoft SharePoint, MS Visio, MS Project, MS Access, MS Office, Quickbooks, PowerShell, SAP, Tableau, SQL Server Report Builder, Yardi, Clinked, Citrix Sharefile, WordPress, Smartchart