Senior Network Administrator - Team Lead Senior <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> - Team Lead Network Administrator II - Northrop Grumman Federal Credit Union Fremont, CA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior Network Administrator - Team Lead Northrop Grumman Federal Credit Union - Gardena, CA May 2018 to Present Team lead and Sr. System Administrator for IS Net department, functioned as first point of  escalation for technical and procedural questions. Replaced multiple EOL legacy systems with  scalable solutions and deployed employee-facing systems for everyday use. Worked closely with  department heads to audit and deploy solutions that effectively targeted employees’ needs. Systems Administrator NFL Networks - JDA TSG - Culver City, CA October 2017 to May 2018 System administrator for the IT Operations team at NFL Networks, worked with maintaining  existing systems and responding to issues as they arose. Responsible for physical infrastructure  needs such as cabling and hardware maintenance as well as digital infrastructure such as  documentation, data replication, and security patching. System Integration Sr. Analyst Dell - NTT Data - Los Angeles, CA May 2015 to October 2017 HCLS Cloud team member working on datacenter support, maintenance, and administration for healthcare EMR applications (Allscripts, NextGen). Coordinated support and maintenance with hospitals, clinics, and small doctor offices as well as deployment of new environments for clients.     Attained HIPAA compliance and helped create security-centric documentation for internal use by Team Management team members and healthcare clients.    Dell Physician Services acquired by NTT Data in November 2016 System Administrator Ladera Lending - Ladera Ranch, CA March 2014 to April 2015 Solo IT administrator role for a small business of about 50 employees, maintained domain environment and managed provisioning of new users and equipment. Responsible for coordinating with outside vendors for all necessary resources and contracted support as well as providing individual assistance where needed. Project Manager Foundation Real Estate - Tustin, CA May 2012 to February 2014 Construction and technical project management as part of tenant representative team for US  division of Infosys. Coordinated timelines and validated that new projects were compliant with  scope and client requirements, and formalized the bid process for new contractors. Education Bachelor's in Economic Development Marymount California University - Rancho Palos Verdes, CA May 2012 Skills Windows Server, Powershell, Solarwinds, JIRA, Active Directory, Project Management, Vmware, Hipaa, Documentation Links http://linkedin.com/in/glenn451 Certifications/Licenses Driver's License