Warehouse Manager Warehouse Manager A dedicated professional with experience in warehousing and maintenance. North Las Vegas, NV Skilled in shipping/receiving, inventory management, documentation, forklift operation and material handling. A personable team player with strong communication and problem solving skills. Able to work independently with minimal supervision. Certified in forklift truck operation. Work Experience Warehouse Manager Security Data Supply, LLC. - Houston, TX July 2018 to July 2019 Responsible for performing a variety of shipping duties, including inventory management, material handling, material returns (RMA) documentation and picking/packing orders.     • Expedited in-stock items for possible same day shipping or delivery.  • Alerted Customer Service when an item is back ordered or the order cannot be shipped complete.  • Examined shipment contents and compared with records such as manifests, invoices and orders to verify accuracy.   • Recorded shipment data, such as weight, charges, space availability, damages and discrepancies for reporting, accounting and recordkeeping purposes.   • Prepared documents, such as work orders, bills of lading and shipping orders to route materials.   • Conferred and corresponded with establishment representatives to rectify problems such as damages, shortages and nonconformance to specifications.   • Contacted carrier representatives to make arrangements and to issue instructions for shipping and delivery of materials.   • Requisitioned and stored shipping materials and supplies to maintain inventory of stock.   • Created in-house RMA form for better record keeping. Ski Lift Operator / Ski Lift Maintanence Red River Ski & Summer Area - Red River, NM November 2016 to November 2017 Responsible for the safe loading and unloading of mountain guests from chair lifts and surface lifts. Maintaining the area around the lifts keeping then free of debris.    Responsible for maintaining:  - 2 surface lifts  - 1 Riblet triple lift  - 1 Riblet double lift  - 1 Borvig triple lift  - 1 Doppelmayr triple lift  - 1 Doppelmayr quad lift Shipping and Receiving Clerk HEB - Houston, TX March 2016 to October 2016 Responsible for performing a variety of shipping duties, including material handling, Requesting and Releasing Trailers in the Yard Management System (YMS), Filling in the Overs and Unders excel document accurately, Billing in Microsoft Dynamics AX (DAX), documentation and loading HEB Trucks.     • Converted the Load Map for loading trailers into a digital form, saving the company money on paper labels and allowing the instant updating of new food items added to the shipping list. WAREHOUSE SPECIALIST ITW QSA GLOBAL, INC. - La Porte, TX August 2013 to January 2016 Responsible for performing a variety of shipping duties, including inventory management, material handling, documentation and picking/packing orders.     • Coordinated with Customer Service to determine the best shipping methods for outgoing orders.   • Expedited in-stock items for possible same day shipping or delivery.  • Coordinated with Purchasing regarding stock levels and purchase orders.  • Alerted Customer Service when an item is back ordered or the order cannot be shipped complete.  • Assisted Marketing staff in designing flyers and creating the product catalog.   • Examined shipment contents and compared with records such as manifests, invoices and orders to verify accuracy.   • Recorded shipment data, such as weight, charges, space availability, damages and discrepancies for reporting, accounting and recordkeeping purposes.   • Prepared documents, such as work orders, bills of lading and shipping orders to route materials.   • Conferred and corresponded with establishment representatives to rectify problems such as damages, shortages and nonconformance to specifications.   • Contacted carrier representatives to make arrangements and to issue instructions for shipping and delivery of materials.   • Requisitioned and stored shipping materials and supplies to maintain inventory of stock.   • Computed amounts, such as space available, shipping, storage and demurrage charges, using computer and price list. NETWORK SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR InterLab USA - Spring, TX November 2013 to February 2014 Responsible for running the daily backup of all server drives, installing/upgrading anti-virus software on all computers and fielding customer calls. SERVER MOVIE TAVERN - Houston, TX March 2012 to August 2013 • Take the customer's order and have it delivered in a timely fashion.  • Take out the garbage at the end of the night.  • Coordinate with the kitchen to ensure order accuracy. Education None in Network System Administration TRADE SCHOOL, ITT TECHNICAL INSTITUTE - Houston, TX August 2013 to August 2014 High school or equivalent in GENERAL EDUCAITON CYPRESS CREEK HIGHSCHOOL - Houston, TX August 2009 to June 2012 Skills Microsoft Office (10+ years), Photoshop (5 years), AS400 Inventory Software (3 years), International Shipments (3 years), Inventory Management (3 years), LTL Freight Shipments (3 years), FedEx Ship Manager Software (3 years), UPS Worldship Software (3 years), DHL Express Ship Form (2 years), Freight Bill of Lading (3 years), Yard Management System (YMS) (Less than 1 year), Microsoft Dynamics AX (DAX) (Less than 1 year), Warehouse, forklift, Inventory Control, shipping, Shipping Receiving, Logistics Certifications/Licenses Forklift Operator April 2015 to May 2018 3 year forklift license. Assessments Merchandise & Supply Storage — Expert June 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply systematic processes for managing and storing products and merchandise. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/fpqm8yz52oy0ejug Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information A dedicated professional with experience in warehousing. Skilled in shipping/receiving, inventory management, documentation, forklift operation and material handling. A personable team player with strong communication and problem solving skills. Able to work independently with minimal supervision. Certified in forklift truck operation.