Supervisor Supervisor Supervisor An excellence and success oriented client advocate utilizing precision communication and problem solving skills seeks a cutting-edge opportunity to contribute 19 years of professional IT expertise to challenging customer environments; giving first-class "VIP" concierge support, and administrating leadership and future planning in multiple application environments for clients, projects and networks. Jim features unlimited technical aptitude with a project optimization focus combined with a warm and friendly client centrality.    Skills and Competencies  • Help desk Team Lead and management including Tier 2-3 end-user support  • ERP, SaaS, IaaS  • Office365 Cloud migration/management  • Technical guidance, writing, and training  • Sales: diverse experience  • Microsoft Windows and Mac Desktop/server 2000-2012 install and admin, printers, antivirus, Active Directory, Linux, email management, Exchange, Sharepoint, tape backups, LAN, Cisco VOIP, Centralized End-Point Security administration  • Kaseya Global Infrastructure Management  • Symantec Backup Exec backups design, implementation, management and troubleshooting in all versions; daily backups and Cloud based backup solutions (Barracuda) & Heroware)  • Mobile device management  • Polycom MCU, audio bridges and VTC video conference room admin/coordination and initiative implementation Work Experience Supervisor ABB Inc - Camarillo, CA November 2012 to July 2016 Tony Farson, ph. (775)391-8283    Full time Executive management level helpdesk support, and end-user support. In charge of 60+ North American IT infrastructure servers, backups, switches, LAN/WAN, SharePoint, VOIP, and local Help Desk. Inter-functionality with international/networking teams; part of the ABB integration merge/acquisition on-boarding project team. Administrating and implementing VTC Video conferences, coordinating audio bridges, and video room initiatives for management. Management of help desk team.    Key Accomplishments:  • Part of the Business Unit Separation project team  • Head of design and execution of the Camarillo-Westlake Village office move initiative; coordinating IT dept. network, servers, desktops, switches and various devices  • ABB integration/merge acquisition project, testing and implementation of multiple key ABB programs  • Domain migration 600+ workstations and servers  • Office365 Exchange server conversion and on-boarding for all users  • Re-designed new successful backup schema Network Operations Center Administrator inhouseIT - Costa Mesa, CA January 2010 to November 2012 92626  Supervisor: Keith Schwartz, ph. (949)-660-5655    Founding member of the Documentation & Standards Committee responsible for defining and shaping company policy on documentation standardization for all departments. Performed daily monitoring and management of hundreds of Backup implementations, successfully troubleshot, diagnosed and re-mediated backup failures and errors, shaped policy and procedures for the NOC, developed monitors, and configured alerts as well as deploying custom scripts and code to thousands of infrastructure systems using Kaseya. Provided Tier2 Helpdesk support. Basic management of ESX hosts, installed servers and managed Active Directory, Exchange and SharePoint tasks in accordance with industry best practices    Key Accomplishments:  • Retooled, upgraded, redesigned the After-Hours/On-Call program for inhouseIT  • Successful Heroware + Intronis Cloud backup roll-out program  • Key involvement in development of proprietary dashboard monitoring systems for the NOC team  • Overseeing the streamlining and optimization of alerting systems, from the ground up  • Overhauled client backups management, process, and escalation strategies for remediation  • Turned around several failing client network environments into healthy networks  Independent Contractor IT course instruction/IT Tech - independent contractor Volunteer work Princess Cruises November 2008 to January 2010 Systems Administrator IT Operatives Inc - Victorville, CA September 2006 to November 2008 92345  Supervisor: Tony Farson, Ph. (775)391-8283    Handled desktop, server, Active Directory, Exchange and other server technologies for multiple customer systems. Provided remote support, monitoring and alerting using Kaseya and interfaced with users, and executives on a daily basis.    Key Accomplishments:  • Helped shape SLA's to facilitate prompt delivery of services to customers.  • Assisted in the development of policies and procedures to help standardize usage of tools and systems used to support customers.  • Contributed to marketing strategies and methods for acquiring more customers.    -Additional work history available on request