Center Administrator Center <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Administrator - MINTO'S CASA MONTESSORI AND CHILDCARE West Bloomfield Township, MI Multifaceted administration professional with background in managing a Montessori Childcare Center. I have experience working with children from ages 6 weeks to 12 years old. Administrative management including customer service, developing working relationships with teachers and parents, handling files and sensitive materials, meeting deadlines, and working under pressure and stressful situations. I aim to foster a workplace were children advance cognitively, academically, and socially. Also a work place in which promotes comfortability and honesty to discuss workplace concerns. Yet, importantly maintaining an environment that maintains that safety of children and staff at all times. My effective organizational, management, interpersonal, and communication skills will prove that I am a prime candidate. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Center Administrator MINTO'S CASA MONTESSORI AND CHILDCARE - Farmington Hills, MI March 2017 to Present Collaborates with owner to supervise 25+ staff and 100 students and occasionally steps into the classroom to assist teachers as necessary.  •Performs administrative tasks including but not limited to: directing 15-20+ phone calls and inquiries daily, providing center tours, completing paperwork, scheduling staff, and managing accounts receivables of $10,000+/weekly for payments via cash and checks.   •Prepares and maintains 125+ children and staff files, maintains and handles enrollment and attendance, administers emergency drills, and maintains compliance with state licensing guidelines.   •Organizes and plans two events monthly including: concerts, plays, field trips, summer camp, field days, and picnics.   •Assists with the interviewing and screening process of prospective employees and constructs and oversees annual teacher evaluations.    •Implemented the ASQ (Ages and Stages Questionnaire) evaluation tool which assesses the child’s cognitive, problem-solving, sign motor, and social-emotional development resulting in a curriculum that best fits students’ needs.   •Maintains an environment which allows employees to be comfortable in discussing work related issues with confidence that confidentiality will be upheld.  •First Aid Certified, Infant, Child, and Adult CPR Certified, AED Certified, and Blood Bourne Pathogens Certified (2018).  Office Assistant CENTRAL MICHIGAN UNIVERSITY DEPARTMENT - Mount Pleasant, MI August 2014 to December 2016 •Directed 10+ phone calls daily, responded to inquiries via e-mail, and managed outgoing and incoming packages.  •Created copies of examinations, course documents (assignments and handouts), and compiled and processed student opinion surveys (SOS) for the department.   •Placed book orders, desk copies, and managed the departments’ major and minor databases filing.   •Organized and assisted with the planning of the International Graduate Conference for 275 people (April 2015 and March 2016) and The Reacting to the Past Game Development Conference for 140+ people (July 2016).  •Collaborated directly with the Purchasing Department, Information Technology, Printing Services, and CMU Library to coordinate the procurement of supplies, resolve technical difficulties, distribute newsletters, and coordinate department research.   Expediter (Expo) RUBY TUESDAY'S - Mount Pleasant, MI April 2014 to August 2014 - Worked directly with kitchen staff & general managers and handled all communication between cooks & servers.  - Checked food from the window, made sure all the food was correct and presentable based on the ticket, called upon runners to take the food to guest, and made sure food was out of the kitchen in 15-25 minutes.  - Plate presentation (Making sure the plates were presentable before sending them out to guest). Host and Server TRINITY RESTURANT GROUP - Mount Pleasant, MI May 2013 to November 2013 - Took restaurant goers to their seat and served restaurant goers.  - Cleaned tables, floors, menus, and washed dishes.  - Rolled silverware and took take-out orders. Desk Receptionist CENTRAL MICHIGAN ROBINSON HALL - Mount Pleasant, MI January 2012 to December 2012 - Organized all incoming and outgoing mail and packages.  - Handled cash count.  - Assisted all Robinson Hall residences according to their needs. Quality Network and Audio Visual intern UAW-GM CENTER FOR HUMAN RESOURCES - Detroit, MI May 2011 to August 2011 - Organized the entire video and DVD collection and made correct logs for each video and DVD.  - Revised the Quality Networks Spare Parts Manual Booklets and sent it off to publishing (Available upon request).  - Toured and worked within the GM plants (Hamtramck and Lansing Michigan).  - Attended meetings in the Quality Network Department.  - Gave presentations to the head executives of UAW, GM, and individuals of the Quality Network Department. Education Master's in History Central Michigan University - Mount Pleasant, MI May 2015 to December 2016 Bachelor of Science in History and Sociology in History and Sociology CENTRAL MICHIGAN UNIVERSITY - Mount Pleasant, MI September 2011 to May 2015 High School Diploma HARRISON HIGH SCHOOL - Farmington Hills, MI September 2007 to June 2011 Skills Research Databases (6 years), CPR, First AID, AED, Blood Bourne Pathogens (3 years), ADULT CPR (2 years), EXCEL (4 years), Microsoft (6 years) Additional Information SKILLS: Worked with numerous computer programs such as SAP, Microsoft Word, Excel, Publisher, PowerPoint, and Access. Experience with research databases such as ProQuest, LexisNexis Academic, Thomson Reuters Westlaw, JSTOR and Hathi Trust.    First Aid, Infant, Child and Adult CPR & AED Certified (September 2018).