regional territory manager regional territory manager regional territory manager Salt Lake City, UT Work Experience regional territory manager Urban Surfaces April 2018 to May 2019 I opened the territory from the ground and built a great book of business. In my time I landed  many large projects that grew the region exponentially. I performed many sales  presentations to general contractors, flooring contractors, property management  companies, designers and architects. Found new business through cold calling,  prior connections and attending flooring events. I made sales calls daily to existing and potential accounts. Delivered samples to accounts and updated them on any new or changing with the Urban product line. B2B sales and account manager Sync Distribution January 2017 to April 2018 Outside sales representative for Sync  Distribution. My responsibilities involved visiting my accounts weekly to create a good relationship with them. Managed orders and inventory at our distribution  center in Salt Lake City. Found new accounts through customer referrals and cold calls to local granite shops around the valley. Network Administrator Philter Networks May 2015 to January 2017 Oversaw the network at Morris Murdock & Morris Meetings & Incentives in Salt  Lake City, UT. Worked closely with all employees ensuring their computers were  working to standards. I also have experience in fixing servers and maintained a strong network for the company. Oversaw many remote offices in Idaho, Arizona and Utah. Sales Representative US Flooring Brokers May 2015 to January 2017 Managed projects in both commercial and residential. Put together bids and oversaw every aspect of the completion of the projects. Attended weekly  networking events to pass and receive referrals. Worked with property  management companies and many contractors. Built rapport with my accounts which lead to many projects. Education Salt Lake Community College 2012 to 2013 Skills Microsoft Office (5 years), Salesforce (1 year), Networking (5 years), Sales Presentations (3 years), Business Development