Network Administrator <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Network Administrator - Mohawk Regional Information Center (NOC) Utica, NY I am self-directed, highly adaptable, and can learn new technologies quickly and thoroughly. My strengths lie in  troubleshooting and solution development. I am an IT professional who can bring my hands-on technical abilities  to help develop and maintain strong customer, business partner and IT team relationships. Work Experience Network Administrator Mohawk Regional Information Center (NOC) - Verona, NY November 2018 to Present Configuration of multiple Network devices such as Switches, Router, Access Points(AP), Wireless LAN  Controllers (WLC), and Adaptive Security Appliance (ASA).  • VLAN deployment and network segmentation.  • Cisco IOS, IOS XR, and NX-OS configuration.  • Meraki and Aruba HP Access Points configuration and installation.  • Cisco Umbrella administration.  • Content filtering and analysis.  • Cisco Prime administration.  • Wireless network troubleshooting.  • Proficient with IPv4 and IPv6 addressing scheme.  • Lightspeed Systems and Meraki MDM Device administration.  • Vipre and Symantec Protection endpoint administrator.  • Cisco Meraki and Aruba HP cloud-management Administration.  • Windows imaging on PXE server environment.  • Network Printer deployment through AD  • Fluke tool cable tracing.  • Ethernet cable termination  • Network configuration for all three mayor Operation systems Windows (all version), Mac OS, and Linux(Ubuntu).  • Maintain infrastructure in accordance with industry best practices and standards.  • Conduct periodic reviews of the infrastructure and propose upgrades as appropriate.  • Support of a mixed environment Windows 7, Windows 8, Windows 10 and Mac OS from 10.7 and up.  • Maintained Active directory for Multiple school districts.  • Created all new users in AD and provided correct permissions.  • Provided Technical documentation and new processes.  • Ensured Severity tickets were resolved on time.  • Provided support for over 3,000 client machines and users.  • Home drive creations and Home drive moves.  • Remote Administration and onsite support.  • Created and maintained Various school districts object groups in Active Directory.  • Resolved technical problems using Remedy ticketing system for documentation.  • ActiveRole Server used for permission and active directory management. Fios Technician Verizon Fios - Albany, NY June 2014 to November 2017 Managing Gigabit Passive Optical Network (GPON), Optical network terminals (PON), Fiber nodes, Virtual  Hubs and other demarcation point such as NID and MDU.  • Familiar with the following PON and optical line termination (OLT) managing utilities: Tellabs Panorama  Element Management System (EMS), Nokia Alcatel Lucent AMS, ARRIS Motorola AXS Vision.  • Working knowledge of the following Verizon Systems, application or systems., STORC, iVAPP, COA/COAD, iGO, WBN, VZWorks, OASIS, vRepair, FiOS Capacity Management Tools, WFA-DO, NSOP, VzOT, WBN.,  • Provisioning of order for data, VoIP and video services.  • Troubleshooting and installation of equipment such as Routers, VPNs, Firewalls, AP, Extenders, Setup boxes, and VoIP equipment.  • Fiber patch cables installation 50/125um, 62.5/125um and 9/125um.  • IPTV Beta testing and troubleshooting.  • Configuration of VoIP and legacy copper line at the switch level.  • Troubleshooting packed loss between customer and or CLECs.  • Configured and deployed Wi-Fi for each site including cellular data back-ups.  • Coordinated customer repairs or replacement of equipment through mail or field technical dispatch.  • NEUSTAR Telephone number portability.  • Wireless network troubleshooting.  • Malware detection and removal. IT Helpdesk Supervisor - APAC - Full time New York Life and Scholastic Technical - Utica, NY November 2010 to June 2014 • Point of Contact for New York Life and Scholastic teams. Completed projects on time and met SLA's.  • Support of a mixed environment Windows Server 2003, 2008, and 2012.  • VMware vSphere 5.0 5.5, Aero vCenter is used for our Virtual Environment.  • Plans and implements software and/or systems upgrades and modifications  • Worked with vendors HP and DELL for warranty replacements on Servers.  • Provided support for over 1,000 clients and users on a daily basis.  • Print Management and Queue creation and troubleshooting  • Handle database escalation for scholastic SAM and New York life Field technology software Library.  • Unlock user accounts on Microsoft exchange server and SecureDoc SQL server.  • Resolved technical problems using Remedy ticketing system for documentation.  • Created processes and workflows for new hires. Provided in house training.  • Provided solutions to the Severity tickets and resolved them accordingly.  • Handle supervisor calls and set expectations with the client  • Participates in design of call monitoring formats and quality standards.  • Uses quality monitoring data management system to compile and track performance at team and individual level.  FairPoint, Scholastic, New York Life SharePoint Administrator  • Creation and maintenance of Sites, as well as all associated databases and services, such as Shared Service Providers, and Extended Authentication providers if needed.  • Installation and Maintenance of any Plug-in, Feature, Web Part, Template or Solution, including  3rd party software or application  Trainer for the following vendors: FairPoint, Scholastic, New York Life  • Responsible for assessing the knowledge and skill level of employees, through interview, survey  or observation.  • Planning and designing appropriate training sessions and materials.  • Role-playing and live sessions.  • Continuous evaluation and group/individual feedback.  • Training Performance Measurement and Reporting in critical areas:  • Order quality.  • Ticket documentation and organization.  • Analytical thinking. Computer Technician Staples - New Hartford, NY March 2010 to July 2010 agent FairPoint Wholesale Provisioning - Utica, NY March 2010 to March 2010 Working knowledge of the following FairPoint Systems, application or systems: M6 MetaSolv, Siebel  billing system, Virtual Front Office (VFO)  • Disconnection or modification of current wholesales accounts  • Provisioning of wholesale orders for the following type of services:  • Internet Dryloops  • Telephone Lines  • Number portability(Neustar)  • Resale products  • Directory listing Technical support and Sales PRTC DMAX - San Juan, PR January 2006 to August 2006 Education Associate of Applied Science (A.A.S.) in Computer Information Brandman University - Albany, NY 2017 Microsoft Certified Professional Penn state University - University Park, PA 2012 High school diploma Colegio Rudianette - Caguas, PR 2004 Skills Active directory, Cisco, Citrix, Dhcp, Tcp, Networking, Windows, Vmware