Network Administrator <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Raleigh, NC Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Network Administrator Greenwich Catholic School - Greenwich, CT September 2017 to Present • Worked closely with IT supervisors to determine future network needs and plan for current and fresh network ideas.  • Part take in networking troubleshooting activities and assisted in resolving network connectivity issues.  • Took monthly inventory of all equipment and devices.  • Engaged in meetings on all the work done every other week.  • Worked remotely, if out of the office.   • Initiated troubleshooting actions on laptops, desktops and any technology equipment. Pharmacy Technician CVS Pharmacy - Bridgeport, CT September 2015 to June 2018 • Processed insurance and filled prescriptions  • Part take in administrative and book keeping tasks  • Constant engagement with customers by exercising outstanding customer service.  • Demonstrated my organizational skills by keep my work station clean and workable. Ongoing updates with computer software and prioritising work tasks accordingly. Education Bachelor's in Management Southern Connecticut State University - New Haven, CT September 2016 to May 2018 Skills Networking, Technical Support, Customer Service Awards Oustanding Student Award 2014-05 Worked really hard that semester and made Dean's List twice. Groups Volunteer Work at Church April 2010 to Present Worked along with a team of other volunteers for our care group. We collected food items for the needy and sent out greeting cards to church members. Additional Information I have earned my Bachelors in Management and Psychology. I also hold an Associates degree in Social Work. Fortunately, my interest took a turn towards Technology. This is where my heart is and has always had a love for both Technology and working with people. I can see myself working remotely or in the office, where both my excellent customer service and computer skills will unite.