Program Administrator Program <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Ambitious Senior Level Leader Troy, MO Ambitious Leader who creates strategic alliances with organizational leaders to effectively align with and support key business initiatives. Builds and retains high performance teams by hiring, developing, and motivating skilled professionals. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Program Administrator Achievement Unlimited - St. Louis, MO Present • Directed day-to-day operations of the program and ensured compliance with established standards and applicable policies and procedures.  • Recruited, interviewed and screened new hire candidates  • Reviewed program operations and policies and made revisions as needed  • Development of written plans for program participants, employees, and components and updated as needed.  • Turned the program into a profit generating program by implementing several initiatives to reduce costs and utilized effective marketing to double enrollment in one year.  • Implemented effective change management to enhance program effectiveness and boost client experience.  • Responsible for running and administering all payroll functions.  • Responsible for creating invoices and billing funders. Mentor Network - Area Director Mentor Network 2017 to 2019 • Supervise service programs and daily operations of the organization  • Train staff members, developing programs, soliciting funds, and assist in budget preparation  • Make optimal utilization of the available resources  • Hired and trained employees for community services  • Manage budget and volunteer activities  • Arranged community meetings and delivered speeches  • Handled fundraising and publicity events for the organization  • Researched potential organizations and received donations  • Created strategic plans for fund development and increasing numbers of events in a year Project Manager Resources for Human Development 2016 to 2017 • Developed and provided training via classroom, individual, or video sessions  • Set up Users, Contractors in the EMR system  • Maintained client portal with arrival of new patients  • Assists clinical staff in identifying cause and solution to help desk issues.  • Collaborate in the development of workflow changes. Provide appropriate communication with staff and Information systems management regarding system problems or upcoming system changes.  • Designed and presented workshops regionally: leadership development, communication skills, recruitment processes, financial planning, organizational programming, and procedural adherence.  • Implemented recruitment projects and tactics for the Midwest Division  • Identified and tailored workshops and meetings  • Engaged in benchmarking and best practices research and performed process assessments.  • Consulted on business processes, change management, organizational development, and cultural issues and initiatives in support of business & programmatic goals and needs  • Project Facilitator for multiple projects  • Developed and completed special projects as assigned  • Partnered with HR professionals to strategically align development programs with performance appraisals and other HR systems Program Director Resources for Human Development 2010 to 2016 • Directed day-to-day operations of the program and ensured compliance with established standards and applicable policies and procedures.  • Recruited, interviewed and screened new hire candidates  • Reviewed program operations and policies and made revisions as needed  • Development of written plans for program participants, employees, and components and updated as needed.  • Turned the program into a profit generating program by implementing several initiatives to reduce costs and utilized effective marketing to double enrollment in one year.  • Implemented effective change management to enhance program effectiveness and boost client experience. Education Master's in Organizational Management ASHFORD UNIVERSITY - Clinton, IA July 2012 Bachelor's in Psychology ASHFORD UNIVERSITY - Clinton, IA November 2010 Skills CUSTOMER SERVICE (10+ years), REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (10+ years), Home Health (5 years), Operation, Presentation Skills (10+ years), Training & Development, training, leadership development, management, budgeting, team building, Community Development, Business Development Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/jamesrhuffman Military Service Branch: United States Marine Corps Service Country: United States Rank: Sergeant/E5 June 1994 to October 2001 An Assault Amphibious Vehicle Crewmember performs various duties related to the operation and maintenance of the AAV, to include tactical employment, gunnery using the onboard weapon systems, communications, and maneuver. AAV Crewmembers employ their vehicle in support of Infantry units during ship to objective maneuver and during subsequent operations ashore. Typical duties may include preventive and corrective maintenance, and pre-combat checks and inspections on the AAV and its associated equipment in order to support both amphibious and land operations.    The Marine Corps has a long, rich heritage of developing leaders to assume progressively greater responsibilities in the Marine Corps and in society. Marine Corps leadership development focuses on character, competence and the internalization of our Core Values. Marine Corps leaders are developed through tough, realistic training, experience, and by the personal example of leaders who embody what it means to be a Marine. Commendations: Letter of Commendation  3 Meritorious Achievement Certificates   2 Good Conduct Medals Awards Outstanding Student Leadership Award 2005-05 Outstanding Student Leadership Award - Given for leading and guiding a student group, attain a successful National Youth Service Day. Certifications/Licenses CPR Medication Aide Additional Information UNITED STATES MARINE CORPS – Sergeant/E5   Training and Development - Maintains all training support materials; prepares materials for advising the unit commander on military education requirements and forwards applications for Army Service schools; provides the information required for the unit status report; attends all unit training meetings; develops and publishes unit training calendar and schedules; forecasts and secures training resources to include training sites; develops and maintains all training records.