Network Administrator <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Microelectronics Material and Process Specialist- AMEC - Northrop Grumman Corporation Apopka, FL I am a highly motivated and dynamic candidate that will bring balance and drive to any team. My personal and professional growth in the past two years is a reflection of an unwavering grit with the close guidance of my champions within Northrop Grumman corporation. A commitment to continual growth in both personal and professional development position me to achieve a troubleshooting approach to any growth opportunity.    Skill Highlights and Core Competencies  • Proficient in Microsoft Office software  • Flexible team player able to effectively prioritize and handle several concurrent projects based on business need.  • Ability to operate, load and maintain complex machines with some programming exposure.  • Proficiency in SAP, Pro-Engineering and Matlab.  • Geometric Dimensioning and Tolerancing-NGC  • highly conversant with Lean Six Sigma principles and Risk Management- Project Management studies- UCI-Pending  • Detail oriented  • Technical problem solver  • Strong Oral communication  • Strong knowledge of WAN, LAN, TCP/IP, DNS and related troubleshooting. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Network Administrator EZE Sales and MArketing - Philadelphia, PA August 2015 to Present • Network configuration and administration/support of Windows 7/10 as well as familiarity with Microsoft Office Professional suite 2007-2016, Outlook 20xx and VMware.  • Troubleshooting or offering technical support  • Responsible for supporting the installation, implementation, troubleshooting, and maintenance of agency wide-area networks (WANs) and local-area networks (LANs)  • Assist in designing and managing the WAN infrastructure and any processes related to the WAN Microelectronics Material and Process Specialist- Current Northrop Grumman Corporation - Baltimore, MD 2015 to Present • Provide system configuration support on machine operating system based on changing drawing specifications  • Provide technical guidance to junior technician in their assigned job duties  • Review and recommend changes to existing configuration processes.  • Analyze and resolve configuration issues of embedded systems/production machine in a timely manner.  • Assist engineers in process analysis, design, development, and testing activities.  • Develop and enhance manufacturing processes using lean six sigma concepts  • Troubleshoot machine configurations during production  • Weekly machine backup and debugging  • Facilitate a smooth production for operators on shop floor  • Support software QA and optimize I/O performance  • Provide post production support  • Design, develop, test and debug system software on manufacturing system  • Running virus scans on embedded system  • Performing Firmware update  • Responding to downtown log/ticketing systems in a timely fashion  • Programming and configuring machines and software to meet hardware requirement.  • Perform virus scan on embedded systems  • assessing, troubleshooting and maintaining business workstations and networks on shop floor Ceramic Material and Process Specialist Northrop Grumman - Baltimore, MD June 2015 to June 2017 Responsibilities  • Fabrication of ferrous material following process on manufacturing procedure document  • Loading, modifying and maintaining files onto machines following desired pattern per drawing designs for punching  • Layup material to meet required specification  • Coordinating Process based on material requirement.  • Maintain, modify and load files onto machines to produce drawing specifications  • Testing hardware for flatness, roughness and height and extracting data for matlab analysis in 3D using the White Light Profiler.  • Utilizing Lean Six Sigma to execute and improve processes.  • Checking hardware at final inspection for drawing specification and industry compliance.  • Make engineering recommendations. Program Aide Kennedy Krieger High School - Baltimore, MD July 2014 to February 2015 Responsibilities    • Assist with the implementation of instruction in accordance with students' IEPs, in cooperation with a supervising teacher, using effective strategies for academic and behavioral success.  • Prepare for and participate in parent conferences and interdisciplinary team meetings.  • Provide support and leadership for curricular and extracurricular activities, special events, and projects that support student-life and promote a positive school experience.  • Provide independent instruction, supervision, and classroom management in the absence of the supervising teacher.  • Implement behavioral protocols/assignments for students during instructional and non-instructional times.  • Utilize instructional and non-instructional times in a professional manner in keeping with administrative guidelines.    Mosaic Community Service Residential Counselor Northrop Grumman Corp September 2011 to June 2014 Responsibilities  • Orients new residents staff members, visitors, and volunteers to the program.  • Functions as a team member to develop rehabilitation plans that meet resident's needs. Act as a case manager for assigned caseloads of residents, depending on program assignment.  • Assists in providing a safe and therapeutic environment according to established policies and procedures. Provides additional and or relief coverage as indicated by staff shortages and or unexpected or unusual clinical needs of the residents.  • Completes written documentation of rehabilitation plan, services, behaviors, and progress in compliance with Mosaic and program standards. Reports pertinent observations to rehabilitation team.  • Participates in the evaluation of program effectiveness and efficiency and works to ensure continuous improvements quality of services. Education BS in Chemistry Coppin State University 2016 AS in Bioengineering Montgomery College 2009 Skills MS OFFICE (9 years), Comptia A+ (2 years), GEOMETRIC DIMENSIONING (2 years), POWERPOINT (10+ years), PROJECT MANAGEMENT (2 years), Microsoft Project, Net+, Customer Service, Word Awards Net + 2018-02 Certifications/Licenses CompTIA Security+ March 2018 to March 2021 Additional Information and Certifications  • Proficient in reading manufacturing schematic  • Proficient in following manufacturing procedure  • Proficient MS office; excel, PowerPoint  • UMBC Training Center - A+  • UCI Irvine - Project Management  • GD&T- Geometric Dimensioning and Tolerancing  CompTia A+  CompTia Net +  RedHat Linux Administrator- Pending