Helpdesk /IT Network Specialist Helpdesk /IT <span class="hl">Network</span> Specialist Helpdesk /IT Network Specialist - St. Gabriel's Catholic School Dripping Springs, TX I am a dependable employee who enjoys problem solving and working for a company that encourages  out of the box thinking while staying within directors' orders. I am constantly learning new network skills  and I am hoping to move into a network security position guarding core IT infrastructure. Currently I am  working to complete my CCNA and my goal of CCIE. Work Experience Helpdesk /IT Network Specialist St. Gabriel's Catholic School July 2018 to Present While working at St. Gabriel's Catholic School I held a dual-role position as helpdesk and also IT  Networking Specialist. In my hard-ware role I was supporting day to day operations by assisting all staff, faculty, and students with all computer needs. Working with third party vendors for repairing laptops.  Below are some of the experiences i had in the role with: • Windows 10 • Chromebooks • 3D printers •  Network printers • Laminators  Within the network role I was responsible for supporting all networking administrative tasks: •  Fortinet Firewall • HP switches • Google Administration for Education • Apple School manager • VMware  • Cloudberry back up with Amazon AWS • Xirrus Wireless Access points • Active Directory Administration  Achievements:  1. Implementing Cloudberry backup with Amazon AWS  2. Installing a new physical firewall and configuration  3. Completed full laptop and Chromebook inventory  4. Completed full iPad inventory  5. Completed high level network mapping Patient Care Technician St. Davids Round Rock November 2017 to July 2018 works with people from diverse socio-economic backgrounds • recognize abnormal findings ie VS, Skin  changes, I&O, etc. and report findings to the nurse • Participates in providing direct care as directed, according to standards • Communicates all findings in the correct/concise/clear written and or verbal  format Helpdesk Technician City of Cedar Park December 2016 to November 2017 Direct support for Police Officers • Maintain communication with IT team and officers needs • Correct  detailed documentation of all work completed • Professional verbal, digital communication • Update and    2  create standard operating procedure • Working with dispatch of missing or not working applications •  Supporting Officer ticket writers, printers, and body cameras IT Security Administrator/ Security Compliance Specialist EZCORP January 2015 to October 2016 Implemented, Monitored and managed IDERA SQL • Implemented, Monitored and managed ProofPoint  email filter • Monitor and manage Change management board • Review IT Request forms and store for future audits • PCI DSS 3.1 Contact for the company • SOX Compliance contact • Assist with many  projects as it relates to PCI • Assist IT Engineering with encryption standards • Baseline Windows Server  2008 (r2), 2012, IE11, Windows 7 using CISCAT • Patch review board • Worked with vendors during Internal and external PEN testing, generating tickets to resolve gaps in security • Developing Standard,  Controls and Procedures • Documented application management processes and created training.    EZCORP Contractor EZCORP December 2012 to January 2015 Work on inbound tickets for Network connectivity issues • Layer 1-3 verification of networking • Isolate  and correct Cisco router configuration issues • Maintaining Cisco Routers & switches in DEV/ PROD  environments in the US, Mexico, Canada, and the UK • Configure and verify IOS in Cisco routers before shipping them to stores to be used • Helping Identify local connectivity issues or working with ISPs to  resolve connectivity issues • Detailed updates on tickets and keeping log of actions and progress •  Following up with end users to verify good connection • Verifying current bandwidth and upgrading if  needed • Configuring Wireless back up devices and shipping the stores • Walking sites through installing staff Cisco October 2010 to March 2012 Routers, Switches, JBM Gateway modems with installing Wireless cards Megapath Inc. Oct 2010- Mar 2012 Advanced Service NOC • Provides Support for Enterprise Class business locations, help  desks, headquarters, and SMB customers • Install, Troubleshoot, and maintain a wide range of primary  and backup technologies • Configuring and maintaining a wide range of networking equipment such as Cisco, Netopia, Adtran, Fortigate, Siemens, Redback, Digi Connect, and iPocket • Deploy technicians and  walk through troubleshooting on site to restore services • Provides leadership and direction for technical  staff • Participated in NOC training sessions to increase customer experience and technical expertise Education AAS in Internet Technology in Internet Technology ITT Technical Institute - Austin, TX June 2007 Emergency Medical Technician Networking Systems Temple College - Temple, TX 1998 Skills Cisco, Encryption, Networking, Pci, Solarwinds, Tcp/ip, Router, Tcp, Vmware, Firewall, Ipsec, Sox, Security, Time management, Sop, Governance, Problem solver Additional Information SKILLS    Security: PCI DSS 3.1, SOX, PEN Testing, SOP and control identification and creation    Networking: Fortinet Firewall, VMWare, Cisco Router and switches, HP Switches, Cloudberry backup with  AWS, ESET, TCP/IP, IPSEC, encryption standards    Tools: Idera, CISCAT, SolarWinds LEM, IBM Access Governance/ Management, ProofPoint, Active  Directory    Interpersonal: Collaboration, strong problem solver, quick study, resourceful, able to work independently  or within a team, multitask and time management