Senior Systems Engineer Senior Systems Engineer Senior Systems Engineer Sicklerville, NJ Senior System Engineer  • Over ten years of cross platform experience in Network, Systems, and Applications.  • Responsible for effective provisioning, installation/configuration, operation, and maintenance of systems hardware and software and related infrastructure.   o Managed of over 3000 servers  o Built and deployed servers in physical and virtual environment.  o Technical research and development to enable continuing innovation within the infrastructure  • Ensure that system hardware, operating systems, software, and related procedures adhere to organizational values, enabling users and partners.  • Responsible for supporting Enterprise Environment and Accountable for the following systems:   o Active Directory 2008, 2016, Domain Controllers, Windows Servers; 2008R2, 2012R2, 2016R2 and 2019 Datacenter, IIS (Internet Information Services) Exchange 2010, 2013, 2016, Office 0365 OO/OD.  o VMWare vSphere 6.0/6.5/6.7. Sccm2012, Scom2012R2, SolarWinds Orion Monitoring environment.   o Citrix XenApps/Xendesktop environment, NetScaler Gateway 10/11, Cloud Environment; Microsoft Azure.   • Troubleshooting technical issues at the highest level  • Initiation/planning Projects with teams; DBA, Application, Networking, and Web.   • Technical strategies include; research & development within the project life-cycle; technical analysis and design, executing, testing and rolling-out applications.   Focus on smoothing the transition of projects to production Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior Systems Engineer Department of Human Service - Philadelphia, PA March 2018 to Present • As part of the Infrastructure Engineer Team helping DHS to achieve faster code elevation & deployment to better meet with State Government guidelines and compliance.  • As part of this initiative our team is responsible for meeting DHS requirements of, scalability, capacity improvements, high availability, data protection, performance improvements, and better environment isolation.  • Installation, deployment and configuration of HPE Converged Infrastructure, HPE C7000 Blade Enclosure, with HPE 3PAR StoreServ8400 SAN, VMWare vSphere 6.0/6.5 and 6.7  • Instrumental in the DHS encryption project encrypt endpoints for HIPA compliance, leveraging MS Bitlocker.  • Design, configuration, and deployment of Solar Winds Orion monitoring system, for server, network device, and SAN monitoring.  • HPE 3PAR 8400 administration, creation and provisioning of LUNs for VMware, MS SQL, and Oracle servers. Development and implementation of the plan to move Windows 2008R2 Active Directory to Windows 2012 functional level. Backup and DR HPE StoreServ.  • Deployed and administered Microsoft SQL Server in standalone and clustered environments. Created VMware Gold templates for Windows 2012, 2016 and 2019. SCCM 2007 Management, package deployment SCCM 2007 to SCCM 2012R2, Migrate DHS 1700 users to Microsoft office 0365 OO/OD, manage office 0365 Tenant.  • Resolved issues related to Windows, application, virus isolation, and removal, storage and hardware configuration problems. Performed daily duties including answering internal support calls, Data Center walkthroughs, system health checks and event notification. Managed and created Active Directory accounts, network shares, GPO, DNS and printing services.    Consulting at Virtua Medical Health, 301 Lippincott Dr. Marlton, NJ Senior Systems Administrator August 2016 to January 2018 • Upgraded Scom Server 2007 to Scom2012R2. Manage performance alerts and notification, create dashboards for each team and department, assign users roles, create account lockout, manage reporting overview, performance monitor, distributed applications, administration overview, Configure Active Directory integration, and configure client monitoring.  • Proactive System Performance Monitoring using Scom, SolarWinds.  • Provide daily support for Citrix 7.9, store front 3.6. XenApps /Xendesktop environment with users in various geographical locations.  • Strong working knowledge with Citrix NetScaler Gateway 10.X  • VMWare vSphere 6.0/6.5, Built Servers within Vcenter Hosts and Cluster.  • Working with Domains, DNS Registries.  • Responsible for supporting Enterprise environment consisting of Windows 2008 /2012/2016 Servers and to be actively involved in planning, building & implementation of new projects.  • Working knowledge of MS SQL Database.  • Strong working experience with Active Directory, GPO, OU, files sharing, create security group.  • Perform system upgrades and mandatory security/OS patching.  • Provide 3rd Level Support for the production Environments. Support the Messaging environment Manage and support the corporate Windows platform. Responsibilities include hardware installation setup and troubleshooting, server builds configuration and remote management. Active Directory Management, File and Print Sharing, Application Server Support.  • Responsible for diagnosing and troubleshooting issues with Servers, including Windows Operating Systems, E-mail Services. Work with end users and application owners.  • Responsible for daily administration of the windows platform and familiar with industry best practices. Remote Access & Management via RDP or other remote control tools. Tier 3 System Engineer Vanguard Group - Valley Forge, PA January 2016 to July 2016 • Plan, implement, engineer and deploy end-to-end messaging unified communication collaboration solution that are fully secured and integrate employee partners, clients and shareholders both internal and external.  • Coexistence and migration From IBM Lotus Notes Domino to Exchange 2013  • Work with Microsoft System Center Operation Management Pack 2012 (SCOM) to monitor the availability and reliability of Exchange environment and VMWare Servers, health, performance alerts and notification, create dashboards for each team and department, assign users roles, create account lockout, manage reporting overview, performance monitor, distributed applications, administration overview, configure active directory integration, and configure client monitoring.  • Working with monitoring; authoring; my workspace; administration.  • Use exchange connector 2013 for lotus notes to synchronize active directory and the lotus domino directory.  • Perform free /busy lookup between exchange and lotus notes.  • Microsoft Exchange 2013 Server experience  • Manage Exchange Admin Center 2013  • Enterprise Office 365  • Configured database availability group (DAG/clustering)  • Knowledge of mailbox/CAS/HUB server roles  • Troubleshoot mail flow/SMTP/ X500 / Proxy address  • Knowledge of Exchange management PowerShell (EMS)  • Manage address list  • Enable UM for voice mail in mailbox.  • Create rooms and resource mailbox / shared mailboxes  • Knowledge of Microsoft Active Directory  • Support the Messaging environment Network Engineer /Analyst Level 2 July 2014 to November 2015 • Member of a service desk providing service delivery assurance of LAN/WAN/Security services for a large pharmaceutical company utilizing the ITIL v3.0 model.  • Worked with O.W.A: manage Outlook Web App web-based email, using Exchange Management console, Exchange Management shell, Internet information service (IIS).  • Created new mailbox manage distribution group and users account using EMC.  • Recommended and implemented process improvements to standardize business practices.  • 1st and 2nd level support to all alerts and ticketing triage.  • Technical liaison between department heads and local/remote team of network engineers for all major incidents  • Responsible for documenting internal processes for break/fix work instructions  • Troubleshot and resolved of all WAN/LAN/ & Wireless incidents, as well as capacity issues.  • Responsible for replacement of Cisco routers, switches, wireless devices.  • Loop testing with Global Telco's to isolate and resolve network outages within SLA.  • Maintenance of Cisco routers/switches.  • Responsible for accurate completion of all Network Device qualification and decommission forms (NDQF's and NDDF's) to ensure FDA guidelines & regulations are followed for Pharmaceuticals.  • Monitor BT Global MPLS network via GSAM/SMARTS for customer impacting incidents.  • Provide exceptional technical support to Pharma & Fortune 500 companies.  • Follow contractual service level agreement and ITIL compliance.  • Managed vendor relationships for both local and overseas service providers to ensure incident is resolved as a "1Call resolution" and "Right the First Time Process".  • Contributor to Design Engineering team in migrating network equipment and LAN refresh projects for major pharmaceuticals & clients worldwide (Pharma & Fortune 500).  • Handled incoming requests of incidents reported to the Service Desk.  • Diligently documents and troubleshooting incidents using or ITSM (Incident Management).  • Managed customer experience and expectations, providing status updates and escalate for resolution.  • Managed DHCP/DNS changes and requests using Lucent QIP management tool.  • Demonstrated experience with SSL, SSH and other forms of security products and services  • Strong working knowledge of layer-2 and layer-3 technologies.  • Experienced managing third-party vendors, including network services vendors and ISPs.  • Strong verbal and written communication skills. BT Global Network Operation Center - Princeton, NJ 2015 to 2015 Systems and Cloud Administrator The Solid Wood Cabinet Company - Philadelphia, PA October 2012 to June 2014 • Responsibilities included architecture design, and planning of current network infrastructure, familiarization with network hardware and software for installation, configure maintenance of Microsoft Exchange environment and troubleshoot MS outlook email (O.W.A) web-base, routers and switches, maintaining network, place new users in the global group for the domain, manage active directory and local group, create organizational units (OU), working with group policy object (GPO).  • Worked in other IT environment including, virtualization (VMware vSphere Esxi v5.5).  • Maintained, troubleshooting all network and systems using the best practices analyzer (BPA).  • Duties also involved network expansion, maintaining the organization security policies and procedures, configuring computers system security and ensure that all systems are operating correctly in remote on-off-site locations, enabling connections over the network, and connection to the local area network (LAN) or to the wide area network (WAN) enable other users to retrieve data from other communication systems throughout the organization.  • Worked closely with the Information Security Office. Working knowledge of security systems and terminologies.  • Managed Microsoft Back-Office products, including Office 2010/ 2013, Windows Server 2008R2/2012, System Center.  • Worked closely with Telecom supporting CTI (Computer Telephony Integration) servers and products, such as VoIP.  • Hyper-V and VMware farms of Servers. Automation Server, Publish applications/desktops for internal thin-client desktop utilization.  • Provided management with regular reports on LAN/WAN and Internet utilization, available storage, baseline stats before and after new product/service implementation.  • Continuously stays abreast of new technologies through independent research, attending seminars and trade-shows, Internet research, etc.    Network Expansion Project Coordinating  • Designed and implemented Cloud Based Technology by working closely with cloud engineers.  • NetSuite is a complete ERP Cloud Based Application that provider offering industry -specific database and software for distribution, manufacturing and retail services.  • Capability is critical to business for faster growth, to streamline operations, for greater productivity and savings on IT costs and maintenance.  • Identified the need for and steered project plan to upgrade T1 Circuit to 10 M Fibre Circuit for 10 showrooms increasing network bandwidth and enhancing data transfer, leading to the overall profitability of the company.  • Implemented project plan and deploy Microsoft Exchange, domain server into Virtual Cloud, a significant cost benefit for the company because it decreases the number of hardware to maintain, increases reliability and security of the network and gives greater flexibility to the IT department to determine new or improved solutions for hardware in actual use.  • Exchange deployment: preparing the server that runs exchange, preparing active directory.  • Sets up the virtual network for the Exchange Server deployment in the cloud, including subnets in two Availability Zones.  • Configured private and public routes  • Launched Windows Server 2008 R2 AMIs and sets up and configures Active Directory and DNS  • Created a user who is a member of the Domain Admins group, and an Exchange admin user who is a member of  • The Enterprise Admins and Schema Admins group.  • Configuring Lync Server, create a UM/IP gateway for each Lync server pool that hosts users who will be enabled for enterprise voice.  • Designed and installed Access Points in a 160,000 square foot warehouse, which allowed for better inventory control using ozlink software, mobile scan gun system. Help Desk Technician Princeton Medical Group - Princeton, NJ October 2007 to August 2009 • Provided one -on-one end user problem resolution over the telephone, and at remote desktop locations, limiting system downtime and increasing the number of patients triaged and seen on a daily basis, and providing immediate access to the Electronic Medical Record.  • Maintained and administered computer hardware, systems software, SAP applications, all configurations, and assisted in installing local area network, cabling system and network interface cards, hubs switches and routers, to enhance system performance, an overall cost benefit to the practice. Education Bachelors of Sciences in Information Systems Engineering & Technology in Sciences Drexel University - Philadelphia, PA May 2016 Associates of Applied Sciences in Network Engineering in Network Engineering Mercer County Community College - West Windsor, NJ December 2011 Masters of Science in Hospitality Management in Hospitality Management University of Technology May 1995