MSP / NMSP Technician MSP / NMSP Technician Janesville, WI Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience MSP / NMSP Technician KC Computers / Computers Nationwide - Whitewater, WI July 2018 to Present • Train end users and other employees on systems  • Manage and provide support for technical calls, emails and support tickets  • Patch management and security services and backups on Windows platforms  • Setup and deploy workstations, servers, networking and other equipment for numerous business Independent IT consultant Janesville, WI July 2012 to Present IT Tech Specialist  • Diagnose, troubleshoot, upgrade, and repair Windows and Mac computers; Setup and maintain  home and business networks; Train and support clients on a variety of technologies via phone,  email, and face to face.  • Provide hardware modification to client needs, including custom builds, notebook screen  replacements, etc.  • Maintain, service, and support both Windows server and VMware environments.  • Document and maintain detailed notes, protect client data, and record transactions.  • Stay educated on emerging technologies to provide better solutions to clients. MSP Network Engineer / Help Desk The Computer Center - Janesville, WI April 2016 to April 2018 • Design and implement network solutions for a wide array of businesses  • Manage and provide support for technical calls, emails and support tickets  • Patch management and security services and backups on Windows platforms  • Setup and deploy workstations, servers, networking and other equipment to multiple business Web Administrator Auzgaming.com - Tucson, AZ December 2014 to April 2016 • Provide support for a base group of over 3000 registered users.  • Ensure support tickets are answered in a timely fashion and for optimal user satisfaction.  • Troubleshoot, service, and update Windows Server environments to better facilitate an enhanced  gaming environment.  • Provide limited technical assistance when necessary. Education Certification University of Wisconsin - Janesville, WI September 2013 to Present Diploma Parker High School - Janesville, WI July 2012 Skills Documentation (4 years), Help Desk (3 years), It Specialist (8 years), Information Technology, Desktop Support (3 years), Computer Repair, Network Support Assessments Basic Computer Skills: PC — Expert April 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to perform basic computer operations, navigate a Windows OS, and troubleshoot common computer problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/zqar5m2ukw-3-p8z Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.