All Covered Managed IT Support All Covered Managed IT Support NOC Technician / Help Desk Support / Network Administrator / Systems Administrator Richmond Hill, NY Flexible and adept veteran; who thrives in an environment of constant challenge, diversity and high stress. Demonstrates a solid skill set in troubleshooting, problem solving, computer assistance and customer service. Exemplifies exceptional leadership, organizational skills, sound communication, and interpersonal relationship skills. Seeking a position where my varied corporate and military experience in computer networking and information technology can be utilized. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience All Covered Managed IT Support Konica Minolta - Phoenix, AZ April 2012 to October 2014 • Provided expert remote support for desktops, printers, mobile devices, and basic server administration.  • Monitored thousands of devices for more than 2000+ clients throughout the United States. Making sure that critical devices were online and gave detailed updates to clients about service failures.  • Produced accurate and detailed documentation at the client and incident level; referred and coordinated with technicians on the field.  • Followed incident creation, work, closure and escalation procedures. Closed hundreds of incidents along with supporting team members with resolving client issues. Network Infrastructure Technician L3 Communications, Kandahar Airfield - Kandahar, Afghanistan October 2011 to February 2012 • Assisted deployed overseas troops with communication lines.  • Installed and repaired fiber optic cables and copper lines.  • Terminated, spliced and ran fiber optic cables.  • OSP (Outside plant) and ISP (Inside plant) tickets were both handled. Network Administrator Marine Corps Air Station Yuma - Yuma, AZ June 2009 to September 2011 • Instrumental at maintaining and operating the YLAN domain at MCAS Yuma; Which included over 250 users, 20 servers, 100+ workstations. Appointed as the lead of the Networking and Infrastructure of the YLAN team.  • Provided excellent customer service to end users on several individual networks aboard the station which included end user training, installation and, installation and maintenance of various hardware and software programs, and infrastructure to include fiber optic and copper cable.  • Managed Exchange and Active Directory of all servers on the YLAN domain. That includes anti-virus updates and installation, PKI management, server OS patching, and maintaining applications with up to date associated permissions for users.  • Completed over 250 data trouble tickets, to include major projects. For example, building several fiber paths to remote buildings and infrastructure.  • Supervised staff of up to 8 technicians, while prioritizing projects and daily workload, scheduled assignments and completing time-critical tasks.  • Configured and administered Cisco routers and switches including services, VLANs, routes, ACLs, route maps, redistribution, overall security, and more. Defense Message System Administrator / Windows Systems Administrator Marine Corp Base Camp Butler - Okinawa, Japan June 2007 to May 2009 • Promptly troubleshot outages pertaining to 34 servers, classified and unclassified, as well as MTA queue issues.  • Skillfully functioned and provided productive support as operations center clerk to a 2-star general and several VIPs.  • Served as focal point of contact on all trouble calls; rendered high-level technical assistance to the customer.  • Effectively worked with local staff and conferred issues, updates, and system status. Education Bachelor's in Computer Systems: IT Operations New York City College of Technology September 2017 to Present Associate in Computer Operations: Networking and Security LaGuardia CC - Queens, NY September 2015 to August 2017 Skills Help Desk, Service Desk, Desktop Support, Tech Support, Active Directory Military Service Branch: United States Marine Corps Rank: Sgt Certifications/Licenses CompTIA Security+ CompTIA Network+ A valid IT Specialist certification Additional Information Technical Experience    Operating Systems:  Windows Server 2008/2012/2016 (Standard, Enterprise, and R2)  Windows XP/Vista/7/8/10 (Home and Professional)  CentOS  Cisco IOS    Ticketing Applications: Remedy ? ServiceNow ? GoBase  Server Applications: MS Active Directory ? MS Exchange VMware vSphere /vCenter ? Hyper-V Windows Server Update Services (WSUS)  Applications:  Cisco AnyConnect VPN ? MS Office Suite ? MS Sharepoint  MS Office 365 ? SSH Client Putty  ComboFix ? RKill ? MalwareBytes ? ADW Cleaner    Hardware:  Cisco LAN Switches (2900, 3550, 3700, 3750) ? Cisco Routers (1841, 2811)  Various manufacturers and platforms of servers (Compaq, HP, Dell)  Various printer, peripheral and hardware support ? Varied media converters  Various manufacturers and platforms of desktops  Cable management, installation, and maintenance of wiring, including, but not limited to copper and fiber optic cable.