Network Administrator, Atlanta Fixture and Sales <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span>, Atlanta Fixture and Sales Network Administrator, Atlanta Fixture and Sales Norcross, GA Work Experience Network Administrator, Atlanta Fixture and Sales 2015 to 2018 • Ensure the stable operation of the in-house and outside computer networks and all connected PCs and peripherals.  • Planning, developing, installing, configuring, maintaining, supporting, and optimizing all network hardware, software, and communication links.  • Analyze and resolves end user hardware and software computer problems timely and accurately  • Provide end user training where required. • Assist with testing new custom hardware units and software products.  • Assist the Service and Support team with hardware installations and troubleshooting. • Work with the Service and Support team to create procedures, documentation, and train staff when required.  • Develop, implement and maintain policies, procedures and associated training plans for network resource administration, appropriate use, and disaster recovery.  • Oversee installation, configuration, maintenance, and troubleshooting of end user workstation hardware, software, and peripheral devices.  • Interact and negotiate with vendors, outsourcers, and contractors to secure network products and services.  • Conduct research on network products, services, protocols, and standards in support of network procurement and development efforts.  • Administered and handled Google/Gmail based accounts for 175 users • Handled TCP/IP, DHCP, and DNS protocols, LAN/WAN, routers, Ethernet, SAN, VPN  • Performed on Platforms: Windows 7/10, Mac OS X, Android • Worked with Software: MS Office Suite 2013+ (Word, Excel, PowerPoint, Access, Outlook), Office 365SAP, Adobe, McAfee, Norton Utilities, Intranetware 4.11, SAP SE Inventory Control Assistant Manager 2011 to 2015 • Review orders to gauge accuracy of materials and equipment information.  • Obtain price information from vendors or catalogues and verify them by contacting suppliers.  • Calculate order costs and forward invoices to appropriate departments.  • Maintain inventory levels and sound alerts on low inventories.  • Perform physical count of inventory and perform reconciliation with actual available stock.  • Contact suppliers and vendors to order supplies and equipment and coordinate delivery.  • Receive ordered supplies and check them to see if they correspond with purchasing orders.  • Monitor the movement of supplies, goods and equipment between departments.  • Operate both manual and computerized inventory systems to punch in values of goods and equipment with the use of the AS400 system.  • Prepare requisition orders for the replenishment of stock.  • Maintain stock rotation and ensure disposing off of any outdated or expired stock.  • Update inventory records with new information on a constant basis.  • Investigate inventory errors and perform corrective measures.  • Detect stock shortage by maintaining accurate inventory.  • Identify and distribute stock to appropriate locations within and out of the company premises.  • Coordinate inventory management efforts with purchasing and warehouse departments.  • Create and maintain inventory management records on a consistent basis.  • Facilitate outstanding payments for ordered and delivered stock.  • Inform manager when need for inventory review arises and suggest surveys of stock. Customer Service Representative, Atlanta Fixture and Sales 2008 to 2011 • Work with customers via phone, email, or "face to face"  • Respond promptly to customer inquiries  • Handle and resolve customer complaints  • Negotiate pricing and execute sales  • Communicate with vendors and relative logistics partners to track and monitor customer delivery tracking information  • Order and data entry through POS system along with using AS400 system in setting up accounts  • Process orders, and customer-related form information  • Overseeing personal customer accounts