IT Analyst IT Analyst IT Analyst Evansville, IN IT professional with 6+ years’ experience, seeking prospect to further enhance knowledge to promote quality and efficiency for IT systems and processes. Providing a working knowledge of level I, II and III desktop support knowledge within an organization to achieve its mission of growth and advancement. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience IT Analyst Energy Systems Group - Newburgh, IN October 2015 to July 2018 • First contact support, Helpdesk administrator. Windows account / email creation and termination.  • Deployment, monitoring, maintenance, development, upgrade and support of all IT hardware / VMware,  and operating systems.  • Connect users to networks and VPN's. Provide initial training in IT systems and applications for new users. Deskside Support Technician Experis - Mead Johnson Nutrition - Evansville, IN December 2013 to October 2015 • Installation/configuration and second-level incident support for PC hardware, software, and peripherals.  • Resolving technical issues, and instructing client end users on corrective actions in a professional attitude.  • Provide a level of service that meets or exceeds Service Level Agreement (SLA) and Operations Level  Agreement (OLA) requirements. Desktop Technician TEKsystems - Owensboro Medical Health Systems - Owensboro, KY February 2013 to June 2013 • Windows 7, Citrix desktop deployment, and peripheral device rollout (such as printers, scanners, and monitors).  • Operating system and software configuration for fat and thin client devices.  • Following standard cable management techniques according to direction. Network / Desktop Administrator Carver Community Organization - Evansville, IN January 2012 to February 2013 • Maintaining network devices to ensure connectivity in a Windows network environment.  • Creating and managing user accounts for Windows 7 / 10 client computers in Active Directory.  • Creating basic Organizational Units and GPO's to manage user permissions. Education Bachelor of Science in Information Technology- Network Administration Western Governors University Indiana January 2015 Associate of Applied Science in Computer Information Technology Ivy Tech Community College - Evansville, IN December 2012 Skills Windows 10 Deployment (6 years), Active Directory (7 years), Operating Systems (7 years), Break / Fix (6 years), Network Printer Configuration (6 years), Network Administration (5 years), Training & Development (3 years), Help Desk (6 years), Tech Support (6 years), Desktop Support (7 years), Service Desk (5 years) Awards Best Performance 2018-02 Counted votes within the company based on performance evaluation in 2017.  Certifications/Licenses Microsoft Certified Solutions Associate (MCSA) – Windows Server 2008 Present Cisco Certified Network Associate – Routing and Switching (CCNA) Microsoft Certified Technology Specialist (MCTS) – Windows 7, Configuration Present CompTIA – Project+ CompTIA – Network+ CompTIA – A+ CompTIA – Security+ Assessments Technical Support — Highly Proficient June 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/8byw0gz1zuserzqg Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information SKILLS  • Advanced level troubleshooting and configuration of Windows 10, and previous Windows  operating systems. Expert experience in break/fix hardware and software.  • Strong analytical and problem solving skills. Excellent communication skills (verbal and written).  Eager to assist with a helpful and patient attitude.  • Adapt to new concepts quickly, while working well under pressure in a team or self-directed  environment.