Information Systems Security Officer Information Systems Security Officer Huntsville, AL Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Information Systems Security Officer Wyle - Aerospace - Huntsville, AL August 2015 to Present Responsibilities for this position are largely identical to my responsibilities listed previously under Tetra Tech EMC, supporting the same program in the same capacity.    Additional responsibilities have included the development of accreditation packages under the  DoD Risk Management Framework (RMF). RMF transition has required many hours of self-study and research to familiarize myself with documents pertaining to new requirements, particularly NIST SP 800-  53 Rev 4 and CNSSI 1253.    Phone Number: (805)465-1979    Supervisor: Ricardo Reyes Information Systems Security Officer Tetra Tech - Huntsville, AL February 2013 to July 2015 Served as ISSO for the Pacific Range Support Team's cyber security efforts. Primary Cyber  Security responsibilities are for PRST's communications systems, the Flight Test Communications  Network (FTCN) and the Orion Voice Switch Conferencing System (VSCS). I have also performed  ISSO functions for the Pacific Collector Range Safety System (PCRSS).  These functions have been based primarily around obtaining and maintaining accreditations for these systems to operate for MDA. Tasks have included creation and modification of DIACAP  documents, tracking of Information Assurance Vulnerability Management (IAVM) Alerts & Bulletins as well as system administrator responses to IAVAs/IAVBs, updates of POA&Ms for assigned systems,  management of responses to CTOs received from MDA, reporting to Directorate of Test (DT) ISSM on cyber security posture for PRST assets, updates on status of recurring tasks to DT ISSM, and briefing  various government personnel on status of PRST cyber security program including NAVAIR, MDA,  MDA DT, DTR, and DTRI.  Additional but less frequent responsibilities have included development of plans for a virtualized  FTCN testbed for the purposes of testing patches outside of a production environment, development of a  distributed ACAS architecture for the FTCN, planning and reporting for future cyber security  tasking/travel, and regular review of cyber security processes at the program level followed by recommendations for improvement.    Phone Number: (805)484-9082    Supervisor: Steve Beal Computer Sales Associate Best Buy - Oxford, AL August 2008 to January 2013 Began with Best Buy working inventory. This involved movement of merchandise, rearranging floor  plans, and working in Loss Prevention. Later worked sales in Computing and Digital Imaging  departments. Responsible for customer engagements and maintaining sales standards, as well as training  team members as a full-time department lead. Also oversaw employee self-learning initiatives to ensure  team members were staying up to date on the latest technology available to customers.    Phone Number: (256)832-0172    Supervisors: Jay Busbin/Stephen Smith Network Administrator/Maintainer US Army Alabama National Guard October 2011 to December 2012 October 2011 - December 2012  My Military Occupation Specialty (MOS) within the National Guard, is 25B, which is identified as a Network Administrator/Maintainer with responsibilities primarily over a Batallion Command Post  Node (BnCPN). I have been responsible for deploying, maintaining and troubleshooting data and voice  capabilities across both Unclassified and Classified networks, including configuring, updating and troubleshooting Cisco routers, switches, and firewalls; KG175D Taclanes, Cisco Unified Call Managers  deployed via Virtual Machines, Linkway S2 Modems, Cisco VoIP Phones, and any equipment that may  be connected to these systems for missions. Occasionally responsible for troubleshooting satcom related  issues as they pertain to our ability to send and receive voice and data transmissions.    During my deployment to Afghanistan, I was assigned to work as part of a team at a remote site near the Afghanistan-Pakistan border. As  I was the only soldier trained as a Network Administrator in the area, I was required to wear many hats throughout the mission, including being responsible for all duties listed above, as well as COMSEC  handling, troubleshooting distant end issues with various other points our systems connected to, over the phone troubleshooting to assist other teams, help desk support for the units we were stationed with, and  other Information Management Officer duties. During my time at this site, I was on call 24 hours a day, 7  days a week.    As a result of my hard work and dedication, I was awarded Golden Deployment Spurs by the members of the 2-38 Cavalry Squadron, received three commendation coins, an honorary combat patch from the 2nd Infantry Division, and an Army Commendation Medal in addition to the normal awards  given for a tour of duty in Afghanistan.    Since returning from Afghanistan, my responsibilities when supporting the ALNG have included  supporting multiple training events at Eglin AFB for other ALNG units by providing classified and unclassified voice and data capabilities via BnCPN, training myself on the Satellite Transportable  Terminal(STT) that provides SATCOM capabilities for the BnCPN as well as participating in several  communications exercises to test implementation of the newest iteration of the BnCPN, which utilizes  Colorless networks for NIPR/SIPR communications.    Phone Number: (205)764-6752    Supervisor: SFC Dennis Bennett Network Administrator in the area, I US Army Alabama National Guard October 2011 to October 2012 was assigned to work as part of a team at a remote site near the Afghanistan-Pakistan border. As  I was the only soldier trained as a Network Administrator in the area, I was required to wear many hats throughout the mission, including being responsible for all duties listed above, as well as COMSEC  handling, troubleshooting distant end issues with various other points our systems connected to, over the phone troubleshooting to assist other teams, help desk support for the units we were stationed with, and  other Information Management Officer duties. During my time at this site, I was on call 24 hours a day, 7  days a week.    As a result of my hard work and dedication, I was awarded Golden Deployment Spurs by the members of the 2-38 Cavalry Squadron, received three commendation coins, an honorary combat patch from the 2nd Infantry Division, and an Army Commendation Medal in addition to the normal awards  given for a tour of duty in Afghanistan.    Since returning from Afghanistan, my responsibilities when supporting the ALNG have included  supporting multiple training events at Eglin AFB for other ALNG units by providing classified and unclassified voice and data capabilities via BnCPN, training myself on the Satellite Transportable  Terminal(STT) that provides SATCOM capabilities for the BnCPN as well as participating in several  communications exercises to test implementation of the newest iteration of the BnCPN, which utilizes  Colorless networks for NIPR/SIPR communications.    Phone Number: (205)764-6752    Supervisor: SFC Dennis Bennett Military Service Branch: US Army Alabama National Guard Service Country: United States Rank: PFC August 2010 to Present Commendations: Army Commendation Medal  Gold Cavalry Spurs  Multiple Letters of Appreciation Certifications/Licenses VCP5-DCV March 2015 to March 2017 A+ Certified October 2015 to October 2018 Security+ October 2015 to October 2018 Network+ October 2015 to October 2018 CISSP May 2014 to May 2017 Secret Clearance