Customer Service Associate Customer Service Associate Customer Service Associate Milpitas, CA Work Experience Customer Service Associate Fry's Electronics - San Jose, CA July 2017 to December 2017 Full time, 40 hours a week or more.  Delivered pinpointed accurate information to customers and satisfying the demands of products consumers request throughout the entire thirty-four stores and the online website in the United States.  ? Carefully secured banking information of customers to reserve products in their name.  ? Informed customers the instructions prior to the arrival of store and informed associates in the correct department to organize merchandise to be picked up for the customer prior entering the store.  ? Instructed customers the procedures to acquire merchandise from the manufacturer or company's warehouse and local store.  ? Provided estimated dates along with amount of merchandise that would arrive in the store to satisfy consumer demands and to secure and withhold total amount of merchandise for store security.  ? Carefully monitored conversations over the phone to prevent fraud purchases and banking details.  ? Advised coworkers and superiors of fraud purchases made over the phone and directed information to the correct department.  ? Informed customers with possible outcomes to making any decisions prior to purchasing and execution of commands.  ? Addressed the customer by informing best item of personal recommendation and informing store associate of details of customer before transferring calls. Network Administrator Yongsan Garrison - Seoul, KR January 2015 to June 2017 Full time, 40 hours a week or more.  Supervises, installs, operates and performs unit maintenance on manual and automated telecommunications equipment that may link mainframes, minicomputers, and microcomputers to networks; uses various protocols and topologies, including local area networks and wide area networks. Installs, operates, and maintains telecommunications and automated message switching equipment; performs network troubleshooting and problem diagnosis; performs tests to check signal flow and linkage to other installations; maintains records of message activity.  ? Carefully monitored every network from all US military facilities to ensure that all internet traffic is received correctly.  ? Informed the Supervisors and other Executives in the organization of pending problems on the network to help resolve the issue before sending to higher Headquarters.  ? Performed site inspections for future potential locations - evaluated first line of defense for potential inside/outside threats, inspected network operations.  ? Validated that all units' computers were compliant utilized visits as training opportunities in teaching self-sustainment/problem resolution at the lowest possible levels - vastly improved personnel morale and cemented impenetrable global defense network through enhanced operational readiness.  ? Secured and performed daily inspection of all assets that my section has been issued with that were potential targets from un-prying eyes and reported violations to my Supervisor.  ? Informed my peers about the safety and importance of what we do as a team and what we do for our team.  ? Identified shortfalls, communicated vision/goals, elevated situational awareness, streamlined process improvement resulting in command exceeding standards during all external evaluations and a reduction of case-resolution processing time of 38% (48 days to 30 days).  ? Created meetings once a week for colleagues to suggest ways to increase our work production, inform the team of upcoming news, and to refresh or introduce skills and new and emerging threats in the world.  ? Ensure all company vehicles are ready for driving including hard drives to be destroyed in the final process.  ? Informed each personnel to check in/out with the Supervisor, once they have completed the task they have been given to do, and ensure the vehicle is ready for next use.  ? Destroyed and took care of high value assets of an excess of $50 million USD.  ? Informed all Directors the value of each equipment and to ensure they have a trustworthy individual to closely guard the asset at all times.  ? Identified what predetermined routes should be taken and what times it the asset would be relocated as few individuals would know when the asset would be moved.  ? Monitored all personnel incoming and outgoing inside a secured building through cameras in addition to escorting personnel to their respective work areas, furthermore denying individuals further into the building without prior approval from the access list wanting to get access to the building.  ? Informed all rules personnel will have to abide by before gaining access to the building.  ? Verified each personnel on a pre-approved list of employees able to access the area with escorting individuals to and from the approved destination requested prior to leaving the building or the personnel they wish to speak with while documenting the time the personnel arrived and left. Boxing Coach/Fighter MILPITAS BOXING AND FITNESS - Milpitas, CA 2012 to 2015 Implemented the fundamentals of boxing in a suburban town with obtained training from a primary boxing instructor.  ? Carefully informed and ensured pupils the importance of health and fitness.  ? Identified all parts of the body each individual needs to focus to succeed. Education High school or equivalent Links http://linkedin.com/in/emmanuel-manalang