Newspaper Carrier Newspaper Carrier Joint Network Operator/ Maintainer Creekside, PA Veteran with more than 8 years' experience in Information Technology, PC and Client/Server tech support for small or large business size. Experience, monitoring the data network or converged infrastructure and related network equipment. A network generally consisting of many computers systems and IT accessories connected to servers on which all the files and information are stored. Experience, in troubleshooting routers, switches, firewalls updates and backups to ensure the availability and smooth running of computing infrastructure. Work Experience Newspaper Carrier ACI SOUTHWEST LLC. - San Antonio, TX October 2016 to August 2018 Responsible for navigating and delivering 8,000-16,000 newspapers weekly   Reporting in a timely manner to supervisor of start and completion of specified routes  Navigating effectively through neighborhoods to ensure completion of routes Joint Network Operator/ Maintainer 206th MI - Fort Hood, TX January 2010 to August 2013 • Design, configure and test computer hardware, networking software and operating system software.  • Diagnose hardware and software problems and replace defective components.  • Maintain and administer computer networks and related computing environment. Information Security Assurance Officer / Network Administrator 3rd BDE - Schofield Barracks, HI January 2008 to January 2010 • Plan, coordinate and implement security measure in order to protect data software/hardware.  • Tested the Network for vulnerabilities.  • Installed and implemented security programs. Information Systems Analyst/ CSSAMO LAN/WAN Manager 325th BSB - Schofield Barracks, HI September 2005 to January 2008 • Set up, Maintained and operated connectivity for several company operations.  • Perform routine network startup and shutdown procedures, and maintain control records.  • Coordinating signal support requirements with signal support officer. Education Associates of Applied Science in Network Administration Palo Alto College - San Antonio, TX August 2013 to Present Skills ACTIVE DIRECTORY, CISCO, NETWORKING (3 years), LAN/WAN (2 years), Vmware, System Administrator, Switch, Typing, Excel Military Service Branch: Army Service Country: United States Rank: SPC February 2005 to August 2013 1. Information Systems Analysts   2. US Army CCNA certification   3. Combat Service Support Automation Management Officer  4. Information Assurance Security Officer  5. Signal Systems support Specialists Additional Information COMPUTER SKILLS  • Technical  • TCP/IP Networking Cisco switches/routers  • Cabling CAT 5  • Troubleshooting hardware/software  • LAN/WAN  • UNIX/ Solaris installation  • FBCB2/BFT Installation  • Operating Systems  • Microsoft Exchange/ Remote Desktop Servers  • Windows 2000 2003 7/82012 Vista  • Mac OS X  • Active Directory / Group Policy  • VM Ware