IT Specialist (System Application Analyst-System Monitoring/ User Support) IT Specialist (System Application Analyst-System Monitoring/ User Support) IT Specialist (System Application Analyst-System Monitoring/ User Support) - CSRA Inc Beltsville, MD Work Experience IT Specialist (System Application Analyst-System Monitoring/ User Support) General Dynamics Information Technology. Client site. National Institutes of Health December 2017 to Present Monitored and troubleshoot using Solarwinds and monitoring platforms to ensure uptime for data transport.  Detected and investigated all infrastructure alerts and escalated to appropriate personnel as necessary.  Provided technical network support and responded to service requests.  Developed and updated processes and procedures and posted on department intranet.  Designated as team leader for the thin-clients project migration  Assist supervisor and management with hardware specifications for thin-clients and associated costs  Set up, image, and configure 30 thin-client workstations including:  HP T620, HP T730, and Dell Wyse 5010  Provide technical supports for faculty staffs and students  Create, follow-up, and close tickets in Service Now Ticketing Systems  Document troubleshooting and resolving procedures - allow shared knowledge between team members  Manage users' account in Active Directory  Create new domain accounts - reduced downed time for new users by 25%  Modify account security privileges - improved security compliance rating for entire department.  OptiPlex 9020, OptiPlex 7020, OptiPlex 7010, OptiPlex 7042, OptiPlex 7050, Dell 7548, MAC A1225, A1224, A1311, and QUADRA700.  Acquisition, Inventory, and Asset Tagging - allow tracking of deployed equipment  Replace and repair hard drives, RAM, video / sound Cards, monitors, printers / scanners. Network Administrator Associate The Universities at Shady - Grove, MD August 2015 to November 2018 Network support operation  Install Cisco 2960's, 3750's, 3800's, 4570's, and 6509's routers and switches  Working with Cisco vendor to RMA (Return Material Authorization) for 26+ network equipment  Configure remote access for routers and switches - enable senior engineers to reach any network device remotely  Port security and login banners  Authentication, Authorization, and Accounting (AAA) for Radius and TACTACS+ communication  SSH and local login accounts  Troubleshoot initial network connectivity issues  Clear port security - reduce 25% downtime.  Move workstations between different VLANs  Maintain a list of faulty phones and send them to telecom team for replacement.  Monitor availability and reliability of LAN/WAN enterprise network using NetIQ, SolarWinds, and HP SiteScope.  Notify management and alert site administrators of issues relating to routers, circuits, DHCP  Identify potential problems with logical disk space / Hyper-V cluster storage disk space, and server availability.  Analyze and report network outages including corrective actions for management  Create tickets and assigned to appropriate tier - ensure notification and remediation in a timely manner.  Act as liaison between customers and site administrators  Provide initial telecom support including but not limited to:  Perform basic setup for 40+ phones - create ticket to have VoIP team add phones to the Call Manager  Troubleshooting VoIP phones - corrected 35% of the problems by identify the correct DHCP scope Help Desk Representative Montgomery College, Maryland January 2012 to February 2015 Provide technical supports for faculty staffs and students  Create, follow-up, and close tickets in Remedy Ticketing Systems  Document troubleshooting and resolving procedures - allow shared knowledge between team members  Manage users' account in Active Directory  Create new domain accounts - reduced downed time for new users by 25%  Modify account security privileges - improved security compliance rating for entire department.  HP EliteDesk 800 G3, HP Compaq Elite 8300, Dell Optiplex 960, Lenovo ThinkCentre workstations  Acquisition, Inventory, and Asset Tagging - allow tracking of deployed equipment  Replace and repair hard drives, RAM, video / sound Cards, monitors, printers / scanners. Education Bachelor of Science University of Maryland Associate Degree in Associate of Art-General Studies Montgomery College Skills CLOVERLEAF, DHCP, DNS, REMEDY, FTP, LAN, MICROSOFT OFFICE, WORKSTATIONS, NOC, Operation