AUPAIR; AUPAIRCARE AUPAIR; AUPAIRCARE Concord, CA Industrial Engineer (Bilingual; Spanish and English) with skills in Administrative Management, Logistics, Marketing, Planning and Evaluation of Projects and Human Resources. Possess strong computer and relationship-building skills, and enjoy collaboration with management, coworkers and clients. Responsible, enthusiastic, self-motivated, proactive person. Highly adaptive, able to learn. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience AUPAIR; AUPAIRCARE CULTURAL EXCHANGE June 2016 to December 2017 Participated in the Au pair program in the United States for a year and a half. During this time I improved my English skills and experienced the American culture by living with an American family while I concurrently continued my studies at Loma Vista Adult Center with English For Academic Purposes and ESL classes. INDUSTRIAL ENGINEER Piedecuesta Town Hall - Piedecuesta October 2014 to August 2015 Santander, Colombia  Administrative Management and Human Resources Management.  Duties: Developed, documented, and advanced manufacturing methods and processes utilizing Integrated Systems of Management - NTCGP 1000: 2009 techniques.  Investigated, recommended, planned, and implemented optimization processes; Recorded journal and adjusted data entries of different types of processes into appropriate software programs; Analyzed and reengineered production layouts, designed and implemented efficiency and quality improvement projects and organizational information to prepare Monthly and Annual reports. Evaluated and ensured that organizational be st practices were used and sustainable with future organizational goals. Social Network Administrator Bucaramanga - CO February 2013 to May 2014 Marketing Manager.  Duties: Part of the team, Designed a wide variety of print materials, including advertisements, logos, posters, event invitations, signage, and handbooks. Designed digital marketing tools including website banner ads, graphics, and social media posts  Developed social media strategy to give the company an online presence. Updated website and social media accounts, assisted in planning marketing strategies, designed marketing materials  • Allowed company to implement frequently used words in posts to create better search results  • Created a weekly schedule for optimal posting times  • Improved company positioning, allowed the company to open 3 new branches.  • Gave company multiple content options for various social media platforms Administrative Assistant SONAMOR FIESTAS 2011 to 2013 Duties: Performed clerical duties, including: answering calls, scheduling showings, digitizing documents, sorting/organizing digital and paper files, and greeting/assisting visitors  Provided Administrative support for front office and management team.  • Managed inventory, purchasing and re-stocking of equipment parts.  • Managed daily invoicing: entered, organized and filed all company invoices.  • Coordinated schedules for customer service needs and work orders.  • Quality Control Audits using customized software. Education Bachelor of Industrial Engineer in Industrial Engineer Bolivarian Pontifical University UPB November 2015 English for Academic Purposes Universidad Politécnica de Valencia Skills Computer programming (Less than 1 year), Lean Manufacturing (Less than 1 year), Microsoft Office (Less than 1 year), MS OFFICE (Less than 1 year), problem solving (Less than 1 year), Quality Control (2 years), Six sigma (Less than 1 year), SIX-SIGMA (Less than 1 year), systems analysis (Less than 1 year) Certifications/Licenses Driver's License