Environmental Specialist Environmental Specialist Environmental Specialist Savannah, GA To obtain a position in a leading information technology group, where I can utilize my education and consistent troubleshooting skills to contribute to company operations Work Experience Environmental Specialist SNF Holding Company - Riceboro, GA September 2018 to Present  Identify and understand properties and hazards of chemicals.  ? Ensure proper and safe handling of hazardous and non-hazardous waste per company procedure.  ? Maintain a clean and safe work environment.  ? Ensure strict compliance with OSHA and SNF standards.  ? Ensure proper testing and releasing of plant water from catch basins using effective waste water treatment techniques.  ? Assist Safety Dept. with day to day operations.  ? Identify and report site wide safety violations and concerns.  ? Conduct contractor audits of construction being completed. Non- Destructive Testing Inspector West Penn Testing Group - Ellabell, GA January 2018 to September 2018 • Performs nondestructive testing and evaluations to verify the structural integrity of metallic and/or nonmetallic structures.  • Conducts and documents tests on parts and assemblies to verify product conformance.  • Use Ultrasonic equipment to conduct testing.  • Meets training requirements per NAS 410 for UT Level 1 Certification.  • Specialize in Ultrasonic testing and immersion testing. Deputy Sherriff Chatham County Sherriff's Office - Savannah, GA January 2013 to 2018 • Performed law enforcement and public safety work in the custody and security of jail inmates. Preliminary screening of persons for entry and incarceration in jail environment.  • Produced routine/daily compliance reports using specialized law enforcement computer programs including: Microsoft Word, Excel, PowerPoint and SharePoint software, to gather data from a variety of sources and find current country wide warrants, immigration status and other information on detained personnel.  • Finding and correcting inaccuracies in information gathered.  • Maintain firearms proficiency Network administrator I/ Help Desk Techy - North Charleston, SC November 2011 to January 2013 • Test and troubleshoot client equipment remotely and on-site.  • Oversee technical installation and support projects for new and existing clients.  • Train end-users and technical support personnel on optimization and use of hardware and software  • Promptly resolve customer service issues and requests  • Maximized performance of customer equipment with software and hardware repairs and updates.  • Replaced outdated and malfunctioning hardware to improve computer and network performance Explosive Ordnance Disposal Tech (89D) U.S Army - Redstone Arsenal, AL March 2010 to May 2012 Our teams are responsible for the identification, render safe, and disposal of hazardous unexploded conventional munitions, chemical munitions, and improvised explosive devices.  • Extensive explosives and electronics knowledge.  • Robotics Experience  • Remote troubleshooting of malfunctioning robot software and hardware  • Repair and replacement of malfunctioning IP cameras  • Scheduling software updates on robots Education Bachelors in Information Technology University of Phoenix - Savannah, GA August 2016 to Present Information Technology TRIDENT TECHNICAL COLLEGE - Charleston, SC March 2010 High School Diploma SUMMERVILLE HIGH SCHOOL - Summerville, SC August 2004 to July 2008 Skills EXCEL (5 years), MICROSOFT SHAREPOINT (5 years), POWERPOINT (5 years), SHAREPOINT (5 years), WORD (5 years), Wastewater Certifications/Licenses Driver's License Additional Information SKILLS    • Experience in advanced computer troubleshooting and programming.  • Advanced knowledge of Microsoft Suite programs (SharePoint, Word, Excel, PowerPoint)  • Knowledge of advanced electronics and explosives    • Extensive knowledge of Windows past and current operating systems  • Extensive knowledge of Mac past and current operating systems  • Build custom desktops    • NDT Level 1 Certification