System Administrator System <span class="hl">Administrator</span> System Administrator - Acara Solutions / Lockheed-Martin Dallas-Fort Worth, TX Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience System Administrator Acara Solutions / Lockheed-Martin December 2018 to Present • Install/configure VMware and Hyper-V solutions on Windows workstations  • Manage 40k+ ADUC across a hybrid network  • Facilitate proper Information Management Security  • Conduct routine ACAS scans to ensure STIG compliance  • Assist in router/switch installations  • Utilize remedy for ticket tracking System Administrator US Army Corps - Dallas, TX April 2018 to December 2018 Provide technical support for the US Army Corps of Engineers.  ? Provide support to the distributed computers and network environment such as installation, testing, repair, and troubleshooting for stand-alone PCs, PCs linked to networks, printers, and other computer peripherals.  ? Provide support for software installation and configurations.  ? Perform technical, operational, and training support to end-users of personal computers either by telephone, remotely or on-site for PC desktop hardware and software packages.  ? Install and test personal computers, printers, and other peripherals, configure operating system, load shrink-wrap programs other application software programs.  ? Troubleshoot computer problems, perform hardware and software diagnostics, coordinate needed repairs, resolve computer system problems, including coordination between users and components of a local area network, and participates in the evaluation of system configuration and software. Deployment Supervisor DXC Technology - Okinawa, JP January 2018 to April 2018 Managed two teams each consisting of 5 two site leads and 5 windows migration technicians covering four Marine Corp bases in Okinawa, Japan for a Windows 10 deployment and migration.  ? Provided training on procedures to backup user data, migrating machines to Windows 10, and restore data.  ? Supported the III MEF HQ Marine Corps technical modernization for both classified and unclassified networks in conjunction with one team lead per team.  ? Planned agendas and tasks to be accomplished by subordinates to include setting goals by priorities, difficulties, requirements of the assignment, and the capabilities of the employees.  ? Scheduled weekly meetings with the Marine Corps Section Chief, Gunnery Sergeant, and various stakeholders to identify assets regarding technical refreshing.  ? Performed computerized word processing of manuscripts, program documents, major reports, and correspondence with record-keeping, and maintenance of office files.  ? Provided briefing summaries of goals and objectives to government standards and mandated regulations.  ? Coordinated the centralized collection of data for root cause analysis regarding system anomalies, vulnerabilities detection, mitigations, and eradications. Help Desk Technician Federal Emergency Management Agency - Denton, TX September 2017 to January 2018 Gathered, reviewed and organized disaster- related information for analysis and decision making, and advised on various databases and data sets.  ? Researched and analyzed workstation equipment, software, and communications to ensure network compatibility.  ? Planned the installation of new Local Area Networks (LANs) and complex modifications to existing ones.  ? Applied IT principles, concepts, methods, standards and practices on technical issues and developments and interpreted policies, procedures, and strategies governing the assigned projects.  ? Provided quality customer service to displaced disaster survivors by responding to telephone, written, or internet-based inquiries utilizing Remedy to create, reset, and unlock online accounts. Network Engineer- Jordan Combat Deployment U.S. Army Reserve SOCOM - Joint Base Lewis McChord, WA September 2016 to August 2017 Supported 250 users across a hybrid network while utilizing wired and wireless technology.  ? Managed Cisco switches and routers and a 2.4M dish.  ? Utilized small satellite terminals and Secret Internet Protocol Router Network (SIPR) and Non-Classified Internet Protocol Router Network Protocol (NIPR) Access Terminal networks.  ? Operated, maintained and troubleshot end-devices, including Video Teleconferencing systems, Blackberry cell phones, IP and Satellite phones, printers, DTECH, and CISCO switches and routers.  ? Sustained accountability of more than 2.5 million dollars' worth of communication equipment.  ? Advised and assisted higher level staff in daily/weekly briefings regarding the communications department.  ? Provided on-call and after hours support to provide expert recommendation for troubleshooting issues.  ? Maintained a secure transfer of data to multiple locations via internal and external network. Information Management Officer, Tier II Acara Solutions / Lockheed-Martin - Grand Prairie, TX July 2015 to July 2016 Managed over 300 work stations for the U.S. Army Reserves within the 12th and 13th Battalion across multiple states in the Southwest region.  ? Administered Information Assurance Training to 12 personnel.  ? Briefed upper echelon on IT policies and procedures which include, but are not limited to, installation, maintenance, and troubleshooting both hardware and software.  ? Coordinated repairs, corrections and deployments with Brigade and Major Army Command, and commercial vendors.  ? Managed Blackberry smartphones and air cards as well as limited IT support for SharePoint Administration.  ? Responsible for interfacing with Network Enterprise Command on automated systems (desktop, workstations, laptops, and servers) to include, various interrelated acquisition, purchasing requirements, and office automation systems. Systems Engineer NCI Information Systems - Reston, VA April 2015 to July 2015 Provided cyber operations and direct technical support to the Air Forces 690th Network Support Squadron and the Air Force Enterprise Information Network.  ? Installed, maintained and configured computer software.  ? Patched distribution software, minor scripting, and policy updates for over 400K users and 350K network devices across multiple hybrid unclassified and secure network platforms.  ? Identified and remediated critical vulnerabilities from top-tier mission systems utilizing SCCM and Windows Server Update Services web applications.  ? Documented and maintained databases dictionaries, monitored standards and procedures and integrations of systems. Technical Support Engineer Medwed - San Francisco, CA April 2014 to December 2014 Secured hybrid network architecture including, high latency, low bandwidth, complex priority routing management, and Integrated Healthcare Enterprise across multiple domains.  ? Performed configuration, support, administration, and clinical user training on enterprise wide medical imaging Information Systems using Red Hat 4 across multiple facilities both domestically and internationally.  ? Contracted to Afghanistan as a Linux Field Service Representative to train customers on use of proprietary software and provided high-speed, low drag network connectivity to remote medical assets.  ? Created profiles and added applications for specific users along with network drive setup and support, maintained databases, and document by using access control lists, imaged computers, and installed applications as needed for end users.  ? Trained new employees on use and daily operations of Medweb radiologic software, remote accessed servers, and client devices resolving software and or hardware related issues within 24 hours.  ? Provided online support for 200+ Linux ran servers.  ? Managed 26 sites/subsites in theater using secure file transfer protocol to allocate documents and servers. Premise Technician AT&T - Dallas, TX June 2014 to August 2014 Installed, configured, and maintained AT&T's U-Verse subscription service which included, Cable (U-verse), Plain Old Telephone Service, Voice Over Internet Protocol (VOIP) service, and high-speed internet.  ? Provided technical support to current and new customers for cable, telephone, and internet services.  ? Managed daily route and schedule for appointments.  ? Loaded and unloaded tools, material, and equipment onto trucks to ensure necessary tools were available for upcoming repairs. Network Administrator -Afghanistan Combat Deployment U.S. Army Reserve SOCOM - Seagoville, TX January 2011 to January 2013 Supported Craig Joint Theater Hospital across the Army hybrid infrastructure from Afghanistan, Germany, and the U.S., using DMLSS Customer Assistance Module (DCAM), TMIP CHCS Cache.  ? Imaged, installed, deployed, and maintained NIPR/SIPR, for over 50 hospital joint forces personnel.  ? Maintained a ticketing system that helped resolve over 1500 tickets within a 24-hour timeframe.  ? Supervised the maintenance of files, records, and communications equipment.  ? Generated reports for the ISSO, setup COMSEC equipment, maintained logs, rosters, status, charts, and graphs.  ? Configured information processing equipment into required operating configurations.  ? Trained inexperienced soldiers in the installation, operation, and maintenance of information systems equipment.  ? Accounted for all network printers, cell phones, and two-way radios. Signal Support Technician-Iraq Combat Deployment U.S. Army Reserve SOCOM - Seagoville, TX April 2008 to February 2009 Developed and implemented training guides and manuals for team and end-users, documented IT assets, and managed trouble tickets in Remedy.  ? Swiftly resolved computer and network related issues by identifying and prioritizing issues.  ? Ran over 1200 meters of fiber optic cables programming and maintaining Cisco switches, completed network cabling for mission-essential personnel, and terminated over 20K network cables.  ? COMSEC custodian for tactical radio network, provided safe and secure radio transmission for patient care and combat effectiveness.  ? Supervised a team of four team members in the installation and operation of the Army's Medical Communication for Combat Casualty Care (MC4), while delivering an exceptional level of support and maximum operational capability to onsite and remote users, to include, but not limited to assisting clients face-to-face and via phone and email.  ? Imaged MC4 and NIPR systems and managed data recovery operations. Education Associate of Science in Applied Business in Applied Business Mountain View Community College - Dallas, TX June 2017 Skills Active Directory, Linux, System Admin, Redhat, Linux Administrator, SCCM, System Administrator, Vmware, AWS Military Service Branch: United States Army Rank: SGT