Desktop Support Analyst Desktop Support Analyst Desktop Support Technician Falls Church, VA Work Experience Desktop Support Analyst Leidos - Reston, VA October 2018 to Present ·     Resolving and troubleshooting software and network issues via phone  ·     Organized and escalated tickets using Service Now and SalesForce   · Screened and diagnosed internal inquiries and work requests for maintenance of personal computers. Identifies incidents, issues, questions and problems that are beyond the scope of the work group and refer those to higher-level End User Support staff members or to other IS groups.  · Provided in-person and remote analytical and technical support for the installation, repair, preventive maintenance, troubleshooting, upgrades, modifications and enhancements to individual workstations, personal computers, related hardware and software. Also provided system support for CADD/Engineering applications, such as AutoCAD and MicroStation.  Help Desk Technician Department of Commerce - Washington, DC August 2018 to September 2018 •   Resolving and troubleshooting software and network issues via phone  •   Organized and escalated tickets using Service Now   •   Configured mobile devices using Intune   •   Performed password reset’s and PIV certification mapping through Active Directory  • Configured Lotus Notes and OneDrive access   •   Assisted users with Outlook issues varying from installation on phone/laptop or network connectivity issues  •   Worked in a high-speed workplace with an extremely fast call flow  •  Worked with users via email to solve their issues, also utilized Skype and RDP to troubleshoot Desktop Support Technician LaFargeHolcim - Greenbelt, MD March 2018 to July 2018 • Identifying and resolving computer hardware issues in a timely manner.  • Respond to the needs and questions of users.  • Answer Customer calls concerning network password, printing and computer related issues.  • Must be able to diagnose and resolve moderately complex system hardware, software, network, and operator issues.  • Interface extensively with end users, peers, computer technicians and other Information Technology personnel for the resolution or escalation of desktop related problems.  • Maintain accurate records and calls logs for management reporting.  • Assume additional responsibilities as assigned.  • Tend to the needs and questions of users.  • Diagnose and resolve moderately complex system hardware, software, network, and operator issues.  • Interface extensively with end users, peers, computer technicians and other Information Technology personnel for the resolution or escalation of desktop related problems.  • Maintain accurate records and calls logs for management reporting.  • Assume additional responsibilities as assigned.  • Configured Windows 10 operating systems • Assigned and configured Apple iphones along with Samsung phones IT Support Technician ClearSom - Falls Church, VA September 2016 to February 2018 Microsoft office troubleshooting specialist ? Dispatch to different locations in Washington D.C to assist with customer issues ? PC refreshes at offices or schools in Washington D.C ? Bank scanner replacement, equipment replacement services ? troubleshoot error messages, apply patches or upgrades, and general support of Windows desktops and networks ? document tasks accomplished with details in a ticketing system, and update documentation ? work independently through a list of tasks Network Technician Freddie Mac - McLean, VA October 2016 to October 2016 • Assisted with soft phone troubleshooting issues • Servicenow • Monitored workspaces and took care of various customer complaints in all workplaces at the local office • Documented working phones and broken phones in all conference rooms in the building.  • Telephone testing for long distance, local calls, voice mail, and making sure analog systems such as a fax were working correctly    Note: After leaving Verizon, I've moved to the United Arab Emirates to work for my family's business. 1 Network Administrator Tier - Ashburn, VA July 2015 to February 2016 Manually created tickets for issues regarding Kaiser client or California Correctional Facilities (CCHCS) ? Escalated tickets to Tier 2 or 3 engineers ? Dispatched technicians to replace or fix broken devices at CCHCS locations ? Monitored call quality and call information at CCHCS centers ? Performed leadership duties by setting up bridge calls, collecting required resources to tackle the issue. Document the call in real time by recording it manually into a bridge timeline.  ? Assisted technicians over the phone when they reach a location, run tests to see if a particular device is experiencing issues and deduce the problem if it is.  ? Updated all documents containing server or device information IT Support Technician OCTO - Washington, DC December 2014 to February 2015 Installed software and operating systems ? Resolved virus and malware issues ? Restored data, operating systems, files, documents and drivers.  ? Trained both internal and off-site users in repairing and resolving technical recurring issues.  ? Resolved computer hardware and software, printing, installation, word processing, email and operating systems issues.  ? Installed system software, including non-base line software.  ? Repaired malfunctioning system components.  ? Politely assisted customers in person and via telephone.  ? Excellent support via remote apps such Bumgar, LogMein, team-viewer, GoToAssist ? Investigated and resolved customer inquiries and complaints in a timely and empathetic manner.  ? Supported and maintained any issue related to the Active directory policy, such as user and Computers ? End user support and service for PC and Mac ? Troubleshoot various problems at multiple government locations such as the Mayor of D.C's office and D.C public schools ? Imaged laptops and installed the correct software a particular site would need.  ? Worked in the Special Teams department taking care of every unique problem a location would face Customer Support Specialist Computer Service - Falls Church, VA May 2013 to September 2014 Performed customer service duties.  ? Handled customer computer problems to figure out diagnostic.  ? Contacted customer about computer issues for repairing purposes.  ? Provided troubleshooting to resolve specific software issues.  ? Followed-up with customer to ensure service delivery satisfaction ? Resolved complaints filed by customers. Education High School Diploma J.E.B Stuart High School June 2011 B.A. in Information Cyber Security Strayer University - Fairfax, VA