IT INFRA CONSULTANT IT INFRA CONSULTANT Network Administrator Flower Mound, TX Dear Sir/Madam,    Re: Application for Network Administrator  I am writing to express my interest in interviewing for the position of Network Administrator. During my 8 years of experience as a Network Administrator. I have become an expert in both LAN and WAN. I think this expertise, coupled with my overall skillset, makes me a great fit for your organization.  Particularly, I am an expert in network design and security, devices implementation, users training, and network maintenance on a day-to-day basis. Additionally, I have a track record of reducing overheads and expenditures by procuring most efficient and economical devices and utilizing limited resources efficiently.  As an individual, I am highly organized and committed to achieve organizational goals. I know it is impossible to work without proper coordination in a large organization and I always try to develop a cordial relationship with my fellow workers so that a positive work environment can be maintained  Furthermore, I am professionally certified by Cisco (CCNA) and from Microsoft (MCSE). My resume is attached for your review.  I feel that I have excellent hand-on skills as a "Jack of all trades" with IT environment. I am available for an interview anytime you want, as I think that a personal meeting for discussing this job further will be helpful. You can e-mail me at chamjoheunhu@gmail.com or call me at 346-263-5940.   Thank you for reviewing my cover letter and considering my application.     Yours Sincerely,    Raymond Chung Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience IT INFRA CONSULTANT TEXONE SOLUTION January 2018 to June 2019 Recommended strategic process improvement measures to reduce the number of incident management tickets and enhance customer service locally.  ? Consulted with clients on equipment and software procurement and requisitions  ? Research client's business process and advised client on how to make their process more efficient.  ? Provided total office automation solutions, including system design, LAN/WAN networking, training, troubleshooting and board-level repair for clients. INFORMATION SECURITY MANAGER LG ELECTRONICS June 2015 to December 2017 Reported to CFO, and provided leadership and oversight of all IT projects including planning, implementation, budgets and project closure. Managed information security program that ensured security become engrained in planned and ongoing IT and processes  ? Provided training to over 200+ end users on security best practices and simple computer  ? Provided Layer 2 connectivity to end users as well as maintain Layer 3 connectivity to our ISP  ? Tracked, maintained and inventoried over $2 million worth of IT Systems, including a variety of routers, switches, servers and computers  ? Facilitated creation of IT project definition documents and plans for each project and ensured stakeholders reviewed and approved scope and timelines.  ? Managed information security projects, including planning and deployment of new processes and technologies in area of intrusion detection and response, deployment and management of authentication tokens and VPNs and vulnerability assessment and remediation practices. NETWORK/SYSTEM ADMINISTRATOR Parc1 Dev September 2010 to May 2015 Responsible for the installation, configuration, and maintenance of all network infrastructure equipment such as Cisco routers and firewalls and switches, as well as physical/virtual Windows 2008 servers. Configured and installed all desktops, laptops and peripherals. Active Directory administration. Fiber channel SAN administration. Blackberry Enterprise Server administration. Administered and supported backup and recovery operations. Provided end user support.  ? Configured and support Cisco 2800 series Router in ATM over IP MPLS implementation  ? Implemented site-to-site failover VPNs for geographically dispersed locations  ? Configuring and installation of Cisco Switches by implementing VLAN over OSPF  ? Designed, implemented, and supervised VPN administration though the process of a VPN concentrator for remote desktop support and administration  ? Migrated existing site wireless network with 802.11n  ? Windows Server 2008, MS Exchange 2003/2007 administrator: Maintained company Active Directory and E-mail systems for HQ/Site. Managed mail flow, SPAM filtering(using Aria SPAM solution), Outlook support and security(using Al tools Security) for 300 + mailboxes. Education Associate in Computer networking COLLEGE OF TECHNOLOGY - New York, NY COMPUTER SCIENCE LAGUARDIA COLLEGE Skills Bgp, Cisco, Dhcp, Eigrp, Lan/wan, Ospf, Router, Tcp, Tcp/ip, Vmware, Vpn, Dns, Firewalls, Networking, Security, Sso, Ssl, Hsrp, Ids, Ipsec, Active Directory, Technical Support, Windows, Windows 7, Customer Service, Microsoft Office, MAC, access Certifications/Licenses A+ Certified 2003 to Present CCNA Routing and Switching April 2009 to April 2011 ITIL v3 September 2011 to Present MCSE September 2014 to September 2017 Assessments Supervisory Skills: Directing Others — Familiar July 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to motivate the performance of others through feedback to identify improvements or corrective actions. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/q-f04qyhvmgxk9wt Technical Support — Proficient July 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/cujgumopn7nunopf Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information SKILLS    Cisco Router/Switches(IOS & NX-OS)  LAN/WAN, VPN, DNS, IDS/IPS, STP  EIGRP, OSPF, BGP  TCP/IP, UDP, HTTP, SSL, FTP, 802.11n  HSRP, QoS, IPSec, SNMP    AD, GPOs, ADFS, DHCP, SSO  POP3, SMTP  Azure, AWS  VmWare, Hyper-V    PaloAlto  ASA Firewalls