Network Administrator <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> I'm Moving. Longview, TX Work Experience Network Administrator BLAKE FURNITURE WAREHOUSE - Longview, TX November 2007 to Present Furniture retailer with 10 stores throughout East Texas. NETWORK ADMINISTRATOR November 2007 to Present • Managed daily operations including opening and closing warehouse facilities, monitored and managed multiple stores retail systems, And also responsible for the end of the week/month reports.  • Trained new employees while supervising up to 5 employees per store in addition to providing customer service and computer processing.  • Improved organization and customer service as well as increased productivity through restructuring store processes.  • Provided customer service, sales processing, As well as money and credit card transactions in addition to opening and closing the warehouse.  • Recognized for troubleshooting and repairing all computers and computer related problems for the entire company. Education Associate in Information Technology C.L.C. - Norcross, GA June 1999 to July 2000 Skills LAN, MICROSOFT OFFICE, WORD, NETWORKING, MCSE, LAN/WAN, TRAINING, Technical Support, Customer Service, Windows Additional Information • Network Technology certificate from Computer Learning Centers in addition to over 11 years of networking and network management experience including training and supervision of personnel.  • Highly adaptable and resourceful, rapidly learns new procedures and processes, quickly adjusts to changes in schedule, environment and organizational objectives.  • Detail-oriented with exceptional multi-tasking abilities, self-motivated and goal-oriented, thrives in independent operations and team dynamics, with effective interpersonal and communication skills.  • Demonstrates professionalism, tenacity, thoroughness and dedication, with solid work ethic and friendly demeanor in executing professional responsibilities.    Operating Systems  Troubleshooting  Software  Hardware  Systems Terminology  Electronic Data Processing  Networking  MCSE  A+    ADDITIONAL TRAINING AND SKILLS  • Proficient in Windows operating systems, Microsoft Office Suite Word, Internet and Convergence.  • LAN/WAN and MAN Networks.