Help Desk Support Specialist Help Desk Support Specialist Help Desk Support Specialist - Cano Health Fort Myers, FL Work Experience Help Desk Support Specialist Cano Health - Miami, FL March 2019 to Present • Assist in the implementation of an Active Directory in the whole company, make suggestions, improve the process and configure redundancy connectivity to servers.  • Implement and set up a Synology NAS for shared folders on the network, create users, groups and assign permission properly, create a backup scheme onsite and in the cloud.  • Create reports in ConnectWise for computers running Windows 7, computers offline, AV, etc.  • Implement a script in ConnectWise to upgrade more than 70 computers from Windows 7 to 10 saving a great amount of time and preventing a security risk from Windows 7 arriving at its end of life.  • Write and implement a script in ConnectWise to change computer power settings to all computers on the network. Preventing computers from going to sleep and ensuring windows updates are applied.  • Write and implement a script in ConnectWise to remove old administrator accounts and thus eliminate a security risk.  • Analyze the network and increase network bandwidth and performance by connecting the uplinks ports in the switches with 10 Gbit SPF+ cables.  • Supervise 3 Help Desk Support Technician, 32 facilities and more than 900 users. Junior Network Administrator Logixcare - Miami, FL March 2017 to June 2018 • Provide Tier 2 support for more than 400 users, and supervise 2 Tier 1 IT Support Technicians.  • WatchGuard routers installation and setup.  • VPN connectivity configuration and troubleshooting.  • New switches installation and setup.  • Aruba access point installation and setup.  • Network Cabling connectivity troubleshoot.  • Fortinet IP phone installation, setup, and troubleshooting.  • Managed Antivirus Webroot setup and monitoring.  • LabTech Remote Monitoring and Management (RMM).  • PSA (ConnectWise) and remote support tool ScreenConnect.  • MS Office 2010-2016 and Office 365, setup, configuration, troubleshooting, and support.  • Advanced computer troubleshooting and maintenance, hardware/software installation, computer imaging.  • Multi-Function Printer installation and troubleshooting.  • Performs Windows Server 2012 installation on physical servers (RAID, Dell system manager).  • Add Roles and Features to Windows Server, Hyper-V setup and implementation.  • Assessment of customer's networking/computer configuration to offer new solutions and services.  • Experience with active directory Windows Server 2008 and 2012.  • Experience with Citrix Xenapp/ Xenserver. IT Specialist ATS.COM - Miami, FL February 2016 to February 2017 • MSP proactive basis management service.  • Remote Monitoring and Management GFI  • Ninja RMM migration research and implementation.  • Ticketing system (Max Focus) and remote support (TeamViewer, LogMeIn).  • Email services migration implementation and monitoring.  • New Office 365 client setup and configuration.  • Microsoft Azure Backup and VMs implementation and setup (Hyper-V).  • Network installation (Cisco Meraki Routers, switches, AP), troubleshoot and support.  • Performs Windows Server 2012 installation on physical servers (RAID, Dell system manager).  • Advanced computer troubleshooting and maintenance, hardware/software installation, computer imaging.  • Multi-Function Printer installation and troubleshooting.  • Assessment of customer's networking/computer configuration to offer new solutions and services.  • Experience with active directory Windows Server 2008 and 2012.  • Experience with Avaya and Polycom VoIP phone system.  • Experience with Apple OS reinstallation and hardware troubleshooting. IT Support Technician Softrex-Consulting - Miami, FL October 2013 to January 2016 • Network troubleshooting and support.  • MSP proactive basis management service.  • Managed antivirus implementation and monitoring (Vipre and AVG).  • Remote monitoring and management implementation (GFI).  • Cloud Base Server (RDP) troubleshooting, maintenance, and support.  • Computer troubleshooting and maintenance, hardware and software installation.  • Windows Server 2003-2012 troubleshooting, maintenance, and support.  • Experience with active directory Windows Server 2003 and 2008.  • Printers (wired and wireless) installation and troubleshooting.  • Microsoft Office 2007-2013 installation, troubleshooting, and support.  • Ticketing system (OSTicket) and remote support (TeamViewer)  • Accomplish new IT support contracts by assessing the customer's networking/computer configuration.    Special Skills / Software Knowledge:  Macintosh OS, Microsoft Office 07 - 2016, MS Office 365 Exchange, Win XP - Win 10, Microsoft Server 2003 - 2012R2, Hyper-V, MS Azure backup, StorageCraft, EaseUS, Acronis, PSA/RMM: OS Ticket, Max Focus, ConnectWise, GFI, Ninja, Labtech, Remote Support: ScreenConnect, TeamViewer, LogMeIn. WatchGuard Firebox, Cisco Meraki, Aruba access point, Cisco switches. Fortinet and Polycom phone systems. Citrix XenApp. VPN (site to site and remote access). DHCP, TCP/IP protocols, LAN/WAN, Wireless networking. Education Bachelor of Science in Industrial Engineering Central University 1993 to 1998 Skills Cisco, Citrix, Dhcp, Lan/wan, Remote access, Tcp, Tcp/ip, Vpn, Xenapp, Exchange, Networking, Hyper-v, Polycom, Wireless, Ms office, Lan, Microsoft office Certifications/Licenses CompTIA A+ CompTIA Network+ MCP MCSA CCNA Assessments Customer Focus & Orientation — Expert August 2019 Responding to customer situations with sensitivity. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/xe61x1ko0ath72qf Technical Support — Expert August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/ncbbn-ph4fll-g1d Proficiency with Microsoft Office: Mail & Calendar (Mac) — Highly Proficient August 2019 Measures a candidate’s proficiency in using Microsoft Office Mail and Calendar tools to manage their workload. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/r8oytpnpuwirxyba Proficiency with Microsoft Office: Mail & Calendar (PC) — Highly Proficient August 2019 Measures a candidate’s proficiency in using Microsoft Office Mail and Calendar tools to manage their workload. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/hwcx7qmbypvsqqse Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information • Outstanding certifications including Cisco Certified Network Associate (CCNA)  • Exceptional experience working in fast-paced, deadline-oriented environments.  • Strong leader with experience training and supervising users and IT Technicians.  • Excellent interpersonal, organizational, and communication skills.  • Strong commitment and a sense of professionalism, with high potential and capability to respond well to challenges.  • High standards for work quality, known for the ability to follow through.  • Fast learner, a self-starter, and a team player.  • Fully Bilingual (English and Spanish).