Network Engineer II <span class="hl">Network</span> Engineer II Network Engineer II Colorado Springs, CO A dedicated and experienced network professional, whose expertise ranges from software, hardware, Implementing, Designing and enhancing networks technologies Using Cisco Nexus Switches 3172TQ, Cisco Routers 4451, 4431 and Cisco Firewall 5515-x as well as Vmware for Cisco Unified CallManger.  -Secret Clearence JPAS verified renewed 2018  -Leadership Skills   -Bilingual(English and Spanish),  -Exceptional Troubleshooting Skills to Include issues with network connectivity with Tier 2, DNS, Physical issues to include Fiber (TFOCA II) as well as Copper, port functionality with Switches and Routers, functionality with different equipments being interconnected (ie. Cisco switch to Brocade switch),Vlan gateway/Subnetting, COMSEC key, Tunnel Configurations on Router as well as Switch, Routing Protocols running OSPF and OSPFv3, limited troubleshooting with IPv6   -Adept at working alone or in a group  - Key Skills: Network Engineering / Installation / Administration, Network Security Protocols, Intrusion Prevention / Detection, Firewall Administration, Routing Protocol (OSPF), Traffic Management (CoS/QoS), Cisco Call Manager (CCM), Call Manager Express (CME)    Performed network engineering and administration, engineering tactical solutions for enterprise and data center environments—LAN, WAN, VLAN, VPN, and CCM / CME. Served as principal point-of-contact for networking issues. Provided enterprise-scale administration of high-availability voice and data networks. Led root cause and failure analysis for reported problems, outages, and issues; proactively optimized network data and VoIP voice traffic resource utilization and resolve conflicts. Administered Cisco 3550, 3560, 3750, 4948, 6504, and 6509 Series Catalyst Switches; Cisco 5010 and 1000V Nexus Switches; Cisco 3825, 3945, ASR 1002, 1004, and 1006 Routers; Cisco 5515x ASA Firewalls; Cisco 4.2 and 5.3 Access Control Servers (ACS); and Cisco IOS / XE / NX-OS.    Engineered, and installed a virtual switching system (VSS), Implemented LAN, Firewall (NIPR, SIPR, CENTRIX).    2. Managed enterprise-level data networks (NIPR, SIPR, CX-I) and VoIP telephony systems; engineered, installed, configured, documented, and administered high-availability voice and data networks. Maintained network software and hardware, including call managers, cabling, circuits, switches, and routers. Installed VoIP telephony systems and phones, administering Cisco Call Manager, Gatekeepers, and Gateway equipment. Implemented security protocols and solutions, defined security procedures, and provided security documentation to Information Assurance (IA) section. Collaborated and communicated with Theater Network Operations Center (NOC), coordinating scheduled outages and communicating unscheduled disruptions. Administered Cisco Call Manager, Cisco 6500, 4500, 4000, 3500, and 2900 Series Catalyst Switches; Cisco ASA Firewall; Cisco ASDM; Cisco 7500, 7400, 7200, 7000, 3600, 2600, 2500 Series Routers; and Dell 6650, 2650, 2550, 1750, 1650 Power Edge Servers. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Network Engineer II CACI International Inc - Colorado Springs, CO December 2018 to Present While possessing a wide range of networking knowledge and ability to adapt to any given situation, I helped evaluate, design, document, implement, test, and perform problem isolation of the current and upcoming modifications to the AFSCN communications, specifically within a virtual server environment range, and network management segments. The derived solution was within the capacity and operational limitations of installed equipment as well as exceeding it. I maintained a complex range of computer network components and systems and provided client consulting on the interfacing and use of the network facilities. This helped plan and coordinate computer network initiatives that included researching, evaluating and recommending new computer network equipment and technologies. From a team perspective, I helped provide internal consulting, technical guidance, information and support to application developers, computer operations, workstation support, company management and government customers. Network Administrator United States Army - Fort Carson, CO August 2014 to Present • Analyzed and assessed Local Area Network (LAN) using numerous network monitoring tools resulting in no loss of communications throughout a network of 1,000 users.  • Managed installations, operations, and maintenance of a Joint Network Node valued at over $1.5M  • Examined problems and troubleshot using the most efficient method to resolve the problem in a timely manner.  • Participated actively in numerous exercises to further enhance unit network troubleshooting.  • Consistently met or exceeded LAN/WAN goals set forth by the Network Operations Center.  • Instructed and trained soldiers in basics of networking, protocols, and network monitoring tools and virtualization software.  • Maintained telephone exchange and Cisco Call Manager servers and services.  • Troubleshot tier 1-3 of network problems in a business environment  • Common Equipment Used were mostly Cisco Hardware including but not limited to Cisco Nexus 3172TQ, Cisco Router 4451 4331, Cisco Firewal 5515-x, Vsphere VMware used for Cisco Unified CallManager, Riverbed Steelhead VCX Network Administrator United States Army - Hunter Army Airfield, GA February 2011 to August 2014 • Deployed, configured, maintained, and troubleshot VOIP phone systems.  • Communicated effectively in diverse environments and prioritize needs of the team based on projects or current assignments for maximum efficiency.  • Supervised a team of 5 network administrators in daily maintenance and IA procedures resulting in zero network failures.  • Assisted over 1500 users in technical issues ranging from basic operating system troubleshooting to access control lists and router configurations.  • Maintained 100% inventory of over $15M worth of equipment, and streamlined inventory processes conducted by unit superiors.  • Supported combat operations by providing network support in Afghanistan through numerous scenarios and challenges.  • Managed of Cisco routers, switches, firewalls, encryption devices, and anti-virus servers. Network Administrator United States Army - Fort Stewart, GA July 2008 to February 2011 • Analyzed and assessed Local Area Network (LAN) using numerous network monitoring tools resulting in no loss of communications throughout a network of 1,000 users.  • Managed installations, operations, and maintenance of a Joint Network Node valued at over $1.5M  • Examined problems and troubleshot using the most efficient method to resolve the problem in a timely manner.  • Participated actively in numerous exercises to further enhance unit network troubleshooting.  • Consistently met or exceeded LAN/WAN goals set forth by the Network Operations Center.  • Instructed and trained soldiers in basics of networking, protocols, and network monitoring tools and virtualization software.  • Maintained telephone exchange and Cisco Call Manager servers and services.  • Spent several hours Troubleshooting and quickly correcting tier 1-3 of network problems in a business environment. Education BSCS Cybersecurity Engineering in Computer Science Colorado Technical University-Online - Colorado Springs, CO October 2018 to June 2022 Network Switching Systems Operator-Maintainer Common Core in Networking Signal School - Fort Gordon, GA December 2007 to May 2008 High School Diploma in General Studies Potomac High School - Oxon Hill, MD September 2001 to May 2005 Skills Cisco IOS (10+ years), Brocade (3 years), VOIP (10+ years), Vmware (6 years), Network Administration (10+ years), Servers (3 years), Firewalls (10+ years), Cisco IOS upgrades (10+ years), NOC, System Administrator, Cisco, Riverbed Steelhead VCX (8 years), Networking, Logrhythm (Less than 1 year), Server Design, Customer Service, Technical Support Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/javier-blanco-070767112 Military Service Branch: US Army Service Country: United States Rank: Specialist September 2007 to Present The nodal network systems operator-maintainer is responsible for making sure that the lines of communication are always up and running. They maintain strategic and tactical nodal systems. Commendations: Army Achievement Medal, Army Commendation Medal, Good Conduct Medal, Iraq Campaign Medal, Afghanistan Campaign Medal Assessments Technical Support — Expert August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/uqkuw-p3cd7ggwyq Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.