Network Administrator <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Network Administrator - City of Madera - Police Department Madera, CA Work Experience Network Administrator City of Madera - Police Department May 2018 to Present Created cost-saving solution to patrol vehicle mobile connections by working with specialized vendors  and working to create a more cost-effective, simplified solution.  • Developed network maintenance policy including backups, patch management and regular server  monitoring  • Created drastically more efficient help desk processes and procedures for help tickets Network Administrator Madera Community Hospital May 2017 to May 2018 Designed, implemented and managed a network management solution from scratch including OS  updates, third party updates, antivirus management and backup strategy  • Assisted with network infrastructure re-design and implementation for security and controls including  implementing appropriate vlan configuration for data security and traffic efficiency  • Provided tier 2/3 support for help desk when needed Network Associate III Central Valley Community Bank December 2006 to May 2017 Designed and Implemented SharePoint environment to facilitate workflow and document management    efficiencies.  rd  ? Facilitated policies and procedures for maintaining security patches for operating systems and 3 party    software.  ? Review and address network infrastructure alerts and issues including resource usage, up/down status,    general maintenance for routers, switches and servers.  ? Provided tier 2/3 support for help desk when needed Education B.S. in Cyber Security and Information Assurance Western Governor's University 2022 A.A. in Computer Science University of Phoenix - Fresno, CA 2014 Skills HELP DESK, DNS, SECURITY, SHAREPOINT, GLBA, HIPAA, NESSUS, SOX, ACTIVE DIRECTORY, CISCO, DHCP, ROUTER, SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATION, VIRTUAL MACHINE, VMWARE, EXCHANGE, NETWORK ADMINISTRATION, AUTHENTICATION, FIREWALL, SECURITY ADMINISTRATION Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  ? PC Hardware and Software  o Server Software: Microsoft Windows Server 2008, 2012, 2016.  o Client OS Software: Microsoft Windows XP, Vista 7, 8, and 10.  o Custom PC image creation and deployment  o Advanced hardware and software troubleshooting skills  o Office suite configuration, troubleshooting and usage  o GPO configuration for user and pc custom configuration    ? Network Administration  o Active Directory management including user changes, adds, deletes.  o Network share configuration and securing  o Exchange mailbox configuration and management and SPAM filter management  o DNS configuration and management  o DHCP configuration and management  o Virtual Machine monitoring and maintenance (VMWare and Hyper-V)  o Backup configuration and management (E-Vault, Barracuda, Acronis)  o Manage firewall rules and routes (Cisco and HP)  o Router and Switch configuration and maintenance (Cisco, HP, Aruba)  Neil L. Hayes  ? Security Administration  o Manage server and workstation OS patches using WSUS  o Manage third party patching Solar Winds Patch Manager and PDQ Deploy  o Evaluate and mitigate 3rd party software risks using tools such as Nessus, Kaspersky and Ninite  o Manage and maintain mobile device security (Airwatch)  o Multifactor Authentication Management (2FA ONE)    ? Technical Writing  o Write policy and procedure documentation for GLBA, SOX, FDIC, HIPAA and CJIS audit  compliance  o Create physical and logical network diagrams  o Create technical documentation for using and configuring various systems for technical, non-  technical, and executive staff  o Generate and prepare monthly reports for management detailing help desk volume, endpoint  inventory, security patch level, and high level security risk overview.  o Create regular reports for end user consumption on current preventable security risks    ? VOIP Systems Administration  o Cisco Unity Administration  o Shoretel/Mitel    ? SharePoint Administration and Development  o Custom Forms with workflow and email integration  o Document Library with change tracking and notifications