Network Administrator <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Network Administrator Sweetwater, TN Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Network Administrator HP Pelzer Automotive - Athens, TN February 2018 to May 2019 Responsible for Maintaining a network for a tier one Manufacturing Facility. Duties incudle: Maintaining Company Network as well as printing functions utilizing Print on Demand with SAP, daily support for users, maintaining mesh wireless network, data backup, Active Directory skills, Setup of new user accounts / computers, Maintaining Scanner connectivity, Maintaining / Repair of Zebra Label Printers, Troubleshooting Network Connectivity issues. Responsible for two plant locations in Athens, TN and Eudora, KS. Network Administrator BCMC, Inc - Chattanooga, TN March 2016 to January 2018 Responsible for designing, implementing and maintaining company network • Provided end-user technical support in a fast paced, manufacturing environment. • Designed Wireless network to implement Intermec handheld scanners. • Responsible for remote users and firewall security. • Maintained both on and off site backups for disaster recovery. Network Administrator Cisco-Meraki and Open Mesh - Chattanooga, TN May 2003 to February 2016 Primary duties involved maintaining company I.T. infrastructure consisting of LAN-based point of sale systems with integrated payment solutions, remote connectivity, deploying and maintaining both a Cisco-Meraki and Open Mesh wireless internet networks consisting of multiple gateways and repeaters, and maintaining a cloud based reservation system. Company experienced no data breaches during my tenure. • Provided end-user technical support in a fast paced, retail environment. • Maintained ownership of problem until it was successfully resolved. • Team player with strong technical and organizational skills. • Experience with remote connectivity and wireless networks. Network Administrator HART InterCIVIC Corporation - Tuscaloosa, AL May 1997 to May 2003 Maintained Windows network and work stations for a company specializing in commercial printing of voting ballots and providing election support to state and local governments in the southeast. Purchasing Agent & Network Administrator Access Computer Centers - Tuscaloosa, AL June 1992 to May 1997 Responsible for installation, maintenance and troubleshooting of client desktops and network systems.  Education Bachelor's Degree The University of Alabama - Tuscaloosa, AL Education Bachelor's Skills Technical Support, Networking, Windows, Active Directory, Vmware, MAC, access Additional Information Skills  Cable Installation (10+ years), maintenance (10+ years), point of sale (10+ years), Wireless (10+ years), wireless networks. (10+ years), Network Administration (10+ years)  Certifications/Licenses CompTIA A+ December 2028    RELEVANT SKILLS& CERTIFICATIONS • A+ Technician Certified • LDCCA Cable Installation Certified • Managing Multiple Projects • Planning Complex System Upgrades • Wireless Networks • Website Maintenance& Email Support • Remote Connectivity • Microsoft Windows 2000 and Above • Server Management • POS Software with SQL database