System Administrator System <span class="hl">Administrator</span> System Administrator Lake Worth, FL Work Experience System Administrator BMV Corporation - Boca Raton, FL 2013 to 2014 Maintain sophisticated, high-availability network with 100+ work stations running off windows active directory. Setup XEN live migration model for an asterisk phone system over SIP. Installed Xen Clusters for mysql master/master replication. Setup user restrictions with Microsoft Active Directory group policy settings. Maintained and installed DNS servers.    ? Best Case Software: maintained and updated software for the legal team to file the proper paperwork.  ? CreditSoft 8.0: kept up to date on all revisions and patches. Merged company databases together.  ? GitLab: installed GitLab for the development team to keep track of code updates and notifications. System Administrator Internet Management Corp - Lake Worth, FL 2002 to 2012 Maintain sophisticated, high-availability network within a critical hosted environment requiring constant uptime. Expertly diagnose and resolve issues with leading-edge network and hosting technologies, quickly identifying root source and executing solutions. Liaise with computer and equipment vendors to install, configure and troubleshoot sophisticated technical equipment. Negotiate contracts to drive cost efficiency in technologies and services. Deliver hands-on training to all employees in use of technologies. Devise, schedule and run custom backup jobs for critical data.    ? Conceptualized, designed and deployed sophisticated XSLT/XML application software with XML Transforms using Xalan and Xerces.  ? Provided in-house support for hardware and software systems by quickly resolving technical issues during critical business hours, leading to substantial support cost savings as well as time from systems provider.  ? Installed third party ad code to increase revenue across 3000+ hosted websites.  ? Scheduled and configured snap shot backup solutions using a dell storage array for redundant storage of hosted websites and databases. Saved my employer money by efficiently providing a backup solution in case of sudden data loss due to drive failures.  ? Hosted company's clients web sites on Apache2, IIS, and Node-JS web servers.  ? Configured a BASE intrusion detection system for the hosted traffic to go through, in order to monitor network security. Network Administrator Aviation Avionics - Freeport, NY 2000 to 2002 Maintain sophisticated, high-availability database network to track replacement airplane parts following FAA guidelines and practices. Expertly diagnose and resolve issues with leading-edge database network quickly identifying root source and executing solutions. Liaise with computer and equipment vendors to install, configure and troubleshoot sophisticated network equipment. Negotiate contracts to drive cost efficiency in technologies and services. Deliver hands-on training to all employees in use of technologies. Devise, schedule and run custom backup jobs for critical data.    ? Conceptualized, designed and deployed sophisticated database application software with MYSQL as the backend.  ? Designed and deployed in house E-mail solutions. Produced daily targeted mass newsletter mailings.  ? Configured IP-table rules for firewall intrusion protection.  ? Installed new DELL user work stations.  ? Installed Veritas backup solution to back up databases daily. Network Administrator Sagem Morpho - New York, NY 1998 to 2000 Interfaced New York states AFIS (Automated Fingerprint Identification System) to all remote inkless fingerprint stations. Maintain sophisticated, Inkless Biometric fingerprint network to speed up the states booking process. Deployed Biometric hardware to all police department booking stations. Expertly diagnose and resolve issues quickly identifying root source and executing solutions. Liaise with computer and equipment vendors to install, configure and troubleshoot sophisticated biometric equipment. Deliver hands-on training to all employees in use of technologies. Devise, schedule and run custom backup jobs for critical data.    ? Worked with local and state law enforcement to speed up the booking process.  ? Targeted unsolved crimes by matching latent finger prints to new bookings.  ? Worked with MSID to interface AFIS to the FBI latent finger prints network.  ? Developed backup procedures to store data at two offsite locations in case of terrorist attacks. Network Administrator Sagem Morpho - Phoenix, AZ 1996 to 1998 Maintain sophisticated, Inkless Biometric fingerprint network to speed up the states booking process. Deployed Biometric hardware to all police department booking stations. Expertly diagnose and resolve issues with leading-edge database network quickly identifying root source and executing solutions. Liaise with computer and equipment vendors to install, configure and troubleshoot sophisticated technical equipment. Deliver hands-on training to all employees in use of technologies. Devise, schedule and run custom backup jobs for critical data. Education Associate of Applied Science in computer science and programming DEVRY COLLEGE - Mesa, AZ Skills Active directory, Cisco, Iis, Network security, Xml, Xslt, Mysql, nginx, Security, Disaster recovery, Optimization, Vmware, Cms, Redis, Aix, Linux, Sco, Slackware, Sunos, Unix, Linux Administrator, System Administrator, Red Hat, System Admin, Redhat Additional Information AREAS OF EXPERTISE:  • Network Security & Optimization  • Systems Strategy & Implementation  • Customer & Vendor Relations  • Storage & Disaster Recovery Solutions  • Troubleshooting & Problem Resolution  • Equipment Inventory Management    TECHNICAL PROFICIENCIES  Platforms: Windows Server 2003, 2012, 2016, Windows 2K/XP/Vista/w7/w8/w10, OSX, IOS (Cisco), UNIX (System V, SCO, SunOS, HP-UX, AIX), Linux (Redhat, CentOS, Ubuntu, SuSE, Slackware, Debian, Gentoo)    Tools: Active Directory, CMS Office (Word, Excel, Outlook, PowerPoint), MySQL, MSSQL 2005/2008, 2012 Ired Mailserver, Sendmail, Exim, VMWare, OPenVZ, NZBget, OpenVPN, ProFTPD, Glftpd, APT, CVS, Node-JS, Apache2, IIS, NGinx, BIND, DKIM, SPF, MSSQL, Xalan, Xerces, XSLT/XML, GitLab, SpiceWorks, Redis, Google / AWS.