Technology System Analyst Technology System Analyst Technology System Analyst - Xclusive Trading Inc Katy, TX Energetic person who is goal-oriented and continuously seeking opportunities for growth and increasing knowledge. Works effectively and productively within negotiated time frames. Remains focused on projects from beginning to completion, while paying close attention to detail, Extremely Intrigued in the field of Technology. Work Experience Technology System Analyst Xclusive Trading Inc - Houston, TX February 2018 to Present • Assisted Team members and provided support and solutions for queries to meet company objectives.  • Monthly reconciliation of Callidus for employee commission and chargebacks report, along with the profitability of the company.  • Performed troubleshooting techniques over the phone & via web messenger to troubleshoot issues.  • Maintained knowledge of company new products and services to better provide the customer support and service solutions.  • Accessed documented procedures tools and manuals to provide support on company supplied hardware and equipment's.  • Kept employees informed of progress during issue lifecycle and make follow-up calls or communications in a timely manner.  • Provided first-level technical support to stores on proprietary software and applications including installation basic usage and appropriate service level to warranty.  • Designed and Implemented new changes to company's web Portal www.xtihub.com  • Trained and lead a group 4+ members of the Corporate back-office for inventory management, reconciliations  And Reporting. Key Account Manager Tradekey - Karachi, PK June 2017 to September 2017 Pakistan  • Perform routine engagement with regular and seasonal customers  • Orchestrated the successful launch of social media marketing campaign; igniting award-winning results.  • Created Facebook page (https://www.facebook.com/Cenwinlimited) to interact with regular guests and attract new seasonal customers  • Developed a product demonstration campaign resulting in 3 identified opportunities within the first month Junior Network Administrator Zong CM PAK Limited - Karachi, PK January 2017 to May 2017 Pakistan  • Performed basic and more complex troubleshooting, backup, archiving, and disaster recovery.  • Installs and upgrades computer software and network equipment.  • Assists with administering and maintaining the company's network infrastructure. Education Certificate in Networking Lonestar College Cy-fair Campus - Cypress, TX June 2019 to Present Bachelors in Science University of Karachi 2017 Skills Customer Service (Less than 1 year), Database (Less than 1 year) Certifications/Licenses C.IT.E June 2015 to Present Additional Information Networking, Switches, Routers, Network Designing, LAN, WLAN, WAN, CISCO, Database, MySQL, C.IT.E, Customer Service, Proficient POS(RTPOS & ERP), Technical Support, Desktop Support, Microsoft office, Oracle, etc.