Network Engineer <span class="hl">Network</span> Engineer Network Engineer - JC & C IT professional with over 15 years of professional and progressive technical experience in design/project implementations,  senior administration/service requests, Tier 2/3 escalation support/ticket resolution, policies and procedures, analysis and  troubleshooting of various technologies which includes proficiency in routing, routing protocols, switching, security,  firewalls, voice, wireless and data center technologies. Work Experience Network Engineer JC & C 2006 to Present JC & C Network Engineer 2006-Present  Company Overview - JC&Cisa technology service and consulting organization supporting the IT and Infrastructure needs of its regional Clients. Services include design, implementation and managed services of  mission-critical and high impact environments to include data centers, corporate offices, and branch locations.    • Member of a team of professionals responsible for design, administration/service requests, escalation  support/ticket resolution and analysis in an enterprise LAN/WAN environment for data centers, corporate, WAN links, and branch offices.  • Technical operations responsibilities including acting as technical lead for network implementation & deployments, handling high-level change requests and tier 2/3 escalation support with a focus on providing  root cause analysis while maintaining the companies strict SLA requirements.  • Additional responsibilities include implementing new policies and procedures, MOP's and thorough  documentation to end clients of the organization. Network Administrator South Central Communications 1998 to 2006 South Central Communications Network Administrator 1998-2006  Company Overview - Founded in 1953, South Central Communications is a regional telecommunications  company serving the states of Arizona and Utah. They are the leading provider of high-speed internet and broadband solutions to residential and business customers. The organization maintains an enterprise LAN/WAN  Networks utilizing a multi faceted high available network infrastructure.    • Member of a regional enterprise engineering team responsible for deployment, administration and support  of 24/7 mission critical technologies that include but not limited to routing, switching, VOIP and wireless  technologies for both residential and business customers.  • Performed complex analysis and research of network security architecture, information security  administration and policies to identify possible network security threats.  • General responsibilities included but not limited to analysis and implementation of all network technologies, day to day administration, tier 3 escalation support and proactive network analysis and timely  communications with relevant technical and non technical teams, management and third party vendors. Network Administrator Smithfield Foods 1997 to 1998 Smithfield Foods Network Administrator 1997-1998  Company Overview - Smithfield Foods is a global meat-processing company and is the largest pig and pork  producer in the world. Consisting of over 2500 locations around the world and over 50,000 employees, Smithfield Foods incorporates a high-availability multi national network infrastructure that allows its global  staff and clients to maintain mission-critical connectivity to its corporate data center.    • Member of a team of professionals responsible for installations, configurations, ticket resolution, and troubleshooting in an enterprise LAN/WAN environment for data centers, corporate, and branch offices.  • Technologies handled by the team include but not limited to local area network (LAN) technologies, wide  area network (WAN) technologies, VoIP, server and enterprise applications, desktop technologies.  • Technologies in network environment include but not limited to routers, switches, security firewalls, voice, wireless and related technologies, various server/application administration and remote access. Education Bachelor of Science Utah Valley University