IT Support Specialist (Service Desk) IT Support Specialist (Service Desk) IT Support Specialist (Service Desk) Sacramento, CA Work Experience IT Support Specialist (Service Desk) Health Net/Centene Corp - Rancho Cordova - Sacramento, CA April 2019 to June 2019 Serve as the primary contact in providing customer service and technical support to internal partners and vendors with more complex issues.  • Design, build and/or test new systems, processes or services  • Respond to requests for new services  • Document workflow of processes within the organization  • Investigate, research and troubleshoot more complex IT related issues  • Perform new user IT training and communication of IT policies and standards  • Perform scheduled departmental audits and report findings to management  • Using Service Now and many Citrix applications in a published or VDI environment to perform the necessary duties Help Desk Analysis IHSS Service Desk/Experis - Sacramento - Sacramento, CA November 2018 to April 2019 Manage large amounts of inbound and outbound calls in a timely manner. Follow communication scripts when handling different topics. Identify customers' needs, clarify information, research every issue and provide solutions and/or alternatives.  Key Highlights:  • Responding efficiently and accurately to callers, explaining possible solutions, and ensuring that client's feel supported and valued.  • Utilizing software, databases, scripts, and tools appropriately.  • Engaging in active listening with callers, confirming or clarifying information and diffusing angryclients, as needed.  • Understanding and striving to meet or exceed call center metrics while providing excellent consistentcustomer service.  • Adhering to all company policies and procedures.  • Taking part in training and other learning opportunities to expand knowledge of company andposition. Technical Support \ Assistant Network Administrator Tech Works Inc - Sacramento, CA November 2017 to March 2018 • Respond to incoming phone calls, emails, and voicemails from local and non-local customers. Collect information, create tickets and place them in the appropriate Que. Run wires, install, setup and configure servers, workstations, security systems, mobile devices (iOS/Android) switches, firewall, routers, and access points assuring that they are functioning properly.  • Key Highlights: • Ability to work in a dynamic and rapidly changing environment, and learn new procedures and systems quickly • Setup wired and wireless camera systems including door and window sensors • Monitored daily backups, antivirus status, shared storage space and network activity, adjusting network equipment and settings as needed.  • Perform software installations, patches, service upgrade, vendor and Windows updates to servers and workstations • Install hardware to client needs, install servers/workstations onsite, run any necessary CAT cables, ensure network is connected • Worked with Servers and Active Directory to build user network profiles, reset passwords, unlock accounts, add, change, update, remove group policies Incident Specialist I \ Customer Service CompuCom - Folsom, CA August 2012 to October 2015 Answer incoming phone calls from customers or technicians from local to global. Collect and process returning laptops, tablets, phones, and BYOD from terminated employees or interns from any of our global sites. Test, wipe, revert SSD drives. Check my queue on a daily basis to see any new or existing task. Work with engineers to solve any problems.  Key Highlights:  Excellent written and verbal communication skills to write, document and explain technical issues  Respond to walk-in clients and helpdesk tickets. Troubleshoot issues from hardware failure to software conflicts, connectivity, virus control, rebuilds and deployment of new hardware, installation and configuration of same  Creating, researching, adding resolution documentation and maintaining knowledgebase  Backup relief for the facility trainer, remote support, offsite coverage.  Order, configure, and distribute new user laptops, replacement systems.  Test Intel Corporation confidential SSD software in command prompt for any issues before releasing  GUI interface to the general public Education High school or equivalent Skills Service desk, Help desk Additional Information Skills    Help Desk, Desktop Support, Service Desk, Tech Support