Computer Technician Computer Technician Network Administrator Lithonia, GA Throughout the course of my career, I have honed my network security management and system upgrading abilities. I am an astute problem-solver capable of prioritizing and managing complex projects with proficiency. Work Experience Computer Technician JW.org - Patterson, NY April 2018 to Present Pro Bono work for a non profit organization, helping the global legal staff remotely with technical issues.    • Supported IBM Notes. My task include setting up users in the main database, training them on how to use the system and helping them resolving issues.  • Diagnosed and resolved technical hardware and software issues such as Office 365, Senior Network Administrator INETKO NETWORK & INTERNET SOLUTIONS - Bethel, CT February 2010 to July 2019 Served as lead network administrator for multiple entities under Inetko management. Coordinated department-wide efforts for infrastructure design, configuration, installation and maintenance.    • Implemented Microsoft Deployment Toolkit Imaging system to streamline deployment and restoration of workstations.  • Analyzed and revamped antiquated and inefficient processes to increase productivity while bringing in newer and more efficient technologies. Brought clients company and network up to industry standards, ensuring 99% uptime.  • Established central backup solution so backup tapes from 20+ servers were replaced by NAS and Cloud Storage.  • Migrated 150+ users from full internal email system with an Exchange Server to Office 365, reducing maintenance cost considerably.  • Conversion of servers to VMware ESXi & VMWare vSphere for system redundancy.  • Maintained and configured Sonic Wall and PFsense network appliances at 15+ sites for intrusion detection/protection, content filtering and remote access. Network Administrator List Services Corp - Bethel, CT August 2008 to January 2010 As Network Administrator I reported to the Senior Director of IT. I managed the day to day advancement and support of the network and the users.    • Recommended hardware and/or software solutions for short- and long-range goals. Researched options available and implemented.  • Performed maintenance of personal computers and peripheral equipment, identifying problems and providing appropriate solutions.  • Administered and implemented Active Directory services and group polices across multiple domains.  • Evaluated performance issues including availability, utilization, and testing of equipment; defining network protocols and procedures in conjunction with IT staff and management  • Supported IT team with migration of Windows 2003 to Windows 2008, and of Exchange to Exchange 2003. Education Associate of Science DEVRY UNIVERSITY - Chicago, IL January 2012 Skills Active directory, Network security, System administration, Disaster recovery, Lan, Pbx, Telecom Additional Information Skills  VMware  System administration  Active Directory  Network security management  Computer systems installation  Windows operating systems  PBX Telecom  Wide Area Network (WAN)  Local Area Network (LAN)  Microsoft Azure Servers Management  Sonic Wall, PFSense  Office 365  Disaster recovery