Senior Network Administrator Senior <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Senior Network Administrator Fredericksburg, VA Accomplished Network Administrator with 10+ years of experience managing server  infrastructures.Effectively plan, install, configure and optimize the IT infrastructure to consistently  achieve highavailability and performance. Proven ability to create and deliver solutions tied to  business growth, organizational development and systems/ network optimization. Skilled problem  identifier and  troubleshooter comfortable managing systems, projects and teams in a range of IT environments. Work Experience Senior Network Administrator Amana Steel Corporate Office - Dubai, AE November 2015 to June 2019 UAE  • Team Lead for all technical works including infrastructure management - networking, server  management, and backup.  • Managed network and server infrastructure which includes Windows Server 2012 R2  configuration, RAID level configuration, AD services, VPN, DHCP, Print servers, FTP etc.  • Configured and managed backup server systems with Acronis backup solution.  • Configured and managed Fortinet firewalls and FortiCloud.  • Managed cloud based monitoring cameras.  • Configured and managed IP telephony. Network Engineer Smart Point Computers L.L.C - Dubai, AE March 2013 to July 2015 UAE  • Established networking environment by designing system configuration; directed system  installation; defining, documenting, and enforcing system standards.  • Maximized network performance by monitoring performance; troubleshoot network problems and outages; scheduled upgrades; collaborated with network architects on network optimization.  • Secured network system by establishing and enforcing policies; defined and monitored access. Network Administrator Amana Steel Buildings Contracting Co. L.L.C - Dubai, AE October 2002 to February 2013 UAE  • Implemented changes on production servers in a large Web Center environment.  • Assisted in troubleshooting production issues with members of other teams within I.T.  • Troubleshoot server hardware issues and worked with service providers to facilitate repairs.  • Provided support for all Telecommunication systems, IP Telephones, data & voice.  • Administered multiple disjoint Active Directory Forests, Domains, DHCP, DNS and various other  Infrastructure services.  • Updated, patched and installed software via group policies (GPO). System Administrator Karle Group of Companies - Bengaluru, Karnataka July 2000 to August 2002 India  • Managed systems configuration and maintenance, problem troubleshooting, system and program  security, applications and program management, planning and directing upgrades, and testing  operations to ensure optimum system functionality.  • Assisted as part of a team in building and managing lab environments with complex settings, configurations, topologies and equipment including servers and various network elements.  • Managed the Help desk & Desktop Support team which supported Windows 9.X, 2000, including  mail services. Education Bachelors in Commerce MG University September 1995 Additional Information Skills  • Ability to get people to work together as a  team  • Attention to detail and the ability to produce  • Sincere to profession high quality, accurate work  • Highly flexible and adaptable to changing • Self- motivation for critical decision making  environment • Innovative with new technologies    Technical Qualifications    • Manage, configure, deploy and maintain Servers including Microsoft Active Directory, System  Center Configuration Manager, File Server, FTP and Office 356 with Windows Server 2008 R2/2012  R2.  • Configure and manage Acronics backup system.  • Installation and Configuration of all types of desktop OS including Windows XP/Vista/7/8/10 OS.  • Manage and configure Fortinet Firewalls for implementing site-to-site VPN and proxy-based user  monitoring system.  • Manage FortiGate firewalls through FortiCloud and report generation.  • Configure and manage IP PBX telephone systems.  • Design and implementation of LAN & WAN Technology.  • Deploy wireless solution and access points.  • Managing cloud based monitoring cameras.  • IT Asset Management system with OTRS, Lansweeper, Solar winds MSP N-Central.  • Manage, configure, deploy and maintain of VMware and Workstation.  • Deploy and Configure Microsoft Hyper-V.