Application Support Engineer Application Support Engineer Application Support Engineer Phoenix, AZ Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Application Support Engineer Ivanti Software - Scottsdale, AZ March 2011 to July 2017 Responsible for troubleshooting and developing the customers technical solutions related to Patch Management software, Anti-Virus, Application Control and Device Control for HEAT  Endpoint Management Security Suite (HEMSS)  ? Diagnose and resolve application installation errors for field engineers, technicians, and customers  via telephone, email and remote WebEx sessions.  ? Created workaround solutions when standard procedures have failed while ensuring issues are  resolved in a timely fashion. Network Administrator Calibrus Inc - Tempe, AZ July 2004 to March 2011 Provide 24x7 network support services to ensure the stable operation of a dual call center  computer network. This includes planning, developing, installing, configuring, maintaining,  supporting, and optimizing all network hardware, software, communication and telecom links.  ? Supervise and train network technicians to analyze and resolve end user hardware and software  computer problems in a timely and accurate fashion to maximize system performance and availability.  ? Monitor, recognize and respond to telecom and network outages, security violations and attacks of network services.  ? Supervised and perform hardware/software upgrades and updates including operating system  patches and anti-virus databases with minimal impact to network and productivity.  ? Converted a multi domain NT network to Active Directory without service interruptions or compromising production service level agreements. Network Administrator Chicago Title Insurance Co - Phoenix, AZ December 2001 to July 2004 Resolve users desktop hardware, software, printer and application issues via remote access  software.  ? Installation, configuration, and maintenance of Windows Server on various platforms.  ? Manage Windows user and group administration in a multi-domain environment..  ? Provide hardware and software installation and configuration technical support for corporate  users.  ? Evaluate, recommend, and purchase computer equipment and peripherals for all Arizona  branches.    TECHNICAL COURSES  Microsoft Windows Server  Microsoft Windows Network Infrastructure Administration.  Microsoft SQL Server System administration.    Internetworking Microsoft TCP/IP  Microsoft Certified Professional  CompTI A+ Certified Computer Technician Education Business Administration Cal Poly Pomona - Pomona, CA Skills PEOPLE ORIENTED (Less than 1 year), problem solving (Less than 1 year), TECHNICAL LEADERSHIP (Less than 1 year), Desktop Support, Tech Support, Help Desk, Service Desk, Helpdesk Support Additional Information Skills    PEOPLE ORIENTED, PROBLEM SOLVING, TECHNICAL LEADERSHIP    SKILL SUMMARY    I am a friendly, people oriented IT professional who is able to effectively communicate and posesses  creative problem solving skills. Outstanding leadership capability with proven track record for  establishing rapport and credibility with all levels of the organization. I have 20+ years of IT  experience  providing technical leadership across a broad range of technologies in both Windows and mixed  network  environments.