IS Site Support Engineer IS Site Support Engineer Summary Waterford, MI I have been working professionally on computers for three years and have been working on personal computers for over ten years.  • Re-imaging computers by hand and with deployment software SCCM Acronis and Smart Deploy  • Working with various vendors on projects such as: Paper Cut, RMA, obtaining system parts to resolve various computer issue such as system board failure and hard drive failure  • Dispatcher for the helpdesk  • Creation of end user and technical documentation   • Creation of accounts in AD and maintaining security groups within AD  • Working knowledge of Cisco and Ubiquiti based networking gear  • Troubleshooting and maintaining the printer environment and being responsible for maintenance  • Scan gun support and maintained support contracts  • First point of contact for the helpdesk  • Receiving and resolving tickets within 15 minutes Work Experience IS Site Support Engineer Robert Half Technology February 2019 to Present • Accurately logs problems and their associated resolutions into the standardized support center / help deskapplication.  • Maintain Infrastructure and Information Systems standards in a consistent way across their site(s).  • Ensure that the Site Support Budget for the site for which they are responsible is controlled effectively.  • Ensure that any issues related to Standards are reflected back to the owning group.  • Ensure that Virus Protection and Patch Management is maintained across their site(s).  • Ensure that accurate documentation, asset management and software licensing is provided across their site(s).  • Ensure that Disaster Recovery plans are developed, tested and maintained according to defined standards across their site(s).  • Ensure that Server performance is monitored and managed according to defined standards.  • Ensure that backups are completed correctly.  • Work with other IS staff to ensure that Sarbanes-Oxley requirements are fully met at their site(s).  • Work with other IS staff to ensure that all Internal/external audits are supported at their site(s).  • Assists with the planning, purchasing and implementation of PC hardware and software in compliance with Federal-Mogul IS standard policies and procedures.  • Manage and maintain the printers within their site(s).  • Ensure site server rooms are managed and maintained in accordance to company policies and standards.  • Provides user with training and communications on IS policies, procedures and technology.  • Assists with remote problem resolution for off-site users as required.  • Ensures a high level of client satisfaction and service level agreements are achieved to the best of their ability.  • Assists with the management of projects on site as required.  • Assists the Regional Coordinator to ensure a consistent approach is maintained.  • Manages the O365 Microsoft portal to assign and track licenses. Network Administrator Exoticc Automation and Supply Farmington - Hill, Michigan, US March 2018 to January 2019 • Administrating the network equipment and the servers  • Administrating and deploying Vipre Cloud  • Administrating and deploying Office 365  • Rolling out a new network scope to the remote locations  • Maintain and rolling out the new Barracuda Outlook add ins as they came out  • Administrating and maintain the Datto backup solution  • Creation of new servers inside the VM Sphere which was house on three hosts with two Power Vaults for the data storage  • Fulfilling all help desk tickets as they come in  • Maintaining and deploying new Ubiquiti systems to the remote locations  • Maintaining the Dell SonicWall and the Cisco Meraki's which all were hauling all traffic back to the main office  • Support for the Syteline, changing printers for end users and assisting in run away print jobs  • Ticketing system SpiceWorks IT Generalist Grotenhuis February 2017 to 2018 • Administers end-user workstations and supports end-user activities utilizing TCP/IP on a primarily Microsoft Windows-based local area network (LAN).  • Assists personnel of other departments as a computer resource.  • Develops and conducts various training and instruction for system users on operating systems and other applications; assists users in maximizing use of networks and computing systems.  • Investigates user problems and identifies their source; determines possible solutions; tests and implements solutions.  • Installs, configures and maintains personal computers, Windows networks, Apple workstations, file servers, network cabling, and other related equipment, devices and systems; adds or upgrades and configures disk drives, printers and related equipment.  • Maintains site licenses for department/organization.  • Troubleshoots networks, systems and applications to identify and correct malfunctions and other operational difficulties.  • Performs and/or oversees software and application installation and upgrades.  • Plans and implements network security, including maintaining firewalls, configuring VPN, managing host security, file permissions, file system integrity, and adding and deleting users.  • Provides computer orientation to new and existing company staff.  • Performs other related duties as assigned. Help Desk Tier 1 Tek Systems - Grand Rapids, MI February 2017 to May 2017 • Trouble shoot VPN  • Trouble shoot Windows7 issues  • Password resets for AD  • Maintaining ticket system and properly imputing tickets for proper documentation  • Resolving all calls in under 15 minutes  • Trouble shoot ActivClient and Active Directory issues  • Answering calls and assisting the customer with any issue they are having  • Used Remedy ticking system Reactive Support Technician SJA Solutions - Grand Rapids, MI August 2016 to January 2017 • Trouble shoot scan guns  • Trouble shoot desktops Lenovo based products and laptops  • Building new desktop images with recovery media provided by Lenovo  • RMA products HP switches and other products and talking with manufactures  • Sorting the inventory by hand and putting the inventory into Excel documents  • Trouble shoot network issues such as when a computer had the same IP address as another computer and figuring out why computers kept disconnecting from the network  • Fixing printer issues such as printer driver issues and printer not printing or printers not showing up on the computer  • Trouble shooting Mac computers with network issues or running virtual machines on them so the customer could have a Windows environment on the computer  • Creating documentation for the company in itglue  • Ticketing system Connect Wise  • Assisting Network Administrators with monthly and weekly network audit  • Created ARP list for the Network Administrators Help Desk Tier 1 Tek Systems - Grand Rapids, MI June 2016 to August 2016 • Trouble shoot VPN  • Trouble shoot Windows7 issues  • Password resets for AD  • Maintaining ticket system and properly imputing tickets for proper documentation  • Resolving all calls in under 15 minutes  • Answering calls and assisting the customer with any issue they are having  • Used Remedy ticking system Dell Field Tech Smartech and Associates - Grand Rapids, MI January 2016 to June 2016 • Provide on-site tech support to include installation, maintenance and repairs of desk tops, laptops, and peripherals.  • Instruct customers in the operation and maintenance of their equipment as needed.  • Maintain open lines of communication with assigned Service Delivery Coordinator (SDC) to ensure customer satisfaction and meet Service Level Agreements.  • Track and insure return of all parts  • Provide SDC with required call closure documentation and necessary reporting.  • Resolve customer issues using superior customer service and communication skills.  • Rebooting servers when they failed to boot and configuring the IDRAC  • Solving printer issues as they arose  • Fixing POS machines when anything would fail on them or they would not work Education Associates in Network Administration in Network Administration Grand Rapids Community College - Grand Rapids, MI Additional Information SKILLS SUMMARY    Hardware: Dell, Lenovo, HP, EMC, Cisco Routers and Switches, POS Systems, Ubiquiti, Barracuda, Datto, Cisco Meraki, Dell SonicWall    Software: Microsoft Office 2003- 2016, Windows XP- 10, Linux, Cisco AnyConnect, Kaspersky, Viper, Avast, Acronos Snap Deploy, Windows Server 2003 - 2016, Mac OS, Barracuda for Office Archiving, Datto server and cloud, VM Sphere, Dell NetExtender, Webroot, Symantec Enpoint Protection/Encryption, Bitlocker, RSA Token, Pulse Secure, Exchange 365