Test Engineer Test Engineer Test Engineer McKinney, TX All phases of software lifecycle, developing Test Cases, Test Plan and Automation test scripts using HP QTP/UFT in Client/Server, Windows, UNIX/Linux, Web Services and Web based applications. Work Experience Test Engineer Light Laboratory, Inc - Anaheim, CA August 2001 to February 2019 • Manage projects from testing to analysis of test results.  • Oversee daily lab operations and calibration testing machines and equipment.  • Perform photometric testing using Type B and C Gonio-Photometer.  • Chromaticity, Color Temperature (CCT), Color rendering Index (CRI) testing using  Integrating Sphere.  • In-SITU Temperature Measurement Testing (ISTMT) using LM-80 report. Network Administrator CIS Department - San Jose, CA May 1999 to September 1999 Establishes network specifications by conferring with users; analyzing workflow, access, information, and security requirements; designing router administration,  including interface configuration and routing protocols.  • Installing network and computer systems. Maintaining, repairing and upgrading network and computer systems Education Master of Divinity in Divinity Golden Gate Baptist Theological Seminary - Mill Valley, CA August 2012 to May 2016 Bachelor of Science in Computer Science San José State University - San Jose, CA August 1997 to May 2001 Bachelor of Science in Physics Hoseo University March 1990 to February 1994 Skills Life cycle, Automated test tools, Black box, Assembly, Qa, Black box testing, Stress testing, Test cases, User acceptance, Acceptance testing, White box, White box testing, Automated testing, C#, C++, Fortran, Gui, Html, Scripting, Software development Additional Information Skills  • Programming Languages: Visual Basic, C, C++, C#, Java Script, FORTRAN, HTML and Assembly  • Operating systems: Windows XP, 7 8 and 10  • Database: MySQL  • Proficient in Microsoft office  • Automated testing Tool: UFT/QTP  Specific Expertise  • Excellent understanding of Software Development life Cycle (SDLC) and importance of QA in Development/Enhancement and Maintenance of software applications.  • Expertise in Manual and Automated Testing in different testing methodologies like Agile, Scrum, Waterfall etc.  • Hands-on experience in web services testing using standards like XML, RESTful services.  • Tested Web Services, providing required input data to request XML and get the required data from response XML and use the response data from other request XML.  • Involved in developing and executing Test plan and Test Cases for Functional and Regression testing.  • Developed test cases for Regression, and Data Driven tests using automated test tools.  • Experience using different Frameworks like Data Driven frame works in QTP/UFT, and extensively worked on Scripting using Shared Object repository and Descriptive Programming.  • Good in QTP/UFT - VB Script programming standards and developed reusable functional libraries.  • Good handling exception handling/Recovery Scenarios in QTP/UFT and familiar with String functions, Date functions, Math functions and other related QTP/UFT functions.  • Maintaining Test data in Excel files and importing Excel files from Resources module in Quality center to QTP/UFT data table and read the values based on the functional requirement.  • Hands-on experience in Black box Testing, White box testing, Unit Testing, User acceptance testing, Functional, Integration, GUI, System, Usability, Regression, Performance, Security, Stress Testing and back out testing.  • Participated in requirement review meetings, analyzing requirements, developing test plan and test cases, Requirement Traceability Matrix, Defect management, Reporting and tracking.  • Good knowledge in VB Script, HTML and Java scripting languages.  • Proficiency in Structured Query Language (SQL), Joins, PL/SQL stored procedures & Triggers.  • Experience in preparing Test data by retrieving data from MySQL.  • Good Analytical, Interpersonal and communication skills. Result oriented, committed and hard working with a quest to learn new technologies and undertake challenging tasks.