Network Administrator <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Network Administrator Gurnee, IL Provide all level technical support for a 5 school district in northern Illinois. Work independently while managing a small team of techs to design, implement and support the districts growing tech needs. Train and support staff on proper use of technology in order to allow student best access to todays required tech skills.    Duties, Accomplishments and related Skills:    Customer Support: Provide customer level support for both hardware and software in a mixed operating system and multi device arena. Support on site user and hardware and software issues for Microsoft and Google productivity tools. Serve as technical support contact for 2000+ users, both staff and students.    Technical Problem Solving: Served as primary contact for all technical support troubleshooting tier 1 through tier 3. Retained information and familiarity with all types of devices used in campus in both wired and wireless environments. Diagnosed and repaired unwanted network activity including faulty device or correcting device configuration requirements. Build, service, or maintain HP Procurve network switches, HP servers, Cisco routers, desktop and portable computers running Windows 10 and OSX, ChromeBooks, and tablet PCs both Apple and Android. Installed and supported Epson interactive projection systems and document cameras.    Operations Support: Lead planning, design, and implementation for network infrastructure including LAN, WAN, and WiFi hardware, 30 HP Proliant servers, DHCP servers, DNS servers, and VoIP hardware configuration and support. Duties included vetting and testing hardware before purchase in order to ensure full functionality within the defined scope of operation. Planning and implementation of backup and recover schemes. Configuration and troubleshooting of IP network equipment connecting five geographic sites connected via AT&T WAN fiber. Maintained Toshiba VoIP phone switch and Polycom wireless handsets as well as IP desk phones. Planned procured and installed Aruba WiFi network at 5 geographic locations. Diagnosed and corrected WiFI connectivity issues including signal strength issues and RF interference issues. Provided monitoring and life-cycle management for all network hardware.    Managed Microsoft Server 2012r2 Active Directory site with more than 2000 users in multiple Organizational Units and Multiple Group Policy Objects to manage and define local and domain security and user rights assignment.    Facilitated early adoption of virtualized technologies to extend availability to our client while keeping cost to the district at a minimum. Virtualization allowed our department to save over $750,000 in workstation replacement over a 15 year period.    Designed, installed, and supported building wide security camera system with 9 month video retention policy. Maintained Storage Area Network (SAN) to hold video footage for retrieval on request.    Hardware: Desktop support for all network connected infrastructure including routers, switches, IP phone equipment, wireless networking hardware, servers, portable and desktop PC devices, and peripheral devices including scanners, printers, fax machines, digital cameras, and network connected multifunction machines. Duties include both connectivity related and hardware related maintenance.    Oral Communications: Directing multiple personnel with delegation of responsibility based on proficiency.    Technology Awareness: Maintained vendor contact for support of AT&T managed hardware on site as well as conducting support calls for various hardware manufacturers including HPE, Barracuda Networks, Polycom VoIP, and Cisco Systems. Software familiarity with Microsoft Office, Google productivity suite, Microsoft Active Directory, Microsoft server products including Server 2003, Server 2008, Server 2012.    Subject Matter Expert: (SME) for Exchange Messaging system, Intra- network design and configuration, WiFi infrastructure configuration and hardware, and Active Directory Group Policy management. Work Experience Network Administrator Beach Park District 3 July 2000 to June 2018 Provided hardware design support and maintenance for a small school district for the past 19 years. Remained focused on providing maximum uptime and intuitive user experience for both staff and students. Education High school or equivalent Skills Windows, Technical Support, Active Directory, Networking