Creative Services Creative Services Springfield, PA Work Experience Creative Services Fernley & Fernley, Inc - Philadelphia, PA May 2002 to July 2019 · Managed and coordinated a wide variety of graphic design projects from concept to completion. Worked closely with clients to conceive designs and consistently meet deadlines and requirements. Coordinated with outside print vendors to produce and deliver completed projects.  · Project experience includes: Membership Directories, Magazines, Newsletters, Program Books for client conferences, Badge Insert Schedules, Business Cards, Postcards, Signage  · Worked with client staff to maintain client websites using several platforms such as Wordpress, iMIS-Rise, YourMembership, Avectra, Higher Logic and DreamWeaver. Projects included adding new pages and content, updating existing content, and design graphics for scrolling banners.  · Maintained client website domain names and DNS settings through NetworkSolutions and Godaddy accounts, purchased and installed SSL certificates for databases connected to client websites.  · Experience with Adobe Creative Suite and Creative Cloud software packages (InDesign, Photoshop, Illustrator, DreamWeaver and Acrobat) on Macintosh and PC platforms    Secondary Job Functions:  · Managed online survey program (surveymonkey.com) for all clients, designed and deployed surveys with individual client branding  · Assisted company IT Manager with staff needs as necessary  · Managed client email boxes through third party platform (Rackspace.com), conducted user setup and training  · Oversaw company time tracking software including account setup and training of new employees, compiled individual client monthly reports and distributed to company executives   · Managed company owned hardware for use at client conferences, purchased new hardware when necessary, conducted user training  · Managed office supply purchases, negotiated with vendors for preferred pricing  · Oversaw company postage machine, negotiated with leasing agent as necessary Network Administrator Vollmer Associates LLP, Brandywine Valley Engineers - Aston, PA February 1997 to January 2002 · Maintained day-to-day operations of Ethernet network, tape backups and desktop PC’s, supporting 60 workstations and 14 servers in Aston, PA, Kennett Square, PA and Wilmington, DE offices.  · Installed and upgraded all software and hardware on PC's.  · Repaired all hardware problems on PC's, Printers, and Plotters.  · Placed service calls for problems not correctable by technology staff.  · Maintained MS Exchange Email system and Norstar Voicemail system.  · Maintained and order supplies for plotters and printers.  · Researched and tested all hardware and software for Y2K compliance.  · Installed, terminated and tested Category 5 cabling in Aston, PA and Wilmington, DE offices.  · Designed and maintained databases to track company hardware and archived data.  · Designed spreadsheets, graphics presentations, and standardized forms.  · Researched new technology to improve company, implementing changes in large format copiers and plotters to decrease costs associated with outgoing projects.  · Supported Corporate Technology staff at the Mount Laurel, NJ and Philadelphia, PA offices.  Project Experience: Worked as part of team to rewire the Aston , PA office network. Setup new Wilmington, DE office, designing and implementing network wiring and server setup. Education Bachelor's in Computer Science Drexel University - Philadelphia, PA June 1997 Skills Adobe Creative Cloud/Creative Suite (8 years), Microsoft Office (10+ years) Assessments Graphic Design — Highly Proficient August 2019 Using graphic design techniques and producing visual media to communicate concepts. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/cdwrehctkhp9hfvf Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.