Network Analyst II <span class="hl">Network</span> Analyst II Network Analyst II Frankfort, KY Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Network Analyst II Getronics, Inc - Frankfort, KY May 2017 to March 2019 Responsible for resolving any network issues with clients including:  connectivity to the network, network storage issues and multi-function  printers. Used System Center Configuration Manager, Active directory,  McAfee ePO to resolve these issues. Also resolved issues involving Office  365 and Exchange and standard Windows Servers. Windows command  line and PowerShell were also used to resolve issues with end clients. I  was also responsible for the correct documentation and communication  Tim Baker of the issue in the HEAT ticketing system and to any other team that the issue required envolement with.  157 Blueridge Drive Network Analyst I Getronics, Inc - Frankfort, KY April 2017 to May 2017 40601 Performs level 1 network services and provides technical support to  (859)753-0675 customers for resolution of network problems. Interprets and analyzes  information provided by network management software. I Provided  assistance to equipment vendors during diagnostic procedures by timbakerky@gmail.com running diagnostic routines. Maintains proper procedures at Main  Console and provides Service Desk functions after hours. System Administrator - Stone Source Office of Technology November 2016 to April 2017 Profile Administered the company domain, website and all associated email  accounts for the domain. I was also responsible for any hardware  changes and configuration on the network. I was also responsible for all  I have worked for the Commonwealth  wireless devices connected to the network and to ensure that all  Office of Technology for the past three  years and have been responsible for devices on the network were secure. CNC Technician Capital City Tool May 2015 to October 2016 with any network resource including: Responsible for setting up machines according to blueprints and multi-function printers, network storage schematics provided. Responsible for maintaining the machine ran  locations, servers and other end clients. within listed tolerances and that the product met all product  This involved troubleshooting Windows  specifications listed by the blueprints and the customer.  connectivity issues involving DHCP, DNS, TNT Tech August 2014 to March 2015 command line and PowerShell to help I was responsible for all hardware devices on the network and all end  resolve these issues as well. I have user clients. I used Active Directory to manage Windows accounts in the experience with McAfee endpoint  domain. Also responsible for trouble shooting any network connectivity  Protection, Office 365, Microsoft Office  issues and any needed hardware configuration required. I was also Suite, vSphere, VMWare, Splunk  reporting tool and Active directory. I responsible for managing all employee email addresses and any  currently have the test vouchers for the wireless devices connected to the network. This included two remote  CompTIA Server+ and Security+ users who worked form home and required access to the company  certifications and will have both network.  certifications within 6 months. I am  looking for a job where I can use my Education B.S. in Information Systems Kentucky State University 2014 to 2016 A.A.S. in Internet Technologies Bluegrass Community & Technical College 2011 to 2014 Skills Tech Support (4 years), Helpdesk Support (3 years), Help Desk (3 years), Desktop Support (3 years), Microsoft Office (4 years), Active Directory (4 years), McAfee Endpoint Protection (3 years) Awards Graduated Kentucky State University with Honors 2016-12 I graduated with honors from Kentucky State University While working full-time and raising a family. Phi Theta Kappa National Honors Society 2015-04 I was aske dot become a memeber of the Phi THeta Kappa National Honors Society dur to my GPA (3.8) and have been a member since. Additional Information I have purchased the test vouchers for the CompTIA Server+ and Security+ certifications and will have those within the next 3-6 months.