Network Engineer <span class="hl">Network</span> Engineer Nashville, TN Experienced Network Engineer with a demonstrated history of working in the financial services industry. Skilled in Cisco Networking, VMware ESX, Linux System Administration, Managed Servers, and ITIL Process. Strong information technology professional with a Bachelor of Science focused in Computer Science from Hawassa University. Work Experience Network Engineer Bank of Abyssinia - Addis Ababa December 2016 to May 2019 ·  Monitored network capacity and performance, as well as diagnosed and resolved complex network problems.  ·  Identified means to reduce and control expenses by conducting cost, schedule and contract performance analysis and improving resource allocation.  ·  Identified and immediately resolved issues with network devices, including firewalls, routers, switches and wireless access points.  ·  Prioritized simultaneous projects to perform effectively under shifting deadlines in fast-paced environment.  ·  Developed and wrote recommendations for departmental policies, procedures, technical standards and guidelines.  ·  Maintained company servers, computers, printers, cables and other equipment.  ·  Developed strategies, budgets and deployment plans to inform and influence management and stakeholders.  ·  Oversaw network performance, making changes when needed to boost overall efficiency and power.  ·  Collaborated on network development, implementation, and maintenance of routers, switches, firewalls and NAC and WAN optimization.  ·  Provided detailed information on hardware and software products so that appropriate stakeholders could make suitable purchasing decisions.  ·  Installed, supported and maintained company hardware and software infrastructure according to best practices.  ·  Diagnosed network problems involving combination of hardware, software, power and communications issues.  ·  Prepared operational reports, including trouble resolution and analysis, project status, equipment and network requirements.  ·  Identified departmental needs and made suggestions regarding technical direction.  ·  Advised network users regarding hardware requirements, configurations and limitations.  ·  Provided all required network documentation to inform management.  ·  Performed virtual machine provisioning, VM priority setup, and template cloning.  ·  Monitored networks and network devices to ensure swift problem resolution.  ·  Demonstrated strong analytical, troubleshooting and problem-solving skills.  ·  Provided network support and performed troubleshooting to resolve various WAN/LAN connectivity issues.  ·  Configured and installed computer systems for other sub-organizations.  ·  Directed acquisition, installation and testing of network hardware.  ·  Performed day-to-day LAN and WAN administration, maintenance and support.  ·  Resolved and documented customer reported network issues via phone and e-mail.  ·  Provided configuration recommendations and assistance in customer deployment.  ·  Configured and maintained network backup and recovery procedures.  ·  Liaised with cabling infrastructure vendors and domestic and international ISPs. Network Administrator Dashen Bank - Addis Ababa September 2015 to November 2016 Network and System Administrator Addis Ababa Urban Managment Institute - Addis Ababa July 2013 to September 2015 Network Administrator Land Managment - Addis Ababa October 2008 to July 2013 Education BSc in Computer Science Hawassa University - Awassa 2005 to 2008 Skills Active Directory, Exchange, Vmware, Cisco, Computer Repair, Network Administration, Networking, PBX, IP telephone, Call Center Design, Installation and Configuration, LAN, VPN, firewalls, Security, DNS Assessments Technical Support — Highly Proficient July 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/jf0d5wbn41dgysqq Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.