Information Assurance Manager Information Assurance Manager INFORMATION ASSURANCE MANAGER Omaha, NE Adaptable Cyber Security major (4.0 GPA) currently attending Bellevue University, with 6+ years of work experience. Aiming to leverage a proven knowledge of advanced technologies, information systems management, and Cyber Security at your company. Frequently praised as hard-working by my peers, I can be relied upon to help your company achieve its goals. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Information Assurance Manager Perspecta - Offutt AFB, NE September 2018 to Present Perform risk assessments and execute regular audits of data processing systems to ensure functionality of data processing activities and security measures.    Confer with users to discuss issues such as computer data access needs, security violations, and programming changes.    Train users and promote security awareness to ensure system security and to improve server and network efficiency.    Lead and establish the assessment and authorization (A&A) program from the ground up.    Develop and manage scheduling, ensuring deadlines are met, and provide technical guidance/solutions for a dual-homed system.    Collaborate with other departments to identify risk and development/implement appropriate mitigation strategies.    Accurately estimate and quote work that is out of scope of contract based on system size and complexity.    Provide technical expertise for future expansion projects. Information Assurance Manager, Network Administrator U.S. Navy - Lemoore, CA August 2016 to September 2018 Led a team of 20 junior sailors to support command capabilities in risk management, compliance of security policies and procedures, maintaining system and security posture, new installations and modifications to existing network infrastructure, and contingency planning.    Completed U.S. Navy “ Network Security Vulnerability Technician” which reinforced competencies in enterprise-level network security and information assurance.    Managed a classified PKI system and worked closely with department heads to ensure 100% compliance for all classified network users.    Configured routers, Windows servers, NAS rack mounted devices, switches and other enterprise networking equipment.    Facilitated Move/Add/Change requests on behalf of organization to manage network component upgrades, purchasing, seat refreshes, and account management. Special Intelligence Communications Systems and Network Administrator U.S. Navy - Norfolk, VA September 2013 to September 2015 Extensive experience in Enterprise encrypted system administration and user support including Microsoft Active Directory and Exchange Management Console.    Installed and configured switches and routers and regularly participated in end-to-end troubleshooting of encrypted copper and optical communications circuits across distant geographical locations.    Performed equipment replenishments for approximately 33 sites in the deployment of hundreds of information systems and provided outstanding support and customer service to the entire Fleet Forces AOR in a 24/7 environment.    Ensured compliance of all network assets by the continuous application of IAVA directives. Education Bachelor's in Cyber Security Bellevue University - Bellevue, NE February 2019 to Present Technical in Computer Science Center for Information Dominance - San Diego Naval Station, CA April 2016 to August 2016 Technical in Computer Science Center for Information Dominance - Pensacola Naval Air Station, FL October 2015 to March 2016 Skills Active directory (6 years), Cyber security (2 years), Exchange (4 years), Information assurance (6 years), Nessus (1 year), Network security (6 years), Nmap (1 year), Pki (4 years), risk management (2 years), security policies (3 years), Solarwinds (1 year), Symantec (1 year), Windows xp (5 years), Wireshark (1 year) Links http://linkedin.com/in/tlvanstory Military Service Branch: United States Navy Rank: Petty Officer Second Class Certifications/Licenses CompTia A+ November 2015 to January 2022 CompTia Security+ July 2016 to January 2022 CompTia CYSA+ January 2019 to January 2022 CompTia Security Analytics Professional January 2019 to January 2022