System Administrator System <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Waipahu, HI Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience System Administrator NOAA-National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administrati - Honolulu, HI September 2014 to Present Sole responsivity is to provide IT support onsite and remote session for all The Compact of Free Association (COFA) Weather Service Offices in the Federated States of Micronesia (FSM) that includes Chuuk, Yap and Pohnpei, the Republic of the Marshall Islands (RMI) that includes Majuro and the Republic of Palau. Also includes the Pacific Region Headquarters on Ford Island Military Base, the Honolulu Forecast Office in Honolulu Hawaii, the Weather Service Office in American Samoa, Pago Pago and the Data Collection Offices in Lihue Hawaii and Hilo Hawaii. Network Engineer Oahu Computers - Honolulu, HI September 2007 to August 2014 Coordinate information systems teams on computer network security  • Maintained and administration of servers, desktop computers, printers, routers, switches, firewalls, phones, personal digital assistances, smartphones, software deployment, security updates and patches.  • Scheduling maintenance task and updating disaster prevention programs.  • Installed and configured proprietary software and provide training forusers.  • Analyzed PCs for customers, determined technical and user issues, and prepared recommendations, alternatives and viable solutions.  • Managed broad range of installation, upgrade, roll-out and troubleshooting projects for Windows-based networks. Education Associate in Information Technology Heald College - Honolulu, HI High school or equivalent in Diploma Waipahu High School - Waipahu, HI Skills System Admin, System Administrator, Active Directory, Vmware, Linux, Redhat, Linux Administrator Assessments Technical Support — Highly Proficient May 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/tvogctavm9ynptsp Basic Computer Skills: PC — Proficient May 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to perform basic computer operations, navigate a Windows OS, and troubleshoot common computer problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/mccqn-7hwv3ktxnp Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.