Inventory Control Supervisor Inventory Control Supervisor Inventory Control Supervisor - DHL Winchester, CA I am a driven, hard working, goal oriented individual that is seeking an opportunity to obtain a  challenging position within a company that will further my skill set and knowledge within the work force.  I would like to further my education by completing a degree in Economics, with a minor in Sociology. Work Experience Inventory Control Supervisor DHL - Colton, CA October 2018 to Present Oversight of a 180,000 sq foot warehouse, holding on average, 2000+ different items on hand  daily.  Responsible for the reporting of the site's inventory shrink and swell to the GM and off-site  customer weekly/monthly.  Implementation of site best practices and procedures to ensure the integrity and validity of location accuracy.  Responsibility to maintain and ensure through work standards that DHL and our customer's  inventory goals are met and exceeded that have a direct impact on contractual agreements. Data Systems Administrator United States Marine Corps - Camp Pendleton, CA July 2017 to August 2018 Directly responsible for the System Authorization Access Request(SAAR) process which allowed  users within the battalion to be granted access to garrison, field, and secret level access across Marine Corps enterprise networks.  Supervisor position in overseeing the trouble ticket process which allowed users to notify the Data  section of any computer hardware, software, and other various issues.  Experienced with Active Directory Administration, Domain Name Service(DNS) and Public Key  Infrastructure(PKI).  Planning and executing the integration of multiple information systems within a network being  built or one that is already built. Cyber Network Operator United States Marine Corps - Okinawa, JP June 2015 to June 2017 Japan    Install, configure, and maintain network services, both hardware and software.  Plan and execute the integration of multiple information systems in a network environment.  Evaluate and resolve customer information system problems. Maintenance Management Specialist United States Marine Corps - Okinawa, JP September 2015 to May 2017 Japan  Corps  Appointed as the platoon level Maintenance Management Clerk for all gear on our Consolidate  Memorandum Report. Attended weekly reconciliation meetings with the battalion Maintenance  Management Officer and Chief.  Duties included the induction of gear into the maintenance cycle, receiving gear after maintenance  was completed, and proper orders and priority of missing Stock List items pertaining to the gear.  Implementations of Modifications ordered by Marine Corps policies and planning Calibrations of Testing, Measurement, and Diagnostic Equipment (TMDE) used within the platoon.  Assumed Maintenance Chief responsibilities and Officer roles after taking the initiative to attend the Maintenance Management Supervisor certification course. Gas Station Clerk Shell - Germantown, IL September 2013 to July 2014 Opening and/or closing of the store which includes opening and counting the cash registers from previous shift.  Sell lottery tickets, alcohol, and tobacco products upon verification of legal age to purchase.  Prepare daily reports of gas at conclusion of the closing shift.  Inspection of vendor shipments to verify counts of number of items ordered and received during delivery. Upon inspection, responsible to write a corresponding check to the respective company. Education High School Diploma Central Community High School - Breese, IL August 2009 to May 2013 Skills 55 wpm, Excel, Mac, Microsoft Word, Inventory Management, training, Inventory, Scheduling, Operations Military Service Branch: United States Marine Corps Rank: Corporal