System Administrator/contract System <span class="hl">Administrator</span>/contract System Administrator/contract Litchfield, NH Work Experience System Administrator/contract Connection - Londonderry, NH May 2019 to August 2019 Upgraded all workstations and laptops to windows 10.  ? Setup OneDrive for users and register device in Microsoft Intune.  ? Resolve tickets from end users in SolarWinds web helpdesk system.  ? Managed users in active director and Microsoft 365. Network Administrator Tibco/Scribe - Manchester, NH February 2010 to February 2019 Designed and upgraded virtual environment to a managed vCenter/Storage solution.  ? Installed and configured vSphere replication appliance for fail over recovery.  ? Implemented AWS migration services to sync on premise servers to cloud for disaster recovery.  ? Twice managed the move of all IT infrastructure to new location including data/phone circuit.  ? Part of the OPS team that configured and managed cloud infrastructure for online SaaS platform.  ? Responsible for managing remote office in Amsterdam along with 5 remote users across the U.S.  ? Managed day to day operations of Mitel 3300 phone system including remote phone gateway.  ? Administration of all aspects of Microsoft Office 365 cloud.  ? Responsible for managing SonicWall firewall along with HP and Dell switches including VPN access.  ? Managed Zendesk help desk ticketing system.  ? Responsible for all hardware purchasing and managing lifecycles Windows / Network Administrator Seaboard International Forest Products - Nashua, NH 2006 to 2009 Managed and monitored the daily operations of the local and wide area networks.  ? Including domain controllers, Exchange 2003 Server, firewall, VPN, remote access, XP desktop, Repartee Voice mail system.  ? Designed, wrote and implemented our disaster recovery and business continuity plan.  ? Setup the disaster recovery location to mesh with our corporate MPLS VPN network.  ? Was part of a group of corporate network administrators set with the task of solving email latency along with the high influx of spam. Also, was part of a corporate group to solve email continuity issue for disaster recovery of all Exchange 2003 Servers.  ? In my last position, I worked with telecommunications vendors to reduce all communication costs by 35%, saving the company over twenty-five thousand dollars per year. Windows / Network Administrator First Eastern Mortgage - Andover, MA 1998 to 2005 Responsible for the operation of the in-house computer network. This included planning, developing, installing, configuring, maintaining, supporting, and optimizing all network hardware, software, and communication links. Analyze and resolve end user hardware and software computer problems in a timely and accurate fashion.  ? Designed, rebuilt and migrated First Eastern's Windows 95 peer to peer network to a Windows NT domain single-master, multi-resource departmentalized structure  ? This included 10 sites along with over 100 computers and 30 laptops.  ? Migrated Windows NT domain to Windows 2000 Active Directory  ? Established better working practices within the organization. i.e. Procedures and training of all staff and company employees to better utilize the technology that is available to them.  ? Daily duties called for maintaining backups, user's accounts, system maintenance, and local end user support.  ? Rolled out a complete migration of Windows XP, along with Symantec security client for a desktop and laptop solution.  ? Installed and configured Norton Anti-Virus Corporate Edition to protect servers and clients against virus and spyware programs  ? Duties also called for supporting internal and external AS/400 client's connectivity  ? And performance monitoring of our AS/400. Skills Vpn, Firewall, Active directory, Dhcp, Tcp, Tcp/ip, Terminal server, Wins, Dns, Wireless, Exchange, Network administration, Mcafee anti-virus, Symantec, Ica, Deployment, Ms exchange, Lan Additional Information Skills:  10 + years Network Administration.  10 + years TCP/IP, DNS, WINS, DHCP, support and trouble shooting.  10 + years of end user and help desktop support; supporting ALL Windows clients.  10 + years of server and LAN administration.  10 + years of managing switches and routers.  10 + years of Windows domain and Active Directory management.  10 + years of Terminal server and ICA connectivity management.  8 + years of designing and implementing corporate anti-virus policies utilizing Symantec Norton Anti-Virus Corporate Edition; along with McAfee Anti-Virus client deployment and support.  7 + years of VPN and dial access connectivity  7 + years Remote Support  7 + years of Firewall management.  7 + years of secure wireless configuration for VPN laptop connectivity.  6 + years of spyware defense management.  3 + years MS Exchange 2003.