Network Engineer <span class="hl">Network</span> Engineer Network Engineer Minneapolis, MN I've been designing and engineering networks for nearly twenty years. My experience ranges from the military through corporate private and public networks, and includes Windows and Active Directory administration.    Skills Snapshot    • Engineering and administration of Cisco and F5 network devices  • Engineering of Checkpoint and Cisco ASA firewall infrastructure  • Entrust SSL certificate process  • Ability to learn and integrate new technology into existing infrastructure    Technology    • Cisco and switches and routers, Meraki devices  • Checkpoint, Palo Alto and Cisco ASA firewalls  • F5 Networks BIG-IP virtualization, SSL, LTM, GTM, APM  • Gigamon network taps, aggregators, and GigaVUE  • Entrust Certificate management  • Microsoft Exchange administration  • Network-attached storage (NAS) and scanners  • VPN and mobile-access devices  • Basic Linux acces  • CRM and ticketing systems experience  • Basic SQL database interrogation  • Apple iPhones and Macbooks    Communication / Leadership    • Strong personal communications skills, at all levels of an organization  • Ability to communicate complex technical concepts in common terms  • Security mindset regarding resources  • Insightful problem-solving ability  • Myriad experience with IT material and environments    Added Value    • US Navy Veteran Work Experience Network Engineer Prime Therapeutics - Eagan, MN June 2018 to August 2019 Member of Infrastructure Network Support group under Michael Khan. Network incidents response. Entrust security certificate management. ServiceNow maintenance. F5 LTM, GTM and VIP creation and maintenance. Cisco Nexus administration. InfoBlox DNS maintenance. Cisco Meraki provisioning and troubleshooting. Network Engineer Be The Match - Minneapolis, MN January 2018 to June 2018 Worked in the Network team under Ben Morrison. Responsible for Cisco ASA system engineering and rule creation. Engineering F5 BIG-IP virtualization, as well as LTM, GTM and APM for various requirements. Worked closely with information security to maintain network integrity as well as policy compliance. Direct support of user-customers. Completed 85% of Network ticket-queue during completed 6-mo contract. Information Security Engineer Sovos Compliance - Minneapolis, MN June 2015 to October 2017 Member of the IT Security team under IS Director, John Strasser. Configured and deployed Security Domain servers, Forcepoint DLP solution and Gigamon (GigaVUE) Network traffic management equipment. Independently traveled to conduct security audits of multiple contractors, confirming industry standards as well as specific compliance. Work with corporate IT assets to ensure security and connectivity over a global network. Plan and evaluate security for locations in Argentina, Amsterdam, Sao Paolo and Santiago, Chile. Network Administrator Stoneway Electric Supply - Spokane, WA June 2000 to July 2014 http://www.stoneway.com/    Responsible for administration of all Windows Servers, 300+ users, 250+ PCs and laptops, MS Exchange Server 2003 in 18 WAN-linked branches, utilizing AdTran routers and switches; setup and administration of Checkpoint firewall; all information technology installations and repairs; all network design and cabling; IT purchasing for the company; sole help-desk contact for phone support and onsite repairs. Education Russian United State Navy - Presidio of Monterey, CA August 1993 to August 2007 Skills Cisco, Exchange, DNS, VPN