Job Seeker Work Experience DIT Services October 2018 to Present of Microsoft Windows systems solutions for various project and operational needs within virtualized environments based on VMware vSphere and Microsoft Azure.  ? Install new / rebuild existing servers and configure hardware, peripherals, services, settings, directories, storage, etc. in accordance with standards and architected designs based on project / operational  requirements.  ? Research and recommend innovative, and where possible automated approaches for system administration  tasks.  ? Investigate, troubleshoot, repair and recover from hardware or software failures.  ? Administers Microsoft AD / DHCP / DNS / System Center components.  ? Administers communications platforms; Microsoft Exchange & Skype for Business.  ? Manages enterprise storage platforms and integration with host systems.  ? Performs general Windows server, Active Directory and GPO administration / configuration / maintenance  tasks.  ? Researches, evaluates and recommends software and hardware solutions based on business need & anticipated growth.  ? Supports Company's commitment to a culture of safe work practices. IT OFFICER (IT Manager) Forum for Agricultural Research in Africa (FARA) June 2015 to 2018 Key Deliverables:    ? Provide overall coordination and supervision of FARA's Information System functions.  ? Installs, maintains, administers and monitors all ICT infrastructure (Servers, Workstations, E-mail systems, Internet access, IP-PBX, Software, LAN.  ? Ensure proper Service Level Agreement between FARA and its Service provider and suppliers.  ? Secure FARA's ICT infrastructure by deploying the firewalls, antivirus, anti-spam, and physical access control  system, data encryption, intrusion detection and VPN.  ? Automated Backup, restore, rollback, filtering and monitoring systems.  ? Schedule system maintenance, clean-up, hardware repairs and replacement, software updates and patches.  ? Provides technical specifications for the acquisition of contemporary ICT equipment and for implementation of ICT projects for FARA.  ? Maintains FARA central repository for file sharing and document archiving.  ? Coordinates and install simultaneous interpretation equipment and audio visual equipment for meetings, training, and workshops.  ? Provide IT support, advices and trains staff on system utilization, health and safety measures.  ? Maintains documentation of the network, topology information and change records.  ? Manages all network servers and other network components including installation, configuration and maintenance.  ? Develops and maintains network security procedures  ? Installs, certifies and troubleshoots campus and remote-campus network infrastructure. including a wide  variety of local area network equipment and systems.  ? Perform data backups and disaster recovery operations.  ? Configuring and maintenance of CCTV and PTZ cameras.  ? ICT Researcher  ? Maintains the office telephone lines.  ? Managing Hardware and software's  ? Provide overall coordination and supervision of Fara's information System functions.  ? Website Manager.  Apt Pension Funds Manager LTD Network Administrator/System Administrator December 2012 to June 2015 Key Deliverables:  ? Maintains documentation of the network, topology information and change records.  ? Manages all network servers and other network components including installation, configuration and maintenance.  ? Develops and maintains network security procedures  ? Installation and Configurations of window server 2008, 2012.  ? Installs, certifies and troubleshoots campus and remote-campus network infrastructure. including a wide  variety of local area network equipment and systems.  ? Perform data backups and disaster recovery operations.  ? Configuring and maintenance of CCTV and PTZ cameras.  ? Establishes and maintains contact with vendors for support and problem resolution.  ? Procurement officer  ? Implement & Verify WAN links  ? Data processing and Validations of Returns  ? System Repairs and Maintenance  ? Perform data backups and disaster recovery operations  ? Manage the organization CRM (Customer Relation Manager)  ? Coordinates the Company SMS  ? ICT Researcher  ? Maintains the office telephone lines.  ? Managing Hardware and software's System & Network Administrator Deyeni Ventures April 2008 to August 2012 Key Deliverables:  ? Installation, configuration and maintenance of servers.  ? Adds, removes and changes authorities for network users.  ? Resolves problems reported by end users for local and wide area networks, personal computers.  ? Setting up and maintenance of access control door lock devices.  ? Configuring and setting up of PBX/IPPBX telephone lines.  ? Provides answers to complex questions related to these systems.  ? Monitors and measures the performance of the network; reports problems to the appropriate individuals.  ? Maintains documentation of the network, topology information and change records.  ? Establishes and maintains contact with vendors for support and problem resolution.  ? System Repairs and Maintenance.  ? Manage the Network and Hardware. System & Network Administrator Intercontinental Bank PLC June 2010 to June 2010 Internship)  ? Maintenance of company website.    ? Diagnose hardware and software problems, and replace defective components.  ? Internet as well as Intranet Local Web Server and FTP Server Configuration & Maintenance.    ? Troubleshooting Networking Problems.    ? Perform routine network startup and shutdown procedures, and maintain control records.    ? Maintains documentation of the network, topology information and change records.    ? Manages all network servers and other network components including installation, configuration and    maintenance.    ? Develops and maintains network security procedures    ? Configuration & Troubleshooting of VLANs (STP, PVSTP, RSTP, MSTP), Inter-VLAN Communication.    ? Maintenance and repairs of Automated Teller Machines (ATM)    COUNTRIES WORKED IN  1. Kenya eCapacities Platform Trainer (https://e-capacities.com), IT support to the First AAIN Conference.    2. Uganda eCapacities Platform Trainer (http://e-capacities.com)    3. Nigeria System and Network Admin    4. Ghana System and Network Admin    5. Rwanda IT Supervisor for the 7th FARA Agricultural Science week and General Assembly Education Msc. in Information Technology National Open University Nigeria 2015 B.Sc. in Computer Science University of Abuja 2011 Comptia A+ N+ Deyeni Computer Institute 2005 Skills Networking, Tcp/ip, Vlan, Access control, Ipv6