Server Administrator Server <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Saint Joseph, MO I am a local A+ Certified technician whose career spans 6 years in the IT industry providing desktop and phone support for desktops and servers in a Windows environment. Proficient in identifying, troubleshooting, and resolving users' issues performing Tier 1 and Tier 2 functions. Excellent customer service skills and stable work history.    Technical Experience Work Experience Server Administrator Summit Computers Solutions September 2015 to Present • Initiative of team process improvement and services improvement • Ensure to follow Technical Change Management Procedure when there is any change requests • Managing & Maintaining Trend Micro Antivirus and ensure all workstations are always running with latest updates • Develop in-depth Product Knowledge in order to resolve customer questions and issues • Assume ownership and provide consistent follow-through to assure problems are resolved and respond to last minute requests • Providing advanced technical troubleshooting of hardware and software issues including root-cause analysis • Servicing monitoring and maintaining I.T operations for close to 100 Kansas City area small to midsize businesses Network Engineer Beauty Brands Inc - Kansas City, MO July 2012 to September 2015 • In charge of supporting and maintaining I.T. operations for 54 retail locations.  • I am the only line of defense for any issues the managers of the stores run into.  • Responsible for creating and implementing any software patches.  • Responsible for everything from joining new employee's to the domain, to trouble shooting servers • Shopped for and implemented the current AV software for the entire network both local and extended.  • Responsible for making sure each location has performed their closing activities correctly so our home office servers can collect information from daily transactions.  • In charge of configuring and maintaining Cisco routers for each of the 54 locations. Network Engineer Advanced Network Solutions - Overland Park, KS June 2008 to July 2012 Identify, troubleshoot, and resolve hardware, software and network-related problems encountered by end-users.  ? Support 70 firms with 3 to 50 users at each client site.  ? Provided 75% phone support, remoting into users desktops.  ? Responsible for everything from joining new employee's to their domain's, to trouble shooting servers ? Work with clients to resolve hardware, software and operating system issues.  ? Resolved software and hardware related issues in an environment consisting of 70% Windows 7 and 30% Windows XP.  ? Created, documented trouble tickets using Connectwise IT Management software.  ? Research and test possible solutions and implement solutions.  ? Trains end-users on the use and features of the various operating systems and applications on the various platforms.  ? Worked with Outlook on a daily basis configuring and troubleshooting with it.  ? Utilize Active Directory daily to reset passwords, adjusting permissions for end-users and adding and deleting new and former employees.  ? Set up on the domain, and configured Blackberrys.  ? Setup Backup software, maintain and initiate a complete backup for each client.  ? Determine customer requirements and expectations in order to recommend specific products and solutions. Education Bachelor of Science in Finance Missouri Western State University - Saint Joseph, MO 1998 to 2003 New Horizon Computer Learning center Overland Park Skills Cisco (3 years), firewalls (Less than 1 year), Linux (Less than 1 year), Ms sql server (Less than 1 year), Networking (Less than 1 year), Sql (Less than 1 year), Sql server (Less than 1 year), Tcp (Less than 1 year), Tcp/ip (Less than 1 year), Windows 7 (4 years), Vmware, System Administrator, Powershell