Security Engineer (DDos) Security Engineer (DDos) Security Engineer (DDos) Township of Brick, NJ Technologist at Heart. I approach Network Security from a Full Stack prospective. I put myself in the shoes of the attacker and ask myself how I would exploit known vulnerabilities then address Security measures to counter the attackers.    Designing and Securing Azure and AWS Enterprise Environment, Deploying Servers and Data Centers into the Cloud, Designing Networks, Diagnosing Infrastructure Problems, Diagnosing Network Problems, Diagnosing Server Problems, Diagnosing Computer Problems, Backing Up Systems to Cloud Storage, Building Computers/Servers, Configuring Managed Switches, Configuring Firewall/Routers, Installing Cat5e, Cat6, Fiber Optic Wire, Soldered Circuit Boards, Installing Wall and Floor Jacks and much more. Work Experience Security Engineer (DDos) Comcast Business September 2018 to April 2019 • Contributed to testing mitigation equipment for the redesign of the Comcast Global Network.  • Tested and Monitored Netflow to Peering, Regional, and Core Routers.  • Monitored attack traffic to all DDos Mitigation Scrubbing Sites and analyzed attack payloads.  • Setup, Configured, and Deployed Netflow analyzers running on VMWare Esxi Hypervisors.  • Setup, Configured, and Deployed Multivendor WAF. Senior Network Engineer Zanaris August 2017 to July 2018 Senior Solution Architect  • SharePoint Administration. Created and Migrated over 2000 Users. Setup Multiple Security Groups and Different Types of Mail Boxes.  • SharePoint Site Architecture. Created, Designed, and Deployed over 250 sites.  • Office 365 Engineering. Setup over 75 Office 365 Tenants. Orchestrated and Deployed Applications on-site and in the cloud. Setup write back from cloud to on-prem network. Setup Single Sign-on services.  • Designed and Configured AWS Cloud Service.  • Designed and Configured Azure Cloud Service.  • Configured and Setup F5 Load Balancers.  • Windows Administration and Engineering  • Linux Administration and Engineering.  • Gathered Server and Application information to determine if a Server or Service is Cloud Ready.  • Modified Power Shell and Bash scripts.  • Documented findings and possible problems with current configurations.  • Updated, Patched, and Tested Systems to make sure they are Cloud Ready.  • Migrated Servers and Services from On Prem to Cloud Data Centers.  • Setup and Configured Cisco Meraki Switches, Access Points, and Firewalls.  • Setup and Configured Barracuda F and X Series Firewalls.  • Setup and Configured Sonicwall Firewalls.  • Tested Network Security to protect data traffic going from On Prem to Cloud Data Center  • Tested Network Speed to determine bottlenecks on the internal network and from the internal network to cloud storage. Senior Network Engineer DefinedLogic Inc - Red Bank, NJ July 2013 to April 2017 • Setup and Supported Multiple Windows\Linux Servers both Local and in Azure VNET. Installed Patches, Antivirus Software, and Monitoring Software. Created Domain Controllers, Created Sub Domains and setup a trust, Configured Active Directory, DNS, DHCP, IIS, FTP, Print Servers, Application Servers and Windows 2012 Essential Server.  • Setup Microsoft Azure Backup Server. This system backed up Local and Azure Servers. This system replaced the Symantec 3600 Appliance running Backup Exec 2012.  • Setup and Supported Multiple Linux Servers for use as Web\Application Servers, and SAN.  • Evaluated Puppet Configuration Management Solutions for ease of application deployment, and central management for both Windows and Linux servers.  • Setup and Supported Multiple Dell Managed Switches in a Multi VLAN environment.  • Setup, Supported, and Configured a Juniper SRX Firewall with multiple internal networks, IDS, IPS, ACL, Static and Dynamic Routing, VPN Site to Site and Point to Site Access.  • Setup and Supported Physical, VMWare Esxi, and Azure Virtual Servers.  • Setup and Supported Nortel Phone System. Replaced Nortel system with Comcast Business Voice Edge VoIP Phone System. Setup and Configured VoIP Phones in a Web Portal.  • Setup, Supported, and Configured Multiple Apple WiFi Access Points to Load Balance Network Traffic.  • Setup and Configured Apple TV in Conference rooms so users can airplay presentations.  • Moved Local Document Management System, Intranet Site, Exchange, Office Suite, and Messaging System over to Office 365.  • Setup Groove a Help Desk web application to support Local and Remote Users. This allowed me to respond to user problems and fix them in a timely manner.  • Setup ManageEngine an Active Directory self-serve password reset Web Application for Remote Users.  • Supported 75 PC Laptops and 50 Apple Laptops. Ran monitoring software that reported system patches and updates that needed to be done.  • Supported 25 Windows 2012 Servers and 10 Linux Servers. Ran Monitoring software that reported if the servers needed system patches, and updates. It also told me if there was a security problem with the server, if it was running slow due to full hard drive, or if there was a hardware problem.  • Setup a Lab environment to test out new operating systems, devices, and programs before I deployed them.  • Created and Updated all network documentation and stored them in the cloud on a Microsoft SharePoint site.  • Conducted training for the staff on new products and procedures. Field Network Engineer Office Business Systems - Lincoln Park, NJ March 2000 to February 2013 • Worked in multiple environments. I worked in accounting firms, lawyer firms, school districts, and municipal buildings.  • Received trouble tickets via phone or email and responded to them. I would make a call to the account holder and ether setup an appointment to come on site or remote in and fix the problem.  • Setup and Supported Windows Desktops, and Windows Servers.  • Setup and Supported Toshiba Phone Systems.  • Setup and Supported Cisco Switches, and Cisco ASA Firewalls.  • Setup and Supported Net Gear Switches.  • Setup and Supported Voice Recording Devices.  • Setup and Supported Network Printers.  • Setup and Supported Court Room Recording Systems.  • Setup and Supported Police Interrogation Rooms.  • Setup, Configure, and Roll Out Computers in School Labs.  • Update or Replace Network Servers.  • Setup and Deployed Antivirus Software and Programs. Network Administrator GS Networking August 1999 to November 1999 • Installed Windows Servers and Workstations in a SOHO environment.  • Configured and Installed Lucent Phone System. Network Technician Palermo Supply Co - Bergenfield, NJ June 1998 to August 1999 • Supported Widows Desktop Computers.  • Supported AIX Unix Main Frame.  • Supported Desktop Terminals  • Supported Multiplexer Switches.  • Installed and Maintained Network Printers. Education Bergen Community College 1995 to 1999 Diploma in Network Engineering and Data Communication The Chubb Institute of Technology 1999 Skills Active directory, Cisco, Data center, Dns, Exchange, Load balancing, Network administration, Network security, Vlan, Dhcp, Juniper, Ras, Router, Systems administration, Tcp, Vmware, Vpn, Wins, Search engine, Security Additional Information Technical Skills    Network Security    Juniper Next Gen Firewall/Pulse Secure VPN    • Configured Router Settings and ACL  • Configured IDS and IPS Settings  • Configured Flowspec and Netflow  • Setup Point to Site VPN for users  • Setup Site to Site Tunnels    Cisco Routers/Switches  • Cisco Systems Administration  • IOS Configuration  • Configured Flowspec and Netflow  • Security Hardening  • VLAN Setup  • VoIP Setup  • Troubleshooting Network Problems  • Stealth Watch Netflow Analyzer  • Connecting Multiple Switches in an Enterprise Network  • Connecting Multiple Routers in an Enterprise Network    Web Filtering/Content Blocker  • Blocked Web Sites known to have Malware attached to downloads  • Blocked non-company approved web applications  • Blocked non-company approved web sites  • Blocked certain Words or Phrases from showing up in search engine findings    Virus/Malware Software  • Symantec Antivirus  • Bitdefender  • Web Root    Vulnerability Testing  • Nexus  • Netcat  • Nmap    Threat Protection Software  • ManageEngine  • Trend Micro  • Microsoft Advanced Threat Analytics  • Snort  • Squid    Data Center Software/Equipment  • Microsoft Operations Management Suite  • Symantec Data Center Security  • Service-Now  • Load Balancers  • Packet Brokers  • ITSupport247    Network Administration\Engineering Skills    Office 365 Suite  • Setup AD Sync  • Managed Exchange Server  • Deployed Application Software  • Created and Configured SharePoint Sites  • Configured One Drive for Business for Users  • Configured Skype for Business for Users    AWS  • Setting up Central Cloud Storage using S3 Buckets and EFS  • Setup VPC Networks  • Created Site to Site VPN, Direct Connect, And Direct Gateway  • Deployed EC2 Servers  • Deployed Elastic Beanstalk Application Services, Lambda, and Cloud Foundation  • Administered User IAM Policies and IAM Roles for Services    Microsoft Azure  • Setting up Central Cloud Storage  • Setup Virtual Networks  • Created a Site to Site VPN  • Deployed Virtual Servers  • Deployed Application Services  • Administered User rights to Resource Groups    Automation/Patch Mangement    • Ansible .yaml .yml Playbooks  • Python Modules  • Shell Bash Scripting  • Power Shell    VMware VSphere 5.0/5.5/6.0/6.7  • Installed and Maintained Host  • Setup Central Data Storage  • Installed Guest's  • Updated software  • Backed up and Transferred Guest Machines to new Host Machines    HyperV  • Installed and Maintained Host  • Setup Central Data Storage  • Installed Guest's  • Updated software  • Backed up and transferred Guest Machines to new Host    Windows 7\Windows 8.1\Windows 10  • Installing and Maintaining a Windows Desktop Environment  • Installing User Applications  • Creating Users and Groups  • Implementing Desktop Security  • Creating File and Printer Shares  • Troubleshooting and Fixing OS Problems  • Troubleshooting and Fixing Hardware Problems  • Implementing Remote Administration    Windows 2008\Windows 2012\Windows 2016  • Installation and Configuration  • Creating different Server Rolls  • Installation and Configuring Active Directory  • Creating Users, Groups, Organizational Units, and Sites  • Adding Client Computers and Members to the Domain  • Implementing Group Polices and User Profiles  • Created Network Shares, NTFS Permissions, Printer Shares  • Created DNS Servers  • Created DHCP Servers  • Created VPN Connections and IP Security  • Managed Hard Drives and Volumes  • Setup RAID Fault Tolerances  • Configured TCP\IP and Subnetting  • Setting up WINS to NetBIOS Translations  • Troubleshooting and Fixing OS Problems  • Troubleshooting and Fixing Hardware Problems  • Installed, Configured RAS Services  • Implementing IPsec Components and Processes  • Used Load Balancing in a Multi-Server Environment    UNIX AIX\SUSE Linux\Red Hat\Centos\Ubuntu\Debian    • Installing and Updating Web Applications  • Adding Users and Groups  • Ran Proprietary Applications on top of Unix AIX  • Ran Proprietary Applications on top of SUSE Linux  • Troubleshooting and Fixing OS Problems  • Troubleshooting and Fixing Hardware Problems    Mac OS  • Configure and Install Applications  • Adding Computers to a Windows Server Environment  • Configured IP Settings  • Troubleshooting and Fixed OS Problems  • Troubleshooting and Fixed Hardware Problems    Toshiba\Nortel Phone Systems\Comcast Business VoIP  • Set up Phone Systems  • Rolled out Handsets  • Added Phone Lines to Phone Systems  • Configured Handset Buttons  • Configured Voice Mail, Auto Attendant, and Hunt Groups