DC SENIOR DC SENIOR Carlisle, MA Work Experience DC SENIOR Deloitte February 2013 to Present 1 CS (SENIOR CONSULTANT), DELOITTE  ClearLight(TM) is Deloitte's private cloud-based, end-to-end analytics platform that is designed to give decision makers at every level of the organization fast, cost-effective access to actionable information. ClearLight supports the delivery of turnkey analytics solutions in a timely manner. Most importantly, the platform makes available game-changing insights that can provide immediate value and efficiency to the organization.  Cloud Operations: Managed 1000+ Windows and Linux Development, Test, and Production systems in multiple hosting centers Responsibilities included server deployments, troubleshooting, planning scheduled maintenance, change control, patching and vulnerability remediation, monitoring and alerting and vendor relations. Most recent accomplishment was the migration of operations from Dimension Data to Amazon Web Services.    Team Lead on security and patching compliance. As team lead, I was responsible for ensuring that the systems managed by our team were patched with monthly Microsoft and Linux updates. I was responsible for reporting to the Security Officer on status of systems on a weekly basis and provide proof of compliance.    Responsible for Trend Micro Deep Security system, was responsible for ensuring that all managed systems were protected by Trend Micro agents. In my role I was responsible for detecting and reporting to Security Officer any vulnerabilities detected, ensuring all systems are up to date, and weekly status reports.    Technical Lead for Deloitte TACS (Taxation and Consulting Services) Provided support Deloitte practitioners and client on development and production sites. SR. SYSTMES ADMINISTRATOR VAROLII CORPORATION July 2006 to February 2013 Varolii provides real-time critical business continuity and disaster recovery services (IaaS/SaaS).  In my role I managed 300+ MS Windows production, test, and DEV server systems residing in four hosting centers. Designed and developed policies and procedures related to critical production situations, scheduled maintenance, unscheduled outage management, customer escalation management, and root cause analysis. Established monitoring/alerting solutions consisting of centralized alarming, event correlation and enterprise monitoring of production databases, servers, storage systems and network devices. NETWORK ADMINISTRATOR MONITOR GROUP February 2005 to July 2006 Evaluate and recommend software and hardware for the company based on requirements handed down from upper management. Manage, monitor, and support the Windows 2000/2003 network of a large multi-site organization with offices located all over the world. Using HP Insight Manager, I was responsible for ensuring that HP systems in all offices were up to date on all firmware and drivers to alleviate the number of security risks being introduced into the Cambridge office I was responsible for testing Still Secure Safe Access, and end point security system.  Responsible for deploying Windows Software Update Service into offices for Microsoft hot fix deployment. Proof of concept testing between Microsoft Windows Virtual Server 2005 and VMware, this was part of an effort to cut down on space and power consumption in the Cambridge office. NETWORK ADMINISTRATOR March 1998 to January 2005 MATHSOFT  Responsible for daily managing, monitoring, and support the Windows 2000/2003 network of a medium sized organization with offices in Cambridge, United Kingdom, and Germany.    Provide support and planning for critical requirements including, network administration, server builds, software installs, telephony, network security, vendor relations, and support for company web servers in offsite data center.    Responsible for managing all network backup and offsite storage of company tapes.    Responsible for managing WatchGuard firewall, setting firewall rules up, maintaining branch office VPN connection between 3 office locations, also responsible for allowing user access into environment via VPN from home systems.    Deployed Barracuda email security into organization cutting SPAM email down 75% Provided desktop support for end users when needed. Education CERTIFICATE BOSTON UNIVERSITY CORPORATE EDUCTION January 1998 to January 1999 ASSOCIATE'S DEGREE in CRIMINAL JUSTICE AND CORRECTIONS CAPE CODE COMMUNITY COLLEGE May 1992 Skills Security, Web services, Amazon web services, Exchange, Network security, Vmware, Microsoft exchange Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/kevincox-9584707