Network Administrator <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Network Administrator Seattle, WA Work Experience Network Administrator Brown and Caldwell - Seattle, WA April 2004 to July 2019 Seattle, Washington    Brown and Caldwell delivers leading edge engineering and business solutions to efficiently and effectively meet the environmental needs of public agencies, government and private industry.    IT operations - Network Administrator April 2004 - July 2019    Support over 50 offices and over 1400 end users with any IT problems that may arise within the company of Brown and Caldwell. Primary responsibilities are maintaining all server/computer/switches and other assets across the company network.    Daily Tasks    ?    Server maintenance, patching, upgrades and new installs                      ?    AD user and security management  ?    Maintaining VMware vSphere servers and hosts            ?    ShoreTel Administration  ?    Scripting for GPO in Active Directory  ?    Deploy and manage laptop backup strategies   ?     Network Storage upgrade and migration  ?    Manage and maintain Symantec Backup Exec   ?    Exchange Support   ?    Tier 2 and 3 level support  ?    Mentor helpdesk and Jr associates  ?    Workstation deployment imaging and asset management Computer Support Specialist Corixa Corporation - Seattle, WA November 1998 to November 2003 Seattle, Washington  Corina was a developer of immunotherapy drugs with a commitment to treating and preventing autoimmune diseases, cancer and infectious diseases by understanding and directing the immune system.    Computer Support Specialist November 1998 - November 2003  Assist end users with client-side problems. This includes all software and LAN connectivity issues. Support and administer laboratory networked systems and devices. Managed daily ticket flow and escalations to proper IT personnel. Maintain and managed all helpdesk projects at corporate headquarters. In charge of developing strategies and resolution for ticket trends that occur at this site.    Daily Tasks  ? Multi-tier support capabilities.  ? Assist in backup and restoration of files.  ? Implement helpdesk software, Track-it Enterprise 6.0, across multiple sites.  ? Maintain and configure Windows print server.  ? Implement and roll out Ghost Enterprise 8.0.  ? Manage imaging and inventory of computers and software  ? Maintain Meridian 51c PBX system. This includes installing and configuring  phones and troubleshooting any telecommunication issues as they arise.  ? Configure and maintain 4 Polycom 512 MP videoconference systems.  ? Repair computers and laptops as necessary.  ? Troubleshoot Checkpoint secure VPN client issues.  ? SMS as a network tool, inventory, troubleshooting, reports, loading of software.  ? Active roll in migration to active directory from a NT 4.0 domain. Education Certification in Data Communications - Network Engineering Certification Program University of Washington - Seattle, WA Bachelor of Fine Arts University of Washington Skills Active directory, Cisco, Citrix, Dhcp, Tcp, Tcp/ip, Vmware, Vpn, Wins, Dns, Exchange, Iis, Nas, Networking, Hyper-v, Iscsi, Backup exec, Smtp, Symantec, Ms office, Technical Support, Windows, Customer Service, Windows 7 Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/steveanest Additional Information Technical Proficiencies    Software MS Azure, Windows Server 2016/12/08, VMware vSphere, Hyper-V, AWS, Citrix, Windows 10  Symantec Endpoint protection, Commvault, Exchange, Backup Exec, Kace, MS Office 365, SQL, AutoCAD, Seeq    Hardware Switches (Cisco), HPE ProLiant, DELL PowerEdge, SAN/NAS, ShoreTel Shore gear, PLC's    Networking Active Directory, Group Policy, WLANs, DNS, WINS, DHCP, TCP/IP, VPN, SMTP, IIS, iSCSI    Areas of Interest - continuing classes    ? Data Analytics course - Seeq Seattle, WA  ? Profinet course - Setup configure and administer Profinet Bellevue, EA  ? Siemens - WinCCOA (SCADA) and TIA Portal (PLC) Seattle, WA