Network Administrator <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Customer Service, Maintenance, Fiber Distribution and Core Enterprise Network Analyst Brown Deer, WI Talented system analyst with more than 15 years of experience in hardware, software, and knowledge in ISP enterprise network. Excellent communicator, project coordinator, and trainer. Expert in offering technological solutions for all types of network infrastructure. Patience, flexible, and ability to handle pressure in a fast-paced, high volume environment. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Network Administrator United Mailing Services - Brookfield, WI November 2017 to Present Accomplishments:    Cut IT cost by implementing open source FreeBSD router with unified threat management, including Snort and OpenVPN services.    Researched and Deployed open source Debian hypervisor with high availability technology to leverage computing and storage workload, while maintaining cost efficiency.    Designed and implement multi-subnet routing and switching on Cisco and HP Procurve layer 3 appliance to upgrade system from T-1 WAN MPLS to enterprise fiber optic EP-LAN service for cooperate and remote sites.    Maintain and ensure 100% service levels for applications such as: TimeClock Plus, Secura SK-NET Access Control System, Honeycomb Compass, Accounting CS, and Client Bookkeeping Solution.    Responsibilities:    •Diagnose, troubleshoot and resolve all corporate software, hardware and connectivity issues. Excel in analyzing, researching and rectifying problems.  •Maintain Windows Server 2016 Domain Controller with Active Directory and group policy management.  •Implement change request and maintain Mitel 3000 Unified Communications platform which includes configuration of Mitel 3300 controller, Mitel Application Suite and VoIP stations.  •Maintain Veeam Endpoint Backup solution for all Windows servers and critical Windows workstation.  •Monitored: server backups, NAS, and network appliance activity, adjusting equipment and settings as needed. Ensure 100% uptime of critical services.  •Maintain IT budget and inventory of all IT assets and resupply when required. Network Analyst Charter Communications Spectrum - Milwaukee, WI May 2012 to May 2017 Accomplishments:    Initiated a required technical note field on all service and repair tickets to improve service performance and reduce repair time.    Exceeds expectations on employee reviews for five consecutive years; 2011 to 2016.    Deliver high quality and reliable products, ensure successful launch of new products and services with 99.4% service outage discovered.    Responsibilities:    • Analyze data sets from SNMP servers such as ATG Big Brother and Arris ServAssure to form concrete evidence of system impairment and network degradation.  • Design solutions for network impairment using data charts and blue prints, then log network problems and solutions into BMC Remedy ticketing system.  • Execute repair or service restoration by engaging fix agents in access, distribution, and core tiers. Communicate precise impairment details and repair plan to fix agents.  • Help guide sound decisions and prudent investments by reporting major system failure, track repair progress, and provide analysis via conference calls to upper management.  • Provide training and mentor to tier I and II representatives and perform their duties when required.  • Examine accuracy of proprietary dynamic database such as: ICOMS, BMC Remedy, and Unified tools and request database corrections when needed.  • Conform to established procedures, ensuring safety, efficiency and interoperability between multiple departments, such as: customer service, maintenance, fiber, hub, and head-end. Network Performance Technician Charter Communications Spectrum - Milwaukee, WI October 2006 to May 2012 •Repair hybrid coaxial/fiber distribution network by utilizing software and hardware such as: QAM analyzer, signal meter, volt/ohm meter, optical TDR, ping and traceroute. Then organize and upload information to database.  •Maintain and perform upgrades to network by calibrating or swapping: server blades, transmitters, receivers, repeaters, power supplies, and UPS.  •Maintain UPS gel-cell batteries in optimal performance by replacing UPS parts as needed.  •Perform additional duties that are assigned to service technicians and installers at customer premise when required. Service Technician II Charter Communications Spectrum - Milwaukee, WI December 2003 to October 2006 •Repair subscriber services such as: digital video, high speed data, VoIP, and system related equipment at customer premise, including wireless devices like laptops, printers, and tablets.  •Performed installation and ensure service compatibility which consists of installing USB adapter, PCMCIA cards, NIC cards, and wireless antennas.  •Install and setup wireless AP then configure AP clients and test connectivity range.  •Setup or diagnose IMAP and POP3 settings in clients like Outlook, Thunderbird, or Mail.  •Troubleshoot TCP/IP problems caused by anti-virus or firewall blocking in Windows OS, Windows servers, and Linux servers.  •Educate and demonstrate high speed data, digital video, and voice products to customers.  •Perform on-call emergency repair of distribution network and customer premise equipment. Education A.A.S. in Computer Information System - Network Specialist Milwaukee Area Technical College - Milwaukee, WI Skills CISCO (3 years), Comptia A+ (10+ years), TECHNICAL SUPPORT (10+ years), Windows (10+ years), Active Directory (3 years), Customer Service (10+ years), Networking (10+ years), Windows 7, Security, Microsoft Office Awards The TQS Award (Time Warner Cable) 2008-04 This certificate is awarded to: Nick Her. In recognition of your outstanding performance, significant contribution to the organization, and demonstration of traits that exemplify a commitment to total quality service in the Southeast Wisconsin operations. Certifications/Licenses Cisco Certified Entry Networking Technician (CCENT) September 2017 to September 2020 430028557088GSWK CompTIA A+ Present COMP001001971041 Additional Information NCTI Operation Center Technical Support III certificate