Senior System Engineer Senior System Engineer Senior System Engineer - Marin IT Novato, CA this dynamic, ever-changing field. Over the years I've become expert in some areas, such as  Windows servers, Active Directory and Office 365, Cisco and Meraki networking. I'm also  quite proficient in many others, VMWare, VoIP systems, storage, security for example.    My background is diverse and follows a typical path, progressing from Computer Science  major to Network Administration. Although my first job out of college was as a programmer, I  quickly transitioned into computer support and local-area networking with Novell NetWare.    As Microsoft gained momentum in the network server market, I started migrating customers  from their Novell and GroupWise E-Mail systems to NT Server, MS Exchange, and Active  Directory.  In early 2000, I became a Cisco Certified Network Administrator. For several years, my work  focus shifted somewhat to primarily performing network installations and upgrades.  More recently, I've transitioned back into the consulting arena with Marin IT, where it is often  necessary to wear multiple hats, being a jack of all trades somewhat. I can go from providing  simple desktop support to deploying a new server, to troubleshooting a complex network issue  all in one day.  All the experience I've gained over the years has helped round out my skill set fairly  completely. I am now looking forward to the next challenge. Work Experience Senior System Engineer Marin IT - Novato, CA 2015 to Present Typical job functions include providing network, server, and desktop support for a variety of clients throughout Marin County, as well as the greater San Francisco Bay Area.  Work on projects such as network and server installations and upgrades; switch, router, and firewall installations and upgrades; wireless installations, upgrades, and troubleshooting.  Provide pro-active monitoring, patch management, and anti-virus/malware through Kaseya  enterprise management system.  Perform Office 365 implementation and migration projects, moving customers from on- premise Exchange, G-Suite, and other platforms to cloud-based solutions. Senior Network Administrator Savings Bank of Mendocino County - Ukiah, CA 2009 to 2015 Responsible for the day-to-day operation of 10 branch community bank network.  Performed monitoring, troubleshooting and maintenance on network infrastructure consisting of MPLS and legacy point-to-point T-1 WANs using Cisco routers and switches.  Provided support for Windows 2003/2008/2012 servers and Active Directory, VMWare,  Exchange, and SQL Servers.  Maintained network firewalls, anti-virus and spam filters, performing all necessary  maintenance and upgrades. Audited all systems for both policy and regulatory compliance.  Provided support for Mitel VoIP telephone system. Installed new VoIP telephone sets, assigned extensions and call routing functions.  Monitored all systems and resolved any issues as quickly as possible, ensuring all Operating  Systems were patched to the latest level.  Monitored system backups and performed test restores monthly.  Assisted in creating and maintaining the SBMC Disaster Recovery network and systems. Owner/Consultant CM Networks - Hidden Valley Lake, CA 2002 to 2009 Installation and support of LANs and WANs  Internet connectivity, home networks, security solutions  Installation, upgrade and maintenance services for Novell and Microsoft network operating systems and e-mail systems  Installation, upgrade and maintenance services Cisco routers and switches  Design specifications for Local and Wide-Area Networks Senior Network Consultant Client Services and Integration - Petaluma, CA 1996 to 2002 Designed and implemented Local and Wide-Area Networks  Designed and implemented secure Internet access solutions  Installed and supported Firewall and VPN solutions  Installed, upgraded and maintained Novell file servers  Provided desktop and server support for Windows 95, 98 and NT Network Administrator Sola Optical USA - Petaluma, CA 1990 to 1995 Responsible for 300+ local and remote network users  Installed and maintained Novell file servers  Implemented Wide-Area Network between locations  Introduced Novell Directory Services  Installed and supported company-wide GroupWise e-mail system Database Administrator Harding, Lawson Associates - Novato, CA 1988 to 1990 Responsible for maintaining ground-water chemical database on HP-3000  Generated weekly reports for analysis by Geologists  Downloaded data from laboratories, to HP 3000 and PC  Created Dbase and Lotus 1-2-3 reports and graphs Education Sonoma State University 1987 to 1988 Santa Rosa Junior College 1984 to 1986 AS in Computer Science Bakersfield College 1983 to 1984