Systems Manager Systems Manager Systems Manager - Steinger, Greene & Feiner West Palm Beach, FL Self-motivated and well rounded Network/Systems Administrator with over 18 years of experience. Providing top-quality support and going above and beyond to make it happen.  Proficient in    • Dell Power Edge Servers, IBM Power System servers  • Samsung OfficeServ PBX, Avaya VoIP, Ring Central  • Cisco 3750X, 3850, Netgear GS752TP  • Ubiquiti, Cisco Aironet, Netgear, EnGenius  • Microsoft Exchange Server 2003-2013  • Windows server 2003-2016  • Sonicwall, Check Point, Palo Alto configuration and management  • SNORT, Wireshark, Solaris Winds, Trend-Micro, Cisco Firepower    • Kali/Ubuntu Linux software suites  • Windows 7/8/10 management and support  • AD User/Group administration, GPO, GPMC  • Office 365 and all Office suites  • Data backup/retrieval/Veeam Back-up  • Mobile iPhone/Android exchange setup  • VMware VSphere/VCenter Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Manager Steinger March 2014 to Present Greene & Feiner -West Palm Beach    ? Create and administer user account/email/mobile/and legal research permissions policies.  ? Manage and support multiple locations with respects to IT issues and requests.  ? Maintaining and protecting servers from outside threats by performing pen-testing and ids/ips monitoring.  ? Perform system updates/patches and regulate network activity using ideal baseline models.  ? Setup technical materials for depositions, mediations, focus groups, and trials.  ? Manage, monitor, and backup virtual network environments via Veeam/VCenter. Sr. Systems Administrator Hippocrates Health Institute - West Palm Beach, FL July 2013 to March 2014 Setup and configure internal user accounts.  ? Maintain Windows Server 2003/2008/2008R2.  ? Create access and support Exchange 2008 Crystal Reports.  ? Perform maintenance with Citrix Presentation Server.  ? Operate Microsoft Dynamics Great Plains administration. Regional Network Administrator Arnstein & Lehr - West Palm Beach, FL April 2010 to March 2013 VMware configuration of iLOs for virtual desktop resources, servers, and small cloud.  ? Providing support, setup and configuration of Citrix XenApp 5 and 6.  ? Trouble shooting, administration and support of Windows Server (2000, 2003, 2008) and MS Exchange on Dell hardware at all levels.  ? Setup new users/distribution list, and polices via Active Directory.  ? Performed daily storage to SAN via Symantec Backup Exec. Network Administrator Bright House Networks - Maitland, FL July 2002 to July 2009 Setup and provisioned new Dedicated Access (Fiber Optic) clients.  ? Supported and resolved all speed, intermittent service, upgrade requests.  ? Orchestrated and assured BGP connections were implemented upon request.  ? Performed equipment checks remotely on enterprise circuits.  ? Participated in regular on-call rotation including several shifts and overnight support. Education MBA in Business Administration Keller Graduate School of Management - Maitland, FL 2007