Network Administrator <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Network Engineer Albany, OR To effectively and efficiently design, maintain, support and use a well-structured network with the skills  and expertise I have acquired through my careers in network engineering, system administration,  technical support, and customer service. Work Experience Network Administrator City of Corvallis, Oregon - Corvallis, OR August 2018 to 2019 Designed, implemented, and maintained city data and voice network  ? Upgraded city network from single router using static routes to Layer 3 switch fiber ring  design using dynamic routing  ? Oversaw network elements of city's upgrade from PBX to VoIP phone system including:  access layer switch refresh, Voice VLAN design and deployment, QoS implementation, DHCP  ? Maintained City Wireless Network  ? Maintained firewall policies  ? Participated in planning stages for extending city network to remote sites managed by the city Network Engineer II University of California, Office of the President - Oakland, CA 2017 to August 2018 Designed implemented and maintained network at multiple UCOP offices statewide, and across multiple UC campuses  ? Maintained Cisco ASA firewall headends, including S2S VPN tunnels between UCOP  locations and cloud resources in AWS and Azure, and FWSMs  ? Helped to consolidate all cloud and on premise resources to be accessible from single  Remote Access VPN Server, and upgraded Remote Access VPN to Automatic VPN Policy with MFA  ? Worked on WiFi refresh and access switch upgrades in for UCOP headquarters buildings in  Oakland  ? Participated in 24x7 on call rotation Network Engineer Cruise June 2017 to December 2017 Designed, implemented and maintained data network at multiple locations nationwide  ? Collaborated with Dev Ops, SRE, Security, and IT to upgrade network to standard design  to be used in all current and future company locations including corporate offices and Data  Centers  ? Refreshed WiFi network design at all San Francisco locations  ? Wrote wiki on Data Center Network Standards and Practices to be used in future DC build  outs Network Engineer University of California Berkeley - Berkeley, CA July 2008 to June 2017 Designed, implemented and maintained data network both on and off UC Berkeley campus, and campus Data Center  ? Coordinated Infrastructure work with Network Development team and contractors for necessary  cabling, fiber work, Access Point installations, etc.  ? Managed team of Network Assistant student employees for larger projects such as building  network refreshes, departmental moves, etc.  ? Designed and supported switch and router configurations, firewalls, and campus wireless  network Access Points  ? Developed and implemented standards for campus data network, and maintained record of these processes via online wiki and knowledge base  ? Managed core campus, off campus sites, and Data Center networks by means of automation via  Python and Bash scripts, and management software such as NetMRI, Cisco Prime, and Cisco  WiSM Controllers. Also manage switches, routers and APs directly via command line when necessary.  ? Participated in on-call weekly rotation for tier 3 support for LAN, WLAN and WAN issues both on and off campus Loan Processor/Systems Administrator Pacific Valley Financial - Pleasanton, CA September 2005 to June 2008 Assisted mortgage brokers in processing of home and commercial mortgage loans  ? System Administrator for database of over 2,000 clients/business partners  ? Provided end user desktop support as needed Technical Support Representative Verizon - Folsom, CA 2000 to 2004 Provided Customer Service/Technical Support regarding cellular phones, wireless data  products and cellular network issues.  ? Developed Operations Manual used for troubleshooting procedures by departmental staff Education High school or equivalent Skills Cisco, Active Directory, Security, Vmware, firewalls, VPN, DNS, LAN, Networking Additional Information ? Extensive experience in multiple routing/switching platforms: Cisco iOS and NX-OS, Aruba  OS, Arista, Brocade, Juniper, Meraki, Extreme XOS  ? Strong experience in multiple TCP/IP protocols and network technologies: TCP, UDP, LAN,  WAN, IPSec, VLAN, vPC, VSS, VTP, VSF, STP, VoIP, QoS, WLAN/Wi-Fi, WLC/WISM, RADIUS,  TACACS, IPAM, DHCP, DNS, OSPF, EIGRP, HSRP, HA, LACP, MLAG  ? Intimate knowledge and use of: Cisco Prime, Aruba Controller and Airwave, Cisco  ASA/ASDM, Palo Alto Firewall, Infoblox/Net MRI, Netscaler LB, AWS, Groundwork, Nagios,  Jira, Confluence, Service Now, Footprints, Remedy  ? Desktop Support experience in use and support for: Windows/MS Office, Mac OS X,  Linux/Unix  ? Familiarity and experience with: VMWare, Windows Server, Active Directory, Python, Bash,  Perl  ? Excellent communication and writing skills  ? Outstanding customer service skills  ? Ability to meet deadlines with quality results