Digital Media Consultant / Account Executive Digital Media Consultant / Account Executive Digital Media Strategist & Creative Consultant Washington, DC Creative Digital Media Strategist who takes on complex projects, meets tight deadlines, and delivers exceptional performance under any given budget. Has practical knowledge in digital strategy, website and graphic design, trends, paid media, production, and media markets. Focuses on data analyzation to produce creative and powerful strategies that solves problems within the digital media spaces. Works with an urgency in planning and execution, rather alone or amongst a team. Proficient in Arabic. Work Experience Digital Media Consultant / Account Executive Shihan C. Digital Agency - Germantown, MD August 2016 to Present • Creates yearly marketing plans, combining creative approaches with technical solutions to meet goals.  • Handles and allocates tight and large budgets to develop working ads that drive results far above the expectation clients have.  • Oversees client servicing and acquisition.  • Creates content marketing strategies in correlation with softwares such as Sprout Social and Hootsuite to schedule and optimize content posting on social media platforms.  • Studied trends and data to further optimize client's digital footprint.  • Developed hashtag strategies for different clients amongst other resources to optimize social media postings. Producer/Director/Editor Defense & Aerospace Report - Arlington, VA January 2019 to March 2019 • Oversees video production of news programs.  • Manages, edits and produces the news podcast on a weekly basis.  • Strategizes in regards to digital media efforts including social media posting, content strategies and data analytics.  • Took part in all aspects of the production of various projects, from the shooting all the way down to the release of projects on our social media platforms. Digital Media Strategist The Creative Group - Washington, DC June 2018 to September 2018 • Allocates a budget of $3000 for paid media services to garner 81 qualified leads that potentially brought $10,000 worth of business to one of the many clients that works with me  • Develop and designed graphics, websites, and organic/paid media marketing strategies to grow brands.  • In charge of curating content, revamping websites and analyzing all business data.   • Uses instagram, facebook and twitter to grow brand exposure through content scheduling and content marketing. Digital Media Director Vietnam Veterans of America - Silver Spring, MD February 2018 to June 2018 • Manages, curates and oversees all control of company websites.  • Develops and monitors ongoing marketing campaigns.  • Implements SEO strategies and allocates tight marketing budgets to reach company KPIs  • Uses content and hashtag marketing strategies to raise exposure and engagement on social media.  • Created a paid media campaign to increase donations to VVA Digital Strategist & Network Administrator Peterson Neurology - Washington, DC February 2016 to September 2016 • In charge of Installing, maintaining, and repairing network and computer systems  • Handles the converting of all files into a digital database.  • Strategizes on digital media efforts for the clinic.  • Created a digital marketing strategy and paid media plan for clinic   • Created graphics with photoshop and other design applications Project Engineer DC Sustainable Energy Utility - Washington, DC May 2015 to November 2015 •  Designs and models PV Solar Systems using AutoCAD and PVssist.  • Serves as point of contact for clients. Manages website and creates inventory and client spreadsheets to better manage business affairs. Education Bachelor's in MARKETING & INFORMATION SYSTEMS MANAGEMENT University of Maryland University College 2016 to 2018 CONTENT MARKETING HubSpot Academy Skills B2B, Publishing, E-Commerce, Digital Marketing (5 years), Digital Strategy (5 years), Digital Photography (4 years), Social Media Management (5 years), Website Design (4 years), Website Development (4 years), Customer Service (5 years), Customer Relations (5 years), Data Analysis (5 years), Database Management (3 years), Paid Media (4 years), Email Marketing (6 years), Audio Editing (7 years), Video Editing (6 years), Video Production (6 years), Autocad (8 years), SEO (6 years), Strategic Planning (5 years), Marketing Research (5 years), Social Media, Graphic Design, Twitter, Facebook, Fashion