Provider Network Manager Provider <span class="hl">Network</span> Manager Provider Network Manager - Anthem Blue Cross and Blue Shield Woodbridge, VA Work Experience Provider Network Manager Anthem Blue Cross and Blue Shield August 2003 to Present Responsible for building provider networks through contract negotiations, relationship development and servicing. Main focus is on the contracting and negotiating of contract terms. Working with all types of contracts including commercial contracts and Government contracts for state sponsored business such as Medicare and Medicaid and the Exchange Networks. The provider types range from individual to hospital owned systems including ancillary, dental and behavioral health. Assist the sales team with presentations to the employer groups and help resolve Broker/member issues. Other duties include drafting breach of contract letters and other physician correspondence. Prepare financial projections and conduct analysis to understand the financial drivers of provider networks to implement cost improvement strategies in order to improve overall cost of care and price points. Responsible for total per member per month costs for an assigned geography of 6,400 providers in the Washington metropolitan area which includes unit cost and utilization. Conduct provider education seminars. Network Administrator ESI International January 1999 to August 2003 Oversaw day to day operation of computer networks including hardware, software and support. Planned designed and implemented data connectivity for local area network (LAN) system. Coordinated system installation, backup and maintenance. Set up multiple servers including Exchange, SQL and general data. Analyzed and troubleshoot the network logs. Established and maintained user accounts, profiles, file sharing access privileges. Responsible for all laptops sent outside of the home office. Performed daily backup to tapes. Researched and evaluated new technologies related to computer networking. Maintained telecommunication systems and created or modified new user voicemail. Created new network drops as wells as ran all the cabling from the network room. Conducted training for new users for all of the Microsoft products. Education Woodbridge Senior High School 1986