Information Technology Specialist ( Network) Information Technology Specialist (<span class="hl">Network</span>) Information Technology Specialist ( Network) - Cisco ACS Fayetteville, GA Work Experience Information Technology Specialist ( Network) Cisco ACS October 2017 to Present October 2017 to Present  DoDEA (Department of Defense Education Activity)  Duties/ Responsibilities: As an Information Technology Specialist ( NETWORK) my responsibilities are supporting the DoDEA Data Center as well as remote locations in Europe and Pacific. Responsible for creating object groups (Address/ Application) and network policy security rules on the Palo Alto firewall using Panorama. Coordinating and participating in activities related to all phases of voice, video, and data communications network services. Providing recommendations to respond to security incidents according to defined DoD and Federal government timelines and procedures, including contacting users, notify management and security personnel, conducting investigation interviews, and documenting investigation findings. Analyzing operating system relationships, making decisions, and solving problems regarding appropriate implementation as related to network administration. Managing and supporting network operations and satisfying user requirements for networking systems as related to network communications hardware, software, and operational process. Planning, scheduling, and executing the installation of new or modified hardware, network operating systems, and applications software. Ensuring monitoring and notification services are used on all mission essential network systems defined by management. Monitoring network configurations for Brocade switches, routers, data center fabric switches, F5 load balancers, complex Aruba wireless architecture, and enterprise remote VPN access to ensure consistent application of established policies and procedures, and validate proper functioning. Analyzing network administration Standard Operating Procedures (SOPS) on a continuing basis. Network Admin ANISTAR TECH / RLM June 2017 to October 2017 Duties/ Responsibilities: In charge of equipment installs, Brocade and Cisco device configurations, and testing of equipment and new patches prior to pushing them out. I worked on migrating operating systems over to Windows 10 OS. Assisted with the design, install, and monitoring of the network. I took part in evaluating and validating network design structure. I operated, maintained and managed the network and the firewalls, to include hardware (e.g., hubs, bridges, switches, multiplexers, routers, cables, proxy servers, and protective distributor systems) and software that permit the sharing and transmission of all spectrum transmissions of information to support the security of information and information systems. I ensured all network devices and configurations were compliant with current DoD and Army regulations. Network Engineer NSS Plus March 2016 to October 2017 Duties/ Responsibilities: Configures, installs, and supports network hardware and software infrastructure including Cisco switches, routers, Palo Alto firewalls, hubs, bridges, gateways, etc. Ensured that all network equipment complied with industry and corporate standards. Analyzed and resolved faults, ranging from major system crashes to enabling of a port do to port security. Took part in routine preventative measures and implementing and maintaining of network security and ensured security compliance. Worked closely with other departments/organizations and collaborated with other IT staff on infrastructure activities. Planed and implemented future IT development projects and network design, took part in project work including project management. Configured and trouble-shooted IPSEC VPN tunnel issues. Worked on STIG configurations on Cisco routers and layer 2 and layer 3 switches using STIG viewer and DISA recommendations. Network Operations Technician ISHPI October 2015 to March 2016 Duties/ Responsibilities: Worked in the G6 NOC under ARNORTH command serving as a TIER II technician. Provided support to units out in the Region by either remote or direct. Troubleshooted VPN connection problems and route issues. Experience configuring and troubleshooting Cisco 3560 Routers, 2960 Switches, and Cisco ASA 5505. Used Solarwinds as our monitoring tool to help monitor the ARNORTH Enterprise network. Familiar with RIP, OSPF, EIGRP, and Frame-Relay commands and troubleshooting issues. Worked behind the command line troubleshooting Cisco devices, and upgrading their IOS files. Network and Computer Systems Administrator UNITED STATES ARMY - Fort Bragg, NC August 2005 to October 2012 Duties/Responsibilities: Maintained accountability of one product distribution system - light worth in excess of $134,000 throughout a deployment to Korea. Assisted the management of over 300 soldiers in the ATC database ensuring 5th POB (A) was current in all required IA ( Information Assurance) training and certifications. Performed around the clock maintenance for over 25 terminal devices and 5 telephone systems over a seven month period while keeping accountability of over $50,000 worth of tactical communications equipment during OIF (Operation Iraqi Freedom 2010-2011). Developed and supervised the program's COMSEC plan resulting in zero incidents or compromise of the program's LIMDIS classified material. Sustained 100% accountability of the Radio Integration System - Light (RISL) a system valued at over $200,000. Retained and administered computer networks and related computing environments including computer hardware, systems software, applications software, and all configurations. Performed data backups and disaster recovery operations. Diagnosed, troubleshot, and resolved hardware, software, or other network and system problems, and replaced defective components when necessary. Planned, coordinated, and implemented network security measures to protect data, software, and hardware. Configured, monitored, and maintain email applications or virus protection software. Operated master consoles to monitor the performance of computer systems and networks, and to coordinate computer network access and use. Loaded computer tapes and disks, and installed software and printer paper or forms. Designed, configured, and tested computer hardware, networking software and operating system software. Assisted with administration of multiple (LAN) networks. Provided technical guidance to enlisted personnel, as well as officers in charge. Monitored network performance to determine whether adjustments need to be made, and to determine where changes will need to be made in the future. Conferred with network users about how to solve existing system problems. Education Bachelor's Skills Networking, Security, Vmware, Technical Support, Windows, Windows 7, Sales, Microsoft Office, Customer Service Military Service Branch: United States Army Rank: SSG Certifications/Licenses CCNA CCNP CCNA Security CASP Security+ Network+ ITIL v3