IT MANAGER IT MANAGER IT MANAGER Hebron, IL mnoman786@outlook.com  (815) 245-8796  A highly competent and organized IT Manager with experience of 7213 Greenwood Road, Hebron, IL 60034  software and hardware procurement, installation, administration &  compatibility. Possessing a proven ability to assist with the day-to-day  running of an IT department and its business IT systems. Extensive  knowledge of monitoring and controlling data security within guidelines Skills  to ensure compliance and report on possible improvements. Well  mannered, articulate and able to act as point of contact for colleagues and ? Expert level of Planning, Designing  external clients, Internal Users and third Party Vendors. Ability to ensure and implementation of Data center and  un-interrupted uptime for Production Systems. Develop and deploy Render Farm.  policies and procedure for compliance of IT Infrastructure. Looking for a ? Installation configuration of Windows  suitable position with an exciting, innovative and ambitious company Server 2003, 2008, 2012, 2016 and Linux  that offers room for progression. Operating systems like Fedora, Centos  6.4, 6.5, 6.6, 6.7, Red Hat(intermediate).  ? Handling Dell Power Edge server, HP  DL380, DL360 server, HP BL460c blade Work Experience IT MANAGER HP Tape - Dubai, AE April 2013 to May 2019 HP workstations Z820 and Z840.  Dubai, UAE ? Handling HP core switches 5900 and  04/2013 - 05/2019 Edge switches 1820.  ? Ensure up-time of the data center, network, and end user systems. ? Configuration of Firewall Fortinet 300c.  ? Manage Help Desk and provide support. ? Handling of ISCSI HP SAN storage  ? Initiate and implement new IT technologies. P2000 and MSA2040.  ? Make recommendations to improve system performance where ? Depth Knowledge of EMC Isilon X, S  required, maintain IT security standard's and policies. and NL series, EMC networker, EMC  ? Creates, modifies or updates IT processes or systems documentation, Data domain.  including establishing standard support procedures. ? Depth Knowledge of Disk  ? Management of third party vendors and technology partners to obtain Management and with Raid levels  quotes for supply of goods and services from suppliers. (RAID 0,1,5,6 and so on)  ? Providing advice on selection and purchase of IT equipment for Server ? Depth knowledge of Multi protocols  Render Farm Client Computers and software. and cross platform tools for multi  ? Designing, implementing and managing Active Directory. operating system environments.  ? implementing and managing Microsoft exchange 2010, 2013 with 100 + ? Installations and configuration of DNS, Mailboxes and Distribution Groups. DHCP, FTP, Exchange Server, NFS  ? Ensuring that support calls are logged and handled effectively and servers.  efficiently. ? Installation and configuration of  ? Responsible for managing disaster recovery SLA, Manage and Backup software's like Netbakup, Monitor Gradual Backup's for onsite and offsite data retention. Backup Exe, and Microsoft native  ? Managing Perimeter and DMZ network closing security loopholes and Backup.  access levels. ? Knowledge and understanding of  ? Ensure adequate antivirus protection & solutions are maintained and backup technologies & disaster recover  updated. methods.  ? Installation and maintenance of all systems within a client's digital ? Experience on Openfire, Media Wiki, environment. Tactic asset management, Help desk  ? Producing documentation on operational, system and user procedures applications.  & guidelines. ? Knowledge of Cloud storage like  ? Building, configuration and troubleshooting of server and desktop amazon cold storage and S3 Storage.  hardware. ? Experience on License server of  ? Maintaining maximum availability of supported services for users. Autodesk, foundry, Arnold, V-ray,  ? Monitoring the progress of third-party maintenance contract suppliers. shave & haircut, Yeti, Massive, Pixar  ? Identify and recommending improvements for E-mail applications. Tractor, Deadline, RV player, Unity  ? Coordinate and supervise the management of IT assets and records. gaming engine, VUE, Houdini, Real  ? Provides technical support and advice. flow etc.  ? Ensuring all company data is stored and secured. ? Good understanding of calibration and  ? Maintained tactical control of project budgets and timelines to keep calibration tools and calibrated  teams on-task and achieve schedule targets. monitors like EZIO and HP dream  ? Closely collaborated with project members to identify and quickly color monitors.  address problems. ? Knowledge of 3d and 4d projectors of  ? Built and utilized reporting systems to keep customers and Christie also knowledge of DCP  management in loop with latest information. projectors and 5.1 and 7.1 surround  systems.  Riva Digital - NETWORK ENGINEER ? Knowledge of 7Sense server for DOME  Dubai, UAE 3d Projections.  04/2012 - 03/2013  ? Obtaining quotes for supply of goods and services from suppliers.  ? Providing advice on selection and purchase of IT equipment regarding Education  Render Farm and software.  ? Designing, implementing and managing Active Directory. 2008 SYSTEM ADMINISTRATOR ICE Animations - Karachi, PK September 2009 to February 2012 Managing Render farm and IT infrastructure.  ? Designing, implementing and managing Active Directory.  ? Ensuring that support calls are logged and handled effectively and efficiently.  ? Responsible for disaster recovery, closing security loopholes and access levels.  ? Ensure adequate antivirus protection & solutions are maintained and updated.  ? Installation and maintenance of all systems within a client's digital  environment.  ? Producing documentation on operational, system and user procedures  & guidelines.  ? Building, configuration and troubleshooting of server and desktop  hardware.  ? Maintaining maximum availability of supported services for users.  ? Monitoring the progress of third-party maintenance contract suppliers.  ? Identify and recommending improvements for E-mail applications.  ? Provided second-level support for all server class systems.  ? Optimized system security and performance with proactive changes.  ? Configured, tested and maintained network equipment. Pakistan Press International (PPI) - IT INCHARGE - Karachi, PK June 2008 to September 2009 Installation (System and Application Software) Securities update  ? Monitoring (Server, Client and Local Area Network)  ? Configure (2k3 Server, Win XP)  ? Managing (LAN, Map Drives and Shared Printers)  ? E-Mail Server (Out Look & Exchange 2003)  ? Manage File Sharing Server (Win 2003)  ? Trouble Shooting (Windows (Server & Client) and OS/2 environment)  ? Hardware (Desktop Machines and Printers)  ? Manage Spool Files (AS/400 and Windows Printers)  ? Proxy Software (ISA Server 2000 & 2004)  ? Novel Netware system  ? FTP Server Assistant Network Administrator Nadia Taxtile Pvt Ltd - Karachi, PK February 2005 to April 2008 Installation (System and Application Software) Securities update  ? Monitoring (Server, Client and Local Area Network)  ? Configure (2k3 Server, Win XP, Win9x Client)  ? Managing (LAN, Map Drives and Shared Printers)  ? E-Mail configration (Out Look)  ? Trouble Shooting (Windows (Server & Client) and OS/2 environment)  ? Hardware (Desktop Machines and Printers)  ? Manage Spool Files (AS/400 and Windows Printers)  ? Proxy Software (ISA Server 2000 & 2004)    Additional Information  ? Microsoft Certified System Administrator (MCSA)  ? GSM & Microwave Transmission training from CTTC.  ? Completed MCSE training from CTTC  ? Completed CCNA training from CTTC. closing security loopholes and access levels - Karachi, PK 2002 to 2002 Ensure adequate antivirus protection & solutions are maintained and FEDERAL GOVERNMENT URDU  updated. SCIENCE UNIVERSITY  ? Installation and maintenance of all systems within a client's digital Karachi  environment. Higher Secondary Certificate  ? Producing documentation on operational, system and user procedures  & guidelines. Education Secondary School Certificate SCHOOL Karachi 2000 BACHELOR OF COMMERCE in COMMERCE KARACHI UNIVERSITY