Network Systems Engineer/LAN Administrator <span class="hl">Network</span> Systems Engineer/LAN <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Network Systems Engineer/LAN Administrator - California Professional Employers Los Angeles, CA Work Experience Network Systems Engineer/LAN Administrator California Professional Employers - West Hollywood, CA February 2002 to Present Tech support    ? Researched and installed numerous security and productivity utilities including Fortinet, Squid Proxy Server for content filtering, Patchlink, Symantec Antivirus Server, SATAN, NESSUS, SNORT, VMware and Terminal Servers to improve overall network reliability, functionality,  ? Ordered and updated SSL certificates on company sites using Sonicwall  ? Supported and maintained enterprise Active Directory System including: DNS, DHCP, WINS, Trusts, Group Policy, System Replication and User Management and System Security.  ? Created detailed documentation of the corporate network infrastructure cataloguing each system and process by establishing a knowledge base for troubleshooting.  ? Researched, evaluated and tested new products and technology to ensure upper management, users and peers had access to cutting-edge innovations.  ? Maintained servers and workstations using logon scripts, batch files.    Network Administration  ? Designed, implemented, administered, maintained and supported the corporate network with 14 servers running on multiple Operation Systems across two datacenters and the corporate HQ.  ? Maintained and upgraded corporate internet and intranet servers running Windows 2012 & 2016, Red Hat 7.0, Red Hat Enterprise, Sun Solaris 7 & 10, FTP and Apache 2.2.0 to create a streamlined administration model.  ? Installed, configured and maintained Exchange Server 2013  ? Administered accounts and permission for corporate and production mail system consisting of 140-user environment.  ? Supported, and trained upper management, end users and peers on all IT related resources including: servers, desktop hardware, internal application systems, Microsoft Office products, VPN connections, Citrix terminal server, Document imaging with Sharp and Xerox MFP  ? Effectively interfaced with external vendors to ensure: quality product delivery, timely resolution to issues, aggressive pricing negotiations and solidified corporate relationships.  ? Monitored and troubleshoot print servers on Unix and Windows.  ? Helped the CIO with strategic planning, budgeting, SOC2 audit, HIPAA compliance and infrastructure innovation  ? Configured Faxcore servers to handle heavy incoming and outgoing fax traffic and forward faxes to users through the email system  ? Planned, managed and completed numerous IT projects on or ahead of schedule including: migrating entire network from Windows 2000/2003 to Windows 2012 and 2016, core network replacement, email server upgrades and migrations, network security review, desktop PC rollout  ? Set up and administered remote access using Terminal servers, VPN and Citrix  ? Implemented network disaster recovery plans and network security policies Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Network Management Westwood College - Los Angeles, CA 2005 Master's in Communication and Literature in Communication and Literature University of Merignac - Bordeaux, FR 1997 Skills Active directory, Cisco, Citrix, Dhcp, Landesk, Mpls, Vmware, Wins, Dns, Exchange, Nas, Network security, Sms, Linux, Solaris, Sun, Security, Sharepoint, Veritas, Ftp Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    Network: Active Directory, DNS, PTP, MPLS, WINS, DHCP, FTP, TFTP, Wireless, Cisco Routing, Network Security  Operating Systems: Windows 2016 Server, Linux RHE, Sun Solaris 7 & 10  Development: SQL, Windows Script  Mail: IMAP, SMTP, Exchange 2013/Outlook, Sendmail and Binary connector  Hardware:  HP Servers, IBM Servers, LC2000, Sun 420R, Dell ProLiant, Laptops, Windows workstations, Dumb terminals, Cisco Switches and Routers, Sonicwall, Snapgear, VERITAS Tape Backup, NAS, Proxy server    Software:  MS Office, Keller Osha software, Scriptlogic, GreatPlains, Desktop Authority, Filemaker Pro, Citrix, Sharepoint, Patchlink, Track-it, Symantec Server Corporate Edition, Payplus, HRPyramid, VERITAS, Veam, Bitdefender, Vmware, Goldmine, LANDesk, SMS, Hylafax, Trutime,