Network Administrator - Team Lead (Contract) <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> - Team Lead (Contract) I am seeking a position in the Information Technology field with the ultimate goal being the ability to apply my skills and knowledge to provide a higher level of customer service and a well built and maintained network. Oakley, CA • Experience network administrator knowledgeable of troubleshooting and maintaining Cisco 5520 ASA, 3845 Routers and 6500/3700 Switches and Nexus 5548.  • Team lead of 5 providing Network and System technical support to over 200 end users.  • Proficient in systems and network troubleshooting including Active Directory, SCCM and Cisco ISE.  • 5 years of the DoD of Network Engineering NIPR/SIPR experience.  • 24 years of private Network Technical Support experience on Cisco equipment in the LAN/WAN enterprise infrastructure. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Network Administrator - Team Lead (Contract) Phacil, Inc - Concord, CA March 2012 to Present • Transition our LAN/WAN/Wi-Fi /Voice Network from Scott AFB to Ft. Carson.  • Provide day to day technical system and network support for unique and challenging problems.  • Set up and operate secure and non-secure VTC facilities.  • Configure and deploy Avaya VoIP phones and Avaya PBX switch.  • Onsite/Remote User end assistance (A/D, RDP, Dame ware, SCCM)  • Program Two Way Portal, Base station MACOM Harris Radios.  • Responsible for engineering, designing, maintaining and troubleshooting the entire 834th Base.  • Maintain SOP's and network Visio Drawings. Network Engineer HP - Concord, CA February 2003 to March 2012 • Joined the Transformation engineering team in Concord, Ca. The project responsibility is to transform all the Merrill Lynch sites to the Bank of America Enterprise Network Infrastructure.  • Joined the Refresh engineering team in the Charlotte, North Carolina Region. This Refresh project was to replace old existing Layer 3 Bank of America's old legacy network equipment, Cisco 2500's, 3600's, 7000's, and upgrade the firmware, IOSs, and hardware.  • Joined the Heritage engineering team, task was to replace old existing Layer 2 Bank of America's network equipment. Network Technician II Bank Of America - Concord, CA June 1986 to February 2003 • Installed and maintained IBM 3720 family network in the Bank of America Concord's Data Center and in New York's Data Centers.  • Maintained physical connectivity and hardware installations in the Bank of America's topology.  • Supported SNA and TCP/IP protocols. Education Associates degree in Liberal Arts in Liberal Arts Los Medanos College - Pittsburg, CA Skills Cisco (20+ years), Juniper (5 years), s), VPN (5 years) Microsoft Office (5 years), Active Directory (5 years), SCCM (2 years), Vmware (5 years), Networking, Windows, Active Directory, Technical Support Military Service Branch: US Air Force Service Country: United States Rank: E-4 January 1982 to January 1988 Honorable Discharge Certifications/Licenses Security+ February 2015 to February 2018 Cisco Certified Network Associate (CCNA) December 2014 to December 2017 Top Secret Clearance 2016 Additional Information Over 24 years of Network Engineering / System Administration experience • Site Lead who has... to prove time cards, software/hardware and maintenance support • Background in Network Infrastructure Engineering • NOC Engineer experience • Strong troubleshooting skills and understanding of process flows, data analysis.