Network Architect/Solutions Architect <span class="hl">Network</span> Architect/Solutions Architect Network Architect/Solutions Architect Maryville, TN An accomplished and detail-oriented information technology and business professional with extensive experience working in architecture, infrastructure and security in several industries including corporate, manufacturing and retail. An adaptable performer who streamlines capabilities and protects organizational infrastructure from security threats. An architect that can align business and technology concerns due to his experience in various portions of technology across various industries. Work Experience Network Architect/Solutions Architect Murphy USA, Inc - El Dorado, AR 2015 to 2019 2015-2019  Enterprise Architecture team that has partnered with the business to develop an extensive 'As-Is' understanding of the business and technology relationship  Developed roadmaps for applications in the environment with a desire for a practical future  Instituted drawing standards to produce a reoccurring look and feel  Created full assessment documents for major ERP and financial systems that included security assessments, as-is, capacity management, business continuity and road maps.  Authored, edited standards and guidelines for use by the entire enterprise  Developed, then introduced means to display security architecture via use cases and fault modes for business continuity.  Worked to create standard drawing styles for information presentation helping customers understand architectural perspecitves.  Performed Solution Architect duties for numerous successful projects such as JDE upgrade, AS/400 upgrade, Tobacco Pricing and PCI remediation  Designed Mobile App for Customer Appreciation Program, using Azure with consideration for PCI concerns.  Introduced use of Business Requirements Document (BRD), Functional Requirements Document (FRD) and Systems Requirement Document (SRD).  Contributed to a team that established an Enterprise Service Bus using IBM Sterling.  Contributed to a team designing a new pricing system using Micro Services Architecture.  Created Proof of Concept using Docker and Kubernetes to demonstrate the Elastic Search Stack for Big Data.  Performed Business Relationship Manager(BRM) duties while positions were being created.  Established model for use of Azure for a mobile app.  Worked on security model for use of Azure.  Leading architectural efforts for migration of current environment from on-prem to private and public cloud designs.  Advocated a cloud-ready infrastructure that was agnostic in nature using microservices.  Created standards to illustrate security controls in PCI designs and documentation.  Provided PCI investigation and design for network segmentation, ensuring PCI accreditation. Network Engineer 2013 to 2015 Worked with a mixed environment of Cisco, Foundry, Juniper and Palo Alto Networks.  Certified Cisco Certified Network Professional (CCNP, Routing and Switching)  Designed network for Hadoop Cluster using a leaf-spine design.  Trained in F5 Big IP devices. Applied knowledge to the abstraction of resources for security and reliability purposes.  Managed the Cisco IP telephony network including IVR for a 24 hour call center operation.  Installed and managed a Cisco Wireless Network Network Engineer PILOT LOGISTICS CORPORATION - Knoxville, TN 2013 to 2013 2013  Performed a survey of company acquisitions in Oklahoma, Texas, Connecticut and California.  Consolidated several sites under new company during a merger across numerous states. This including bringing several sites off the network while adding others. During this we standardized the installations.  Provided support for locations from coast to coast. Traveled on site to locations in California, Connecticut, Oklahoma and Texas.  Installed and configured Cisco network equipment on a MPLS network, establishing connection.  Troubleshot QOS, DHCP, MPLS, Cisco VPN, Cisco Call Manager, Cisco TACACS, Cisco ASA's and Checkpoint firewalls.  Documented WLAN network being used nationwide.  Created inventories of equipment held at various locations for better equipment tracking. Senior Network Administrator DENSO MANUFACTURING, INC - Maryville, TN 2000 to 2012 Oversaw network infrastructure and data center for automotive manufacturing company. Designed, planned, budgeted, and implemented infrastructure used in network. Designated as troubleshooter for all network issues. Met numerous requirements for short turnaround on network projects. Installed and maintained wireless networks since 2001, including first wireless for industrial scanning.  Designed and maintained Cisco Wireless Network Environment using Cisco 4402, Cisco 4404, Cisco 5508 WLAN controllers in environments that contained numerous interference items.  Established RADIUS and TACACS+ for secure authentication.  Engineered network connectivity for PLC devices and other system controls. Troubleshot problems in a highly demanding JIT environment.  Combined Five data centers into one data center, then developed second site to have a redundant data center.  Worked with Tivoli tape library. Developed off site tape rotation strategy to ensure restorability.  Assisted development of facilities monitoring network. This was a collection PLC, Rockwell, security and other equipment.  Blended Toyota Manufacturing practices with network engineering, network security and network planning. This included, but is not limited to KAIZEN, 5S, GIMBA, NEMAWASHI and Horenzo communications.  Installed and maintained firewalls using Check Point firewalls, Cisco firewalls, and UNIX firewalls using Firestarter, IPChains, and IPTables.  Replaced all network equipment with Cisco including LMS, WCS, and TACACS in 2008 with no network interruptions. Designed, installed, and maintained Cisco LWAP network using Cisco 5508, 4402 controllers in 2008.  Melded production networks with office networks. Connected security system to network system, ensuring traffic of security system was not transmitted over normal network.  Developed network sniffer network in Perl, MySQL, and PHP, 2004-2005, proving its worthiness when hit by Blaster virus in 2005. Implemented sniffers able to isolate problems and to direct staff to outbreak of virus. Prevented loss of company production due to impacts of virus, when many companies were crippled during this time. Continued to demonstrate value of sniffers, enabling identification of infected machines across globe, and staff in various locations to address issues over following weeks. Located problems in Brazil, China, Japan, and Yugoslavia.  Installed and maintained SNORT Intrusion Detection System, 2006. Installed plant's complete wired and wireless networks, establishing new data center in three-month time frame, halved from six months, 2006.  Developed configuration management system, 2007. Backed up configurations of different switches, allowing for archival of units. Allowed for DENSO - Monterrey, MX 2008 to 2009 Budgeted, designed (based on approved budget and design requirements), planned, procured, and implemented complete replacement of network equipment, standardizing on Cisco network equipment, 2008-2009. Allowed for DENSO standardized network environment versus prior "best of breed" approach. Created new design in infrastructure, improving redundancy of network by making center of network truly fault tolerant.  Developed North American DNS structure, 2010. Coordinated efforts of numerous sites in California, Canada, Iowa, Michigan, Monterrey, Mexico, North Carolina, and Tennessee. Made applications from global locations available, reducing support costs and improving intercompany communications. Advanced Specialist Denso MFG. of Tennessee May 2000 to 2003 Extreme Networks equipment 2002 to 2002 2001. Improved productivity throughout site by improving speed and drastically improving network reliability.  Consolidated Microsoft Windows networks into one single network, from total of seven different domains prior to 2001. Combined and formed single tree, based on business structure. Allowed interdivision communications to flourish and succeed. Simplified security structure.  Developed standard login script and system for several thousand users, still in use (albeit altered over time), 2002. Allowed for users ready access to resources based on location in company.  Reassigned entire network's IP structure, 2003. Designed project and implementation plan, coordinated, and implemented within time frame of under two months. Made required changes and met company's three global requests well ahead of schedule. Skills Cisco, Switching, Tacacs, Cissp, Firewalls, Wireless, Docker, Perl, Php, Scripting, Visual basic, Giac, Snort, Unix, Intrusion, Mysql, Security, Lms, Wireless technologies, Intrusion detection Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    Microsoft Windows (Windows 3.11 - Current), Novell Networks  Check Point Firewalls; Cisco Firewalls; UNIX Firewalls Using Firestarter, IPChains, and IPTables; Cisco, Including LMS, ICE, WCS, and TACACS  Cisco Routing, Switching and wireless technologies.  Docker, Kubernetes, Rancher  Perl, MySQL and PHP, SNORT Intrusion Detection System  Visual Basic Scripting, SysAdmin, Audit, Network, and Security, GIAC Security Essentials, CISSP