Senior Network Engineer Senior <span class="hl">Network</span> Engineer Senior Network Engineer - EDUCATIONAL COMMISSION FOR FOREIGN MEDICAL GRADUATE Atlanta, GA Work Experience Senior Network Engineer EDUCATIONAL COMMISSION FOR FOREIGN MEDICAL GRADUATE - Philadelphia, PA November 2017 to Present responsible for delivering complex network infrastructure solutions in alignment with ECFMG's business needs and overall network strategy.    • Responsible for the entire network LAN, WAN infrastructure: Corporate Headquarters and Branch office's Production, Development, Datacenter, and Infrastructure security management.  • Follow team processes to gather requirements, deliver design drawings, deployment plans, network integration plans, configuration and integration of devices.  • Responsible for Network routing and switching to support all business mission critical applications including data, voice, and video.  • Ensuring that network operations are secure, scalable, reliable and efficient by monitoring network performance, coordinating planned maintenance, adjusting hardware components, conducting capacity planning and responding to network connectivity and security issues.  • Lead the design & engineering efforts, as well as expert technical input and support for Network and Security solutions based on recognized standards and best practices  • Collaborate and consult with team to develop designs, solutions, implementations, and prioritize plans to meet standards & requirements  • Work with stakeholders to develop requirements for new connectivity in support of Cloud, MAN, WAN, data center and branch deployments  • Configure and manage intra-domain and Internet routing, managing and monitoring Internet connectivity and MPLS inter-site communications.  • Assist in design/redesign and implementation of improvements to existing and new network infrastructure.  • Implementing, configuring and upgrading production infrastructure, Monitoring and troubleshooting network communication problems as they relate to routing, switching, security, voice, video, and wireless services.  • Managing enterprise firewalls and security devices including Cisco ASA and VPN devices Intrusion Prevention and detection devices.  • Developing detailed Network documentation and diagrams as required.  • Manage vendor/provider relationships: equipment support contracts, Internet Service Provider (ISP) services, Business partner relationships, etc.  • Directly working with MPLS and Internet service providers to resolve outages  • Participate in resolving network hardware and software problems in a timely and accurate fashion, and provide end user training where required.  • Participate in Resource planning for infrastructure related projects and administrative activities as required.  • Work with peers in recommending improvements to existing systems and identify potential issues for escalation and resolution  • Provide technical and professional mentorship and training to other members of the team. Senior Network Engineer GENEX Services LLC - Wayne, PA February 2015 to November 2017 primarily responsible for Enterprise LAN/WAN infrastructure, Routing and Switching design and Firewall management.    • Responsible for the entire network LAN and WAN infrastructure: Production, Corporate, Development, Datacenter, and firewall management.  • Configure and manage intra-domain routing using EIGRP/OSPF and Internet routing using BGP, managing and monitoring Internet connectivity and MPLS inter-site communications.  • Assist in design/redesign and implementation of improvements to existing and new network infrastructure.  • Installation, monitoring, maintenance, support, and optimization of all network hardware, software, and communication links.  • Implementing, configuring and upgrading production infrastructure, Monitoring and troubleshooting network communication problems as they relate to routing, switching, security, voice, video, and wireless services.  • Managing enterprise firewalls and security devices, Cisco ASA and VPN devices.  • Developing detailed Network documentation and diagrams as required.  • Support design efforts of all network infrastructures within - Production, Corporate, and Development networks  • Manage vendor/provider relationships: equipment support contracts, Internet Service Provider (ISP) services, Business partner relationships, etc.  • Directly working with service providers to resolve outages and initial activation  • Participate in resolving network hardware and software problems in a timely and accurate fashion, and provide end user training where required.  • Participate in Resource planning for infrastructure related projects and administrative activities as required.  • Participate in 24x7x365 on call rotation currently one week (7 days) a month.  • Provide technical and professional mentorship and training to other members of the team. Network Engineer HIBU Inc November 2013 to February 2015 primarily responsible for LAN/WAN infrastructure, Routing and Switching design and Firewall management.    • Responsible for the entire network infrastructure: Production, Corporate, Development, Datacenter, Metro-Ring Optical Transport, Firewall, Monitoring, and Collocation areas.  • Implementing, configuring and upgrading production infrastructure, Monitoring and troubleshooting network performance issues.  • Developing detailed Network documentation and diagrams as required.  • Support design efforts of all network infrastructures within - Production, Corporate, and Development networks  • Manage vendor/provider relationships: equipment support contracts, Internet Service Provider (ISP) services, Business partner relationships, etc.  • Directly working with service providers to resolve outages and initial activation  • Participate in resolving escalated troubleshooting requirements.  • Participate in Resource planning for infrastructure related projects and administrative activities  • Create MOPs for implementation of planned and unplanned maintenances on the Enterprise network  • Participate in technical projects in all infrastructure areas.  • Participate in assigned interdepartmental technical projects.  • Support design efforts for cloud infrastructure implementation and/or migrations  • Provide technical support for the entire network infrastructure.  • Participate in providing training support to Junior Engineers and other team members  • On-call rotation participation Network Engineer COMCAST Corporation Inc - Mount Laurel, NJ September 2011 to November 2013 primarily responsible for the infrastructure and core routing design of Comcast Converged Regional Area Network (CRAN) and Commercial Services network.    • Design and build core routing architectures of Metro-E and Cell back-haul infrastructures  • Perform sustained engineering duties to support CRAN services - High Speed Data (HSD), Video, and Voice products.  • Create and document all high-level and detailed network designs and topology diagrams.  • Monitor network capacity, plan and implement market augments as needed in the CRAN.  • Model network capacity for failure scenarios to proactively predict routing and topology changes in the CRAN.  • Create SMOPs for implementation of planned and unplanned maintenances on the CRAN and work effectively with National and Regional Ops team to support such maintenances.  • Create Bill of Materials (BOM) for procurement of relevant spares, gears etc. for CRAN augments and upgrades.  • Participate in the development and planning for the roll-out of future hardware and software versions of CRAN/Commercial network devices.  • Assist in efforts to automate internal processes/tools for departmental engineering tasks  • Participate in assigned interdepartmental technical projects.  • Provide On-Call support, focused on isolating and resolving network outages.  • Build relationships with assigned markets through regular communication and site visits.  • Communicate applicable design guidelines and provide guidance to markets to ensure compliance. Data Services Engineer II Paetec Communications - Conshohocken, PA August 2009 to September 2011 responsible for managed customer edge (CE) routers and Firewall management.    • Build/generate, reconfigure, verify and troubleshoot managed customer edge (CE) router configurations for Adtran and Cisco platforms.  • Build/generate, troubleshoot and modify managed customer edge (CE) configurations for Watchguard and Cisco firewalls.  • Configure, verify and Troubleshoot VPN, T1, PPP, Frame Relay and MetroE connections.  • Implement, modify and troubleshoot QOS policies on CE routers, and verify same across MPLS VPN.  • Implement, modify, verify and troubleshoot IP routing from provider edge (PE) to customer edge (CE) and across MPLS VPN.  • Implement, verify and troubleshoot a Multi-Area OSPF, EIGRP, and eBGP based network and solution given a design and set of requirements.  • Configure and verify and troubleshoot IP ACLs to mitigate given threats (filter IP traffic destined for Telnet, SNMP, and DDoS attacks) in a network and Configure IP ACLs to prevent IP address spoofing.  • Implement secure network management access and reporting as well as implementing AAA on Cisco routers and Adtran routers using local router database and external ACS server  • Configure and verify and troubleshoot an IPSec site-to-site VPN  • Create, Implement, verify, modify and troubleshoot Layer 3 Path Control Solution.  • Implement, verify and troubleshoot an IPv6 based network as well as Configure IPv6 interoperation with IPv4  • Troubleshoot failovers (BGP, HSRP, VRRP, IP SLA, and floating routes).  • Oversees escalations from the DATATAC Support Services Group.  • Remotely troubleshoot Network hardware and Layer 1 problems with field techs occasionally. Network Administrator Clarion Park Ridge Hotel - King of Prussia, PA October 2005 to August 2009 responsible for LAN and WAN network operations, Systems disaster recovery, systems backup, and network security and General IT support.    • Performing network documentation and updated same whenever there is a change in either the physical or logical network topology.  • Performing daily data backups, tape rotation and offline storage of backups to ensure data safety and 24/7 data recovery in the case of data loss.  • Performing network upgrades (hardware and software), installing and applying new updates/security updates and service patches to both network operating system (servers) and desktop operating systems (workstations).  • Monitoring Network activities and bandwidth to ensure smooth running of the network by eliminating traffic bottleneck that may result from hardware and software problems or attack on the network.  • Identifying and removing virus, malwares, and spywares including updating and upgrading antivirus/antimalware and antispyware programs.  • Managing network traffic/ setting up and configuring network security on proxy servers, firewalls, ACLs to filter both inbound and outbound traffic, and generally monitoring the network usage to ensure its in line with company policy and procedures.  • Managing the WLANs, installing and configuring and managing wireless access points to extend LAN services and resources to wireless clients in a most secure manner.  • Providing onsite and remote technical support to resolve issues relating to network hardware, software and workstations including routine maintenance and monitoring of standalone desktops, laptops, printers and scanners.  • Management and tracking inventory of Information technology devices.  • Active directory management including resolving lost password, failed logon, setting up new user logins, and, network/resource access issues.  • General network documentation and providing weekly reports to the regional IT Director. Education Bachelor of Science in Industrial & Production Engineering in Industrial & Production Engineering University of Ibadan Master Certificate in Information Security Management in Information Security Management Villanova University Skills Analog, Catalyst, Router, T1, Active directory, Cisco, Dhcp, Eigrp, Juniper, Ospf, Tcp, Tcp/ip, Vlan, Vpn, Firewalls, Load balancing, Hsrp, Ids, Ips, Vrrp Additional Information • Outstanding qualifications and certifications include Bachelors in Industrial and Production Engineering, CCNP(R&S), CCDP, CCIP, CCDA, CCNA(R&S), CCNA Security CCNA Voice, CompTIA A+ and CompTIA Network+  • Cisco Certified Network Engineer with several years of experience managing, troubleshooting WAN/LAN connections for an Large and medium sized Enterprise networks, Service Provider Networks and various data services. Highly motivated and detail oriented with a desire to constantly learn, grow and be challenged.    SKILLS/TECHNICAL EXPERIENCE  • Proficient and knowledgeable in the setup, configuration, installation and troubleshooting of Cisco routers (800, 1800, 2600, 2800, 3600, 3800, 7600 series, Cisco ISRs, ASR1K, ASR4K), Catalyst Switches (2900, 3500, 3560, 3750, 3850, 6500 series, NEXUS 7K, 5K and 2K), installation, management and configuration of various IOS, IOS-XE, IOS-XR and NX-OS images.  • Broad knowledge of Cisco and Juniper routers, especially the 7600, CRS-1, T-1600, ASR9k, MX960 , MX480 series and their setup, configuration, upgrade as well as the operating systems (IOS, IOS-XR and JUNOS).  • Configure, verify and troubleshoot a switch with VLANs and Inter-switch Trunking and communications, VTP, DTP, Inter-VLAN Routing, Spanning-Tree protocols (802.1d) and its enhancements PVSPT, RPST (802.1w) and MST (802.1s) as well Fast-Etherchannels, Gig-Etherchannels and 10Gig-Etherchannels  • Implementation and verification of WAN links ,Troubleshoot WAN implementation issues as well as Configure and verify a basic WAN serial connection, Frame Relay, ADSL, VPN, T1, and PPP links.  • Extensive IP routing experience (Static, RIP V1 and V2, EIGRP, Single and Multi-area OSPF, IS-IS, iBGP, eBGP, IP SLA, Route Maps, Route filtering and Redistribution).  • Implementation of high availability technologies on routers and multi-layer switches to provide redundancy, link-specific failovers, load balancing as well as recovery mechanism using Hot Standby Router Protocol , HSRP, Virtual Router Redundancy Protocol, VRRP and Gateway Load Balancing Protocol, GLBP.  • QOS policy implementation and configuration on Adtran and Cisco platforms.  • MACs (moves, adds and changes) and configuration of VoIP, analog, and digital phones.  • Knowledgeable in Network hardware installation, configuration, troubleshooting and management of intermediary devices such as routers, switches, firewalls etc.  • Excellent skill in Implementing and configuring an IP addressing scheme and IP Services to meet network requirements, troubleshooting and resolving TCP/IP network and addressing issues.  • Implement secure network management, IOS zone based firewall, IDS, IPS, VPN, SSH, AAA and secure reporting using SNMP, IP Netflow, syslog servers, as well as implementing layer two security measures ( DHCP Snooping, Private VLANs, Port-Security, Dynamic Arp Inspection (DAI) ).  • Knowledgeable in implementing, configuring and troubleshooting cisco Call Manager Express and cisco unity express as well as cisco IP phones.  • Excellent knowledge of server operating system, windows 2000 server, server 2003 and 2008 including active directory management as well as a large range of desktop operating systems, windows 98,2000,xp,vista,7 and Microsoft office suite.  • Team player and an innovator dedicated to achieving company objectives and adept at building strong business relationships with both clients and coworkers.  • Strong verbal communication skills gained through extensive customer service experience.  • Possess excellent interpersonal, organizational, and communication skills.