Director - IT Infrastructure Director - IT Infrastructure Director - IT Infrastructure Moorpark, CA Work Experience Director - IT Infrastructure Gottlieb, LLC - Jacksonville, FL May 2006 to August 2019 Jacksonville, FL  Accountable for the effective administration, project management and delivery of high-quality IT infrastructure services.  Director - IT Infrastructure (05/2006 to 08/2019)  Develop and execute a multiyear global infrastructure strategy across the business, leveraging industry best practices, emerging technologies, best in class security standards and controls, broad enterprise capabilities and contracts to optimize delivery value and cost. Lead IT teams across broad areas of responsibility including desktop application, cloud architectures, security, servers, storage, communication technologies, LANs, WANs, internet, wireless and IT service management. Establish scalable IT platforms and processes to support business growth plans. Introduce revisions as appropriate to reflect changing technology and the increasing maturity of the organization. Utilize ITIL best practices across all infrastructure activities including change and problem management, security control management and run performance and cost optimization across business solutions.  • Provided leadership and organization to IT and business teams to assess, plan and coordinate migration from on-prem VoIP to UCaaS cloud-based phone system offering company better scalability and flexibility for lower TCO.  • Development, planning and execution of workforce mobility through Citrix application virtualization platform.  • Spearheaded Citrix XenApp to Virtual Apps migration increasing app delivery performance, security and employee productivity.  • Transformational leadership role executing public cloud initiatives to Microsoft Azure IaaS, PaaS and SaaS service offerings. Delivering global availability, security, scalability, DR, cost savings, flexible expenditure and governance.  • Worked together with HIPPA/Compliance Officer to establish company-wide security for SOC2 compliancy and auditing.  • Achieved Disaster Recovery objectives successfully implementing colocation facilities reducing RPO/RTO impact.  • Managed continuous expansion and infrastructure growth to accommodate centralized growth by forecasting.  • Eliminated data breach exposure with cost savings as high as $20,000 per device deploying DLP solution.  • Reduced cost and increased savings over infrastructure server procurement by deploying VMWare virtualization experiencing 74% TCO reduction or $77,000 from HW/SW and IT Operations cost over first 6 months.  • Consolidation of ITSM environments into a common instance of ServiceDesk and directed implementation of centralized Purchase Order and Asset Management system streamlining customer issue request, reporting, inventory.  • Decreased Single Point of Failures (SPoF) throughout infrastructure deploying High Availability firewall solutions, SQL, File Clusters and Network Load Balancing web farms achieving and 99% uptime.    Meridian Technologies, Inc., Jacksonville, FL (Contractor - Ahold Delhaize USA)  Subject-Matter Expert (SME) and trusted advisor to internal IT consisting of 650 members with Application, Development, Infrastructure, Network, Security and Data Management teams  Azure Remote Network Engineer (09/2018 to 12/2019)  Served as an escalation point for Help Desk issues and developed, documented, and maintained standard operating procedures and production configurations. Performed routine maintenance and upgrades of IT infrastructure (routers, switches, firewall) and acted as a technical liaison between clients, customers and vendors to resolve issues.  • Design, plan and implement Azure cloud solutions.  • Support an environment consisting of over 65,000 employees globally with 6,500 stores worldwide.  • Setting up IaaS VMs, VNets, Subnets, NSG, ASG, ADFS, Azure ADDS, NVA, Internal/External Azure Load Balancers, WAF, Policies, Tags, VNet Peering, VPN Gateways, RBAC, IAM  • Implement and manage Microsoft Azure SaaS offerings including Azure Active Directory (ADDS), Azure Data Lake Storage for Big Data Analytics, HDInsight Hadoop Cluster, Azure Data Factory (ADF), Azure Web App, Azure App Services, Azure Service Environment (ASE), Azure Functions, Service Fabric, ASR, Azure Storage, Azure Container Service, Key Vault, Azure PowerShell, ARM Templates.  • HA, DR, Backup, Monitoring and retention architectures on Azure platform  • Global Network using MPLS and Express Route to connect On Prem.  • Infrastructure as Code (IAC) management of Linux and/or Windows systems using configuration management, such as Ansible, Puppet, Chef, Azure DSC  • Work with application and architecture teams to conduct proof of concept (POC) and implement the design in QA/DEV environment in Azure prior Prod deployment.  • Development of BCDR strategy for recovery time objectives (RTOs) and recovery point objectives (RPOs)  • Apply upgrades on a regular basis and upgrade administrative tools and utilities. Configure / add new services as necessary.  • Manage and deploy Palo Alto VM 300 series Firewalls for east/west and north/south traffic  • Deploy upgrades and management policy configuration Wildfire and Global Protect updates.  • Manage the deployment, monitoring, maintenance, development, upgrade and support of all Azure servers and services. Network Engineer BIOMET, Inc - Palm Beach Gardens, FL November 2004 to May 2006 Palm Beach Gardens, FL  Configured, troubleshot and supported enterprise voice and data networks while serving as the project leader on various technical initiatives.  Network Engineer (11/2004 to 05/2006)  Served as an escalation point for Help Desk issues and developed, documented, and maintained standard operating procedures and production configurations. Performed routine maintenance and upgrades of IT infrastructure (routers, switches, firewall) and acted as a technical liaison between clients, customers and vendors to resolve issues.  • Led the project planning, design, and implementation of the Citrix Presentation Server 4 application virtualization farm with load balanced Citrix NetScaler.  • Oversaw Active Directory and related network services including DNS, DHCP etc.  • Managed the IntelliSearch Message Screen secure messaging spam filtering and dual layer e-mail Anti-virus protection. Experienced and knowledgeable in SOX Sarbanes Oxley. Network Administrator City of Boynton Beach - Boynton Beach, FL September 2002 to November 2004 Boynton Beach, FL  Ensured all network infrastructure and provisioning needs, issues and requests from staff at City Hall and Utilities Departments reporting to the CIO and IT Manager are resolved appropriately within the standards laid out by IT roadmap.  Network Administrator (09/2002 to 11/2004)  Delivered services as the Tier 1 escalation point to all technical staff in the information technology department with respect to network issues. Monitored and tracked performance of the network to support the stability and growth planning of departmental objectives as laid out by the Architectural Team. Participated in ongoing and ad-hoc IT operations projects as assigned.  • Migrated city-wide network from Windows NT4 and Novell Netware NDS 5 to Microsoft Windows Active Directory 2000 using MSDSS and ADMT Tools.  • Recommended IT purchases and monitored NORTEL Passport 8010 hub/switch performance and capacity planning while maintaining BrightStor ARCserve backup, schedule archiving of system data.  • Maintained the Linux server running Fedora Core distribution for SMB file and print services with direct responsibility for the management of Post Nuke content management system, providing 24x7 on-call support. Education BACHELOR OF SCIENCE in COMPUTER & INFORMATION SCIENCE University of North Florida - Jacksonville, FL May 2006 to June 2010 Skills Infrastructure management, Itil, Disaster recovery, Full life cycle, Life cycle Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/pderonvil