Senior Network Engineer Senior <span class="hl">Network</span> Engineer Senior Network Engineer - Tranzeal Incorporated Fremont, CA Around 12 years of experience in Network and security Engineering, Networking Operations, Installation, and Technical Support/Troubleshooting & Client Servicing.  • Have extensive experience in IP addressing scheme and IP services to meet network requirements in a small, medium, big size enterprise and Data Centers.  • Comprehensive understanding of networking concepts pertaining to LAN and WAN and maintenance in multi-platform environments.  • Excellent team building & troubleshooting skills with proven abilities in planning and managing resources.  • Expertise in Implementing the Cloud environment such as in AWS, GCP and Azure.  • Expertise in configuring, verifying, troubleshooting on Cisco, Juniper Devices switches and routes.  • Expertise in IOS upgrade for Cisco, Palo Alto, F5, Citrix NetScaler, Sonic wall, Fortinet, Cisco ASA and Juniper Devices.  • Skilled in configuring and troubleshooting BGP, IS-IS, OSPF, EIGRP, RIP and MPLS routing protocols.  • Have hands on Experience on Technologies and concepts like Implementing VLAN, Inter-Vlaning HRSP, GLBP, VRRP, RSTP, PVSTP, PVSTP+, VCC, VPC and troubleshooting issues.  • Expertise in installing, configuring, and maintaining Juniper MX-5 routers, Juniper switches ex4500, EX4300, EX-4550, EX4200, E3200 Cisco Switches (2900,3400, 3500, 3600, 3700 series, 4500series 6500 series)  • Expertise in installing, configuring, and troubleshooting of Cisco Routers (3800, 3600, 2800, 2600, 1800, 1700, 800)  • Expertise in installing, configuring, and maintaining Nexus 7000, Nexus 5000 and Nexus 2000 switches.  • Experience in Implementing and troubleshooting ASA, FortiGate, Sonic Wall, PALO ALTO, Juniper SRX and Check Point Firewalls.  • Configured the UTM in Fortinet 60D,60 E  • Advanced Knowledge in IPSEC VPN design connection and protocols, IPSEC tunnel configuration, encryption and integrity protocols.  • Network security including NAT/PAT, ACL, VPN concentrator.  • Worked on F5 Local Traffic managers (LTM) of series 6800, 3400, 5100, 3600.  • Deployed F5 LTM load balancer and experience in virtual server configuration, high availability, load balancing, irules, and SSL profiles  • Used multiple network monitoring tools Cisco prime, solar winds, CA spectrum to troubleshoot network issues for end-users.  • Efficient in preparing technical documentation using Microsoft office word, excel and Visio.  • Excellent team player and self-starter with good communication skills. Demonstrated ability to finish tasks within deadlines. Work Experience Senior Network Engineer Tranzeal Incorporated - San Jose, CA June 2019 to Present Responsibilities:  ? Design the Network and Security for the Data center.  ? Maintaining Escalation process and attending the conference calls, weekly and Monthly.  ? Worked on Fortinet, Palo Alto, Cisco ASA, PF sense, Watch Gard, SonicWALL and Juniper Firewalls.  ? Worked on efficient IP for managing the IPAM, DHCP, DNS.  ? Worked on Cisco and juniper switches and routers.  ? LAN and WAN Support like Configuring, Troubleshooting and Monitoring.  ? Deploying & Trouble shooting wireless Access points (AP) Wireless LAN Controllers(WLC  ? Creating the Scripting python/ansible to make network automation for daily task.  ? Design and implement the network setup in the cloud environment (AWS, Azure)  ? Deployment radius server to authenticate the network devices.  ? Maintain the IP address, DHCP, DNS entries in the EFFICIENT iP tool.  ? Tracking record of working within established configuration, documentation and change management policies to ensure awareness, approval and success of changes made to the network infrastructure Senior Network Security Lead OSI Digital July 2018 to June 2019 Responsibilities:  ? Providing technical guidance and coaching to team members on the latest technologies; managing, coordinating and defining the scope of daily activities of the members for the projects  ? Managing the team for delivering various solutions & improvements for the business community  ? Communicating with internal/external clients to determine specific requirements and expectations; meeting client expectations as an indicator of quality  ? Identifying issues and risks in a timely manner; developing/implementing appropriate mitigation and contingency plans; architecting a major organizational change to product-line based on matrix; acting as a key stakeholder in the organizational change management process  ? Steering the network & security operations across globe; engaged in designing, implementation and migration of data centers across the globe  ? Radius setup for network devices to setup authorization and authentication.  ? Automate with the Python script for the daily task and backup.  ? Interfacing with the vendors and managing them to run the operations smoothly; managing the service delivery for the clients; drafting internal & external ISO audits.  ? Configured and managing the UTM in Fortinet 60D,60 E.  ? Worked on devices Cisco IOS switches, Nexus(5K), Fortinet firewalls, Sonic wall firewalls, Watch Gard firewall, ASA firewall, juniper switches and F5 load balancer.  ? Prepared disaster recovery plans for the network and security devices; interfaced with vendors for network and security products; collaborated with company vendors and management teams in initiating and developing a vendor continuity program that led to benefits Senior Network Engineer CA Technologies - Cary, NC October 2016 to January 2018 Responsibilities:  ? To provide day-to-day technical support and administration of the technology infrastructure, especially in Network/ Security.  ? Troubleshooting Network issues and to ensure new/old project requirements based on Change management process, regular backup for location n/w devices are taken  ? Managing all the Network Infrastructure for the Data center (9 Data Centers)  ? Managing all the CA- Production which are hosted in Data Center.  ? Working with core ASA, Juniper, Palo Alto firewall (Configuration/Troubleshooting of CA Production which are hosted in Data center)  ? Handling the Weekly meeting with CAB team  ? Handling Load balancer F5, A10 (Configuration/troubleshooting of Load balancer.)  ? Working 24/7 round the clock to manage the customer network  ? Creating rules and Policies in Radius server NPS.  ? Implement the Cisco Secure Network server 3415 and managed(NAC).  ? Deployed sliver peak and managed(NAC).  ? Configure the SNMP in all network devices to communicate with monitoring tool of CA (Unified Infrastructure Management)  ? configured Unified Infrastructure Management that Monitors Network devices tool  ? Creating Nodes, pools, Pool member, Virtual servers and I rules in F5 load balancer in LTM Model.  ? Configuration of IPSec Tunnel between data center to communicate.  ? Work on devices Cisco IOS switches, Nexus(5K), Palo alto firewall (500,3020), Juniper SRX ,MX,EX and Netscreen firewalls, ASA firewall, check point firewall,SSL VPN Pulse secure, F5 load balancer and Net Screen.  ? Implemented the Panorama server to managed the Palo alto network devices.  ? Whitelisting the IP address in Citrix Netscaler Load balancer and firewalls  ? Creating the firewall rules in Palo alto firewall (500,3020), Juniper SRX and Netscreen firewalls, ASA firewall, check point firewall.  ? Setting up the NOC server room for Cary office location.  ? Developed the Scripting(expect,python,ansible) and Rancid tool setup for automatic backup configuration for all network devices  ? Updating the SSL certification renewal in F5 load Balancer and Citrix Netscaler Network Engineer CA Technologies - Cary, NC January 2016 to October 2016 Responsibilities:  ? Managing all the CA- Production which are hosted in Data Center.  ? Working with core ASA, Juniper, Palo Alto firewall (Configuration/Troubleshooting of CA Production which are hosted in Data center)  ? Handling Load balancer F5, A10 (Configuration/troubleshooting of Load balancer.)  ? Creating rules and Policies in Radius server NPS.  ? Creating Nodes, pools, Pool member, Virtual servers and I rules in F5 load balancer in LTM Model.  ? Configuration of IPSec Tunnel between data center to communicate.  ? Work on devices Cisco IOS switches, Nexus(5K), Palo alto firewall (500,3020), Juniper SRX and Netscreen firewalls, ASA firewall, check point firewall,SSL VPN Pulse secure, F5 load balancer and Net Screen.  ? Whitelisting the IP address in Citrix Netscaler Load balancer and firewalls  ? Creating the firewall rules in Palo alto firewall (500,3020), Juniper SRX ,MX,EX and Netscreen firewalls, ASA firewall, check point firewall.  ? Developed the Scripting tool (Rancid) for automatic backup configuration for all network devices.  ? Updating the SSL certification renewal in F5 load Balancer and Citrix Netscaler Technical specialist Wipro infotech September 2013 to January 2015 Client: APSDC    Responsibilities:  ? Responsible for 99.97% uptime of Network infrastructure in DC.  Providing LAN, WAN and VPN infrastructure to various departments.  ? Extensive worked on BMC Remedy for creating the Change Requests (CRQ's), Work Orders, Incident Management.  ? Played responsible role for implementing, engineering, level 2 & level 3 support of existing network technologies / services & integration of new network technologies / services  ? Worked with Cisco Layer 3 switches 3560, 3750, 4500, 6500; Cisco Nexus 5000 and 7000 in multi VLAN environment with the use of inter-VLAN routing, 802.1Q trunk, and ether channel.  ? Key contributions include troubleshooting of complex LAN /WAN infrastructure that include routing protocols EIGRP, IS-IS, OSPF, MPLS & BGP.  ? Performed route filtering and route manipulation by applying distribute-lists, route-maps & offset lists respectively.  ? Involved in troubleshooting VLAN, RSTP, & Switch Trunk issues.  ? Configured PVSTP+ for loop prevention and VTP for Inter-VLAN Routing.  ? Configured & maintained IPSEC Site-to-Site VPN.  ? Involved in design, implementation and configuration of HSRP for load balancing on L3 switches on different location of office on the switched network  ? Provided support for troubleshooting and resolving Customer and user reported issues..  ? Handling and troubleshooting all network and Firewall Related issues.  ? Upgrade, Manage and maintain Fortigate Firewalls, Cisco Firewalls, Radware IPS, Link load balancer and other network devices.  ? Add, remove or modify the policies on Firewalls, IPS and link load balancer.  ? Hardening the network devices Fortigate 1240 and Cisco Firewalls 5580 ASA as per the SLA.  ? Creating, Implementing Policies on network devices, as per the change management and documenting same.  ? Providing periodic training to the L1 engineers on Firewall policies, VPN, IPS and Syslog server configuration.  ? Implemented IPV6 in Dual-Stack Environment for one of the Customer at SDC. Senior Network Engineer FMC Technologies July 2012 to July 2013 Analysed the business requirements of various organizations, developed networking plans and presented to the project manager and clients.  ? Major Projects worked: Shell Prelude , Conoco Philips South Belut , Conoco Philips Bayu Undan ,Chevron Wheatstone , Woodside GWF.  ? Coordinate with design engineers in the technical review of network systems and applications.  ? Configured the WAN infrastructure, routers, servers and firewalls and performed the installation with custom user rights.  ? Configured VPN gateways and advanced intrusion detection systems.  ? Provided pre and post installation technical support for networking systems..  ? Redesign of Internet connectivity infrastructure for meeting bandwidth requirements. This involved negotiating with ISPs, switching from T1 to Flexible T3 lines and configuring/replacing existing Cisco 1605 series routers with Cisco 3400 routers.  ? Enabled remote users to access corporate LAN with VPN connectivity.  ? Configuration of Cisco ME3400 Series, IE3000 series, C3560X and ASA5510  ? Experience with subsea configuration & troubleshooting -Configuration of Topside routers, Subsea Routers, Cross communication, XML Files for Topsides and subsea communication.  ? Experience with subsea equipment -Portable SEM Simulators (PSEMS), Subsea Control Modules (SCM).    HCL Technologies Senior Specialist - NOC Client - CEVA Logistics February 2011 to June 2012 Configuration of Cisco Routers and Switches. Participated in a rotating 24x7 support schedule for the Network operation Centre.  ? Executing changes such as Customer/Backbone Shifting, Node Addition, Card Insertion/Removal/Replacement, and IOS up gradation.  ? BGP: Support and resolve connectivity, redundancy and load-sharing issues on the Cisco Routers using the BGP4 protocol for multi-homed clients using route-maps, community strings and various other variables.  ? OSPF: Expertise with the operation of scalable routing protocol OSPF and the related issues of: Route Summarization, Aggregation and Redistribution.  ? Proper handover and providing information of changes in network to respective teams. Coordination with O&M for all changes in network.  ? Worked as Operations and Maintenance Engineer for procurement and installation of H/W, network devices and other IT infrastructure.  ? Configuring Static, RIP v1 & v2, IGRP, EIGRP, OSPF and BGP Routing Protocols.  ? Configured 6500 and 4500 Series Switches with VLAN's for different projects and configuring 7200 series Routers.  ENCORA Network Engineer Client- Wells Fargo December 2009 to November 2010 Network Administrator CHOICE PRECITECH INDIA PVT., LTD August 2008 to December 2009 Network Engineer SUNNET SOLUTION PVT., LTD August 2006 to July 2008 Education Masters in Computer Science in Computer Science Silicon Valley University 2015 Bachelor of Engineering in Electronics and Communications in Electronics and Communications S.K.P Engineering College, (Anna University) 2006 Skills Dns, Networking, Solarwinds, Tcp/ip, Vlan, Backbone, Bgp, Dhcp, Eigrp, Ipv6, Lan/wan, Mpls, Network cabling, Network connectivity, Network protocols, Ospf, Remote access, Switching, Tcp, Vpn Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/aravind-kumar-voonna Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:  • Networking Services: Network protocols such as TCP/IP, IPV6, Ethernet, routers, switches, hubs, network cabling, DHCP, DNS, troubleshooting network connectivity, routing & remote access configuration, remote desktop, LAN/WAN management.  • Routing Protocol: RIPv1, RIPv2, EIGRP, IS-IS, OSPF, MPLS and BGP.  • Switching: VLAN, VTP, Ethernet channel, HSRP, VRRP, STP, RSTP, PVSTP , Port Fast, Uplink fast, Bpdu Guard, Bpdu Filters, UDLD, Root Guard and Backbone fast.  • Secuirty: VPN, IPSEC, Firewall rules, NAT, GRE, Radius server, Mutil-vendor firewall.  • Monitoring Tools: Solarwinds, Netflow and Spectrum.  • Computer skills: Ms Office: Word, Excel, PowerPoint,Visio2003.  • Cloud: VPC, Route53, S3, EC2, Nat Gateway, IGW, Security group, ACL, Custom Routing, IAM, AMI, EBS, GUS and VPN.