Network Administrator <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Network Administrator Gainesville, VA As a Network Engineer with 25 years of experience I implemented, deployed, maintain and configured LAN and WAN Networks for the Computer Sciences Corporation's (CSC) Head Quarters and CSRA in the CNS group. I provided implementation and run and maintain support for the CISCO wireless service and the ARUBA wireless service. Additionally, I have provided performance engineering troubleshooting and analysis to CSC and CSRA upper management, part of the (GDN) Global Management team. Supported for CSC throughout the world. I also worked as a wireless site surveyor for the DoD in a government environment. I have configured, installed and deployed Cisco devices on an on going government project. Travel involved.    Developmental Tools  NetScout Performance Manager, Cisco Works, Cisco Prime Network Analyzer, ISE, Wireshark, Microsoft Visio, Microsoft Project, and Microsoft Excel. Airmagnet, IBWave.    Systems/Languages  Cisco Network Systems (routers and switches), Nortel routers and switches, Cisco 6500 Catalyst Switches, Cisco 3750 switch, Cisco 2811, 2900 and 4351 routers, Arista Switches, Netgear Switches, and WatchGuard Firewall, HTML, SAP, Citrix, MRTG, QIP and Proteus, Uninterruptible Power Supply(UPS), Cyber power and APC. Cisco 6506, 4506, 4710R, Cisco 2951 Cisco 3850, 2960, 3840, C3750, C3560, C3580 switches and routers, ARUBA IAW, SWDI, CLEARPASS Policy Manager, Aruba AP 225, IBWave, Airmagnet. Linux, Netgear, Arista switches and WatchGuard Firewall Work Experience Network Administrator DOD/FBI March 2019 to July 2019 Use of Software Defined Networking (SON) including Zero Touch Provisioning (ZIP)  Maintain firewall appliances and firewall rules  Maintain Networking Layer 2 devices and policies  Plan, Implement, and support changes to network including cable infrastructure, network monitoring software, firmware and hardware  Provide detailed documentation and procedures for all solutions  Maintain network systems and equipment  install and service terminals, cables, network components  Analyze traffic information and provide analysis to justify network optimization and reconfiguration  Evaluate and test network equipment Senior Network Engineer DOJ/DEA 2017 to March 2019 Lead a team of engineers in upgrading, configuring, deploying and supporting the network environment domestically and internationally. Implement, deploy, maintain, and configure LAN/WAN Networks, as well as configuring and installing the WAP's. Supporting other services in making sure the services are up and operational. Wireless Network Engineer/Site Surveyor DEI September 2016 to November 2016 Wireless Network Engineer surveying, deploying upgrading and implementing  Of the Aruba wireless services in government offices. SENIOR NETWORK ENGINEER/PROCESS MANAGER AT&T 2000 to 2016 Senior Design Network Engineer, Implemented, deploy, maintained, and configured LAN and WAN Networks for Computer Sciences Corporation's (CSC) Head Quarters and CSRA in the CNS group I providedimplementation, and run and maintain support for CSC and CSRA.  Provided implementation and configuration support for all Cisco 6506, 4506, 4710R, Cisco 2951 Cisco 3850, 2960, 3840, C3750, C3560 switches and routers.  Provide on 24/7 on call support for all CSC HQ and CSRA domestic WAN and LAN networks.  Provide troubleshooting support utilizing Wireshark, Infinistream, in addition perform run and maintain operations for CSC Cisco Wireless services, and ARUBA wireless services.  Provide design, implementation, deployment, and run and maintain support for CSC Cisco Wireless services, and ARUBA wireless services environment.    Process Management  Provided daily and monthly metric analysis to upper management, establishing responsibilities, and evaluation of process performance to identify opportunities for improvement.    Subject Matter Expert and Engineer provided 24/7 on call support for all CSC HQ and CSRA domestic WAN and LAN networks infrastructure. Provide design, implementation, configurations, troubleshooting, and leadership support for all network platforms within the CSC environment.  Provide design, implementation and configuration support for all Cisco 6506, 4506, 3840, C3750, C3560 switches and routers.  Provide DNS implementation and configuration support for CSC and CSRA.  Provided WLAN implementation of the Cisco wireless and ARUBA wireless environment for CSC and CSRA.    Process Management  Provided daily and monthly metric analysis to upper management, establishing responsibilities, and evaluation of process performance to identify opportunities for improvement.    Network Support Team Lead that supported planning and queue management for data network activities  Provided Level 3 network trouble shooting.  Provided wire closet documentation/administration, Provided port and address database management/coordination.  Provided new network installations/administration, change control documentation.  Provided inventory management/administration.  Provided support to Network Engineering Services on request.    Network Support Team Lead queue management and support for data network activities involving PCs, workstations, terminals, printers, telephone handsets and other network connected devices  Provides project management, administration, planning, these services include Level 3 network trouble shooting, wire closet documentation/administration, port and address database management/coordination, new network installations/administration, change control documentation and spares management/administration. Also providing support to Network Engineering Services on request.    Network Engineer  Engineer Lead on major projects reflecting redesign of networks, and deployment of new services throughout the CSC network.  Provided Configuration for Cisco, and Nortel Routers, and Switches.  Provided level 3 troubleshooting support for the Internet Services Group.  Provided research and implemented designs for hardware and code upgrades of the front-end, and enterprise/ core routers.  A Member of the front-end re-engineering design team.  Provided and assisted with the delivery of Internet services to a 60,000+ node worldwide corporate network Education Scalable WLAN Design & Implementation Aruba Academy 2016 Bachelor of Science degree in Network and Communication Management in Network and Communication Management Devry University