Managing Consultant Managing Consultant Managing Consultant - Tech Net Solutions Highland Village, TX Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Managing Consultant Tech Net Solutions December 2005 to Present Consulting for small to medium sized businesses and retained 100% of my client base  from the last position I held with GPS.  • I support ALL IT needs of clients in the D/FW area. Including configuration of the following:  DNS, DHCP, WINS, Active Directory. I advise/recommend New rollout/backup/upgrade  solutions for clients  • Managing Clients using Logmein and onsite, Create users and maintain profiles via  Group Policy Object Editor, and created custom Scripts to launch upon User logon, whereby  updating various apps as well as utilizing System Center Configuration Manager for administration. Break 2016 to 2016 fix PC's, laptop's, printers and wifi, also manage Backup imaging solutions, i.e.  Backup exec.  • Monitor Micros for POS systems at Love field and DFW, and hold a security badge for both locations. Senior Consultant Global Paradigm Solutions November 2002 to December 2005 • Relationship consulting and support to multiple clients in the D/FW area.  • Consulting for small to medium sized businesses which included installation, configuration  and support of specialized hardware and software platforms Ranging from WIN2003 SBS and SMS 2003 thru 2008 Std.  • Firewall, routers, switches and VPN solutions. SAN, NAS, enterprise networking  • MS Exchange migration project for a client from 5.5 to 2000 (100 mailbox's).  • Active directory installation and configuration for MS Windows 2003 server.  • Provide a " Network Review and Recommendation" for multiple projects.  • Active Directory configuration and administration for Windows 2003 Server (Standard and Enterprise), Perform PCI-DSS compliance audits Systems Administrator EDS August 2000 to July 2002 Responsible for enterprise backup/restore for an international client utilizing Backup Exec, Arcserve/Brightstore via multi level platforms. This included 400+ servers ranging from MS  Exchange to PDC/BDC/IIS/SQL/cluster servers, using SMS/MSTSC to manage.  • Maintained a 99% accuracy of backup/restore issues.  • Coordinated with vendors and customer to ensure Secure License Agreement were met  using various agents (ie. SQL cluster server, MS Exchange Brick-level).  • Maintained remote access to customer via MS Terminal Server/Citrix/VNC/VPN.  • Responsible for installation of hardware and software.  • Onsite and remote problem resolution. Network Administrator Grand Adventure Tour and Travel February 2000 to August 2000 Responsible for Microsoft NT 4.0, Novell Netware, Linux and MS Exchange Server  including performance, maintenance, management and configuration/load balancing.  • Migration from MS Exchange 5.5 to 2000 (500 mail boxes).  • Improved systems uptime from 91% to 99.9% for 350 corporate and remote users through expert, cross-platform (Windows NT/UNIX) troubleshooting/maintenance.  • Performed 1st, 2nd, and 3rd level support for the entire client base of 200+ customers.  • Responsible for building NT and Novell Servers from ground up.  • Responsible for remote access via MS Terminal Server / Citrix from satellite office.  • Project management included networking new equipment as it arrives as well as evaluate  effective security measures and coordinate with vendors on multiple projects.  • Performed daily maintenance of MS Exchange server.  • Environment consisted of 10 - 15 Servers including Linux Server and 200+ users.  • Configuration of HP Hubs, Cisco 2500 series routers. Network Administrator Novell Netware September 1998 to February 2000 Responsible for Windows NT, Novell Netware 4.11, MS Exchange administration and configuration of hubs, routers, bridges, HP Jet Direct print servers and network/connectivity  issues. (DNS, TCPIP, sub netting, DHCP, Wins, PDC).  • Responsible for building NT and Novell servers from ground up.  • Responsible for the administration and configuration of 500 workstations, configuration of  3COM Hubs, Cisco 1600 series Routers, "Pix" series firewall including TCPIP "redirects".  • Created and maintained all user accounts on LAN/WAN on platforms Novell NetWare  4.11, Microsoft NT Server 4.0 and Microsoft Exchange Server.  • Maintained environment of 5 servers and 500+ users.  • Implementation/administration of the website via "IIS" including creating, modifying and updating for Bluebonnet Trails home page. Exchange Administrator Novell Netware March 1993 to September 1998 • Managed NT/Novell system for a multi-office LAN/WAN environment including NDS.  • Provided system support for 1100 users with issues ranging from logins to load-balancing, printing, applications, instruction and all hardware and software support.  • Ensured reliable day-to-day e-mail operations.  • Migrated to MS Exchange platform from Lotus ccMail Product.  • Installation of Token ring, Coax, and Fiber Optic cable. Built all NT and Novell servers.  • Resolved connectivity issues for remote site access.  • Environment consisted of 20 - 25 Servers and 1100+ users. Phone Support Technician Dell Computer Corporation September 1992 to March 1993 Education Computer Science University of Texas 1988 to 1992