AWS Solutions Architect AWS Solutions Architect AWS Solutions Architect - Concepts IT Inc Arlington, VA Self-motivated professional with outstanding oral and written communication skills. Highly knowledgeable in computer software development. Pursuing a role performing quality assurance testing and consultative services for customers. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience AWS Solutions Architect Concepts IT Inc - Vienna, VA 2015 to Present * Design, implement and maintain all AWS infrastructure and services within a managed service environment.  * Design, Deploy and maintain enterprise class security, network and systems management applications within an AWS environment.  * Implement process and quality improvements through task automation.  * Institute infrastructure as code, security automation and automation or routine maintenance tasks.  * Perform data migration from on premises environments into AWS.  * Support the business development lifecycle (Business Development, Capture, Solution Architect, Pricing and Proposal Development).  * Strong knowledge of Amazon Kinesis, AWS Lambda, Amazon Simple Queue Service (Amazon SQS), Amazon Simple Notification Service (Amazon SNS), and Amazon Simple Workflow Service (Amazon SWF).  * Strong knowledge with Web Services, API Gateways and application integration development and design. Network Engineer Lily Enterprise - Denver, CO 2010 to 2015 * Documented all facets of technology department operations, including network infrastructure, licenses and FAQs, facilitating consistent responses and team operations.  * Maintained hardware and software for networks and assisted in the installation and upgrade of servers.  * Provided smooth communications by configuring LAN technology, wireless access points and controllers.  * Reviewed system logs to determine usage levels, bandwidth, performance, and system security to target inefficiencies and implement appropriate solutions.  * Performed and documented runbook network operations using step-by-step decision trees. Network Support Engineer Wawa MediaTech - Rockville, MD 2008 to 2010 * Configured all hardware devices and software settings to optimize network performance.  * Installed wiring, cabling and devices to establish, repair and improve network operations.  * Documented all facets of technology department operations, including network infrastructure, licenses and FAQs, facilitating consistent responses and team operations.  * Troubleshot and resolved issues with peripheral devices such as printers and copiers for end users. Network Administrator ANF Consulting - Burtonsville, MD 2006 to 2008 * Updated hardware and software upon availability and supervised the network to eliminate issues immediately.  * Handled network configurations late in the evening and on weekends to alleviate downtime and ensure smooth operations.  * Monitored system upgrades, which included patches, service packs, hot fixes and new configurations.  * Implemented effective troubleshooting methods to determine and alleviate hardware, software and network issues.  * Installed and supported hardware and software, including desktops, servers and printers. Education Masters in Statistics in Statistics University of Pretoria - Pretoria, Gauteng 2006 Bachelors in Economics in Economics University of Asmara - Asmara, ER 1998 Skills SQL, Linux, Sql Server, Ansible (5 years), Cisco (5 years) Certifications/Licenses AWS Solutions Architect January 2019 to January 2022 Assessments Data Analysis — Familiar August 2019 Measures a candidate's skill in interpreting and producing graphs, identifying trends, and drawing justifiable conclusions from data. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/92glxgoc-3rb-wt7 Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.