Network/Technology Analyst <span class="hl">Network</span>/Technology Analyst Network/Technology Analyst - AT&T Wi-Fi Services - Infosys Ltd Austin, TX IT Professional, with a wide-range of expertise and experience. In-depth experience in the implementation, analysis, optimization, troubleshooting and documentation of LAN/WAN systems. A distinguished career directing the development of quality network and security solutions, including designing, configuration, and support of fully functional, reliable and secure systems. Technical proficiency in numerous platforms - Cisco Switches, Cisco Routers, Cisco Wireless Routers, ASA firewall and other network protocols and administration tools. Work Experience Network/Technology Analyst AT&T Wi-Fi Services - Infosys Ltd - Austin, TX September 2018 to Present • Review and analyze system specifications  • Collaborate with QA Engineers to develop effective strategies and test plans  • Execute test cases (manual or automated) and analyze results  • Configure testing lab for release testing.  • Troubleshooting and analyze secure Wi-Fi connectivity.  • Analyzing secure Wi-Fi authentication on specific devices.  • Analyzing certificate generation with local and cloud PKI.  • Evaluate product code according to specifications  • Using iTrack for ticketing system.  • Creating bug/defect tickets for any block build or software.  • Prepare repository for build team to apply new release.  • Create logs to document testing phases and defects  • Report bugs and errors to development teams  • Help troubleshoot issues  • Conduct post-release/ post-implementation testing  • Work with cross-functional teams to ensure quality throughout the software development lifecycle  • working with UNIX/LINUX-based systems and command-line tools for analysis  • Worked on Ubuntu/debian servers.  • Using VMware/vSphere cluster for server upgrading server/reflashing the build and setup testing environments.  • Using rack-mount console for reflash/upgrade NMD, VTA, BATES.  • Using SQL developer for DB analyzing and running scripts.  • Using JENKINS/ Robot Framework for running and building automation test cases.  • Release backup and report.  • Worked on an agile basis teams.  • Regression team lead Network Engineer Texas Health and Human Services - IES - Austin, TX November 2016 to September 2018 • Configuring and troubleshooting Layer 2 and Layer 3 protocols.  • Managed and supported catalysts switches and routers.  • Worked on change ticket process and coordinating with IT team regarding the changes.  • Upgrading various IOS in switches and routers base TAC engineer's recommendation.  • Implementing and Configuration DMVPN on LTE routers.  • Adding networking devices in AAA servers.  • On call support rotation 2 days in a week.  • Worked on Monitoring servers and troubleshoot network interfaces utilization and CPU spike.  • Creating ACLs base network requirements. Junior Network Engineer Capgemini - Austin, TX November 2015 to November 2016 • Network design, and implementation of LANs, WANs, and wireless Local Area.  • Managing Cisco enterprise level core switches, routers, ASA firewalls.  • Configured sub, Ether-channel and redundant  • Troubleshooting system and network problems and diagnosing and solving hardware and software faults.  • Troubleshooting DNS; cleaning up DNS subnets and reserving DNS entries forward and reverse lookup.  • Ensured network connectivity throughout a company's LAN/WAN infrastructure.  • Maintained network servers such as file servers, VPN gateways, and intrusion detection systems.  • Installed and configured wireless networking equipment.  • Monitored the LAN/WAN network environment including routers, switches. System / Network Administrator IRM-American Embassy - Kabul, AF March 2011 to December 2014 • MS Active Directory, DNS, DHCP and Group Policy setup and management.  • Received US State Department Mission Honor Awards American Embassy, Kabul - 2014, 2013, 2012  • Configuring LAN, WAN, Wireless and edge security equipment.  • Responsible for keeping the Department of State's OpenNet Unclassified network and the residential Internet network operational including all related components and data processing devices in support of the different Embassy sections that are on this network.  • Install, test, and troubleshoot integrated hardware/software systems accurately and efficiently.  • Strong follow-through and perseverance to handle multiple tasks simultaneously.  • Analyzed hardware and software to determine when it was more cost-effective to upgrade.  • Commended for technical, analytical and problem-solving skills; effective task prioritization; and customer service orientation.  • Deploy new equipment and install applications, which enable the customer to perform their job function on updated equipment which leads to higher work output.  • Performed daily system monitoring, verifying the integrity and availability of all hardware, server resources, and reviewing system and application logs.  • Managing and created Active Directory accounts, network shares, and printing services.  • Performed daily backup operations, ensuring all required file systems and system data are successfully backed up to the appropriate media. NOC Technician ZOA Refugee care January 2009 to February 2011 • Proactively monitor and support the stability of Location Labs application stack to ensure 24X7 operation  • Assist Engineers intern and Technicians to resolve incidents.  • Resolve or escalate any failures in the processing schedule.  • Monitor Alerts and respond to alerts/alarms according to Standard Operating Procedures  • Manage trouble-ticketing system ensuring accurate and up-to-date information  • Collaborate with internal and external groups to help identify and resolve issues affecting our services  • Assist customer service department during off hours  • Act as a point of contact for all types of service requests.  • Communicate directly with customers as needed.  • Assist in coordination of the support teams to maximum utilization and improve communication.  • Assist in management of the emergency process for support requests requiring escalation.  • Continuously develop technical skills to enable progression to a technical support role. Computer Technician Ministry Of Economy - Kabul, AF April 2007 to December 2009 • Hardware support  • Install and update devices and software's  • Help users and customers for any help and directions  • Creating user name and password  • Installing various application on uses computers base ministry requirement.  • setup printer and scanner and installing them for user's computer. Education Bachelor Degree in Literature in language Rabani Education University - Kabul, AF 2014 Naderia High school - Kabul, AF 2000 Skills Active directory, Catalyst, Cisco, Dhcp, Eigrp Certifications/Licenses CCNA December 2018 to January 2021 Route/Switch Additional Information Technical Skills:  Cisco Catalyst Routers and Switches, (2960, 3750X, 4351, 4510)  Cisco Switches N 7k CE500 / C2950 / C2960 / C3560 / C3750  Cisco Firewalls (5505, 5510, 5520)    SKILLS / TOOLS    • Cisco Routers 2600 / 2800 / 3600  • ASA Firewall 5500 Series  • Dell Servers Power edge T110, R720, R730  • Switching- Catalyst IOS based Switches, VTP, STP, MST, RSTP, Trucking, VLANs, Layer3 Switches, Logical Ether Channels, HSRP, VRRP, GLBP, Transparent Bridging.  • Routing: Static Routing, RIPv1, RIPv2, IGRP, EIGRP, OSPF, BGPv4 MPLS, IPv6, Policy Based Routing PBR, Route Filtering, Redistribution, Summarization.  • VPNs (Site-to Site, IPSec, Remote Access, SSL, ASA Firewalls)  • Wireless LAN -Cisco Access Points and Bridges (Standalone and controller based), 802.11b, 802.11g.  • Windows server 2008, 2008r2 and 2012, DHCP, DNS, Active Directory, GPO, SMTP, SNMP and Server Replication.  • Linux/Unix base servers (Ubuntu, Debian)  • SQL Oracle Developer