Network Engineer <span class="hl">Network</span> Engineer Network Engineer - Northrop Grumman Colorado Springs, CO Work Experience Network Engineer Northrop Grumman - Schriever AFB, CO June 2019 to Present • Cisco routers/switches/firewalls/IPS,  • Internal and external routing protocols, TCP, IP,  • Type I encryption devices and network timing systems,  • Microsoft Windows and RHEL Computing Environments,  • Knowledge in/with DISA STIGs  • Experience with ISE/RSA  • Experience with Nexus devices/NXOS  • Experience with Cisco Firepower/FMC  • Familiar with Solar Winds network management software suite  • Experience with Microsoft Visio diagramming Network Security Engineer Boundary ManTech - Peterson AFB, CO June 2017 to June 2019 • Administers, manages, operates, maintains, installs, and configures Air Force network boundary devices and technologies such as Cisco Catalyst router 7606 and 6509 and switches 4510R-E and 3700.  • Performs boundary protection operations and maintenance services in support of Air Force Information Network (AFIN) operations from Langley AFB, VA.  • Works with Palo Alto Network firewall, Palo Alto Networks Panorama Management, PALO ALTO PA-5020, Bluecoat proxy Symantec Management, Blue Coat SG810, Blue Coat SG-S460-20, DELL Power Edge 2650-R720xd, and firewall Cisco Adaptive Security Appliance (ASA) 5540.  • SPLUNK, Solarwinds Management and Monitoring, PowerShell and Wireshark Network Analyzer, Secure CRT and Putty.  • Action Remedy System (ARs) - BMC Remedy Service Management. Network Operations Tech III Century Link-Federal - Colorado Springs, CO July 2014 to June 2017 • Remotely troubleshot and repaired user applications/services.  • Responded to the escalation of trouble reports by isolation of problem and mobilization of resources capable of affecting a resolution in a manner which least disrupts customer service.  • Used software and hardware tools to identify and diagnose network status and performance.  • Established and maintained system requirements as identified by customer directives and as coordinated/established with network engineers, security requirements, program management and vendors' capabilities.  • Managed and participated in enterprise-level projects encompassing systems, networks, and SAN/NASstorage.  • Performed system backups and recoveries.  • Maintained and monitored anti-virus server and clients.  • Implemented software patches and security updates as required.  • Reacted quickly and competently to identify, track, document, escalate, and resolve immediate network vulnerabilities/threats.  • Conducted risk assessments to identify possible security violations.  • Assessed risk factors and advised on vulnerability to attack from a variety of sources and procedures and methods for protection of systems and applications.  • Oversaw/monitored technical status of systems and equipment to address potential technical problems.  • Inspected and analyzed equipment/systems performance to determine maintenance and repair requirements.  • Developed and implemented detailed standard operations procedures dealing with Network Support Center operations.  • Provided project status to management.  • Provided after-hours support on an on-call basis, as required. Network Administrator Lockheed Martin, Qatar, AlUdeid Air Base February 2010 to February 2014 • Maintenance and operation of CISCO routers 3800, 2800, and 2900 series switches.  • Configuration, management, maintenance, operation, backup configuration, and planning of network routers and switches.  • Maintenance and operation ofhardware and software upgrade services, firewalls, VPNs, and CRYPTO devices.  • Analyzing and troubleshooting of military networks.  • Maintenance, operation, monitoring, troubleshooting, and diagnostics of multiple radio systems for BC3 & JR2, i.e., Long Haul Communications (LHC), GD Decision Systems URC 200 Radio-VHF/UHF, GPS receivers, AMTI RF 50 watt amplifier, BANTAM Patch Panel Testing/loopback, Motorola Iridium Phones/Modem, Trivec Avant Antenna Systems URC Antenna, NAL Iridium Antenna Array TNG, BP Solar Panel Array, Outback Charge Controller, ACNODES PC Monitor, TELEX Vega IP-223, Power Distribution Unit/Current Sensor, MOXA IP Serial Converters, RARITAN KVM Switch, and RAVEN VOX module.  • Operation and maintenance of various configuration terminal (laptop).  • Operation and maintenance of Fiber Optic modems; Single Mode (SM) & Multimode (MM).  • Operation and maintenance of TIMS signal meter, power and multi meters, and communications system analyzers.  • Operation and maintenance of SWE-DISH "drive away" 1.5 VSAT Terminal, satellite modems CDM-600 series, DMD-15 and 20 series, and SLM 8650 OM-73.  • Operation and maintenance of test equipment, Fireberd 6000 & 8000, spectrum analyzers, and oscilloscopes.  • Operation and maintenance of Microsoft Windows Operating Systems. Network Engineer ManTech - Colorado Springs, CO January 2009 to January 2009 01//10)  • Analyze Network accesstrends and resolve bandwidth management issues for mission critical systems.  • Implement, troubleshoot, monitor and maintainall aspects LAN/WAN/VPN/ networks for high availability of paralleldevelopment, testing and production environments.  • Review SNMP alerts, useprotocol-line analyzers (sniffers) and conduct log forensics in order to determine root cause analysis and resolution of complex issues  • Monitored availability and reliability of LAN/WAN circuits.  • Experience with Routers: Cisco 3600, 2900, 2600, and 2500.  • Experience with Switches: Cisco 6500, 4500, 3800, 3700, 3600.  • Experience with Firewalls / Encryptors: Cisco ASA; KG-175D  • Working Knowledge of Layer 2 Technologies: STP, and VLANs. Network Administrator ITT Industries, Camp Anaconda - IQ October 2007 to October 2008 • Responsible for maintaining and operating CISCO 6000, 4500, 4000, 3550, 3500, 2950, 2900 series catalyst switches.  • Responsible for maintaining and operating CISCO 7500, 7400, 7000, 3600, 2600, 2500 series routers.  • Monitored availability and reliability of LAN/WAN circuits.  • Troubleshoot LAN/WAN connectivity.  • Configured Cisco Unified Call Manager Administration Voice Over IP (VOIP).  • Analyzed and report outages/corrective actions to Theater NetworkOperations Center.  • Performed VLAN administration.  • Used Cisco Works 2000, VMPs, SNMPc, Secure CRT and Solar Winds to manage and administer networks.  • Provided customer solutions and services to complex network issues.  • Used Action Remedy system to document, troubleshoot, and resolve network issues.  • Supported network functions for over 30,000 users.  • Instructed new NOC personnel on network protocols and department policies.  • Functions above were performed with thorough knowledge of subnetting, switching and Cisco IOS software upgrades. Network Systems Engineer L.C. Wright, Inc - Schriever AFB, CO October 2005 to October 2007 • Performed configuration and troubleshooting on FCC100, Timeserver,Optimux, CSU/DSU Digital Link and General Datacomm, Cisco switches, PIXFirewall 525 switch to include multicasting and routers, Timeplex, Canoga Perkins, Multiplexers while using tools such as Fluke, Fireberd,oscilloscope, Cisco Works, and What's Up Gold.  • Adhered to the ICRDC Change Request process by being technicallyproficient in troubleshooting and configuring the LAN/WAN systemenvironment.  • Involved in project planning, implementing tasks and requirements.  • Communicated daily with customers, peers, and management on the status of  • open and on-going projects.  • Knowledgeable and ensured team member follows the standard operatingprocedures. Network Field Engineer Boeing, Inc - Schriever AFB, CO June 2004 to October 2005 • Identified network related trouble notifications (calls, alerts, troubletickets) and provided proper documentation of network outages/anomaliesthrough internal and external reporting tools. Escalated problems inaccordance with Maintenance Management Control (MMC) processes andprocedures.  • Analyzed and reported network performance data, modified the  • configuration of network devices, and notified management and customers asapplicable.  • Worked with commercial communication systems, configuring andtroubleshooting DWDM, SONET, and IP based equipment along with T1-DS3circuits.  • Part of the second and third level Network Support to help resolve morein-depth network problems.  • Performed maintenance tasks such as removal and replacement of cables,circuit cards and Line Replaceable Unit (LRU) replacements.  • Updated the Computerized Inventory Maintenance Management System (CIMMS)and performed minor logistics tasks.  • Performed and supported daily network operations and maintenance of theLong Haul Communications (LHC) portion.  • Functions above were performed by being knowledgeable in routers,switches, servers, hubs, cryptographic equipment and cabling systems. Network Systems Engineer COACT Inc - Schriever AFB, CO January 2001 to June 2004 • Installed Enterprise Networks of Cisco devices (2900, 3500, 5500, 6500, ATM switches; 2500, 2600, 4000, 7000), CSU/DSU, MUXs, cryptographic devicesand cabling including optical fiber for worldwide connectivity.  • Upgraded, configured, and maintained network systems composed of Ciscoappliances operating on ATM/T-1 WAN and multi-layered switches Gigabit LANoperating EIGRP, and OSPF routing protocols.  • Ensured daily connectivity of LAN/WAN networks for 3000+ PC/UNIX users.  • Maintained cryptographic security connections worldwide by configuringand troubleshooting Fastlane KG-75, Fastlane KG-175, Network Encryption System, KG-84, KG-94, KIV-19, KIV-19a, and KIV-7.  • Researched issues dealing with hardware migrations and upgrades providingtechnical solutions, which allow for accurate and cost saving engineeringsolutions.  • Assisted in designing and planning LAN/WAN architecture.  • Provided excellent customer service to users. Network Communications Engineer Honeywell - Schriever AFB, CO January 1999 to December 2000 Installation Technician OAO Corporation - Schriever AFB, CO August 1996 to December 1998 Communication Technician US Army January 1990 to August 1996 Education Bachelor Degree in Business System Management University of Phoenix Certificate Regis University School for Professional Studies Under Graduate Program Skills Cisco, Security