Technical Analyst Technical Analyst Technical Analyst - Abington School District East Norriton, PA Work Experience Technical Analyst Abington School District - Abington, PA November 2005 to Present • Support all aspects of functioning and usage of district wide technology.  • Resolve hardware and software related issues for standalone and networked computers.  • Perform level one phone support to end users district wide.  • Provide level two trouble-shooting and problem resolution for calls not resolved by level one support.  • Install and configure networked based software applications.  • Directly responsible 2400 + workstations including wired and wireless PCs and Chromebooks.  • Provide advanced configuration and support of audio and multimedia equipment.  • Maintain and support printers including standalone and networked.  • Produce, record and edit videos for district use in public relations, training and entertainment.  • Consult school administrators regarding new and available technologies for use.  • Assist in planning, arranging and managing technology needs district-wide in-services.  • Configure and maintain Google Admin console. Network Administrator FMG Technologies - Conshohocken, PA June 2004 to September 2004 • Maintained and supported end users' desktops, laptops, and printers, including remote users.  • Worked Help Desk tickets opened by end users to closure.  • Handled workstation hardware and software support.  • High level infrastructure trouble shooting.  • Maintained network connectivity to end users, including wired, wireless and remote.  • Internal TCP/IP and DNS manipulation.  • Ensured connectivity to Cisco VPN Clients. Education Associates of Science Montgomery County Community College - Blue Bell, PA January 2005 to May 2008 Computer Networking CHI Institute - Southampton, PA January 2001 to July 2002 Community College of Philadelphia - Philadelphia, PA 1997 to 1999 Skills Active directory, Backups, Security, Ios, Windows 10 Additional Information INFORMATION  SYSTEMS SKILLS  • Windows XP Professional, Windows 7 Professional, Windows 8 Professional, Windows 10 Professional.  • Google G Suite  • Google Admin Console  • IOS  • Interactive whiteboards  • Promethean ActivInspire and ClassFlow  • Adobe Premiere, Adobe Encore, Adobe Audition  • Installing, configuring, and trouble shooting a Microsoft network.  • Performing custom software installs, system maintenance, account administration, backups and restores.  • Security configuration and analysis  • Microsoft Active Directory