Director, Network Security Director, <span class="hl">Network</span> Security Director, Network Security - Tanger Outlets Kernersville, NC David has 17 years of IT and twelve years of senior leadership of experience with a medium size company in the United  States. David's strategic leadership skills have helped him build relationships, achieve goals, and work effectively with all  types of stakeholders both inside and outside the organization. Further, David has a wide-ranging technical background  that allows him to understand and validate technology solutions and work well with outside vendors. He has experience  overseeing environments with hundreds of people, thousands of systems, and has built productive, loyal and high  functioning teams. David is willing to travel for work. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Director, Network Security Tanger Outlets - Greensboro, NC February 2015 to Present Current Responsibilities  • Responsible for total IT change over the years. Moving from traditional servers to a fully virtualized environment and then from on premise  to Microsoft Azure.  • Create and managed Vendor Risk process there by reducing risk exposure for the company and handling vendor relationships along with contract negotiations.  • Transformed relationship between IT and end users which allowed us to increase uptime, productivity, end user experience and customer  satisfaction.  • Responsible for planning, developing and deploying shopping center wide local area networks and wireless networks for 44 shopping centers.  • Responsible for planning and implementing the NIST standard and SOX, PCI compliance including all policies and procedures controlled by these standards.  • Reports once and year to Board of Directors on Cyber Security and Social Responsibility Report.  • Received Outstanding Performance and Special Achievement Award's  • Instrumental in developing and implementing Business Continuity, Disaster Recovery and Incident Response Plans for our corporate and shopping center locations.  • Recognized for keeping projects on time and under budget.  • Implemented training and strategies to reduce help desk calls by 32% over a 3-year period.  • Extensive knowledge of network systems, network and data security, firewalls, IPS/IDS, DLP, Penetration testing, and other security related  programs and methods.  • Work with all departments, centers and Information Technology teams to effectively and efficiently manage security monitoring, tuning and incident response to continually changing environments and situations.  • Training of end users in security awareness and develop metrics to measure the success of the security awareness program.  • Build strong teams that not only meet the needs of the company but also keep the teams happy and growing into even better team members.    CERTIFICATIONS and AFFILIATIONS  Certified Ethical Hacker, MCSA Cloud Platform, MCSE Security, VMWare Certified Professional, Security +, Net + Member of Triad Information Systems Security Association  Member of ECPI Cyber Security Advisory Board  Volunteer Instructor Cyber Patriots Network Security Supervisor Tanger Outlets - Greensboro, NC July 2012 to February 2015 Network Security Administrator Tanger Outlets - Greensboro, NC April 2008 to July 2012 Network Administrator Tanger Outlets - Greensboro, NC May 2004 to April 2008 PC Tech Support Tanger Outlets - Greensboro, NC April 2002 to May 2004 Current Responsibilities  • Responsible for total IT change over the years. Moving from traditional servers to a fully virtualized environment and then from on premise  to Microsoft Azure.  • Create and managed Vendor Risk process there by reducing risk exposure for the company and handling vendor relationships along with contract negotiations.  • Transformed relationship between IT and end users which allowed us to increase uptime, productivity, end user experience and customer  satisfaction.  • Responsible for planning, developing and deploying shopping center wide local area networks and wireless networks for 44 shopping centers.  • Responsible for planning and implementing the NIST standard and SOX, PCI compliance including all policies and procedures controlled by these standards.  • Reports once and year to Board of Directors on Cyber Security and Social Responsibility Report.  • Received Outstanding Performance and Special Achievement Award's  • Instrumental in developing and implementing Business Continuity, Disaster Recovery and Incident Response Plans for our corporate and shopping center locations.  • Recognized for keeping projects on time and under budget.  • Implemented training and strategies to reduce help desk calls by 32% over a 3-year period.  • Extensive knowledge of network systems, network and data security, firewalls, IPS/IDS, DLP, Penetration testing, and other security related  programs and methods.  • Work with all departments, centers and Information Technology teams to effectively and efficiently manage security monitoring, tuning and incident response to continually changing environments and situations.  • Training of end users in security awareness and develop metrics to measure the success of the security awareness program.  • Build strong teams that not only meet the needs of the company but also keep the teams happy and growing into even better team members.    CERTIFICATIONS and AFFILIATIONS  Certified Ethical Hacker, MCSA Cloud Platform, MCSE Security, VMWare Certified Professional, Security +, Net + Member of Triad Information Systems Security Association  Member of ECPI Cyber Security Advisory Board  Volunteer Instructor Cyber Patriots Education Associate Skills SECURITY, NETWORK SECURITY, PCI, BUSINESS CONTINUITY, SOX, IT PROJECT MANAGEMENT, TECHNOLOGY MANAGEMENT, IT INFRASTRUCTURE, BUDGETING, BUSINESS PROCESS IMPROVEMENT, FORECASTING, RISK MANAGEMENT, PROCESS IMPROVEMENT, TEAM BUILDING, CONTRACT MANAGEMENT, ARCHITECTURE Additional Information SKILLS  Executive Leadership - Enterprise IT Strategy Vendor & Contract Management  Director Cloud Architecture Risk Management  Budgeting and Forecasting IT Infrastructure Business Continuity and Risk Planning  IT Project Management Information and Network Security Technology Management  Technology Change PCI and SOX Implementation and Microsoft Azure  Management Compliance Strong Team Building  Business Process Improvement