IT Operations Manager IT Operations Manager Watch Guard - Technology Snapshot Davie, FL Work Experience IT Operations Manager Bluegreen Vacations - Boca Raton, FL July 2018 to Present Responsible for the day to day IT Operations and Infrastructure of over 130 locations. Works directly with C level management to address any process or policy gaps that can help improve the overall business. Responsible for IT budget and refresh rate for all 130+ locations. Serves as main support contact for any escalations that cannot be address by the Service Desk or Field Operations Teams.   • Manages all site Opening Projects   • Manages ISP upgrading projects   • Manages IT Policies and Procedures  • Manages all SOP/SLA/SOW/MSA  • Manages IT Budgets   • Oversees IT Service Desk and Field Operations Techs  • Reviews IT tickets for process improvement  • Vendor Management   • Asset Management   • Coordinates with Change Management on necessary needs  • Communicates any risks or issues with stakeholders  • Responsible for Purchasing all equipment  • Responsible for creating and maintaining department IT Policy and Procedures that aligns with compliance, audit regulations and corporate policy.  • Confers with department heads involved with proposed projects to ensure cooperation and deadlines are met  • Prepares progress reports to inform management of project status and deviation from goals  • Analyzes Service Reports and create strategic method of improving metrics  • Stays updated with industry leading technology to increase workflow  • Learn the industry leading best practices   • Ensure the company follows all compliance and audit laws Change and Asset Analyst Bluegreen Vacations - Boca Raton, FL May 2017 to July 2018 The Change and IT Asset Analyst exists to minimize risk from changes to maintain a stable technical environment. Maintain control of all computer/ network/software-related assets obtained by the Information Technology Department.     • Ensure adherence to Change Management standards, procedures, and processes.  • Review all change requests to ensure they meet the established completion criteria.  • Review schedules of changes to identify time, conflicts, and risks associated with requested changes.  • Approve or reject submitted change requests, with a small percentage requiring review outside of normal business hours.  • Chair meetings that review changes, such as Change Advisory Board (CAB)/Change Review Meeting (CRM).  • Authorize emergency changes.  • Recommend process enhancements and continue improvement opportunities that are based on ITIL best practices and industry standards.  • Conduct post implementation review and coordinate closure of all changes.  • Provide change-related artifacts to auditors.  • Administer Asset Management tool (BMC Client Management).  • Maintain accurate inventory of all IT hardware (20K+) and software assets through full lifecycle.  • Perform physical inventories and audits.  • Perform server reconciliations with Ops team.  • Develop and provide detailed asset reports.  • Coordinate and enforce asset compliance with asset custodians.  • Ensures asset tags are placed on all new IT equipment and recorded in the Asset Management tool prior to deployment. Network Administrator Henderson, Franklin, Starnes & Holt P.A - Fort Myers, FL April 2016 to October 2016 Support Active Directory maintenance initiatives and lead Windows anti-virus patch management. Conduct comprehensive reviews of security logs, event logs, and activity reports and expedite the resolution of complex errors. Analyze scripts to perform MS-SQL server health and maintenance tasks; executes new plans.  • Manage the Citrix Xencenter, consisting of a virtual farm of 12 Xen Servers for over 250 employee profiles with load balancing.  • Managed a 14 server environment for all 3 office locations.  • Built computers from multiple computers to save costs.  • Built out computers for new employees as well as loaner laptops for traveling attorneys.  • Developed and deployed key 2008R2 and 2012R2 physical and virtual boxes, including IIS 7.5 servers  • Lead network, server hardware, software and Citrix planning, deployment, and administration; serve as a subject matter expert in network and system administration initiatives and support project activities  • Worked with vendors to maintain all third party software and hardware.  • Trained all new employees on all the software and hardware.  • Maintained Exchange and Active Directory as well as employee directory & emergency plan.  • Provide expert-level support to over 250 users; identify, troubleshoot, diagnose, and resolve complex technical issues, deliver technical education to maximize functionality and prevent system downtime.  • Maintained all printers and copiers software and maintenance.  • Maintained backups and patches for all files and servers.  • Maintained Barracuda Firewall and patch updates.  • Maintained Nortel Phone system.  • IP conflicts between DHCP and static.  • Network file share SMTP, UNC, and FTP.  • Set up scan paths on copiers for fast work flow scanning to UNC folders or via ftp. Contractor - Network Administrator Lan Info Tech - Fort Lauderdale, FL September 2014 to April 2016 Contractor    Lan Info Tech - Handled all day to day issues through a team of 5 engineers for well over 50 different clients. Directed the client's system in upgrades, patches, and migrations. Help planned the projects, effectively allocated resources, and seamlessly executed strategic plans. Provided influential leadership, coaching, and mentorship to 2 engineers while working in a group of 5.  • Successfully replaced all PCs with Win 7 operating systems at a client location; installed and configured software necessary for proprietary applications and provided user training on system use.  • Reconfigured and rewired all server rooms as necessary, reloaded user mail and internet preferences and created all images and group policies based on department requirements; introduce procedures.  • Maintained client firewalls such as Kaspersky, Barracuda, and Watch Guard.  • Installed and configured wireless access points.  • Maintained load balancing.  • Rotated on the "On-Call" rotation.    VNet Consulting - Provided expert-level support to 1800+ users at 11 branches and the operations center throughout 9 counties. Installed and configured software for Windows servers 2012, 2008, and 2003. Help planned the upgrade of the DMS and server software.  • Manage Active Directory, User Profiles, Exchange, printers, & copiers.  • Manage DMS system while using SQL scripts to locate duplicate entries, incorrect labeling and incorrect billing.  • Help the launch and move of 2 branch locations; coordinated the procurement of all servers, PCs, and PC equipment.  • Ran all new cables in the new buildings for all offices, cubicles, and desks for VoIP phones, network printers, and PCs.  • Cabled and hung interactive smart tv's for video conferencing.  • Setup all computer systems with proper user profile settings, network printers, and copiers.  • Setup of full office services and copy centers.  • Developed printer maintenance logs as well as created and introduced new toner replacement policies throughout all branches.  • Replacing/upgrading of cisco and IBM switches. Systems Engineer Nuance Communications, Inc - Sunrise, FL June 2009 to 2014 Interact with clients face to face and give them a sense of comfort and confidence in the product. As well as act as lead on the pre-installation calls and during the onsite install of the hardware and software. Communicate with the client, other vendors, and my support staff. Handle all day to day issues for support staff in organizing calls, issues, creating tickets, and prioritizing work flow order.  • Travel to onsite client sites in state, out of state, and international travel.  • Test and repair hardware.  • Analyze the software information to ensure the information contained within its reports are accurate as well as easily available for the clients to access them.  • Upgraded recovery and restoration software.  • Trouble shoot any Technical Problems, Networking, Scanners, Printers, Copy Machines, system crashes, slow-downs and data recoveries.  • Installation of new software and hardware involving custom scripting using VB script, SQL, and .Net.  • Troubleshoot client customized software to work with print drivers, small business servers, firewalls (Barracuda, Watch Guard, Kaspersky) and Router Configuration, Basic Network Security, Email Servers, IP conflicts between DHCP and static.  • Network file share SMTP, UNC, and FTP.  • Set up scan paths on copiers for fast work flow scanning and file share. Network Administrator Broward County Schools - Lauderdale Lakes, FL October 2006 to 2011 Boyd Anderson H. S.    Installed and configured all hardware, including motherboards, CPUs, hard drives, laptops, cell phones. Troubleshoot any technical problems, network connectivity issues, scanners, printers, copy machines as well as deal with system crashes, slow-downs and data recoveries. Installation of new software and hardware.  • Headed compliance audits that included a review of compliance with corporate policies and industry best practices, as well as regulations such as Sarbanes-Oxley (SOX) and NERC CIP.  • Leveraged work experiences and apply risk based auditing and provide value added practical recommendations.  • Proven track record of loss recovery from time of employment from 28% to 6% at time of departing the school board.  • Recognized for achieving a 30% cost savings while working for Broward County Schools through the management of technology using MRP solutions  • Upgraded and Maintained the school's website  • Created and maintained inventory database using a self-made database Education Bachelor of Science degree in Computer Information Systems Ferrum College - Ferrum, VA Skills Customer Service, Strategic Planning, Vmware, Network Administration, Exchange