Professional Driver Professional Driver Professional Driver - Mountain Rentals US Work Experience Professional Driver Mountain Rentals December 2012 to Present Roles  • Owner of Five Star Computers a successful computer repair shop. I installed networks for multiple  commercial establishments in the area and outside of area. I would design, infrastructure and implement networks to the customers needs and future needs of there business. I also repaired home  user computers and troubleshoot them either hardware issues or software issues. In 2001 I became a ISP for the surrounding area that I custom built and became very successful. I became very  knowledgeable with T1, T2, T3 and bonded T3 lines.    American Mountain Rentals was a successful cabin rental company in Pigeon Forge Tn. When starting  there their reservation system was DOS Based. I built a server and workstations installed Cat5 network  cables and began a new system infrastructure for their needs. The owners of the company wanted  access to the infrastructure remotely at that time I installed a Sysco router setup the gateway open  ports forwarded IP addresses hosted the DNS servers and gave access points to there remote  computers. I also did alot of satellite (Direct TV) installation's for them as well as Cable using RG6  coaxial cable as RG59 was becoming absolute. At this time LCD TVs we're hitting the Market and became highly sought after. Cabins became targets in which would be broken into. I got with a local  security department and started installing security systems in the cabins with window and door  sensors. I went as far as installing GPS's inside of the TVS and had a third party monitor them and was  able to recover certain tvs. I also aided in installs of CCTV camera systems at the office and off site  locations.    Dedicated network systems administrator with comprehensive data and telecommunications  experience    Highly knowledgeable in data network security and wireless security.    Technically Savvy.  Highly knowledgeable at solving networking, electronics, and computer technology issues.    Software  Microsoft Suite  MSWord, Works, Excel, PowerPoint, Access, Exchange  Adobe, Photoshop, Fireworks, Shockwave  Apache    Operating Systems    Windows 95/98  Windows NT / 2000  Windows Back office    Windows Server  Windows XP, Vista, 7,8,10    Networking  Cisco Routers and Switches VPN  Visual Basic, Share Point  TCP / IP, Dynamic IP, Static IP  P2P  DNS Servers  Mail Servers  Print Servers  DHCP / Port Forwarding  • I went to a Truck Driving Academy in Sevierville TN as Trucking was a interest of mine. I past with the highest GPA in my class. From 2012 to Current I have alot of miles and been through most every  state of America transporting various commodities safely as possible. Backing wasn't a strong suit of mine in the early stages of Trucking but now has become my strongest there isn't a dock that I haven't  been able to back into. Being a professional driver has been a great career and have enjoyed most of it.  It isn't what it use to be and the financial aspect of it isn't either.  dcx  gbgb Network Administrator / IT Five Star Computers / American January 1998 to July 2019 Assessments Technical Support — Proficient July 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/ijnbi1lsccx94ee4 Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.