Network Engineer <span class="hl">Network</span> Engineer Network Engineer - Arizona Department of Health Services Santa Clarita, CA Work Experience Network Engineer Arizona Department of Health Services October 2015 to Present • Responsible for designing and developing scalable, maintainable, highly available network architectures that meet department objectives and service-level agreements.  • Deploy, manage, and maintain LAN/WAN, MPLS, RADIUS, TACACS+, and Wireless.  • Configure and support routing protocols RIP, EIGRP, OSPF, and BGP.   • Implement, manage, and support VPN technologies including SSL, IPsec, Site-to-site and MPLS.  • Install and manage a wide variety of networking technologies including 20 Cisco switches/routers, 4 Cisco Nexus Switches, 15 Cisco ASA Firewalls, 8 Cisco ISE/ACS, and 8 Citrix NetScaler Load Balancer/Brocade switches.  • Perform regular firewall security monitoring to detect and prevent any possible intrusions.  • Configure Orion SolarWinds and Uila to monitor department-wide network and servers/systems.  • Utilize Wireshark to diagnose and troubleshoot network issues.  • Develop and administer disaster recovery plans between primary and secondary datacenter.  • Provide 2nd and 3rd level network and systems support to 100 plus state clinics in Arizona, Navajo Nation, and three international sites including American Samoa, CNMI, and Guam.   • Lead, manage, and participate in multiple network and systems projects.  • Coach, mentor, and serve as a technical resource for desktop support specialists and other LAN administrators.  • Develop, update, and keep current network equipment, architectural diagrams, documentation, and software license renewals.   • Manage 20 plus physical servers including Cisco UCS, HP ProLiant, Dell PowerEdge, Oracle SPARC, and IBM System.  • Configure VMware vSphere virtual environment with Cisco UCS blade infrastructure and Cisco Nexus FCoE zoning for Hitachi Fibre Channel SANs.  • Administer Microsoft Active Directory, Group Policy, IIS, DHCP, DNS, Certificate Services, MSFCM, and RDS/VDI.  • Utilize Windows PowerShell script and batch file to automate repetitive tasks.  • Oversee routine backup/recovery with NetBackup, Veeam, and Unitrends. Network Administrator Panda Restaurant Group October 2014 to May 2015 • Supported company-wide computer networks including Panda's Corporate Support Center and its 1,700 plus restaurants located in 47 U.S. states.  • Provided 2nd and 3rd level user support for more than 25,000 associates.  • Performed network administration on Local Area Network (LAN), Wide Area Network (WAN) and its components.  • Solved network connectivity issues related to routers and switches malfunctions.  • Participated in all network-related projects including installation, maintenance, and trouble-shooting of routers, switches, APs, firewalls, load balancers (f5), VPN appliances and local/remote data center environments.  • Maintained the Network Operating System (NOS) of all networking equipment, including deployment of latest patches, service packs, and updates as recommended by manufacturers.  • Managed multiple domains within Active Directory.  • Overseen 50 plus physical servers including Dell PowerEdge, HP ProLiant, and Cisco UCS.  • Administered the VMware vSphere environment with more than 10 ESXi Hosts and 500 virtual  machines.  • Performed server administration on Windows 2000-2012, MS Active Directory, MS Exchange, MS SQL  Server, and other application servers including Quest Email Archive Manager, MailMarshal SMTP,  Citrix (XenApp and XenDesktop), ESET Antivirus, and Altiris client desktop management.  • Managed routine backup/recovery with NetApp and Catalogic DPX.  • Participated in the development, implementation and testing of disaster recovery procedures. Network and Systems Administrator Otis College of Art and Design - MIS March 2010 to September 2014 • Supported college-wide computer networks including the main campus and five branch campuses.  • Provided tier two and three user support for more than 200 faculty and staff members.  • Installed, configured, and managed campus networks consisting of 35 cisco routers, 60 cisco switches,  and 6 Cisco/FortiGate/Barracuda firewalls.  • Provide and implement new, existing, and future VoIP technology utilizing Cisco Call Manager and Unified Communications systems.  • Maintained and monitored over 50 physical servers and 120 virtual servers, including HP UNIX 10.0,  Microsoft Servers 2008 R2, Red Hat Enterprise Linux 6, and VMware environments.  • Tuned and configured applications and subsystems including: Microsoft Exchange, ADS, IIS, SMS, File  and Print services, Apache Web Services, and database engines such as Oracle and Microsoft SQL.  • Maintained and tested Disaster Recovery procedures including monitoring system backups and performing on-site and off-site storage.  • Assisted in the development and implementation of procedures to keep systems operational and well- maintained.  • Led and participated in multiple projects in accordance with college and departmental goals and priorities.  • Provided technical updates to management during weekly technical support committee meetings. Technical Support The City of Los Angeles Department of Building and Safety June 2007 to December 2007 • Assisted in troubleshooting user problems relating to Microsoft Operating Systems issues, network connectivity, upgrades, Internet connectivity, and Microsoft office products.  • Provided user support for more than 900 clients via e-mail, phone, in-person, and remote desktop.  • Assisted with the installation and maintenance of computer hardware, software, and security updates, for over 300 desktops and servers.  • Performed and scheduled data backups, computer disk imaging and archiving, and data recovery.  Data Entry Data Entry Evergreen Adult Day Health Care Center October 2002 to June 2007 • Entered and maintained patient medical records, for over 400 patients, through MS Access databases.  • Edited and proofread documents for accuracy, formatting, style, and compliance with regulations.  • Provided technical support of computer applications and networking troubleshooting for the doctors,  nurses, therapists, and medical billing personnel. Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Information Systems in Information Technology California State University Los Angeles March 2006 to September 2009 Associate in Science Degree (AS) and Art Degree (AA) in Business Administration Pasadena City College September 2001 to December 2006 Skills Cisco (8 years), Exchange (5 years), Oracle (8 years), Sql (5 years), Vmware (8 years) Certifications/Licenses Cisco Certified Network Associate (CCNA) Driver's License