Network Analyst and HR <span class="hl">Network</span> Analyst and HR Network Analyst and System Administrator - Teranet Networkz pvt ltd Bangalore To work for a dynamic organization and use my skills to words the benefit the organization. I would love to take challenging responsibilities to develop my own skills and knowledge through the exposure I get through the organization and contribute towards its growth. Work Experience Network Analyst and HR Teranet Networkz pvt ltd June 2017 to Present Like clients handling,  • 1 Year in Eolane as a PCB board testing and Quality department System administrator Education Bachelor's Skills CLIENTS (2 years), TESTING (2 years), ACCEPTANCE TESTING (Less than 1 year), ALGORITHM (Less than 1 year), ALGORITHMS (Less than 1 year), Ccna, Router Additional Information TECHNICAL SUMMARY    Automation knowledge:  • Good knowledge of Selenium WebDriver  • Expertise in writing Automating Test Scripts (Xpath, Actions, TestNG)  • Knowledge on Synchronization.  • Knowledge on Action Class.  • Well known how to handle Pop Menu.  • Good Experience in Debugging, Executing and Finding the issues in script.  • Expertise in developing Functions for the Frame work.  • Having Experience in Web applications.  • Ability to learn new technologies and tools quickly.  • Good understanding of ATLC (Automation Testing Life Cycle)    Mannual Testing:  • Excellent knowledge in all the phases of SDLC (Software Development Life Cycle)  • Adroit to perform Functional Testing.  • Well versed in doing Integration Testing.  • Very cognizant in doing System Testing.  • Exhaustive knowledge on Smoke Testing.  • Very good Dynamic idea in doing Adhoc Testing.  • Well Explorative idea in doing Exploratory Testing.  • Dexterous in Acceptance Testing.  • Well known Globalization Testing.  • Thorough knowledge in Regression Testing.  • Good knowledge of Compatibility Testing.  • Thorough knowledge on Usability Testing.  • Well in Test Case Design Techniques.  • Extensive knowledge on Defect Life Cycle.  • Excellent know lade on STLC.  • Known Agile Methodology.    JAVA:    • Strong knowledge in OOPs Inheritance, Polymorphism, Abstraction and Encapsulation.  • Thorough knowledge on Collection like List, Queue, Set and Map.  • Usage of comparable and comparator for custom sorting.  • Good knowledge on Exception Handling.    TECHNICAL SKILLS    Programming languages: JAVA, SQL  Web Technologies: HTML  Tools: Eclipse, Mat lab    ACHIEVEMENT    • Participant in various Debates Competition.  • I was the coordinator of different club in college.    PROJECTS    Title of the project: Study and analysis of different conventional edge detection methods.  Description:    Duration    The main objective of the project is to detect the edge of the image in presence of noise. The project discovers different edge detection algorithms for different classes of images with salt and pepper noise with a comparative analysis of all the results. A morphological based edge detection technique has given the better result.    5Month  MATLAB    Platform use:  Title of the project:  Study and analysis of different algorithms for image clustering.  Our objective is to apply different clustering algorithms to color images and compare the results based on appearance. We are performing clustering on the basis of intensity values and we have applied K-Means, Fuzzy C-Means, and Genetic Algorithm to identify the defected part of different fruits.    Description:    Duration    5Month  MATLAB    Platform use:    TESTING PROJECT:  Name of Project-WHITEBOARD  Description-  It is a web-based easy-to-use application designed for time tracking and management. It helps strengthen your team improving business process, analyzing team performance and reducing business cost. This project is use to manage clients details, projects, tasks, time details and billables, users and report. It allows time tracking for the different customers, their projects and the task done in the particular projects. Since we are managing entire project details in this software so we called it as a Project Management System.  As part of my training program in "Q-Spiders", I did following testing on WHITEBOARD.  • Performed functional, integration and system testing.  • Creating, updating and reviewing of the test cases for assigned features.    STRENGTHS    • Adaptability  • Punctuality  • Helping nature