Network Administrator <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Network Administrator Chicago, IL Work Experience Network Administrator Skokie, IL March 2015 to May 2019 Duties included:  Installing and Troubleshooting Microsoft Servers  Installing and Troubleshooting Workstations  Evaluated feasibility in Windows 2008-2012 upgrade  Administrating a Windows 2008 network environment  Installing and maintaining Windows Active Directory  Managing and training users, granting the user access to network resources  Installing new workstations relevant to resources to be utilized  Providing network access for mobile computers within the security policies  Adding as needed peripheral equipment needed with regards to future business growth Network Consultant FTA computer consulting Inc - San Mateo, CA September 2014 to February 2015 Duties included:  Supporting network operation and users.  Evaluating network security and user access and setting up necessary guidelines for safe usage of resources  Providing support for system connectivity and customers  Troubleshooting peripherals and add on equipment Network Administrator Ontrack Solutions Inc - Skokie, IL March 2009 to August 2014 Duties included:  Administering a Windows 2003 network environment  Managing and training users, granting the user access to network resources  Installing new workstations relevant to resources to be utilized  Providing network access for mobile computers within the security policies required  Adding peripheral equipment as needed with regards to future business growth  Setting security guidelines to network resources including Firewall Setup, Routers installations  Auditing system usage and bandwidth saturation point  Installing and Troubleshooting TCP/IP in a corporate environment Field Technician Getronics Corporation - San Jose, CA September 2008 to February 2009 Duties included:  Service calls to Target and The Home Depot Department stores.  Troubleshooting and installing Points of Sale computers and accessories  Troubleshooting and testing communication devices.  Testing and installing inter-store Wireless communication.  Testing and installing Wireless Access Points  Installing point of sales equipment including; scanners, monitors and sales equipment Assembly.  Performing preventive maintenance tasks relating to store Servers and Routers.  PC/LAN Technician  Duties included: Service Technician Alborz Technical Consulting Corp - Chicago, IL January 2003 to July 2008 Chicago, Illinois Jan 2003 to July 2008  Installing Windows XP Professional and Windows 2000/2003 Servers in Standalone and Networked  environments.  Worked on plans to identify the Risks and setup Responses to Disaster Recovery.  Set up Standard Escalation Procedures in identifying the resources available to the Recovery personnel and notification of serious problems to users.    Helped set up a Fault-tolerant system to continue operating in the event of key Component failure.  Installed and maintained Windows XP in Standalone and Networked Environments.  Deployed Windows XP Professional workstations through Sysprep and RIPrep Imaging technologies.  Service Technician  Duties included: Desktop Support Specialist Soft Tracks Inc - Chicago, IL April 1999 to December 2002 Performing regular maintenance on the company's PCs.  Installing Productivity software.  Troubleshooting Workstations.  Addressing Connectivity issues and troubleshooting Standalone and Networked printers.  Installing Standalone and Networked printers.  Backing up and Restoring data on Networked and Standalone Workstations.  Installing necessary Anti-Virus software Education Bachelor in Business Administration in Business Administration North East Missouri State University - Kirksville, MO 1972 to 1976 Skills NETWORKING, Active Directory, Customer Service, Security, Vmware, Technical Support, Windows, Windows 7 Additional Information SKILLS  Networking (5 years)