Sr. Principal Network Security Enterprise Architecture Sr. Principal <span class="hl">Network</span> Security Enterprise Architecture Sr. Principal Network Security Enterprise Architecture - Nuance Communications Melrose, MA An individual with a strong work ethic and over eighteen years of work experience. Proven ability to identify problems, develop solutions and achieve results. A leader and team player whose persistence continually strives for excellence.  • Manage network and security systems and provide consulting services in cloud environments globally. Research, and assess technology purchases. Implement system improvements to maintain profitable, competitive and quality-driven production processes. Work Experience Sr. Principal Network Security Enterprise Architecture Nuance Communications - Burlington, MA 2017 to Present Artificial Intelligence Products and Services provider    • Conduct Architecture Review Board formats, collaborate and facilitates with stakeholder groups.  • Manage large complex projects in new technology deployments, including Azure and AWS.  • Create technology roadmap and provide vision for network and security domains to business and technology stakeholders.  • Design and provide guidance on configuration for production network security environments.  • Lead in assessing and deploying new network and security technologies.  • Develop reference architecture, implementation documents and standards.  • Bridge gaps between business and technology teams.  • Negotiates with stakeholders on policies and strategies.  • Captures and prioritize requirements develop use cases to be presented to senior stakeholders.  • Actively monitor the market and seek new opportunities, methods and trends that advance  enterprise architecture.  • Develop IT governance program assuring Enterprise Architecture compliance. Sr. Network and Security Engineer III - Network Ops Manager Ericsson - Waltham, MA 2014 to 2017 for SaaS environment  Leading Telecom Products and Services provider with over 110,000 employees    • Design and configure hosting production network security environment.  • Lead in assessing\deploying new network and security technologies.  • Manage team in new technology deployments.  • Lead and assess operational security activities in SSAE, PCI\SOC 1\2, service provider networks.  • Perform network security, systems Linux, Microsoft, web application testing, and remediation  with Burp suite, Rapid7, and Nessus.  • Manage and maintain SSL certificates and DNS requirements.  • Maintain connectivity and configuration for load balancers, Cisco\Fortinet firewalls, VPNs, routers and switch connections.  • Responsible for network security for DevOps and Production infrastructure.  • Responsible for maintaining firewalls, WAF, identity management tools, and IPS\IDS.  • Design and implement BGP and OSPF networks.  • Configure Cisco 6500, Nexus switches, Juniper QFX switches and virtual routers. Sr. Network Engineer II-Architect Shire Pharmaceuticals - Lexington, MA 2013 to 2014 for over 100 Campus and Data Center Global Locations  Leading Pharmaceutical Consisting of over 5000 employees    • Design and configure LAN/WAN/MAN.  • Designed and expanded on a global campus and data center network consisting of L3  interconnects that are dynamically updated over OSPF, EIRGP and BGP.  • Manage Cisco 4500, 6500 and Nexus 7000, 5000 and 1000v switches.  • Technical Project lead for Cisco Wireless Prime deployment.  • Built redundancy into online validation network removing any SPOF. Upgraded network  infrastructure significantly within budget without service interruption of day-to-day operations.  • Built new network for Warehouse facility expanding current network consisting of wireless, multicast, voice and QoS.  • Provision and capacity planning of network hardware and software.  • Perform ongoing performance tuning of routers, switches, and firewalls.  • Create documentation and ensure network needs are consistent with standards.  • Participate in RFP process, research and assess network technology needs.  • Provide Level 3 support to assist in diagnosis and resolution of network problems. Principal Network Architect for Storage EMC - Hopkinton, MA 2011 to 2013 as a Service (SaaS) for Large ISP Businesses  Virtual Security Team Member - Establishing network security best practices for SaaS deployments  Storage Management Services Architecture Group - Providing Solutions for ISP Data Center Cloud  Networks    • Network Architect for Cloud solutions designed for deployment in ISP networks in globally  distributed datacenters providing solutions for the largest Internet Service Providers that would  offer Cloud Storage Solutions to their customers.  • Design client network security and create implementation processes for Delivery Teams.  • Reviewed network security for new business deployments.  • Designed ISP Cloud solution to support 100GB throughput and a network to support 50PB of data  with Nexus fabric.  • Responsible for network security consulting, design, and high level troubleshooting services to clients.  • Managed multiple projects simultaneously for multiple customers.  • Designed IPv6 solution for hosted services over the Internet for IPv6 Day.  • Design Proof of Concept networks with Cisco VSG firewalls, 1000V, Nexus switches and ASR1000- ASR1006 routers with ESP to provide high throughput site-to-site VPN services.  • Successfully lead team back on track designing an ISP network consisting of datacenters globally  distributed. Project consisted of Riverbed Stringray load balancers, in a multilayered network with Vyatta Virtual firewalls within a virtual infrastructure utilizing VMware ESX, and SSL  certificates.  • Prepared live presentations and diagrams of network and security solutions to executive  management and trained client technical staff.  • Designed and implemented global Cloud network that consisted of physical and virtual  infrastructure. Created an installation process for Network Engineers to proceed with parallel  implementations.  • Manage remote teams to deploy network infrastructure.  • Develop and schedule tasks for remote teams.  • Point of contact for net-new and new technologies.  • Implement Cloud networks.  • Create install procedures for Cloud deployments.  • Research and assess network and security technology needs.  • Recommend build of materials for clients that meet budget and technical requirements. Sr. Network Engineer Eagle Investment Systems - Newton, MA 2006 to 2011 Newton, MA 2006 to 2011  An independent division of Bank of New York Mellon providing Financial Institutions SaaS  Sr. Network Engineer  A SaaS Providing Businesses Access to Hosted Data Centers    • Manage client and corporate global networks.  • Responsible for network security consulting, design, and troubleshooting services to clients as an ASP.  • Design hosting SSL environments for financial institutions.  • Configure and support Cisco Nexus 7000,5000,2000 series switches in virtual domain.  • Configure and maintain Cisco 6500, 4500, 4948, 4900M, 2970, 3550 switches, 1800, 2600, and  3800 routers.  • Configure and monitor ASA5580, 5550, PIX 506E, FWSM series, Netscreen 550, SSG520  firewalls.  • Responsible for load balancing troubleshooting with Cisco 11501, 11506 CSS.  • Manage Dell and Cisco Blade Center switches.  • Plan and design new network builds in Data Centers hosting services as an Application Service  Provider, ASP.  • Coordinate and plan new installs for client dedicated T1s, VPNs and content services.  • Provide High Availability network services in an ASP environment over BGP and MPLS. Network Engineer P&H Solutions - Newton, MA 2006 to 2006 An Application Service Provider - Providing Access to Financial Applications in Hosted Data Centers    • Responsible for customer network and security design, build and troubleshooting.  • Manage outsourcing network for over 150 financial institutions nationwide.  • Configure and maintain Cisco 4506, 2970 switches, 2600, 3800 and 7200 routers.  • Configure and monitor ASA5520, PIX 515E, 525 series, Netscreen 25, 50, and 5GT firewalls.  • Responsible for load balancing troubleshooting with Cisco 11506 CSS.  • Constructed DR environment for outsourcing network.  • Provide network consulting, design, and troubleshooting services to clients.  • Responsible for Data Center builds and emerging technologies. Network Security Administrator Conversent Communications - Marlborough, MA 2004 to 2006 CLEC ISP - Servicing North East Coast.    • Monitor and maintain Cisco 2600, 7200 series routers and 2900, 3500 series switches.  • Responsible for Corporate security and Anti-Virus solutions.  • Manage, maintain and upgrade PIX 520 series Firewalls.  • Develop SIEM, syslog solution to track security incidents.  • Create VPN accounts on Cisco 3000 series VPN Concentrator  • Maintain all T1, ATM, Frame Relay, MLPPP and DSL lines to corporate offices  • Lead for all Security, Antivirus and VPN issues.  • Evaluate and implement new network technology.  • Design network architecture that includes site to site IPSEC VPN, DMZ, VLANS, and Gigabit  backbone for server data backups.  • Configure Cisco PIX, 3005 Concentrator, routers and switches.  • Enable Syslog, SNMP, RMON monitoring.  • Deployed and maintain network monitoring system. Network Administrator Tetra Tech FW - Boston, MA 2001 to 2004 Environmental Company Consisting of over 10,000 employees    • Windows 2000 Lead and backup WAN Administrator.  • Implemented Symantec Antivirus solution and backup the Security Administrator.  • Responsible for Server availability, backup/restore, and general maintenance.  • Maintain Cisco Routers and Switches.  • Windows 2000 Active Directory Lead.  • Planned and conducted Active Directory training classes for Information Technology staff.  • Provide Level 3 technical support to escalating tickets nationwide.  • Administer the PBX system.  • Provide Citrix support.  • Manage and maintain Compaq Proliant 1600, 3000, DL380, DL580 and Storage Works cabinet.  • Install a variety of hardware and software solutions on Dell and IBM workstations and laptops.  • Implement new plot printers, GIS, Microstation and CAD software. Network Support Engineer EchoMail - Cambridge, MA 2000 to 2001 Email Startup Categorizing Marketing Feedback    • Install, configure, and manage new network behind a firewall with 3Com hubs, 3Com switches  and Cisco routers.  • Deployed firewall policy to allow SNMP, TCP/IP and various other protocols.  • Install and configure Windows NT 4.0 on Dell Power Edge servers with hardware level RAID.  • Deploy and improved security in LAN network.  • Manage and configure Domino Mail Server.  • Log and track escalating problems in Lotus Notes 4.67. Education BS in Management Bentley University Present Skills Solution Architect, Togaf