Sales Representative Sales Representative Clarkston, MI Hardworking, motivated former US Marine seeking an entry level job in your company. Looking to bring my skill set and an eager, ready to learn mind to your workplace. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sales Representative Allstate Insurance - Auburn Hills, MI January 2019 to Present Use computers for various applications, such as database management or word processing.  Answer telephones and give information to callers, take messages, or transfer calls to appropriate individuals.  Create, maintain, and enter information into databases.  Interpret and explain policies, rules, regulations, or laws to individuals. Salesman 2313 - Farmington Hills, MI November 2018 to January 2019 Write and record orders for merchandise or enter orders into computers.  Explain products or services and prices and demonstrate use of products.  Contact customers to persuade them to purchase merchandise or services.  Answer questions about product features and benefits. Server Administrator United States Marine Corps - Norfolk, VA February 2018 to November 2018 Assist in managing 12 Virtual Servers on a Classified network.  Update and patch servers to correct vulnerabilities and ensure compliance.  Perform daily checks to ensure the network and equipment is functioning properly.  Perform data backups and disaster recovery operations.  Plan, coordinate, and implement network security measures to protect data, software, and hardware.  Diagnose, troubleshoot, and resolve hardware, software, or other network and system  problems, and replace defective components when necessary.  Maintain an inventory of parts for emergency repairs. Network Transport Technician United States Marine Corps - Norfolk, VA June 2017 to February 2018 Work with outside agencies to resolve network issues.  Track and record networking assets including switches, UPS, and TACLANEs.  Perform proper troubleshooting procedures to fix routine and complex issues.  Configure and define parameters for installation or testing of local area network (LAN),  wide area network (WAN), hubs, routers, switches, controllers, multiplexers, or related  networking equipment.  Create or revise user instructions, procedures, or manuals.  Install or repair network cables, including fiber optic cables.  Provide telephone support related to networking or connectivity issues.  Back up network data.  Configure security settings or access permissions for groups or individuals.  Troubleshoot network or connectivity problems for users or user groups. Security Guard United States Marine Corps - Norfolk, VA November 2016 to June 2017 Monitor and authorize entrance and departure of employees, visitors, and other persons to maintain public safety and security of the installation.  Thoroughly inspect vehicles entering the installation for any contraband.  Perform random antiterrorism measures to increase physical security awareness and deter possible terrorist attacks.  Direct traffic during emergency and congested situations.  Help mitigate situations between disorderly people.  Conduct surveillance and counter surveillance operations.  Relay complaint and emergency-request information to supervisor via radio.  Operate detecting devices to screen individuals. Help Desk/ Asset Manager United States Marine Corps - Norfolk, VA April 2016 to November 2016 Develop problem solving and customer service skills.  Organize and track customer tickets.  Manage over 600 computer assets.  Order needed equipment.  Create logs and custody receipts for disposed or unused equipment to ensure the command is inspection ready.  Answer telephones and give information to callers, take messages, or transfer calls to appropriate individuals.  Operate office equipment, such as fax machines, copiers, or phone systems and arrange for repairs when equipment malfunctions.  Greet visitors or callers and handle their inquiries or direct them to the appropriate  persons according to their needs.  Conduct searches to find needed information, using such sources as the Internet.  Review work done by others to check for correct spelling and grammar, ensure that  company format policies are followed, and recommend revisions. Education High School Diploma in accuracy Scecina Memorial High School - Indianapolis, IN May 2015 Skills SECURITY (1 year), Customer Service, Organizational Skills, Excel, Word Military Service Branch: United States Marine Corps Service Country: United States Rank: E3 July 2015 to Present Certifications/Licenses CPR November 2016 to December 2018 Security+ February 2018 to February 2020 CCNA Routing and Switching April 2016 to Present Additional Information Skills  Enthusiastic Work Ethic Courteous Demeanor  Complex Problem Solving Active Learning  Public Safety and Security Critical Thinking  Teamwork Social