Network Engineer <span class="hl">Network</span> Engineer Network Engineer - OMNIPOTECH, LTD Deltona, FL 20+ years of combined IT experience in desktop/ network/server support, design, development, testing, and  implementation in a wide range of business appliances, applications, and vendor services. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Network Engineer OMNIPOTECH, LTD December 2005 to Present OMNIPOTECH, LTD is one of the top 25 hosting providers in the Houston, TX area that own their own  hosting infrastructure. Providing an array of IT services and hosting solutions include the implementation and management of clients on premise and hosted infrastructures.    Responsibilities:  • Management of on premise and hosted servers - DC, Exchange, POP, terminal, data, PBX, and  BDR - Backup and Disaster Recovery Server.  • Management of client applications, hosted DNS, email security solutions.  • Hosted and on premise security services - Antivirus, Anti-Malware, Anti-Spyware, Behavior  monitoring of disk activities, Managed firewall policy, and URL filtering.  • Hosting migration.  • Infrastructure migration.  • Secondary datacenter environmental design, monitoring, and disaster recovery systems. Dir. of Technologies, Network Administrator, Depart A Leak Detection and Plumbing Services March 2001 to January 2004 Manager, Project Manager, and website  designer    A Leak Detection and Plumbing Services specializes in under slab leak detection and repair. Beside my It  responsibilities I headed a report department that was in charge of drafting reports for the homeowners and their insurance companies.    Responsibilities:  • Manage server and workstations.  • Design company website and graphics.  • Design and revise new versions of the company's Lotus Approach database.  • Create AutoCAD drawings of structures and premises.  • Managed the build of a $1.5M high Tech boat and installed all Electronic systems. Dir. of Technologies and Network Administrator Gwynedd Mercy Academy December 1998 to March 2001 Gwynedd Mercy is an all-girl high school focused on the education of girls in the Catholic faith.    Responsibilities:  • Management of servers - DC, Exchange, web, and application.  Design company website and graphics.  • Installation of IT systems in new building project - Server room, computer labs, and fiber backbone  • Coordinated and negotiated all vendor related tasks.  • Create online paperless process for teacher and student work. Customer Engineer Banctec January 1997 to January 1998 Provided Desktop Support services for Lockheed Martin and L-3 Communications consisting of more than  1600 users over 8 campuses in Camden and Moorestown, NJ. I was one of three Customer Engineers in charge of installation and repair of all hardware/software for desktops, laptops, and printers consisting of a  variety of PC, Macintosh, and HP units in corporate multi- network environment. Education Associates in Computer Science Computer Learning Center - Philadelphia, PA September 1995 to December 1996 Skills server (10+ years), Exchange Server (10+ years), Firewalls (10+ years), Vmware (5 years), Information Technology (10+ years), Project Planning (10+ years), Project Management (10+ years), Network Management (10+ years), Ethernet (10+ years), PBX (1 year), Network Administration (10+ years), Citrix (9 years) Assessments Critical Thinking — Highly Proficient August 2019 Using logic to solve problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/gk3cba9d3goz1v9s Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    • Windows Server • Kaseya  • Microsoft Exchange • ConnectWise  • Network Administration • Line of business Applications  • Switches, Firewalls, and Routers • Microsoft Application Publishing  • VMWare • Infrastructure Design and Implementation  • FreePBX • Website Design  • Cisco Switching • Lotus Database Design  • SonicWALL • StorageCraft  • Network design and cabling • Project Management