Network Engineer <span class="hl">Network</span> Engineer Information Technology Specialist Cape Coral, FL IT Professional with over 25 years of experience in various roles in the Information Technology field. Success in the implementation and management of various technology systems for businesses ranging from $100 Million to $100 + Billion in assets. Work Experience Network Engineer State Bank &Trust - Savannah, GA April 2014 to February 2019 • Installed and configured Microsoft Server 2008/2012 domain controllers and application servers.  • Managed Microsoft network via Active Directory account creation, user access rights, computer management and GPO management.  • Data Center setup cabling, network device Installation and report creation.  • Cisco router (2900)/Dell switch connectivity administration.  • Application administration of MS Office 20010/2013 Adobe, Fiserv Precision core software business analytics (Fiserv) and various apps within Precision package.  • Manage banking Core application conversion from FIS BancPac to Fiserv Precision for S Bank.  • Vendor management system creation and administration bank wide.  • Cloud/Intra/Internet/ administration.  • Research and implementation of new technology.  • Installation and configuration and day to day trouble of Windows7-10 Professional Workstations.  • Performed account creation administration of MS Exchange Server.  • Completed all preparation and documentation for three successful yearly FDIC I T audits of S Bank both external/internal.  • Creation and implementation of Business Continuity Plan / Disaster Recovery Plan.  • ShorTel user account creation, ShorTel server and router/switch administration.  • Worked with the State Bank I T department, Fiserv and Jack Henry to convert all S bank Fiserv- Precision client data over to State Bank's Jack Henry bank processing systems. Consultant Diebold - North Canton, OH October 2011 to February 2014 • Physical & virtual server builds, Microsoft/Vmware for server upgrade project  • Managed desktop OS conversion project XP to Win7 project  • Everyday client support. The J.M. Smuckers Company - Orrville, OH June 2010 to February 2011 • Performed server builds both virtual-Esx-VMware and physical MS Server 2008.  • Create, maintain, deploy MS Windows Server 2K3, and 2008 images with WDS.  • Interface with multiple IS and application departments when building/supporting servers.  • Management of break/fix support for 1000+ HP ProLiant servers (G2's - G7's).  • Management of physical servers in HQ datacenter. Consultant Tri-C College - Westlake, OH January 2009 to May 2010 • Administration of classroom lab domain.  • Active Directory administration.  • Server 2003/2008 and desktop Win7 image creation.  • Software distribution for all lab pc's and servers.  • Managed and supported all hardware and software support for the entire CCW location.  • AV instruction and support for all instructor classrooms. Network Administrator Key Bank - Cleveland, OH May 2002 to December 2008 • Day to day support of XP clients.  • Software implementation project management.  • Trade floor technical support.  • Disaster recovery implementation and disaster site support.  • Asset management of all sever, desktop/laptop and printers/scanners. Consultant Microsoft Sever 2008 to 2008 2008.  • Provided break / fix support for Dell servers.  • Management of data center wrack space and cabling.    Consultant Network Administrator McDonald Investments Server Desktop Team - Cleveland, OH January 2000 to May 2002 • Asset management  • desktop and laptop XP image creation  • NAV 7.0 rollout and administration  • Day-to-day trade floor and broker client support Education Case Western Reserve University - Cleveland, OH February 2011 to September 2011 Skills 23 plus years of various roles in Information Technoloy, Ranging from Desktop Support to IT Officer.