Senior Network Engineer Senior <span class="hl">Network</span> Engineer Senior Network Engineer Camarillo, CA Work Experience Senior Network Engineer Fred's Inc June 2008 to December 2011 • In addition to the responsibilities of Network Engineer; mentored and provided guidance to small team of Network Engineers and Systems Administrators. Worked with the CIO and Technical Director, consulting on hardware purchasing and configuration based on business needs. Fred's Inc - Memphis, TN December 2007 to December 2011 - A publicly traded corporation (FRED) that operates approximately 750 discount general merchandise stores and 300 pharmacies, mainly across the southeastern states. Network Engineer Fred's Inc December 2007 to June 2008 • Held multifaceted responsibilities to install, configure, and maintain network infrastructure and telecommunications systems that supported corporate headquarters, two distribution centers, and 750 retail locations. This environment contained approximately 120 servers and 10,000 users.  • Fulfilled administrative responsibilities including implementation and management of application, email, web, and file servers, web content filtering, anti-virus, and other network services.  • Established and maintained user Active Directory accounts, email accounts, group policies, and access rights.  • Configured and deployed Sonicwall TZ series UTM's at retail locations. Maintained these firewalls using Sonicwall GMS.  • Maintained backup operations of critical systems and data to robotic libraries and VTL using Symantec Netbackup.  • Installed, configured, and maintained Microsoft Exchange Servers, Exchange OWA, and Outlook Mobile Access.  • Installed, configured, and maintained Windows Server Update Services to roll-out approved updates to servers and workstations.  • Installed, configured, and maintained Kaspersky Endpoint Security anti-virus and anti-spyware.  • Installed, configured, and maintained M86 Web Filtering and Reporting.  • Installed and configured Microsoft Internet Information Services to publish both Internet and intranet websites. Perspective Inc - Bartlett, TN March 2001 to December 2007 - An information technology managed services provider for small and medium businesses in western Tennessee and the southeastern US. Systems Administrator Perspective Inc March 2001 to December 2007 • Functioned as a Systems Administrator/ Network Engineer in a managed services environment. Customers were from a large variety of industries, including banking, healthcare, human resources, real estate, and retail.  • Established and maintained user Active Directory accounts, email accounts, group policies, and access rights.  • Installed, configured, and maintained Microsoft ISA firewalls including server publishing, web publishing, and user access.  • Installed, configured, and maintained Microsoft Terminal Servers as applications servers and for remote administration.  • Installed, configured, and maintained Microsoft Exchange Servers, Exchange OWA, Outlook Mobile Access, and Goodlink Mobile Messaging.  • Installed, configured and maintained Neverfail for Exchange, providing high-availability and failover redundancy for Microsoft Exchange Server.  • Installed, configured, and maintained Ipswitch Imail email servers.  • Installed and configured Microsoft Internet Information Services to publish both Internet and intranet websites.  • Installed, configured, and maintained Windows Server Update Services to roll-out approved updates to servers and workstations.  • Installed, configured, and maintained Trend Micro anti-virus, anti-spyware, and content filter servers.  • Installed, configured, and maintained MRTG to monitor performance of routers, switches, and servers via SNMP.  • Installed and configured servers, operating systems, network applications, and network appliances.  • Installed, configured, and maintained 3Com NBX VoIP solutions.  • Configured and maintained backups of customer data to tape, robotic autoloaders, network attached storage, and optical media using Backup Exec, Arcserv, and Retrospect.  • Performed data recovery in both failed systems and disaster recovery scenarios.  • Provided end-user hardware and software support to customers at both help-desk and on-site levels.  • Assisted in the installation of WAN to interface customers to the data center.  • Assisted in the installation of routers and switches in the data center, namely Cisco and 3Com products.  • Assisted the sales team, addressing technical inquiries about products and services sold. Conducted demonstrations on technology and products to prospective customers. Education Computer Engineering University of Arkansas - Fayetteville, AR 1992 Additional Information Information Technology Systems Management Project Management  Technical Analysis Network Engineering Multi-platform Experience  Implementation Migrations/Upgrades Patch and Vulnerability Management  Sarbanes-Oxley Compliance PCI Compliance HIPPA Compliance    Operating Systems: Windows Server 2008, 2003, 2000, NET; Windows 7, Vista, XP, 2000, 98, 95, 3.1; Linux; OS X  Hardware: IBM Bladecenter servers, IBM xSeries servers, HP Proliant, Dell PowerEdge, EMC Clariion, EMC VNX, Cisco switches and routers, 3Com NBX, Sonicwall TZ series, RAID, SCSI, fibre channel, network adapters, memory, printers, plotters, modems and other peripherals  Software: Symantec NetBackup, Symantec Backup Exec, Arcserv, Retrospect, Microsoft Exchange, Microsoft IIS, Microsoft ISA, Microsoft Terminal Services, Windows Server Update Services, Tripwire, SonicWall GMS, M86 Web Filtering and Reporting, ModusGate, Trend Micro Officescan, Ipswitch Imail, Kaspersky Endpoint Security, Argent, IBM Director, Neverfail for Exchange, Cisco Callmanager, Cisco Unity  Networks/Protocols: LAN/WAN, TCP/IP, DNS, WINS, DHCP, POP3, SMTP, IMAP, TELNET, SSH, VPN, NAT, FTP, SFTP, TFTP, VoIP