Systems Administrator Systems <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator - SAIC Florence, AL My objective is to provide your institution with quality service, and to assist your company in being more productive with the technology needed to get the job done. Work Experience Systems Administrator SAIC - Huntsville, AL October 2018 to Present • Managed security projects for NASA.  • Maintained and managed the WSUS for NASA  • Managed System Center Operations Manager (SCOM) for SAIC.  • Maintained vulnerability scans for threats to the network.  • Maintained Hyper-V servers.  • Worked with team to deploy new servers. Systems Administrator Perspecta - Huntsville, AL December 2017 to October 2018 • Project manager for security projects for NASA.  • Maintained and managed the WSUS for NASA  • Managed SQL 2014 DB for inventory.  • Maintained vulnerability scans for threats to the network.  • Maintained a Hyper-V servers  • Managed Microsoft licenses for the environment Systems Project Engineer General Cable - Jackson, TN October 2016 to December 2017 • Maintain the network environment.  • Created policies that is adhered to by the rest of the department  • Managed the SCCM Server.  • Maintained the Active Directory - All computers, servers, and end users had to access this in order to access the network.  • Migrated desktops from one domain into another.  • Installed and supported the virtual servers Server Engineer Perspecta - Brentwood, TN May 2016 to July 2016 • Managed multiple VMWare Environment  • Migrated physical servers to virtual servers.  • Created policies that is adhered to by the rest of the department  • Managed the SCCM Server.  • Maintained the Active Directory - All computers, servers, and end users had to access this in order to access the network.  • Migrated desktops from one domain into another.  • Installed and supported the virtual servers Systems Administrator Keytronic EMS - Corinth, MS January 2016 to April 2016 • Managed the Hyper-V Environment (Microsoft Windows)  • Migrated physical desktops to virtual desktops.  • Created and maintained the MS Data Protection Manager  • Maintained our WSUS server  • Installed and maintained a SCCM Server.  • Migrated physical and virtual servers to a new SAN  • Maintained the Active Directory - All computers, servers, and end users had to access this in order to access the network.  • Migrated desktops from one domain into another.  • Installed and supported the virtual servers -- I've installed virtual servers (2008 and 2012/2012 r2).  • Supported over 200 clients remotely and through remote desktop and ScreenConnect. Network Administrator Integra Software Systems - Franklin, TN July 2015 to December 2015 • Managed the Virtual Environment (VMWare)  • Migrated physical desktops to virtual desktops.  • Maintained our Microsoft WSUS server  • Maintained the Local Area Network.  • Maintained the Active Directory - All computers, servers, and end users had to access this in order to access the network.  • Maintained and supported Microsoft SQL 2008 and 2014  • Installed and supported the servers -- I've installed virtual and physical servers (Microsoft 2008 and 2012/2012 r2).  • Supported over 200 clients remotely and through their VPN connection.  • Maintained the internal Windows environment. Network Administrator Listerhill Credit Union - Muscle Shoals, AL September 2013 to April 2015 • Created and maintained our Microsoft WSUS server  • Managed the IT Department - I had a staff of 5 technicians that I supervised and sent to the different branches for technical support.  • Oversee and assisted in the conversion from Fiserv to Symitar - An 8 month project that I took over after my manager passed away.  • Supervised and support the Help Desk ticketing system - We had a ticketing system (from RemedyForce) that we used to set priorities and create a database of problems that needed to be addressed.  • Installed and maintained Microsoft SCCM 2012.  • Migrated physical and virtual servers to a new SAN  • Maintained the Active Directory - All computers, servers, and end users had to access this in order to access the network.  • Installed and supported the servers -- I've installed virtual and physical servers (Microsoft 2008 and 2012/2012 r2).  • Managed the Antivirus server.  • Maintained and supported Microsoft SQL 2008 and 2014.  • Documented and maintained the policies for the network.  • Performed network and security audits.  • Migrated physical servers to a virtual environment. - Using tools for migration, I migrated physical Window servers to VMWare and Hyper-V.  • Managed Linux Red Hat servers -- We used Red Hat to access our core financial software.  • Managed Microsoft 2008 R2 and 2012 R2 servers.  • Managed Group Policies in a Microsoft Window environment- maintained GPO for security and window updates. Network Administrator Magnolia River - Hartselle, AL December 2012 to May 2013 • Responsible for network administration , operation of Microsoft servers, and peripheral information system equipment and for developing schedules for equipment usage.  • Maintain up-to-date documentation of all IT systems, infrastructure, processes and procedures.  • Developed and maintained all systems, applications, security, and network configurations.  • Ensure minimal down time.  • Troubleshoot network performance issues (hardware and software).  • Created and maintains a disaster recovery plan.  • Provided technical support and guidance to users.  • Maintains current software licenses  • Maintained Dell SonicWall.  • Develop and implement all IT policies and procedures, including those for architecture, security, standards , purchasing, and service provision.  • Provide strategic planning, development, implementation, security and evaluation for all hardware, and software requirements encompassing all data systems.  • Oversee the project management, requirements, design, implementation , testing  and maintenance of all information systems.  • Responsible for quality , cost-effective use of resources.  • Maintain infrastructure security and data integrity.  • Interface and build relationships with suppliers.  • Responsible for timeliness of project implementation against established targets.  • Oversee provision of end-user services, technical support services. IT Manager Trask Management Group - Rome, GA June 2012 to October 2012 • Administered the LAN for 7 different clients.  • Managed a staff of 3 technicians.  • Resolved technical issues for WAN/LAN for a large volume newspaper company  • Created and maintained a Google Business domain  • Managed and supported SonicWall.  • Maintained and created applications to support a helpdesk.  • Created scripts to make logins more secure for endusers. IT Consultant Freelance work - Florence, AL November 2011 to June 2012 • Advise on technology that would help in the ministry.  • Manage the cloud network that is utilized in the facility.  • Offer support on any and all technical issues.  • Setup and support the desktops used in the facility.  • Manage the WAN IT Director Glenwood Healthcare, Inc - Florence, AL April 2009 to October 2011 • Administered the LAN using protocols such as TCP/IP, PPP LAN/WAN/SAN, Ethernet using NetGear and Cisco Routers and various other switches.  • Created a SharePoint® site that allowed the staff to collaborate information  • Strong SharePoint 2003 or 2010 administration experience.  • Wrote and implemented a budget for the coming fiscal year for the IT Department.  • Experienced with IIS 6.0 and 7.0.  • Maintained and supported Microsoft SQL 2008.  • Strong Microsoft WSUS administration experience.  • Strong experience Windows Server 2003 and 2008•  • Trained the facility on security and offered demonstrations on new technology.  • Project Manager for all IT related projects at the facility.  • Unified the desktops/notebooks/servers under one vendor - Dell.  • Unified departmental printers under one vendor.  • Migration of the 2003 server platform to the 2008 R2 environment.  • Wrote and implemented policies/procedures that increased productivity and allowed the IT Staff to concentrate on other IT Projects.  • Kept up to date with the latest technology that would continue to keep the facility productive.  • Strong virtual server experience (Hyper-V, VMWare).  • Created a Terminal Service® environment that utilized the facility mainstream application, AHT.  • Administered a Linux network that was able to share files/folders with the Windows environment.  • Administered the Internet with a FortiGate firewall.  • SAN's created for application and file storage.  • Server backups performed daily to ensure Disaster Recovery protocols were met. Systems Administrator Tyonek Native Corporation - Huntsville, AL January 2009 to April 2009 • Managed and supported any IT related issues for three different locations: Huntsville, AL, Warner-Robins, GA, and Anchorage, Alaska.  • Supported the enterprise software Costpoint® from Deltek.  • Administered the LAN using protocols such as TCP/IP, PPP LAN/WAN/SAN, Ethernet using WatchGuard and Dell SonicWall Firewalls and various other switches.  • Managed servers running Windows 2003, Exchange Server 2003, SQL Server 2005, and McAfee Enterprise Edition (Antivirus/Spam/Mail Security server).  • Created applications that kept workstations and servers up to date with the latest patches from Microsoft and McAfee. IT Administrator QuStream Corporation - Huntsville, AL August 2007 to December 2008 • Manage and support any IT related issues for three different locations: Huntsville, AL, Duluth, GA, and Ontario, Canada.  • Administered the LAN using protocols such as TCP/IP, PPP LAN/WAN/SAN, Ethernet using CISCO Routers and various other switches.  • Project Manager for all IT related projects at the facility.  • Strong SharePoint 2003 administration experience.  • Trained and offered seminars for the facility on new technology that would continue to keep the facility productive.  • Strong VMWare ESXi experience.  • Strong Red Hat Server Administration experience.  • Upgraded and troubleshoot any computer problem that was encountered.  • Primary Domain Controller replication experience.  • Managed servers running Windows 2003, Exchange Server 2003, SQL Server 2005, and Symantec Corporate Edition (Antivirus/Spam/Mail Security server).  • Server migration from 2003 to 2008 R2.  • Utilized VMWare ESXi to run a virtual server farm.  • Created applications that kept workstations and servers up to date with the latest patches from Microsoft and Symantec.  • Maintained a relationship with Dell and purchased servers/desktops for the organization.  • Maintained the inventory for all computer equipment for the company. Systems Administrator TekSystems - Huntsville, AL November 2006 to August 2007 • Maintained the Server environment at Aviagen.  • Project Manager for the migration of a Windows 2000 Domain to a Windows 2003 Domain.  • Project Manager for the Big Bore Diesel Project  • Administrate Windows update via MS WSUS.  • Administrate a Large Area Network.  • Managed a SQL Server environment.  • Administered the LAN using protocols such as TCP/IP, PPP LAN/WAN/SAN.  • Maintained a relationship with Dell and purchased servers/desktops for the organization.  • Maintain. the server environment at IDA.  • Upgrade and troubleshoot any computer problem that was encountered.  • Managed a large and secure network with over a 1000 computers.  • Worked in a PeopleSoft environment.  • Monitored and maintained the event logs for the 2003 Exchange Servers. Network Administrator InfoTech Resources - Decatur, AL September 2006 to November 2006 • Helpdesk support for any computer problem that was encountered throughout the network.  • Managed a large and secure area network.  • Managed the backups for over 20 sites across the world.  • Monitored and maintained the event logs for the Win 2000/2003 Exchange Servers Systems Administrator Family Security Credit Union - Decatur, AL April 2004 to January 2006 • Maintained the Server environment at FSCU.  • Project Manager that migrated a Windows 2000 Domain into the Windows 2003 Domain.  • Administered the LAN using protocols such as TCP/IP, PPP LAN/WAN/SAN, Ethernet using CISCO Routers and various other switches.  • Administrated Windows update via MS WSUS.  • Managed a SQL Server environment.  • Monitored and maintained the event logs for the Win 2000/2003 Exchange Servers.  • Maintained a relationship with Dell and purchased servers/desktops for our organization. Education Deltek University February 2009 to February 2009 Bachelors of Science degree Cuyahoga Community College September 1987 to June 1991 University of North Alabama August 1985 to May 1987