DIVISION SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR DIVISION SYSTEMS <span class="hl">ADMINISTRATOR</span> DIVISION SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR Clayton, NC A versatile IT professional and Air Force veteran with A+ certification and the ability to manage multiple assignments and priorities. Motivated and dedicated to achieving company goals. Highly personable and able to work with employees at all levels of an organization. Skilled in computer network systems, customer support, ERP/MRP database systems, project management, and telephone systems management. Work Experience DIVISION SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR SMC LTD 2006 to May 2019 Managed network infrastructure and mix of 200 desktops/laptops, running  Windows XP/7/8/10 for up to 4 manufacturing plants.  • Worked with Active Directory, DNS, DHCP, and print services in a TCP/IP environment.  • Part of project team to combine 3 manufacturing plants into one new plant.  • Integrated plants with corporate office network using MPLS wide area network.  • Installed and maintained Cisco wireless access points (WAPs).  • Installed and repaired phones on Shoretel/Mitel VOIP system.  • Supported end users remotely (using Teamviewer) and direct on-site.  • Implemented and maintained security systems including video surveillance and door controls.  • Monitored Help Desk (SysAid) workload to insure requests for service are being addressed by subordinate.  • Assisted manufacturing and automation teams with IT support of new projects.  • Provided new user and ongoing training on computer use and software applications  including MS Office (Word, Excel, Powerpoint, Access) and ERP application (IQMS).  • Helped users connect mobile phones (Android, iPhone) to company email system.  • Negotiated with vendors for products and services. COMPUTER NETWORK MANAGER Training Resources of America - Worcester, MA 2004 to 2006 • Managed multi-site, non-profit, alternative education network consisting of  10 locations and 170 computers, using Windows 98/NT/2000/XP and training applications.  • Provided on-site and telephone support for computer end-users.  • Researched and planned for future technology needs to support education of clients.  • Collaborated with senior management on strategies and new projects. NETWORK MANAGER IT SUPPORT Personal Chemistry, Inc - Foxborough, MA 2001 to 2003 • Managed MS Windows 2000 servers, desktop, and laptop environment.  • Supported 30 office and remote computer users worldwide.  • Installed and supported applications including MS Office, ACT CRM, Peachtree,  MS Exchange, and Quicken Expensable.  • Planned and executed move of 20 person office to new facility.  • Negotiated with vendors for voice, data, hardware, software, and security systems.  • Maintained ESI telephone and voicemail system. Education BS in Computer Science in Computer Science Worcester State University 2006 Skills System Administrator, Active Directory, System Admin