Network Engineer (Short-term) <span class="hl">Network</span> Engineer (Short-term) Network Engineer (Short-term) Work Experience Network Engineer (Short-term) Manhattan Beach Studios (MBS) Intel Studios July 2019 to July 2019 Cisco Catalyst Switch 3650  ? Added VLAN's  ? Added VLAN Trunks  ? Supermicro Servers adding public cryptographic keys for 39 servers  ? AWS and NBR troubleshooting connectivity issues    Actively Searching for Employment 06/2019 to 06/2019 Network Administrator DTS Keck Medicine of USC May 2019 to May 2019 Workstations on wheels deployment  ? Zebra specimen printer configuration and deployment  ? Test RF barcode scanners software configurations testing, O365, SFB, Cloud storage, One Drive  ? Break fix and Imaging Cyber Security Analyst Vision System Training School November 2018 to April 2019 Completed)  Certificate. CySA+ Network Administrator Mattel Corp May 2018 to July 2018 Front facing customers daily, Enterprise Level Corporate MacBook Pro, Windows deployment and software support Installs/Upgrade/Configuration, deployment of High Sierra OSX also utilizing JAMF, Casper, Self Service. Build and maintain workstations for both PC and MAC users, including back-ups, domain access and file access and wireless configuration 802.11 a/g/n  ? Windows 7/10 Operating Systems via network imaging and Active directory. Domain access, Account management, password reset, SCCM software deployments, Snow ticketing system. Hardware replacements and software configuration. Troubleshooting connectivity issues and software installations as Mac Administrator Analyst implementing and supporting Mac OS X and Macintosh-based applications in a mixed corporate environment between Mac and PC.  ? Liaison with Dell Corporation and warranty contractual agreement SLA's specifications. Troubleshoot, monitor, and provide support for Microsoft related technologies: Windows Server (2008 and 2012), Office 365, OKTA, Windows 10, SharePoint.  ? Provide remote access (VPN and Terminal Services) troubleshooting and support.  ? Troubleshoot, monitor and provide support for WAN and LAN network connectivity, routers, firewalls, multi-factor authentication and security.  ? Provide support for the company's telecommunication/audio visual needs, including existing services, assessing reliability, and recommending service/equipment upgrades.  ? Review and monitor the IT infrastructure environment; recommend and lead implementation of changes to existing system designs, migration to other platforms and computer hardware and software upgrades.  ? Maintain and update control documentation; perform OSX and testing; asset review and recommend change management in areas where additional controls may and needed to mitigate risks.  ? Verify system results by conducting ongoing system testing after implementation.  ? Implement, maintain and monitor the disaster recovery plan to mitigate risks and safeguard information security; communicate and execute plan in the event of a crisis.  ? Manage IT expenditures, work with vendors to manage and optimize services/costs  ? Provide user training and organize vendor training for new services and software. IT Analyst Omnicom Media Group October 2017 to March 2018 Mac and Windows Support for over 800 Staff Computers and over 40 Networked Printers  ? Install/Upgrade/Configure Deployment of Windows 7/10 Operating Systems  ? Image computes utilizing Altiris Imaging Suite  ? Maintain and Support of Laptops, Desktops, iPads, iPhones and other peripherals  ? Install and Support Software Packages: Adobe Creative Suite 16, Microsoft Office 2016, Office 365, Outlook, DDS, Media Ocean, Cisco VPN, AnyConnect  ? Setup, configure and deploy new hire computer workstations and setup individual client profiles  ? Setup and configure TCP/IP, DHCP, DNS Network connections, bind to domain, map network drives and patch management SCCM.  ? Backup and restore user profiles and data  ? Setup, configure and manage new and existing Active Directory accounts  ? Perform Moves Adds Changes and Deletions using Cisco Call Manager and Unity VOIP Systems  ? Responsible for inventory/tracking of Computers, Printers iPhones, and other Hardware and Software  ? Responsible for Printer Maintenance/Toner/Supplies for Canon and HP Printers, Copiers and Scanners  ? Support conference rooms using Lifesize, Blue Jeans, Zoom, Skype video conferencing solutions  ? Configure, Troubleshoot and Support Smart TVs and A\V systems streaming video content  ? Work with refresh team in migrating data and upgrading HP model 9470 and 9480 laptops to 840G3  ? Prioritize and delegate daily duties and service orders in Service Now Ticketing system Network Administrator OneDrive and Skype July 2017 to August 2017 Support of Microsoft O365 services: Outlook Mail/Calendar, SharePoint, OneDrive and Skype  ? Monitor and assign ServiceNow ticket queues  ? Provide Tier 1/2 support  ? Escalate tickets to T3 support team  ? Respond to escalated incidents and requests related to Break/Fix  ? Troubleshooting and problem resolution  ? IMAC, imaging, software deployment, testing, configuration, maintenance  ? Inventory procurement and asset disposal  ? Provide excellent customer service and professionalism to a wide range of client levels  ? Ability to accept and implement feedback to achieve individual and team performance objectives Skype Analyst Toyota HQ November 2016 to May 2017 Crestron, Logic and Microsoft products Support  ? Configuration, implementation and support of Office 365 migrations  ? Lead Skype Analyst for Business implementation and connectivity at client sites and in Office 365  ? VOIP Configuration and support  ? A/V connectivity and troubleshooting support for meeting rooms  ? Active Directory, permissions, and domains configurations  ? Installation, Configuration, and Maintenance of Audio Codes M1k, MP112, MP114, MP118, MP124  ? Specification gathering and quoting of hardware and network systems solutions  ? Lead projects on collaboration of VOIP, Unified Communications and Skype for Business (SFB)  ? Skype for Business deployments, installs, configurations in a timely manner.  ? Provide systems solutions in accordance with specification and within the time frame established  ? Complete adequate testing prior to delivery to ensure that the product works properly and effective  ? Complete development of any maintenance or enhancement technology  ? Recommend technology and tool upgrade, technical deep dives and (RCA) Root Cause Analysis  ? Define architectural and operational standards  ? Assist in the design and development of proprietary monitoring and remote management AD tools  ? Install, Troubleshoot, Repair, Maintain all Video Endpoints  ? Project support on new and upgraded video conferencing projects  ? Provided oversight and support for AV integrator partners on projects  ? Provide technical input to create, maintain, update, and implement video engineering standards  ? Support and resolve video conferencing system moves, adds, changes from field incident tickets  ? Participate in assignments and projects with minimal direction from higher level resources Technical Support CSR DJI Corporation January 2016 to June 2016 Supported End User service requests via Phone, email and in person  ? Supported Windows 7, Microsoft Office, Adobe Reader/Acrobat, Internet Explorer, Chrome, Firefox  ? Assist and Resolve Customer disputes and documenting via computer data input  ? Account Receivable Phone support  ? Responsible for balancing of Work Order Ticket traffic  ? Determined nature of invoice payment problems in Performa Invoicing Software package Network Engineer Pelican Medical Group 2016 to January 2016 Network password recovery for Cisco routers with circuit cutovers and Cisco IOS  ? Performing secure connections via NIU, Port 23,443, RDP 3389 on Cisco Router 2300, Cisco ASA  ? Installed and configured Fortinet firewall  ? Created and configured Wireless access points  ? Created and completed infrastructure environment  ? Utilized Windows 7 and command line Lead Business Data Conversion Support Analyst Louis Vuitton, Saks Fifth Ave July 2015 to September 2015 Implemented industry standards to LAN connectivity, navigation and software installation  ? Installed and maintained MS Exchange Servers, Outlook 365  ? Performed Profile Migrations Utilizing NDS and BusinessData Conversions  ? Performed IMAC deploying Monitors, Desktop CPUs and Servers  ? Verify computer name, new user name and email configuration  ? Support of Office 365, Skype for Business SSO, Windows 7 Enterprise, Lotus Notes, Sametime  ? Troubleshoot and resolve network issues as needed  ? Troubleshoot and Validate LANDESK and downloaded software installations to USB  ? Test and verify logins for Outlook, Lync, One Note, Sametime and Cloud Connectivity  ? Setup and configured from a script that desktop icons are in taskbar  ? Ran scripts for Archive Migrations Senior Field Associate / Network Administrator Computer Science Corporation August 2004 to June 2015 In Person and Remote Customer service via phones, walk-ins and Service tickets  ? Install and upgrade computer hardware and software  ? Plan, evaluate, install and/or reconfigure hardware and software  ? Ghost imaging and SFTP, support of Windows 7,,10,  ? Implementation of Linux. VM, MAC  ? Printer mapping  ? Software installs, troubleshooting/resolving issues  ? Lotus Notes and Outlook email installation and configuration with Exchange Server  ? F5, Big Data configurations and installations, GTM/LTM BIG IP, VMWare, Active Directory  ? Citrix Desktop Support, Rumba, Mainframe, Terminal Service configurations  ? McAfee, WSUS Patch management, MS Visio Tables, Graphs Docs updating  ? Pointsec Encryption, RSA Token authentication, SSO, Enterprise Level  ? Fiber Channel, WWN, HBA, Node, Storage Array, Multi Pathing  ? Provide routine automation  ? Maintain Linux OS security  ? CUCM,SIP, VPN Trunking PPTP, PPP  ? LAN, WAN DHCP configuration  ? Checkpoint encryption and decryption  ? Database rebuilds, backups and DR Testing  ? Liaison between Lenovo and clients for issues with systems regarding warranty issues  ? Working daily with high level executives, directors and developers Network Administrator Morgan Samuels June 1999 to June 2003 Provided Hardware Support for DELL Optiplex models GX150 and GX 520  ? Installed and configured WINXP, WINNT, WIN2K operating systems on workstations  ? Built company owned PC's per end user's requirements  ? Installed and configured desktop, server hardware and software  ? Performed hard drive and power supply replacement and upgrades on workstations  ? Installed and supported SQL 7, SQL 2000, Goldmine, Altiview  ? Supported and Installed Office 2000, 2007, VR Player, Adobe Products, Windows Messenger  ? DHCP, LAN configurations, IE connectivity testing Customer Service Support Media One Inc May 1999 to March 2001 Processed 100+ inbound calls per day from clients regarding their cable billing and services  ? Scheduled technicians for client support  ? Provided service support for HBO, Showtime, Cinemax and other Mainstream Content Providers  ? Supported sales and retention for cable TV services Education Associated Technical College June 2005 Skills Vmware, Security, Active Directory, Exchange, Cisco