Senior Network Security Engineer Senior <span class="hl">Network</span> Security Engineer Senior Network Security Engineer - WPG Consulting, LLC North Brunswick, NJ Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior Network Security Engineer WPG Consulting, LLC - New York, NY August 2017 to July 2019 Responsible for providing SME level expertise for clients on both network and security solutions within Cisco Network and Palo Alto Network security environments. Clients are in multi-vertical industries: Finance, Healthcare, Insurance, Education    ?   Built out tenant-based datacenter from inception to implementation for clients to host their applications and services  ?    Migrated 40 client’s IPSec tunnels onto managed service datacenter in under one month  ?    Projects including but not limited to: Migrating ASA to PAN, create standard policies and procedures, implement GP w/HIP, document detailed network diagrams, create/guide customers on implementing Panorama upgrades  ?    Architected customized solutions for midsize to enterprise network and security projects including involvement at all phases of Palo Alto Network and Cisco technology Senior Network Engineer Dini Communications, Inc - Edison, NJ June 2017 to August 2017 All work performed was classified.  ? Successfully identify/fix issues in a highly secured environment with zero documentation. Senior Network Engineer / Network Engineer ID Analytics a Symantec company - San Diego, CA June 2013 to June 2017 Responsible for designing, managing, and improving enterprise network architecture. Influence and support corporate initiatives with sound knowledge on network impact, risks, and constraints. Optimize network automation throughout 16 sites by leveraging core technologies such as RBAC, Tags, and APIs. Active role in Change Advisory Board.    ? Appointed member of cyber security team; directed 2 team members.  ? Established and maintained trusted partnership with Palo Alto Network and Cisco vendors for all new and existing network and security solutions.  ? Liaised with Governance/Legal team and third-party institutions to complete industry standard audits and client directed audits. i.g. SOC II, PCI  ? Implemented corporate global VPN solution using Global Protect, dual authentication using DUO to protect against data breach. Leveraged RBAC/User-ID/TS agents, VM-Information sources to automate for least privileged model and the new process shaved days off resolution time for security-related issues and enabled the company to achieve 100% auditor compliance.  ? Collaborated directly with developers on setting up network and security for new products in AWS for a faster go-to market strategy.  ? Introduced a DMVPN over VPLS solution to address faulty circuit issues that resulted in 99.999% uptime, dramatically improved SLAs, and significantly reduced customer service issues.  ? Re-designed A10 load-balancers at the perimeter due to compliance needs and better visibility. Network Engineer VXI Global Solutions, Inc - Los Angeles, CA July 2011 to June 2013 Assured high availability in a 24/7 call center with enterprise level products including Cisco, Avaya, Vmware, EMC, Dell, Solarwinds. Established various processes to standardize network designs, and maintained client security and infrastructure at 10 sites with 500+ devices and 10,000+ users globally.    ? Introduced first documentation to standardize network access, core, and distribute layer at all locations to simplify the troubleshooting process and increase network availability.  ? Deployed Solarwinds NPM, NTA, NCM, IP SLA, LEM to achieve PCI/Client security compliance standards for transparent monitoring and auditing.  ? Designed and architected connectivity for 4 global offices in less than one month. Supervised staff of 3.  ? Liaised with clients on various projects for new build-outs to support existing infrastructure.  ? Created and updated documentation to reflect current network environment in MS Visio, MS Excel, and created "how-to" PDFs.  ? Proactively provided CCNA-level training to a helpdesk team of 9 individuals to better serve and process tickets. Network Engineer Intern Future Computing Solutions, Inc - Yorba Linda, CA June 2010 to July 2011 Planned and conducted security testing for clients, monitored network performance, provided pre- and post- installation support, (LAN/WAN and Internet/E-Commerce), and ensured expected security levels were met.  ? Helped solve network outages with the network infrastructure team, such as router connectivity to remote sites, troubleshooting switches, and IP troubleshooting.  ? Improved security by isolating traffic and redirecting it to the appropriate user groups.  ? Audited IT networks at client sites and documented resources in current infrastructure.  ? Implemented proof-of-concept demonstrations on VMware, made recommendations for improvements, and liaised with network administrators and engineers. Network Administrator Narayan, Inc - Paragould, AR May 2008 to May 2010 Streamlined operational processes and leveraged technology to increase efficiencies.    ? Improved speed and accuracy for tracking multi-site key business metrics including daily inventory, daily cash turnover, and credit sales by establishing a VPN to automate processes and centralize data.  ? Added $100 in profits daily by recommending and configuring free Wi-Fi access for patrons.  ? Cut landline usage costs by leveraging VoIP to communicate across company's 3 locations. Education Bachelor of Science in Management in Management University of Pittsburgh 2009 Skills Cisco, security, VPN, LAN, firewalls, DNS, MPLS, Vmware, Active Directory, Networking Certifications/Licenses CCNA 2015 CCNP 2015 PCNSE 2020 Google Cloud Professional Architect June 2021