Director of Information Technology Director of Information Technology Director of Information Technology - International Aircraft Associates Hialeah, FL Work Experience Director of Information Technology International Aircraft Associates - Miramar, FL February 2013 to Present • Plan and perform maintenance on server infrastructure and application infrastructure to minimize business impact.  • Participate in business strategy meetings with key corporate stakeholders to ensure the technology infrastructure is in alignment with the corporate roadmap.  • Performed migration of corporate desktop environment to Windows 7 while minimizing impact to end users.  • Performed assessment of third-party vendors to provide hosted exchange platform. Once vetting was completed of all possible candidates, I managed the migration of all e-mail services to a new provider while minimizing impact to the organization.  • Use advanced analytical and remediation techniques to resolve complex requests from standard users and C level executives.  • Ensure that all issues reported by users are addressed in a timely fashion.  • Design, testing, implementation, and monitoring of Disaster Recovery policy.  Technologies Utilized: Microsoft Windows Server 2003/2008/2012, Microsoft Windows XP/7/8, Hyper-V, Active Directory, Group Policy, Remote Desktop Services (RDS), Acronis Backup & Recovery, Veeam Backup & Recovery, Microsoft SQL 2005/2012, Sophos UTM security appliance. Assistant Information Technology Manager Investors Trust Administration - Miami, FL April 2009 to November 2012 • Assist IT Manager with project planning and deployments.  • Advanced problem remediation and analysis.  • Ensure that all issues reported by users via internal ticket system are addressed in a timely fashion.  • Monitoring and reporting of complete global network infrastructure (i.e. SNMP, Event Logs, Anti-Virus, etc.).  • Disaster Recovery (DR) planning, deployment, and monitoring.  Technologies Utilized: Microsoft Windows Server 2003/2008, Microsoft Windows XP/7, Hyper-V, Distributed File System (DFS), Windows Server Update Services (WSUS), Active Directory, Group Policy, Remote Desktop Services (RDS), Acronis Backup & Recovery, Microsoft SQL 2005/2008, Watchguard Edge/Peak/XTM appliances. Network Administrator Phoenix American - Miami, FL June 2005 to March 2009 • Managed LAN and all devices connected to network (desktops, laptops, servers, and printers).  • Set up, install, connect and organize switches and servers on Chatsworth 4-post racks.  • Ensure proper backup of company data and plan for Disaster Recovery.  • Responsible for majority of hardware and software purchases with estimated worth of $50K/year.  • Managed corporate email accounts.  • Setup, configured secure wireless network for local users and visitors    Technologies Utilized: Server 2003, Lotus Notes, Win XP, Backup Exec, Ghost, Iron Mountain, 3Com Switches, Cisco wireless Network Consultant Matrix Technologies - Miami, FL December 2004 to June 2005 • Setup, configure, troubleshoot and restore desktops, laptops, printers, and servers.  • Install and configure small wireless networks to grant network access in hard to reach areas.  • Administer and maintain client network users and printers.    Technologies Utilized: Server 2003, WIN XP, HP printers, Linksys Wireless Network Administrator Magnivision, Inc - Miramar, FL March 2001 to November 2004 • Managed and monitored company voice and data communications.  • Assisted in configuring and supported Cisco router and switches.  • Administer Users and Objects on network.  • Desktop and Laptop configuration and support  • Disaster recovery.    Technologies Utilized: Netware4.1, Windows 2000, WIN XP, BrightStor Backup, eTRUST A/V, Cisco Switches and Router. Information Technology Manager/Systems Administrator Cambridge Lamps, Inc - Hialeah, FL January 1999 to March 2001 • Manage user objects, permissions and file shares on network.  • Setup and configure desktops with O/S and production software.  • Setup, configure and support network laser printers throughout local and remote facilities.  • Backup and Disaster recovery.    Technologies Utilized: Netware 4.0, WIN NT 4, Cisco and Netopia router, ARCserve, (Apple, HP, Lexmark, Epson printers) Network Administrator World Fuel Services Corp - Miami, FL June 1997 to December 1998 • Manage users and file shares.  • Performed daily administrative tasks on the network.  • Setup, configured, and supported desktops.  • Provide network and application support for users in remote locations.    Technologies Utilized: Netware 4.0, WIN NT 4, WIN 98, Citrix, HP printers. Computer Operator II / Network Administrative Assistant Palmetto General Hospital - Hialeah, FL January 1996 to June 1997 • Monitored system status and executed tape backups.  • Produced and distributed daily, weekly, and monthly reports.  • Supported users by troubleshooting problems to prevent downtime and maximize productivity.  • Assisted Network Administrator with daily duties (setting-up and configuring PCs and dumb terminals that connected to the local area network).  • Assisted Network Administrator with daily duties (setting-up and configuring PCs and dumb terminals that connected to the local area network).    Technologies Utilized: AS400, Netware 3.12, IBM impact printer, HP laser printer, Perrot dumb terminals. Education Bachelor of Business Administration in Business Administration Florida International University - Miami, FL May 1996 Skills HYPER-V (9 years), SQL (9 years), MICROSOFT WINDOWS (9 years), WINDOWS SERVER 2003 (9 years), MICROSOFT WINDOWS SERVER 2003 (9 years), Information Technology Additional Information Technical Proficiencies  • Microsoft Windows Server 2003/2008/2012  • Microsoft Windows XP/Vista/7/8/10  • DNS, DHCP  • Windows Server Update Services (WSUS)  • Virtualization Technology (Microsoft Hyper-V)  • Kaspersky Endpoint Protection  • Acronis Backup & Recovery    • Veeam Backup & Recovery  • Microsoft SQL Server 2005/2008/2012  • GFI EventManager  • Distributed File System (DFS)  • Remote Desktop Services (RDS)  • Windows Deployment Services (WDS)  • Fluent in English and Spanish