Network Administrator <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Cohoes, NY Work Experience Network Administrator Watervliet Arsenal - Watervliet, NY October 2016 to Present Supervisor: Craig Edlund (518-216-4300)  Okay to contact this Supervisor: Yes    Monitors the ongoing operation of the Watervliet Arsenal Voice and Data network. Responds to network failures, helpdesk ticket and user's requests. Troubleshoots network and telecommunication systems. Maintains network hardware and software inventory. Installs, configures, and trouble-shoots network and application server hardware, operating system software, and peripheral network equipment such as switches, routers, Cisco ASA firewalls, Cisco Voice over IP Phone system, cabling system, network interface cards. As a Certified Cisco Network Professional participates in the development of security rules and procedures and the implementation of those rules in the firewall (Cisco ASA 5545). Threat and intrusion detection and prevention. Management of Web firewalls (Iron Port) and control of the outbound and inbound internet traffic as well as email filtering. Implementation of Network Access Control NAC for VPN users. Developed and supported IPSEC VPN with Cisco ASA 5525-X and Cisco Any Connect. Implemented basic quality of service, QoS (Quality of Service) and control plane policies (CoPP). Experience with Juniper Network Switches, Layer 2 and 3 and Junos Space as a Network Management Platform. Network Management for servers and other network appliances. Network traffic monitoring and assessment to produce accurate baselines. SNMP and Solar Winds. Produces network diagrams with Microsoft Visio for accurate representation, information and archives. Development, implementation and maintenance of Backup and Recovery for different network appliances with SFTP and SCP for network appliances. Writing and implementing Information Security Policies and end user training to comply with DOD requirements. Switch end of life replacement for the entire network. Experience with VoIP CUCM (Cisco Unified Call Manager), Call Manager Express installation, configuration and troubleshooting, Gateways call routing.  Supports acquisition and sustainment of Network accreditation, compliance with DOD requirements, operational readiness and security levels current by implementing and sustaining the required network users and maintenance access controls such as two factor authentication, 802.1x and Posture Compliance with Cisco ISE (Radius) for Authentication and Network Access Control. Deploys, sustains and secure the wireless network. Configures and deploys virtual and physical servers, phones switches, access points and other wired and wireless equipment. Develops and maintains local procedures for voice and data networks, system operations, and product assembly and installation. Evaluation and testing of the finished product for technical soundness. Installation, configuration and maintenance of servers for different network purposes utilizing Virtual Machine environment (ESXI).Writes and updates scripts (Power Shell) for Network administration tasks. Participates in policies, procedures and change implementation. Setup, maintenance and administration of networks and system databases. Planning, budgeting and implementation of current and future projects to modernize and enhance the network structure. Systems Automation Specialist Texas Military Forces - Austin, TX November 2006 to October 2016 Supervisor: Gale Griffith (512-782-5338)  Okay to contact this Supervisor: Yes  Served as the principle advisor to the Director of Logistics, Deputy Chief of Staff Logistics (DCSLOG/G4) on all Standard Army Maintenance Information Systems (STAMIS) and Automated Logistical Programs. Established Information Assurance (IA) techniques and procedures that utilize policies for people, processes, strategy, and technology for protecting Information Technology (IT) and Information Security (IS). Responsible for hardware and software development and database design, development, and administration. Provided technical support to network clients for hardware and software installation. Experience with Windows 2012 Server and Windows 10, SCCM patch management. Experience with SQL Server applications and database management. Responsible for security and compliance of 2000 PCs. Active directory OU and groups' administration.    Planning, organization, and managing of the activities of 4 assigned helpdesk technicians who respond to different requests and emergencies in the Logistics network, and ensured that the advice and assistance provided complied with legal and regulatory requirements and meets customer needs. Education MBA in Business Administration University of the Incarnate Word - San Antonio, TX Present BS in Network information Systems and Security Our Lady of the Lake University - San Antonio, TX August 2011 Skills Ccnp, Cisco asa, Hsrp, Ids, Information security, Ips, Sftp, Security, Active directory, Bgp, Cisco, Eigrp, Ospf, Remote access, Vmware, Adsm, Firewalls, Network security, Networking, Intrusion, Customer Service, Windows, Technical Support, Microsoft Office Military Service Branch: United States Army Rank: CW2 Chief Warrant Officer 2 Certifications/Licenses CCNP Security July 2019 to July 2022 CCNP Route & Switch July 2019 to July 2022 Assessments Technical Support — Highly Proficient July 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/kcbfwuwvfp-ndxdu Supervisory Skills: Directing Others — Highly Proficient July 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to motivate the performance of others through feedback to identify improvements or corrective actions. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/us8qnkd-sjm-qf55 Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information Skills:  ? Knowledge of different WAN Concepts and Applications.  ? Certified CCNP level Network security administrator: Cisco Firepower IPS/IDS (Intrusion Detection and Prevention). Cisco ASA ADSM and CLI configuration. WEB Firewalls, Iron-Port, Zone based security and hardening. Remote Access VPNs implementation, deployment and sustainment.  ? Certified CCNP level Route and Switch Network Administrator. Routing protocols OSPF, EIGRP, BGP. HSRP, STP (RSTP and MST). Switch hardening and security, 802.1x.  ? Network Management. Network traffic monitoring and assessment to produce accurate baselines. SNMP and Solar Winds. Experience with network Diagrams, Microsoft Visio.  ? Development, implementation and maintenance of Backup and Recovery for different network appliances with SFTP and SCP.  ? Writing and implementing Information Security Policies and end user training.  ? QoS (Quality of Service) and CoPP configuration and implementation.  ? Experience with VoIP CUCM (Cisco Unified Call Manager), Call Manager Express installation, configuration and troubleshooting, Gateways call routing.  ? Microsoft Windows Server Network Infrastructure (MS Server 2003, 2008). Active Directory, MDT.  ? Certified Windows 10 for Desktop administrators.  ? Experience with virtual Environments, VMware.    Leadership and Service Roles:  136th Maneuver Enhancement Brigade, Texas Army National Guard: Telecommunications and Network Chief, Apr, 2014-2018.  Supervised 8 technicians. Responsible for equipment valued at over 1000000 dollars. Developed and instructed technical training program on networking and policies. .Helped with the organizations and logistics of 2 Brigade Deployment and Exercises.  Advisor to the Director of Logistics, Deputy Chief of Staff Logistics (DCSLOG/G4) Texas Military Forces: Mar 2014 - Oct 2016  Radio Spectrum and Satellite Operations and Telecommunications Manager Jan 2011-Jun 2014.  Watervliet Arsenal Collateral Duty Safety Officer Feb2017- Present.