Network Support Administrator <span class="hl">Network</span> Support <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Network Support Administrator - MTF Peckville, PA An Information Technology Professional with a record of developing and supporting successful projects and solutions incorporating a wide range of applications and technologies. Consistently recognized and tasked to improve organizational efficiency with comprehensive business and expertise in strategy, analysis, research, and operations. Extremely reliable, possessing a strong work ethic and a dedicated team player.  A seasoned IT Networker, Administrator and Analyst with broad based experience and hands-on skills in the successful implementation of highly effective help desk assistance in a windows XP and windows 7 environment, extensive experience with POS systems as well as LAN / WAN operations that enjoys the synergies of idea exchange, collaboration and shared learning. A creative problem-solver with a strong interest in new technologies and approaches that is both customer and end-user focused.    • A quick study in emerging technology, able to quickly assess and utilize the appropriate response to meet the specific needs of the business requirement at hand. A welcome addition to any team, ready, willing and able to function in any role necessary to insure project success and on-time project delivery.    • A natural mentor, and motivator who thrives in environments requiring a tactical strategist and a big picture thinker. A collaborative team player or independent contributor able to learn quickly, with proven ability at managing multiple priorities in fast-paced environments. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Network Support Administrator MTF 2015 to Present • VM Administrator    • Office 365    • Configures and upgrades the hardware on new and existing PC's.  • Troubleshoots PC hardware-related problems.  • Installs, configures and supports various PCs and all Windows operating systems.. Installs the many varied applications associated with the prior operating systems and supports the same.  • Installs telephones and assists in administering the PBX.  • Assists in the installation and maintenance of all cabling plants.  • Installs, configures and maintains all network printers.  • Assists in the configuration of the voice mail system.  • Assists in hardware and software inventory control functions.  • Assists in network support and administration functions.  • Assists in performing the daily backups on all network systems and performing restores as required.  • Assists on special projects and performs additional duties as assigned. Network Engineer Insight 2011 to 2014 Responsible for installing, maintaining and supporting computer communication networks within an organization or between organizations. Their goal is to ensure the smooth operation of communication networks in order to provide maximum performance and availability for their users, such as staff, clients, customers and suppliers.  • Installing, supporting and maintaining new server hardware and software.  • Managing email, anti-spam and virus protection.  • Setting up user accounts, permissions and passwords.  • Monitoring network usage.  • Ensuring the most cost-effective and efficient use of servers.  • Suggesting and providing IT solutions to business and management problems.  • Ensuring that all IT equipment complies with industry standards.  • Analyzing and resolving faults, ranging from a major system.  • Undertaking routine preventative measures and implementing,  • Maintaining and monitoring network security.  • Providing training and technical support for users.  • Supervising other staff, such as help-desk technicians.  • Working closely with other departments/organizations.  • Planning and implementing future IT developments and undertaking project work.  • Managing the website and keeping internal networks running;  • Monitoring the use of the web by employees. Network Technician Siemens 2006 to 2011 Network Technician managing the operation and maintenance of 120 servers. Performed testing, analyzing, troubleshooting and reconfiguring servers, laptops, and desktops. Supported internal network security, including adding/deleting users and shared permissions. Analyzed and resolved network and server connectivity issues. Provided administration. Optimization and support of internal LAN/WAN through level three of the OSI model consisting of Server 2000, Server 2003, 2008, 2012 and Active Directory, Exchange. responsible for all onsite network hardware and application software  Perform network systems administration tasks that are both planned and emergency.    • Provided quality solutions to complex business problems and delivering IT business systems to end-to- end  • On-site lead for testing of new systems and services within scope, budget and tight schedules.  • Was task with all POS equipment swap outs and returns.  • Site lead for system staging, deployment, and installation of all POS systems.  • Was on-site POS maintenance technician.  • Team lead for desktop services, responsible for more than 2500 desktops peripherals and support for a major customer Tech III IBM 1998 to 2005 Maintained all peripherals, user support, computers systems and upgrades using Windows 98, 2000, 2003 and Linux. Involved with many rollouts for large company infrastructure upgrades. Performed troubleshooting and analyzed network connection issues through level three of the OSI while working with the NOC.    Was team lead during rollouts for large companies IE: Wal-Mart POS systems upgrades also served as sight contact, responsible for contactors assigned to assist  • Assist with software application and POS. Handled upgrades and patches. Troubleshoot for the departments and users  • Oversaw one third of personnel carrying out installation and quality assurance, testing and training.    United States Army  Network Switching Systems Operator and Maintainer Education Bachelor's in network Administration Hallmark College - San Antonio, TX March 2003 to November 2005 Skills access, Windows, Networking, Mac, Technical Support, Microsoft Office, Active Directory, Javascript, Customer Service, Security, Windows 7, Sales, Vmware