Electronics Technician Electronics Technician IT/ Network Administrator Oak Ridge, TN Highly skilled, highly trained Air Force veteran looking to become a valuable member of your team. I desire to continue my growth and career development.    Ability Summary    ? Keen ability to compile, code, categorize, calculate, tabulate, audit, and/or verify information or data.  ? Experienced in entering, transcribing, recording, storing, or maintaining information in written or electronic/magnetic form.  ? Able to Provide information to supervisors, co-workers, and subordinates by telephone, in written form, e-mail, or in person.  ? Ability to adjust to changing technology, company needs, and expectations. Work Experience Electronics Technician RbM Solutions - Oak Ridge, TN April 2019 to Present Build and repair electronic panels associated with proprietary equipment. Manufacturing of panels and medical equipment to include soldering components and testing. Customer Service O'Reilly Auto Parts - Oak Ridge, TN August 2018 to Present Part-Time--Provide outstanding customer service to commercial and retail clients. Maintain inventory control and product support. Provide logistics support for commercial accounts as needed. Network Engineer Science Applications International Corp - Oak Ridge, TN January 2016 to May 2018 Maximizes network performance by monitoring performance; troubleshooting network problems and outages; scheduling upgrades; collaborating with network architects on network optimization. Network Engineer Ed Financial Svc - Knoxville, TN February 2015 to November 2015 Write detailed functional specifications that document the hardware development process and support hardware introduction.  ? Specify power supply requirements and configuration, drawing on system performance expectations and design specifications.  ? Confer with engineering staff and consult specifications to evaluate interface between hardware and software and operational and performance requirements of overall system.  ? Update knowledge and skills to keep up with rapid advancements in computer technology. Lead Network Engineer SCI Consulting - Oak Ridge, TN March 2014 to March 2015 Document design specifications, installation instructions, and other system-related information.  ? Collaborate with engineers or software developers to select appropriate design solutions or ensure the compatibility of system components.  ? Communicate with staff or clients to understand specific system requirements.  ? Verify stability, interoperability, portability, security, or scalability of system architecture. Senior Network Engineer Convergence Technology Consulting - Linthicum, MD August 2011 to March 2014 Maintain and administer computer networks and related computing environments including computer hardware, systems software, applications software, and all configurations.  ? Diagnose, troubleshoot, and resolve hardware, software, or other network and system problems, and replace defective components when necessary.  ? Plan, coordinate, and implement network security measures to protect data, software, and hardware.  ? Configure, monitor, and maintain email applications or virus protection software. Lead Network Administrator L-3 Communications - Charleston, SC November 2009 to August 2011 Communicate with system users to ensure accounts are set up properly or to diagnose and solve operational problems.  ? Coordinate network operations, maintenance, repairs, or upgrades.  ? Adjust network sizes to meet volume or capacity demands.  ? Communicate with customers, sales staff, or marketing staff to determine customer needs. Network Administrator TechTeam Government Solutions - Knoxville, TN March 2007 to October 2009 Maintain and administer computer networks and related computing environments including computer hardware, systems software, applications software, and all configurations.  ? Plan, coordinate, and implement network security measures to protect data, software, and hardware.  ? Diagnose, troubleshoot, and resolve hardware, software, or other network and system problems, and replace defective components when necessary.  ? Configure, monitor, and maintain email applications or virus protection software. Sales Activity Manager Dillards - Knoxville, TN December 2005 to May 2008 Plan and direct staffing, training, and performance evaluations to develop and control sales and service programs.  ? Review operational records and reports to project sales and determine profitability.  ? Direct and supervise employees engaged in sales, inventory-taking, reconciling cash receipts, or in performing services for customers.  ? Monitor sales activities to ensure that customers receive satisfactory service and quality goods. Education Bachelor's Degree in Criminal Justice/Security Management Excelsior College - Albany, NY January 2009 Associate's Degree in Management Studies University of Maryland - Adelphi, MD January 2005 Associate's Degree in Communications Studies Com. College of the Air Force - Montgomery, AL January 2002 Skills Customer Service, CSR, Customer Care, Active Directory, Windows, Networking, Sales, Technical Support, Active Directory, Networking, Sales, Security, Technical Support, Vmware, Windows, Windows 7 Additional Information CCNA  CCNP  SECURITY PLUS