Technical Services Manager Technical Services Manager Technical Services Manager - MicroTek Computer Labs Tewksbury, MA Technical Services\Conference Center Manager, with 20+ years in a customer facing technical, management, sales and support environment with a demonstrated history of exceeding goals and objectives. Focused on providing exemplary service and support to my clients, while balancing the interest of my team.     ? Proven to be a self-motivated, trustworthy, and team-oriented individual with a tenacious work ethic.  ? Detail-oriented communicator with a proven track record of interacting with all levels of management in order to achieve desired goal.  ? Capable of managing multiple projects simultaneously and met significant completion goals throughout the life cycle of each project. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Technical Services Manager MicroTek Computer Labs - Burlington, MA May 2000 to Present May 2000 – Present  Responsible for the PC/ Network management setup and configuration of a 13 classrooms/meeting room training facility.  § Responsible for maintaining internal 170+ node network, ghost server, firewalls, Unifi AP’s, switches, printers, virtual equipment.  § Work directly with all clients on a weekly basis to verify software version/installations and network configurations.  § Built/tested and deployed client specific system images ensuring functionality and versioning.   § Maintained inventory on all internal equipment.  § Responsible for resolving all technical issue within the facility.  § Provided support for all instructors and students daily.  § Conducted PC refresh projects as needed.  § Worked with our SME’s on a mentorship training program to assist MicroTek technicians on our newly offered Virtual Training Platform.  § Successfully and effectively trained new technical hires within the organization.   § Conducted sales demos (weekly) with existing and potential clients detailing all that the Virtual Training Platform has to offer their organization.    Regional Manager                                                                                                                                                                                              § Responsible for hiring, training and reviewing all employees at the Burlington, MA training\conference center.  § Maintained a 4.93 (5-point scale) average based on per class instructor evaluations.  § Worked closely with my team to assure all client needs were met in a timely and professional manner.  § Hosted weekly team meetings to ensure employee goals and objectives were being met and or exceeded.  § Successfully managed and maintained my monthly P&L lowering my centers operational costs while increasing facility revenue.  § Negotiated contracts with all vendors including and not limited to ISP’s, office equipment, catering etc.  § Negotiated annual contracts with local major hotels to host out-of-town training participants at a 30 – 60% savings. In turn MicroTek received 10% of all hotel booking revenue.  § Conducted site visit to MicroTek Alliance Partner sites on the east coast (MA, ME, NH, CT) ensuring MicroTek standards were being met or exceeded.  § Managed all booking via our proprietary reservation management system on a weekly basis.  § Responsible for sourcing/hiring/negotiating and managing all outside contractors whenever anything needed to be done within the 13000 sq. ft. training and conference center.     Account Executive                                                                                                                                                                                              § Attained 107% of quota for Q2 2007 and 103% of quota for Q3 2008   § Quickly became the #1 Account Executive/Regional Manager within the organization out of 11 other Regional Managers/Account Executives.   § Participated in yearly corporate sales training programs.  § Built quality relationships with my clients ensuring that they were satisfied with our services and offerings.  § Conducted client site visits for potential new clients as needed focusing on MicroTek’s offerings in both virtual and in room training environments.   § Conducted weekly technical sales demos on our virtual technology packages as well as our virtual learning lab offerings.   § Worked very closely with my clients on all technical problems, issues and concerns when using our venues, ensuring their satisfaction throughout the training project rollout and execution.  § Attended yearly sales conferences promoting Microteks services and offering. QA Engineer GTE Internetworking - Burlington, MA March 1999 to May 2000 § Worked on the NT QA Software Team to resolve all bugs in the most efficient manner.  § Built, configured, and tested Compaq NT 4.0 Web Servers for the Web Hosting division.   Developed test plans and procedures for testing of all applications on the Web or SQL Servers, including databases, and Internet applications Network Engineer Eden Technology Group Inc - Boston, MA June 1998 to March 1999 § Network Administration duties which consisted of creating and deleting user accounts, granted users right to specific files and directories as well as password administration. Network Administrator Tucker Anthony - Boston, MA June 1997 to June 1998 § NT and Novell workshop responsible for configuring servers and workstation, network software and printers.  § Created users/groups; rights/password maintenance. Education Certificate Computer Learning Center September 1994 to May 1995