System/ Network Administrator System/<span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> System/ Network Administrator Lehigh Acres, FL Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience System/ Network Administrator Software Update Service - Cape Coral, FL November 2018 to June 2019 • Regularly installed, upgraded and monitored software and hardware.  • Maintained the essentials such as operating systems, business applications, security tools, email, PCs, local and wide area networking both hardware and software, also worked with autotask ticketing system, Endpoint Management, and IT Business Management.  • Created and managed users and group utilizing SCCM 2012/ 2016  • Assisted clients with switches wireless switch ubiquity solar wind GUI Monitor, RRM GUI, managed Hyper-V, worked with VM install and configure, pushed Bitdefender on the network for the client computer, troubleshot, and managed exchange on the 365 portal. Manage and maintain all Windows Servers.  • Configured Active Directory and Microsoft Azure connect.  • Deploying Windows server and window 10, using one drive for Business, built computer and server working with Lenovo server. Manage the Software Update Service (WSUS) to ensure that all required Microsoft system and application updates are current Charlotte County Clerk Charlotte FL Charlotte, NC October 2016 to October 2018 System Administrator  • Installed and configured Courthouse network and provided security, working with server 2012 & 2016 physical and vm failover cluster.  • Deployed Windows 8.1/10 and Win 7 server 2012/2016 with WDS&MDT.  • Experience with capturing image, creating gold image and automating for new pc PXE boot.  • Deployed Vipre Business Endpoint Security throughout the network antivirus working with patch management.  • Installed and configured WSUS.  • Maintained, upgraded, and managed company software, hardware, and networks.  • Diagnosed and troubleshot technical issues.  • Hands-on experience with Windows, Active Directory, installed and configured Hyper-V install VMWare.  • Worked with security awareness, cybersecurity developing training software to educate our user to protect themselves from data breach and viruses.  • Worked with project SCOM 2012&2016, managed Observeit, within with Veembackup and much more.  • Created and updated images for all PC's, and Kiosks.  • Troubleshot and resolved software problems related to Operating Systems, Microsoft Office, and application software, maintaining operating system updates, repairing/replacing hardware, Sysprep & Windows ADK, Distributed Computer Systems, users, groups, printers, computers and file systems.  • Analyze and coordinate resolution of hardware, software and network, inventory of computers Network Administrator Tax Pro America West Palm Beach FL - West Palm Beach, FL January 2016 to October 2017 • Provided technical support to both internal and external customers  • Installed and managed complete network system including disaster recovery and deploying upgrades  • Network processing, centralized and distributive network connection  • Installing, configuring and administering network technologies  • Ample knowledge in Windows XP\7\Vista\8\10\2003 Server\2008\2012\2016 Server  • Active directory management, NTFS security, disk quota management  • Working knowledge of, DHCP Server, DNS Server.  • Interfaced with vendors to procure and maintain all IT infrastructures.  • Detailed all information given and received into service desk application  • Analyzed information and evaluated results to choose the best solution to problems.  • Advised and instructed end users on the necessary technology to achieve solutions; troubleshot and resolved issues.  • Provided after-hours support for technical issues, as needed.  • Provided research and recommendations on new technologies.  • Tested new devices to determine viability and network implications.  • Proficient with Windows Servers, Active Directory, Intel based server hardware.  • Installed, configured, tested, maintained, monitored, and troubleshot the internal Computer network.  • Troubleshot network connectivity problems, including monitoring the network and servers for problems, diagnosing problems, and taking the appropriate corrective measures to ensure an expedient resolution.  • Maintained and administered computer networks and related computing environments, including computer hardware, systems software, applications software, and all configurations.  • Operated master consoles in order to monitor the performance of computer systems and networks, and to coordinate computer network access and use.  • Designed, configured, and tested computer hardware, networking software and operating system software.  • Performed routine network startup and shutdown procedures and maintained control records.  • Recommended changes to improve systems and network configurations and determined hardware and software requirements related to such changes.  • Gathered data pertaining to customer needs, and used the information to identify, predict, interpret, and evaluate system and network requirements.  • Trained people in computer system use.  • Loaded computer tapes and disks, and installed software and printer paper and forms. IT Specialist Lehigh Memorial Hospital - Lehigh Acres, FL August 2015 to January 2016 • Support of network print systems and servers.  • Performed Network troubleshooting, monitoring, and maintenance tools and techniques.  • Performed Active Directory and LDAP integration.  • Proficient with Internet protocols, VPN and Firewalls.  • Ability to work independently with minimal supervision  • Ability to focus on detailed work for extended periods of time.  • Experienced with VMware or similar virtualization technology.  • Completion of Microsoft Server and Workstation classes.  • Served as first line technical support for all technology within assigned building.  • Setup and deployment of computers for faculty, staff and students.  • Assisted/trained faculty and staff in scanning documents and pictures, as requested by the Manager.  • Assisted with configuration and set up of printers, projection devices, and monitors to work effectively for various instructional purposes.  • Assisted with the day-to-day efficient operation of the company.  • Working knowledge and experience in local and wide area networking, communications, and related hardware and software.  • Working knowledge of wired and wireless networks, connections, wiring and cabling standards, and network management tools and processes.  • Implements network security, including configuring firewalls, managing host security, backup and disaster recovery planning, and adding and deleting users.  • Designed and implemented sophisticated networking systems.  • Maintained and enhanced Help Desk knowledge base.  • Created Active Directory users and computer accounts, ensure appropriate group membership and permissions  • Management of Microsoft Active Directory and Group policy configurations.  • Responsible for management of enterprise database backup solutions.  • Performs routine backups and operational maintenance tasks on all production and stand-by servers.  • Maintained security policies set forth for workstations, PC's, file servers, application hosts, networks. Network Administrator Fort Myers, FL February 2013 to July 2015 • Extensive experience with Microsoft Windows Server (AD, DHCP, DNS, Group Policy, WSUS).  • Skilled in Enterprise storage, backup and archive.  • Experienced with Server hardware and virtualization.  • Installed application software on servers and workstations as required.  • Monitored network software and hardware technologies and trends.  • Extensive experience with troubleshooting Microsoft Server, Active Directory, Group Policies, and Exchange Server.  • Experienced in managing Virtual Private Networks  • Deploying, operated, and maintained various network systems.  • Extensive experience with Windows Server 2003/2008/2012/2016, Windows Small Business.  • Troubleshot Laptop/Desktop hardware.  • Supported disaster recovery solutions.  • Maintained operations of all servers, including e-mail, print and backup servers and their associated operating systems and software.  • Coordinated installation, configuration, and maintenance of end user workstation hardware, software and peripheral devices.  • Administered all equipment, hardware and software upgrades; ran updates and backups in various network devices.  • Maintain network software/hardware asset inventories, including related documentation and technical specifications of equipment and applications. Desktop Support Engineer Eds Technology - Broward, FL, US March 2011 to January 2013 • Accurately recorded, updated and documented requests using the IT service desk system.  • Installed and configured new IT equipment.  • Resolved incidents and upgraded different types of software/hardware.  • Maintained a first class level of customer service ensuring that all customers are treated efficiently and in an appropriate manner.  • Installed, upgraded, supported and troubleshot Enterprise Applications hosted on Windows Server 2000/2003/2008.  • Installed, upgraded, supported and troubleshot Enterprise Applications running on Microsoft Terminal Services.  • Ensured desktop computers interconnect seamlessly with diverse systems including associated validation systems, file servers, and email servers.  • Diagnosed and quickly resolved a wide range of Windows applications and networking problems to help minimize downtime.  • Troubleshot network connectivity in a LAN/WAN environment.  • Installed, upgraded, supported and troubleshot XP, Windows 7 and Microsoft Office 2007 and any other authorized desktop applications.  • Installed, upgraded, supported and troubleshot for printers, computer hardware and any other authorized peripheral equipment.  • Performed remedial repairs on computers, laptops, printers and any other authorized peripheral equipment  • Customized desktop hardware to meet user specifications and site standards.  • Returned defective equipment/parts to maintenance inventory, documents customer repairs, maintained and restocked assigned parts inventory to insure proper spare parts levels.  • Safely packaged equipment for branches and arranged for the transport of the equipment. Desktop Support Engineer IBM February 2009 to March 2011 • Traveled from state to state deploying computer network for Wachovia and Washington Mutual.  • Performed network installations, server 2003 deployments, implemented and supported Network.  • Worked close with tellers to provided technical support, repair computers and laptops.  • Provided operational support for endpoint protection, encryption, client management, and other client-side computer management solutions.  • Worked with other Desktop Support Engineers to provide technical solutions in support of business  requirements.  • Conducted remote troubleshooting.  • Walked customers through installing applications and computer peripherals.  • Knowledge of network security practices and anti-virus programs.  • Followed up with clients to ensure their systems are functional.  • Installed, upgrade, support and troubleshoot Enterprise Applications hosted on Windows Server 2000/2003  • Ensured desktop computers interconnect seamlessly with diverse systems including associated validation systems, file servers, email servers, application servers, and administrative systems.  • Installed, upgraded, supported and troubleshot XP, Windows 7 and Microsoft Office. Education Bachelor Hodges University - Fort Myers, FL Florida Career College - West Palm Beach, FL Skills System Administrator, Active Directory, System Admin, Vmware