Technician Technician Technician - Geeksonsite Seminole, FL • A Network Engineer/ Network Infrastructure Specialist with over eighteen years of experience as a solutions-oriented professional designing, implementing and integrating cost-effective high-performance technical solutions to meet challenging business needs.  • Managed, maintained and administered Cisco Wireless Controllers 5508 & 5520, Cisco Prime & APs  • Configuration experience with Cisco 3850, 3750, 3650 Core and 2960 Access switches.  • Administered, optimized and supported LAN infrastructure consisting of Windows Active Directory, VMware and more than 80 Windows 2003, 2008, 2012 and 2016 Servers, analyzed and determined current computer and network systems technology and available vendor offerings to establish optimum computer and network architecture solutions.  • Technical lead and technical advisor to Compliance and Validation departments with regards to Good Manufacturing Practices, (GMP), this included, but was not limited to, Change controls, Validation protocols, SOPs, etc.  • Installed Meraki Cloud Managed Security Camera System, Camera Model MV12. This project included Cisco Switch port and VLAN configuration.  • Working towards CCNA, EXAM 200-125 Routing and Switching, Target date: 9/19. Work Experience Technician Geeksonsite - Coral Gables, FL April 2019 to Present • Maintain availability and reliability of all systems, hardware, and networks.  • Virus, Malware and Spyware removal  • Documenting configuration, upgrades, procedures, problem resolution associated with network, hardware/software and operating systems etc.  • Data Recovery and Backup services including Cloud backup  • Server Installation, maintenance and administration  • Computer diagnostics and repair  • Computer Network setup and configuration  • Remote computer support Network Infrastructure Specialist/ Network Administrator/LAN Specialist/Help Desk Sharp Packing Solutions - Allentown, PA August 2000 to November 2018 Network Infrastructure Specialist/ Network Administrator/LAN Specialist/Help Desk  • Formulated, developed and implemented integrated network architecture/infrastructure, including network design, wiring, telecommunication room wiring and network installation for new Allentown facility and planned for future enhancements/direction for that facility.  • Installed Meraki Cloud Managed Security Camera System, Camera Model MV12. This project included Cisco Switch port and VLAN configuration.  • Network monitoring and testing, video networks, data network and all communications.  • Administered, optimized and supported LAN infrastructure consisting of Windows Active Directory, VMware and more than 80 Windows 2003, 2008, 2012 and 2016 Servers, analyzed and determined current computer and network systems technology and available vendor offerings to establish optimum computer and network architecture solutions.  • Monitored, supported and implemented internal network security; established policies / procedures.  • Formulated key aspects of security management, i.e., threat/vulnerability assessment, intrusion detection, incident response, access control, operations and physical security and organize disaster recovery plan to ensure firm's continued operation in case of emergency.  • Managed, maintained and administered Cisco Wireless Controllers 5508 & 5520, Cisco Prime and Access Points.  • Experienced with IP Address management of DNS and DHCP.  • Served as high level technical expert on computer/ network systems and associated issues.  • Designed, developed and delivered training classes in areas of computer and network systems.  • Monitored and maintained network stability, maximize network performance by monitoring performance, troubleshooting network problems and outages.  • Outlined requisite tasks and timetable to accomplish project goals and determine risk factor.  • Implemented compliance with 21 CFR and part 11 code of Federal regulations that include measures to ensure the integrity of system operations, validation, archival, systems documentation, procedures used to protect authenticity, integrity and confidentiality of records, written policies established (SOPs).  • Improved user proficiency in areas of basic computer knowledge and email usage through combination of training and implementation of user hardware and software policies.  • Identified infrastructure vulnerabilities.  • Configuration experience with Cisco 3850, 3750, 3650 Core and 2960 Access switches.  • Credited for developing and implementing software program combined with Excel worksheet resulting in 50% improvement in measured quality and user efficiency.  • Designed, developed and delivered our flagship facility, the first of our contract packaging plants where operations focused on high-tech and biotechnology solutions.  • Managed, designed and implemented the Network infrastructure at 250,000 sq. ft. state-of-the-art packaging facility, including: 17 packaging suites, warehouse, cold storage, cafeteria, training room and six conference rooms. This five building facility specialized in Biotech packaging and was completed on time, under budget and with reduced material costs.  • Performed as User Support for all hardware and software, including: Troubleshooting Windows OS; Network and local printers; Adix Phone System; Windows and Novell Active Directory; Windows, Unix and Linux Servers; Dell Switches; RF Scanners; Payroll, Planning and label printing applications; ERP administration; QAD; Network Analysis; Fluke OptiView User Orientation; training; cGMP and Siemens BAS (Building Automation Systems). PC Troubleshooting & Network Adjunct Instructor Essex County College - West Caldwell, NJ September 2002 to February 2007 • Provided relevant and timely input for curriculum update and development.  • Wrote and provided course designed documents, prepared training guides, manuals, handouts, visual aides and other materials to be used in the training of prospective Computer Technicians / Network Administrators.  • Submitted Daily Time Records, Load Report/Work Schedules, quarterly examinations and lesson plans to department heads.  • Provided proper documentation of systems applications including system documentation.  • Researched and tested in a LAB environment. Network Administrator Vantage Data Corporation - White Plains, NY March 1999 to August 2000 • Maintained Windows NT Servers, Novell NetWare 5 and Novell 3.12.  • Set up and configured Microsoft Exchange server, Domino Server 4.6 & Client 4.6.  • Configured various network printing, cabling, connectivity and PC related problems.  • Set up and configured 3Com routers in a Frame Relay environment.  • Planned and designed network configurations and managed network performance for multiple services, including: Backbone, router and Frame Relay service, desktop hardware, server hardware and dial-up access.  • Collected, localized, isolated, corrected and verified problem resolutions using effective proactive and reactive measures.  • Purchased, installed and tested all computer applications.  • Set up appropriate user profiles to enhance security.  • Conducted security audit of policies and systems. Education High School Diploma Suffern High School - New York, NY Network Engineering The Chubb Institute - White Plains, NY Westchester Business Institute - White Plains, NY Skills Cisco, Netware, Vmware, Networking, Sops