Network Administrator / General Manager <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> / General Manager Network Administrator Charleston, SC A self-motivated client-oriented individual who is experienced in securing and supporting network infrastructure from design to implementation for multi-user and remote environments. Adept at communicating with key stakeholders in assessing project needs and detailed updates to project completion. Prioritizes client experience and believes excellent listening skills lead to success in troubleshooting. Looking for a growing company to apply network engineering skills in a team environment to further profitability and maintain network stability. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Network Administrator / General Manager Kickin Chicken - Charleston, SC November 2017 to Present Designed and implemented redundant networking standard for communications at six locations and home office to provide back up solutions for data and voice.  Created program for testing, updating and maintaining network devices and firmware updates for phones, cameras, wireless radios and computers.  Securing networks from potential threats and reducing vulnerability points while working with vendors for ongoing changes with PCI compliance, online order platform, and local point of sale database. Network Administrator Radial Southeast - Charleston, SC August 2009 to November 2017 Worked with multiple clients providing all aspects of network support from design, implementation, management and level 3 support.   Projects include:   • fiber infrastructure for 216-unit residential building  • dental / orthodontist office utilizing multiple databases and multiple vendor applications  • complete network overhaul for 90 ft motor yacht  • multi-site VPN solution for database access utilizing MPLS   • solutions for multi office office connection utilizing WAN technologies  • relocation / new construction for office locations Network Engineer Consultant Network Consulting Company - Charleston, SC January 2005 to January 2009 Designed and execution of structured wiring for music / video production facility, while looking for ways to reduce monthly expenses utilizing new technology.  Maintaining and performance testing of equipment and systems to ensure 100% up time while providing on call support.  Contracted with Field Nation to provide onsite network support completing over 300 service orders with excellent customer service reviews. Network Engineer Radial Wireless - Charleston, SC January 2001 to January 2004 Designed and implemented wireless network to serve over 200 clients in downtown Charleston while developing methods for deployment and maintenance of outdoor wireless equipment.  Created and managed LAN for 120-unit student housing in three building utilizing wireless application for last mile connections.  Provided computer upgrades and support for addition of Ethernet cards for network access to clients within student housing. Field Engineer Info Avenue Internet Service - Fort Mill, SC April 1998 to July 2001 Deployed network infrastructure to establish dial-up internet access in rural markets for wholesales accounts with local phone companies.   Established and maintained carrier connections at network access points while performing system and hardware upgrades for ISDN, DSL, T1/DS3 and frame relay circuits.  Participated in multiple location VoIP project providing local phone access to network access points to reduce long distance charges. Education Associate in Arts Trident Technical College - Charleston, SC May 2011 Skills Network design & deployment (10+ years), Cisco (10+ years), Meraki (8 years), Microsoft Hyper-V \ Server (8 years), Structured wiring (10+ years), Fiber optic splicing (4 years), VPN \ MPLS soluitions (8 years), Team leadership (7 years), Project management (7 years), Provided EU support (10+ years), Network outage support (10+ years), System Administrator (10+ years), Vmware (6 years), Active Directory (10+ years), Routers (10+ years), Firewalls (10+ years), Windows (10+ years), Networking (10+ years), Juniper (10+ years), Customer Service (10+ years), Technical Support (10+ years), Microsoft Office (7 years), Sonicwall (6 years), Ubiquiti (7 years), Proxim (10+ years), HP Switches (8 years), WAN technologies (5 years), Citirx (6 years), Patterson Software Suite (8 years), Open Dentail (7 years)