Network Administrator <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Network Administrator - Acumen Consulting Highly skilled Network Administrator in the field for more than 15 years effective at multitasking and problem solving. My primary skill sets are implementing and maintaining network environments, as well as migrating physical to virtual environments. As a Sr. Network Administrator, I have experience with multiple systems, and working closely with my engineers to develop and maintain the systems we implement. Work Experience Network Administrator Acumen Consulting - St. Louis, MO February 2019 to Present • LAN/WAN design and support  • Implementation and design of networks for clients  • Wireless network design and support  • Windows server support  • Administration and support of Microsoft Exchange  • DHCP, DNS, Active Directory, VPN's, FortiGate Network Administrator Oblates Missionary Society - Belleville, IL June 2012 to November 2018 • Supported 40 users locally, MPLS to San Antonio  • Systems and Network support  • Windows 10, Server 2012  • Responsible for 10 Hyper V host servers and 20 guest servers  • VLAN configuration  • Supported Avaya IP phone system  • SonicWall firewall support Sr. Network Administrator Computer St. Louis - St. Louis, MO May 2007 to June 2012 • Supported various clients in St. Louis area  • Responsible for client OS migrations and network administration  • Design and implementation of networks  • WatchGuard firewalls, DNS Network Administrator Monsanto - St. Louis, MO May 2005 to May 2007 Network Administrator Belleville Shoe Company - Belleville, IL June 2001 to May 2005 Education Ranken Technical College 1998 Skills Active directory, Dhcp, Ldap, Mpls, Network connectivity, Vlan, Vpn, Dns, Exchange, Firewalls, Network security, Networking, Virtualization, Avaya, Wireless, Security, Data protection, Migrations, Sql server, Sql, Technical Support, Windows, Vmware, Customer Service, Windows 7, Sales, Microsoft Office