Systems Integration Systems Integration Network & Systems Engineer Sonora, CA Experienced network and systems engineer with a proven track record managing IT networks for large organizations. Proven  ability to manage large projects and direct cross-functional teams efficiently and effectively. Skilled in applying technical  knowledge to developing and implementing feasible solutions to problems. Exceptional experience in upgrading and  maintaining networks services and phone systems. Talented in fostering relationships with key stakeholders to ensure project  success. Work Experience Systems Integration Robert Half Corporation - Stockton, CA October 2017 to January 2018 Contract Systems & Network Administrator - Security Officer United States Bankruptcy Courts - San Francisco, CA May 2015 to October 2017 Coordinated court unit's information technology networks and managed and administrated all district systems. Oversaw  routine and complex network administration and systems duties, including developing standards, recommending network  and/or systems infrastructure changes, and coordinating and implementing network security measures. Spearheaded high  level and long-term design and analysis to meet needs of court unit's network systems. Provided desktop support at all levels.  Made recommendations to judges, senior management, and end users on IT issues within the court unit. Managed IT project  teams in implementing and integrating networks. Resolved system failures and conducted skillful analysis to minimize  system down time. Network Engineer - Network Operations Center Robert Half Corporation - San Ramon, CA September 2014 to May 2015 Contractor: Project (Enterprise Wireless Management Deployment): deploying full office wireless throughout 250(+) offices,  including turning up direct internet access (DIA) circuits that terminate into Fortinet firewalls. Process includes  implementation and configuration of WAN circuits, locally and remotely (Cisco 2811 and 2901), enterprise  Wireless products (Airtight C60s as combo WIPS/AP devices and Aero Hive, etc.), LAN switch configurations (Juniper,  Foundry, Brocade) and not to exclude intermediate circuit and routing troubleshooting to resolve WAN and LAN issues such as VLANS, HSRP, and Wi-Fi. Network/Systems Engineer & IT Support Manager & Security Officer United States Bankruptcy Courts - San Francisco, CA 2005 to August 2013 Coordinated court unit's information technology networks and managed and administrated all district systems. Oversaw  routine and complex network administration and systems duties, including developing standards, recommending network  and/or systems infrastructure changes, and coordinating and implementing network security measures. Spearheaded high  level and long-term design and analysis to meet needs of court unit's network systems. Provided desktop support at all levels.  Made recommendations to judges, senior management, and end users on IT issues within the court unit. Managed IT project  teams in implementing and integrating networks. Resolved system failures and conducted skillful analysis to minimize  system down time. Key Accomplishments:  • Served as Project Lead in district-wide upgrade of PBX telephonic systems at HQ and four other Divisional offices,  including new cat6 cabling, L3 switches, geographically redundant on call servers and voice messaging system, VOIP,  inter-district 4-digit dialing.  • Migrated District's network OS from Novell platform to Windows platform (AD); built redundant geographical Domain  Controllers at each division including redundant earthquake intolerant site, migration & conversion of all Win XP WS to Win7 servers and applications to new standards. Designed and developed current district DR policy and procedures to  include redundant backup systems and alternate sites, including both fiber channel and Ethernet technologies.    • Managed project team in upgrading HQ & Divisions from cat3/cat5 cabling to cat6 to the desktop, including running new  fiber (including 10 GB) from each divisional demarc to MDF/IDF switch rooms.  • Upgraded Court's entire layer-2 network switches to layer-3/poe gigabit switching; upgrading network connectivity from the previous 100 MB to 1000G to the desktop. This included a secure wireless network at all sites to include access to the  court's DCN.  • Designed and implemented SAN to exclusively and redundantly backup and retrieve (live) high-level data as part of DR  policies and procedures.  • Designed and implemented a VMware/Dell (3) host clustering with DRS with fiber channel access to EMC CLARiiON  AX4-5 Networked Storage System, included migration (virtualizing) of 98% of company's many platform servers  (Windows, Linux and Novell) to the virtual environment. Network Engineer Adventist Health Information Systems 1996 to 2004 Managed installation, maintenance, and planning of local area networks, regional WAN links and related peripherals, and connection to the organizations multiple WAN/LAN networks. Managed team members and worked closely with Health  Administration professionals to ensure system functionality and security. Provided advanced level diagnosis and repair of local  area networks, wide area networks, software and related peripherals, and network administration. Network Administrator/Programmer, 4th Dimension Compliance Specialists 1995 to 1996 Managed technical support for network server and client workstation configuration in both Mac & PC platforms. Supervised and conducted hardware maintenance on servers/workstations in conjunction with various operating systems. Managed network  cabling, local switching, network & client backups, and print services. Provided software training for staff, coordinated and  installed company software products. Education Associate of Applied Science in Computer Science/Accounting Heald College - Rohnert Park, CA 1985 to 1987 Santa Rosa Junior College - Santa Rosa, CA Skills Cabling (10+ years), LAN (10+ years), network security (10+ years), Security (10+ years), switching (10+ years), Linux Certifications/Licenses Certificate of Completion: CCNA, SAN, VMWare, MS Server 2008 & 2012 January 2007 to Present Additional Information AREAS OF STRENGTH AND EXPERTISE    • Network Engineering • Systems Infrastructure • Voice Systems  • User Support • Project Management • Strategic Planning  • Network Security • Team Leadership • Risk Management    SKILLS Technical/Hardware/Software  Adv. COBOL ? Lotus123 ? Supercalc ? Novell NetWare 3.X, 4.X, 5.X, 6.X ? Turbo pascal ? DOS ? BASIC ? 4thdimension  ? MSSQL ? LDAP ? Lotus Notes ? GroupWise ? Macintosh/Apple ? Microsoft AD ? RedHat/Fedora/CentOS ?  HTML/XHTML ? LAMP&WAMP ? Citrix ? Dbase III ? FLARE ? Advanced Network Routing ? DHCP ? DNS ? PKI  ? Wireless/Fiber/Copper Cabling ? WAN/LAN switching ? Fibre Channel ? DPE/DAE ? Groupwise ? Tablet & Smart  Phone Support ? Dell ? AST ? Compaq ? HP ? Cisco ? Nortel CS1000 ? EMC CLARiiON ? Brocade ? Juniper ? Foundry  ? Novell OESI II ? MsWord, ? MsAccess ? MsProject ? MsVisio ? MsExcel ? MsPowerpoint ? Windows/Server 3.x, 9x,  nt4, 2k, 2k3, XP, 2K8r2,7, 8, 10, 2K12r2.