Network Engineer <span class="hl">Network</span> Engineer Network Engineer - LLFlex Vine Grove, KY Work Experience Network Engineer LLFlex December 2013 to Present Managed a network at the Louisville plant and remote sales team made up of 150 users and 25 servers. Managed budgets and worked with vendors to find cost savings. Responsible for projects from implementation to completion and making sure they fall in line with the set budget. Developed and implemented policies, standards, practices, and security measures. Made sure that the Network and backups were ISO compliant. CEO|Founder Small Internet Solutions September 2008 to Present Sold and supported a range of different services for homes and businesses. Built custom websites for clients, hosted email and websites on our servers. Maintained relationships with all resellers and contractors to support our clients. Provided desktop and laptop support for homes and handled desktop, laptop and server support for businesses. Managed budgets and handled projects from start to finish. Worked with our vendors to find cost savings for the clients. Set up networks from the ground up for our clients and established policies, standards, and security measures for them to follow. Special Project Team Kentucky One Health June 2013 to December 2013 Installed computers and build new ones as directed by Kentucky One Health. When working with new computers we built an image and pushed out to all computers. In-between projects I provided desktop tech support for the helpdesk. Network Engineer Hoskin & Muir June 2010 to June 2013 Managed 7 locations that had 30 different servers and 300 desktops users. Maintained all desktop and windows servers, and provided network support for all 7 locations across the US. Developed and implemented different policies, standards, practices, and security measures. Lead Graphic Designer / IT Support Middlesboro Daily News September 2008 to June 2010 Supervised two other graphic designers in the creation of all the ads and to meet print deadlines in the daily paper. Provided desktop support for their Mac desktops and Servers. Network Engineer CyberTek Engineering April 2007 to September 2008 Provided Customer Support for computer or server problems, removed spyware from computers, installed and set up new servers. Managed and ran projects on different levels, from simply running a cable to installing a whole network for customers. Also helped customers establish policies, standards, and security measures for their new network. Network Administrator LINAK March 2006 to April 2007 Managed 100 desktops and laptops for the facility. Served as the project manager on any project and worked closely with vendors to find cost savings. Network Administrator Sud-Chemie March 2005 to March 2006 Provided support for users across the United States and South America. Worked with IBM to bring in a team to revamp all desktops and laptops and made policies, standards, and security measures to allow IBM remote access. Rebuilt all desktops and laptops to the standards that were required and then helped IBM migrate the users over to the new systems. Education Bachelors of Computer Science Technology Management in Computer Science Technology Management DeVry University 2007 to 2009 Associates Degree in Electronics Technician in Electronics Technician DeVry University 1995 to 1997 Skills Continuous improvement, Change management, Team building, Business development, New business development, New product development, Product development, Process development, Training, Vmware, Active Directory, Exchange, Security, DNS, VPN Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/mark-small Additional Information Core Competencies    Program Development  Project Management  New Business Development  Transition / Change Management  Continuous Improvement  New Product Development  Team Building & Training  Core Process Development  Fostering Teamwork  Attention to Communication  Interpersonal Awareness  Building Collaborative Relationships  Forward Thinking