Network Engineer <span class="hl">Network</span> Engineer Network Engineer - Empowering Innovations LLC Aliso Viejo, CA Work Experience Network Engineer Empowering Innovations LLC May 2016 to Present Environment: Cisco routers, switches, ASA, Meraki, Dell SonicWALL, Brocade, Dell, Toshiba VOIP, Mitel VOIP, VMWare 5.5, Windows 2008-2016 Exchange 2010, NetBackup, Aerohive cloud based WLC, and AP's.  • Provision and manage WAN circuits Consisting of MPLS, Internet circuits, Metro Rings, DMVPN, BPG, and IPSecure tunnels.  • Managed Security audits, controls, for compliance with ITAR, DFARS, and NIST Regulations.  • Research and implementation of mobile device management systems for private sectors corporate security programs.  • Manage Cisco, Dell, and Linux based firewalls  • Updated network security infrastructure for legacy networks with new threat management solutions  • Performed packet analysis using Wireshark.  • Architected an external Lync Federation  • Manage on premise VOIP server, phones, dial groups, and softphones.  • Administered Exchange 2010, SMTP connecters, security policies, Mailboxes, and Active Directory  • Managed Enterprise backups comprised of Centralized Backups at datacenter and DRS at local offices  • Consult on trends regarding the Internet of everything Network Engineer Hearst Inc May 2010 to November 2015 Environment: Cisco ASR, ISR, ASA, WLC, 3750G-X, CUCS, Windows 2008 AD, Quest AD management, Solar winds, Symantec AV.    • Engineer role collaborating design, configuration, and troubleshooting with MPLS, EIGRP, BGP, and IPSecure Tunnels.  • Touched hundreds of Cisco network devices including switches, routers, and ASA Firewalls.  • Managed Voice gateways, PRI, and general Telecom services using Cisco Unified Communications Manager.  • Experience with integrating networks from acquisitions into Hearst Verizon Enterprise MPLS, and Avaya Telecom system.  • Configured device level QOS.  • Manage and configure Cisco Wireless controllers and AP's using LWAPP and HREAP Technology.  • Designed standard Templates for devices throughout the enterprise  • Documentation and analysis of Network infrastructure  • Provide user support to local offices Network Consultant Red Healthcare IT February 2008 to February 2010 Environment: Cisco switches, routers, firewalls  • Worked in Network Security Department for LA County internal services Dept.  • Set up IP Secure Tunnels on Cisco Firewalls and Firewall Service modules  • Configured port openings on Cisco Firewalls and Cisco Routers  • Setup Secure File Transfers  • Worked on various projects involving system wide upgrades  • Wrote Technical manuals with step by step procedures for data center upgrades and data center moves. Network\Exchange Administrator Creative Network Services June 2006 to February 2008 Environment: Windows 2000-2003 Network. Backup Exec 10d, Norton Antivirus 10, Multiple Active  Directory domain, SQL 2000, Exchange 2003, HP hardware, 3com firewall, switches, Cisco 1700, 2600, 3600 series routers, Windows 2000 RRAS VPN, Fiber based file server network, WSUS, APC UPS devices.    • Optimized DNS and Setup Sites and services.  • Installed a new domain controller including DNS, DHCP, Backup Exec, and VOIP system for new branch office.  • Setup Norton Antivirus servers for each branch office and automated virus alerts  • Installed MSA 1000 SAN's  • Troubleshooted replication of public folders and use of SMTP tools to determine origin individual email problems  • use of SMTP tools to determine problems reported of not receiving email from venders  • Blocked SPAM and set new rules on spam filter  • Maintain exchange 2003 mailboxes and public folder system  • Assigned patches and scripted unsupported updates using group policy, Active Directory  • Corrected all mailbox time errors using the Exchange side TZMOVE VB script program.  • Implemented WSUS  • Setup and configured a HP MSA SAN storage array and tape library for a disk to disk to tape backup strategy.  • Provide user support regarding software issues, mail accounts, and public folders. Service Support Engineer IBM Corp July 2005 to June 2006 Environment: Windows NT4.0-2003, Active Directory, Exchange, SQL,  • Onsite Engineer for deployments for total site upgrades for clients under IBM SLA  • Provided Network Administration on heterogeneous networks of 1,000+ users for IBM Enterprise SLA's  • Created Baseline images of windows workstations  • Perform Installation, configuration, and repairing of enterprise systems software  • Install, move, add, and change applications software at client's workstations, configure VPN access, and install peripheral devices including PDA's, tablet PC's and printers in a service-orientated environment. Network Administrator Legal Tax defenders Group - Orange, CA August 2004 to June 2005 Environment: Windows NT, Linux, Cisco, SQL, Goldmine s  • Performed security enhancements such as password complexity, Windows security templates, and File auditing.  • Ghosted all OS software to reimage new Mandrake and Red hat company computers  • Maintained all equipment in server room.  • Setup user profiles and access to active directory resources Network Administrator Telogic Inc May 2003 to July 2004 Environment: Windows 2000 Active Directory Windows 2000, NT 4.0, SQL, XP, windows 98, Windows CE, Linux Red Hat  • Setup and configure Workstations, Servers, Printers, POS hardware, and Kiosks.  Use of knowledge of Windows 2000 Server, XP, DOS, GHOST, TCPIP, VLAN's, RIP, EDS, XML, and SQL Provide placement of Computer systems and network equipment on heterogeneous environments at remote sites throughout Southern California.  • Identify additional parameters about distant infrastructures and distribute technology to demonstrate proof of concept configurations on clients' site.  Administered active directory accounts and access to resources  • Setup user profiles and access to active directory resources Education B.S. degree in C.I.S. Post University - New Haven, CT June 2018 to December 2020 A.S. degree in Information Technology Platt College 2004 Skills TCPIP, BGP, EIGRP, MPLS, Metro Ring, DMVPN, PPP, IPSecure, SIP, RSTP, VLAN, VRRF, HSRP, 802.11, Cisco IOS. (10+ years) Certifications/Licenses CCNA Routing and Switching February 2018 to February 2021