IT Systems Manager IT Systems Manager IT Systems Manager - USCG R&D Center Mystic, CT Extensive experience in network and system security and administration, vulnerability scanning and  remediation, network design and integration, and user support in enterprise and client/server computing  environments. Various duties have included management, security, and technology upgrades for Microsoft AD  systems; Cisco firewall and switch equipment; and multiple types of WAN/LAN connectivity. Work Experience IT Systems Manager USCG R&D Center - New London, CT 2014 to Present Responsible for management and security of all information systems encompassing corporate administration  systems, VoIP telephony, wireless network systems, data storage systems, and building security systems.    • Principal role in ongoing Certification and Accreditation (C&A) security audits, risk analysis, vulnerability testing, and mitigation to ensure compliance with DOD information security requirements.  • Perform as primary administrator/manager of onsite Classified system suite.  • Provide system performance analysis and recommend technology refreshes.  • Administer port security on switches and IP security on Routers via Access list.  • Create and manage server virtual environments utilizing both VMware and Hyper-V technologies.  • Design, implement and maintain Cisco wireless network connectivity.  • Manage and upgrade Dell Storage Area Network (SAN) systems.  • Implement and provide technical support for Cisco voice services including switches, routers and VoIP  server equipment.  • Ensure high availability of systems and infrastructure through planning, testing and support.  • Oversee help desk staff to provide real-time monitoring and resolution of customer support requests.  • Work as a team lead to provide configuration, implementation, management, and user support for Microsoft enterprise environment, including Windows Active Directory, Windows 2016, 2012 and 2008  servers, Windows 10 and 7 clients, and MS Office 2016/2010 suite products. Network/System Administrator USCG R&D Center - Groton, CT 1997 to 2014 • Planned and implemented upgrades to client/server systems hardware and software.  • Maintained and administered computer networks and related computing environments including  hardware, software and all configurations.  • Implemented company policies, technical procedures and standards for preserving the integrity and security of data, reports and access.  • Managed and secured multiple Internet connectivity systems.  • Maintain and upgrade firewall systems utilizing best practice methods.  • Supplied support for Microsoft Windows 2003, 2000, and NT 4.0 servers, Windows XP and 2000  clients, Exchange server 2003 and 5.5, and Office 2003 suite.  • Provided customer support for Windows and Linux desktop environment utilizing ArcGIS, MatLab, R, and Adobe Creative suite. Education Computer Science University of Connecticut - Storrs, CT Skills Cisco, Network design, Vmware, Virtualization, Hyper-v, Voip, Linux, Customer service, Scanning, Problem solving Additional Information Skills    • Network design and administration  • Operating systems - Windows, Linux  • VoIP - Cisco  • Virtualization - Hyper-V, VMware ESxi  • Vulnerability scanning - Tenable  • Hardware and software installation  • Technical Analysis  • Customer Service  • Problem Solving