Helpdesk Technician Helpdesk Technician Kennebunkport, ME Be part of a team to further my IT experience. Work Experience Helpdesk Technician Sweetser July 2016 to Present • Installs and performs major repairs to hardware, software, and peripheral equipment, following   design or installation specifications; confers with Support Technician III on complex installations   and/or issues.   • Responsible for CISCO phone setup and troubleshooting  • Responsible for all desktop virtual setups  • Document all support issues in ticketing system. Escalate critical open issues to ensure that the   delivery of care to Clients is not compromised.  • Establish initial user profiles and logins, IP addresses and remove disabled user accounts.  • Image installation & deployment  • Provide computer/phone training on an ad-hoc basis on such applications to current   employees.  • Setup/Maintain Print Server appliances.  • Troubleshoot network connectivity issues.  • Patch equipment in network switches.  • Provide on-site support and training for office changes/moves.    February 23- June1, 2016  Citi Financial  Loss Mitigation Specialist  • Creating and executing plans / strategies and establishing guidelines for overdue due accounts  • Customer support, collections of past due accounts, compliant account solutions and successful account loss mitigation. Network Administrator System Engineering October 2014 to January 2015 • Support and maintain LAN/WAN infrastructures at customer locations. Assist Network Engineers in repair and deployment of network infrastructure devices.  • Set up, configure and support internal networks.  • Develop and maintain all systems, applications, security and network configurations.  • Recommend upgrades, patches, and new applications and equipment.  • Install and support specific client applications.  • Monitor and troubleshoot of LAN/WAN system performance and resolving network issues.  • Coordinating technical, client staff and vendors to ensure effect implementation of new or enhanced system or system software. Field service technician Helpful Computer Consulting February 2007 to August 2014 • Help maintain customer computer desktops and server systems which will include documenting and prioritizing end-user help requests.  • Install, diagnose, repair and upgrade all hardware while ensuring effective performance.  • Extensive knowledge of PC hardware and components  • Ability to troubleshoot PC hardware and software related problems  • Configure server 2003, 2008, and 2011  • Experience configuring, and troubleshooting networks and network problems.  • Experience and ability to install and configure Exchange 2008 and 2011  • Support and setup of smart phones and tablets  • VPN configuration and support  • Project management of server installs, data migration, network configuration, and domain setups  • Backup configurations  • MSP provider Education High school or equivalent Skills Windows 7, Networking, Windows, Active Directory, Technical Support, Windows 10 (2 years) Military Service Branch: USAF Service Country: United States Rank: E-3 February 1989 to February 1993 Security Police Certifications/Licenses A+ MCPS: Microsoft Certified Professional MCSA