Director of Information Technology Director of Information Technology Director of Information Technology - Torah Academy of Bergen County Teaneck, NJ Work Experience Director of Information Technology Torah Academy of Bergen County 2013 to Present Summarize budgets and submit recommendations for approval or disapproval of the requested funds.  Review operating budgets to analyze trends affecting budgetary needs related to technology.  • Assist in network modeling, analysis, planning, and coordination between network and data  communications hardware and software.  • Supervise computer and network support specialists.  • Install, configure, and support Torah Academy of Bergen County's local area network (LAN), wide area  network (WAN), and Internet systems.  • Monitor network to ensure network availability for all users as well as perform necessary system  maintenance.  • Designed and produce all Student and Faculty Identification Cards and Building Access Codes.  • Program and configure TABC's Avaya Phone System with new extensions for all staff members  • Configure and deployed iPads and Chrome books for faculty and student use.  • Maintain all projectors, smart boards and associated devices throughout the facility.  • Manage and monitor TABC's wireless network to ensure proper connectivity and up time.  • Monitor and configure the school's Sonicwall when needed.  • Administer network security measures to ensure that all data is adequately protected.  • Ensure that system redundancies are in place in the event of an outage or system failure.  • Configured TABC's G Suite Email Accounts and Office 365 for all Faculty and Staff. Network Administrator The Moriah School of Englewood - Englewood, NJ 2000 to 2013 • Maintain local area network, which includes workstations and several servers, network printers, and associated hardware using Windows XP, Windows 7 and Win Server 2008r2.  • Assign user accounts and grant permissions to shared resources. Setup email accounts using Exchange  Server 2010. Hardware and Software configuration: integration and troubleshooting. Wrote logon scripts for user groups giving them access to specific information and drive lettering on the network  • Install, configure, and update. applications, including Microsoft Office Pro, Administrative Plus,  AP Web Teacher, Results Plus, Finacs, Destiny Librarian Software, Sophos Virus Protection and Symantec.  • Prepare ghosted images and deployed them onto multiply machines across the school's network.  • Assemble, maintain, and repair desktop computer systems and printers, to improve reliability and speed.  • Manage a Wireless Unifi Network of over sixty access points throughout the school. Education Bachelor's in Technology in Advance Certification University of Phoenix - Phoenix, AZ October 2019 to 2023 Electrical and Electronic System Technology Certification Lincoln Technical Institute-Mahwah - Mahwah, NJ October 2018 to July 2019 Bachelor's of Science degree in Network and Communications Management DeVry University - North Brunswick, NJ 2007 to 2008 Skills Active Listener, Interpersonal Skills, Problem solving, Strategic Planning, Customer Service, Network Administration, Management Skills, Time Management, Transferable Skills, Vendor Management, VoIP, Disaster Recovery, IT Management Additional Information Skills  Critical Thinker  System Analysis  Complex Problem Solving  Sound Judgment and Decision Making  Monitoring  System Evaluation  Active Listening  Operation Monitoring  IT Leadership  Facilities Control Support  System Administration