Field Project Technician Field Project Technician Field Project Technician - eBryIT Inc Marietta, GA CORE STRENGTHS:  Highly organized, dedicated, and analytical technical professional, with extensive  • IT Principles and Procedures years of experience and exceptional knowledge in network engineering, information  technology, troubleshooting, Cisco routing and switching, and business and technical  • System Maintenance and analysis. Effective in competitive, team-oriented, and fast-paced environments.  Upgrades Comfortable at working independently within competitive settings; highly capable of  applying innovative methods, procedures, and systems to identify and solve  • Hardware and Software problems.  Troubleshooting PROFESSIONAL SKILLS AND QUALIFICATIONS  • Systems Analysis • Operating Systems: Microsoft Windows Server (NT/ 2000/ 2003/ 2008),  Microsoft Windows, Mac, Linux, Ubuntu.  • Network and Data Security • Networking: TCP/ IP, DHCP, DNS, WINS, Telnet, FTP, SNMP, NAT, POP3, SMTP,  VPN, VLAN, LAN/WAN, NetBIOS, Ethernet, Wi-Fi.  • Network Operating System  • Software: Microsoft Office Suite, Microsoft Project, Microsoft Visio, Veritas  • Network Design and Performance Backup, Symantec AntiVirus Corporate Edition, McAfee Virus Scan, Enterprise,  Microsoft Virtual PC 2007, Remedy, IBM Maximo, Peregrine/ HP Service Center,  Monitoring HEAT, FootPrints, Siebel, Cisco IOS.  • Project Development and • Hardware: Dell PowerEdge Servers (2600/ 2650/ 2800), Dell OptiPlex Desktops, Work Experience Field Project Technician eBryIT Inc May 2019 to Present Organizational and • Provides customer service support for an assigned region by using knowledge of equipment operation to make independent decisions concerning the repair,  Communication Skills maintenance, and installation of desktop computers, laptops, Chromebooks,  • Time Management and and peripheral equipment.  • Manages inventory by accounting for parts usage and returns; uses good  Prioritization business judgment in parts ordering to optimize resources and costs; repairs  problem areas down to smallest component(s) when possible; returns bad parts  TECHNICAL SKILLS: in a timely manner, and involves management in situations not meeting  • Network Administration customers' needs.  • Software installation and imaging.  • Server Installation (Domain • Asset tagging and scanning serial numbers.  • Responsible for placing the broken down boxes and packing material in customer  Controller/Exchange/Firewall)  provided on-site designated area. Cashier Karachi Broast & Grill February 2018 to March 2019 • Server Maintenance • Greeted customers in a friendly and courteous manner.  • Hardware and Software • Ensured that each customer receives outstanding service by providing a friendly  environment.  Installation • Responded to customers' complaints and resolve their issues in a timely and  • Hardware and Software professional manner.  • Ensured proper use of register, cash handling methods, and execution of Maintenance customer transactions according to business standards.  • Inspired customers to buy, and created a lasting impression by sharing the new  • Website and Email Management  items or products.  • Technical Support • Maintained the place presentations, and restock items as needed. Team Lead Goodwill Industrial International October 2016 to February 2018 • PC Assembly and Upgrades • Assigned and coordinated work tasks of team members, participants, and volunteers in processing, pricing, merchandising, and rotation functions to  • ISO 9001 Certification achieve daily production goals.  • Met and made a connection with customers, asking questions and listening to shoppers' needs, while giving options and advice on meeting those needs.  CERTIFICATIONS: • Inspired the customer to buy, and created a lasting positive impression of you, Goodwill Industries, and the purchase.  • ISO 9001 Certification Quality • Maintained selling floor presentations, and restocked them as needed. Certified Network Engineer ASK PC Express Electronics - Marietta, GA July 2013 to December 2016 Network Administrator Shamsan Industrial Group - Riyadh August 2011 to January 2013 • Performed installation and configuration of network servers, workstations, and printers.  • Managed 4 servers including domain controller, DHCP, DNS, exchange server, Microsoft ISA server, and DATA BASE (SQL/Microsoft Navision).  • Provided maintenance and technical support, controlled internet speed and policies for staff.  • Managed sharing of printers and files, prevented chatting applications.  • Downloaded and installed software, managed website and e-mail accounts, joined all workstations to domain controller.  • Diagnosed and troubleshot problems encountered with digital equipments.  • Successfully established network infrastructures from the ground up in the field, often in time-sensitive situations with minimal resources.  • Performed in-depth analysis of system trends to identify and resolve redundant  issues and improve technical capacity to meet usage demands.  Ensured proper use of register, cash handling methods, and execution of customer transactions according to retail business standards. Network Administrator Saudi Computer Society March 2008 to July 2011 • Managed network and Society websites.  • Coonected all workstations to a single domain controller.  • Created e-mail accounts and internet access for all users.  • Provided technical support, coordinated conferences including exhibits and courses.  • Supervised production of publications and periodicals issued by the Society.  • Coordinated with members for activities and regular meetings. Partner Dell October 2007 to April 2008 Technical Support & Call Center Supervisor  • Insured implementation of call center policies, operations and performance  standards were understood and followed by agents.  • Strengthened existing customer and client relationships by providing an elevated point of contact.  • Generated and monitored reports to ensure quality and service levels are  maintained and deficiencies are identified and repaired.  • Supervised all telephone technical support operations.  • Dispatched engineers in coordination with logistics department for DELL  maintenance (DASP).  • Provided cost estimates for existing and prospective clients. Network Engineer MIS Group August 2006 to September 2007 Connected over 8,000 workstations and all new systems to the domain  controller for the university's network.  • Provided all technical support in addition to internet and email services for approved users.  • Installed, configured and modified hardware and software to ensure optimal  performance.  • Analyzed networks with issues.  • Resolved network issues and pull cable necessary for establishing. Portables, Associate Server Dell 2007 to 2007 Certified Systems Expert  • Performed diagnostic testing on PC equipment and ensured printers were up  (Foundation Desktops, Foundation and running at all times.  • Provided technical assistance to clients such has system/ data recovery, software  Portables, Associate Server installation and hardware integration.  Certification V9.0, ESF Level 1 • Upgraded old hardware to latest versions.  Naddor & Associate LLC- Marietta, Ga Feb 2013 - Dec 2013 Computer Technician Computer Academy 2007 to 2007 Computer Academy 2007 Computer Technician  • Responsible for repairing and troubleshooting of computer hardware/  • Certified Professional Computer softwares.  User ASK PC Computer Academy • Assisted in the installation and updating of software, as well as the setup and troubleshooting of all equipment. Network Administrator Al Saadan Group - Riyadh, SA November 2004 to September 2006 Managed main server and all database functions for Marketing, Accounting and Construction Department operations. Computer and Network Engineer Raseel International April 2002 to October 2004 • Installed and maintained all company hardware and software.  • Assembled and upgraded PC's.  • Assisted with network management. Network Administrator Al-Ali Real Estate Company May 2003 to March 2004 Managed main server and network, managed data base and entered data for Marketing, Accounting and Construction Departments. Computer Technician Nahil Computers September 2001 to April 2002 Performed software updating, hardware upgrading, hardware troubleshooting  and repair.  • Performed on-site analysis, diagnosis, and resolution of computer problems for users and recommended and implemented corrective solutions.  • Assisted clients in virus and spyware removal.  • Assisted clients in solving networking issues by troubleshooting or setting up  routers, switches.  • Software installation and troubleshooting. Education MS in Information Technology in Info Assurance/Cyber Security Walden University 2018 BS of Science in Computer Engineering Future University - Khartoum, SD 2001 Skills Microsoft Word, MS Office, Networking, Troubleshooting, Maintenance, Security, Active Directory