Local Technology Coordinator Local Technology Coordinator Local Technology Coordinator - MMC Milford, MA Talented, results driven IT leader with versatile, cross platform experience in systems/ network architecture, installation, implementation, integration and administration. Looking to secure employment with a company that promotes teamwork and professional growth. Work Experience Local Technology Coordinator MMC - Norwood, MA 2007 to Present * Work within a eight person group supporting 1500+ employees (local and remote) across 5 offices using CA ticketing system  * Build and configure laptops and desktops for onboarding employees  * Troubleshoot a myriad of applications including Office2016, Office 2016 suite and Office 365 on the Windows 10 platform  * Add, remove and administer accounts in AD  * Push packages out to end users through SCCM  * Aid in the onboarding of newly acquired offices and employees  * Responsible for tracking incoming assets and disposal of EOL assets  * Support and troubleshoot IPhones and IPads, Systems Administrator USA Today - Woburn, MA 2004 to 2007 * Wholly responsible for technical support for 40+ person office.  * Oversee network connectivity, implementation, integration and troubleshooting for servers, routers, remote access, storage devices, printers and scanners.  * Responsible for training of all office personnel on all applications used. These include MS Outlook 2003, SharePoint, Windows XP, Crystal Reports, AS 400 sessions and Lawson.  * Responsible for purchase of all office and computer equipment and office supplies. Reduced spending by over 20 percent.  * Responsible for the repair of users' desktops, laptops and handheld devices.  * Consult with Corporate and other market executives for future technology issues.  * Earned reputation for on time and on budget completion of high profile projects Network Technician Alternate Advantage Computers - W Springfield, MA 2002 to 2004 * Configure and install networks for local area small businesses.  * Maintain and oversee local area businesses LANs and WANs.  * Custom configure standalone PCs for customers Education Clark Computer Career Institute 1998