System/ Network Administrator System/<span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> System/ Network Administrator - Pitco Foods Milpitas, CA Seeking a challenging and rewarding position in Information Technology that values strong work ethics, and where my technical skills can be applied to benefit a team environment and organization. Work Experience System/ Network Administrator Pitco Foods - San Jose, CA November 2008 to Present • Supported more than 350+ end-users in 4 locations.  • Google apps for Business Administrator  • Monitored support queue ticketing system.  • Evaluated, prioritized and delegated end-user requests.  • Active Directory and Exchange account administration.  • Utilized Remote Desktop, VNC, and TeamViewer to remotely resolve client issues.  • Provided end user support.  • Performed installations, upgrades and troubleshooting of hardware and software.  • Maintain password security, data integrity and file system security.  • Responsible for monitoring network systems.  • Troubleshot and repaired network connectivity, network access problems.  • Deployed desktop images using Symantec Ghost, Disk image  • Procured, received, documented and tracked inventory of computer equipment.  • ESET Endpoint Antivirus management and monitoring.  • Conducted desktop and laptop roll-outs.  • Install and Configure Cisco call Manager and Unity (VOIP).  • Documented system changes, software installation procedures.  • Provided Smart Phone support iPhone Android and MaaS360 Software  • Windows 7/10/ Professional support.  • Microsoft Office 2003 / 2007 / 2010 / 2013 support.  • Backups of Servers (Backup Exec 15)  • Able to set up, troubleshoot and repair IBM AS400 Server- client. Consultant Endodontic Associates - San Jose, CA 2000 to 2016 • Troubleshoot connectivity problems and network availability of server and applications.  • Configure, install, and diagnose Application and windows problems.  • Facilitate system redundancy, backup and backup restore measures.  • Provided facility management teams with on-site technical support.  • Documented network diagrams, label ports, server configuration.    Volunteer/Interests  • San Jose Diabetes Society  • Habitat for Humanity of Redwood City  • OICW Golf tournament, Open house breakfast of champs  • City of Milpitas Creek clean up  • Belmont-Redwood Shores School Clean up  • Computers, coaching, gardening, skiing, fishing, motorcycling    Skills  Adobe  Dreamweaver  Adobe Photoshop  Adobe Flash  MS Office Suite 03/07/10/13    Windows  7/10    Web Sphere Suite Moreau Catholic High School - Hayward, CA May 2005 to November 2008 Hayward CA    • Provide-in-house PC- Mac installation and user support of PC hardware and software. Insure consistency of software releases and system setup, user's effectiveness of PCs and Mac.  • In charge of 100 Desktop computers running windows XP and 3 servers running window 2003  • 4 X servers and 1 X Raid  • Mac Machines 100 and 1000 laptops Mac Books  • Utilize technology. Including Networking, Email, Internet, Database and word Processing software  • Under the direction of the Principal, design plans, Organizes, present and evaluates the computer technology program of meaningful instructions to pupils in areas assigned and carried out other assigned related duties necessary to the successful operation of the school.  • Assist regular education teachers in modifying and adapting core curriculum materials to meet the individual needs of students.  • Assume responsibility for the safety and welfare of pupils plus personnel. Technology Coordinator Cesar Chavez Academy - East Palo Alto, CA March 2003 to May 2005 • Provide-in-house PC- Mac installation and user support of PC hardware and software. Insure consistency of software releases and system setup, user's effectiveness of PCs and Mac.  • In charge of 150 Desktop computers running windows XP and 4 servers running window 2003  • Youth Broadcasting Audio/Video  • Create the schools web site using Dreamweaver mx 2004, Photoshop, Flash  • Utilize technology. Including Networking, Email, Internet, Database and word Processing software  • Under the direction of the Principal, design plans, Organizes, present and evaluates the computer technology program of meaningful instructions to pupils in areas assigned and carried out other assigned related duties necessary to the successful operation of the school.  • Assist regular education teachers in modifying and adapting core curriculum materials to meet the individual needs of students.  • Assume responsibility for the safety and welfare of pupils plus personnel. Education High school or equivalent Skills Technical Support, Windows, Networking, Active Directory