Service Advisor Service Advisor Service Advisor Sugar Land, TX Work Experience Service Advisor Southwest Infiniti - Houston, TX July 2016 to July 2019 Maintained effective customer service by responding to service requests quickly to increase overall sales by offering available  solutions.  Addressed problems in proactive and knowledgeable manner to maintain and enhance client satisfaction  Introduced higher standards for customer service and increased efficiency by streamlining operations addressed problems in proactive and knowledgeable manner to maintain and enhance client satisfaction  Maintained extensive knowledge of competitors offerings and presence in assigned territory  Boosted revenue by bringing in and cementing relationships with new clients and optimizing servicing of existing customer  accounts  Maintained strong reputation of efficiency and accuracy, earning numerous recommendations from satisfied customers  Well versed in various automotive technologies such as CDK, UCS, Dealerlogix, xTime and other Reynolds & Reynolds software. Service Advisor Gillman Nissan of Fort Bend - Rosenberg, TX August 2014 to July 2016 Contact customers for follow-up and schedule service appointments.  Manage and coordinate Add On Accessories from Parts Department to install on customer vehicles  Process new vehicles for Pre-Delivery Inspection.  Take in trade-in vehicles and prepare for Multipoint Inspection Certification.  Answered customer questions about services and provided detailed explanations regarding service charges.  Capitalized on multiple upsell opportunities with new and potential customers.  Documented inspection and test results, work performed and work to be performed, keeping all records current, accurate and properly submitted to meet company standards and regulatory requirements. Dispatcher/ Network Administrator Larry's Wrecker Service - Richmond, TX March 2008 to August 2014 Technology work including installing vital network components & implement networking systems.  Maintaining network and end user workstations.  Train personnel in various applications.  Administrative Office Services including clerical administration and customer service.  Assist customers/address customer service issues regarding their personal property & vehicles.  Administrative services including assisting billing department.    Dispatcher / Office Administration  1338 ASHWOOD DR SUGAR LAND, TEXAS 77498 281.782.8821 daavila15@gmail.com AMI Advanced Medics, Inc - Richmond, TX August 2005 to March 2008 Install & maintain peer to peer network; troubleshoot & train EMT on PC use.  Develop billing protocol to send information to billing company.  EMT vehicle tracking using GPS system.  Answer multiple critical phone lines.  Create EMT schedules, assign medics to calls based on emergency level. Education CCNA Certification Wharton County Junior College September 2013 to March 2015 Texas A&M October 2006 B.F. Terry High School 2000 to 2004 Additional Information Experienced and assertive professional with demonstrated skills in sales strategies and client relations. Highly  effective at taking on multiple tasks and working in demanding environments. Proficient in a wide range of network  routing and switching equipment and applications including Windows Office, Google Office, Linksys, and Cisco.  Seeking similar position within Information Technology industry that values growth and a strong commitment to  customer engagement.