Technician Technician Network Administrator - Geosot Inc North Miami, FL Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Technician Geosot Inc - Queens, NY October 2010 to Present Answer user inquiries regarding computer software or hardware operation to resolve problems.  * Deploy equipment for employee use, performs and ensured proper cables Management, operating systems, and appropriate software.  * Setup and performs minor repairs to hardware, software, or peripheral equipment, following design and installation specifications.  * Deploy VMware vCenter Converter Physical to Virtual Machine conversion.  * Performed VMware ESXi installation and create Virtual Machines.  * Setup VoIP communication under 3CX Platform.  * Configure Cisco and Polycom IP Phones.  * Setup and configured Local Area Network.  * Deploy Windows Server 2003/2008 Active Directory.  * Manages Domain Controller users. Field Technician Comcast - Miami, FL April 2017 to April 2019 Network Administrator Dgtec January 2006 to July 2008 Design, configure, and test computer hardware, networking software and operating system software  * Operate master consoles to monitor the performance of computer systems and networks, and to coordinate computer network access and use  * Diagnose, troubleshoot, and resolve hardware, software, or other network and system problems, and replace defective components when necessary  * Perform data backups and disaster recovery operations. Education Associate in Networking Administration and Security College for Excellence - Brooklyn, NY 2008 to 2010 Instituto Tecnologico de las Americas August 2005 to July 2006 Skills Technical Skills: • Strong experience of Microsoft products and Operating Systems such as Microsoft Office Suite and Windows 9x, 2000, XP, Vista, 7, Windows Server 2003, Windows Server 2008 R2, Linux, Apple Mac OS x. • Designing, installing, and configuring Local Area Network. • Ability to design hierarchical network structures and assign subnets over various physical media. • Advanced Router/Switch knowledge such as managing and configuring boot image files, creating and configuring VLANS, and writing Access Control Lists for security purposes. • Knowledge using Routed Protocol, TCP/IP; and Routing Protocols: RIP, IGRP, EIGRP, and OSPF. • Linux Installation and basic configuration. (10+ years) Certifications/Licenses MCTS: Windows 7 - Configuration March 2012 to Present