Vice President Network Engineering/Senior Engineer Vice President <span class="hl">Network</span> Engineering/Senior Engineer Vice President Network Engineering/Senior Engineer - Tradeweb Markets LLC Jersey City, NJ ? Over 20 years of technology leadership role and a track record of transformational successes for Wall Street financial institutions.  ? 15+ years of earning customer trust of networking team professionals by consistently solving networking issues and delivering results.  ? Experienced in managing all Infrastructure platforms on a global level.  ? Achieved successes in large scale integration of platforms for Financial industry acquisitions.  ? Established track record of delivering a significant improvement in operational efficiency and stability.  ? Global experience in managing diverse professionals across multiple regions with operating expense of up to 20 million. Work Experience Vice President Network Engineering/Senior Engineer Tradeweb Markets LLC - Jersey City, NJ 2011 to Present Configured and deployed VPN infrastructure to AWS cloud for redundant connectivity to customer nodes.  ? Design, build, manage High Frequency/Low Latency infrastructure  ? Migration of company off of internal proxies to ZScaler proxy  ? Deploy, manage and operate MPLS core  ? Deploy, manage and maintain Nexus MDS Fiber Channel platform  ? Designed and maintained customer connectivity border, interfacing with multiple high profile customers, ensuring resiliency, stability, and security of connectionLed teams for on-boarding, troubleshooting, and resolving customer connectivity.  ? Involved in initiating Tradeweb direct connectivity to AWS ( network plan out)  ? Involved VxLAN network proof of concept.  ? Proactively kept profession standard to all external customers. Build trust with Customer Network design teams.  ? Led Customer migration to new secondary data center, maintaining continuityDesigned, procured and deployed Direct Connect to AWS cloud infrastructure.  ? Involved in architecture and deployment of Symphony Chat for Tradeweb.  ? Gather technical customer requirements for connectivity deployment and coordination of internal application and support teams.  ? Trained new personnel in maintaining the operational standard of service to external entities.  ? Involved in technical working groups related adhering to Dodd Frank compliance.  ? Deploy and operation capacity of Palo Alto Firewall and Panorama  ? Deploy and operation capacity of Arbor Networks IPS  ? Redesign of Corporate Internet (Production and Corporate split)  ? Migration of production network infrastructure to new MPLS Core  ? Expand New York Offices ( Network Buildout)  ? Coordinated customer circuit migrations to Out of Region Data Center (40+ entities and infrastructure moved)  ? Design and implement new data center ( network services infrastructure) AVP Network Engineering Tradeweb Markets LLC October 2008 to 2011 Build out of New York Office, New Jersey Offices( Network Buildout) infrastructure of acquired companies.  ? Proposed and implement video conferencing infrastructure  ? Maintain, operated and managed the global Tradeweb infrastructure  ? Create, maintain and update operational procedures.  ? Decommissioned and migrated data center from New York to Weehawken NJ.  ? Designed, deployed and manage IPSec VPN infrastructure  ? Resigned and implement new Primary and DR data center and coordinated customer circuit migration  ? Customer WAN conversion RIP to BGP, engineering and coordinating 20+ customer WAN protocol conversions  ? Upgraded customer WAN routing infrastructure, comprised of 50+ WAN routers. Senior Network Engineer McKinsey and Associates - New York, NY May 2008 to October 2008 Deployed multiple site for a video class network for HD IP based video QoS/CoS.  ? Instrumental in developing operation procedure of Polycom RPX Telepresence system  ? Operated and maintained Global Video conferencing system (500+ endpoints, 100+ locations)  ? Worked with multiple vendors to deploy and support network and video deployment Senior Network Engineer Bear Stearns - Whippany, NJ July 2006 to October 2008 Offshore Network Design, Implementation and Coordination  ? Multi site, multiple AS BGP redundant DMZ network  ? Firewall configuration and maintenance (PIX)  ? Design of offshore network compliance to security standards  ? Coordination vendor configuration and connectivity  ? Deploy McAfee IDS/IPS to all major US branch sites utilizing Intrushield platform  ? Gather connectivity requirements of international clients (India, Philippines, Europe, S. America)  ? Maintenance and new deployment of VPN/Wireless infrastructure (VPN3000)  ? Create Remedy projects to coordinate the implementation of the gathered requirements and to organize resources needed for execution  ? Generate technical, procedural and managerial documents to coordinate all implementation efforts. Senior Network Engineer FIMAT USA - New York, NY May 2005 to June 2006 Manage relationships with multiple market data carriers.  ? Design network to upgrade legacy network system utilizing Cisco 6500/4500  ? Design and implement new Internet/Intranet/Extranet infrastructure  ? Upgrade Internet connectivity for High Availability utilizing GLBP and BGP.  ? Design and Implement complex DNS connectivity between FIMAT and Societe Generale  ? Implement network VPN and architecture to enhance SEC and Sarbanes Oxley compliance  ? Initiate and document new operational procedures to enhance network uptime. Senior Network Engineer Bear Stearns - Whippany, NJ May 2004 to May 2005 Configure multiple PIX rule base for client and vendor access utilizing Cisco CSPM. (520)  ? Design, build and implement LAN to LAN VPN office infrastructure  ? Create Remedy projects to coordinate the implementation of the gathered requirements and to organize resources needed for execution  ? Generate technical, procedural and managerial documents to coordinate all implementation efforts.  ? Coordinate testing and implementation efforts of international team, ensuring rapid turnaround.  ? Document and troubleshoot issues in a timely manner to facilitate and ameliorate the international development clients.  ? Manage the Bear Stearns network engineering, project management process Senior Network Engineer NSApache.NET - Elizabeth, NJ August 2003 to May 2004 Gathered customer requirements and isolated security issues and notified client  ? Configured new ISP premise router  ? Redesigned corporate DMZ, hosting multiple companies for NSAPACHE, as well as designed DMZ for Internet host access and Web hosting utilizing Cisco PIX 520 firewall and various network switches.  ? Implemented and troubleshoot the new design, testing and cutting in users and servers into the new configuration.  ? Configured DMZ host access and NAT implementation. Senior Network Engineer Teliris Incorporated - New York, NY April 2002 to July 2003 Designed, maintained, and upgraded an international bank trading network utilizing multiple vendor platform.  ? Redesigning and maintaining an international OSPF to EIGRP integrated network  ? Completed site installations of high-end video teleconferencing network equipment  ? Evaluating communication vendors for MPLS designed network  ? Designed, tested and implemented a video class international data transports system utilizing QoS queues.  ? Instituted procedures at the Teliris/GSK VNOC, for the management of the GSK video/data transport network.  ? Designed, tested and implemented an international video class data transport system Researched and implemented remote connectivity procedures for the remote management of the video transport network. Manager Network Engineering and Internal Support Optimark Technologies Incorporated - New York, NY August 1998 to February 2002 Managed and coordinated all Internal infrastructure and services including all Cisco routers, Cisco Switches, Siemens Phone system, Meeting Place Conference Bridge system, Compaq servers  ? Operation and maintenance of two corporate data centers, all concerns of power, air conditioning, UPS and fire suppression system  ? Network security and email security, including implementation and operation of email virus scanner, and web content traffic monitoring  ? Dismantlement and redesign of a multimillion-dollar production network  ? Coordinated and managed all aspects of the production and corporate networks, including the day-to-day management of the Network Engineering staff Communications Network Engineer Securities Industry Automation Corporation - Brooklyn, NY November 1995 to August 1998 Implemented new LAN backbone for NYSE corporate networks (2000+ nodes) using Bay Networks equipment  ? Performed traffic flow analysis to develop implementation strategy of network equipment including hubs, layer 2 switches, layer 3 switches, and routers  ? Designed and implemented various router traffic filters and route filters for security and traffic shaping  ? Designed test procedures for new product evaluations to ensure manageability and operational limits of new network devices  ? Interacted with directors, supervisors, engineers, technicians, and electricians in providing network support for SIAC and NYSE corporate networks, and to design and develop LANs for the AMEX development group  ? Developed and installed IP multicast LAN backbone for development test bed over multiple OSPF areas System Administrator Jefferies & CO - New York, NY April 1995 to November 1995 Responsible for maintaining and troubleshooting online production DOT trading system  ? Exercised basic Sybase commands on DOT trading system  ? Installed, configure and troubleshoot Order Path software  ? Performed UNIX administration duties including the formatting of new machines and the daily troubleshooting, and script generation  ? Purchasing new equipment from various vendors, configuration and installation Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Engineering in Computer Engineering Boston University, College of Engineering - Boston, MA December 1993 Skills Catalyst, Router, T1, Bridges, Bgp4, Cisco, Dhcp, Ipv6, Juniper, Mpls, Ospf, Tacacs, Tcp, Tcp/ip, Cisco asa, Cisco pix, Hsrp, Ipsec, Wireshark, Firewall, low latency (5 years), palo alto firewall (1 year) Assessments Management & Leadership Skills: Planning & Execution — Proficient August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to effectively plan and manage resources to accomplish organizational goals. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/0mxfqgawcp5-ufae Management & Leadership Skills: Impact & Influence — Highly Proficient August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to adapt their leadership style to accomplish goals using rational or emotional appeal. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/c-icx-colxogox53 Supervisory Skills: Directing Others — Highly Proficient August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to motivate the performance of others through feedback to identify improvements or corrective actions. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/4rfoct1v0z-psj6s Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information SKILLS    Communications Protocols  MPLS, TCP/IP, OSPF, BGP4, RIP/RIP2, BootP/DHCP, IPSEC, GRE, NAT, HSRP, Ethernet, IGMP (multicast), Spanning Tree,RADIUS, TACACS+, SNMP, SMTP, NTP, DNS, FDDI, ATM, T1/PRI, Frame Relay, IPX/SPX, DECNet, IPv6, PPP, CHAP,    Communications Hardware  Cisco ASR 1000, 9000. Nexus 6000, 3000, 9100, MDS 9000 - Router Platform (1800, 2900,, 3900, 7000, 7200) |  Cisco Catalyst Switch series (3750, 3850, 3950, 4000, 4500, 5500, 2950, 4500/6500), Cisco ASA (5550),  Cisco PIX (505, 515, 525,535),  Checkpoint Firewall (Nokia IP330, Sun Solaris), SUN Sparc,  Network Instruments Network Observer and Probe, Network General Sniffer and Wireshark, Fluke LAN meter, Various Network Platforms (DEC, Juniper, Palo Alto), Bridges, switches, routers, modems, patch panels, transceivers    Software  Cisco IOS , Cisco CSM, Cisco Security Policy Manager (CSPM), Checkpoint Fire Wall-1, Bay Networks Router code (7.80-14.01), Security Dynamics (RSA) SecureID (ACE), UNIX (Sun OS 4.1.4, HP, System V), HP Openview, various networking software.    Other  Redundant High Availability (HA) design, QoS/CoS Design.  Familiar with F5 load balancer and Palo Alto Firewall.  Knowledge of UCS  Knowledge of SAN switch configuration (MDS 9148 and HP/Brocade)