Manager of IT Manager of IT Manager of IT Tolland, CT Technology, Management and Operations with 20 years of progressive technical and management roles within diverse environments. Expertise includes cost, infrastructure, vendor management, mentoring, and telecommunications management. Creative and innovative problem-solver, with proven abilities to craft IT vision, implement strategy, and lead operational plans. Strong organizational and leadership skills, and goal-oriented with a proven track record. A clear and direct IT Manager, skilled in developing and maintaining a broad vision, cultivating excellent relationships, and communicating effectively across the organization to build focused and productive teams. Work Experience Manager of IT East Hartford Public Schools - East Hartford, CT December 2004 to May 2018 • Provide leadership and direction in the development of short and long-term plans and technical support to school district.  • Researches, evaluates and makes recommendations for upgrading, repair and maintenance of existing systems.  • Designs, develops and implements new systems to accommodate the organization's needs.  • Manages highly available Microsoft infrastructure including Windows Servers, VMware, Exchange, and SCCM.  • Plans and organizes workloads and staff assignments and trains, motivates and evaluates assigned staff.  • Manages and supervises assigned operations to achieve goals within available resources.  • Maintains knowledge of systems, software, and computer network design, development, integration and maintenance, and interactive applications.  • Implemented disaster recovery.  • Prepares the annual budget, presents and defends budget requests.  • Prepares project reports and informs administration of project status and updates.  • Establishes criteria for the drafting of requests for proposals (RFP's) for the district's IT needs.  • Capitalized on USAC E-Rate funding to update switches and WiFi network infrastructure to support growth and replacement of devices while saving district up to 90% on costs. Network Administrator Regional School District 8 - Hebron, CT March 1999 to November 2004 • Set up and managed e-mail, Internet services, and networking  • The training and development of staff and faculty through staff development workshops, and personal instruction.  • The purchasing of computer hardware and software.  • PC hardware troubleshooting and repair.  • The planning and development of district WAN, including all video/voice/data, switching, and routing.  • Configuration and deployment of Windows 2000/2003 domain including Active Directory and deployment of Macintosh Open Directory.  • Deployment and development of PowerSchool, the districts Student Information System.  • Web developer and web master of all the districts web sites.  • Developed student technology apprenticeship program. Network Technician Hebron Public Schools November 1997 to March 1999 • Provided end user network support and administration.  • Responsible for daily backups; user accounts/permissions maintenance.  • Configuration of file/print/server and workstation performance monitoring, repair and configuration. Education MCSE University of Rhode Island - Windsor, CT Skills SERVICE LEVEL AGREEMENTS, CYBER SECURITY, IT PROJECT MANAGEMENT, PROJECT PLAN, RFP Additional Information SKILL AREAS  • IT project management  • Financial/budgeting expertise  • Project audits  • IT staff supervision and training  • Project plan development  • Organizational standards enforcement  • Cyber Security Infrastructure  • Project documentation  • Excellent communication    KEY CONTRIBUTIONS    • Established IT Vendor RFP and contracting processes working with business department, and district administration enabling more successful engagements and substantial cost savings. This was achieved by working closely with district stakeholders to understand core requirements, establishing clear deliverables, defining roles/responsibilities/activities/time matrixes and defining Service Level Agreements (SLAs) with vendors.  • Project Execution: Implement effective project management practices and processes to meet on time, on budget project delivery. Plan, review and implement appropriate and successful project management methodologies. Implemented requirement standards and rigor to ensure successful project delivery. Forecast and develop the IT budget process.  • Partnered with administration and peers to create the IT strategic technology plan, which included district vision, capital project and ongoing expenses.