I.T. Manager I.T. Manager I.T. Manager - The Mosser Group Huron, OH To obtain a position that will be mentally challenging and financially  rewarding, while providing an opportunity to learn new skills. Work Experience I.T. Manager The Mosser Group April 2006 to Present • Responsible for managing network with 20+ servers and  ~200 users at 5 locations plus construction sites  • Supervise Network Manager, I.T. Specialist, and Co-Ops  • Installed, managed and maintained VMWare environment  • Deployed, configured and maintained EqualLogic SAN devices  • SharePoint Admin/Config/Dev  • Responsible for all mobile devices including MDM  • Administered Linux servers and developed multiple shell  scripts  • Supported and developed multiple data integration points  • Configured and Maintained CMiC and Network Security    The Mosser Group - Network Administrator  • Implemented Active Directory  • Migrated workstations and file and print services from Novell  environment to Microsoft environment  • Implemented Exchange 2007 and migrated all users and messages from GroupWise 6.5  • Responsible for all aspects of network including firewall, routers, switches, servers, workstations and Cisco VoIP system  • Installed and maintain WSUS for Windows Patching  • Installed, maintained and administered Veeam backup solution Network Administrator Allied Air Enterprises January 1998 to April 2006 Responsible for managing network with 500 users at three  locations  • Installed and maintained 20+ Windows 2000 and 2003 servers  at three locations  • Planned multiple projects including Active Directory  implementation and migration from GroupWise 5.5 to Exchange 2000  • Installed NetWare 6 and GroupWise 6 servers for 3 divisions  • Installed and maintained WSUS for Windows Patching  • Installed and maintained Symantec Antivirus Corporate Edition  on all servers and workstations  • Manager of up to five technicians  • Responsible for all desktop computers, software, and support    Allied Air Enterprises - P.C. Coordinator  • Responsible for all computer hardware and software purchasing  • Performed p.c. set-up, software installation, and troubleshooting  • Provided end user support for 200 users Systems Manager American Colors, Inc March 1990 to December 1997 • System administrator for Unisys 5000/55 Unix server and Windows NT 3.51 network  • Responsible for all aspects of computer systems administration, purchasing, set-up, installation, and troubleshooting, and  maintenance.  • Installed LAN using both co-ax and CAT 5 including wire  termination  American Colors, Inc. - Lab Manager  • Supervised four technicians  • Responsible for trouble shooting problems with production  material  • Handled customer complaints Education Bachelor of Science Purdue University - West Lafayette, IN December 1990