NETWORK ADMINISTRATOR <span class="hl">NETWORK</span> <span class="hl">ADMINISTRATOR</span> NETWORK ADMINISTRATOR Flint, MI Multitasking Network Administrator with a background in system upgrades and hardware monitoring.  A determined employee with over 5 years of network component installation experience.  Highly knowledgeable in system repairs and performance improvements. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience NETWORK ADMINISTRATOR TURRENTINE SERVICES - Jacksonville, FL January 2015 to August 2018 • Performed system maintenance and upgrades, including patches, service packs, hot fixes and new security configurations.  • Reviewed network settings and made immediate updates, which improved overall security measures.  • Identified issues and implemented troubleshooting techniques to alleviate downtime and system failure.  • Experienced in supporting CISCO routers and switches, wireless access points and network servers.  • Backed up company data on a regular basis, which proved effective in successful recovery when malware hit the network.  • Provided documentation on start-up, shut down and first level troubleshooting of processes to staff.  • Provided continued maintenance and development of bug fixes and patch sets via remote support.  • Implemented company policies, technical procedures and standards for preserving the integrity and security of data, reports and access.  • Planning and implementation of company databases, network security layout, VPN protocols (IPSec), client-server setup, and disaster recovery plans within the company budget. TECHNICAL SUPPORT REPRESENTATIVE CONVERGYS CORPORATION - Jacksonville, FL December 2016 to May 2017 • Set up PC and Apple desktops and laptops and Apple mobile devices.  • Provided basic to advanced end-user troubleshooting and support for Mac and Windows systems.  • Installed software, modified and repaired hardware and resolved technical issues.  • Maintained high departmental standards for quality and productivity metrics.  • Identified and solved technical issues with a variety of diagnostic tools.  • Resolved problems with malfunctioning Apple computers and mobile devices.  • Set up repairs at Apple Certified locations for warranty repairs and device replacement.  • Researched, troubleshot and resolved complex problems independently. TECHNICAL SUPPORT REPRESENTATIVE (REMOTE) CONVERGYS CORPORATION - Jacksonville, FL May 2015 to April 2016 • Set up PC and Apple desktops and laptops and Apple mobile devices.  • Used ticketing systems to manage and process actions taken.  • Provided basic to advanced end-user troubleshooting and support for Mac and Windows systems.  • Installed software, modified and repaired hardware and resolved technical issues.  • Maintained high departmental standards for quality and productivity metrics.  • Identified and solved technical issues with a variety of diagnostic tools.  • Resolved problems with malfunctioning Apple computers and mobile devices.  • Set up repairs at Apple Certified locations for warranty repairs and device replacement.  • Researched, troubleshot and resolved complex problems independently. Education ASSOCIATE OF SCIENCE in Information Technologies SOUTHERN NEW HAMPSHIRE UNIVERSITY Skills ACTIVE DIRECTORY, REMOTE ACCESS, TCP, MAC (1 year), MAINTENANCE (3 years), Cisco, Vmware, System Administrator, Networking Additional Information Technical Skills    Due to my professional experience and education, I've developed the following skill set(s) in the networking field:    • Hardware and software monitoring    • Windows Server 2003/2008/2012    • Email management software    • Risk management    • User authentic systems    • Hardware repairs    • System and data analysis    • Windows, MAC OS, and Linux    • Refined system debugging skills    • Advanced troubleshooting skills    • Active directory    • Network repairs and maintenance    • Linux server administration    • Data backups    • TCP/IP    • Security planning and implementation    • Remote access technology    • System upgrades and backups