Systems Administrator Systems <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Network Administrator Springfield, MO A+ and Lenovo certified technician seeking new opportunities in the field of IT. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Administrator Incredible Pizza Company - Springfield, MO November 2018 to Present Provided Windows/OSX administration, LAN/WAN/VPN administration, VMware administration, and intrusion detection and prevention (IDP) monitoring.  Migrated entire infrastructure from physical servers to ESXi host to cut costs and increase performance and monitoring capabilities.   Management of FTP servers, AD/DNS, wireless access points, POS stations, kiosks, mobile devices and more.  Designed and implemented highly available (HA) and disaster recovery (DR) solutions.  Migrated company from Office 365/SharePoint to Google suites.  Improved system security through setup and ongoing maintenance of NetScreen-Security Manager.  Researched, recommended and implemented network enhancements that improved system reliability and performance.  Managed daily and weekly backups of all server assets. Optimized system availability (averaging 99.9% uptime) and equipped company with scalable systems to support fast business growth.  Trained employees across multiple departments on network operations including log-in procedures, network management software, permissions, printing issues, security and use of software.  Management and installation of camera security system for multiple location nationwide.  Network and software support for corporate call center.  Pulled over 40,000ft of network cable to renew infrastructure in multiple locations.  Provided remote support to six locations across the country from corporate office. Network Administrator MDC Business Technology - Monett, MO January 2018 to November 2018 Technician for Backups and Disaster recovery using Storage Craft Shadow Protect and Image Manager  Assist Clients onsite and remotely to resolve computer-related issues  Deliver equipment and install if necessary  Managed client software licensing  Managed and maintained accurate documentation of clients infrastructure   Managed and configured hosted VOIP systems   Advanced working knowledge of Windows environments and Microsoft products  Installed, maintained, and configured over 100 virtual servers hosted on ESXi.   Project management: Mobile device management from procurement to configuration and installation for over 200 employees in a mental health facility.   Extensive hardware repair and diagnostics. IT Support Specialist Foot & Ankle Specialty Clinic - Conway, AR February 2015 to January 2018 Key participant to merge disparate technologies; successfully merged all systems to allow a seamless transition  Migrated all data from preexisting environment to the new environment  Completed a move from one Active Directory forest/domain to a new Active Directory forest/domain  Created a site to site VPN tunnel between four clinics  Designed and implemented a business grade wireless network  Configured and managed Active Directory Services, File and Print Server, DNS, DHCP, Storage Craft Shadow Protect backups and more...  Provided end user support to all office staff  Responsible for research, procurement and configuration of all new network and server hardware  Managed and maintained VOIP phone system  Implemented and managed Ignite Real Time: Spark instant messenger platform Education Some college Skills Networking (4 years), System Administration (4 years), Computer Repair (4 years), IT Management (3 years), Microsoft Office Administration (3 years), Cabling (4 years), Active Directory (4 years), Exchange Server (1 year), Windows (10+ years), Linux (Less than 1 year), Network Administration (3 years), Network Management (3 years), Vmware, System Administrator, Disaster Recovery (4 years), Hardware (4 years), Group policy (4 years), Desktop Support, Help Desk, Service Desk, Tech Support Certifications/Licenses A+ Certified April 2018 to April 2021 Lenovo certified technician April 2018 to Present Completed all required coursework for the Lenovo technician certification.