Lead Network Engineer Lead <span class="hl">Network</span> Engineer Lead Network Engineer - Trescal Corp. Howell, M. I Mount Morris, MI Work Experience Lead Network Engineer Trescal Corp. Howell, M. I May 2016 to Present ·             Design, Build and implement corporate networks  ·             Coordinate Travel and Time frames for acquisition integrations and Systems Mergers  ·             Maintain Data Center and 20+ sites around the United States  ·             Coordinate daily operations with Development and Systems Teams for Hardware and Systems testing and integration  ·             Maintain 4+ E.R.P Systems  ·             Design, Test and implement Cyber security policies to protect against ransomware and other threats.  ·             Train Systems Administrators on procedures and validate work before being posted to live environment.  ·             Perpetual workload, Prioritize and maintain plan of concerns and develop plans with Teams to coordinate response.  ·             Maintain Corporate Phone Systems, Servers,Databases,Backup Locations and Daily Task.  ·             Always on call, I am the last line of defense.  ·             Frequent Travel. Network Administrator Mid Michigan Medical Billing February 2015 to May 2016 • Manage, monitor and troubleshoot over 40 different clients  • Build and maintain servers  • Work on office equipment, laptops, switches, modems, printers and faxes  • Run network cabling along with coax for Closed Circuit Television.  • Maintain active directory, storage space, and functionality across server platforms  • Set up VPN's for distant offices.  • Service and maintain phone systems  • DC Migrations, TS Migrations, File Server Migrations Tech/sales Clio Computers August 2014 to April 2015 • Build computers, commercial and residential  • Maintain systems, clean up malware and viruses including host.dll virus, ransom ware, rootkits along with ransom ware  • Manage server software  • Make crossover cables for everyday use  • Configure devices such as modems, routers (ap's), and other wireless devices Education Associate in Computer Science Baker College of Flint - Flint, MI June 2012 to June 2015 Skills Firewalls (5 years), Hyper-v (4 years), Linux (2 years), SQL Database Management (2 years), Networking (6 years), Team management (2 years), Virtual machine (7 years), Vmware (7 years), ERP Integrations (3 years), All windows Server 2003-19 (6 years), Xenserver (4 years), Phones (5 years), Network Conversions (4 years), Network Security (5 years), Network Administration (6 years), Systems Integration (5 years), LAN (5 years), Cloud Computing (4 years), Computer Hardware (6 years), Computer Repair (6 years)