Network Administrator, Information Technology <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span>, Information Technology Network Administrator, Information Technology - Mohegan Sun Pocono, Plains Township, PA Edwardsville, PA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Network Administrator, Information Technology Mohegan Sun Pocono, Plains Township, PA January 2019 to Present Responsible for maintaining, improving, monitoring, and optimizing infrastructure such as, but not limited to firewalls, switches/routers, voice system, network storage, virtualization cluster and server-side activities.  ? Responsible for all Moves/Adds/Changes (MAC) associated with network and voice systems.  ? Tests and installs new and existing network hardware and troubleshoots physical and network level performance issues.  ? Secures network by developing network access, monitoring, control, and evaluation; maintaining documentation Customer Service Specialist, Information Technology Mohegan Sun Pocono - Wilkes-Barre, PA June 2016 to January 2019 Provide Level I system support to business customers and escalates issues to peers or contracted external vendors based on defined escalation procedures  ? Follow established escalation processes and procedures for systems portfolio  ? Utilize a comprehensive system knowledge database to provide expeditious issue resolution for a diverse system portfolio  ? Assist in the analysis of the technical performance and reliability of products, systems and services against identified industry standards to ensure customer satisfaction  ? Responsible for implementing technical service restorations and troubleshooting procedures for identifying, testing and diagnosing computer system and peripheral equipment failures  ? Continuous Improvement: Actively pursues opportunities to improve knowledge, tools and processes for systems under management. Education Bachelor's in Information Sciences and Technology The Pennsylvania State University - Lehman, PA August 2014 to December 2016 Associate in Computer Systems Technology Luzerne County Community College - Nanticoke, PA August 2012 to May 2014 Skills Technical Support, Active Directory, Networking, Windows, Customer Service, Microsoft Office, Windows 7 Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/markjmacosky