Network Admin - IS Analyst L3 <span class="hl">Network</span> Admin - IS Analyst L3 Network Admin - IS Analyst L3 - TEKSystems Fort Worth, TX To make use of my extensive systems and networking technology knowledge base and professionalism in a network and/or IT security support position. Work Experience Network Admin - IS Analyst L3 Miner Corporation / OnPoint Group - Grapevine, TX September 2017 to Present • Serve as network admin on our Cisco Meraki organization, providing support and preventative maintenance for over 90 offices nation-wide.  • Administer organization's O365/Exchange portals in a hybrid cloud/on-prem environment, syncing with domain AD.  • Administer Active Directory containing over 3,000 users, assisting to maintain current and accurate security/access privileges throughout organization.  • Plan, design, and manage various network installations/integrations for newly-acquired BUs and office space.  • Create, maintain and repair user connections to various servers within organization's VM environment.  • Install and maintain security camera networks utilizing Tyco, Convergint and Meraki-based systems.  • Assist organization transition to VoIP telephony, serving as admin for RingCentral phone system.  • Determine current inventory requirements and purchase new user equipment accordingly.  • Act as project manager for quarterly organizational-wide projects assigned by CIO.  • Install, update and correct issues with Zoom Room teleconference meetings.  • Retrieve Mozy backups of user data and migrate user profiles, imaging new PCs, as needed.  • Assist local various admin and sales staff with access issues, as needed.  • Provide excellent customer service including troubleshooting, diagnosing and correcting issues with company-issued iPhones, iPads and PCs throughout the organization. Baseball Tracking System/BOSS Operator & VRM Major League Baseball Advanced Media - Arlington, TX February 2015 to Present • Ensure proper game day operation of tracking and rendering systems, including verification of speed reporting and tracker accuracy.  • Serve as primary on-site troubleshooter for all MLBAM equipment, including cameras, Doppler radar system and on-site server bank.  • Look for errors in data and report anything found to ensure proper data "scrubbing" to further provide accuracy.  • Communicate with off-site support to ensure that data is being uploaded/downloaded properly to the appropriate outlets and coordinate any repairs or adjustments needed.  • Interact, coordinate and troubleshoot with personnel from a wide variety of network broadcasting teams and clubs to provide proper render specifications. Technical Support Specialist (Mobility) Mastec Advanced Technologies - Coppell, TX April 2017 to September 2017 • Provide mobility support to nationwide team of 5,000+ field technicians, supervisors and management for DirecTV installation and maintenance products in addition to Mastec Network Services from a call center / helpdesk environment.  • Install, update, troubleshoot and provide support for Outlook/Active Sync for mobile (iPhone, Android) and laptop platforms.  • Update and administer Active Directory as needed to ensure accuracy and proper functionality.  • Install, administer and troubleshoot SOTI MobiControl cellular remote control application and accompanying database.  • Administer and update various proprietary web-based technician portals ranging from time entry applications to satellite installation tools.  • Assist in maintaining accurate cellular user database and administer over 5,000 AT&T and 500+ Verizon mobility devices and accounts. Network/Systems Administrator Arrowhead Technologies - Fort Worth, TX September 2014 to January 2016 • Serve as single point of contact for IT and network support for 9 small to medium sized businesses throughout DFW area, providing assistance in the field and over the phone.  • Configure and administer multiple physical and virtual servers for each client, including file storage as well as Active Directory (creating, updating and deleting user accounts and permissions) and Group Policy settings (Server 2003/2008/2012, Xserve and RHEL).  • Troubleshoot and administer desktop systems as well as wired and wifi networks in PC (Vista, XP, 7, 8, 8.1, 10) Mac and Linux (Fedora, Ubuntu) environments on-site and remotely using support applications such as join.me and LogMeIn.  • Responsible for purchasing, maintaining, repairing and replacing all IT and networking hardware, as needed.  • Implement, troubleshoot and maintain various cloud-based VMs and BDRs using Rackspace.  • Provide security and VPN access solutions for various clients and maintain both hardware and software firewall appliances including Cisco and Sonicwall devices.  • Administer Exchange/Active Sync server settings and operation while configuring, deploying and maintaining Outlook and other email client applications across several platforms including Mac and PC as well as mobile devices such as iPhone, iPad and Android phones/tablets.    Operating Partner - Wright Mobile Services November 2008 - March 2017  • Serve businesses and individuals located within 75-mile radius in need of a computer repair or notary 24 hours per day.  • Perform maintenance, troubleshooting and repair of private and small business PCs to clients' satisfaction utilizing 20+ years of computer experience.  • Install, configure and maintain small office/home office networks within industry standards and operational parameters specified by customer, including configuring Wifi, routers, NICs and various network applications.  • Use 8 years notary experience to witness, take depositions, verify and sign documents as needed in a multitude of situations. Education Associate in Applied Science in Information Technology Security Tarrant County College - Fort Worth, TX March 2014 Bachelor of Science in Psychology Tulane University - New Orleans, LA May 2004 Skills Network Security, Router, Switch, Cisco, Servicenow Certifications/Licenses HDI Desktop Support Technician December 2017 to Present CCENT May 2019 to May 2022 Cisco Meraki Network Operator September 2018 to Present