Network Administrator <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Network Administrator Bloomingdale, IL Work Experience Network Administrator FIREHOUSE NETWORKS - Bloomingdale, IL January 2018 to December 2018 Maintain and administer computer networks and related computing  environments including computer hardware, systems software, applications software, and all configurations.  • Perform data backups and disaster recovery operations.  • Diagnose, troubleshoot, and resolve hardware, software, or other network  and system problems, and replace defective components when necessary.  • Plan, coordinate, and implement network security measures to protect data, software, and hardware.  • Configure, monitor, and maintain email applications and virus protection  software.  • Design, configure, and test computer hardware, networking software and operating system software.  • Confer with network users about how to solve existing system problems.  • Recommend changes to improve systems and network configurations and determine hardware or software requirements related to such changes.  • Gather data pertaining to customer needs, and use the information to identify., predict, interpret, and evaluate system and network requirements.  • Train people in computer system use. Camp Counselor BLOOMINGDALE PARK DISTRICT - Bloomingdale, IL May 2017 to August 2017 • Monitoring and controlling a large group of children.  • Keeping all children safe from things like: strangers, sunburn, accidental  injury, etc.  • Keeping track of the lunches for all the children and running a food  handout service for underprivileged children.  • Taking all children on field trips to places up to 1 hour away. (Managing  the children on a large vehicle)  • Making sure everyone has a good time wherever we are without letting  things get out of hand. Car Wash Attendant TURTLE WAX - Bloomingdale, IL September 2015 to May 2016 • Clean and polish vehicle windows.  • Rinse objects and place them on drying racks or use cloth, squeegees, or air compressors to dry surfaces.  • Maintain inventories of supplies.  • Apply paints, dyes, polishes, preconditioners, waxes, or masking materials  to vehicles to preserve, protect, or restore color or condition. Cashier CAPUTOS - Bloomingdale, IL September 2014 to May 2015 Receive payment by cash, check, credit cards, vouchers, or automatic  debits.  • Issue receipts, refunds, credits, or change due to customers.  • Assist customers by providing information and resolving their complaints.  • Establish or identify prices of goods, services or admission, and tabulate  bills using calculators, cash registers, or optical price scanners.  • Greet customers entering establishments.  • Process merchandise returns and exchanges.  • Maintain clean and orderly checkout areas and complete other general  cleaning duties, such as mopping floors and emptying trash cans.  • Stocking Shelves. Education BS in COMPUTER INFORMATION SYSTEMS COLLEGE OF DUPAGE - Glen Ellyn, IL January 2018 to Present BS in MECHANICAL ENGINEERING NORTHERN ILLINOIS UNIVERSITY - DeKalb, IL Skills Technical Support, Networking, Windows, Active Directory, Vmware