Network Administrator/Engineer/Instructor <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span>/Engineer/Instructor Network Administrator/Engineer/Instructor - U.S. Air Force Oklahoma City, OK Linux framework technician with an established sense of role structure and computer troubleshooting experience. Always ready to attack any situation, regardless of difficulty. Able to understand and breakdown the limitations networking infrastructures. Instructor for junior network administrators. Strong experience creating technical training documentation and mentoring junior associates on fundamental and advanced Linux hardware operation, configuration, and troubleshooting. Proven ability to learn new technologies and skills in a rapidly changing environment. Has a positive influence to create collaborative team environments while ensuring punctual and accurate job completion. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Network Administrator/Engineer/Instructor U.S. Air Force - Oklahoma City, OK February 2016 to Present • Designed, led and created a Linux based networking trainer to continue and advance basic skills required to perform tasks. Programmed and maintained DHCP, TFTP, routing, and virtual environments that are essential to mission requirements. Able to be reprogrammed and configured to match the needs of the mission.  • Establish owner, user, and group file permissions for front end consumers.  • Performed Red Hat Enterprise Linux and Windows network maintenance, system modifications, troubleshooting RAID 6 Storage Area Network (SAN), Cisco Routers, Single Board Computers, Network Attached Storage (NAS), and provided time-sensitive reports to front end users.  • Collaborated with Airborne Network Global Information Grid Interface (ANGI) to facilitate Global Area Network (GAN) troubleshooting within a classified environment.    INFORMATION ASSURANCE SPECIALIST    (503) 490-4631  ricky.jimenez.three@gmail.com  Oklahoma City, OK  linkedin.com/in/jimenezrm1  live:ricky.jimenez.three EW Journeyman U.S. Air Force - Oklahoma City, OK February 2016 to Present • Subject Matter Expert for 36 individual avionics computer systems valued at $10B  • Utilized technical manuals, specialized test equipment, and training to diagnose and repair computer network, electronic warfare, and electronic countermeasure system failures  • Documented maintenance actions and fixes in Proprietary ticketing system to support configuration management, after action reports, and process improvement. EW Apprentice U.S. Air Force - Oklahoma City, OK September 2015 to February 2016 • Trained to provide familiarization on E-3 Electronic Warfare principles, theory of operation, system software applications, operation checks and troubleshooting analysis, and utilization of specialized test equipment  • Provided training for skill and knowledge necessary to perform organizational level maintenance duties on the E-3 Mission System. Scope of training includes operation, maintenance, troubleshooting, and repair of the data processor/display system, and nuclear hardness.  • Provided training for skill and knowledge necessary to perform networking administration duties of the Avionics Local Area Networks. Scope of training includes operation, maintenance, troubleshooting, and repair of SAN Disk Array, NAS Gateways, HP Proliant Blade Servers, HP Fiber Switches, Linux and Windows operating systems (OS), and Cisco Ethernet Switches. Education Security+ Certification Community College of the Air Force December 2016 Security+ Certification in communications Community College of the Air Force April 2016 to November 2016 Skills Iscsi, Nas, Raid, Red hat, Cisco, Networking, Technical Support, Windows, Windows 7, Vmware, Security, Javascript Links http://linkedin.com/in/jimenezrm1 Military Service Branch: United States Air Force Rank: E4/SrA Certifications/Licenses CompTIA Security+ February 2017 to February 2020