IT Specialist IT Specialist Puyallup, WA To gain employment in my field of study with a company of high integrity. Seeking full time work, working with and maintaining databases or web development. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience IT Specialist Jeff Baker and Associates CPA Firm, IT Department - Tacoma, WA January 2018 to March 2018 2018 Tax Season  Fixed issues with software (CCH, Lacerte, Quickbooks, MFIles) along with various PC issues  Created custom ad hoc reports based upon business needs using CCH and Excel Network Administrator Washington State Fair, IT Department - Puyallup, WA September 2017 to September 2017 Seasonal  ·        Troubleshooting fixing issues with individual machines along with networking issues.  ·        Customer Service – every time a computer or the network goes down we must work with the customer (seller, buyer, fair personnel) with a good attitude that gives them confidence in our ability to fix the issues. Also, bring positivity into a negative and often times stressful situation.  ·        Work cooperatively with an IT team to provide service to a wide area. Making sure that each area and section is covered and provide support to fellow team members when necessary.  Order Picker Fastenal - Lakewood, WA 2012 to 2016 ·        Worked within deadlines – fulfilled a work order every day. All tasks had to be completed.  ·        Ensured accuracy of orders – Made sure the customer received the correct product in the right quantity in a timely manner.   ·        Worked in a small section as part of a larger team. To ensure all orders were picked and provided support to fellow team members as needed. Education Bachelor of Science in Software Development in Software Development Bellevue University June 2019 Associate Degree in Database Management in Database Management Pierce College Puyallup June 2017 Skills Information Technology, Help Desk, It Specialist Certifications/Licenses Microsoft Technology Associate: Software development Fundamentals (C#) January 2017 to Present A certification that say I know the basic fundamentals of the programming language C# Microsoft Technology Associate: Database Fundamentals December 2016 to Present A certification that from Microsoft saying that I know and understand the fundamentals of working with SQL relational database. Business Analyst June 2017 to Present A certification awarded by my school saying I am certified in the understanding and knowledge of a business analyst. Software Development June 2017 to Present I am certified in the building and development of applications. Driver's License Additional Information SKILLS  Languages: T-SQL | C# | HTML5 | Python | Java | JQuery | Oracle | JSP |Java Servlets   Tools: Visual Studios | Eclipse | Microsoft Excel | Word | PowerPoint | ASP.NET | ADO.NET |  Relational Databases: T-SQL | Data Normalization Forms | CRUD | DML | DDL | Administration | Technical | Triggers | Stored procedures | Backups | Data Scrubbing | Organization |  Concepts: Object Oriented Programming (OOP) |    Projects  ·        KuElectronics: Created database from scratch including business rules and an entity relationship diagram (ERD). Normalized the database to 4th normal form (4NF). Created a series of dynamic web pages using JSP and Java Servlets to connect to an Oracle database that displayed a list of products, homepage, and purchase confirmation. Lets the user make purchases and saves the information inside the database. Also, lets the user register their product with a register ID unique to every product. Where they can keep track of their product and insures it in case of theft.   ·        Adventure Works: Created a web application that connects to an existing Adventure Works SQL database using ASP.NET and C#. Allows the user to login using confirmation that goes though the web application into the database and confirms the user is a valid user. Once logged in using CRUD the user can create new records in the database, view a list of all the products and vendors in a list view, update records, and delete records from the database. Created an instead of trigger in T-SQL that pushed the deleted data to a different inactive table because you never want to permanently delete a record from the database especially products or vendors.     References Available Upon Request