IT Systems Engineer IT Systems Engineer IT Systems Administrator Eugene, OR Over ten years of experience in the information technology field. Highly knowledgeable and analytical technology professional with proven success administering networks, servers, and workstations. Skilled at installing, configuring, and maintaining a range of hardware and software. Perform advanced troubleshooting to identify root causes of failures and issues; implement necessary repairs and replacements to ensure minimal business interruption. Continually striving to provide excellent customer service, along with keeping up with current IT trends and solutions. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience IT Systems Engineer Uptime Sciences - Eugene, OR April 2018 to June 2019 Technical Scope: Hyper-V, VMWare, Microsoft Office 365, QuickBooks, Ubiquiti Access Points & Controllers, Synology NAS, Printers, IP Addressing, Server Administration, Office 365 Hybrid Migration and administration, Veeam and Altaro Backup Solutions     Upgrade and migration of servers onto new hardware and virtual platforms. Server administration including Active Directory, DHCP, DNS, and AD DS. Backup responsibilities for every client using Altaro and Veeam. Managed offsite backups in Azure and built the Veeam Offsite Backup Server. Built VM's in Azure and tested site to Azure Recovery. Tier II IT Helpdesk and Support. Office 365 Administration and migration specialist.   IT Systems Administrator Tech Inc Solutions - Denver, CO January 2017 to December 2018 Technical Scope: Windows OS, Macintosh OS, Windows Server OS, Microsoft Office 365, Google Apps, QuickBooks, Routers & Switches, Firewalls, Ubiquiti Access Points & Controllers, Synology NAS, Printers, IP Addressing, Configured Domain Controllers, Setup NAS devices with permissions and file sharing, Digital Certificates  • Configured VPN's on servers, NAS's, and firewalls  • Managed over 10 separate clients with 10 to 50 end users  • Installed and configured software, hardware, and networks  •Monitoring system performance and troubleshooting issues  •Ensuring security and efficiency of IT infrastructure  •Office 365 / DNS / Online File Shares  •Managed vendors as well as shipping and receiving IT Systems Engineer United Airlines - Denver, CO February 2016 to January 2017 Technical Scope: Windows Operating Systems, Active Directory Management, SCCM 2012, Group Policy, HPCA, Enterprise Environment, IP addressing, WAN & LAN technologies, VPN, DNS, & DHCP    • Record detailed problem and resolution data for each support request  • Work towards resolving issues on the first attempt and helped train techs who may have little or no exposure to corporate systems.   • Successfully completed projects in converting Continental Airline sites over to United Airlines Sites  • Worked with Active Directory, IP Servers, and networking to troubleshoot and fix issues  • Used my knowledge of Active Directory Sites and Services, SCCM 2012, VPN, DNS, DHCP, and other systems to resolve Tier III support issues Education Associate of Science in Computer Science Montana State University - Billings, MT 2012 Skills Hyper-V (4 years), Active Directory (6 years), System Administrator (7 years), DNS (5 years), Vmware (1 year), Powershell (2 years), IT Helpdesk Support (9 years), Azure (1 year), Veeam (1 year), Altaro (1 year), Office 365 (3 years), Server migration / upgrade (5 years) Certifications/Licenses Drivers License Additional Information Technical Proficiencies    Platforms: Windows OS, Windows Server OS, Cisco, Ubiquity, Linksys, Netgear  Software / Tools: Office 365, Azure, Hyper-V, VMWare, QuickBooks, Active Directory, IP Addressing, Microsoft Exchange, Windows Server Roles & Features    Hardware: Servers, Workstations, Routers & Switches, Firewalls, Printers, Cabling