Network Engineer <span class="hl">Network</span> Engineer Network Engineer - CenturyLink/Infosys Colorado Springs, CO Seasoned Professional with over 7 years of experience in engineering, troubleshooting, testing, administration, support, analysis, and documentation, in 24/7 mission critical enterprise environments with that includes proficiency in security, routing, switching, firewall, SD-WAN, and data center technologies. Work Experience Network Engineer CenturyLink/Infosys - Tulsa, OK August 2018 to Present • Network engineer responsible for design/implementation, documentation, testing, analysis and troubleshooting of various enterprise networking technologies including routing, switching, SDN, and firewalls for data center, corporate HQ, DR facilities, and branches.  • Processes network change orders in accordance with corporate SLAs.  • Creates Visio diagrams mapping LAN and WAN networks.  • Creates boot configs/run books for Junos based SD-WAN devices and Cisco PE Routers  • Configures protocols including IBGP, EBGP, OSPF, NAT, PBF, VRRP, DHCP, DNS, NTP, and SNMP.  • Assigns IP addressing and implements PCI compliant security measures utilizing VLANS, ACLs, PBF, firewall rules, IDS/IPS, MPLS, VPN, IPsec TVIs, and VRFs. Network Security Contractor ICCO August 2017 to August 2018 • Performed internal network engineering including ticket resolution, change requests, documentation, multi- vendor deployments, testing, and troubleshooting.  • Network Security lead, responsible for building security team to perform Web server vulnerability audits and internal network hardening with the use of Linux based penetration testing, Nessus and Acunetix scans.  • Reduced client's overall vulnerabilities from 82% to 2%. Senior Administrator / Analyst Hyatt Hotels Internationals July 2001 to July 2017 • Member of a team responsible for overall maintenance and support including administration, ticket resolution, escalation support, and documentation based on mandated policies and procedures along with industry compliances.  • Technologies in network environment include but not limited to routers, edge switches, security, wireless, printers, POS, and voice/PBX. Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Information Systems in Computer Information Systems GA State University Skills Security, Cisco