System Administrator System <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Vendor Certifications: MCSA (Windows Server 2012), MCP (MS Office 365) CCNA (CISCO Certified Network Associates), A+ Certification 202-901 Warren, MI - Customer-focused Desktop/ Network Support Technician with more than 15+ years of success in a variety of computer operating systems applications and hardware. Analytical and adept at providing extraordinary client service and IT assistance, improving workstation and operating systems, repairing computer hardware.  - Certified Technician that operates well in team environments in which technology expertise, extensive analytical skills, and strong problem-solving abilities are key to success.  - Diagnosed and resolved unique, nonrecurring problems associated with application software and operating systems; determine the source of problems and classify their level, priority and nature.  - Configured, deployed, maintained, troubleshoot and supported computer workstations, laptops, printers, mobile devices, phones and another computer and telecommunications equipment.  - Created alternative methods of completing tasks, correcting user errors and system inconsistencies to improve the desktop team function.  - Maintained inventory of installed software, manage software licensing and create policies and procedures for upgrades.  - Worked with hardware and software vendors to verify timely product delivery and ensure that new equipment is installed and ready to operate on schedule.  - Ensured desktop computers interconnect seamlessly with diverse systems including associated validation systems, file servers, email servers, computer conferencing systems, application servers and administrative systems.  - Documented procedures, standards, best practices configurations, settings, installation sequences and back-out instructions.  - Configures, installs, and supports desktop computers, laptop computers, printers, monitors, and other general peripherals  - Provide technical support and troubleshooting for software applications loaded on desktop and laptop computers that communicate to/from application servers and third-party support software  - Relocates IT equipment including desktop computers, printers, monitors, and other general peripherals.  - Provide end-user software troubleshooting and support; daily maintenance and incident/problem resolution for escalation of desktop support related issues  - Configures IT devices for secure operation, including installation of security software, software updates, and other configurations as required  - Diagnoses hardware and software failures, communicates the remediation plans to users, and provide status updates  - Provides software support for users applications, including basic to advanced software operations and general use of computers and peripherals  - Supports desktop maintenance, including inventory and software distribution, and security maintenance, including virus updates and patch management  - Ensure all tickets worked include the problem, the solution, the end user, initiation and completion time, and end user satisfaction  - Tracks and updates the movement of all IT assets (laptops, desktops, etc.) within the stipulated tracking system(s) and within time constraints  - Performs advanced diagnostics, analysis, repairs, or replacement hardware for PC’s, laptops, and peripherals  - Follows set policies and procedures when assisting clients to ensure proper handling of requests  - Contributes knowledge and updated information to maintain the Help Desk SOPs and Training manuals for Tier I/II support  - Maintains a professional attitude and appearance providing excellent customer service at all times, to include maintaining a good work ethic and assisting other analysts when needed  - Supports continuous improvement in the process and quality of the operations  - Provide support for escalated issues from help desk analysts  - Ability to work well under pressure and to meet deadlines as needed Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience System Administrator The Asia Foundation (https://asiafoundation.org/) - Dhaka, Bangladesh January 2011 to June 2019 Duties/Responsibilities:    Responsibility # 1> LAN / WAN & Email Management, Setup and Administration  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------  - Setup HP ProLiant ML-350 G6 Tower Server x 10 servers with RAID-5 Controller and Configure Windows 2008 R2 & Windows   2012 R2 OS as DNS / DHCP / File Server / QuickBooks / Kaspersky Anti-Virus & other Applications.  - Setup & configure FortiGate-1000D Firewall  - Setup ZyXEL & DLink Wireless Router and maintenance, Protection & Development Companies IT Systems & Infra-Structure.  - Troubleshoot and maintenance any problem regarding HP ProLiant ML350 G3 (for Kaspersky & QuickBooks) / G4 (Web server) /    G5 server (File Server).  - Troubleshooting network and server software problems and performance issues including e-mail, Internet & Intranet systems.  - Monitoring network and domain security issues and updating through analyzing security patches and vulnerabilities for hacking,   virus and other malicious code infections.  - Maintain and troubleshoot hardware problems (HP / DELL / IBM / MAC BOOK / ACER desktops, laptops and servers).  - Maintain confidentiality with regard to the information being processed, stored or accessed by the network.  - Ensure proper software licensing on servers and network computers.  - Ensure physical security and controlled access to network servers and equipment.  - Ensure virus protection and perform updates as required on all servers and workstations.  - Ensure that all employees are kept up to date to technologies used in ISP operations and are adhering to policies and processes    set by the Team and company.  - Ensure power backup, disk backup, NAS drive backup & data recovery.    Responsibility # 2 --> Internet communication  ------------------------------------------------------------  - Responsible for establishing and maintaining internet connectivity between HQ, Field office and ISP.   - Ensure internet backbone connectivity at all the time with fail over switching through backup link.   - Manage browsing facility of user through Firewall administration.   - Responsible for Troubleshooting of password and access related problems.  - Responsible for weekly/monthly Data backup, integrity test, recovery functions and log maintenance with documentation.  - Responsible for setting up users’ Domain & email account in compliance with TAF BG IT policy & procedure with proper   documentation.    Responsibility # 3 --> Hardware/ Network support for HQ and Field Offices  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------  - Monitor and check inventory for warranty of network equipment’s and plan timely replacements.  - Ensure physical security of servers, network equipment’s and accessories.  - Maintain positive liaison with vendors and monitor external repairs of the network equipment.  - Make routine maintenance visits to field office as per visit schedule.  - Provide training to field office users as and when required.  - Assist in security measures at field office network or PCs as and when required.    Responsibility # 4 --> Help-desk Support  ----------------------------------------------  - Provide routine coverage of the IT Help desk to resolve advance level of problems.  - Receive and respond to support requests and tickets according to help desk procedures.  - Provide after-hours support as and when required.    # MICROSOFT SharePoint 2013 Experience:  ----------------------------------------------------  - Migrated The Asia Foundation - BG Office, Nepal Office & Afghanistan Office to the Cloud Computing (SharePoint 2013).  - Created TAFBG / NEPAL / SRI LANKA / AFGANISTAN country office master pages using Page layouts.  - Created SharePoint Site collections and Sub sites (Current Project, Program Based, Admin, Finance, HR & IT).  - Created Content types for documents, folders, lists and Tasks from Content type Hub and published to Site collections.  - Created lists and libraries and worked on grouping and different views.  - Customized the existing forms to Info path forms and published them to SharePoint sites (Followed By SF Documentation).  - Published Storage Metrics, Site Usage and Popularity Trend Reports on a regular basis (Followed By SF Documentation). Network & System Engineer VFS Global (Australia / Canada / UK / Thailand / Italy) Visa Application Centre (http://www.vfsglobal.com/) - Dhaka, Bangladesh February 2005 to December 2010 Duties/Responsibilities:    Responsibility # 1> LAN / WAN & Email Management, Setup and Administration    Firewall / LAN / Routers:  ---------------------------  - Maintenance of ISO: 27001 compliant systems  - Maintenance of Hardware & LAN Infrastructure  - Systems & Network Administration (Windows Platform)  - Hardware, Network & Software Troubleshooting  - Design LAN (structured) & WAN setup & maintenance  - Configuration & Maintenance of Windows Server 2003 (Active Directory, DNS, DHCP & Firewall)  - Configuration FortiGate 100A Firewall, CISCO 2960 Managed Switch, CISCO 1841 Routers  - Close liaison with ISP to monitor bandwidth usage, diagnose and connectivity issue.  - Ensure availability of Local Area Network (LAN) and Internet connectivity.  - Ensure systems are secured from external threats like hacking/virus attacks, including regular checks.  - Ensure restricted access to server room and physical security of IT equipment.  - Ensure proper documentation and reports of all the IT Services (KUONIINDIA IT - MUMBAI)    Server:  ---------  - Maintain the Windows 2003 servers (DNS, DHCP, and FILE & Print Servers)  - Active Directory Infrastructure with windows 2003 operation and maintenance  - Maintain local / central server application & update web site`s  - Monitor automated backup system and perform weekly manual backup cycles  - Maintain the Active Directory and ensure user access and security compliance    Hardware:  ------------  - Maintain and troubleshoot hardware problems (HP desktops, HP/IBM laptops, IBM servers)  - Maintain and troubleshoot Laser Printers, Barcode Printers, POS Printers and Scanners  - Maintain and troubleshoot Passport Readers, Bio Matrix Devices like Finger Print Scanner, Retina Scanner etc.    Software:  -----------  - Support software packages used at VFS GLOBAL (Licensed WIN XP SP3, WIN 2003 and Advanced Server 2000, MS Office, SPA, Visual Basic.NET, McAfee Antivirus, McAfee Safe Boot, Altiris Agent, TeamViewer etc.) Ensure a secure, virus free network and deal with threats actively and proactively.  - Performing daily backup tasks as per established backup policy and conduct monthly check by test restore  - Ensure installation of standard and approved software  - Enhance the business processes of the organization and identify requirements for improvements and new functionality  - Read, understand and comply with the information security policies  - Ensure timely first & second level of support as per the pre-defined SLA\OLA.  - Applications support queries to be acknowledged within pre-defined SLA\OLA.  - Ensure installation of standard and approved software  - Data Protection audit and compliance  - Performance monitoring on the network and alerting of problems to IT Manager  - Raise incident / blow whistle when observe any non-compliance to information security policies Network Engineer GrameenPhone Limited (https://www.grameenphone.com/) - Dhaka, Bangladesh February 2004 to March 2005 Duties/Responsibilities:    - Diagnose, resolve and follow up with Client technical issues remotely and in person.  - Interface with Clients through a variety of channels including phone, email, text message, and video chat, while delivering customer service with a smile.  - Provide appropriate alternatives when obstacles occur during the troubleshooting process.  - Travel to Client locations for new hardware installations or troubleshooting a current issue.  - Accurately document Client interactions using our Customer Relationship Management system (CRM).  - Creation of interactive instructions for the team on how to solve issues.  - Communicate clearly and professionally both internally and externally.  - Designing & implement Office Network Infrastructure layout  - Work to educate other team members in areas of your expertise.    - Perform on-site and remote troubleshooting of end user hardware and software  - Setup and configure new user Windows computers through the use of imaging software  - Administer new user credentials through the use of G-Suite, Active Directory, and other software platforms  - Carry out basic Windows Server administration tasks  - Resolve basic/intermediate technical problems with LAN and WAN networks  - Properly escalate recurring issues to necessary supervisor or next level support  - Visit retail and warehouse locations to provide on-site hardware/ network support if necessary (most within short distance of corporate office)  - Occasionally run CAT5e cable for addition of new network drops  - Maintain documentation of issue resolution via JIRA ticketing system  - Research questions using the available resources  - Perform monthly check of surveillance systems at each location to verify proper functionality    - Assist in dataset creation through the use of Microsoft SQL Server for reporting purposes  - Perform data analysis to determine root cause of errors and correct them where necessary  - Provide professional end-user support via in person (or remote session) and log all work performed.  - Troubleshoot hardware, software and network related issues.  - Provide restorative or maintenance actions to resolve end-user issues. Education Bachelor's in Computer Science Independent University, Bangladesh > http://www.iub.edu.bd/ - Dhaka, Bangladesh September 2000 to June 2004 Skills Windows OS, Windows Server, Active Directory, DNS & DHCP, File server, VPN, CISCO Switch & Fortinet Firewall. Other network devices configuration & maintenance, Computer & Laptop, Network, hardware troubleshoot experience (10+ years), Desktop Support, Help Desk, Computer Repair, Information Technology, It Specialist, Network Support, Comptia Certifications/Licenses MCP (MS Office 365) MCSA (Windows Server 2012) CCNA (CISCO Certified Network Associates) A+ Certification - 202-901