Network Administrator <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Network Administrator - US Navy Port Clinton, OH Service-oriented IT with 3 years background in Network  Administraton. Core competencies include data processing, network  monitoring and repair as well as excellent communication and time  management skills. Handles tasks with accuracy and efficiency. Work Experience Network Administrator US Navy January 2013 to Present Japan  Mangae, monitor, and repair 60 switches, 20 servers, and 1200  workstations over domain.  Created, and manage Blackberry Enterprise Server with 100  blackberry users.  Preform daily backups over 20 servers using remote backup  storage devices.  Supervise section of 4 to 6 technicians through daily tasks  Train technicians over domain and infrastructure related  troubleshooting, and monitoring.  Analyse and isolate issues throughout network  Create and manage sites, domains, groups, and users through  Microsoft Active directory Helpdesk Technician US Navy May 2012 to January 2013 Japan  Oversee the daily performance of computer systems.  Answer user inquiries regarding computer software or hardware  operation to resolve problems.  Enter commands and observe system functioning to verify  correct operations and detect errors.  Confer with staff, users, and management to establish  requirements for new systems or modifications.  Develop training materials and procedures, or train users in the proper use of hardware or software. Information Systems Technician US Navy - Pensacola, FL July 2011 to May 2012 Answer user inquiries regarding computer software or hardware  operation to resolve problems.  Set up equipment for employee use, performing or ensuring  proper installation of cables, operating systems, or appropriate  software.  Install and perform minor repairs to hardware, software, or peripheral equipment, following design or installation  specifications.  Read technical manuals, confer with users, or conduct computer  diagnostics to investigate and resolve problems or to provide  technical assistance and support.  Develop training materials and procedures, or train users in the proper use of hardware or software. Sandwich maker Subway - Port Clinton, OH May 2010 to August 2010 Clean and sanitize work areas, equipment, utensils, dishes, or silverware.  Store food in designated containers and storage areas to prevent  spoilage.  Prepare a variety of foods, such as meats, vegetables, desserts, according to customers' orders or supervisors' instructions,  following approved procedures.  Take and record temperature of food and food storage areas such as refrigerators and freezers.  Keep records of the quantities of food used.  Wash, peel, and cut various foods, such as fruits and vegetables, to prepare for cooking or serving. Table Buser - Port Clinton, OH July 2009 to October 2009 Preparing food for cooking  Restocking bar, and kitchen  Cleaning tables, silverware, and beach  Serving custormers food and drinks Education High School Diploma Port Clinton High School - Port Clinton, OH June 2011 Additional Information Skills  Systems Analysis Education and Training  Complex Problem Solving TS/SCI security clearence  Troubleshooting Personnel manaement  Active Learning Tea mleading  Administration and  Management