Security Engineer Security Engineer Security Engineer - Array Saint Peters, MO System Administrator with clear and effective verbal and written communication skills. Experienced in the installation, configuration, and support an organization's LAN, WAN, and Internet systems. Areas of interest include network & cyber security. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Security Engineer Array - Scott AFB, IL June 2019 to Present • Responsible for Information Assurance for the AMC programs to include Vulnerability Scanning and Compliance Validation.  • Providing specialized technical services to support Certification and Accreditation (C&A) activities required to permit systems to operate securely on DoD, AF and AMC enterprise networks in accordance with (IAW) DoDI 8510.01, Risk management Framework (RMF) for DoD Information Technology (IT), AFI 33-200, Information Assurance (IA) Management, and AFI 33-210, Air Force Certification and Accreditation (C&A) Program (AFC).  • Assist in scanning all programs of record with the DoD ACAS (Assured Compliance Assessment Solution) tool.  • Assist in performing STIGS audits of all programs of record using SCC, STIG Viewer, and other tools.  • Documenting and reporting all findings to system administrators for remediation and to government representatives to let them know the state of the systems.  • Assist the ESS project to support the 375 Communications Group, Scott AFB, IL.  • Experience with the DISA's security Technical Implementation Guide (STIG) checklists in order to inspect the configuration of a systems operating system and select applications.  • Experience with vulnerability scanning tools to help in the assessment of systems being inspected to ensure identified vulnerabilities have been addressed by the system administrator.  • Familiar with various operating systems (Microsoft Windows, Red Hat Enterprise Linux, Solaris), databases (Oracle, MongoDB, PostgreSQL), and web services (Microsoft IIS, Apache Tomcat, etc.).  • Poses organizational skills to help on premise STIG Library information up to date for supported programs of record.  • Familiar with applications: SCAP Compliance Checker (SCC), Tenable's Security Center, Tenable's Nessus Scanner, Microsoft Office Products, Microsoft Windows Operating Systems, Red Hat 6 & 7, MongoDB, JBoss, and Apache. Leidos - Scott AFB, IL November 2018 to November 2018 • Transport  • Our customer is the Defense Information Systems Agency (DISA) located at Scott AFB, IL and acts as the provider of GIG/Defense Information System Network (DISN) services to its customers, the department of Defense (DoD) and national security organizations. The core telecommunications capabilities supported by GSM-O enables the Warfighter to meet operational needs by providing world-wide telecommunications, supporting natural disaster relief, and conducting humanitarian assistance in peace time crises, regional conflicts, and at the same time executing on-going strategic deterrence activities. This position directly supports the DISA-provided GIG capabilities and services in our 24x7 Global Network Support Center (GNSC) working in our Transport, IP, and / or Unified Capabilities (UC) NOC.    ? Work in a fast-paced environment  ? Configure, test, install, troubleshoot, and maintain network devices such as firewalls, cryptographic devices, phone systems, including phone units, voicemail, switches, infrastructure, call manager systems, Video Teleconference (VTC) systems video recording/viewing/distributions systems, related telecommunications trunk circuits and routers to optimize performance and ensure the desired security posture is attained and maintained.  ? Configure, test, install, troubleshoot, and maintain network devices including MSPP, Promina, ATM, and Optical  ? Responsible for overall network engineering support for customer programs including planning, designing, and evaluating various components of the DISA Enterprise Network.  ? Solve routine technical problems following established procedures and policies through a ticketing system.  ? Work directly with Engineering team to provide specifications for network architecture, evaluating and recommending new technologies to enhance current capabilities, and performing needs assessments.  ? Diagnosing, troubleshooting, and resolving network related issues through monitoring, testing, and servicing network equipment.  ? Conduct network and telecommunications system incident investigation.  ? Identify and document network errors and solutions.  ? Analyze network and telecommunications alarms and identify potential issues.  ? Resolving Transport level networking issues    • IP Network Operation Center (NOC)  • IP NOC team provides all facets of Incident Management supporting a Wide Area Network (WAN) for DISA in a 24x7 environment, specifically Layer 2 and Layer 3 support. Responsible for remote monitoring and management of the WAN utilizing client provided tools. Document network outages, hazardous conditions, site locations, and any type of service degradation using the TMS Remedy trouble ticketing system. Perform troubleshooting and fault resolution of voice, video, and data circuits. Serve as the liaison between the Defense Information Systems Agency (DISA) and our customer.    ? Manage all equipment associated with the WAN to include encryption devices. Provide briefings to senior staff. Provide mission impact for client sites during Authorized Services Interruptions (ASI's).  ? Troubleshooting and configuring IP networks using several of the following routing methods: BGP, ISIS or OSPF, Static routing.  ? Troubleshooting either service provider or enterprise IP networks using an interface on Cisco (ESR-Ability to communicate orally and in writing, detailed technical information on troubleshooting and implementation efforts).  ? Initiative and problem-solving skills  ? Familiarization of DOD regulations and directives.  ? Proficient in Juniper and Cisco configuration, troubleshooting Windows Systems Administrator ISDDC - O'Fallon, IL September 2018 to October 2018 Scott AFB, IL  Preferred Systems Solutions, Inc    Supervises the monitoring of system and network resources within the Windows environment.  Ensures all systems maintain high efficiency per program guidelines.  Optimizes system operations and resource utilization.  Performs system capacity analysis and planning.  Serves as liaison to the CE team for additional IT support.  Provides assistance to users in accessing and using computer systems.  Ensures all environments are fully patched according to security standards.  Coordinates system, code, and database backups per program guidelines.  Reviews systems, database, and application logs Systems Administrator ISDDC - O'Fallon, IL March 2015 to September 2018 Scott AFB, IL Information Assurance (IA) January 2017 to January 2017 Return to team January 2017)  Maintains smooth operation of multi-user computer systems, including both Solaris and Linux servers on a global network with coordination with network engineers. Provides support on a M-F business hours schedule, also responsible for on-call, extended hour, and weekend support as required by mission or emergency situations. Sets up administrator and service account, maintains system documentation, tunes system performance, installs system-wide software, and allocates mass storage space. Interacts with users and evaluates vendor products. Makes recommendations to purchase hardware and software, coordinates installation, and provides backup recovery. Develops and monitors policies and standards for allocation related to the use of computing resources.    Responsibilities:  • Information Assurance (IA): Research and analyze system, network and current security policies, to provide recommendations to the users to remediate their system as I remediate the servers and develop course of action and identify / document risk management controls. Guided users in their efforts to complete the assessment and authorization processes and attaining an authorization decision for their systems.  • Established an Oracle Unified Directory (OUD) server as part of the ISDDC environment. OUD is a unified directory solution used within the ISDDC suite for Lightweight Directory Access Protocol (LDAP) and authentication between SDDC's Electronic Transportation Acquisition (ETA) common user access protocol and the ISDDC web application suite.  • Supervises the monitoring of system and network resources within the Windows environment  • Ensures all systems maintain high efficiency per program guidelines  • Optimizes system operations and resource utilization  • Performs system capacity analysis and planning  • Serves as liaison to the CE team for additional IT support  • Provides assistance to users in accessing and using computer systems  • Ensures all environments are fully patched according to security standards  • Coordinates system, code, and database backups per program guidelines  • Reviews system, database, and application logs  • Load Balance, checking and terminating runaway Cognos processes  • Authorized service Interruption (ASI): stopping / starting workflow sessions  • Reset user password for servers  • Performed VDI patching to be compliant with IA  • Scheduled and performed installations upgrades and maintains them in accordance with the established IT policies and procedures  • Ensures workstation/server data integrity by evaluating, implementing, and managing appropriate software and hardware solutions.  • Ensures compliance with Department of Defense requirements and Security Technical Implementation Guides (STIGS).  • Evaluates, installs, maintains, and troubleshoots application and database services for on UNIX/LINUX servers.  • Manages clustering and virtualization technologies, working in a Multi-zone  • Provides for the application software requirements within a development, staging and recovery environment.  • ISDDC Monitoring; using Informatica PowerCenter and Toad for Oracle  • Maintains Webservers  • OS / software installations, patching, and firmware updates, hardware upgrades, monitoring, troubleshooting, minimize system downtime through overseeing account management, file share group permissions, tape backups and restores, printer and queue setup, and performance monitoring activities.  • Perform tasks outside of regular business hours as required; participate in on-call rotation with other staff.  • Provided cost estimates for hardware and labor on a per project basis  • Server installation for data center.    EDI / ISDDC Windows Systems Administrator ISDDC - Scott AFB, IL May 2016 to January 2017 Installs, troubleshoots, maintains, and coordinates the use and proper operation of servers, storage environments, and network operating systems (i.e., Windows Server 2003/2008/2012, Linux, UNIX). Evaluates hardware, software, and peripheral equipment. Maintains user accounts or security policies across the domain. Maintains and updates system security plans on all server platforms. Implements, documents and coordinates server and storage policies, procedures, and standards. Enforces security procedures. Maintains enterprise information technology services (e.g., FAX servers, Messaging Systems, Databases, GroupWare, Document Management, Virtualization software/settings). Oversees system and data security. Assigns password and monitors use of resources. Oversees system recovery mechanisms.    Responsibilities  Researches and recommends upgrades or enhancements for the IT/system infrastructure, as needed. Maintains awareness of technology evolution and proactively recommends further investigation where warranted. Researches hardware and software issues and prepares system design specifications to meet requirements. Ensures that security procedures are implemented and enforced. Applies IAVA/STIGs for servers. Establishes policies and procedures regarding access methods and time, security validation checks, and documentation. Evaluates, develops, and maintains servers and storage systems. Resolves downtime issues. Acts as a technical lead for junior technicians, locally or spread across multiple locations. Oversees the acquisition, installation, maintenance, and usage of systems that comprise the IT/system Infrastructure. Develops and monitors policies and standards for allocation related to the use of computing resources. Develops and implements testing strategies and documents results. Makes recommendations to purchase hardware and software, coordinates installation and provides backup recovery. Interacts with users and evaluates vendor products. Provides advice and training to end-users. Maintains the integrity and security of servers and systems. Sets up administrator and service accounts. Maintains system documentation. Manages the functionality and efficiency of a group of computers running on one or more operating systems Network Administrator ISDDC - Scott AFB, IL February 2014 to March 2015 • Maintains Windows images for testing and validation  • Installs and tests software on USTC supported Windows-based systems VMware 4.1 / 5.5 (physical and virtual)  • Currently win XP, win 7, 2003 server, 2008 server and Windows 2012 R2  • Provides support for Storage Area Networks (SANs) in the Test Center  • SAN for the test network  • SAN for the Virtual center / virtual environment  • Deploy Virtual Machines / add VM to Domain  • Maintains the "Test Center Virtual Environment"  • Ports configurations for servers  • Creates and maintains organizational structure  • Updates virtual image baselines monthly  • Tests monthly Windows Patches and IAVAs  • Backs up Assistance Lead position in testing monthly patches and IAVAs  • Communicate / Coordinates with Vendors, SAs, SMEs and end users  • Write evaluation and implementation reports  • Write weekly report to submit to Lead as well as any other request for updates  • Administrator of VMware 4.1 and 5.5 environments with upgrade, design and implementation experience  • VMware vSphere Migration 4.1 to 5.5  • LDAP setup  • Work closely with development and QA teams to create and maintain various QA test environments using automation tools with templates provided by the Server Administration department Air National Guard - St. Louis, MO July 2008 to June 2014 • Deployed, sustained, troubleshot & repaired standard voice, data, video network & cryptographic client devices in fixed & deployed environments.  • Managed client user accounts and organizational client device accounts.  • Installed Cisco routers, Network equipment, & IOS revision levels.  • Land Mobile Radio (LMR) & Personal Wireless Communications Systems (PWCS); programming with encryption.  • Designed access layer, workgroup, and wireless networks. Consulted with users to determine functional requirements and specifications, and conducted research as needed in order to meet those specifications (to incorporate various devices, firewalls, etc.)  • Performed analyses on network performance issues and determined alternative solutions.  • Experience with designing, installing, and maintaining wireless networks/infrastructure (802.11a/b/g/n).  • Deployed security patches to the server environment.  • Maintained Microsoft Windows Server operating systems and all components/services including AD, DNS, NTFS DHCP, PRINT SERVICES, FTP, TCP/IP, Citrix and others. BitLocker Administrator Air National Guard - St. Louis, MO June 2013 to October 2013 • End User Support  ? Resolved technical problems and answered queries by telephone in support of internal and / or outside customer computer hardware, software, network, and telecommunications systems.  ? Diagnosed, identified, isolated and analyzed problems.  ? Maintained, updated records and created tickets with Numara Track-IT tracking database.  ? Alerted management to recurring problems and patterns of problems.  ? Utilized Active Directory to create new users and computers accounts.  ? Utilized System Center Configuration Manager (SCCM).  • Bitlocker Installation  ? Disable power on password and creating s system partition.  ? Initialize TPM in Windows.  ? Added PC accounts to BitLocker global group.  ? Pushing the MBAM client via SCCM.  ? Provided the end-user with the BitLocker end-user document.  • WinXP to Win7 Migration  ? Win7 Ghost image on new pc\Join to domain.  ? Data Restore via across the network, Software Installation, Set restore point.  • Outlook 2007\2010 migration  ? Migrated Covidien employees' outlook mailboxes to Mallinckrodt outlook mailboxes.  ? Remote to user pc, migrated users' mailbox and shared mailbox to Mallinckrodt Pharmaceuticals.  ? Restored .pst files. Help Desk Technician Air National Guard - St. Louis, MO September 2012 to April 2013 • Provided first and second level support for MEMC / SunEdison employees and contractors in various locations from in the U.S. & Japan.  • Used Active Directory to reset, unlock, disable and enable LAN accounts on various domains.  • Utilized SCCM.  • SAP security administration - unlocked, reset and extended the validity period user accounts for three different databases.  • Maintained Microsoft Windows Server operating systems and all components/services including AD, DNS, NTFS DHCP, PRINT SERVICES, FTP, TCP/IP, Citrix and others.  • Used Manage Engine Suite on a daily basis to enter and track tickets, inventory, and remote deployment, and desktop connect. (Service Desk Plus, ticketing system, Desktop Central asset management, and AD Manager Plus).  • Restored backups as necessary.  • Monitored systems logs, activity and performance on server.  • Reset passwords for internal Domino Doc. and Lotus Notes users on different databases.  • Configured the master PC, and imaged desktop and laptops using Symantec Ghost.  • Performed BlackBerry device activations, locks, unlocks, and resend service book resets.  • Assisted offsite employees with VPN access.  • Proactively identified symptoms and instability to include performing analysis, capacity planning, hands-on work effort, and testing of the infrastructure  • Installed, configured, and support infrastructure hardware according to company security standards  • Troubleshot workstations that used Wafer Control System, and restarted offline systems  • Created temporary Wi-Fi guest accounts for visitors that need internet access, using Cisco Wireless LAN Controller  • Install Lotus Notes & Cisco and Netgear router - Troubleshot as needed  • Coordinated and supported efforts performed by hosting provider working within a Citrix infrastructure (Timberline and Ceridian)  • Performed AS/400, Legato, and SLS Backup tape processing  • Provided on-call off hours and overseas support during the evenings, nights, and weekends. National Archives and Record - St. Louis, MO April 2012 to August 2012 Helpdesk St. Louis, MO    Installed baseline image, deployed to the desktops and make sure printer drivers were installed and PC connects to the network and internet. The PCs authenticate to a Novell server and if a CMRS user (main Oracle based tool for records processing), that authentication is passed off to a Windows NT domain (Archives).    • Provided problem identification, troubleshot, resolved and implemented technical changes for Operating Systems, Hardware and Software.  • Set up, testing, installation, movement and de-installation of computer hardware.  • Installed, configured, and supported infrastructure hardware according to company security standards.  • Proactively identified symptoms and instability in an accurate and timely manner to include performing analysis, capacity planning, hands-on work effort, and testing of the infrastructure.  • Maintained Microsoft Windows Server operating systems and all components/services including AD, DNS, NTFS DHCP, PRINT SERVICES, FTP, TCP/IP, Citrix and others.  • Provided port security for the Network. Scott Air Force Base - Scott AFB, IL June 2011 to February 2012 • Installed, supported and maintained servers and planned for responding to service outages and interruptions to network operations.  • Administered server-based network systems, distributed applications, network storage, messaging and application monitoring required to provide, sustain, operate & integrate cyber networked systems & applications in garrison.  • Supported identification, reconnaissance & exploitation of vulnerabilities while enhancing capabilities within cyber environments to achieve desired effects.  • Deployed security patches to the server environment. ITS Help Desk SIUE Edwardsville - Edwardsville, IL September 2004 to 2012 • Provided Desk side Support  • Re-deployed to swap and replace over 500 computers on campus.  • Handled open service tickets utilizing Footprints by Numara.  Installed software and handled hardware/software issues on desktops.  Utilized Semantic Ghost to redeploy desktop images.  • Kept ticketing system up to date with tickets resolved/worked on.  • Maintained Microsoft Windows Server Operating Systems and all components/services including AD, DNS, NTFS DHCP, PRINT SERVICES, FTP, TCP/IP, Citrix and others. Helpdesk Support Wells Fargo Advisors - St. Louis, MO September 2010 to June 2011 Researched, resolved and responded to calls in accordance with current service level agreements. Identified creative & alternative solutions to resolve problems,    • Provided guidance to Help Desk Analysts to problem resolution techniques, customer service Techniques and business impact.  • Identifies, research, and resolve technical issues.  • Utilizes knowledge of LAN/WAN systems to help design and install internal and external networks.  • Test and assesses network systems to eliminate problems and make improvements.  • Identified creative and alternative solutions to user problems. Documented solutions to Knowledge Base.  • Escalate problems when the analyst has exhausted allotted resources and knowledge to resolve the current Branch Users Issues.  • Troubleshot and resolved issues with Wellsfargo VPN (RSA SecuredID ipass, MyEd). MasterCard International - O'Fallon, MO November 2008 to September 2010 • Provided Level 1Telephone & Desk side support  • Troubleshot level 2 problems and passed off to level 2 support.  • Monitored network/servers/circuits and reported failures.  • Provide technical expertise, coordination, diagnosis, repair and overall support related to servers and database and Infrastructure for the users.  • Ghosting PC's (Laptops and Desktops), added PC's to domain (MasterCard International), creating Global Event Management (GEM) tickets for deployment, created TS Census and Ghosting GEM tickets.  • Scan Work Stations using ZEN works Asset Management; approve PC request/Electronic Staffing Process (ESP) requests.  • Software Installation; Hummingbird, Visio, Toad / Oracle, Snaglt8, MS Office, Intel J, RAD 7.5 and Lower, and Text Pad. Install fiber Cards/NIC cards.  • Global Internal Technology disposal prep.  • Monitored, troubleshot, and resolved issues with multiple servers' windows server 2003, Windows 2000 and windows XP.  • Managed BIOS and Memory, diagnostic problems with software/hardware.  • Installed, configured, and supported infrastructure hardware according to company security standards. Network Administrator Monsanto 2007 to December 2007 Installed cabling for the servers and insured proper functionality. Troubleshot Chat Systems 2007 to 2007 IPhone, Blackberry (Pearl, Pearl Flip, Curve, Bold, Storm2, and Tour) using Box Tone, Blackberry Administration tool, and Blackberry self-service.  • Used tools (Warp, Active Directory, Automatic Password, and WSAT) to resolve / reset end user password.  • Install software: MS Office, Adobe, and Silver Light.  • Install network printers using TCP/IP.  • Used ticket system BMC Remedy Pac2000 to resolve 60-100 tickets daily Army National Guard October 2005 to 2006 68 W Medics Network Administrator/Operations Support Base Operation - Bagram, AF 2005 to 2006 Managed, organized and configured network resources.  • Managed users' accounts.  • Troubleshot and maintained security for network.  • Installed software/hardware and trained staff on efficient use.  • Planned, implemented, and maintained Microsoft Windows Server Active Directory Infrastructure.  • Diagnosed problems with software / hardware  • Managed BIOS and Memory. Education Bachelors in BSNS, Network Administration Sanford Brown College - St. Louis, MO Skills Active directory, Cisco, Citrix, Cognos, Hummingbird, Modem, Tcp, Tcp/ip, Vmware, Database, Ms access, Oracle, Sql, Iprint, Saas, Security, Ipx, Linux, Unix, Informatica Military Service Branch: United States National Guard Rank: E4 Additional Information Computer Skills  • Operating Systems Windows Server 2012 R2, Windows Server 2003/2008, Windows 2000/NT/XP/ Vista/7/8  • Applications - MS Access, Excel, PowerPoint, Front Page, Publisher, Visio, Word, Hardware and Software, Project, Lotus Notes, Domino Doc, Blackberry Enterprise Server, VNC Viewer, WinSCP, Informatica, Cognos  • Protocols - TCP/IP v4, Net Beui, IPX/SPX, Apple Talk    Software:  Linux, Unix, Mac OS, Lotus Notes Email, Microsoft Office, Window (XP, 2000, NT, 9x, and Windows 2012 R2), Windows Client OS, Active Directory 2003/2008,Microsoft SQL, VMware, Security, Symantec, Software as a Service (SaaS), Hummingbird, Visio, Toad / Oracle, Snaglt8, MS Office, Intel J, RAD 7.5 and Lower, and Text Pad, IE8, CMRS  ( Oracle based database hard client installed, uses MS Word with a template); Novel Iprint client; Novell Applications Launcher ( NAL); Novell Messenger ( test Phase); Adobe Reader; Adobe Flash Player; MS Office 2007 Pro ( Excel, Word, PowerPoint) some users also have Visio and Project: Citrix ICA client; Windows Media Player; Novell GroupWise ver. 8 ( Email); McAfee Antivirus enterprise suite; Java; WinZip; MRS-Access db; MRRT-Access db; Roxio Creator Gold; QuickTime; Oracle Jinitiator (some machines, namely NAHO); QWS3270 terminal; F-Secure terminal; Firefox    Hardware:  Cabling, Cisco and Netgear routers, Modem/Routers (Dell) configuration, Printers, Computer and Peripheral setup/Troubleshooting, Install fiber Cards/NIC cards, Dell 780, Dell 755, Dell 745 Lexmark 360d, and HP M2727 all in one    Operating Systems Active Directory  PC Hardware & Support World Wide Web Support  Microsoft Office Customer Service/Troubleshooting  Network Essentials