Remote Network Engineer/Account Manager Remote <span class="hl">Network</span> Engineer/Account Manager Network Engineer Jacksonville, FL Over (10) years of business and healthcare IT background, including seven (7) years experience as a Network Engineer in a large network environment, having an expertise primarily in:  • Implementation, Support, Management, and Maintenance for operational environments (Firewalls, VPN, Remote Desktop, VDI, disaster recovery of network systems, SAN/NAS, WAN/LAN)  • Networking Infrastructure including DNS, WINS, DHCP, Nortel/Avaya Networks Ethernet Routing Switches, 8000 series chassis, 5500 and 5600 stackables  • N-able Technologies Specialist Server , 2X & Terminal Server, Load balancers, VMware Server, Windows Server, MS Exchange Server, Citrix Server, Meraki,   • Structured Cabling (design and implementation), Intel-based hardware  • Symantec Ghost and Sysprep, Acronis Universal   • Visio, Project, Smart Draw, MS Active Directory, MS Office, Corel Word Perfect and MS Partner portal system  • Linux, Unix Systems Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Remote Network Engineer/Account Manager Herbert Olitsky Consulting - Jacksonville, FL February 2019 to Present Account manager for Citadel Care Centers, which has 14 nursing facilities located in New York and Florida. Remotely support clients in the New York area. Perform analysis, preliminary design and detailed design for the network. Assist in developing network architecture, including intra-site and cross-site networks for both traditional and cloud topologies. Provide support for new system deployments. Directly responsible for cutover replication for several clients during deployment. Part of an ID management team which focused on securing login instances for both email and Active Directory at several sites.  Sr. Network Administrator Tech Hero - Orlando, FL 2017 to February 2019 Managed a project team of 15 technicians who were responsible for installing and removal of physical networking equipment, and analyzing and maintaining the health of networking equipment and other devices on site. Worked directly with high level administrators for locations during projects. Directly support 150 enterprise-level clients, with seats ranging from 20-300 in multiple locations throughout the United States. Perform site surveys as needed to assess the current and future needs of clients, and build a fluid network environment with focus on expansion and future projects. Support virtual machines in varying environments according to clients needs. Work with software vendors to provide support for client's programs. Advise clients on potential network points of failure, and perform periodic audits to ensure connectivity Network Administrator Managed IT Systems - Athens, GA 2015 to 2017 Oversee support for 120 medical clients operating in a HIPAA environment, each with upwards of 100 seats per client. Manage each client's Exchange, Fax, VOIP, SMB, Terminal, and AD servers, configuring each as necessary. Focus on Dell EMC infrastructures for certain medical clients. Extensive knowledge of patch management, anti-virus suites, clustering, OS upgrades, security, system monitoring, Cisco routing, LAN/WAN, TCP/IP, and virtual environments. Manage Telephony structure per clients needs. Extensive knowledge of ShoreTel, Avaya, Mitel, and Star2Star VOIP systems. Network Analyst Atlanta Falcons - Flowery Branch, GA 2013 to 2015 Develop/maintained reports and documentation as needed using Zendesk. Managed Active Directory, utilized GPO, and supported end user with technical issues. Deployment and support of all Apple devices for the coaches and staff of the Atlanta Falcons. Deploy and support all OS and software applications used by the organization. Support of local networks and servers, including local SAN, and MCIS. Installation and support of PBX and VoIP phone systems. Network Administrator / Sales Manager Macy's - Athens, GA May 2007 to August 2013 Network Administrator: Researched and developed a plan for Sales Executives to perform more efficiently using Apple products. Successfully lobbied for use of Pad in place of 'Sales Binder'. Worked with Apple programmer to develop a system exclusive of Macy's culture for use within stores. Oversaw implementation in test stores, assisted with execution to all Macy's stores after trials. Maintained local support for Atlanta district stores after rollout.    As a Sales Manager: Drive and exceed sales goals by executing Macy's initiatives. Review and utilize reports; implement action plans focusing on deficient areas. Coach Associates to consistently deliver effective selling behaviors resulting in high customer engagement. Review & utilize Associate Scorecards to provide recognition; develop and communicate strategies to improve results. Recruit a qualified team of selling-focused Associates; build a bench for future advancements & promotions. Lead Audio Engineer University of Georgia - Athens, GA 2000 to 2007 Confer with producers, performers, and others in order to determine and achieve the desired sound for production in Masters Hall Auditorium. Mix and edit voices, music, and taped sound effects for live performances and for prerecorded events. Set up, test, and adjust recording equipment for recording sessions and live performances; tear down equipment after event completion. Morning Show Producer Southern Broadcasting - Bogart, GA 1997 to 2001 Morning Show Producer, Coordinate structure and content of morning radio show with Music Producer. Write scripts for morning show during 'off air' hours, submit to Station Director for consideration in morning meetings. Coordinate schedules for guests and celebrities during their segments. Operate sound board overnight before morning show.    Certifications and Achievement  • CompTIA A+  • Dell Systems Support Certified  • Star2Star VOIP Systems Certified  • Datto Backup Solutions Certified  • VMWare Technical Sales Professional  • VMware Sales Professional  • VMWare Operations Professional    Skills    • LAN/WAN  • VTSP  • VOIP  • PBX  • HIPAA  • PCI  • Exchange  • Active Directory  • Datto  • Cisco  • Terminal Server  • EMC  • RTS  • DDS  • Systems Support  • Customer Service  • Network Administration  • Sales  • Consulting  • Personnel Management  • Patch Management  • VMWare  • Constructive Thinking  • Avaya  • Mitel  • Star2Star  • ShoreTel  • Dell Systems  • Conflict Resolution  • Conflict Management  • Network Analytics  • Problem Solving  • Strategic Planning  • Network Assessment  • Site Survey    Available for Relocation & Travel Education Associate's Degree in Network Systems Engineering in Network Engineering ITT Technical Institute - Duluth, GA Skills active directory, networking, linux, technical support, cisco, DNS, firewalls, Vmware, Exchange, VPN, SQL, LAN Assessments Technical Support — Expert June 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/qljt6f-cqsjncveq Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information Currently pursuing AWS Architect Associate certification. Expected certification late July