Computer Support Specialist Computer Support Specialist Computer Support Specialist - Stanford University Sunnyvale, CA Extensive experience in Desktop Support, Hardware, Software and Network Troubleshooting.  Proficient with all Microsoft & Mac Operating Systems  Familiar with Major Business Applications, Graphics and Programming tools.  Able to effectively work both independently and in Team Oriented and Fast Paced Multi-Tasking Environments. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Computer Support Specialist Stanford University - Stanford, CA October 2006 to Present Responsible for day-to-day computer operations support for the Vice Provost for Undergraduate Education office consisting of approximately  250+ workstations located throughout the University campus.  Responsible for maintaining stable production environment and providing senior level desktop/server support.  Responsible for documentation, tracking and completion of incoming help desk requests via Service-Now help desk system.  Create and maintain Domain user accounts, profiles, e-mail accounts and file services.  Create and maintain group policies, shared resources and server permissions.  Perform moves, adds and changes of workstations, peripherals.  Perform new equipment and software rollouts.  Perform hands - on fixes at the desktop level, including installing and upgrading software, installing hardware, Implementing file backups and configuring systems and applications. Network Administrator Skagit Valley Medical Center - Mount Vernon, WA 2003 to 2006 Responsible for day-to-day computer operations support for small medical center consisting of approximately  400+ workstations located over 4 sites.  Responsible for maintaining stable production environment and providing senior level desktop/server support.  Responsible for documentation, tracking and completion of incoming help desk requests from end users via  telephone, internet and e-mail.  Create and maintain user accounts, profiles, e-mail accounts and file services.  Create and maintain group policies, shared resources and server permissions.  Perform moves, adds and changes of workstations, peripherals and telephones.  Perform new equipment and software rollouts.  Perform hands - on fixes at the desktop level, including installing and upgrading software, installing hardware, Implementing file backups and configuring systems and applications.  Perform preventative maintenance, including checking and cleaning of workstations, printers, and peripherals.  Maintain and administer anti-virus software at both the server and workstation level.  Maintain Nortel PBX phone system including adding, moving and configuring telephones and voice mail. Desktop Support Technician Seattle Goodwill - Seattle, WA 2002 to 2003 Provided 1st - 3rd level desktop/server support.  Installed and configured servers, laptops and workstations.  Diagnosed and repaired all hardware /software related issues with computers, modems, printers, cables, and other peripherals.  Provided desktop support for Mobile Computing Lab funded by Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation. Network Administrator Coptech West - Sunnyvale, CA 2000 to 2002 Administered and maintained Windows 2000 network servers, MS exchange server, laptops and workstations.  Installed hardware, operating system software, and application software on servers, laptops and workstations.  Created and maintained group policies, shared resources and server permissions.  Created and maintained user logins, passwords and e-mail accounts.  Diagnosed and repaired hardware /software related problems with computers, modems, printers, cables, and other peripherals.  Maintained and administered anti-virus software at both the server and workstation level. Education High school or equivalent Skills Comptia, Help Desk, Desktop Support, Migration, Tech Support, Pc Support