Network Technician/Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Network</span> Technician/Systems <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Network Technician/Systems Administrator Highly motivated professional with over 16 years of Federal experience focusing on Project Management, Information Technology (IT) Operations, network infrastructure, end user support services, and IT Security. During my Federal experience, I have attained exceptional interpersonal skills along with the ability to work effectively with diverse populations to include both senior management and the non-technical end user. I have become a resourceful leader, problem solver and decision maker with substantial experience in managing large IT user support and customer service operations. Work Experience Network Technician/Systems Administrator AMTI, Office of Security & Hazardous Materials - Washington, DC October 2004 to Present • Responded to help desk calls and provided customer service via email, phone, and in person  • Assisted local/remote users with hardware/software questions and issues, including but not limited to:  ? Performed account administration: create new accounts, reset passwords or unlock accounts in the Active Directory, Siteminder, and PASS  ? Administered VPN accounts, issued tokens and assisted customers with setup  ? Assisted users with accessing network accounts remotely using dial-up and VPN  ? Troubleshot Lotus Notes, FAA applications, and other ASH application related user issues  • Utilized the helpdesk tracking system to log and update requests  • Escalated requests for further action as needed  • Configured laptops and setup new machines for users  • Installed and tested attendant peripherals, including printers, CD/DVD replicators, and cameras  • Coordinated with third-party vendors to repair major hardware failures  • Administered and provided support for Windows NT, 2000/2003 and active directory servers  • Installed, optimized, and supported the Internet Information Server  • Set and configured domain level security policies and group policies  • Provided onsite engineering and technical support to network systems  • Backed up network servers using VERITAS Backup Exec v9/9.1/10.1  • Coordinated with engineers to provide permanent solutions to recurring issues  • Performed installations, configuring and migrating of Windows 2000/2003 servers  • Conducted network monitoring using NETIQ  • Monitored software update servers (SUS/WSUS) used to distribute the latest Windows updates/patches. Network Technician - AMTI Enterprise Network Operations Center - Washington, DC May 2003 to October 2004 • Functioned as the FAA VPN Administrator.  • Functioned as a Cisco Call Manager Administrator.  • Performed VPN installations and troubleshooting.  • Conducted SofToken administration.  • Trained users on use of Remote Access Software (VPN).  • Created and maintained network trouble tickets in DKHelpDesk/ProjecTrak.  • Worked with Big Brother and RSA Ace/Server (VPN Database).  • Monitored network bandwidth and recorded in database 4 times a day.  • Provided network support for all FAA users.  • Completed advanced Voice Over IP and customer service training. Network Intern/Summer Intern Fannie Mae, Network Operations Center - Washington, DC May 1996 to May 2003 • Member of Wintel Group/Executive Support/Software Resource Team/Program Office/Y2K Compliance Team  • Generated and distributed all Network Bandwidth Reports to all customer managed lenders.  • Assisted with the Data Center reconstruction project.  • Removed and reran cat 5 and fiber cable.  • Executed all network port activations at Fannie Mae's headquarters sites.  • Tested, installed and configured Cisco 7960 model IP phones.  • Setup user profiles for Cisco IP phones using the Cisco Call Manager software.  • Worked on help desk for Cisco phone related problems.  • Assisted with company-wide conversion to Netscape Mail from CC:mail.  • Assisted with company-wide implementation of Windows 2000 Operating System. Gathered and tested multiple software packages in Windows 2000 Environment.  • Tested HP Omnibook 500/ Hp 6000 laptops in Windows 2000 Environment.  • Conducted individual meetings with Vice Presidents and Directors to discuss new laptop capabilities.  • Created, maintained, and updated several databases.  • Developed a Netscape Messenger User Guide for the Executive Team.  • Tested and developed user manuals for new equipment.  • Documented all requests for software from multiple departments within the corporation. Compiled budget information and created reports.  • Researched the Internet for Y2K compliant software.  • Revised training forms using Excel, Lotus and Power Point.  • Scheduled meetings on CaLANdar and facilitated meetings for the WAVE volunteer program. Education Bachelor of Science degree in Computer Science Towson University May 2002 Computer Science Western Maryland College 1997 to 1999 Woodberry Forest Preparatory Boarding School 1993 to 1997 Skills Active directory, Cisco, Network architecture, Router, Storageworks, Vpn, Cissp, Itil, Netiq, Openview, Remedy, Pmi, Netiq, Sharepoint, Disaster recovery, Rsa, Veritas, Ios, Voip, Wireless, Networking, Technical Support, Vmware, Customer Service, Windows, Customer Service, Networking, Security, Technical Support, Vmware, Windows, Windows 7 Additional Information ADDITIONAL TECHNICAL SKILLS    Operating Systems:  Windows 95/98/NT/2000/XP/2003/7/10  Windows 2000 Advanced Server  Windows 2003 Server    Software:  CRM Tool, SHAREPOINT/KSN,Active Directory 2003,NetIQ  BigFix,VERITAS Backup Software  Cisco IOS,Cisco Router/Switch Configuration  Big Brother,RSA ACE/Server,Cisco VPN Client,SoftToken  Cisco Call Manager (VOIP),Cisco Call Manager Attendant Console  Lotus Notes,eWATCHER,DKHelp Ticket Software,REMEDY Ticket Plus  ProjecTrak Ticket Software,CheckPoint SmartConsole  Microsoft Office 2003/2007 Suite  PCAnywhere,HP OpenView,Fluke Technology  Video Tele Conference Systems,VZAccess Manager    Hardware:  Verizon/Sprint Mifi's,Apple TV  Dell Desktops/Laptops,Hp Desktop/Laptops  Compaq DL380/DL360 Servers,Compaq 1850 Servers  Verizon Wireless Air Cards,Cisco VOIP Phones  Cisco Routers/Switches ,Linksys Wireless Routers/Switches  HP StorageWorks ,MSL5000 Backup Tape Library    RELATED COURSES AND TRAINING    ITIL v3 Foundation Training  COOP Disaster Recovery Training  COR Training  CISSP Boot Camp  PMI Project Management Professional Bootcamp  Project Management Principles  MCSE 2003 SERVER  Digital Forensics (X-Ways)  Advanced VOIP  Database and Communications  Network Architecture  C++  Web Programming  SDLC-Systems Development Life Cycle (Analysis and Design)