Network Engineer / Information Security Engineer <span class="hl">Network</span> Engineer / Information Security Engineer Poplarville, MS Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Network Engineer / Information Security Engineer CSC/DXC Technology - New Orleans, LA April 2006 to June 2019 I began work at CSC as a Network Engineer, outsourced to Pan American Life in New Orleans, LA. I was onsite support for the network, managing the data center, and doing phone support. Originally phone support was for Avaya, then moved to VoIP. While there I expanded my work to include Administrative duties as a Service Delivery Manager. This role was designed to oversee all the different aspects of the outsourcing role of CSC with Pan American Life. I did this in conjunction with my networking duties. Later, I moved away from the Administrative SDM work and expanded to firewall security work. During my time at Pan American, I moved a data center and managed the work to remodel and revamp multiple office floors, managing the network moves/rebuilds as well as the phone system. Around 2010-2011 this work became onsite work split with remote work from home. By 2012 this became full time remote work from home and I was now supporting multiple clients from home as a network and firewall engineer. in 2015 I was moved to strictly firewall security for multiple clients working remotely from home. This continued until my position was moved to India and I was part of a RIF in June 2019. Network Addministrator / Desktop Support PAN AMERICAN LIFE INSURANCE - New Orleans, LA August 2005 to April 2006 I began work as a network, phone, and desktop support onsite in New Orleans. One week later Hurricane Katrina hit New Orleans and the office was not able to be occupied. I then became part of the team to bring up the disaster recover site in Irving, TX. I was there for a few months then off and on for a couple of months between New Orleans and Irving once the office was able to open again in New Orleans. Anything from network, to phones, to servers. to desktop work was needed in all this. By April of 2006 Pan American Life outsourced their IT to a company called CSC and I became part of that company. Network Administrator/Desktop Support Trane Air Conditioning - Harahan, LA July 2001 to June 2005 I took care of the network and desktops in the Harahan and Baton Rouge, LA offices as well as the Gulf Port, MS office. In my last year of working there, I worked with the company to open a new location in Mobile, AL completing all network, phone, and desktop setup for that location and then was also responsible for the ongoing support of that office as well. Education Bachelor's in Computer Science Loyola University New Orleans - New Orleans, LA August 1997 to May 2001 Skills DNS, Cisco, firewalls, Security, Checkpoint, Bluecoat, Technical Support, Windows, Networking Assessments Project Management Skills: Time Management — Highly Proficient August 2019 Prioritizing and allocating time to effectively achieve project deliverables. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/znjz3b79aq7ejydr Supervisory Skills: Directing Others — Expert August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to motivate the performance of others through feedback to identify improvements or corrective actions. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/9zygno43bdux5x2m Project Management Skills: Budgeting — Highly Proficient August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to manage project budgets by appropriately allocating and monitoring financial resources. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/57jcmynthb5scnn Problem Solving — Expert August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to analyze relevant information when solving problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/a6gvmnfqvwomblxq Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.