Administrator <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Administrator Fullerton, CA To obtain a challenging leadership position where my management experience and critical thinking skills will be applied to strengthen quality of service and profitability. Work Experience Administrator Bellflower Post-Acute - Bellflower, CA June 2018 to January 2019 • Managed 70+ employees and day-to-day operations of a 59-bed skilled nursing facility with strong leadership and efficient teamwork  • Passed (2) separate Dept. of Health resurvey audits, on first attempt, during six month employment tenure  • With the help of interdisciplinary team, tracked and trended facility quality measures and put initiatives in place that help maintain CMS Five Star rating through 2018  • Completed weekly face-to-face marketing sales meetings with facility ownership, local hospitals and clinics Administrator Rose Garden Convalescent Center - Pasadena, CA March 2015 to June 2018 • *Simultaneous- Administrator duties with Rose Garden and Legacy Care  • Managed 120+ employees and day-to-day operations of a 95-bed skilled nursing facility  • Completed daily mandatory morning stand-up-meetings with department supervisors  • Improved department head knowledge of individual budget requirements to improve productivity, quality of care and adherence to existing budget  • Passed all annual Dept. of Health Subacute audits with no major deficiencies whilst maintaining 90% census throughout tenure  • Passed all annual Dept. of Health Life & Safety audits with no major deficiencies throughout employment tenure  • Represented the facility in all face-to-face marketing sales meetings with hospitals and doctors, focus on building local relationships. Administrator Legacy Care of Pasadena - Pasadena, CA March 2015 to June 2018 • *Simultaneous- Administrator duties with Rose Garden and Legacy Care  • Managed 70+ employees and day-to-day operations of a 54-bed skilled nursing facility  • Passed all annual Dept. of Health audit surveys with no major deficiencies throughout employment tenure  • Completed daily mandatory morning stand-up-meetings with department supervisors  • Improved department head knowledge of individual budget requirements to improve productivity, quality of care and adherence to existing budget  • Represented the facility in all face-to-face marketing sales meetings with hospitals and doctors, focus on building local relationships. Administrator Rosecrans Care Center - Gardena, CA June 2009 to March 2015 Managed 120+ employees and day-to-day operations in a 99-bed skilled nursing facility    • Top revenue performer amongst other facilities within the company for 5 years.  • Passed all annual Dept. of Health Life & Safety audits with no major deficiencies throughout employment tenure  • Represented the facility in all face-to-face marketing sales meetings with hospitals and doctors, focus on building local relationships. Customer Support/ Network Analyst British Telecommunications - El Segundo, CA June 2006 to May 2009 • Call center customer support completing 120+ calls daily  • Promoted to supervising staff for Pacific-Rim customer support shift responsible for the Pacific Islands, Asia and portions of Eastern Europe.  • Provided global telecommunication customer support to 100+ corporate clienteles across international network footprints.  • Mastered internal customer-ticketing system and inbound/outbound telephone interaction with all clients.  • Collaborative teamwork experience with other internal departments Customer Support/ Network Analyst Infonet Services Corporation - El Segundo, CA October 2000 to May 2005 • Call center customer support completing 120+ calls daily  • Provided global telecommunication customer support to 100+ corporate clienteles across international network footprints.  • Mastered internal customer-ticketing system and inbound/outbound telephone interaction with all clients.  • Collaborative work experience with other departments such as Network Control Center, field operation technicians, senior engineers, and outside vendors in a telco working environment. Education J.D. Trinity Law University - Orange, CA B.S. in Computers/Telecommunication DeVry University - Pomona, CA Skills Service sales, Customer interaction, Microsoft Office (10+ years), Community Relations (10+ years), Employee Supervision (10+ years), Customer Service (10+ years), Management (10+ years), Budget Management (10+ years)