Senior Network Administrator Senior <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Senior Network Administrator - KLX Energy Services Lake Worth, FL I am looking for a Senior Network Administrator or similar role. I interface well with high level management. I always figure out how to get things working. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior Network Administrator KLX Energy Services - Wellington, FL October 2018 to Present Synopsis: Support main Head Quarters Office. Provide remote site support.  • Executive Support. Chairman, CEO down to high level VP and Directors  • Cisco IP Telephony Support  • MS Windows Server Administration  • MS Windows Desktop Administration  • Remote Support for desktops, printers, mobile devices, and telephones  • IOS mobile devices  • Video Conferencing  • Utilize strong listening skills to understand the situation and resolve the issues Senior Network Administrator KLX Aerospace - Wellington, FL May 2017 to October 2018 Synopsis: Split SLA with support for KLX Aerospace and Rockwell Collins  • Executive support. Chairman, CEO down to high level VP and Directors  • MS Windows Server Administration  • MS Windows Desktop Administration  • Remote Support for desktops, printers, mobile devices, and telephones  • Alcatel Enterprise VOIP Telephony Support  • MS Exchange Support  • IOS mobile devices  • Video Conferencing  • Utilize strong listening skills to understand the situation and resolve the issues Senior Network Administrator B/E Aerospace - Wellington, FL April 2014 to May 2017 Synopsis: Support main Head Quarters Office  • Executive support. Chairman, CEO down to high level VP and Directors  • MS Windows Server Administration  • MS Windows Desktop Administration  • Avaya Enterprise VOIP Telephony Support  • MS Exchange Support  • Citrix Metaframe Support  • IOS mobile devices  • Video Conferencing  • Utilize strong listening skills to understand the situation and resolve the issues Contractor Western Areas Mining - Perth WA August 2008 to January 2014 Synopsis: Support main Head Quarters and Mining site  • Executive support. Chairman, CEO, down to high level VP and Directors  • VMware ESXi5.0, 5.1, 5.5 Essentials with vcenter  • Setup two ESX hosts running Windows and Red Hat Linux VM's  • TWP - Troubleshoot broken fault ridden network when I arrived to 99.99% uptime  • Avaya Enterprise VOIP Telephony Support  • Configure RSA token security for Citrix  • Configure Citrix 4.5 Presentation Server  • Setup tape backup structure  • Troubleshoot misc problems relating to desktops, laptops, servers, and infrastructure  • Configure ISA 2006 Firewall  • Install and configure Microsoft Data Protection Manager 2007  • Install and configure Exchange 2007, 2010  • Install and configure SQL 2005, 2008  • Install and configure Microsoft RDWeb 2008  • Install and configure Windows 2008, SBS 2011  • Install and configure various Cisco routers  • Setup and configure printing solutions with scan to email  • Setup and configure Blackberry Enterprise Server President - Owner Southeast Networx Inc - Wellington, FL March 2000 to June 2008 Synopsis: Small to medium sized companies outsourced their IT needs to me.  • Executive support. CEO, CFO, VP  • Migrate companies from NetWare to NT  • Migrate companies from GroupWise to Exchange  • Remote support for desktops, printers, mobile devices, and telephones  • Install and configure Active Directory for medium sized corporations  • Upgrade servers  • Install and configure firewall solutions like ISA, SonicWALL, Raptor, and Hotbrick  • Server rotations. Cycle in new hardware and cycle out old hardware  • Setup remote technologies such as VPN and Terminal Services  • Install and configure tape backup solutions using Backup Exec and Arcserve  • Setup and configure printing solutions  • Setup FTP services for sharing files with their clients.  • Setup Blackberry Enterprise Server Director of Network Services Teleimage Technologies - West Palm Beach, FL January 1998 to March 2000 Synopsis: Small to medium sized companies outsourced their IT needs to our company.  • Executive Computer Support - CEO through high level Directors  • I was a hands-on Director/Engineer. I was hired to bring this company to the next level for customer service and technical abilities.  • Train and manage 5 engineers/technicians  • Design, install, and troubleshoot NetWare and NT systems.  • NDS tree design and troubleshooting  • Domain design and troubleshooting  • Project manage and program Y2K upgrades for 550 Bay routers, install SAP filters for 750 Cisco routers, and upgrade OS for 400 Cisco routers for Office Depot Senior Network Engineer Airtran Airways - Orlando, FL May 1996 to January 1998 Synopsis: Run Network Department  • Executive Computer Support - CEO through high level Directors  • Supervise and train 4 network administrators  • Coordinate with vendors on equipment purchasing and returns  • Coordinate system upgrades for minimal downtime.  • Telecommunications duties on Mitel SX2000 PBX while telecom manager is not present  • Install, configure, and maintain Novell 4.1, Windows NT 4.0, Macintosh 7.5, and wide area network.  • Install and configure backup solutions and firewall solutions  • Merge NDS trees, reorganize NDS structure, setup Cadence time synchronization using Single and Secondary time servers  • Install and administer Platinum accounting software in conjunction with Watermark Imaging software on NT 3.51, platinum client 3.2, and SQL 6.0  • Install and configure Retix and Cisco routers for wide area network Contractor - Network Engineer Disney - Orlando, FL May 1995 to May 1996 Synopsis: 3 month rotation between 4 teams. Contract totalled 1 year.  • Install, configure, and maintain Novell 3.11 metropolitan area network.  • Setup servers with network operating system, user applications, and backup applications.  • Setup desktops with NetWare drivers and shared access to user applications and emulators.  • Troubleshoot emulators to AS400 and Unisys mainframes.  • Troubleshoot desktops for Microsoft, Lotus, WordPerfect, and other various vendors' software packages.  • Help desk support for front line troubleshooting.  • Troubleshoot Ethernet and Token Ring wiring topologies.  • Install fax servers and print servers. Setup printers for single user, shared network, and mainframe printing.  • At one point I was tasked with supporting 1000+ desktops at Main gate Mall by myself. I did this with the approach of educating the users with the solutions to their problems. They in turn helped their neighbors when they had the same problems. When I left they replaced me with a team of people. Contractor - Network Engineer Federal Express - Memphis, TN September 1993 to May 1995 Synopsis: Provide support for Fedex network.  • Install, configure, and maintain Novell 3.12 and Macintosh Etherexpress metropolitan area network.  • Setup servers with network operating system, user applications, and backup applications.  • Setup desktops with NetWare drivers and shared access to user applications and emulators. Troubleshoot emulators to IBM mainframe.  • Install, configure, and troubleshoot Citrix WinFrame remote application server.  • Troubleshoot desktops for Microsoft, Lotus, WordPerfect, and other various vendors' software packages.  • Install, configure, and maintain Cheyenne fax server 3.0.  • Setup modem pools for dial out and dial in using NetWare connects.  • At one point I was tasked with supporting 1200 desktops by myself. I did this with the approach of educating the users with the solutions to their problems. They in turn helped their neighbors when they had the same problems. When I left they replaced me with 3 people Customer Service Engineer Helicon Corporation - Perth WA March 1990 to June 1993 Synopsis: Small to medium sized companies outsourced their IT needs to our company.  • Install, configure, and maintain Novell 3.12 and Macintosh Etherexpress metropolitan area network.  • Setup servers with network operating system, user applications, and backup applications.  • Setup desktops with NetWare drivers and shared access to user applications and emulators. Troubleshoot emulators to IBM mainframe.  • Install, configure, and troubleshoot Citrix WinFrame remote application server.  • Troubleshoot desktops for Microsoft, Lotus, WordPerfect, and other various vendors' software packages.  • Troubleshoot Ethernet wiring topology.  • Install, configure, and maintain Cheyenne fax server 3.0. Electronic Technician Second Class United States Navy February 1983 to February 1990 • Supervise 5 people for day-to-day operations.  • Component level troubleshooting with communications and radar equipment.  • VAX 11/785 and Share/43 computer operator.  • Hook up terminals to large-scale government 10 BASE 5 network.  • Troubleshoot wiring to the desktops.  • Maintain and repair IFF Mark XII radar  • Communications technician Education High school or equivalent Military Service Branch: United States Navy Rank: E-5