Network design engineer <span class="hl">Network</span> design engineer Network Administrator - BJ's Restaurants Huntington Beach, CA I have over 15 years of experience as a network and systems engineer/ administrator with advance knowledge of both Linux and Windows environments. I have extensive hands on experience working with Cisco routers and switches. 10 years' experience administering and building out enterprise level LAN and WAN networks with 8 years configuring and building out WLAN networks. 2 years working with HIPPA and PCI Compliance and standards. Ability to architect large scale networks. Configured Routing protocols such as RIP, EIGRP, OSPF, BGP, static routing and policy based routing. Experience with converting WAN routing from EIGRP/OSPF to BGP (OSPF is used for local routing only) which also involved converting from Point to point circuits to MPLS circuits. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Network design engineer GDT-General Datatech - Irvine, CA February 2019 to July 2019 • Mpls redesigned for call center company with state of the art Cisco routers and switches.  • implemented MOP of configurations and automated switch configurations with Ansible.   • connected delivery sites to cloud resources at Amazon and Azure. Network Engineer Cisco - Costa Mesa, CA February 2018 to November 2018 Network engineer for Cisco video service provider business unit. Global network supporting offices infrastructure. Also supported UCS Flexpod with Netapp SAN . Sysadmin for VMware , Linux , widows servers. System Engineer Consultant New Age Creations - Huntington Beach, CA October 2016 to January 2018 • Implemented Cisco networks and servers for customer e-commerce.  • Administered web content servers and hosting infrastructure. Network Administrator BJ's Restaurants - Huntington Beach, CA May 2016 to October 2016 • Cisco UCS - 5108 and 6248  • NetApp - Fiber Channel, Ontap 8.2 2 HA racks, Pure SSD 2 clusters  • Cisco Nexus 5548 and 6248 core  • 200 site MPLS WAN Cisco and Fortinet protection  • Palo Alto NG 3050 Firewall upgrade  • Spearheaded meetings & discussions with team members regarding network optimization and regarding BGP issues.  • Responsible for designing and maintaining BGP and EIGRP Wan Protocols for Network Infrastructure.  • Upgraded Solar winds monitoring NPM, Net flow, snmp. SQL database migration  • VMware upgrade to vsphere 6 migration  • Windows serever upgrades and MSSQL administration Network Systems Engineer New Age Creations - Santa Monica, CA July 2013 to April 2016 • Customized Solar winds monitoring NPM, Net flow, SNMP, custom MIB  • Network install and support of Cisco switch and router infrastructure. IWAN deployment and Voice QOS.  • Cisco UCM suite, Unity, Presence, Call Center Express on UCS mini.  • Experience with manipulating various BGP attributes such as Local Preference, MED, Extended Communities, Route-Reflector clusters, Route-maps and route policy implementation.  • Working with OSPF as internal routing protocol and BGP as exterior gateway routing protocol.  • Secured network with Cisco firewalls and intrusion detection. Administered Linux and VMware infrastructure for fault tolerance and load balance.  • Chef automation integrated into operations.  • Customized vpn secure links between sites and implemented load balancing on BigIP LTM and GTM. Network Administrator WestCoast Dental - Los Angeles, CA September 2012 to May 2013 • Deployed Solar winds monitoring NPM, Net flow, snmp, custom MIB, replaced Zenoss  • Managed 30 site MPLS WAN conveying integrated VOIP and database applications. Generated server infrastructure for Data Mining for patient data and production. Managed email system and spam filtering. Generated email/im marketing server. Migrated windows and linux servers to Vsphere 5.1.  • Hosted on UCS Blades.  • Implement OSPF routing with multiple areas for networks between sites. Implement totally stubby areas to lower the system resource utilization of routing devices for the network. Implement NSSA area to allow injection of external routes into the area and propagation into the OSPF domain.  • Shared storage on HP Left Hand SAN OS. Upgraded to Cisco Nexus 5548 core and 2248 FEX top of rack config with 4924 routing mpls regional WAN.  • Splunk data mining implement5ation Network Systems Engineer New Age Creations - Santa Monica, CA July 2011 to September 2012 • Ecommerce high volume networks support and design. Network with Cisco 6509 cores.  • UCS Blade servers and voip admin , Nexus 6248  • Involved in the redistribution into OSPF on the core ASA firewall.  • Performed redistribution with OSPF, EIGRP to enable communication with backbone.  • Performed RIP and OSPF routing protocol administration.  • Implemented various OSPF scenarios on networks Network/Facilities Technician United Layer - Los Angeles, CA October 2010 to July 2011 • Monitored with Nagios and maintained tier 1 peering Cisco network and implemented IPv6 dual stack throughout internal and customer facing IPv6 networks.  • Cisco UCM suite on UCS via VMware hypervisor  • Operated Cisco 10Gigabit backbone on 6509 and 4548x switches layer 3 with 10Gigabit East and West Coast peering exchanges. Maintained F5 Big Ip & Foundry load balancers, for geographic dispersed hosts. Operated multi-site collocation facilities and managed server products at the Los Angeles datacenter.  • Responsible for Linux system administration for internal systems and managed server support. Provided technical support for cooling (CRAC) system and set up monitoring system in Nagios and Cacti. Integrated SalesForce into corporate operations.  • Created and tested Cisco router and switching operations using OSPF routing protocol, ASA Firewalls, and MPLS switching for stable VPNs.  • Configuring RIP, OSPF, EIGRP and Static routing on Juniper Routers. Technology Engineer All Tech Industries - Santa Monica, CA January 2007 to October 2010 • Upgraded toCisco Nexus infrastructure for 10G.  • Built and administered Redhat and Windows server infrastructure in VMware.  • Designed nation wide area networks with ISR, with tier 1 carriers secured via ipsec vpn.  • Managed several client data services and network infrastructures.  • Led development of commercial internet presence utilizing ASP.net and AJAX interface to database driven content.  • Designed Flash based interactive brochures and movie players.  • Built PHP based surveys and dynamic searches technical based resources.  • Developed MySQL database storage of user data and match for searches. Secured network against intrusions and maintained service uptime. Network Security Engineer Whittier Presbyterian Hospital - Whittier, CA January 2006 to August 2008 • Provided troubleshooting for Cisco Call Manager suite and 5000 VoIP phones network. Conversion from terminal to web interfaces to medical resources.  • Utilizing C# and ASP.net connecting with MSSQL data process billing calculations. Maintained Two factor remote access system for doctors and remote sites.  • Maintained the RSA SecureID authentication system for VPN. Maintained Cisco Concentrator 3000 cluster for ACL and group policies.  • Configured centralized Wireless Area Networks access control list and user management system. Network Security Engineer Computax - Torrance, CA August 2005 to January 2006 • Implemented two factor remote access system for developers. (RSA) Created web interface to financial calculations. Maintained the firewall security and VPN access.  • Maintained the RSA SecureID authentication system for VPN. Maintained Cisco Concentrator 3000 cluster for ACL and group policies.  • Configured dynamic ACL and streamlined access with ACS.  • Handled transition of firewall and router infrastructure to new datacenter.  • Configured centralized Wireless Area Networks access control list and user management system. Maintained Cisco catalyst switches and configured VLAN's for readdressing entire enterprise network.  • Utilized routes summarization to accommodate new subnets into the core environment. Network Security Engineer Conexserv - Santa Monica, CA February 2003 to August 2005 Environment: Cisco, CAD, VPN, MS SQL  • Engineered fault tolerant networks for schools and hospitals. Led teams on infrastructure installations and designed configurations to meet customer expectations.  • Small Project management of several the installations and maintenance of Windows network systems and desktops.  • Configuring and supporting Microsoft Office suite, Visio and AutoCAD. Constructed and configured Intel and AMD workstations for high-performance computing and AutoCAD design.  • Maintained VPN access on Checkpoint using ACE RSA authentication via two factor SecureID and secured network with PIX firewalls for legal practices and real estate management firms.  • Administered and designed internet based commerce services for retail stores. Securing purchasing process and credit card verification using SSL and incorporating extranet VPN for suppliers.  • Installed print server for user groups on Cisco switches and AP's.  • Designed MS SQL and ASP.NET programming for IE browser based interface.  • Multiple contracts providing comprehensive remote and on-site support for domestic and international clients.  • Provided network design documentation on Visio and RFC for new implementations. Designed inventory database for Film storage vault. Network Engineer LA Unified School District - Los Angeles, CA August 2002 to February 2003 Led team on implementing 'fiber to desktop' project district wide. Cisco switch infrastructure implemented including 500 stackable multi-layer switches. Models: Cisco 6509 & 2950 Network Engineer EarthLink - Pasadena, CA February 2001 to August 2001 Lead team on operational support of very Network monitoring large internet service provider access network with NetCool snmp agent. Cisco Coded PHP and Perl scripting of monitoring and maintenance enterprise equipment. Mentored technical team in troubleshooting and monitoring network infrastructure in ISP setting. Maintained very large Oracle customer database. Oracle Designed and implemented customer call- center support procedures and customer network design strategy for sales and marketing teams. Maintained largest west coast datacenter with over 1 million dial access and broadband users. Supported Nortel and Cisco access servers. Installed and supported multi-homed BGP peering with all tier 1 carrier over OC 48 at OC3 and DS1 levels. Network Engineer Infrastructure Liaison Mahoning County Commissioners - Youngstown, OH January 1997 to May 1999 Obtained federal/state grants to fund internetworking several agencies and local law enforcement. Installed data wiring and switch equipment to handle sharing criminal database via Windows network. Project manager for VPN linked database of law enforcement records agencies for sharing criminal history data on MS SQL server. Education Bachelor of Arts in Geographic information systems University of California Santa Barbara - Santa Barbara, CA Skills VPN (10+ years), CISCO (10+ years), DATABASE (10+ years), ASP (8 years), ASP.NET (8 years), System Administrator, NOC, Ccna, Vmware, Mcse, Active Directory, Security, MPLS, DNS Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  Networking: Cisco nexus 9508, 7000 & 5000 series and 1000 (VMware), Juniper SRX & MX 400  Load balancer: F5 BigIP LTM & GTM, Cisco ACE, and Citrix Netscaler  Routing: Cisco IOS-XE ASR1000, ISR4351 Catalyst 6509 & 6513, 4948-10G, Checkpoint Firewall FW-1 & VPN-1, Pix Firewall & Firewall module, Cisco VPN Concentrator 3000, Juniper OS: Windows 2008 & 2003, LBSD, Solaris, VMWare, TACAS, OSPF, BGP  VoIP: Shoretel, Asterisk, Cisco UCS & Call Manager 10.8, Unity, Call Center Express  Operating Systems: CentOS, Debian, Redhat Enterprise and cluster, Microsoft server 2012 r2, 2008 r2  Storage Area Network: NetAp, Pure SSD, Brocade fibre channel, HP Left Hand P4000, P2000, Compellant,  Hypervisors: VMware 6, 5.5, 4.1, MS Hyper-V 3, Citrix Applications:  Security: RSA SecureID & ACE, Foundry ServerIronG, Intermaper, Solarwinds  DevOps: Puppet & Chef, Nagios, Cacti, Jenkins, GIT.  Programming: Python, Ruby, java script, Drupal, PHP, Flash 10, ASP.NET, Ruby on Rails  C#, Objective C, Iphone API, ASP.NET, VB, UNIX Shell Scripting, C++, HTML, Perl and Python.  Database: MySQL, MS SQL 2008 & 2012, Sales Force SOQL  Protocols: IPv4, IPv6, BGP, OSPF, IS-IS, VOIP, HSRP, GLBP, SNA, Cisco ACS, PKI, SSH, DECnet, Banyan, IPX/SPX. HTTP/HTTPS, SMB, NFS, SMTP, IMAP, DNS, NTP, SSL  Monitoring: Solar Winds 12, Nagios, Zenos, HP openview, HP Insight Manager,