Job Seeker Noblesville, IN Diverse technical experience in the IT field. Emphasizing desktop support and network administration. Excellent problem solver with strong communication and interpersonal skills. Experience includes:  • SharePoint administration • Quality assurance • Project management  • Hardware configuration • Team building • Router configuration  • Software configuration  • TCP/IP    • Problem resolution  • Coordinating multiple venders    • Network planning    • Troubleshooting • Switches & Hubs    Professional history proves I can succeed in team and individual roles. Highly motivated, self-starter with a successful background supporting customer information technology requirements.  Ability to lead installation projects, troubleshoot, maintain and monitor PCs, servers, printers, LANS, MANS, and WANS. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Hewlett Packard January 2011 to Present Administered multiple SharePoints, managed Client US Distribution center, assigned work to team members, prepared work schedules, monitored group work load, completed various projects and provided technical assistance to team members.  Troubleshooting, repair and installation of PC'S, PC Software and Printers  Compiled, analyzed and presented reports.    Accomplishments:  1. Client US Distribution Center - Setup and managed over 20 million dollars in inventory  2. Asset Inventory Control - Established procedures for asset security and proper stock rotation.  3. Indianapolis-Depot - Established processes and procedures to ensure with had proper amount of accessory items in stock.    4. Material Center Depot performance has allowed the account to exceed priority 3 SLA requirement.  a. Led the account in total priority 3 tickets closed.  b. Led the account in average tickets per technician.  c. Exceeded the Priority 3 SLA requirement.  5. Process Improvements  a. 2016 Asset Inventory Control  b. 2016 Accessory Inventory Storage, Distribution, and Inventory Control  c. 2011 Inventory Control  d. 2011 Eli Lilly Sales School  e. 2011 Implemented Quality Controls  f. 2012 Incident tickets  i. Laptop batteries  ii. Eli Lilly Laptop Back-up software  g. 2012 Elanco Sales School  h. 2012 Material Center Delivery Process  i. 2013 Eli Lilly OS Upgrade Advance Exchange Process Hewlett Packard 2014 to 2015 Salvage Network Administrator Hewlett Packard - Indianapolis, IN October 2010 to December 2011 Compiled, analyzed and presented daily reports Desktop Support Team Leader Hewlett Packard 2008 to September 2010 Assigned work to team members, prepared work schedules, monitored group work load, completed various projects and provided technical assistance to team members.  Troubleshooting, repair and installation of PC'S, PC Software and Printers  Compiled, analyzed and presented reports Systems Administrator Hewlett Packard - Chicago, IL 2007 to 2007 Assigned to UNITED Airlines Account  Primarily responsible for ensuring all processes were documented. Assisted project teams installing desktops and servers. Used "Remote Desktop" to troubleshoot problems throughout the UNITED system. Network Administrator Hewlett Packard - Kokomo, IN 2005 to 2007 Position utilized project management and technical skills.  Project manager for the Delphi Worldwide Network Integration project.  Installing and maintaining the APC InfraXure Manager and Big Sister Network Monitor. United States Navy 1979 to 1985 Honorable Discharge Education High school or equivalent Military Service Branch: United States Navy Service Country: United States Rank: Petty Officer Second Class October 1979 to October 1985 1. Strawhat maintenance technician  2. Cryptologic technician UYA-7 and KG-30 family Commendations: • Meritorious Unit Commendation, Sea Service Deployment Ribbon  • Good conduct award