Director of Voice Infrastructure and Senior Engineer for Transport Director of Voice Infrastructure and Senior Engineer for Transport Director of Voice Infrastructure and Senior Engineer for Transport - T3 Communications Cape Coral, FL Network/Voice Engineer with a unique blend of business management, information technology, and computer hardware skills. Eighteen years of experience in the computer, transport, and telecommunications industry, with proficiency in hardware diagnostics and user training. Recognized as an accomplished technical consultant, skilled at providing effective technical instruction and coordinating training programs. Work Experience Director of Voice Infrastructure and Senior Engineer for Transport T3 Communications - Fort Myers, FL September 2007 to Present • Supervised the Network Operations Center and 24/7 call center.  • Provisioning and maintaining services like SIP TRUNKS, SIP PHONES, "UCaaS", Analog lines, PRI's,  • Managed Field Operations tech schedules, and routes.  • Deployed and Managed Metaswitch CFS, UMG, Perimeta SBC, N-Series  • Project Management for new VoIP deployments for customer with multiple locations.  • Provisioning and maintaining Layer 2 and Layer 3 switches.  • Maintaining and Supporting, Cisco Switches and Routers, Cisco Call Manager, Juniper, Fujitsu, Adtran TA3000, and TA5000, Adtran TA900 series routers, Netvanta, and ATM switch Fore Runner ASX 1000  • Implementing and troubleshooting QOS  • Maintaining and troubleshooting with local providers servicing DS1's, DS3's DSO's, EFM  Fiber, SD-WAN.  • Working with many different fiber devices and modules using SFP's, either single mode, multimode, LC or SC etc.  • Enterprise Wireless maintenance and deployments using Dragonwave, Redline, and Ubiquiti equipment. Network Engineer Optical Telecommunications - Miami, FL July 2006 to September 2007 • Provisioning and troubleshooting fiber GPON "ONT" optic network terminals.  • Coordinated and planned implementation and maintenance with FPL Fibernet for the fiber to the home.  • Basic Mail, Web, BroadSoft VoIP server administration.  • Installations and maintenance of ALCATEL WDM fiber optics equipment.  • Operating Scientific Atlanta Prisma for video over fiber.  • Project Management for Community Wide installations of VoIP, cable, and Internet.  • Managing a group of 5 tech support agent's in a call center for support calls 24/7. Network Administrator Robert Half Technology - Miami, FL March 2006 to July 2006 • Migrations of more than 100 workstations to a different location inside Fountain Bleu Hotel.  • Managed Projects with vendors and engineers running conduits for fiber through out hotel.  • Performed a complete clean up in COLO using fiber management.  • IT forensics, searching for deleted emails and deleted files and documenting spreadsheets for lawsuits.  • Network Administration for Florida East Coast Railways.  • Subcontracted for Fountain Bleau in Miami Beach, BSSS Law Firm, and FEC Railways. Network Manager DSLi Corporation - Miami, FL November 2001 to March 2006 • Directed, coordinated, and managed the installation, operation, and maintenance of communications equipment and systems.  • Project Management for all aspects of assigned telecommunications systems and actions.  • Support the telecomm requirements and investigate, analyze, plan, design, develop, implement and test computers and telecommunications systems.  • Provide technical on-site installation and operational oversight; develop statements of work, proposals and change documentation to support equipment, systems and network changes upgrades, modifications and configurations.  • Supervised subcontractors: Installing, troubleshooting, and assisting in the configuration of telecommunications equipment.  • Build and support data circuits (Dialup, xDSL, T1) across central offices located from Miami to Orlando. Systems include Lucent ATM Switches, Coppermountain DSLAM, Redback SMS and Cisco Routers.  • Installed co-location in several ATT CO's.  • Configure integrated voice circuits for SIP subscribers and MGCP.  • Managed and setup hunt groups, auto attendants, and call centers.  • Pre-configure SIP devices such as Cisco ATA's, Polycom, and SIP IP phones and add users on BroadSoft VOIP solutions.  • Worked on many different pieces of equipment from, routers, switches, firewalls  • Responsible for supporting customer networks with diverse LAN technologies.  • 24/7 on call duty rotation. Skills Cisco (10+ years), Juniper (5 years), Ds3 (10+ years), T1 (10+ years), Voip (10+ years), Firewalls (10+ years), Networking (10+ years), Sip (10+ years), Disaster recovery (10+ years), H323 (6 years), SBC (10+ years), Oc3 (10+ years), Risk assessment, Disaster recovery planning, Recovery planning, Metaswitch (10+ years), Adtran (10+ years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:  Data: Cisco, Juniper, Fujitsu, Adtran, Barracuda, SonicWall, Metro E, Fiber, EFM Frame-Relay, ATM, xDSL, T1's, DS3's, OC3's, WIMAX,  Voice: BroadSoft, Metaswitch, Netsapiens, Cisco Call Manager, Sansay SBC, Adtran, SIP Trunks, Unified SIP Hosted Solutions, PRI's, E & M Wink, GR303, H323, MGCP  Networking: Installing, implementing and maintaining large and medium size networks, including domain controllers, backup servers, L2 Network with VLAN's for traffic segregation, VPN's, firewalls and WIFI, VoIP Deployments, Disaster Recovery Planning; Research & Development; Risk Assessment.