Microsoft Contract - Office 365 Engineer Microsoft Contract - Office 365 Engineer Systems administration Elkridge, MD Goals & Technical Experience:  To obtain a challenging and rewarding position as a Network Systems Engineer with an organization which recognizes my true potential, and provides me sufficient avenues for professional growth. Through nurturing my technical skills and competencies. Over 10+ years of extensive hands-on experience in Network Systems Engineering, Administration, Helpdesk, & Desktop Support, Windows / Linux systems administration, troubleshooting and repair. Designed, installed, configured and maintained complex routed LAN, WAN, and virtual networks. Supervised & trained permanent and contract personnel. Excellent communication skills with the ability to interface at all levels. A team player who also can work well independently.    Skills and Equipment:  • Passionate, diligent and focused Administrator with 13 years of cumulative experience as a Network Admin / System admin / Desktop Support Engineer/ Network Trainer.  • Technical knowledge & proficiency in system administration, network maintenance, hardware maintenance, operating systems, Linux, Mac, Windows desktop & server (All versions), Active Directory, Exchange, System center SCCM, ODBC and the willingness to learn and effectively apply new technologies.  • Advanced knowledge of Active directory, Windows Xp, Vista, 7, 8, Server 2000, 2003, 2008, 2012, 2016, Hyper-V, VMware, V sphere, V-Center  • Analytical thinker, consistently resolving ongoing issues, often called upon to consult on problems that have eluded resolution by others.  • Extensive exposure to a comprehensive range of team activities, thrive on working in challenging environment.  • Demonstrated problem analysis/ resolution skills, ability to troubleshoot, solve problems quickly & completely.  • Excellent client management skills innate ability to build strong, lasting and mutually beneficial relationships. Work Experience Microsoft Contract - Office 365 Engineer Office 365 ProPlus and Yammer April 2019 to June 2019 • Guide customers in onboarding their organizations to Office 365 services such as Azure, Exchange Online, SharePoint Online, SharePoint Hybrid from 2010 to 2016, Lync Online, Office 2016, Office 365 ProPlus and Yammer.  • Responsible for delivering an enjoyable and seamless onboarding experience from other on-premises or cloud platforms to Office 365.  • Provide technical support for Small Business customers from various Office 365 products and services (some Enterprise level services).  • Utilize Azure AD and/or existing PowerShell scripts to customize clients' Office 365 portal.  • Respond to customer tickets/e-mails via RAVE and assist in resolving Office 365 related issues/concerns.  • Resolve Office 365 and ProPlus Suite configuration issues.  • 100% Remote Position. Network Systems Engineer CTS Companies December 2017 to December 2018 • Exchange server builds, maintenance, administration, patching, and optimization of the exchange on prem environment  • Support the administration of the current corporate email and application environment which comprises Lotus Notes on premise and O365 services.  • Assist/Coordinate with messaging projects, software upgrades, architecture changes and implementation of new components within the environment.  • Create and maintain the Exchange Architectural/technical documentation including server build documentation and related network diagram  • Develop and document processes and procedures for Office 365 and associated Office Systems  • Assist with technical training and guides and mentors less experienced staff  • Assist with the Office 365 and associated Office Systems roadmap  • Migrate on premise corporate and store emails from Lotus Notes to exchange on prem to O365 without business disruption.  • Developing customer PowerShell scripts for automation, redundant task, reporting, monitoring, etc.  • Troubleshoot Messaging issues, working in collaboration with other relevant IT areas and vendor support towards a quick and effective resolution  • Resolve complex routing problems in a heterogeneous messaging environment  • Resolve Tier-2 and Tier-3 tickets related to messaging and collaboration systems  • Maintain the development, test and production environments  • Builds an understanding of current technical Office System architecture and all aspects of the architecture life cycle  • Maintains familiarity with general infrastructure, cloud platforms, and application hosting options with a detailed understanding of their service area within the Office Systems domain  • Understands information systems requirements and incorporates these requirements into Office 365 and related Office solutions  • Supports tests on new technologies that have potential impact of Office 365 and potential for use in Office Systems environment  • Work directly with users, developers, engineers, and vendors in the design and configuration of Office 365 and associated Office Systems  • Maintain a thorough understanding of the basics behind the Internet and its workings (DNS, Security, IP Routing, HTTP, VPN, Email Routing, SPAM, etc.  • Configure and setup Cisco, and Juniper Firewalls, VPN Connections and Security Appliances  • Support the day-to-day operations and maintain the Active Directory (AD) Services supporting several corporate enterprise customers with over 100 locations and 25000 users.  • Adhere to best practices, processes and procedures to underpin the onboarding, transfers and off boarding processes for AD accounts (User, Service, Generic, Vendor).  • • Liaison with project teams to ensure the smooth transition of new applications, systems and initiatives into the production environment that rely on AD for all customers  • Resolve and conduct root cause analysis of system performance/failure issues.  • Review and recommend options to improve the effectiveness of AD infrastructure  • Contribute to production and maintenance of system documentation and standard operating procedures  • Engage key stakeholders and sponsors to ensure customer strategic requirements are being met  • On-call support during off-duty hours on weekdays, weekends and holidays on a scheduled/rotating basis  • experienced in Installation and configuration of ESXi Cluster, vSphere ESXis, Vcenter, VSphere Cluster  • Administrated enterprise-sized VMWare-based virtualization infrastructures covering vCenter and standalone ESXi environments version 5.5 and later. Also installed, configured and integrate servers associated with a VMWare virtual infrastructure as well as performed backup, troubleshooting and problem resolution. Additionally ensured the security posture for the virtualization environment by monitoring system security, documenting system configurations, and ensuring compliance with industry best practices Gypsum Material Supply - Network Systems Administrator Entire Company January 2017 to July 2017 • Single handedly upgraded Entire Company networked infrastructure. As I managed the North West region of 26 office and distribution centers with over 15,000 end users. Implementing a massive cloud infrastructure environment, by migrating exchange servers and data share servers to Rackspace and drop box and cloud based servers through (AWS),  • Maximized corporate network services uptime by phasing out all windows 2000 servers and converting necessary data to and virtual servers using Hyper-v  • Upgraded data connections through negotiations with isp to fiber, and performed fiber turn ups  • Migrated users from my sites to parent company Lync server, created lync pool for my locations, and pushed install of MS Office Apps from SCCM to all devices  • Configured deployments for SCCM, for remote deployment of PC image and company applications.  • Automated & monitored weekly and monthly server maintenance through use of scripting.  • Installed, and configured Cisco Meraki switches and dell SonicWALL firewalls for connections to our WAN network  • Active directory and Exchange administration including but not limited to user creation, group policy management, security group creation and management, file server management, domain and forest migration, mailbox management, migration, and security Network Systems Administrator Vaupell Industrial Plastics June 2015 to June 2016 Network Tech\ Administrator Entire Company December 2014 to June 2015 networked infrastructure. Implementing server virtualization through Fail over cluster manager. While increasing redundancy through use of iSCSI, Datacore and mirrored SAN's  • Maximized corporate network services uptime while reducing IT expenditure by $150K.  • Mentoring junior staff in best practice and Practicality  • Configured deployments for SCCM, for remote deployment of PC image and company applications  • Automated & monitored weekly and monthly server maintenance through use of scripting.  • Upgraded company network connection form T1 to GB Fiber connection including installation, & configuration of Cisco router to WAN network  • Giving final tier phone, email, & remote support to customers  • Administering a Microsoft Windows Server network of servers including but not limited to maintaining: Active Directory, Exchange, Sql, and DC, and file servers  Contango IT - Network Tech\ Administrator  12.2014 - 06.2015  • Maintain a thorough understanding of the basics behind the Internet and its workings (DNS, Security, IP Routing, HTTP, VPN, Email Routing, SPAM, etc.  • Configure and setup Cisco Firewalls, VPN Concentrators and Security Appliance for Access to vital business applications  • Design, setup and configure complex switching environments  • Design, setup and configure complex wireless networking that supports open or secured access and the ability to support voice and video applications  • Design, test, certify and document new cloud systems, cloud based environments and cloud services  • Provide expert, internal-consulting and support to business units to translate requirements into cloud service-based solutions. Enabling the unique needs of innovative and data-driven communities and their business processes  • Maintaining multi-site network operations and software applications, operating systems and regular maintenance with both private and public facilities  • Troubleshooting malfunctions of network hardware and software applications, telephones and security systems to resolve operational issues and restore services  • Responding to inquiries from staff, administrators, service providers, site personnel and outside vendors and etc. to provide technical assistance and support Network Admin 25B U.S. Army February 2005 to July 2014 • Install, configure, and support an organization's local area network (LAN), wide area network (WAN), and Internet systems or a segment of a network system.  • Monitor network to ensure network availability to all system users and perform necessary maintenance to support network availability.  • Conduct network modeling, analysis, planning, and coordination between network and data communications hardware and software.  • Supervise computer user support specialists and computer network support specialists  • Administer network security measure  • Working technical knowledge of current systems software, protocols, and standards, including TCP/IP, DNS, WINS and DHCP  • Experience with telecommunications carriers for maintaining and troubleshooting WAN circuits.  • Disaster recovery and fault tolerance engineering experience  • Ability to effectively prioritize and execute tasks in a high-pressure environment Education Bachelor of Network Communications Management in Network Communications Management Devry University 2005 Military Service Branch: United States Army Rank: E5