IT Director IT Director IT Professional Salt Lake City, UT 14 Years of IT Experience. Starting as a help desk analyst and most recently working as the Director of IT. Many years of System Administration. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience IT Director MRM McCann - Salt Lake City, UT Present 2 Years as IT Director working with a team of 3 - 4 successfully implementing many IT Projects while servicing our end user base of 250+ Systems Administrator MRM Worldwide - Salt Lake City, UT March 2011 to January 2017 Primarily responsible for all servers setup and management in Microsoft Windows environment. Responsible for VMware environment consisting of 4 hosts and 25+ Guest servers. Responsible for all server and NAS backup and archives. Responsible for monthly server patching deployment. Manage and support Avaya phone system. Responsible for all IT related purchasing. Responsible for DNS/DHCP server management. Manage wireless controller. Mentor Help Desk Technicians and train new employees. Network Administrator OttoBock HealthCare - Salt Lake City, UT March 2010 to October 2010 Answer and respond to all tech and computer related phone calls. Support, Troubleshoot, repair; install all laptop and desktop along with PDA cell phone related hardware and software issues. Set up all new hire’s tech and computer related equipment including installing new software. Set up new accounts in active directory as needed. Experience with running and setting up network cable. Experience with setting up, maintaining, and repairing network printers. Migrate users to new machines when needed. Setup new Server hardware and OS as needed. Setup and trouble shoot network hardware as needed. Setup new server hardware as needed, including virtualized servers. Help Desk Analyst McCann Erickson - Salt Lake City, UT June 2005 to March 2010 Answer and respond to all tech and computer related phone calls.  Support, Troubleshoot, repair; install all laptop and desktop along with PDA cell phone related hardware and software issues. Set up all new hire’s tech and computer related equipment including installing new software. Set up new accounts in active directory as needed. Experience with running and setting up network cable. Experience with setting up, maintaining, and repairing network printers. Migrate users to new machines when needed. Setup new Server hardware and OS as needed. Setup and trouble shoot network hardware as needed. Education Bachelor's in Information Technology University of Phoenix-Online Campus - Salt Lake City, UT 2008 to 2011 Skills Customer Service, Exchange, Network Administration, Strategic Planning, Vmware, Aws (Less than 1 year), Active Directory, IT Management, Azure (Less than 1 year), Backups Solutions (10+ years), VoIP, Disaster Recovery, Communications, It Project Management, Servers, Windows Server, Cloud Computing Certifications/Licenses Network+