Cyber Security Specialist Cyber Security Specialist Cyber Security Specialist Richmond, KY To obtain a career-oriented position providing opportunities for advancement while allowing me to utilize my experience and specialized skill set. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Cyber Security Specialist Boston Government Services/MCS - Lexington, KY October 2018 to Present Key Competencies  ·        Monitor and analyze alerts from Intrusion Detection/Prevention Systems (IDS/IPS), firewalls, anti-virus, and other tools/systems.   ·        Responsible for Information Assurance and Information Security.  ·        Responsible for conducting system reviews, writing audit/review reports, reviewing findings and making recommendations to senior management.  ·        Perform information security and vulnerability assessments.  ·        Provide timely communication and reporting related to security events (real time, trends), security incident management tracking and follow up.  ·        Develops and maintains policies, procedures, baselines and standards.    Projects & Achievements  ·        Restructured Nessus vulnerability scanning to include all relevant networks/nodes  ·        Developed policy on exceptions/exceptions of for network scanning  ·        Provide security assessments on varies software implementations.  ·        Conducted self-security assessment review of varies NIST controls and policies for compliance verification.    ·        Pay a key role in the redesign and implementation of Splunk environment.  ·        Conducted varies Phishing tests against end-user base. Sr. Network Security Engineer Kentucky Interactive - Frankfort, KY August 2007 to October 2018 Key Competencies  ·        Responsible for monitoring the security of critical infrastructure systems (e.g. firewalls, web servers, database servers etc.) and changes to security controls. Report, investigate, and/or mitigate any irregularities.   ·        Responsible for reviewing assessments from vulnerability scanner to identify system vulnerabilities and develop remediation plans and security procedures.  ·        Responsible for ensuring compliance with PCI DSS, NIC Corporate, and KY Interactive Security policies by conducting and completing reviews and audits while engaging both internal & external business partners to mitigate any complicacy concerns.  ·        Responsible for managing internal and external SSL certificates for both internal and external endpoints, which includes installation and renewals.  ·        Play a key role in reviewing, improving and maintaining information security environment, and underlying policies, procedures, standards and guidelines through research of changes in the IT security industry.  ·        Responsible for installing, updating, and troubleshooting LAN/WAN devices which includes web, application, database, and management servers, VMWare environment, Cisco switches, CheckPoint firewalls, BigIP Load Balancers, Dell/EMC SAN and Cisco wireless devices.  ·        Develop strategic LAN/WAN projects for improvements and/or enhancements that are scalable, and secure.  ·        Maintain and monitor infrastructure backups, and network/server patches.    Projects & Achievements  ·        Working with team members I played a role in planning the migration of the existing data center environment to Azure Cloud.  ·        Working with 3rd party vendor I played a key role in the setup and configuration of the Dell EMS SAN CX3-10, which included installation of hardware, software, and allocation of storage resources.  ·        Developed and implemented virtualization project plan, VMware 5.5, that included required servers, software, and networking resources.  ·        Coordinated and assisted in the upgrade project of end of life load balancers F5 LTM hardware to F5 5050 series.   ·        Upgraded switch environment from Cisco 2900 switches to Cisco 3560 switches.  ·        Working with team members I played a key role in the implementations of the SharePoint 2007, 2010, & 2013 SharePoint environments, which included spec’ing out servers, installation of servers and software, configuration of SharePoint, and maintenance.  ·        Developed and implemented a Secure Wireless LAN in the office environment.  ·        Developed project plan to migrate from SharePoint 2007 & SharePoint 2010, to SharePoint 2013 which included necessary hardware, software, and networking resources.  ·        Implemented enterprise backup solution, which included installation and configuration of TSM clients. Network Administrator Motor Wheel CVS - Berea, KY June 2006 to August 2007 Key Competencies  ·        Responsible for installing, maintaining and/or troubleshooting LAN/WAN devices which includes Cisco firewalls (ASA/PIX), VMWare ESX, Exchange, SQL, Wireless devices, Web Content filtering, Backups, Active Directory, Wins, DNS and DHCP.  ·        Monitor network devices such as servers, switches, routers.   ·        Maintain and monitor remote offices LAN/WAN devices                                              Projects & Achievements  ·        Developed and implemented a Secure Wireless LAN environment.  ·        Upgraded datacenter infrastructure switch environment with Cisco 3560 switches.  ·        Developed and implemented Web Content filtering solution using SurfControl.  ·        Developed and implemented Blackberry Enterprise Server solution  ·        Migrated varies physical servers to virtual environment.  ·        Developed offsite storage solution of backup media for local and remote offices.  ·        Worked with varies vendors to provide enterprise improvements to datacenter, which included security, power, and fire suppression systems. Education Associates Degree in Management Information Systems National College of Business - Richmond, KY 1995 Skills Cyber Security (10+ years), Information Security (10+ years), Network Security (10+ years), Network Administration (10+ years), It Security, Cybersecurity, Nist, Checkpoint Firewall (10+ years), BigIP F5 (10+ years), Cisco ASA Firewall, Splunk, Windows (10+ years), Cisco Content Security Management Appliance, Cisco IronPort E-mail Security Appliance, Cisco Web Security Appliance, VPN, Vmware, Nessus, Vulnerability Scanning, IIS, SQL, Active Directory Military Service Branch: Army Service Country: United States Rank: PV2 January 1989 to January 1991 Bridge Crewman Certifications/Licenses MCSE January 2002 CCNA January 2007 CCDA January 2010 GSEC January 2008 Additional Information Operating Systems: Windows 2008, 2012 and 2016, Windows 7, Windows 10    Hardware: CheckPoint Nokia Firewall, TrustWave WebDefend IPS, Cisco ASA, Cisco VPN Concentrator, Cisco Wireless, Cisco Email Security Appliance C170, Cisco Web Security Appliance, F5 BigIP 3600/5050 Load Balancer, Dell EMC CX3, VNX, VNXe SAN, and Cisco 2900/3500/3700 series switches    Networking: LAN/WAN, VLAN, LDAP, TCP/IP, VPN, SMTP, SNMP, NAT, DNS, DHCP, FTP, SFTP, Telnet, SSH, and Wireless 802.11x    Software: Splunk, Qualys Vulnerability Scanner, Tenable Nessus Vulnerability Scanner, VMware 5.5, IBM Bigfix, Symantec EndPoint, McAfee, Netsparker, Active Directory, SharePoint 2007/2010/2013, SQL 2005/2008/2014, IIS 6/7/8, IPSwitch WhatsUp Gold, SCOM 2005/2007, Tivoli TSM, Backup Exec, Visio, WS_FTP, and Microsoft Office    Tools: Navisphere, PowerPath, PowerShell, Putty, WinSCP, OpenSSL, RDP, Network Observer, WinSCP, WireShark, and Fiddler.