IT Security Officer for COA & Network Administrator IT Security Officer for COA &amp; <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> IT Security Officer for COA & Network Administrator - US-Courts Third Circuit Court of Appeals Abington, PA Work Experience IT Security Officer for COA & Network Administrator US-Courts Third Circuit Court of Appeals - Philadelphia, PA August 2015 to Present • Network Administrator in corporate IT Department with responsibility for managing internal network infrastructure supporting over 200+ users.  • Configuration and administration of Active Directory on Windows 2008 and 2012 environment.  • Management of DHCP; DNS; Print Servers.  • Creation and administration of Group Policy.  • Provided Data center administration and support to include software and hardware installation, maintenance, upgrades, troubleshooting, user account administration, and support under stringent deadlines in a fast-paced environment.  • The configuration of HP Proliant and DELL Rack mounted servers.  • Installation, Configuration, and Administration of SEP 12.x; 14.x; Malware Bytes Enterprise  • Administration of Symantec Netbackup 7.5  • Administration, Management of Websense 7.5; Websense 7.8; ForcePoint 8.4 and ManageEngine Ad Audit Plus  • Installation of SQL 2014  • Management of VMware infrastructure. (Vsphere 5.5), Horizon View 6.0  • Assist the support team as needed.  • Managing an Active Directory merge to US Courts National Active Directory.  • Manage Splunk; Tenable VSS; NetScout; SolarWinds, and staring to get into Kace 1000  • Work with IT Security Score Card and 20 Critical Controls to create Policies & Procedures for the Court of Appeals.  • Review and make changes to Disaster Recovery Plan and Teleworking Agreement.  • Manage all SOC alert to completion.  • Manage and configure WLAN Controller  • In charge of all vRA Cloud Servers environment.  • Mentor of IT junior staff.    PROJECTS:  • Configured, and manage Websense 7.8.4.  • Design and install Symantec Enterprise Protection Management server to manage VDI Horizon View Floating pool gold images.  • Design and installation of MAlwareBytes Enterprise Server.  • Project lead to clean up Active Directory from groups, users, computer and Group policies.  • Project lead in gathering all Files servers shares with permissions for categorization of Data Governance.  • Created project plan for a Backup strategy for the Court of Appeals for the 3rd circuit.  • Cleaned up the Print server and manage then via Group Policy to be effective to the users.  • Project lead for migration of users to National Active Directory  • Currently working in an IT Security role by working on creating local Security policies and procedures.  • Using Solarwind, NetScout and windows performance and resource monitor to figure out that we were losing PCoIP packets that were degrading the VDI environment.  • Took control of managing all aspect of the Data Center including our NetApp SAN to host our Data Cluster for our VMware local server's environment.  • Help with setting up GPOs for Kace Patch management appliance.  • Upgrade Symantec EndPoint Protection from version 12.x to 14.X  • Migrating Domain Controllers from Windows 2008 to Windows 2012  • Upgraded our Forest functional level from Windows 2003 to Windows 2008  • Moved FSMO Roles from one old Domain Controller to a new one.  • Continue Project of 20 Controls of IT Security creating Policies and Procedures.  • IT Security Assessment from the Judiciary Administrative Office Security Team completed. Network Engineer URL Pharma - Philadelphia, PA March 2010 to August 2015 • Network Administrator in corporate IT Department with responsibility for managing internal network infrastructure supporting over 500+ users.  • Installation, configuration, and administration of Active Directory on Windows 2003 and 2008 environment.  • Management of DHCP; DNS; Print Servers.  • Creation and administration of Group Policy.  • Provided Data center administration and support to include software and hardware installation, maintenance, upgrades, troubleshooting, user account administration, and support under stringent deadlines in a fast-paced environment.  • The configuration of HP Proliant Rack mounted servers.  • Installation, configuration, maintenance, and administration of Backup solution using Symantec Backup Exec 11d; 12.x; 2010 R2 & R3; and 2012; Symantec Netbackup 7.5; Symantec SEP 11.x.  • Installation, Administration of Websense 7.5.  • Installation of SQL 2005; SQL 2008 R2  • Management of VMware infrastructure. (Vsphere 4.1)  • Assist the support team as needed.  • Management of ExaGrid deduplication appliance.  • Administration of Scriptlogic File System auditor software; Also, P.A.S.M (Power Admin Server Monitoring).  • Configuration and administration of iSCSI SAN HP MSA 2324i from creating Vdisks and provisioning Vdisks to host; VTrak M500i Promise arrays    PROJECTS:  • Installation and configuration of Backup Exec 2010 R2 and schedule policies for Monthly, Weekly, and daily jobs backing up to Disk and duplicating to tape. Tape Libraries are Quantum PX502; Scalar50; and Scalar i40.  • Migration of Symantec Backup Exec 12.5 to version 2010 R2.  • Migration of Symantec Backup Exec 2010 R2 to version 2010 R3.  • Setup Point and Print group policy.  • Setup office 2010 group policy.  • Evaluate Polycom Video conferencing equipment to use with Microsoft Lync 2010.  • Evaluate iPhone, iPad application for network monitoring or Active directory helpdesk apps.  • Installed, configured, and manage Websense 7.5.  • Installed, configured, and manage ExaGrid EX10000e Deduplication appliance wit Backup Exec 2010 R3.  • Tested the addition of a new windows 2008 domain controller into a windows 2003 environment.  • Installation of Windows 2008 R2 with SQL 2008 R2 Standard.  • Upgrade Firmware on all HP servers Integrated Lights-Out in our Data Center.  • Testing of Seagate BlackArmor 440 NAS and Synology DS1512+ NAS  • Installation and testing of Backup Exec 2012. Tested the restore of Exchange 2007 mailbox to a PST file.  • Installation of Windows 2008 R2 on DELL Power Edge R720 server and PowerVault TL2000 with LTO6 tape drives  • Installation and configuration of Symantec Netbackup 7.5.  • Collaborated on a Re-IP project for one of our locations in Philadelphia.  • Managing Infrastructure project for our Mexico Pharma plant and office. Network Manager Conestoga Bank - Feasterville, PA May 2007 to February 2010 • Manager of Conestoga Bank Information System's Helpdesk group.  • Mentor of Conestoga Bank Helpdesk group.  • Network Administrator and manager in corporate IT Department with responsibility for managing internal network infrastructure supporting over 100+ users.  • Configuration and administration of Exchange Server 2003 on Windows 2003 Server Platform  • Installation, configuration, and administration of Active Directory on Windows 2000 and 2003 environment.  • Configuration and administration of Windows Server Updates Services.  • Provided system administration and helpdesk support to include software and hardware installation, maintenance, upgrades, troubleshooting, user account administration, and support under stringent deadlines in a fast-paced environment.  • The configuration of Dell Power Edge & Intel Servers; Compaq & HP Proliant Rack mounted servers; Dell, HP, and Compaq Desktops; Dell, HP Notebooks.  • Installation, Configuration and Administration of Symantec Antivirus 8.0, 9.0, 10.x Enterprise corporate editions and SEP 11.x; Also, a Backup solution using VERITAS Backup Exec 10.1d.; 11.x;12.x; Also, imaging the hardware of HP, DELL PC's with 2000/XP/Vista using ghost software.  • Installation, configuration and Administration of BlackBerry Enterprise Server for Exchange version 4.1.x  • Management of Barracuda Spam filter appliance.  • Installation of SQL 2000 and SQL 2005.    PROJECTS:  • Installation and configuration of Backup Exec 10d and setup daily schedule for the Mail server, application servers.  • Created an XP image using ghost and setup with SysPrep. Pushed the imaged using Bart-PE and Ghost to (20) DELL desktops.  • Analyzed the Domain and local Group policies in placed and made a recommendation to our VP of Information Systems of changes needed to be done.  • Installation and configuration of BlackBerry Enterprise Server 4.1.x for Exchange.  • Helped VP of Information Systems with the yearly budget.  • Installation, configuration, and administration of VMware ESXi.  • Conversion of physical servers to VMware Machines using VMware Converter 3.x  • Defragmentation of Exchange 2003 Information Store.  • Deployed SEP 11.x Bank-wide.  • Installation of a new domain controller, file server, print server.  • Managed installation of Office 2007 Bank-wide.  • Upgraded Backup Exec 11.x to 12.5  • Installation of Windows 2008 Server. Senior Implementation Engineer Acsis, Inc - Marlton, NJ October 2006 to April 2007 • The configuration of Dell & Intel Servers; Compaq Proliant servers; Dell Desktop; Dell, Compaq, Toshiba Notebooks, Cisco and Linksys hubs and switches, and wireless routers  • Configuration and Implementation of Palm OS- and Pocket PC, Windows Mobile 5.0 and Windows CE based PDA's  • Installation of Acsis, Inc. barcode software for Acsis Clients  • Travel to Acsis Clients for installation, configuration, and troubleshooting of Acsis, Inc. software.  • Configuration, troubleshooting, and support of Intermec, Symbol, Cisco, Linksys wireless devices, including Handheld and access points.  • Configuration, installation and project documentation of RFID hardware for Acsis, Inc. clients.  • Serve as backup Manager when the Manager of our Implementation department is not present.  • Created a Bart-PE to use for ghosting on an 8GB USB key. Network Manager Samaritan Hospice - Marlton, NJ January 2006 to October 2006 • Network Administrator in corporate IT Department with responsibility for managing internal network infrastructure supporting over 100+ users.  • Installation, configuration and administration of Exchange Server 2003 with Back and Front-End Server; iHateSpam Server for Exchange, which allows mailboxes to filter for Spam emails; Messaging Ninja for Exchange, which allows mailboxes to filter for Spam emails, antivirus plugin, and Attachment filtering. Also, Active Directory on Windows 2000 and 2003 environment; Project Server 2003; Windows Server Updates Services.  • Manage all aspect of Samaritan Hospice Network infrastructure and Samaritan Hospice Information System Tech Support group.    PROJECTS:  • Installation and configuration of the new Mail server. Installed Windows Server 2003 with Exchange Server 2003; migrated mailboxes from old server to new mail server.  • Installation and configuration of a Front-End server to handle Outlook Web Access for both servers.  • Installation, configuration and maintenance of Windows Server Updates Services server on Windows Server 2003.  • Setup their MISYS Application to run on a Terminal Services Server to automatically start the application when user login to the Terminal Services Server.  • Reorganized Active Directory forest by creating new organizational units by office and departments. Also, created Domain and Local group policies.  • Created a new Logon script using Kix32 so users were not able to close the script.  • Created new Security groups and Exchange Distribution list within Active Directory to be more organized and manageable.  • Fixed shares permission and security to reflect HIPPA Standards.  • Created a new FTP site for Samaritan Hospice.  • Created a Disaster Recovery Plan document.  • Setup their helpdesk ticket application (Asset Navigator 4.5) to automatically create a new Ticket and auto-reply to the sender when email is received to the helpdesk mailbox. Network Administrator Acsis, Inc - Marlton, NJ March 2003 to January 2006 • Information Technology Specialist in corporate IT Department with responsibility for managing Internal network infrastructure supporting over 100+ users.  • Provided system administration and helpdesk support to include software and hardware installation, maintenance, upgrades, troubleshooting, user account administration, and support under stringent deadlines in a fast-paced, 24x7 environment.  • The configuration of Dell Power Edge & Intel Servers; Compaq Proliant Rack mounted servers; Dell Desktop; Dell, Compaq, Toshiba Notebooks, Cisco and Linksys hubs and switches, and wireless routers  • Configuration and Implementation of Palm OS- and Pocket PC, and Windows CE based PDA's  • Configuration and maintenances of DELL, HP, Lexmark, Epson, Canon Printers  • Managed Active Directory, DHCP, WINS, and DNS Servers  • Implement and support Windows NT 4.0, Windows 2000 (Server and Professional), Windows XP Professional, and Windows 2003 Server  • Configure computers and printers using hardware, software and firmware utilities  • Established and connected network printers in the network using proprietary software  • Followed procedures for recreating problems in printers to test for a possible correction in firmware or software updates  • Configured printers and computers using TCP/IP  • Executed test procedures for printer hardware, software, and firmware prior to public release using Windows 9x, Windows NT, Windows 2000, Windows XP, and Windows 2003 Server.  • Tested printers using DOS, MS Office Suite, Adobe Illustrator and Adobe Photoshop, Adobe Acrobat  • Reported and documented problem situations with printers in the company database  • Migration from Windows NT 4.0 to Windows 2000 (Workstation & Server); from Windows 2000 Professional to Windows XP Professional; from Windows 2000 Server to Windows 2003 Server.  • Install, configured and troubleshoot RAS, VPN applications and WAN access issues  • Build computers systems (workstation and servers)  • Install, configure and troubleshoot wireless devices (900 MHz, 2.4 GHz, (802.11a,b,g or Proxim Radios)) (Intermec, Symbol, Linksys, Cisco, Blackberry)  • Configuration and troubleshooting of Cisco's PIX 515 Firewalls, wireless access points  • Administration on NT domain and Microsoft Active Directory  • Served as Technical lead when IS Manager is not available  • Installation of SQL Server 6.5; 7.0; and 2000, also backup and restore of SQL Databases  • Install, configure, and troubleshoot any problems with Notebooks (Dell preferred)  • Backup and restore PC, Notebooks, and Servers using Ghost 8.0.  • Responsible for all operations for IT Department  • Installation, configuration, maintenance, and administration of Acsis, Inc backup solution using VERITAS Netbackup Data Center 4.5 MP6 and Netbackup Enterprise 5.1 MP3 for Windows.  • Active Directory security using group policies.  • Installation, configuration, maintenance, and Administration of Blackberry Enterprise Server for Exchange version 3.6 with SP6; Microsoft Operation Manager 2005with SP1; Microsoft Windows Server Update Services; Symantec Antivirus 9.0 and 10.0 Enterprise corporate editions; APC UPS using PowerChute Network shutdown for Windows.  • Administration and troubleshooting of Cluster Servers.    PROJECTS:  • Installation and configuration of Blackberry Enterprise Server for Exchange on a DELL PowerEdge 2550. After Installation and configuration, I continue to administer the BES by adding users and created policies groups for security purpose.  • Installation, configuration, and administration of Microsoft Operation Management 2005 (MOM). This project took some time to work on. There are a lot of Management packages that need to look at and change and created different rules for as needed.  • Installation, configuration, and administration of Netbackup Enterprise Server 4.5. MP6 and upgrade to 5.1 MP3a. Also, design and configure backup policies that schedules, what will be stored in tapes and what in the disk. Senior Implementation Specialist Acsis, Inc - Marlton, NJ October 2001 to March 2003 • The configuration of Dell Power Edge & Intel Servers; Compaq Proliant Rack mounted servers; Dell Desktop; Dell, Compaq, Toshiba Notebooks, Cisco and Linksys hubs and switches, and wireless routers  • Configuration and Implementation of Palm OS- and Pocket PC, and Windows CE based PDA's  • Installation of Acsis Datapass 2.5; 3.0; and 4.0 version for Acsis Clients  • Travel to Acsis Clients for installation, configuration, and troubleshooting of Datapass version 3.x and 4.x version and Datalink 4.0 early version.  • Configuration, troubleshooting, and support or Intermec, Symbol, Cisco, Linksys wireless devices.  • Assist the Information System Department when needed on the configuration of Notebooks and workstations. Customer Support Specialist Acsis, Inc - Marlton, NJ November 1999 to October 2001 • Helped Acsis Clients by troubleshooting any issues with Datapass 2.5, 3.0, over the phone and sometimes via remote control to their servers and troubleshoot the issues.  • Create Tickets in Acsis owned Tracking system for Helpdesk issues.  • Configuration over the phone with the customer or in-house of Intermec or Symbol wireless devices.  • Assisted the Implementation team when needed. Education Mentoring Skills for Managers and supervisors Rockhurst University Continuing Education National Seminar Group - San Antonio, TX 2009 to 2010 Diploma in Network Engineering Technology DPT Business School - Philadelphia, PA 1999 Skills Active directory, Exchange, Solarwinds, Virtual server, Lan/wan, Netscout, Vmware, Vmware server, Wan troubleshooting, Sql, Symantec, Disaster recovery, Ghost, Netbackup, Veritas, Websense, Splunk, Backup exec, Track-it, Vss, Customer Service, Networking, Security, Windows, Windows 7, Technical Support, Microsoft Office Additional Information Competencies  Windows Administrator • LAN/WAN Troubleshooting & Resolution  Network Administrator • Network Engineer • Network Manager • Helpdesk Support • Hardware / Software Installation and Configuration • Disaster Recovery • Wireless Hardware    TECHNICAL SKILLS:  SOFTWARE  • Exchange Server 2003  • Exchange 2007  • Exchange 2010  • VERITAS Netbackup 4.5 MP6  • VERITAS NetBackup server 5.1 MP3  • Symantec NetBackup 7.5  • Symantec Backup Exec 10.1, 11, 12; 2010; 2012  • Track-It  • Norton Utilities  • Project Server 2003  • Microsoft Office 2003  • Microsoft Office 2007  • Microsoft Office 2010;2013  • BlackBerry Enterprise for Exchange 3.6  • BlackBerry Enterprise for Exchange 4.1  • Sophos Anti-Virus  • Symantec End Point 11.x; 12.x  • Diskeeper  • Norton Ghost 8.0  • Active Directory  • Spherical 6.0  • Windows Server Update Services  • Microsoft Virtual Server 2005  • Microsoft ISA server 2006  • BART PE  • Windows PE  • VMware Server 1.x; 2.x;3.x; 4.x  • VMware ESXi  • Websense 7.X  • Microsoft Lync 2010  • ScriptLogic Filesystem Auditor  • Splunk  • Tenable VSS  • ManageEngine AD Audit  • NetScout  • SolarWinds NPM    • SQL 7.0; 2000; 2005; 2008  • PCAnywhere  • APC PowerChute  OPERATING SYSTEMS  • Windows 2012 Server  • Windows 2016 Server  • Windows 2008 Server  • Windows 2003 Server  • Windows XP  • Windows Vista  • Windows 7  • Windows 10  • Windows 98    • Windows 2000 Server  • Windows 2000 Professional  • Windows NT 4.0  • Windows 95  • DOS