IT Director IT Director IT Director - ANA G. MÉNDEZ UNIVERSITY SYSTEM Caguas, PR • Achieved 92% SLA compliance by implementing remote support to maximize resource and prioritizing result.  • Designed and developed Structure for Intranet SharePoint Site for UMET based on Office 365 Technology.  • Led execution of Electronic Medical Record for UMET campus employing Project Management Principle.  • Accomplished Virtualization of 42 servers and provisioning of 130 virtual desktop.  • Executed IT department restructuring plan, improved 10% SLA compliance, reduced operating cost to 15%.  • Developed effective policy regarding Technology usage in SUAGM by collaborating with Senior Management. Work Experience IT Director ANA G. MÉNDEZ UNIVERSITY SYSTEM - San Juan, PR 2010 to Present Spearhead comprehensive campus IT operations with over 578 faculty/staff and 11,000+ students to ensure optimal service quality and minimum downtime.  Direct Tear 1 Service Desk, Client Support, Labs Computer Support and Administrative Staff Support teams while adhering to all IT protocols and procedures. Supervise technological projects budget and operational operating budget while collaborating with senior management in development of IT strategy to support of university mission. Manage procurement of technological equipment and hiring of contractors to install network infrastructure. Oversee institutional Service Desk and supervising SLA and quality compliance. Ensure seamless HR operations by hiring and training employees, planning, and directing work, appraising performances, addressing complaints and resolving issue.  • Evaluated complexity and functions of university employees by collaborating with HR team.  • Member of institutional Change Management Committee based on ITIL 3.0.  • Prepared UMET Strategic plan for years 2016-2020 by delivering exceptional support. Network & System Administrator CARLOS ALBIZU UNIVERSITY - San Juan, PR 2005 to 2010 Oversaw network and system functionalities such as domain controller administration and active directory management while supervising team of three technicians.  Delivered technical leadership in implementing and configuring institutional servers, server applications, routers, switches, firewall and database as well as in managing Microsoft Exchange and SharePoint Server. Established and executed group and security policies while adhering with company policy and procedures. Documented server lifecycle management procedures, prepared application diagrams to reduce support requirements whilst improving quality and productivity. Developed security, backup and disaster recovery procedures with Symantec Backup Exec and Veritas backup software and managed drive array. Maintained Mitel's PBX and VoIP Platform for voice communications.  • Upgraded Microsoft Exchange on premise server from 2010 to 2013 that expanded mailbox size from 2gb to 25gb.  • Customized Domain Functional Level in the enterprise network from Windows 2003 to Windows 2008.  • Obtained redundancy and more storage space by incorporating SAN Storage.  • Achieved monitor internet usage and policy compliance by integrating web-filtering rule based on active directory.  • Upgraded Mitel PBX Digital Technology to VOIP within 3 months that saved telephony equipment and expanded telephony services including desktop telephone support for the management. System Administrator WPRV-TV - San Juan, PR 2006 to 2008 Monitored system performance and troubleshooting issues while ensuring security and efficiency of IT infrastructure.  Planned, established, and implemented policies, procedures and associated training plans for network resources administration, appropriate use, and disaster recovery. Delivered high level functional support, including procedural documentation, subsequent diagrams and written instructions to repair fault/set up a system, supporting the roll-out of new applications. Ensured network connectivity of all computers, perform network design and capacity planning, monitor and test network performance and provide network performance statistics and reports,  • Upgraded from Novell Directory Services to Windows NT 4.0 based Directory.  • Installed a server\client infrastructure and managed accounts using unique privilege.  • Enhanced system from NT 4.0 to Windows 2000, in 6-month period migration upgraded functional level of domain.  • Integrated NAS solution to storage video for commercial production and interconnected traffic computer to NAS.  • Interconnected the ERP solution with the technical computer system. Education Master of Business Administration in Management Information System Universidad Del Turabo - San Juan, PR Bachelor's Degree in Arts Pontifical Universidad Católica - Ponce, PR Skills Vmware, Mysql, Sql, Android, Ios, Visio, Symantec, Linux, Mac, Mac os, Network Administration, Exchange, Excel, Customer Service, Strategic Planning Certifications/Licenses ITIL 4 Foundation July 2019 to Present The ITIL 4 Foundation certification is designed as an introduction to ITIL 4 and enables candidates to look at IT Service Management through an end-to-end operating model for the creation, delivery and continual improvement of tech-enabled products and services. Certified Quality Improvement Associate June 2013 to Present The Certified Quality Improvement Associate has a basic knowledge of quality tools and their uses and is involved in quality improvement projects CompTIA A+ April 2002 to Present Microsoft Certified Professional (MCP) May 2002 to Present Additional Information TECHNICAL PROFICIENCIES  Tools/Software:  Windows Server, Windows Workstation, Linux, VMware vSphere, Mac OS, Office, Project, Visio, Fortinet, MacAfee, Norton, Symantec BackupExec, iOS, Android, C+, SQL, MySQL