Strategic Sourcing Manager Strategic Sourcing Manager Network/Telecommunications Administrator Santa Clarita, CA Work Experience Strategic Sourcing Manager Wedbush Securities - Los Angeles, CA 2016 to March 2019 • Established and maintained business relationships with key vendors to ensure that the negotiated agreements are implemented, and aggressively pursued competitive purchase environment by constantly seeking alternative vendors.  • Analyzed and resolved all telecommunication and service provided billing issues.  • Worked with the network administrators to ensure the smooth transition from the existing MPLS network to the new SD-WAN network.  • Worked with and located outside vendors for both voice and data communications needs for our corporate and regional offices. Network / Telecom Administrator Wedbush Securities - Los Angeles, CA 2005 to 2016 • Designed, administered and installed the Shoretel VOIP PBX phone system for the corporate office as well as all 40 regional offices.  • Purchased and maintained all MPLS and SD-WAN data circuits as well as all T1 and BVOIP voice circuits for the main office as well as all 40 remote offices.  • Performed troubleshooting, configuring and modifying of telecommunications, WAN and LAN networks which included testing of all phone and data connections for corporate and remote offices using Cisco commands, and Wireshark.  • Oversaw and coordinated large-scale office moves as well as new office openings. Developed project plans, established resources and timelines to accommodate cabling and network resources not to impact users during working hours.  • Interacted with a variety of telecom and network service and equipment providers in order to stay current with new and upcoming technologies.  • Ordered and maintained all data and telecom circuits at corporate office and regional offices. Including T1, Analog and MPLS circuits.  • Provided complex technical support related to the installation, and maintenance of network systems, including LANs, WANs, T1, PBX and Cisco routers and switches.  • Maintained corporate data center. Installed cabling, maintained UPS and cooling system. Racked servers and routers.  • Strong time management, prioritization and planning skills with the ability to meet deadlines, achieve goals, and work in a dynamic environment. Education A.A.S in Electronic Technology in Electronic Technology Hartford University Skills CISCO, DHCP, TCP, TCP/IP, HTTP Additional Information SKILLS  • Network systems, protocols, and standards such as: TCP/IP, HTTP, HTTPS, DHCP, NAT.  • Strong troubleshooting skills and the ability to analyze problems objectively  • Ability to quickly learn new systems and technology  • Strong people skills and the ability to be resourceful, as well as make concise and independent decisions in often high-pressure situations.  • Ability to react quickly to issues and address them quickly by following processes and procedures.  • Knowledge of Cisco routers and switches..  • Ability to work independently with little supervision  • Ability to prioritize and multi-task, meeting deadlines while demonstrating accountability and follow-through