Lead/Starbucks Lead/Starbucks Winder, GA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Lead/Starbucks Kroger Stores - Dacula, GA February 2016 to May 2017 Order inventory, assign personnel to shifts, track inventory, prepare kiosk for sales/specials. Train baristas on specialty drinks. Office Systems Coordinator I / LT1(xtra) Ventura County Library - Ventura, CA December 2012 to June 2015 Responsibilities  Desktop support for public and private computers. Interface with vendors for updating and purchasing of computer software. Responsible for administration and maintenance of wireless and people counter systems in a WAN environment.    Accomplishments  Investigated, purchased and installed new wireless system in all 12 branches. Updated hardware and software for people counter systems. Investigated and fixed filtering issue with the Barracuda systems.     Skills Used  Troubleshooting, tenacity and willingness to find answers outside the box. Network Consultant Self Employed - Ventura, CA April 2011 to June 2014 Responsibilities  Computer and Network Consultant for 12 small businesses  Interface with users and vendors for purchase of software and hardware of automated software systems  Desktop support for all end users on automated office systems   Administration, maintenance and repair of network servers.    Accomplishments  Install new five new LAN's for clients. Troubleshoot third party vendor issues.     Skills Used  Troubleshooting, tenacity and a willingness to look beyond the answers available. Network Administrator/ Program Manager United Parents - Camarillo, CA 2005 to 2011 Responsibilities  Analyze, Design, Install, Configure, and Maintain Company LAN  Design and maintain company Intranet and Internet Website  Maintain confidentiality of privileged information (HIPAA)   Coordinate budgets and funding with Executive Director  Responsibility for IT security, and firewalls.  Train end users on company software    Accomplishments  Design LAN for company from ground up.    Skills Used  Tenacity, thoroughness, and ability to see interconnections.   Troubleshooting and life cycle Network Engineer MPI - Ventura, CA 1997 to 2000 Responsibilities  Network Engineer/ Administrator for 30 small to medium companies  Analyze, design, install, configure and troubleshoot microcomputers, data and networking.   Train end users on software     Accomplishments  Design, build, and install 3 new LANs for clients.   Monitor 30 small networks for issues  Update and maintain 30 small networks    Skills Used  Troubleshooting  Design Implementation  Multi tasking Education BS Information Technology in Operating Programs and Systems University of Phoenix-Online Campus 2000 to 2003 CNE/CNA in Novell Ventura, CA 1995 to 1997 Skills Networking Administration (10+ years), Networking Engineering (10+ years), Desktop support (10+ years), Selector Certifications/Licenses CNE Present Certified Netware Administrator/ Certified Netware Engineer 4.0/5.0 Additional Information Certificates: Visual Basic and C+ Programming  Directories: Windows Server Active Directory and Novell Directory Services  Desktop OS: Windows 9X/NT/2000/XP/7/8 MAC OSX  Network OS: Windows Server 2000/2003; SBS 2000/2003;Novell NetWare 4.0/5.0/6.0  Helpdesk: Spiceworks; Solarwinds  Database: MS Access, ACT, Microsoft SQL  Library : Sirsi Dynix, Horizon, Envisionware  Backup: Arc Serve, Backup Exec  Programming: Visual Basic, HTML, C+  Software: MS Office 97/2000/ 2007/2010, MS Expression, Auto CAD, MS Visio, POS, MediSoft,  Web Apps: Microsoft SharePoint