Windows Server Administrator Windows Server <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Network Engineer Baton Rouge, LA Work Experience Windows Server Administrator MIS Technology Group - Zachary, LA March 2019 to August 2019 Job role - Azure/Server/ Network administrator  Duties – Manage Veeam backup, Azure a created Blog storage for backup, any issues with servers or application issues, troubleshoot network all issues, administered Exchange Office 365 account, and HR Payroll systems for various clients. Network/field Engineer General Informatics - Baton Rouge, LA October 2016 to February 2019 70810 *Field Engineer responsibilities: Support 250+ clients Large and small projects setups, Exchange  365, configure and deployment of infrastructure such as servers, firewalls, AP's, and layer2-3 switches  (Brocade and Cisco), troubleshooting network problems, Management of 142 client Office 365  Exchange accounts and Office 365 applications, and assist with help desk trouble tickets. *Lead account manager for HealthCare Options, LLC - Responsible for client every and all issues or needs for client's entire network which includes 5 sites throughout 3 states connected through site to site VPN tunneling, 8 servers, off/onsite backups and 79+ workstations. In addition, responsible for  100+ end users On-premise Active Directory and exchange 365 accounts.  *Assistant account manager for EBR Sheriff's Office - supporting all infrastructure, which includes all  Sheriff's sub-station and parish prison sites, 45 servers, 273 workstations, and 300+ officers. *Assistant account manager for District Attorney's office - supporting all infrastructure, which includes all Sheriff's sub-station and parish prison sites, 9 servers, 245 workstations, 400+ Investigators officers, and all end-users at 19th Judicial District Courthouse including all offices, court rooms, lawyers, judges, and court applications.  *Assistant account manager for Baker Police departments - entire infrastructure and supports over 50  + Law enforcement officers.  *Assistant account manager for Iberville Parish Government (20 servers, 69 workstations), Iberville Clerk Court (2 servers, 35 workstations), West Baton Rouge Clerk of Courts (2 servers, 21 workstations), and over 130 end-users Network engineer II Epic Networking Solutions, LLC - Baton Rouge, LA January 2015 to August 2016 70815 *Providing IT support for home and small businesses with network consulting, computer repair, Point-of-Sale systems, printer/ network printer issues, software, servers, routers & switches, cabling, virus cleanup, Hosted exchange, cloud services, Hosted PBX, and PC & server Backups to the cloud. Network Systems Engineer North Oaks Health Systems - Hammond, LA January 2014 to December 2014 *Projected base position and leaded over 20 projects completed of network design to new hospital equipment, and new or old construction for different areas within the hospital. Support remote and onsite hospital campus and 15+ remote clinic and facilities uplink back to main campus core routers and switches (site to site communication).  *Supported, design, configure, and installation of hospital Data Center servers with over 80 physical servers, 400+ virtual servers, over 87 APC UPS with management, and Cisco wireless controllers throughout the entire network. Installed AVTech Room Alert server for monitoring system to monitor air-flow and temperature within the Data Center for critical systems. Cisco Secure Access Control Server 5.5, UCS blades, 250+ IP security cameras, Cisco VoIP system (Unified Communications manager), Cisco 3500 series wireless AP's, worked with and supported the design and setup with multiple engineers such as General Electric and EPIC database analyst with the configuration and network setup and all types of hospital equipment such as MRI and EKG machines and all other hospital equipment that connects to the network either hard wired or wireless with VLANs and DHCP reservation for static IP addressing. Granted or removed hospital employee's permissions through active directory 2012, and server and work stations updates deployments.  *Support, design, and configure over 125 cisco switches (3560/3750/4506/6506)/routers, 30 data closets with 1 to 9 switch stacks, ran new cat6 drops from end-user to patch panel in communication closets, created, supported, and managed multiple cisco protocols but not limited to VLANs, EGIRP, OSPF, and 400 VM servers in enterprise environment.  *Applications and monitoring systems such as SecureCRT for remote access to devices, LYNC, EPIC, VMware vSphere, Solar winds, CA Unicenter service Desk and Cisco Prime Infrastructure software.  Support and designed of EPIC system devices through the hospital environment.  *Project that I leaded or assisted withat North oaks health Systems.  Lead new children Pediatrics area: Installed of Cisco switches in 3 stack switch configurations connecting to core switch through Ethernet and fiber trunk ports. Installed patch panel, switches, APC UPS with management card, and terminated cat6 patch panel to switches, and to data ports at nurse's stations and patient rooms. Created VLAN, IP addressing, subnet, gateway, DHCP configuration and tested connectivity with the correct network addressing for all devices in this area back to switches, core switches, and to data center.  Lead Designed network for new retail pharmacy Area: Configured Cisco 3750 PPoE switch in 4 switch stacks in communication closet. Create VLAN, network addressing, subnet, and gateway for pharmacy network. Installed, configured, and test connectivity to all data ports, security camera's, and wireless AP's in this area.  Cafeteria new POS system: Network design and segmentation for POS network for PCI compliance.  Create VLAN, network addressing, subnet, and gateway for POS terminals and new virtual POS server. Lead wireless authentication through Cisco ACS and wireless Controllers for internal and public WIFI access.  Assisted communication engineer by creating and configuring new Virtual Call sweet server for monitoring employee's phone call logs:  Assisted with new Denham spring walk-in clinic: Configured Cisco 3750 PPoE single switch in communication closet with 3 Cisco 3500 series AP's. Create VLAN, network addressing, subnet, and gateway for new clinics network. Installed, configured, and test connectivity back to main hospital through fiber connection back to hospital main network.  Assisted New Cisco VoIP phone system: Support, design, and configure Cisco VoIP system (Unified  Communications manager) and installed Cisco VoIP switch and IP phones.  Lead Obix system for labor and delivery area for patient and fetal monitoring: Configured new Cisco 3750 PPoE switch in 2 switch stacks in communication closet. Create VLAN, network addressing, subnet, and gateway for Obix system network. Installed, configured, and test 3 Moxa terminal servers in two different data closets in the Labor & delivery area connecting to 32 patients' rooms for mother and infant telemetry monitoring back to Obix systems and nurse's stations.  Lead and Designed network for new Ebola Virus containment ward: Configured Cisco 3750 PPoE switch in 4 switch stacks in communication closet. Create VLAN, network addressing, subnet, and gateway for the 3 Ebola patient rooms and nurses' stations. Installed, configured, and test connectivity to all data ports, security camera's, and tested wireless AP's in this area for good network connectivity. Lead Data Center Air-flow and temperature monitoring server: Configured and installed both Room Alert servers in data center. Installed, configured, and managed 8 temperature sensors and 3 Air-flow sensors throughout the data center to monitor all 3 A/C units' air-flow, temperature, and humidity. NETWORK ENGINEER II VERMA SYSTEMS, INC June 2011 to December 2013 * Providing server maintenance on Windows Server 2K3/2K8/2K12 platform and troubleshooting issuesas they arise.  * Support over 400+ physical & virtual servers in an enterprise environment.  * Making evaluations and recommendations to management on vital IT projects to improve businessgoals and objectives.  * Managing Active Directory, Security and Group Policy Administration.  * Installing VMWare EsXi and configuring multiple servers on it.  * Managing VMWare EsXi Server running Business Software tied to MS SQL 2005 & MS Exchange2003/2007/2010/2012.  * Monitoring VMs via vSphere Client and analyzing server status.  * Monitoring 80 networks & servers daily.  * Monitor and manage Barracuda backup servers and EFolder backup cloud servers.  * Monitor and manage security threats, spam filtering, and web filter servers for 80 networks. * Active Directory/File Folder Permission restructuring filtered by departments and managerial hierarchy.  * Creating network account, assigning permissions, creating and managing exchange mailboxes. * Creating and managing new and existing mailboxes for hosted exchangethrough Intermedia and Go daddy.  * Managing DNS, WINS and involved in MS Exchange 2003/2010/2012 migration and WSUS 3.0 runvirtually on an EsXi Server.  * Organizing Corporate Email Sync for employees with mobile phones on different platforms (I Phone, BB, I Pad, and Android) with exchange or POP emails accounts.  * Administering and troubleshooting Trend Micro Worry-free business security through theadministrative console.  * Providing end user support for 3 party vendor specific applications and databases.  * VoIP support for various clients.  * Provide remote and onsite Server and PC maintenance or trouble issues.  * Led multiple projects setting up entire infrastructure such installing servers, mounting racks,configure install ASA, switches, patch panel, and PC Desktops.  * Setup, configure, and trouble shoot Cisco VPN.  * Configuring and installing Cisco ASA firewalls.  * Configuring and installing Cisco managed switches.  * Perform hardware and software installation and repair on Desktop and laptop computers.  technology - Admin Network Specialist depending on the interests and abilities of the network administrator East Baton Rouge Parish School Board Dept April 2008 to June 2011 April 2008 to June 2011  • Configuring and troubleshooting issues with Cisco Firewalls, switches, and routers.  • Deployed New Cisco routers and switches for new schools or existing schools Infrastructure. • Multi-task imaging of 100's of workstation in schools at the same time or imaging single work stations.  • Installing and configuring new computers at schools to admin staff or teachers.  • Manage and support the school's network system for students, faculty and staff • Manage andsupport the school's internet protocol and URL filtering system • Configure and install new hardware including network equipment • Manage and direct upgrade and/or repair of existing hardware • Familiarity with Blackboard applications • Manage Email Server and other components of the email architecture • Conduct preventive and corrective maintenance on computer systems.  • Maintain expertise in computer technology and provide suggested improvements and advancementsto school's system • Provide any assistance pertaining to any technology questions, including those that are not directly related to computer or phone systems.  • Work with the Director of Technology to advance Strategic Technology Plan • In addition to networkadministration, responsibilities may include teaching technology course(s) depending on the interests and abilities of the network administrator. Technical support engineer Time Warner Cable - Lincoln, NE May 2005 to March 2007 Provide Level I technical and product support in responding to customer inquiries clearly and concisely by explaining High Speed Internet Service / CATV (includes DVR's, VCR's, remotes, digital and analog converters, VOD and new products as released / and Digital phone services to customers. Includes responding to questions quickly and effectively on the telephone, through written correspondence, or in person.  • Handle inbound and outbound phone calls for service related issues and inquiries for cable products/online services and digital phone service as well as accurately troubleshoot and issue trouble calls for related issues. Includes maintaining department service level goals and phone statistic goals. Utilize billing systems proficiently. Includes processing of customer payments over the phone.  • Respond to email trouble tickets and service related questions in a timely manner.  • Coordinating and scheduling work assignments relating to subscriber inquiries, support calls andcomplaints. May be required to work various schedules and shifts to accommodate office hours call volume and special projects.  • Provide clear and concise information to field installers and field technicians as to problems relatingto customer concerns.  • Utilize knowledge of system territory: towns, zip codes and rural routes to assist in efficient routing oftechnicians to customer homes. Education college prep Glen Oaks Senior High 1989 to 1992 Electrical Engineering/ Fine Arts Southern University and A&M College Baton Rouge certification University of Nebraska at Lincoln - Lincoln, NE Louisiana technical College in Baton Rouge Skills Active directory, Cisco, Exchange, Firewalls, Networking, Citrix, Juniper, Router, Vmware, Vpn, Cisco asa, Cisco asa firewalls, Iphone, Wap, Sql, Security, Sharepoint, Backup exec, R2, Symantec Additional Information Skills    Active Directory (5 years), Cisco (9 years), Exchange (6 years), firewalls (8 years), VPN (4 years)    TECHNICAL SKILLS  SERVERS OS, Virtual Servers, & OPERATING SYSTEM, - Windows Servers 2008 R2/2012/2016, Microsoft SQL 2008/2012, EXSI HP ProLiant DL Servers, Active Directory, VMware VCenter, and VMware View. Microsoft Windows Vista, windows 7, and windows 8.1, Windows 10, and OSX.  LOB APPLICATIONS - Microsoft Azure (supporting over 6,000 + devices (Laptops, iPads, and iPhone),  SharePoint, Office 365 Exchange, MS Exchange (on-premise), Email Applications (MS Outlook 2010-2016, and Mac), ConnectWise, Citrix XenApps, Quick Books, Sage MAS 500, Peachtree, Dentrix, and EHS.  Networking Hardware - Dell PowerEdge servers, Unifi/Cisco WAP, Cisco ASA, VPN Clients Cisco/Net Extender, Cisco/Brocade switches, and routers.  Backup Systems - Windows Server backup, Symantec Backup Exec 2011/2012, Barracuda Backup servers 390/490/690, and Cloud Backup and storage systems. Security - SonicWall, Juniper, Edge Router X, and Cisco ASA firewalls.  SERVER & PC HARDWARE - Repair most hardware issues on HP & Dell servers, Desktops/Laptop, I Phone, I Pad, MAC books & laptop screen & mother board replacement.