Client Services Engineer Client Services Engineer Client Services Engineer - Aldridge Lakewood, WA To further my skills and knowledge, enabling a rewarding future Work Experience Client Services Engineer Aldridge December 2018 to Present • Act as the primary point of contact between Aldridge and clients in the Seattle area  • Assist clients with finding technology solutions to meet their business needs  • Plan and manage hardware and software implementation projects  • Ensure customer satisfaction by rapidly remediating client issues  • Configure network equipment such as switches, firewalls, WAPs, routers, etc to specification  • Upgrade and make changes to network equipment as needed  • Configure and make changes to VOIP systems  • Make recommendations on upgrades to meet projected client needs  • Travel to client locations to perform duties as necessary Escalation Engineer Allixo Technologies January 2018 to December 2018 • Respond to escalation calls and tickets  • Responsible for solving escalated tickets  • Configure network equipment such as switches, firewalls, WAPs, routers, etc to specification  • Assist Network Team in maintaining overall client network health  • Provide on site support as required Network Technician Locke Systems November 2017 to January 2018 • Design, install, configure, and secure Windows based severs and domain controllers as required  • Configure network devices (routers, switches, firewalls, etc) as required  • Assist clients by troubleshooting technology issues on site  • Assist clients through our help desk system providing end user support for various applications  and software packages, from general office productivity and accounting to industry specific  software  • Provide clients with general technology support  • Perform duties and services as requested by clients Independent Contractor Self Employed February 2009 to November 2017 • Provide I.T. Services on a contractual basis  • Design, install, configure, and secure data networks as required using standard protocols (TCP/IP, BGP, etc)  • Design, install, configure, and secure Windows based severs and domain controllers including Domain Name Services  • Configure network devices (routers, switches, firewalls, etc) as required  • Deploy and troubleshoot Zenserver (Citrix) servers  • Deploy and troubleshoot Vmware servers  • Set up and configure Zen (Citrix) desktops  • Assist established I.T. Teams with short term technical assistance  • Provide clients with general I.T. support  • Perform duties and services as requested by clients I.T. Manager Comprehensive Health Education Foundation - Seattle, WA July 2007 to December 2008 • Responsible for developing and implementing organization-wide technology objectives  • Identified areas of risk in IT operations and processes; developed solutions that managed information integrity and confidentiality for all associates.  • Developed and implemented contingency and business continuity plans and standards.  • Coordination and control of computer systems, hardware, software and outside vendor programming assistance; responsible for managing vendors and for service level agreements.  • Responsible for coordinating internal and external security and network audits.  • Prepare and oversee annual budget for IT, including maintenance and expansion of computer related corporate assets.  • Measure, monitor and optimize performance and cost benefit of hardware, software and system operations.  • Manage and maintain information systems including hardware, software, telecommunications, associate training, and provide user support.  • Work with executive team for strategic planning in regards to technology. Network Security Analyst Guardian Capital Group - Toronto, ON 2002 to 2006 • Created and introduced network and computer security policies to ensure compliance with Canadian Provincial and OSC guidelines.  • Created and launched the contingency planning program for the company including the design  and implementation of a hot site and data replication.  • Designed additional security to fortify the company's existing network infrastructure including hardening of web servers and additional packet filtering.  • Continually tested and evaluated operational processes to evaluate/identify business or network risk; participated with the Network Team in day-to-day network administration;  actively involved in keeping up-to-date with new technologies.  • Responsible for corporate e-mail, using Microsoft Exchange.  Implemented anti-virus and anti-spam protection for e-mail  • Assisted help desk by providing tier 2 support  • Regularly presented IT solutions to the IT Steering Committee Network Administrator Harbor Bank - Gig Harbor, WA 1998 to 2002 • Rebuilt the bank network and security architecture/systems, including e-mail systems, internet access, database management, and user policies.  • Created and introduced security policies and standards to ensure compliance with OCC guidelines.  • Responsible for coordinating internal and external security and network audits.  • Identified areas of risk in IT operations and processes; developed solutions to manage information integrity and confidentiality for clients and associates.  • Developed integrated contingency planning and business continuance policies for the Bank's network  • Provided end user support.  • Provided testing and analysis of software packages.  • Responsible for all aspects of network and data security. Network Specialist Harbornet - Gig Harbor, WA 1996 to 1998 • Provided network, security, and general computer expertise for clients.  • Built and managed network and computer resources as needed by clients.  • Provided end-user support for ISP customers.  • Assisted in the day to day management of the network including troubleshooting and account management.  • One of the first providers of cable based internet access in the area. Education Washington High School - Tacoma, WA Pierce College - Lakewood, WA