Network Engineer <span class="hl">Network</span> Engineer Network Engineer - Arcosa/CyberSearch Lewisville, TX Work Experience Network Engineer Arcosa/CyberSearch - Dallas, TX Present Diligently worked with teams in the installation, maintenance, and repair and modification of network infrastructure and routers.  • Travel to multiple locations to migrate data traffic to the new Arcosa Data Centers after the company split from Trinity Meyers.  • Perform the duty of configuring new BGP routes, new VLAN sub-interfaces on the routers, and also configure new SVI on the switches and migrate devices to the new VLANS.  • Proactively discover, troubleshoot and resolved connectivity issues in the wireless, routing and switching.  • Executed configurations for router, switches, wireless AP's, and WLAN controllers.  • Monitored performance and analyzed network irregularities. Design and Engineer Network Toyota Financial Services - Plano, TX 2014 to 2018 Re-designed and installed new network infrastructure of upgraded Cisco devices to improve performance, scalability, reliability and high availability of network. Upgraded and maintained servers for better efficiency.  • Spearheaded the development and preparation towards physical infrastructure  • Collaborated with various engineering teams on physical appliance installation.  • Partnered with network engineers in implementing routing/switching configuration on core, server and campus user switches and also worked on various fail-over testing to finalize routing design.  • Worked as a team member and coordinated the management of infrastructure on multiple data centers and customer service centers (core sites) while working on hardware refresh projects ( network/compute and storage) and new sites build-out.  • Oversaw all MDF's and IDF closets and maintained/updated documentation of different locations using Visio and Excel.  • Trained new hires and was team lead of the Infrastructure contractors.    Selected Career Benchmarks  Promoted service and enhanced performance by decommissioning TCP data center, refreshed networks and built new HQ in Texas.  • Spearheaded the decommissioning of the TCP data center, shut down and removed all equipment in previous data center.  • Network refreshed at 3 CSC locations and all DSSO locations, 28 precisely. Managed infrastructure in 30 regional offices.  • Executed the installation and configuration of new 3850 switch stacks, new Opengear console servers. All installed new Netapp filesystem (without configuring) and new router at each location base configuration only.  • Replaced all WAPs and Racked new HP servers, new Palo Alto Firewall and a data presence at Equinox in Dallas and Chicago.  • Upgraded 6K server switches to Nexus 5K & 2Ks and also upgraded 6K user switches to 4510 switches.  • Built out a DR office at Toyota Commercial and Built out 2 temporary locations as employee relocated before the new buildings were completed.  • Participated in building safety to work on construction site. Installed the entire data infrastructure for TFS at the new HQ. Field Network Engineer BT Americas - El Segundo, CA 2007 to 2014 Customer Support Analyst BT Americas - El Segundo, CA 2005 to 2007 Trusted customer consultant regarding computer hardware, software, and network infrastructure, including firewalls and switches. Provided on time and accurate processing of customer orders, achieving measurable results with 100 % success rate..  • Resolved all trouble tickets relevant to MLPS/VPN, Direct-Internet-Access (DIA), Frame-relay, ATM, x25 and RAS.  • Partnered with support and engineering team on network devices' maintenance, installation and fault handling at node sites in Los Angeles area.  • Provided Supported for all environmental system (HVAC, VESDA, FM200, etc.).  • Organized and maintained process and standard for equipment installation/decom, cabling, and power.  • Responsible for equipment physical installation, decommission, and movement within the data center (position, power, cabling).  • Succeeded in executing ticket tracking remedies.  • Promoted knowledge sharing and provided support to team members in professional, clear and concise manner, ensuring success for internal and external customer requirements.  • Managed data entry and data analysis of contacts through rotating 24/7 on call.  • Managed Telco vendors delivering circuits, also worked with environmental vendors performing maintenance and upgrades.    Selected Career Benchmarks  Rewarded with higher position for excellent delivery of service within a short while.  • Promoted from IUSA Help Desk to New Jersey TSE (Field Engineer)  • Executed the upgrade of infrastructure according to the requirement provided by the system at the moment.  • Decommissioned the LA Carrier Hotel  • Succeeded in pointing out and resolving all trouble shoot trouble tickets assigned.  • Completed the workpack request for new circuit installs at the GPOP    Previously excelled as: Junior Network Administrator Association Management Specialist (AMS) 2001 to 2006 Export Cargo Agent 2000 to 2001 Warehouse Agent 2000 to 2000 Education Bachelor of Science in Network and Communications Program DeVry University - Long Beach, CA