Network Engineer <span class="hl">Network</span> Engineer NETWORK ENGINEER Gaithersburg, MD NETWORK engineer and Cloud in progress Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Network Engineer BLUE CROSS BLUE SHIELD - Washington, DC July 2018 to Present -Successfully configured, deployed and led trouble shooting of Layer 3 routing protocols such as BGP, OSPF, & EIGRP.  -Designed & Implemented campus  network infrastructure Configured Inter VLAN routing within the campus environment Documented, configured, secured and monitored firewalls, IPS, ACLS, Port Security and STP safeguards.  - Planned and applied appropriate security policies (AAA) on ACS servers (RADIUS) and Cisco ASA, IOS zone-based firewalls.  -Deployed and supported of VM infrastructure in an enterprise environment.  -Proactively analyzed, examined, identified and documented suspicious  network activities/non-authorized presence.  -Successfully configured Authentication, Authorization and Accounting on local routers as needed, Successfully configured VPN site to site or remote to site using IPsec tunneling standard.   -Successfully documented enterprise  network topology.   -Used various tools such as SNMP to manage  network.  -Create/Update/Follow up/Close trouble tickets according to the agreed procedures.  -Use Remedy System to create tickets and fix issues BACK OFFICE MANAGER & SUPPORT 2015 to 2017 -Best support technician in the front office, I was promoted to back office Manager (Level 2 and 3).  SUPPORT:  -Coach and train new rookies for the back office centers. Support and help team mates to improve their performance  -Give L2/L3 support and initiate intervention if needed MONITORING AND REPORTS:  -Daily functional check of incoming calls and monitoring tools  -Monitor the QoS board and team performance to ensure efficiency in service delivery  -Follow procedures in case of equipment failure and mayor alarms in the core network  -Keep internal procedures updated  -Generate reports for the head managers (daily and per hour) SYSTEM ADMINISTRATOR AND SECURITY BANQUE ATLANTIQUE 2013 to 2015 Autonomous Harbor of Cotonou COMPUTER SCIENCE & TELECOMMUNICATION 2013 to 2013 - Preparing and maintaining log, troubleshoot notes and network trouble tickets  - Troubleshooting and/or coordinating troubleshooting efforts for service, device, or network resolution  - Following up contact with clients and opening and updating of tickets' through closure and resolving customer's and network issues    -Initiate service interventions, contact service partner for on-site service, guidance during maintenance, update and close intervention order  -Activate new sites (VSAT), Line-Up support with the field engineers or technicians  -Create /Update/Follow up/Close trouble tickets according to the agreed procedures.  -Virtualization of server, application and operating system  -Server Management: Windows Server 2012 and LINUX    MONITORING  -Check and solve RF interference issues with satellite companies and define the root cause.  -Check the monitoring tools e.g Nagios; IONOS NMS  -Analyze monitoring tools to detect utilization issues and inform customers    DOCUMENTATION:  -Keep customers information updated in the respective tools & applications.  -Keep internal procedures Up ToDate and generate reports. Education Master's Skills AWS