Jr. Systems Administrator Jr. Systems <span class="hl">Administrator</span> NETWORK ADMINISTRATOR / SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR Dallas, TX Network Administrator, Systems Engineer, Systems Administrator with 14+ years of experience in Information Technology seeking a new opportunity. Extensive experience managing IT projects across departments and disciplines, controlling a $2 Million annual budget, and ensuring the daily operations and security of network infrastructure supporting hundreds of employees with multiple domains and subnetwork sites. Well-developed skills troubleshooting network connectivity issues; resolving Tier 2 Help Desk tickets; subnetting networks; managing clients’ networks, firewalls, and VPN connections; and consulting with C-Level executives on server, network, and backup/disaster recovery management. Dedicated leader with outstanding communication skills and a proven track record of success installing and implementing complex infrastructure and systems that increase operational efficiency. Credentials include Microsoft MCP, MCDST, MCTS, MCITP, and MCSA certifications, as well as CompTIA A+ and Network+ certifications. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Jr. Systems Administrator Dallas Zoo Management, Inc. - Dallas, TX August 2017 to May 2019  • Provided Tier 2 support and field Help Desk tickets Tier 1 Technicians are unable to resolve.   • Server maintenance and installation, both bare metal and virtual machines in a VMware   environment.   • Create and test Group Policies for network Domain and/or Organizational Units/Departments.   • Responsible for entire physical and virtual server infrastructure, network routing and switching,monitoring IDS for threats, patching desktops and servers, updating firmware on server, AP’s,switch, and SAN hardware platforms.   • Monitor and verify known good backups for disaster recovery, both in Veeam and LiveVault   • Manage and verify backups for SQL servers.   • Maintain and expand DHCP, DNS, and Active Directory as necessary. Systems Engineer HumaCore Technologies - Dallas, TX April 2016 to April 2017 • Managed and maintained multiple client networks, firewalls, and VPN   connections.  • Provided Tier 2 support and fielded Help Desk calls the Tier 1 Engineer   was unable to resolve.  • Installed, configured, and tested operating systems, application software,  and system management tools.  • Conducted monthly onsite visits to client offices to test, troubleshoot, and   resolve issues.   • Maintained security, backup, and redundancy strategies. IT Consultant City of Royse City - Royse City, TX October 2013 to September 2015 • Consulted on server and network management and backup/disaster recovery management.  • Planned and managed IT projects and budgets.  • Installed, configured, troubleshot, and upgraded operating systems, software applications, and hardware.  • Provided assistance, support, and training for end users.  • Installed, configured, and upgraded desktop/server hardware and peripherals.   • Wrote and maintained system documentation.   • Maintained confidentiality of information being processed, stored, or accessed by the network. Network Administrator City of Rockwall - Rockwall, TX October 2003 to September 2015 • Managed day-to-day operations, security, and overall health of the City’s network infrastructure that supported 300 employees and consisted of 2 Microsoft-based Active Directory domains and 12 sites on subnetworks.  • Planned and managed the $2 Million annual budget for IT Department-related endeavors.  • Directly supervised the Network Technician/Developer, assigned technical duties, and assisted with issues requiring a higher level of expertise.  • Managed Hyper-V cluster for maximum performance and reliability, troubleshot network connectivity issues, and managed a 300-user ShoreTel VOIP phone system.  • Evaluated, installed, and managed software and hardware for network and organizational compatibility.   • Managed and monitored the disaster recovery solution daily to ensure backups operated correctly.  • Performed project management for various IT-related projects across assorted departments and disciplines.  • Provided guidance and technology assessments to upper management on a daily basis.  • Managed and fielded Help Desk support calls/tickets and answered escalated Help Desk issues.  • Maintained technology equipment inventory and multiple VPN networks to other cities within Rockwall County.  • Collaborated with an outside IT consulting firm on planning large projects and resolving major issues. Education Associate in Science in Computer Science Trinity Valley Community College - Terrell, TX Skills Network & Server Management (10+ years), Switch & VPN Installation (5 years), Workstation Management (10+ years), Disaster Recovery/Backup (10+ years), Hyper-V & VMWare Management (10+ years), Troubleshooting & Problem Solving (10+ years), Tier 2 Help Desk Support (10+ years), IT Project Management & Budgeting (5 years), Software Evaluation (10+ years), SQL, Terminal Services, Exchange (7 years), Wireless Networking (10+ years), Technical Support, Active Directory, Windows, Networking, Customer Service, Mac, Microsoft Office, Vmware, Windows 7, Security Awards Employee of the year, Director's Choice 2003-12 Certifications/Licenses CompTIA A+ Present CompTIA Network+ Present Microsoft Certified Professional Present Microsoft Certified Desktop Support Technician Present Microsoft Certified Technology Specialist Present Microsoft Certified IT Professional (MCITP) Present Microsoft Certified Solutions Associate Present Groups Texas Association of Governmental Information Technology Managers Additional Information Key Accomplishments -    Implemented a new $50K network structure project by installing new HP switches and subnetting a class B network into multiple class B networks for better performance ahead of VOIP phone system installation.    Assisted with the installation of a new $200K VOIP ShoreTel phone system project.    Installed and implemented a new $50K Hyper-V cluster project with SAN.