Network Engineer <span class="hl">Network</span> Engineer Network Engineer - Department of the Treasury Morgantown, WV Seeking a position working as IT Specialist-Cyber Security Officer. Work Experience Network Engineer Department of the Treasury January 2014 to Present • Worked on Myrtia- Network Vulnerability detail for over 2 years.  • Evaluated network scans to determine weaknesses and vulnerabilities.  • Worked with multiple teams within IMD to evaluate and develop best options to pursue.  • Implemented multiple solutions to resolve network vulnerabilities.  • Experience administering computer system networks.  • Designed and evaluated operations in IT Security environments.  • Generated reports of IT threats, vulnerabilities and managing systems that provide these reports.  • Currently have experience with networking concepts, configuring security tools, executing scans, evaluating scan results and providing assistance with remediation.  • Manage and supported a government network consisting of multiple agencies across the United States.  • Configure, managed, and troubleshot several VPN tunnels on Cisco ASA devices.  • Lead in development of multiple projects to further expand network capabilities.  • Complete IOS upgrades multiple Cisco devices.  • Monitor and work with multiple end users within HPSM.  • Provide layer 2 and layer 3 network support.  • Managing complex IT projects involving interrelated disciplines and multiple stages of the systems development lifecycle.  • Utilize SharePoint as a document repository and file sharing.  • Diagnose, troubleshot, and resolve hardware, software, network and system problems, and replace defective components when necessary.  • Provide remote assistance for end users via Avaya Web Conferencing.  • Work in depth within Cisco, Juniper, and Fortinet firewalls.  • Manage Cisco AnyConnect client for users VPN access.  • Configure and manage multiple web portals.  • Displayed attention to detail while reviewing IMD Vulnerability Scans and working to resolve potential threats with the corresponding teams.  • Provided customer support to multiple users across Fiscal Service and other agencies.  • Provided operational and technical support while resolving multiple incidents.  • Displayed oral communication skills by developing and conducting presentations and briefings to internal and external leadership.  • Displayed problem solving while completing multiple complex change requests to include firewall and network changes and troubleshooting IT security problems. Systems Administrator BAE Systems INC September 2012 to January 2014 • Managed and supported an Army National Guard network of over 200 areas throughout the United States and U.S. Territories.  • Configured and manage Cisco VoIP phones.  • Monitored network status via Solar Winds.  • Configured Aruba Mobility Controllers.  • Configured Aruba Wireless Access Points.  • Configured QNAP Turbo NAS with storage LUNS which connect via ISCSI connection to file server.  • Configured and troubleshot VLANS in switched networks.  • Provided layer 2 and layer 3 network support.  • Configured Server 2008 R2 server roles and features.  • Managed Server 2008 Active Directory.  • Configured, maintained, and managed virtual servers using VMware and VMWare/tools over remote satellite connections.  • Utilized SharePoint as a document repository and file sharing.  • Diagnosed, troubleshot, and resolved hardware, software, network and system problems, and replace defective components when necessary. IT Specialist/Systems Administrator United States Marine Corps March 2008 to September 2012 • Entered commands, using computer terminal, and activate controls on computer and peripheral equipment to integrate and operate equipment.  • Monitored the system for equipment failure or errors in performance.  • Overseen the operation of computer hardware systems, including coordinating and scheduling the use of computer terminals and networks to ensure efficient use.  • Maintained and administer computer networks and related computing environments including computer hardware, systems software, applications software, and all configurations.  • Diagnosed, troubleshot, and resolved hardware, software, network and system problems, and replace defective components when necessary.  • Provided layer 2 and layer 3 network support.  • Configured and troubleshot VLANS in switched networks. Education Security+ Certification West Virginia University at Parkersburg August 2005 to December 2007 Skills Cisco, Security, VPN, MPLS, Cyber Security, Nist, Information Security, Network Security Military Service Branch: United States Marine Corps Rank: E4 Additional Information • CompTIA Security+ Certification  • Proficient in Windows 7/10  • Proficient in Windows Server 2003/2008  • Able to work and make difficult decisions under stressful situations  • Worked on MyNirt- Network Vulnerability detail for over 2 years.  • Evaluated network scans to determine weaknesses and vulnerabilities.  • Worked with multiple teams within IMD to evaluate and develop best options to pursue.  • Implemented multiple solutions to resolve network vulnerabilities.  • Experience administering computer system networks.  • Designed and evaluated operations in IT Security environments.  • Generated reports of IT threats, vulnerabilities and managing systems that provide these reports.  • Currently have experience with networking concepts, configuring security tools, executing scans, evaluating scan results and providing assistance with remediation.  • Displayed attention to detail while reviewing IMD Vulnerability Scans and working to resolve potential threats with the corresponding teams.  • Provided customer support to multiple users across Fiscal Service and other agencies.  • Provided operational and technical support while resolving multiple incidents.  • Displayed oral communication skills by developing and conducting presentations and briefings to internal and external leadership.  • Displayed problem solving while completing multiple complex change requests to include firewall and network changes and troubleshooting IT security problems.