Network Engineer <span class="hl">Network</span> Engineer Network Engineer - UNMH Tijeras, NM I have many years of experience in multiple IT disciplines, including desktop, server, UNIX, networking, network security, VPN, backup and storage, and more. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Network Engineer UNMH January 2017 to Present Hired on full time with UNMH to fulfill the same duties as I was when I was contracted through Teksystems. Network Engineer at Teksystems Network Engineer UNMH April 2016 to December 2016 to Engineer, implement, support and maintain LAN, WLAN and WAN technologies (Ethernet, routing and switching, VLANs, Fiber channel, Voice and Data convergence, video technologies). for UNM hospital and affiliated campuses/facilities. Network primarily consists of a mixed Cisco/Juniper infrastructure. Develop and maintain network and systems management, configuration management, syslogging, and alerting for entire UNMH network. Systems Engineer V Rinchem Company February 2016 to April 2016 Determine best solution for new projects and upgrades on a regular basis, and upgrades administrative tools and utilities. Configure / add new networking, security and VoIP services as necessary. Develop and configure system infrastructure that supports the organization, per project or operational needs. Maintain operational, configuration, or other procedures. Perform periodic performance reporting to support capacity planning. Manages vendors responsible for telecom and hardware service. Maintain data center environmental and monitoring equipment. Telecommunications Technician Staton Contruction Incorporated - Albuquerque, NM October 2015 to February 2016 Contracted with Verizon to perform detailed analysis of current infrastructure in order to provide information for current power consumption, battery and generator backup capacity, HVAC availability, rack space and infrastructure configuration in order to determine requirements necessary to upgrade and/or install equipment necessary for new projects. Network Analyst Lovelace Respiratory Research Institute - Albuquerque, NM April 2015 to September 2015 Provide Windows server, virtualization and cisco/HP support to include LAN, WLAN and WAN technologies (Ethernet, routing and switching, VLANs, Fiber channel, Voice and Data convergence, video technologies).  Implement and support Windows Server 2003, 2008, and 2012, Active Directory, Microsoft Exchange, Virtualization, Cisco and HP network components, software applications, and cyber security tools.  Implement and support Linux using RedHat or CentOS, NFS, CIFS, NIS, and Samba. Computer Infrastructure Specialist SAIC - Albuquerque, NM January 2014 to February 2015 Contracted to assist Sandia National Laboratories with mission critical computer systems Evaluate systems and ensure security requirements are met Information Assurance vulnerability mitigation Configuring and maintaining network management applications Ability to perform data restoration and system reconfiguration when required Configuring, deploying, and maintaining cryptographic systems IT Consultant Velocity Technologies - Albuquerque, NM April 2013 to January 2014 Direct customer support for private clients. Business analysis and recommendations to provide viable IT solutions to companies, including physical, logical, and security and provide thorough analysis reports of my findings. Security Engineer Cricket Communications - Albuquerque, NM July 2012 to March 2013 Remediated network vulnerabilities, as well as develop and implement new security policies and procedures on a new nationwide client infrastructure project. Used previous experience in company to focus on securing information and systems. Created and implemented configuration security and standardization for Cisco, Huawei, and Alcatel systems Maintained and troubleshot central authentication systems. Network Specialist II State of New Mexico - Santa Fe, NM February 2006 to July 2012 Firewall creation and maintenance using Juniper and Cisco ACLs, as well as Linux iptables software.  Support and configure Juniper and Cisco VPN endpoints and clients. Responsible for support of existing security policies and procedures, as well as creation and implementation of new security procedures. Design and implement projects to revolutionize and revitalize network solutions.  Troubleshoot networking and network security issues. Design and configure networks for state agencies. Maintained security of VoIP and data networks and equipment. Monitored and maintained physical and logical security and access to systems. Obtained specialized training in advanced networking concepts and virtualization technologies. On call for important state figures and specialized equipment. Network Administrator Network Alliance Corporation - Albuquerque, NM May 2002 to February 2006 Maintained computer/server network in Albuquerque NM, Phoenix AZ, and ensured efficient connectivity between both networks Worked with active directory, as well as third party email and web systems Configured laptops/desktops with AD, email, etc. that were then deployed to remote offices. Ability to troubleshoot network problems over the phone, or by email Had to be able to go to Phoenix when required for network repair Education Bachelor's in Information Systems Security ITT Technical Institute - Albuquerque, NM 2008 to 2010 Bachelor's in Electronics and Communications Engineering Technology ITT Technical Institute - Albuquerque, NM 2005 to 2008 Associate in Computer and Electronics Engineering Technology ITT Technical Institute - Albuquerque, NM 2003 to 2005 Skills security, Vmware, Exchange, Active Directory, Cisco, LAN, Networking, VPN, MPLS, DNS, SQL, firewalls Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/gadgix/en Additional Information Skills & Expertise  Networking:  TCP/IP, LAN/WAN, Network Operations; Network engineering; IPS, Firewalls, Switches, Routers; dynamic routing protocols (OSPF, EIGRP, BGP, RIP); network protocols (QoS, MPLS, IGMP, HSRP, IPSec, VPN)    Network Operating Systems:  Cisco software; IOS, NXOS, IOS-XR software; Catalyst, Nexus and ASR hardware, Juniper operating system (JunOS), Juniper installation and configuration, Cisco security    Computer administration:  Server/Desktop OS; Windows XP, Vista, 7, Windows server 2K; Linux/Unix (Red Hat, Fedora, Debian, Ubuntu, BSD, SCO, Solaris, etc.; Server/Desktop software; active directory, apache    Virtualization:  VMWare, virtualbox, Cisco 1000v, Cisco UCS, Xen    Information Security:  Network Security: IPS, VPN, IPSec, encryption, Vulnerability Assessment, security policy, remediation, web filtering    Miscellaneous:  Policy and procedure development, Standardization, Thorough documentation, Troubleshooting and problem solving skills, (both physical and logical), Teamwork, Passion for Helping Others, Get Along Well with Others, Always willing to participate in training and learn new elements