Network Engineer <span class="hl">Network</span> Engineer Network Engineer Warwick, NY Results-driven Senior Networking Leader with over 10 years of Cisco and Nortel/Avaya Experience and  over 16 years of IT broad-based experience delivering technical solutions aligned with business objectives.  Accomplished professional who has earned a reputation for consistently meeting and exceeding aggressive  company objectives. Effective communicator possessing excellent interpersonal and relationship-building  skills. Expertise includes:    • Architecture • Implementation  • LAN/WAN Design • Data Center and NOC Design  • Vendor Relations • Proof of Concept  • Project Management • Strategic Planning  • Team Leadership • Operations  • Avamar and Arcserve backup solutions. • NAS/SAN  • I.T. Compliance (sock, HIPPA, ISO etc)  • Network Automation and Python Development Work Experience Network Engineer DialAmerica Marketing - Mahwah, NJ December 2014 to July 2019 Primary responsibility supporting design and implementing Cisco network technologies in a multi-site  enterprise network.  • Served as team lead to manage projects including design/implementation phases and budget/procurement  processes.  • Deployed and configured firewalls, VPN concentrators and security appliances to meet customer  requirements/security needs.  • Performed software and hardware upgrades on critical network components during approved outage  windows.  • Performed troubleshooting of unscheduled network system related outages and produced RCA  documentation once resolved.  • Partnered with external IT organizations, agencies and vendors for services including WAN connectivity  and security evaluations.  • Created network documentation using Microsoft Visio, Confluence and Wiki pages.  • Maintained awareness and implemented best practices, standards and CVE alert fixes.  • Provided 24/7 on-call status for outage response of enterprise network infrastructure.  • Developed, implemented, managed and migrated WebSense, IBOSS filtering platforms, IBM IPS/IDS to Palo Alto.  • Implemented and managed RSA two-factor authentication platform (servers and tokens).  • Migrated Cisco ACS platform to Cisco ISE and TacacsNet.  • Created a Python script to allow select support services staff members the ability to unlock access ports as well as parsing all trace files to calculate throughput, latency and drop rate.  • Engaged in design and implementation of BGP configurations between multiple data centers and MPLS  providers for data delivery and resilient failover across twenty-two states.  • Created a remote packet capture solution to replace legacy NetScout platform.  • Managed Palo Alto and Cisco ASA Firewalls (Global Protect / Anyconnect)  • Developed Python/TCL regression and performance test suite.  • Analyzed and evaluated device-generated protocol traffic for validity and realism ( network layer 2 and 3  and a multitude of application protocols).  • Developed custom PCAP file interpreter in Python.    ~ on Next Page ~    • Designed and implemented company-wide test framework for RF and IP telecommunication.  software/embedded system, including functional, load, regression and performance test.  • Automated network monitoring to provide a proactive approach to mitigate network issues.  • Improved test script development flexibility and efficiency Senior Network Engineer Centerlight Health System - Bronx, NY November 2013 to September 2014 Senior Network Administrator and team leader October 2003 to November 2013 • Design and Implementation of BGP configurations between multiple data centers and MPLS providers for data delivery and resilient failover for over 30 spoke and primary datacenter/hub locations.  • Responsible for design, implementation and migration of 3,700 users spread across 48 floors and 30  remote offices from a Nortel Avaya environment to Cisco environment for 99.999% reliability.  • Provided technical leadership on several initiatives including: Network Design, Network Performance, Voice Platform, Cost Reduction, Network Optimization, Change Control, Vendor Management among  other tasks.  • Performed complete redesign of the WAN for 30 locations and 4 data centers. Design called for implementation of a full mesh VPLS network with DMVPN backup providing 10x available bandwidth with  a 38% reduction of recurring costs in the New York region.  • Designed and implemented Bluecoat Proxy services across the entire enterprise.  • Worked closely with development teams and Technical Operations to ensure performance and stability of the network and added serving applications as well as forecasting for network growth and ISP growth.  • Supervised and approved all network upgrades, installed and constructed new designs of routers, switches, firewalls, and VPN devices for Centerlight Healthcare System global enterprise network.  • Responsible for downsizing and de-commissioning of Legacy point to point T1 circuits, saving Centerlight  Health System $300,000 a year in recurring cost.  • Implemented change control policy, procedures and standards for design and implementation of network  initiatives  • Designed and implemented enterprise backup solution using EMC Avamar for disk-to-disk and Arcserve  tape out solutions.  • Designed and implemented Avocent and Raritan serial and server management infrastructure.  • Designed and engaged in implementation of primary datacenter using Nortel, LeftHand, Cisco, HP  Procurve and blade infrastructure.  • Monitored the core network using various network monitoring tools such as MRTG, Zenoss & Solarwinds  and setup nodes, ip-sla, VoIP UDP jitter, multilink connections in the solarwinds.  • Analyzed ticket allocation and resolution turnaround time, investigated and resolved time lapses and created efficiencies wherever possible.  • Part of an engineering team responsible for deploying Citrix NetScalers and Riverbed Steelheads.  • Installed and maintained 3 phase UPS sytems (APC Symetra and Emersion Leibert) and IDF  infrastructure.  • Managed Cisco ASA Firewalls  • Managed Blue Coat ProxySG Proxies  • Engaged in design and implementation of Citrix farm. Centerlight Health System - Bronx, NY December 2001 to October 2003 • Actively created customer helpdesk, call escalation, project tracking, and security procedures  • Routinely exceeded call-handling goals, closing an average of 60 calls daily (25% above quota) with a  75% first-call resolution ratio and an average talk-time of 5.5 minutes -- well below 7-minute goal.  • Engaged in diagnosing, troubleshooting and resolving a range of software, hardware and connectivity  issues. Exceled in asking probing questions and researching, analyzing and rectifying problems.    • Partnered with Tier II and Tier III help desk peers to resolve complex problems that required escalation.  • Provided detailed descriptions of issues in trouble ticket system and followed up diligently to ensure swift  resolutions.  • Received "outstanding" ratings on performance reviews each year, with top marks in teamwork, customer  service, communication skills and technical problem-solving.  • Planned, developed and implemented new support policies and procedures by establishing company-wide  help desk systems and processes for managing and tracking to provide trend analysis and ticket reporting to management.  • Reviewed reports of computer and peripheral equipment production, malfunction, and maintenance to  determine costs and impact.  • Analyzed help desk activity and made recommendations for increased organization efficiency and effectiveness.  • Identified opportunities and developed productivity support tools to align with the company's business  requirements. Support tools included desktop operating systems, PC, laptop, and server applications, telecommunication support, e-mail, calendaring and handheld platforms, office automation tools, Intranet and video teleconferencing support solutions and remote user support.  • Assisted in documenting existing productivity systems architecture and recommended changes for  management review including disaster recovery and business continuity efforts.  • Assisted in the implementation of physical asset tracking procedures using office automation software and bar coding hardware.  • Conducted vendor negotiations for hardware and software purchase, negotiated best pricing, established  new procedures for cost reduction, and generated purchase requests. Network Administrator Raspberry International - New York, NY January 1997 to September 2001 Network Administrator for a nine-unit specialty store chain in New York City. Network encompasses 65  servers and 400 workstations in office and store locations.  • Oversaw the purchase of additional servers, installation and configuration of these servers and the securing  and placement of additional hardware and software.  • Wrote scripts in Korn shell, Perl and Python to facilitate automation of system administration tasks  • Developed web pages and CGI scripts in Korn Shell, Perl and Python.  • Created new scripts for reporting and maintenance (Including recursive "tree-reports").  • Engaged in data quality monitoring. Multiple reports and scripts created to identify and correct the problems.  • Oversaw the installation of additional workstations, upgrading of software, hardware and peripherals. All  servers were Red Hat Linux, built into clusters, enabling maximum availability.  • Trained users in software and the system.  • Created a customized security model, which encompassed a virtual private network, systems with heavy  Packet Filtering.  • Served as help desk and troubleshooter, training users in all facets of a highly complex system.  • Built, configured and installed a complete open source infrastructure including sendmail, BIND, DHCP, OpenLDAP, Samba, and Apache HTTPD servers  • Managed deployment and growth of 20TB cross-platform fibre-channel based enterprise storage solution.  • Database administrator for a MySQL. The total allocated capacity of the database was 538 gigabytes. The  system was used to track customer account information and as an inquiry system for customer telephoning for account information. Responsible for both logical design and physical design  • Completed design and implementation of a Kiosk System for customer interaction with the computer system.  • Rewrote Dbase/Clipper software to operate remotely. Upgraded Legacy systems to meet mobile requirements.  • Centralized all operations, enabling remote control of entire computer system.  • Generated reduction in service calls and immediate problem solving capabilities of a central administrator.  • Trained users in software and the system.  • Network Client/Server support for over 500 Windows NT and Novell NetWare users, creating and managing  user accounts, MS Outlook support, email configuration, data storage and backup.  • Created the system, incorporating all of its functions within one unit.  • Maintained and managed network cabling infrastructure based on patch panel connectivity.  • Responsible for all help desk operations, end-user support and training.  • Responsible for VERITAS NetBackup support for backup and recovery of DLT tapes according to company  policy and procedures.    • Responded to server-down and disaster recovery situations. Education B.S. in Computer Science Mercy College - Tarrytown, NY Skills Bgp, Cisco, Citrix, Eigrp, Isis, Mpls, Netscout, Network analysis, Ospf, Tcp, Tcp/ip, Vmware, Wireshark, Data center, Load balancing, Websense, Vss, Avamar, Arcserve, Nortel