Network Engineer, Retail Network Team <span class="hl">Network</span> Engineer, Retail <span class="hl">Network</span> Team Network Engineer, Retail Network Team Work Experience Network Engineer, Retail Network Team ALLIANCE DATA SYSTEMS - Columbus, OH 2015 to 2019 Upgraded Cisco Nexus 5596 NX-OS and installed 10GB 2232 Fabric Extender in major  Data Center. Downtime minimized to each individual Fabric Extender reloading new code.  Servers tested on 10GB successfully.  • Identified over 30 point to point connections and converted them to MPLS connections  paving the way for seamless data center conversion and substantial savings obtaining the cheaper circuits.  • Advertised peer addresses for VPN to Internet from DMZ firewall at new Data Center, observed reestablishment of tunnels, and communicated successful conversion to customer  base with minimal downtime.  • Assisted customers with local presence order circuits and have new equipment racked and mounted in new Data Center.  • Decommission and accounting of all networking equipment at abandon Data Center  resulting in significant savings in support dollars.  • Configured and provided cabling diagrams for five data center routers and four switches for customer connectivity in new Data Center resulting in a more streamlined and simpler  support for new customer Business to Business Infrastructure.  • Added 20+ new customers over 12-month span in a year of unprecedented growth. Ordered  circuits and routers. Configured and shipped equipment. Verified installation, tested, and brought into production remote routers at customer sites. Network Engineer, Retail Network Team Fujitsu - Columbus, OH 2013 to 2015 Assisted lead engineer replacing core switches in primary Data Center with Cisco 7010 NX- OS hardware resulting in a more robust and dependable switching and routing platform and  permitting an easier and more streamlined access to network services.  • Replaced 10 4507 access layer switches with 6509 series switches. Racked and cabled  switches under a tight timeline. No user impact.  • Added new IPSEC\VPN router for remote external customer connectivity under a tight  timeline due to a large bank's strict phase1 and phase2 settings not available on current  router.  • Designed and implemented Wireless solution for large corporate headquarters site.  Configured 5508 wireless controllers and provided completely redundant wireless  infrastructure. Executive wing delighted with improved wireless coverage, dependability, and seamless mobility. Network Engineer, NAEIT Network Team Unicon/Honda Manufacturing - Marysville, OH 2010 to 2013 Contributed to complete Network redesign and upgrade project. Configured and installed  new 4507 and 6509 Cisco switches at core, distribution, and access layers. Network  redundancy achieved and overall network uptime was 99 percent.  • Coordinated installation of six 2851 integrated service routers at three different sites.  Designed and configured routers including Cisco Call Manager integration. Installation  achieved with zero down time and an upgraded efficient call routing system.  • Corroborated with large outsourcing company to integrate and network their hardware in existing data centers. Recommended and provided networking solutions for ESX servers  and SAN\NAS devices. Smoothly managed successful transitions to new devices on Cisco  6513 server farm switches with no customer impact.  • Provided Unified Wireless solution for large remote manufacturing site. Designed redundant  Layer2 and Layer3 wired backend for the wireless vlans. Configured WiSM2's, migrated  access points, and implemented WCS. Installation resulted in a scalable, manageable, and dependable wireless infrastructure Systems Analyst, Support Services ITENTIVE Corporation - Columbus, OH 2009 to 2010 Configured Cisco ASA 5505 after several sites converted from T1 to Fiber. Setup the ASA  for Site to Site and Remote VPN connectivity after production hours. Customers  experienced zero down time and returned to full production the next day. JPMORGAN CHASE - Columbus, OH 2000 to 2008 LAN Administrator, Global Infrastructure Technology JPMORGAN CHASE 2000 to 2008 Collaborated with server team as on call Novell LAN Administra tor support concerning a failed server. Performed emergency Novell server decommission using BindView query  software to move data, applications, and printers to new server. Received positive  acknowledgements from direct management and from server team for zero impact to clients. Education Bachelors of Science in Computer Science for Business in Computer Science for Business DeVry Institute of Technology - Columbus, OH Skills Active directory, Cisco, Networking, Router, Cisco asa, Ios, Asr, Time management, Lan, Training Additional Information TECHNICAL PROFICIENCY    Key Strengths: Remote Support - Cisco switch\router connectivity -  LAN\WAN Administration - Production Assurance -  Troubleshooting\Resolving - Time Management - Root  Cause Analysis - Customer Focus - Technical Training    Networking: Cisco NX-OS  Cisco IOS  Windows - Active Directory    Hardware: Cisco 5596 and C7010 series switches;  Cisco 4500, 6500, 3850 series switches;  Cisco 2851 ISR and ASR 1001 routers;  Cisco ASA 5545;