FedEx Ground Contractor FedEx Ground Contractor FedEx Ground Contractor - ANTHEM TRUCKING, INC Mission Viejo, CA Work Experience FedEx Ground Contractor ANTHEM TRUCKING, INC - Santa Ana, CA 2018 to Present Co-Owner  • Co-manage day to day operational logistics of 25 full time employees  • IT manager on all subject matters related to the business systems  ? Deployed and manage employee electronic timesheet management system  ? Manage cloud base vehicle maintenance record and resource database  ? Manage ADP cloud base payroll system  ? Manage ELD semi-truck tracking system (location tracking, video, and HOS)  ? Manage financial and human resources administration systems IT Supervisor MICROVENTION, INC - Aliso Viejo, CA 2016 to 2018 • IT lead committee member assigned with the task of planning and executing a 2-year plan to identify network infrastructure equipment to support a 1,000+ node environment, coordinated equipment assets relocation, server migrations, and scheduling resources.  • Exchange site coordinator to process of migration 1,000+ accounts from on-prem to MS Office365 cloud services.  • Manage support team with coordinating and delegating responsibilities. Oversaw the day-to-day support functions of the department team.  • System buildouts, managed, and configured a datacenter with multiple MS Hyper-V hosts Senior IT Support Specialist MICROVENTION, INC - Tustin, CA 2009 to 2016 • Assisted with coordinating company computer assets move to new site location.  • Stabilize helpdesk support system and single-handed improved response time support requests.  • Launch and manage Dell hardware (laptops, desktops, and servers) lease solution project. Immediately impacted computing performance with latest hardware components. Created and coordinated a system process to identify expiring leases and swapping out with newer systems.  • Manage and coordinated the launch of Aerohive wireless enterprise networking solution. Coordinated with network infrastructure team on a roll-out schedule.  • Excellent troubleshooting experience desktop, software, server, and networking. System / Network Administrator Consultant PURPOSE FUNDING, INC - Foothill Ranch, CA 2007 to 2009 • Upgraded the organization's network with a minimum of downtime while dramatically improving network stability, backup strategies, printing and data moves.  • Organized and configured the network domain in the corporate office while implementing/ expanding the domain to a remote office.  • Effectively secured network internal data and the domain network from Internet threats.  • Key player in the testing, integration, deployment and support of various software and hardware products and systems.  • Evaluated each facet of operations and made recommendations for improvements in procedures, products and equipment. System / Network Administrator ENDOCARE, INC - Irvine, CA 1998 to 2006 • Responsible for the design, implementation and maintenance of all network infrastructures.  • Supervised one Network Administrator while providing end-user support on Microsoft and other application software packages.  • Managed procurement of all software and hardware equipment for the organization.  • Gained expert knowledge of NT 4.0/2000 Server, Exchange 5.5/2000, LAN Server/Requester, TCP/IP, and Windows for Workgroups.  • Configured and managed wireless email messaging solutions Blackberry and GoodLink Enterprise.  • Streamlined network operations and improved productivity through effective reporting, prioritization and customer communications.  • Maintained servers, switches, firewalls, VPN, WAN/LAN, and routers.    • Supervised the configuration and troubleshooting of issues on servers/desktops/laptops.  • Evaluated and recommended software and hardware upgrades to improve network performance and boost productivity.  • Managed PBX system equipment and the TrackIT Help Desk system while performing admin duties of add, moves and changes to phones/software. Skills Active directory (10+ years), Cisco, DNS (10+ years), Exchange, Fiber channel, Networking, Scsi, Avaya, Database, Sql server, Sql server 2012, Sql, Raid, Sas, Sata, Backup exec, Dhcp, Mpls, T1 Additional Information COMPUTER SKILLS    ? Networking Environments: Ethernet, Cat 5e/6/7, Coax, Fiber, Wi-Fi  ? Wan: DSL, T1, Frame Relay, MAN, MPLS    ? Telecommunications: Analog, Video Conferencing, Avaya    ? Protocols: TCP, IP, Telnet, DNS, FTP, DHCP, PPTP, SMTP, IMAP, SNMP, POP3, IMAP, HTTP, ARP, ICMP, SSH    ? Networking Hardware: Switches (HP ProCurve and Dell) Patch Panels, Punch Panels, Cisco Routers, SonicWall F/W, Avaya, Aerohive, Meraki    ? Database: SQL Server 2012, SQL Server Management Studio    ? Mobility: iPhone, Droid, Verizon Mobile Administrator, MDM    ? Hardware: Dell, Hewlett Packard, Dell PowerEdge, Symbol    ? Architectures: SCSI, EIDE, SAS, ATA, RAID, SATA, and Fiber Channel    ? Windows Server / Client: Microsoft 365 Enterprise, Azure, Windows 2018 and earlier, File/Print/DHCP/DNS, Active Directory, VPN server, Windows Radius Server, Windows System Center, Group Policy, SolidWorks, AS400 (JDE), PeerSync    ? Operating Systems: DOS, Windows 7, Windows 10, Windows XP Pro, Linux, Apple OS, Windows 2018 Server and earlier    ? Network Tools: Windows performance monitor, DHCP manager, DNS, MMC, Event Viewer, RDP, TightVNC, PRTG Traffic Grapher, Network Probe, Ping Plotter, Solar Winds (Engineer's Toolset), Telnet, TeamViewer, Putty, Tera Term    ? Communications: Exchange 2013, 2016 (Archiving, Retention, and eDiscovery), Outlook 2016 and earlier, Outlook Web Access, Video Conferencing, Blackberry Enterprise, MobileIron Technology    ? Backup: Datto, Quest, Veritas Enterprise Backup Exec, and Microsoft Windows backup    ? MFP and Printers: Sharp, HP, HP Plotter, Zebra, Brother, Ricoh, Xerox, HPDirect Print server    ? Misc.: Corporate Norton Ghost, Partition Magic, TrackIT Professional