Systems Administrator Systems <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Information Systems Technician Melbourne, FL Highly skilled disaster recovery specialist with a well rounded concentration in System Administration, Networking, and System Security with over 10 years of experience: installing, upgrading, hardening, certifying, and maintaining complex networks in global environments. Self-starter who is able to work with little supervision while utilizing strong problem solving and troubleshooting skills. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Administrator Regional HVAC - Melbourne, FL May 2018 to Present Provide SYSADMIN role for over 14 nation wide sites. Create and follow procedures for ever evolving administration of a vast array of mobile devices, network and server equipment. Provide training and supervision to first time IT employee(s) as required. Work with latest Windows server and VMware to maintain operational capabilities. Build and troubleshoot Windows 10 PCs. Troubleshoot Office 365, Azure, and SM-Plus (CRM) issues. Write scripts including VBS, batch, and Powershell to resolve issues and automate routing processes. Troubleshoot network outages and server degradation. Build virtual switches for VOIP system within VMWare framework. Provide assistance in security incidents and harden network. Troubleshoot issues with CITRIX servers, in field TECHs mobile devices, office users desktops, external website, and Mobile Device Management server. Configure IP cameras and Sonic Wall for routing and network access through VPN. Assist employees with phone and email support. Add APPs to MDM and push to remote devices. Install and troubleshoot printers of various brands. Provide ADMIN support of VOIP system. Provide support through 24 x 7 on call rotation. Network Administrator Ecklers Automotive - Titusville, FL January 2016 to May 2018 Performed troubleshooting of network issues such as network loops, broadcast storms, latency, and bandwidth over utilization. Built and configured Cacti server to assist with this process and implemented network protocols such as STP to mitigate disruption of operations. Built out local area network and servers of various Windows and Linux flavors. Develop disaster recovery plans. Perform disaster recovery operations for degraded servers, deleted files, and in response to hurricane Irma destroying head quarters building. Moved server room and built replacement call center at secondary site utilizing VOIP equipment configure on the fly. Performed administration of VOIP involving creation of user accounts, work group queues for email metrics, sales recordings, and various membership access requirements. Troubleshoot VOIP equipment from Polycom phone settings and provisioning, switch configurations for VOIP, blue tooth headsets, call quality, and Interaction Desktop software settings. Develop software and system builds. Setup security posture in regards to antivirus servers and security applications, threat detection equipment, and fortigate firewalls. Built Security Onion server to assist with HIDS monitoring. Built OpenVAS vulnerability scanner to help security posture and meet criteria for PCI DSS 3.2. Provided SYSADMIN of CRM's such as Microsoft Dynamics and AS400. Build out workstations from scratch and developed cloning software. Configured Samba server to use for Windows cloning process when previous hardware was lost in hurricane Irma. Performed troubleshooting on and resolved dotnet app hangs and app crashes. Created Android APP for BYOD email access. Install applications with PDQ Deploy and command line.Configure Trend Micro for security posture. Network Security Administrator Harris Corporation June 2016 to December 2016 Provided tier 2 support for multiple FAA programs. Configured MS Access database with Clear Quest ticket system front end with nested file structure for security incident logging. Wrote script and configured various software programs to move monitoring of transport to front monitor to free room for tier 1 to monitor ArcSight events. Worked with tier 3 security and network engineers to turn up and secure sites. Created filters and monitored events in ArcSight to maintain security of network. Updated Sourcefire and McAfee definitions and developed procedures to train tier 1. Modeled network and radio equipment in Remedy and Spectrum. Added DNS entries for network equipment. Network Systems Administrator Harris - Melbourne, FL March 2015 to December 2015 As a Network Systems Administrator supported the FAA’s Weather and Radar Processor (WARP) and Operational and Supportability Information System (OASIS) programs, a nation-wide enterprise network with UNIX and Windows servers. Responsible for real time 24X7 monitoring of weather systems at 23 Air Traffic Control Centers, 3 Center Radar Approach Control Centers, and 2 Terminal Radar Approach Control Centers. This includes monitoring of system performance and pro-active support.     Coordinated deployment and operational support of systems upgrades and maintenance updates. Coordinated efforts between field support teams and on-site technical support services. Handled first line of support for customer and field calls into an operations center. Logged calls and performed preliminary investigations into reported network issues.     Disaster Recovery/Outage first response. After hours (often solo) manning of HTEN and Weather Help Desk. Providing dual roles in NOS and SYS Admin isolating issues to prevent unnecessary over-utilization of on call engineers and Field Dispatch Technicians, saving money and corporate resources. Handle global, national, and state wide outages with grace in stressful situations to restore critical navigation and communication services for the Department Of Transportation to protect civilian lives to the greatest capacity.   Provided technical support for Harris Trusted Enterprise Network (HTEN) IP services by employing test methods to investigate and remedy network anomalies in a 99.999% up time environment. Monitored for, analyzed, and troubleshot network problems within an operations center utilizing network management and monitoring tools such as Solar Winds Orion, CA Spectrum Suite, and Remedy.     Monitored the alarm conditions on the network to proactively identify and minimize disruption and impact to the network. Efficiently used test methods to troubleshoot WAN/LAN technologies such as SONET, Ethernet, IP, Frame Relay, MPLS, ATM, BGP, Circuit Emulation, and OSPF. Work with Local Exchange Carriers, ILECs, IXCs, internal and external groups as needed to resolve network issues. Remotely work with onsite technicians and telecommunication partners to resolve network problems. Created trouble tickets and initiate workflow for problem resolution. Scrutinized for false positives and performed trend analysis on monitoring equipment to localize and isolate network faults. Investigated, analyzed, and troubleshot network problems within an operations center utilizing network management and monitoring tools. Employed various test methods to remotely analyze fractional enterprise data networks including fractional T1; T3; Ethernet; IP; and RF. Interpreted equipment alarms in the network on premise equipment or TELCO's network equipment and moved forward towards service restoration. Resolved problems using internal and external groups as needed to correct trouble on the network and interact with the customer. This position was part of a 24x7 network control environment. Shift and workday flexibility was required. IT (Global Information Grid Network Technician) NCTAMS LANT (Naval Computer and Telecommunication Area Master Station Atlantic) - Norfolk, VA 2012 to March 2015 Supervise and perform troubleshooting on CISCO enterprise network over the Global Information Grid. This network contains a layer 3 switch, OC3 connections, routers, layer 2 switches, varying encryption devices, and transport equipment. Work with Juniper switches and varying routing protocols. Protocols include BGP, EIGRP, IGRP, OSPF, HDLC, and PPP. Troubleshoot across entire equipment string to support ship and shore RF data and voice communication equipment strings from VLF to EHF. Support VOIP, VTC, and T1 over ATM/ST1000 connections. Oversee the receipt, accounting, and distribution of transmission encryption keys and devices classified up to Top Secret supporting COMSEC and TRANSEC of US and NATO networks. Successfully restored IP and voice communications on over 100 forward deployed units leading to a 30% increase in nation's operational capabilities. This in turn saved the US Navy over $500,000 in offsite assists, man hours, and equipment replacements. Lead Systems Administrator and Information Security Specialist US Navy (Mine Counter Measures - MCM Crew Leader) - San Diego, CA 2008 to 2012 Performed as head System Administrator providing leadership, technical expertise, and tier 2/3 support to senior NCOs and Officers and IT team. These actions maintained entire network throughout the first ever International Mine countermeasure Exercise (IMCMX). The largest multinational operation in history as a response to Iranian threats to close the straight of Hormuz and attack Israel. Increased system security through hardening and penetration testing. Performed installation, upgrade, and troubleshooting on servers, workstations, and peripherals. Configured ADNS Red Hat Cisco routers for VTC and VOIP implementations. Implemented, directed, and designed disaster recovery, backup, and network Standard Operating Procedures as needed. Worked on Group Policies, Domain Controllers, Exchange System Manager, and implementing best practices. Through hands on troubleshooting saved $70,000 by isolating high level faults and determined best course of action in response. This included network implementations and multiple server reloads for NIPR and SIPR directly contributing to a 25% increase in mission readiness. Education Bachelor's in Computer Science Excelsior College 2014 to December 2016 Associate's in Computer Science Excelsior College 2014 to 2014 Network Security Vulnerability Technician Integrated Systems Network Specialist Management Journey Man Networking Core ADNS END TO END Network Troubleshooting School Automated Digital Networking System Cisco Router School Skills Technical Support, Active Directory, Windows, Javascript, Mac, Networking, Technical Support, Microsoft Office Military Service Branch: Navy Service Country: United States Rank: E5 January 2008 to March 2015 Certifications/Licenses Security+ April 2016 to April 2019 Network+ April 2016 to April 2019 A+ April 2016 to April 2019 Additional Information Areas of Expertise:  Committed to maintaining the highest standards of customer service with the ability to work in fast paced environments adapting quickly to changing situations and effectively handling stressful situations. Exhibits the depth of knowledge, character, and resourcefulness necessary for complex problem solving, project management, and team leadership. Excellent written and verbal communication skills. Holds renewable Top Secret/SCI clearance. Available February 27, 2015.  Qualifications:  • Cyber Security Operations  • Networks Security Analysis & Architecture  • LAN/WAN Administration  • Vulnerability Assessment & Mitigation  • Incident Response  TECHNICAL PROFICENCIES:  Certifications: CompTIA Security +, Network +, A+, 2780 DOD IA Network Security Vulnerability Technician NEC, 2790 DOD Networking NEC, Legacy DOD Networking NEC 2735, CPR  Platforms: CISCO IOS, Windows 10, Windows Server 2012-19, Office 365, Linux, Red Hat, Debian, Arch, Slackware, Solaris UNIX, Oracle, VMWARE, SQL, MYSQL, Postgre SQL, Maria DB  Tools: Symantec Antivirus, Mcaffe Antivirus, SCCVI Retina Scan, Active Directory, Host Based Security System Intrusion Prevention System, Proxy server/firewall, Sonic Wall, Cisco ASA, Fortigate, Veritas/Symantec/Veam backup programs, Exchange System Manager/Exchange Control Panel/Admin Center, PKI, and Microsoft Group Policy  Networking: CISCO routers, Alcatel/HP/Juniper/Dell switches, TCP/IP, OSI model, Network infrastructure and troubleshooting, L3 switches, network security design and auditing.  Telecom: ATM, Promina, OC3  Classification: System and information classification, protection, and auditing