Material Handler Material Handler Material Handler - Textron GSE Ground Support Equipment Cartersville, GA Work Experience Material Handler Textron GSE Ground Support Equipment - Kennesaw, GA June 2018 to Present • Perform basic material handling activities: unloading trucks, receiving parts, material movements, order fulfillment, cycle counts and inventory error investigation.  • Identify, label and pull parts and move to the correct manufacturing production cell.  • Receive assemblies and process work orders built by manufacturing.  • Train new employees as required.  • Utilize power lifting equipment: pallet jack, forklift, stand-up, etc.  • Maintain a clean, safe and positive work environment. Information Systems Security Association - Atlanta, GA September 2018 to September 2018 Forklift Driver/Material Handler Voestalpine Automotive Inc - Cartersville, GA April 2018 to June 2018 • Perform basic material handling activities: unloading trucks, receiving parts, in SAP, material movements, order fulfillment, cycle counts and inventory error investigation.  • Identify, label and pull parts and move to the correct manufacturing production cell.  • Receive assemblies and process work orders built by manufacturing.  • Train new employees as required.  • Utilize power lifting equipment: pallet jack, forklift, stand-up, etc.  • Maintain a clean, safe and positive work environment. Driver FedEx Ground - Marietta, GA April 2017 to April 2018 • Securely backed up 28' and 53' ft. trailers to docks for loading/unloading while adhering to all required safety codes and standards.  • Perform pre-trip and post-trip inspections on tractors.  • Unload, sort, label and reload packages for delivery to various destinations in a safe and timely manner.  • Collaborate with team members to organize loads efficiently while maintaining a clean and safe working environment. Network Support Technician Getinsured.com - Marietta, GA December 2012 to January 2014 • Provided assistance for day-to-day floor operations including the maintenance and resolution of all issues with Stratasoft Telephony System.  • Managed IT Operations in the absence of IT Department Heads including the training and coordination of Help Desk Assistant Technicians.  • Ensured high productivity of end users by providing prompt responses to technical support requests. Network Administrator Reflek Manufacturing Inc - Lithia Springs, GA June 2012 to December 2012 • Provided technical support for end users including hardware/software configuration.  • Maintenance of Ethernet and Wireless networks, responding to trouble tickets, and documentation of events using Spiceworks network management software.  • Configuration and deployment of peripheral devices. Network Administrator United States Navy - Norfolk, VA April 2006 to April 2012 • Provided secure satellite communications for pilots during flight missions.  • Conducted migration of user data in lieu of system upgrade (transition to Blade Servers). Sanitization and documentation of classified networking systems.  • Supervised 30 personnel on daily operations of Help Desk Support for 5,000+ users.  • Provided technical support for 5,000+ users and ensured proper maintenance of workstations and peripherals. Deployed new workstations, installed operating systems, applications, drivers, and configured network properties.  • Supported disaster recovery plans performing regular data backups.  • Ensured optimal network health and uptime through monitoring network traffic, server event logs, researching/correcting system warnings/errors, updating Symantec Antivirus definitions, and documenting maintenance best-practices. Torah Chaim Elementary School - Newport News, VA February 2012 to February 2012 Southeastern Food Bank of Virginia - Virginia Beach, VA June 2010 to June 2010 Toys for Tots - Newport News, VA September 2009 to September 2009 Volunteer Information Temple University - Philadelphia, PA October 1995 to October 1995 Education CCNA Full Sail University - Winter Park, FL Present Information Systems Center for Information Dominance - Pensacola, FL June 2006 to December 2008 Academy Park High School - Sharon Hill, PA June 1993 Skills Warehouse Associate, Shipping, Shipping Receiving, Picker Packer, Forklift Military Service Branch: United States Navy Rank: E-5 Additional Information Skills:  • Familiar with Cable Installation, Type 60wpm, Ten-key skills, data entry, faxing, filing, experienced with Microsoft Office Word/Excel/ PowerPoint, Apple Pages and Keynote.    • Greeting and handling customer inquiries, proper phone etiquette, quality control, experienced with thriving in high-pressure/volume environments.