Linux Administrator Linux <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Linux Administrator - Shinning Hope Missions St. Louis, MO Work Experience Linux Administrator Shinning Hope Missions 2018 to Present Charity Organization  • Assist in developing a Linux computer system to be deployed in small schools in Haiti that do not have reliable electricity or internet access, using Raspberry Pi mini computers that will be  Powered from Solar and battery system. Developing computer applications to assist teachers to keep  track of students progress. Network Administrator LMC Industries - Arnold, MO July 2017 to Present Plastic Manufacturing  • Maintain user access using Active Directory and Outlook support. Maintain company computers and network and insuring that all software is up to date. Troubleshoot Network, computer and software  problems. Maintain Thin Client workstations. Assist in implementing inventory control by automating  storage location and product identification. Network Technician February 2016 to July 2017 XO Communications, LLC - St. Louis, MO March 2010 to December 2014 St. Louis, MO  March 2010 to December 2014  Telecommunications Services  • Troubleshoot Cisco, Juniper and other network equipment to determine the circuit outage location, diagnose equipment errors  • Correspond with various groups to resolve issues  • Monitor network traffic on Internet and internal equipment  • Using SSH to securely access network equipment through a secured Linux server behind the company firewall.  • Cisco, Juniper, Microsoft Office Powerpoint, Microsoft Office Excel, Linux, Apache Web Server, Tomcat, Network Administration. IT Specialist IBM - Maplewood, MO December 2007 to November 2008 Computer Software  • Trained employee, Java developer in India, and coordinated all in house meetings with IBM India  employee.  • Coordinated activity between client, vendor and developer during times of scheduling conflicts, by meeting daily with developer to resolve most issues before meeting with the client, resulting in more  effective communication between all parties  • Microsoft Office Powerpoint, Microsoft Office Excel, Linux, Apache Web Server, Tomcat, Network  Administration Communication Specialist ATT - St. Louis, MO June 2000 to November 2007 Telecommunications Services  • Effectively maintained Oracle SQL database by correcting or deleting all data entered incorrectly, which ultimately prevented the client from editing the data  • Installed Java application in directories on Red Hat Server; logging in as administrator to verify all  files and folders had the proper permissions for each install, whereby significantly decreasing the amount of downtime three times annually  • Supported employees' desktop computers, using simple language and terminology to effectively  assess the technical issue and quickly correct the problem through implementing successful  troubleshooting techniques  • Maintained network connectivity to programs, network, and servers by verifying the internal users  identity and accessibility and granting access for an average of five times monthly    • Active Directory and Exchange Administration.    • Wrote more than 200 scripts that repaired email, networking issues, and application configurations to compare the users' computer to stored configurations, saving time and technical support; Cutting 2/3  of Costs  • Computer system administration, Exchange 2005, Microsoft Office Powerpoint, Microsoft Office Excel, Linux, Apache Web Server, Tomcat, Network Administration Computer Technician UPS - Earth City, MO March 1996 to May 2000 Maintained and upgraded Microsoft and Novell servers, initiating proper sequences to enable  communications to other portions of the company and staying on during off hours to ensure all  configurations were accurate at least five times annually  • Maintained network through the shipping HUB and ran new fiber networking cable where needed, which allowed the computer network to transfer data more than 10 times faster  • Computer system administration, Microsoft Office Powerpoint, Microsoft Office Excel, Apache Web  Server, Tomcat, Network Administration. Parts Delivery - St. Louis, MO 1964 to 1964 Education Bachelor's Degree Southeast Missouri State University - St. Louis, MO December 2008 Certificate in Infrastructure St. Louis Community College Skills Linux, Red hat, Active directory, Vmware Additional Information Skills  Active Directory (9 years), Linux (7 years), Red Hat (2 years), System Admin (9 years), Vmware (1  year), System Administrator (9 years), Linux Administrator (1 year)