Self Employed Self Employed Self Employed - Self Employed Olympia Fields, IL Work Experience Self Employed Self Employed 2017 to Present • Represented various Vendors through Onforce IT database  • Provide installation and configuration of Server/ Network equipment for various franchise rollouts.  • Deployment of Windows 7 and Windows 10 desktop and laptops  • Hands-On Support for major network cutovers.  • Decommissioning of Servers and Network equipment.  • Access Point installations and testing in various customer sites.  • Collaborate and train upper management and end users on new hardware and software implementations.  • Local travel to various clients to address Network and Server issues. IBM, Oakbrook, IL 2014 to 2017 Service Support Services  • Provide Desktop and LAN support for IBM clients in Microsoft-based environment  • Preparing disk imaging and ghosting for new and existing multi-vendor laptops and desktops  • Installation and configuration of Cisco routers and switches  • Provide microsoft operating system and application support for 500+ local and remote users.  • Fulfilling IMACs within service level agreement objectives and deadlines.  • Tracking and updating helpdesk tickets through ManageNow , Remedy, and Maximo, ServiceNow.  • Provided onsite user and network support for short-term and long-term assignments  • Assisting customers with internet/intranet-related issues.  • Server commissioning and decommissioning for various IBM clients.  • Served as Level 3 Desk-side and Network support for major insurance company client.  • Installation of switches, routers and access points.  • Deployment of new desktop hardware and software.  • Creation and management of Active Directory user accounts.  • Provided Remote Support to Ace Insurance Salesforce and End Users locally and internationally via phone and Remote Support tools. Senior Network Administrator Loretto Hospital - Chicago, IL 2011 to December 2013 • Oversee Network and Desk-side support tickets and projects to ensure that they meet SLA deadlines.  • Coordinate and Implement the LAN/WAN infrastructure to meet hospital long-term and short-term objectives.  • Collaborate with Departmental authorities to address IT requirements for in implementing HIE.  • Responsible for interviewing and selection of new IT hires.  • Installing of Application Servers using Windows Server 2008.  • Setup Domain Controllers and Stand-alone servers for Active Directory.  • Responsible for scheduling of staff work hours and vacation request.  • Facilitate and schedule IT staff meetings to discuss present and future projects.  • Serve on Strategic Planning committee to define and set IT policy and procedures for equipment usage.  • Assist in planning the migration of Active Directory and Microsoft Exchange 2010.  • Responsible for the purchasing and installation of new computer equipment to replace end of life computer equipment.  • Responsible for providing standardization of PC builds throughout the hospital.  • Perform hardware and software evaluations of prospective vendors equipment.  • Setting thresholds for Network and Hardware monitoring through Solarwinds Network tools  • Setup alerts for network and server outages through Solarwinds for IT support engagement.  • Generating reports for Capacity planning and Performance planning from Solarwinds.  • Monitor Network Security via Top Layer Security  • Coordinate with AT&T to turn up new routers.  • Monitoring Server Backup using Symantec BackupExec.  • Keeping track of Hardware and Software Contracts and Licenses scheduled for renewals.  • Installation, Configuration, and maintenance of Cisco, Netgear, 3Com, HP 3500 network switches and routers  • Implementation and support of Cisco 1142 LAP and 1142 AP wireless Access Points for public and private connectivity throughout hospital.  • Coordinate project activities related to infrastructure implementations to meet clinical and non-clinical departmental objectives.  • Remotely monitor and correct Server and Network related issues via VPN, Citrix Remote Tools, TeamViewer, and Microsoft RDP utilities.  • Oversee the distribution and configuration of APPLE IPADS and other mobile devices to increase mobility for the medical staff. Network Administrator Loretto Hospital - Chicago, IL 2009 to 2011 • Responsible for installing Cisco 1130AG access points for private mobile hospital equipment and laptops.  • Install and support wireless access points throughout hospital for public internet access.  • Responsible for installation and support of Netgear and 3com switches  • Manage and support of Cisco router 1800, 2800, 3550, 3560g, 3750, and 3825.  • Responsible for Meditech server data migration to HP DL380 servers.  • Responsible for purchase and inventory of new equipment and RMA equipment.  • Monitor and support Tripp-lite and HP UPS units to protect hardware.  • Research and evaluation of new network hardware and software equipment.  • Provide and distribute IP addresses for new hires and network equipment  • Day to day monitoring of security and network connectivity using Top  Layer security IPS 5500 equipment.  • Network configuration and support of multi-vendor printer and PC equipment.  • Responsible for installing and configuring Windows Server 2008 to allow users to create and manage shared folders.  • Responsible for the implementation of Windows 2008 Servers to function as an Active Directory to enhance data security access.  • Installation and configuration of IIS server to equip hospital with Intranet connectivity to minimize unauthorized internet access.  • Provide administrative support for Meditech application support.  • Level 3 support of XP and Windows 7 desktop and laptop issues using local and remote access.  • Installation of Omnicell server and support for Omnicell drawer system software for mobile distribution of medication. Network Administrator International Code Council - Country Club Hills, IL 2008 to 2009 • Responsible for monitoring, maintaining Windows 2003 Server farm.  • Monitoring over 20 local Cisco switches and routers.  • Using Symantec Backup Exec to perform daily and weekly backups on multiple servers.  • Provide Deskside and Remote support for software and hardware related request  • Responsible for creating and maintenance of Active Directory user and group accounts  • Responsible for creating and supporting MAS200/SQL user accounts and troubleshooting record locks.  • Setting up computer equipment for scheduled Office 2007 and Adobe CS4 training sessions.  • Installation and configuration of Cisco VPN access for local and remote offices  • Responsible for ordering and inventorying of computer equipment and parts  • Configuration and activation of Blackberry phones through Sprint.  • Provide weekly status report to manager and network team. Service Support Representative IBM, Oakbrook, IL 2006 to 2008 • Provide Desktop and LAN support for IBM clients in Microsoft-based environment  • Preparing disk imaging and ghosting for new and existing multi-vendor laptops and desktops  • Installation and configuration of Cisco routers and switches to convert from satellite to digital transmission for auto dealerships  • Provide microsoft operating system and application support for 500+ local and remote users  • Fulfilling IMACs within service level agreement objectives and deadlines  • Provide company-wide upgrades and configurations of AS400 to e-series 520 servers for Walgreens POS retail system.  • Set up local and global accounts for new users and adding them to the domain in Active Directory  • Tracking and updating helpdesk tickets through ManageNow and Remedy. Security Specialist Administrator Artech Information Systems LLC - Chicago, IL 2006 to 2007 • Setting up and enforce group policy  • Responsible for deleting, disabling, and resetting users accounts for local and remote users through active directory  • Provide daily reports for access verification.  • Tracking and updating user request via Peregrine helpdesk software.  • Coordinating and preparing request for shipment of key FOBS to designated users via DHL website  • Responsible for the issuance of SecurId tokens. RSA/SECURID activations and deactivations.  • Responsible for enabling VPN customers for dial-up authentication through Sprints I-pass customer administration tool Service Support Representative IBM, Oakbrook, IL 2002 to 2006 • Performed e-mail conversion of Microsoft Outlook to Lotus Notes for insurance agency  • Performed company-wide data migrations and restores for various customer accounts  • Provided onsite user and network support for short-term and long-term assignments  • Assisting customers with internet-related issues  • Provide installation and support for Blackberry request and issues.  • Installation and certification of Microsoft server 2003 for Backoffice and retail banking operations  • Installation, configuration, and support of LAN/WAN for major banking, entertainment and car leasing accounts  • Support and update trouble-tickets and user request for 500+ users on day-to-day basis in central region  • Installed Cisco routers and configured for Washington Mutual, Enterprise  • Car Rental, and Lenovo computer, Ford Motor Company as part of new store rollouts or conversions  • Installed Cisco switches and patch cables for network and user connectivity for ABN AMRO bank  • Configure and support users with wireless connectivity issues.  • Installation, configuration, and support of local and networked HP and Lexmark printers  • Creating and maintaining email accounts using Microsoft Exchange.  • Served as Team Lead in major desktop and server roll-outs for 150 new banking branch operations  • Create, maintenance, and deny/grant access to user and group accounts and setting up GPO's through Active Directory  • Provide LAN access and password administration for Novell users through NWADMIN IT Specialist IBM, Oakbrook, IL 1994 to 2001 • Performed site survey and installation for WAN conversions from Hughes Systems to Cisco equipment  • Re-image of desktops and laptops using Ghost and Powerquest tools.  • Responsible for monitoring and applying latest service packs and anti-virus updates on Microsoft and Novell servers for enterprise distribution  • Assisted in deployment of Windows 98, NT, Windows 2000 roll-outs.  • Installation and configuration of Novell servers in various client-based accounts  • Desktop and Network support of Microsoft Office and TCP/IP related issues  • Provided day-to-day software and hardware support for major telephone company sales department Education Bachelors of Theology in Theology Trinity Theological Seminary School - Newburgh, IN Business Administration Roosevelt University - Chicago, IL Diploma Computer Learning Center - Chicago, IL Skills Active directory, Cisco, Dns, Exchange, Solarwinds, Tcp/ip, Citrix, Dhcp, Orion, Tcp, Vpn, Deployment, Database administration, Database, Sql, Orion web, Meditech, Raid, Lan, Microsoft office