Volunteer/Operations Volunteer/Operations Volunteer/Operations - Kaddra Farm Inc Staten Island, NY • CompTIA A+, Security+ & MCSA Certified Professional Desktop Support/ Network Administrator with extensive experience with Microsoft Windows, installation and upgrading in laptop, desktop and tablet.  • Hands on experience working with windows 7, 8 (8.1) and 10.  • Strong experience in managing the VoIP phone, door access, Identity Cards; utilize SCOM and SCCM for deploying software, imaging and monitoring.  • Proven experience in administering and supporting the corporate domain and AD infrastructure with over 2000 user's accounts with K12 and Active Directory on Win2012, 2008R2 and Win 2003 Servers and maintain a virus free environment with Kaspersky and K12, imaging, backup and recovery.  • Proven experience with Microsoft Windows, installation and upgrading in laptop, desktop and tablet.  • Extensive experience with Server Patching, PC Imaging and Upgrading O365 clients through SCCM and Tanium.  • Good experience in installing, configuring, testing, maintaining, monitoring, and troubleshooting end-user handheld devices, Laptops, workstations and related hardware and software.  • Good oral and written communication. Work Experience Volunteer/Operations Kaddra Farm Inc - Staten Island, NY September 2013 to Present Responsibilities include:  • Customer service, retail sales, floor supervise and general activities including collection.  • Create and maintain documentation relating to desktop configuration, procedures & records all gifts received from donor agencies.  • Perform Active Directory Management on Win 2008R2/2012 Servers for the organization.  • Perform onsite installation of equipment purchased from the thrift store, and recommend or implement corrective solutions, including on/offsite repair. System & Desktop Support Robert Half Technology - New York, NY December 2018 to April 2019 Responsibilities include:  • Build Dell EMC Physical and Hyper-V Servers and assign static IPs ready for production.  • Hands on experience working with windows 7, 8 (8.1) and 10.  • Server Patching, PC Imaging and Upgrading O365 clients through SCCM and Tanium.  • Install and Configured Symantec Endpoint Protection updates with Group Update Providers deploy remote push to update clients from Version 12.x to Version 14.2.  • Monitor VMware NetApp data stores for storage and resource contention. Use Symantec Backup Exec 14 for backup and recovery, including Active Directory duties on user accounts and shared resources and server patching. Troubleshoot and resolve client and staff problems. Desktop Support/ Network Administrator Lighthouse Guild Int - New York, NY November 2017 to May 2018 Responsibilities include:  • Domain Name Active Directory Infrastructure LAN/WAN with GPOs, DNS & DHCP, with Virtual Machines and managing end users in a hybrid environment.  • Perform Exchange administration and management on user's mailboxes.  • Provide audio/video conference support for meetings, training and seminars. Migrate from Exchange 2010 to Exchange 2016, OWA and Outlook.  • Perform HelpDesk support in Windows and Citrix Director to remote users, nurses, case managers, and staff and Cisco VOIP phone with Call Manager and Call Unity.  • Monitor the system for viruses with Cisco Advanced Malware Protection and Trend Micro Antivirus software, and server nodes with SolarWinds and patch servers as needed.  • Provision new Virtual Machines in Hyper-V, Citrix and VMware, monitor CPU and memory contention, backup and recovery with Symantec Backup Exec15 and Veeam. Network Administrator Pinnacle Consulting Group - Fairfield, NJ March 2016 to November 2017 Responsibilities include:  • Customer service, AD management, desktop and remote technical support by responding to and resolving support requests for members and staff.  • Create and maintain documentation on policies, procedures and guidelines relating to desktop configuration, processes, services & records for ITIL adherence and SLA's.  • Perform training for software and desktop usage for employees, clients and staff on Office 365, Visio, Adobe, FileMaker, Millennium and Photoshop.  • Break/fix - Mac/Win servers, workstations, laptops, mobile devices and printers; validate and mitigate security threats with Symantec to maintain a virus free environment.  • Perform onsite analysis, write/edit scripts to help diagnosis, and Audio/Video Conference support for presentations and meetings.  • Server Build, imaging and replication, backup and recovery. Support Red Hat Enterprise Linux database with Exchange, Cisco ASA Firewall, and VOIP telephony adds, moves and changes as required.  • Install, configure, test, maintain, monitor, and troubleshoot end-user handheld devices, Laptops, workstations and related hardware and software. Technology Coordinator Jewish Educational - Center, NJ, US September 2005 to August 2013 Responsibilities include:  • Administered and supported the corporate domain and AD infrastructure with over 2000 user's accounts with K12 and Active Directory on Win2012, 2008R2 and Win 2003 Servers and maintain a virus free environment with Kaspersky and K12, imaging, backup and recovery.  • Install, configure, test, maintain, monitor, and troubleshoot end-user workstations and related hardware and software in order to maximize system performance.  • Audio and video conference support with Polycom for meetings, off site programs and lectures. Perform break/fix on PCs, laptops, tablets, printers, mobile devices and Wireless Access Points, servers, routers, switches, firewall and gateways.  • Manage the VoIP phone, door access, Identity Cards; utilize SCOM and SCCM for deploying software, imaging and monitoring.  • Updated Web Site http://bruriah.org with student weekly newsletter and blog posts.  • Assisted in incident response, disaster recovery and business continuity. Education Bachelor of Science in Electrical Engineering Fourah Eay College 1986 Skills Active directory, Exchange, Firewalls, Citrix, Network cabling, Teaching Experience, Time Management