Senior Network Administrator/IT Manager/Information Security Officer/AVP Senior <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span>/IT Manager/Information Security Officer/AVP Senior Network Administrator/IT Manager/Information Security Officer/AVP - Provident State Bank Ridgely, MD Work Experience Senior Network Administrator/IT Manager/Information Security Officer/AVP Provident State Bank - Preston, MD December 2015 to Present Provident State Bank is an independently owned community bank that was originally established on March 26, 1904 as the Provident Savings Bank of Preston, Maryland. The bank was opened primarily as a savings bank but opportunities quickly arose for the bank to better service the needs of its community. Thus, in 1912 the bank changed to a state bank to provide its customers with all of the benefits of a commercial bank.    Senior Network Administrator/IT Manager/Information Security Officer/AVP December 2015-Present    Led the Information Technology department and established IT management policies. Managed the server and networking infrastructure for the organization. Designed, implemented and monitored the routers, firewalls and switches for the network. Implemented highest level of security to adhere and surpass the requirements of internal, third party and FDIC audits. Liaison for our core processing vendor to resolve bank workflow problems. Managed the third party, Windows and VMware based updates and optimizing security and application performance. Presented IT policies to the board for annual or semi-annual policy review. Led the team for vendor management review and managed the risk assessment for the bank and each department. Calculated and managed the annual IT budget for infrastructure improvements and software upgrades. Implemented and tested group policy on our Windows domain to set network controls and ensure written policies adhere to the infrastructure. Review and implement network device upgrades and implement VPN technologies. Work closely with the core vendors during the core vendor review process and oversee the managed MPLS network operation. Administered the networked Mitel based phone system network between each location. Provided support for bank staff and completed projects in a timely matter. Created network documentation for a holistic logical view of the network and physical layouts of each location. Designed Powershell scripts to perform reports on users and devices in Active Directory. Implemented PowerShell scripts to perform file automation procedures and file transfers for daily operations. Senior Network Engineer B. Donald Kimball Inc August 2009 to October 2015 B. Donald Kimball Inc. is an IT consulting company that specializes in IBM, Cisco, VMWare, and Microsoft products. The goal is to provide network services to medium to enterprise scale networks. The company mission is to provide superior IT services to businesses of trades including county works and private sectors.    Senior Network Engineer August 2009-October 2015  Established excellent rapport with the clients and delivered responsive service. Planned and implemented various projects involving virtual server migrations using Double Take and VMWare ESX. Installed, repaired and maintained various versions of Linux server. Led the team designing, repairing and optimizing network firewalls. Implemented SourceFire policies on the Firepower firewall platform. Planned, managed, and executed Active Directory migration from Server 2003 to Server 2012 R2. Migrated FSMO master roles to the new Windows servers. Documented all network changes and implemented VMware ESXi 5.x for the hypervisor. Deployed group policies for various Windows rules and settings. Monitored and managed the patch management for VMware with vCenter and Windows updates through WSUS. Configured and deployed Cisco point-to-point VPN connections using Cisco ASA appliances and various Cisco ISR and routers and ensured the utmost level of security and availability for the organizations. Responsible for engineering each LAN and using layer 2 and layer 3 devices. Designed and managed technology project plans and assigned roles/tasks for different support levels. Regularly inspected the backups, deployed WSUS updates, configured Anti-Virus solutions, and used Plesk to manage the E-mail and hosting solutions for the clients. Engineered and implemented monitoring software, Level Platforms, to immediately inform the client of any missing Microsoft updates, service problems, virus infections, etc. Implemented networking monitoring tools to track bandwidth consumption on a per-node basis. This software also performed netflows to graph traffic through SNMP on Cisco IOS based devices. Troubleshot Lotus Notes (Domino) problems for various clients and delivered a prompt resolution. Frequently adhere to all current PCI compliance guidelines and plan daily operations to meet and surpass the baseline. Network Engineer MainBrain L.L.C - Glen Burnie, MD January 2009 to August 2009 Glen Burnie, MD  Professional IT services for small to large businesses providing on-site and remote support. MainBrain is a premier provider of Business Network Management & IT Solutions. MainBrain serves a growing list of commercial clientèle from under 10 workstations to well over 100.    Network Engineer January 2009-August 2009  Developed personal relationships with the clients and estimated time for problem resolution. Implemented virtualization using VMware ESX 3.5 to host Windows 2003/2008 domain controllers and other various application servers. Planned and managed all projects while keeping detailed notes for documentation and training the customer on the new platforms. Performed monthly reviews for client servers, involving verifying backups, installing updates, and checking virus definitions. Work with Windows, Apple, and Linux based servers on client sites for general and customer applications. Established point-to-point VPNs for client networks. Technical Support Specialist Bay Broadband Communications - Chestertown, MD July 2007 to January 2009 Chestertown, MD  Internet Service Provider for Maryland's Eastern Shore. Part of a government initiative to provide high speed Internet to rural areas. A wireless broadband ISP with continued growth and expansion in the target area.    Technical Support Specialist July 2007-January 2009  Support over two thousand customers using telephonic communication and perform on-site service calls for business and residential customers employing both Windows and Macintosh platforms. Used Cisco commands to troubleshoot routing and network problems. Configured remote access for Cisco devices to provide effective management. Built and managed servers to maintain and monitor network availability and availability. Alerts were sent to several contacts in the event of an outage. Work with engineers to troubleshoot network problems for RF links that provide a connection to our customers. Responsible for maintaining office backups for several workstations using RAID 1 configuration. Managed and set up E-mail accounts sponsored by an external domain (Mailtrust). Supported and configured VOIP accounts for customers using web access to configure call treatments, caller ID, device status, etc. Built and managed Nagios server to monitor over four hundred services and over three-hundred hosts to provide alerts to engineers. Troubleshot network outages on-site to restore service to a sector of customers. Collected RF link data from major backbone sites to assist the engineers in network maintenance and upgrades. Computer/ Network Technician Talbot County Public Schools - Easton, MD October 2006 to July 2007 October 2006-July 2007  Responsible for maintaining a network consisting of two schools, four servers, and over two-hundred workstations. Supported approximately one-hundred users and provided friendly technical support to educate clients. Managed user accounts using Active Directory on Windows Server 2003 and managed group policy for the workstation endpoints. Network consisted of one DNS/DHCP server, an LDAP server, a Windows NT server, several switches, a fiber link between the two elementary schools, and one Cisco router. Attended weekly team-meetings to discuss common problems and future upgrades planned for the network. Brainstormed to provide resolution to colleagues' technical issues. Utilized remote connection to resolve trouble tickets and gather information. Education Diploma in Microcomputer Electronics Studies Westwood College - Denver, CO July 2010 Associate of Applied Science in Electronic / Electrical Engineering Technology Delaware Technical and Community College - Georgetown, DE May 2006 Skills Active directory, Aironet, Appletalk, Bgp, Catalyst, Cisco, Citrix, Dhcp, Eigrp, Ipv6, Juniper, Lan/wan, Ldap, Orion, Ospf, Router, Sonet, Tacacs, Tcp, Tcp/ip Additional Information •Proactive Attitude •Superior Leadership Skills •Business Continuity  •Virtualization Professional •Server Administration • Network Security  • Network Diagnostics •Security Compliance •Disaster Recovery    Technical Attributes    Operating Systems: VMWare ESX 3.5/4.0/4.1/5.0/5.1/5.5/6.0/6.5, MAC OS 8/9/10/Snow Leopard/Lion, Windows 9x/ME/NT/2000/Server 2000/2003/2008/2008 R2/2012/2012 R2/2016/XP/Vista/7/8/8.1/10/SBS 2003/2008/2011, Linux, RHEL 4/5/6, UNIX, FreeBSD, Ubuntu, Novell, SLES 9, SUSE, IBM iOS 5.4/6.1/7.1/7.2, CAT OS, Cisco IOS, ASA IOS, JunOS    Hardware: Cisco Routers and Catalyst Switches, Barracuda Spam Filter, Barracuda Message Archiver, IDS/IPS, Load Balancers, Cisco Security Appliance, Cisco ASA 5505/5506/5510/5512, Cisco Aironet, Cisco Aironet Wireless Controllers, Juniper NetScreen, Meraki Wireless, Cisco IP Phones, Cisco UCS Server, Cisco Call Manager, Cisco UC router, Juniper NetScreen, IBM xSeries, IBM iSeries, Xserve, HP Proliant, Dell PowerEdge, EMC SAN/NAS, Airport, SonicWall, Firebox, Cabling, Media Converters, iSCSI, Fortinet, HP Procurve, iSCSI, Fibre Channel, Avaya Phone systems, Mitel Phone systems, IBM V7000 Enterprise storage    Software: Cisco ASDM, Cisco CCA, Cisco ISE, Cisco CME, Cisco CLI, Cisco SourceFire, Cisco AMP, Fortigate UTM, Citrix NetScaler, SCOM, SCCM, Putty, TeraTerm, eVault Backup Software, , Lotus Notes, Domino Server, Symantec Endpoint Protection, Retrospect, Exchange 5.5, Exchange 2003/2007/2010/2013/2016, Active Directory, Kaseya, Kiwi, Symantec Backup Exec, Workgroup Manager, Macintosh Manager, Entourage, C Programming, bash, Perl, HTML, vSphere client, Microsoft Office 2003/2007/2010/2013/2016/2019, Norton/McAfee Anti-Virus, RealVNC, Acronis, QuickBooks, Remote Desktop Connection, AutoCAD, Zone Alarm Pro, Norton Ghost, AutoCAD, Proxy Server, Microsoft Project 2007/2010/2013/2016, Microsoft Visio 2007/2010/2013, Microsoft Sharepoint 2003/2007/2010/2013, Nagios, Ntop, MRTG, Cacti, TACACS, Level Platforms, Ops Utils, Orion, Nable, Solarwinds, SugarCRM, vCenter 4/5/6, Vsphere Update Manager, Netflow, Syslog, ZendServer, Veeam    Protocols: SSH, LAN/WAN, TCP/IP, AppleTalk, PPTP, SSTP, TLS, IKEv1/2, IPSEC, IPX/SPX, NETBEUI, WINS, DNS, DHCP, DHCPv6, POP3, HTML, AnyConnect, IPSEC RA, SMTP, SFTP, TELNET, VPN, ICMP, RIP, OSPF, OSPFv6, NAT, NATv6, EIGRP, EIGRPv6, BGP, MP-BGP, STP, RSTP, PVSTP, LDAP, IPv4, IPv6, TFTP, 802.1/3x, SONET, SNMP v1/2c/3, WMI, NTP, HTTP, HTTPS, 802.11 a/b/g/n/ac    Compliance: PCI, FDIC, HIPPA