IT Systems Administrator IT Systems <span class="hl">Administrator</span> IT Systems Administrator - Waytek, inc Brooklyn Park, MN Experienced IT professional with expertise in Windows-based environments, Unix/Linux environments, networking and MIS. Outstanding customer service skills resolving technical issues and educating end-users. Team player making significant contributions to team and individual success.  Over eighteen years of continuous experience in configuration, management, and network LAN administration. Strong troubleshooting and technical acumen with proven expertise in leadership and project management skills. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience IT Systems Administrator Waytek Inc - Chanhassen, MN August 2019 to Present Manager, IT/Hardware Support Genisys2, LLC - Brooklyn Park, MN 2014 to March 2019 I started at Genisys2 as a technical support representative. As a technical support representative I resolve hardware support issues for servers, POS devices and printers, as well as resolve any networking issues at customer sites. I was offered and accepted a position as an IT manager.  • Maintain existing internal computer and networking equipment by installing updates and patches, as well as ordering and installing replacement equipment when necessary.  • Support of CentOS Linux and SCO Unix servers.  • Support Windows servers (2000 – 2016) Exchange, SQL.  • Support of Office 365.  • Experienced in Azure, VMware, Hyper-V, VirtualBox.  • Installation of custom POS software on customer Windows computers.  • Order, configure, and ship POS equipment for resale. Network Analyst AM Retail Group - Brooklyn Park, MN 2012 to 2014 I started at AM Retail Group as a part time help desk associate. I was offered and accepted a position as a network analyst. As a network analyst I was part of a team that managed thirty plus servers as well as one thousand four hundred PCs and mobile devices spread out across the country at more than three hundred remote retail locations.  • Maintain existing computer and networking equipment by installing updates and patches, as well as ordering and installing replacement equipment when necessary.  • Monitor network for issues to maintain high availability of the network.  • Maintain Avaya PBX telephone system. Help Desk Technician AM Retail Group - Brooklyn Park, MN 2011 to 2012 I was a member of a team that supported three hundred twenty retail locations across the country.  • Maintained existing computer and networking equipment at the retail locations.  • Scheduled equipment repair and replacement as necessary.  • Prepared all computer and networking equipment required to open a new retail location. Network Administrator Universal Circuits, Inc - Maple Grove, MN 2000 to 2011 I was with Universal Circuits for sixteen years. I was the network administrator for eleven of those sixteen years. When I assumed responsibility of the company's small network my knowledge was limited but expanded as the network grew.  • In my time as a network administrator the network expanded from one small server and five PC's to four servers, 50 plus PC's, several manufacturing machines, and a multitude of switches, routers, etc. at two locations.  • I have experience with Cisco routers/switches (CCNA), Active Directory, VPN, DHCP, DNS and Exchange Server. I have experience with Mac, Linux, and Sun Solaris. Education A.A.S. in Network Administrator/Analyst Hennepin Technical College - Brooklyn Park, MN 2012 Skills EXCHANGE (6 years), LINUX (4 years), ACTIVE DIRECTORY (10+ years), CCNA (6 years), CISCO (6 years), Help Desk (7 years), Desktop Support (10+ years), MAC (10+ years), Service Desk (10+ years), Tech Support (10+ years), Networking, Technical Support, Windows, Microsoft Office, Vmware, Windows 7, Customer Service Additional Information Skills  • Eighteen years experience managing Windows based network.  • Four years experience managing SCO Unix and CentOS Linux servers.  • Proficient with Microsoft Office applications.  • Work well alone or as a member of a team.  • Experience with Avaya PBX telephone systems.  • Experience with Cisco routers/switches (CCNA), Active Directory, VPN, DHCP, DNS and Exchange Server.  • Willing to work flexible hours and or being on call.