CIO & IT Network Administrator CIO &amp; IT <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> CIO & IT Network Administrator - Millennial Networks, LLC San Juan, PR IT Network Administrator with 10+ years of experience promoting teamwork, communication and documentation to efficiently achieve group objectives. Management style is relationship-oriented to maintain a positive, motivating work environment where team cohesion and productivity flows. Experienced in evaluating performance metrics to identify opportunities and develop improvements on both individual and departmental level. Experienced in identifying the roles, resources, and guidelines needed to complete department projects and objectives successfully. Also, expertly performed coordinator assigning tickets to all tiers, escalating tickets, following-up with users and tier techs, and purchasing role/budget manager. I am a US Citizen with US Passport. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience CIO & IT Network Administrator Millennial Networks, LLC - San Juan, PR June 2017 to Present CIO & NetAdmin for MSP with about 50+ clients and 400+ Endpoints. 2 DataCenters with Hosted VoIP, UniFi Controllers, Webpage Hosting. Managed team of 5+ Technical Staff.  ? Provided immediate expert level support to business services including but not limited to application and web development, high volume call center platform, compliance inquires, and infrastructure.  ? Windows Server administration and maintenance including Active Directory and Group Policy.  ? Excellent troubleshooting and customer service skills to quickly meet their needs.  ? Oversaw the local configuration of a new server/communications room and installed application servers as well as configured and deployed desktop hardware and software into the new network environment.  ?Analyze and inventory all key network infrastructure assets for planning of corporation wide infrastructure upgrade.  ? Conversion of servers to VMWare ESXi & VMWare vSphere for system redundancy.  ? Trained staff on hardware and software technologies.  ? Migrated company intrusion prevention and detection system from other routers/modems to Fortinet/FortiGate solution.  ? Established IT procedures for user administration.  ? Configure FusionPBX VoIP to resell SIP & DID's to customers. IT Network Administrator Eastern Consulting Group, Inc. dba Facilidades Medicas Asociadas, Inc - Humacao, Puerto Rico, US March 2014 to June 2017 Netadmin & Sysadmin which includes 10 remote sites, 1 DataCenter and Redes de Salud, Inc.  company with over 150+ users overall including office and executive force.  ? Provide trainings of eClinicalWorks EMR to 80+ people.  ? Experienced in proposal development for new business opportunities.  ? Implemented their first EMR hosted locally.  ?Telephony VoIP troubleshooting and escalation with ISP.  ? Negotiated contracts with ISP, Printers and Hardware purchases.  ? Design and Implemented all Servers movements to Data Center in our ISP Facility.  ? Design and implementation of wireless network in all facilities.  ? Support for Printing/Scanning/vFaxes.  ? Help Doctors (30+) with problems with ECW and permissions.  ? 11 Fortigates Firewall Management  ? Worked with HIPAA compliance, ensuring that our customers' data is safe.  ? Designed & Admin the webpages of Eastern Consulting Group and Redes de Salud including Intranet website.  Operating systems:  Windows XP to 10 / Server 2003 to 2019, Linux, MacOS  Mobile Operating systems:  iOS, Android, Blackberry OS  Virtualization:  VMware vSphere (ESX), Oracle VM VirtualBox, Veeam Backup  Network:  FortiGate, Ubiquiti AP/Switch, QNAP, Enterasys, Extreme Networks, VLANs, QoS, SSH, Routing, IPSec, VoIP  Phone Systems:  FusionPBX/FreeSwitch, Avaya/Nortel, Elastix, MirtaPBX, Grandstream  Windows Administrative tools:  Actie Directory, DNS administration, Print servers, GPO, DHCP  Business Productivity:  Admin for Office 365, Google Apps Admin, OwnCloud, TeamWork Project, JotForms, EasyClocking, Sage50, QuickBooks, Microsoft RMS/ Dynamics, Amazon AWS, VDI N-Computing  MDM:  AirWatch  Printers:  Ricoh, Xerox, HP, Canon, Zebra, TSC  Security:  Avast Endpoint Protection for Business  Remote Control:  iTarian (Comodo One) RMM, Teamviewer, LogMeIn, Dameware Remote Control, AnyDesk  Service Desk and IT Asset Management:  LanSweeper, Spiceworks, TeamWork Desk  Web Design:  HTML, WordPress, Domains, DNS, SMF Forums, Photoshop, Apache/Tomcat, MySQL, phpMyAdmin, Plesk, SSL/TLS  Hardware:  Mobile phones, tablets, computers, printers, switches, routers, AP, DVR /NVR systems, security keypads, LAN gates  Daily Apps:  PuTTY, FileZilla FTP/Server, TFTP, Angry IP Scanner, NetScan, RDP, Chrome, LastPass, Authy (2Step Auth.), DropBox, G Drive, MS Teams, DokuWiki    Work Experience cont'd IT Network Administrator Droguería Betances, LLC - Caguas, PR October 2009 to March 2014 NetAdmin & Sysadmin which included remote pharmacies, Luis Garratón, Inc. &  "Criollos de Caguas Baseball Team" both companys with over 600+ users overall including office and sales force.  ? Solo IT person for over a year.  ? Responsible for two (2) Tier 1 technician.  ? iPad Project for Sales Force with orders of $19M+ during the first year.  ? Provide trainings that enhance technicians skills and improve performance.  ? Negociated contracts with ISP, Printers and Hardware purchases.  ? Administrated passwords, upgrades, and hardware repairs.  ? Designed the new facility IT needs, DataRoom, Network and Phone Infrastructure 300+ and placement of hardware.  ? Warehouse movement in 72Hours, including 200+ Computers and Printers  ? Designed & Admin the webpages of Droguería Betances and Luis Garraton.  ?? Assist marketing team on the branding for the company.  ? On-Call 24/7 Operation of warehouse  ? Design and Implemented all Servers movements to new warehouse Facility.  ? Managed NetStore witch was our Sales website with sales of $200M+ annually  ? Created Social Media Pages. IT Help Desk / Supervisor / Level 3 Deparment of Natural Resources - Cupey, PR August 2006 to January 2009 IT Help Desk / Supervisor / Level 3    As a IT Help Desk the priority was to establish and maintain open lines of communication with the users and the team which greatly improved the work flow. Main tasks include:  ? Support to on-site and remote users (1k+).  ? Responsible for four (4) Tier 1 technicians.  ? Active Directory User Account Management and Security.  ? E-Mail/Outlook/Blackberry troubleshooting and constant communication with team responsible with Exchange Servers.  ? Site specific applications troubleshooting and escalation with owners.  ? Data Backup/Computer Reimaging.  ? Other tasks include HR tickets for New Hires, Transfers, Terminations. Education Bachelor's degree in Computer Repair and Network Management Inter-American University Skills Strong communication skills, Bilingual, Fast learner, Problem solver, Mentor, Team building, Active Directory, Networking, Technical Support, Vmware, Windows 7, Windows, Customer Service, System Admin, Linux, System Administrator, Linux Administrator Additional Information Skills    Fully Bilingual (English & Spanish)  Strong Communication skills Focused on results  Research and critical thinking Coach/Mentor  Team building  Customer Satisfaction oriented  Problem solver  Efficient at learning new software, fast learner  Fast typing (Keyboard Cowboy)  Active and productive Web surfer  Self-Taught Technician, Webmaster & Network Management  Expert Breaker of Things