Mechanical Installer duct installer Mechanical Installer duct installer Hardworking,self-motivated and work well with others in a professional manner. Randallstown, MD Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Mechanical Installer duct installer Design Comfort Air Inc - Rosedale, MD May 2012 to Present Troubleshoot, service and repair Commercial and residential HVAC equipment.    • Program and install electronic and electrical components.    • Read and implement electrical and mechanical equipment from blueprints. Network Administrator Perfection Tag and Title - Baltimore, MD June 2008 to Present 21208    • Use RDP, SSH and VPN access to fix e-mail (IMAP/SMTP) archive appliances operating 24/7.  • Backup production servers (MS Exchange 2003/2007/2010, IBM Lotus Notes Domino, etc.) data.  • Recover MS Exchange 2003/2007/2010 data (DR) using commercial and open-source utilities.  • Repair or replace rack-mounted RAID array servers, controllers and hot-swappable hard drives.  • Troubleshoot CIFS and NFS shares on NAS, SAN, Dell, NetApp and EMC storage servers.  Resolved AV (audio/video) equipment defects while addressing LAN/WAN connectivity issues. Foreman Lakeside Home Improvement LLC - Owings Mills, MD January 2008 to January 2011 21117    • Supervising and running small projects which involved networking  • Running low voltage CAT5/CAT6, RCA, AV cabling for new construction.  • Setting up and small home and business networks  • Installation of surround sound systems video (DVR) surveillance equipment.  • Dry-wall, carpentry, and tiling Network Technician Comp-Tractors LLC - Baltimore, MD August 2007 to December 2009 21133    • Resolved AV (audio/video) equipment defects while addressing LAN/WAN connectivity issues.    • Perform installation and trouble shooting PC and routing issues.    • Setup and install news PC for small businesses    • Upgrade Personal Computers and network infrastructures.    • Performed e-learning software installations, patching and uninstalls for customers on-demand. Network Technician Superlative Installations - Baltimore, MD January 2005 to May 2007 21215    • CAT5 and CAT6 installations  • Low voltage wiring /internet connection systems installer  • Installation and commission of TV and Internet Via Vsat systems.  • Vsat system installation for POS systems in remote locations implementing routers and /or switches. Assistant Manager Payless Shoes Source June 1995 to June 2004 Customer service  • Employee scheduling  • Assuming a supervisory role when the manager is away  • Assigning job task for employees and training  • Shipping and receiving merchandise  • Doing Payroll and POS transactions    Assisted References Available upon request Education BS in Telecommunications Engineering Technology Capitol College - Laurel, MD August 2006 to December 2008 AAS in Electronics Telecommunications Technology Baltimore City Community College - Baltimore, MD January 2002 to May 2004 Skills Networking (8 years), Troubleshooting (10+ years) Assessments Technical Support — Proficient August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/o42ikg5tk9-4kg4 Critical Thinking — Completed August 2019 Using logic to solve problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/iugbvurez4nlvlzb Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information * 10+ years of hands-on IT experience supporting enterprise and small-business customers.  * Possess practical real-time data processing, I/O heavy SW/HW support and OS tuning skills.  * Familiar with enterprise and regulatory standards such as: HIPAA, Sarbanes-Oxley and ITIL.    Computing Skills    Protocols: DNS, SSL, HTTP, FTP, DHCP, RDP, SMB, SSH, PPTP, SNMP, TCP/IP, UDP.  OS:MS-Server2003, MS-Server2008, Linux, Ubuntu, UNIX, CiscoIOS.  Hardware: 1-3U form factor data storage appliances, 3Ware/LSI RAID array sets, NAS and SAN devices 4040 Network printers, DVR systems, Linksys routers and Switches, punch down, patch panels, fiber optics devices.