Legal Videographer Legal Videographer Louisville, KY Looking to acquire a service or technology related position by joining a growing and progressive company focused on quality and customer satisfaction. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Legal Videographer Court Reporting Services Inc. - Louisville, KY January 2014 to Present • Setup multiple video cameras, audio mixing equipment and microphones at various law offices in Louisville and surrounding regions for the taking of legal video depositions.  • Completion of running logs during depositions such as documentation of objections and on/off record times to help with later transcript proofing and processing.  • Monitoring of audio levels, camera position on deponent as well as changing lighting over the course of the entire deposition to ensure consistency in video quality and audio clarity.  • Production and preparation of final outgoing product consisting of the video deposition in the requested format as well as syncing the court reporter transcript to video when required. Lead field technician Affordcom LLC 2010 to May 2014 • Respond to residential and commercial clients on-site needs ranging from simple home networking issues to complex commercial networks involving Windows Server, Exchange administration and migration.  • Working in shop to repair customer computers, laptops and tablets when needed.  • Installation of IP security cameras for commercial clients. Information Technologies Administrator Lucket & Farley Architects and Engineers - Louisville, KY 2004 to 2010 • Administration of Windows based Local Area Network with about 100 devices including servers.  • Management of all company file and print servers using a mixed Novell Netware and Windows 2000 /2003 active directory environment.  • Strategic planning and implementation for overhaul of all network servers and internet connection to suit future growth.  • Took part in successful migration of entire network from Novell 4.11 to Windows 2003 active directory.  • Responding to end user problems with printing, operating system failures, training on new software and other general Windows or hardware based issues. Network Administrator Noment Networks - Louisville, KY 2002 to 2004 Network Operations Center  • Monitoring and administration of large Cisco based LAN and WAN with 20,000 + users using policy based routing, access lists and VLAN implementation.  • Communication with field technicians to address issues at remote locations.  • Build out and design of Cisco Based switched networks using Ethernet and IP over Coax.  • Maintenance and repair of all computer hardware as related to desktops and servers onsite and remotely Network Operations Technician Insight Communications - Louisville, KY 2001 to 2002 Louisville, KY  Network Operations  • Responsible for monitoring very large Cisco Sonet Fiber optic network and reporting any network related issues to AT&T Network Operations Center.  • Completing weekly statistic reports for all Insight Cisco 7200 series routers regarding CPU usage and traffic.  • Helping customer service representatives with advanced connectivity troubleshooting. Network Operations Center Supervisor Darwin Networks Inc - Louisville, KY 1999 to 2001 • Monitoring of large Wide Area Network with 45,000 + end users.  • Communication with regional managers, circuit providers and field technicians to resolve remote technical issues.  • Investigation and reporting of network security issues  • Supervision of 3rd shift call center Tier 1 and Tier 2 technicians. Education Jefferson State Vocational School - Louisville, KY 1988 to 1990 Southern High School - Louisville, KY 1986 to 1990 Additional Information Networking: Advanced networking skills with three years of hands on (basic) Cisco routing, switching and LAN/WAN monitoring experience configuring and using What's Up Gold, Solar winds SNMP and ICMP based network monitoring tools. Other abilities include troubleshooting and maintaining a variety of networking and switching components such as Cisco UBR Routers, layer 2 and 3 Switches, Cisco LRE devices, wireless access points and general Cisco LAN/WAN troubleshooting concerning hardware and configuration issues.    Desktop and Server Experience: Windows Server Nt4/2000//2003 domain administration using group policy for security and desktop management. Expert knowledge of all versions of Windows from 3.1 to Windows 10, Microsoft Exchange Server management and administration, Novell Netware administration and Veritas backup Exec Suite experience.    Computer Hardware Experience: Hard disk, Cpu and memory installation, formatting of hard disks in a Raid configuration, installation/troubleshooting of network interface controllers, custom built servers, printer troubleshooting local and network, desktop systems as well as expert level Windows experience and basic Mac usage regarding TCP/IP connectivity and software installation.