Network Administrator <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Network Administrator - Rolls-Royce Marine NA Bowie, MD Work Experience Network Administrator Rolls-Royce Marine NA - Reston, VA 2014 to Present All duties as mentioned below as well as the following;    - Move all P2V servers to selected co-location vendor Environment as well as bring them up then work with Development team to test connectivity for both External and Internal clients (Phase II)  - Coordinate with Corporate IT and implement Secure (GAD) Laptops for both Developers and standard users.  - Continuation of Reston VA Office move by upgrading, retiring as well as moving the existing servers at Co-Location to Corporate Data Center in Indianapolis (Phase III) Network Administrator Rolls-Royce Marine NA - Alexandria, VA 2013 to 2014 Document, Plan and implement Office Relocation to Reston, VA as well as introduce VMware ESXi to Network as part of this Project. Project goals were ;  - consolidation of Physical servers into a Virtual Environment including making Virtual Images of all Physical Servers (Phase I)  - Create new Virtual servers as need in the environment including new VPN server to adhere to L2TP/IPsec standards  - Backing up entire Network and sending tapes offsite per data Retention Policy  - Implementing Mandiant Security appliance and configuring for monitoring per Rolls-Royce policy  - Surplus and destroy servers no longer needed per destruction policy  - Work with External vendors - HP, Rackspace and FCS to get co-location quote together as well as document Virtual Servers moving to Virtual environment    • Document, Process and resolve problems in relation to daily Server and application issues pertaining to database connectivity, Server availability, Hardware issues as well as user/client oriented issues.  • Windows Server 2008, 2003, 2000 administration, backups, monitoring, installation as well as Patch remediation, including security vulnerabilities and Anti-Virus updates as approved.  • Troubleshooting software /hardware issues with Dell, HP and Compaq servers.  • Vendor supervision in relation to Office move to Reston , VA  • Use VMware/V-Sphere to administer, update and manage Virtual ESX hosted environment.  • Administer Active Directory 2000/2003 environment as it pertains to Group Policy, permissions, shares, add/remove of users as well as user lockouts, access to printers and role based Network resources. Principal Network Administrator/System Administrator via ECS - Alexandria, VA 2010 to 2013 Monitor, Administer and Resolve issues pertaining to Windows and UNIX environments consisting of over 3,000 servers in a task order oriented team on a daily basis.  • Document, Process and resolve all issues in relation to daily Server and application issues pertaining to database connectivity, Server availability, Hardware issues as well as user oriented issues.  • Windows Server 2008, 2003, 2000 administration, monitoring, installation as well as Patch remediation, including security vulnerabilities and Anti-Virus updates.  • Troubleshooting software /hardware issues with Dell, HP and Compaq servers.  • Vendor supervision in relation to Hardware/software fixes for Servers.  • Use VMware/V-Sphere to administer, update and manage Virtual ESX hosted environment.  • Administer Active Directory 2008 environment as it pertains to Group Policy, permissions, shares, add/remove of users as well as user lockouts, access to printers and role based Network resources.  • Assign shared drive space as well as increase/decrease Network resources on a Departmental as well as an individual basis using EMC and NetApps management software.  • Triage user related issued via email as well as Remedy ticketing software and assign to team members for approval and subsequent resolution per approved request.  • Administer Microsoft Exchange 2007 environment as it pertains to users, resources as well as availability on a Tier1/2 capacity.  • Monitor entire domain (both UNIX and Windows) using HP Openview, NetIQ and Groundworks with emphasis on Server related issues i.e. disk space, Hardware issue, connectivity as well as AIS systems used at PTO which alarm in HP Openview and respond, assign as well as resolve on a daily basis while seated at USPTO Command Center. As a member of OSOS Act as First responder in relation to alerts, alarms, system and AIS failures which includes responsibility of contacting system owners as well as all stakeholders to resolve issue be it application, hardware or Operating system support.  • Project Management and implementation as assigned for example roll-out Windows 7 Enterprise to entire task order team at USPTO including installation of USPTO approved software, utilities and hardware.  • Train, mentor and assign duties to new employees and team as per approval from upper management especially in relation to Monitoring at Command Center. Sr. Network Administrator/Engineer NCQA - Washington, DC 2004 to 2010 Duties: same as below with additional emphasis on Documentation, Project Management and user training on HIPAA security standards.  • Purchase of Computer Equipment including price negotiation as well as vendor selection on an ongoing basis. Assist with budgeting process pertaining to Capital purchases.  • Planned and Implemented Nortel VOIP CS -1000 phone system using CISCO 3750 switches in a VLAN. Was involved in planning (offsite disaster recovery environment) of co-location data storage.  • Ensure all End Year updates for both HR and Accounting systems are in place and working.  • Ongoing upgrades to Citrix servers while improving remote connectivity.  • Major Project work thus far has been on implementation of Active Directory 2003, Microsoft Exchange 2003 and Live Communication Server 2007  o Implementation for Instant messaging and web communication in-house.  o Planning and installing of Sharepoint 2007 Server for Corporate Intranet and File sharing between internal and external clients.  o Implement Accellion Secure File Server to better protect Company data and meet HIPAA security requirements.  • Planning and testing of Office 2007 for company rollout.  • Planning of Exchange 2007 implementation with roll-out in 2nd Quarter of 2010.  • Restructure our current network backbone to improve backups and also throughput to workstations by implementing CISCO Gigabit Switches with both a fiber and copper back-bone.  • Implement Blackberry Enterprise Server 4.2 in VMWare environment for all blackberry users.  • Migrate all mobile phone users from Sprint to Verizon Wireless as well as implement security on blackberry devices using the Corporate BES for communication.  • Implement Kerio Firewall and VPN for connection to offsite location.  • Implement VMware in test, development and production environments.  • Actively involved in Trend Micro Virus Wall implementation as a filter for email.  • Work with entire IT team to establish a lower turn-around for helpdesk related issues to enable more productivity from staff. Turn around being same-day resolution in most cases. Network Administrator NCQA - Washington, DC 2000 to 2004 Responsible for day-to-day administration of network infrastructure including Meridian Telephone system, Servers, workstations, switches, hubs, printers, routers and software installations. This included day to day negotiations with vendors for purchases and supervision when working on NCQA related issues, i.e. phones, software and hardware problems.  • Administer Exchange 2000 and backup server to include backups and offsite storage of company data.  • Train new employees on current operating system and policies.  • Implement new software, hardware and policies as decided by entire IT operations team.  • Administer, support and archive Webex online presentations and seminars.  • Implement HIPAA policies and security standards for compliance.  • Train entire company on new HIPAA and PHI standards as set by governing authority on an ongoing basis.  • Have implemented 100mb/s network upgrade, Cisco catalyst switch installation, Windows 2000 and 2003 upgrade, Sonicwall firewall upgrade, Cisco PIX firewall implementation, SMS for Network administration, Citrix for client access, VPN solution for remote dialup.  • Upgrade Network to different ISP including implementation of dual T1 connections on CISCO router using different subnets.  • Managed and implemented projects for Citrix Metaframe XP systems for both remote and local rollout including user and server setups, upgrade of entire phone system infrastructure with Telco vendors, implementations of Deltek accounting system, ABRA HR system, CERIDIAN HR system.  • Moved entire web infrastructure to co-location for security and disaster recovery purposes, including the offsite data and Citrix infrastructure.  • Drafted policies for various resources IT provided i.e. E-mail and Helpdesk.  Network Administrator, Saint Luke Institute, Silver Spring, MD Network Administrator 1998 to 2000 Install and configure new servers and workstations.  • Perform hardware/software upgrades including migration from Windows NT 3.51 to 4.0 Server.  • Perform domain, user and file system administration on PDC and BDC.  • Develop and maintain backup and recovery procedures utilizing fault tolerance on RAID systems and Backup Exec 7.0 using DAT tapes.  • Establish and maintain WINS, DHCP and RAS. Review security logs and access on server.  • Migrate Microsoft Exchange Server 4.0 to 5.0 and also administer Exchange.  o Migrated users from Microsoft Inbox client to Outlook 2000 client.  • Manage, develop and maintain entire network environment of Windows NT Servers and Workstations, desktops running Windows NT, Windows 95, and Windows 98.  • Work with hardware vendors to identify hardware and software issues.  • Implement Y2K contingency plans while upgrading to Windows 98 and Office 2000.  • Support all end users in the division with hardware, software and printer installation and configuration.  • Train personnel on operating systems and support implementation of Uni/Care Healthcare System software.  • Review departmental policies and procedures and submit proposals to Director of Corporate Services.  • Coordinate, maintain, update and document operation of computer network.  • Supervise technical consultant on various upgrade projects. Network Technician Transworld Incorporated - Hyattsville, MD 1996 to 1998 Assisted in the design of Local Area Network and the interfaces between them e.g. hubs, repeaters and gateways.  • Worked with Novell Netware and multiple protocols e.g. IPX/SPX and TCP/IP.  • Contributed innovative solutions to difficult design problems.  • Assist end users using Windows 95, Microsoft Office and Netscape with hardware/software problems.  • Introduced Windows NT 4.0 workstation to end-users.  • Worked in a help desk capacity assisting end users with software, hardware and printer installation and configuration.  • Installed workstations and trained users on new workstations.  • Assist Network Administrator with the installation of operating systems and user lockouts.  • Upgrade workstations and printers. Computer Technician Falcon Express, Inc - Kensington, MD 1995 to 1996 Assist Network Administrator with cabling from patch panel to workstations.  • Install NIC cards, hardware, software and monitors to workstations.  • Upgrade workstations from Windows 3.x to Windows 95. Assist with Novell installations and the integration of Windows NT and Windows 95 to user desktops. Education Biochemistry Ramapo College of New Jersey - Mahwah, NJ Additional Information Highly experienced Sr. Systems Administrator/ Network Administrator with over 15 years in Information Technology utilizing Microsoft Windows products, Citrix Metaframe 1.8, XP and LAN/WAN implementation of Cisco Switches and Hub. Excellent team player, innovative, task oriented, quick and able to learn as well as apply new skills.    Hardware/Software Experience:  Windows Server 2012, 2008, 2003, 2000, Windows NT 4.0 Server and Workstation installation, administration and maintenance. Netware installation and user planning. Network printer configuration, optimization and support. Application software installation, upgrade and support. Experience with Cisco, Synoptics, Cabletron and 3COM hubs and switches. Patch panel and concentrator wiring. Cabling, which include: 10BaseT, 10Base2 and FDDI. Desktop support, troubleshooting hardware and software problems remotely and in person.    Operating Systems: MS-DOS, Novell Netware 3.x, Novell Netware 4.x, Windows 3.1, Windows 95/98, Windows NT 4.0 Server and Workstation, Windows 2000 Server and Professional, Windows Server 2003, Windows Server 2008, Windows Server 2012.  VMware ESXi server 4.x and 5.x    Utilities: Veritas/Seagate Backup Exec, Trend Micro Office Scan, Accellion Secure File Transfer, Norton Utilities, Citrix Metaframe XP, Symantec Enterprise Platform, Site scope Quest, NetIQ, HP Openview, McAfee Total Virus Defense Suite, Amerivault online backup, McAfee Virus Scan and APC Powerchute.    Applications: Microsoft Exchange 4.0, 5.x, 2000,2003,2007 Microsoft Office 97, 2000, XP Suite, 2003, 2007, 2010,Microsoft SMS, Microsoft Live Communication Server, Office Sharepoint Server 2007,Citrix Metaframe 1.8 ,XP and Xen Desktop, Remedy, Micromed, Quantum, Uni/Care, Ceridian, Deltek, ADP, ABRA, Solomon, OnContact, Webex, Google Chrome, Mozilla FireFox, Quest, V-Sphere, Netscape Navigator and Internet Explorer.