IT Network Administrator IT <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> South Saint Paul, MN Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience IT Network Administrator Invisik Corporation - Bloomington, MN September 2017 to August 2019 • An ongoing project of mine is to create and modify existing client SOP's. These documents each entail steps in installing and maintaining software, hardware, specific client user information, updates, etc  • Daily use of Connectwise software for ticketing client issues, steps taken to during the investigation of their issue and what was done to remedy the problem. Citing sources and making detailed notes for future reference.  • Assist future potential clients in recommending the most efficient and cost-effective solutions for their network. Includes taking inventory of the current hardware and software with suggestions on whether upgrades are necessary, assessing their job duties, determining if additional hardware is needed such as printers, scanners, network drops.  • Help clients keep track of their computer and software cycle. Usually upgrade computers in batches on a 3-year turnaround. Software updates and additional on an as needed basis. Monitor software licensing and help clients to stay in compliance as they add additional employees, move positions around, and create new positions  • Monitor server and computer performance by assuring sufficient hard drive space, that data is successfully backed up, that hardware components are not failing (replacing them through HP warranty if possible), that there are no software conflicts, that there are no security breaches and apply patches as needed, and that antivirus definitions are being kept up to date Information Technician South Saint Paul Public Schools - South Saint Paul, MN June 2008 to June 2017 • One of my projects was to lock down access rights for students once they logged into Windows.This included preventing them from accessing the run command, C: Drive, right-clicking on any object, and opening specific programs. I configured this through Group Policy.  • I was asked to upgrade and virtualize the Educational Foundation server and install the latest version of their "Results Plus" program. This included building a virtual machine in Hyper V, installing SQL 2008 and migrating their old database over to the new server. I also installed the client software on their workstations and worked with support to help train them on using the new program.  • Led a project to upgrade from Exchange 2007 to Exchange 2010 and migrated over 400 mailboxes from the physical HP server to a virtual environment. I learned the nuances of Exchange 2010 and Hyper V.  • Successfully migrated users from Exchange 2010 to Office 365 in a hybrid environment. This entailed setting up Azure and connecting it to our Active Directory.  • Tasked with building an SCCM 2012 server. After the server was in production, I upgraded over 1000 workstations to Windows 7. To prepare, I used SCCM to gather inventory of all the computers' components to ensure that the hardware meet the minimum requirements for the upgrade. Education AAS Degree in Electronics and Computer Technology in Electronics and Computer Technology Brown Institute - Mendota Heights, MN April 2000 Skills Active directory (10+ years), Dns (10+ years), Exchange (10+ years), Networking (10+ years), Tcp/ip (10+ years), Dhcp (10+ years), Network cabling (10+ years), Vmware (7 years), Scripting (10+ years), Disaster recovery (10+ years), Ghost (10+ years), Veritas (5 years), SCCM (8 years), Altiris (9 years), Backup exec (9 years), Customer support (10+ years), Technical Support (10+ years), Windows (10+ years), Microsoft Office (10+ years), Windows 7 (10+ years), Customer Service (10+ years), Windows 10 (4 years), Connectwise Management (2 years), Labtech/Automate (2 years), Office 365 (4 years), Adobe Acrobat Pro (10+ years) Certifications/Licenses CompTIA A+ October 2002 to Present CompTIA Network+ March 2005 to Present