Information Technology Specialist/ Network Administrator Information Technology Specialist/<span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Information Technology Specialist/ Network Administrator Irving, TX Work Experience Information Technology Specialist/ Network Administrator United States Miliary/Army National Guard - Kuwait City, KW June 2018 to June 2018 Installs, operates, and maintain computer systems and local area networks  (LAN). Performs system administration and maintains computers and servers  within the computing and network environment.  • Performs network administration; installs, operates, and maintains network  equipment within the local area network.  • Installs, operates, and maintains commercial off the shelf equipment (i.e. routers,  switches, desktop and laptop computers). Cart Attendant Target - Jackson, MS October 2016 to June 2018 • Manage various carts and assist guests with hand baskets or shopping carts.  • Maintain neat and clean carts and ensure that they are working appropriately.  • Administer carts and identify defects and check all wheels for malfunctions.  • Perform regular maintenance of restrooms from inside as well as outside every  hour.  • Monitor all spills on sidewalks and floors and clean it as soon as possible.  • Ensure neat and clean parking lot and eliminate all litter.  • Manage mini assistance centers, remove trash and ensure paper towels for guests.  • Greet and assist all guests coming to store.  • Assist guests to carry heavy objects.  • Coordinate with team and ensure appropriate stocks of bags and supplies.  • Coordinate with guests and provide personalize service. Customer Service Representative General Dynamics - Jackson, MS June 2015 to August 2017 Frequent internal contacts with Customer Service Managers, Call Center  Supervisors, Lead Training Specialists, and other contractors and government  personnel supporting the program.  • Provided knowledgeable responses to escalated, high priority, or supervisor calls  in a courteous and professional manner.  • Adhered to all Privacy Acts and HIPPA laws and regulations as they relate to the confidentiality of information released.  • Proofread documents for grammatical correctness and adherence to standards  and formats. Information Technology Specialist/ Network Administrator United States Miliary/Army National Guard - Jackson, MS October 2013 to October 2013 Installs, operates, and maintain computer systems and local area networks  (LAN). Performs system administration and maintains computers and servers  within the computing and network environment.  • Performs network administration; installs, operates, and maintains network  equipment within the local area network.  • Installs, operates, and maintains commercial off the shelf equipment (i.e. routers,  switches, desktop and laptop computers).  Behr Warehouse Order Puller (Current)    • Provide a quality check on all orders for any misprints, false  quantities, non-stocked items, closed carton orders, partial quantities,  double orders, or ship-withs, and follow correct department picking  order.  • Perform an Inspect ion of all products for evidence of dents,  dust, or paint blemishes prior to pulling the order.    • Transport products by lifting and hand loading onto pallets and return pallets to pre-staging wrapping area.    • Stack and arrange pallets for safe and proper delivery. Inspect pallets for proper stickers, addresses, and labeling and display positioning. Education Bachelors in Electrical Engineering in Electrical Engineering University of Southern Mississippi - Hattiesburg, MS High School Diploma Forest Hill High School - Jackson, MS Skills Excel (Less than 1 year), Filing (Less than 1 year), MS Excel (Less than 1 year), MS PowerPoint (Less than 1 year), MS Word (Less than 1 year), Outlook (Less than 1 year), PowerPoint (Less than 1 year), Publisher (Less than 1 year), Typing (Less than 1 year), Word (Less than 1 year) Additional Information SKILLS  ? MS Excel ? MS Word ? MS PowerPoint ? Publisher ? Outlook ?10 Key ? Typing  ?Filing