SENIOR SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR SENIOR SYSTEMS <span class="hl">ADMINISTRATOR</span> Network Manager Shirley, MA Accomplished Network Manager with over 20 years’ experience working well independently and collaboratively. A clear and effective communicator in verbal and written formats with both technical and business staff. Excellent analytical skills, detail oriented, self-motivated and highly engaged. Hands-on experience in all aspects of system and network administration for physical, virtual and cloud-based systems. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience SENIOR SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR NORMANDEAU ASSOCIATES, INC - Bedford, NH 2018 to Present Planning, modernization, integration, project solutions and final-tier technical support for national sciences and solutions environmental consulting firm.  • Document management system (iManage) maintenance and upgrades.  • Exchange Server 2016, Active Directory, Group Policy and storage maintenance and planning.  • Plan migration of Exchange and storage to MS Office 365.  • AWS Cloud computing in Windows, LINUX, and Databases (RDS).  • Virtualization with VMWare, Oracle and QNAP technologies • Backup and Disaster Recovery using Backup Exec, Veeam, and multiple cloud-based services.  • Support Human Resources, Accounting, Project Management, Time & Expenses, & Payroll on Deltek for Professional Services. NETWORK ADMINISTRATOR THE WARREN GROUP - Boston, MA 2005 to 2017 Single point network and system administration for data-collection, manipulation, distribution, and publishing international computing environment.  • Plan, purchase, install, configure and troubleshoot systems, software, settings and features, to monitor traffic, manage system resources, user accounts, and licenses for production, development, and international outsourced environments.  • Migrate Exchange and storage to MS Office 365 SaaS.  • Establish, migrate and maintain company help desk system.  • Install patches and test systems to ensure the system is functioning as expected.  • Develop, implement, test backup and recovery systems with local, remote, and cloud-based strategies, as well as antivirus and anti-spam systems.  • MS Exchange and SQL setup and maintenance. Domain and DNS management.  • Establish and monitor primary and backup Internet access, as well as two migrations, including Cisco  ASA firewall installation, monitoring, and maintenance.  • Telephone system installation and maintenance including conversion from PBX to VoIP.  • Physical access control (keyed, key-less and digital). Freelance consulting, training and solutions INDEPENDENT CONSULTING - Boston, MA 2003 to 2005 • Active Directory Migration.  • Microsoft Exchange setup and troubleshooting.  • Microsoft Server and Desktop Support.  • Software Integration.  • Small business computerization & networking. NETWORK MANAGER WESTON PUBLIC SCHOOLS - Weston, MA 1997 to 2003 Established and manage IT department of two assistants and five technicians, providing all training and skills assessment, in a fast-paced, multiple project environment of 3800 users, five domains, over one dozen servers, 1200 desktops, 150 laptops, 400 printers and untold other peripherals.  • Active Directory Migration.  • Designed and implemented all network, server, desktop and laptop hardware.  • Microsoft Server setup and maintenance.  • Exchange Server setup and maintenance.  • User configuration and access control.  • Internet Implementation.  • Desktop imaging program development and implementation.  • Firewall setup and perpetuate safe access control. Education B.A. in Computer Science & Graduate Studies Boston University 2000 Associate in Arts in Computer Science Miami Dade College 1996 Associate in Science Miami Dade College 1996 Skills System Administrator, Vmware, Active Directory, Linux, System Admin, Powershell Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/mark-craver-sysadmin Additional Information System Admin Active Directory Virtualization Troubleshooting  Network Admin Group Policy Office 365 Migration Customer Support  Windows Server Enterprise Anti-Virus & Administration Technical Support  Windows Desktop Anti-spam QuickBooks Desktop Support  Macintosh Cloud Computing Enterprise Training  Linux SAN & NAS Storage Enterprise Software CRM  Mobile Devices Firewalls Scripting Procurement  Backup & Recovery Computer Hardware Integration Budgeting  Microsoft Exchange Network Hardware Networking Project Management  Microsoft SQL Server Network Security Phone System Admin Migration  Microsoft IIS/Apache Microsoft Office DNS/DHCP