Remote Support Engineer / NOC Manager / Service Manager Remote Support Engineer / NOC Manager / Service Manager Remote Support Engineer / NOC Manager / Service Manager - Link High Technologies, Inc Budd Lake, NJ Service Delivery Manager and Project Coordinator, Network Administrator and Support Specialist with over 18 years of experience in the field Information Technology. Most recently responsible for managing a team of seven field and remote support engineers. This role allowed me to drive customer satisfaction through problem solving based on a tiered approach which highlighted specific skillsets of my engineers allowing for consistent results in both field and remote support services. Prior role as a dedicated technician adept at installation, upgrades, configuration and troubleshooting. Capable of resolving difficult problems in the areas of network hardware, applications, and operating systems. Possessing the ability to communicate technical advice to non-technical customers.    TECHNICAL SKILLS & QUALIFICATIONS Work Experience Remote Support Engineer / NOC Manager / Service Manager Link High Technologies, Inc - Morris Plains, NJ October 2014 to Present • Provide tier 2 and 3 Help Desk phone and remote support to end users and business principals  • Plan and implement transitioning the company from Kaseya to Labtech RMM across our client base of 1450 end points.  • Plan and implement transitioning endpoints from ESET A/V to Webroot A/V and integrate scripted deployment via Labtech RMM.  • Provided on site client support on as needed basis  • Developed more scripting and automation for our endpoints allowing for more end user productivity and less daily interruptions, included but not limited to patch deployment antivirus scanning, disc clean-up, software updates, scheduled reboots, disc maintenance, malware scanning and remediation etc.  • Assume the role of backup management and provide daily verification for our Datto and shadow protect client endpoints. Provide virtualization in DR scenarios, provide file and folder restores as needed. Provide Datto Cloud recovery when clients environments are offline.  • Promotion: NOC manager. Script alerts to our ticket system (Connectwise) for disc monitoring, system down and location offline notifications as well and triage and assign team members to resolve critical NOC issues.  • Monitor and maintain all client Sonicwall Firewall appliances via hosted GMS Suite, schedule after hours Firmware updates and quarterly appliance reboots and monitor to successful completion. Remediate any issues and deploy field engineers as needed to resolve critical issues. Setup and review weekly GMS reports and notify our POCs of any suspicious behavior.  • Develop an automated patch deployment schedule for server patching and workstation patching that fits the needs of our clients.  • Create a rotating schedule for remote support engineers to provide monthly manual Server reboots on systems with sensitive applications that cannot be performed through automation.  • Maintain an electronic copy as well as a hardcopy (booklet) specifying the clients, systems and procedures to perform the manual monthly maintenance. This process often includes contacting our primary on site contact prior to and after the maintenance has been completed, most often applied to our supported Police Departments. Service Delivery Manager September 2017 to November 2017 • Perform all related duties including ticket dispatching based on skillset, Field tech scheduling for project work, and client communication before during and after projects.  • Maintain PTO schedules for team of 7 engineers  • Develop and maintain rotating on call schedule as the company moved toward an On Call based offering for those clients requesting it.  • Managing time keeping through Connectwise to verify all ticket-based time records are accurate for monthly billing.  • Work closely with Account Manager and senior project engineer to schedule hardware deliveries for upcoming projects.  • Prepare Connectwise and Labtech for new client onboarding processes, ensure all aspects of the client onboarding process is thorough and efficient, including communication between client and current IT vendor to ensure a seamless transition. Schedule and maintain timeline for cutover ensuring the remote support team is ready to provide end user hardware and software support.  • Schedule and maintain annual site visits to ensure client equipment and network is thoroughly documented. Network Administrator HIGHLANDS COMPUTER TECHNOLOGIES, LLC - Hackettstown, NJ June 2009 to 2014 • Spearhead implementation of Managed Services Solutions (Labtech) to support our clientele of 25 small to medium sized businesses.  • Deploy client's server hardware based on client's needs and size.  • Plan and implement all server and domain migrations in a Microsoft Windows Environment  • Provide tier 2 and 3 Help Desk phone and remote support to end users and business principals  • Log tickets and problem details using Labtech RMM systems.  • Currently integrating Labtech Managed Services software with ConnectWise to unify time keeping and ticket management for improved technician productivity.  • Implement and maintain DR Imaging of Servers and Desktops using PHD Virtual, Doyenz, eFolder, Shadow Protect Server and Desktop Imaging Solutions, Datto and Axcient BDRs.  • Utilize VMWare ESX, PHDVirtual and Shadow Protect to recover Client server environments from P2V or V2P significantly reducing downtime caused by hardware failures  • Experience and Certification (ACE, Axcient Certified Professional) utilizing Axcient BDR Solutions  • Experience with Datto BDR products ie; Alto and Siris Lite class BDRs.  • Implement Voice notification integration into MSP solution to provide instant voice notification of offline servers or client locations resulting in faster response time.  • Maintain off site Cloud backup/recovery environments for Windows Server Platforms for DR and server testing purposes on live servers in a fenced network.  • Build and Support Microsoft Exchange (Single Server Environment) infrastructure from Exchange 2000 - 2010 for small to medium sized business from 10 to 100+ users including mobile device implementation including smart phone, iPad and OWA  • Maintain Blackberry Enterprise server and support end users  • Maintain, manage and migrate clients to Hosted Exchange (Intermedia) services from in house systems or POP mail environments  • Support end user's desktop environments through Windows 7 Professional  • Maintain LAN TCP/IP environments including Remote Access using VPN and Secure Remote Desktop Gateway Services  • Design and configuration of Windows Server Systems from 2000-2008 including AD, DHCP, DNS, VPN, Group Policy design and implementation for the deployment of software, printers, and shares to end user desktops.  • Plan and execute Windows server migrations from Server 2000 through 2008 including Small Business Server.  • Deploy and manage Windows updates to clients and servers utilizing WSUS and Labtech Systems.  • Create and maintain VMWare Virtual Server and VCenter Server environments.  • Secure WAP environments using WEP and WPA encryption and MAC filtering.  • Experienced with Super Antispyware, Malwarebytes, Spybot Search and Destroy, Microsoft Security Essentials, Symantec End Point Protection and ESET Nod32 with ERAS to provide antivirus anti-malware protection.  • Support Microsoft Outlook Anywhere and RPC over HTTP for mobile users.  • Integrate Netgear NAS devices for full and continuous incremental server imaging as well as supporting HP Ultrium and DAT Tape Drives for clients utilizing tape technologies.  • Support end and Remote users to resolve various issues.  • Troubleshoot Network connectivity issues.  • Introduce public to our services through social networking  • Reduce corporate liability and IT costs by incorporating Acceptable Computer Usage Policies IT Manager/ Network Administrator FIGTREE CONSULTING - Morris Plains, NJ 2000 to June 2009 • Provided network server and desktop applications support to over 30 small to medium sized business users in NY and New Jersey  • Manage and maintain our own network of 12 servers in a Novell and Microsoft Environment including Novell Groupwise mail.  • Planned and implemented the migration from Novell 4.x to Microsoft AD Domain including migrating Novell Groupwise to Microsoft Exchange 2000.  • Spec and build new IBM server class systems based on clients needs and install at client location in a single and multi server Microsoft Active Directory environment.  • Provided on-site support to end users for software applications, install and configured all hardware peripherals.  • Support Veritas Backup Exec and HP Dat and Ultrium backup solutions for Figtree and Figtree's clients    Certification: CompTIA A+, CSSA, ACE, SonicWALL Sales Accreditation. Datto DCAT Certification. Education The Chubb Institute - Parsippany, NJ September 2000 Skills Active directory, Dns, Exchange, Tcp/ip, Dhcp, Tcp, Vmware, Vpn, Ssl, Blackberry, Smtp, Security, Backup exec, Ipad, Iphone, Imaging, Imaging software, Symantec, R2, Excel Additional Information Operating Systems: Windows Server 2003 & 2003 SBS, Server 2008 R2, Server2012, Windows 7, Windows 8. Windows 10, VMWare ESX 5.x    Applications: Microsoft Exchange 2003, 2007, 2010, 2013, 2016, Microsoft Active Directory, Microsoft Group Policy, Symantec Anti-virus, Symantec Backup Exec, Symantec Mail Security, Shadow Protect Server and Desktop Imaging Software, Carbonite Backup, Datto, VSphere 5.x, MS HyperV, Veeam Backup, ESET NOD32, Webroot, RDS / RD Gateway Services, Microsoft Office 2010 -2016, Office 365, Word, Excel, Outlook.    Network: LAN, WAN, SMTP, NTP, VPN/SSLVPN, DHCP, TCP/IP, DNS, SSL, RDP    Hardware: IBM/Lenovo and HP Server and Desktops, Netgear ReadyNas, Blackberry, HP, Dell, Compaq, SonicWall TZ and NSA Series, Blackberry, iPhone/ iPad, HP Printers, Canon Business class copiers