Senior Trainer/Site Lead Senior Trainer/Site Lead Senior Trainer/Site Lead - Lockheed Martin, Ft. McClellan Gadsden, AL Work Experience Senior Trainer/Site Lead Lockheed Martin, Ft. McClellan - Anniston, AL January 2001 to Present Monitor performance and make modifications and adjustments to system architecture, storage methods, and management system software.  ? Planning, configure, and maintenance of Windows 2012 Server System  ? Team Lead working with the Army TADSS Maintenance Program (ATMP) for maintenance, sustainment, operations, and support of Army Training Aids, Devices, Simulators, and Simulations (TADSS), Live-Fire Ranges, and Instrumentation Systems.  ? Mainly utilizing URbanOz Training Software.  ? Supports room and building clearing, search, location and seizure of contraband and high-value human targets, cordon and search as well as full combined arms maneuver in the urban area of operations.  ? Repairs electronics and computer systems for Tactical Engagement Simulation. Supports the training of Armor, Infantry, Cavalry, and Armored Reconnaissance units from squad through battalion/squadron level. IS Systems Specialist II/ Site Lead Raytheon, Ft. McClellan - Anniston, AL May 2016 to December 2018 Monitor performance and make modifications and adjustments to system architecture, storage methods, and management system software.  ? Planning, configure, and maintenance of Windows 2012 Server System  ? Team Lead working with the Army TADSS Maintenance Program (ATMP) for maintenance, sustainment, operations, and support of Army Training Aids, Devices, Simulators, and Simulations (TADSS), Live-Fire Ranges, and Instrumentation Systems.  ? Mainly utilizing URbanOz Training Software.  ? Supports room and building clearing, search, location and seizure of contraband and high-value human targets, cordon and search as well as full combined arms maneuver in the urban area of operations.  ? Repairs electronics and computer systems for Tactical Engagement Simulation. Supports the training of Armor, Infantry, Cavalry, and Armored Reconnaissance units from squad through battalion/squadron level. Network Administrator Northeast Regional Medical Center - Anniston, AL September 2005 to 2016 200+ server migration from physical to virtual platform using VMware ESXi.  ? Day to day administrative group tasks managing 500+ virtual servers.  ? Administration of Multi Windows Domains with over 2000 users.  ? Storage management including, but not limited to VM's, User Shares, SMB Shares on EMC SANS.  ? Disaster recovery replication using "EMC Data Domain".  ? Migration, configure, and management of Nortel network to Cisco network platform.  ? Install, configure, and management of Cisco unified wireless network with multi controller and over 300+ AP's Consisting of Corporate, Guest and Physician Networks.  ? Designed, installed, configure, and management of Cisco ASA Firewalls and Switches for all local and remote facilities.  ? Designed, installed and configured migration from Nortel network to Cisco network, utilizing dual core design running VSS from core to edge of local campus.  ? Install, configure, and manage of Citrix "NetScaler Load Balancer"  ? Install, configure, manage of Cisco IronPort email appliance and webfilter.  ? Implemented first remote access for users to hospital resources.  ? Install, configure, and manage of Citrix Farm(s) ver 4.5 and 6.5  ? Install, configure, and manage 50+ Redhat Linux Servers.  ? Management and administration of VMware VDI  ? Management and administration of VMware Horizon  ? Designed and coded first hospital Helpdesk and Remote Assistance software using PHP, MySQL, and UltraVNC and Open Source software.  ? Network Load Balancers for critical health care services.  ? Citrix Farm for deployment of ER "Electronic Health Record" software.  ? VMware Horizon platform for offsite employees access to critical healthcare applications.  ? Layer2 and 3 network management of campus and all remote network clinics.  ? SolarWinds IP management and monitoring using NPM. Network Engineer Southern Data Automation, Inc - Gadsden, AL September 2002 to 2005 Search and utilize lower cost solutions for medium to large business networks.  ? Administration of outsourced financial institutions and schools.  ? Moved various services and storage directories from Windows to Linux platforms for cost efficiency and up-time.  ? Remote network monitoring and analysis mostly using open source software or custom written software.  ? Remote penetration testing and auditing of new clients to evaluate their needs in security and overall structure.  ? Configuration, planning and design of new and existing networks.  ? Evaluating net available bandwidth and latency issues in new and existing environments. Planning connectivity of client's geographic locations.  ? Database and Application coding using PHP and MySQL.  ? Designed and developed online "Service Ticket", and CRM management software for inter-company and customer use. Designed completely using PHP and MySQL.  ? Designed and developed PHP and MySQL driven Intranet for bank institution. Network Administrator South Point Systems, Inc - Boaz, AL November 2001 to September 2002 Designed, built, and implemented South Point Systems "ISP" division including DNS, Mail, and web services, all utilizing open source software.  ? Monitor servers, network devices, and remote network connections and provide technical support to users  ? Administration of File and Print Services on Microsoft and Linux Os's  ? Support of dial-up customers and Web Hosted customers.  ? Manage technology expenditures and determine and implement cost-saving measures  ? Administration of Apache web servers, Bind DNS Servers, and Sendmail Mail servers with hundreds of users.  ? Secured DMZ using custom Firewall Design. Coded many HTML forms and scripts (Perl/CGI and PHP) to help sales organize incoming sales and information requests from the company website.  ? Application support for company users including, MS Office, Outlook, Etc.. Created and consolidated automated backup schedules for network including; Linux, Windows NT servers, and IBM iSeries.  ? Implemented Linux Authentication server into iSeries Mainframe using "Virtual" LPAR technology. Network Technician Konnekted.com - Guntersville, AL March 1999 to January 2001 Guntersville, Al.  ? Implementing small to medium sized business networks.  ? Building and repairing business and home user PC's.  ? 24hr on call Help Desk support for "ISP".  ? Maintained and supported servers for LAN, and "ISP".  ? Building and repairing business and home user PC's.    SPECIALIZED TRAINING:  Linux Top Gun, IBM, Washington DC  One week training on implementing Linux into the Enterprise. Including DB2, Tivoli, Lotus for Linux, WebSphere, Clustering, Veritas, and positioning Linux within IBM's eServers.    Linux on IBM iSeries LPAR, IBM, Richmond, Virginia  One week class on creation of linux virtual machine (Logical Partitioning) technology on IBM iSeries Mainframes.    VMware 4 Install, Configure, Manage, Teklinks Birmingham  One week training on installing and administering VMWare 4.1    VMWare Fast Track 5.0, Teklinks Birmingham  One week training on installing and administering VMWare 5    San Management Online ILT  Wireless Network Administrator CWNA Education Diploma Gift Of Life Christian Academy - Albertville, AL July 1994 Certifications/Licenses Microsoft Certified Systems Engineer (MCSE) Microsoft Certified Professional (MCP) Linux+ Professional Sair/GNU Linux Professional