Director of Information Technology Director of Information Technology Director of Information Technology - Catskill Area Hospice and Palliative Care Oneonta, NY IT Management Professional with over 29 years of experience in both the United States Navy and civilian sector in Systems & Complex Server Administration, Special IT Project Management, Service/Help Desk Management, and LAN Architecture. Strong Ability to relate to a diverse population of varying cultural and ethnic backgrounds with ease. Track record of performance excellence, always completing projects on or ahead of schedule. Extensive familiarity with IT Systems and Software. Excellent leadership and management practices resulting in increased efficiency, team building success, savings in budget and overall effectiveness of operations.    • Previous Secret DoD Security Clearance.    • IT Project Management  • Systems Architect & Design  • Contract Negotiation  • Mobile/Smart Device Technologies  • Database Management  • Multiple Windows Platforms & Servers  • Workflow Distribution    • Change Management Procedures  • Cloud Infrastructure  • End User Management  • IT Security & Support  • Operational Improvements  • Regulatory Compliance  • Active Directory Admin & Design    • Budgeting/Financial Management  • Superb Customer Service  • Microsoft Windows Server OS, Microsoft Windows OS, MacOS, UNIX  • Microsoft SQL, FileMaker Database Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Director of Information Technology Catskill Area Hospice and Palliative Care - Oneonta, NY May 2001 to Present • Moved Company donor and events database form Raiser's Edge to Salesforce. This reduced the annual cost from $15k to zero.  • Upgraded Company phones to RingCentral VOIP technology and eliminated expensive service calls to the telephone company; negotiated a 23% cost reduction for the copy maintenance contract with the vendor.  • Designed, organized and supported the entire Information Technology Department from the ground up initiating IT services for the company with one sever and 11 workstations in one office with zero remote access. Currently managing over 35 workstations and 40 employee laptops ensuring constant connectivity via VPN from any one of three remote offices spread over 12 servers.  • Developed performance improvement projects to improve processes in the department and re-implemented the helpdesk resulting in a more efficient program at no cost to the company.  • Provide technical support and training to end-users, administer network security, back-up file server data/disks, provide complex server maintenance, set up new users and delete old users from the network, maintain current knowledge of relevant technology, and participate in special projects as required. Systems Administrator Assistant U.S. Navy Recruiting District Buffalo - Buffalo, NY July 1999 to December 2001 • Accountable for the training of District Personnel in the operation of computer hardware and software used in recruiting and processing of applicants. Performed maintenance, repairs, and updates more than 150 computers.  • Optimized software upgrade procedures with the use of imaging software which reduced the average upgrade time from three hours to seven minutes.  • Completed an evolution requiring configuration changes to dial-up connections allowing for the transmission of email and leads electronically ensuring this vital link remained uninterrupted.  • Served as Advisor and Subject Matter Expert to senior personnel for major initiatives, focus areas, or roles on IT systems security principles, concepts, automation, and methods, recommending appropriate technical strategies in resolving complex and persistent IT security challenges.  • Independently planned, carried out, and led assigned functions/projects through development of project milestones and plans, determination of support requirements, extensive coordination with others, and interpretation of broad policies, plans, designs, mission goals, and objectives. Network Administrator/LAN Technician U.S. Navy, USS Mount Whitney - Norfolk, VA January 1996 to November 1998 • Accountable for maintaining Joint Maritime Communications Information System (JMCIS) and SNAP III-6; repaired and installed over 250 fiber optic connections and quality of work enabled Mount Whitney to convert the Air Defense System Integrator (ADAI) system to fiber with minimal downtime.  • Successfully installed multiplexing equipment and communication devices; provided SIPRNET, NIPRNET, DSN, VoIP, Cellular and Video Teleconferencing for globally deployed personnel.  • Provided technical support for all installed networking hardware and software, (i.e., microcomputers, network interface cards, intelligent network hubs and component boards, routers, cluster controllers, fiber optic interconnect panels, digital and hybrid voice telephone systems, data circuits, and drop cables) valued in excess of $2 million. Network Technician U.S. Navy, USS George Washington - Norfolk, VA July 1989 to August 1995 • Supervised the installation of local area network (LAN) data communication hardware, software, operating systems to determine optimal configuration. Meticulously maintained supply records and inventory on all computers; managed hardware/software trouble call the help desk.  • Reorganized and maintained exceptionally Accurate Supply Records expending a quarterly budget more than $25k.  • Produced three training lectures for ADP Personnel and expertly presented two software package lectures to Administration Personnel.  • Established a comprehensive inventory database of all ADP repair parts and controlled equipage throughout the Command.  • Operated mainframe computer systems and peripherals, initiated and completed scheduled production jobs, performed and maintained system, security, and application backups. Installed and maintained local and remote peripheral equipment for use on government networks including NIPR net and SIPR net.  • Communicated with vendors to resolve issues, uploaded data to systems, provided information to staff and users, and prepared and maintained documentation for processes, policies and procedures related to computer systems and operations. Education Some college Skills Customer Service, Network Administration, Strategic Planning, Excel, Vendor Management, IT Management, Exchange Military Service Branch: United States Navy Rank: E5 Assessments Technical Support — Highly Proficient August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/exzuydgqxptqxrui Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.