Network Administrator <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Network Administrator - Episcopal Homes Brooklyn Center, Minnesota, 55430, US oriented and collaborative IT professional with experience applying hardware and  software design, installation, administration, and configuration to support business of all sizes.  Proven analytic and problem-solving skills with keen ability to assess needs, define  requirements, develop value-added solutions and execute technical solutions that streamline  and improve operating efficiencies. Adept in communicating with technical and non-technical  audience's, develop system documentation and create policies to meet the needs of dynamic  and continuously changing environment. Work Experience Network Administrator Episcopal Homes April 2015 to Present Primary network administrator for retirement home supporting 110 employees, and ~750  residents/guests.  Campus of 7 buildings consisting of 475 resident rooms,  Primary network of 75 computers, 8 servers (5 Hyper-V, 3 physical), 2 firewalls.  Healthcare support of 160 Apple iOS devices used by nurses/PCA staff to care for residents.  Oversaw internet & firewall upgrades to provide 300mb feed for internal use, and dedicated 1 gig fiber for residents.  Managed deployment of new Ruckus wireless network for entire campus using 120 access  points. Network designed from the ground up to support internal use & patient care/life  safety using iOS devices integrated with nurse call system for life safety, as well as provide  secure internet access for guests and residents.  System replaced a mixture of Cisco, Extreme & Brocade access points  Supported Spectra link handsets as their use was deprecated to support iOS devices  Implemented ticketing system to field employee/resident requests for support IT Assembler Alcon Technologies/NTEST 2006 to 2015 Worked with global internet providers to regional ISP's using our test equipment to maintain their fiber optic facilities remotely.  Provided support and assisted in troubleshooting issues on fiber plants ranging from metro  fiber to undersea cables.  Responsible for assembly and fusing complex remote control fiber optic equipment.  Tested devices using Visual Basics program/Secure CRT programming.  Provided customer support and clear communication to help troubleshoot problems.  Efficiently managed inventory to help reduce cost by 50%  Switch and Router configuration.  Effective written and communications skills. Team Leader Minneapolis Airport Marriott - Bloomington, MN 2003 to 2006 Managed a group of cooks to ensure excellent service  Assigned jobs and effectively delegated responsibilities to team members Education Diploma in Hennepin Tech HENEPIN TECHNICAL COLLEGE - Eden Prairie and Brooklyn Park, Minnesota, US 2010 to Present Skills Active directory (3 years), cabling (8 years), Exchange (3 years), Ftp (3 years), Http (3 years), Windows 7, Vmware, Security, Networking, Customer Service, Technical Support, Windows, MAC, Microsoft Office, access Certifications/Licenses Driver's License