Infrastructure Engineer Infrastructure Engineer Infrastructure Engineer Coral Springs, FL Professionally certified Network/System Administrator with experience in design, maintenance and management of IT environments for businesses. Comprehensive knowledge of all aspects of said environments includes Windows hyper-v virtualization, Terminal Services, Microsoft server OS's up to and including Server 2016 and Azure cloud services, MSSQL and Exchange servers. Experience also includes hands-on knowledge of Cisco switches, routers, Watchguard firewalls, PBX phone systems and facilities management. Responsibilities extend to project planning and budgeting as well as service provider and contractor management. Work Experience Infrastructure Engineer Allin Interactive - Fort Lauderdale, FL September 2010 to June 2019 Principal System/ Network Administrator for a provider of interactive television systems for the hospitality and cruise industries.  • Implemented and maintained the local Microsoft Active Directory environment for the main office in Fort Lauderdale and managed synchronization with Office 365 accounts.  • Designed and maintained both offsite and onsite backup systems and disaster recovery plans using a combination of local NAS, Veritas BackupExec and Azure Backup.  • Managed all aspects of the network including local Cisco layer 3 switching environment for office and development labs, multiple WAN interfaces with failover, Watchguard firewalls, Ruckus wireless systems, site-to-site VPNs and VoIP PBX.  • Managed and maintained separate Azure environments for production and development labs.  • Provided desktop support and training to employees, which included managing application licenses.  • Responsible for all hardware in network, desktop and server environments. Duties included performing necessary repairs as well as coordinating vendor repairs for in-warranty equipment.  • Responsibilities also included sourcing vendors for ISP and VoIP services and coordinating changes in public IPs when necessary.  • Sourced, managed and maintained all company owned domain names and certificates. Maintained internal and external DNS for all domains.  • Served as administrator for several company wide applications including Atlassian Jira, MS Team Foundation Server, MS Teams, PRTG, Aspera Enterprise Server and TestRail. Network Administrator NOVAVISION, INC - Boca Raton, FL September 2003 to February 2010 Performed duties of a Network Administrator under several job titles for a provider of software-based therapy for the treatment of neurological vision impairment.  • Designed and implemented an upgraded, remotely accessible data center based virtualized environment. Solution employed Microsoft Windows 2008 Hyper-v, Watchguard, Dell Servers and SAN technologies to create a cost-effective, highly available redundant environment to supplement on-site network.  • Revised and created a more robust Business Continuity plan by using Windows 2008 Terminal Services technology to deploy remotely accessible applications in the highly available network. This solution also afforded the ability for employees located in German office to use the same application environment.  • Implemented a revised backup strategy which utilized Symantec Backup Exec and CA XOSoft data replication tools.  • Managed IIS Servers in the remote environment for, which included moving corporate websites from third-party host to reduce operating expenses.  • Designed, sourced and implemented network infrastructure for NovaVision's South Florida based headquarters from network cabling to desktops. Core infrastructure included Watchguard firewalls, Dell Servers, Avaya IP Office phone system and a variety of network switches.  • Implemented and maintained a Windows 2003 Active Directory domain supporting up to 50 local and remote users.  • Maintained SalesLogix CRM system, SQL databases, IIS secure web and ftp sites, Exchange 2003, Sharepoint, and Great Plains.  • Set up VPN tunnels for remote users as well as for connectivity to remote offices in Berlin and Magdeburg, Germany, which included replication of DNS and WINS.  • Served as Security Officer responsible for insuring HIPPA compliance with respect to electronic media throughout the organization. Developed security policies for the maintenance, storage, and transmission of patient data. Policies included the implementation of an application based proprietary secure data transfer system, including the development of a business continuity plan for the Boca Raton headquarters which succeeded in keeping business operations intact during several hurricane threats.  • Managed offsite backups using E-vaulting technology.  • Managed construction of office expansion including sourcing and interfacing with general contractor, coordinating installation of cubicles with low voltage wiring and expansion of network infrastructure. PROMERO INC 2002 to 2003 VoIP Application Service Provider) Network Administrator PROMERO INC 2002 to 2003 Network/System Administrator for a cutting edge Application Service Provider, specializing in virtual call center applications and call distribution systems using Voice over IP.  • Maintained and modified network infrastructure to support hosted applications, which provided web based virtual call center services to our customer base, including configuration of two Cisco AS5300 VoIP Gateways and also required providing consultation to customers implementing remote connections to our services.  • Maintained and provided desktop support for a Windows 2000 Active Directory domain for internal organization consisting of Exchange, MS SQL, RIS, AD Integrated DNS and as external DNS servers, Backup Exec, McAfee EPO, Compaq Insight Manager, What's Up Gold and Webtrends. Network Administrator MOTOROLA INC 2000 to 2002 Network/System Administrator for third party software developers.  • Implemented and maintained network infrastructure, which consisted of Cisco routers, switches and firewalls, which entailed setup of multiple sub-nets and VLANs and VPN Server.  • Installed Windows 2000 client/server domain consisting of 12 W2K Servers (Domain Controllers, DNS, DHCP, Print, Exchange and Web servers) and 15-20 clients on various Microsoft OS and hardware platforms.  • Developed and wrote procedures for rapid deployment of various OS configurations on client computers to accommodate changing needs of clientele.  • Developed and automated network monitoring system to insure installation of latest security patches, monitor network traffic and flag security risks in firewalls and routers. MOTOROLA INC - Boynton Beach, FL 1993 to 2002 Fortune 500 global wireless communication company) technical support specialist and software development project manager MOTOROLA INC 1993 to 2000 Education Bachelor of Arts Pennsylvania State University, State College, PA Certificate Kaiser College - Fort Lauderdale, FL Skills NETWORK SECURITY, VIRTUALIZATION, SECURITY, NETWORK MONITORING, NETWORK DESIGN, REMOTE ACCESS, VPN, T-SQL, HTML, PERL, SQL, APPLICATION DEPLOYMENT, DEPLOYMENT