Server Engineer Server Engineer Server Engineer - Nationwide Insurance Columbus, OH Work Experience Server Engineer Nationwide Insurance 2018 to Present * Managed Windows servers in company and throughout all other states, upgrading servers with SCCM and rolling out new severs to refresh hardware.  * Handled maintenance, including drive expansion and replacement, and hardware replacement for Windows server 2012, 2012 R2 and 2016 servers.  * Gained PowerShell scripting experience to do server automation as well as experience provisioning rights to NAS shares.  * Worked with physical and virtual servers, which included vSphere and working with clusters and hosts of virtual servers. Server Administrator Huntington National Bank 2014 to 2018 * Handled maintenance, including Windows updates using WSUS server on over 1,400 main servers running Windows server 2012, 2008 and 2003.  * Used SolarWinds along with Zenoss to monitor network and infrastructure while managing maintenance on all 2,800 branch servers at Huntington branches and correcting Tier 1 Teller issues.  * Configured and edited hardware for virtual servers in vSphere. Expanded virtual hard drives in vSphere, and migrated virtual servers to new host server in vSphere.  * Leveraged advanced knowledge of Active directory and group policy. PC & Network Technician Winners Computer 2014 to 2014 Repaired, sold and built array of desktops, laptops and servers while implementing local networks using SonicWALL routers. Maintained and set up fault tolerance on servers using Buffalo backups. Education Associate's Degree in Networking Security in Networking Security James A. Rhodes State College Skills Excel (Less than 1 year), Linux (Less than 1 year), Linux/unix (Less than 1 year), Microsoft sharepoint (Less than 1 year), scripting (1 year), Vmware (5 years) Additional Information * Computer Skills: ServiceNow, Windows OS 2003-2016, Linux/Unix OS, Word, Excel, SharePoint, VMware, vSphere, Networking Basics, Hardware Support & Troubleshooting, PowerShell Scripting