Network Engineer <span class="hl">Network</span> Engineer Network Engineer Coatesville, PA To secure a network engineering, or related position with a growing organization where my technical aptitude and problem solving ability will enhance technical support and benefit operational efficiencies. Work Experience Network Engineer Turn5 Inc November 2018 to June 2019 • Configure and maintained Company's Network Infrastructure  • Configure and maintained switch environment Cisco Cat 95 & 9300  • Lead Network project to open new site in Pottstown  • Lead switch replacement project in Malvern warehouse site  • Configure and maintained Cisco Identity Services Engine (ISE)  • Maintained Wireless environment with Cisco Meraki  • Configured SolarWinds to monitor Company's 7 sites  • Setup DHCP service using Infoblox  • Worked with HelpDesk to troubleshoot and solve IT Tickets Infrastructure Engineer Vishay Intertechnology, Inc January 2016 to November 2018 • Lead on Micro segmentation project in Asia and North America  • Configured and maintained Global Riverbed environment  • Configured and maintained Global Talari environment  • Configured SolarWinds to monitor Global Networks (75 sites)  • Configured and maintained Global ACS (Tacacs) environment  • Configured and maintained F5 environment  • Configured and maintained local & Global Cisco switches (3650, Nexus 7K)  • Worked with Orange Business Services on Global MPLS Network  • Worked with VMware\storage engineer on local environments  • Experience with Checkpoint firewalls  • Experience with Cisco Call Manager  • Created Network Visios of Global sites Telecom Specialist The Vanguard Group Wayne PA - Wayne, PA October 2014 to November 2015 • Configured and maintained BigIP F5 Link Controllers, GTM, and LTM  • Configured Cisco 2960 switches and Cisco 5525 ASA for AUS office Network Engineer First Data - Wilmington, DE May 2014 to October 2014 • Policy non-compliance remediation for Cisco routers and switches.  • Maintained and configured network devices using CiscoWorks and HPNA  • Troubleshoot devices in EMEA and AUS for issues with Spectrum and eHealth  monitoring systems. Senior Network Administrator Flagship Credit Corp - Chadds Ford, PA May 2013 to February 2014 • Configure and maintain Dell switch environment in PA office  • Configure and maintain Cisco switch environment in AZ office  • Configure and maintain Cisco ASA 5510 firewalls  • Configure Cisco Site to Site, IPsec, and AnyConnect VPNs  • Maintained Active Directory, DNS and DHCP  • Implemented MPLS network between PA and AZ office  • Monitored Network using Solarwinds  • Documented Network Infrastructure using Microsoft Visio Network Engineer Akcelerant Software - Malvern, PA September 2012 to April 2013 • Built and configured Dell servers using Microsoft Server 2008R2 and 2012  • Configured and maintained Microsoft Hyper-V physical hosts and virtual servers  • Maintained Corporate Exchange 2010 environment  • Maintained 2008R2 Active Directory, DNS and DHCP  • Configured and Maintained Cisco switches. 3750, 3560, and 2960 models  • Built and deployed Windows 7 and 8 laptops to employees  • Maintained Windows updates for servers and laptop using Microsoft WSUS  • First level of support for over 100 users in company  • Documented Network Infrastructure using Visio and created many IT procedures. Systems Engineer Kenexa - Wayne, PA October 2011 to August 2012 • Built and configured Dell and HP servers using Microsoft products  • Consolidated server racks and introduced cable management  • Configured and maintained Cisco Switches  • Upgraded all Cisco switches in IDF rooms with cable management  • Network troubleshooting using Solarwinds Orion, and PRTG  • Blackberry Enterprise Server and Blackberry device Admin  • Configured and maintained Data Backup infrastructure using Backup Exec in the Wayne and Philadelphia offices.  • Configured and maintained BigIP F5 Link Controllers, GTM, and LTM  • Opened two new office for Kenexa in Cary, NC and New York City System Engineer Weidenhammer Systems Group - Reading, PA November 2010 to September 2011 • Configured Cisco, switches, and ASA firewalls  • Provided Tier 2 support to company's client's networks  • Provided support for client's Active Directory and Exchange  • Setup and maintained client's hosted Exchange accounts with Intermedia  • Maintained client's backups and restores of data with Symantec Backup Exec. Network Engineer Sikorsky Global, formally Keystone Helicopter Corp - Coatesville, PA May 2005 to September 2010 • Maintaining the campus LAN total 7 buildings.  • Provided Tier 2 support to system and network infrastructure.  • Designing and maintaining the Wireless network using Ekahau Site Survey and Cisco Aironet products  • Involved in design and planning of the network into new buildings.  • Configuring and maintaining Cisco 3750. 3560, and 2960 switches.  • Provided 24x7x364 support for Network Infrastructure.  • Document Network Infrastructure using Microsoft Visio  • Design and deploy Solarwinds for 24x7 network monitoring.  • Creating and maintaining the DHCP scopes for various VLANs across campus LAN.  • Maintained production data backups using Retrospect, transported tapes offsite.  • Setup and maintained user's mailboxes in Microsoft Exchange 2003  • Creating, modifying company end users, and resetting passwords in Active Directory 2003  • Maintaining the company's Blackberrys and the Blackberry server.  • Created master image and used Norton Ghost to image new computers.  • Supported over 800 users with Email, printing and Microsoft application issues.  • Setting up and deploying network printers, such as Kyocera and HP.  • Used Kaseya to maintain trouble tickets and create knowledge base. Education High school or equivalent Skills Cisco, Security, Active Directory, DNS, MPLS