Network Operations <span class="hl">Network</span> Operations IT Professional Cypress, TX • More than 15 years of experience with proven expertise in hardware,   software and networking environment. With exceptional customer support   and service  • Involved in several IT projects in a large, complex network operation center  • Expert knowledge of LAN and WAN technologies, TCP/ IP protocols, remote  connectivity and Cisco IOS  • Implementation skill of Cisco Routers and Switches configuration, including   setup of VLAN, routing protocols RIP, EIGRP, OSPF and BGP  • Troubleshooting skill to resolve circuit related issues of MPLS, Frame Relay,   ATM and ISDN  • Extensive experience in issues related to Intranet, IP, DHCP, WINS, DNS,   RAS, VPN, FTP, Telnet configuration, implementation, and management Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Network Operations World Cinema Inc - Houston, TX February 2019 to Present • Network Troubleshooting Routers, Switches, Servers, SetTop Box and Data to Rooms  • Wired and Wireless Administration of Dish Network Channels For Guest  • OSI and TCP/IP references models  • Implement & Troubleshoot connectivity issues related to external and internal networks  • Floodgate, Cybertron-Adam Server, Smartbox, Cisco 8** Series Configuration & Upgrading System Network Administrator Victory Prep Academy - Houston, TX May 2009 to February 2019 Computers Plus Networking Contracted to Victory Prep Academy / (formerly) Benji Special Education Academy  • Built & Maintain Infrastructure.  • Installed 10 Dell Windows 2003 Servers.  • Installed 150 desktop workstations. Managed 3 Support Analyst who dealt with Email tickets from staff & students.  • Provisioned Circuit from DSL to 5 T1s using Paetec.  • Worked with ISP (Paetec) to troubleshoot network outages. Senior Network Analyst II CompuCom June 2000 to May 2009 WAN/LAN Networks: 6+ years Network Operations experience in a large, complex network operations center.  Perform monthly security/vulnerabilities Scans using Eeye Retina Network Security Scanner 5.0.  Monitor global networks consisting of 25,000+ devices including Cisco & Nortel Routers, Cisco Catalyst, Nortel Baystack & Marconi Switches, NT, SAP, UNIX & Windows Servers.  Utilize HP OpenView Network Node Manager, HP OpenView Operations for UNIX and similar network & system monitoring tools to perform multi level troubleshooting and resolution of hardware, software & circuit related problems.  Utilize NetIQ Vivinet AppManager Suite and Integrated Research Prognosis Systems Management Suite to isolate problems related to clients' VOIP & IP Telephony networks.  Perform network health reports using Cisco Works and Resource Manager Essentials on NT, SAP, UNIX & Windows servers. Maintain network documentation and topology using Microsoft Visio.  Facilitate interaction through IT helpdesk, systems administrators, network engineers and customers to meet effective service level agreements and network outage resolution.  Provide assistance to engineering and management with special projects including the configuration of various servers.  Work with internet service providers and telecom vendors to provide the most cost effective solution for clients  Maintain detailed database for customer equipment inventory and invoicing for hardware and software installs telecom and service provider maintenance, order provisioning and cancellation to ensure budgeting and proper billing. Research, develop, and present contract-specific training for NSOC analyst group. Technical Support Specialist ADAC Healthcare Information System - Software Support Center - Houston, TX August 1998 to June 2000 • Maintained Windows Desktop Support.  • Imaged/Reimaged Desktop & Laptops using Norton Ghost.  • Setup User's Accounts.  • Diagnose & Troubleshoot Software (QuadRIS).  • Built Scripts in UNIX (AIX).  • Telnet into Hospital Servers to correct, free, or delete queues.  • Built Research Tables in Apriori for future use.  • Created incidents from the phone, fax & E-mail.  • Conference with clients for future expansion of systems. Education High school or equivalent in Math Kashmere High School - Houston, TX August 1975 to May 1978 Skills NOC, Ccna, Ethernet, Cisco, Operation, Desktop Support, Comptia, Help Desk Assessments Technical Support — Highly Proficient August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/0wq2mreykjvufdeo Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information Information Technology Security & Administrator (ITSA)             Graduated 8/2019    Comptia Security+                                                      2019  Comptia Network+                                                                           2019  Comptia Server+                                                                              2019  MTA: Networking Fundamentals                                                    2019  MTA: Mobility and Device Fundamentals                                    2019  MTA: Windows Server Administration Fundamentals                2019  Linux Essentials                                                                               2019  MTA: Security Fundamentals                                                       2018  Cisco Certified Network Associate (CCNA)                                 2010  CompTIA A+                                                                                     2000