Network Engineer <span class="hl">Network</span> Engineer Network Engineer Millbury, MA Network professional with over 9 years of professional and progressive technical experience in maintenance, implementation, troubleshooting, documentation, monitoring, configuration, and vendor coordination of various LAN/WAN technologies for enterprise environments which include proficiency in routing, switching, wireless, security (firewalls), and monitoring. Experienced in network infrastructure and network hardware. A very well organized and able to meet deadlines. Team player, reliable and detail-oriented. A conscientious self-starter, able to strategize and prioritize effectively to accomplish multiple tasks. A self-motivated, confident and capable of making sound decisions. Implemented cost-savings and continuous improvement projects. Proficient in all aspect of electronic troubleshooting, improvement, maintenance, and repairs not forgetting, VMware, Windows, Mac and Linux systems administration. Experienced team leader who consistently achieves production and performance goals. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Network Engineer Roche Molecular Systems - Marlborough, MA January 2012 to January 2019 • Monitored wired and wireless networks to ensure smooth and reliable performance and troubleshoot problem areas as needed.  • Created and maintained documentation as it relates to network configuration, network mapping, processes, and service records.  • Developed, implemented and maintained policies, procedures, and associated training plans for network administration, usage, and disaster recovery.  • Collaborated with department heads to assess near- and long-term network capacity needs.  • Technologies handled by the team include but not limited to supporting LAN & WAN technologies and other enterprise applications not limited to servers, desktop technologies, UPSs, and other hardware  • Configuration for logical or physical changes to maintain service integrity.  • Performed Cisco Routing/Switching, Network upgrades, and configuration.  ·        Installed, configured, and supported networking and security type of equipment from various vendors including Cisco, Juniper, Palo Alto, Checkpoint, Fortinet, F5 and others. Network Support Engineer MTN - Accra August 2009 to September 2011 ·        Member of a team of professionals responsible for the escalation support, configuration, installation, implementation and supporting critical technologies within a LAN/WAN network infrastructure.  ·        Technical responsibilities included but were not limited to, problem-solving, monitoring, system performance, and troubleshooting of various LAN/WAN technologies, server and enterprise applications, and desktop technologies.  ·        Engages external vendor support as required  ·        Maintained a highly secure infrastructure, protecting sensitive corporate data from internal and external threats.  ·        Professional responsibilities included documentation, patch management, and following corporate policies & procedures.   ·        Implement and support virtual infrastructures, directory services, collaboration services, data storage infrastructures, and data recovery environments. Desktop Support Engineer MTN - Accra July 2007 to August 2009 ·        Performed equipment relocation, installation, expansion, connection/disconnection, upgrades, support/maintenance, and preventive maintenance of computer systems hardware, documentation, and peripheral devices.   ·        Resolved hardware and software problems and provided network troubleshooting, technical support and training to end-users, as well as administered network security.   ·        Provided user support and problem resolution for desktop computers, network access, E-mail, and imaging XP to several computers using Norton Ghost.  ·        Installed, Deployed, configured various operating systems (Windows, Linux, and macOS) not limited to Windows 2003 and 2008 servers.  ·        Trained more than 20 desktop end-users about printing, scanning, email, internet, MS-Office package, etc. Network and Computer Systems Administrator Cyber-Link Enterprise - Kumasi February 2005 to June 2007 ·        Maintained and administered computer networks and related computing environments including computer hardware, systems software, applications software, and all configurations.  ·        Diagnosed, troubleshoot, and resolved hardware, software, or other network and system problems, and replaced defective components when necessary.  ·        Performed data backups and disaster recovery operations.  ·        Planned, coordinated, and implemented network security measures to protect data, software, and hardware.  ·        Operated the master consoles to monitor the performance of computer systems and networks, and to coordinate computer network access and use.  ·        Designed, configures, and tested computer hardware, networking software and operating system software.  ·        Monitored network performance to determine whether adjustments need to be made, and to determine where changes will need to be made in the future. Education Associate in Electrical Engineering Technician Kumasi Polytechnic - Kumasi February 2005 to June 2007 High school or equivalent in Electrical Engineering and Computer Scienc Technology Secondary School - Kumasi February 2001 to October 2003 Skills Exchange, Cisco, Active Directory, security, Vmware, DNS, firewalls, MPLS, VPN, LAN, Windows (10+ years), Linux (7 years), Mac OS X (8 years), IOS (9 years), Networking, SQL, Palo Alto (7 years), Checkpoint (7 years), Juniper (7 years), Servers (10+ years), Fortinet (7 years) Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/emmanuel-o-480290156/?midToken=AQFtyJC7ofpaeQ&trk=eml-jobs_applicant_applied-header-26-profile&trkEmail=eml-jobs_applicant_applied-header-26-profile-null-adqoio%7Ejtue9wpr%7Emy-null-neptune%2Fprofile%7Evanity%2Eview Certifications/Licenses CCNA January 2019 to January 2022 Assessments Technical Support — Familiar March 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/jkx-da8obmsemh5c Basic Computer Skills: PC — Proficient March 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to perform basic computer operations, navigate a Windows OS, and troubleshoot common computer problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/goot8ejvab7euqkx Critical Thinking — Familiar June 2019 Using logic to solve problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/qrw-qvxz91lzknel Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information ·        Cisco Certified Network Professional – Routing/Switching (Pending)  ·        Cisco Certified Network Associate – Routing/Switching  ·        Certified Network Professional Engineer  ·        Certified Data Center Administrator  ·        Microsoft Certified System Engineer