Information Technology Specialist Information Technology Specialist Information Technology Specialist - Office of Information Technology Services - Swan St Schenectady, NY Detail-oriented with over eighteen years of experience in network and server administration, systems analysis and incident management. Work Experience Information Technology Specialist Office of Information Technology Services - Swan St - Albany, NY October 2018 to Present 12223 Level 2 Network Analyst Clifton Park, NY March 2013 to October 2018 12065    Member of team managing 24/7/365 ITS NOC for NYS.  • Transitioning NYeNET to UniteNY, a converged infrastructure providing shared services through unified communications.  ? Tier II level problem identification, isolation, root-cause analysis, and verification supporting Layer 2 and Layer 3 switched data.  ? DWDM optical network fault isolation.  ? Service-Now, SecureCRT, Telnet, OpenNMS, CACTI, Visio, NiRD and Zenoss.  ? Transition from NYE to UNY as part of UniteNY, part of New York State's IT Transformation Initiative.  • Investigating traps in OpenNMS and Zenoss with SecureCRT and the CLI.  ? WAN and LAN troubleshooting.  ? Extended and remote PINGs to test connectivity. Tracert for problem isolation.  ? Isolating and resolving issues by examining interface errors and PMs on 6509 and 6513 Cisco Aggregate boxes; SSGs and Routers and Layer 3 Switches.  ? BERT to isolate connectivity issues to SJ/CSU.  • Service-Now for Incident Reporting and Change Management.  ? Incident Management, Change Tasks, etc.  ? Using WebEx to create conference bridges.  ? Sending out notifications, updates and resolutions.  ? Contacting vendors to facilitate/escalate repairs, determine RFOs and verify services with customers.  • Performing after hours CCC duties - a centralized Customer Care Center servicing over 500 state offices for HSEN, OASAS, Justice Center and more. Note: these additional tasks were while the ITS NOC was assigned under EUS.  ? Requires use of AD, SCORCH, SCOM, Delegated Administration, WebStar, Zenoss and ability to quickly find relevant KBs with which to assist customers.  ? Incident Management and Tivoli Integrated Portal.  ? RSA token resets using RSA Security Console.  ? Civil Service customer care.  ? Password resets, account management. Network Administrator MGAM Inc - Schenectady, NY June 2004 to October 2012 12304  Member of team managing 24/7/365 NOC with nine remote sites throughout NYS.  • Providing network support for Class 2 and Class 3 gaming utilizing both central determinant systems such as video lottery terminals and remote determinant systems such as electronic table games.  • Administering HP ProLiant servers running Microsoft, network running Cisco.  • Microsoft Server and SQL Database administration:  ? Using AD to manage user accounts, assign users to security groups, modify and/or assign privileges to security groups, synchronize servers across domains.  ? Cluster Administrator to perform roll-overs of clustered resources, ensure SQL groups online.  ? SQL Enterprise Manager to check logs for errors, troubleshoot database backup errors, start, modify jobs, resolve issues with connection timeout threads.  ? Query Analyzer to modify databases due to site tax withholding and SSN errors, fix machines stuck with pending transactions, unpend flagged vouchers, change site machine counts, add and remove devices to database.  ? Use of WSUS to rollout updates; ensure all devices are up to date; PerfMon, Task Manager, Event viewer and logs to troubleshoot issues.  ? Use of MOM/SCOM for reporting, monitoring security violations, etc  ? Forefront Endpoint Protection to protect systems and monitor against security threats.  • Maintaining VLANs connected by Cisco switches and routers.  ? Manipulating frequently-used switchport settings to allow vendor connectivity to network and resolve connectivity issues  ? Resolving port security violations and issues with wrong VLAN/gateway by resetting the switchport access vlan xx on that port.  ? Rebuilding tunnels as necessary, as determined by running sh ip eigrp nei command and checking tunnel uptimes.  • SAN management:  ? Use of HP StoreageWorks Command View EVA to monitor disk enclosures for failures, investigate errors, check logs, follow corrective actions, etc.  ? Use of HAFM, Cisco MDS9000 to monitor Fabric and Fiber switches  ? Worked with Hitachi to refresh from EVA5000 and MSA1000s to Hitachi VSP.  ? Use of Hitachi Storage Navigator/Command Suite 7 to perform system and health checks, investigate alerts and open case with Hitachi as necessary.  • Acting as primary contact for computer hardware and software problems, as well as network emergencies.  • Drafting training materials and organizing training sessions for new employees.  • Writing articles for corporate wiki and producing technical documents:  ? Familiar with ITIL: technical documentation followed ITIL guidelines for first 6 months.  ? Drafted the BNOC - Failover Procedures document which we then used for testing in the event of an unplanned catastrophic failure or planned Operations Center maintenance.  ? Wrote a 240-page technical document to assist current administrators and provide new hires with means to quickly get up to speed on job requirements and duties.  • Responding to client requests for technical support by phone, email and/or instant messaging service.  • Managing application patches, firmware updates, data backup, security changes and network configuration changes.  • Testing and providing troubleshooting for new versions of company software.  • Diagnosing network problems involving a combination of hardware, software, power and communications issues.  • HP Data Protector Management: performing backup and restoration duties, working with development team to restore previous versions of testing systems, providing database recovery as well as to ensuring proper storage of data for production databases.  • Operating HP StorageWorks ESL 9000, MSL 5000s and Spectra Logic T50e tape libraries.  • Accessing HP Rack and Power to administer and configure site UPSes.  • Working remotely with sites and vendors, provide customer support and resolve issues as necessary, such as changing MAC addresses and clearing the ARP table on switches to enable vendor devices to register with network, troubleshooting issues such as open sessions, wrong software or version loaded etc.  • Logging, managing and resolving tickets/cases using various Help Desk software.  • Maintaining SOX compliance; providing necessary resources for passing SAS-70 audits. Network and System Administrator R&K Insurance - East Greenbush, NY November 2002 to May 2004 12061  Solo position with limited technical support and little previous network documentation.  • Server and desktop support including network enumeration and documentation, re-imaging PCs, rebuilding servers, securing network and providing Active Directory and Exchange Server administration.  • Maintaining company servers, computers, printers, cables and other equipment.  ? Working with P&J to build and configure new Citrix Farm and new Exchange 2003 server, migrate existing mailboxes and metadata from old server.  ? Creating Symantec Ghost server to minimize downtime and ease rollouts and employee turnover.  ? Upgrading Track-It1 from 5.0 to 6.0; Veritas from Backup Exec 8.6 to 9.0; ADP from 3.11 to 5.0; built TAM beta-server for testing.  • Enumerating servers and network devices, labeling cables, creating technical and network documentation, compiling inventory of all company resources and ensuring compliance with all licensing.  • Acting as primary contact for computer hardware and software problems, as well as network emergencies.  • Identifying, reporting and resolving network connectivity issues.  • Managing application patches, data backup, security changes and network configuration.  • Diagnosing network problems involving a combination of hardware, software, power and communications issues.  • Developing a security plan and reorganizing directories and data structure to implement effective group policies.  • Active Directory and Group Policy: rebuilding Compaq servers, migrating and consolidating Printers, User Accounts and Directories, implementing a more intuitive and logical file structure with greater emphasis on privacy and security, specifically an access control policy.  • Creating Symantec Ghost Server from scratch without previous experience.  • Configuring Exchange Server: setting quotas and reconfiguring server to prevent email forwarding issue left by predecessor.  • Using email filtering to prevent potential SoBig outbreak before updated virus definitions were released to AV software.  • Citrix: managing accounts, loading software applications and updates, providing troubleshooting for presentation server software access issues and resolving issue where clients kept losing their printers. IT Consultant RHI Consulting - Washington, DC January 2002 to June 2002 20004-1204  Technical consultant performing onsite maintenance and customer support IT Administrator and Web Manager RESULTS Inc - Washington, DC February 2001 to December 2001 20001  Solo IT position for small NPO Jr. Network Specialist Intelligent System Solutions - Albany, NY November 2000 to January 2001 12205 Computer Infrastructure Technician Adecco/TAD Technical - Schenectady, NY June 2000 to November 2000 12345-6000 Education Art Adirondack Community College - Queensbury, NY September 1984 to May 1985