Network Systems Specialist <span class="hl">Network</span> Systems Specialist Experienced Network Administrator Davenport, FL Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Network Systems Specialist City of Holland - Holland, MI October 2013 to Present Responsibilities  Support 250+ employees from in our main facility and 11 satellite offices. Brainstormed, implemented, maintained Cisco based networks.    Manage City Email (Exchange 2010)  Maintain Backup Solution (Unitrends)  Manage City Website (including working with design firm on major cosmetic overhaul)  Manage City network infrastructure (Routers/Switches: Cisco, HP, 3Com, Juniper)  Manage WSUS server for all devices  Maintain Virtual Server Environment (Hyper-V)    Accomplishments  Major Network overhaul moving from public IP scheme to private.  Major cosmetic upgrade to city website.  Installation of multiple security cameras throughout the city with fiber connection back to City Hall for recording.  Brought up network from ground at new Civic Center Place    Skills Used  TCP/IP, Cisco, WordPress, HTML, SQL Systems Administrator Grotenhuis - Grand Rapids, MI December 2011 to October 2013 Responsibilities  Support 80+ employees from in our main facility and 3 satellite offices. Brainstormed, implemented, maintained Cisco based networks. Support 10+ servers with Operating Systems ranging from 2003 R2 to Cent OS. Installed, imaged, and maintained Windows XP and Windows 7 based desktops. Configure and maintain Spam filter (X Wall)    Accomplishments  • Researched, implemented, and maintain Help Desk Software (Kayako)  • Created and maintain an asset management tracking system utilizing Sharepoint  • Installed, configured and maintain Anti-Virus server using Windows 2008 R2 and Symantec Anti-Virus    Skills Used  UNIX, Windows 9X/NT/2000/XP/2K3/VISTA/W7, Windows Server 2003, Windows Server 2008 R2, VMware, ESX V Sphere, Novell Net Ware, Cisco Routers, Cisco Switches, Cisco ASA Firewalls, Kayako Help Desk, Acronis, Symantec Backup Exec Network Administrator United Water - Grand Rapids, MI March 2011 to November 2011 Supported 63 satellite sites all networked back to head quarters. Brainstormed, implemented, and maintained Cisco based networks. Handle technical troubleshooting within an enterprise environment, including system crashes, slow-downs and data recoveries. Engaged and tracked Priority 1 issues, with responsibility for the timely documentation, resolution and closure of trouble tickets.  Selected Contributions: • Handled 25+ technical/mission-critical calls and trouble tickets daily with expedited resolution  • Resolved desktop hardware and software technical issues and interacted with end-users to identify current computing environments.  • On call twenty-four hours, seven days a week to handle after hours issues and occurrences. Technical Specialist Professional Educational Services Group - Caledonia, MI October 2009 to March 2011 Handle technical troubleshooting within an enterprise environment, including system crashes, slow-downs and data recoveries. Engaged and tracked Priority 1 issues, with responsibility for the timely documentation, resolution and closure of trouble tickets. Updated company website via Expression Engine, SQL, and HTML.  Selected Contributions: ? Handled 40+ technical/mission-critical calls and trouble tickets daily and consistently meet high service standards.  ? Resolved desktop hardware and software technical issues and interacted with end-users to identify current computing environments.  ? Maintained laptop distribution pool and provided support to primary laptop users, prepared laptops for distribution, kept an updated activity log and worked with vendors to maintain and fix laptop equipment. Technical Support Agent / SME (Subject Matter Expert) Tech Team Global - Southfield, MI 2007 to 2009 Handled technical troubleshooting via phone and email for two major retailers. This included system crashes, slow-downs, register malfunctions, credit/debit card readers, system kiosks, and Blackberry support.  Selected Contributions: • Researched and developed knowledge-based articles for Lotus Notes issues, resulting in an increase in first-call-resolutions of 20 additional calls per week that saved the company $55K annually.  • Exceeded issue-resolution targets and achieved exemplary customer satisfaction scores, consistently scoring between 95%-100% on all calls (outperforming average of 90%).  • Utilized RCA techniques and problem trending to meet SLA.    Available for Relocation & Travel Education B.S. in Network Engineering program University of Advancing Technology - Tempe, AZ 2004 to 2008 Certificate in Technology Summary Everest Institute - Southfield, MI 2008 Skills Router, Cisco Links http://www.lbcholland.com https://www.beckymartin.photography http://www.sharpconllc.com https://hollandannualreport.com Awards Turn on a Dime Award - 2012 2012-12 Award issued to Grotenhuis Employee who had the most positive impact to the company in 2012. Certifications/Licenses ITIL v3 - IT Service Management Present Intro to Programming in JavaScript June 2019 to Present https://www.credential.net/pdmqva2z Groups WMNT Users Group Present