BUSINESS PROCESS ANALYST BUSINESS PROCESS ANALYST BUSINESS PROCESS ANALYST - Northeast Color Fremont, NH Customer-centric, focused self-starter with proven ability to understand and resolve complex business and  system problems. Looking to build on technical knowledge and skills and leverage my analysis experience in a  health organization, ideally in an Analyst role Work Experience BUSINESS PROCESS ANALYST Northeast Color January 2019 to Present Responsible for understanding, documenting, and managing all business processes associated with Manufacturing life cycle and Standard Operating Procedures for 40+ employees.  ? Triage all identified business issues via acceptance criteria, assess impact, and identify  appropriate solutions.  ? Identify the need to modify existing or create new business processes by grooming,  prioritizing and refining the process backlog, constantly coordinating with key decision  makers across multiple domains to queue up work and remove process inconsistencies  ? Utilize user stories to identify high-level scope of process, identify requirements, and model  process plan for review and approval.  ? Maintain long-term Agile-based monitoring of processes to ensure optimization and process  compliance. TECHNOLOGY SPECIALIST Northeast Color February 2017 to December 2018 ? Responsible for general maintenance of user accounts, database administration, and file server  maintenance. Tasks include EFI Pace Database Administration, Product Management and Creation,  Online Store (DSF) Administration, Google Administration (GSuite, Gmail), Salesforce Administration,  Crystal Reporting, User Account Management, Network Management, and Server Management.  ? Self-taught full Salesforce functionality to implement and maintain Salesforce instance within Company.  ? Trained entire Sales and Marketing teams to utilize Salesforce instance, and maintain all  Administration, reports, dashboards, data transfer, and custom changes.  ? Project Manager: Digital Storefront Site Reconstruction; Complete redesign and setup of online store,  including Customer Administration, Product Management, HTML/CSS edits, and Site Information  Architecture. INTERN NETWORK ADMINISTRATOR Farmington School District August 2015 to March 2016 Provided network and data administration support for a three-school system including upkeep and tracking of internal product information, sensitive company-wide internal and external customer    information maintenance, online store administration, and building custom reports for various  processes to show specific data to users.  ? Fixed technological problems and setbacks, updated computer systems and virtual drives, as well as administration of network infrastructure (firewalls, file servers, etc.). SENIOR PROJECT TEAM MANAGER University of New Hampshire 2016 to 2016 UNDERGRADUATE RESEARCH CONFERENCE UNH    ? "Living Bridge: Data Streaming and Lighting" Senior research project.  ? Goal: Using raw weather sensor data, create LUA script to parse and organize data into comprehensive instructions for the control lighting on the Memorial Bridge. Lighting would reflect  changes in weather/precipitation, temperatures, and work in conjunction with underwater turbines to illustrate tide behaviors.  ? Orchestrated Portsmouth City meetings and documented conference presentation poster, technical  documents, and project code throughout the life of the project. Education BACHELOR DEGREE in Information Technology UNIVERSITY OF NEW HAMPSHIRE May 2016 Skills Business Process, Process Improvement, Six Sigma, Excel, Process Flow Additional Information ? Responds quickly to production issues and communicates impact/remedy in timely fashion.  ? Strong communication skills including the ability to communicate complicated technical terms in  understandable business terms.  ? Organized, detail-oriented, focused on continuous improvement.  ? Able to collaborate with diverse roles and teams including business stakeholders, management  executives, and technological specialists.  ? Able to prioritize and execute on business decisions effectively while taking stakeholder needs into  high consideration  ? Consistently recognized for trust, self-drive, self-learning, organization skills, communication skills,  and unwavering dedication to improve    TECHNOLOGY PROFICIENCIES  SQL and PostGRE SQL, SAP Crystal Reports, Salesforce, Microsoft Office (Word, Excel, Powerpoint), JIRA,  HTML/CSS, knowledge of Agile practices and methodologies (Scrum, Kanban).