Network Engineer (Consultant) <span class="hl">Network</span> Engineer (Consultant) Network Security Engineer Sacramento, CA {Please contact me only for Remote job part time}  US Citizen   (15 Years Experience )   11Years Network and Security Engineer   4 Years of IT Project Manager  Certificates & Licenses  Licensed Professional Engineers Membership (P.E.)   Palo Alto Networks Certified Network Security Engineer (PCNSE)  CCNP S, CCNA Routing and Swishing, CCNA Security, CNSS, Computer Network.  Architectural Engineering Institute Membership (AEI)  --Data Networking (OSI Model, TCP/IP, UTP, Optical Transport multi-mode fiber, single-mode fiber, (LAN/WAN).  --Expert in Ethernet and transport technologies, Routers, Switches, Nexus Switches, Bridging  --Protocols: DNS, EIGRP, OSPF, BGP, RIP, TCP/IP, HSRP, STP/ RSTP...etc.  --Work in Different Environments: ISP, hospital, hotel, companies, manufacturers.  -- Network Design experience. (Draw and implementation of the topology)  --Project Management experience.  -- Network Security technologies.  Firewalls (Palo Alto, ASA firewall, Checkpoint, Fortinet firewall), SSL VPN, IPsec VPN, MPLS,   SSH configuration/testing, Cisco Putty/Secure CRT  --Good KNOWLEDGE Ticket system software and Application Agile, CITRIX NetScale, Zendesk, SolarWinds. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Network Engineer (Consultant) Charter Communications (CTEC1) - Greenwood Village, CO October 2018 to Present (Test Environment)  • (Industry specifications and standards for IEEE, ANSI, multi-mode fiber, single-mode fiber, UTP,) Bridging, Switching, Routing, Ethernet and Transport technologies and protocol, Management access OOB : SSH configuration/testing, Cisco Putty/Secure CRT.  • Protocols OSPF, BGP, DHCP, DNS,SNMP, HTTP/S, ARP, NTP, ICMP.  • Network design (Draw and implementation of the topology)  •Hands-on experience in network equipment test setup and configuration  • Network Equipment experience- IP type equipment (routers, switches, Firewalls, and video devices.   • Worked with Radius and TACACS  • Fairewalls Fortinet ,ASA , PaloAlto   • Data Networking: LAN/WAN (OSI Model, TCP/IP, Optical Networking and cat 6 Ethernet) Racking.  •responsible to setup network test configuration under the direction of engineers/architects  •IP networking technology and terminology, have done similar work (e.g. IP equipment installation/testing/troubleshooting)  • Video System Support and Content Delivery Networks(working with Video devices such as PEG+, DCM 9901&9902, EXFO, Vecima TC600HF) Network Security Engineer Security Validation LLC - Phoenix, AZ March 2018 to October 2018 Routers, Switches, OSI model, Protocols Https, HSRP, SNMP, ARP, NAT, BGP.  Network Security (Fortinet and Palo Alto Firewalls)  Analytical, Configure, implement and troubleshoot the firewall. Experience configuring, deploying and troubleshooting VPN tunnels (IPSec, SSL, Point to Point).  Syslog and SSH configuration.  Working with Checkpoint firewall, Fortinet firewalls, FortiAnalyzer, FortiManager. Network Engineer/Security - Project Manager USA Volunteer Organization - Davis, CA December 2016 to March 2018 • Developed IT Department  • Leadership for three groups.  • Build LAN/WAN, Security tunnel connection VPN.   Maintaining and troubleshooting network security.  • Design, implement, diagrams and procedures. Senior Network security Engineer Verizon - Schaumburg, IL September 2015 to October 2016 (Verizon is Internet Service Provider)  Data Network: Nexus Switches 2K,3K,5K,7K experience, Vpc Technology. 6740 Ethernet Switches experience.  Configured and implemented BGP and EIGRP in a multi-protocol network environment.  Performed network maintenance and network device system upgrades, including service packs, patches, hotfixes and security  configurations.  WAN experience, Configured IPsec VPN through GRE tunnel on firewalls.  Troubleshooting switch stack management (i.e.  configure auto software update on the master switch to make the software compatible with the whole stack).  Internet perimeter security systems, cloud security, infrastructure security controls, security documentation, diagrams and procedures.  Involved in troubleshooting various layer 2 and layer three issues related to VRF and BGP routing.  OOB Access SSH Config   Built LAN TCP/IP network comprised of Cisco Switches (6500, 7000, 3750, 3850, 3500, and 2900).  Protect the network infrastructure from rogue switches by enabling BPDU guard.  Developed an optimum IP Addressing schemes, VLAN tables, and network documentation and diagrams (Visio).  The working project of SONET, DWDM and metro transport networks.Prevented VLAN hopping attack (shut down unused ports, assign them to isolated VLAN, make the native VLAN other than1 and configure the access ports with no negotiating.  Scheduled configuration archive for all managed devices(switches, routers, WLCs) on Cisco prime infrastructure.  Experience in all Cisco IOS and Catalyst switches troubleshooting on the network which included but was not limited to 3700, 7200 and 7500 series routers and catalyst 6513 and 6509 switches.  Configured, Implemented and troubleshoot Site-to-Site VPNs at branch sites.  IOS maintenance configuration like archiving and build backup configuration on a regular basis for Cisco switches and routers.  Monitored network traffic via network monitoring tools and sniffers in an attempt to troubleshoot network outages and intrusions by tracing their origin and destination.  Configured switches with security standards to mitigate man in the middle attacks.  Worked on configuring, maintaining and troubleshooting WAN links.  Prepared labs using real devices to check the configuration changing impact before making changes in a real environment.  Firewall (ASA and Checkpoint)  Performed duties that included distribution of IP hostnames and IP addresses to devices in existence as well as newly added  devices.  Configured 2504 and 5508 WLC with SNMP configuration.  Environment: Cisco routers 3700, 7200 and 7500; Cisco catalyst series switches 6500; Cisco Layer 3 switches 6740T ,3750 and 3850. Network Security Engineer III Samsung Electronics - Schaumburg, IL May 2014 to August 2015 • Firewall Application Remote Control.(ASA & Checkpoint)  • Configured VPN, ACL, and NAT in the Cisco ASA 5540 firewall, Checkpoint Firewall and Palo Alto firewall to allow only authorized users to access the servers of the internal network.  Strong analytical.  Worked with Radius and TACACS,Cisco ISE.  Worked with policy-based routing in an MPLS routing environment.  F5 load balance.  Aruba wireless access point( POE) set up more than 200 devices.  Involved in complete LAN, WAN development including IP address planning, designing, installation, configuration, testing, and maintenance.  • Configured route redistribution between OSPF and EIGRP in a multi-area OSPF network.  • Data Network:Created span port configuration to capture and analyze data using Wireshark.  Provided Tier 2 support for the network (Layer 3) related issues for the customer.  Used Layer 3 protocols like TCP/IP EIGRP, OSPF, and BGP to configure Routers in the network.  Implemented redundancy /failover using HSRP.  Performed switching technology administration including VLANs, inter-VLAN routing, trunking, and port aggregation.  Worked with engineering team to resolve tickets and troubleshoot L3/L2 problems efficiently.  Configured the switches ports with the power inline in watt to be compatible with WAP power setting and set the switches ports with power priorities ( high and low), and adjust the power limit that the switch provides to each port.  Deployed VoIP phones and provided access to voice and data traffic with QoS policies.  Configure SNMP traps on the routers and switches and associates them with SolarWinds and cisco prime.  experience assisting with the implementation of Cisco leading edge technologies  Involved in upgrading to the latest IOS images and firmware for Cisco routers and switches, firewalls. Network Engineer Fujitsu - Dallas, TX March 2012 to April 2014 Performed daily maintenance, troubleshooting, configuration, installation and documentation of all network components within the network.  Installed and set up Cisco routers and switches according to deployment plans.  Configured Cisco Routers (2800 Series) and 3550, 6500 series switches.  TCP/IP network planning, IPv4 addressing implementation, subnetting, route summarization, and distribution.  VoIP Phone and VoIP Phone Service Quality  Configured routers with EIGRP, static routes and switches with VLANs, VTP, and STP. VoIP,  Configured Access lists on the boundaries of the network either inbound or outbound.  Enables SNMP traps for Cisco Monitoring tool to monitor traffic and check the regular health of Servers and Network Devices.  VoIP Phone  Responsible for implementing and testing secure access for outside business partners into the client network for secured data  transport.  Responded to all system problems on a 7X24 basis and took part in an on-call rotation.  Environment Network Engineer DD Network - Chicago, IL December 2010 to February 2012 Data Network Environment  Planned, deployed and maintained wireless and wired LAN network using Cisco 3600 routers, 2960, 3500 switches, and 7960  IP Phones.  Designed IP addressing schemes, VLAN's, subnetting and trunking to meet requirements.  Prevented rogue DHCP server to assign unwanted IP addresses scopes by configuring the switch with DHCP snooping  globally and on VLAN level.  Performed installation, cabling, and cable testing.  Implemented QoS for Voice traffic.  Planned and executed the migration from PSTN to IP Telephony, CUCME, and 7960 IP Phones.  Documented and maintained technical diagrams, documented logical and physical topology, and other IT procedures.  Reviewed, approved, procured various IT hardware and software products to fulfill strategic and operational needs of different  departments.  Worked with management and various departments to develop procedures and troubleshoot problems as they arose.  Environment Network Administrator / ( Network Support) Zain Jordan January 2007 to August 2010 Responsibility   Service Desk for resolving support requests for the end users.  Radio broadcast electronics experience.  Act as an escalation point for advanced or difficult help requests.  Escalate problems (when required) to the Support Service Manager.  Apply diagnostic utilities to aid in troubleshooting.  Perform hardware and software system configuration, maintenance, upgrades and troubleshooting of workstations, laptops,  devices and printers.  Support for Outlook.  Install, configure, and document various software packages upon user request and proper approvals.  Maintain workstation and server security patches, virus updates and efficiency tuning.  Act as the point for all VOIP services such as Mitel, inContact, prairie Fyre, and Oaisys.  Layer 2 networking troubleshooting. IT Project Manager Zain Iraq - Baghdad-Iraq December 2003 to December 2006 Define project scope, goals and deliverables that support business objectives in collaboration with management and stakeholders.  Manage small to medium sized projects or significant portions of large complex projects, utilizing established project tools and methodologies, with minimal guidance.  Develop and manage comprehensive project plans and associated project documents.  Proactively address changes in project scope, identify potential risks and devise contingency plans.  Coordinate resources (team members, equipment and consultants) across multiple projects and departments.  Effectively communicate project expectations to team members and stakeholders in a timely and clear fashion.  Compile and report project status across the organization.  Manage the vendor selection process and coordinate vendor efforts throughout the project.  Coach, train, mentor, and direct the work of less experienced team members. Education Bachelor in Science (physics) University of Baghdad - Baghdad September 1992 to October 1996 Skills CISCO (10+ years), VOIP (2 years), SECURITY (7 years), EIGRP (4 years), SNMP (10+ years), vPC (4 years), Data Network (8 years), Nexus Switches 2k, 5k, 7k. (4 years), Cisco prime (3 years), WAN (8 years), MPLS (3 years), LAN (10+ years), OSPF (9 years), Visio (7 years), Juniper (6 years), Excel & PowerPoint (10+ years), Team Leadership (5 years), Palo Alto Firewall (3 years), Scripting (Python/Shell) (4 years), VRRP (5 years), F5 (Less than 1 year), Nexus (5 years), Outlook (10+ years), VPN (7 years), Networking (10+ years), Alcatel-Lucent (5 years), firewalls (7 years), BGP (8 years), DNS (10+ years), Checkpoint firewall (1 year), Computer/Microsoft Word (10+ years), Active Directory Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/mousa-ht/ Certifications/Licenses CCNP s November 2015 to February 2022 CCNPs (Cisco Certified Network Professional) is an IT certification from Cisco CCNA Routing and Switching July 2016 to February 2022 A CCNA routing and switching certification covers the fundamentals of enterprise networking, including LAN switching, IP addressing, routing, subnetting and more. It assesses an individual's ability to deploy, configure, manage and troubleshoot enterprise networks. CCNA Security July 2016 to February 2022 The CCNA Security curriculum emphasizes core security technologies, the installation, troubleshooting and monitoring of network devices to maintain integrity, confidentiality, and availability of data and devices, and competency in the technologies that Cisco uses in its security structure. Computer Network Present NSE1 ( Network Security- Fortinet) April 2018 to April 2020 Digital sales certification (Google) May 2018 to May 2020 CNSS February 2019 to February 2022 The US National Security Agency (NSA) and the Committee on National Security Systems (CNSS)  Information Systems Security (INFOSEC). PCNSE February 2019 to February 2021 Palo Alto Networks Certified Network Security Engineer Licensed Professional Engineers Membership (P.E.) January 2019 to December 2019 Additional Information • Training : Juniper training / Charter     *(Skype id is Mousa74ht)    *I am working in Greenwood Village, CO (My family lives in Sacramento CA)