Network Administrator <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Annandale, VA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Network Administrator TECHNOLOGY SNAPSHOT March 2019 to Present COMPTIA A+ NETWORK ADMINISTRATOR PHACIL, INC 2018 to Present • Team member of Marine Corps Recruiting Command within the Integrated Network Services division.  • Manage and troubleshoot Aruba 7240XM controller for approximately 1500 sites.  • TS, deploy, configure, upgrade Aruba 205H Remote Access Points for remote site wired and wireless connectivity.  • Knowledge and use of Aruba CPPM, AirWave monitors.  • Remote end user support.  • Use of SolarWinds for site device monitoring and network mapping.  • Use of Cisco ACS for device authorization to network services.  • Knowledge of F5 load balancer network traffic distributor.  • Troubleshoot LAN/WAN connectivity in multi service provider environment service provider environment.  • Create team or end user support documentation for set tasks. NOC TECHNICIAN OST/NORTHROP GRUMMAN 2014 to 2019 • Maintained and administered a multi-zoned, multi-domain multi-datacenter for AKO supporting 2.4 million users worldwide.  • Provided exceptional customer service and performed Tier-1 accommodation to customers in establishing operation, maintenance, inspection procedures and techniques.  • Provided technical support to company executives during time sensitive tasks and emergency intervention.  • Created and updated tickets regarding equipment failures, causes, and solutions according to urgency rating. JR NETWORK ENGINEER COMPQSOFT/AT&T 2016 to 2018 • Serve as indispensable part of the team managing and maintaining network and infrastructure along 31 locations.  • Efficiently troubleshoot LAN\WAN issues on Cisco, Brocade switches, Aruba wireless access points in compliance with Washington Naval Base LAN classification.  • Develop and enforce maintenance procedures, pre-deployment, and wireless survey requirements.  • Deploy, Troubleshoot VOIP issues in different design aspects.  • Use network diagrams and develop spreadsheets to enable provisioning. Use of SM9 ticketing system.  • Create and maintain all technical documentation to ensure process transparency and support knowledge sharing initiatives.  • Collaborate cross-functionally to successfully resolve all issues, malfunctions and major outages. HELP DESK ANALYST K-FORCE 2016 to 2016 • Supported design, configuration, implementation, and troubleshooting of computer hardware, printers, software, and IP networks, telephones, VoIP, and peripherals for client workstations.  • Delivered technical support on integrated automated call system to 15 to 20 clients daily.  • Scheduled customer appointments, prioritized and expedited user requests escalated incidents.  • Handled critical assignments, software distribution, and special projects such as specialized server set-up and application rollouts.  • Researched, designed, and delivered technical solutions for specialized institutional initiatives, such as Exchange servers, intranet applications, scripts and program utilities. SECURITY OFFICER TRINITY PROTECTION SERVICES 2013 to 2015 • Ensured security and protection of persons and property on assigned federal Government contract in accordance with CFR-102.74.  • Handled closed circuit television security system equipped with 17 monitors. Processed and issued badges to cleared personnel and confiscated expired badges.  • Utilized x-ray equipment to inspect personal belongings with standing and portable metal detector unit.  • Operated gates, implanted barriers, inspect oncoming vehicles for possible threats to facility. SECURITY OFFICER ALLIEDBARTON SECURITY SERVICES LLC 2012 to 2013 • Ensured security and protection of persons and property on assigned federal Government contract in accordance with CFR-102.74.  • Handled closed circuit television security system equipped with 17 monitors. Processed and issued badges to cleared personnel and confiscated expired badges.  • Utilized x-ray equipment to inspect personal belongings with standing and portable metal detector unit.  • Operated gates, implanted barriers, inspect oncoming vehicles for possible threats to facility.  • Provided outstanding customer service to employees and visitors.  • Monitored 28-acre campus through closed-circuit television system that included parking lots, boom lowering entrance gates, and parking garages.  • Identified and reported violators to the facility, compiled and adopted fire evacuation plans. A/V TECHNICIAN MASTER GROUP OF NEW YORK 2006 to 2010 • Installed, setup, upgraded, monitored, maintained, and troubleshot audio and video equipment in hotels, concert halls, firehouses, on streets, schools, parks and pools before and during the events.  • Managed inventory and shipment of equipment to event locations among a 200+ mile radius.  • Maintained and operated various equipment including speakers, surge protectors, STP cable, laptops, DJ equipment, 16+ channel sound console, various music formats, digital and analog video tape, LED lights, projectors, front & rear projection screens, truss, par cans, filters and more. Education Associate Skills Brocade (2 years), Cisco (4 years), customer service (6 years), Itil (4 years), Lan (4 years), Lan/wan (4 years), Microsoft Excel (4 years), Receptionist (6 years), Retail sales (6 years), wireless (3 years), Microsoft access (3 years), Technical Support, Active Directory, Windows, Networking Assessments Technical Support Skills — Expert March 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/klf3vfzfuu89-gao Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information AREAS OF EXPERTISE  • Effective Communication  • Customer Service  • Troubleshooting  • ITIL-based Service Level Delivery  • Ticketing Systems  • Performance Improvement    • Team Adaptability  • LAN/WAN Wireless  • MS Excel  • MS Access  • Aruba, Cisco, Brocade  • CLI