Firewall Administrator Firewall <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Top Secret Cleared Network Engineer Tampa, FL Dedicated and hands-on professional, armed with extensive network administration skills across both corporate and military settings. Possess keen attention to detail and exceptional work ethic, complemented with a strong dedication to meet organizational goals with the highest level of quality. Demonstrate strong capabilities of providing service excellence and satisfaction by fulfilling every client’s needs and expectations. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Firewall Administrator Raymond James - Saint Petersburg, FL April 2019 to Present Principal Network Engineer Northrop Grumman - Huntsville, AL March 2019 to March 2019 Develop detailed designs with supporting implementation, test and transition plans  Usher proposed system changes through the Configuration Management process to successful implementation and delivery to the Customer/Operator  Develop and maintain documentation supporting the Product through development, integration, deployment and delivery to the customer/operator  Create and update Visio drawings of network and rack elevation diagrams  Execute root cause analysis to troubleshoot and resolve complex network system issues Work with vendor support for hardware issues  Derive system-level requirements from architectural guidelines and project objectives Senior Network Administrator Telos Corporation - Ashburn, VA July 2015 to March 2019 • Migrated multiple Palo Alto firewalls into Panorama as well as redesigning the configuration to make use of device groups to allow easier management of all Palo Alto network devices.   • Implemented Solarwinds services to help improve network performance and reliability.   • Configure and maintain all Palo Alto firewall configurations for the entire company to include 5020 and 3020 series firewalls.  • Responsible for design, administration, and maintenance of network switches (Cisco 3650), routers (Cisco 3945), and firewalls (Palo Alto and Cisco ASA 5525x).   • Maintain all configuration and ACL’s for all Cisco ASA firewalls, Palo Alto firewalls, and at the core level on 6506-e network switches.   • Administer and establish VPN solutions based on company needs to include Remote VPN (Anyconnect), IPSec Site to Site VPN, and Clientless VPN solutions for five geographically separate locations.   • Implemented a multi-homing, multi-hop BGP solution between two ISPs to ensure our company maintains a highly reliable network with a high overall uptime for internet based traffic.   • Performed refresh of multiple switches in the network with Cisco 3650 series switches to improve network performance and reliability.   • Reconfigured all network devices from SNMPv2 to SNMPv3 to improve security of SNMP based traffic.   • Maintain and update software for all network devices and network server within the corporate network to ensure a highly reliable and more secure network.   • Manage wireless network that includes Aruba 7210 controller and Aruba Clearpass.   • Monitor the network using PRTG to determine issues and ensure network performance is at an optimum level.  • Work with junior level engineers to ensure projects and tickets are completed in a timely manner.   • Update and maintain network documentation to ensure all documentation is current and applicable. Firewall Administrator STG Inc. - Reston, VA December 2014 to July 2015 Responsible for administration of network firewalls (Palo Alto and McAfee), internet proxies (Bluecoat), and network monitoring tools (Nagios).  Maintain and update firewalls rules based on needed security requirements from both GUI and CLI  Troubleshoot with customers to determine issues with connectivity using packet capture software (Wireshark) and firewall logs  Configure the internet proxies (Bluecoat) to meet the requirement and restrictions of the acceptable use policy  Configure of DMZ switches VLAN and port access to meet the needs of the customer  Manage incoming tickets and ensure the issue is resolved in a timely manner  Highly motivated to ensure success of the company and team members Network Administrator Capgemini Government Solutions - Reston, VA August 2013 to December 2014 • Responsible for installing and maintaining ASA 5512-X series firewalls   • Redesigned entire network infrastructure to make better use of routing, switching, and to implement improved security standards  • Improved remote access capabilities to the internal network by implementing the Cisco Anyconnect Secure Mobility Client SSL VPN service  • Implemented an IPSEC Site to Site VPN tunnel from our headquarters office to our remote offices in order to securely transmit company information from office to office  • Ensure the quick resolution of all IP network issues in order to reduce network downtime  • Responsible for providing thorough network documentation, and implementing nightly configuration backups on all networking equipment  • Setup an inline Cisco IPS to ensure all traffic coming in and out of the network is being properly inspected  • Monitored bandwidth and network activity using Netflow by analyzing information provided by PRTG to ensure efficient and effective network operation Network Administrator ITT Exelis - Baghdad February 2013 to August 2013 • Support the United States Embassy in Iraq by maintaining local area network (LAN) and wide area network (WAN)  • Exemplify proficiency with various Cisco switches and routers including Cisco 6500, 3800, 3700, 3600, 2900, and 2600 series equipment  • Leverage in-depth familiarity in designing and maintaining the TACACS+ authentication server software  • Utilize extensive background in configuring Cisco ASA Firewall 5500 series with CLI and ASDM  • Exhibit knowledge in using SolarWinds Network Management Software to track network performance  • Ensure the maintenance of reliable network communications from isolation through network outages  • Expertly utilize Cisco Call Manager in support of the daily operations of VoIP technicians  • Function well in utilizing Windows Server 2003, 2008 R2, and 2012.  • Demonstrate expertise in initiating and configuring VMware ESXi 5.1 servers for virtualization. Satellite Communications Technician United States Army June 2006 to January 2013 ? Took charge of three AN/GSC-52 satellite terminals with satellite communications equipment worth $44M  ? Played a pivotal role as the security manager and maintained 100% accountability of cryptographic controlled items valued with $2M with zero incidents Education B.S. Computer Information Systems in Network Security ECPI Skills AWS, Palo Alto Firewalls, Cisco ASA Firewalls, BGP, VLANs, TACACS+, Solarwinds, Cisco Router, Cisco Switches, Radius, VPN, L3 Switching, Access Lists, VSS, OSPF, Wireshark, VMWare, Security+, security, LAN, Cisco, Top Secret Clearance Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/derrick-abbott-ccnp-pcnse-a9825845/ Military Service Branch: Army Service Country: United States Rank: E-5 June 2006 to January 2013 Certifications/Licenses CCNP March 2016 to March 2019 CCNA Security March 2016 to March 2019 PCNSE February 2018 to February 2020 CCNA CompTIA Security+ September 2018