Corporate Network Administrator - Support Corporate <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> - Support Corporate Network Administrator - Support - PTM Corporation Algonac, MI Work Experience Corporate Network Administrator - Support PTM Corporation May 2005 to Present a wide-area- network of Windows 2012 servers, Exchange Server 2010, SQL Server 2008, and Windows 10, 7, and XP workstations. Responsible for supporting 230+ users spread over several companies and all forms of communication - telephones, fax, Internet. Implement/support PLEX ERP Software, Previously supported Visual Enterprise by Infor ERP software. Managed the purchase and installation of a computer integrated telephone/VoIP system. Install, upgrade and maintain all servers and workstations. Analyze, test and implement new software and hardware. Train employees to use new software and hardware and create job-aids and documentation for same. Backup and verify integrity of the backup on all servers. Purchase software and hardware. Monitor Corporate KPI's. Network Administrator - Support Stewart Michigan Title Agency April 2002 to May 2005 a wide-area- network of Windows 2000, and Windows NT 4.0 servers and Windows 2000, XP and Windows 95/98 workstations. Program, install and maintain routers for the national Frame Relay network. Install, upgrade and maintain all servers and workstations. Analyze, test and implement new software and hardware. Train employees to use new software and hardware and create job-aids and documentation for same. Backup and verify integrity of the backup on all servers. Troubleshoot any problems with Frame Relay circuits, routers, servers or workstations. Some web design. Purchase software and hardware. Information Systems Analyst - Support LandAmerica Financial Group March 1998 to April 2002 a wide-area- network that uses Windows NT 4.0 Server/Workstation and Unix operating systems. Responsible for directly supporting 11 offices and making sure all users can connect to the network and perform their jobs. Test, analyze and implement new software and hardware. Perform PC and server hardware upgrades and maintenance. Train employees to use new software and hardware. Create job-aids and documentation for new software/hardware. Agent CFS Title Insurance Agency March 1998 to March 2000 Examine land for clear title, prepare and balance bank deposits, pay outside title companies, and maintain computers. Back-up systems administrator on a UNIX based system for Lawyers Title Insurance Corporation - Port Huron Office. Old Kent Bank January 1997 to March 1998 Act as a liaison between computer programmers and technicians and the new mortgage department systems and personnel, study the new software and train as necessary, create databases and spreadsheets to track new mortgage activity, customize reports from the created databases to blend new information with the old for a smooth transition for upper management and loan officers, attend meetings and round table discussions with other areas of the bank to compare and share progress with the new system, learn compliance issues and prepare mortgage documents. Old Kent Bank February 1993 to March 1998 back-up supervisor Old Kent Bank May 1994 to January 1997 May, 1994 - January, 1997  --Update and maintain Loan Accounting System specifications on the Information Technology Inc. (ITI) software system, code and test specifications for new loan products, write selection criteria for specialized loan reports, install software, provide software support for loan department personnel, all FHLMC processing from sale to payoff, HMDA reporting, and acting as back-up supervisor.  --Other areas of knowledge include, calculating interest, escrow analysis, variable rate loan analysis, general ledger balancing, and various other post-closing and accounting duties. Old Kent Bank February 1993 to May 1994 February, 1993 - May, 1994  subsidiary of Seaway Financial Corporation  --After-hours drive-in teller (unsupervised after lobby hours). Responsibilities included securing building after closing, completing Currency Transaction Reports, and auditing travelers checks, data- entry and customer service.  Witherspoon Education Microsoft Certified Systems Engineer Baker College October 2001 Bachelor of Business Leadership in Business Leadership St. Clair County Community College December 1999