IT Support Specialist IT Support Specialist IT Support Specialist - Wintrust Financial Bank Dedicated helpdesk professional currently providing technical support in a 2000+ user environment. Skilled problem-solver able to communicate with users at all levels of technical proficiency. Troubleshoot, resolve and document user help requests for desktop, laptop, mobile, network and peripheral problems. Work Experience IT Support Specialist Wintrust Financial Bank - Rosemont, IL November 2018 to June 2019 Maintained and support systems, workstation, mobile devices, and printers. Respond to user service request and resolve incident tickets. Ensure system security for desktop and mobile.    • Ticketing System use Heat Service Management  • Windows 7/10 OS troubleshooting, Hardware break/fix and configuration changes to comply with all the different requirements to run on the Wintrust environment.  • Advanced troubleshooting With Office 365  • Escalate critical issues to the correct engineers in a timely manner and document any interaction with them and vendors.  • Installation and configuration of various programs like, MS Visual Studio, SQL Server Management Studio and various other programs need it for Wintrust Employees to accomplish their goals.  • Assist on the migration of servers as needed, by doing health checks on the designated servers to be migrated.  • Take an average of 60 calls a day with a 95% resolution rate for all issues that arise.  • Commended for quickly resolving complex issues including system crashes, network slowdowns, connectivity problems, security breaches, and virus infections.  • Resolve an average of 330 Incidents per month Network Operation Center Administrator MB Financial Bank December 2017 to November 2018 • Ticketing System use Service Pro  • Use SCCM to find information about computer's owners, AD groups and what software has been installed or waiting for installation  • Monitor different systems, from servers, Nutanix, VMware, file transfers, Branch outages and ATM repair statuses.  • Escalate critical issues to the correct engineers in a timely manner and document any interaction with them and vendors.  • Create AT&T and Comcast tickets to trouble shoot circuits and update the business on their resolution  • Assist on the migration of servers as needed, by doing health checks on the designated servers to be migrated.  • The use of Control-M to verify jobs ran or their status and to provide additional information to engineers to troubleshoot issues  • Test changes on application or infrastructure as needed in order to search for any bugs or issues that may arise before full implementation Help Desk Specialist ATS September 2017 to November 2017 Contract    • Ticketing System use Remedy  • Use SCCM to remote and troubleshoot issues with Win7 and Win10  • Troubleshoot O365, installation, initial configuration, addon support and intermediate troubleshooting support  • Lotus Note installation, initial configuration and setup, basic to intermediate error troubleshooting  • Skype for Business 2016 installation, configuration, and login errors or intermediate error troubleshooting.  • Phone and remote support on a corporate environment. High volume calls  • VPN installation, setup, and troubleshooting locked tokens or registering devices using VIP Access  • Reset passwords and unlock accounts using Active Directory. IT Specialist Level 2 Aon March 2017 to June 2017 Contract    • Ticketing system use Service Now  • Re-image machines daily using SCCM and Network Imaging  • Troubleshooted issues like bad HDD, RAM, PC's performance, and applications errors  • Coordinated with Warehouse team to deliver ready machines including from Desktops (Lenovo M93 and Dell OptiPlex 760-780) Laptops from Lenovo T420-T450 and HP EliteBook 840.  • Hardware troubleshooting consisted from detecting faulty equipment and replacing it. This included changing RAM, HDD, batteries, Power supplies, NIC cards, and Screens. Support Specialist Grainger September 2016 to November 2016 Contract    • Assisted Customers with troubleshooting Grainger Machines (this included all 5 models)  • Troubleshooting consisted on the mechanical side and the software as well (screen interface).  • Verify orders in the database for customers.  • Order Parts for the machines after troubleshooting every possibility, this included any part of the machine that needed replacement.  • Guided customers to the correct departments specially with orders (support was only able to see what got into the database and couldn't see if it got bill)  • Call center environment took an average of 14 calls a day. IT Help Desk Specialist Level 2 FTD January 2016 to March 2016 Contract    • Assist Florist with technical problems with the proprietary software  • Fix any technical problems with Windows XP, Vista, 7, 8 and 10  • Assist Florist with installation of printers, workstations and networking equipment  • Configure Florist Private Networks and VPNs  • Deliver excellent customer support  • Troubleshoot Issues with the mobile version of FTD's preoperatory software (android and Apple)  • Deliver 46 tickets (HEAT) in one day making me one of the highest in the company this year  • Learn how to troubleshoot FTD's proprietary software in 2 weeks  • Positions after training was that of level 2 technician (FTD highest technician level is 3) Education Associate of Science in Network Systems Administration in Cisco Fundamentals DeVry University - Addison, IL January 2016