Network Administrator <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Network Administrator Severna Park, MD Work Experience Network Administrator Magothy Computers & Telcom Solutions, LLC. - Severna Park, MD March 2004 to Present Supporting Small Businesses by understanding their technology goals, then designing and supporting a network infrastructure accordingly. Supporting diverse industries ranging from Milling and Machining to Medical, Accounting, and Real-estate companies. I have built their data systems to include file, print and mail servers supported by gigabit network backbones. This experience includes extensive server, desktop, laptop, tablet, and mobile support ranging in size from five to seventy-five node networks with a specialty in system security. Several of my sites are NIST-800-171 certified. Directly responsible for 20+ servers and analyzing each of the logs and maintaining each of their system structures. Maintain a proactive approach with infrastructure support thereby providing 99.89% uptime. Application support includes all current and past operating systems, Office-97 to 2019 packages, Accounting Systems to include JobBoss, Estitrack, ShopLink, MAS-90, QuickBooks Enterprise, CAD software MastCAM, Catia, GibbsCAM, and SolidWorks, Windows-10, Server ’12,’16 ,’19, ESET 2FA, AppRIver & many others. Extensive firewall support to include CheckPoint, Cisco, and Fortinet SMB systems / SSL Certs Network Administrator International Paper Inc. - Odenton, MD February 2000 to March 2004 Administrator and maintain Windows network operations for approximately 400+ associates . Manage multiple servers to include AD, DNS, DHCP, RightFAX, and Domino servers.  Support client application to include Lotus Notes. Install and configure new desktop and laptop hardware. Support remote VPN clients and maintain fleet of laptops. Plan and implement weekend system upgrades. Oncall nights and weekends for emergency support as needed. Network Administrator Education AAS in Information Technology Anne Arundel Community College - Arnold, MO January 2002 Associate Skills CCNA, Cisco, System Administrator, Vmware, Networking, Windows, Active Directory (10+ years), Technical Support, Windows 7, MCSE (10+ years), Checkpoint (4 years) Certifications/Licenses MCSE-CCNA-CNE-MCP-SERVER+. A+