Solvay OSSC Help Desk Solvay OSSC Help Desk Solvay OSSC Help Desk Roswell, GA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Solvay OSSC Help Desk Revolutions Technology, Client December 2018 to August 2019 Contract)  • Supported on-site and remote users, resolving all software and hardware issues.  • Built and imaged over 100 new desktops and laptops for new hires.  • Member of team migrating users from Windows 7 to Windows 10 operating system.  • Provided all users with training and education on the functions of the new Windows systems and corporate-provided cellphones.  • Set up and deployed Unify OpenScape IP35G and IP55G VoIP desk phones and Samsung 9 and 10 and iPhone 8 and XR cell phones to Solvay employees.  • Resolved issues with Audio Visual equipment in conference rooms and board room.  • Wired new cubicle areas, helped install new Cisco 2960 switches, determined where cabling terminated, and worked with the Network/Switch Teams to resolve issues with affected ports.  • Provide support to Solvay executives. Tier 3 Help Desk TekSystems, Client July 2011 to November 2018 Contract)  • Provided Tier 3 support for IHG chain hotels in the US, Canada, and Latin America.  • Resolved issues with Windows 2008 and 2010 servers, Windows 7 and 10 operating systems, Oracle Opera databases, and other peripheral software.  • Used Bomgar to resolve remote customer's computer issues.  • Member of IHG implementation team that deployed new HP Windows 2008 and 2012 file servers and HP Windows workstation to replace old IBM Windows server and Windows XP workstations.  • Retrieved missing files associated with Hotel Revenue and IHG member points that failed to arrive from IHG hotels due to software, hardware, or network issues.  • Leveraged bilingual skills to support IHG Spanish speaking hotels in Latin America.  • Tested new IHG Windows and hardware systems.  • IHG Latin American liaison to work on issues caused by Oracle's Opera software. Contracted Computer and Network Support Specialist Kemira Chemicals January 2011 to June 2011 Contract)  • Built and imaged over 500 new desktops and laptops with Windows 7 operating system.  • Used computer tools and checklists to migrate all the users' data from their old Windows XP laptops and desktops to their new Windows 7 systems.  • Provided all users with training and education on the functions of the new Windows 7 operating system.  • Provided Kemira's IT department with assistance in resolving all users' trouble calls with their new Windows 7 operating system.  • Installed and configured new speaker and microphone headsets with the new Windows 7 systems so all users could use the headsets with Windows Office 2010 Office Communicator.  • Helped prepare and mail prepared Windows 7 systems to Kemira's remote offices and to offsite users. Computer Support Specialist Robert Half International - Atlanta, GA 2010 to 2010 Contract)  • Built, replaced, and tested all old Windows XP laptops with new Windows 7 laptops for the CarMax senior staff.  • Troubleshot numerous software problems that prevented users from accessing or using the BAR Exam Software for the company that administers the BAR Exam in Georgia.  • Upgraded the memory in POS Systems; upgraded all PCs for all executives and inventoried all POS Systems for the only two Neiman Marcus Stores in Atlanta, Georgia.  • Set up a Windows XP laptop for a new VP and replaced an old Windows XP desktop with a new Windows XP desktop system for the Simpson Housing Project.  • Tracked and resolved a network problem for the Simpson Housing Project's Help Desk. Computer Support Analyst/ Network Administrator LeasePlan USA 2001 to 2009 • LAN and WAN Installation, System Tuning, Maintenance, System Backups, and Problem Analysis.  • System Upgrades, System Design, Network Administration, and End-user Support.  • Desktop, laptop, and file server maintenance and deployment.  • Provided rapid response and quick resolution to customer and user problems.  • Prepared and design documentation for IT personnel to use in installing systems and resolving customer problems. Technical Manager/LAN Administrator/ Network Administrator SunGard Recovery Services 1993 to 2000 • LAN Installation, System Tuning, Maintenance, System Backups, and Problem Analysis.  • System Upgrades, System Design, Network Administration, and End-user Support  • Consultant in the International Division, using my bilingual skills to develop Business Continuity Plans for both IS departments and Corporate wide. Chief of Communications Network United States Air Force 1984 to 1992 1991 - 1992)  • Management and maintenance of telecommunications network for 490 Air Force Installations.  • Management of vendor/contractor assignments, Network project management, and test scheduling.  • Chairman for system upgrades/enhancements and provided technical support for Customer Service International Help Desk. Network Administrator Air Force Inventory Tracking System 1989 to 1991 • Assisted with implementation, operation and management of Mainframe based, Air Force Inventory Tracking System.  • Problem resolution, system administrator, system security, upgrades, hardware maintenance, and file maintenance.  • Network design, implementation, maintenance, and reporting of network interconnect system. System Programmer/Quality Assurance Tester 1984 to 1989 • Systems design, coding, testing, implementation and maintenance of satellite tracking systems.  • Participated in satellite launch, rehearsals, Change Management, contractor negotiations, support, and creation of technical manuals. Education Master's degree in Human Resources Management Troy State University Bachelor of Science in Computer Science Inter American University of Puerto Rico Skills Customer service, Help desk, Printers, Windows 7, Acrobat, Adobe acrobat, Lotus notes, Microsoft office, Microsoft office 97, Office 97, Opera, Network administration, Remedy, System administration, Android, Citrix, Landesk, Optimization, Virtual machine, Vm, Tech Support, Desktop Support, Service Desk, Active Directory, VPN Military Service Branch: United States Air Force Rank: Captain Additional Information CORE COMPETENCIES    • System Administration • Network Administration • Application Management  • Windows Platforms • Business Process Optimization • Disaster Recovery  • System & Network Upgrades • Problem Identification/Analysis • Testing &Troubleshooting  • User Training & Support • Help Desk Optimization • Customer Service  • Technical Writing • Account Management • Interpersonal skills  • Laser Printers • Android/iPhones Smartphones • HP/Fujitsu Scanners    TECHNOLOGY SUMMARY  SOFTWARE  Windows 3x/9x/NT/2000/XP/Vista/Windows 7, 8, 8.1, and 10 operating systems, Windows Server 2000/2003/2008/2012 operating systems, Microsoft Office 97/2000/XP/2003/2007/2010/2013/2016, System Center Configuration Manager (SCCM), Lotus Notes, Google products, ArcServe, Virtual Machine Ware (VM Ware) software experience, McAfee, Norton, LANDesk and Microsoft Anti-Virus software, Adobe Acrobat Standard, LANDesk, Remote Desktop, Bomgar, Checkpoint VPN, Internet, Citrix experience, Remedy, ServiceNow, ServerRAID Management, Micros Opera software, and Video/Audio Conference Equipment software.  HARDWARE  IBM compatible PC and laptop workstations and servers, Dell computers and file servers, HP file servers and workstations, Ethernet & Token Ring Protocols, Mother Boards, Video & Sound Cards, Monitors, USB sticks, external hard drives, CD-ROM Drives, Memory Chips, IDE/EID¬E/SCSI Hard Drives & other devices, USB external hard drives, SCSI Controller Cards, Tape Backup Drives, Optical Drives, SD Cards, Scanners, Inkjet Printers, Laser Printers, Print Plotters, Dual Monitors set up, tablets, smartphones, Android and iPhones, and Video/Audio Conference Equipment and Projectors.