Senior Implementation Project Manager Senior Implementation Project Manager Plano, TX Over 15 years of expertise in Information Technology (IT) including 5 years technical leadership with extensive experience specializing in the maintenance and support of Windows/Unix/VMWare-based datacenter environments. Advanced project management experience in a financial Agile based environment. Talented communicator in facilitating relationships across functions and with key stakeholders to impact overall business. Adept at leveraging industry knowledge of leading edge and obsolete technologies, to deliver on troubleshooting, updates, and deployment. Core competencies include:  Leadership • IT Management • Communication • Operating Systems • Project Management • System Integration • Data Centers • Networking • Operations • Server Management Work Experience Senior Implementation Project Manager JPMorgan Chase - Dallas, TX October 2018 to Present Implementing Integrated Payables & Receivables Connect software solution to business below $500 million in gross revenue.    • Create charter documenting client's requirements and provide a creative solution within the Connect platform to meet client's needs.  • Manage internal treasury, transmission and merchant teams to ensure Connect software is implemented according to client's timeline.  • Create custom parameters, options, API's, transmissions within the Connect platform. Senior Systems Integrator Capital One October 2013 to June 2018 Orchestrated decommissioning of two production data centers, managed the software development for data center decommission applications in an Agile environment.    • Oversaw successful execution of decommission waves for 3.7k servers, network and virtual devices across two datacenters. Led 30-50 personnel decommission team conference calls with offshore personnel providing leadership and support to ensure zero downtime of production equipment.  • Maintained metrics and provided data analytics and forecasting of decommission waves. Provided weekly burndown reporting and created minute by minute playbooks for decommissioning production data center environments.  • Managed project development of internal decommission software for proactive decommissioning applications. Bridged communications between developer and stakeholders to drive successful software development.  • Managed a team of twelve Facility Hardware Planners performing daily technical operations for two data centers housing tens of thousands of Dell PowerEdge and VMware physical and virtual servers.  • Trained and mentored twelve Facility Hardware Planners on Hewlett-Packard Service Manager, change management order creation, workflow management, data center cabling, Agile (Kanban) methodology practices and hardware installation and decommission procedures.  • Planned and led the Facilities Rationalization project that ensured power and network redundancy for over 1.3K devices across two data centers.  • Managed a data center inventory project with hundreds of devices, which included redesigning the IT build room, documenting all devices, and recycling equipment and destroying hard drives.  • Created and documented standard operating policies and procedures regarding server racking and stacking. Built an intranet web page detailing internal processes and procedures for all company technical teams. Network Engineer CFC Technology - Minnetonka, MN 2008 to 2013 Supported networks of hundreds of banks with dozens of branch locations across the Midwest while managing teams of up to four members for an IT consulting firm and remote deposit capture provider.    • Controlled 50-server hosted data center environment that backs up and processes millions of dollars of transactions daily while achieving zero major outages and zero data loss and 99.999% uptime.    • Provided creative solutions reducing network load and creating redundancy through data center, saving tens of thousands of dollars in unneeded cost. Virtualized company data center environment saved hundreds of thousands of dollars in unneeded server purchases.    • Installed remote deposit software for hundreds of financial institutions, implemented accompanying procedures, and trained business merchants on software and workflows.     • Replaced the Citrix environment with a VMware View desktop environment which increased local and remote productivity 50%.     • Managed a $500,000 data center inventory, including computers, desktops, switches, and Sans.    • Implemented six full virtualized environments at small/medium banks, worth hundreds of  thousands each in equipment/labor.  Network Administrator AMI Imaging Systems, Inc - Bloomington, MN 2007 to 2008 Oversaw local network infrastructure and and windows based technology environment. Provided inhouse technical support to entire company. Systems Recovery Engineer Target Corporation - Minneapolis, MN 2007 to 2007 Provided 2nd level corporate and distribution center technical support to internal employees. Fielded dozens of phone calls a day to ensure Windows and network based equipment wasfunctional. Network Administrator PPT Vision, Inc - Eden Prairie, MN 2005 to 2007 Maintained Windows based technology environment. Supported VOIP phone systems, Cisco network equipment and SQL servers. Client Support Specialist Target Corporation - Minneapolis, MN 2004 to 2005 Provided level one help desk support to retail stores, distribution centers. Handled large 40+ call volume of support calls in an efficient manner. Education Associate of Information and Network Technology in Information and Network Technology Brown College - Mendota Heights, MN Skills CISCO, CITRIX, JUNIPER, NETWARE, NETWORK CABLING, TELNET, VMWARE, VPN, DATABASE, MS ACCESS, MS SQL SERVER, MS SQL SERVER 2000, SQL SERVER, SQL SERVER 2000, MYSQL, SQL, EXCHANGE, FIREWALLS, ITIL, NETWORKING, Project Management, Implementation, Management, Leadership Development Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/matt-keller-it