Cyber Security Engineer Cyber Security Engineer El Paso, TX Work Experience Cyber Security Engineer NASA (National Aeronautics and Space Administration) - SAIC - El Paso, TX September 2018 to Present In charge of developing, deploying, and monitoring all aspects of cyber security to include the following SIEM tools:    IBM BigFix Deployment and Maintenance (Over 600 Clients - Windows, Linux, MAC)  Palo Alto Firewall Enhancement and Monitoring  McAfee Intrusion Detection  ForeScout / Counter Act  Forcepoint / Websense  Red Seal    Participate in cyber security documentation development, system assessments, A&A evaluations, Security Center/Nessus Scanning. Adjunct Online Assistant Professor University of Maryland University College October 2017 to Present Online Instructor for CMIT 202 Fundamentals of Computer Troubleshooting    A thorough review of computer hardware and software, with emphasis on the application of current and appropriate computing safety and environmental practices. The goal is to evaluate, install, configure, maintain, and troubleshoot computer hardware components and operating systems.    CMIT 350 Interconnecting Cisco Devices    A hands-on introduction to Cisco internetworking devices. The goal is to configure and manage Cisco switches within multiprotocol internetworks. Topics include VoIP (voice over Internet protocol), wireless network protocols, and routing protocols. Adjunct Online Instructor Practitioner Wilmington University June 2015 to Present Online Instructor for SEC6030 Operating System and Computer Systems Security  Blackboard teaching environment    The following topics are covered: Security Principles (Windows 2000 Security Architecture, Linux Security), Account Security (Securing Accounts, Passwords, Password Aging, and Verification of System State), File System Security (Windows 2000, XP File Security, NAS Storage Security), Accessing Risk (Key loggers, Sniffers, Port Scanning), Risk Analysis (Viruses, Patches, Packaging Techniques), and Encryption. Network Engineer, Lead CACI Inc. - Federal Protective Services -Dept. Of Homeland Security April 2016 to August 2018 - 1 of 10 Lead Network Engineers helping lead 25 other supporting network engineers  - Level 2 problem resolutions for Help Desk issues  - Maintain Network(Cisco Devices) and Application Services (Microsoft Environment)  - Support Network port security  - Laptop encryption configuration and deployment  - Smartphone security and deployment  - Maintain Sharepoint asset documents  - Level 2 Remote Help Desk Services  - Server Administration and management  - Maintain Active Directory user accounts  - Update and maintain GPO policies  - Coordinate with Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) Remedy helpdesk tickets  - Coordinate with Federal Protective Services (FPS) Remedy helpdesk tickets  - Maintain user folder permissions and file shares  - Provide total end-user IT support  - Facilitate Windows patch management and software updates (End Users and Servers) Network Lead Miratek - Housing Authority of the City of El Paso September 2014 to November 2015 - Maintain over 100 Layer2/3 Cisco routers and switches,  - Maintain over 100 Android tablets via AirWatch mobile device tracking system.  - Optimize and troubleshoot existing Microsoft Hyper-V infrastructure.  - Optimize and troubleshoot existing Citrix Virtual environment.  - Maintain ShoreTel Phone System  - Maintain and Update 10 SAN/NAS storage devices.  - Upgrade and maintain GPS system for over 100 fleet vehicles (Tracking The World GPS)  - Monitor network and systems traffic via Palo Alto firewall and Nagios systems and network monitor.  - Maintain Active Directory and permissions, DNS, and file shares.  - Maintain 13 elpasodigital internet café labs.  - Maintain and troubleshoot over 200 Dell thin clients.  - Project planning and deployment of new software and hardware solutions. Network/Systems Administrator Sergeants Major Academy - Fort Bliss, TX July 2011 to September 2014 - Maintain 60 Layer2/3 Brocade routers and switches  - Maintain, troubleshoot, and repair all fiber and copper end connections.  - Monitor, troubleshoot, and analyze all network LAN traffic for Sun Systems Thin Client solution.  - Administer, troubleshoot, and maintain Sun Thin Client system 1,100 end devices and 30 main servers.  - Utilize Brocade Network Advisor to monitor, configure, and optimize Oracle Thin Client LAN/WAN  - Configure and deploy any new Brocade routers and switches within Army regulations and DISA/DIACAP security requirements.  - Assist in processing 1,100 students and faculty (i.e., verify training certificates, Acceptable Use Policy  agreements, and creating Active Directory Accounts).  - Assist with the maintenance of file sharing rights and security. Setup file size quotas.  - Configure, troubleshoot, and maintain 30 custom classroom Audio Video Systems (AVSs).  - Coordinate equipment recommendations and purchases with IT director and sales representatives.  - Maintain and organize all communication closets and server rooms.  - Support all Oracle Sun Systems end nodes (i.e., Sun Ray clients and printers).  - Run and maintain Symantec/Veritas BackUp Executive Jobs for various Storage Area Network (NAS)  devices and servers.  - Assist in maintaining windows patch management and software upgrades.  - Ensure all Windows 2003/2008/2012 servers are compliant with U.S. Army security regulations and upgrade to latest Operating Systems when applicable.  - Install, configure, troubleshoot, and maintains 30 Windows servers, 4 SAN devices, 100 PCs, 40  printers, Cat5e/Cat6 cabling and termination, and e-mail accounts.  - Troubleshoot classroom Smartboard technology equipment.  - Manage trouble tickets through custom ticket database. Network/Systems Administrator Miratek - Housing Authority of the City of El Paso August 2009 to July 2011 - Maintain 60 Layer2/3 Brocade routers and switches  - Maintain, troubleshoot, and repair all fiber and copper end connections.  - Monitor, troubleshoot, and analyze all network LAN traffic for Sun Systems Thin Client solution.  - Administer, troubleshoot, and maintain Sun Thin Client system 1,100 end devices and 30 main servers.  - Utilize Brocade Network Advisor to monitor, configure, and optimize Oracle Thin Client LAN/WAN  - Configure and deploy any new Brocade routers and switches within Army regulations and DISA/DIACAP security requirements.  - Assist in processing 1,100+ students and faculty (i.e., verify training certificates, Acceptable Use Policy  agreements, and creating Active Directory Accounts).  - Assist with the maintenance of file sharing rights and security. Setup file size quotas.  - Configure, troubleshoot, and maintain 30 custom classroom Audio Video Systems (AVSs).  - Coordinate equipment recommendations and purchases with IT director and sales representatives.  - Maintain and organize all communication closets and server rooms.  - Support all Oracle Sun Systems end nodes (i.e., Sun Ray clients and printers).  - Run and maintain Symantec/Veritas BackUp Executive Jobs for various Storage Area Network (NAS)  devices and servers.  - Assist in maintaining windows patch management and software upgrades.  - Ensure all Windows 2003/2008/2012 servers are compliant with U.S. Army security regulations and upgrade to latest Operating Systems when applicable.  - Install, configure, troubleshoot, and maintains 30 Windows servers, 4 SAN devices, 100 PCs, 40  printers, Cat5e/Cat6 cabling and termination, and e-mail accounts.  - Troubleshoot classroom Smartboard technology equipment.  - Manage trouble tickets through custom ticket database. Network Technician/Systems Administrator Sergeants Major Academy November 2007 to August 2009 - Diagnosed and resolved hardware, application, and operating system issues.  - Maintained and supported Citrix Farm Virtual Environment  - Administered and maintained Active Directory 2003, Citrix Virtual Machines, SAN, Exchange e-mail,  Linux VOIP Server, domain users and computers, Citrix Server, Virtual Teleconference Training (VTT),  Virtual Network LAN, Information Assurance (IA) Accreditation, System Accreditation, Virtual  Network Computing(VNC), Remote Desktop,  - Supported Brigade Battle Simulation(BBS), Maneuver Control System MCS, and Force XXI Battle  Command, Brigade-and-Below (FBCB2) systems.  - Installed, configured, and troubleshot Windows PCs, printers, laptops, MS Office software, network  connectivity, patch panels, and switches.  - Implemented and maintained DISA compliance and new releases and upgrades to software/hardware.  - Managed accounts, network rights, and access to systems and equipment using Active Directory 2003.  - Created and modified Group Policy Objects in Active Directory 2003 to manage the multiple groups  using virtual machines.  - Implemented Army Gold Master, DoD IA Certification Accreditation (i.e., DIACAP, DITSCAP,  DISA), security/threat assessment and prevention, and best business practices.  - Assisted primary Systems Administrator in monitoring mission servers, SAN devices, virtual machine  backups and images.  - Maintained the operational environmental control and power supply systems powering the server farm.  - Recommended recovery plans for system failures.  - Loaded new operating software and application system software on virtual machines, servers, and all  mission related servers.  - Kept operating systems and all applications residing on the servers up-to-date with IAVA releases and all Army Gold Master releases. IT Help Desk Miratek - Housing Authority of the City of El Paso November 2006 to October 2007 Installed, configured, and maintained Windows PCs, HP Printers, Linux/Fedora web proxy server,  portable drives, cell phones, VPN clients, laptops,  - Maintained Exchange e-mail, MS Office software, network connectivity, patch panels, and switches.  - Maintained PC software patches, antivirus definitions, and security services.  - All Remote Desktop Support and help desk phone support.  - Recorded, updated, and maintained trouble ticket calls. Network/Hardware Technician Fred Loya Insurance June 2002 to October 2006 - Administered, configured, monitored, and maintained Cisco Call Centers (200+ Users)  - Maintained and operated RightFax server, Active Directory 2003, video conferencing, Veritas Backup,  Cisco IP phones, voicemail, and e-mail.  - Administered Cisco CallManager, Cisco IPCC, LAN, WAN, VPN, Cisco Aeronet Wireless AP, Cisco  routers, switches, and other equipment.  - Diagnosed and resolved hardware, software, and operating system issues.  - Troubleshot ISDN routers, DSL routers, frame networks, Cisco phones, computers, switches, hubs,  cabling, printers, faxes, copiers, and phones.  - Provide phone support for network and computers in local and remote offices.  - Assisted in setting up new local and remote offices.  - Logged, updated, and maintained trouble ticket calls.  - Assist in setting up and maintaining IP security cameras. Education Masters of Science in Digital Forensics and Cyber Investigations University of Maryland Bachelor of Science in Computer Science Park University Skills Cyber Security, Information Security, Siem, Nist, Linux, Comptia, It Security Certifications/Licenses CompTIA A+ CompTIA Network+ CompTIA Security+ Windows 8