Network Manager/ Network Engineer <span class="hl">Network</span> Manager/<span class="hl">Network</span> Engineer Network Manager/ Network Engineer - CSC Credit Services/ Equifax Katy, TX Work Experience Network Manager/ Network Engineer CSC Credit Services/ Equifax - Houston, TX 2008 to Present Oversee staff of 3 engineers with 4 data centers. Approved and assigned all change management requests as well as maintained a high level of security due to the nature of the data onsite. Decision maker on all Network projects for fiscal year and setup budget based on the projects. Performed all performance reviews. Equifax purchase in January 2012, role changed to maintaining and designing solutions utilizing Blue Coat proxies, Checkpoint Firewalls, Cisco switches, Juniper Firewalls, Arista switches and travel to remote business units to move or migrate office as needed.  Key Achievements:  • Implementation of VMware at CSC  • Achieve PCI compliance at CSC  • No findings from external audit for 2 straight years at CSC  • Manage Global Proxies for Equifax  • Work on implementation of new datacenter at Equifax  • Change Management for network team at Equifax Information Technology Director NewQuest Properties - Houston, TX 2006 to 2008 Manage a staff of two to complete the day to day IT needs of NewQuest Properties. Lead all IT projects, from system upgrades to implementations. Purchase all IT and IT related products. Primary decision maker on all IT issues and IT needs.  Key Achievements:  • Migrated from Exchange 2000 to Exchange 2007  • Upgraded all servers from Server 2000 to Server 2003 R2  • Implemented Sonicwall firewall and SSL VPN solution for remote access  • Setup PO system for all purchases made by IT department  • Project Manager for the implementation of new Commercial Real Estate application  • Setup and maintained VERITAS 11d for a backup solution Director of Information Technology Pnip - Houston, TX 2002 to 2006 Oversee all aspects of daily IT operations, managed staff of two, with responsibility for designing, building, managing and supporting company network and infrastructure, administering Active Directory, evaluating and purchasing IT-related products, serving as ISO project director and human resources.  Key Achievements:  • Successfully setup VOIP for remote office and remote users using BCM and Firewall  • Generated company savings by lowering long distance bills using VPN and VOIP  • Played key role in setup of Houston office, including network, phone system, cabling, launch of new accounting system, and serving as office manager IT Specialist/ Network Administrator Advecta - Houston, TX 2000 to 2002 Handled all aspects of network administration, PC configuration and repair, PC and network training, and system/ network documentation. Migrated e-mail from Internet to Exchange 5.5, launched software based firewall solution to monitor user Internet access, and implemented Symantec antivirus software. IT Manager Advantage Motor Cars - Houston, TX 1999 to 2000 Supervised installation and maintenance WAN and LAN at five locations, with additional responsibility for managing and scheduling employees, purchasing IT equipment, supporting UNIX database, and hiring/coordinating technical contractors.  Key Achievement:  • Successfully coordinated opening of new dealerships by purchasing and supervising installation of phone system, WAN and LAN  • Consolidated all locations to use one phone system and one mainframe IT Manager Park Place Motorcars - Houston, TX 1997 to 1999 Directed all aspects of company IT operations, with responsibility for providing support for UNIX database, maintaining and supporting company network, installing and maintaining phone system. Directed multiple IT projects, with input throughout entire lifecycle.  Key Achievement:  • Successfully coordinated opening new dealerships by purchasing and supervising installation of phone system, WAN and LAN and mainframe  • Attended weekly meetings in Dallas with other IT personnel, and developed a proposal that resulted in million dollar budget System and Network Administrator Sam White's Motor City - Houston, TX 1994 to 1997 Handled diverse system and network administration duties, including providing comprehensive support for system users, and performing system backups. Assisted in opening of new dealerships by purchasing and supervising installation of phone system and mainframe. Ran monthly financial statements and closed accounting months. IT Team Leader Universal Computer Systems - Houston, TX 1992 to 1994 Oversaw daily activities of IT Team, including installation of IBM mainframes and software, managing and scheduling employees, and directing IT projects at job sites throughout the U.S. Designed computer rooms, ran cable at dealership, ordered project supplies, installed operating system and purchased software on mainframe. Education Associate Skills Active Directory (4 years), BUSINESS REQUIREMENTS (Less than 1 year), Checkpoint (10+ years), Cisco (10+ years), Citrix (Less than 1 year), DHCP (Less than 1 year), DNS (Less than 1 year), DOS (Less than 1 year), Exchange (4 years), GroupWise (Less than 1 year), Jira (Less than 1 year), Juniper (10+ years), MS Exchange (Less than 1 year), remote access (2 years), security (10+ years), UNIX (3 years), VERITAS (2 years), VMware (10+ years), VOIP (4 years), VPN (6 years), LAN, firewalls