Sr Network and Systems Engineer Sr <span class="hl">Network</span> and Systems Engineer Sr Network and Systems Engineer Union City, CA Results-driven technologist and IT leader with more than 20 years of comprehensive experience in information technology, including 12 years in leadership roles. Experienced in building, leading, coaching and motivating high-performance teams. Possesses natural tendency to collaborate and form cross-functional partnerships to deliver on complex IT infrastructure initiatives. Strong hands-on technical skills in wide variety of enterprise technologies. Extensive experience in designing IT infrastructure solutions to meet complex business needs. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr Network and Systems Engineer Impax Labs - Hayward, CA April 2014 to July 2019 Management of various IT infrastructure tasks related to mergers, acquisitions, and divestitures  ? Contract negotiation and third-party vendor management  ? Regulatory compliance (SOX, FDA)  ? Personnel management, mentoring and coaching  ? Project management and change management.  ? Outsourced, Managed NOC services to monitor mission critical systems and network, security devices and provided  3rd level technical support resulting in a high level of user confidence and frequent positive feedback to IT.  ? Expertise in managing secure scalable solutions for LAN/WAN/WLAN/VOIP based on Cisco  Technologies.  ? Expertise in designing and managing systems based on Microsoft technologies.  ? Implementing and managing cloud solutions (SaaS, IaaS)  ? Disaster recovery planning and testing  ? Data center design and management using Dell, Cisco UCS, Cisco Nexus, EMC SAN, EMC Data Domain, VMware, Citrix, Avamar, DataDomain and HP3PAR technologies.  ? Designed, implemented Netapp Alta vault solution with Amazon S3 storage for US and Taiwan sites.  ? Project management and change management.  ? Implemented/managed several security technologies like SIEM, Cloud (OKTA, Office 365, AWS and Azure)  ? Overhauled the Security infrastructure to meet best practices like File server permissions (Varonis) , Firewall rules, white listing (Bit 9), Patching, MDM and endpoint protection (McAfee , Symantec).  ? Successfully migrated 2K+ mailboxes of an Exchange 2010 environment to Office 365 Exchange Online in hybrid  Active Directory deployment with Azure AD resulting in eliminating on-prem legacy exchange servers with no  interruption of service and minimized end-user inconvenience.  ? Implemented Office 365 Exchange Online Protection and Advanced Threat Protection with Barracuda and IronPort  spam firewall that ensured for Messaging Security.  ? Implemented/Managed Check Point NG, Cisco ASA and PaloAlto firewalls across enterprise.  ? Implemented/Managed Mobile Device Management with Mobile Iron MDM operations.  ? Implemented/Managed scheduled system security scanning via Qualys to identify system vulnerabilities.  ? Design, Implement, Maintain and provide enterprise server and desktop security patching using Shavlik to protect  cyberattacks exploited known vulnerabilities with patches.  ? Assisted to deliver Cybersecurity Awareness Training using Wombat Security System to enhance overall IT security.  ? Managed Anti-virus software such Symantec and Trend Micro to protect company assets.  ? Design, Implement, Managed VMware 6.5 environment including HA and DRS.  ? Working knowledge in Citrix, Citrix NetScaler load-balancers, Unitrends, Avamar for backup and Source One for E  discovery. Sr Network Administratror Litepoint - Sunnyvale, CA January 2012 to March 2014 Manage Active Directory, Citrix and Exchange 2007  ? Responsible for voice / data / vpn needs for Litepoint.  ? Responsible to rolling out new technologies.  ? Manage Network and Firewalls worldwide for the Litepoint  ? Successfully rolled out HP switches at Sunnyvale Campus  and managed rollout of switches at remote sites.  ? Actively manage network access and protect intellectual property using  Forescout nac and acls Sr Network Administrator Creationtech - Santa Clara, CA February 2009 to January 2012 Manage I.T operations and Personal for Creationtech Santa Clara BU  ? Successfully merged Santa Clara and San Jose business units  ? Manage Exchange 2003, 2007, Mitel VOIP Phone system.  ? Manage EMC Clarion AX4-5i SAN, Cisco ASA 5510, 18 Foundry switches  ? Responsible for all Voice / Data aspects of Santa Clara business unit.  ? Manage Valor server , AOI, 5DX, Expandable ERP  ? Responsible for all Voice / Data needs for Business Unit.  ? Sucessfully performed P2V conversions for 18 and manage 60 servers across Geographical locations. Manager, Information Technology Optibase Inc - Mountain View, CA September 2001 to October 2008 Manage I.T operations and personal for Optibase USA  ? Manage 3 locations Voice / Data / VPN and Customer needs.  ? Responsible for direct support for data /telecomm needs of user base in US.  ? Manage complete IT projects from start to finish including budgets/personal  ? Successfully rolled out Active Directory and Exchange 2000 , 2003 to all Optibase US  With no downtime to users.  ? Successfully Integrated 3 companies voice /data and systems under budget  ? Planned the infrastructure growth in line with the organization needs and under very  tight budget and timeline.  ? Manage Juniper SSL VPN and Checkpoint NGX Firewall for worldwide locations.  ? Successfully managed and implemented QAD manufacturing and financials at US location.  ? Consolidated and performed migration of Solaris servers to Linux.  ? Successfully implemented ShoreTel IP PBX for US locations  ? Manage Multi homed and multi entry point checkpoint VPN.  ? Implemented multicast environment ( IGMP ) for backbone.  ? Rolled out Microsoft CRM and SQL 2005  ? Responsible for Netapp filer's configuration, management and uptime  ? Implemented Information technology controls for SOX ( Saebanes-Oxley )  ? Implemented Goodlink corporate server and manage user base.  ? Manage/Control Corporate websites along with FTP servers  ? Implement/Manage Sharepoint Portal.  ? Responsible for all data backups ( exchange, sql 2005, qad, crm )  ? Implement / support VMWare ESX Server I.T. Manager LuxN Inc - Sunnyvale, CA June 1999 to August 2001 Successfully managed ISO 9001 certification.  ? Staffed IS department and manage a group of 7.  ? Planned the infrastructure growth in line with the organization.  ? Successfully took the company from a small office (20 employees) to a corporate  campus with over 400 employees, 600 nodes and 12 remote sites in US, Europe, Japan  ? Implemented a GIG backbone across the corporate campus using DWDM (Dense Wave Division  Multiplexing), CWDM optical gear with Cisco/Foundry/Extreme switches and brought the network  Uptime to 99.95.  ? Responsible for implementing a very cost effective help desk system for the organization.  ? Successfully and effectively rolled out corporate phone systems under the budget.  ? Implemented enterprise wide backup system using Veritas NetBackup, Exabyte tape libraries with full  documentation for disaster recovery of the system at an offsite facility.  ? Implemented ISS intrusion detection system and furnished reports for management for contract manufacturers who accessed internal servers.  ? Implemented Checkpoint Firewall and VPN, Coordinated with all levels of organization on user needs and enabled VPN for remote users to enhance their productivity.  ? Managed the implementation of Intranet and then successfully rolled out ownership to different department, helped users with training needs.  ? Successfully implemented RSA SecurID and integrated SecurID with Checkpoint Firewall and Remote Access server.  ? Planned and moved users to Enterprise Exchange 5.5 with secured Outlook Web Access with complete redundancy and recovery of the the system within 1 hr.  ? Implemented HP Openview and helped engineering, product test teams in the testing of EMS and NMS.  ? Responsible for implementing SMS and then keeping track of corporate I.S. assets.  ? Planned, proposed business continuity plan (or called DRP) for corporation and put procedures, protocols in place for complete recovery of the organization in case of a major disaster. Help Desk Supervisor Silicon Graphics Computer Systems - Mountain View, CA December 1998 to June 1999 Responsible for planning, executing Y2K bug strategies, defining rules for end of life of particular  application and help find effective solutions for those applications  ? Manage 2nd line of support for hardware, O/S software on SGI, Indy, O2, Octane Running on IRIX 6.2, 6.3, 6.5.  ? Responsible for providing direct application support to 7000 customer base for all of the UNIX apps and Installation, configuration, administration of workstations, users and groups on Windows NT Domain, Win 95 and Windows 98. Network Administrator Telecare Corporation - Alameda, CA February 1996 to November 1998 Successfully and effectively rolled out windows 95, office 97, NetWare 4.11, Exchange 5.0, Windows  NT, M.D.S for corporation within 30% of the forecast.  ? Supervised a team of 3 members to provide ongoing hardware and software support for more than 2000 users all over California.  ? Played a key role in the selection, procurement, deployment and operations of all desktops, laptops, servers and data communications for various LAN/WAN needs.  ? Coordinated with all level of organization to ensure technology needs of users internal and external were met and they were inline with the business goals of the corporation.  ? Directed the development, implementation of various systems for corporate use and data consolidation for external sources (like: Department of Health).  ? Redesigned internal technical department workflow to improve response time with timely availability of information and putting down procedures for easy transfer of information to the customer base.  ? Planned, implemented successful migration from NetWare to Windows NT for 3 hospitals.  ? Successfully designed, implemented the backup procedures and policies with full documentation on off site data storage/recovery for corporate data center. Network Administrator Dionex Corporation - Sunnyvale, CA June 1993 to February 1996 Managed 6 Netware, 1 NT and 1 HPUX servers.  ? Install, configure, test hardware and software requirements, identify potential problems and create procedure for resolution.  ? Troubleshoot technical problem, provide leadership, training and controlling efficient quality standards including ISO 9001.  ? Responsible for OS, patches, applications installations and day-to-day administrative tasks like performing backups, taking care of printing issues and generating reports for management.  ? Responsible for rolling out applications with complete user training, documentation and system support services. Education Bachelor's Skills Nexus, Cisco