Driver Driver Information Technology Austin, TX I have consistently been rated in the top 10% of my peers and have been assigned as lead on projects supervising teams up to 30 people to accomplish strategic organizational goals. I have been recognized for my leadership skills and technical excellence with the Joint Services Commendation Medal, Army Commendation Medal, and was the Valedictorian of the Network Engineer Program at CyberTex Institute of Technology. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Driver Uber/Lyft - San Antonio, TX May 2016 to Present Safely and efficiently transport persons from one location to another. Network Engineer ActioNet, Inc. - San Antonio, TX December 2017 to November 2018 • Conducted Project Team Leader duties to include producing Weekly Activity Reports, coordinating between company and site personnel for training and other company requirements and ensuring the technical aspects of the project stayed on track.  • Assisted in the design and implementation of the Defense Health Agency’s Guest Wireless Local Area Network (GWLAN) using Aruba ClearPass Policy Manager, Aruba Mobility Controllers, Cisco Mobility Controllers, InfoBlox, PaloAlto Firewall systems and others.  • Helped develop Standard Operating Procedures, “how-to’s”, data flow diagrams, and other network models and diagrams as required.  • After implementation, performed sustainment activities to include ensuring network uptime, monitoring client bandwidth, ensuring VLAN restrictions were effective, making modifications as necessary while adhering to the Enterprises plan.  • Sustained user security/access control with Profiles, Policies and Roles to manage different user account types based on the needs of the Agency.  • Reconfigured existing network hardware as needed.  • Contacted external vendors for SME level configuration and capabilities of various devices.  • Performed system and security updates as needed.  • Used REMEDY ticketing system to track and manage users requested changes to network devices. Help Desk Technician ActioNet, INC - Fort Hood, TX July 2017 to December 2017 • Provided Teir 2 technical support to users, both remotely and in-person.  • Performed troubleshooting on MS based tablets, laptops and desktop devices for a variety of applications and printer types.   • Mapped users profiles to the appropriate network drives.   • Configured new devices to meet company standards prior to deployment.   • Wiped and removed hard drives from devices for turn in.  • Managed user and device profiles in Active Directory.   • Used a ticketing system to track all user help requests. System Administrator CyberTex Institute of Technology - Killeen, TX January 2017 to July 2017 • Maintained all network operations from End User computers to the Internet Service Provider for three Domains.  • Microsoft Exchange Administrator (using ECP)  • Made recommendations for future technology upgrades to increase productivity and data flow.  • Performed troubleshooting and analysis for all site devices (Smart phones, VOIP phones, Windows 7, 8 and 10 desktop and laptop computers, Server 12r2 and Linux servers).  • Designed and deployed new networks as needed.  • Maintained Active Directory for over 200 users and devices.  • Maintained network servers such as Domain Controllers, Exchange and file servers.  • Maintained servers, desktop computers, printers, routers, switches, firewalls, VoIP phones, smartphones, software deployment, security updates and patches.  • Used budget and project requirements to plan, purchase and install new computer equipment for the Network Engineer program resulting in increased training capability for students by reducing wait time from old/outdated equipment. Driver/Dispatcher HILL COUNTRY TRANSIT DISTRICT - Belton, TX October 2015 to December 2016 • Dispatched drivers for Fixed Route and Special Transit, shifting clients to different buses to maintain an overall 98% on time trips report.  • Utilized remote desktop on a daily basis, web services for clocking in and out and was the primary point of contact for any issues with the web service in my section of 20 plus personnel.  • Customer service representative answering 50 or more calls a day. Truck Driver Roehl Transport - Grand Prairie, TX April 2015 to July 2015 • Responsible for safely and efficiently transporting goods/ merchandise throughout the 48 Continental States of America.  • Maintained records and logs at all times during the operation of the Tractor/Trailer. Education Business Administration, Project Management, ITIL, Lean 6 Sigma, Microsoft Project 2013 New Horizons Computer Learning Center July 2017 to February 2018 Network Engineer Cybertex Institute of Technology May 2016 to February 2017 Skills Information Technology (3 years), MS Project (Less than 1 year), Microsoft Office (10+ years), Management (8 years), Typing (70+ WPM) (10+ years), System Administration (3 years), Network Administration (3 years), Linux/Unix Administration (3 years), Wifi (3 years), Wlan (3 years) Military Service Branch: Army Service Country: United States Rank: Sergeant E-5 April 2007 to April 2015 • Managed varying amounts of personnel on numerous projects to ensure the desired outcome was obtained for the given customer.  • Directly supervised the training and administrative support for teams ranging from 10 to 30 personnel.  • Planned and coordinated training, logistic, budgetary, and administrative actions and reports.  • Enforced Risk Management Policies, Procedures, and Practices to ensure physical safety and welfare of employees was maintained.  • Conducted disciplinary reviews and enforced disciplinary actions as needed.  • Directly responsible for equipment/ computers valued at over $10 million with zero loss.  • Produced detailed and time sensitive Intelligence reports.  • 35S (Signals Intelligence) utilized Windows, Linux and Unix Operating Systems to perform various intelligence operations. Commendations: • Joint Service Commendation Medal  • Army Commendation Medal Certifications/Licenses LPIC-1 June 2017 to June 2022 Microsoft Office Specialist - Excel September 2017 to Present CompTIA A+ July 2016 to August 2022 CompTIA Network+ August 2016 to June 2020 CompTIA Security+ June 2017 to June 2020 CompTIA Linux+ May 2017 to Present MCTS: Windows 7, Configuration September 2016 to Present Lean Six Sigma Green Belt January 2018 to Present CWNA - Certified Wireless Network Administrator May 2018 to May 2021 CompTIA Secure Infrastructure Specialist - CSIS June 2017 to June 2020 CompTIA Linux Network Professional - CLNP June 2017 to June 2020 CompTIA IT Operations Specialist - CIOS August 2017 to June 2020 CompTIA Systems Support Specialist - CSSS June 2017 to August 2022 Driver's License