Sr Network Engineer Sr <span class="hl">Network</span> Engineer Ashburn, VA To obtain a position of responsibility in a progressive organization where I can utilize my talents to increase efficiency, boost productivity, and grow professionally. Work Experience Sr Network Engineer Department HHS OIG January 2018 to Present • Design and implementation of redundant enterprise wide wireless network across 50 sites. Fully configuring the required switches, AP's and Wireless controllers  • Design and deployment of redundant enterprise ISE environment. Deploying the ISE devices to provide NAC and Radius services to network endpoints.  • Upgrade the core network equipment from 4506 chassis to the nexus 9500 series platform  • DMZ switch upgrade from Cisco 3750 series platform to the nexus 5500 series platform while deploying VPC architecture.  • Configured and deployed Solrwinds into the environment. Configuriing the node and the system for monitoring device status as well as capturing flow data. Configured Alerts and reports for management review.  EXPERIENCE US Census Bureau January 2016 to January 2018 •Responsible for design, install, upgrade, maintenance, and troubleshooting of multiple Juniper SRX and multiple DMZ's per context in a highly available/redundant configuration  •Responsible for Installation, configuring, maintaining, and troubleshooting VPN connections between Federal customer and other agencies  •Responsible for firewall performance tuning, installing and configuring multiple DMZs, configure NATing, troubleshooting wired and wireless network problems, checking firewall logs and activity; Responsible for performing tasks and assignments related to information systems security  •Responsible for daily review of system logs in order to proactively catch suspicious network activity. - Design, install, maintain, and troubleshoot Web/Email filtering solutions (i.e. IronPort and Websense) integrated to CISCO FWSM and ASA's  •Conduct performance and stress testing of the network and security components  •Prepare disaster recovery plans for the network and security devices  •Configured installed and maintained Juniper EX switching environment NIH Bethesda MD - Bethesda, MD May 2014 to 2016 • Migrated a Juniper to Nexus Data Center design from inception to implementation  • Migration of an Juniper SRX environment to ASA firewall architecture with a redesign and implementation  • Unified communications design and implementation  • IPV6 planning Sr. Network Engineer (Team Lead) NOAA ESPC - Suitland, MD November 2010 to May 2014 • Nexus Data Center Migration design and implementation  • Provide Daily management of ESPC Operational LAN and WAN environment to ensure reliable delivery of data to end users.  • Responsible for deployment of new technologies and devices in the ESPC. This includes initial analysis, testing, design development, configuration and implementation.  • Maintenance and Management of ESPC security infrastructure. This includes maintaining several vendor Firewalls, Juniper IDS, Nessus vulnerability scanning and network access control.  • Maintained and Managed ESPC remote access environment. Configuration and daily maintenance of Cisco VPN's a and ACS  • Management and maintenance of Solarwinds which is the tool the ESPC uses for network monitoring and alerting.  • As network lead I controlled the teams work flow and daily operations.  • Reviewed and assisted in the approval process for ESPC work request and configuration change request board.  • Aided in the Development of several SOP's required for the systems implemented in the ESPC environment. Sr. WAN Security Engineer Onpoint Corp - Washington, DC June 2009 to November 2010 Developed procedure for implementation of new technology to fit the clients engineering goals  Lead a team responsible for the Transition of the department of treasury from IPV4 to IPV6. Developed and implemented an interim IPV6 philosophy that would make them IPV6 compliant. While working towards a fully integrated IPV6 topology.  * Managed and Tracked the Wan security teams progress on various task.  * Built and implemented Ciscoworks LMS box, to manage network devices, configuration, utilisation, inventory, uptime and internet performance.  * Responible for using Nessus to conduct vulnerability assesment and produce monthly reports that outline network risk and the recommended fixes for these risk.  * Managed Site-to-Site ipsec tunnels between headquarters and our remote field offices.  * Configured implemented and managed ASA's and Checkpoint firewalls for deployment throughout our production environment. Performed Firewall rule adds and clean ups on all firewalls.  * Configured and implemented routers and layer 3 switches in a complex multiprotocol environment that supported BGP as the exterior protocol and EIGRP as the interior protocol.  * Documented a security strategy that acts as the basis for the baseline that exist on all network devices in our environment. Sr. WAN Security Engineer NuAxis - Washington, DC June 2007 to June 2009 * Developed procedure for implementation of new technology to fit the clients engineering goals  * Managed and Tracked the Wan security teams progress on various task.  * Managed tracked and compiled SLA requirements for monthly progress presentation for clients.  * Instrumental in planning designing and research for migration from IPv4 to IPv6  * Designed configured and implemented BGP, EIGRP, OSPF and RIP v2 in multi protocol network environment  * Managed and developed network projects designed to strengthen network continuity and deploy security elements in an attempt to meet and exceed contract requirements, including system analysis and troubleshooting.  * Developed and documented project plans for network's infrastructure and network security implementation.  * Maintain and upgrade Cisco IDS.  * Interfaced between client and contract management making decisions on crucial purchases, operating procedures and client satisfaction.  * Monitored network traffic via network monitoring tools and sniffers in an attempt to troubleshoot network outages and intrusions by tracing there origin and destination.    * Provided customer with scheduled reports of system and equipment status.  * Installed, configured and maintained Cisco 7200 series VPN Router and used Cisco ACS and Steel Belted RADIUS to authenticate passwords, etc.  * Managed and developed network projects designed to strengthen network continuity and deploy security elements in an attempt to meet and exceed contract requirements, including system analysis and troubleshooting.  * Developed and documented project plans for network's infrastructure and network security implementation.  * Designed and rebuilt existing gigabit LAN/WAN TCP/IP network comprised of Cisco Switches (6509, 3550,3560, 2912, 2950, PIX 515/505/525), data transport technologies (Ethernet,802.11a/b/g), proxies, and DHCP servers to meet government standards  * Developed IP Addressing schemes, VLAN tables, and network documentation and diagrams (Visio).  * Deployed network monitoring systems Solarwinds and Cisco Works into the clients environment in an attempt to provide up to the minute status on all devices.  * Install, configure and maintain Cisco ASA.  * Maintain and upgrade Cisco IDS.  * Interfaced between client and contract management making decisions on crucial purchases, operating procedures and client satisfaction.  * Monitored, configured and installed network security devices such as Cisco Pix firewalls and ASA's to provide secured access to the network and its devices.  * Monitored network traffic via network monitoring tools and sniffers (Netscout) in an attempt to troubleshoot network outages and intrusions by tracing there origin and destination.  * Make critical design changes to network infrastructure in an attempt provide continuity and reliability to a fast paced network environment.  * Made changes as necessary to firewalls in an attempt to prevent or provide access to network from other network devices.  * Providing fast reliable network support to the FDIC's regional and field offices ensuring infrastructure up time in a fast paced NOC environment.  * Provided customer with scheduled reports of system and equipment status.  * Designed and deployed LAN/WAN  * Proactively monitored network devices using Netcool, Solarwinds, and HP Openview to isolate and resolve network issues tied to latency, outages and system ware and tear.  * Maintained and managed the TCP/IP tracking table.  * Performing duties that included distribution of IP hostnames and IP addresses to devices in existence as well as newly added devices on the FDIC's secure network.  * Responsible for keeping the DNS records up to date with the most current picture of the network.  * Preformed maintenance on equipment as necessary, performing device upgrades, modification of configurations, password changes and diagnostic testing.  * Assisted in implementing large scale network changes through Cisco Works, a process that consisted of testing and implementing Cisco Works jobs.  * Troubleshooting on all Cisco IOS and Catalyst switches on the network which included but was not limited to; 3700 and 7200 series routers and catalyst 6513 and 6509 switches.  * Installed, configured and maintained VPN concentrators 3000 and 5000, PIX firewalls, and used Cisco ACS and Steel Belted RADIUS to authenticate passwords, etc.  * Utilize Wire Shark and EtherReal as protocol analyzers.  * Install, configure and maintain Cisco NIDS.  * Identify network vulnerabilities and intrusions, and implemented security measures to eliminate vulnerabilities and preven and defend against network intrusions.  * Acted as the interface between vendors and the client, ordering parts, creating RMA's for damaged parts, and ensuring proper maintenance was preformed on all equipment under warrantee Sr. Network Design/Security Engineer Unisys Corporation - Arlington, VA June 2005 to June 2007 * Monitored, configured and installed network security devices such as Cisco Pix firewalls and Cisco ASA's to provide secured access to the network and its devices.  * Monitored network traffic via network monitoring tools and sniffers (Netscout) in an attempt to troubleshoot network outages and intrusions by tracing there origin and destination.  * Performed system analysis and troubleshooting for gigabit LAN/WAN network.  * Made critical design changes to network infrastructure in an attempt provide continuity and reliability to a fast paced network environment.  * Made changes as necessary to firewalls in an attempt to prevent and/or provide access to network from other network devices.  * Developed IP Addressing schemes, VLAN tables, and documentation and network diagrams (Visio).  * Developed and documented project plans for network's infrastructure and network security implementation.  * Deployed network monitoring systems Solarwinds and Cisco Works into the clients environment in an attempt to provide up to the minute status on all devices.  * Install, configure and maintain Cisco ASA.  * Maintain and upgrade Cisco IDS.  * Utilize Wire Shark and EtherReal as protocol analyzers.  * Providing fast reliable network support to the FDIC's regional and field offices ensuring infrastructure up time in a fast paced NOC environment.  * Provided customer with scheduled reports of system and equipment status.  * Designed and deployed LAN/WAN  * Proactively monitored network devices using Netcool, Solarwinds and HP Openview to isolate and resolve network issues tied to latency, outages and system ware and tear.  * Maintained and managed the TCP/IP tracking table.  * Performed duties that included distribution of IP hostnames and IP addresses to devices in existence as well as newly added devices on the FDIC's secure network.  * Responsible for keeping the DNS records up to date with the most current picture of the network.  * Preformed maintenance on equipment as necessary, performing device upgrades, modification of configurations, password changes and diagnostic testing.  * Assisted in implementing large scale network changes through CiscoWorks, a process that consisted of testing and implementing Cisco Works jobs.  * Troubleshooting on all Cisco IOS and Catalyst switches on the network which included but was not limited to; 3700 and 7200 series routers and catalyst 6513 and 6509 switches.  * Installed, configured and maintained VPN concentrators 3000 and 5000, PIX firewalls, and used Cisco ACS and Steel Belted RADIUS to authenticate passwords, etc.  * Maintain and upgrade Cisco IDS.  * Acted as the interface between vendors and the client, ordering parts, creating RMA's for damaged parts, and ensuring proper maintenance was preformed on all equipment under warrantee Systems Administrator ManTech IS&T - Chantilly, VA 2002 to 2004 * Assisted in the development and implementation of the Homeland Security Information Network (HSIN) Help Desk standard operating procedures (SOP).  * Developed, drafted and introduced the initial security protocol for the gigabit LAN/WAN, designed to protect the Homeland Security Information Network (HSIN) Help Desk and its over 10,000 users from software, hardware and social engineering attacks.  * Identified network vulnerabilities and intrusions, and implemented security measures to eliminate vulnerabilities and prevent and defend against network attacks.  * Monitored network devices using Netcool, Solarwinds and HP Openview to isolate and resolve network issues tied to latency, outages and system ware and tear.  * Performed duties that included distribution of IP hostnames and IP addresses to current and new devices.  * Installed, configured and maintained VPN concentrators, PIX firewalls, and used Cisco ACS and Steel Belted RADIUS to authenticate passwords, etc.  * Installed, configured and maintained Cisco ASA, Cisco IOS and Catalyst switches on the network which included but was not limited to; 3700 and 7200 series routers and catalyst 6513 and 6509 switches.  * Installed, configured and maintainted Cisco NIDS.  * Utilize EtherReal as protocol analyzer; configured 802.11a/b/g ethernet.  * Maintained and managed the TCP/IP tracking table.  * Developed VLAN tables and network diagrams (Visio).  * Administered technical support via telephone, email, software based instant messaging and on-site support for critical Department of Homeland Security (DHS) counter terrorism exercises.  * Created, tracked and closed tickets for Sensitive but unclassified (SBU) network incident using Remedy ticketing software. Pulled and created Remedy reports that reflected various trends in ticket resolution and incident rates.  * First point of contact for customers in a high call volume environment, troubleshooting issues related to account creation, password resets, software downloads, firewalls and network connectivity.  * Instrumental in the creation, maintenance and updating of all HSIN user accounts through Active Directory and the management server.  * Instrumental in the installation and training of new users on proprietary Mantech/DHS software.  * Analyzed, developed and recommended design approaches to meet production requirements for new or improved products and/or processes.  * In-depth knowledge of Windows XP/2000/NT/ME/98/95 system Support, installation, and administration, knowledge of LAN, Microsoft Exchange server. Network Administrator ManTech International Inc - Miami, FL 2000 to 2002 * Installed and pulled cable for data, voice, and visual throughout the newly constructed SOCSOUTH building location at Homestead Air Reserve Base  * Assisted in the design, installation, and configuration of a complex hybrid gigabit LAN/WAN network, built for 1500 SOCSOUTH users.  * Installed, configured and maintained network equipment that included various Cisco series routers and switches installed in a newly constructed SOCSOUTH building.  * Assisted in the testing of new network devices such as routers (Cisco 2800,3800, 7200), switches (3560, 3750, 65xx), and UPS before their deployment into production on the network.  * Provided troubleshooting of all network devices installed. Education BA in Political Science Florida State University - Tallahassee, FL 2000 to 2005 Additional Information Over 12 years of computer and technology experience at many levels. Cisco certified network associate and professional (CCNA) (CCNP) well versed in office automation and computer information systems, training in Microsoft software, network security and Cisco LAN/WAN protocols and administration. Strong communication skills, calm demeanor, and excellent organizational abilities.    Hardware:  IPV4 and IPV6 Cisco Wireless Controller 5520 Cisco Wireless AP's Nexus 7000 5000 2000 series Cisco ISE 3300 5500 series Cisco Firewalls: 5505 5585 5580 FWSM Routers: Cisco 2800, 3800, 7200, 7600 Series Routers; LAN Switches: Cisco Catalyst 3560, 3750, 4500, 6513, 6509 Series Switches, VLAN concentrators, Junos operating system, Juniper SRX FW, Juniper MX Routers, Juniper EX switches Juniper NSM Juniper IDS 8200, ISG 2000 ISG 1000 Nortel; Network Modules: SUP 1, SUP 2, SUP 720; Cisco ACS Server; General Hardware: APS Out -of-Band Management System, APC Smart UPS 3000    Software:  Cisco FireEye, Cisco ACI, Cisco ADSM, NetBrain, SolarWinds, Cisco Works LMS 3.2, Netcool Omnibus, HP Openview, NetIQ, Precision Monitoring Probe, (ISM) Internet Service Monitor, EHealth 5.6, Putty, Remedy, WINSCP, Win2k DHCP, Procomm Plus, Active Directory