System Administrator / Deskside support System <span class="hl">Administrator</span> / Deskside support System Administrator / Deskside support - Kipu Systems LLC Miami, FL Highly experienced Senior Information Technology Administrator (IT) with 8+ years experience in the Information Technology Field. Dedicated problem solver who thinks logically, values creativity and cares about people. Able to assess problems and initiate corrective action. Skilled decision maker exhibiting high ethics, competence and confidence. Work Experience System Administrator / Deskside support Kipu Systems LLC January 2017 to Present • Manage Cloud Base Company Office 365, Dropbox, Continuum, Dynamics, AWS, 8x8 Void Systems, Cisco Meraki Systems.  • Manage operating systems, application patching, and antivirus software for workstations, laptops, and servers AWS.  • Administer and support employee mobile devices for email, And Dynamic Application  • Maintained user accounts in Active Directory by adding/deleting users, correcting user access problems, and assigning appropriate rights and privileges.  • Researched enhancements and made recommendations to optimize network reliability.  • Work with the Development department to maintain and enhance functionality of company website and intranet  • Resolve Help Desk tickets relating to server, network, and connectivity issues. Lan/Wan Network engineer Florida Power & Light Company - Power, Florida, US April 2015 to December 2017 • Manage operating systems, application patching, backup applications, and antivirus software for workstations, laptops, and servers.  • Administer and support employee mobile devices for email, VPN, and communications.  • Work with digital department to maintain and enhance functionality of corporate website and intranet.  • Maintain standard practices and policies for corporate LAN/WAN environment.  • Develop weekly status reports and present to IT Director.  • Resolve escalated Help Desk tickets relating to server, network, and connectivity issues.  • Configured, troubleshot, and resolved network access issues with switches and routers.  • Maintained user accounts in Active Directory by adding/deleting users, correcting user access problems, and assigning appropriate rights and privileges.  • Researched enhancements and made recommendations to optimize network reliability. Systems Analyst Lennar - Miami, FL July 2014 to March 2015 Provide support for standard and custom application portfolio suite.  • Provide first level support to the divisional community for software, hardware, and various infrastructure related  issues, and escalate to Level II and Level III as necessary.  • Monitor open Incidents on a daily basis to ensure that requests are being handled in a timely manner.  • Process network and application account requests, changes, and deletions.  • Perform password resets for computer and voicemail applications.  • Prioritize multiple issues and be able to complete tasks in a timely and efficient manner.  • Operate within a team while maintaining the skill set to work autonomously.  • Strive to improve customer service, process, and efficiencies. Network Operator Burger King Corporation - Miami, FL March 2012 to April 2013 • Setup, configure, troubleshoot and support of 15 Microsoft 2003-2008 servers in both production and lab environments using VMware 5.0.  • Provide hands on setup and configuration of Microsoft POS systems.  • Use Ghost imaging solution for backup and implementation of Microsoft 2003 servers.  • Provide on-call technical support for Canadian and US BK restaurants. (Microsoft 2003 and Windows XP machines ) via VMware.  • Implementation of new laptops to all employees field and local    Telefonica Telecommunications Network Operator Next Consulting Group - Miami, FL April 2011 to February 2012 • Responsibilities included first level help desk and operational support for managed service operations with a concentration on LAN/WAN network technology.  • Troubleshoot/isolate network issues and coordinated problem resolution including Cisco and Juniper troubleshooting.  • Worked daily with customer's nationwide and internationally providing phone and email support for 200+ users.  • Proven expertise in supporting and troubleshooting hardware, software and networking issues & installing/ managing servers. System Administrator Kendall Toyota & Lexus Dealership - Miami, FL June 2006 to March 2009 • Accountable for all system back up add & delete user to the system troubleshooting and reconfiguring servers and laptops for the company.  • Responsible for administering, optimizing and supporting internal LAN/WAN infrastructure consisting of Windows 2003 Active Directory on Windows 2003 Professional desktops.  • Supported internal network security & intranet including shared permission.  • Analyzed and resolved network and server connectivity issues provided support to internal users on all hardware and software issues keep maintenance on the Avaya phone system and also the Black Berry Server.  • Help give support to the ERA (Reynolds Linux bases software) for the sales of all used and new cars.  • Installed and managed servers (primarily Windows server 03-08 Linux and Solaris; also Mac OS X, Windows NT/2000/2003/XP, and FreeBSD), providing a broad variety of services. Design, install, monitor, and secure integrated systems. Tech Administrator Honeywell Analytics - Sunrise, FL February 2004 to April 2006 • Accountable for testing, analyzing, troubleshooting and reconfiguring servers and laptops for customers.  • Responsible for administering, optimizing and supporting internal LAN/WAN infrastructure consisting of Windows 2000 Active Directory on Windows 2000 Professional desktops.  • Supported internal network security, including adding/deleting users and shared permission.  • Analyzed and resolved network and server connectivity issues.  • Administered back-up/recovery solution. Provided support to internal users on all hardware and software issues. Education Bachelor in Information Systems Security and Computer Networking in Information Systems Security and Computer Networking I.T.T Technical Institute March 2008 Skills BGP, CISCO, EIGRP, LAN/WAN, MPLS, OSPF, DS3, T1, TCP, TCP/IP, VMWARE, NETWORK ADMINISTRATION, REMEDY, WEB BASED, ETHERNET, FRAME RELAY, LINUX, LAN, WINDOWS 7, WINDOWS 98, Active Directory, Red Hat, System Administrator, System Admin, Redhat, Linux Administrator, SCCM, Windows 10, Server 2018/2019, AWS Additional Information Technical Skills  Proficient with Pc Systems  Windows 98 Win 2000pro novel  NT server Windows xp Win xp pro Windows 7  Linux Win 2003 server Win 2008 server Mac Os  VMware 5.0  Strong understanding of a T1, Protocols TCP/IP, EIGRP, OSPF, BGP, Routing, ATM, MPLS, Frame Relay, DS3, Ethernet Cisco routers and Nortel equipment.  Solid knowledge of LAN/WAN network administration    Hardware/Software  Desktop server's laptops, modems network card mother boards, printer's routers hubs switches  Remedy Ticketing system, spectrum web based software and Nortell