Distributed Systems Engineer Distributed Systems Engineer Network Administrator - Volt Workforce Spokane, WA Work Experience Distributed Systems Engineer Avista Corporation (via Volt Workforce Solutions) - Spokane, WA February 2016 to Present * Engineering for ‘Distributed Systems’ (i.e. Desktops, Laptops, Tablets, Handhelds, Ruggedized devices for mobile workforce, Printers, Scanners, Cameras, & all related peripherals.)    * Provide design work for the Project Management Office, adhering to project methodology guidelines.    * Adhere to change management procedures, execute methodically planned production changes.    * Manage and follow technology lifecycle roadmaps for delegated technologies, as set forth by Avista’s DS (Distributed Systems) Manager/Architect.    * Develop accurate and timely systems documentation.    * Adhere to engineering models as introduced by Avista’s Distributed Systems Manager/Architect.    * Develop, maintain and adhere to Distributed Systems design process and procedures.    * Maintain annual education and certification programs.    * Execute RFP’s (Request For Proposal), co-developed with DS Manager/Architect & Purchasing, to research and recommend technology solutions.    * Responsible for maintaining expert knowledge of hardware, operating systems, and distributed systems technologies.    * Perform operational engineering duties, as assigned by DS Manager/Architect.    * Participate in quality checks and help build process for all Information Technology Delivery (ITD) Distributed Systems (DS) designs and product deliveries.    * Adhere to security guidelines and procedures. Senior Distributed Systems Technician Avista Corporation (via Volt Workforce Solutions) - Spokane, WA February 2015 to February 2016 • Assist users with password and connectivity problems on all services including Windows OS, Mac OS X, Citrix, Banner (ERP system), Email, and mobile devices.  • Assist users with installation, configuration, utilization, upgrade and resolution of problems related to operating system, utility, database, word processing, spreadsheet, email, web browsers, and similar software.  • Assist users with the installation and upgrade of all forms of computer hardware and associated peripherals.  • Assist users with network access.  • Perform routine maintenance and upgrades on supported equipment and software packages.  • Generate and prioritize incidents for all work including problems requiring onsite investigation.  • Route incidents to appropriate support personnel.  • Maintain proficiency in hardware and software used at Client. Network Administrator Monaco Enterprises Inc. - Spokane Valley, WA November 2013 to February 2015 Maintained 15 servers  Virtualized servers  Managed Network and Telephones  Managed Active Directory  Managed Email server and clients (Kerio Connect)  Managed end user computers and Printers  Managed Backups (Veeam) Network Administrator Volt Workforce Solutions - Spokane, WA February 2013 to August 2013 Maintained 100+ servers, assisted with setting up new servers for upgrades to end user software. Assisted with setting up a VPN solution for remote workers. Assisted with upgrades to Citrix client on multiple computers. Assisted with deployment of new Virtualization infrastructure. Information Technologies System Administrator Coeur d'Alene Casino - Worley, ID February 2003 to February 2013 Maintain 70+ servers Running Windows Server 2003 and Windows Server 2008, including Active Directory Services, DNS, DHCP, and Group Policies. Assisted in maintaining 10+ Microsoft SQL servers (SQL 2000 and SQL 2005). Assisted with setup and operation of Windows Server Update Services. Limited work with Microsoft Exchange 2003. Assisted with administering SharePoint Server 2007. Worked with VMware ESXi version 4.1.  Selected Contributions:  o Implemented a Wireless Network System for the Coeur d'Alene Casino, including RADIUS and Public Key Infrastructure for Authentication and Authorization.  o Contributed with upgrades and deployment of IGT Advantage system at the Coeur d'Alene Casino.  o Assisted with deployment of over 100 Cisco switches concurrent with upgrade of IGT Advantage.  o Managed Cisco networking equipment at the Coeur d'Alene Casino for over three years. Including implementing VLANs to segment the network, and for VoIP.  o Assisted with deployment of Point of Sale Systems for Food & Beverage departments, and Hotel System.  o Assisted in provisioning of new servers for Active Directory, DNS, DHCP, System Center Operations Manager 2007.  o 9+ years experience with Mitel PBX Technical Support Analyst, Provided Technical Microsoft® Multimedia products - Liberty Lake, WA April 1998 to October 2002 support to consumers for Microsoft® Operating systems from Windows® 95 to Windows® 98 SE. Learned troubleshooting techniques for Windows 2000/XP when they were released. Other Microsoft products supported at this site were; Microsoft® Hardware, Microsoft® Multimedia products, Microsoft® Office®. Provided support to technicians as a Resource Analyst, and Escalation technician. Provided training to new hires, and upgrade training for existing employees. Provided feedback to technicians on my team on how to handle calls, and provided them with resources to expand their technical knowledge. Education AAS in Electronics Engineering Technology ITT Technical Institute - Spokane, WA Skills Active Directory, System Administrator Certifications/Licenses MCSE December 1999 to Present MCP ID # 1054416 CompTIA A+ February 1998 to Present CompTIA A+ computer certification #COMP10003786 CompTIA Network+ October 2010 to Present CompTIA Network+ Certification #COMP10003786 Additional Information Skills:  Active Directory:  Active Directory Domain Services 2003 - 2008  Group Policy creation and maintenance  DNS  DHCP  Windows Server:  Exchange 2003  SQL Server 2000 - 2008  WSUS  Cluster Services  SharePoint WSS 2.0 - 2010  Forefront Endpoint Protection  IIS  Office 365  SCOM 2007 Installation  PowerShell  Cisco Networking:  Switches 6500, 3700, 3500, 2900  WLAN Controller 5500  Wireless Bridge 1310  General Skills:  Office 97 - 2013  Remote and On Site Work  Project Planning  Documentation  Mitel PBX  Mobile Phone Devices and Plans  SonicWall Firewalls