Senior Global Infrastructure Specialist Senior Global Infrastructure Specialist Senior Global Infrastructure Specialist - Arizona Chemical Company Jacksonville, FL Highly experienced technical asset with demonstrated career success rebuilding business processes and implementing effective solutions. Flexible, team-oriented individual with proven communication skills both formal and inform, written and verbal to any level of management as well as peers. Possesses wide variety of technical skills in systems management and network engineering. Capable of building, leading, and motivating technical professionals in a management setting or team-oriented environments. Consistently executes projects on time with an emphasis on proactive discipline to IT operations. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior Global Infrastructure Specialist Arizona Chemical Company - Jacksonville, FL 2012 to Present • Built and lead the global level III infrastructure team.  • Designed and directed implementation of a global data backup system using CommVault.  • Designed and implemented a Global DMVPN network moving the company off of MPLS leased-line connectivity saving the company in excess of $250,000.00 per year. Later designed and converted the DMVPN network to FlexVPN with dual hubs providing a true HA global VPN backbone connecting all global facilities using next-generation encryption to boost network security.  • Designed and directed implementation of an entire plant (campus style) network including equipment selection and procurement serving as the template design for all plants in the organization. Negotiated cost of equipment saving $300,000.00.  • Designed and implemented a global firewall system including automatic VPN connectivity (pre-login) for systems traveling outside of the internal network. Replaced all site Cisco ASA firewalls with Palo Alto next-generation firewalls using Palo Alto Panorama as a central management platform.  • Managed day to day operations of all staff and resources related to IT infrastructure enterprise-wide. Directed areas of focus and project priority based upon goals set by the Director of Infrastructure Services. Systems Architect Bank of America - Jacksonville, FL 2011 to 2012 • Received, coordinated, and installed new server hardware and related support equipment.  • Utilized troubleshooting and configuration skills on Windows 2000/2003/2008 and conceptual and practical knowledge for active directory structure and implementation.  • Server work organized and managed by the central change management and implementation process.  • Built more than fifty servers (Windows 2003/2008) as part of the ISP (Infrastructure Simplification Project) initiative. The purpose was to move current GRITT (Global Risk, International Treasury Technology) applications to newer hardware, running newer operating systems. Servers were stand-alone physical, and VMware, Hyper-V virtual servers. New builds, P2V (Physical to virtual), V2V (Virtual to virtual), and P2P (Physical to physical) builds were completed as part of the ISP initiative. Senior Network Administrator/Engineer Nelnet - Jacksonville, FL 2009 to 2011 • Obtained a C6 security clearance from the U.S. Government need for my job responsibilities.  • Was the leader of a three man engineering team assigned with managing 3,000+ servers of all platforms other than APPLE/MAC.  • Led the datacenter re-location team that was tasked with moving the 3,000+ servers to the new datacenter in Nebraska.  • Developed a plan to move all the servers virtually. Setup two virtual hosts, virtualized all servers, and strategically moved all the virtual servers electronically to the new datacenter.  • Managed, as part of a three person team, a multi-tiered network, with an extensive SOA environment.  • Implemented a multi-factor authentication SSL-VPN across the entire Nelnet network per government contract requirement. Senior Network Administrator/Engineer W&O Supply, Inc - Jacksonville, FL 2007 to 2009 • Solely responsible for the entire international communications network including; 28 Servers (Windows Server 2003), 18 Routers (Cisco 2811's, 2821's, and a 3845), as well as 200+ users at 18 locations.  • Technical leader on a complete ERP migration project. All users access the new ERP system through a MS Terminal Services Cluster consisting of 8 servers.  • Completed five (5) office relocations. Responsible for hiring and maintaining outside contractors for IT related new office construction and negotiating service provider contracts. Ultimately, I was completely responsible for anything related to Information Technology. I was to ensure that the old office closed on a Friday completely operational, and re-opened the following Monday completely operational.  • Led the Information Technology department with a Plan, Propose, and Complete mentality; effectively operating a project orientated environment.  • Implemented a global Anti-virus solution for all systems, servers and workstations.  • Centralized mobile email access to MS Direct Push technology. Senior Network Administrator/Engineer Beaver Street Fisheries - Jacksonville, FL 2006 to 2007 • Corrected all inconsistencies with Active Directory, and MS Exchange.  • Replaced the PDC, BDC with new servers running Windows Server 2003 R2.  • Replaced the MS Exchange server with a new server running MS Windows 2003 R2, and MS Exchange 2003.  • Implemented MS DirectPush for Windows Mobile devices.  • Laid out plans and a proposal for a complete network overhaul, implementing layer 3 switching, connecting all buildings in the complex with redundant, trucked fiber links.  • Laid out plans and a proposal for a new server infrastructure utilizing IBM BladeCenters to host virtual servers. Senior Network Administrator Montecito Property Company - Jacksonville, FL 2005 to 2006 • Upgraded the existing network from an entry-level small business infrastructure, to an enterprise grade, Cisco driven infrastructure with a Co-Location facility housing the mission critical equipment and servers.  • Implemented a versatile, automated backup system with automatic media set rotation, detailed e-mail based reporting, and complete network disaster recovery.  • Implemented a 128-bit WEP encrypted, Linux RADIUS server based MAC address filtered, secure wireless network, spanning both floors at the corporate office.  • Migrated all mission critical data (Exchange, Active Directory, and shared network files) to enterprise grade servers (HP ProLiant DL380's).  • Implemented "Hub and Spoke" VPN network connectivity for remote properties across the country powered by Cisco hardware.  • Completely re-organized Active Directory to utilize Group Policy, integrate SharePoint, provide an up-to-date Global Address Book, and ensure organized network security via Security Groups.  • Created a Visual Basic based network logon script to automatically map network resources based on Active Directory Security Group membership.  • Created complete network documentation to provide the entire IT staff with instructions necessary to maintain all aspects of the network.  • Redesigned the way IT interacts with day-to-day routine operations of the Accounting department, paving the way to implement an IT driven invoice approval solution to save the company approximately $1.2 Million per fiscal year. Network Administrator Computer Solutions Group - Jacksonville, FL 2004 to 2006 • Responsible for formulating quick and solid solutions for client's networks in a "down" situation. Responsible for all Linux/BSD servers belonging to clients of Computer Solutions Group.  • Designed and implemented new network strategies based upon the client's needs, wants, and future demands.  • Implemented several corporate moves. I planned out the network needs and coordinated with the Information Service Providers to ensure seamless transition to the new locations.  • Was contracted to Montecito Property Company to move their existing servers and workstations to the new office location. Worked with an outside Cisco engineer to create an enterprise level network, and to integrate all existing servers into this environment. I was leased from Computer Solutions Group by The Montecito Property Company to build and maintain a complete enterprise level network and infrastructure. Network Administrator Omni Information Technologies - Toledo, OH 2000 to 2004 • Instructed an employee of The Stockdale Company to maintain and update their corporate website via Microsoft FrontPage saving them $10,800 annually.  • Designed and implemented a complex back-up operation system for Northwest Electrical Company; preventing any data loss over a three year period, through which I saved the company an invaluable amount of money.  • At Northwood Industries, I was responsible for all computer hardware, software management, upgrades, and implementation. As well as remote access administration. Education Bachelor's Skills Network Security (10+ years), Networking (10+ years), Network Administration (10+ years), System Administration (10+ years), Architecture (10+ years) Additional Information TECHNICAL EXPERTISE    Networking: Ethernet networks and all related hardware installation, operation, and maintenance; LANs, VLANs, WANs, and Internet connectivity. Working knowledge administering enterprise CISCO/Foundry/Brocade/Palo Alto/Juniper networks. Strong knowledge developing, maintaining, and troubleshooting VPN routing. Experience designing, developing, and implementing Network Monitoring solutions for a vast range of network scenarios. Experience implementing and maintaining layer 3 switching technologies.  Software: VMware, Citrix XenApp, Microsoft Windows 95/NT 4/98/ME/2000/XP Pro/Vista/7/8, Windows NT 4 Server/Server 2000/Advanced Server 2000/Server 2003/Server 2008/Server 2012, Hyper-V, App-V, RemoteApp, Exchange, SQL, Microsoft Office, Backup Exec, Photoshop, FrontPage, various tools and utilities. WWW since 1994; BBSs before that; know how to take full advantage of the web as a valuable resource. Extensive knowledge of Microsoft Active Directory and Group Policy.  Hardware: Extensive knowledge and experience in repair and installation of PCs, servers, and network equipment.