President/Owner President/Owner President/Owner - Katana Networks Allentown, PA Work Experience President/Owner Katana Networks 2002 to Present Currently preside over managed IT services and consulting company, acting as head of IT for all clients. Consistent  delivery of exceptional customer service for multiple organizations and varied business models. Responsible for overall technology vision for all clients, while also managing and monitoring daily systems and network  performance. Conceive, manage, and deliver small and large scale projects on time and within budget. Consult and advise client management on strategic technology decisions, cost analysis, and emerging technologies.    • Acting head of technology for all business clients.  • Maintained 99.9 percent systems up time per Katana Networks SLA with clients  • Administer and support multiple computing platforms including Apple, Microsoft, and Unix systems.  • Conceive, design, and implement network and system strategies including messaging and telecommunications  services.  • Network Server installation, upgrading, and management.  • Utilize and manage Cloud based technologies  • Negotiate and manage all contracts and agreements with technology, data, and telecommunication vendors  • Implement cost saving strategies through creative thinking and emerging technologies  • Provide business continuity and disaster recovery solutions  • Proficient in network hardware including firewalls, routers, switches, etc.  • Establish policies and procedures for systems and data security  • Consult on and sell public and private hosted services, including web, messaging, software, and data storage. Network/Systems Administrator Sungard Business Integration - New York, NY 1998 to 2002 • Responsible for system and network administration for working software development firm  • Managed Server/LAN/WAN and optimization  • Provided support for users and workstations  • Administered domain security and permissions  • Configured all network hardware and internal systems hardware  • Implemented all new software tools  • Planned and completed all upgrades, migrations, and office moves. Systems Administrator Level8 Software - New York, NY 1996 to 1998 • Provided end user and desktop technical support  • Built and configured new desktop machines  • Responsible for troubleshooting server and desktop issues Education B.S. in Music Education Pennsylvania State University - University Park, PA June 1995