Implementation Specialist Implementation Specialist Implementation/ Project Coordinator/ Support Appleton, WI Self-motivated Implementation Specialist with many years of experience with account management, project management, project coordinating, sales and technical support. Technology-oriented individual with attention to detail and a commitment to providing a high level of service and support to clients. A confident, team oriented employee with strong analytical and problem solving skills, excellent communication and customer service skills, and the ability to multi-task in a fast-paced environment. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Implementation Specialist JJ Keller and Associates - Appleton, WI May 2012 to September 2018 ·   Software implementation  ·   Process implementation  ·   Project Management  ·   Project scope assessment  ·   Configuration and management  ·   Client training  ·   Troubleshooting  ·   Remote access technology  ·   Excellent problem-solving abilities  ·   Customer focused  ·   Excellent communication skills  ·   Written and oral communication  ·   Conflict resolution  ·   CRM-Sharepoint, C4C, proficient  Work History  Implementation Specialist                                                                                                      05/2012 to 09/2018   JJ Keller and Assoc. Inc. – Appleton, WI  ·   Manage multiple client implementations in terms of ELD(Electronic Logging Device) hardware and mobile application training and support.  ·   Work in conjunction with various project managers and implementation specialists to perform administrator and user training, driver training, and weekly web-trainings.  ·   Provide client service and project management assistance for implementations, ensuring all internal/external deadlines are met  ·   Work with all levels of our customer/user base on implementation support, including but not limited to drivers, mechanics, system users, system administrators, and manager/supervisors.  ·   Identifies and communicates implementation support trends, product improvements, recurring problems and suggested solutions.  ·   Provides sales support and customer follow up when applicable  ·   Provides in-house technical support to test hardware design/functionality and hardware warranty  ·   Creates support and training documentation as required  ·   Provide product support and assistance to Customer Care Team  ·   Assist in the implementation of Keller Mobile software, ELD hardware, testing of all WIN Mobile,  iOS, Android devices, and customer support.  ·   Off-site training and installation of ELD hardware and device testing.  ·   Stay current with all Federal Motor Vehicle and Hours of Service changes and updates  ·   Involved in all current and future application updates  ·   Provide technical support to all Keller Mobile customers pertaining to ELD, device hardware, and Encompass software.  ·   Configured, installed and handled troubleshooting tasks for a variety of different applications.  ·   Delivered an exceptionally high level of professionalism and support to each client, upholding the company's commitment to service.  ·   Explained complex, technology-related issues in basic, understandable terms to clients to help educate them.  Network Administrator GUNDERSON CLEANERS - Menasha, WI June 2009 to May 2012 Sales Associate WI Camping - Menasha, WI May 2006 to August 2009 Education Bachelor's in Interdisciplinary Studies Marian University - Appleton, WI May 2008 to May 2010 Associate in Computer Information Systems Fox Valley Technical College - Appleton, WI May 1999 to May 2001 Skills Project Management (6 years), Account Management (6 years), Analyst (6 years), Microsoft Office (10+ years), Sales (5 years), CRM (7 years), Salesforce (2 years), Customer Relationship Management (7 years), Tech Support, Desktop Support Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/kurt-mueller-16599911/ Groups NEW United Soccer CLub September 2014 to Present Soccer Manager for kids