AWS Administrator AWS <span class="hl">Administrator</span> AWS Administrator - Sulzer-US LLC West Haverstraw, NY AWS Solution Architecture, DevOps, Networking, and Security Work Experience AWS Administrator Sulzer-US LLC - Montvale, NJ February 2019 to Present * Set up AWS architecture following AWS best practices with VPC networking, Route 53 hosted zones, sub domains and AWS Certificates. Using Route 53 to create Alias for our Elastic Bean Stalk applications using elastic load balancers.  * Managed set up of Elastic Search, Redis and Dynamo DB databases through AWS CLI and Cloud Formation to help create databases for the developers that asked for solutions to caching and storing data.  * Used Cloud Front distribution to help cache our application data as well as using CloudFront as a proxy for our spring boot applications.  * Help train developers in Germany with understanding networking such as public and private subnets, route tables and Internet gateway connections. Set up for Elastic Search database for Audi to be secure and not be reachable from the outside, used VPC peering with the proper routing and security groups to reach Elastic search in the private VPC by a bastion host on the public VPC.  * In charge of auditing our AWS Accounts following AWS best practices looking for security vulnerabilities, discussing what servers are running and if they can be shut down if not needed, IAM users keys are rotated properly, removing credentials of users no longer with the company, checking permissions of groups and roles for our AWS services. Network Administrator Dominican College - Orangeburg, NY January 2016 to January 2019 * Help lead a proof of concept project for the college using services such as EC2, S3, VPC to host our servers on AWS while creating estimates for our migration and educating the IT team on how AWS is managed, AWS best practices and how AWS would work with our Windows bare metal servers environment  * Created Amazon Alexa skills at Dominican College to keep track of my tickets of the day using AWS Lambda to host my Python Code and C# code  * Sets up and maintains the Windows Servers 2016 Active Directory, keeping all containers updated and adding new employees to their proper groups while using Power Shell scripts to automate adding the new computers onto the network.  * Responsible for managing the Network, Servers and PC across the college campus while completing assigned tickets of users and maintaining Virtual Labs, Data Closets Organization while helping to introduce AWS on to the campus.  * Maintain on HP Aruba Layer 3 switches managing the switches, updating, and troubleshooting our College VLANS. Help Desk Support LV Capacity Coverage Company - Mahwah, NJ September 2014 to September 2015 * Help Desk support role, helping to manage 300+ employees in both NY, NJ, TN, FL and Las Vegas and remote where I helped manage the company ticketing system prioritizing customer support and maintain the company's PC and Servers.  * Worked with Juniper VPN to configure VPN accounts for all users for the company, along with Barracuda Firewalls managing what sites were to be whitelisted for our clients and keeping track of any security threats.    * Responsible for maintaining the Active Directory and Exchange Email accounts for users on base and remote.  * Responsible for managing our Hyper-V Environment and creating Window Accounts for remote users and maintain the PC in the data room. Education Bachelors in Management Information Systems in Management Information Systems Dominican College - Orangeburg, NY December 2014 Skills ACTIVE DIRECTORY, DNS, EXCHANGE, DHCP, JUNIPER, VPN, EC2, DATABASE, AMAZON WEB SERVICES, C#, FRONT-END, NODE.JS, JSON, memcache, PYTHON, DYNAMODB, REDIS, LINUX, AWS, Docker, Devops, Powershell Links https://github.com/dan2melz/MyProjectTemplates/tree/master https://www.linkedin.com/in/daniel-melendez-7a775ba1/ Certifications/Licenses AWS Solution Architect Professional June 2018 to June 2021 The AWS Certified Solutions Architect – Professional exam validates advanced technical skills and experience in designing distributed applications and systems on the AWS platform. AWS Certified SysOps Administrator - Associate May 2018 to May 2021 The AWS Certified SysOps Administrator – Associate exam validates technical expertise in deployment, management, and operations on the AWS platform. AWS Certified Developer - Associate May 2018 to May 2018 The AWS Certified Developer – Associate exam validates technical expertise in developing and maintaining applications on the AWS platform. AWS Certified Solutions Architect - Associate April 2018 to April 2018 The AWS Certified Solutions Architect – Associate exam is intended for individuals with experience designing distributed applications and systems on the AWS platform. Assessments Technical Support — Highly Proficient June 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/fgga43b15vxvhhwi Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information Willing to travel and relocate