Network Administrator <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Network Administrator - Mrs. Grissom's Salads, Inc Lebanon, TN To obtain a position as a Windows System Administrator offering a 13+ year verifiable track record of configuring, managing, maintaining, and troubleshooting corporate computer networks. Work Experience Network Administrator Mrs. Grissom's Salads, Inc - Nashville, TN May 2015 to February 2019 Provide system administration and ensure high level of reliability and stability along integrated systems. Partner with cross-functional teams of internal and external stakeholders to define requirements. Identify equipment, software, and operating system requirements. Build and configure servers, mail systems, backup and recovery plans, and network security systems. Create and administer policies and permissions. Develop technical and user procedural documentation. Analyze and resolve issues with connectivity, hardware, software, and operating systems.    ? Managed multiple projects, including Exchange migration to cloud messaging environment, operating system upgrade and transitions  ? Proactive monitoring of all network devices, services, and servers using a combination of tools to ensure high availability and SLA's  ? Collect and review network utilization data for capacity and planning purposes  ? Assist in developing, implementing, testing, and maintaining disaster recovery plans  ? Interface with vendors for procurement & maintenance of all IT infrastructures  ? Manage & troubleshoot network and Internet connectivity throughout the organization  ? Work closely with the fellow tech team members to provide end-user support and issue resolution  ? Performing a wide range of network administration duties including installations, debugging, maintenance, upgrades, and general support for Cisco, Dell, HP and Sonicwall network equipment. TekBase Solutions Owner/Senior Engineer Nashville, TN 2011 to 2014 Assisted small to medium-sized companies with daily network administrations. Assessed current configuration and developed a strategic plan to implement design. Rewrote necessary procedural documentation to correspond to environment.    ? Provided networking support to small-medium sized businesses and residential to suit their specific requirements and needs.  ? Designed and/or redesigned client's website and mobile website to add specific functionality and desired look and overall appearance.  ? Aided clients in implementing new servers and workstations are needed for company growth and needs.  ? Configured custom applications to address business requirements  ? Communicated on a weekly basis utilizing progress reports, meetings and/or conference calls to address any concerns System Administrator/R&D The CyberAngel Security Solutions, Inc - Nashville, TN 2007 to 2011 Aided in the development cycle of company software to ensure all requirements were met along the way. Constructed guidelines for software operations on client devices. Troubleshoot hardware and software related issues of production environment in a 24/7 mission-critical system.    ? Project management during development phases of previous and current versions of The CyberAngel Security Software to meet required deadlines.  ? Designed the installer for the current version of The CyberAngel software to ensure its ability to be updated, push deployment and silent installation on client machines.  ? Engaged in the overall upgrade process of networking equipment such as routers, firewalls, switches, access points, etc.  ? Manage client/server communications and other functions maximizing end user support while minimizing technical support call times. Network Administrator Broadcast Music Incorporated Computer Operator - Nashville, TN 2006 to 2006 - 2006 Assists in the timely processing of information in and through the computer systems including printing, quality control and distribution of reports. This also includes the control of the facilities machine operations, data libraries and general facility upkeep.    ? Managed, monitored, and maintain mainframe workload schedules.  ? Follow through with preventive maintenance on all Data Center or Production Control equipment and software along with, maintain and utilize CA® software databases and training software as it pertains to the Data Center and Production Control.  ? Manages and maintains printers, disk drives and tape drives.  ? Ensures that all scheduled jobs are completed in a timely and efficient manner.  ? Ensures the timely and efficient processing of production requests through the computer systems.  ? Ensures that the distribution of output media is completed in an efficient and timely manner.  ? Ensures that off-site tape storage is maintained at the proper level and that backup media is properly labeled and rotated.  ? Run the operations in the absence of direct supervision for the shift. Education Associates of Applied Science degree in Computer Network Systems ITT Technical Institute - Nashville, TN 2002 to 2005 Skills Windows, Technical Support, Active Directory, Networking, Vmware Additional Information ? Maintained Windows-based production environments during upgrades of hardware & software  ? Microsoft products including but not limited to: Active Directory, Azure, Hyper-V, System Center, Dynamics, Office 365, Exchange, SQL Server,  ? Designing a network infrastructure using cloud-based solutions such as Azure and AWS  ? Knowledgeable in the entire development life-cycle and processes required to successfully move in the release phase  ? 13 years work experience as Network Administrator.  ? Critical Thinker; great ability to find solutions during high risk, precarious situations.  ? Analytical; reviews all probabilities and implements a data-based process of elimination to disregard all possibilities and arrive at the best possible option.  ? Team Oriented; excellent track record for working within a team or group framework.  ? Excellent Communicator; great ability to articulate ideas into instruction or information to teammates.