IT Manager/ Network Administrator IT Manager/<span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Kew Gardens, NY To obtain a challenging growth-oriented position in the Information Systems field, one that will enhance my pre-existing knowledge, while providing the opportunity to practice and expand my current skills. Work Experience IT Manager/ Network Administrator Samuel & Sons Passementerie - New York, NY January 2009 to Present • Setup and Management of all firewalls, servers and applications (Work includes Setup and management of VMWare ESX Server, MS Exchange Server, SQL Server, Citrix Xen App Server, Terminal Server, Trend Micro Office scan, Symantec Backup Exec, SharePoint Server, and Windows Domain Controller Server. Provide support for the company’s commercial website.  • Oversee executive support by maintaining a high level of responsiveness and resolution of issues.  • Build workflow solutions for all departments and implement on hosted Share Point Server.   • Implement Disaster Recovery fail-over system for all of our locations.   • Manage and oversee over 20 IT vendors for all locations.   • Manage help desk team, maintain ticketing system, take notes of all issues and steps taken to resolve.   • Management of all Network appliances (Switches, Routers, Firewalls, PBX).  • Setup and management of Windows SQL Server 2008.  • Transition of SQL Server 2008 to Amazon Web Services SQL Server 2012 instance.  • Responsible for maintaining in-house and remote client’s connectivity to the WAN (NY, NJ, CH, LA, UK).   • Management of Microsoft Dynamics NAV user setups, and permissions Education Associates Degree in Applied Science College Of Technology - New York, NY Additional Information Software Platforms:   Cisco ASDM 1.1-7.1, VM Ware ESXi 3.0-6.0, Active Directory NT- 2012, Microsoft Windows XP-10, Mac OSX, Microsoft Servers: Microsoft SQL, Citrix, Terminal Server, IIS, Exchange, SharePoint, Dynamics NAV 5.0-2016, CRM, Microsoft Office Suite (2003-2013), Jet Reports, PowerPivot, Trend Micro Office scan, Symantec Backup Exec 2012, Veeam, Acronis True Image, Mozilla Firefox, Google Chrome, Adobe Acrobat, Photoshop, InDesign, Dreamweaver, Fed Ex Manager, UPS World ship, Endicia Professional, Evernote, Toshiba CIX, Bloomberg.    Hardware Platforms:   HP ProLiant Servers, Cisco ASA 5500 Series, Power Edge Servers, Desktops, Tablets, Cellphones, Printers, Ethernet wiring, Logistics, Scanners, POS systems, NAS Servers, Telecom, Firewalls, Routers, Toshiba PBX’s, VOIP, Dedicated Circuits, T1, PRI, SIP, UC.