Systems Engineer Systems Engineer Systems Engineer - KONICA MINOLTA Elmwood Park, NJ Results-oriented Information Technology professional with a broad understanding of technology needs in multiple business sectors including legal, accounting, architecture, bio-medical, laboratories, direct marketing, hospitals, and major financial institutions. Easily identify corporate needs for business continuity with their network, server, and data structures.    Microsoft Server 2008, 2012 • VMware ESXi • Sonicwall Firewalls • HP Procurve Switches  Microsoft Windows 7 & 8 • WatchGuard Firewallls • Dell PowerConnect Switches  Microsoft Hyper-V • Apple Macintosh OS X • Office 365 • Hosted Exchange Migration • Veeam & Axcient Backups Work Experience Systems Engineer KONICA MINOLTA - New York, NY 2012 to Present • New York, New York • 2012-Present  A $60 million revenue top 10 ranked managed services provider by MSPmentor 501 in the small and medium sized business market with over 500 engineers in 25 markets across the United States serving over 3000 clients.    Systems Engineer:  • Implemented Virtualization, Exchange migration, Active Directory administration, Cloud provisioning for improved performance and cost savings  • Developed relationships and worked with internal development teams and external vendors to define project plan, schedule and hand-off processes and deliverables.  • Formulated and executed business continuity plans to minimize downtime for business critical applications and safeguard vital data  • Maintained accountability for on-time, on-schedule completion of system development and data migration projects.  • Maintained extensive knowledge of current and emerging IT technologies and serve as an advisor to executive staff on information security practices and procedures Network & Systems Administrator MHK CONSULTANTS - Wayne, NJ 2010 to 2011 • Wayne, New Jersey • 2010-2011  A managed services provider for information technologies solutions specializing in construction and accounting industries serving the New York and New Jersey regional area.    Network & Systems Administrator:  • Migrated Windows server network to Citrix cloud solution on VMware server environment.  • Configured client solutions for remote and mobile access to applications via Citrix  • Migrated in-house email solution to Microsoft Exchange 2007 and configured for mobile access. INDEPENDENT CONSULTANT New York, NY 2006 to 2009 Independent technology consultant for corporate law firms and not-for-profit corporations in the performing arts industry.    Network & Systems Administrator:  Consulted on daily information systems planning and maintenance as well as strategies to maximize workplace efficiency. Implemented and managed Windows imaging and automated installs utilizing Windows Automated Installation Toolkit and Symantec Ghost.    • Planned & implemented desktop and laptop upgrade strategies for Windows 7  • Managed daily server operations and advised on upgrade strategies Network Data Center Administrator IBM GLOBAL SERVICES - New York, NY 2002 to 2006 • New York, New York • 2002-2006  A $58.8 billion revenue fortune 100/S&P 500 component company with 190,000 employees in the managed services information technology sector servicing enterprise level clients for server, switch, security, and desk side support    Mount Sinai/MY Medical Centers, Network Data Center Administrator, New York, New York  • Installed and configured all Windows servers in 2 data centers in compliance with HIPPA requirements.  • Managed the change management process for all server environment changes  • Interfaced with application development team for design and implementation needs.    Reuters, Senior Systems Administrator, New York, New York,  • Created and implemented an image for new Windows XP workstations for uniform configuration and set-up.  • Designed and implemented an asset management procedure for collection and tracking of new and existing desk side computers.    S1/Valley National Bank, Senior Systems Administrator, Wayne, NJ,  • Managed team of 5 in deployment, configuration, and installation of new Windows XP teller workstations  • Tracked and inventoried all new equipment over all bank branches in New York and New Jersey region.    American Express, Senior Systems Administrator, New York, New York,  • Managed network environment and relations for General Counsel's office and Human Resources.  • Managed desktop services team of 5 meeting all corporate deliverables as required. Senior Systems Administrator AMERICAN EXPRESS - New York, NY 2000 to 2002 • New York, New York • 2000-2002  A $33 billion revenue Fortune 100/S&P 500 component company with 62,800 employees globally in the financial services industry.    Senior Systems Administrator: issues.  • Managed and worked with disaster recovery of network environment and 5,000 user environment in the New York City global headquarters following September 11, 2001.  • Implemented asset management recording procedure for the Creative Media department for all computer equipment which was instrumental in full insurance recovery following September 11, 2001. System Administrator PEARSON EDUCATION - New York, NY 1998 to 2000 • New York, New York & Upper Saddle River, NJ • 1998-2000  A $809 million revenue top 4 English publishing industry leader.    System Administrator:  • Desktop computer upgrade (PC & Mac) for entire company utilizing Symantec Ghost for imaging  • Implemented Y2K network preparation for all desktop workstations (PC & Mac) and servers.  • Upgrade and troubleshooting of Macintosh publishing division. Education Master of Divinity in Divinity New Brunswick Theological Seminary - New Brunswick, NJ Bachelor of Science in Economics in Economics Elizabethtown College - Elizabethtown, PA Skills Active Directory, DNS, System Administrator, Vmware