Site Network Technician Site <span class="hl">Network</span> Technician Site Network Technician - Connection Columbus, OH Work Experience Site Network Technician Connection - Wilmington, OH February 2006 to Present Site Network Technician (Internal Customers)  Installing and supporting internal operations and maintaining networking, barcoding,  scanning and printing peripherals. Including RF and RFID devices, PCs, servers, Printers, Scanners,  wired and wireless routers, switches, and other telecom devices Senior Upgrade Technician Connection - Wilmington, OH February 2006 to September 2015 Senior Upgrade Technician (External Customers)  Perform hardware and software upgrades to customer purchased systems. Systems include;  laptops, desktops, workstations, printers and servers (PC and Mac). Upgrades can be from a memory installation to "scratch" server build or the setup of a customer's complete  infrastructure. System imaging. OS installation and configurations include Windows Server,  workstation and laptop editions, Linux, VMWare, Zenware, and Macintosh. Project Manager 3PF, LLC - Wilmington, OH December 1999 to June 2006 Project Manager for two (2) new facilities, one in Wilmington and the other in Lockbourne,  Ohio. Planning and implementing voice and data communications along with wireless  networking and scanning technology application.. Implemented an on site/on call technical  rep position to keep system downtime to a minimum. Network Administrator 3PF, LLC - Wilmington, OH December 1999 to June 2006 Installs, monitors the performance of and troubleshoots problems of CISCO routers,  switches and CSU/DSUs.  • Monitors network performance and traffic analysis using Network Instruments' Observer  network analysis software and the Fluke Network Inspector.  • Install, configures, maintains, and troubleshoots WINTEL compatible PCs for LAN and WAN access, terminal emulation, end user software packages, bar coding equipment,  printers, scales and other varied peripherals    • Proficient in the use of most Microsoft, IE; MS Office and antivirus products, and most  terminal emulation software. Education Associates in CAD/CAE Southern Technical College - Irondale, AL September 1983 to September 1984 Skills NETWORKING (10+ years), PROJECT MANAGEMENT, PROCESS IMPROVEMENT, HARDWARE INSTALLATION, Desktop Support, Linux, Tech Support, Active Directory, T1, Data Center Military Service Branch: US Air Force Service Country: United States Rank: E-4 September 1984 to April 1988 PRIMARY OCCUPATION: 56651, Environmental Support Specialist,   Pay Grade E-4    DUTY OCCUPATION:        45730C, Strategic Aircraft Maintenance Specialist, C-18, All C-135, E-3, E4, VC-25, VC-137,   Pay Grade E-4 Certifications/Licenses Driver's License Additional Information SKILLS  I am a dedicated IT professional that has a strong technical background spanning over two and a half decades with experience in  project management and a dedication to continuous process improvement in the face of rapidly evolving business needs.  I am highly skilled at software and hardware installation, upgrading, configuration and troubleshooting of servers, desktops and  laptops, with additional experience in voice and data communications networking..