Senior Systems Engineer Senior Systems Engineer Senior Network Engineer - Priority One Group Kearny, NJ Using the skills I’ve gained as a manager and a Senior Network Engineer and applying them to the best of my ability increasing efficiency of clients and productivity of staff.    Software: ConnectWise Automate and Manage, Labtech, Kaseya, Sophos, Datto, ESET, Webroot  Hardware: Sophos, SonicWall, Meraki, HP, Dell Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior Systems Engineer Priority One Group February 2013 to Present Provide Tier 2 / 3 on site and remote support to a diverse group of 60+ networks that vary in size and complexity.  Operate in a fast-paced time sensitive environment to meet high SLA standards.  Provided 24 hour, on-call emergency support for multiple external customers.  Team lead responsible for all issues pertaining to over 15 clients.  Managed and supported over 300+ VMware, Hyper-V and physical servers using Windows 2003, 2008 R2 & 2012.  VMWare / vSphere 4.x, 5.x Administration and support.   Active directory scripting, group policy administration and PowerShell scripting.  Exchange server 2010 / Office 365 administration and maintenance.  Experience with maintaining and configuring network settings on firewall.  Was used as an escalation point for emergency issues such as network / server down.  Sorted complex issues pertaining to hardware and network failure – Monitored both Hardware and Software systems for errors and updated them regularly to maintain proper functioning and flow of information.  Responded to server down alerts in a timely manner and brought them up via HP iLO/ Dell DRAC.  Troubleshoot connectivity for DNS, DHCP, TCP/IP, VPN and network related issues.  Maintain daily backups and replication of servers using Barracuda, Acronis and Datto backups.  Perform IT tasks such as upgrading and patching servers.  Worked closely with vendors to perform software and systems upgrades Network Engineer Fitech Consultants, LLC April 2012 to February 2013 Manage 20+ Client Networks - All networks run on Private cloud, VMware with SAN Infrastructure, Dell Appassure Backup Solution  Configure/maintain segregated networks for all clients - all clients having exclusive DCs, Exchange Servers and File servers  Configure site to site VPN with Watchguard Firewalls for all locations - manage firewalls, internet traffic and filtering  Manage Exchange servers - Upgrade all clients to Exchange 10, migrate mailboxes, manage DAGs and redundancy - configure Spam Hero to filter mail  LogMeIn Central and Go To Assist to resolve client PC issues  Roll outs include copying profiles, data, mailboxes, N2K files, and other misc. data for seamless transition to company cloud  24x7 Support - all clients having multiple ways to reach me and multiple remote tools installed on laptop and phone to assist Systems Administrator Bayonne Medical Center February 2011 to April 2012 Upgrade existing infrastructure to most current hardware and software  Manage all servers - virtual and physical; 60+ virtual servers; 10 physical  Configure and manage Exchange environment (2010/2003); Configure DAGs for redundancy   Optimize network settings – (FSMO roles, DHCP, DNS)   Provide daily support for 300+ users internal and multiple users in doctor's offices for Health   Information Systems   Provide 24x7 support for doctors accessing applications through Citrix remotely   Create accounts, manage profiles and delegate access for primary HIS Application (Meditech) Manage and Maintain Backup Procedure on a daily basis for constantly changing and growing infrastructure     Analyze work flow and evaluate department performance for optimal support   Independent Consultant January 2010 to February 2011 Systems Administrator for multiple law offices and Insurance offices in Northern Jersey area under own LLC.  Evaluate and upgrade current infrastructure for efficiency, performance and security.  Configure Domain controllers for DHCP/DNS optimization to increase LAN speed, connectivity and security  Thorough evaluation of Active Directory for security and performance; along with establishing proper groups and policies through Group Policy Management.  Assess WAN security through router evaluation and modify/upgrade Email solution with latest and available SPAM product.  Modify or deploy Antivirus Solution with latest service packs through server to client or client to internet daily updates.  Evaluate Backup product and deploy optimal backup solution to fit the needs of network data and budget of company Systems Administrator Preferred Display, Inc August 2009 to January 2011 Designed and implemented migration of existing infrastructure to latest technology  Upgraded Microsoft Exchange email servers  Manage desktop support personnel - Provide daily work list, Project assignment, performance evaluations, provide knowledge and training to be backup Systems Admin.  Designed and implemented MS Server 2008 Cluster Server for redundant file sharing  Configured two MS Server 2008 Domain Controllers clustered for redundant role sharing  Managed virtual environment and server consolidation through VMware  Configured Domain Controller for DHCP, DNS, and File Sharing  Installed and configured Antivirus Solution with daily scans and virus definition updates  Implemented Backup solution with 10TB File to Disk Backup Full/Inc/Dif coordinating jobs  Configured secure line into network to work remotely - VPN and Terminal Server  Monitored and responded to all issues from several locations (24 x 7), remotely, when possible Independent Consultant May 2008 to July 2009 Assisted small businesses with desktop and networking needs. Clients included insurance companies, law firms and construction companies.  Rolled out Symantec Endpoint Protection for all desktops for a small insurance company  Upgraded domain controllers and other Windows Systems Servers, including DNS, DHCP, FSMO Assisted a small startup construction company by designing and implementing workstations, one server and multiple print sources; provisioned circuits and ordered materials Network Administrator The Gale Company July 2005 to April 2008 Responsible for daily network administrative tasks including evaluation, acquisition, implementation, and problem resolution of all hardware, software and IT procedures.  Manage MIS Administrator team and global network administrator - Schedule On-Site support for global network admin, train MIS team for redundant support, provide assignments for IT projects, maintain schedule for 8am to 7pm support, run weekly update meeting to provide pending tasks to CIO Managed all Windows 2003 Servers and Workstations (Windows 2000\XP) in NJ.  Managed all user accounts, security groups and distribution groups with Active Directory. Built/configured Domain Controllers - DHCP/DNS/Wins; FSMO Role Configuration Managed all inventory and ordering of defective parts for all servers and workstations.  Configured and maintained backup procedures and policies - Full Backup of each Exchange information store with a disk to tape to virtual disk environment each night. Full/Incremental backup of all file servers nightly.  Managed all backup hardware including - Overland Reo 9000, Neo 4000 and EMC Clarion X300.  Responsible for all network infrastructure changes adhere to any and all Sarbanes Oxley policies.  Managed Symantec Antivirus Corporate Edition 11/10.2/8.1 on the servers and workstations.  Configured live update, daily scans, backup logs, and definition updates to the clients. Migrated 5 Exchange Servers with multiple information stores to one Desktop Support Specialist/ Network Support The Gale Company January 2003 to June 2005 Troubleshoot LAN/WAN, Wireless Issues  Maintained, Configured, Troubleshoot any issues with VoIP phones - Cisco Call Manager Administration  Support 500+ Users Worldwide - Central Data Center w 15+ Remote Sites  Microsoft Exchange experience - Rolled out 3 exchanges boxes to better allocate the information stores  Active Directory - Created group policies, groups, users and delegating permissions  Managed Database Applications in house and Remote Sites - VPN Back and Point to Point  Computer Roll Out - Imaged and deployed 250 PC's to Corporate Office  Managed Blackberry Server - 100+ Users, Email and Calendar Wireless Reconciliation, Redirected via in house Exchange Server  RightFax Deployment - Built RightFax Server, including installing Pri-Line card, as well as deploying new client to company  Implemented Network Printers - Marketing & Construction dept. required Hi-Speed color printers to be networked with set priorities and little downtime  Maintained Backup Tape Schedule, as well as any file restorations -Veritas Backup Exec  Symantec Antivirus Administration - Configured updates, scheduled scans - resolved any virus outbreaks that got through filter/firewall  Websense Administration - Setup groups and policies for different departments requiring different access  Troubleshoot external users trying to remote-in with my RAS at home  24 x 7 Hot Phone Support  Support Executives' Home Networks thru VPN connection Call Center Technician\Help Desk The Gale Company November 2001 to December 2002 Tier One Phone Support  Supported LAN Connectivity  Desktop Builds and Roll Out  Supported all Desktop Applications  Cisco VPN Client and AT&T Dialer account configuration and support Education The Chubb Institute of Technology October 2000 to April 2001 Skills System Administrator, Active Directory, Vmware Certifications/Licenses Sophos Certified Engineer Microsoft Certified Professional (MCP)