Purchasing Agent Purchasing Agent North Canton, OH To obtain a full time business related position in an office environment. Would welcome opportunities in, IT, customer service, inventory or admin related areas. Work Experience Purchasing Agent Protech Security - North Canton, OH February 2019 to Present control inventory, purchase parts, negotiate prices with vendors. Tech Support Spectrum - Canton, OH June 2017 to February 2019 Support inbound calls regarding issues with Internet or phone issues regarding Spectrum services. Warranty Manager MAC LTT - Kent, OH June 2015 to October 2016 Ran warranty department, had final approval on all warranty claims. In charge of ordering warranty parts if needed and assisted when needed in setting up service or finding an outside company to handle the warranty if needed. Buyer/Planner Associated Materials - Cuyahoga Falls, OH April 2012 to January 2015 Planned and purchased parts for 5 factories in the US. Set up orders and verified shipments and inventories to run plants daily. Warranty Administrator Associated Materials - Cuyahoga Falls, OH October 2009 to April 2012 Handled all west coast warranty claims once they were approved. Managed 25 contracted techs, reviewed bids, approved bids and signed off and approved all invoices to be paid. Network Administrator/IT Helpdesk Manpower Services - Massillon, OH September 1998 to March 2000 Network Administrator/IT Helpdesk United States Marine Corps - Camp Pendleton, CA June 1996 to August 1998 Education Associates of Applied Business in Computer Programming & Database Stark State College North Canton - North Canton, OH 2019 Skills WARRANTY (3 years), EXCEL, MICROSOFT OFFICE, OUTLOOK, CUSTOMER SERVICE (10+ years), Purchasing (4 years), Microsoft Windows (10+ years), Microsoft Word, Procurement, Microsoft Excel Additional Information COMPUTER SKILLS    • Microsoft Office Suite, Word, Excel, Access, Outlook, PowerPoint  • Windows NT, XP, Vista, 10  • Salesforce Software  • Microsoft SQL Server  • HTML    SKILLS AND COMPETENCIES  • Capable of setting up and repairing computer networks  • Expertise in identifying and resolving computer/customer problems  • Excellent communication and customer service skills, with 10 years' experience.  • Ability to dismantle to repair, along with build computers and laptops  • Expertise in planning and forecasting inventory  • Managed 40 subcontractors used for window warranty