Network Engineer/ Administrator <span class="hl">Network</span> Engineer/<span class="hl">Administrator</span> Network Engineer Fulton, MD Obtain a position as a Network Engineer responsible for designing, deploying and supporting complex network infrastructures. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Network Engineer/ Administrator TEKSystems May 2018 to July 2019 Merkle Inc. / TEKSystems  • Responsible for deploying, configuring and supporting routers and switches in a Data Center environment.  • Responsible for decommissioning network devices and servers.  • Providing support in isolating and resolving complex network problems.  • Responsible for configuring, deploying and supporting firewalls to provide a multi-tier network security environment within the Network Infrastructure.  • Responsible for creating tunnels between virtual and physical network devices to create site-to-site VPN connections utilizing protocols such as IPsec.  • Responsible for creating and maintaining network diagrams utilizing Microsoft's Visio showing the physical and logical network topologies of the enterprise network. Sr. Network Engineer NTT DATA Federal Services, Inc - Herndon, VA March 2018 to May 2018 • Responsible for the design, deployment and operational support for the client's Enterprise and WAN network infrastructures and all the network devices, to include, but not limited to routers, switches, voice gateways, security devices and network management systems.  • Responsible for the creation of network diagrams showing the physical and logical network topologies.  • Providing support in isolating and resolving complex network problems. Sr. Network Engineer SCI Consulting Services, Inc - Fairfax, VA May 2014 to January 2018 Supporting the Army Research Lab (ARL)  • Installed, configured, and supported an enterprise wide policy-based network security and access control capability utilizing Cisco's Identity Services Engine (ISE) appliance(s). ISE provided AAA services, Multi-Factor Authentication, Port-level Authentication (802.1X, MAB, etc.), user authentication (PAP, CHAP, PEAP, EAP)  • Deployed and integrated Cisco's Prime Infrastructure (PI) platform that provided network management and control across the entire wired and wireless Enterprise Networks.  • Deployed and supported an Enterprise wireless network Infrastructure.  • Provided network design, implementation, and operational support for the enterprise networks.  • Responsible for adding, changing, and deleting as required security policies on the various firewalls (Juniper and Cisco ASA) within the Army Research Lab's (ARL's) Enterprise Network and WAN.  • Responsible for the continual support of all the Access Control Lists (ACLs) that are implemented in various routers and switches throughout the enterprise network.  • Provided day-to-day operational support to the Enterprise and WAN Network Infrastructures. Sr. Network Engineer STG, Inc - Reston, VA March 2014 to May 2014 Supporting the Army Research Lab (ARL)  • Responsible for the design, deployment and operational support for ARL's Enterprise and WAN Network Infrastructures to include, but not limited to routers, switches, security devices and network management systems.  • Responsible for planning and coordinating for implementation of the equipment and configuration ensuring minimal downtime and customer satisfaction.  • Responsible for the continual research of new and emerging networking technologies and protocols.  • Provided day-to-day operational support to the Enterprise and WAN Network Infrastructures including diagnosing and resolving complex problems, activating, deactivating network connections, modifying ACLs and coordinating scheduled outages for upgrades and problem resolutions.  • Responsible for the performance monitoring of the network utilizing various network monitoring applications and appliances. Sr. Network Engineer TEKSystems - Linthicum, MD July 2013 to March 2014 Supporting the Army Research Lab (ARL)  • Responsible for providing continual network engineering and design for the "Unclassified" network infrastructure.  • Responsible for the development, design, and implementation of Quality of Service (QoS) capabilities within the network infrastructure in support of the site's ever-expanding Video Teleconferencing system (VTC).  • Monitored video conferencing sessions to ensure the proper network resources have been allocated.  • Responsible for the continual research of new and emerging networking technologies and protocols that could be incorporated into the existing network infrastructure.  • Responsible for the performance monitoring of the network utilizing various network monitoring applications.  • Provided Tier 3 operational support for all the network infrastructures (LAN, WAN and unclassified). Sr. Network Engineer/Architect Island Information Technology Consultants, Inc - Chester, MD August 2009 to May 2013 • Served as technical expert for network modernization providing strategic oversight for planning and coordinating the implementation of the equipment and configuration.  • Provided technical leadership in the design, implementation, and support of a critical network utilizing virtual networks to support various flows.  • Trained junior personnel on the management and operational support of the network infrastructure.  • Oversaw network and equipment upgrades to include IOS, CatOS image upgrades, and configuration changes. Sr. Network Engineer/Architect ERICSSON Federal, Inc - Columbia, MD May 2000 to August 2009 • Engineering team lead supporting the Classified and Unclassified Enterprise Network Infrastructures deploying Ethernet, ATM and WAN network technologies supporting and IP base network.  • Performed network documentation and created disaster recovery plan.  • Installed and configured Cisco IDS and Cisco Works for Windows for network monitoring.  • Oversaw the migration of the campus network from ATM based to IP-based, developed IP addressing plan, set up TFTP server to backup, and restored configuration and IOS image files for the PIX, Cisco routers, and Catalyst switches. Network Engineer National Security Agency (NSA) August 1983 to May 2000 Positions and Responsibilities provided upon request. Education Master's Degree in Telecommunications and Computer Engineering in Telecommunications and Computer Engineering George Washington University - Washington, DC Bachelor's in Electronic Engineering Capitol College - Laurel, MD Skills Cisco, Microsoft Office (10+ years), Microsoft Visio (10+ years) Certifications/Licenses Cisco Certified Network Associate (CCNA) In the process of renewing. Completion date is 09-01-2019 Security+ Additional Information SKILLS & ABILITIES  • I have 32+ years of extensive hands-on experience in the telecommunication, networking and computer fields.  • Experience planning, designing, deploying and supporting complex network infrastructures.  • In-depth knowledge of the suite of protocols and applications associated with the TCP/IP model.  • Advanced in-depth knowledge of routing and routed protocols such as IP, OSPF and EIGRP.  • Experienced in creating and implementing IP addressing plans for enterprise network infrastructures.  • Experience configuring, deploying and supporting network firewalls.  • Familiar with the Cisco Meraki family of network devices.  • Experienced in isolating and resolving complex network issues and degraded network performance using network management applications and hardware/software diagnostic tools.  • Experience creating physical and logical network diagrams using Microsoft Visio.  • Excellent working knowledge of the various computing platforms and Operating Systems utilized in business environments today.  • Exceptional experience working in fast-paced, deadline-oriented environments.  • Experience creating implementation plans, SOPs and network configuration documents.  • Strong leader with experience training developers, advising technical groups on network design and troubleshooting best practices, and providing mentoring and coaching to junior engineers and operations personnel on various aspects of network engineering and operations.  • Adept at building strong business relationships with both clients and coworkers.  • Excellent interpersonal, organizational, and communication skills.