Systems Analyst Systems Analyst Visalia, CA Service-driven IT professional with 10 years experience in administration, troubleshooting, and system maintenance . Looking for a Systems Administration job in a quality environment that will allow me to share my knowledge continue to expand my self growth. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Analyst Tulare County Superior Court - Visalia, CA November 2012 to Present I am part of a small team managing 150+ virtual servers over five sites, 450 workstations and 350 employees. I am primary on our case management software, SQL databases, VMWare administration, ISCSI/FIBER storage solutions (Nimble - HP EVA), video conferencing, printer deployment, antivirus, backups, and windows updates. I am the second line of support for our exchange environment, firewall, VPN, Cisco switch configuration, content filtering services and SCCM management. I serve as top-level support for our service technicians and help desk. Network Technician II Family Healthcare Network - Visalia, CA July 2012 to November 2012 Help to manage network of 500+ computers and 1000+  users. Work includes printer and pc maintenance and support,  network cabling, serving as project lead. Coordinating daily work  with tech 1’s and serving as second level support when needed. Project Engineer Valley Expetec\Valley Computer.net - Visalia, CA June 2011 to July 2012 Coordinated managed service deployments for new  clientele, business growth and end of life equipment. Served as  part of a team of Admins for 20+ managed service clients,  maintaining WAN\LAN networks from 2 – 50 pc’s and multiple  sites. Maintained and deployed DC’s, fileservers, Exchange, and a  variety of other applications. Network Administrator Sierra View District Hospital - Porterville, CA March 2009 to June 2011 Managed 100+ servers, physical and VMWare. Managed email (Lotus Notes), antivirus, backups, VPN, software research, deployments and  upgrades. Support the LAN and EMC SAN environment. Served as top-level support for service technicians and help desk. Network Technician I Family Healthcare Network - Visalia, CA April 2006 to June 2009 Helped to manage network of 500+ computers and 900  users. Work included printer and pc maintenance, help desk support,  network cabling, audiovisual recommendations and support. Service Manager/Technician Valley Computer.Net - Visalia, CA January 2003 to April 2006 Managed daily service operations and customer relations Work included product ordering, PC/Server repair and staging. Worked with multiple  small businesses and home users for onsite repairs and support. Education None in N/A N/A - N/A Skills Vmware (9 years), SAN (9 years), System Analyst, Active Directory, SCCM, System Admin, System Administrator, Veeam Certifications/Licenses CompTIA Network+ March 2007 to March 2011 Exam covers network technologies, installation and configuration, media, typologies, management, and security. Additional Information Cisco CCNA Certification in progress