Principal Network Engineer Principal <span class="hl">Network</span> Engineer Principal Network Engineer Los Gatos, CA Seeking a network architect position in a progressive organization in growth mode. Work Experience Principal Network Engineer Velocity Technology Solutions, Global Infrastructure Services - San Jose, CA 2014 to 2019 Lead network engineer and architect for the infrastructure team responsible for designing, deploying and supporting  multiple data centers hosting various cloud platforms for over 300 customers.    • Design and deploy a Software Defined Network (SDN) using Cisco's ACI/APIC product at two data centers to host a managed application services platform for multiple customers using various ERP applications, including, but not  limited to, InfoR/Lawson, JDE, SAP, Oracle and Hyperion  • Develop a process to generate ACI and Cisco IOS & NX-OS configs based on certain inputs to build and configure  tenants, Cisco routers, firewalls and switches  • Work with various lines of business leads to define and implement an application centric infrastructure to be deployed  as a part of new customer builds within the ACI fabric  • Develop network infrastructure platforms to support PaaS, SaaS, IaaS, etc.  • Provide training and support for the network operations team on ACI/APIC deployment, both in US and India  • Migrate customers to newer data centers as a part of a consolidation project to cut costs and refresh customer  environments  • As lead network engineer, provide guidance and support to rest of the Global Network Engineering team  • Review current data center network design and health, and initiate projects to stabilize aging infrastructure following  industry best practices  • Design a network for replicating storage data between multiple data centers  • Setup standards and definitions for F5 LTM configurations for customer load balancing and SSL offloading  • Work with customers to architect and implement solutions to meet their unique needs  • Support the global operations team on daily incidents, troubleshooting and escalations  • Interact with vendors and service providers to keep updated on new technologies and solutions and to negotiate  support agreements  • Support network, shared infrastructure and customer projects either as a lead or a performer  IBM Network and Infrastructure Architect MSD - San Jose, CA 2007 to 2014 Network architect and lead engineer for the network team responsible for managing over 500 devices, supporting ERP  environments for over 200 customers hosted across multiple data centers in the US, Europe and Asia.    • Design, implement and maintain a dynamic and scalable data center LAN infrastructure at multiple sites in the US and UK to support a shared hosting environment. This includes IBM's Smart Cloud Enterprise offering.  • Develop network infrastructure platforms to support Paas, SaaS, IaaS, etc.  • Present connectivity options to customers and advice on optimal solutions based upon the customer's current network  architecture and access requirements. Close the loop by implementing the customer selected solution.  • Oversee network lifecycle management; perform design reviews and schedule upgrades and replacements for end of life software and hardware. Periodically review vendor and industry best practices and apply them to the environment  as applicable  • Respond to requests for data from internal and external audit teams. Review and respond to audit reports and devise  strategy to remediate vulnerabilities. Includes FDA, HIPAA and PCI compliance audits.  • Mentor other network engineers, providing support and guidance on projects and development Senior Network Engineer MSD - San Jose, CA 2005 to 2007 Supported network environment composed of over 400 network devices across multiple data centers and customer  locations. Provided 2nd and 3rd level support for all network and infrastructure incidents Senior Network Engineer CORIO - San Carlos, CA 1999 to 2005 Provided 2nd and 3rd level support for over 300 network devices across 3 data centers and various customer locations.  Daily duties consisted of execution of planned changes, customer activations, troubleshooting and maintenance of network devices. Network Engineer Lucent Technologies - Milpitas, CA 1993 to 1999 System Administrator Store Polling Systems - Dallas, TX 1990 to 1993 Education MBA in Information Systems Texas Tech University - Tech, Texas, US 1990 BA in Information Systems Texas Tech University - Tech, Texas, US 1987 Skills Network design, Aci, Catalyst, Linux, Cisco, Firewalls, Solarwinds, Virtualization, Juniper, Netscout, Tacacs, Sdn, Vmware, Change management, Deployment, Fwsm, Disaster recovery, Firewall, Aix, Snmp, Networking, LAN, security