Field Service Technician Field Service Technician Field Service Technician - NATUS MEDICAL INC Philadelphia, PA Work Experience Field Service Technician NATUS MEDICAL INC - Philadelphia, PA October 2018 to Present Responsible for installing, configuring and maintenance for all Natus electroencephalogram and electromyography medical devices for hospitals in PA, NJ and NY.    Key accomplishments:    • Coordinating with hospitals' IT, engineering and clinical staff to provide correct site planning, network connectivity, firewall/endpoint security and clinical workflows for issued Natus devices.  • Providing remote and on-site technical support across 50+ medical facilities.  • Procurement, installation and configuration of all network backbone devices and hardware components to end-users    • Providing excellent trust relationship for all of clients on behalf of my employer.  • Plan, manage and perform small to large neurology installations  • Ensure all installations are managed in a professional manner in accordance with the FDA and HIPPA.  • Responsible for diagnosing and analyzing causes of product failures, reporting findings and making recommendations for improvement by providing feedback to Engineering, Operations and other cross functional teams.  • Complete all data entry activities including expense reports, and enter into corporate systems as defined by procedures. Network/Systems Administrator Buffalo, NY August 2017 to October 2018 Monitoring, implementing and supporting all IT needs and infrastructures for my employer's clientele remotely and on-site.    Key accomplishments:    • Migrating/Converting Xen and Hyper-V environments over to VMware environments.  • Technical expert for the entire organization(s) resolving 100% of issues escalated.  • Multi-site backup, DR and HA solutions and implementations.  • Procurement, installation and configuration of all backbone to end-user hardware and components.  • Converting outdated backbone systems with current hardware and network connectivity.  • Providing an excellent trust relationship for all of my clients on behalf of my employer. Network Systems Administrator SPEED GLOBAL SERVICES - Buffalo, NY January 2012 to August 2017 Monitoring security, network optimization, improving systems reliability, technical helpdesk, storage back-ups, IT procurement and technical installations.    Key accomplishments:    • Handpicked to project manage the technical completion of all distribution warehouses within the organization - completed on time and budget.  • Achieved 99.99% server uptime.  • Technical expert for the entire organization resolving 100% of issues escalated.  • Defined and introduced an IT ticket system, expediting resolution for all internal/external support.  • Analyzed and installed IT solutions for coworkers and partnered companies consistently within budget. FREELANCE/CONSULTING IT SPECIALIST, Nationwide January 2002 to November 2011 Operated nationwide for startup/existing small and medium-sized business - support included network infrastructures, server backbones, backup solutions, end user workstations, printing solutions, document management, email, WIFI, network security, Hyper-V and VMware.    Key accomplishments:    • Facilitated bespoke IT needs for customers on time and within budget.  • Trained customers on Microsoft licensing and products.  • Provided self-sufficient IT solutions minimizing future technical support issues and associated costs.  • Achieved 100% customer satisfaction. Skills ACTIVE DIRECTORY, CISCO, LAYER 2, OPTIMIZATION, TCP