Network Engineer <span class="hl">Network</span> Engineer Network Engineer Cottage Grove, MN Work Experience Network Engineer Summit Companies - Saint Paul, MN March 2018 to April 2019 Responsible for acquiring Sonic Firewalls through vender and configuring a secured VPN access back to corporate  main office. Most configurations consisted of two load balancing circuits, one for VoIP and DATA. Configured wireless  access at all remote locations and setup of Global VPN (LDAP) and Net Extender configurations. Managed and configured vlans on a HP layer 3 core, two 10 gig uplinks to Distribution switch where Corp servers, nas and backup  solutions reside. All users resided on a cisco (access layer) switch stack where data and voice traffic traversed.  Traveled to some newly acquired offices and installed SonicWall firewall while helping with migrating systems to new  ip scheme and the joining to corporate domain. Assisted with re-IPing statically assigned devices to new reserved IP's.  Configured new Vlans for better traffic management. Mapped out in Visio the entire corporate network as well as all  remote locations. Drawings depicted all equipment, vlans and port runs of all devices. Administer internet content  access at corporate and remote sites through SonicWall content filtering. Worked with providers on all connectivity  issues pertaining to VPN, data and VoIP services. Configured SNMP to leverage ManageEngine to monitor uptime and information on SonicWall and networking devices. Field Service Engineer CP RAILROAD July 2017 to March 2018 Install, configure and upgrade network components at railroad yards across the U.S. Work with remote  engineers to resolve issues pertaining to installations such as VPN, wireless, configuration or device  issues. Installed Cisco routers, switches, wireless AP's and UPS devices. Once backend systems are up  and communicating with remote offices, I resume to make sure all local devices are also communicating over the VPN tunnel and passing information accordingly. Rewire Cat 6 and fiber runs for better onsite management.    6729 99th St. So. Cottage Grove, MN 55016 651-308-6279 aheller65@icloud.com  Information Technology Specialist Sr. Network Engineer Velocity Cloud Services - Minneapolis, MN April 2015 to May 2017 Responsible in maintaining security access for new and current clients to specific cloud (ERP) services.  Configure new VPN routers for new clients or upgrades. Support remote Sr. Engineers with installations/configuration of new IBM servers, firewalls, routers, switches and big-ip's as requested. Troubleshoot daily security issues  pertaining to resource access configuring VPN routers, Cisco ASA, Juniper or McAffee Sidewinder access-list, NAT or  group policies. Work closely with server group on access issues pertaining to network resources. Monitor network  resources via Nagios and investigate alerts for slow or down devices. Open tickets with Verizon Business and other  carriers on WAN issues. Install fiber runs or Cat5 for new installations of network devices. Sr. Network Administrator Sportsman's Guide - Saint Paul, MN 2006 to 2015 Essential top-tier IT support for Internet Catalog Company. Twofold responsibilities included installing and maintaining corporate servers for business use as well as load balancing e-commerce systems. Successfully partnered  with vendors to set up IPSec VPN access. Successfully converted more than 50 servers to VMWare residing on IBM Flex system. Organized client set-up for FTP access to servers.  • Specialized in design, configuring, installation, maintenance, and troubleshooting for Cisco systems: 6509  Cisco Catalyst for VSS redundancy, adding 10 gig modules to increase bandwidth from 1 Gig; Cisco 3700 series  access switches; ASA Firewalls/5540/5520, Access Point Models 55/60/92.    Client Name  • Expert in multiple security technologies, including the set up of port security and DHCP snooping; monitoring  LogRhythm for failed attempts at file access; and configuring AirWave to identify rogue wireless devices trying to access the network.  • Adept at e-commerce load balancing, installing and configuring AppDirector and LinkProof to load balance  servers and two shopping circuits while managing bandwidth consumption.  • Fought attacks on network by installing and managing Radware Defense Pro while effectively using AppWall  for Payment Card Industry (PCI) compliance against customer data theft. System Administrator Aspen Mortgage Company - Newport, MN 2003 to 2006 Information Technology manager recruited to partner with new mortgage company to design and construct an innovative network and wireless environment. Installed category 5/3 cabling for network and phones, configured and  administered two HP servers on NT 2003 platform, and developed hierarchy for shared and protected network data.  Optimized internal LAN infrastructure at primary location and four regional offices. Troubleshooter for all application, email, and Internet needs.  • Key developer of backup protocols to maintain regulatory compliance and disaster recovery.  • Successful collaborator with President and corporate managers to ensure IT systems enhanced and improved  business operations and helped achieve strategic growth objectives. Senior Systems Analyst Target Corporation - Minneapolis, MN 2003 to 2003 Analyst tasked with resolving high-end issues with new equipment configuration as well as analyzing and creating  testing objectives for IT rollouts. Expertly maintained Dell server farms to ensure immediate network service for Target, Marshall Fields, and Mervyn retail outlets. Successfully collaborated with network/backup groups to resolve  technical problems.  • Specialist with SMS software for remote issues, reinstalls/pushes while managing IT Help Desk.    6729 99th St. So. Cottage Grove, MN 55016 651-308-6279 aheller65@icloud.com  Information Technology Specialist Network Administrator NBR - Saint Louis Park, MN 1998 to 2002 Crucial expert assigned to implementation of WAN topology to migrate ten offices from dial up to frame-relay with Cisco 1602 series routers. Managed migration to 2000 IT compliance systems.  • Recommended conversion to 1000Gb (fiber) using 4600 Cisco Catalyst to increase network speed as well as lowered bandwidth usage by installing Citrix Metaframe server.  • Implemented Help Desk call tracking system to more effectively monitor technical issues.  • Manage and support a three-domain NT Enterprise with trusting relationships using DHCP/WINS/DNS  solutions.  • Installed Citrix server to lower bandwidth usage across regional lines for SQL production server and email. Help Desk Analyst Comdisco Network Services - Minnetonka, MN 1997 to 2000 Network Guidance - Minnetonka, MN 1998 to 1999 Vital IT support provider Allina Health Systems - Minneapolis, MN 1996 to 1998 for technical field engineers and users during site activations, upgrades, and Y2K migrations.  Monitored networks, servers, routers, switches, backups, applications, and peripheral equipment for customers.  Successfully performed network and server troubleshooting under intense time constraints. Served as effective team  leader for Pier One rollout.  • Expert with NT servers; Cisco 3600 series routers; om/Cisco switches; Optra, HP, and Mainframe (AS400)  Client Name  printers/terminals; router interfaces for ATM, IBM controller, and Adtran Multiplexer; SNMP; ISDN; VPN; DSL;  Ethernet; and Windows applications. Network Administrator EBP Life Insurance - Saint Louis Park, MN 1994 to 1998 Essential Help Desk support personnel promoted to Network Administrator after achieving key Novel Certification and demonstrated expertise in high-level customer service and IT support.  • Installed / configured servers, hubs, and routers.  • Supported third level helpdesk issues, managed user accounts, security and backup solutions.  • Administered Internet mail, Lotus Notes, Arcserve and Group Wise servers.  • Maintained/upgraded Novell/NT servers, hubs, Cisco routers and Shiva remote dial up boxes.  • Installed fifteen routers to remote office with 56k lines to access Citrix box and run business  applications and emails. No more remote dialup. PC/Printer Technician Morgan Stanley, NY - Stanley, FK 1991 to 1994 Managed parts department while performing technical support via phone or on the floor for Morgan  Stanley.  • Repaired and configured, while assisting other technicians, desktops, laptops and printers for the client.  • Setup/upgrade/configured Novell 3.x servers for client sites  • Instructed end users on new equipment upgrade installations of PC/Printers.  • Maintained IBM terminals, controllers and Sun systems  • Supported applications such as, Win 3.11, WordPerfect, Lotus 123 and Dos 3x.    6729 99th St. So. Cottage Grove, MN 55016 651-308-6279 aheller65@icloud.com  Information Technology Specialist Education Associate of Electronics in Advanced PC & Communications Brown Institute CCNA Long Island University Skills Active Directory, Cisco, Security