Junior Network Administrator II Junior <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> II Junior Network Administrator II - GSA - SAIC Denver, CO To obtain a position as a Junior Network Engineer II or NOC with a networking company, where I can bring in over seven years of Cisco routing and switching and troubleshooting and Adtran and VOIP knowledge to better the company. Work Experience Junior Network Administrator II GSA-SAIC - Broomfield, CO February 2019 to Present Reloading switches, configuring and troubleshooting devices (hardware, software and wireless devices), ticketing and escalating issues, dealing with outages and other sensors (PAX and BAS devices), monitoring network and setting security features to safeguard important clearance driven information. Junior Network Administrator II CenturyLink - Denver, CO February 2018 to March 2019 Troubleshooting escalated tickets, fix VOIP phones issues, Broadsoft Knowledge, network management services like EMC Remedy, Jumpstation, adtran machines and CISCO knowledge, BGP for complicated routing issues and configuration; work on the distribution network and access sections and some core issues, JPScript knowledge and telnetting, dispatching services to customers and network security knowledge. Network Administrator II Briarwood Health - Denver, CO June 2012 to February 2018 Network Administrator (II) - worked with remote routers, configured VLANs and troubleshoot Cisco devices from 1800s, 2900s, 3500 catalyst switches to working with Nexus and DOCSIS 3.0. Worked with layer two and three switches and subnet with classless or VLSM IP addresses. Also worked with IPv4 and IPv6 (6to4 tunneling) configuring, dual stack and transitioning; and interfaces, RIP1 and 2, OSPF, EIGRP, BGP and IGRP. Protected HIPAA documents and other important health information from the general public. Network Engineer I Telecommunications Liberia - Monrovia, LR March 2010 to June 2012 Built internetworks with fiber optic cables and copper through stacking of routers and switches for packet handling. Helped built third-party network devices and troubleshoot them, field work. Designed for scalability of network experimented with the different topologies. Drew network blueprint for logical use and configured dealing with RIP, EIGRP, IGRP, OSPF, VLSM, Wildcards, BGP, SCP and encrypting all passwords from console to telnet for network. Controlled and monitored the use of information from cell phones users in the country and helped manage important information from banking institutions. Web Master - Project Manager Colorado Falcons - Aurora, CO February 2003 to March 2010 Web Master for Colorado Falcons a non-profit organization based right here in Colorado using HTML, CSS and JAVA Scripting languages. Used Unix C++ programming language, DHTML language to build company websites, used ftp to transfer large files and POP3 and IMAP4 for large emails management. Also wrote grants for the organization and managed publications designs and outreach. E3 United States Marines October 2002 to April 2004 Rank: E3  Worked on millions of dollars communication systems assigned to tanks (AAAVs) and networked computers on the system for proper communication between tanks using WAN technology and antennas and radio frequencies. Also built broken computers putting NIC cards in computer slots for office gaming and figuring out port security. Education MBA in Operations Colorado Technical University - Denver, CO January 2016 to June 2017 Bachelors in Public Administration and Minor Networking University of Colorado Denver - Denver, CO June 2011 to December 2013 Associate in Computer Science AAS Community College of Aurora - Aurora, CO February 2009 to May 2011 Skills CISCO (7 years), TELNET (7 years), NETWORK SECURITY (6 years), REMEDY (4 years), VOIP (3 years), Service Now, ISE and Solarwinds (Less than 1 year) Military Service Branch: United States Marine Corps Rank: E3 Additional Information Skills: VOIP phones knowledge, routing, network management services knowledge especially with NOC, JPScript, Jumpstation, Broadsoft, EMC Remedy knowledge, Configuring routers and switches, verifying, and troubleshoot CISCO routers and Adtran devices, remote and local networking. Familiar with CLI/SDM/VMware/SecureCRT; network security knowledge, ping, trace-route, telnet, SSH, telnet, console the network. Perform and verify routing and switching configuration or tasks for a static and dynamic DHCP server and NAT-PAT. Knowledge of DHCP server, File server, Email server and Web server and more. Can subnet and lead designing of the logical and physical layout of networks, figure out problems quickly using OSI and TCP/IP and using common networking sense or methods.    Commendations: War time ribbon and National Defense ribbon    Other Skills: Can lift up to 50 lbs consistently, bend and stand for hours and a great team player, I can work with a team and also be counted on to work independently.