Chief Information Officer (CIO) Chief Information Officer (CIO) Holly Springs, NC IT Governance | Security and Compliance | IT Operations Management     Accomplished, dedicated and highly knowledgeable IT Executive with specialization in the Healthcare Industry. Credited with 20-years of progressive leadership roles to include Chief Information Officer and Vice President of Information Technology. Holds a Master’s Degree in Network Technology and Information Security. Illustrates high performance leadership directing large IT department in healthcare. Directs through human resource initiatives and management methodologies in hiring practices, development and retainment regarding team of professionals. Adept in business acumen through detailed reporting and development of technology strategy that supports successful operations within the organization and across vendor and contracted partner solutions. Offers a comprehensive understanding regarding compliance in the areas of HIPAA, HITECH, PCI-DSS and other regulations. Leads with a collaborative approach by igniting communication with all members and levels of the organization to ensure transparency of business needs and propose relevant solutions Work Experience Chief Information Officer (CIO) Legacy Healthcare Services - Raleigh, NC 2012 to Present Operational Excellence * Change Management * Business Process Optimization * Team Building & Leadership * Training & Development * Problem Resolution * Process Development * Risk Management * Regulatory Compliance * Client and Vendor Liaison Relationship Management * Vendor Contract Negotiations * Project Management * Risk Management * Workflow    LEGACY HEALTHCARE SERVICES, Raleigh, NC, 2012 - Present  Chief Information Officer  Manage and direct healthcare IT Department encompassing over 4000 users within 300 sites nationwide.  Identification and management of risk related to all company and patient data. Expertise includes creation and enforcement of enterprise level security policy; create, test and implement all IT policies and procedures; oversee IT strategic planning and development.    * Reduce risk by implementing a comprehensive security policy company wide to include management of over 5000 devices along with elements to ensure HIPAA compliance, MDM, and full end to end encryption enforcement.  * Lead company migration regarding data and systems from locally hosted environments to cost effective cloud environments.. Utilized detailed attention to both data security and regulatory compliance.  * Serve as a Senior Incident Response Team member strengthening regulatory compliance and data breach response reediness through leading the organization in Incident Response training.  * Delivery of shortened revenue cycle along lessening Days of Sales Outstanding (DSO) through leveraging new technology and facilitating integration with existing EMR system.  * Design and implement company wide Disaster Mitigation Plan that includes semiannual testing.  * Improve workflow of patient intake process by working with a development group to create a new patient intake system which is paperless and allows for collection of patient responsibility at POS; new system tailored to space and fully interpolatable and allowed for greater productivity at point of intake.  * Reduce yearly IT spend through leveraging relationships rewarding purchasing habits. Vice President of IT Security and Compliance LEGACY HEALTHCARE SERVICES - Raleigh, NC 2007 to 2012 Managed daily operation of the IT Department and delivered a customer service focused end user support team. Expertise included management of IT purchasing and daily spending through cost control and budget oversight.    * Led tactical deployment of Information Security reducing risk to the organization as well as strengthening compliance with HIPAA and HITECH  * Managed IT policy enforcement by conducting user education programs and working with management to ensure accountability for policy violations.  * Delivered highly available EMR system by designing a fault tolerant network that ensured 24/7 uptime while maintaining compliance with Enterprise Security Policy.  * Collaborated with CIO to migrate to cloud services where appropriate and deploy cloud level security tactics. Network Administrator LEGACY HEALTHCARE SERVICES - Raleigh, NC 2005 to 2007 Performed complex technical analysis of network software, hardware, routers, switches, and various transmission systems using a variety of diagnostic tools in support of efficient network operations. Expertise included administration of company Active Directory and supported the crafting of policy for change control and enforcement techniques. Managed Wireless Lan and ensured security of all network nodes.    * Led Microsoft Exchange environment enabling digital messaging and with enterprise IT environment.  * Oversaw SQL to ensure proper updating of retrieval of data..  * Managed WAN connections with over 200 remote sites consisting of remotely connected users.  * Served as a key member of the Cyber Security Team. Network Manager SCYNEXIS CHEMISTRY AND AUTOMATION 2000 to 2005 Network Administrator Nork Biosciences 1999 to 2000 Education Master's in Network Technology and Information Security East Carolina University - Greenville, NC 2019 Bachelor of Science East Carolina University - Greenville, NC Skills Active Directory (10+ years), Cisco (10+ years), CRM. (Less than 1 year), Cyber Security (10+ years), EMR (10+ years), Exchange (10+ years), Microsoft Exchange (10+ years), security (10+ years) Certifications/Licenses CISSP Cyber Security Professional Additional Information Technical Proficiency    Cyber Security, Cloud Migration, Office 365, BP Logix Process Director, Casamba Smart EMR, Cisco Routers, Microsoft Exchange, Active Directory and CRM.