I.T. Specialist I.T. Specialist I.T. Professional with over 15 years experience Coral Springs, FL I.T. professional with over 15 years experience, numerous related certifications and a track record of improving the efficiency, availability, reliability and confidentiality of networks, servers and systems. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience I.T. Specialist Hamilton Group Funding, Inc. - Sunrise, FL March 2019 to Present Project and technical support for a growing mortgage lending firm. Lots of multi-tasking, systems, server, network and user support/administration, small projects, IMACs (installs, moves, adds, changes), Active Directory, Azure, Office 365, Exchange, administer/support various applications, network printing, etc. Instructor (part-time) Florida Career College - Margate, FL April 2018 to July 2018 Teaching information technology courses to students working to earn the CompTIA A+ certification (220-901 and 220-902 exams) as well as Microsoft MCSA courses (70-410 and 70-411 exams). Network Administrator Vital Pharmaceuticals, Inc. - Weston, FL July 2015 to July 2017 Systems/servers/ network administration and support for a national manufacturer of sports nutrition products and supplements. Responsible for Active Directory, hardware, software implementation, installation, support & administration, troubleshooting and maintenance, disaster recovery, backups, project management, procurement, etc.  • Increased LAN availability & reliability from below 90% to well over 99.9% and greatly improved LAN security.  • At VPX I improved LAN and WiFi bandwidth by 20-fold and vastly increased the level of WiFi security. Integration Engineer CIS Group, LLC June 2013 to July 2014 Built and configured custom servers from chassis including installation and configuration of proprietary software for international integrator of GLOOBOX MXF-based digital workflow solutions.    • A perfect build record, none of the servers I built and configured ever failed while I was employed there. Consultant/Systems Integrator Curtis Galper June 2011 to June 2013 Provided I.T. support and consulting services for area SMB/SOHO networks. The job included LAN/WAN and systems  administration, IMACs, build-outs, upgrades, repairs, Wi-Fi administration/setup/troubleshooting, VPNs, support, etc.  Experience 'd): Senior Network Administrator Web Net Holdings, Inc September 2010 to June 2011 Administration and support for multi-domain, multi-corporation LAN/WAN, server systems and call-center. Procured and managed over 12000 public IP addresses. User & email account administration, server and dialer builds, router and  firewall administration, wireless phone, VoIP phone and PBX administration, workstation imaging (Ghost), co-located  proxy procurement and administration, application support and upgrades, backup and disaster recovery, etc. for a holding  corporation comprised of several national educational resource firms.    • A perfect reliability record, none of Web Net's over 100 local or remote collocated servers ever failed during my tenure. Field Service Engineer ( Network) CBIZ Networking Solutions, LLC March 2004 to June 2010 Achieved 100% SLA compliance for Florida territory, the USA and Caribbean. On call 24/7/365. LAN/WAN and systems  troubleshooting, installations, IMACs, repairs. HP, Adtran, Cisco, router/switch configuration, VPN appliance, cabling,  racking, etc. for a national I.T. business solutions provider.    • Achieved 100% SLA compliance over a period of seven years at CBIZ, improving productivity and reducing client costs. Education Bachelor of Science in Business & Marketing Jacksonville University - Jacksonville, FL Skills LAN (10+ years), DISASTER RECOVERY (3 years), BACKUPS (10+ years), DOCUMENTATION (10+ years), Cisco (10+ years), Systems Administration (10+ years), PBX (5 years), VoIP (5 years), Email Administration (5 years), Server Administration, configuration, installation (10+ years) Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/curtisgalper Certifications/Licenses MCSE MCSA MCITP MCTS (x4) MCP Security+ CE Network+ A+ Certified Additional Information Key Skills:  • Troubleshooting & Problem Solving  • Systems & Network Reliability, Availability & Security  • Installs, Moves, Adds, Changes  • Project Management & Reporting  • Systems & Network Administration  • Servers, Email, Firewalls, PBX, Printers, Backups  • Disaster Recovery and Mitigation  • Virtualization (Hyper-V, VMWare)  • Anti-Virus, IDS/IPS  • Technical & User Support/Training  • Effective Communication  • Attention to Detail, Multi-Tasking  • Procedure Development & Documentation  • Vendor & Provider Relations    • Improved the availability & reliability of the VPX corporate LAN from less than 90% to over 99.9%.  • Vastly increased LAN and WiFi security and increased LAN and WiFi bandwidth by more than 10-fold.  • Achieved 100% SLA compliance over a period of seven years at CBIZ, improving productivity and reducing client costs.  • A perfect build record at CIS Group, none of the servers I built and configured ever failed while I was employed there.  • A perfect reliability record, none of Web Net's over 100 local or remote collocated servers ever failed during my tenure.