Systems Engineer Systems Engineer Systems Engineer - Molina Healthcare Ridgeland, MS Information Technology professional with 20+ years of experience in various strategic information technology areas. Seeking to leverage my technical and professional skills. Work Experience Systems Engineer Molina Healthcare - Long Beach, CA 2005 to May 2019 Systems Engineer and subject matter expert for data protection. Design and implement complex data protection and disaster recovery solution. Provide level 4 technical support for multi-platform, multiple site backup and recovery environment. Develop and maintain policies and standards for data protection and disaster recovery. Participate in capacity planning and performance discussions and assist in development and execution of disaster recovery exercises. Ensuring that SOX related artifacts are collected, reviewed, and provided to auditors SOX compliance certifications.    Highlights:  ? Participated in 5 vendor proof of concept to replace an outdated data protection solution and reduce costs.  ? Collaborated in the design and implementation of Cohesity 58 node cluster for data protection and disaster recovery of VMware, Isilon and PANZURA file shares, MS SQL and Oracle databases, MS Windows and Enterprise Linux servers; with long term tape storage and MS Azure cloud integration.  ? Deploy NetBackup appliances as a replacement for EMC Data Domain.  ? Design and deploy mid-sized NetBackup environment, converting from tape backup to NetBackup PureDisk.  ? Designed and implemented a monthly restore testing process.  ? Performed multiple enterprise wide NetBackup software upgrades.  ? Train Operations personnel in backup troubleshooting procedures.  ? Configure end user and management reports through NetBackup Ops Center Analytics Server. Network Engineer Bethesda, MD 2003 to 2005 Provide level 2 support for LAN/WAN in an 18-site network. Evaluate LAN/WAN hardware and software requirements and make recommendations. Monitor and maintain network stability. Communicate and coordinate network schedule, backups, and downtime to corporate users. Prepare and maintain network configuration documentation. Responsible for all telecommunications systems.    Highlights:  ? Implemented enhancements and upgrades to network systems that resulted in more reliable, efficient, and cost-effective operations.  ? Deployed EIGRP with ISDN as a backup network at multiple remote offices.  ? Directed contractors in the deployment of a Windows 2003 domain to replace Novell Netware.  ? Migrated Novell GroupWise accounts on Microsoft Exchange.  ? Upgraded Novell Netware and GroupWise servers from version 5.0 to 6.5.  ? Directed deployment of enterprise VoIP phone system.  ? Directed development of ecommerce web site with graphic designers.  ? Managed installation and configuration of an internet-based reservation system for a restaurant. Network Administrator Hechinger - Largo, MD 1998 to 2003 Manage daily operation of 300+ node corporate network. Supervised LAN Engineer in establishing user accounts, managing shared applications and resources, server backups, virus protection management, operating and maintaining the AS/400 system, and Help Desk ticket resolution. Monitor and maintain network stability. Prepare and maintain network configuration documentation.    Highlights:  ? Manage network Y2K project.  ? Designed and implemented a network faxing solution.  ? Supervised rollout of Windows 98 and Windows XP and implemented a standardized desktop.  ? Served as Network Manager and sole IT resource during company liquidation period.  ? Maintained AS/400 system patches and backups.  ? Downsized enterprise-wide computer systems during liquidation through progressively smaller configurations as the needs of the business changed. LAN Administrator Options Healthcare - Norfolk, VA 1997 to 1998 Application Systems Support Specialist Options Healthcare - Norfolk, VA 1995 to 1997 Data Center Operator Options Healthcare - Norfolk, VA 1993 to 1995 Education Computer Programming ECPI Computer Institute 1992 Skills Vmware, System Administrator, Linux, Active Directory, Cisco, DNS Assessments Technical Support — Expert August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/5yp4h7x5k3pt3-y0 Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information Technical Knowledge    • VERITAS NetBackup, NBU 5230/5240 Appliances  • EMC: Data Domain DD880g  • Cohesity  • VMware, Microsoft Hyper-V, Acropolis hypervisors  • QUANTUM Scalar i500, StorageTek SL-500, L-700 tape libraries  • Cisco Routers and switches  • Backup Integration with Azure cloud  • NetBackup PureDisk  • CA ArcServe  • EMC Isilon, CLARiiON  • IBM AS/400  • VERITAS OpsCenter Analytics