Network Administrator <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Network Administrator Winter Park, FL Work Experience Network Administrator Community Mediation Services - Jamaica, NY March 2004 to July 2019 Lead management of network connections and equipment, ensuring network, system, and data access with no downtime. Create upgrade protocols for users and network hardware. Deploy and configure Windows server. Manage user accounts and file sharing. Administer domain controllers and file and print servers. Install, configure, and maintain servers and desktops. Execute all IT equipment purchasing and track inventory. Provide first- and second-level end user support.  Key Achievements:  * Created and implemented network administration policies to streamline user workflows.  * Recognized for consistently meeting all production work order deadlines.  * Trusted advisor to senior leaders, recommending network security standards for implementation, such as new anti-virus software and critical system upgrades.  * Negotiated key partnerships with third-party vendors, driving down costs by $10K annually. IT Consultant Saatva Inc - Whitestone, NY January 2011 to December 2015 Managed IT infrastructure and developed long- and short-term strategies aligned with business goals and vision. Executed on- and off-site firewall and network monitoring. Deployed and configured Windows server and other Microsoft-based operating systems. Maintained domain controllers and file and print servers. Supported end users, quickly and efficiently troubleshooting and resolving issues. Developed technician schedules for long-term upgrade projects, prioritizing tasks.  Key Achievements:  * Built and implemented new server standards for core business services.  * Integrated new department procedures and standards to increase efficiencies and enhance connectivity.  * Worked cross-functionally with department managers to improve system upgrade processes.  * Led all testing within a complex, fast-paced environment. Education Associate of Science in Information Systems in Information Systems Ashworth College - Norcross, GA 2017 Skills ACTIVE DIRECTORY, FIREWALLS, NETWORK SECURITY, INFRASTRUCTURE DESIGN, NETWORK STORAGE, SWITCHING, ACCESS CONTROL, DISASTER RECOVERY, BACKUPS, SECURITY, ROUTING PROTOCOLS, CUSTOMER SERVICE, IT SUPPORT, VENDOR MANAGEMENT, MITIGATION, BEST PRACTICES, LAN Links http://linkedin.com/in/christopher-callender-42569645