Network Engineer <span class="hl">Network</span> Engineer Network Engineer Reno, NV I am a reliable and hard working Network Engineer/ Administrator and Maintenance Technician, with over 14 years of experience in the IT and Electronics fields. During the years I have gathered knowledge and skill in LAN, WAN, Wireless, routing, switching, MS Server, hardware repair, software repair, desktop support, and disaster recovery.    Profile  • Combined 14 years of Experience as Network Administrator/Engineer, Network Technician, Hardware Technician, and Desktop Support.  • Cisco CCENT certified, and on track for CISCO CCNA and CCNP Certification. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Network Engineer Emmanuel IT Solutions - Dekemhare - ER 2009 to 2019 • Configured and installed multivendor routers, switches, billing hotspots.  • Worked with Cisco L3 switches, routers and IOS command.  • Designed, configured and installed wireless mesh.  • Installed wide range of network equipment.  • configuration of Server 2008 and Server 2012.  • Performed VSAT terminal installation at multiple sites.  • Installed and configured layer 7 Mikrotik firewall and ZYXEL products.  • Administered disaster recovery plans for client networks.  • Managed IT Services to local businesses, schools and government offices.  • Employee monitoring and management.  • Workflow management. Network Technician/Trainer Don Bosco Technical School - Dekemhare - ER 2008 to 2009 • Implemented Server 2003 Terminal Server solution for student training purposes.  • Installed and configured campus wide network, with Active Directory, Group Policy, DNS and DHCP.  • Secured the network via Microsoft ISA Firewall and Proxy Server.  • Taught computer maintenance, networking and office suite classes. Network Administrator/Technician Ministry of Defense - Asmara, ER July 2005 to December 2008 • Configured server 2003 and Server 2008 Active Directory, Group Policy, DHCP, DNS.  • Migrated Domain Controller during multiple upgrades.  • Kept network infrastructure up-to-date and secured.  • Maintained network security policies and monitored compliance.  • Maintained all network documentation for hardware configuration and licensing.  • Recommend needed and optimal infrastructure improvements.  • Regular SQL server backup and restore.  • Installed and repaired 20 KVA / 40 KVA Hybrid UPS systems in various sites. Hardware Repair/ Network Technician PAN IT Solutions - Dekemhare - ER 2001 to 2005 • Network wiring and configuration in LAN environment.  • Network cabling and testing.  • PC and laptop hardware troubleshooting and repair.  • Operating system, antivirus, application installation and repair.  • SMPS Power supply and other electronic repair.  • Inverter/UPS Repair  • Printer, Scanner, Copier, Fax Repair Education Bachelor of Science in Electrical and Electronics Engineering Eritrean Institute of Tech 2014 Skills Cisco, Dhcp, Router, Terminal server, Dns, Wireless, Backups, Instrumentation, Vsat, Point-to-point, Microsoft office, Windows 98, Active Directory, Security, Networking, LAN, firewalls Certifications/Licenses CCENT August 2009 to Present Additional Information Skills  • DNS, DHCP, Terminal Server, AD, GP (Server 2003, Server 2008, and Server 2012).  • System backups and network upgrades.  • IP addressing, subnetting, and forwarding proficient.  • Knowledge of Cisco network hardware and software.  • Mikrotik, zyxel router and switch configuration.  • Newtech and Evolution VSAT installation.  • Wireless point-to-point, and wireless mesh.  • Windows 98, 2000, XP, Vista, 7, 8 and 10 experience.  • Microsoft office suite proficiency.  • Microcontroller interfacing.  • PC, laptop, office equipment hardware and software repair.  • Instrumentation and electrical measurements, Electronics Repair.