Network Administrator <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Looking to Relocate to Ohio Janesville, WI ? Effective Network Supervisor with 10 plus years in Information Technology.    ? Experience in hiring staff and conducting annual reviews  ? Experience with recommending and budgeting IT needs for large and small businesses  ? Effective at directing staff and vendors towards quick resolution of network outages and keeping maintenance projects within original scope of time and budget  ? Very strong leadership, management and communication skills Work Experience Network Administrator Rockford Public School District 205 - Rockford, IL June 2018 to Present Monitor and maintain a network of 45 schools and one district office  ? Manage, configure and troubleshoot Cisco network equipment  ? Manage, configure and troubleshoot Palo Alto Firewalls  ? Switch over from 1gig ISP circuits to redundant 10gig ciruits  ? Monitor SOlarwinds/Orion for any network outages, high latency, etc  ? Recommend, test, and implement network security changes IT Client Manager Rhyme - Portage, WI 2016 to June 2018 Responsible for helping our clients succeed through proper analysis, planning, implementing, configuring, administering, troubleshooting and maintaining of their IT Environment.  ? Responsible for providing network infrastructure related pre/post sales technical support to sales department  ? Manage Projects for clients  ? Configure Cisco/Meraki Switches, routers, firewalls, access points Network Supervisor Mercy Health Systems - Janesville, WI 2007 to 2016 Coordinate projects and tasks for the staff of Network Engineers  ? Maintain SolarWinds, CiscoWorks, and Netflow Tracker, Cisco MARS/IPS and Kiwi CatTools to ensure complete network monitoring of 3 hospitals, 32 clinics, and 17 home transcriptionists and radiologists circuits  ? Manage Cisco Smartnet contract to ensure equipment of over 350 devices is covered appropriately  ? Assist current Network Engineer staff with troubleshooting any network related issues  ? Train network engineer staff as new processes and equipment are instituted  ? Conduct annual reviews for staff  ? Document PCI and HIPAA compliance practices  ? Design network connectivity with circuit providers - Windstream and Charter  ? Create and maintain network design maps  ? Assist with the development of Change Management Process  ? Budget and recommend network equipment needs for organization  ? Implement successful network project for organization's redundant datacenter  ? Design, recommend and coordinate implementation of separate public internet circuit for guest internet access  ? Assist system admin and application teams in resolving multiple application and interface issues  ? Configure BGP, EIGRP, OSPF, and Static routing  ? Configure redundant ASA's with 30+ ipsec tunnels  ? Configure DMVPN's using Hub and Spoke  ? Configure redundant Nexus 7k's in redundant datacenters with OTV  ? Configure Multicast routing and QOS across network Network Engineer II Mercy Health Systems - Janesville, WI 2005 to 2007 * Monitored and maintained LAN/WAN devices  * Recommended and instituted deployment of Linux/TACACS for secure access to Cisco devices  * Developed standard configurations for installing network devices  * Recommended and deployed SolarWinds for monitoring of organization network  * Installed and upgraded LAN/WAN circuits  * Configured, monitored, and troubleshot LAN-LAN tunnels  * Maintained and upgraded servers, end user computers and printers Network Technician Charter Communications - Janesville, WI 2002 to 2005 * Monitored and maintained cable modem network supporting 50,000 + customers  * Assisted in designing in-house Method of Procedures (MOPs) Change Management  * Configured Cisco and Arris routers (VOIP) for cable modem and cable telephone customers  * Installed and serviced fiber equipment for business customers  * Assist in developing PERL scripts for reports and monitoring network IS Manager Charter Communications - Janesville, WI 2000 to 2002 Managed staff of four employees  ? Designed in-house training on software for internal employees  ? Budgeted IT equipment to upgrade and maintain 8 sites  ? Managed and evaluated cell phone contracts for sites  ? Successful budget, purchase, and implementation of new phone system  ? Developed Helpdesk email form for requesting end user support  ? Budgeted training needs of IS department IT Manager Mann Brothers - Elkhorn, WI 1999 to 2000 Successful budget and purchase all new workstations, servers, and phone system  ? Managed project to replace AS/400 accounting system  ? Recommend, install and maintain Exchange server, web server, and file servers.  ? Develop company website  ? Maintain company computer inventory Education High school or equivalent Skills CISCO, SOLARWINDS, CISCOWORKS, CISCO PIX, IDS, IPS, SNORT, WIRESHARK, CSS, POLYCOM, VOIP, VIDEO CONFERENCING, VSS, NEXUS, Active Directory, Exchange, Security, DNS, MPLS, VPN, firewalls, Vmware