Senior Network Engineer Senior <span class="hl">Network</span> Engineer Senior Network Engineer - Georgia Department of Transportation Work Experience Senior Network Engineer Georgia Department of Transportation - Atlanta, GA April 2018 to Present • Designed and Implemented MPLS with OSPF underlay and redistrubed BGP for the overlay  • Designed new IP address shceme for entire network  • Designed and implemented layer 3 network by installed Nexus 9k in all hubs.  • Perform network troubleshooting to isolate and diagnose complex network problems  • Maintained High availability across multiple platforms using QoS, VMware 5.5 Clustering, Hyper V, for redundancy & load balancing.  • Installed and configured Solar winds NPM for network monitoring using SNMP traps on all end devices  • Installed and configured Cisco Nexus 7k and 9K series switches with VMware VSphere for simplicity and scalability in a data center environment.  • Installed and maintained F5 Bip IP/LTM load balancing  • Introduced Ansible to automate processes using python for the scripting language  • Designed VXLAN as a IP Fabric overlay to transport frames in switch fabric, to provide flexibility and scalability for spine and leaf switches using EVPN as the address family to carry MAC and IP information to end tenant.  • Configured and deployed Palo Alto Firewalls replacing Checkpoint Firewalls  • Automated Network and Systems processes using Python and Ansible.  • Deployed Cisco ACI in switch fabric interconnect using 9500 for the spine and 9300 for leaf swithes Senior Network/Infrasturcture Architect Citrix Systems - Alpharetta, GA February 2016 to March 2018 • High/Low level design of entire switch fabric including 7K, 3K & 5K with 2K fabric extenders.  • Design MPLS network for multiple sites  • Lead on firewall design including configuration and deployment.  • Analyze business requirements to develop technical network solutions and their framework.  • Design, test, and inspect data communications systems.  • Perform network modeling, analysis, and planning.  • Develop test plans, implementation plans, and project timelines for various projects.  • Write functional requirements/specifications documents  • Develop technology roadmaps.  • Perform network troubleshooting to isolate and diagnose complex network problems  • Assess vendor development/test strategies.  • Involved in designing and deploying a multitude of applications utilixing almost all of the AWS stack (including EC2, Route53, S3, RDS Dynamo DB, SNS, SQS, IAM) Focusion of High-availability, Fault-tolerance, and auto scalling.  • Created AWS route53 to route traffic between mutilple regions.  • Experience with monitoring tolls such as Cloud Watch.  • Installed and configured chef server/workstation and nodes via CLI tools to AWS nodes. Senior Infrastructure Engineer Stratose LLC - Sandy Springs, GA November 2015 to January 2016 • Designed, installed and Configured Data Center and Disaster Recovery Center including redundant firewall and core design and switch fabric.  • Installed Nexus 9363 Core switch with VPC peering and keep alive for automatic failover.  • Exchanged Checkpoint Firewall for Cisco ASA 5525/5516/5506 with firepower.  • High/Low level design of entire switch fabric including 9K, 3K & 5K with 2K fabric extenders.  • Installed Cisco MPLS full mesh with SIP and QoS for VOIP phone priority for two datacenters and six remote sites.  • Designed internal routing using OSPF, iBGP and eBGP.  • Designed and configured Subnet migration from class C to Class A due to company acquisition and Mergers.  • Designed an SDN network to take advantage of intelligent and centrally controlled software applications  • Install Cisco AnyConnect VPN for remote users when working out of office.  • Installed and configured Solar winds NPM for network monitoring using SNMP traps on all end devices.  • Created network designs using MS Vizio.  • Installed Fabric Path on switch fabric to avoid STP loops using feature commands.  • Installed F5 Big IP LTM for load balancing DMZ with multiple web & FTP servers.  • Managed Large scale environments including 1000+ switches, routers, firewalls, MPLS and load balancers.  • Installed and managed Cisco 5500 series/Aruba 7000 series wireless AP with controllers. Senior Network Engineer Panasonic Automotive - Peachtree City, GA October 2013 to November 2015 • Designed a more efficient internal/external routing protocols using OSPF and BGP.  • Designed and implemented DMZ zone for FTP and Web Services.  • Added Nexus 5k leaf switches and 7k core switches with fabric path integration in a Data Center environment.  • Added and configured Nexus 7k core switches with fabric path integration.  • Designed and configured switch stack with Cisco 3850 switches  • Migrated SCCM/SCOM 2007 to 2013  • Migrated MS Exchange 2010 to 2013 Office 365 cloud instance.  • Created and designed tunneling protocols for virtual WAN connections using MPLS, L2TP, PPTP, L2F  • Sub netting IP's using VLSM for optimal IP sub netting structure, created Vlans to separate broadcast domains on Cisco switches.  • Managed large scale environments including 2000+ switch fabric, 1000+ routers, multi-layer ASA firewalls, MPLS and load balancers.  • Installed and configured F5 Load balancers to optimize high availability and reduce bottleneck traffic on client network  • Installed and configured MPLS to extend QoS through ISP virtual backbone to allow guaranteed packet throughput from end to end. Senior Network Architect AT&T Mobility Services - Atlanta, GA September 2010 to October 2013 • Responsible for designing and maintaining client infrastructure networks including CAS servers, MPLS sites, Cisco firewalls, Cisco switches/routers, creating DMZ zones, F5 Load Balancing, LDAP/OU structures.  • Installed and managed Windows server 2008 R2 and server 2012 sever manager including installing IIS roles, DHCP, DNS, .Net Frameworks, .Net Applications, Group Policy, OU structures and ACL permissions.  • Installed Exchange server 2003/2007/2013 and Office 365 cloud instance.  • PowerShell scripting to manage users, servers, applications and deployments.  • PS engagements for MDM platforms including Air watch 7 and MobileIron Core instances.  • NATting IP structures for LAN networks with MPLS virtual backbone sites for WAN networks in data center environment.  • Sub netting IP's using VLSM for optimal IP sub netting structure, created VLans to separate broadcast domains on Cisco switches.  • Installed and configured MPLS to extend QoS through ISP virtual backbone to allow guaranteed packet throughput from end to end.  • Configured SIP trunking on Cisco VOIP Call Manager for optimal voice traffic through multiple sites.  • Installed and configured Cisco Nexus 7000 series switches with VMware VSphere for simplicity and scalability in a data center environment.  • Created and designed tunneling protocols for virtual WAN connections using MPLS, L2TP, PPTP, L2F  • Managed routing protocols, such as; EIGRP, OSPF, RIPv1 & 2, and BGP, MPLS/VPN  • Installed and maintained VOIP services for multiple clients including Cisco Call Manager & Avaya  • Maintained High availability across multiple platforms using QoS, VMware 5.5 Clustering, Hyper V, for redundancy & load balancing.  • Designing and Performed Routine Backup and Restore functions for multiple DR sites using various agents and hardware i.e. Addonics, IBM, HP, Cisco  • Installed and configured Cisco Call manager 7.0 and above  • Installed and configured F5 Load balancers to optimize high availability and reduce bottleneck traffic on client network Senior Network Engineer (IT Consultant) Depuy Synthes Company - Palm Beach Gardens, FL August 2007 to August 2010 • Maintained complex LAN and WAN networks, Cisco routers, and switches (including IOS 7500,6500,2960, 2811 series)  • Managed routing protocols, such as; EIGRP, OSPF, RIPv1 & 2, and BGP, MPLS/VPN  • Performed IP network design, network integration, deployment and troubleshooting  • Installed and configured Cisco VOIP phone system for 300 clients  • Installed, configured, and managed Cisco 5505, 5512, 5540 series ASA firewall including NAT and Port Translation  • Created and documented new wiring schematic and Data/VOIP layout  • Installed ISCSI Fiber cabling for faster data transfer on all Backup servers  • Installed and implemented Active Directory OU structures including GPO Policy  • Deployed no touch and light touch image installation on all new workstations  • Installed and deployed Windows 2008 R2/2012 enterprise OS with AD integration  • Regulated data and voice patch with CAT 6 Plenum grade cabling  • Installed, configured and maintained IBM AIX servers with hot swap 3 TB drive using Windows 2008-R2/2012 enterprise OS  • Installed and configured Dell PE 710 server blades with 2008-R2/2012 Windows enterprise OS Senior System/ Network Administrator (Department Head) On Rite Company Inc - Fort Lauderdale, FL April 2005 to July 2007 • Served as the project manager in charge of installing and administering VoIP phone system complete with POE switches and sever configuration  • Designed, installed and supported installation and configuration of office-wide LAN used to replace aging dumb terminal system  • PowerShell scripting for all server environments including Windows Server, Exchange and SharePoint 2010.  • Directed expansion and maintenance of network support for hundreds of web hosting clients  • Designed and configured a Virtual Machine system that organized and condensed hundreds of servers using server clustering for redundancy, maximizing administration, efficiency, and energy conservation  • Implemented and configured a Storage Area Network (SAN) option to maximize ease of administration and provide redundancy  • Installed, configured, and maintained 3500/4500/2900 Cisco switches and 2811 Cisco routers  • Served as the project manager for transition from three bonded T1 lines to a Metro E Network Circuit that resulted in a faster network speed while reducing monthly network cost  • Installed and integrated Exchange Server with Active Directory and DNS to stream line user administration  • Acted as the project manager for transition from tape backups to Adonis 12 1TB hard disk drive array that allowed for faster and more efficient system backups  • Installed, configured, and managed company firewall routing traffic through secured UDP TCP/IP ports System/ Network Administrator Sy's Supplies - West Palm Beach, FL February 2002 to March 2005 • Specialized in Active Directory - integrated zones using DNS, DHCP, WINS, RRAS, IIS, and Group Policies of 2003/2008 server environments  • Served as the departmental lead responsible for the development, operation, and overall management of the IT department  • Installed and maintained network functionality, such as; Cisco switch Pix firewall, Cisco 1700 router, bandwidth, Windows 2003/2008 servers and Windows and Unix client machines  • Maintained and manipulated administrative settings, such as; user permissions via administrative tools, using MS Windows Server 2003.  • Designed, created, and managed workflows created to assist employees with their specific work functions  • Maintained and managed the company's Active Directory and Exchange server systems  • Performed office moves dealing with PC relocation and phone transfers Systems Administrator Broward County SOE - Fort Lauderdale, FL November 2000 to January 2002 • Provided technical support to the sales team during entire application cycle from pre-application to implementation  • Managed Active Directory - integrated zones using DNS, DHCP, WINS, RRAS, IIS, and Group Policies of 2003/2008 server environments  • Coordinated with heads of departments to ensure proper installation of equipment and network/application configuration  • Performed troubleshooting and diagnosis across a wide range of platforms and applications  • Designed and implemented company applications in an effort to create value added solutions  • Leveraged third party solutions in concert with our own products and services to provide a truly comprehensive and integrated package for the company  • Utilized Virtual Machines (VM Ware) to reduce IT costs and improve flexibility with server consolidation, decrease planned, and unplanned downtime for improved business continuity Computer Operation Engineer Federal Emergency Management Agency - Tallahassee, FL August 1998 to 2000 • Planned, directed, and coordinated information systems, systems analysis, electronic data processing, and computer system development  • Planned, coordinated, and implemented security measures to safeguard information  • Protected files against accidental or unauthorized damage, modification or disclosure  • Recommended systems and network configurations and determine hardware or software requirements related to such changes  • Implemented, tested, administered, and coordinated changes to Enterprise databases, such as; Oracle, DB2, SQL Server 2005