Help Desk Analyst Help Desk Analyst Experienced Information Technology Professional Norwalk, CA IT specialist with 13+ years of professional experience (both military and civilian) in information technology and support. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Help Desk Analyst Verity Health System - Lynwood, CA April 2018 to Present Acts as initial contact for all hospital IT support required for computer workstation hardware and software, telephone, network, operating system, printing, application and Internet access problems.    Duties include answering the Helpdesk phone, recording the call, first level resolution, and/or problem escalation to the second level when necessary.    Field inbound trouble calls and use remote monitoring and testing tools to identify, troubleshoot and resolve network and end-user issues.    Manage password reset validation and requests from Verity end-users.    Learn to use and make improvements to workflows within the Helpdesk Ticketing System.    Manage, Respond to and/or Assign requests and incidents within the Helpdesk Ticketing System, maintaining associated SLAs.    Answer incoming calls to the Verity Helpdesk politely and quickly using scripted greetings as defined. Manager of I.T. Services California Pizza Kitchen June 2016 to April 2018 Manage 4-5 Help Desk Analysts supporting the RSC and 200 Restaurant locations. Manage vendor relationships with all Point of Sale and Infrastructure related products and services Act as a Tier 3 Support for the Help Desk Instrumental in implementing our cloud based Avanti Help Desk Ticketing System Ensure proper documentation of Help Desk Knowledge Base Ensure proper training of new Help Desk Analysts Service and Support Manager Real Mex Restaurants December 2015 to June 2016 Directly Supervises the Real Mex Technical Support Desk Staff Serves as a primary technical point of contact for Real Mex Executive Team Point of escalation for all Support Desk Analysts Oversees performance, training and development of Support Analysts Leads special projects as requested to support IT leadership and the Sr. Director of IT Manages the relationship with Real Mex technical support vendors Supports and acts as a back up to the Real Mex Network and Infrastructure Network Administrator Real Mex Restaurants October 2015 to December 2015 Perform day-to-day administration of the company's network infrastructure Monitor and troubleshoot network performance and security issues Install, maintain, upgrade, and troubleshoot routers, gateways, firewalls, and other networking infrastructure for local area and wide area networks (LAN/WAN), including Internet connectivity Train and provide troubleshooting procedures to helpdesk personnel for first-line network issues Administer servers, desktop computers, printers, routers, switches, firewalls, phones, personal digital assistants, smartphones, software deployment, security updates and patches. Network Administrator Merle Norman Cosmetics December 2014 to October 2015 Manage Internal Help Desk of 2 Manage roll out of corporate desktop refresh of approximately 150 users Assist IT Manager and Director of IT with Server Virtualization and ERP rollout Assist IT Manager and Director of IT with other ongoing projects I.T. Consultant VT Consulting, I October 2014 to December 2014 Helped Small to Mid Size businesses in various IT related projects that provided needed efficiency in their daily work flow. I.T. Consultant Robeks August 2014 to October 2014 Manage current Point-of-Sale ("POS") system and rollout of any new POS system Coordinate third-party providers for help desk, maintenance and system support Write and maintain training manuals us needed Participate in the development, pilot and deployment of enterprise store level systems Maintain and manage the POS and Network installations at new store locations Maintain and manage the POS Lab at the Home Office Interface with Marketing, Operations and Supply Chain on new product introductions, test products and marketing programs Coordinate with third party providers on credit card and gift card support Maintain corporate I.T. infrastructure including servers (Email, SAN, DC, Web), workstations, PBX, mobile devices. Network Administrator Elephant Bar Restaurant July 2014 to August 2014 Assist in planning, designing and implementation of LANs, WAN, backbone connections and Network security and compliance. Configure, monitor, and troubleshoot automated backup systems. Monitor and maintain network and server infrastructure; administering and supporting (routers, VPN, UPS devices etc) Monitoring network security systems including the network firewall, anti-virus, anti-spam, anti-phishing appliance and software. Responsible for the maintenance of Exchange, IIS, FTP, SQL Servers, File Servers; configuration and support of Windows-based network operating systems and applications on desktops and servers Develop, implement and maintain performance monitoring, job scheduling, application tuning, and capacity planning Provide desktop and peripheral support to end users locally, as well as remote site locations including hardware & software of portable devices and wireless equipment Monitoring and troubleshooting network connectivity (mail services, tunneling, etc.) Assist other support personnel, offering corporate, regional and remote support. Information Technology Manager Robeks Corp August 2010 to July 2014 Manage current Point-of-Sale ("POS") system and rollout of any new POS system Coordinate third-party providers for help desk, maintenance and system support Write and maintain training manuals us needed Participate in the development, pilot and deployment of enterprise store level systems Maintain and manage the POS and Network installations at new store locations Maintain and manage the POS Lab at the Home Office Interface with Marketing, Operations and Supply Chain on new product introductions, test products and marketing programs Coordinate with third party providers on credit card and gift card support Maintain corporate I.T. infrastructure including servers (Email, SAN, DC, Web), workstations, PBX, mobile devices. Manager of IT Ruby's Restaurant Group July 2008 to July 2010 Manage the IT Corporate Network Infrastructure Manage Restaurant IT infrastructure Network Administrator/Desktop Support United States United States Air Force Reserve August 2005 to August 2008 Supported a squadron of approximately 50 officers and enlisted personal in desktop and network support. Senior Network Analyst Robeks Corp November 2007 to July 2008 Network Administration. Point of Sales Administration. Desktop Support. Server Administration. Project Planning. Backup and Disaster Recovery. Senior Network Administrator Johnny Rockets November 2005 to November 2007 Responsible for managing the corporate network infrastructure and Restaurant systems infrastructure. Network Administrator Premio Computers March 2005 to November 2005 Network Administration, Server Administration, Desktop Support, LAN/WAN administration. Technical Support Representative Premio Computers March 2003 to March 2005 Technical Support Computer/Server Repair Multi-Channel Switch Operator United States Unites States Army National Guard April 2000 to April 2002 Operated a wireless network in a combat environment Corrections Specialist United States United States Marine Corps November 1992 to November 1996 Managed up to 40 correctional inmates in both a controlled and non-controlled environment Education Certificate in Only New Horizons Computer Learning Center of Raleigh March 2015 Air Force Computer Systems Technical School - Keesler AFB, MS June 2006 Bachelor's in Information Systems Security ITT Technical Institute December 2004 General Studies Arlington High School June 1992 Skills HELP DESK (5 years), DEPLOYMENT (4 years), POINT OF SALE (4 years), MOBILE DEVICES (4 years), OPERATIONS (4 years), Service Desk, Desktop Support, Active Directory, Tech Support, Networking, Windows 7, Windows, Technical Support Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/michael-van-tassell-ab14464/ Military Service Branch: United States Marine Corps Service Country: United States Rank: Corporal (E-4) November 1992 to November 1996 Managed up to 40 correctional inmates in both a controlled and non controlled environment Additional Information Key Skills  ? Management    ? Operating Systems  ? Operations Management  ? Disaster Recovery  ? Business Analysis  ? Network Administration  ? Team Building  ? Windows Server  ? Computer Hardware  ? Customer Satisfaction  ? SharePoint  ? Wireless Networking  ? Enterprise Software  ? Team Leadership  ? Time Management  ? Project Management  ? Vendor Management  ? Mobile Devices  ? Visio  ? Project Planning  ? Software Documentation  ? OS X  ? Windows 7  ? Information Technology  ? POS  ? System Deployment  ? Help Desk Support  ? Windows  ? Servers  ? Integration  ? XP