iOS Developer iOS Developer iOS Developer - C.Miller & Co Sacramento, CA I have 25 years of experience working in IT as a System Administrator. For the last three years I've been building software for iOS using Swift, which has led to the development of my iOS app Dalilah - a smart personal assistant for musicians. I'm also active in open source, where I've contributed to Apple's Swift language via the CoreLibs Foundation project. If you'd like to get a more visual idea of what I've been working on recently, feel free to take a look at my iOS portfolio at: github.com/cmilr/swift-portfolio. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience iOS Developer C.Miller & Co 2017 to Present As an independent developer, I take iOS apps from drawing board to deployment, managing myriad steps along the way; from conception to coding, tooling to testing, deployment (CI/CD), maintenance, and even branding and promotion - I enjoy being involved in the entire process.    I strive to produce highly user-centric software, and I'm keenly interested in building clean and easily-extendable architecture, with as light a footprint as possible. I'm also a strong proponent of high test-coverage - all of my non-trivial projects include extensive unit tests and automatedUI testing to ensure software quality and to guard against regression. System Administrator / Network Administrator / Senior Prepress Paul Baker Printing 1994 to 2017 At Paul Baker Printing - a high-end commercial printer - I designed, built, and maintained a cross-platform computer network of 40+ machines, and provided technology expertise company-wide. My duties spanned the gamut of IT work, including: hardware and software research and procurement, installation and maintenance of routers, switches, workstations and servers, designing and implementing backup and archiving strategies, website creation, automation scripting, and troubleshooting of all computer software and hardware across the  organization, including mobile devices.    On top of my Systems and Network Administrator duties, I was also Paul Baker Printing's Senior Prepress tech, which entailed handling all prepress work, including graphic design and photo manipulation (Adobe Photoshop, Illustrator, InDesign), copywriting, scanning, layout and trapping (Rampage), variable data for direct mail (HP SmartStream), department-wide quality control and assurance, and calibration and maintenance of various large- format and high-end printing devices and presses, including (but not limited to):    • HP Indigo Digital Presses  • HP DesignJet Printers  • Canon imagePROGRAF Printers  • Fuji PlateRite Platesetters System Administrator / IT Manager / Senior Prepress ColourScan 1998 to 1999 At ColourScan I supervised a dozen prepress employees working across three shifts in a busy high-end color- house environment, serving a number of Fortune 500 clients, including Nike and Microsoft. Similar to my role at Paul Baker Printing (above), my responsibilities included software and hardware training for all IT personnel, job scheduling, cross-platform network and server administration and maintenance, computer and software installation, development of backup and archiving strategies, and hardware calibration of various photo scanners, proofers, and imagesetters. Education Associate in Computer Science Sacramento City College 1995 to 1998 Skills Maintenance, Graphic design, Illustrator, Game development, Prototyping, Wordpress, Linux, Wireless, Algorithms, Visual studio, C#, Computer programming, Html, Bootstrap, Json, Php, Ruby, Scripting, Swift, Ui, Xcode, Storyboard, Iphone, Objective-C, Objective C, MVVM Links http://linkedin.com/in/carymiller http://twitter.com/carycodes http://github.com/cmilr/swift-portfolio Additional Information PROGRAMMING SKILLS  • Languages: Swift, Objective-C, C#, Ruby.  • IDEs: Xcode, VSCode, Atom, Visual Studio.  • Writing performant code utilizing strong knowledge of CS fundamentals (algorithms, data structures, Big-O).  • Designing and developing iOS apps with Swift and Xcode, including Cocoa Touch and the iOS SDK.  • Prototyping and building intuitive user interfaces with Storyboards, Auto Layout, and Sketch.  • Consuming RESTful web services and JSON payloads with URLSession and Codable.  • Writing unit and UI tests with XCTest, and directing pipeline automation with Fastlane.  • Version control with git.    SYSADMIN SKILLS  • Designing, building, and maintaining cross-platform computer networks (Mac/Windows).  • Installation, monitoring, and maintenance of network devices, including (but not limited to):  OSX Servers  Cisco, Netgear, and Linksys Switches  SonicWall Firewalls  Netgear & TP-Link Wireless Routers  • Managing email services, including configuration and maintenance of Linux Postfix mail servers.  • Designing and implementing backup and archiving strategies (AWS Glacier, ARQ, Retrospect).  • Hardware and software research and procurement.  • Software installation, maintenance, and training across workstations (Mac/Windows).  • Website creation (HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, Wordpress, PHP, MySQL, Photoshop, Illustrator).  • Automation scripting with Bash.    SOFT SKILLS  • Communication: one of the skills I've relied on the most throughout my career has been the ability to explain highly technical concepts to non-technical stakeholders - be they coworkers or customers - and to do so with both patience and empathy.  • Self-motivation: from computer programming to graphic design to playing music, I'm fortunate to possess a deep drive to explore new skills and creative outlets - whether it be for the technical challenge or just the sheer joy of discovery. Being innately self-motivated has served me well in both my personal and professional lives.  • Collaboration: it's clear to me from personal experience that the most effective organization is one that fosters collaboration between individuals and disciplines company-wide. I enjoy working face-to-face with my team-mates to brainstorm effective solutions and produce great products.    OPEN SOURCE  On GitHub I maintain a couple of well-received C# libraries for Unity3D game development, and have published a number of Swift projects for iOS, including CoreRestore - a library for adding Core Data Backup & Restore functionality to mobile apps. I've also contributed directly to the Swift language via Apple's Swift CoreLibs Foundation project.