IT Consultant IT Consultant IT Consultant - Maxwell TS Fort Worth, TX Work Experience IT Consultant Maxwell TS - Fort Worth, TX January 2019 to Present As far as the consulting, it ranges from suggesting solutions to helping troubleshoot difficult issues.    Helping a friend with his new MSP. System Security Integrator First American Payment Systems - Fort Worth, TX June 2017 to June 2018 At First American it was mostly monitoring using tools like Qualys security scanning, Proofpoint web application  firewall and Tripwire host intrusion protection. Towards the end of my time at this site I started with another tech to clean up rules on Palo Alto Firewalls.    Monitoring and report generation using Proofpoint, Firemon and Qualys.    Troubleshooting of possible security issues.    Helped to configure and troubleshoot Palo Alto firewalls. Senior Systems Administrator Paycor - Frisco, TX January 2017 to June 2017 Paycor was a combination of System and Network administration. Worked on HP ProCurve switches, Printing  solutions andconfiguringand setup of the IDS system. If I had the downtime also helped implement packages for DevOps for testing  purposes    • General Systems Administration.    • Helping deploy Apps using Octopus.    • Networking switches and firewalls as needed. Network Technician US. Parole and Probation - Dallas, TX September 2016 to January 2017 • Administration and baselining of servers using Nagios on CentOS 7.    • Implementation of security logging using government Splunk environment.    • Administration of Windows server 2008R2 and 2012 R2 Active Directory.    • Administration of a Citrix environment including VDI.    • Configuration and administration of Cisco switches.    • Managed print server and assisted in general troubleshooting of networks    Check-6 Fort Worth, TX System Administrator Check-6 - Fort Worth, TX June 2014 to May 2016 Key Accomplishments    Data center move that saved the company money and will keep the company current for the next five years. This was done by implementing Dell, Brocade ,Unitrends and Nimble  equipment. I assisted with the configuration and administration of the data center.  • Installation, planning, monitoring experience using Nagios in a Linux and Windows  environment.    • Establishing other monitoring benchmarks using various management tools in a Linux  environment.    • Install, Plan and monitor Red Hat Linux 6.5 in both a virtual and physical environment.    • Monitoring and configuration experience using Brocade switches.    • Used nmap and snort when needed to prevent network security issues.    • Configure and operate OVAL scans for vulnerabilities on company equipment . .    Installation and monitoring using Symantec Endpoint  Protection.    Configured and administered Fortinet firewalls    • Installation, planning, administration and troubleshooting of Windows 2012r2 and Windows 2008 and Windows 2003 Active Directory Domains.    • Installation, planning, administration and troubleshooting of a Windows 2008 and Windows 2012 r2 Hyper-V hosts.    • Installation and administration of with Nimble SAN appliances.    • Installation, planning, and administration with Unitrends Enterprise Backup Appliance.    • Installation and monitoring of Dell KACE K-1000 network management appliance. Senior Consulting Engineer The Fulcrum Group - Keller, TX March 2013 to June 2014 Key Accomplishments  • Installation, administration and troubleshooting of Windows Server 2012 and 2008 Active  Directory Domains.  • Installation, administration and troubleshooting of SonicWALL Firewalls.  • Installation, planning, administration and troubleshooting of Ruckus Wireless Access  Points.  • Install Troubleshoot and Deploy Group Policy Objects for customers.  • Installation and administration experience with desktop technologies Windows 7, Windows 8.  • Installation, planning and administration experience with Symantec Endpoint Protection  and Backup Exec.  • Installation, planning and administration experience with Cisco small business switches.  • Installation, planning and administration on Hyper-V experience on Windows Server Network Administrator Texas Wesleyan University - Fort Worth, TX August 2011 to March 2013 Key Accomplishments  • Configure, manage and maintain Cisco 3750 switch campus network.  • Administer campus network through Solar Winds management software.  • Setup and maintain Cisco 1841 routers for satellite offices.  • Installed and administered DNS services through InfoBlox appliances.  • Install, plan, troubleshoot and manage Aruba access points locally and at remote offices.  • Administration of LAN, WAN and Telephone circuits through onsite troubleshooting and vendor interaction.  • Ability to troubleshoot network issues through the use of Wireshark, Snort and NMap. Senior Network Engineer WASHOE COUNTY DISTRICT COURT - Reno, NV July 2000 to 2011 Key Accomplishments    • Implemented Barracuda web-content filter security appliances controlling spam along with open source intrusion detection security tools such as Snort IDS and Wireshark and Nmap  to find open ports for testing firewalls and network security inside and outside the network.  • Developed TCP/IP network and installed/maintain servers, workstations, peripherals.  • Troubleshoot/resolve all necessary network or security issues and train/assist users  throughout the organization when required to ensure smooth seamless operations.  • Ensure all federal, state, and local regulatory compliance.  • Liaison between all other departments and physical locations as needed.  • Proficient in Linux Servers and Administration (Centos and Ubuntu).  • KACE Appliance support in both imaging and inventory.  • Code Green appliance for Deep Packet Inspection security.  • Enterasys switch configuration and administration  • Configure, manage and maintain networks with 35(Windows 2003 and 2008) domain  servers both virtual and physical. Managed over 350 XP and Windows 7 workstations.  • Designed and maintain ISA 2004 and 2006 Firewalls for the court system which create a sophisticated/successful court documentation server security program.  • Setup Cisco routers and PIX firewall enhancing point of presence for e-file transmissions. Senior Network Engineer FOREM USA - Sparks, NV 1997 to 2000 Key Accomplishments  • Installed, upgraded and maintained terminals, software and communications systems  supporting 15 servers and 50 workstations.  • Maintained Cisco routers, firewalls and associated filters for all users.  • Established Pro/ENGINEER 3-D CAD program for design of radio frequency components.  • Developed user training manuals for customized software applications.  • Provided all aspects of end-user support; troubleshot and resolved software/hardware  problems and system backup conflicts. Education Bachelor of Science degree in Information Technology UNIVERSITY of PHOENIX - Reno, NV Associate of Science degree in Electronics Phi Theta Kappa International Scholastic Order WESTERN NEVADA COMMUNITY COLLEGE - Carson City, NV Skills Cisco, Lan/wan, Firewall, Linux, Red hat, Technical support, Lan, Admin operations, Operations, Problem solving, Budget analysis, Cost/budget analysis, Customer relations, Budget, Training, Active Directory, Security Certifications/Licenses CCNA Network+ Certification MCSE Additional Information CORE COMPETENCIES    Technical Support Technology Certified Troubleshooting  Research/Development Linux Systems Admin Operations  Hardware Configuration Firewall Design Customer Relations  Planning/Organization Cisco Systems Problem Solving  LAN/WAN/Windows OS Red Hat/Cent OS Cost/Budget Analysis  Staff/Client Training Software Programs User/Corporate Training