IT Manager/ Network Administrator IT Manager/<span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> IT Manager/ Network Administrator - Concept Packaging Group Taylors, SC • Background encompasses professional experience in the following key positions of responsibility:  Information Technology Manager/ Network Administrator; Helpdesk Specialist.    • Strengths: Strong troubleshooting/analytical skills; team player (works well with others); highly responsible; dependable; proven organizational abilities; strong work ethic; self-motivated; skilled at learning technical information; strong multi-tasking abilities; excellent communication/interpersonal skills (able to develop positive relationships with individuals of all ages and backgrounds). Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience IT Manager/ Network Administrator Concept Packaging Group - Spartanburg, SC March 2011 to Present • Transitioned company email from Exchange 2010 to Office 365 and currently manage.  • Transitioned company email from Exchange 2003 to 2010.  • Manage relationships with vendors and make all technology related purchase (Servers, Computers, Phones, Software, Printers, etc.).  • Implemented inventory tracking system and Help Desk software to give our employees better visibility on how their issues were being addressed.  • Transitioned company to a new WAN; previously only half of the company was on WAN.  • Maintain all servers (12 total) consisting of Windows Server 2003-2016, VMware, and Hyper-V.  • Responsible for maintaining backups.  • Manage toner inventory and order all toner for each facility.  • Support and repair 120+ computers (Desktops and Laptops) and 30+ thin clients in manufacturing environment.  • Manage Mitel phone system and support Company cell phones (iPhone, Android). Helpdesk Specialist Advance America - Spartanburg, SC October 2009 to March 2011 Provided phone support for 2600 centers and 200+ employees using Windows NT workstations and XP Thin  Clients.  • Ensured PCs were configured correctly to connect to LAN and WAN.  • Provided basic troubleshooting for routers and switches including Cisco, Netopia and Netgear.  • User management in Active Directory.  • Supported laptop users in field and addressed any issues they had with connecting to the corporate VPN.  • Installed, maintained and responsible for troubleshooting several different models of HP printers.  • Responsible for troubleshooting center's phone systems: POTS (plan old telephone system) or VOIP (Voice  over IP).  • Provided support for all software and hardware for company centers; examples are Office products, Adobe  PDF and Advance America's proprietary software. Wireless Network Resolution Team (WNRT) Verizon Wireless March 2006 to October 2009 • Analyzed and resolved customer-impacting faults in the Verizon Wireless network.  • Maintained a comprehensive understanding of the architecture and composition of complex wireless voice  and data networks.  • Responsible for troubleshooting and resolution of service impairments related to roaming (domestic and international), transport services (LEC, Long Distance), network hardware and software faults (both switch  and cell), translations, and voice and data network elements.  • Isolated and resolved wireless voice and data faults including correlating customer complaints with network  element performance to resolve service-impacting conditions.  • Drove troubles to resolution by engaging internal and external resources such as Cell and NOC  Technicians, System Performance Engineers, Maintenance Engineering, Staff, Core Data Group as well as equipment vendors and service providers as determined by the WNRT.  • Provided accurate and timely documentation of actions taken to inform other Network Technicians of problems found and solutions for those problems.  • Identified efficiencies to reduce cycle time in resolving customer reported troubles.  • Communicated with vendors such as Application Service Providers (ASPs) and infrastructure providers to ensure that defects in software or hardware are corrected at the point of manufacture.  • Trained and developed Technical Support Representatives.  • Acted as a Project Lead for Technical Support in the testing and support of new products and features. Technical Support Coordinator Verizon Wireless April 2005 to March 2006 • Diagnosed and resolved cellular technical issues.  • Understood and communicated complex and technical information, clearly and concisely, adjusting language and terminology to the needs of the customer (internal and external) in a professional manner.  • Explained features and benefits of Wireless products and service and made recommendations based on customer needs.  • Supported a growing number of wireless/data products, and continuously demonstrated proficiency in product knowledge and call-handling skills.  • Maintained accurate customer records, processed changes and issued appropriate credits to customer accounts.  • Analyzed current procedures to effectively introduce process improvements when necessary.  • Assumed personal accountability to ensure all customers received high quality service.  • Acted in a liaison role between Technical Support and Network Personnel to help resolve escalated customer issues. Education Associate in IT/Networking ECPI University - Greenville, SC May 2003 to March 2005 Skills Active Directory, Windows, Technical Support, Networking, Customer Service, Windows 7, Windows 10 Certifications/Licenses A+ Certified Present Additional Information ? Information Technology Management ? Network Administration  ? Office 365 ? Supporting Company Cell Phones (Android/iPhone)  ? IT Management for 14 Locations & 250 ? Thin Clients  Employees ? Configuring PCs to Connect to LAN & WAN  ? User Management in Active Directory ? Installing/Maintaining Printers  ? Problem Solving ? Help Desk Implementation  ? Working with Internal/External Resources ? Resolving Network Hardware/Software Faults  ? Maintaining Accurate and Timely ? Identifying Efficiencies to Reduce Cycle Time  Documentation ? Vendor Communication  ? Training/Developing Technical Support ? Acting as Project Lead for Technical Support Representatives in the Testing and Support of New Products/Features  ? Explaining Features/Benefits ? Providing Support for Wireless/Data Products  ? Process Improvements ? Providing Excellent Customer Service  ? Acting in a Liaison Role ? Utilizing Knowledge of Microsoft Products  ? Managing Phone System