Mid-Level Network Engineer Mid-Level <span class="hl">Network</span> Engineer Mid-Level Network Engineer Washington, DC Summary  An IT professional with over 20 years of professional and technical experience, currently seeking a Cyber Security related position that will utilize my experience in analysis, design, management, installation, configuration, implementation, integration, and troubleshooting of technologies for medium to enterprise corporations. Technologies used include routers, switches, firewalls, DNS, DHCP, Cisco Security and Wireless devices, Cisco VoIP products, network monitoring, and troubleshooting tools.    Technical Certifications & Skills  • CompTIA Security+ Security+  • Cisco Certified Network Professional - Security CCNP - Security  • Cisco Certified Design Associate CCDA  • Certified WAN Engineer CWE  • Certified WAN Professional CWP  • Certified WAN Enterprise Administrator CWEA  • Cisco Certified Network Associate - Voice CCNA - Voice  • Cisco Certified Network Associate - Wireless CCNA - Wireless  • Cisco Certified Network Associate - Security CCNA - Security  • Cisco Certified Network Associate CCNA  • Escalation Support Expert ESE    Overview - Technical consultant for various regional public and private sector organizations. Many of these organizations utilized complex regional, multi-area, and statewide network infrastructures. Below will be a list of responsibilities and activities handled:    • Technical activities and responsibilities include total network integration, maintenance, and administration for various network and network-related technologies and devices according to the clienteles' needs specifications.  • Professional activities and responsibilities included, working with technical and non-technical clients to effectively resolve challenges, research and implement solutions, and following policies/procedures.  • Additional activities included upgrading, advancing, and solidifying various hands-on technical skills while simultaneously obtaining credentials to validate technical aptitude and knowledge.    Winstar Communications Escalation Support Tier III (OSS) 1996-2001    Company Overview - Winstar Communications is a former American telecommunications company providing broadband services to business clients. At its height, Winstar owned and operated a broadband network in over 60 major markets in the United States and over 10 international markets in Europe, Asia, and Latin America. Winstar had utilized a complex regional, national, and international network infrastructure in order to provide its services towards their business clients. Below will be a list of responsibilities personally handled:    • Member to a team of professionals responsible for the day-to-day administration and support of mission critical networking technologies located within a complex heterogeneous network infrastructure.  • General responsibilities included administration and support activities, analysis, development and project management activities, as well as, communication/coordination activities.  • Administration and support activities included any and as needed configuration, installation, integration, implementation, and troubleshooting of LAN/WAN enterprise technologies.  • Analysis, development, and project management activities included task development and management, budgeting, and project coordination to ensure timely and efficient progression.  • Coordination and communication activities include, but not limited to, interdepartmental communications and coordination, timely reporting to appropriated groups, documentation, and scheduling as needed reports to management.    The Orkand Corporation LAN Administrator 1994-1996    Company Overview - The Orkand Corporation - The Orkand Corporation was a leading provider of technical and information technology services for public organizations as well as various U.S. government agencies including the: Department of State, Department of Labor, Department of the Interior, Department of Health and Human Services, Department of Energy, and the U.S. Postal Service. Orkand had over 1100 employees at the time of its height and utilized varying network infrastructures including regional, multi-regional, and national. Below will be a list of responsibilities personally handled:    • Responsible for the day-to-day administration and support of various mission-critical LAN/WAN enterprise technologies that were found in a heterogeneous network infrastructure.  • Primary activities included, but were not limited to, the installation, configuration, administration, and troubleshooting of various enterprise technologies, hardware/software, 2nd/3rd level training and support.  • Secondary activities included project management, administration, following corporate policies and procedures, documentation, and scheduling as needed reports to management. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Mid-Level Network Engineer Computer World Services, Corp 2014 to 2018 Computer World Services, Corp. Mid-Level Network Engineer 2014-2018    • Performed network management and client support duties as a NOC Engineer at the HQ Data Center for the Pension Benefits Guaranty Corporation.  • Configured port security on HQ and field office LAN switches.  • Verified availability and performed troubleshooting of VPN, Active Directory Federation Services, HP Service Manager, and System Center Configuration Manager (SCCM).  • Performed system availability management, utilizing Business System Management (BSM) SiteScope, to enable/disable monitoring for network maintenance and patching.  • Performed as Ironport Mail Administrator in the quarantine and release of corporate messages.  • Performed as Site Support technician in the configuration and imaging of client laptops and workstations.  • Performed daily floor checks of Data Center and LAN closets to detect, report, and resolve abnormalities.  • Provided support to Network Engineering, Windows, and PBX teams in network planning, engineering and architecture development.  • Interacted with internal/external customers and vendors to determine system needs and resolve network issues, including such issues as upgrades, maintenance, and outages. Certified Network Administrator 2013 to 2014 LAN/WAN Professional Certified Network Administrator 2013-2014    • Technical activities included configuring and administrating various Cisco routers and switches including Cisco 2500, 3600, and 2800 series routers and 6500 and 3500 series switches.  • Performed troubleshooting, including complete device erase and configuration using IPv6 with RIPng, EIGRPv6 and OSPFv3 routing protocols in complex network environments with summarized networks, passive interfaces, load balancing / load sharing, authentication.  • Configured Frame-relay and PPP encapsulation in various configurations and authentications as well as implementing Network Address Translation using Static NAT, and Dynamic NAT.  • Configured Switches with VLAN's, STP, VTP and Port Security.  • Configured and administrated complex networks using BGP, MPLS (with LDP) protocols, and implementing QoS mechanisms.  • Setup, configuration, and administration of Cisco Security and Wireless devices, Cisco VoIP products and troubleshooting/ network monitoring tools including Wireshark, Solarwinds, Cacti, CCP and Nagios. In addition setup site-to-site VPN's and Zone based Firewalls using technologies including Cisco PIX and Cisco ASA.  • VOIP activities include comprehensive configuration and administration of Cisco Unity Configuration Manager Express to set up and manage VOIP installations with basic phone and Voice Mail services. Technical Contractor Independent Consulting 2001 to 2013 Winstar Communications 1996 to 2001 LAN Administrator The Orkand Corporation 1994 to 1996 Education Computer Systems Management University of Maryland Bachelor of Arts Howard University Skills Cisco, Active Directory, Security