Business Admin Business Admin Business Admin - Technical Dep * 11 years of cross-platform experience in systems administration, including analyzing, designing, installing, maintaining, and repairing hardware, software, and networks.  * Monitored the LAN/WAN network environment including routers, switches, firewalls, and Internet access and software applications.  * Establishes network by evaluating network performance issues including availability, utilization, throughput, goodput, and latency; planning and executing the selection, installation, configuration, and testing of equipment; defining network policies and procedures; establishing connections and firewalls.  * Experience with TCP, IP, and IP routing, LAN, WAN, CAN designs, bridges and switches, OSI model and fiber optic technology.  * Provided technical expertise for IT network design, implementation, optimization and upgrade.  * Installation, configuration, and maintenance of [Windows servers, Cisco infrastructure] system network components.  * Maintains network performance by performing network monitoring and analysis, and performance tuning; troubleshooting network problems; escalating problems to vendor.  * A multi-talented, solution-oriented, and highly analytical IT professional with a wide range of skills in systems installation, configuration, upgrading, and maintenance. Skillful administration and troubleshooting expertise for a range of Microsoft OS and Windows Server products. Proficiency in grasping new functional concepts quickly and utilizing them in a productive manner.  * Establishes network specifications by conferring with users; analyzing workflow, access, information, and security requirements; designing router administration, including interface configuration and routing protocols.  * Secures network by developing network access, monitoring, control, and evaluation; maintaining documentation.  * Performed troubleshooting and diagnosis to hardware/software network failures, and provided resolutions.  * Extensive experience with Active Directory, Domain Name System, Windows Internet Naming Service, and Microsoft Exchange.  * Experience with contract management and knowledge of technical task order creation and oversight. Work Experience Business Admin Technical Dep - Chantilly, VA July 2018 to Present ATI Solutions, Inc. is a full-service information technology company providing turnkey solutions for local and national, small-to-medium sized businesses    * I have revamped the organization's backup strategy and improved backup service. Implementing proxies serves for backup purpose and I have decreased backup's time drastically.  * I have overhauled the IaaS infrastructure with improving network connectivity and make procedures to have good view of IaaS environment.  * Reviewing the prevailing network design to make it more efficient.  * I manage the IT team and provide technical advice to the team members, help troubleshoot technical issue, and oversee the technical documents routinely created/modified by my team. Network and system Administrator Azad University June 2014 to May 2018 * Installed, optimized and configured new servers and application upgrades in existing network environment as per requirements.  * Configures and documents new servers, Cisco Routers, Cisco Switches programs, and applications.  * Maintaining a Fortinet Firewall with basic proxy & policy management  * Managed all new install projects for servers, switches, and other network resources.  * Perform system monitoring, capacity, patch and performance management  * Provide a robust service for monitoring products deploying onto the platform. Utilize this service to validate all expected KPIs, events, alerts, action, documentation and trend analysis graphs are fit for purpose for the product and infrastructure. Work with development and operations teams to ensure alert thresholds are fit for purpose and do not generate false positives or spam alerts/events  * Installed and configured secured environments, VPN Internet connectivity of virtualized server environment and clients.  * Responsible for the health of enterprise monitoring tools and infrastructure such as HP Business Service Management  * Oversees file server utilization  * Manages security and integrity protocols of a system according to standards.  * Maintained the timely back-up of important data and management resources.  * Managed and administered Windows/Linux systems - Performed periodic maintenance, provided technical support and executed systems engineering.  * Assisted in the timely recovery of data lost due to software crash or hardware failure.  * Performed daily audit of all systems, frameworks, and hardware and server resources.  * Conducted periodic performance tests on existing servers.  * Managed and advised the deployment of new system designs.  * Responsible for troubleshooting campus technology issues for over 1,500 users, which includes students, faculty, campus staff, and the central services office.  * Responsible for hiring and training new IT staff. Network and system Administrator Bahar University August 2012 to May 2014 Managed and administered Windows systems - Performed periodic maintenance, provided technical support and executed systems engineering.  * Installed and configured secured environments, VPN Internet connectivity of virtualized server environment and clients.  * Assisted in the timely recovery of data lost due to software crash or hardware failure.  * Superior troubleshooting and technical support abilities with migrations, network connectivity  * Responsible for security equipment, including Fortigate firewall with 60 VPN users and spam blocking utility, as well as Symantec Antivirus System Center and Antivirus for Exchange.  * Configuring client-server connectivity between Vista, XP, 2K Prof.,  * With Domain and Workgroup levels.  * Meeting employee and customer needs  * Administrated and maintained environment security. Involved with administering security alerts to staff and weekly data backups.  * Applied daily OS patches and upgrades to counter potential threats to the system. Technical Support Technical and Vocational - Tehran, IR September 2008 to July 2012 * Maintained MS Exchange Server - Performed troubleshooting and provided resolutions for server problems.  * Implemented proper recovery procedures for disasters and administered user-accounts' mailbox.  * Configure and troubleshoot printers, copiers, and telecommunications equipment.  * Performed hands-on administration, monitoring, and troubleshooting of a Local Area Network (LAN), resulting in optimum performance and minimum downtime.  * Designed, developed, and modified reporting processes in accordance with client specifications.  * Coordinated with committees detailing enhancement specifications.  * Installed, optimized and configured new Computers with OS's and new Software's Technical Support Green Computer Co - Tehran, IR December 2006 to August 2008 * Installed, optimized and configured new Computers with OS's and new Software's  * Configure and troubleshoot printers, copiers, and telecommunications equipment.  Rebuilt new hardware and reconfigured hardware, peripherals, settings and directories according to Education Bachelor in Computer science IAUH University-Iran 2002 to 2006 Certification in CCNP CANDO institute Certification CANDO institute Certification CANDO institute certification Technical Skills in Iran Technical and Vocational Skills CLIENTS (5 years), FIREWALL (5 years), VPN (5 years), CISCO (4 years), LAN (3 years), SYMANTEC (1 year), ANDROID (Less than 1 year), ARCHITECTURE (Less than 1 year), BGP (Less than 1 year), CABLING (Less than 1 year), DHCP (Less than 1 year), DNS (Less than 1 year), EIGRP (Less than 1 year), ETHERNET (Less than 1 year), FTP (Less than 1 year), HSRP (Less than 1 year), HTTP (Less than 1 year), IIS (Less than 1 year), IMAP (Less than 1 year), INTERNET INFORMATION SERVICES (Less than 1 year), IOS (Less than 1 year), LAN/WAN (Less than 1 year), LDAP (Less than 1 year), MPLS (Less than 1 year), MS SQL SERVER (Less than 1 year), MSVC (Less than 1 year), OSPF (Less than 1 year), POP3 (Less than 1 year), ROUTER (Less than 1 year), SAN (Less than 1 year), SCSI (Less than 1 year), SMTP (Less than 1 year), SQL (Less than 1 year), SQL SERVER (Less than 1 year), STORAGE AREA NETWORK (Less than 1 year), TCP (Less than 1 year), TCP/IP (Less than 1 year), TELNET (Less than 1 year), WINS (Less than 1 year), WIRESHARK (Less than 1 year), WISE (Less than 1 year) Additional Information Technology Skills  * Hardware: Cisco switches and routers, Mikrotik router boards, Windows Servers, Dell or HP Servers/workstations, HP Thin Clients, SAN architecture, Fortigate Firewall, cabling, and VPN configuration, IDE hard drives, SCSI devices, Direct Attached Storage, Network Camera, Nutanix  * Software: Windows, MRTG, PRTG, Solar winds, OP5, Cisco Network Assistant, NVR, TFTP, Wireshark, Putty SQL Server, Microsoft AD, IIS, Kaspersky Antivirus, F-secure Antivirus, Symantec Antivirus, Secure CRT, KIWI Syslog, Cisco IOS, Apple IOS and Android, Team viewer, Office 365, V-Sphere, V-center, Connect-Wise, Solar winds N-central, Veeam backup & restore  * Protocols: 802.11, LAN/WAN, Telnet, Wins, ARP, OSPF, EIGRP, BGP, GRE, VTP, HSRP, MPLS, Ether-Channel, DNS, HTTP, IMAP/POP3, SMTP, LDAP, DHCP, NAT, FTP, TCP/IP, Ethernet