Network/ Administrator <span class="hl">Network</span>/<span class="hl">Administrator</span> Network/ Administrator - Department of Defense Port Orchard, WA Work Experience Network/ Administrator Department of Defense December 2017 to Present Cyber Security/Assistant NOC Operation/GS12    • Network Operations Manager (NOC) Supporting 15,0000 Defense Language Institute Students.  • Senior Network Administrator VMware Virtualization Enterprise Suite.  • Developed, Implemented and Administrated VMware Virtual Desktop Infrastructure (VDI) desktop clients supporting 6500 local and extended EDU campus students.  • Network Administrator supporting Windows Server 2012/2016, Exchange Server and SCCM  • Network Operations Cyber Security Administrator.  • Maintained Network Security using Tenable Security Center, ACAS Scanning Solution and Pal alto Firewall Administration.  • Linux Administrator supporting RedHat, SUSE, VMware Photon, and Salt Stack  • Project Lead for remote Germany EDU site.  • Dell VxRail Hyper Converge VMware Administrator  • F5 Load Balancer Administration  • Provide Tier I, II and II Technical Support for local and off campus EDU student.  • Support Windows, MAC and Linux Server and Desktop Operating Systems and supporting software. Security Analyst/ Administrator Veterans Administration June 2016 to December 2017 Tier II Technical Support    • Responsible for conducting Nessus Vulnerability Scans of all network resources within the VBA North- western region.  • Developed VA Nessus Training Program  • Implement remediation solutions for VBA systems and resources to minimize potential risk to network systems using Microsoft's System Center Configuration Manager to apply security updates and software patches.  • Responsible for ensuring Internal Physical and Logical Controls are compliant with current FISMA standards.  • Conduct Quarterly active POAM (Plan Of Action Milestones) Reviews.  • Manage GRC Risk-Vision which provides the greatest opportunity to efficiently remediating critical vulnerabilities that present the greatest risk to the Veterans Business Administration  • Utilizes trend analyses to ensure VBA information systems and computer networks are secured and protected against hackers and potential cyber-attacks, as well as monitoring network traffic and logged events for activity that seems unusual.  • Windows Active Directory/Exchange Administrator  • Microsoft System Center Configuration Manager Administrator  • Primary Contact for Region 5 Network Security Related Issues effecting Veteran Support Organizations.  • Communicates with VBA stakeholders on network related issues.  • Responsible for gathering critical evidence for remediating security related incidents.  • Assisted with Federal Audit by delivering evidence materials and documentation to be uploaded in GRC.  • Review, analyzes and route Nessus remediation request. Network Engineer/ Administrator Security Operations Center (SOC) May 2015 to June 2016 Security Engineer/Analyst/ Tier I-III Technical Support  • Developed and Implemented 24 by 7 Security Operations Center (SOC).  • Responsible for the deployment, configuration, maintaining and monitoring of all security systems in a production environment.  • Responsible for performing vulnerability assessments, security testing and evaluating using Qualys Security & Compliance Suite.  • Evaluated all network appliances, computer systems, production software using vulnerability scanners and manual techniques to verity system security settings and configurations.  • Developed a Computer Security Incident Response Team (CSIRT).  • Analyzed, troubleshoot, and investigated security-related, information systems, anomalies based on the reporting of installed security platform reporting, network traffic, and log files, host-based and automated security alerts.  • Maintained and monitored host and network based Intrusion Detection/Prevention Systems (IDS/IPS).  • Provided detailed event and resolution reporting to Senior Management and Executive Staff.  • Developed security tool requirements, trials, and evaluations, as well as security operations procedures and process.  • Provided off-hours network monitoring, system and customer service support.  • Successfully managed time and technical responsibilities, set expectations and successfully meet deliverable deadlines.  • Established and maintain a strong relationship and information sharing environment with all team members. Security Analyst/Security Engineer Precision Systems July 2014 to April 2015 • Monitored and evaluated International network traffic for potential threats.  • Responsible for monitoring, evaluating and resolving all potential Intrusion events using Intrusion Detection software and network sensors.  • Evaluated all network appliances, computer systems, production software using vulnerability scanners and manual techniques to verity system security settings and configurations.  • Utilized network security resources such as blackhat.com and FierceITSecurity (http://www.fierceitsecurity.com/) to stay up-to-date on the latest threat intelligence, types of attacks, including hackers' methodologies, in order to anticipate security breaches.  • Responsible for administrating and managing SourceFire Defense Center and IDS Sensors.  • Developed customized IDS event reporting triggers based off current threat analysis.  • Team member of the Computer Security Incident Response Team (CSIRT).  • Provided detailed event and resolution reporting to Senior Management and Executive Staff.  • Administrated and Managed network enterprise wide policy settings and configuration changes using CISCO M680 Content Security Management Appliance.  • Managed and administrated CISCO WSA S380 Proxy Server to provide network threat defense, malware protection and web traffic control.  • Managed and administrated multiple CISCO IronPort C170 appliances to provide spam and malware protections to network segments.  • Administrated and managed multiple CheckPoint Firewall appliances.  • F5 Global Traffic Manager Administrator  • F5 FirePass SSL/VPN Administrator  • Microsoft System Center 2012 Administrator Information Security Analyst Solutionary December 2013 to April 2014 • Assist in the implementation of data access security measures by identifying, analyzing and resolving security and system problems relating to data access security, applications, programs and functions.  • Monitors computer data networking systems, including LAN and WAN, firewalls, intrusion and prevention systems, and using software such as Snort, Sourcefire IDS and Xyom for network log monitoring software.  • Investigates incidences of data access violations and data corruption and/or loss and reports findings to corporate management.  • Monitors and audits the information system security databases and applications for unauthorized access  and prepares reports for recommending corrective action.  • Investigates and corrects security related problems to ensure information integrity. Technical Support Technician P & L Technology April 2013 to December 2013 • Provided remote desktop application support to over 500 hundred users.  • Managed and Administrator over 500 hundred Active Directory user accounts.  • Administrated Active Directory Organizational Units, Group Policy and procedures for over 500 users.  • Technical Support Engineer for Microsoft's on-line Office Suite, Exchange 365 and Sever 2012.  • Managed and administrated over 500 Exchange Email boxes.  • Managed and created Email encryption rules using Cisco Iron Port appliance.  • Administrated and supported on-line SharePoint services.  • Managed, monitored and administrated FortiGate rules, policies and network traffic.  • Administrated and managed multi-site VPN connections using Cisco routers and IPSEC protocol.  • Configured, managed and programmed Cisco routing and network protocol.  • Administrated and managed over 100 Vm servers using VMware VCenter Operations Suite.  • Provided technical support for over 300 ShoreTel phone extensions. Network Engineer and Administrator Power Stream Communications April 2004 to March 2013 Third Level Technical Support Engineer/ Network Administrator  • Provide remote desktop and server support to physician groups and staff members, supporting small to medium multi-specialty clinics and small business.  • Third level Technical Support Engineer, supporting Widows Servers, Active Directory, Group Polices, user rights and network access.  • Third level Technical Support Engineer for remote Microsoft Exchange services created and managed user email boxes and support services.  • Third level Technical Support Engineer supporting corporate installed applications.  • Managed and Administrated network security policies, corporate firewalls and intrusion detection and prevention solutions.  • Developed, Maintained and Administrated Wireless network access points.  • Managed wireless intrusion detection and prevention appliances using open source software.  • Managed and configured a variety of routers, such as Cisco, 3Com, HP and custom Monowall appliances.  • Remotely managed and administrated all VmWhare servers and workstations using Windows and Linux operating systems.  • Developed and implemented a remote low cost onsite help desk support and repair service.  • Developed and implemented a high bandwidth fiber-optic backbone network connected to satellite relay station to allow remote clinics access to medical applications, and Internet resources. Network Security Engineer and Administrator Power Stream Communications 2004 to 2013 • Developed, implement and administrated, Network Security 24/7 monitor program using Splunk Enterprise and ARCSight software.  • Manage system information security architecture, design, installation, operational planning, and risk remediation.  • Conducted risk assessments and collaborated with clients to provide recommendations regarding critical infrastructure and network security operations enhancements.  • Performed ethical hacking, malware reverse engineering, penetration testing, and Certification and Accreditation (C&A) within Security Operations Center (SOC) environment.  • Enforce IT processes to ensure consistent, well-integrated application structures in full compliance with Sarbanes Oxley (SOX) and Payment Card Industry - Data Security Standards (PCI DSS) regulations; articipate in system Certification and Accreditation as well as Federal Information Security Management Act processes.    FEMA - City Wireless, & Broadband over Power Line Project  • Developed lofted telecommunications systems using Broad Over Power Line and large balloon technology to be utilized in emergency disaster situations to restore down communication systems.  • Developed and engineered city wide 5 Megabyte high-speed wireless network using no cell towers and Cisco Aironet wireless access points, with radius authentication.  • Implemented low-cost high-speed up to 200 megabyte network using on-site building power grid to transmit data, voice and video.    Our Lady Star of The Sea School  • Secured the wide area and local area network from internal and external unauthorized access users using the SonicWALL firewall appliance and Windows Radius Authentication.  • Engineered, and Administrated, intrusion detection and prevention system appliance using SNORT software.  • Monitor log feeds from all networking devices, using Big Brother software for early detection of unauthorized internal or external network access and system outages.  • Implement and administrated SSL VPN connection to allow remote users access to school network resources.  • Engineered, Implemented and Administrated a multi-site WAN network using the CISCO 3600 series routers.  • Connected a secure remote wide area network segment using the wireless Cisco Aironet Outdoor Mesh Access Point.  • Engineered, Implemented and Administrated, campus secured wireless network using Cisco Aironet Outdoor Mesh Access Point.  • Developed, Implemented and Administrated a Single-Master Model Windows Active Directory network supporting 30 staff members and over 100 students.  • Administrated and Managed Group Policy, desktop permissions, user rights and restrictions.  • Engineered, Implemented and Administrated, corporate email services utilizing Windows Exchange Server, supporting over 100 email boxes and supporting services.  • Implemented File Replication Service for distributing shared files and Group Policy Objects, for redundancy.  • Deployed VMware server and client software to student training room for easy setup and reconfiguring student computer cessions. HealthCare Network Administrator The Doctors Clinic Medical Group August 2000 to April 2004 • Engineered high performance multi-site HIPPA compliant, scalable voice, data wireless network, supporting more than 399 hundred connected medical and non-medical devices in conjunction with external collaborating partners and support staff.  • Engineered wireless networking to support mobile radiology, and on-line electronic medical records, using Cisco Aironet 1200 Access Points.    • Engineered and developed multiple radiology network segments, connecting Siemens CT, MRI, Nuclear Camera, Sequoia Ultrasounds and Echo Cardiograms, using fiber optic cabling, Cisco Fast Ethernet Switches and Cisco 3600 routers to the PAX and RISC servers.  • Connected multiple radiology sites to primary data center using secure IPSEC VPN tunnels with Cisco routers over two full DS3 telecommunications lines.  • Electronic Medical Records and Patient Management System Network Administrator: Installed, Managed and Administrated, Vital Works, Praxis, Amazing charts, Noah Audiology network software, Turbo medical records, CORI, PVI and Bones for the Orthopedic group.  • Deployed on-line low cost web based Electronic Healthcare Records, Lab Information System, Radiology PACS and RISC software packages.  • Developed, Implemented and Administrated on-line coding and billing software.  • Designed and managed network security using the Cisco Pix 515 firewall, snort intrusion detection software and Big Brother log feeds from network connected devices.  • Using ISA Server coupled with Radius authentication, designed and managed a secure, HIPPA compliant VPN solution, allowing physician's on-call the ability to access their individual electronic medical records from any location with internet access.    Network/Systems Engineer:  • Engineered and implemented a multi-segmented network, connecting (8) eight medical networks using CISCO 3600 and 2500 series routes and 7000 series Fast Ethernet switches.  • Utilized router protocols such as (EIGRP) Enhanced Interior Gateway Routing Protocol or (OSPF) Open Shortest Path First was used to optimize each individual network and minimize routing instability for quick topology changes as well as bandwidth and processing power in each router.  • Designed and deployed a multi-server Active Directory network supporting 399 users.  • Engineered and converted Laboratory Information System (LIS) network; connecting serial port modalities from multiple sites to TCIP network. Implemented and Administrated Radiology PACS and RIS network  • Developed and implemented multi-level on-line voice supported helpdesk for medical and non-medical staff  • Administrated; Windows, Exchange, SQL, WEB, UNIX, Linux, and Citrix Metaframe, Patient Management, Billing and Transcription systems and servers  • Administrated and managed user accounts with 500 phone extensions and telephones using serial connections and TCP/IP protocol  • Managed and Administrated network security policies, server security, corporate firewalls and intrusion detection solutions    Special projects include:  • Principle engineer on the development and implementation of HIPPA compliancy.  • Converted (8) eight individual medical clinics from an antiqued coaxial serial based data distribution system to a CAT5 and Fiber Optic network supporting TCP/IP protocol.  • Replaced Internet corporate email with an on-site Windows Exchange server with Web Mail supporting 500 personal mailboxes and distribution lists.  • Consolidated 30 servers to 5 key servers utilizing VMware server software.  • Implemented corporate Help Desk Center reducing staffing cost by 30% and network down time by 50%.  • Designed and engineered a centralized backup data center IS Manager/ Network Engineer/LAN Coordinator Haworth, Inc June 1997 to October 2000 MIS Support/ Network Administrator Expeditors International September 1996 to June 1997 IT Manager/ Network and Database Administrator Encore Systems January 1995 to September 1996 Education Associates Degree in Network Administration Community College of the Air Force Bachelor's Degree in Cyber Security Bellevue University Master of Science in Cybersecurity Bellevue University Skills Active directory, Cisco, Exchange, Firewalls, Network security, Networking, Vmware, Security, Linux, Ids, Information security, Ips, Voip, Wireless, Sql server, Sql, Engineer, Nortel, Check point Additional Information Skills Years of Experience Expertise Level  Network Engineer/Admin 15+ years Advanced  Configuring Routers & Switches 15+ years Advanced  (2500's, 3600's, 7000 series)  Check Point/Palo Alto firewalls 12 years Intermediate-Advanced  Information Security Engineer 15 years Intermediate-Advanced  Information Security Analyst 10 years Advanced  IDS\IPS Administrator 10 years Advanced  Windows Servers 2008 Thru 2016 15+ years Advanced  Active Directory & Group Policy 12 years Advanced  Exchange Server 12 years Advanced  Nortel and some Cisco VoIP 12 years Intermediate  VMware 7 years Advanced  SQL Server 12 years Intermediate  Wireless networking 12 years Advanced  Linux Ubuntu and Redhat 7 years Intermediate  VMWare 5 years Intermediate  Network Security Engineer 10 years Intermediate    TECHNICAL SUMMARY  Cloud Applications: Oracle CRM (Customer Relationship Manager), Microsoft Azure (Office 365), IBM Cloud, Systems Applications and Products in Data (SAP).    Clients: Windows (All versions), Linux, UNIX, VMware Workstation 14, Citrix Meta-Frame    Servers: Windows (All versions), Windows, Share Point, HP UX, Linux, UNIX, Citrix Meta-Frame, VM Server Business Solutions, Oracle, SAP. IIS Server, Storage Area Network (SAN), Network Attached Storage (NAS), Symantec Backup Executive, Microsoft System Center Configuration Management Server,  (SCCM). VMware Horizon 7, VMware VCener 6.5, NSX 6.1.    E-Mail Servers/Clients: Exchange (All versions), Outlook (All versions). Appriver (Email Encryption),    Routers, Switches (Ethernet/FiberChannel): Cisco Routers and Switches (All Versions), Brocade, Arista Networks, Hewlett Packard    Wireless: CISCO, Engenius, Motorola Canopy, Proxim, Ubiquiti Systems, L- Com, Juniper Networks, (Wireless Mesh)    Firewall Software\VPN\IDS: Linux Firwalling, Borderware Firewall Server 5.0, Raptor Eagle Firewall, CISCO PIX 515 Firewall, Snort Intrusion Detection Software, Microsoft ISA Server, Radius, CISCO VPN Appliance SonicWall Pro CheckPoint Safe@Office, Symantec Network Access Control (NAS). SorceFire, Splunk, ARCsite    Database Technologies: Microsoft SQL Server, Oracle, Cold Fusion, SAP.    Office Applications: Microsoft Office (All Versions), MS Project, Publisher, Lotus Smart Suite, Adobe Creative Suite 6 (Photoshop, Illustrator, Dreamweaver, Flash, Fireworks, Acrobat, Bridge, Media Encoder), Ubuntu. LibreOffice    Accounting\Time Keeping: MAS90, Solomon, Ceridian, ADP, Quick Books, Kronos Time Keeper, Simplex Security System, Clock COM.    Telecommunications\Cabling: Nortel Networks, CISCO, AT&T, Panasonic, Avaya, T1-T3, DS3 Frame Relays, ASDL, ISDN, Video Conferencing, Nortel Phone System, Merdian Mail, Category 3, 5, 6 100 BaseT Cable, Gigabit Ethernet (1000BaseT), Fiber Optic, FDDI, VPN, ATM.