Network Engineer <span class="hl">Network</span> Engineer Network Engineer Newport News, VA Professional Summary  Experienced with a variety of network, security, software and technical problem solving skills. Proven abilities in analyzing, documenting and delivering solutions catered to organizational needs. Practice daily at home with virtual labs using a variety of different security tools. Have a complete virtual penetration testing lab set up with my main tool being Kali Linux, of course. Familiar with many kinds of virtualization software which in turn makes me skilled with many different operating systems, including: Windows 10, Windows 8, Windows 7, Windows server 2016/2012/2008 and a few Linux distributions as well.  Education  Currently pursuing my Bachelor’s degree in Computer Information Science with a focus on network and cyber security at ECPI University. Estimated graduation date of November 2018. On top of that, I am constantly taking online courses to further my knowledge on many different things IT related, such as: python, penetration testing, and virtualization software. Always working toward a new certification to further my knowledge and prove my skill.  Certifications  CompTIA A+ Certification CE CompTIA Network+ Certification CE  Detailed outline of my chosen certification path for the future as well.  Experience  Berkley IT – Network Administrator – June 9th, 2016 - November 9th, 2016  I managed and maintained 5 locations in the area as the sole IT presence here in Virginia. Each of which had multiple servers to maintain with a total of about 200 employees in our domains. Responsible for all software used on the network including end-user applications, installing operating systems and updates as needed to keep systems functioning efficiently. Work with hardware such as Cisco switches and routers to ensure connections are consistently named and managed. Identified security concerns and provide solutions to keep both the network and individual workstations free of malicious code. Maintained a detailed inventory of all the equipment used on the network and document the existence of proper licenses for all software. Maintained the ADDS of multiple different locations and implemented group policy as well as local security policy. Monitored networks to ensure security and availability to users. Maintained the integrity of the network, servers and security. Maintained network facilities in individual machines, such as drivers and settings of PCs as well as printers. Troubleshooting of user-end PCs as well as server issues and network issues whether it be hardware or software. Protected the organizations value by keeping information confidential.     Empower Information Systems – Network Engineer – November 9th, 2016 – Present  We maintain and manage around 100 different clients totaling up to over 1000 workstations and hundreds of servers as well. Due to the range of businesses they are I am very familiar with different software and hardware as well. I configure, manage and maintain servers from the ground up and ensure they continue to work properly to keep the business as effective as possible. I troubleshoot anything needed, from a simple fix to very complex problems. I manage active directories, exchange servers, configure DHCP and DNS, software migrations and data migrations. I help to maintain the security of our networks as well whether it be managing all of the AV software as far as monitoring and deployment is concerned or virus/malware cleanup. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Network Engineer Empower Information Systems November 2016 to Present We maintain and manage around 100 different clients totaling up to over 1000 workstations and hundreds of servers as well. Due to the range of businesses they are I am very familiar with different software and hardware as well. I configure, manage and maintain servers from the ground up and ensure they continue to work properly to keep the business as effective as possible. I troubleshoot anything needed, from a simple fix to very complex problems. I manage active directories, exchange servers, configure DHCP and DNS, software migrations and data migrations. I help to maintain the security of our networks as well whether it be managing all of the AV software as far as monitoring and deployment is concerned or virus/malware cleanup. Network Administrator Berkley IT June 2016 to November 2016 I managed and maintained 5 locations in the area as the sole IT presence here in Virginia. Each of which had multiple servers to maintain with a total of about 200 employees in our domains. Responsible for all software used on the network including end-user applications, installing operating systems and updates as needed to keep systems functioning efficiently. Work with hardware such as Cisco switches and routers to ensure connections are consistently named and managed. Identified security concerns and provide solutions to keep both the network and individual workstations free of malicious code. Maintained a detailed inventory of all the equipment used on the network and document the existence of proper licenses for all software. Maintained the ADDS of multiple different locations and implemented group policy as well as local security policy. Monitored networks to ensure security and availability to users. Maintained the integrity of the network, servers and security. Maintained network facilities in individual machines, such as drivers and settings of PCs as well as printers. Troubleshooting of user-end PCs as well as server issues and network issues whether it be hardware or software. Protected the organizations value by keeping information confidential. Education Some college Certifications/Licenses CompTIA A+ October 2016 to October 2019 CompTIA Network+ October 2016 to October 2019