Director of Information Technology Director of Information Technology Director of Information Technology - Destination Hotels Knightdale, NC Visionary and results-driven IT Director offering 15+ years of experience that has proven to be transformational and profitable. Versatile strategist recognized for having superior network performance management skills, exceptional strategy development abilities, and superlative business acumen across the various disciplines of the IT spectrum. Progressive and innovative, highly valued for expertise interpreting business vision, translating objectives into actionable plans, and providing decisive leadership to multi-functional technical and network engineering staff. Articulate and organized with exceptional communication and management skills, able to effectively relate to everyone on any level. Revered by superiors, peers, and clientele for being highly collaborative and interpersonal. Work Experience Director of Information Technology Destination Hotels / Two Roads Hospitality - Chapel Hill, NC August 2013 to Present • Responsible for overseeing network infrastructure systems at the Carolina Inn, The Paul J. Rizzo Conference Center, and the Aloft Uptown at the Epicenter while overseeing IT staff.  • Developed on onsite Audio Video Services Department, as well as played a key role as member on several transition/upgrade teams for various projects.  • Assisted with IT related concerns at the Rizzo conference center on a 90,000 square foot addition renovation project.  • Continuously improve overall network infrastructure and systems of all 3 properties.  • Received the Two Roads Hospitality Information Technology Delivering Greatness Award in 2017.  • Received the Destination Hotels Information Technology Leader of the Year Award 2014. Information Technology Manager Destination Hotels - Chapel Hill, NC August 2012 to August 2013 • Managed IT responsibilities for a 50% renovation of the Carolina Inn dealing with phone, network, and bulk television cabling for over 180 rooms.  • Successfully completed a total re-design and implementation of the guest wireless internet system reducing client complaints to near zero.  • Received several awards from 2012 to 2013. Network Services Engineer Steeltrap Solutions, LLC November 2007 to August 2012 • Made recommendations on systems based on client needs assessment and provided networking support for multiple companies acting as a third-party IT Department to troubleshoot and maintain all aspects of the network environment.   • Planned backup and disaster recovery for clients, as well as our own network cloud based offsite backup for small business.   • Supervised daily operations of a network and computer services firm including 4 network service technicians. Network Services Engineer/ Network Administrator Cadre Systems - Cary, NC February 2003 to November 2007 • Led an IT Department that designed, built, and installed network servers and systems while supervising technical support staff.   • Managed and maintained a 2-location WAN with 8 servers, 80 workstations, exchange email and VoIP phone systems. Network Manager Boney Architects - Cary, NC October 1995 to February 2003 • Designed, implemented, and administered a Windows NT network of 10 Servers and 80 workstations between 5 geographical locations.   • Analyzed the company's needs and recommend a strategy or system to meet those needs. Build, install, and maintain desktop workstations.   • Trained employees on Microsoft Office, Windows NT Workstation, Adobe Photoshop, AutoCAD, DataCad and various other titles.   • Consulted partnering firms with the design and implementation of their network needs. Teaching Assistant NC State University School of Design - Raleigh, NC January 1995 to December 1995 • Teaching Assistant for a course in Computer methods in design which consisted of 3D graphics representation.  Education Bachelor of Environmental Design in Architecture in Architecture and Design NC State University - Raleigh, NC January 1991 to December 1996 Skills ACTIVE DIRECTORY, DNS, EXCHANGE, NETWORK ATTACHED STORAGE, NETWORK ADMINISTRATION, Customer Service (10+ years), Network Management (10+ years), SQL, Strategic Planning, Vmware Awards Destination Hotels Information Technology Physical/Fiscal Responsibility Award 2012-11 Destination Hotels Information Technology Above and Beyond Award 2013-11 Destination Hotels / Two Roads Hospitality Information Technology Leader of the year Award 2014-11 Destination Hotels / Two Roads Hospitality Information Technology Delivering Greatness Award 2017-11 Certifications/Licenses Microsoft Certified Systems Engineer (MCSE)+I Present Additional Information KEY STRENGTHS  ? IT Systems Engineering  ? Network Administration  ? Business Strategy Design  ? Process Automation  ? Helpdesk Training  ? Customer Service    ? Infrastructure Management  ? Datacenter Management  ? Client Needs Assessment  ? Downtime Reduction  ? Backup/Disaster Recovery  ? Change Management    ? Project Coordination  ? Team Building/Leadership  ? Vendor/Resource Allocation  ? LAN/VoIP Management  ? Server Setup/Administration    TECHNICAL PROFICIENCY    ? Windows Server 2016 R2, 2012 R2 Windows Server 2008, 2003, Hyper V Virtual Server.  ? Windows Server 2000, NT 4.0    ? Active Directory & GPO Network Attached Storage  ? HP Procurve managed switches    ? Windows 10 Pro, 8.1 Pro   ? HPMSM series WIFI Controllers  ? Windows 7 Pro   ? HP Aruba Mobility WIFI Controllers  ? Windows Vista, XP Pro   ? Fortigate Firewall Appliances,  Watchguard Firewalls UTM Bundle,  Juniper Firewalls.  ? Windows NT 4   ? Peplink firewall/link aggregators  ? MS Office 2000 to 2016 Deployment   ? DIGI Port Servers  ? MS Outlook Deployment   ? Mitel 3300 Phone systems  ? MS SQL Express   ? Inline IP Voicemail  ? Microsoft Exchange Server 5.5, 2003, 2010   ? Ethernet, Fast Ethernet and Fiber  ? Barracuda Backup Appliances   ? DHCP, DNS, TCP/IP, FTP, WSUS  ? Symantec Backup Exec   ? 4winds & Janus Reader Display boards  ? Sophos Endpoint  ? MaestroPMS, Galaxy LIghtspeed PMS  ? Ving Visionline & Zigbee RF networks