Network Analyst <span class="hl">Network</span> Analyst Network Analyst Township of Liberty, OH Work Experience Network Analyst Reid Health - Richmond, IN August 2011 to November 2018 Primary tasks include configuration management and software deployment via Microsoft's System Center Configuration Manager. Maintain baselines for 500 servers and 2500 workstations. Deploy software packages, security updates, and management agents to all computers. Administer antivirus software and manage exclusions. Generate reports for hardware, software, and software deployments. Accomplishments include:  ? Successfully upgraded from the 2007 to the 2012 SCCM environment.  ? Implemented System Center Orchestrator to automate a number of previously manual processes.  ? Worked with system analysts to develop maintenance windows for servers that previously weren't being patched. Implemented update schedule for 150 servers.    Deployed and administer SharePoint 2010 intranet site with Project Server timekeeping system. Worked with vendor to install third-party software extensions to Project Server. Manage access and permissions. Successfully migrated entire system from physical hardware to virtual server in hospital's Hyper-V cluster.    Responsible for hardware installation in data center, including racking new servers, cabling equipment, running fiber, and decommissioning old equipment. Install operating systems on servers. Hardware experience includes Dell and HP rackmount and blade servers and Cisco UCS servers.    Other areas of responsibility include:  ? Managing Active Directory accounts and permissions  ? Administering Group Policy  ? Monitoring server performance through System Center Operations Manager  ? Implementing Windows Server 2012 and Windows Server 2016  ? Monitoring Citrix via EdgeSight and troubleshooting disconnections.  ? Backing up the analysts responsible for Cisco switching  ? Working as part of team to test and deploy VDI workstations  ? Updating Hyper-V host servers  ? Managing virtual environment with Virtual Machine Manager  ? Developing App-V software deployment solution  ? Migrating printers from old print server to new print server cluster Computer Systems Administrator ARINC - Dayton, OH June 2009 to August 2011 As a Computer Systems Administrator, I provided information technology support for two clients: the Air Force Research Laboratory Center for Rapid Product Development and the Wright Brothers Institute.    At the CRPD site, my duties included:  ? Maintaining and administering all computers and laptops  ? Installing software and printers  ? Maintaining records of computer equipment, warranties, and service records  ? Maintaining backup procedures and regularly testing the backup process  ? Installing and maintaining all wired and wireless networking equipment  ? Managing the VPN connections to the Wright-Patterson Air Force Base network  ? Interfacing with the base network and system administrators to develop and maintain efficient network communications  ? Ensuring compliance with Department of Defense and Air Force regulations  ? Working with site personnel to develop and maintain a certification and accreditation waiver package for computer systems  ? Researching new hardware, technologies, and software, and making recommendations for solutions that enhance the CRPD processes  ? Maintaining tool control software and database  ? Maintaining a research and development standalone network in a Windows Server 2003 Active Directory environment  ? Testing and installed software upgrades, security patches, antivirus  ? Managing version control software for programming efforts  ? Imaging and assigning computers with Air Force Standard Desktop configuration  ? Maintaining software library and licenses  ? Assisting equipment custodians with tracking hardware and software assets  ? Maintaining ruggedized laptops to use as ground control stations    Accomplishments include:  ? Installing and maintaining a networked security camera system  ? Setting up SharePoint sites for CRPD team as well as specific projects, including user permissions and document access controls  ? Managed a yearlong process to receive approval for and to implement a network connection from the CRPD off-base location to WPAFB using a T-1 line    My additional duties for the Wright Brothers Institute included:  ? Managing multiple networks and network storage for different project teams  ? Administering Watchguard Firebox firewalls  ? Administering CentOS Linux, Windows 2003, and Windows 2008 servers  ? Maintaining backup procedures  ? Setting up and maintaining indexing server and client software for research team Systems Administrator GlobeTech Exchange - Beavercreek, OH July 2000 to May 2009 Provided systems administration and desktop support for the corporate office and clients of GlobeTech Exchange. Duties included maintaining a local area network in a Windows Server 2003 Active Directory environment (including migrating from Small Business Server 4.5 to Windows 2000 Server and later upgrading to Server 2003), managing Exchange 2003 (including migrating from Exchange 2000), rolling out new desktops running Windows XP Professional to replace Windows 98-based desktops, testing beta software such as Windows Vista, Office 2007, and Windows 7, systems maintenance, managing DHCP server, troubleshooting user problems, managing user accounts and access, configuring new hardware, installing new software, and development and maintenance of GlobeTech's Web site. Also provided program management support to the corporate staff for GlobeTech's Department of Defense projects. Provided Microsoft Project support for managing GlobeTech employees and resources, generated knowledge management charts and concept maps, and worked closely with GlobeTech's financial department for invoicing and tracking expenses. Approved and tracked travel for billable employees working under Air Force contracts. Participated in the hiring and managing of technical and administrative support employees for GlobeTech's government contracts.    Responsible for network security. Maintained firewall, antivirus and antispam software and conducted periodic security audits and reviewed security logs. Maintained user accounts and access controls to network resources for internal users as well as VPN accounts and access. Created and implemented a backup policy for company data and maintained an automated backup process for servers and desktops and periodically tested backups. Also created a process for maintaining an offsite copy of backed up data. Additionally, provided network administration and technical support to GlobeTech customers. Some examples included: set up wireless networks and firewalls for commercial customers. Provided server maintenance for GlobeTech clients. Upgraded networks and provided network administration (such as router/switch maintenance and TCP/IP configuration) and user training for a customer in the Foreign Liaison Offices at Wright-Patterson Air Force Base through the Air Force Security Assistance Center. These duties included rolling out Small Business Server 2003 with Windows XP desktops to replace a Windows 98 workgroup, training users on Windows XP and Office XP, providing desktop support and Web site maintenance (including DNS configuration), and maintaining firewall, antivirus, and other electronic security measures. Also provided user training, troubleshooting and database support for web-enabled parts-tracking system for government clients.    Additional duties included coordinating and generating briefings for corporate meetings and customer presentations, assisting with technical and cost proposal preparation and review, and serving as the Assistant Facility Security Officer, ensuring company compliance with Department of Defense security regulations, including personnel and facility security classifications. Copy Editor The Palladium-Item - Richmond, IN October 1997 to October 2000 Designed and paginated pages for a daily newspaper and was experienced in all news, sports, and features shifts. Edited stories, verified facts, and ensured adherence to the Associated Press stylebook. Wrote headlines and suggested headlines for other copy editors' pages. Selected local and wire art for stories and participated in the selection and prioritization of stories. Proofread and corrected other copy editors' pages. Worked with a daily deadline in a high-pressure environment, balancing newsworthiness, accuracy and visual appeal while laying out pages. Also performed as the lead copy editor for several special projects, winning a Gannett First Place Well Done, a quarterly award for Gannett newspapers, for packaging and presentation on a special section. Education B.S. in Computer Information Systems Milligan College 2012 B.A. in English and the Humanities Milligan College 1997 Skills EXCHANGE, SHAREPOINT, MICROSOFT PROJECT, SQL SERVER, SQL SERVER 2000, SQL, VISIO, LINUX, WINDOWS 10, WINDOWS 7, WINDOWS 8, WINDOWS VISTA, WINDOWS SERVER 2003, WINDOWS XP, MICROSOFT OFFICE, MICROSOFT VISIO