Network Analyst <span class="hl">Network</span> Analyst Network Analyst - Oman International Bank S.A.O.G 3+ years experienced IT enthusiast and highly competent young professional seeking new challenges in Networks which effectively utilizes the demonstrate skills gained from previous experience and academic background. Technically astute with capability in designing, maintaining, troubleshooting, configuring, implementing Computer Network and provides efficient technical support. Work Experience Network Analyst Oman International Bank S.A.O.G July 2010 to Present Network Engineer  Microland Ltd., India Network Administrator Portrave Solutions - Kochi, Kerala February 2010 to June 2010 Jan 2009 To Dec 2009 Additional Information ? Good knowledge in Networks & Security ? Team work and Coordination Skills  ? General Administration & Technical Skills ? Hardworking & Meticulous Person    QUALIFICATIONS  Bachelor of Science in Electronics with Computer Hardware.  Mahatma Gandhi University, Kottayam, India  Cisco Certified Network Associate (CCNA)  Microsoft Certified Professional (MCP)    Cisco Certified Network Professional (CCNP)    CAPABILITIES  IT Support - Networking    • Handling trouble tickets and resolve with in the SLA.  • Monitor the whole infrastructures with Solarwinds NMS and Forti-Analyser log server.  • Router and Switch configurations (includes new and existing devices).  • Maintain and administrate LAN / WAN networks and related environments, includes Firewall and configurations.  • Recommend changes to improve systems / network configurations and determine hardware or software requirements related to such changes.  • Analyze the issues and troubleshoot network / firewall problem  • Analyze information to determine, recommend, and plan layout, including type of devices and peripheral equipment modifications.  • UTM configurations in firewall to secure network traffic.  • Firewall policy configurations and Vulnerability blocking and policy based routing.  • IOS upgrade in switches and routers.  • Band width upgrade for the leased line connectivity (DXX HDSL MSAN) links.  • Visit on site if device fault and replace as per the analysis.  • Administer the network which consists of Windows machines includes group policies.  • Deployed and configured network which includes 3800/3700 and 2900 routers.  • Configured VLANs and maintained them with 6506 / 2960 switches.  • Added port security as a part of securing the network.  • IOS upgrade in routers, switches and firewall machine.    PROVEN JOB ROLE    PROJECT HANDLED  As Network Analyst:    • Implemented AAA Radius authentication to all locations.  • Implemented Access List to all routers and switches.  • Core Switch IOS has been upgraded to the newer version.  • Created new rules and policies in the gateway firewall.  • Replaced old WAN optimizer with river bed WAN optimizer.    • Core network Migration in OIB:  ? Core network from Head office to Data recovery center and five regional District offices has been migrated from 2MB DXX line to 8MB MSAN link.  ? Core devices also migrated from cisco 3700 to cisco 3800.  ? HP switches are replaced with cisco catalyst switches in Head office.  ? All branch switches are replaced with 48 port cisco catalyst 2960 switches.  • Juniper WAN optimizer has been replaced with River Bed WAN optimizer in Head Office and Data Recover Center.  • Hundred branches are connected to five district offices. The network rack for these five district office has been replaced with new racks.  • Two organizations running with BGP and OSPF protocols have been integrated with EIGRP protocol as intermediate.