IT Consultant IT Consultant Creedmoor, NC To use my knowledge of budgeting, problem solving, communication, and people skills to obtain gainful employment from Perspecta as a project manager. Work Experience IT Consultant PERSPECTA - Raleigh, NC May 2017 to Present Management of over 30,000 cellular devices, to include a database of over 500,000 cellular scanning devices. This includes procurement, provisioning, and project management. Additionally, I manage a project to bring cellular DAS in to federal building across the nation. This requires multi-vendor coordination and planning of a multi-million-dollar budget forecasting 5 year. More responsibilities include developing a "Private" cellular network for federal agencies to bring remote management to employees without the need of token authentication via VPN. Additionally, I am the project manager for multiple projects in this role. Holding many meetings, developing operating procedures, test plans, project plans, and coordination between many teams are some of the tasks I complete in this role.    Additional responsibilities include overseeing of all east coast Navy and Marine Corps network installs. This requires high levels of coordination with multiple vendors and team members in conjunction with timelines and budget. Senior Network Engineer APEX SYSTEMS - Raleigh, NC July 2014 to May 2017 Under this position I worked on multiple projects. These projects included the engineering of converting over 9000 facilities to VoIP and the management, configuration and troubleshooting of over 2500 sites running on a satellite network. My main responsibility as a network engineer in this position is the pre-install site inspection. This includes verifying all device configurations, upgrading legacy devices, configuring policies and standards, coordinating major LAN/WAN installs and upgrades whilst coordinating with multiple vendors. My additional project requires me to change gears quickly from a standard WAN environment to a terrestrial WAN over satellite. I am responsible for processing and troubleshooting all tickets for these sites while running a project in parallel to upgrade all LAN environments at these facilities. This requires coordination and management of data to track orders, shipments, installs and configuration of each device Systems and Network Administrator - Multiple Systems United States Army - Fort Bragg, NC 2006 to July 2012 I was part of a team that coordinated data and voice communications for domestic and international operations.  Helped design new systems application that provided Web-based monitoring of all telecommunications activities.  Successfully established infrastructure requirements; including voice communications, voice over IP, hardware/software applications, PBX, server applications, SQL database and Meeting Place.  Designed, programmed, and implemented LAN/WAN configuration for the new corporate building in a 1-month deadline. Other projects included managing the Hub for multiple satellite connections. This included the implementation and deployment of new technologies. This required research, testing, and deployment to overseas locations. Additionally, I was the RF manager for the unit. These responsibilities included managing our frequencies, jammers, and repeaters. Also, conducted frequency planning for new sites, installed upgrades and created Visual Basic scripts to speed up processing of network performance data. I also performed site maintenance, traveling from site to site, using the spectrum analyzer to verify sites are "on-signal." This would require re-orientation of most antennae weekly, due to weather conditions. Capacity and throughput planning were also a large part of this operation, whether it is on the hub or the RF side and required constant maintenance and load balancing efforts. I was also the COMSEC manager, this required constant maintenance of the KG encryption devices (150s and 250s) and maintaining a schedule to load and destroy COMSEC. Education BACHELOR OF COMPUTER SCIENCE in COMMUNICATION ECPI UNIVERSITY - Raleigh, NC Skills Risk analysis, Mitigation, Cost management, Scheduling Military Service Branch: United States Army Rank: E5 Additional Information SKILLS & ABILITIES  Communication, scheduling, leadership, risk analysis, cost management, task management, critical thinking, mitigation, quality management, punctuality, and a drive to always push projects to their goal.    VITALS  461 Mayview Dr  Creedmoor NC, 27522  T 7067613312  E Donny.r.hilton@gmail.com