Caregiver Caregiver IT Problem Manager – IT Operations Manager Brentwood, NY * Implemented the Incident and Problem management Policy and Procedures which were adopted by the Broadridge Financial Solutions IT Executives while authoring policy and procedural documentation resulting in improved Service levels and client experience.  * Established and implemented a "Follow the Sun" support strategy to handle incident management that resulted in improved incident resolution times and increased customer satisfaction.  * Utilized cross technology background in areas such as networks, distributed systems, desktops and mainframes to ensure adherence to service levels through problem management and post mortem analysis. This resulted in the reduction of repeat issues and fostered permanent solutions.  * Utilized metrics such as incident resolutions, page outs, response times, incidents caused by change, to devise methods that aided in the reduction of mean time to repair (MTTR) and mean time to restore service (MTTRS).  * Selected to be on Corporate Vision team that was tasked with leading my own group of other leaders to disseminate corporate values throughout the company. This resulted in a cohesive understanding of the overall company vision.  * A leader with a track record of targeted career planning and mentoring of others to prepare them for future roles and promotions. Responsible for many team members going on to be leaders of their own teams.  * Delivered great outcomes and customer experience through my training efforts and product knowledge transfer. Work Experience Caregiver Queens, NY August 2016 to February 2019 Provided care for two sick parents IT Manager BROADRIDGE FINANCIAL SOLUTIONS - Edgewood, NY August 2004 to August 2016 Director BROADRIDGE FINANCIAL SOLUTIONS 2014 to 2016 Subject Matter Expert (SME) for Incident and Problem Management processes; created and authored Incident and Problem Management Policy and Procedures documents. Provided input regarding strategic direction of spend and implementations as part of IT Strategic Leadership team. Supervised a Global 15-member team that acted as sole contact point for all reported Incidents and Problems.  * Developed major Incident score card system used to track performance of Incident Management team as well as individual Incident Managers' performance.  * Utilized a wide variety of metrics to devise methods that reduced MTTR (mean time to repair) and MTTRS (mean time to restore service) that allowed the company to remain within client service levels which aided in client onboarding and retention.  * Updated departmental SOPs, work instructions, checklists and other documents.  * Managed the Development of processes and procedures for technical staff with focus on development of SOP's for IT Operations and Service delivery.  * Employed Remedy ITSM to preserve inventory of incidents and problems under analysis and to track status of progress towards resolution and follow-up activities.  * Led successful investigations that identified root causes of problems.  * Reviewed change management requests including configuration, service packages, emergency changes and upgrades for critical systems. Participated in the approval process.  * Collaborated with business units to create sound actions to reduce impact via application resiliency including application/production/infrastructure work streams (Incident, Release, Production Support, and Change); initiated error resolution projects.  * Worked with Application and vendor teams to understand infrastructure capacity and environment requirements.  * Continuously improved Problem Management KPIs on daily/ weekly/ monthly basis by tracking governance metrics. Manager, Network Control BROADRIDGE FINANCIAL SOLUTIONS 2011 to 2014 Supervisor, Technology Services Operations BROADRIDGE FINANCIAL SOLUTIONS 2008 to 2011 Lan Administrator BROADRIDGE FINANCIAL SOLUTIONS 2005 to 2008 Network Technician Globix Corporation - New York, NY 2004 to 2005 Skills Remedy, System administration, Microsoft project, Sharepoint, Linux, Ibm mainframe, Mainframe, Pl/sql, Sql, Distributed systems, Workday, Ms office, Excel, Outlook, Powerpoint, Word, Root cause analysis, Application support, Systems support Links http://linkedin.com/in/seanarthur Additional Information TECHNICAL PROFICIENCIES  Remedy ITSM Workday SharePoint Advanced knowledge of MS Office Suite (Excel, Word, PowerPoint, Outlook) Technical Writing Root Cause Analysis Application Support Network Support Distributed Systems support Microsoft Desktops IBM Mainframe Support Linux System Administration Systems Monitoring Microsoft Project Proficient in PL/SQL