Computer Systems Technician - HSEN Lan Admin Computer Systems Technician - HSEN Lan Admin IT Systems Administrator / Computer Support / Desktop Support Auburn, NY Professional with over nineteen years of experience in the computer industry as a System Administrator, Help Desk Administrator, diagnosing and resolving technical inquiries. Background includes user support, systems installation, repair, maintenance, troubleshooting, and problem resolution. Proven record of success reducing down time and project time, increasing security controls, and eliminating errors. Proficient in Windows-based environments, Internet, and MS Office applications. Willingness to learn fundamental operations of unfamiliar equipment/technologies as needed. Able to clearly understand problems and find positive solutions through the use of troubleshooting, problem solving, teaming and communication skills. Ability to handle constantly changing flow of work; remain productive during slow times, be able to multitask effectively during busy times, exercise patience and professionalism during stressful situations. Friendly presence and helpful attitude; ability to work well with others and interact professionally with multiple levels of the organization. Work Experience Computer Systems Technician - HSEN Lan Admin Cayuga County - Auburn, NY 2017 to 2018 Installed operating systems and applications. Setup user groups and file securities. Helpdesk support using HelpSpot Ticketing System. Provide remote support to end-users and direct tickets to appropriate escalation. Identified, analyzed, and solved problems both independently and with work team members. Pushed Windows and Software updates. System Administrator Auburn Armature Inc - Auburn, NY 2007 to 2017 Identify, troubleshoot and upgrade major components of a computer system. Configure operating systems and application software. Manage Microsoft LAN systems through the use of Active Directory, backup procedures (Backup Exec), security (Sophos, SonicWall), diagnostics, and configuration of user's workstations. Provide help desk for end users. Provided troubleshooting and brought desktop and network issues to resolution for financial and office personnel with hardware and software problems. Installed operating systems and applications. Setup user groups and file securities. Performed maintenance of personal computers and peripheral equipment, identifying problems and providing appropriate solutions. Manage IT Department, distribute duties. Purchase IT hardware and software as needed. Supported desktop systems: Windows XP, Vista, Windows 7, 8, 10. Supported remote users. Network Administrator United Computer Capital - New York, NY 1998 to 2006 Supported end user applications: Microsoft Office, Goldmine, Act, Great Plains, SxEnterprise. Performed maintenance of personal computers and peripheral equipment, identifying problems and providing appropriate solutions. Provided technical advice and resolved problems. Supported desktop systems: Windows XP, Vista, Windows 7, 8, 10. Supported remote users. Education Associate in Microcomputer Systems Management Bryant & Stratton Business Institute - New York, NY Skills Technical support, Network administration, Network security, Backups, Security, Active Directory, System Admin, System Administrator Additional Information Skills  • Building and Testing • Data and File Structures • Hardware Configuration  • Desktop and User Support • Hardware Installation • Computer Assembly  • Network Security • Maintenance and Repair • Client Technical Support and Training  • System Upgrades • Performing Daily Backups and Restoring Data  • Domain, Network Administration • Software Installation and Configuration  • Troubleshooting/Problem Solving • New End-User Accounts/Rights/Access to Data