Network Administrator <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Network Administrator - Goodwill Industries of South Florida Miami, FL Bilingual professional with over 20 years of experience in software administration and data communications. Offers a solid  background in technology and has the ability to interact with all levels of management staff. Seeking a position within a cutting edge  company that develops innovative solutions for various industry sectors. Work Experience Network Administrator Goodwill Industries of South Florida - Miami, FL March 2012 to Present Determined issues that were causing performance problems and implemented troubleshooting methods to prevent system  failure.  Participated in on-call shifts at certain times, including holidays and weekends in case of system or network-related  emergencies.  Monitored system upgrades, which included patches, service packs, hot fixes and new configurations so that they were  completed in a timely manner.  Improved reliability of supply chain software, systems, database and order processing.  Developed IT strategic vision and drove key departmental objectives.  Designed, documented and executed maintenance procedures, including system upgrades, patch management and system  backups.  Conducted end-user training and provided technical support on hardware, software and network issues.  Reviewed, analyzed, and recommended software solutions that would be an ideal fit for project specifications.  Answering questions and resolving issues from customers and vendors  Conducted in-depth network reviews and tightened up security policies to monitor access and prevent cyber threats. Windows Server Administrator Digiport Data Center - Miami, FL September 2011 to January 2012 Installation of Servers windows 2008 R2) SQL 2010, Exchange 2010 and windows 7 ultimate.  Implementation of SharePoint, Hype-v.  Worked with VMware, VSphere 4.0, and Citrix IT Services & Management / IT Consultant Miami, FL November 2007 to May 2010 Consultations, Diagnosis, Assembling, Upgrading  PC & Laptop Repair • Install Anti-virus and Antispyware Software  Setup, Configure and Secure Router  Data Recovery & Secure Network  Create backup & Restore CD  PC maintenance  Purchase necessary IT equipment and other miscellaneous needs  Recognized for troubleshooting problems and offering low-cost Education MBA in Business Administration University of Phoenix - Miami, FL 2017 Bachelor of Science in Information Systems and CyberSecurity ITT Technical Institute - Miami, FL 2015 Associate of Science in Information Systems, Computer Systems ITT Technical Institute - Miami, FL 2011 Bachelor of Science in Computer Science The Catholic University of Santo Domingo - Santo Domingo, DO 1999 Skills Technical support, Vpn, Cisco, Dhcp, Tcp, Vmware, Windows 7, Active Directory, Networking, Windows