IT Manager IT Manager IT Manager Golden, CO Over 14 years of hands-on and multi-tasking experience, adept at handling multiple client request, including installation, upgrade, configuration, administration and maintenance of client's IT infrastructure.    Experience with multiple OS, applications and network software and hardware. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience IT Manager Bachus & Schanker, LLC - Denver, CO December 2017 to Present Responsible for managing the firm IT infrastructure, software, databases, and communications.    Working with vendors and staff to facilitate IT projects and improve processes. System Administrator Northwest IT Services - Portland, OR March 2014 to May 2017 • Managed the overall administration of client's IT software, hardware, WAN, LAN and databases.  • Performed various duties dependent on client requirements. From Desktop/User support, Exchange & Web administration, Vender relations, Database upgrades and management, VoIP setup/administration, Project management, Disaster Recovery and Backup solutions. Network Operations Technician TransCore Services - Beaverton, OR January 2013 to March 2014 • Monitored and maintained Enterprise Servers hosting company's internal & external services to maintain our 24 X 7 operation.  • Assist engineers and software developers in troubleshooting/resolving issues with Freight Matching products offered to the Transportation industry. Customer Support Specialists TransCore Services - Beaverton, OR August 2007 to January 2013 • Provide level 3 technical support on Freight Matching software utilized by the Transportation industry.  • Create and deliver training, development, and mentoring of junior technical staff.  • Work as apart of the development team to design, troubleshoot and deploy new products. Education Masters of Business Administration in Information Systems Management Keller Graduate School of Management - Beaverton, OR 2012 BS in Computer Sciences in Database Administration DeVry University - Beaverton, OR 2011 AS in Computer Technology & Networking in Computer Technology & Networking Heald College of Technology - Portland, OR 1999 Skills Active Directory (10+ years), databases. (3 years), DHCP (10+ years), Exchange (4 years), LAN (10+ years), System Administrator, Vmware, System Admin, Customer Service, Network Administration, Cisco Additional Information TECHNICAL PROFICIENCY  • Windows Server Administration (Windows 2003, 2008(R2) & 2012(R2))  • VMWare Administration, Hyper-V  • Active Directory, DNS, DHCP, IIS, Domain and GPO Administration  • Office 365 - migration & administration (Exchange & Office)  • Databases: MS SQL, Oracle, FileMaker, FishBowl and QuickBooks Databases  • Server hardware -planning & implementation, troubleshooting and maintenance.  • WAN, LAN & Wi-Fi- planning & implementation, troubleshooting and maintenance.  • Firewall - SonicWALL(HA) & PFSense  • Disaster & Backup - planning & implementation, troubleshooting and maintenance.