Network Administrator <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Network Administrator I - Widex USA, Inc. Hauppauge, NY Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Network Administrator Widex USA - Hauppauge, NY March 2017 to Present Team member as part of an international business unit on various projects including domain migration, Azure migration, and infrastructure upgrades. Took the lead for the local backup upgrade project, MDM monitoring project, assessed, and recommended company IT policy elements for redesign, proposed standardization and consolidation of documentation.    Maintaining the backup system of a major internal B2B website, hardware and software patching, network infrastructure, along with the deployment, maintenance and troubleshooting of physical and virtual servers, desktops, and laptops, running Windows 7, 8.1, 10 or Mac OS 10.x, VOIP and mobile phones, warehouse equipment, and printers for local and remote users worldwide.    Tracking multiple services and solutions for backup, documentation and network maintenance for an increased understanding of user habits and escalation tendencies. Network Support Specialist Entertainment One, Ltd - Port Washington, NY 2014 to 2017 Played an integral part of an international business unit on various projects including VOIP installations, networking infrastructure upgrades and SAN migrations. As part of the local outlet, took the lead role for a major backup system upgrade project, which decreased our offsite output by 90%, time required for backups by 20% and increased speed by 40%.    Part of a group who builds, tests and deploys various PowerShell scripts throughout the department to assist with various tasks.    Main responsibilities include maintaining the backup system, hardware and software patching, network infrastructure, the deployment, maintenance and troubleshooting of servers, desktops, and laptops, VOIP and mobile phones, warehouse equipment, and printers on-site as well as within our NYC office, and remote sites both within the US and abroad. Additional responsibilities are software, hardware and license inventory and reporting, AD maintenance, Office 365 maintenance, on-boarding and off-boarding of employees as well as SOP creation and improvement. IT Field Technician Compugeeks Inc - Bayport, NY 2012 to 2014 As the sole field technician, serviced various clients both remotely from the office as well as onsite.  Services included maintenance, deployment, troubleshooting, imaging, hardware and software  upgrades and installations, and other related tasks. By working directly with the System  Administrator, was able to exceed client SLA's. Desktop Support Specialist CSDNet Inc - Bayport, NY 2009 to 2012 Technical Support Specialist Computer Equipment Services, Inc - Bay Shore, NY 2007 to 2008 Education Master of Business Administration in Information Technology Southern New Hampshire University September 2015 Bachelor of Science in Applied Computer Science Keene State College - Keene, NH May 2007 New York State Attorney General Triple June 2003 Skills Technical Support, Windows, Active Directory, Microsoft Office, Windows 7, Customer Service, System Administrator, Vmware, System Admin, Vmware, System Administrator, System Admin