Business Analyst Business Analyst Business Analyst - Cisco Systems San Jose, CA • Over 7 years of experience as a Business Analyst in various sectors of business with thorough understanding and knowledge of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) methodologies.  • Expert communicator and involved in interaction with variety of audience (Product Management, Technical and Architectural teams, Integration Analysts, SMEs, Agile Delivery teams, etc., ).  • Actively used Joint Application Development (JAD) sessions for requirements gathering and brainstorming ideas.  • Highly proficient in preparing Business Requirement Documents, Functional Specification Documents and supported in preparing Systems Requirement Specifications, Technical Requirements.  • Expert in using SQL and working experience on Oracle, SQL Server, DB2 databases. Familiar with ETL, MDM and data loading, data governance in OLAP and OLTP environments and exposure to Big Data platforms.  • Developed /maintained all project communication deliverables including Product Roadmap, Release Plans, Change Management and CCB, AGILE Solution Delivery and User Story documentation.  • Experienced in performing Business Process Reengineering/Gap Analysis to check the compatibility of the existing system infrastructure with the new business requirements.  • Experienced in translating Business Requirements into Use Case and workflow diagrams using UML Modeling.  • Expert in broad range of technologies, including business process tools such as IBM Blueworks Live and proficient in project management tools like Atlassian JIRA, Rally and MS Project.  • Strong communication skills when working with developers, project managers, subject-matter experts, stakeholders, system implementers, and application end-users.  • Capable of forming and maintaining positive and productive working relationships in internal, external, independent, team environments, creative and aggressive self-starter with integrative thinking skills. Work Experience Business Analyst Cisco Systems - San Jose, CA November 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Involved in identifying the user stories from Epic based on business priority.  • Conducted refinement session to keep the backlog clean and in order.  • Involved in User Interface (UI) analysis with the business team to validate accuracy  • Worked with UAT team and provided support in training the users  • Involved in the war room activities and played an active role in triaging the issues raised by the partners and the agents  • Worked with PSA and the development team to achieve the BAVA (Baseline Application vulnerability Assessment) certification for the project  • Coordinated with agents from 10 different locations to gauge the performance of the application  • Coordinated in resolving the application related issues with the help of PEGA support team  • Supported the team in achieving the localization for seven languages  • Generated various reports and dashboards related to the application performance Business Analyst Cisco Systems - San Jose, CA August 2015 to June 2018 Cisco is an American multinational technology in the center of Silicon Valley, that develops, manufactures, and sells networking hardware, telecommunications equipment, and other high-technology services and products.    Responsibilities:  • Worked with internal team to build high-level roadmap and time line to achieve compliance for delivery.  • Worked in a cross functional team environment in SCRUM methodology, used Agile Story development, created user story documents, Epic/Theme and conducted Backlog Grooming sessions for story estimates.  • Performed UAT testing, provided Use Case scenarios to test business cases and managed defects in Triage sessions.  • Prepared product backlog working with product owner and other SME (Subject Matter Experts).  • Prioritized Backlog Items after story point estimation and assigned them to different sprints.  • Facilitated daily stand ups and managed task board with user stories and board.  • Utilized corporation developed Agile SDLC methodology used RALLY for User Story creation, planning, itemizing iteration backlog and prioritizing work items in a sequence for the upcoming iteration.  • Mentored and helped the team grow into a self-managing entity. Encouraged collaboration between the Scrum team and offshore testing teams, provided knowledge transfer during Analysis phase for faster delivery.  • Ran reports using Excel and Business Objects to compare and verify data.  • Conducted User Acceptance Testing for the final testing of the application in UAT environment.    Environment: UML, MS Visio, Enterprise Architect, MS Office, RALLY, MS SharePoint, HP Quality Center. Business Systems Analyst Polycom - San Jose, CA April 2014 to August 2015 Polycom is a multinational corporation that develops video, voice and content collaboration and communication technology.    Responsibilities:  • Worked in the position of senior business analyst, supported requirements development practice in Polycom project groups, developed business requirements and deliverables for projects.  • Reviewed existing FRDs to ensure rate level changes are successfully implemented in current  • Responsible for documenting business request assessments and business development processes to make sure that the client and technical team work in sync to solve complex business problems.  • Facilitated group discussions, workshops and other requirements elicitation techniques to document work products in controlled timeframe and with multiple stakeholders and user groups.  • Worked on data aggregation, used power excel, added formulas for analytics on sales modules. Used excel pivot tables for building business intelligence graphs and demonstrating to senior management.  • Responsible for data gathering, trending, market analysis and preparation of excel reports for study.  • Worked in Agile Delivery Model to design User Stories for iterative development, worked with delivery teams to translate system requirements into story documents, received input and estimates for Scope capture.  • Participated in Software Development Life Cycle, conducted Joint Application Development sessions, reviewed business requirements with engineering and technology teams and translated into Model documents.  • Worked with architectural teams and engineering teams to create and review Use Case diagrams, Sequence Diagrams, Activity and Flow diagrams.  • Performed documentation using MS Word, MS Visio, for modeling and specification documents, reviewed with team and managed approved documents in SharePoint.  • Reviewed test plans and functional test cases, performed User Acceptance testing and participated in defect triage meetings to analyze open defects, provided system specification details to match to expected behavior.  • Worked in JIRA to document user stories, assigned BA tasks to progress in iterative development.  • Assisted QA and provided knowledge transfer to QA, write up of test plans and test cases.  • Worked with project management and delivered work status reports on weekly basis, worked with offshore test teams to get estimates for work items, created backlog items - product backlog and managed iteration backlog.  • Worked with Project Manager, Product Owner, application development and testing team to align project deliverables, dates and report issues/concerns.    Environment: Microsoft TFS, SQL Server 2012, Office 365. Product Owner ICICI Bank - IN September 2009 to January 2011 ICICI Bank was originally promoted in 1994 by ICICI Limited, an Indian financial institution, and was its wholly-owned subsidiary. ICICI Bank offers a wide range of banking products and financial services to corporate and retail customers through a variety of delivery channels and through its group companies.  I was the Product Owner for ICICI deliverables in Personal Banking and Internet Banking and we managed to start the online accounts experience to our customers, manage accounts and deposits and other focus areas from internet Banking.    Responsibilities:  • Managed development teams in product development and support of client managed applications, worked remotely with teams from various ICICI locations and managed solution delivery.  • Carried out formal instructor led classes on suite of products and knowledge transfer sessions to User groups.  • Prepared and instructed on e-learning courses, designed requirements and Catalogs.  • Developed new product micro-courses and prepared and maintained course collection. Education Bachelors in Computer Science in Computer Science Osmania University - Hyderabad, Telangana 1999 to 2002 Skills Uml, Uml modeling, Use case, Jira, Rally, Html, Ms project, Xml, Database, Db2, Pl/sql, Sql, Document management, Gap analysis, Rup, Jad, Java, Unix, Ios, Testing tools Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Business Skills  Business Process Analysis & Design, Process Improvement, Requirements Gathering, Use Case Modeling, JAD Sessions, Gap Analysis, Impact Analysis, UML Modeling, Requirements Elicitation and Document Management    Methodology RUP, Agile, Scrum and Waterfall  Languages Java, SQL, PL/SQL, HTML and XML  Management Tools Sharepoint2012, Atlassian JIRA, Rally, MS Project  Testing Tools HP Quality Center, TOAD, SQL Developer  Database SQL Server2012, DB2  Operating System Tools UNIX, Windows Server2012, iOS