Sr. Network/Systems Administrator & Engineer Sr. <span class="hl">Network</span>/Systems <span class="hl">Administrator</span> &amp; Engineer Sr. Network/Systems Administrator & Engineer - Whitman, Requardt and Associates Elkridge, MD I am a highly motivated, hardworking, honest, reliable individual that is fascinated with information technology, networking, and the internet. I am loyal and have an excellent attendance record. I am skilled at handling multiple tasks in a fast-paced, stressful environment, with excellent troubleshooting, and creative problem solving skills. I am detail-oriented, well organized, meticulous, systematic, and efficient thinker. I am a skilled self-motivated leader, teacher and trainer. I embrace new responsibilities and challenges with a calm, focused, positive, "can be done" attitude. My attitude is nothing is impossible, but just a challenge. I am a professional who can successfully interact with customers. I am a proven management leader with administrative and technical skills. I am disciplined, and consistently set and achieve goals and objectives. I learn quickly and can give and receive directions efficiently. My objective is to obtain a position as an information technology, telecommunications, or networking professional where I can apply over 17 years of knowledge, leadership, and hands on experience with networking, administration, fiber optics, communications, troubleshooting skills, customer service, and logistics. Work Experience Sr. Network/Systems Administrator & Engineer Whitman, Requardt and Associates - Baltimore, MD June 2017 to Present Install, configure, support, and troubleshoot the hardware, operating system, system software and network (TCI/IP) issues of Microsoft Windows up to and including Server 2016 systems. Active Directory management including security and group policy objects in a multi-site environment. Plan, implement, and support changes to systems such as OS upgrades, firmware updates, business applications, disaster recovery, and backup management. Create and conform to change management policies and procedures. Manage and support servers, workstations including qualified and validated systems. Operations support and maintenance for the technical environment including the entire corporate datacenter, DR datacenter, and associated sub-systems. Hands on experience working in a NAS/SAN environment. Experience with multiple hardware and software vendors including HP, Dell, Cisco, Symantec, Lefthand, NetApp, Barracuda, Juniper, Riverbed, PaloAlto, and Avaya. Cisco Catalyst 3500/3750/4500/ASA/IronPort series installation, setup, and configuration. Experience with VOIP phone systems. Design, implement, and support of global systems infrastructure. Responsible for administration of Microsoft Windows based systems, applications and related functions. Analysis, design, and documentation of current environment and development of new policies/procedures. Project Management and leadership experience for all technical operation initiatives. Coordinate and take direction from other system administrators and network engineers to resolve issues. Provide tier I, II, and III end user customer support and resolve helpdesk related issues. Other duties as requested and/or assigned Sr. Network/Systems Administrator & Engineer/ Technical Team Lead - Nearly Universities Space Research Association - Columbia, MD September 2011 to June 2017 Columbia, Maryland  Sr. Network/Systems Administrator & Engineer/ Technical Team Lead - Nearly identical duties and responsibilities as my current position with WRA. Network/Systems Administrator Ameritox - Columbia, MD July 2009 to September 2011 Nearly identical duties and responsibilities as my current position with WRA. Network/Systems Administrator Capgemini Americas - Owings Mills, MD January 2008 to July 2009 for Shire Pharmaceuticals, Inc. - Nearly identical duties and responsibilities as my current position with WRA in addition to on-site team leadership and senior contractor representative roles. Experience working in an FDA, DEA, SOX, ITILv3 and GMP compliant environment. Other duties as requested and/or assigned. Technical Analyst II Shire Pharmaceuticals, Inc - Owings Mills, MD April 2004 to December 2007 Troubleshoot and provide support for servers, desktops, laptops, PDA's, printers, peripherals, as well as various software and business applications. Provide support for local area network and dial-up connectivity. Deploy various hardware and software systems. Provide support for critical business systems. Provide support to Corporate IS staff. Provide support for Access Databases and reports as required. Administer user accounts for the network and file permissions in a Windows 2000/2003 environment. Research answers to questions or problems encountered. Maintain IT logs and provide written reports associated with work performed. Expected to stay abreast of current news, system information, problems, changes, and updates relevant to our user community. Provide support to end user community via phone, e-mail, voicemail, remote control software, or walk-up consulting. Telecommunications/Server/Desktop Support Engineer Docutech, Inc - Crofton, MD April 2004 to December 2004 Install and support Windows based systems and associated applications for existing customer base. Provide customer service for hardware, software, and network issues. Follow issues to achieve customer satisfaction in every step of problem resolution. Technical Support Engineer Ciena Communications Inc - Linthicum, MD February 2001 to April 2004 Supported all Ciena Communication products/customers with both telephone and on-site support. Experience in modular and system level installation, test and turn-up, and troubleshooting using multiple vendors test equipment and procedures. Position also required setting-up and running customer/vendor meetings, trade shows, writing technical procedures and method of procedures, and training of both employees and customers on equipment. Experience with SONET, Asynchronous, SDH equipment, power, order wire, and other telecommunications issues for multiple customers and vendors. Education High School Diploma Mount Saint Joseph College - Baltimore, MD 1989 to Present Fire Protection w/ Information Technology Catonsville Community College - Catonsville, MD 2001 to 2003 Skills Linux, Wireless, Imaging, Active directory, Cisco, Dhcp, Tcp, Tcp/ip, Vmware, Dns, Exchange, Firewalls, Nagios, Networking, Sms, Solarwinds, Virtualization, Avaya, Voip, Netapp Additional Information Technical Skills:  Applications/Software: Microsoft Products (Active Directory, Exchange, SQL, ISA, DNS, DHCP, SMS Remote Management), Cisco (Firewalls, IronPorts, Switches, Wireless Contoller), Symantec Products (Enterprise Vault, Enterprise Antivirus, and Ghost Imaging), Veritas Backup Exec, and HP Lefthand SAN/IQ, NetApp, Barracuda Email Security Gateway, Riverbed, PaloAlto Firewalls, Veeam, Airwatch, VMware (vCenter, SRM, Update Manager, Horizon View, AppVolumes, UEM), Dell KACE, SolarWinds, Icinga/Nagios, Deltek, DoubleTake, and more.  Hardware: HP, Dell, Apple, Android, APC, Avaya, Cisco, 3Com, HP Lefthand Networks, EMC, Verizon, and more.  Networking: Wired/Wireless Switches, Cisco 3500/3750 Series Switches, Cisco ASA Firewalls, Cisco Ironport Mail Filters, Cabling, TCP/IP, Internet, VOIP Phone Systems  Operating Systems: DOS, Windows 10 and below, Windows Server 2016 and below, Basic UNIX, Basic Linux  Virtualization: VMware Certified Professional and vSphere 6.5 Training/Experience