SR. Network Administrator SR. <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> SR. Network Administrator - Soho Data & Voice Villa Rica, GA I am a highly motivated technical professional with 10 years of success installing, configuring, and maintaining advanced system and network solutions across multiple platforms and environments including 5 years of Sr. IT Engineer experience. I have a solid background spanning IT and systems administration, LAN/WAN administration, help desk and data center operations, and desktop support. Work Experience SR. Network Administrator Soho Data & Voice July 2014 to Present • Design and implement small to midsize networks for managed service customers.  • Test and deploy network migrations for on premises servers to cloud based Azuer and Amazon AWS  • Entire company email migrations from local to hosted and host to host management.  • Mission critical disaster recovery implementation for managed customers.  • Maintain all company servers. Along with creating and maintaining Test Environments. X-Line Inc 2013 to 2014 - Contract field services  • Performed AS-Built field data collection for ATT.  • Provided Assistance with ARC-View GIS mapping for ATT pole count.  • Performed Quality Control check for Cooperative Pole inventory. Independent IT Consulting 2011 to 2013 • Working with local business as independent IT support.  • Performed onsite and remote help desk hardware and software support.  • Performed recommendations for hardware and software security needs.  • Provided cost effective solutions for small to midsized business.  • Provided weekly summary report for bandwidth usage along with security vulnerabilities. SR. Systems Analyst Clough Harbour & Associates 2010 to 2011 • Experienced in Make Ready Requirements to meet NESC standards.  • Experienced in construction coordination with Cooperatives  • Performed Joint Use rideout on Walton EMC Make-Right C.T.A.G Project as ComCast representee.  • Provided cost effective Make-Ready solutions for ComCast by estimating pole costs vs. burying ect.  • Provided weekly summary report of pole changeouts and avoided Make-Right costs. SR. Engineer Utility Support Systems, Inc June 1999 to May 2009 • Experienced in Overhead and Underground RUS staking requirements for various Cooperatives in the state of Georgia.  • Experienced in Make Ready Requirements to meet NESC standards.  • Experienced in construction coordination with Cooperatives.  • Experience in storm restoration.  • Implemented Quality Control process for all Make-Ready/Make-Right projects.  • Assisted in development of USS Make-Ready and Pole Count software.  • Experienced in all aspects of RUS Construction including handwritten staking sheets & Staking Partner Software.  • Experienced in construction coordination with Cooperatives, Joint-Owners and Attachee  • Performed duties as a Project Coordinator. Responsibilities included managing workload for several projects. Delegating work to six employees, and QC of all their work turned in. Creating maps for the projects in ArcView, and getting NJUNS tickets created related to the projects.  • Experience in startup pilot projects and development of methods and procedures for all Make-Ready/Make-Right projects for clients such as Georgia Power Company, Greystone Power, Coweta Fayette EMC, Carroll EMC, Walton EMC, Habersham EMC, & Georgia Transmission. Technical Manager Data Star 1997 to 1999 • Managed Technical Department.  • Administered Internet Services.  • Fostered customer support and client relationships.  • Responsible for budgeting. Education High school or equivalent Skills System Administrator, Active Directory, Linux, Vmware, System Admin Assessments Technical Support — Highly Proficient August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/v-dolunrctebdt59 Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information • Capable of motivating others to reach a common goal in the company's interest.  • Experienced in solving problems with critical situations.  • Experienced in the operation and configuration of, Windows Server 2003, 2008, 2012R2, 2016, & 2019. Hyper-v 2012R2, 2016. Citrix Xenserver. Vm management. Windows Admin center. Vmware Esxi. Failover Clustering & S2D. Powershell, Active directory, DNS, Group Policy, Login Scripts, Netbios & SMB sharing.  • Very fluent in Linux, experience with most distributions  • Certificated A+ Net+ MCP.  • Networking TCP/IP installation and configuration.  • Network Switches, Hub and Firewall. Vlan, nat, port mirroring, vlan Tagging and Trunking  • Experienced with troubleshooting desktop, laptop, tablet, phone and server hardware