Senior IT Analyst Senior IT Analyst Senior IT Analyst Woodstock, IL Work Experience Senior IT Analyst NEMERA - Buffalo Grove, IL November 2015 to August 2018 In my first role within a Global Company, communication became a key factor in determining how quickly I adapted to establish myself as an asset.    * Supporting Systems and Network Operations across two buildings.  * Management of On-site backup and Disaster Recovery procedures.  * Communicate with key Vendors and Customers to maximize relationship.  * Project Lead for Data Historian Server integration with Eli Lilly Machine Interfaces.  * Procure Technical documents for ongoing GMP system audits.  * Manage Help Desk queue and delegate tickets accordingly. Network Administrator YOUNG INNOVATIONS - Algonquin, IL April 2015 to November 2015 I adopted a large amount of responsibility within a short period of time due to turnover within IT. This challenged my Technical competency while promoting my ability to take on a senior role.    * Management of Systems and Network Operations across 6 sites.  * Database Administration of our ERP & CRM (IFS) Systems  * Supervision of Exchange 2010 High Availability  * Significant role in cutting over to AT&T for ISP and MPLS services.  * Implemented IPsentry as a cost effective solution for bandwidth utilization alerts.  * Created Technical documentation for IT processes.  * Managed Netgear NAS appliance for backup to disk.  * Generated weekly reports in advance of meetings with Management team. Systems Engineer AMERICAN SOCIETY OF PLASTIC SURGEONS - Arlington Heights, IL January 2012 to April 2015 With a solid team already in place, I was able to expand my knowledge by overseeing the lifecycle of Business driven Projects sponsored by IT.    * Configured and maintained a Windows Deployment Server to standardize Windows images.  * Through WSUS, maintained updated patch deployment for all Systems.  * Implemented On-boarding and off-boarding policies.  * Upgrading Symantec Enterprise AV software (v12) on all Endpoints  * IT lead on transitioning our Postini SPAM filter to Google Apps Message security platform  * Assisted Senior IT with implementing BGP for ISP redundancy.  * Promoted from Technical Support Specialist to Systems Engineer. Systems Network Administrator COMPUTER VIEW INC - Arlington Heights, IL August 2006 to December 2011 As a managed services provider, I gained vast insight of the scope Technology encompasses, from Help Desk support to Systems and Network Integration.    * Provide Network Support and Systems Integration for Chicago suburban public Libraries  * Communicate with team members and help desk to resolve issues quickly and effectively  * Deliver emergency support working extended hours and weekends. Consult with third party vendors to trouble shoot issues that required escalation.  * Responsible for the provisioning of HP ProLiant Chassis switches to all of our managed networks PC Production Manager TACTICAL BUSINESS SERVICES - Crystal Lake, IL July 2002 to March 2006 Assembling Computer systems provided a foundation in my evolution to become efficient at troubleshooting hardware issues.    * Managed assembly of computers and increased productivity by re-structuring workflow.  * Lead support technician for customers.  * Supervise staff and delegate responsibilities to assure quality.  * Promoted from QA Technician to Production Manager. Education Associates Degree in Electronics And Computer Technology in Electronics Computer Technology DEVRY UNIVERSITY - Addison, IL May 2002 Project Management Fundamentals GLOBAL KNOWLEDGE TRAINING CENTER - Schaumburg, IL Skills Active Directory (10+ years), Cisco (3 years), Deployment (10+ years), Enterprise Administration (10+ years), Exchange (3 years), Hyper-V (5 years), Juniper (Less than 1 year), LDAP (Less than 1 year), MICROSOFT SHAREPOINT (3 years), Printers (10+ years), SharePoint (3 years), SINGLE SIGN ON (Less than 1 year), SSO (Less than 1 year), Symantec (3 years), VMware (3 years), VoIP (5 years), Windows Server 2008 (10+ years), Wireless (10+ years) Additional Information • Hyper-V and VMware Experience  • Symantec and Veeam Backup Software  • Cisco, Juniper, and HP business grade switches  • Cisco Wireless Controllers and Access Points  • Cisco UC and VoIP  • Office 365 Enterprise Administration  • Exchange and SharePoint Administration  • Windows Server 2008 to 2012  • Active Directory supporting LDAP and SSO  • Group Policies deployment  • Network Shares and Printers