IT Generalist IT Generalist IT Generalist - Illinois Eye Center Bartonville, IL Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience IT Generalist Illinois Eye Center August 2012 to Present Manage all IT equipment and software including 25 Windows servers, 4 VMWare servers, 50 client machines, 80 Wyse Thin Clients using load balanced RDP servers, 12 Cisco Ethernet switches with multiple locations and Disaster Recovery solutions, both band offsite replication.  • Developed an intranet site to replace existing SharePoint site using Linux, Apache, PHP and Javascript.  • Perform business intelligence reporting using Microsoft SQL, and custom EMR reporting using Crystal Reports. IT Manager Advanced System Designs February 2006 to August 2012 - out of business)  • Managed all IT assets in our Business Hosting Center and leases/contracts with all partners involved in supporting our clients.  • Coordinated installation and setup of Windows and Linux servers for hosted environments, consisting of 50 virtual machines.  • Developed and supported robust strategy for disaster recovery. xSeries Technical Specialist Levi, Ray & Shoup, Inc July 2003 to January 2006 Provided pre and post sales technical support for Intel based hardware, storage, operating systems and software.  • Delivered expert consultation on sizing, designing, installing and troubleshooting for server and storage solutions.  • Performed skill transfer of hardware, software and configuration tools required to support the configuration. Senior Network Administrator Potter Corporation February 2002 to July 2003 Managed LAN/WAN infrastructure for printing company with three sites, as many as 180 users and 20+ servers.  • Designed and implemented a transition plan to move from a frame relay network to a secure internet VPN network, utilizing Checkpoint Firewall software which resulted in a 75% cost reduction from the WAN network.  • Technical lead for two remote network administrators include project management effecting all aspects of business and assisted in annual reviews. Responsible for backup, anti-virus, file, web and mail servers including updates, monitoring and troubleshooting. Coordinating with other network administrators to provide equal support for all facilties.  • Developed ASP.NET application using SQL server for company's intranet system which included human resource information, job complaint system and tracking of artwork from design to printing. Network Consultant Advanced System Designs September 1998 to January 2002 Pre and post-sales support for network and Intel based servers.  • Provided technical support includes sizing, designing, installing and troubleshooting network and windows server based issues.  • Assisted in network setup and initial configuration of AS/400 systems. Installation and support of Checkpoint firewall security software.  • Designed, programmed and supported custom Visual Basic application for 30 clients, ranging in size from 10-400 nodes. Skills LINUX (10+ years), SOLUTIONS (8 years), SQL (6 years), CISCO (5 years), PHP (5 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL COMPETENCIES  • VMWare ESX, ESXi, Workstation, View • Network Storage IBM, Equallogic, Fujitsu  • Windows Server and Workstation All Versions • MYSQL and MS SQL Server (SSIS, SSRS) All Version  • Linux Ubuntu, Debian • Exchange Server All Versions  • Backup Technologies (Veeam, Symantec, etc.) • Spiceworks, PRTG network monitoring  • Software Deployment Solutions  (WDS, PDQ Deploy, LANSweeper)    • Antivirus Solutions (Symantec, Panda,  Vipre, Cisco AMP and more)    • Cisco, Arbua Routers and Wireless • HP and Cisco L3 Switches  • IBM, Dell, Cisco and HP Server  Hardware    • VPN Client and Site to Site Solutions  • Cisco SourceFire, ASA    • PHP, JQuery, Ajax Development, HTML, CSS