Wireless Mesh Community Advocate Wireless Mesh Community Advocate Wireless Mesh Community Advocate - BDPA - Information Technology Professional Organization Detroit, MI Senior-level Windows Systems Engineer with over 10 years' experience and a unique combination of hands-on technical, project management, consulting, manufacturing and government industries, Possess Ubiquiti Broadband Wireless Admin and Ubiquiti Broadband Wireless Specialist. Successful in designing multi-server network infrastructures, administration and integrating technologies to support broad-ranging operating, financial and organizational needs. Understands the need for implementing technological solutions to support strategic business decisions to meet corporate objectives.    Proficient user of following network protocols: TCP/IP. WINS, DNS, DHCP, NWLink, IPX/SPX, NetBEUI, and NFS. Work Experience Wireless Mesh Community Advocate BDPA - Information Technology Professional Organization - Detroit, MI January 2014 to Present Digital Stewards are technologists, organizers, Detroiters, activists, and elders exploring and learning new technologies with the goal of supporting community-owned wireless infrastructure (WI-FI networks). We have bi-weekly meetings that include planning, building, and organizing community wireless networks in Detroit neighborhoods. Systems used Ubiquiti WIFI routers and software.  https://soundcloud.com/alliedmedia/dctp-interview-on-michigan-radio    Digital stewards have implemented community wireless in these locations in Detroit:    Morningside  Cass Corridor  Poletown  Field St.  The Boggs School  Ewald Circle  Southwest Detroit - 48217 zip code Network and Desktop Support Engineer 2006 to 2019 2006-2019  Michigan Department of Health and Human Services (MDHHS)/Southeastern Michigan Health Association (SEMHA)    • Technologies used on site: Windows 2008 R2 server Windows 2003 server, Windows 10, Windows 7, Windows XP Professional, Novell 4.11 and 5.0, Office 365, GroupWise 6.5 & 7-0, Avast Endpoint Protection Suite, GLink, dBase 4, Malwarebytes Endpoint Protection, Open Source/Freeware applications (Sys Aide, FileZilla, Spybot S&D, Spyware Blaster, AVG, Wireshark, Untangle server, ManageEngine, Debian LINUX), Cisco 3030 concentrator, VMware server/player, Cisco Meraki, Allworx VOIP  • Designed and set up remote office location LAN network, security systems, VOIP system and Active Directory network for HIV and STD programs.  • Installed enhanced network security measures using open source software Smooth Wall firewall, Untangle security appliance and Cisco Meriki appliance.  • Located and implemented cost-effective software to monitor network health, security monitoring, and asset management.  • Trained STD division personal on HIPPA compliance and enforce HIPPA/ Protected health information (PHI) security guidelines.  • Improved desktop performance of STD network and computer by implementing standard computer desktop images and scheduling regular software updating.  • Monitor, track and remove viruses and malware intrusions on the local network.  • Point of contact for all user concerns for the STD Surveillance, Outstate DIS personal, Immunization, and HIV programs.  • Researched, located and implemented technology that improves the efficiency of DIS and epidemiology personal and promotes community awareness of communicable diseases with limited budget resources. (Audio Podcasting of professional conference sessions and incorporating technologies such as Blogging)  • Maintain, troubleshoot, and repair desktop/server/printer hardware systems. Director of Technology and Automation (Volunteer) BDPA - Information Technology Professional Organization 1999 to 2019 Develop content and delivering technical and professional development workshops. Establish technological requirements and implementing solutions to support organizational goals and over 4,000 members nation-wide while implementing projects to give back to the community. Accomplishments include implementing wireless kiosks with a team of 20 volunteers for the BDPA National Conference, designing and installing computer lab for Carstens Elementary and wired networks for two organizations.    Technologies used on projects: Windows NT, Windows 9X/ ME/ 2000/ XP, SOHO wireless routers, LINUX desktop and firewall, and Deepfreeze. Senior Network Administrator & Engineer NCI Information Systems, INC 2000 to 2005 Sr. Windows Systems Administrator NCI Information Systems, INC 1998 to 2005 Technologies used on site: Windows NT/ 2000 / 2003, MS-DOS, Windows DNS DHCP WINS, Exchange 5.5, Active Directory, Blackberry Server, CA Unicenter Product Suite (NSM, RCO, SDO, AMO), Legato Backup, Cisco IPTV Norton, McAfee, Shavlik Patch Management, Denika, Symantec Ghost, WISE Package Studio, Senforce Wireless Security, What's up Gold    Promoted to Senior-level position within first two years reporting to the Director of Information Technology US Army TACOM. Responsible for creating, testing and distributing mission-critical desktop applications and security patches to protect internal systems. Solved business issues, provided technical support and project management services within the Parts Procurement division that interfaced with 4,500 end users for the US Army, NAVY and other branches.    • Forged effort to implement network-monitoring tools, which enabled technical staff to detect off-line servers and respond quickly to minimize productivity impact.  • Contributed in the project to consolidate 100+ servers down to 35 servers significantly reducing organizational overhead and maintenance costs by 60%.  • Technical liaison for five core business owners and 4,500 end users for US Army, NAVY and other branches geographically disbursed within Michigan. Developed scope and system requirements, functional specifications, design logical workflows and disaster recovery planning to solve business issues while achieving corporate objectives.  • Recognized for consistently delivering outstanding service and effectively implementing technology improvement projects ahead of schedule, according to specifications and within budget.  • Performed security administration granting permissions and managing access to critical data and systems. Perform security analysis, maintained DOD requirements and update software to latest security levels for maximum protection from potential internal and external threats.  • Ensured security procedures were implemented and enforced to meet governmental standards. Researched emerging technologies and suggested alternatives to management for consideration to meet business requirements and rapidly changing demands.  • Closely monitored network performance, installed equipment, and assisted Network Administrators with special project assignments.  • Implemented and maintained base-wide desktop software deployment system using CA SDO for delivery of mission-critical applications, security patches, and custom business applications. Configured MSI and InstallShield software packages for silent install with no user required interaction. Network Administrator NCI Information Systems, INC 1999 to 2000 promoted within 12 months LAN System Technician NCI Information Systems, INC 1998 to 1999 Education Bachelor of Science in Electrical Engineering Technology Lawrence Technological University Assessments Technical Support — Proficient August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/htgkh13poigm8i0e Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information Core competencies include:    • SOHO network design  • Security Analysis  • Configuration, maintenance, troubleshooting  • System Analysis, Design & Testing  • Software upgrades and security testing  • Change Management  • Business System Integration  • Technical Writing    Technical Skills  Software: ManageEngine, CA Unicenter Product Suite (NSM, RCO, SDO, AMO), Legato Backup, Cisco IPTV Norton, McAfee, Avast, Shavlik Patch Management, Denika, Symantec Ghost, WISE Package Studio, Senforce Wireless Security, What's up Gold, Office 365, Citrix Metaframe Client  Hardware: Allworx VOIP, Cisco Meraki, Dell PowerEdge, HP Network, Netserver LX, LC, LXr, various attached appliances, Dell PC platforms, Android, and Apple OS mobile devices  Operating Systems Windows 10, Windows 2012 server, Windows 2008R2 server, Active Directory, Windows 2003R2 server, NDS, Novell Netware 4.11/5.0, MS-DOS