Network Engineer <span class="hl">Network</span> Engineer Network Engineer - University of Kansas Health System Kansas City, MO ? 4 years of network/systems administration experience in the high frequency trading industry. Experience  optimizing low latency networking products and servers in an open source production environment.  ? 5 years of professional military experience coordinating installation of network hardware and network  monitoring software. Work Experience Network Engineer University of Kansas Health System - Kansas City, KS June 2017 to Present Network Administrator Tradebot Systems, Inc - Kansas City, MO May 2013 to June 2017 Operations/Daily Tasks  ? Primary responsibility: research and innovate on ways to reduce network latency and increase performance of custom trading systems.  ? Datacenter lead on all colocation datacenter operations (4 cages, 43 racks, 1000+ physical devices).  ? Recognized automation opportunities. Created simple Python scripts to scrape and parse JSON, SNMP, and  SQL responses. Created scripts to interact with network switches and gather data for monitoring & alerting  tools.    Networking/Systems Projects  ? Worked with network counterparts at the major stock exchanges CBOE, NYSE, NASDAQ turning up market data feeds and order entry network connections.  ? Acted as a single point of contact for WAN circuit order placement, turn-up, and problem resolution with major banks such as Goldman Sachs, JPMorgan Chase, UBS, Credit Suisse, and Deutsche Bank.  ? Experience with Arista EOS, Cisco IOS, and Cisco Nexus NX-OS network operating systems.  ? Experience with Wireshark, passive optical taps, active optical taps, and span port redirects.  ? Experience with entry level Linux System Administrator tasks in a RHEL/CentOS environment.  ? Experience troubleshooting host networking configuration with standard tools such as netstat, tcpdump,  ethtool, ifconfig, and route commands.  ? Experience with niche HPC and low latency network switches and NIC manufacturers(Exablaze,  Metamako, Solarflare).  ? Recommended and purchased industry standard test platforms for fiber networking. Expert experience  using BER testers, optical power meters, fiber scopes, and other standard tools.  ? 32 separate trips to out-of-state colocation facilities working on system infrastructure projects.  ? Guided technicians in remote facilities on 300+ ticketed requests involving structured cabling, standard  hardware moves, adds, changes, deletes(MACD), and network troubleshooting.  Network Monitoring Projects  ? Worked continually to simplify and reduce chattiness of existing paging systems to reduce alert fatigue.  ? Designed a central Network Operations Center display wall utilizing three 55" 4K displays. Created custom  dashboards and source material showing key performance metrics.  ? Designed a trade floor display wall utilizing seventeen 65" 4K displays.  ? Deployed open source metrics gathering and graphing tools Prometheus & Grafana to production  environment. Championed its use and instructed developers how to integrate the metrics gathering into existing programs.  ? Created custom dashboards and widgets with open source dashboard tool Dashing. Deployed dashboards to unused 1080p displays around the office.    Security Projects  ? Increased the trading firm's overall security posture by recommending and integrating Duo Mobile  two-factor authentication for VPN access.  ? Deployed an open source TACACS+ implementation for internal AAA to replace an aging Cisco solution. Education Bachelor of Information Technology in Business Administration The University of Missouri - Kansas City, KS May 2013