Senior Manager IT Strategy and Infrastructure Senior Manager IT Strategy and Infrastructure Senior Manager IT Strategy and Infrastructure - Hanley Wood Marketing Shakopee, MN To join your IT team and raise it to a new level through implementation  of fresh ideas, and share expertise in management and engineering of  IT, computer systems, and networks. Work Experience Senior Manager IT Strategy and Infrastructure Hanley Wood Marketing - Minneapolis, MN April 1998 to Present • Managed IT for HWM, a marketing firm in downtown Minneapolis, a division of Hanley Wood LLC. Washington, DC.  • Directly supervised PC/Mac support technicians.  • Managed Quality Assurance team & process for web applications.  • Engineer for 30 Windows and Linux servers and DB servers.  • Engineered redundant/load balanced Web server clusters.  • Initiate, Manage, and Budget all IT projects for Minneapolis office.  • Provided support for major web development team.  • Managed ISO 27001 Data Security compliance with major clients  • Project lead in a variety of corporate IT projects involving all other  divisions of Hanley Wood LLC, leading other IT engineers.  • Hands on IT support from server solutions to helpdesk tasks  • Work with clients in supporting their web infrastructure needs    Experience and Knowledge of the Following Software and Hardware:  +Operating Systems  -Windows 2000/2003/2008/2012/2016  -Virtualization with VMWare ESXi software  - Windows 7, Windows 10, Mac OS X  -Red Hat Linux, Unix (HPUX)  +Software/Web Technologies  -Active Directory, Dynamic File Systems, Clustering, Encryption  -SQL Server, MySQL, MariaDB, Oracle, IIS, Exchange  -Web hosting, domain name administration, DNS, Load balance  -AWS, Microsoft Azure, Visual Studio Team Services/Azure Dev  -MSOffice Windows/Mac  +Hardware  -Ethernet 100, 1000, 10G, Frame Relay, ATM, DSL, Cable, Wireless, Fiber (WAN and LAN support)  -Bay Networks/Nortel, HP, and Cisco Hubs, Switches, & Routers  -Dell and HP Server technologies  -SAN technology from HP and Dell over Fiber and Ethernet (iSCSI)  -PC and Mac desktop hardware  -VPN, Modems, VOIP, Fax Servers, and Remote Access Servers Network Administrator ChemRex Inc - Shakopee, MN March 1996 to March 1998 • LAN and WAN support of a Network of 150+ Computers  • Administration skills in Windows Server Networking and some Novell  • Involved with the Implementation and Administration of SAP software  • Managed Server and Desktop budgets, and helpdesk personnel.  • Web and Firewall Server Setup and Administration  • Implementation and Maintenance of WaterMark Imaging Service Technician Sears Service - Duluth, MN 1993 to 1995 • Repair PC's and performed helpdesk tasks  • On the Road Service and Extensive Customer Relations  • Technician while a Full Time Student at University of Minnesota, Duluth