IT Manager IT Manager Email Address: haroldsgu@gmail.com; Mobile No.: (671).456.6070 Dededo, GU Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience IT Manager LTP Construction February 2019 to Present • Implemented a SIP Trunk Phone System (Docomo Provider) using Grandstream VOIP System that I purchased from Amazon.   • I handle all Project site IP Security Camera and Biometric Fingerprint Attendance Time Clock. Communicate with Provider for Internet Service setup in project sites.  • Handle all Marketing materials (Stickers/ Banners/ Business Cards/ Flyers/ etc) all Graphics Design for the Company.  • Started the Website Design, purchased and setup a Domain/Webhosting/ mail Service for the company (undergoing project). www.ltpconstruction.us  • I handle all System and Hardware Maintenance (Technical Support)  • Research/ Make proposal/ Implement new technology (Hardware/Software) that will enhance the business process both Main Office/ Project Sites. Systems Analyst Pacific Daily News - Gannett - Hagåtña, GU November 2014 to February 2019 Key Accomplishment  1. Network Configuration of our New Location Print site at Compadres Mall (Cabling/Switch/Wifi and Router Installation)  2. Setup KIOSK Machine for KIOSK Users  3. Setup New Printers (Canon C7565i/ Canon C3525iF) Both Sites  4. Help Configure WAN connection between Offices (Guam Main Hagatna/ Compadres Mall).  5. Implement Group Policy File System  6. Server Backup Recovery Proposals and Management (Backup Exec)  7. Help in Telephone System Setup/Maintenance (VOIP)  8. Responsible in Deploying all new Laptop/Desktop both MAC and PC  9. Maintain PACIFIC DAILY NEWS IT Equipment Inventory  10. System Administration and maintenance (Genesys/Production Manager Pro/ADOBE CC)  11. Setup/Configure/maintain compliance of all Printers, Laptop, Desktop and Cellphones making sure all equipment updates/ firmware are up to date  12. Technical Support to all users (System support/ Hardware/ Software). Network Administrator Ambros Inc. - Harmon Village, GU January 2006 to November 2014 Key Accomplishment  1. AMBROS INC. WAN Documentations, monitoring and maintenance  2. Implement Domain Server (From workgroup to Domain Server)  3. Configure WAN connection between Offices (Guam Main/ Harmon Warehouse/ Palau/ Saipan) using sonicwall routers and VPN Connection.  4. Implement Group Policy File System  5. Backup Recovery Proposals and Management  6. Telephone System Maintenance (Televantage Server/grandstream)  7. Developed AMBROS INC. M.I.S. Manual (Internet Policy/ Resource Policy/ Network Policy/ etc.) for management evaluation and approval.  8. Create MIS important forms (New Accounts Form/ Service Request Form/ MR Form/ Replacement Form)  9. Design and implement System Forms (New Product, Supplier, Brand, Packaging Form)  10. Finalized and Maintain AMBROS INC. IT Equipment Inventory  11. System Administration and maintenance (Insight System/ MAS90 Financials)  12. Merging of Saipan to Guam Database (Insight System)  13. Work on all Sites (offices) Internet connection and upgrade.  14. Proposal on centralized Antivirus Defense as opposed to individual Security maintenance.  15. Technical Support to all users (System support/ Hardware/ Software).  16. AMBROS INC Website design and development Computer Programmer/Analyst Decision Systems - Tamuning, GU November 2005 to January 2006 Key Accomplishment  1. Deveploped some modules on Batch Authorization Project (Credit Card/ Debit Card) CitiBank.  2. Analyzed and Documents program process flow/ codes/ modules.  3. Developed/ Document some modules on BAPUtility program (Marianas Credit Bureau).  4. Database Server Maintenance/ Documentations (add/modify/ create)  5. Take charged on Batch Update of Bank Of Guam Transactions (Daily) Teacher Benguet State University - Ifugao Province June 2005 to October 2005 Key Accomplishment  1. Syllabus enhancement(Computer Networks/Computer Programming Fundamentals/Operating System)  2. Help in the development and maintenance of Computer and Internet Laboratory.  3. Teaching 3 Subjects for School Year 2005-2006 1st Semester (Introduction to Information Technology with keyboarding/ Computer Programming Fundamentals/ Operating System with virus and data recovery info.) Network Administrator CASCDE - Nueva Vizcaya May 2003 to July 2004 Key Accomplishment  1. Plan, analyze, and construct a proposal to migrate from Workgroup to Domain Server Environment.  2. Implement and Maintain a Domain Server (Database/File and Print Server).  3. CASCADE’s Local Area Network Maintenance.  4. Lead the analysis, Development and Implementation of CASCADE Calendar of Activity System.  5. Helps in the finalization of MIS and CASCADE Network manuals and construct MIS service request form and Replacement Form.  6. Implement a centralized Virus Defense solution using (McAfee EPO3 Antivirus Enterprise)  7. Perform as MIS Manager jointly with my position as Network Administration from January 2004 to July 2004 as a result of the resignation of our MIS Manager on December 2003.   8. Employee Training and End User support. Computer Programmer/Analyst Tiongsan - Baguio City, Benguet November 2000 to October 2002 Key Accomplishment  1. Development and implementation of T.S.S. Supermart POS and Inventory System of Tiong San Harrison, Baguio City and the EXPONENT ENTERPRISE POS and Inventory System.  2. Development and Maintenance of the COOPWare Accounting Management System for Cooperative Clients.  3. Installation and maintenance of EXPONENT and T.S.S. Supermart Local Area Network.  4. Network and System Documentations.  5. Employee Training and End User support. Web Developer Texas Instruments, Inc - Baguio City, Benguet February 2000 to November 2000 Systems Handled  1. MIR Automation  2. New Product Release Form (NPRF) Automation  3. Developed some modules of Facilities Database Automation, SWR Automation, and WAIVER Automation.    Key Accomplishments  1. System analysis, development and implementation of MIR and NPRF Automation and Security Data Bank 2 of Texas Instrument Phil. Inc.  2. Maintenance of Acestar Local Area Network.  3. Employ Security Firewall to prevent and detect Intrusion attack from malicious users  4. Instigate Remote Computing for quicker End User Consultation  5. Implement backup/recovery and security policies to protect critical corporate data  6. Employee Training and End User support. Education Bachelor's in Bachelor Of Science in Computer Science Saint Louis University - Baguio City, Benguet Skills Active Directory, Microsoft Office, Cisco, HTML, SQL, security, Sharepoint, Networking (10+ years), Technical Support (10+ years), Programming (8 years), System analyst (8 years), Database Management (8 years), Microsoft Office (10+ years), Microsoft Operating System (10+ years), Mac OS X (5 years), Servers MAC/MS (8 years), Strategic Planning, Network Administration, Customer Service, exchange, Vmware