SECURITY+ certified Cloud Engineer, Network Engineer SECURITY+ certified Cloud Engineer, <span class="hl">Network</span> Engineer SECURITY+ certified Cloud Engineer, Network Engineer - MOYA TECHONOLGIES Alexandria, VA Work Experience SECURITY+ certified Cloud Engineer, Network Engineer MOYA TECHONOLGIES - Fairfax, VA January 2016 to Present CompTIA AWS, SECURITY+ certified Cloud Engineer, Network Engineer, LAN/WAN, Firewalls, to obtain a Cloud/ Network Engineer and Cyber Security position with a challenging company.    MOYA TECHONOLGIES, Fairfax, VA January 2016 - PRESENT  Cloud Administrator    ? Experience in managing and maintain IAM policies for organization in Aws to define groups, create user account, assign roles and define rules for role-based access to Aws resources  ? Expertise in architecting secure VPC solutions in Aws with the help of Network Acls, security groups, public and private network configurations.  ? Create the NAT instances by Using AWS CloudWatch Alarms, Reboot instance  ? Create snapshots and amazon machine image (AMIs)of the instances for backup and creating clone instances  ? Create bastion host that will enable access to internal AWS resources.  ? Create an app server to run application  ? Create an internal DNS to refer to our resources: by using Route53  ? Test access to the public and private servers to host resources that interact directly with the public internet  ? Install a web server like nginx or apache to get the server prepared for the application by installing dependencies  ? Create an OpenVPN server and client on Linux OS  ? Experienced in monitoring metrics on EC2, EBS, Elastic Load Balance, Setup a VPC endpoint  ? Stand up a RDS Instances in a private subnet group to validate the application host can communicate with the RDS instance  ? Create S3 bucket and managing policy for S3 bucket  ? Create subfolder in bucket  ? Experienced in bootstrapping nodes to install application when on launch by using a user data script.  ? Install and configure AWS CLI on command line to automate some of cloud tasks.  ? Create image of an application server  ? Experience in Cloud formation(json, yaml)  ? Create Auto-scaling group with AMI  ? Create a peering between VPCs  ? Use the AWS Pricing calculator to calculate all our resources  ? Create a script that will turn off all non-production servers during non-working hours.  ? Experience in creating a Backup and Disaster Recovery policy document  ? Deploy a simple nginx image using docker  ? Expertise in building a new application image  ? Provide technical support by troubleshooting day to day issue with various servers on different platform  ? Experience with Scrum/Agile methodology Network Support Engineer Linked Lines LLC October 2012 to December 2015 Installed, configured and deployed network systems, routers, switches, VPN and firewalls.  ? Managed, configured and troubleshooted Vlan, Trucking, STP and TCP/IP, Ip address, Subnetting, and routing  ? Shaped and deployed new ACLs for all critical devices across sites  ? Addressed user tickets regarding hardware, software and networking communications. Remedy ticketing system Network Administrator Ministry of Health - Asmara, ER December 2004 to February 2012 Installed and maintained various network services and related equipment and devices  ? Responded to reports of network problems  ? Installed LANs WANs and established Intranet and Internet access. troubleshooting, TCP/IP subnetting, and routing  ? Supported network and computing infrastructures.  ? Checkpoint Network appliances, Vulnerability Assessment Software, and Computer Misuse detection systems, Windows 2012, Active Directory Education BS of Network in Cyber security Engineer University of Maryland 2019 to 2020 Skills Docker, Jenkins, Puppet, Python, AWS