Network Administrator <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Network Administrator - RMON Networks Plaistow, NH Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Network Administrator RMON Networks - Plaistow, NH 2017 to Present Deployed Zabbix NMS and automated the monitoring of devices using custom  integrations with Autotask and ITGlue.  • Developed process for deploying new AD Domains on Hyper-V using Ansible.  • Created Powershell scripts to rapidly document customer environments in ITGlue.  • Configured Microsoft Intune policies for dot1x and WPA2 Enterprise authentication.  • Assisted in customer migrations to Azure.  • Managed Sophos XG & SG, Meraki MX, Fortigate, and WatchGuard firewalls.  • Managed Cisco SG & Catalyst, Meraki, HP, and Dell Switches.  • Deployed and managed Aruba IAP and Meraki WAPs.  • Performed wireless spectrum analysis and created heatmaps using Ekahau.  • Evaluated new technologies and started relationships with new vendors. Help Desk Technician RMON Networks - Plaistow, NH 2015 to 2017 • Managed Desktop and Server patching through Continuum.  • Led help desk team in tickets closed for 3 consecutive quarters.  • Created detailed technical documentation for internal and external use. Education B.S. in Computer Information Technology Southern New Hampshire University - Manchester, NH 2016 to Present A.A.S. in Information Technology Option Northern Essex Community College - Haverhill, MA 2015 Skills Active directory, Cisco, Firewalls, Networking, System management, Technical Support, Vmware, Customer Service, Windows 7, Windows, MAC, Microsoft Office, Python, Powershell, Debian Linux Certifications/Licenses CCNA Routing and Switching May 2017 to May 2020 MCSA December 2017 to Present MCSA: Server 2012 Assessments Technical Support — Expert July 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/10imlcdaer4xbrx Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.