Network Operations Center Analyst <span class="hl">Network</span> Operations Center Analyst Network Operations Center Analyst - Suryl, LLC/ Dell EMC Oklahoma City, OK Work Experience Network Operations Center Analyst Suryl, LLC/ Dell EMC July 2019 to Present Learned procedures for monitoring incoming tickets from Help Desk agents as well  as end users.  ? Processed tickets outside the scope of T1 Help Desk.  ? Supported users in processing requests for setup and maintenance of telecommunications equipment.  ? Prepared status reports to inform team members of the status open tickets upon shift change. Help Desk Support Specialist Apex Systems / Dell EMC January 2019 to July 2019 Participated in training program focused on providing technical support for Boeing  software for employees nationwide.  ? Learned procedures using support ticketing tools  ? Learned procedures for researching company approved documentation and simultaneously performing troubleshooting over the phone using remote VPN  connection to user's system when necessary.  ? Learned about professional courtesy and manners in the context of tech support  work. Associate UCO Cafeteria August 2018 to January 2019 Gained a great deal of experience in customer service.  ? Learned how to properly take direction from my superiors.  ? Improved my overall work ethic. Learned to see hard work as an end in itself. Health Information Exchange Administrator Electronic Health Network, Inc October 2015 to June 2016 Became accustomed to working with team members and performing my job duties  remotely.  ? Performed regular maintenance of CentOS servers.  ? Performed various administrative tasks using Linux command line such as remotely  connecting to servers, MySQL server log maintenance, and creating user accounts.  ? Placed a great deal of importance on concise communication when working with team members. Developer/Tester Intern EMR Technical Solutions, LLC February 2015 to October 2015 Learned how to perform technical work with a team remotely. Attended daily  standup meetings. Used tools such as slack, Skype and Cisco Webex.  ? Was trained in software testing methods. Oversaw training of local interns in person.  ? Participated in a training program in scala and the hyperscala framework for the purpose of building websites involving health care databases.  ? Wrote Java and Scala applications to parse csv and xml and convert one format to the other when needed.  ? Wrote Java and Scala applications to manipulate data csv and xml through searches, sorting, editing, etc. Education Computer Programming and Software Development Francis Tuttle Technology Center March 2011 Skills System administration, Visual studio, Visual basic, Eclipse, Java, Linux, Android, Maintenance, Assembly, Documentation, Technical documentation, Windows 10, Windows 7, Windows xp, Software testing, NOC Additional Information SKILLS    General Skills Operating Systems    ? Research ? Windows 10  ? Windows Troubleshooting ? Windows 7  ? Linux Troubleshooting ? Windows XP  ? Linux System Administration ? Arch Linux  ? Manual Software Testing ? Ubuntu  ? Technical Documentation  ? Native Android Development  ? CentOS Server Maintenance  ? PC Assembly & Hardware  Troubleshooting    Programming Languages Editors    ? Java ? Eclipse IDE  ? scala ? Emacs  ? Visual Basic ? Notepad++  ? Visual studio