Network Security Engineer <span class="hl">Network</span> Security Engineer Charleston, SC Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Network Security Engineer AbleVets LLC - Charleston, SC December 2018 to Present • Provide network security for the Defense Health Agency's top layer architecture (TLA).  • Manage TLA stacks for the Army, Navy and Air Force's regional Messaging Centers and gateways.  • Manage Palo Alto proxy firewalls for all content filtering.  • Evaluate requests for ports, protocols and services traversing the DoD networks.  • Provide analysis, peer review, implementation and documentation of all firewall changes.  • Configure and maintain Cisco ASA, Cisco FWSM, Cisco switches, Palo Alto, Juniper and Brocade devices.  • Build and manage B2B VPN tunnels as well on Juniper SSG and ISG routers.  • Performed monthly security audits providing recommendations for improvement on all managed security devices.  • Monitored Wireless and Local Area Network (WLAN) performance utilization using wireless and wired network monitoring utilities to ensure optimum performance of Information Technology (IT) resources. Network Security Engineer Network Security Systems Plus - Charleston, SC December 2017 to December 2018 • Provide network security for the Defense Health Agency's top layer architecture (TLA).  • Manage TLA stacks for the Army, Navy and Air Force's regional Messaging Centers and gateways.  • Manage Palo Alto proxy firewalls for all content filtering.  • Evaluate requests for ports, protocols and services traversing the DoD networks.  • Provide analysis, peer review, implementation and documentation of all firewall changes.  • Configure and maintain Cisco ASA, Cisco FWSM, Cisco switches, Palo Alto, Juniper and Brocade devices.  • Build and manage B2B VPN tunnels as well on Juniper SSG and ISG routers.  • Performed monthly security audits providing recommendations for improvement on all managed security devices.  • Monitored Wireless and Local Area Network (WLAN) performance utilization using wireless and wired network monitoring utilities to ensure optimum performance of Information Technology (IT) resources. Network Administrator II Vectrus - Camp Dwyer, Afghanistan April 2017 to November 2017 • Oversees troubleshooting and support of network problems, outages, and anomalies for Camp Dwyer   • Ensures compliance with DOD IA policies on each enclave.   • Leads a team in Operation and Maintenance of production and offline network switches, as well as advises Military and Civilian customers on Camp and enterprise level information technology (IT) solutions when appropriate.   • Defines technical and physical development of the network and assigns various tasks to keep the network running at optimum levels.   • Possess advanced knowledge in LAN/WAN troubleshooting.   • Responsible for management and administrative tasks.   • Install and maintain network hardware and software  • Monitor availability and reliability of LAN/WAN systems  • Troubleshoots LAN/WAN connectivity  • Ensure outages and corrective actions are reported to Theater Network Operations Center  • Resolve customer interface/user issues  • Senior VLAN administrator/ACL configuration across NIPR\SIPR\CENTRIX enclaves  •Configuration/Maintenance of TACLANE machines Network Security Engineer CollabraLink Technologies - Fort Sam Houston, TX August 2016 to April 2017 • Provide network security for the Defense Health Agency's top layer architecture (TLA).  • Manage TLA stack for the Army's regional Messaging Centers and gateways.  • Manage Palo Alto proxy firewalls for all content filtering.  • Evaluate requests for ports, protocols and services traversing the DoD networks.  • Provide analysis, peer review, implementation and documentation of all firewall changes.  • Configure and maintain Cisco ASA, Cisco FWSM, Cisco switches, Palo Alto, Juniper and Brocade devices.  • Build and manage B2B VPN tunnels as well on Juniper SSG and ISG routers.  • Performed monthly security audits providing recommendations for improvement on all managed security devices.  • Monitored Wireless and Local Area Network (WLAN) performance utilization using wireless and wired network monitoring utilities to ensure optimum performance of Information Technology (IT) resources.  • Deployed new network technologies in support of WLAN/LAN hardware and software life cycle management. Network Analyst Symbiont Inc. - San Antonio, TX May 2016 to August 2016 • Provide network support for the world’s military medical facilities and primarily monitor each facility’s connection to a centralized database server.   • Other areas of troubleshooting include the connectivity of VPN’s and LAN/WAN infrastructure devices (Routers, Hubs, Switches, Net screens).  • Responsibilities include utilizing network tools and testing to evaluate possible problems, opening incident records if needed, troubleshooting problems and/or escalating them to the proper contacts, and managing all open incident records.   • Assists with facilitating the restoration of service through analysis and discussions with Network and Server teams. Service Desk Analyst Randstad Technologies - San Antonio, TX November 2015 to April 2016 • Provide first-level technical support for global IT infrastructure supporting 3,500+ employees   • Skilled in Active Directory and DBA related to user account management  • Knowledgeable in troubleshooting Juniper Pulse VPN remote access issues  • Experienced in Virtual Machine management and maintenance through VM Sphere  • Trained in providing remote access support for systems management   • Provided key Service Desk Account Management with reporting, analysis, or testing tasks  • Provide 24/7 Service Desk support from user initiation to resolving of issue Public Information Office Intern San Antonio Police Department - San Antonio, TX September 2014 to February 2015 • Interned for SAPD's Public Information Office (PIO) creating Public Service Announcements that were intended both for local television broadcast and distribution on social media  • Assisted in expanding social media following as an integral part in the redevelopment of corporate branding for the police department which helped boost and grow public outreach.  • Developed a close-working relationship between law enforcement and local media Education Associate in Networking and Cloud Architecture Northwest Vista College - San Antonio, TX 2014 to 2016 Skills Networking (4 years), Network Security (3 years), Vmware (1 year), VPN (3 years), LAN (3 years), Cisco Routers/Switches (3 years), Palo Alto Firewalls (2 years), Solar Winds (3 years) Certifications/Licenses CCNA Routing and Switching July 2016 to July 2019 CCNA Security July 2016 to July 2019 VCA-DCV July 2016 to July 2018 Secret Clearance January 2017 to January 2027 SSCP February 2017 to Present CCNP Routing and Switching January 2019 to January 2022 PCNSE July 2019 to July 2022 Palo Alto Certified Network Security Engineer