Advanced Leadership Senior Instructor Advanced Leadership Senior Instructor Network Support Technician Belton, TX Looking to secure a Network Support position within a company that will allow for an individual to utilize their strong technical background and exceptional communication and problem-solving skills. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Advanced Leadership Senior Instructor Texas Army National Guard - Fort Hood, TX February 2019 to Present • Senior Instructor supervise 4 instructors daily, provided scheduling, & training coordination’s, ensuring classes are conducted to standard meeting a rigorous timeline.  • Oversee issuing of controlled testing material, evaluation of leadership, & development of students in a controlled environment for advancement in their military career as a Non-commissioned Officer  • Created LAN networks for classrooms for quicker file sharing with students and remote access for instructors allowing classes to easily be updated and shared. IT Consultant The Saldivar Group LLC. - Austin, TX January 2018 to October 2018 • Provide IT support for employees and clients, with PC's, Phones, Firewalls, WAN, LAN, IP camera systems, provide access control groups and MAC filtering for network access.  • Scan client network for rouge devices, provide clients with best practice information to reduce leakage of sensitive information.  • Contract with outside sourced vendor's & technicians to fulfill clients IT & security needs.   • Provide personal protection security for clients. Network Technician Nsite Solutions - Austin, TX July 2016 to June 2018 • Performing network, computer, and peripheral support necessary for supporting end users to minimize downtime.   • Assist team installing and configuring of routers, switches, firewalls, & user workstations.   • Troubleshooting, analyzing, and diagnosing problems with LAN/WAN connections. Technical Support Representative Spectrum business class - Austin, TX March 2017 to November 2017 • Assist customers of all technical levels through efficient troubleshooting of Internet connections, phone  services, email support and video related issues over the phone.  • Use personnel knowledge of Internet and LAN technology, including TCP/IP Protocols, DNS, Router and DOCSIS Modem configuration to resolve customer issues.  • Use the following programs CSG/ICOMS, Evolve and Remedy Ticketing system, daily in fast paced work environment to create work orders and escalate issues to higher level of support. Network Administrator Intern Circuit of The Americas - Austin, TX April 2016 to December 2016 • Assist the Network Administrator in day to day operation of insuring zero downtime of network,  monitor and maintaining network using Solar Winds & Cisco wireless management tool reacting to  network alerts and trouble tickets from COTA staff.  • Assist in the configuration of Cisco switches and routers, trouble shoot and fix connection issues with  network, computers, printers, security systems, & VOIP phones, on Cisco networks.  • Create temporary wired & wireless access points for FIA, WEC, IMSA, national news media, & event  vendors insuring internet access during race series events with zero downtime. Education B.S. Network Operations and Security in Information Technology Western Governors University, Texas - Austin, TX September 2018 to September 2020 Associates of Applied Sciences in Network Administration & Security Austin Community College - Austin, TX June 2014 to December 2016 Associates of Applied Sciences in Architectural Drafting and Design Westwood University - Houston, TX October 2005 to June 2007 Skills Windows (10+ years), Cisco systems (3 years), Microsoft Office (10+ years), Customer Service (10+ years), Linux (1 year), Windows Server 2008 (1 year), Network Administration (2 years), Routers (2 years), VOIP (1 year), Switches (2 years), Cabling (3 years), Help Desk (2 years), Desktop Support (2 years), Service Desk (3 years), Tech Support (3 years), MAC (2 years), Active Directory Military Service Branch: Army Service Country: United States Rank: SFC Present A combined experience of more than 20 years serving the US Army, and Texas Army National Guard. Commendations: Available on request Certifications/Licenses A+ Certified January 2019 to January 2022