Network Analyst <span class="hl">Network</span> Analyst Network Analyst San Jose, CA • CCNA routing and switching certification.    • Hands-on experience working on platforms like Catalyst 6k, 3800, 1900, 2600, 1800 routers, CISCO Packet Tracer, ASA 5500 firewall and Server Load Balancer.    • Research experience configuring/troubleshooting L2-L7 protocols like EIGRP, OSPF, BGP, STP, VTP, 802.1q, LACP, DHCP, DNS, HTTP, FTP, TFTP, SSL and SSH.    • Experience with Python, C and Matlab to develop scripts for packet generation and run tests.    • Expertise using networking tools and like Nmap and Wireshark.  • Familiarity with Socket programming concepts.    • Ability to work effectively with acquired technical skills and aim to obtain a challenging full time position where I can implement and develop my current skills to assist advancing firm. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Network Analyst TWC - Knoah Sol - IN June 2012 to November 2014 Responsibilities:  • Troubleshoot Internet connectivity and email server issues.  • Identifying the route cause for the issue.    • Provide support for firewall rules balancing network security and customer needs.  • Maintaining of Cisco Adaptive Security Appliances (ASA firewall) for LAN, WAN and Internet connectivity.  • Responsible for network maintenance, troubleshooting and design.  • Monitored, troubleshot of network security appliances connectivity issues and analyzed logs generated by firewalls, VPNs and IPS/IDS's for security events and device health issues.  • VPN creation and management of site-to-site and remote access capabilities.  • Configured and installed LAN/WAN technology for routing and switching  • Handled, Installation and Configuration of DNS server, Router and Firewall.  • Maintaining good communication skills with customer.    Academic Project Highlights: Network Administrator Knoah Solutions Inc - Hyderabad, Andhra Pradesh May 2012 to November 2014 Details: Compiled VHDL code to assign priorities to various interrupts in programmable logic controllers using Xilinx tool.    Industrial Project: Application of PLC to Machine Tools. (BHEL, India.) Summer 2011 Details: Worked on CNC machines and PLCs using SIEMENS STEP5 programming software to help design heavy metal frames in oil rigs and machines.    Honors:  • Awarded as the Best Employee for 3 conservative times.    • Awards for a technical presentation presentations in multiple national symposiums.    • Qualified in British English Council examination.    • National level Math and Science Olympiad rank.    Courses at NPU (Master's degree, Electrical Engineering)    • ?etwork Engineering and Management.  • ?etwork Analysis and Testing.  • Mobile and Wireless Communication.  • Systems Analysis and Simulations Digital.  • Advanced Analog IC Design & ASIC.  • Software Project Management.  • UNIX/ Linux Network Programming. Education Bachelor of Tech in Electronics and Communication Engineering JNTU May 2012 Skills CCNA Additional Information Skills  • Programming languages C, Python, MATLAB  • Networking tools CPT, Wireshark, Nmap  • L3 Protocols BGP, OSPF, RIP  • L2 Switching VLAN, Inter-VLAN routing, Trunking, VTP, STP  • L4-L7 protocols DHCP, DNS, SNMP, HTTP, FTP, TFTP, SSL, SSH  • Routing features Redistribution, route-maps, distribute-lists  • Cisco Routers Catalyst 6k, 7200, 2800, 2600, 3500, 1841 series  • Cisco Switches Catalyst 4500, 3750, 2960  • Cisco Firewalls, ASA 5500  • Operating systems Windows OS, Linux and OSX  • Data Base MySQL  • Web Designing Tools HTML  • Development tools Xilinx, MultiSIM