Level 2 IS Technician Level 2 IS Technician Level 2 IS Technician - Toyota North America Frisco, TX Reliable Technical Support Analyst with more than 5 years of professional experience. Significant practice in working with customers' needs, multiple networks, and fast-paced environments. Great understanding of Mission Critical with a keen sense of prioritization. Enthusiastic to continue learning through future career involvements and continuing education. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Level 2 IS Technician Toyota North America - Blue Springs, MS August 2016 to Present * Configured, deployed, and maintained end user equipment such as personal computers, VoIP Desk Phones and mobile devices to admin network composed of more than 2000 users. Created a refresh schedule for all desktop equipment based on TMNA hardware guidelines.  * Lead Technician for onsite project team that cultivated innovative solutions for multiple company-wide projects.  * Site admin for mission critical mobility solutions; responsible for all ordering and inventory for all mobile devices.  * Subject Matter Expert for all TMMMS conference technology. Led the implementation of several conference rooms for onsite project lead.  * Led IS project activity in the development of a mobile solution for simplistic access to historic databases and work orders for the Assembly Maintenance department.  * Shared responsibilities with acting project lead in renovations, maintenance, and repairs of conference rooms and equipment throughout local campus.  * Supported printer installation and continued maintenance for all multi-function devices and plant floor mission critical printers at TMMMS.  * Installed and maintained proprietary software that is used in the manufacturing process of Toyota Vehicles.  * Implementation lead for the ongoing Office 365 (O365) project and the rollout of new Microsoft products for better collaboration with TMMMS users. Network Administrator Petro Nissan - Hattiesburg, MS May 2015 to August 2016 * Organized and implemented overhaul to site wide network infrastructure, including network attached security cameras, access points, and end user devices.  * Supported, configured, and maintained a network infrastructure of more than eighty users.  * Assessed equipment functionality, troubleshot and repaired accordingly.  * Administered implementation of security measures for over 150 end user devices, including: PC's, tablets, VoIP phones, and other handheld devices.  * Managed over IT support staff and projects for all of company's locations.  * Oversaw development of company's Ecommerce and online presence. Customer Care Supervisor Asurion - Tupelo, MS August 2014 to April 2015 * Provided all inclusive, comprehensive customer service experience to customers via VOIP connection.  * Provided technical support for programming and equipment issues using advanced technical knowledge.  * Diffused customer frustration by providing solutions and determining customer options. Education Bachelor of Science in Information Technology The University of Southern Mississippi 2011 to 2014 Associate Degree in Arts and Science in Arts and Science Itawamba Community College 2009 to 2011 Skills Active directory (3 years), Android (5 years), C+ (Less than 1 year), Html (Less than 1 year), Ios (Less than 1 year), Java (Less than 1 year), Mac (Less than 1 year), Macos (Less than 1 year), Master data management (Less than 1 year), Mdm (Less than 1 year), Microsoft office (5 years), Microsoft sharepoint (3 years), Ms office (5 years), Outlook (5 years), printers (2 years), Risk management (Less than 1 year), Sharepoint (Less than 1 year), Sql (Less than 1 year), Team management (3 years), Voip (4 years), Service Desk, Tech Support (5 years), Help Desk (3 years), Helpdesk Support, Desktop Support, Networking, Technical Support, Windows, Windows 7, Customer Service, Sales, access, Vmware