Network Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Network</span> Systems <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Akron, OH IT graduate with several years of front-line help desk support and white glove customer engagement. Looking to exercise my technical knowledge and experience within a role for a local or state-wide organization. Work Experience Network Systems Administrator ISSI, Net Inc - Copley, OH November 2016 to June 2019 Planning and construction of network infrastructure for new and existing clients.  Managed Service Provider and Premier Partnership for various companies. DBS Financial April 2019 to May 2019 Planning and preparation for complete network wiring retrofit. Clearing old wiring and installing with new. Installation of servers, switches, and rack. Coleman Data Solutions May 2018 to July 2018 Adherence to government security and SOC1 regulations. Performing Nessus scans to pinpoint vulnerabilities in network. Patching said vulnerabilities. Help Desk Technician Cuyahoga Valley Career Center - Brecksville, OH November 2016 to May 2018 Primary helpdesk and customer service, assistant network systems administrator Volunteer First Glance January 2016 to January 2016 Time donated repairing physical network and updating system software. Student ITT Techincal Institute 2016 to 2016 Networking+ certification prep, pc builder design project, creating a national volunteer website, and server support for the Summit County Victim's Assistance Organization. Education Associate in Network Systems Administration ITT Technical Institute - Akron, OH September 2016 Certificate Middlesex County College 2008 Skills CUSTOMER SERVICE, CISCO, FIREWALLS, SOLARWINDS, VMWARE, Windows, Technical Support, Networking, Windows 7, Active Directory Assessments Technical Support — Expert July 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/tpbw7g5edehfkjts Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information SKILLS  A+ troubleshooting/problem solving, Adherence to organizational standards, Customer service with a personal touch.  KNOWLEDGE  MS Office, Spiceworks and Freshdesk ticketing programs, FOG project for ghosting/reimaging, Barracuda E-mail Filtering, Cybernetics SAN, EXSi, VMWare, Arcserve Backup, Watchguard Firewalls, Solarwinds Monitoring, Cisco Meraki APs, Google Cloud Printing.