Housekeeper Housekeeper IT, Helpdesk, Army Veteran Wixom, MI Took CNA Classes (not certified yet)  Information Technology  Network Admin  IT Help desk  Secretary  Housekeeping Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Housekeeper Brookdale Senior Living - Novi, MI June 2019 to Present Clean 114 apartments a week and all common areas. Information Technology Specialist (25B) Army - Fort Carson, CO 2013 to 2015 Responsibilities  •Identified and corrected performance issues.  •Oversaw the daily performance of computer systems.  •Maintained records of daily data transactions, problems and remedial actions taken.  •Trained users in the proper use of hardware or software.  •Escalated unresolved issues to the proper level.  •provided base level IT support to non- technical personal within the business.  •Handled account creation as well as paperwork.   •Managed call flow and responded to to technical needs of customers.  •Resolved customer issues in a clear, courteous and straightforward manner.    Accomplishments  Won 2 awards for my knowledge and achievements serving as the senior information technology specialist, ensuring the Squadron's network access and systems were fully mission capable.  •Processed 1000s of trouble tickets as the S6 Senior Technology Specialist.   •Worked at the Fort Carson Network Enterpise Center as a help desk technician, providing assistance by creating network access accounts, unlocking accounts, resetting passwords, and assisting to provide constant connectivity on all enclaves for over 12,000 users entering, leaving and currently assigned to Fort Carson, CO.    Skills Used  •excellent problem solving skills  •windows and Linux   •website and portal monitoring  •Microsoft Office 2013  •active directory  •data backup and retrieval Network Administrator Army - Pas?b June 2014 to October 2014 Responsibilities  •Provided after hour network support when needed.  •Maintained and monitored server rooms, the wireless network and other server infrastructure.  •Communicated with vendors to resolve network outages and periods of reduced service.  •Troubleshot and maintained all networking devices and infrastructure across the enterprise including switches, routers and firewalls.  •Configured routers, switches and ports for phones computers, printers and other Military trucks and devices.     Accomplishments  Excelled as a network administrator and was soon the only administrator to maintain the network on base.    Skills Used  •Problem Solving  •Routers and Switches  • Network Maintenance  •Excellent memory skills  •Troubleshooting Help Desk Administrator Army - Pas?b March 2014 to October 2014 Responsibilities  •Installing software, modified and repaired hardware and resolved technical issues.  •Setup equipment for the entire base, (2,000 employees) including creating and installing cables and hardware.  •Installed software and operating systems on 2.000 company computers.  •Restored data, operating systems, files, documents and drivers.  •trained both internal and off site users in repairing and resolving recurring issues.  •Resolved computer hardware and software, printing, installation, word processing, email and operating systems issues.  •Updated customer issues from start to finish in an accurate and timely mannor.  •Developed highly empathetic client relationships and earned a reputation for exceeding service standard goals.  •Created, updated, organized and deleted customer accounts through active directory.    Accomplishments  While on this job, I exceed all standards and was promoted to supervisor, excelled and trained all personal, then promoted to network administrator.   •Earned my Security Plus certification while in Aghanistan.    Skills Used  •Customer Service  •Problem Solving  •Website and portal monitoring  •Active Directory Education CNA Course Advanced Care - Farmington Hills, MI March 2019 to April 2019 Information Technology Specialist Army AIT - Fort Gordon, GA 2012 to 2013 Fenton High School - Fenton, MI 2006 to 2010 Skills Microsoft Office (3 years), Excellent Communication Skills (3 years), Excellent Customer Service Skills (3 years), Network Management (Less than 1 year), Data Management (3 years), Routers (Less than 1 year), Switches (Less than 1 year), Active Directory (3 years), Windows 8 (1 year), Excellent Organization Skills (3 years), Information Technology, Cleaning, Housekeeping, Time Management, Customer Service Military Service Branch: Army Service Country: United States Rank: Specialist April 2012 to October 2015 •Served 3 years in Fort Carson, CO   •Served 6 months in Pasab, Afghanistan Commendations: Army Commendation Medal  Army Achievement Medal Awards Army Commendation Medal 2015-09 Army Achievement Medal 2014-09 Certifications/Licenses Security+ June 2014 to June 2015 Unfortunately my cert has expired. CNA Took the course/ clinicals. Just need to certify with the state board. Additional Information Secret Security Clearance