Network Administrator <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Stratford, CT IT Professional offering skills in contributing to the continuous improvement of IT support functions by identifying opportunities for improving efficiencies and effectiveness. Quickly learn and master new technology; equally successful in both team and self-directed settings; and proficient in a range of computer systems, tools and testing methodologies. Part of the ITXPRESS TechHire program, which is an initiative by the U.S. Government to increase the nation’s tech talent pool by training young citizens for jobs in the IT industry; with this program I'm constantly striving for new certifications and will be certified in both CompTIA Network + and Security + in the near future Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Network Administrator I.C. Medical Inc. - Phoenix, AZ October 2016 to October 2018 •Manage all network and computers, fix printers, computers, and various electronics.  •Manage system back-ups, installing software, active directory, network administration, updates, and new user implementation; Performed troubleshooting of hardware and software technologies.  •Perform maintenance of personal computers and peripheral equipment, identifying problems and providing appropriate solutions; Recommend hardware and/or software solutions for short and long-range goals.  •Analyze and revamp inefficient processes to increase productivity while bringing in newer technologies.  •Develop department budgets with a combination of best practice options and cost analysis based on business growth and evolving user requirements.  •Manage Microsoft Office365 including Outlook, Skype for business, and office suite online Asset Recovery Specialist GER - Phoenix, AZ April 2016 to October 2016 •Repair, recover, configure all forms of electronics from laptops to field and lab testing equipment.  •Process, list and sell items in the electronics section on our online store.  •Communicated with customers to resolve complaints by identifying issues, possible malfunctions or the need for further customer education; Disassembled units to diagnose issues and repair equipment for customers.  •Reassembled, adjusted and cleaned equipment as needed to provide a finished product.  •Skillfully utilized company database software on a daily basis to open, update, and close customer trouble tickets based on clear and concise reports of findings, and to ship repaired units to customers.  •Oversee and maintain the enterprise networked computing environment ensuring peak performance and compliance with industry standard practices while maximizing efficiency for service staff and members. Education High School Diploma Deer Valley High School - Glendale, AZ Skills Active Directory, Networking, Mac, Windows, Technical Support, Microsoft Office, Customer Service, Windows 7 Certifications/Licenses MTA: Database Administration Fundamentals May 2019 to Present MTA: Cloud Fundamentals July 2019 to Present