Technologist Technologist Technologist - Netwerks Strategic Services, LLC Agawam, MA Work Experience Technologist Netwerks Strategic Services, LLC April 2019 to Present Worked part time while attending training assisting a small consulting firm. Assisted with ongoing tickets, implementations and projects. Created a virtual Microsoft lab with a separate testing Active Directory domain, using Windows Server 2016 and Hyper-V. I performed and documented steps required for renaming an active directory domain as well as performing client upgrades using Microsoft deployment toolkit for windows version 10 home/Pro and windows 7. Citrix Support Analyst United Healthcare April 2013 to September 2018 Developed, supported and maintained Citrix versions 7.6, 6.5, and 4.5 production and test environments in a very large Citrix environment consisting of over 4000 servers and 20,000 users. Patched XenApp servers and upgraded hosted software as required using Powershell and HP Service Automation. Followed all change management protocols. Debugged end-to-end issues from Client (Citrix Receiver) to server and tested and upgraded Citrix receiver across all environments. Created, developed, and updated documentation for all configurations, standards and critical procedures. Assigned users to published applications within the Citrix environment, and maintained server and silo capacity. Configured, debugged and supported multiple infrastructure platforms, containing 75+ different applications, resolved server connectivity issues and verified that servers are available to users. Ensured timely and accurate problem resolution when user's issues arised, performing high-level root cause analysis for service interruption recovery and creating preventative measures. Mentored/trained teammates, customers, and other staff. Assisted with the testing and implementation of various business applications while maintaining security protocols that include HIPAA, MIPPA, PHI, and PPI regulations. I possess current security clearance for government contracts. Liaised with other project personnel resources as required. Sr. Desktop Administrator ISO New England May 2011 to October 2012 Managed nearly 1000 client systems using IT Client Manager. Administered patches, new software, software updates and new client images. Packaged applications using Wise Package Studio as needed. Produced reports showing clients running specific software, client encryption reports, virus activity and open ports, or SMTP or SNMP traffic. Migrated from Acronis and Symantec Software to CA ITCM and Sophos Security Suite. Researched software and hardware to assist with new department purchases. Systems Specialist/Patch Management Financial Partners, Inc October 2006 to March 2011 Part of a team responsible for managing an enterprise infrastructure comprising over 2500 end users and more than 450 servers, both physical and virtual. Infrastructure consisted of two Datacenters spanning both coasts. Designed, implemented and subsequently maintained a Citrix environment that spanned three datacenters across the U.S. and hosted more than 250 published applications. Managed and deployed security patches for the entire infrastructure using SMS/SCCM server. Assisted in administrating a fully redundant Exchange mail environment, performed active directory configurations and maintenance tasks, third-level help desk support and routine upgrades for third party software. Maintained and configured VMWare/VSphere environment. Provisioned SAN disk storage, maintained backups and performed restores, deployed new servers and workstations in the environment, created and maintained proper documentation of procedures, IT policies and workflows, maintained hardware/software inventory for both datacenters. Network Engineer Uplinc, Inc March 2006 to October 2006 Worked for an IT consulting firm, performing network upgrades and new implementations, and maintenance. Citrix upgrades, maintenance and new installations. Workstation installs and repair, software installation. Exchanged migrations and upgrades and maintenance. Network Engineer Bobs Discount Furniture LLC April 2005 to March 2006 Administered a multi-server Windows NT LAN with 500+ end-users and 25 locations. Managed and maintained a 7-server Citrix farm with 200+ concurrent connections. Deployed workstations to the end-users. Supported mobile computing environment and VPN services including wireless access points and RF guns. Maintained daily backup jobs and restored files as needed. Maintained the availability of company computer resources including servers, workstations, laptops, printers and multimedia equipment. Recommended, evaluated and purchased IT assets as well as maintaining a hardware and software inventory. Assisted with the implementation of four VMWare ESX servers and SAN for both live network and DR site. Purchased software licensing and tracked licensing compliance. Implemented and administered Citrix Access Gateway for remote access to network resources. Administered and maintained Exchange Server and AD user accounts. Managed system tape backups and assisted with the implementation of a disaster recovery plan. Assisted in the maintenance of all servers, PC's, workstations, thin clients and printers in the organization. Provided Help Desk / End-user support for hardware, software and Windows operating systems. Produced system/ network documentation and IT policies. Maintained network security policy, addressed server security issues and applied appropriate security patches and upgrades to all servers and workstations. Systems Administrator -MIS Bacon & Wilson, P.C January 2001 to April 2005 support/management for a busy Law firm, with four locations and 90 client machines. Setup communications between offices using Citrix Metaframe server. Upgraded the ISDN communication line in the main location to a full T1 for a lower monthly fee. Upgraded the SQL database from 6.5 to SQL 2000. Upgraded the entire network from NT 4.0 to 2000, including Exchange. Implemented a printer maintenance program that saved the company 50% in printer repair/toner costs. Purchased all client machines and printers and installed them on the network. Implemented and designed remote installation of applications using group policy in Active directory. Created an HTML system to scan entire commercial closings onto CD's for our clients to take from the closing. Migrated client machines from Windows 95 to Windows 2000/XP while providing continual desktop support. Wired remote offices for network connectivity. Created the company intranet. Implemented Surfcontrol email filter onto our Exchange server. Designed a system for electronic scheduling of all office conference rooms using Exchange public folders. Managed multiple IT projects from design to implementation. Researched, purchased and implemented industry specific software for various departments. Hired and managed an assistant, performed employee reviews, maintained IT inventory count and prepared IT Budgets. Assessments Problem Solving — Proficient August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to analyze relevant information when solving problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/rnbynrwyniike2i3 Critical Thinking — Highly Proficient August 2019 Using logic to solve problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/yjxyoctxy103japz Basic Computer Skills: PC — Highly Proficient August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to perform basic computer operations, navigate a Windows OS, and troubleshoot common computer problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/gfjazo-z-tr4dhwq Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information • Operating Systems - MS Windows NT 4.O, Windows 2000 server, Windows 2003 server, Windows 2008 Server, MS Windows 95/98, 2000 Professional, XP Professional, Windows 7, Windows 2012 Server, Windows Server 2016, Windows 10 Desktop  • Applications - Microsoft Office applications, Active Directory, Networker backup solutions, Symantec Ghost, Internet Explorer 6.0, Arcserve Backup, Symantec Backup Exec, RightFax, MSSQL 7.0, 2000, 2005, 2008, Exchange 5.5 - 2007, Surfcontrol, E-Trust Antivirus, Symantec Antivirus, Citrix Metaframe 1.8 - Xenapp Server 4.5, 5.0, 6.5, 7.6, VMWare/VSphere with SAN Storage, VMWare Vsphere client, VMWare Horizon Client, ESX server, SMS, SCCM Server, Wise Packaging Studio, CA IT Client Manager (ITCM), Acronis, Sophos Client Security Suite  • Technical knowledge of computer hardware  • Excellent organizational and analytical skills  • Three years managerial experience  • Ability to provide excellent desktop and help desk support  • Citrix Administrator - 20 years of experience  • 20 years of experience in Server administration