Network Engineer/Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Network</span> Engineer/Systems <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Information technology Taylor, MI Results-driven and energetic professional looking for a position as a Network Engineer utilizing the following qualifications:    • Highly skilled in responding to tickets generated by users in a timely manner  • Demonstrated ability to diagnose and fix problems of operating systems  • Hands-on experience in responding, tracking, and following up to telephone, emails and end user requests for support Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Network Engineer/Systems Administrator McKesson - Livonia, MI September 2018 to January 2019 Managed network infrastructure for customer business. Set-up and implemented network servers (windows server 08 R1/R2. Windows server 2012). Wired network cables from server racks to routers and other network devices. Maintained server DNS and DHCP, and ports. Managed Exchange servers. Managed accounts and PC's via active directory. Managed 3CX Phone severs. Set-up and Implemented VPN's. Handled port forwarding for remote connections. Repaired broken hardware in servers and PC's as well as build servers. Went to clients sites for servicing.     Tasks  - Installing software and hardware for servers/PC's  -Port Forwarding  -Wiring of servers, switches, Access Points, Modems&routers.   - Exchange servers./Exchange 08, 2010, 2012, 2016  - Installing servers  - Maintaining DHCP, DNS and IP's  - Active Directory management  - Server 08 R1/R2, Windows server 2012  - OS: windows 2000, NT, XP, Vista, 7, 8, 8.1, 10  - Installing Maintain anti virus   - Manage Back-ups/recovery  - Managing VPN and remote connections.  - Office Products repair Network Engineer/Systems Administrator COMPUTER WORKS - Monroe, MI March 2017 to August 2018 Managed network infrastructure for customer business. Set-up and implemented network servers (windows server 08 R1/R2. Windows server 2012). Wired network cables from server racks to routers and other network devices. Maintained server DNS and DHCP, and ports. Managed Exchange servers. Managed accounts and PC's via active directory. Managed 3CX Phone severs. Set-up and Implemented VPN's. Handled port forwarding for remote connections. Repaired broken hardware in servers and PC's as well as build servers. Went to clients sites for servicing.     Tasks  - Installing software and hardware for servers/PC's  -Port Forwarding  -Wiring of servers, switches, Access Points, Modems&routers.   - Exchange servers./Exchange 08, 2010, 2012, 2016  - Installing servers  - Maintaining DHCP, DNS and IP's  - Active Directory management  - Server 08 R1/R2, Windows server 2012  - OS: windows 2000, NT, XP, Vista, 7, 8, 8.1, 10  - Installing Maintain anti virus   - Manage Back-ups/recovery  - Managing VPN and remote connections.  - Office Products repair Support Technician Concentrix - Warren, MI March 2016 to December 2017 Concentrix GM Connection Center  Warren, MI 3/11/16 - 12/18/17    Handled customer inquiries,complaints,billing questions. Calm angry callers, and repair trust. Referred callers to other products and promotions. Handled multiple customer and affiliate accounts. Performed Remote troubleshooting and troubleshooting of multiple points systems in new GM vehicles.    • Provide technical support to customers via telephone, email and through tickets    • Analyze and troubleshoot software and hardware issues    • Help customers identify and resolve issues pertaining to Bluetooth, Wi-Fi and Web services    • Sent tickets to appropriate departments utilizing ticket tracking system    • Maintained documentation of processes and tickets    Skills  ? Windows XP, 7, 8, 10  ? System Upgrades   ? Inventory Tracking  ? Productivity Software   ? VOIP  ?Remote services  ? Network Connectivity   ? New User Training   ? Wireless Just Energy Help Desk IT Support SouthFeild, MI 2012 to 2013 Handled customer inquiries, complaints, billing questions. Calm angry callers, and repair trust. Referred callers to other products and promotions. Handled multiple customer and affiliate accounts.    • Provide technical support to customers via telephone, email and through tickets    • Analyze and troubleshoot software and hardware issues    • Help customers identify and resolve issues pertaining to dial up configuration, web hosting and domain registration    • Respond to queries pertinent to package details, e-commerce  solutions, email configurations and search engine submission packages    • Create help desk documentation with step by step instructions on problem resolving techniques    • Sent tickets to appropriate departments utilizing ticket tracking system    • Solved minor workstation-related issues    • Installed operating system, software, antiviruses and patches    • Maintained documentation of processes and tickets Education Associate of Science in Military Computers Kalamazoo Community College - Kalamazoo, MI 2011 to 2013 Skills Information Technology (8 years), Carpentry (9 years), Network Administration (6 years), Vmware (4 years), System Administrator (6 years), NOC (4 years), Active Directory (6 years), Networking (6 years), Cisco (3 years), Windows (10+ years), Technical Support (7 years), Microsoft Office (7 years), Customer Service (5 years), Windows 7 (7 years), Security (5 years) Certifications/Licenses CompTIA A+ September 2013 to Present A valid IT Specialist certification April 2015 to Present Additional Information Skills  ? Windows XP, 7, 8, 10  ? System Upgrades  ? Inventory Tracking  ? Productivity Software  ? Syatem Recovery  ? LAN/WAN  ? Printer troubleshooting  ? Driver Installation  ? Server Setup  ? Network Connectivity  ? New User Training  ? Wireless/VPN