Network Administrator <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Network Admin - INFINITE HARDWOOD DISTRIBUTION Bothell, WA IT Professional implementing strategic IT Initiatives that Improve Business Functionality with positive impacts on the bottom line. Skilled manager, with proven ability to lead and motivate teams to maximize productivity. Technology savvy, adept at moving into new environments and extrapolate from existing experience to quickly adapt to new technologies fluently. Possess first-rate communications and collaboration skills to lead and work in concert with diverse groups effectively Work Experience Network Administrator RGN TECH - Seattle, WA January 2017 to Present Managed office supplies, vendors, organization and upkeep.  Identify computer networks how performance can be improved.  Maintaining Computer Networks  Installing and configuring computer  networks and systems.  Assembling new systems.                                                                                                                            Maintaining computer  networks and solving any problems that may occur with them. Network Admin INFINITE HARDWOOD DISTRIBUTION - Bothell, WA January 2015 to Present Built a motivated warehouse team of 6 well-trained staff.  Installing and configuring computer networks and systems.  Led warehouse improvement initiatives to advance operational efficiencies.  Providing network administration and support. Communication Skills.  RGN TECH  Network Admin| Seattle, WA | Jan 2018 - Current  Answered and quickly redirected calls  Managed office supplies, vendors, organization and upkeep. Education AAS in Computer Security and Network Technology Lake Washington Institute of Technology 2017 Skills Articulate (Less than 1 year), etiquette (Less than 1 year), Excellent communication skills (Less than 1 year), Fast Learner (Less than 1 year), Patience (Less than 1 year) Additional Information SKILLS  Scripting Windows PowerShell  Patience Attention to detail  Professional phone etiquette Mobile Computing  Excellent communication skills IT and Technical Skills  Articulate and well-spoken(bilingual) Problem-solving skills.  Fast Learner Teamworking skills