Network Administrator <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Network Administrator - Wilson N Jones Regional Medical Center • 3+ Years working Experience working on Juniper, CISCO networks in an enterprise environment.  • Good understanding of networking concepts such as routing protocols, VLANs, IP address management, and network security.  • Worked on Cisco 3800, 3600, 2800, 2600, 1800 series Router and Cisco 2900, 2960 3500, 3560, 3750-x, 3850, 4500 series switch.  • Understanding of JUNOS platform and worked with IOS upgrade of Juniper devices.  • In-depth expertise in the analysis, implementation, troubleshooting & documentation of LAN/WAN architecture and good experience on IP services.  • Hands On experience Cisco IOS/IOS-XR/NX-OS, Juniper JUNOS for configuration & troubleshooting of routing protocols: MP-BGP, OSPF, LDP, EIGRP, RIP, BGP v4, MPLS  • Knowledge about implementation and troubleshooting of complex layer 2 technologies such as VLAN Trunks, VTP Ether channel, STP, RSTP and MST.  • Maintain network performance by performing network monitoring and analysis, and performance tuning; troubleshooting network problems  • Extensive experience in Application Performance Troubleshooting and providing recommendations for Performance Tuning  • Experience working with Juniper Routers (MX104, MX480) and Switches (EX2400, QFX Virtual Chassis Switches) with BGP, OSPF, VSTP, MST layer 2 and layer 3Technologies  • Design, implementation and use of F5 load balancers, BIG-IP, 3-DNS, optimize and control network traffic. Also for cisco ACE load balancers too.  • Configuration of Cisco routers and switches to enable and troubleshoot a variety of features such as trunks, Vlans, Ether channels, port security, routing protocols including EIGRP, OSPF & BGP and other related technologies such as multicasting, IP Telephony & IP Video.  • Configuration of overlay VXLAN VTEPs with EVPN control-plane on Nexus switches  • Configuring and managing wireless LAN controllers  • Monitoring and troubleshooting wireless networks using Cisco Prime Infrastructure  • Complete basic configurations on the F5 Big-IP LTMs and GTM load balancer on existing network to split traffic on web-servers.  • Worked on Riverbed devices for WAN bandwidth Optimization in the data centers for the sensitive market data applications  • Experience with convert Checkpoint VPN rules over to the Cisco ASA solution. Migration with Cisco ASA VPN experience.  • Works with the end users to validate problem descriptions and perform detailed problem diagnosis, track and update problems in HP Service manager (Trouble-ticketing System)  • Good interpersonal & Communication Skills, working with customers on solving network problems in timely manner. Work Experience Network Administrator Wilson N Jones Regional Medical Center - Sherman, TX March 2017 to Present Roles & Responsibilities: -    • Configured Cisco Series 6500, 4500, 3800, 3850, 3750, 3560, 3550, 2600 Switches  • Configured Cisco Series 2900, 3900 Routers for new business need.  • Configure Cisco 43xx and 28xx routers, Nexus 3048 switches, 5508 wireless LAN controllers, and 37xx wireless access points.  • Hands on experience on cisco ASA 5520, 5505, Sophos firewalls.  • Experience in Configuring Security policies including NAT, VPN, Route-maps and Access Control Lists.  • Configuring OSPF routing policies and designs, worked on implementation strategies for the expansion of  • MPLS and VPN networks.  • Build Site to Site IPsec based VPN Tunnels between various client and business partner sites  • Configuring and Troubleshooting Cisco switches and firewalls.  • Switching tasks include VTP, Trunking, ISL and 802.1q, VLAN, Ether Channel, STP, PVST, RSTP and MST.  • Configured and resolved various OSPF issues in an OSPF multi area environment.  • Hands-on experience with WAN (ATM/Frame Relay), Routers, Switches, TCP/IP, Routing Protocols (BGP/OSPF), and IP addressing  • Involved in the configuration & troubleshooting of routing protocols: MP-BGP, OSPF, LDP, EIGRP, RIP, BGP v4. Configured IP access filter policies. Cisco CLI, Cisco works, Network Security, Network Analysis Tools.  • Configuring and implementing of routing protocols including RIPv1/v2, OSPF, EIGRP, ISIS, and BGP.  • Extensive knowledge and experience in dealing with various Networking Related Protocols and Standards: TCP/IP, UDP, SIP, Switching (VLANs, STP, VTP), Routing, Routing Protocols (EIGRP, OSPF, RIP, BGP), WAN (Frame Relay, IPsec VPNs, MPLS).  • Configure, maintain, monitor and upgrade backup systems including design of a scheduling protocol using industry best practices, upgrade all network software, Exchange, and Active Directory  • Administer and maintain DNS, DHCP, WINS and group policy  • Configuring, implementing and troubleshooting F5 load balancer in the enterprise network.  • Worked with, IDS/IPS, Bluecoat proxy servers and Administrating.  • Implemented Positive Enforcement Model with the help of Palo Alto Networks  • Hands-on work in Inter-vlan routing, redistribution, access-lists and dynamic NAT  • Configured IT LAN/WAN elements and held responsibility of maintaining and monitoring network performance  • Performed Configuration on ASR 9K Pairs includes HSRP, Bundle Ethernet Config, Assigning DHCP profiles.  • Deployed all Sonus equipment in Data Centers and customer POP's  • Provided Tier1 technical support; assisted users facing network problems. Performed advanced troubleshooting, diagnostics and provided tier/level-1 solutions to network failures  • Performed Network Migration from RIP to OSPF and EIGRP  • Provided Network infrastructure support to routing and switching equipment  • Redistributed routing protocols and Frame-Relay configurations  Designed the layout for cable installations Network Engineer Servesys Corporation - Dallas, TX January 2016 to February 2017 Roles & Responsibilities: -  • Involved in the configuration & troubleshooting of routing protocols: BGP, OSPF, EIGRP, RIP, and BGP.  • Configured IP access filter policies. Cisco CLI, Cisco works, Network Security, Network Analysis Tools.  • Configuring and implementing of routing protocols including RIPv1/v2, OSPF, EIGRP, ISIS, BGP.  • Extensive knowledge and experience in dealing with various Networking Related Protocols and Standards: TCP/IP, UDP, SIP, Switching (VLANs, STP, VTP), Routing, Routing Protocols (EIGRP, OSPF, RIP, BGP), WAN (Frame Relay, IPsec VPNs, MPLS).  • Switching tasks include VTP, Trunking, ISL and 802.1q, VLAN, Ether Channel, STP, PVST, RSTP and MST.  • Configured and resolved various OSPF issues in an OSPF multi area environment.  • Hands-on experience with WAN (ATM/Frame Relay), Routers, Switches, TCP/IP, Routing Protocols (BGP/OSPF), and IP addressing  • Configure, maintain, monitor and upgrade backup systems including design of a scheduling protocol using industry best practices, upgrade all network software, Exchange, and Active Directory  • Implementing Cisco Application Centric Infrastructure (ACI) as a solution for data centers using a Spine and Leaf architecture.  • Experience in authentication protocols PAP, CHAP, 802.1x and Port Security and Configuring Security policies including NAT, PAT, VPN (DMVPN, GRE), Route-maps, prefix lists and Access Control Lists  • Experience configuring and upgrading VPC, VDC on Cisco Nexus 7010.  • Experience configuring VPC (Virtual Port Channel), VDC (Virtual Device Context) in Nexus 5020  • Experience configuring VDC, VPC in Nexus 7010  • Involved in installing newer 3502 Wireless Access Points.  • Configured VLAN, OSPF, Sub-netting, EIGRP, BGP, VTP, spanning tree, IP Sub-netting, Wireless Access points  • Conversions to BGP WAN routing. Which will be to convert WAN routing from OSPF to BGP (OSPF is used for local routing only) which involves new wan links.  • Configure and install Cisco routers, switches, firewall.  • Experienced in riverbed/steelhead technology - troubleshooting application/server/client issues which utilize riverbed  • Use a wide range of network equipment such as Cisco routers and switches, Riverbed Wide Area Network (WAN) accelerators  • Experienced working on network monitoring and analysis tools like, TCP dump, Solar Winds, cisco works, Cisco Prime, Riverbed, Wireshark.  • Cisco Secure ACS for the implementation of port-based authentication (DOT1X), profiling and AAA (TACACS+ & RADIUS) Education Masters in Applied Engineering Technology Management in Applied Engineering Technology Management Murray state University Bachelor of Engineering in Electronics and Communication Engineering Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University Skills Bgp, Cisco, E1, Eigrp, Juniper, Ospf, Ds1, Ds3, T1, Vlan, Vpn, Firewalls, Network security, Ethernet, Frame relay, Routing protocols, Cisco asa, Cisco fwsm, Fwsm, Hsrp