Network Administrator <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Network Administrator Harleysville, PA Analytical and self-motivated Network Administrator with years of experience in the IT field. Conscience of HIPPA and HITECH laws due to prior positions at CCRC. Extremely well rounded experience in the fields of networking, virtualization, security, and wireless. Work Experience Network Administrator Living Branches - Lansdale, PA 2009 to Present • Oversees the daily performance, maintenance and configuration of computer systems and peripheral equipment (printers, copiers, etc.)  • Provides end users across multiple campus locations with assistance solving computer related problems and general system issues such as office applications, e-mail, faxing, printing, etc. Ability to prioritize end-user needs and to set proper expectations for issue resolution  • Ensures proper installation, maintenance and configuration of all servers (physical & virtual), including Windows Server 2008 & 2012, and SQL Server  • Configures application security and applies file permissions for users and resources  • Ensures that the policy for new PC users is followed, sets up equipment for new employees, performing or ensuring proper installation of cables, operating systems, and/or appropriate software. Maintains Active Directory Users & Group.  • Diagnoses, troubleshoots, and resolves hardware, software, system and network device problems, and replaces defective components as required. Handles vendor support calls.  • Purchases computer equipment and manages inventory of supplies needed including but not limited to cables, UPS, appropriate software, etc. Participates in budget planning for network infrastructure.  • Performs data backups, troubleshoots backups, and restores files as needed. Maintains and monitors archiving and disaster recovery operations.  • Maintains best security practices on the network through ACLs, anti-malware solutions, and web filtering.  • Participates in long term strategic planning to accomplish the technology goals of the company. Systems Assistant / IT Supervisor Assistant Dock Woods Community - Lansdale, PA 2003 to 2009 • Troubleshooting and assisting of end users technology needs over two campuses (approximately 100 PCs).  • Maintains scheduled backups (Symantec Backup Exec).  • Purchasing and configuring of Windows based PC's, printers, and various other networking equipment as needed.  • Administration of local intranet (SharePoint).  • Perform installations and updates of all company software as needed, including SQL 2000/2005 based software.  • Management of users and computers through Active Directory, Group Policy, and Exchange 2003.  • Maintaining of network permissions, including file, SharePoint, and Exchange.  • Management of wireless networks supporting Windows mobile based devices. PC Technician Blue Rose Computers - Colmar, PA 2002 to 2003 • Troubleshooting of hardware and software issues on Windows based PC's.  • Built custom Windows based PC's for customers (primarily Windows 2000 & XP). Education Associate in Network Administration Lansdale School of Business 2005 to 2006 Skills Windows Vista - 10 and Windows Server 2008 – 2016, Active Directory and Group Policy, Office 365 and Office 2016, Cisco access switches (primarily 2960), Cisco layer 3 switches (primarily 3850), Cisco routers (primarily 4K), Citrix XenApp, VMware vSphere, Cisco ASA and Firepower, Symantec Endpoint Protection, Symantec Endpoint Encryption, Cisco WLC Assessments Project Management Skills: Time Management — Proficient August 2019 Prioritizing and allocating time to effectively achieve project deliverables. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/vzjyqt9deemtrvrs Technical Support — Expert August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/kwgepanuyplpuzlp Supervisory Skills: Directing Others — Proficient August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to motivate the performance of others through feedback to identify improvements or corrective actions. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/0yq7adciosy5nqxp Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.