Bilingual Pre-trial Supervisor Bilingual Pre-trial Supervisor Bilingual Pre-trial Supervisor Maspeth, NY A top-performing professional poised for success with over various years of professional experience in the Criminal Justice field as well as a bachelor's in business administration, and client support specialist. Offering exceptional interpersonal and communication skills with a high level of sensitivity towards client's needs, and the ability to put a client at ease in the tensest of situations. A bilingual professional with strong organizational skills, computer expertise, strategic time management skills, and a vast knowledge of legal terminology, processes, and procedures, seeking to continue to further success. Work Experience Bilingual Pre-trial Supervisor NEW YORK CITY CRIMINAL JUSTICE AGENCY 2004 to 2019 Kew Garderns, NY  • Monitor verification efforts, transcription of defendant's criminal history records, and data entry into CJA computer database.  • Investigated defendants' criminal histories and records to ensure appropriate release recommendations are awarded.  • Interacted regularly with police, corrections and court personnel to ensure positive working relations are maintained  • Monitored the Bail Expediting Program by efficiently quality controlling BEX packages using court calendars  • Performed daily and weekly updates of interviews and daily reports into automated organization database  • Train new pretrial associates in all aspects of the pre-arraignment process.  • Evaluate the performance of newly hired during their probationary period and tenured interviewers on an annual basis.  • Assist in the compilation of statistical data, participating in special projects and assist in any computer problems.  • Check for outstanding warrants utilizing our databases such as Division of Criminal Justice Services and e-arraignment.    Bilingual Pre-trial Associate  • Interviewed defendants after arrest to gather information on community ties, such as residence and employment.  • Call defendants' family and friends to verify contacts and information provided during interviews.  • Review and summarize defendants' criminal history records.  • Determine CJA's pretrial release recommendation to the judge, by applying a standardized point scale.  • Contact defendants to notify them of upcoming court dates and assist defendants and their families in posting bail.  • Provide tech support to staff for computer issues, remote access, and BYOD related inquires.  • Troubleshoot All Windows , Windows Server, LAN and firewall.  • Configure, patch and deploy computers.  • Coordinate with Agency IT support for advanced problems.  • Run reports in our practice management software.  • Provide agency continuity by proactively monitoring all systems for problems and recommending improvements. Network and Computer Systems Administrator Manager PUNCH LIST SYSTEM - San Juan, PR 2003 to 2004 • Maintain and administer computer networks and related computing environments including computer hardware, systems software, applications software, and all configurations.  • Perform data backups and disaster recovery operations. Maintain logs related to network functions, maintenance and repair records.  • Diagnose, troubleshoot, resolve hardware, software, or other network and system problems, and replace defective components  • Monitor network performance to determine whether adjustments need to be made, and to determine future changes  • Plan, coordinate, and implement network security measures to protect data, software, and hardware.  • Analyze equipment performance records to determine the need for repair or replacement.  • Perform routine network startup and shutdown procedures, and maintain control records  • Train people in computer system use.  • Gather data pertaining to customer needs, and use the information to identify, predict, interpret, and evaluate system and network requirements.  • Coordinate with vendors and with company personnel to facilitate purchases.  • Perform data entry functions by keying data into computer system and verifying accuracy and make corrections as necessary. Education Bachelor in Computer Management The Pontifical Catholic University of Puerto Rico - Ponce, PR Skills Exceptional Research Skills (10+ years), Fluent in Spanish (10+ years), Microsoft Office Suite Proficiency (10+ years), Leadership & Teamwork (10+ years), Profound Customer Service (10+ years), Project Management (10+ years), Communication Skills (10+ years), Excellent Follow-Up Ability (10+ years), 80 WPM, Organizational Skills, problem solving, training, Microsoft Office, Management Certifications/Licenses Managing Conflict in the Workplace May 2018 to Present