Combination Specialist Combination Specialist Brandon, FL Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Combination Specialist West River Telecommunications - Hazen, ND April 2016 to July 2019 Splice fiber, install fiber equipment in and outside of homes, install and test Wi-Fi in homes, install Wi-Fi in farm yards install surveillance equipment, install security systems, troubleshoot modems, troubleshoot networking equipment, troubleshoot underground cables Network Administrator West River Telecommunications - Hazen, ND September 2015 to April 2016 Troubleshoot, maintain, and setup computers, servers, networking. Worked with Windows OS, Windows Server, Active Directory, Backing up servers, and Linux(Fedora and Ubuntu). I also worked on setting up open source NAS, the program was called FreeNAS. Test the backups of servers to make sure they work. Create Folder Redirection on computers. It backed up to servers. Technical Support West River Telecommunications - Hazen, ND September 2012 to September 2015 Customer phone support. Troubleshoot modems in the office and over the phone. Help connect customer’s printers, routers, computers, cell phones, tablets and security cameras over the phone. IT Manager Coal Country Community Health Center - Beulah, ND March 2010 to September 2012 I was in charge of the whole network. Worked on servers, computers, laptops, routers, switches. Did a lot of network wiring. Helped implement their new electronic medical records. Pulled reports for them. I was in the process of trying to create a network disaster relief plan. Business Owner Badlands Electronics - Watford City, ND April 2005 to March 2010 I was the owner of Badlands Electronics. At Badlands Electronics we repaired and built computers and servers and ran network wiring. We also helped troubleshoot and setup business networks. Badlands Electronics was a Verizon Wireless dealer. Education Associate in Computer Support Specialist Bismarck State College - Bismarck, ND August 2010 to May 2012 Skills Microsoft Office (10+ years), Windowd Server (8 years), Windows (10+ years), Wireless (10+ years), Networking (10+ years), System Administrator, Cisco, Active Directory, It Specialist, Desktop Support, Help Desk, Information Technology, Comptia, Linux (6 years), Ubuntu, Customer Service (10+ years), MySQL (3 years), SQL (2 years), Network Support, Computer Repair, Front Desk, Hospitality Experience Certifications/Licenses Comptia A+ April 2017 to March 2022 CompTIA Network+ March 2018 to March 2022