Systems Engineer, Field Tech Systems Engineer, Field Tech Systems Engineer, Field Tech - George Jon and Associates Lake in the Hills, IL An accomplished IT professional with experience designing and administrating Microsoft networks running on VMware and Hyper-V. Seeking to use advanced skill sets and project management experience to implement solutions for solving complex business challenges. A strong desire to use this expertise to use this expertise to further a company's growth and success via reduction in cost and improved efficiency in every department utilizing technical solutions. Work Experience Systems Engineer, Field Tech George Jon and Associates - Chicago, IL September 2014 to Present that provides system administration services to our mid-size clients. Complete monthly maintenance and assist with all technical issues and new implementations. Assisted with project work, email migrations, create and update client documentation. Provide general networking services and routine maintenance. Execute auditing procedures for enterprise clients.  ? Exchange to Microsoft 365 migration and SharePoint setup  ? Perform after hours' server firmware updates via IDrac.  ? Perform after hours ESXI and vSphere suite 5.0 to 5.5 and 6.0 updates  ? Create and prepare new virtual 2012\2016 servers  ? Provide general networking services and routine maintenance of log monitoring and window updates  ? Support Site to Site and Site to cloud server replications and backups  ? Support all client desktop software packages  ? Perform auditing of new and existing enterprise data center infrastructure setups Server Excalibur Technology Corporation - Barrington, IL April 2012 to May 2014 Barrington, IL  Held the responsibility of Systems Engineer involved in supporting small to medium-size businesses including park districts, financial institutions, medical offices, manufacturing and law firms. Designed and implemented several technology solutions in multiple fields.  ? Break\Fix troubleshooting of LAN and WAN issues  ? Performance analysis  ? Server monitoring and maintenance  ? Research of current and future technologies  ? Provided hardware and software recommendations  ? Upgrade, migrate and switch out of aging network equipment Network Support Specialist and Administrator Intren Inc - Union, IL March 2007 to November 2011 that provided help desk support, network support and assisted with project management for a large enterprise environment with limited IT support staff. Company consisted of 500+ employees at multiple field locations throughout the United States.  ? Active Directory, DNS, DHCP, and Organization Unit, Group Security planning  ? Supported all hardware and software related issues  ? User training of new software integration  ? Main contact for all vendor support (HP, CDW, Verizon, CISCO, Etc)  ? Traveled to and setup satellite offices within the Midwest  ? Assisted with all physical to virtual VMware migration  ? Performed all PO's and ordering of network equipment Education Associate Skills Project planning, Maintenance, Auditing, Documentation, End user support, Best practices, Client relations, Pricing, Networking, Microsoft Word, MS Office, Troubleshooting Links http://www.linkedin.com/pub/tim-trakes/60/13a/930 Additional Information Skills  • 10 years in IT consulting and client relations.  • 10 years with end user support of hardware and software platforms.  • Specialization with client infrastructure maintenance and support of hardware and best practices.  • Expertise in Windows server and virtual environments.  • Specialization in documentation such as logical and physical diagrams, IP Spreadsheets, assist tracking and procedure manuals.  • Specialization in infrastructure commit and storage reports.  • Specialization in setup, deploy and migration process.  • Expertise in alert monitoring and alert response time.  • Specialization in project planning for new or aging infrastructure equipment.  • Development of SMB model pricing guide and auditing of enterprise worldwide client partners.  • Expertise in troubleshooting skills and working alongside vendor support.  • Work alongside internal sales and senior engineering team.  • Create and achieve personal quarterly company OKR's.