WebDev / Systems Administrator WebDev / Systems <span class="hl">Administrator</span> WebDev / Systems Administrator - University of Memphis Work Experience WebDev / Systems Administrator University of Memphis 2017 to Present • Develops and Maintains existing systems, in-house programs and vendor supplied Technologies. Manage multiple webservers for Professors and Instructors to facilitate a rich learning environment. Configured and maintained Postfix server (b.cs.memphis.edu). Integrated Alpine server to ensure functionality of mail service on one of many servers managed. CentOS running HTTPD. Configurations for docroot is fairly standard for USERID sites, functionalized google based API(s), to work once google Map integration for cyber.cs.memphis.edu/ScavengerHunt/. Coded using HTML, CSS, and JS, restricted to allow Google API functionality once Google's direction changed for Map API, created cron based bash script to perform needed services reset. This runs from one of my Apache / Tomcat servers. Created small script to allow WebWorks server to work and another piece of "inhouse code" to facilitate students enrollments (used Java to complete this task).  • Coordinate work with various technology divisions. Serving on various committees dealing with campus computer technologies. Meeting expectations in Linux environments. Working with various professors, using PHP 5 (had not updated to version 7 yet) and HTML, to deliver sites with forms for entire undergrad math class. MSForms, in particular for Dr. Hagen (written in HTML and PHP). Assisted in code dev and PHP server admin.  • Design and write web pages as designated by management and in conjunction with technical specifications of the Web master. Maintains appropriate backups and security on secured websites. Maintains the existing web pages: cs.memphis.edu/~<userid> . Each Professor has a website. Various scripts written to facilitate mounted NAS file system and general file back offsite COLO using RSYNC scripts, Perl and bash script etc. Recent projects web landing page for Math Dept's Chair, CV presentation: "http://cs.memphis.edu/~lasiecka". One of many sites and related coding projects.  Develops and implement training strategies and programs to achieve IT fluency among unit consumer: Helped with Code for Kids projects  Administrator of JIRA server (pwc.memphis.edu/8080 and 8090). This server is for Dr. Yu and was one of the first servers, along side the MsSQL 5.* server I established for him to facilities all CS graduates. This is one of the Capstone machines.</userid> Network Administrator / Systems Administrator Mueller Industries - Memphis, TN 2015 to 2017 • Completed facilities' topology design, configuration, management and implementation of facilities network infrastructure. Equipment encountered with high level, yet working knowledge of Cisco routers (ASR models, 2921, 2960, 1811, 891) Cisco switches (4500, 3560, 3570 distribution level switches, 2960, 2950 access level switches) Cisco phones 7861, 6961 and various Cisco and Motorola access points (3702, 2601, and Air Cap and earlier). ACL configuration, NAT, QoS and Interface configuration, VPN Tunneling, VLAN setup using VTP, STP or REP for fiber backbone. Cisco WLC 5508, and Symbols RFS 6000. Supported by units using both GUI and CLI  • Configured various routing protocols which included (BGP, EIGRP, IGRP, standard routing tables and Netflow). IP Address management, DHCP switch level configuration, Cisco core switch, distribution switch, and access level (hierarchal) design, configuration and conceptual knowledge  • Lead project of firewall design implementation, and maintenance. Aided in network design of WAN and LAN equipment of multi-billion-dollar, industrial company (Vendor relationships, quotations, network design and implementation during new facility acquisition)  • Lead project to design network monitoring solution which included SolarWind tools and 3rd party software solution (CyberLens by Dragos) to meet security specification and demand for PLC industrial network standard. Worked closely with the CEO of small company to implement a network monitoring and asset awareness solution. This solution required in depth knowledge of SPAN and RSPAN switch configuration, Various PLC standards and Layer 2 protocols, packet capturing and analysis, sensor placement, Nmap/ZenMap, and Linux scripting and server builds, creating IPTABLES to facility secure transmission of data from remote sensor to server at corporate's datacenter (running Ubuntu and RedHat distros). In depth knowledge of SQL and MySQL table design and manipulation. CEO of Dragos, Robert Lee (personal friend and great reference)  • Lead project for development and design of corporate network hardware as it relates to performance and asset awareness  • Knowledge of network monitoring/RMM/ Network security/IOS Configuration Storage and AVC using tools: Cisco ISE, Cisco Prime, Cisco AMP, Orion by SolarWinds, Nessus, Palo Alto line of product(s) and new software procurement NetBrain  • Formulated reporting and Topology, hierarchal maps used to design and managed newly acquisitions with the company.  • Managed NPM solution SolarWinds and the various toolset(s) this package has along with it.  • Created quotes for approval process of new hardware, software and licensing. System Administrator / Technical Analyst Autozone Corp - Memphis, TN 2010 to 2015 2  • Reporting generated directly in display of the progress in regards to the hardware refresh project and MPLS project with budgets of over $25 million per fiscal year.  • Trained and led teams as large as five to install, configure, manage and support Cisco router (2960, 1811, 891) Cisco switches (2901PoE24, or PoE8) Cisco phones 7861, 6961 and various Cisco and Motorola access points. ACL firewall configuration, NAT, QoS and Interface configuration, TCP/IP .Tunneling, VLAN setup and support, tunneling and encryption (RIP, EIGRP, MPLS, PPP, IPSEC)  • Linux administrator level relationship for AutoZone customers and Product Support group. Bash scripting to support lower tiers in configuration or system errors.  • Network monitoring/RMM tools used to monitor, alert and report on existing and newly converted store, Hub and DC network we've converted. Utilized software from EventSentry coupled with some in-house variation of Linux based, open license software for packet analyzes.  • SQL, MySQL PSQL query, updating, table creation, database, server and client support. Technical Analyst 2 Hilton Corp - Memphis, TN 2005 to 2010 System Admin  • Mentored lower tier agents in order to meet ticket quota and deliver stable In-house product and maintain uptime. Supported in house POS system from an upper tier.  • Cisco 2950 switch configuration and installation  • Lotus notes mail box account setup based on Domino server settings  • SQL, table creation, query, updating, store procedure debug and support, IIS and other MMC tools (web based portions and COM+). Software support for C++ program and related database (SQL or Oracle) or escalate to upper tier.  • Active Directory maintenance new store access.  • Maintained Reporting to vendors for warranty options or SLA onsite support of major server equipment replacement (RAID 1disk array, IBM fault software for tape disk back up and RAID drives, various equipment)  • Active directory maintenance for new store users, permission and file access maintenance. Education BS in Communication University Of memphis