Business Owner - Finalizing Sale Business Owner - Finalizing Sale Business Owner - Satellite Technology International Knoxville, TN Project Manager | IT Development | Strategic Sourcing | Negotiation | Contracts | Process Improvement | Finance and Budgetary Management | Agile Methodologies Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Business Owner - Finalizing Sale Satellite Technology International - Alcoa, TN July 2006 to Present Developed and implemented custom GPS flight infrastructure and managed regulatory approvals for the EMS air transport industry.  Directly managed 10-15 simultaneous client projects yearly, using local and on-site resources throughout the United States and several international locations. Controlled annual budget of $1.5M while ensuring timelines met by scheduling resources to work parallel with federal and state regulatory agencies.  Created the internal/external processes and established the relationships for the coordination of all logistics functions to selected partners. Ensured partner compliance by creating Operations and Safety Management Systems contracts.  Drafted federally authorized compliance measures and ensured resource conformity for annual regulatory audits.  Initially served as Project Manager to ensure on time/budget completion and customer satisfaction. Directed multiple teams of 10-15 resources to ensure cradle-to-grave implementation and authorization of GPS procedures.  Became Business Owner and continued to drive sales and partnerships while directing multiple project teams during a myriad of changing regulations within the FAA. Strategically led company through IT Modernization. Oversaw updates,  revisions, and FAA acceptance of custom operational software for STI and its partners.    Project Management & Strategic Leadership:  • Provided project management and oversight for the development and implementation of procedures for 10-15 clients yearly in different stages of their lifecycle across 48 states and several international locations.    • Managed key resources to participate in 5 cross-function teams of 10-15 individuals in order to complete work in the United States and in several international locations.    • Established selection criteria and decision model used to collect and process due diligence efforts / activities of each resource team.    Contract Management:  • Negotiated and drafted short-term and long-term contracts to be executed with selected resources and clients.    • Created monthly process to reconcile actual performance against stated contractual metrics.    • Involved in all components of the outsourcing project to include: market analysis, financial evaluation, and stakeholder relationship development    Financial & Risk Management:  • Executed financial & risk assessment due diligence framework that allowed for cost  effective and winning responses to RFP's.    • Drafted federally authorized Operations Manuals and SMS (Safety Management Systems) for management of internal and external audits of contractors and resources to reduce risk.    • Managed yearly budget of $1.5M and allocated to increase business growth and ensure efficient project completion.    Compliance Processes and Regulatory Coordination:  • Ensured internal and external compliance to federal regulations and internal documentation to produce successful completion of federal audits.    • Managed development of custom software and flight simulation to be used by client and FAA during testing and training phases of procedure development.    • Coordinated federal approval of custom software for procedure design use.    • Diplomatic Liaison between industry clients and regulatory authorities, resulting in client positive regulatory changes. IT Consultant / Network Administrator Analytical Systems, Inc - Alcoa, TN 2002 to 2006 Spearheaded outside sales, consulting, and project management for approximately 50 small to medium sized businesses and organizations in Blount and Knox counties.  Provided strategic direction, goal setting, and mission guidance of IT architecture to numerous businesses. Developed and implemented IT expansion strategies to ensure cost effective solutions. Worked with the organization's budget strategy, to make recommendations for infrastructure cost efficiencies. Managed the effectiveness of major capital investments, ensuring adequate return on investment for clients.    Project Management:  • Managed numerous large expansion projects to on-time and within-budget completion.    • Implemented a project control system, allowing for systematic management, monitoring, and review of all project phases.    • Controlled risk by reorganizing vendor / partner relationships, allowing for the company to lower costs by sourcing to major suppliers.    Growth Management:  • Enacted call-back plan to ensure a continued presence and customer satisfaction, allowing the company to increase sales during down times.    • Right-sized the organization to optimize resource allocation, cultivating a newfound sense of camaraderie and cohesion through training and development of associates into empowered, accountable team members.    Cost Containment:  • Restructured the purchasing process by enforcing policies to ensure bid submissions and selection of the most cost-effective procurement partners.    • Utilized vendor / partner marketing solutions to minimize branding costs and maintain a professional business presence.    Contract and Proposal Management:  • Created proposals / contracts for projects to include cost estimates, terms and conditions, Statements of Work, and change orders to ensure customer satisfaction and successful project close-out.    • Implemented automated quotation system to fuel accurate cost measurement, tracking, and management reporting.    Strategic Planning:  • Developed detailed short and long term strategic plans for clients that included current IT  analysis, contingency planning, as well as IT architecture plans for future state.    • Established organization blueprint system to allow associates to fully understand pathways for on-going and future development for each client. Education Bachelor of Arts in History Maryville College - Maryville, TN 1998 Skills Liaison, Strategic sourcing, Kanban, Software development, Regulatory compliance, Process improvement, Performance management, Microsoft office Additional Information Self-motivated, results driven professional looking to leverage tactical project management, cost containment, strategic planning, and operational insight to drive "Best-in-Class" status and sustainable performance efficiencies. Skilled in identifying opportunities to drive continuous improvement, bolster enterprise-wide efficiencies, and heighten service to internal and external stakeholders.  Proven leader with a strong desire to develop and maintain a cohesive team focused on constantly re-evaluating the most urgent priorities. Flexible and efficient problem solver with excellent communication and diplomacy skills.    Core Skills    • Large Scale Project Management • Financial and Budgetary Management  • Strategic Sourcing and Negotiation • Continuous Process Improvement  • Contract Design, Review & Management • Business Performance Management  • Regulatory Compliance • IT Program Development  • Compliance Systems Review • Software Development  • Federal Authorization / Approval Process • Agile / Scrum / Kanban Methodologies  • Microsoft Office Suite • Adobe Product Suite  • Project Presentation and Public Speaking • Diplomatic Liaison