Network Administrator <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Network Administrator - Georgetown University Gaithersburg, MD Work Experience Network Administrator Georgetown University June 2006 to Present * Supervise student assistants and various contractors supporting a very wide range of communications, computing and network support programs.  * Manage development and installs of new network PC/AV systems and upgrades of current systems, software, personal computers, peripherals, network printers, not limited to desktop and laptop computers, hubs, network servers, routers, projectors, and conferencing cameras.  * Maintain a database of all CETS managed computer assets including desktops, laptops, mobile phones, printers, peripherals, and projectors.  * Develop the training plans for department staff for professional development and growth in Audio Video (AV), Desktop Computing, and Video Switching Systems.  * Develop, implement, and manage a variety of lecture capture and classroom recording processes enabling students to access on-demand material for review or in case of absence or as part of the GU program of instructional continuity.  * Manage, maintain and support instructional technology for student services, distance learning and academic programs in 200+ interactive main campus classrooms, 25+ Seminar of department's conference rooms.  * Spearhead new procedures for Help Desk documentation, enabling the development of a comprehensive knowledge base of common issues and solutions to improve efficiency.  * Lead institutional advancement initiatives and instructional technologies projects.  * Assist all university users in the use of all network and Audio/Video (AV) software products including desktop applications, video-teleconferencing applications, and classroom presentation technology.  * Provide technical support to faculty, staff, and students, and end-users, leveraging broad-based expertise to handle problem identification, diagnosis, resolution, and escalation via Blackboard Help Desk system, telephone, and remote support tools. Performed security administration functions for user, data, and remote access.  * Direct IT projects from inception to execution, strategically allocating resources, and delegating tasks development, installation and servicing of new applications and systems and perform other duties as required to meet departmental and organizational objectives.  * Track the historical support patterns and develops initiatives to implement pre-preemptive corrective action or upgrade systems where necessary.  * Maintain ability to wipe hard drives in the event of loss preventing a security breach of sensitive Personally Identifiable Information (PII).  * Demonstrate outstanding customer services skills while consistently receive high ratings on client satisfaction surveys Desktop Support Technician PCMacPlus Services, Inc - Falls Church, VA 1996 to 2015 2017-2018). Director of Training InfoTech Training Institute - Silver Spring, MD February 2001 to February 2006 * Identified and developed new programs for students, faculty and staff to ensure meeting Maryland Higher Education Commission (MHEC) accreditation policies and standards.  * Coordinated Program Advisory Boards for growth and enrichment of programs, enforced Student Academic Progress Reports to ensure students met their GPA, and tracked program completion, graduation and placement data to comply with MHEC expectations.  * Worked closely with students and faculty, and collaborated with other departments, in fostering student retention, maintaining an 85% school retention rate.  * Conducted faculty in-service training, observed all classes, oversaw classroom evaluations on a quarterly basis, and ensured faculty annual evaluations and merit increases done on time. Initiated ongoing forums for faculty recognition, and achieved a 90% faculty retention rate. Office Manager Viker Technologies Group, Maryland November 1996 to February 2001 * Developed efficiency-enhancing workflow/process improvements that made possible to accommodate increasing responsibilities necessitated by staff reductions.  * Created and monitored internet-marketing campaigns and saved thousands of dollars in fees and improved the response-rates of direct marketing campaigns by bringing formerly outsourced mass-mailing function in-house.  * Developed and maintained website and e-commerce store and order processing system, maintained equipment inventory, scheduled maintenance and handled customer correspondence, managed contract provisions, invoices and provided estimates to customers, and decreased expenditures 15% by implementing inventory controls and standardizing ordering procedures.  * Performed executive manager support functions for President and senior executives including expense reports, domestic and international travel arrangements, calendar management, scheduling meetings, and PowerPoint presentations.  * Automated daily stats report that provided management with a key decision-making tool. Education Masters of Science in Technology Management in Technology Management Georgetown University 2019 Management Certificate Program Georgetown University 2006 Bachelor of Science in Marketing in Marketing University of Maryland College Park - College Park, MD 1995 Skills System administration, Audio visual, Strategic planning, Networking, Technical Support, Windows, Windows 7, Customer Service, Active Directory Certifications/Licenses CompTIA A+ February 2003 to Present Additional Information AREAS OF EXPERTISE  Personal Computing Audio Visual Networks Testing and Troubleshooting System Administration Project Management Vendor Relations Strategic Planning Effective Communication Instructional Continuity Team Leadership