BACKUP ADMINISTRATOR/DR BACKUP <span class="hl">ADMINISTRATOR</span>/DR BACKUP ADMINISTRATOR/DR - Strategic Business Systems, Clay Kaserne Army Airfield El Paso, TX * Refreshed $800,000 worth of equipment, software and services acquired with Halfaker and Associates.  * During time at Joint Task Force North, refreshed $2.5+ Million in equipment including refreshing entire network backbone to include CISCO switches along with implementing Aruba wireless infrastructure.  * Refreshed data center storage from dated JBOD to NetApp Deduplication ready high-end storage along with virtualization of entire server list.  * With General Dynamics/LTI, installed millions of dollars of wireless infrastructure at U.S. Air Force bases nationally. Work Experience BACKUP ADMINISTRATOR/DR Strategic Business Systems, Clay Kaserne Army Airfield - DE September 2018 to Present Germany  Provide enterprise environment Backup/Duplication and Recovery services.  BACKUP ADMINISTRATOR/DR (Sep 2018 to Present)  Perform backup repair restore services to RCC and tenant customers utilizing Veritas NetBackup on Windows 2012 R2 Servers and On Command Unified Manager Data OnTAP 9.1 on FAS 2020 and FAS 8060's.  Team support to Backup/DR of enterprise storage across multiple sites across Europe, VDI, virtualization server infrastructure and user data.  * Supported Helpdesk team, designed and deployed enterprise level systems and theater-size data centers.  * Apply patches, and Security Technical Implementation Guides (STIGs) to enterprise backup servers.  * Maintain, monitor and create backup and duplication policies on enterprise servers.  * Support system automation best practices including daily data storage, backup, and recovery operations.  * Input into ITSM to track and monitor all incidents and resolve issues as quickly as possible. SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR Halfaker and Associates - Fort Bliss, TX October 2015 to September 2018 Ft. Bliss, TX  Provide executive-level leadership and in-depth expertise of enterprise environment management that ensures high-level of availability and performance, such as design, implementation, and sustainment plans.  SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR (Oct 2015 to Sep 2018)  Utilize industry best practices to deliver service desk, desktop, hardware installation, workstation, printer, and multifunction device support to a dispersed client-base at the DPW.  * Spearheaded, managed and deployed early adoption of data center/server virtualization infrastructure, in the DPW enterprise.  * Assisted Helpdesk team with day-to-day Remedy tickets.  * Apply patches, upgrades, and installs; provision new equipment, collaborate with vendors.  * Provide recommendations for improvements to IT support environment by planning for future releases.  * Support system automation best practices including daily data storage, backup, and recovery operations.  * Create and maintain a knowledge base of information to swiftly resolve any incoming issues while developing lessons learned to avoid future incidents. SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR II Frankie Friend and Associates - Fort Bliss, TX January 2015 to October 2015 Ft. Bliss, TX  Provided On-Site Technical Support for Air Force Security Forces Det 3 located on Ft. Bliss Military Installation.  SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR II (Jan 2015 - Oct 2015)  Managed, inventoried and deployed Windows 7 desktop assets in support of Unit Operations and Training students and staff.  * Troubleshot, diagnosed and resolved incidents that provided Break-Fix or Ticket escalation with Government Service provider.  * Worked directly with Information Management Officer and Ft. Bliss NEC.  * Provided Audio Visual support services. SENIOR TECHNICAL LEAD/ NETWORK ADMINISTRATOR ManTech - Fort Bliss, TX March 2009 to November 2014 Ft. Bliss, TX  Provided Operations and Maintenance (O&M) for entire network/server infrastructure, managing technical support/help desk staff, and directly advising Joint Task Force, North (JTF-N) - J6 HQ Support Office.  SENIOR TECHNICAL LEAD/ NETWORK ADMINISTRATOR (Mar 2009 - Nov 2014)  Supervised Support Desk Tier I, II, III Team. Maintained Enterprise Data Center from VMware vSphere 3.5 to 5.5 on Sun Blades to HP Blade servers.  * Monitored and maintained NetApp SAN/NAS Storage solution utilizing Data OnTap 7 Mode.  * Designed, developed and deployed Virtual Desktop Infrastructure (VDI) from VMWare View 3.5 to Horizon View 5.5 that consisted of 600+ VM Desktops running Windows 7 Operating System deployed from Unidesk OS/Application Layering tools.  * Maintained NIPR and SIPR networks, managed and maintained MS Windows 2008 Active Directory Domain/Exchange Enterprise of several hundred users, workstations and servers.  * Maintained Virtual infrastructure using VMWare vCenter Server, vSphere Operations Manager and VM Turbo VM optimization tools.  * Deployed cloud based remote access to data center desktops via VMWare client eliminating need for VPN.  * Supported multiple systems for various server applications, coordinated directly with Information Assurance to patch scan and maintain DoD standards for security and network/server/client systems protection.  LTI DataComm, National  Surveyed, designed and installed 802.11a/b/g/n wireless LAN (WLAN); designed, installed and configured Centralized WLAN Architecture Networks utilizing Aruba Mobile Edge Technology and Juniper Odyssey Client. WLAN SYSTEMS/ NETWORK ENGINEER LTI DataComm August 2006 to March 2009 Implemented secure WLAN with Funk Steel Belted RADIUS and Windows native IAS.  * Managed and supported on-site installation teams.  * Conducted pre- and post-installation surveys to support U.S. Government clients.  * Provided documentation on Visio proposed installation.  * Designed drawings and other reports.  * Analyzed predicted RF coverage with Motorola LAN Planner, AirMagnet Spectrum Analysis and Aruba RF Tool. Enclave Systems Administrator Intecon, LLC January 2006 to August 2006 Iraq Enclave Administrator Desktop and deployment services to troops deployed at various FOBs to include Windows Server and desktop. Senior Systems Administrator ManTech - Fort Bliss, TX August 2004 to January 2006 Systems Administrator responsible for Windows 2000 Active Directory Design and Deployment. Server Admin to include Windows Exchange and Backups. See above. Systems Administrator January 2004 to August 2004 Intecon, LLC. Iraq providing server support for CPA. Education High School Diploma Andress High School June 1986 Skills Active directory, Cisco, Exchange, Remedy, Solarwinds, Virtualization, Ciscoworks, Infrastructure design, Nfs, Optimization, Orion, Vm, Vmware, Cifs, Iscsi, Netapp, Red hat, Disaster recovery, Firewall, Ghost, Powershell, System Administrator Links http://linkedin.com/in/michaelrchavez Military Service Branch: Reserves Rank: E5