Network Consultant <span class="hl">Network</span> Consultant Network Consultant - NetCore Labs Elberton, GA Salary Requirements - $85000 Annually Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Network Consultant NetCore Labs - Elberton, GA January 2018 to Present Providing I.T. consulting services to businesses and individuals, including repair, troubleshooting, installation of computer and local area networks.  • Respond to on-site service calls related to computer or networking issues.  • Consult businesses and suggest technology implementation options and migration plans.  • Provide network support and administration on Microsoft Windows server networks.  • Repair and diagnose technical issues on computers, printers, routers, firewalls, Access Points. Microsoft Office 365 Support Ambassador Experis - Atlanta, GA May 2017 to December 2017 Provided remote technical assistance to Office 365 customers (small business <150 licenses) via telephone, written correspondence, and remote desktop support sessions. Assist administrators with advanced troubleshooting, problem resolution, and best practices regarding break-fix scenarios and deployment/implementation and readiness guidance. Demonstrated experience in handling technically complex issues and politically sensitive situations. Assist Office 365 customers with configuration and ongoing support of the Office 365 cloud suite of applications.    • Responded to requests for service and incidents in the company ticketing system through completion.  • Documented all work performed within the requests.  • Provided phone and remote troubleshooting support to business subscriptions and partner accounts.  • Provided customers Installation, configuration, and support of Microsoft Office 365 on various platforms  • Provided front line administrator and end user support for domestic and international clients.  • Provided clients solutions to subscription and billing issues.  • Answered questions about plan offerings and special enrollments within the Office 365 suite.  • Joined in collaboration with Support Engineers at different levels and technology areas to find solutions  • Reported software bugs and customer suggestions to management. I.T. Manager PAI Industries Inc - Suwanee, GA January 1999 to January 2017 Planned, designed, implemented, administered this local area network and server infrastructure for this manufacturing company provisioning internet technologies and system automation to increase productivity of the company processes. Managed Information Technology Department consisting of network administrators, web developers, and helpdesk support personnel. Managed the acquisition of computer equipment and network services, negotiated the terms and prices with vendors and suppliers. Monitored cost of voice, data, hardware service contracts, service subscriptions and software licensing. Managed network security, asset monitoring, patch management, system upgrades, technology migrations, infrastructure build-outs, user support and user training.    • Planned, designed and implemented CAT3, CAT5, CAT6, Fiber, RG59, cabling for multiple locations.  • Planned, designed and implemented the Microsoft Active Directory Server environment  • Implemented and managed Microsoft Exchange Server with unified communications to 3Com VOIP.  • Designed and implemented the Citrix Server 6x.xnvironment providing thin client and remote access.  • Installed and administered Microsoft SQL, DNS, WINS, Proxy, IIS, RAS, Sharepoint servers.  • Installed and administered VMWare 5.x ESi servers connected to HP fiber HBA LeftHand P4000 SANS.  • Installed and administered Fortinet VPN routers creating site to site networks between 10 remote sites.  • Installed and administered Palo Alto PA500 firewall providing network security, monitoring.  • Installed and administered Cisco Catalyst 2960-X Series switches managing multiple vlans.  • Installed and administered Citrix Netscaler VPX load balancing viritual appliance providing remote access.  • Implemented wireless network using Fortinet WLAN controllers and POE Access Points.  • Implemented RFID scanners and barcode printers for use in the warehouse processes.  • Supported over 100 virtual machines running Windows Server 2012 - Windows 7 / 8/ 10, Centos 6x.  • Integrated on premise 2012 Active Directory server network to hybrid Azure directory services  • Implemented Microsoft DirSync servers integrating Microsoft Azure Active Directory hybrid migration.  • Migrated Exchange 2012 on-prem server with 500 mailboxes to Microsoft Office 365 Business.  • Provided company executives reports, plans, proposals for implementation of new technology. Network Administrator Smith Barney Robinson Humphrey - Atlanta, GA July 1984 to December 1998 Security administration for PDC and BDC domain servers, providing login access for 10,000 user accounts.    • Created scripts and batch files for automated, user account creation and data archival.  • Responsible for support and administration of Lotus Notes server  • Administered user accounts in a NT 3.x / 4.x domain environments.  • Supported workstation computer hardware and software.  • Supported printers, fax machines and copiers.  • Performed updates and upgrades on Windows NT Server 3.1 NT 3.51, NT 4.0 files servers.  • Supported Connectix thin client server for user remote access to network. Education Bachelor's Degree in Computer Sciences Queens College - Flushing, NY February 1979 to May 1983 Skills Mcafee, Cisco, Office 365 (5 years), Technical Support, Windows, Networking, Active Directory, Security, Customer Service, Vmware, Microsoft Office, Windows 7, access, MAC Certifications/Licenses Driver's License