Systems Analyst Systems Analyst Systems Analyst - County of Ventura Oxnard, CA Seasoned IT professional with over 19 years of experience. Currently working as a  Systems Analyst supporting VMWare, Active Directory, O365 and Hyper-Converged vSAN  Infrastructure. Currently looking for a career that will take full advantage of my skills and experience  in a leadership role.    Server Hardware: HP, Nutanix, Dell, Compaq, EMC, NetApp, VMware and vSAN. Work Experience Systems Analyst County of Ventura - Ventura, CA November 2006 to Present Responsibilities -  • Strategy Development and Planning  • Evaluate emerging technologies for all county agencies  • Identify areas of need within Technical Services and develop plans to address them  • Develop technology roadmaps for services provided  • Work with account managers to help develop solutions  • Interface with vendors and internal resources to ensure proper implementations  • Evangelize Technical Services capabilities to other agency IT departments  • Manage vendor relationships  • Gather system requirements  • Design system architectures  • Generate system architecture diagrams and documentation  • Identify Technical Services requirements for large projects  • Work with Project Managers to build project plans and identify milestones  • Maintain and report project status for Technical Services tasks  • Monitor current system performance and capacity  • Gather future requirements and create expansion/growth plans  • Work with PMO to help develop a comprehensive DR plan    1  • Evaluate and recommend DR technologies  • Oversee DR testing and validation  • Provide senior analyst support for server, network and remote connectivity.  • Senior VMware Architect for the county managing 400 VMs running on ESX 6.5 using vSAN).  • Primary Engineer for 50 host vCenter Farm using VMware Horzion for VDI.  • Active Directory, O365, VMware ESX, DNS and DHCP administration.  • Actively work on projects and tasks adhering to our ITIL change management processes.  • Coordinate projects and activities to complete customer system expectations and requests following  best practices and procedures.    Accomplishments -  • Designed, built and support a large, high availability infrastructure with offsite redundancy for our  Countys 911 systems.  • Designed and built a new VMware Infrastructure cluster using hyperconverged technology (VSAN)  • Led, configured and designed large implementation of Document Management System and Agenda  Management Software for the County Executive Office that is used county-wide by all 28 agencies with over 1000 administrative users. Systems Administrator Ticketmaster - Hollywood, CA September 2006 to November 2006 • Supported and maintained hundreds of geographically distributed Windows Server Systems.  • Performed daily Active Directory security audits for unauthorized admin account use by the internal  IT staff.  • Performed monthly reviewing, testing and approving of security updates into the environment.  • Used MOM and WSUS server to manage applications and update control.  • Performed daily Exchange account maintenance, creation and migration between servers. Senior Network Administrator McGraw-Hill Companies - Westlake Village, CA October 2004 to September 2006 Responsible for maintaining 100+ server farm including SQL servers, Exchange Servers, Solaris  Servers running Oracle, Web Servers running IIS and Microstrategy Solutions.  • Lead the implementation of an EMC SAN solution into the production environment and disaster  recovery for remote offices.  • Lead a project to migrate the VERITAS backup solution from BackupExec to Netbackup.  • Managed proxy server rules and Websense Web Filtering Software.  • Designed and implemented the new desktop imaging solution with Norton Ghost Corporate.  • Lead migration from Windows NT domain to Active Directory 2000 Domain.  • Maintained network connectivity between 10 global JD Power Offices.    2  • Performed day to day Network Administrator tasks which included Active Directory maintenance  and configuration for 1000+ user environment, Exchange 2003 management and setup, Network  backups and restores using VERITAS Netbackup. ERP Service Desk Analyst II Amgen Inc - Thousand Oaks, CA January 2004 to October 2004 • Performed ERP / JD Edwards administration duties.  • Part of Single Instance Point of support of AS400 for 800+ users  • Call Center, phone support using Vantive to track Work Orders  • Worked closely with Business & System Analysts to troubleshoot ERP system issues.  • Performed printer support (Clearing job queues, restarting remote writers)  • Processed and Verified GMP documentation for new employees  • Used Remote Administration to troubleshoot and fix client's issues.  • Documented business requirements and technical design specifications. Network Engineer AT&T Solutions - Oxnard, CA August 2003 to March 2004 • Performed router and switch testing and configuration.  • Assisted with data networking equipment cutovers and migrations for large financial Institutes like Merryll Lynch and Bank of America.  • Built and configured Cisco and Juniper router/switch equipment racks.  • Assembled CAT5/6 cables which included testing, cutting and re-terminating.  • Troubleshooted network connectivity issues between financial branches using VPN Networks Senior Lead Technician Somera Communications - Oxnard, CA September 2000 to July 2003 • Managed inbound and outbound quality assurance of the telecom and data networking products.  • Handled the IT role of over 50 users (Troubleshooting network, workstation and printer issues).  • Provided Engineer level phone/desktop support for technical configuration and troubleshooting of PC's and data networking equipment.  • Design, built and ran stable datanet testing network using Window 2000 Server and Cisco  Equipment.  • Responsible for the project management of large data networking lot-buys.  • Building, installing, upgrading and troubleshooting PCs.  • Configured and tested data networking equipment.  • Cisco routers, switches, VOIP routers, Cisco PIX Firewalls and access servers.  • TFTP/FTP server set-up and configuration.  • Remote desktop administration using commercial software (VNC, PCanywhere, radmin, laplink and Windows Remote Desktop).  • Participated and assited with JD Edwards One World systems support (XE version migration)    3 Shipping Lead Supervisor Waterway Plastics - Oxnard, CA May 1998 to September 2000 • Provided daily direction and leadership to the shipping department team members.  • Made recommendations for manpower needs including involvement in recruitment and selection  process as well as employee terminations in the shipping department.  • Accountable for staffing, training, motivation and leadership within area of responsibility  • Built department standards for performance and ensured that all employees in  • the shipping department are properly trained.  • Ensured that materials were shipped are verified against pertinent documentation.  • Established and maintained procedures for determining and meeting company and customer  delivery commitments by handling materials, providing labor, and effective use of time.  • Recommended and assisted in implementing operating procedures and promoted continual  improvement within the department and the company.  • Followed shipping methods for materials using the operations procedures; Resolved emergent  issues for expedited deliveries to the customer and/or job site.  • Coordinated import/export of goods by scheduling containers to meet shipping demands.  • Monitored the quality, quantity, cost and efficiency of inbound and outbound shipments.  • Maintained working relationships with transportation representatives, vendors and suppliers to ensure cost control and competitiveness.  • Interfaced with customers regarding product delivery time schedules, coordinated vendor  acceptance programs.    TECHNICAL EXPERIENCE: Education Master of Science in Information Technology Aspen University - Denver, CO 2018 Bachelor of Science in Information Systems Security ITT Technical Institute - Oxnard, CA 2008 Skills System administration, Vmware, Exchange, Iis, Remedy, Sms, Deployment, Business continuity, Data backup, Microsoft sql server, Sql server, Sql, Client/server, Scripting, Visio, Ghost, Netbackup, Veritas, Veritas backup exec, Backup exec, Active Directory, Cisco, Security, Sharepoint Additional Information Promote optimal performance, reliability, and security across core business information systems    • Results-driven professional offering a progressive, eighteen-year career in information technology.  • Repeated success directing IT projects from inception to execution, strategically allocating resources  and delegating tasks to achieve on-time, on-budget delivery.  • Expertly manage technical support operations, diligently troubleshooting issues to identify root  causes and prevent recurrence.  • Process improvement champion with a history of implementing new procedures and technologies to  strengthen security posture, enhance operational efficiency, and control costs.    - Areas of Expertise -    Virtual Infrastructure Project Management System Administration Vendor Relations Strategic  Planning Resource Allocation Effective Communication Team Leadership Business Continuity  Data Backup & Recovery    Operating Systems: Windows 7/8/10, Sever 2000-2016, Apple IOS, VMware ESX 5.5/6.5.    Software: Microsoft Office, 2000-O365 (Word, Excel, PowerPoint, Outlook, Access), MS Visio, MS  Project, IE, Chrome, Firefox, Symantec Antivirus Client/Server, Remedy, Heat, Service-Now, Vantive,  Adobe Acrobat & Photoshop, Norton Ghost, VNC, PC Anywhere, Remote Administrator, ZenWorks.    Server Applications: Microsoft Exchange, Microsoft SQL Server and PowerShell Scripting, VMWare  ESX 5.5/6.5, Quest vRanger, VERITAS Backup Exec/Netbackup, SMS, SPSS, Microsoft Deployment  Services, WSUS Services and IIS Server Man    4