PC/ Network Support Technician PC/<span class="hl">Network</span> Support Technician IT Professional - System Administrator Grandview, WA I am seeking to secure a challenging and rewarding position where I can work hard to earn the respect of my  peers and colleagues. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience PC/ Network Support Technician Catholic Charities of Yakima October 2015 to Present Responsible for the IT support of multiple sites including offices in Richland, Yakima, Moses Lake and Wenatchee.  Perform network, server, phone administration, procurement, configuration, deployment and maintenance. Active  Directory, user account management, moves, adds, changes. Documentation. System Administrator Sunnyside Community Hospital July 2013 to May 2015 Responsible for network and system administration including XenServer/VMware environments, database  maintenance, documentation, storage, backups, disaster recovery, upgrades, scripting and automation. Team  collaboration, project management, procurement and implementation of new solutions and technologies. Network Specialist PMH Medical Center July 2012 to July 2013 Responsibilities included management of Hyper-V virtualization environment, Microsoft Exchange Server,  Windows SharePoint, network configuration and provisioning, IP addressing, documentation, switching, routing,  firewall, VPN connectivity, wireless, security, WSUS, scripting and automation. Maintained clinical applications  Synapse PACS, CPSI, Chartlink. Call rotation. Help Desk / System Support Specialist Sunnyside Community Hospital August 2007 to July 2012 Responsibilities included first level customer response and issue resolution, task assignment, prioritization,  escalation and documentation within Request Tracker system. Education Sunnyside High School 1989 to 1992 Skills TCP/IP (9 years), Customer Service (10+ years), Network Administration (5 years), Servers (5 years), Phones (5 years), Linux, System Administrator, Active Directory, Vmware, System Admin, Active Directory, Linux, System Administrator, Vmware Additional Information SKILL SET    • Work Ethic: I strive to provide exceptional customer service with a no excuses attitude. I'm fast to learn, driven to  be productive and work collaboratively with team members. I take pride in my work and satisfaction in finding  solutions to problems.    • Operating Systems: Windows XP, Win7/8/10, WinServer2003/2008/2012, Linux (Debian/Ubuntu) Mac OS-X.  • Network: TCP/IP, Cisco IOS/CatOS, HP ProVision, Junos OS  • Hardware: Experienced with troubleshooting, diagnosing and resolving workstation, server, printer, scanner and  other peripheral device issues.  • Software: Microsoft Office Suite, Imprivata SSO, Meditech Magic, GE Centricity EMR, Citrix  XenSever/XenCenter, VMware ESXi and more.  • Development Tools/Scripting: Practical experience with HTML, various SQL, PHP, PowerShell, Windows shell  scripts, PS Tools  • Domain Management: Active Directory, Group Policy - familiar with the use of RDP, VNC, SSH, Telnet