Software Specialist Software Specialist Software Specialist - IBM Leander, TX I have over 20 years of experience in the designing and administrating IT systems and datacenters. With over 8 years Hospital datacenter experience. I am looking for a position that will offer the opportunity that will allow me to use my experience while continuing to grow my knowledge of IT. Work Experience Software Specialist IBM January 2011 to Present XIV PFE L2 • provide support for the xiv and A9000 enterprise storage systems • Work with Development team to provide solutions to complex issues • Mentor level 1 support to provide knowledge transfer • Document process for supporting customers • Developed and implemented training on product support    Premium Storage Support / L1 SW Storage Support • Provide software support for IBM storage systems. This includes supporting all storage systems including Host system configuration. Perform problem determination through research and reviewing customer con-figuration and log files. Support windows, VM ESX, AIX, LINUX and McData switches.  • As one of the Back Ends for the L1 I aided other techs on resolving issues and or escalations.  • Assisted in training new techs and acting as a mentor.  • Developed processes to improve support Sr Systems Engineer Abrazo Health Care - Phoenix, AZ October 2002 to December 2010 • Responsible for 500+ servers running Novell, Win2000/2003, Linux, and Unix.  • Successfully managed the role out of Exchange 2000 across all facilities including migration from GroupWise, Louts Notes, and Exchange 5.5.  • Managed successful migration from Novell to Windows 2000/2003 across all 6 facilities.  • Successfully moved multiple small datacenters into a new centralized location with minimal impact to user base.  • As the Sr. Systems Engineer/Lead assisted in creating budget and personnel decisions.  • Worked with CIO and upper management across all markets on research and recommendations. Systems Administrator Fox Systems, Inc - Scottsdale, AZ January 2000 to October 2002 • Responsible for day to day operations of all Network Systems. Netware 5.x, GroupWise 6.0, DNS/DHCP, and Novell Web/FTP Server.  • Provide support for 50+ users working on Laptops and Desktops. Support remote users working off laptops and GroupWise Web Access.  • Upgraded system from GroupWise 5.5 to 6.0. Redesigned NDS Tree to allow for future growth of company.  • Responsible for purchasing and tracking all computer systems and software.  • Provided 24/7 emergency support by pager NETWORK SPECIALIST II Arizona State Retirement System - Phoenix, AZ April 1998 to January 2000 • Network administrator for mixed Novell and NT network.  • Responsible for end user support on the network and desktop.  • Developed and implemented backup and recovery procedures for all servers in Phoenix, Tucson, and Oracle databases. Education Bachelor's in Bachelor of Science, Cloud and Systems Administration WGU January 2018 to January 2021 High school Skills Training Certifications/Licenses A+ Certified CIW Web Foundations Associate ITIL v3 March 2019 to Present Network+ LPI Linux Essentials comptia Cloud Essentials