Senior Network Engineer Senior <span class="hl">Network</span> Engineer ‘Ewa Beach, HI Army veteran with a strong background in information technology. Experience includes Network Engineering, Technical Security and Systems Administration. Possesses an active security clearance, a bachelors degree, and technical certifications. Work Experience Senior Network Engineer AECOM - Camp Smith, HI February 2019 to Present • Senior Network Engineer for the Cyber War Innovation Center (CWIC), US INDOPACOM, developing solutions that address warfighter short comings.   • Using Commercial Solutions for Classified (CSfC) technology, developed a multi-cyber range for foreign nationals.  • Experimented and developed cyber environments using multiple technical vendors such as, Cisco, Juniper, Microsoft, Palo Alto, Log Rhythm, HPE, Vectra, Solarwinds, ESXi and much more.   • Developed cyber environments incorporating Virtual Private Network (VPN) technology, ESXi, Domain-Controllers, CA servers, Firewalls, ACAS, and SIEM systems. Team Chief 829th Signal Company, United States Army Reserve - Fort Shafter, HI February 2013 to Present • Designed and managed the deployment of network infrastructures at cold sites.  • Lead the IT department's operational and strategic planning to include fostering innovation, planning projects and organizing and negotiating the allocation of resources.  • Benchmarked, analyze, and make recommendations for the improvement and growth of the IT infrastructure and IT systems.  • Deployed and managed the Army's Warfighter Information network - Tactical (WIN- T) for field training exercises.  • Served as NCOIC of multiple retrans operations. Sr. Network Administrator USBICES-X, General Dynamics Information Technology - Camp Smith, HI June 2017 to February 2019 • Provided enterprise level network administration for multiple network enclaves within the PACOM area of responsibility.  • Experienced in integrating extended and standard Access Control Lists(ACL), static-routes, Control Plane Policing(CoPP), SPAN, RSPAN, and route advertisements via. OSPF and EIGRP  • Mitigated security vulnerabilities on numerous routers and switches to pass the DISA Authorization and Assessment (A&A).  • Strong experience in conducting maintenance on Cisco device, which include, but is not limited to IOS upgrades, STIG implementation, route filtering, and clearing port-security.  • Experienced in utilizing Solarwinds to administer nodes, create maps, and develop/push scripts to network nodes.  • Experienced in using Active Directory and Microsoft Exchange.  • Strong experience using CUCM. Created DHCP pools, phone profiles, implemented route patterns, route partitions, CSS, and SIP trunks.  • Supported the implementation and engineering of cross-domain calling between multiple enterprise networks.  • Experienced in using Microsoft Visio to create network diagrams.  • Installed, configured and administered encryption devices, such as ViaSat KG-250 and General Dynamics KG-175D. Network Engineer Mission Training Complex, General Dynamics Information Technology - Schofield Barracks, HI April 2015 to June 2017 Served as a lead Network Engineer for the design and implementation of multiple networks within the USARPAC area of responsibility.  • Lead a team of network technicians in the design and deployment of the network infrastructure for concurrent military training exercises.  • Designed multiple networks using protocols such as GRE Tunnels, EIGRP, and OSPF.  • Installed and maintained numerous network devices, which include hubs, routers, firewalls and switches.  • Served as a Communication Security (COMSEC) Custodian for the Mission Training Complex.  • Consulted military leaders in the development and design of their network infrastructure to ensure their network is fully mission capable.  • Configured and deployed KG-175 E100's, Alpha, and Delta's to ensure network traffic was encrypted.  • Monitored network capacity and performance through the use of SolarWinds  • Configured and managed Cisco Unified Call Manager's (CUCM).  • Applied the Risk Management Framework (RMF) as a baseline configuration for multiple Cisco devices  • Experienced in using Visio to develop drawings and diagrams of the network  architecture. Information Systems Specialist 18th MEDCOM, United States Army Reserve - Fort Shafter, HI November 2012 to February 2015 • Provided technical support for problems related to hardware, network, and application related issues.  • Developed and deployed workstation images throughout the company.  • Coordinated with end users and staff to implement best practices to maintain a higher security posture.  • Administered user accounts through Active directory.  • Developed Standard Operating Procedures (SOP) for users to remediate issues. Telecommunications Specialist 41st Fires Brigade, United States Army - Fort Hood, TX October 2008 to October 2012 • Trained, supervised, and evaluated over 6 organizations in the deployment of telecommunications systems for war-fighting exercises.  • Developed Business Continuity Plans (BCP) to react and assess against potential threats within the company and outside of the company.  • Lead Communications Security Officer that ensured the security of telecommunication and network devices.  • Deployed Retransmit operations to extend Radio Frequencies (RF) through hostile environments.  • Served as the Telephone Control Officer (TCO). Education Bachelor's Degree in Business Administration Hawaii Pacific University 2013 to 2015 MBA in Management Information Systems Wayland Baptist University Hawaii Certifications/Licenses Cisco Certified Network Associate (CCNA) November 2017 to November 2020 CompTIA Security+ April 2017 to April 2020 VMware Certified Professional – Data Center Virtualization 2019 March 2019 to March 2021