Network Engineer <span class="hl">Network</span> Engineer Network Engineer Santa Clara, CA Seeking Full Time position in the field of Network engineering / Administrator where i can use my 5+ years of experience & technical knowledge and contribute to the growth of the organization. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Network Engineer Transstroy Inc May 2012 to December 2014 Description: Transstroy customer integration and service delivery is a process based on BGP - MPLS technology. Responsible for configuring devices and handing over configured routers and switches after testing data quality of equipments. Working in network provisioning team for data activation and migration of customer  networks troubleshooting of all LAN & WAN issue. Configuring, maintaining the routers / switches and implementation of RIP, EIGRP, OSPF, BGP routing protocols and troubleshooting.    Responsibilities:  • Design and implementation of complex networks related to extranet clients and worked on setting up Lab & Data Centers.  • Assembled Computers and installed Operating System, made nearly 100+ systems operational for the organization and ensuring their smooth operation.  • Installed Servers, Database, Device Drivers and many other Packages and softwares.  • Good problem Identifier and Solution provider.  • Troubleshooting the network routing protocols (BGP, OSPF, EIGRP, RIP) during the migrations and new client connections as well as ARP & Ethernet Protocols  • Ensures the project will achieve targeted dates to ensure business continuity. Involved in meetings with engineering teams to prepare the configurations according to the client requirement  • Decide the IP address to assign to newly designed network and configure the same into routers and switches and ensure the packets transfer to exact destination.  • Used the best suitable protocol or routing method to configure the network.  • Involving in data center migration from one data center to other.  • Remote support of on-site engineers and end users/customers during installation.  • Remote troubleshooting and fault finding if issues occur upon initial installation.  • Capacity management and audit of IP addressing and hosted devices within data centers.  • Good experience working with Oracle, MySql and RDBMS concepts.  • Worked Extensively on Windows and Linux environment.  • Familiar using tools to test the equipment faulty and voltage values.  Environment: Cisco 6509/3750/3550/3500/2950 switches, Cisco 7200/3845/3600/2800 routers, Windows & Linux Environment, EIGRP, RIP, OSPF, BGP, VPN, MPLS, NAT, ACLs, IPv6, Ether Channels, GRE Tunnels. Network Administrator International Road Dynamics Inc June 2010 to May 2012 Description: IRD is a Toll Management System provider which includes various equipments connectivity using fiber optics, cat5 cables and designing best routing protocol to route the packet in a network. Design and implementation of network at field and office level connections all the configuration has to be done on newely assembled systems and the same has done by me. Joined as a Trainee and promoted to Network Administrator for my hard work and dedication towards work on completing project on time. Configured routers, switches, Intercom for office communication, CCTV & DVR, Assembled Systems, Servers on entire office and its maintenance. Very good under-stander of GPU Concepts and its advanced functionality compared to CPU functionality.    Responsibilities:  • Configure and install various network devices and services (e.g., routers, switches, firewalls, load balancers, VPN, QoS)  • Configured Cisco Various Routers like Access Layer, Distribution Layer & Core Layer routers.  • Perform network maintenance and system upgrades including service packs, patches, hot fixes and security configurations  • Monitor performance and ensure system availability and reliability  • Monitor system resource utilization, trending, and capacity planning  • Provide Level-2/3 support and troubleshooting to resolve issues  • Purchased Graphical cards and installed on computers along with their device drivers.  • Hands on experience on GPU Computer technologies.  • Work within established configuration and change management policies to ensure awareness, approval and success of changes made to the network infrastructure  • Select and implement security tools, policies, procedures in conjunction with the company's security team  • Liaise with vendors and other IT personnel for problem resolution  • Responsible for scheduling auto backups from database like Oracle & MySql  • Hands-on experience working with Oracle, MySql and RDBMS concepts.  Environment: Cisco 3750/3550/3500/2950 switches, Cisco 7200/3845/3600/2800 routers, Windows Server 2008R2, EIGRP, RIP, OSPF, BGP, VPN, MPLS, NAT, ACLs, Ipv4, TCP, ARP, Ethernet Prorocols, CCTV, Intercom, Firewalls, Fiber Optics & CAT5 Cabling Education Masters of Science in Computer Science Silicon Valley University 2016 B.Tech in Computer Science and Engineering Anna University 2010 Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/arun-kumar-venkatraju Additional Information SUMMARY OF SKILLS:    • In depth knowledge of TCP/IP fundamentals, Layer 2 & layer 3 Switching & Routing Protocols, VLAN, OSPF, EIGRP, RIP, BGP & IGRP, ISDN, Frame Relay, VPN, HSRP, MPLS etc.  • Extensive knowledge in setting up Data Center which includes Cabling, Labeling, System and Network equipments installation and configuration.  • Experienced in configuring and troubleshooting various routing protocols BGP, MPLS, EIGRP, OSPF, IS-IS, IGRP, RIP in multivendor products.  • In depth knowledge with hands on experience on Access Control Lists & Firewall.  • Designed, planned and implemented network solutions to fulfill business unit requirements.  • Strong knowledge of working TCP/IP and OSI model.  • Indepth knowledge on database concepts like Oracle, MySql, MS Access  • Experience on working with various types of ports like Auxilary, Console, RJ45, DB-9, VGA, COM-Ports, SATA, Serial Etc  • Hands on experience on Ipv4/Ipv6, Subnetting - VLSM, FLSM concepts.  • Successfully completed CCNA Certification Course.  • Software deployment technologies like Ghost, repackaging tool. Backup technologies like Live Vault.  • Acadamics project on SDN(Software Defined Networking) to find bandwidth of the network using scoket function in Python network programming.  • Managed huge number of systems, Healtlh checkups, Preventive Maintanence of all systems to ensure safe and healthy operation.  • Managed various servers, Installation of RAID configurations and Operating System.  • Installed & configured printers, Scanners, Projectors and maintained smooth operation of all the devices.  • Installed & tested ethernet and fiber cables using standard data center protocols using cable management system  • Created Tickets within ticketing system to attend preoblems and changes of hardware.  • Hardware management like gathering faulty equipments and replace working parts to make the hardware functions which avoids purchasing new equipments.  • Maintained records of Inventories kept in the stores, In/Out of equipments managed very strictly.    TECHNICAL SKILL:  Software and Protocols:  • Cisco IOS, Windows 98/2000/XP, Linux/Unix, Python, RIP, IGRP, EIGRP, OSPF, BGP, MPLS, QoS, OSI, TCP/IP, ping, traceroute, Access List, FTP, DNS, NAT, Switching, VPN, ISDN, Wireshark.  Hardware and Platforms:  • Cisco Routers and Switches (10k, 7k, 7500, 3500, 2x00, 1x00), Desktops and Servers, Fiber Optic, CAT5 cabling, Coaxial, RJ-11, Crimping Tool, System Troubleshooting.