Help Desk Specialist Help Desk Specialist Help Desk Specialist Ponce, PR Obtain a position on the computer systems area or other areas where my knowledges and  experiences can be useful to the needs and goals company, and it offer growth opportunity,  progress and to learn new procedures. Work Experience Help Desk Specialist St Luke's Episcopal Hospital - Ponce, PR 2016 to 2018 • End users support- Provide technical support onsite and remote (telephone and email), document issues, create tickets.  • Active Directory Management.  • Install, modify, and repair computer hardware and software.  • Repair Pc and Laptops, upgrades, maintenance.  • Basic Knowledge of VMware.  • Install and perform minor repairs to hardware, software, or peripheral equipment, following design or installation specifications.  • Perform daily system monitoring, server resources, reviewing system and application logs, and verifying completion of scheduled jobs such as backups. Network Administrator St Luke's Home Care - Ponce, PR 2003 to 2016 Customer support- Provide technical • Verify Solarwinds Connections diagram.  support on site and remote. • Network documentation (diagrams, procedures,  • Servers and pc maintenance, backup etc).  schedule. • Servers administrate, verify performance and  • Active Directory management. services, servers, laptops and pc maintenance.  • Printers management.  • Install patches, updates and programs in  • ISA Server management.  the servers. Systems Technical Assistant St Luke's Home Care - Ponce, PR 1999 to 2003 Ponce, PR 1999-2003  Systems Technical Assistance  • Configure computers, upgrades, assembly and software installation.  • Unix server backup schedule, restore it if was necessary.  • Configuration of asynchronous ports for terminals and printers.  • Software and hardware inventory.  • Monitor Unix server performance.  • Provide technical support to the users. (Printers, Computers, Laptops, CE-Devices, softwares). Data Entry Brake Parts - Ponce, PR 1999 to 1999 Education B.A. in Information Systems University of Puerto Rico Skills Unix, Android, Tech Support, Service Desk, Active Directory, Help Desk, Desktop Support, Active Directory, Desktop Support, Help Desk, Service Desk, Tech Support, VPN Certifications/Licenses Driver's License Additional Information • Goal Oriented/Team Work  • Customer service and technical support.  • Ability to work under minimum supervision and problem solving oriented.  • Excellent troubleshooting and technical support abilities.  • Experience in Workstations, Servers, Ipads, laptops, switches and printers.  • Operational Leadership.  • Experience in applications such as Ms Office, DgMed, PtCT, Meditech, Wsus, Sense,  Right Fax.  Innova, Inmediata, Exchange, Isa Server).  • Internet and Email.  • Repair and upgrade computers.  • Network administration, Active Directory.    OPERATING SYSTEMS:  • Windows 9x-Win 10, DOS/Windows Servers 2000-2012, Unix, Android.