Cyber Security Analyst Cyber Security Analyst Cyber Security Analyst - Falconwood Inc New Orleans, LA Work Experience Cyber Security Analyst Falconwood Inc December 2018 to Present Developed and reviewed security concept of operations, systems security plans, security control assessments, contingency plans, configuration management plans, incident response plans, plan of actions and milestones, risk management plans, vulnerability scanning, and/or vulnerability management plans  ? Provided systems engineering principles, requirements analysis, system development (software and hardware); network security architecture concepts (topology, protocols, components); and/or IT security principles and methods (firewalls, demilitarized zones, encryption)  ? Developed documents for Risk Management Framework (RMF) Process such as System Categorization Forms, Security Assessment Plan, Information System Continuous Monitoring Strategy Guide, Information System Continuous Monitoring Table, Security Assessment Report, and Risk Assessment Reports  ? Analyzed Assured Compliance Assessment Solutions (ACAS) scans for vulnerabilities  ? Developed Plan of Actions and Milestones (POAM) and Memorandum for the Record (MFR) for various accreditation packages.  ? Developed FISMA documentation such as asset inventory, determine risk categorization for different vulnerabilities, security plans, assess security controls, contingency plans, and RMF assess and authorization  ? Worked with Defense Health Agency (DHA) to remain in compliance with HIPPA laws.  ? Perform code reviews on vulnerabilities found in multiple programs.  ? Understanding of network access, identity and access management  ? Strong analytical, communication, problem solving and leadership skills Information Assurance Specialist Tri Star Engineering August 2017 to December 2018 Review program engineering artifacts to ensure compliance with all DoD/DoN Information Assurance requirements  ? Validates operating systems and network devices security configuration in accordance with DISA approved security technical implementation guides  ? Validates IA certification tests, security audits and risk analysis  ? Analyze, Develop and update Program Protection Plans, Information Assurance Strategies, and other security related acquisition documentation in support of programs  ? Ensure that security related provisions of the system acquisition documents meet all identified security needs  ? Validates mitigation strategies for DoD information systems  ? Prepares certification letters and Memoranda of Agreement (MoA) with system owners for interface and networking implementations  ? Develops IA related acquisition documents  ? Identifies Common Criteria and National Information Assurance Partnership (NIAP) certified technologies  ? Validates Program IA products in use by programs are in compliance with DoD/DoN requirements  ? Participate in FLTCYBERCOM Designated Accrediting Authority collaboration calls  ? Participate in Program Reviews to ensure all Information Assurance requirements are met Computer Network Technician Tri Star Engineering October 2015 to August 2017 Maintains a leadership role by operating at the highest level of Network Technician and giving mentorship/training to multiple project teams  ? Create and edit multiple SOPs (Standard operating procedures) for technicians to use in their day-to-day operations  ? Identify compliance/cybersecurity vulnerabilities  ? Provide network support to the US Navy in the proper application of DISA, NIST, ISO, and IATF regulations to manage and maintain a trusted computing environment  ? Schedule routine audits, maintenance and facilitated meeting between large and diverse groups  ? Analyze network information and provide written and oral guidance before and during assignments  ? Develop Windows 2010 and 2012 R2 Sever Images to be installed on over 50 US Naval vessels  ? Maintain and edit code used in applications and system processes  ? Utilize Assured Compliance Assessment Solution (ACAS) to assess vulnerabilities Senior Computer System Analyst Koam Engineering Systems February 2015 to October 2015 Install, configure, modify, load, setup, and test Consolidated Afloat Network Enterprise Services (CANES) (Unclass, GENSER, SR, SCI) ISNS, and Automated Digital Network System (ADNS) network and system devices and infrastructure  ? Configure Blade Center Switch Module, Data Center Switch, SR/SCI Router and Switch Module, Servers (DC, SIEM, SQL, PROV, DNS, FTS, DHCP, WEB, Exchange, HBSS, Back Up, Terminal, Management, NTP, Application, WSUS, VCM, NCM), IBM DS3512 Data storage, Fiber Channel SAN Switch, BCHT QLogic HBA, Backbone Switch-Router, End User Access Switches, Time Server  ? Cable installation, Install ESX, enable multi-pathing Shared storage, build VM (virtual machines), install vCenter Site Recovery Manager, HBSS production, Systems Management Suite (EMC Ionix), UPS Intelligent Power Manager (IPM) and Power Protector (IPP)  ? Configure File transfer server, ISE pre-lockdown and radius, Non-Ethernet interfaces over IP devices, Wireless LAN controller, Blackberry enterprise service, Secret Releasable chat, SharePoint server, VTC conference room, Cisco ASA firewall, Border router, CDS Access server, CDS transfer guard, Data at rest server, Wireless Control system, Lockdown ISE, System Hardening and security assessment  ? Create new user and email account, Data migration, Printer configuration, HBSS site install  ? Achieve and maintain DISA STIG and IAVA compliance  ? Install and assist with the installation of an enterprise wide technology refresh  ? Perform the installation, configuration, and testing of LAN/WAN environments and interface as necessary with vendors to resolve system configurations, integration problems, and other issues  ? Install Commercial and Government Off The Shelf software (COTS, GOTS)  ? Provisioned workstations and laptops using Cisco ISE (Identity Service Engine) for security policy management and control platform, load image using PXE boot server, and configure devices using VCM VMware (vCenter Configuration Manager)  ? Lead team of 5 with the installation of CANES on 3 US Naval Ships networks Network Engineer SPAWAR (Systems Center Pacific) March 2013 to July 2014 Information Screening & Delivery Subsystem (ISDS) project engineer whose purpose was to update ISDS operation systems from version 4.1 to 4.2  ? Installed, configured, and monitored Cisco LAN/WAN hardware/software, and Windows Server 2008 R2  ? Experience with VMware, Gold Disk/Retina 2012, Symantec, PCAnywhere, Active Directory  ? Maintained up-to-date baselines for the secure configuration and operations of all in-place devices  ? Documented network designs and testing procedures Systems/ Network Administrator United States Navy July 2007 to July 2012 Maximized Cisco network performance by monitoring performance and troubleshooting network hardware/software problems and outages, and by building net configurations and connections  ? Resolved issues involving multiple systems to include Global Command and Control System -Maritime (GCCS-M) and Automated Digital Network System (ADNS)  ? Configured Windows servers, Cisco routers/switches, and managed over 4,000 system user accounts and groups  ? Secured Cisco network systems by establishing and enforcing policies; defining and monitoring access  ? Installed, configured, assembled and implemented desktop and remote computer systems hardware equipment, additional computer peripherals and equipment, and applicable software and printers  ? Head Engineer of NIAPS (Naval Information Application Product Suite)  ? Supervised small team of Information Technology Specialists in Backups using VERITAS Netware Server Option and Symantec Backup Exec Education Masters in Computer Science National University - San Diego, CA 2019 Bach in Cybersecurity Coleman University - San Diego, CA 2017 Skills ACTIVE DIRECTORY, CISCO, NETWORK ADMINISTRATION, NETWORK SECURITY, VIRTUALIZATION Additional Information Core Competencies / Technical Proficiencies    Hardware / Software Applications  Debugging, Optimization, & Support  Data / Network Security Requirements  System Load / troubleshooting  Network Configuration / Testing  Project Coordination & Execution  Network Administration & Support  Systems Improvements / Maintenance  Virtualization/Cloud Computing DoD STIGs/Compliance  Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC)  Software Testing (Automatic/Manual)  Scalable/Mobile Development  HTML/CSS/Bootstrap  Agile Development    Software: VMware, Gold Disk/Retina 2012, Symantec, PCAnywhere, Active Directory, Veritas, Selenium, Fortify  Hardware: GCCS-M, ADNS, Windows Servers, Cisco Routers/Switches, CENTRIXS, CANES (Consolidated Afloat Network Enterprise Services), NIAPS (Naval Information Application Product Suite; ISNS, ISDS (Information Screening and Delivery System)  Operating Systems: Windows, Linux