Network Administrator/Client Support Technician <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span>/Client Support Technician Telecommunications Engineer/SME Littleton, CO A mid-level management position where my 20+ years of telecommunications experience and training, 17+ years of IT experience and training, accomplished complex problem solving using innovative thinking while working in stressful environments, and completing tasks efficiently can be utilized as an invaluable contributor to an organization helping to facilitate strong company growth, performance, and sustainability. Work Experience Network Administrator/Client Support Technician Self February 2001 to Present Work part time as a Network Administrator and Client Support Technician (CST). Daily work includes technical support, information assurance, systems security, remote assistance, analyzing user requirements and costs, installing, diagnosing, troubleshooting problems with internal computer systems, communication hardware, networks, and repairing personal computers. Review proposed new systems, networks, and software designs for potential security risks. Troubleshoot and repair network connectivity issues. Install and implement operating system software. Use multiple up to date antivirus software to detect and remove Trojans, spyware, and other malware keeping the antivirus software updated continuously. Complete software and hardware upgrades as needed, such as, Microsoft Office applications, Microsoft updates, internet and email applications, memory modules, hard drives, and optical drives. Setup and repair home networks using routers, firewall policies, wireless settings, printers, removal storage, and other peripheral equipment and computer components. Sr. Engineer CenturyLink, Inc August 1997 to Present Contributing member of the regional operations support team. Work in an office environment as well as virtual and in the field as a project manager, liaison, SME, and primary support for regional executives as well as the technicians who install and repair IPTV, HSI (Broadband), and POTS services and support company issued wireless devices including security, firmware, and applications. Lead implementation activities of network equipment including: routers, DSLAMs, residential gateways, etc. and resolve integration issues with existing infrastructure. Troubleshoot chronic customer IPTV, HSI (Broadband), POTS, and system problems, analyze system and application problems interfacing with internal groups and partners on configurations and technical integration of content and services. Prepare problem tracking entries/annotations, perform data searches and visualizations using Splunk, writing assignments, and reports within a specified time frame. Create, schedule, and conduct manager and technician training and audits and collaborate with the field to resolve issues regarding test equipment, policies, processes, technical hardware/software issues, new technologies, and any roadblocks that prohibit technicians from providing the highest level of customer service possible and to ensure resources are being effectively utilized. Work with vendors to review, test, and improve old and new systems and equipment and escalate any problems that arise in field in the business as usual environment. Communicate and collaborate with all organizational levels of employees from many units, departments, and backgrounds.    Engineer II:  Lead overnights NEMC manager. The NEMC is a single point of contact for network outages and/or events that impact CenturyLink network, both national and international, and is responsible for establishing and leading restoration activities, including corporate notification, escalations, and bridges. I build network outage notifications via BMC Remedy impacting optical carriers, local loop, switching, DSL, Ethernet, VOIP, and high profile financial customers and drive restoration by initiating contact with Network Reliability Operations Center partners, managers and technicians in the field, fielding calls via management center phone queue, and send notifications to mid and upper level managers and executives. Set up and run bridge calls for cross departmental collaboration and executive management communications supporting outage resolution. Complete FCC/PUC reports meeting reporting criteria and deadlines.    Network Technician (Department of Labor Certified):  Daily responsibilities included analyzing and determining optimal telecommunications systems configurations, inspecting for performance, engineering, planning, installing, advanced repair of copper and lead sheathed cable and fiber optic cables, and POTS and HSI (Broadband) services, including standardized telecommunications equipment and jacks and working on outages. Installed and maintained central office systems equipment and air pressure systems using 240V air dryers resolving equipment failure and unsatisfactory performance problems. Use 965 DSP, Sidekick (VOM), Throwmaster, and various other cable fault isolation and repair tools used for voice and data circuits. Worked in the underground, aloft, and at customer premises abiding by current safety regulations and data privacy laws. Acting in-charge of 17 union represented employees. Train, mentor, and advise new Network Technicians regarding current installation and repair techniques, procedures, and service requirements. Worked alongside contractors and engineers daily for utility vault maintenance, job surveys, training, and various other tasks. Operated and maintained a heavy-duty vehicle with aerial lift, using comprehensive knowledge of personal equipment and hazardous materials safety. Member of the Qwest Hazardous Emergency Reaction Team. Transmissions Line Supervisor U.S. Army January 1994 to January 1997 Line supervisor for secure GTE Radio RF transmissions shelters. Supervised and participated in the installation and maintenance of secure telephone switching (UNIX based DMS-100 Type) and radio transmissions systems (MSE) covering a 150 square mile area. Installed and maintained PC cards in Digital switch shelter minimizing cost overruns for parts. Operated and maintained secure single-channel tactical satellite equipment (SATCOM) (Harris, Motorola) and secure land mobile, UHF, VHF, APCO P25, and SHF Radio systems installing a variety of antenna units. Performed company level maintenance on single-channel line of sight, satellite, and tropospheric scatter communications, multiplexing, and trunking devices. Used SOPs and technical manuals regarding communications equipment, DOD regulations, NIST standards, COMSEC cryptographic key handling, usage, and disposal, and Signal (DS1-DS3) troubleshooting techniques daily. Deployed equipment and team on many large-scale telecommunications network projects domestically (CONUS) and abroad (OCONUS). Counseled subordinates on career progression and performance. Obtained and held a secret security clearance and government driver's license. Recognized for 100% efficiency and 0 down time while within network. Awarded the Army achievement medal. Education Bachelors of Science in Business Technology Management in Business Technology Management Regis University - Denver, CO 2012 MSE Resident School - Fort Gordon, GA 1994 Skills Technical Support, Networking, Windows Military Service Branch: United States Army Rank: E-4 Additional Information • Identify problems; determine accuracy and relevance of information; use sound judgment to generate and evaluate alternatives, and to make recommendations.  • Self-motivated team player and excellent teacher/trainer with proven ability to successfully interface with customers, subordinates, peers, and key decision makers with a wide range of backgrounds, personalities, and titles.  • Project oriented, prioritize, and stick to tasks until completed using strategic, logical, and innovative problem solving and organization skills.  • Successful in learning and comprehending new systems, procedures, and methods.  • Extensive understanding of telecommunications systems and plant engineering, research, decision making, problem solving, installation, troubleshooting, and repair.  • Highly proficient with Microsoft operating systems and Office software.  • Working knowledge of handling and protecting confidential and sensitive information, data privacy, facilities, tools, as built diagrams, and equipment.  • Knowledge of the VA Veteran-Focused Integration Process (VIP) methodology.  • Successful completion of many courses involving telecommunications systems and equipment including; ATM, Frame Relay, Ethernet, SONET, SS7, VOIP, QoS , SIP, Fiber Optics, Security principles, Routing, Switching, and vendor equipment, including; Ciena, Nortel, Cisco, Fujitsu, Motorola, Adtran, and Alcatel/Lucent.  • Successful completion of many IT courses including CompTIA A+, Net+, and Security+, Systems Analysis and Design, IT Project Management, Fundamentals of Computer Networks, and Computer Systems Security, C++ programming, scripting, Linux, LAN/WAN network design, TCP/IP protocols, network hardware, protocols, security principles, routing, and switching.  • Strong verbal, written, presentation, and interpersonal communications skills.  • Working knowledge of OSI and TCP/IP network layers.  • 2+ years setup and operation of Yamaha LS9-32 digital mixing board and audio equipment, including microphones, direct boxes, speakers, cabling, and Aviom personal mixers.