Network Administrator <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Network Engineer Roseville, MN Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Network Administrator Augustana Care - Minneapolis, MN September 2013 to Present • Setup and maintain Juniper SRX routers for 40+ locations  • Setup and maintain HP MSM wireless controllers and access points   • Setup and maintain Ruckus ZoneDirector Wifi Controller and access points  • Setup and maintain HP & Aruba POE network switches  • Setup and maintain Fortigate 100D routers as an SSLVPN solution  • Setup and maintain VMWare Esxi servers  • Setup and maintain our Apple Profile Manager MDM solution  • Setup and maintain Barracuda Link Balancers  • Setup and maintain Barracuda Email Gateway (Spam Filter)  • Support an existing Pulse Secure SSLVPN router  • Support an existing Toshiba Strata PBX Phone System Network Administrator North Akron Savings Bank September 2007 to February 2013 Support and maintain our Cisco Call Manager phone System.  • Provide support for Fiserv Vision products to our end users.  • Manage and maintain 5 Windows 2000 Active Directory Domain Controllers  • Upgrade the Windows 2000 Server Infrastructure to Windows 2003.  • Provide desktop support for 50 users at 5 locations. Network Engineer/Programmer Recreation Insurance Specialists January 2007 to September 2007 Setup our 2 Dell PowerConnect 5324 Switches  • Setup and maintain 2 WatchGuard Firebox xCore 550e firewall routers.  • Setup and maintain 2 CoyotePoint Equalizer e350si load balancing  appliances.  • Configure and deploy webfarm servers consisting of 7 Dell PowerEdge  servers. 3 servers running Windows 2003 Server Web Edition, 4 servers  running Windows 2003 Server Standard edition one of which is running MS  SQL Server 2005.  • Reconfigure and maintain a Dell PowerEdge 2900 running Microsoft  Windows Small Business Server 2003 r2 Premium Edition.  • Upgrade and maintain Microsoft Exchange Server  • Work closely with vendors while moving the office to a new location to ensure proper setup of our new pbx phone and voicemail systems, door  security system and wiring for the data room and the entire office.  • Work closely with the Web Developers and the Product Department to test the applications and make changes to the SQL databases.  • Research and recommend all hardware and software for our data room and end user equipment. Lan Technician Sky Financial Group January 2005 to January 2007 Setup and support the new Items Processing center and Data Center  including sixty desktop PCs and laptops, six Unisys check imaging devices,  thirty-six Windows 2003 Servers, an HP Storage Area Network and an HP  Blade Center.  • I had the opportunity to cable the main and remote data closets for network and telephone connectivity.  • Setup, support and breakdown multiple training and testing labs with up to 60 workstations, multiple printers and telephones.  • Support an infrastructure consisting of Cisco switches and routers.  • Respond to end user needs through the HEAT Call Logging help desk ticket  tracking system.  • Utilize Altiris for deploying and capturing PC and Server images and for resolving end user issues through Carbon Copy.  • Assist with issues arising at financial center when needed.  • Assist in resolving issues related to the software package (Advanced  Financial Solutions) that the center relies on for processing.  • Responsible for ensuring nightly and weekly backup are performed and the tapes are shipped offsite.  • Setup new analog and digital phone ports and move existing wiring when needed.  • Document all cabling for the entire building including phone and network  locations. Network Technician National Interstate March 2001 to January 2005 Provide Wan support for almost 250 total users, 180 at corporate office, 60 at 4 out of state locations along with several employees that work from home.  All desktop operating systems are either Windows 98, Windows Millennium  Edition, Windows 2000 Professional or Windows XP.  • Repair or replace desktop PCs as needed.  • Assisted in migrating all email accounts from Imail to Exchange during our  Exchange 2000 rollout. Deployed Outlook 2002 for all users to connect to  Exchange.  • In charge of setting up new user accounts for the Voicemail, email (Imail and  Exchange 2000), Microsoft NT network and Novell Netware network and now the Active Directory.  • Responsible for troubleshooting office software suites including Corel  WordPerfect Suite, Microsoft Office 97/2000.  • Toshiba PBX maintenance and upgrades including upgrading to a new CTX  processor, adding additional cards, changing the 66 punch down blocks to 110 and adding new cabling where needed.  • Responsible for network backup using Veritas Backup Exec and HP DLT  tape drives and LTO2 drives.  • Assisted in the network conversion from a mixed environment of NT 4.0 and  Netware 5.1 servers to a Windows 2000 Active Directory Structure.  • Assist in administration, implementation and upgrades of ImageRight, our  document scanning solution that utilizes two Kodak DS3500 document  scanners to move printed documents to electronic copy for web viewing and editing. Education Computer Networking National Institute of Technology January 2000 to January 2001 Skills Cisco, System Administrator, Vmware, Active Directory, VPN, LAN, security, Exchange, Active Directory, VPN, LAN, Exchange, Networking, firewalls, DNS, security Certifications/Licenses Apple Certified Associate - Mac Integration 10.12 November 2016