Network Solution Administrator <span class="hl">Network</span> Solution <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Network Solution Administrator - City of Austin Austin, TX Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Network Solution Administrator City of Austin - Austin, TX May 2019 to Present Developed and Deployed multiple applications that require AWS Stack including EC2, Route 53, S3, RDS, DynamoDB, IAM and focusing on high availability and auto-scaling of that application.  • Designing AWS Infrastructure and setting up Edge Locations locally and configuring Availability Zones.  • Made use of Lambda and Cloud Formation for automating deployment tasks.  • Creating and maintaining both Windows and Linux AMI based servers for EC2 instances.  • Migrating current Linux environment to AWS cloud.  • Increasing volume storage capacity on EBS blocks and regulating storage when EBS is full/empty.  • Developed and supported AWS ElastiCache.  • Used Amazon RDS (MySQL and PostgreSQL) to manage, create and snapshots to automate backup of database.  • Created S3 buckets and migrated objects to Amazon Glacier to archive all the data.  • Completely configured Load Balance (ELB) with the help of Route53 to implement latency options for high availability and fault tolerance.  • Experience with monitoring applications using Cloud Watch.  • Managed to track metrics, collect and monitor log files, set alarms and automatically react to changes on AWS resources by using AWS Cloud Watch.  Roles & Responsibilities: Network Administrator GP Teknisk Solution Inc - Houston, TX March 2015 to April 2019 • Responsible for architecting, designing, implementing and supporting of cloud based infrastructure and its solution.  • Proficient in AWS services like VPC, EC2, S3, ELB, Auto Scaling Groups (ASG), EBS, RDS, IAM, Cloud Formation, Route 53, Cloud Watch, Cloud Front, Cloud Trail.  • Experienced in creating multiple VPC's and public, private subnets as per requirement and distributed them as groups into various availability zones of the VPC.  • Created NAT gateways and instances to allow communication from the private instances to the internet through bastion hosts.  • Created Microservices applications with integrations to AWS services by using Amazon EKS, while providing access to the full suite of Kubernetes functionality.  • Used security groups, network ACL's, internet gateways and route tables to ensure a secure zone for organization in AWS public cloud.  • Created and configured elastic load balancers and auto scaling groups to distribute the traffic and to have a cost efficient, fault tolerant and highly available environment.  • Created S3 buckets in the AWS environment to store files, sometimes which are required to serve static content for a web application.  • Used AWS Beanstalk for deploying and scaling web applications and services developed with Java.  • Configured S3 buckets with various life cycle policies to archive the infrequently accessed data to storage classes based on requirement.  • Implemented domain name service (DNS) through route 53 to have highly available and scalable applications.  • Maintained the monitoring and alerting of production and corporate servers using CloudWatch service.  • Created EBS volumes for storing application files for use with EC2 instances whenever they are mounted to them.  • Experienced in creating RDS instances to serve data through servers for responding to requests.  • Created snapshots to take backups of the volumes and also images to store launch configurations of the EC2 instances.  • Implemented and maintained the monitoring and alerting of production and corporate servers/storage using Cloud Watch.  • Experience in Configuring and deploying micro services on cloud leveraging high scalability and high availability design patterns.  • Effectively involved in configuring and implementing of composite Network models consists of Cisco 7600, 7200, 3800 Series Routers and Cisco 2950, 3500, 5000, 6500 Series switches.  • Day-to-day work involved scheduling firewall policy provisioning and working with users to identify connectivity related issues and troubleshoot using both Smart Utilities and CLI.  • Involved in Switching Technology Administration including creating and managing VLANS's, Port security, Trucking, STP, Inter-VLAN routing, LAN security etc.  • Deployed Layer 2 security in Server Farms by configuring switch for 802.1x port based authentication.  • Backup Cisco IOS to a TFTP server and Upgraded and restored a Cisco IOS from TFTP server.  • Configured IPSEC VPN tunnels, site-to-site and remote VPN's.  • Configured BPDU Guard, port-fast, uplink fast and other spanning tree features.  Provided redundancy to the network by implementing hot standby routing protocol (HSRP) and Load sharing for effective utilization of routers. Used cisco ASR 1000 router for better stability and redundancy.  • Environment: STP, RSTP, Cisco IOS-XR, VTP, VOIP, DMZ, Palo Alto, Port-Channel, BGP, OSPF, EIGRP, PPP, HDLC, iSCSI, SNMP, DNS, DHCP, solar winds.  • Network Migration from RIP to OSPF and EIGRP.  • Working with OSPF as internal routing protocol and BGP as exterior gateway routing protocol.  • Configuring static NAT, dynamic NAT, inside Global Address Overloading, TCP overload distribution, Overlapping Address Translation on Cisco  • Deployed a Sys log server to allow proactive network monitoring.  • Implemented VLANS between different departments and connected them using trunk by keeping one VLAN under server mode and rest falling under client modes. Configured Firewall logging, DMZs and related security policies and monitoring.  • Cabling CAT 5, CAT 5e, CAT 6, CAT 6  • Houston Community College: Cisco Network Administration Education Associate Skills Networking