Network Consultant <span class="hl">Network</span> Consultant Germantown, MD Accomplished IT Professional who has demonstrated success implementing strategic IT initiatives that improve business functionality with positive impacts on the bottom line. Adept at scheduling major network upgrades making certain that users get the proper technical assistance and developing a network of emergency response technicians. Technology savvy self-starter, adept at moving into new environments and pulling from existing experience to quickly adapt to new technologies fluently. Possess first-rate communication and collaboration skills to lead and work in concert with diverse groups effectively. Solutions-focused, offering 9 years of hands-on experience spanning Systems and network administration. Maintains a track record of maintaining up-to-date, secure, and high-availability networks. Expertly manage business-critical data, ensuring security and integrity. Deliver world-class customer service, including troubleshooting complex technical problems.  Network Administration ? Technical Support ? Technical Writing ? System Administration ? Customer Service Work Experience Network Consultant DelCor Technology Solutions - Silver Spring, MD January 2017 to Present Overall duties include but not limited to: Installs, configures, and maintains network hardware, software, and telecommunications services such as workstations, system software, software applications, printers, servers, routers, firewalls, switches, modems, cabling, and Internet connections. Provides support to, and trains, users in network usage. Monitors and maintains network stability. Communicates to users and coordinates network schedules, backups, and downtime. Prepares and maintains documentation of network configurations and cabling layouts. Establishes and maintains network accounts, user environment, directories, and security as required. Responds to the needs and questions of network users concerning their access to resources on the network and the operation of various software programs and systems. Understands and ensures standards for the use, operations, and security of network, workstations, and data. Communicates with peers and supervisor to resolve software, hardware, and operations problems. Collects and analyzes system performance data. Implements disaster recovery procedures. Maintains up-to-date knowledge of new technology products, applications, and other system integration related topics, including (but not limited to): software releases, industry hardware and software developments, and office automation trends. Maintains daily calendar, tracks time, and details significant events on the weekly client information form. Provides activity summary documents to DelCor and Clients. Ensures systems meet quality standards. Recognizes and acts upon needs of clients that can be met by DelCor provided services. Prioritizes client's support functions. Identifies new business opportunities with existing clients NOC Consultatnt DelCor Technology Solutions - Silver Spring, MD August 2012 to January 2017 Overall duties include but not limited to: Provided network and application-level support to DelCor client users via phone and remote support applications. Maintained network hardware, software, and telecommunications services such as workstations, system software, software applications, printers, servers, routers, firewalls, Internet connections. Provided after-hours (evenings/weekends) technical support coverage to clients who call into the DelCor NOC as well as responds to critical monitoring alerts generated during after-hours and weekends. Responded to the needs and questions of network users concerning their access to resources on the network and the operation of various software applications and systems. Maintains up-to-date knowledge of new technology products, applications, and other system integration related topics, including (but not limited to): software releases, industry hardware and software developments, and office automation trends. SonicWALL Configuration and Support. Administration and Maintenance of Virtual servers and clients. Onsite Client Visits. Microsoft O365 configuration and Support. IT Systems Administrator ? Exelis May 2008 to July 2012 Overall duties include but not limited to: Helpdesk services (tier 1, 2, 3). Performed hands-on administration, monitoring, and troubleshooting of Local Area network (LAN), resulting in optimum performance and minimum downtime. Performed administration of Cisco Unified Call Manager. Cisco IP phone support and configuration. Created user manuals and provided technical support sessions for new employees. Performed all levels of hardware and software systems support for over 200 computers. Set up offsite users to work virtually. Cisco VPN Support and administration. PKI service and support. OCS Deployment and Support. Altiris administration and deployments. Performed administration of Microsoft office suite, McAfee Antivirus, and Remedy Action Request System. Blackberry enterprise server management. Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Engineering Virginia State University - Chesterfield, VA Skills Office 365 Management (7 years), Active Directory (10+ years), Exchange Server (10+ years), DNS (10+ years), Dhcp (10+ years), Firewalls (7 years), Switches (7 years), Customer Service (10+ years), Networking (10+ years), Windows (10+ years) Certifications/Licenses Security+ September 2017 to September 2020 SY0-401