Telecommunications Specialist Telecommunications Specialist Telecommunications Specialist - Defense Health Agency (DHA) San Antonio, TX Work Experience Telecommunications Specialist Defense Health Agency (DHA) - Fort Sam Houston, TX January 2013 to Present US  Supervisor: Akram Myers at 210-808-3823    Duties: Performs day-to-day operation and maintenance on all multimedia and audio-visual equipment in the METC arena. Performs scheduled and unscheduled maintenance and quality control inspections on over 300 multimedia classrooms to ensure proper operations of systems. Reviews customer work orders to determine issues or requirements and ensures the most cost effective service is provided to meet those requirements. Aids in the integration of new multimedia and audiovisual classroom telecommunication systems in direct support of the DHA and METC training mission. Assist with technical analysis of design calculations, drawings, and specifications on standardized telecommunications and multimedia equipment, services, and processes to ensure compliance with project objectives and standards. Prepares and maintains a variety of detailed records, logs, and reports reflecting progress, performance, problems encountered, etc. Follows local publications and directives in accordance with the DHA and the Medical Education & Training Campus (METC) guidelines and regulations. Provides technical and professional support in connection with Video Teleconference (VTC) operations, maintenance, applications, and administration. This includes but is not limited to VTC suites, smart podiums, Smart Boards, A/V suites, and Digital Signage hardware and software. Processes VTC reservations request; schedules and coordinates conferences; provides training support for equipment during conferences; Installs, configures and tests technologically advanced VTC and audiovisual equipment; establishes calls with Network Operations Centers; attends actual VTC meetings and/or remains on duty in the immediate area to monitor equipment performance. Offers advice on appropriate multimedia formats, presentation techniques, and operational requirements for VTC and multimedia facilities. Well versed in the installation and operation of various VTC Systems such as Polycom and Cisco and associated A/V equipment to include Crestron and AMX interfaces. Provides administrative effort necessary to collect, file, maintain, and compile records and information required for facility utilization, equipment maintenance, and other reports. Provides audiovisual production support for lectures, speeches, and panel discussions held at METC facilities or various other locations, including closed circuit broadcast capability, livestreaming and recording video images on electronic media. Create and develop block diagrams and line drawings using Computer Aided Designs, Visio and PowerPoint. Solves problems which are unprecedented in nature and require innovation and the development of new techniques, enhancements, and services in all areas of audiovisual and VTC production. Retail Service Specialist O'Reilly Auto Parts - San Antonio, TX April 2011 to February 2013 US  Supervisor: Richard Asebedo    Duties: Train, motivate, and supervise customer service employees. In charge of maintaining/updating accurate inventories. Greeting customers and assist them with questions in relation to auto retail. Quickly and effectively solve customer challenges. Maintain quality control/satisfaction records, constantly seeking new ways to improve customer service. Responsible for opening new commercial accounts and upgrading existing accounts. In charge of opening and closing workplace. Maintain petty cash/ End of day cash safe accountability. Network Administrator/Video Teleconferencing (VTC) Technician II MEF - Camp Lejeune, NC January 2010 to May 2010 US  Supervisor: Robert Rice    Duties: Responsible for installation, configuration, operation, and maintenance of networking systems. This includes installing and configuring hubs, routers, bridges, and various transmission media, installing and configuring server hardware and software, and coordinating with the network server team to ensure the proper installation and configuration of workstation hardware and software for efficient operation of equipment on the network. Install, optimize and troubleshoot Local Area and Wide Area Networks and operate the Tactical Data Network (TDN) server. Operates, maintains, and provides Video Teleconferencing (VTC) and other Multimedia / Audio Visual (A/V) technical support for meetings held at II MEF Headquarters. Provides on-site repairs to A/V equipment, with the ability to quickly and effectively detect, diagnose, and resolve related hardware/software operational, connectivity and compatibility issues. Coordinates, schedules and manages over 3,000 classified/unclassified VTC's. Working knowledge of various Polycom products to include MGC-50/100, HDX 8000/9000; Tandberg 6000 & 8000 VTC Systems, and related A/V equipment such as ADTRAN ATLAS 890 and KIV-7's, etc. Maintains and tracks inventory and ensures proper working order of all Multimedia equipment including LCD projectors, monitors, computers, in-house sound systems, amplification systems, and related video conferencing equipment. Provides hands-on meeting support with excellent communication and interpersonal skills in order to interact appropriately and effectively with all levels of personnel. Supported approximately 35,000 end users assigned to Camp Lejeune. Created and maintained user accounts, computers, and network devices via Active Directory. Network Administrator/Video Teleconferencing (VTC) Technician II Marine Expeditionary Force Forward - Camp Lejeune, NC August 2008 to January 2010 US  Supervisor: Christopher Jarr    Duties: Operates, maintains, and provides Video Teleconferencing (VTC) and other Multimedia / Audio Visual (A/V) technical support for meetings held throughout the II MEF Headquarters. Provides on-site repairs to A/V equipment, with the ability to quickly and effectively detect, diagnose, and resolve related hardware/software operational, connectivity and compatibility issues. Coordinates, schedules and manages over 3,000 classified/unclassified VTCs using Meeting Room Manager and the DVS website to date. Working knowledge of various Polycom products to include MGC-50/100, HDX 8000/9000; Tandberg 6000 & 8000 VTC Systems, and related A/V equipment such as ADTRAN ATLAS 890 and KIV-7's. etc., Maintains and tracks inventory and ensures proper working order of all Multimedia equipment including LCD projectors, computers, in-house sound systems, amplification systems, and related video conferencing equipment. Provides hands-on meeting support, with excellent communication and interpersonal skills in order to interact appropriately and effectively with all levels of personnel. Served as the VIP Communications Chief while deployed with Multi-National Force West (MNF-W) on board Al-Asad Air Base, Iraq. Directly responsible for the maintenance and implementation of all communications devices required by the Commanding General and his staff. Duties included the scheduling and handling of daily classified/unclassified VTCs, end user devices, and local network access. Successfully conducted over 1,500 VTCs, allowing important strategies to be discussed between military leaders worldwide. Helped develop and implement network upgrades to improve functionality utilizing existing hardware/peripherals- efforts led to $180k+ savings. Developed and implemented plan for Windows OS upgrade to over 15,000 network computers. As VIP Communications Chief, responsible for supervising a team of 8 in daily operations, including evaluation and discipline. Set up and maintained audio/visual equipment in offices, conference rooms, and auditoriums.    Combat Logistics Company 16 (CLC-16) - 1st Marine Logistics Group (08/21/2005 - 08/18/2008) - Network Specialist/Video Teleconferencing (VTC) Technician  MCAS Yuma, Arizona US  Supervisor: Rick Lehron    Duties: Operates, maintains, and provides Video Teleconferencing (VTC) and other Multimedia / Audio Visual (A/V) technical support for meetings held by the unit. Provides on-site repairs to A/V equipment, with the ability to quickly and effectively detect, diagnose, and resolve related hardware/software operational, connectivity and compatibility issues. Maintains and tracks inventory and ensures proper working order of all Multimedia equipment including LCD projectors, computers, in-house sound systems, amplification systems, and related video conferencing equipment. Provides hands-on meeting support, with excellent communication and interpersonal skills in order to interact appropriately and effectively with all levels of personnel. Coordinate and properly dispose of AV and computer equipment in accordance with the DRMO (Defense Reutilization and Marketing Office) process. Held billet of Communications NCO. Responsible for maintaining computer hardware/software, user accounts for network access, properly escalating trouble tickets of user submitted issues. Held billet of Training NCO. Responsible for ensuring the proper training for all enlisted personnel attached to CLC-16. Scheduled annual rifle and pistol qualification, swimming qualification, physical fitness tests, combat fitness tests, and various other annual requirements. Assisted with semi-annual operations of Weapons and Tactics Instructor Course (WTI). The training helps build communication and training relationships between pilots and troops on the ground performing such combat zone tasks as transporting troops and providing close-air support. Marines are taught about a variety of weapons and how they are used, tactics and how best to utilize them together with other Marine aviation units as well as command and control systems. Held billet of Security NCO. Responsible for acquiring and maintaining security clearance as needed for personnel assigned to CLC-16 via Joint Personnel Adjudication System (JPAS). Used JPAS system to schedule classified visitor conferences. Developed plan for installation and maintenance of Secret Internet Protocol Router Network (SIPRNET) connection for use at Company Headquarters building. Responsible for monthly reporting of equipment and personnel readiness via Status of Resources and Training System (SORTS) Report. Efforts were recognized by being awarded the Navy and Marine Corps Achievement Medal (NAM). Education High school or equivalent Skills Microsoft Excel, Hand Tools, Word, retail sales, Sales Military Service Branch: United States Marine Corps Rank: Sergeant