Network Engineer <span class="hl">Network</span> Engineer Network Engineer Owasso, OK Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Network Engineer TULSA COUNTY - Tulsa, OK November 2016 to February 2017 Manage enterprise technologies including Microsoft infrastructure, Virtualization, SAN Storage, Cloud infrastructure, and Networking. Assisted in design and maintenance of Microsoft Exchange operational strategies, architecture, troubleshooting, backups, and data recovery; of cyber security concepts; of cross-functional groups and align technology activities with organization's strategic goals.  • Monitor technology performance with tools such as Solarwinds, Netflow, HP Openview, and Dell Openmanage.    Key Accomplishments:  - Helped design new subnet plan and freed up over 600 IP addresses for further growth.    - Resolved connectivity issues and kept network availability of 99%    - Configured 5 juniper SRX- series firewalls to increase security of network    - Led project for introducing cradlepoint technology into police cars for usage of bodycams    - Assisted with the upgrades of network hardware, including the core and Layer 3 VPNs for redundant connectivity. Network Administrator UNITED STATES AIR FORCE - Langley AFB, VA November 2012 to November 2016 Provide day-to-day network operations support, software/hardware installation, problem resolution and proactive network monitoring. Responsible for the seamless operations of all network hardware, software, peripherals and infrastructure to support optimized network communications.  * Closely monitor and maintain five different networks delivering intelligence data/voice/video communication network directly supporting global surveillance operations.  * Instrumental in providing mission critical voice, data and video services for installations, upgrades, replacements, configurations, and maintenance systems/circuits/IP-based systems that access military, Federal, and commercial networks.  * Inspect equipment for serviceability, perform preventive maintenance, and conduct fault isolation to test system components and assemblies.  * Responsible for maintaining two 2800, 2900 Series Cisco Routers and eight 6500 Series Cisco Switches; configured ACLs on routers to manage network traffic. Troubleshot connections between 5 other sites using BGP protocol.  * Built VLANs on switches to separate divisions within the facility; helped configure secure VPN tunnel to pass classified network traffic over unclassified network.  * Assisted with the in-house configuration of routing tables using OSPF and EIGRP protocols.  Key Accomplishments:  * Acknowledged for maximizing efficiency in a $700M weapons system's network infrastructure by maintaining a perfect record with no deficiencies, losses or damages.    * Successfully resolved several network issues on company routers and encryption devices and reduced outage time by 30 mins.    * Spearheaded team for weapon system upgrade: transition 120 clients to new network with zero discrepancies.    * Performed a $75,000 network refresh with maximum network availability.    System Administrator  Administered computer networks and related computing environments, including computer hardware, systems software, applications software, and all configurations  * Drive the design, configuration and implementation of scalable network communications to support existing and future requirements.  * Proactively monitor network performance to assist with the identification of potential issues and future design improvements. Education Bachelor of Science in Information Technology WESTERN GOVERNORS UNIVERSITY - Salt Lake City, UT August 2013 to 2019 Skills BGP (4 years), EIGRP (4 years), OSPF (4 years), DHCP (Less than 1 year), DNS (Less than 1 year) Military Service Branch: Air Force Service Country: United States Rank: E-4 November 2012 to November 2016 Certifications/Licenses CompTIA Security+ August 2013 to August 2019 CompTIA A+ December 2015 to December 2019 CompTIA Network+ September 2016 to September 2019 Cisco Certified Entry Networking Technician (CCENT) April 2017 to April 2020 Cisco Certified Network Associate (CCNA) June 2017 to June 2020 Additional Information * Operating Systems: Windows, Linux  * Networking Protocols: OSPF, BGP, EIGRP, DNS, DHCP, VLAN Configuration, MPLS    * LAN/WAN Administration  * TCP/IP Stack    * Project Management