IT Manager IT Manager IT Manager - Robert Graham Design New York, NY Experienced Information Technology Manager with outstanding success at installing, migrating, and supporting computer networks and systems. Adept at analyzing business requirements and crafting technical solutions. Excellent interpersonal skills facilitating management of IT support staff and technical training for company personnel. Work Experience IT Manager Robert Graham Design - New York, NY January 2013 to Present Responsible for all IT functions for corporate headquarters and retail locations.  ? Design and implement a robust, secure and accessible Windows-based corporate infrastructure.  ? Collaborate with retail leaders to establish infrastructure for over 30 retail locations, efficiently deploying IP CCTV systems, wireless access coverage, and general technology setup.  ? Oversee and determine timeframes for IT projects, including system updates, upgrades and migrations.  ? Research innovative ways to integrate technologies for overall brand enhancement.  ? Accomplish financial objectives by forecasting requirements, preparing an annual budget, scheduling expenditures and evaluating contracts resulting in substantial savings.  ? Collaborate with division leaders to facilitate technological improvements across various departments.  ? Ensure security of data, network access and backup systems.  ? Establish and maintain IT policies including a disaster recovery plan, backup policies, security policies and procedures, employee transition documentation, and network diagrams.  ? Oversee helpdesk and desktop support functions and evaluate performance based on logged support calls.  ? Identify problematic areas and implement strategic solutions.  ? Responsible for all IT functions for sister company Swims North America, including migration to Azure tenancy.  ? Maintain all system updates.  ? Conduct regular system-wide audits. Independent Consultant June 2009 to January 2013 Installed and configured servers, desktop, and networking hardware and software.  ? Installed and configured backup solutions for medical office chain. IT Manager Cerami & Associates - New York, NY June 2008 to June 2009 Installed, monitored and maintained a Windows-based network infrastructure.  ? Implemented an antivirus system, firewall and content Filter.  ? Maintained all Windows XP and Windows Vista desktops.  ? Configured and monitored a backup Solution.  ? Monitored and resolved all network performance issues.  ? Implemented Blackberry Enterprise Server.  ? Outlined annual IT budget.  ? Created and maintained company IT policies. Network Manager Sam Ash Music - Hicksville, NY May 2007 to June 2008 Maintained a Windows-based Corporate infrastructure.  ? Implemented and maintained various server-based applications, including Microsoft Exchange, spam filters, VPNs, antivirus solutions, enterprise fax solution, backup solutions, Kronos Workforce, and RSA SecureID appliances.  ? Created and implemented Active Directory level groups and group policies.  ? Monitored server event logs.  ? Participated in weekly meetings to evaluate department performance.  ? Supported corporate office hardware and software, including desktop operating systems and Microsoft Office products.  ? Provided remote support for 48 stores, troubleshooting PC, terminal and point of sale equipment.  ? Created a knowledgebase for the support team to expedite the resolution of common problems.  ? Monitored and resolved network security and performance issues.  ? Evaluated helpdesk and desktop team performance. Network Manager RJE Telecom, LLC - Fort Myers, FL April 2005 to May 2007 Responsible for all IT functions for two corporate locations.  ? Maintained a Windows-based infrastructure, migrated to Active Directory, created group polices, and deployed system updates.  ? Implemented and maintained various server-based applications, including Microsoft Exchange, spam Filters, antivirus solutions, and backup solutions.  ? Monitored firewall and VPNs.  ? Implemented time and attendance software.  ? Installed and configured network switches and routers.  ? Oversaw the helpdesk and technical support team, ensuring all support calls were resolved in a timely fashion.  ? Oversaw support Team during Windows XP desktop upgrade rollout.  ? Maintained annual IT Budget.  ? Created backup and disaster recovery plans. Network Administrator Sam Ash Music - Hicksville, NY June 2003 to April 2005 Maintained Windows 4.0 servers and assisted in migration to a Windows 2000 Server Active Directory environment.  ? Administered Microsoft Exchange, backup solutions, and antivirus software.  ? Installed and managed Kronos Workforce Suite.  ? Configured and maintained routers and switches.  ? Led desktop support team during Windows XP rollout.  ? Assisted desktop support team by troubleshooting difficult issues and developed protocols for future support calls.  ? Maintained all computer hardware in the central office and all retail locations.  ? Installed customer traffic counters, and various point of sale equipment including printers, bar code readers, and check readers.  ? Led the IT Department during the opening of five new retail locations, coordinating with internet providers, traveled to the various cities and configured equipment, verified proper operational order, and monitored system performance during grand openings.  ? Maintained IT equipment purchases.  ? Evaluated helpdesk team performance.  ? Logged and preserve offsite backup tapes. Network Administrator Global Access Financial Services - Lake Success, NY September 2000 to May 2003 Maintained a Windows NT corporate infrastructure.  ? Monitored and maintained multiple WAN connections.  ? Maintained server hardware and software.  ? Maintained desktop hardware and software.  ? Purchased, installed, and configured servers and desktops.  ? Monitored LAN and WAN performance.  ? Supported Microsoft Office products.  ? Coordinated and executed new installations.  ? Monitored daily, weekly, and monthly backups. Help Desk Support King Kullen Grocery Co - Bethpage, NY June 1999 to September 2000 Built and configured new desktop computers and equipment, upgraded software, and resolved hardware issues.  ? Created new user accounts, configured permissions and policies, installed network cabling, resolved performance issues, maintained servers.  ? Helpdesk for 48 stores: resolved problems remotely.  ? Traveled to stores to repair difficult issues when necessary. Education B.A in Anthropology Stony Brook University - Stony Brook, NY Skills ACTIVE DIRECTORY, Routers, DNS, EXCHANGE, FIREWALLS, NETWORKING, VOIP, CCTV, MICROSOFT EXCHANGE, MICROSOFT OFFICE, WINDOWS SERVER, Windows 7, IT Management, Customer Service, Network Administration, Windows 10