Network Engineer <span class="hl">Network</span> Engineer Network Engineer Queens, NY • 2 years of IT experience as Network Engineer in configuring and deploying network devices like Cisco routers and Switches.  • Troubleshoots connectivity issues in small and large enterprise network environment.  • Have extensive experience in setting up LAN and troubleshooting related issues. Have WAN awareness and assisted in setting up and troubleshooting various WAN related issues.  • Expertise in L3 Routing protocols like RIP, ISIS, EIGRP, OSPF & BGP.  • Hands-on in implementing and troubleshooting Switch technologies such as VLAN, MPLS, VTP, STP, VTP AND 802.1q  • Excellent hands-on experience on TCP/IP protocol suite, Quality of Service Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Network Engineer BMO Harris Bank - Naperville, IL September 2014 to October 2015 Responsibilities:  • Involved in configuring and implementing of composite Network models consists of Cisco7600, 7200, 3800 series routers and Cisco 2950 switches  • Involved in L2/L3 Switching Technology Administration including creating and managing VLANs, Port security, Trunking, STP, Inter-Vlan routing, LAN security.  • Configure/Migrate LAN, WAN and security devices in a mission critical environment. This includes switches, routers, and firewalls.  • Involved in troubleshooting IP addressing issues and Updating IOS images using TFTP.  • Responsible for decommission and deployment of Cisco Catalyst 2960, 3560 switches and deployed around 150 switches  • Worked extensively on Access-list on firewall and router for permitting required flow of traffic.  • Implemented Route Redistribution for traffic flow between different routing protocol platforms  • Created VLANs for separating different corporate internal database, efficient network management and VTP for inter-vlan routing.  • Responsible for troubleshooting of complex LAN /WAN infrastructure that includes routing protocols EIGRP, OSPF & BGP.  • Support to plan and execute LAN (VLAN Management) and WAN management activity  • Installed configured and deployed Routers and Switches for branch expansion and improved network infrastructure for higher throughput. Network Administrator Chevron - Bakersfield, CA September 2013 to August 2014 Responsibilities:  • Configured Devices such as Switches, Routers, VPN devices, Wireless LAN controllers  • Maintaining IP addresses to network devices, Users & SCADA Devices  • Monitoring & Updating Network devices in Solarwinds, NetQos  • Auditing and updating DNS entries for all servers, and also updating server inventory database  • Develop detailed template-based plans including: implementation, testing and back out procedures for all network implementations, upgrades and modifications  • Worked on a wide range of network equipment including Commission and Decommission of switches and routers and also deployed around 200 switches in the chevron field  • Developing and maintain Network Documentation (Visio diagrams, Excel spreadsheets, Word documents, etc )  • Maintaining Core Switches, creating VLANs and configuring VTP.  • Performed route redistribution & manipulated route updates using distribute lists, route-maps & administrative distance Education Master's