Tech Support Specialist Tech Support Specialist Washingtonville, NY Work Experience Tech Support Specialist Time Warner Cable TWC Now Spectrum and Firthtech Computer repairs - Middletown, NY July 2007 to Present Spectrum, support for customer facing, connectivity issue, troubleshooting wireless performance, email and security software, phone ports and provision.    Firthtech computer repair. Part time, Maintaining On premise  Exchange servers, migrations, certificates.   Experience with migrating Exchange servers to Office 365, licensing, exceptional experience with Outlook and connectivity issues all versions.    Hyper V,  Configure active directory and Remote Web access VM’s with certificates  Maintain support for accounting software for multiple locations.  Maintain local and remote backups  Experience with risk assessments for NYCRR 500 Systems Administrator / Network Operations AlphaTech Inc, - Marlboro, NY January 1999 to January 2007 Core member of Operations team responsible for off-site servers. Reported to Director of Network Operations. Report to Client Prior and pending maintaience.    · Configured and designed, Ground up LAN/WAN networks for over 50 Servers, performing client system security and setup.    · Maintained 15 + Exchange 5.5-2000 servers. Coordinate Mx record changes, Address lists, views, custom recipenanta its, conference rooms, Veritas backup strategy, fault tolerance, OWA, Training remote users VPN, dialups clients    · Configure firewalls, Nat and Port forwarding Cisco Pix, Watch guard, Shoho, Sonic, Net gear, Linksys    · MS Terminal Services, Citrix-VPN tunnels, VPN firewalls, and SSH to allow secured access to servers, Setup PC Anywhere, Remote Admin    · Acted as liaison between the company and prospective customers on system and security issues.    · Negotiated purchase agreements with hardware and software vendors to obtain new systems.    · Remotely monitored backup systems and implemented disaster recovery procedures. Assistant Manger StarNet - Newburgh, NY February 1997 to January 1999 Responsible for inventory and customer service  · Assemble computers for sale  · Deliver and Pc’s, retrieve data from previous systems  · Provided end –user technical support for home and business cable/DSL routers  · Alerted Network Operations Center (NOC) of system failure and line down situations.  · Assisted customers in troubleshooting technical issues and offered step-by-step instruction to resolve problems.  · Trained new technical support representatives on standard procedures and troubleshooting guidelines. Education MCSE in Microsoft certifications Xincon Technology - New York, NY January 1999 to December 2000 Skills Desktop Support, Service Desk, Help Desk, Tech Support, Helpdesk Support, Active Directory, Customer Service, Customer Support Certifications/Licenses MCSE , Exchange Server & Tcp being the elective January 1999 to January 2000