Microsoft Engineer/Backup Engineer Microsoft Engineer/Backup Engineer Microsoft Engineer/Backup Engineer - Valley Health Systems Stephens City, VA Information Technology and Network specialist with over 12 years infrastructure experience including; troubleshooting, diagnosing, administrating business servers, workstations and network equipment of ~20,000 servers and equipment. Seven years' experience replacing, repairing, building and monitoring of enterprise servers. Work Experience Microsoft Engineer/Backup Engineer Valley Health Systems June 2012 to Present Designed deployed ADFS 2016 with failover support  ? Redesigned Exchange environment to recover wasted space and resources  ? Redesigned Entire enterprise backup solution  ? Redesigned deployed SCCM 2016-Configured Task sequences, SCCM-WSUS, Application deployment  ? Redesigned deployed WSUS 03 to 08 then to SCCM WSUS  ? Administrator of 900+ physical and virtual system backups  ? Troubleshooting Commvault virtual/physical machine backups include both windows and linux  ? Daily physical/virtual server troubleshooting in both hardware and software related problems  ? Assist escalated helpdesk calls from end users System Administrator AgustaWestland Inc April 2011 to June 2012 Assist users with network, software and hardware related problems  ? Troubleshoot MS Exchange 2007 connectivity, certificates, protocol issues  ? Configured Group policies and handled active directory infrastructure  ? Setup and configure MDT/WDS for remote imaging  ? Assisted users at remote locations with VPN and troubleshooting. Hardware Specialist AOL Inc - Dulles, VA August 2005 to April 2011 Provide 24x7x365 support for servers (~20,000 servers), and network devices that comprise the AOL data centers of Manassas and Dulles, who facilitate 5 million users    ? Utilize Netcool to monitor hardware faulty equipment  ? Update firmware on break fix servers  ? Remove and replace physical hardware on production machines, including hard drives, memory, power supplies, nics, Ethernet cables, motherboards and remote access cards  ? Always meet and/or exceed Service Level agreements to minimize down time  ? Install operating systems on production hardware, RedHat EL3/EL4, Solaris 7/8, HP-UX, and Windows  ? Troubleshoot and replace network related problems both software and hardware  ? Survey data centers to open proactive break fix tickets to ensure minimal downtime  ? Work directly with onsite vendors to resolve warranty covered hosts  ? Work closely with system administrators to resolve their proactive out of warranty hosts  ? Extensive documentation of all remedy tickets Computer/ Network Specialist Dantro Networks - Winchester, VA September 2004 to September 2006 Build and repair new and old existing networks for businesses  ? Install, configure, troubleshoot, and repair desktop and laptop computers  ? Work directly with customers, guiding them through steps to resolve computer issues  ? Perform data recovery on client computers to restore information from deleted files, bad partitions or formatted drives  ? Execute removal of rogue antivirus as well malware, spyware and popups  ? Conduct troubleshooting to resolve Blue Screen errors without full system restorations Assistant Level Three Network Engineer Dantro Networks - Chantilly, VA September 2004 to January 2005 Securely erased retired PCs  ? Upgraded, Troubleshot, Installed and deployed new PC's to employees  ? Worked directly with customers and employees with their hardware and software issues System Administrator ECPI - Manassas, VA June 2004 to September 2004 Maintained, Upgraded, Repaired and troubleshot PC's  ? Re-imaged computers and worked directly with their active directory  ? Installed and troubleshot software related issues  ? Worked directly with facility and students to troubleshoot logon issues email errors Education B.S. in Computer Networking Strayer University May 2009 Skills ADFS (3 years), SCCM MDT deployments (7 years), Exchange (8 years), firmware (5 years), linux (4 years), Backup and Recovery (6 years), Vmware Additional Information TECHNICAL PROFICIENCIES    ? Commvault v11 SP14  ? IBM Tivoli Storage Manager (TSM), DataDomain configuration  ? Operating Systems: Windows Server 00,03,08,12,16:Windows XP, Vista, 7, Linux, OS X  ? Hardware: Pure Storage, Dell, HP, Sun, Apple, Penguin, Rackable  ? Software: ADFS 2016, SCCM 2016, Microsoft Office, Dell, hp and Firmware updates, VPN, Active Directory, DHCP, DNS, TCP/IP, Direct Access, Microsoft Software Update Service, Group Policy settings and modifying.  ? Installed/Configured: Server 03,08,2016:Exchange 2016/2010/2007, MDT/WDS remote images, WSUS, Remote Deployment of software via GPO's, load balancing and clustering, SCCM