Network Administrator <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Network Administrator Leonardtown, MD Work Experience Network Administrator Vallivue School District - Caldwell, ID July 2008 to August 2014 Installed, configured, and maintained software and computer hardware for Smartboard, Mimio, projectors, scanners, printers, and fax machines.  ? Diagnosed, analyzed and resolved hardware, software, and network issues.  ? Maintained and recorded information on licenses, setting configurations, repairs, and warranties for hardware and software.  ? Maintained inventory of technology equipment and kept record of replacement parts taken from salvaged  computers and printers.  ? Administered servers, desktop computers, printers, routers, switches, firewalls, phones, iPads, Chromebooks, smartphones, software deployment, security updates and patches.  ? Performed scheduled network tasks, updated anti-virus definition files, monitored network servers, and provided  internet and intranet user support, and specialized training.  ? Established and maintained user accounts, profiles, file sharing, access privileges and security using Active  Directory, .  ? Assisted in planning, coordinating and consulting with vendors and clients for hardware/software purchases, product services and support. WorkForce Management Specialist HP/NMCI - Boise, ID February 2010 to August 2013 Monitored customer service agents for adherence to schedule, including breaks and lunch.  ? Approved/rejected vacation requests for customer service agents.  ? Approved/rejected OPERA events affecting customer service agents phone time  ? Provided weekend and holiday scheduling of customer service agents for all the different groups and locations to ensure customer satisfaction was meet.  ? Filled in for other WFM Specialist for Boise, Norfolk, and San Diego locations.  ? Updated customer service agents files with current information on group and location.  ? Provided backed-up for the ROC. Email/Voicemail Specialist HP/NMCI - Boise, ID November 2005 to February 2010 Obtained and maintained a government security clearance.  ? Addressed and resolved basic and complex incidents and requests; extracted quality information into tickets and appropriately capture data; Completed follow-up and follow-through on all tickets.  ? Managed all incidents and requests to ensure that work is completed to the customers' satisfaction.  ? Built strong relationships within NMCI by working across organizational boundaries to resolve customer  incidents and requests.  ? Contributed to self-help knowledge bases and documents typical requests and incidents, resolutions, and work-around procedures.  ? Identified, evaluated, promoted, and implemented customer support best practices.  ? Mentored, supported, and cross-trained other service desk analysts.  ? Grew deeper knowledge of current NMCI products, increasing ability to resolve tickets on first contact.  ? Used creativity and innovation to automate and streamline processes and procedures. Circulation Specialist Emory University Health Science Center Library - Atlanta, GA August 1991 to November 2005 Worked at the Information Desk performing reference searches and circulation services.  ? Processed InterLibrary Loan requests.  ? Used MedLine, PubMed, OCLC and other databases to obtain reference materials.  ? Retrieve and recalled overdue materials.  ? Logged reports which tracked and verified issues with overdue/recalls notices.  ? Provide customer service support to patrons, staff, faculty, and students.  ? Trained staff on Circulation procedures and policies. Education Associate of Science in Business Administration Georgia Perimeter College - Lawrenceville, GA January 2003 to May 2004 Associates of Applied Technology in Network Administration Gwinnett Technical College - Lawrenceville, GA January 2001 to May 2003 Associate of Art in Biology Georgia Perimeter College - Lawrenceville, GA January 1996 to May 1999