Network Engineer/Systems Administrator, Afghanistan - Special Missions Operations <span class="hl">Network</span> Engineer/Systems <span class="hl">Administrator</span>, Afghanistan - Special Missions Operations Network Engineer/Systems Administrator, Afghanistan - Special Missions Operations - IAPS Glen Burnie, MD Work Experience Network Engineer/Systems Administrator, Afghanistan - Special Missions Operations IAPS October 2016 to Present • Troubleshoot all network issues and outages  • Assisted over 1800 users across the AO  • Reported all network outages and issues to CG and all Government Leads  • Site lead at out-site  • Responsible for configuring EIGRP protocols and troubleshooting all EIGRP issues  • Configure and maintain all CISCO routers and switches  • Ensure that all equipment is STIG compliant and adheres to all network security standards  • Monitor reliability of LAN/WAN systems  • Implemented 802.1x across the network  • Upgraded all 3750G Switches to Cisco 3850  • Monitored traffic and access logs in order to troubleshoot network access issues  • Assisted in design of data center migration  • Maintained and upgraded all Windows Servers from 2012 - 2016 DISA, Network Engineer/Systems Administrator DirectViz Solutions May 2016 to September 2016 • Configure and setup Cisco Firewalls, VPN Concentrators and Security appliances for access to vital Design.  • Setup and configure complex switching environments.  • Design, setup and configure complex wireless networking that supports open or secured access and maintain a thorough understanding of Local Area Networking.  • Assist in the design of multi-server environments including IP address schemes, DNS, WINS, Ether-Channel (Bonding), etc.  • Configure and install client and server network software for upgrading and maintaining network and telecommunication systems.  • Maintain multi-site network operations and software applications, to include operating systems and regular maintenance with facilities.  • Manage assigned work to deliver services in accordance with management direction.  • Respond to inquiries from staff to provide technical assistance and support.  • Supervise the administration of system and server related networks to ensure availability of services to authorized users.  • Troubleshoot malfunctions of network hardware and software applications to resolve operational issues and restore services.  • IP Routing, HTTP, VPN, Email Routing, SPAM, etc.  • Any other duties as assigned by management Customer Support Analyst TekSystems-DIA, Bolling AFB October 2015 to May 2016 • Maintains smooth operation of multi-user computer systems, including coordination with network administrators.  • Set up administrator and service accounts  • Install system wide software and allocate mass storage space.  • Interacts with users and evaluates vendor products.  • Makes recommendations to purchase hardware and software, coordinates installation and provides backup recovery.  • Develops and monitors policies and standards for allocation related to the use of computing resources.  • Install, troubleshoot, configure, and manage Windows XP/7 workstations  • Troubleshoot all network related issues Pentagon, Windows Systems Administrator/Information Assurance CKA, LLC March 2015 to November 2015 • Install and configure applications such as Windows OS, Retina, and Symantec Antivirus  • Conduct ACAS vulnerability scans on servers and workstations  • Create patch folders in SCCM with the latest vendor updates to get automatically pushed to Windows servers  • Review of the Vulnerability Management checklist in MICT for the IA Assessment  • Conduct SCAP scans for STIG compliance on local computers, remote workstations, and Windows servers  • Disable user admin accounts via Active Directory for repeated violators  • Diagnose and resolve problems/issues associated with IA vulnerability management (IAVM), and device patch management  • Perform vulnerability scanning and reporting on Windows 2008 servers  • Report violations/incidents for external hard drive devices. Follows the AFI and AFMAN IA policies and procedures.  • Build and maintain Windows 2008 R2 Servers  • Monitor and support Windows 7 workstations/ desktops  • Manage computers, GPO's, and user accounts through Active Directory Network Engineer Computer Science Corporation - Fort Meade, MD June 2014 to February 2015 • Provide 3rd tier level support for all incidents involving the core switches, routers, and firewalls in support of over 4,000 customers and 30 remote sites.  • Provided enterprise level information assurance support regarding securing the network perimeter through operations for the firewall, virtual private networks (VPNs), intrusion detection system/intrusion prevention system (IDS/IPS), and other network devices/software.  • Configure test lab environments to duplicate the DISA network for piloting future designs, upgrades and modifications.  • Mitigate vulnerabilities found on network infrastructure devices.  • Manage, replace, and troubleshoot NAC Manager & NAC Servers.  • Install, configure, and test functions of Alterpoint and Smartpoint.  • Configure, troubleshoot, and maintain Cisco Bluecoat devices.  • Image and baseline McAfee Sidewinder firewalls  Create and troubleshoot McAfee Sidewinder Firewall rules and Virtual Private Network (VPN) tunnels. Sr. Windows System Administrator/Information Assurance Information Management Group -AOG - Fort Meade, MD April 2014 to November 2014 Maintains the integrity and security of Windows 2003/2008servers and systems using Retina Network Security Scanner.  • Update Retina with the SCCVI updates that are released by DISA  • Sets up administrator and service accounts.  • Interacts with users and evaluates vendor products.  • Makes recommendations to purchase hardware and software for Dell products.  • Coordinates installation and provides backup recovery.  • Develops and implements testing strategies and document results.  • Provides advice and training to end-users.  • Provides guidance and work leadership to less-experience staff members.  • Maintains current knowledge of relevant technologies as assigned.  • Ensuring that SCCM updates are being pulled down and applied to network systems.  • Patch management remediated through SCCM.  • Managing and maintaining the backup servers to include disaster recovery implementation.  • New Server setups.  • Creating and managing group policies.  • Troubleshooting Server issues and planning and implementing recovery.  • Active Directory management and modifications such as adjusting IP pools, OU Groups, trusted connections, Group Policy  • Ensuring the servers are running in a stable and safe manner. (Server Security).  • Build, install, and maintain Windows Server 2008. Network Administrator ASRC Communications -NGA - Springfield, VA June 2013 to February 2014 • Tier 1 & 2 Network Administration  • Perform health checks of the network infrastructure to insure connectivity  • Control access permissions and privileges  • Maintain switches and routers to approved software and hardware revisions  • Maintain and document all network configurations  • Monitor LAN and WAN circuits to verify overall system health using HP Network Node Manager  • Advanced configuration and troubleshooting of Cisco and F5's load balancing devices  • Responsible for site-to-site IP Sec VPNs Afghanistan, Systems Administrator Rockwell Collins - Camp Leatherneck October 2011 to June 2013 • Provide Tier 1 -2 support to customers across NIPR, SIPR, and CENTRIX networks  • Maintain complete accountability for monitoring and troubleshooting devices from Windows 2003-2008, XP, HP Unix, Sun Unix, Switches and router platforms; resolve functionality issues, troubleshoot system issues, and apply security patches to ensure maximized performance.  • Troubleshoot all network issues (i.e. Microsoft Outlook, Printers, shared permissions, SharePoint, etc)  • Add devices to the network, create user accounts, set up exchange mailboxes, and reset passwords using Active Directory.  • Use Active Directory to create and make updates to user accounts and permissions.  • Develops solutions to variety of problems of moderate scope and complexity. Contributes to the completion of organizational project and goals. Works as a service team to complete daily and monthly goals to achieve customer satisfaction.  • Performs networking functions on Cisco routers including clearing port security, enable/disable ports, and maintaining user interfaces. Updates MAC filtering logs to ensure user workstations are in compliance on government network.  • Make use of basic utilities, such as ping, trace-route, telnet, Secure Shell (SSH), address resolution protocol (arp), and Internet protocol configuration (ipconfig) in authenticating network status and switch operations using Putty.  • Demonstrated ability to install, and maintain managed switches in Camp Leatherneck network. Configurations include traffic management, system logging, and VLAN management  • Assisted with the upgrade and migration of over 1500 users from Microsoft Exchange 2007 to Exchange 2010  • Installed, monitored, troubleshot, and administered Windows 2008 servers which provide services to include the following: Domain Authentication, file and print, system management, database, DHCP, WINS, DNS, backup, imaging, user administration, and email services.  • Maintained and administered all network devices and servers from a subnet that resided in a DMZ to a private internal VLAN on core switches that support 10 GbE connectivity  • Ensure that network equipment complies with DOD Security Technical Implementation Guide (STIG) by running scripts to harden each network system  • Deployed software, system updates, Operating Systems (Windows 7), and applications packaging using SCCM 2007  • Troubleshoot and repaired all failed application pushes via SCCM 2007  • Acted as VTC Tech/Coordinator supporting Polycoms and Tandbergs Senior Systems Administrator ISC Consulting - Defense Intelligence Agency, Bolling AFB June 2011 to September 2011 • Proactively provide Tier 2 hardware and software support to customers throughout DIA Service Support Center and other remote locations on JWICS, SIPRNET, and NIPRNET networks across multiple domains.  • Pushes patches and updates out to servers using OpsWare  • Manages and assigns permissions on shared directories  • Troubleshoots and manages print servers  • Manages DHCP scopes  • Provide DNS, Active Directory and LDAP configuration. Configure hardware and software for servers, RAIDs, storage arrays, and library storage devices  • Provide functions such as hard drive removal, print server configuration, performance optimization, and research and installation of current patches, where applicable install and support printers and storage peripherals  • Manage group shares and home directories  • Utilized VMware to migrate servers from a physical to a virtual environment using VMware ESXi 5.0 Network Security Analyst Northrop Grumman - Crystal City, VA April 2011 to September 2011 • Perform Network Security vulnerability scans using NIKSUN and HBSS.  • Provide operation of persistent monitoring, on a 24/7 basis, of all designated networks, enclaves, and systems.  • Responds to incoming phone calls to the IAPC and IC-IRC customer service numbers; ensures customer service/ satisfaction in line with Agency and Community policies.  • Interpret, analyze, and report all events and anomalies in accordance with defined procedures and directives.  • Manages and executes first level response and address to reported or detected incidents in accordance with SOP and directives.  • Responds to incidents and events within 30 minutes of notification.  • Notifies chain of command and prepares briefing slides, documentation in accordance with SOP and directives.  • Assists in troubleshooting and remediation of network or system events/deficiencies that are directly related to IA vulnerabilities.  • Perform network packet capture and analysis using Wireshark Network Security Analyst Northrop Grumman - Crystal City, VA June 2010 to December 2010 • Perform Network Security vulnerability scans using NIKSUN and HBSS.  • Provide operation of persistent monitoring, on a 24/7 basis, of all designated networks, enclaves, and systems.  • Provides monitoring and support, as directed in provisioned SOP, for all deployed systems and services. Provides recall processes as required.  • Responds to incoming phone calls to the IAPC and IC-IRC customer service numbers; ensures customer service/ satisfaction in line with Agency and Community policies.  • Initiates, responds, and reports discovered events in accordance with GPM provided SOP.  • Manages and executes first level response and address to reported or detected incidents in accordance with SOP and directives.  • Assists in troubleshooting and remediation of network or system events/deficiencies that are directly related to IA vulnerabilities.  • Perform network packet capture and analysis using Wireshark D.C., Senior Systems Engineer General Dynamics - DIA, Bolling AFB Washington June 2006 to August 2010 • Team Lead at Northeast Regional Service Center.  • Proactively provide Tier 1-2 hardware and software support to customers throughout DIA Service Support Center and other remote locations on JWICS, SIPRNET, and NIPRNET networks across multiple domains.  • Set permissions, manage, and modify user accounts and group mailboxes using Active Directory.  • Assist customers with the procedures on how to restore, retrieve, and store emails using Outlook Enterprise Vault add-in.  • Ensure quality implementation of IS support policies, procedures and standards to conform to ITIL and build a high quality service team.  • Perform administrative and management duties using MS Exchange in support of users on LAN/WAN network.  • Utilize Microsoft Systems Management Server (SMS/SCCM) to remotely perform extensive network and system administration functions in Windows 2000/XP environments.  • Troubleshoot Solaris DODIIS Trusted Workstations (DTW) issues and accounts using Citrix interface.  • Recover users lost files and folders from server backups.  • Provide server support on SIPR/ HOCNET network to customers locally and abroad using terminal services and Net Ops.  • Act as a Trusted Agent/ CSTM, which is responsible for PKI enrollment; PIN retrieval; configuration of certificates; and revocation.  • Maintains and provides technical support for routers, NES, and hardware devices (i.e., scanners, drivers, and printers for remote sites) on the server.  • Troubleshoot various applications in support of Public Key Infrastructure (PKI) to include MS Office Outlook, Mozilla, Internet Explorer, A-Space, Adobe, etc.  • Perform and provide backup support for mail, application, and file servers through the utility of Veritas Backup ExecView.  • Train incoming personnel & customers to the level of expertise required to perform their duties.  • Collect, track, troubleshoot, and resolve local and wide area network, workstation, printer, and miscellaneous hardware and software problems. Senior Information System Administrator and Engineer U.S. Army, Fort Meade February 1998 to May 2006 • Ensured network connectivity between the National Security Agency and the U.S. Army elements are 100% operational.  • Performed network intrusion detection analysis for the NSA/CSS, a 24x7 operations center using a variety of security tools in order to identify violations and vulnerabilities.  • Establishes traffic validity profiles that are used to help update network policies and exclusion rules.  • Supervised and worked with functional teams to maintain LANs among different classification levels.  • Installed, monitored, troubleshot, and administered Windows 2000 and 2003 servers which provide services to include the following: Domain Authentication, file and print, system management, database, DHCP, WINS, DNS, backup, imaging, user administration, and email services.  • Proficient in the administration of MS Exchange 5.5 with over 1500 users. Provided technical knowledge during migration from Exchange 5.5 to Exchange 2003.  • Played integral role migrating an NT 4.0 domain to Microsoft Active Directory on Windows 2003 which included the migration of over 1500 users and groups while maintaining 100% operability.  • Created and updated images and network boot disks using Symantec Ghost Solutions when the image does not meet current accreditation standards.  • Imaged new machines and test images to ensure proper drivers have been installed for all applicable hardware and software.  • Managed and administered trouble ticket database by assigning fields of issues to specific technicians.  • Provided remote and onsite repairs to users on a daily basis as a helpdesk technician. Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Information Technology Advanced Networking in Computer Information Technology Advanced Networking University of Phoenix Additional Information Accomplished IT Professional with 20 years of experience in Network Engineering, and Systems Administration.