Director of IT Director of IT Dumfries, VA Work Experience Director of IT The Solutions Group - Falls Church, VA September 2018 to Present Falls Church, VA  • Discuss, Design, Configure, and Implement Network & Security Systems for IT Environments  o Included environments from 5-10 users with 1 location up to 300+ users in 5+ locations.  • Designed and Implemented over 12 Okta & Duo 2FA Environments.  • Integrated Okta & Duo into existing high-risk Remote Access Systems.  • Redesigned Server Environments including Security Best Practices  • Provide Remote and Local Support for all aspects of our clients' IT Environments.  • Manage On-Site Deployments for 4 Technicians.  • Manage Remote Support for 6 off-site technicians.  • Conduct Daily Huddles for any on-site/remote support follow-up items.  • Conduct In-Depth Cost/Benefit Analysis for existing/upgraded IT Environments.  • Provide long-term IT Business Strategies. Director of Engineering & Support TSI - Dumfries, VA August 2015 to August 2018 • Lead and mentor Support Staff through self-ownership and accountability.  • Created weekly and monthly statistics for CEO and Partner Meetings.  • Managed Annual IT Budgets for Technology & Staff (4 Engineers & 8 Support)  • Lead Team in documentation of all 55 client environments.  • Design & Implement Full IT DR/BC plans for all Government Contractors we supported.  o This included local, local-geographical, and remote/data center BC.  • Builds strategic partnerships with various support and service vendors.  • Manage all technical projects and manage expectations to all clients.  • Maintain all documentation relating to SLA, Policies & Procedures, and IT Systems.  • Manage all Cloud & Data Center Systems.  • Design, document, and deliver all IT Project Solutions.  • Provide long-range (3-5 year) strategic planning and delivery achieving business goals.  • Coordinate all coverage to ensure adequate support and networking coverage 24x7x365.  • Creates, reviews and approves performance evaluations and manages fairly, consistently, and routinely. IT Director Cohen Brown Management - Los Angeles, CA September 2014 to July 2015 • Migrate Exchange 2010 to Office 365.  • Virtualized Systems infrastructure to Microsoft Hyper-V.  • Designed & Implemented Full IT DR/BC Plans for Entire Organization.  o Local and Local-Geographical Only.  • Revised Windows Updates from WSUS to Continuum. IT Manager / Network Manager US Renal Care - Long Beach, CA October 2008 to July 2014 • Design IT Infrastructure for the Corporate Office, Data Center(s), and over 80 Remote Dialysis Clinics.  • Work with Key Stakeholders, Departments, and Doctors, conducting Ongoing Needs Analysis (ONS) of 1-3 year plans.  • Quarterly IT Operational Meeting Leader for all ongoing and future projects.  • Manage Engineering & Support Teams servicing over 4000 employees, 30 physical & virtual servers, and 80 networks.  • Works with key stakeholders, departments, managers, and doctors, conducting ongoing needs analysis of short and long- term plans.  • Coordinates with various departments on IT projects and effectively tracks project progress.  • Maintain all documentation relating to Project Plans, Change Control, SLA, Policies & Procedures, and Network/Systems  Infrastructure.  • Conduct annual performance reviews for all IT staff.  • Migrated all non-MPLS clinics to the new MPLS Network Environment  • Replace all non-Cisco network equipment to the new Cisco 2901 standard (over 80 clinics).  • Plan, design, and implement Aerohive Wireless networks to the new Cisco Meraki Wireless network standard.  • Manage all IT Networking Helpdesk tickets and assign/resolve issues as necessary. Sr. Network Engineer City of Torrance - Torrance, CA October 2007 to October 2008 • Contract employee brought on to streamline existing Cisco network infrastructure.  • Document and Visio entire City of Torrance wired and wireless network for planning and budget purposes.  • Order and configure 2 new Cisco 6500 series switches for core network.  • Transitioned existing single-switch infrastructure to new Cisco 6500 core.  • Monitor and troubleshoot Cisco ASA 5500 Series ASA Security appliance.  • Build, monitor, and troubleshoot new and existing ASA access-lists.  • Plan, budget, order, and configure replacement of old HP and Cisco switches to new 2950 and 4948 series switches. Senior IT Engineer Belay Development - Los Angeles, CA April 2007 to October 2007 • Manage & Troubleshoot IT Environments for Clients.  • Meet with Key Stakeholders on Current IT Needs. IT Network/Systems Engineer IMX Inc - Honolulu, HI March 2005 to April 2007 • Brought on to streamline network and systems performance.  • Manage 3 firewalls in Tempe, Hawaii, and Denver for remote connectivity and security.  • Administer local LAN as well as acting System support.  • Supervise fellow network analysts to ensure professional support and system uptime.  • Streamline backup processes for all network resources including servers, routers, and firewalls.  • IT representative for the Hawaii and Iowa offices.  • In charge of all IT functions relating to the IMX companies. Security Administrator Servco Pacific, Inc - Honolulu, HI May 2004 to January 2005 • Contract to migrate all PC/Wireless security methods from border to end-point.  • Documented existing wired/wireless infrastructure.  • Contract was terminated. Network Engineer New Line Cinema January 2003 to May 2004 Los  Angeles, CA  • Responsible for design, engineering, installation, and maintenance for entire West Coast LAN/WAN infrastructure.  • Routers configured includes three 3725 for internal connectivity, three 5000 for router-switch management, and two 7500  for internet connectivity. I've also worked on 2600, 2900, and 6000 for various testing purposes.  • PIX configured includes 4 PIX 525.  • Switches configured includes 5500 and 2950.  • Ensure 99.99% uptime for three T1 circuits as well as a DS3 from the ATDN (AOL Time Warner Digital Network).  • Monitor PIX logs for any unusual traffic which could lead to possible attach or virus outbreak. Education High school or equivalent Skills Customer Service, Strategic Planning, Network Administration, Vmware, Exchange Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/nathannakao