Systems Analysis III / Project Manager Systems Analysis III / Project Manager Mesa, AZ • Public Trust Security Clearance.  • Seasoned entrepreneur, senior architect, and advanced solutions engineer with proven track record of independently launching three IT businesses without investor funding.  • Substantial experience in network and systems engineering, upgrades, migrations, technology innovation, project development, infrastructure management, workstation configuration/repairs, storage solutions, backups, and network security.  • Extremely well-versed in customer needs analysis, troubleshooting, vendor relations, business management, merger & acquisition planning, and cloud computing.  • Championed planning, design, and execution of state-of-the-art IT solutions to enterprises such as local hospital systems, colleges, universities, and school districts.  • Able to deliver informative and in-depth presentations to executive-level decision-makers. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Analysis III / Project Manager Unisys / US Census May 2019 to Present • Travel to a different city within the US each week.  • Lead a team of technicians responsible for setting up the IT infrastructure in an office for the 2020 US Census.  • Receive and scan item's into inventory (service now).  • Install VoIP phones, network printers, computers, fiber, routers, switches, rack panels, WAP's,  • Basic computer networking (add pc's to domain, test network printing & scanning, email etc). Systems Administrator Fountain Hills PC Repair - Fountain Hills, AZ 2012 to 2019 • Provide sales, marketing, project management, administrative tasks, technical training, regulatory compliance, and systems engineering.  • Provide solutions encompassing virtualization, managed services, small business servers, disaster recovery, network/IT security, setting up business domains and networks, and performing PC/Mac repairs.  • Manage all types of servers including MS/MYSQL, Oracle, backup, file/print, Hyper -v, Vmware, web and domain controllers.  • Foster and maintain positive relationships with residential and corporate clients to maximize repeat business and referrals.  • Setup routers, adding computers to domain, creating email accounts, configuring VPN tunnels for remote access, and networking printers.  • Promote optimal IT solutions and methodologies to aid clients in automating processes, reducing expenses, and streamlining operations.  • Provided secure, online backup services to clients on a global scale including those requiring constant compliance with rigorous HIPAA regulations. Systems Administrator/Data Center Administrator Offsite Backup Solutions, LLC - Mesa, AZ 2004 to 2012 • Offered emergency services to expedite data to clients on hard drives in critical situations.  • Provide branded backup options for IT clients to host users remotely.  • Managed 200+ servers, 30+ SANs, 160+ blade servers, Exchange servers, Hyper - V, Vmware, IIS, Apache hosting servers for other companies.  • Managed all facets of data center from power management and air conditioning, to redundancy and upgrading parts as needed for continuous growth.  • Hired, supervised, and trained support personnel in backup software, licensing, branding, and use of remote utility to aid end users and IT clients in using company product.  • Managed network functions including level 2/3 switches, fiber channel and SAS SANS, Internet security (sonicwall firewalls) PPTP networks and VPNs. Systems Administrator / Network Administrator AZ Computer & Server Specialists, LLC - Mesa, AZ 2002 to 2006 • Delivered broad-based IT services spanning infrastructure assessments, virtualization, managed services, disaster recovery solutions, security software, LAN/WAN engineering, VPN configuration, backups, networking printers, and server administration.  • Hired and trained qualified technical professionals, and assigned service calls.  • Setup multiple exchange, sql, Vmware, virtual server, citrix and oracle servers for customers. Systems Engineer Motorola - Austin, TX 1998 to 2002 • Played a pivotal role in steering seamless integration of NT and UNIX platforms in an engineering and manufacturing environment.  • Installed and configured Sun OS-Solaris 2x and NT/2000 on multiple platforms including Sun servers/workstations, Dell PowerEdge servers, Auspex, and Net App file servers.  • Proficiently installed and maintained Windows NT/2000 Terminal Server with Citrix Metaframe, and Windows NT 4.0 cluster server.  • Applied sharp analytical abilities toward proactively setting up bilingual file servers to enable both UNIX and NT to access data.  • Methodically conducted tape backups of all UNIX and NT/2000 file database servers via Veritas NetBackup, Veritas Backup Exec, and ArcServit.  • Effectively administered Win2K Active Directory and NT4 domains including users, groups, login scripts, and policies.  • Wrote UNIX shell scripts and NT batch files to accelerate installation processes. Education High school or equivalent