Computer Services Manager - Data Manager Computer Services Manager - Data Manager Computer Services Manager - Data Manager - St. Bernard Parish School Board Belle Chasse, LA Work Experience Computer Services Manager - Data Manager St. Bernard Parish School Board - Chalmette, LA 2017 to Present I am responsible for the daily management and operation of the data center for the St. Bernard Parish School Board (SBPSB). This includes managing the student information system, the HR/Payroll/Purchasing system, all centralized file servers, network systems, wireless access and data backup. I work closely with vendors that provide on-premises and cloud based educational systems for the school district and assist with importing key data into various systems that are used at the school level by curriculum administrators, school leaders and teachers. I serve as the data coordinator for the school board and maintain records for submission to the Louisiana Department of Education (LDOE) for student enrollment tracking, funding and graduation requirements. Since joining SBPSB, I have updated our district’s disaster recovery model, implemented improved data backup procedures and established both short term and long term I.T. goals for the district. I also work very closely with SBPSB administration and school principals to achieve our I.T. goals set forth by our school district as well as the Louisiana State Department of Education. Information Technology Director Comfortable Communicating With - Belle Chasse, LA 2011 to 2017 Information Technology Director for the Plaquemines Parish School Board (PPSB). I was responsible for managing the I.T. Department which included server management, network support, help desk, telecommunications and onsite field technicians. Oversaw all day-to-day operations of the I.T. department as well as planning for data center upgrades, school upgrades and new construction. I was also responsible for budgeting for all district I.T. projects; funding sources include PPSB General Fund, PPSB Technology Millage, Grants and Donations, E-Rate and FEMA.  I also worked closely with many vendors that provided services to the school district. Network Support Services Manager University of New Orleans - New Orleans, LA October 2003 to 2011 Network Support Services Manager for the Enterprise Networks and Telecommunications group within the University Computing and Communications department at the University of New Orleans (UNO). Supported the local and wide area network for UNO including the main campus and satellite/remote campuses. Managed the team leads for Network Development, Network Support and Network Communications. Project coordinator for network and telecommunications projects for the University. This included budgeting for and ordering equipment and supplies, arranging downtime with various colleges and departments around campus, scheduling sub-contractors and UNO personnel to do work and follow-up with deans and administrators after project completion. Managed the desktop security team that addressed compromised computer systems and handled copyright infringement violations. MIS Director University of New Orleans, College of Engineering - New Orleans, LA 1995 to 2003 Network Administrator for the Gulf Coast Region Maritime Technology Center (GCRMTC) and the College of Engineering. Directly involved in all aspects of the college network design, installation and support. Liaison between the University’s Central Computing Center and the College of Engineering. Responsible for hardware and software purchases for the GCRMTC and the College of Engineering as well as center sponsored research projects Network Administrator Arthur Andersen, Andersen Consulting - New Orleans, LA June 1991 to January 1995 Network Administrator for the New Orleans Office, the Arthur Andersen Tax Group at Freeport McMoran and the Arthur Andersen satellite office located in Jackson, MS. Education Bachelor's in Mathematics Northwestern State University - Natchitoches, LA January 1988 to May 1991 Skills I.T. Project Management (10+ years), Budgeting and Procurment (10+ years), I.T. Support (10+ years), Personnel Management (10+ years), Strategic Planning, Network Administration, Customer Service, Excel, Vendor Management, Exchange, Active Directory, Exchange, Excel, IT Management, Vendor Management, VoIP, Vmware