Senior Systems Administrator Senior Systems <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Senior Systems Administrator - Oasys, Inc Huntsville, AL Work Experience Senior Systems Administrator Oasys, Inc - Huntsville, AL April 2019 to Present Supported VMware environments for 100 servers and a VDI solution for 150 desktops. Daily duties included Windows server and desktop patching, updates and upgrades to VMware environment, and application support. Also served as team lead for team of 4 System Administrators and Developers. Network Engineer / Analyst II Parsons Corporation - Huntsville, AL June 2017 to April 2019 Worked with ESS designing, configuring, and installing electronic security systems (CCTV, Access Control, and IDS) on contracts for USACE. Linux Systems Administrator Parsons - Huntsville, AL June 2017 to August 2018 Supported an ESXi environment with mostly Linux servers (RHEL). Windows Administrator Simple Helix - Huntsville, AL February 2017 to April 2017 Responsible for buildout and support of internal office utilizing Ubiquiti routers, switches, and access points. Also lead design of network equipment for new data center buildout, as well as the design and build of a fiber distribution buildout on leased fiber from city. CNOC LAN Specialist SAIC - Huntsville, AL September 2016 to February 2017 Responsible for supporting all wired, wireless, and VPN systems for NASA centers. Scope consisted of 5000 Cisco and Juniper routers and switches, in addition to another 5000 Cisco and Aruba access points. Network Engineer / Analyst II Parsons Corporation - Huntsville, AL May 2012 to September 2016 Lead project to re-IP network and implement layer 3 switching. Revamped monitoring solution utilizing Nagios and Cacti to monitor servers, network equipment, and power equipment. Worked with security team to ensure best practices and rapid incident response. Network and Systems Administrator Digium, Inc - Huntsville, AL August 2011 to February 2012 Responsible for maintenance and upgrades to all network appliances in addition to entire Active Directory environment. Split responsibility for Linux systems and phone system. Network systems were mostly Adtran and Cisco products, while servers were a mix of Dell systems running Debian Linux. IT Specialist I Meyer Real Estate - Gulf Shores, AL July 2011 to August 2011 Responsible for the maintenance of Windows Operating Systems, Microsoft Exchange, Microsoft Office suite, and troubleshooting of network environment consisting of HP servers and switches as well as Cisco routers. Also responsible for preventative maintenance of all workstations, printers, software, network devices, and VOIP phone systems. Network Engineer Hiwaay Information Services - Huntsville, AL February 2009 to May 2011 Responsible for the design, installation and support of networks for SMB's. Provided consulting for networks ranging from 5 users to 10-15 sites across the world encompassing everything from simply diagramming the existing network to helping a customer come up with a detailed plan of how to best maximize efficiency and growth. Support Services Agent Stein Mart - Jacksonville, FL January 2008 to January 2009 In a call center environment, worked to troubleshoot corporate wide PCs, servers (Linux and Windows based), POS registers & peripherals, as well as Lotus Notes and Active Directory user administration, and aided in the administration of IBM I-series and AS-400 servers and related software. Education Bachelor's in Management of Technology Athens State University - Athens, AL August 2016 to Present Skills Cisco, Juniper, Telnet, Vm, Firewalls