Network Engineer/ Administrator <span class="hl">Network</span> Engineer/<span class="hl">Administrator</span> Network Engineer/ Administrator - SageNet Bixby, OK Composed and calm team player known for leading by example in completing given tasks.  Detail oriented with an emphasis on structure, organization, and protocols.  Fast diligent learner by seeking professional development and knowledge through various sources. Work Experience Network Engineer/ Administrator SageNet March 2017 to Present • Maintain the network for 19 companies totaling over 5000 spokes.  ? Install, manage, and upgrade equipment for clients including convenient stores, banks, and restaurants.  • Design, configure, and install equipment for new customers in the pilot stage.  • Resolve networking problems that could not be solved by the NOC associates. Network Engineer Ardent Health October 2016 to March 2017 • Maintain the network for 5 large hospitals, and over 300 clinics throughout Oklahoma.  • Removed end of life equipment from the network  ? Configure and replace all Cisco 3750 switches with 3850's using stack-wise technology.  ? Configure and exchange end of life Cisco ASAs for Cisco ASA 5525X's  • Design, configure, and install equipment for new hospitals and clinics. CCNA Instructor Tulsa Technology Center August 2015 to October 2016 • Teach all topics covered in the CCNA exam utilizing curriculum and live equipment.  ? VLSM, OSI model, routing protocols, LAN switching, and WAN technologies  • Reach out to local industry leaders for advice and job placement for my students Level II Network Engineer SageNet October 2014 to August 2015 • Support and resolve elevated tickets from the NOC  • Configure and ship Cisco, Brocade, and Fortinet devices for new and existing customers  • Create and manipulate topologies and devices for customers in the pilot stage of development IP Technician Level 3 Communications May 2013 to October 2014 • Configure, activate, test and troubleshoot IPVPN, DIA, EVPL and HSIP circuits using Cisco, Juniper and Alcatel devices during scheduled activations with customers.  • Create templates to move customer configurations from end of life equipment to new equipment in Level 3 datacenters. Site Tech / Educator Tulsa Technology Center - Tulsa, OK August 2003 to August 2012 • Install and maintain PCs and printers on the domain for over 40 teachers.  • Troubleshoot and maintain infrastructures leading to Cisco Catalyst switches.  • Manage a classroom with 23 students with responsibility for teaching, testing, grading, assessments, conduct, and parental communications. Technician and Installer Wyatt Technical Services - Tulsa, OK June 2007 to 2012 • Install, manage, and troubleshoot ethernet and fiber optic infrastructures throughout the greater Tulsa area.  • Install, manage, and troubleshoot Vodavi, Lucent, and Avaya phone systems. Education Tulsa Technology Center Riverside Campus August 2012 to May 2013 Bachelor of Science in Elementary Education in Elementary Education Cisco Networking Academy, Oklahoma State University September 1999 to May 2003 Skills Cisco, Firewalls, Bgp, Eigrp, Ospf Additional Information Skillset:  • Routing- BGP, EIGRP, OSPF, and SDWAN  • LAN- VLANs, VTP, STP, Ether-channel, and Security  • Firewalls - Cisco, Meraki, and Fortigate  • Cabling- Ethernet and fiber optic