System Administrator System <span class="hl">Administrator</span> IT Manager - NDA Company Staten Island, NY IT remote work.  Servers  Active Directory  Over 20 years helping companies of all sizes use technology. More  VMware  than 3 million visitors to my website http://chimac.net Work Experience System Administrator LTI - Manhattan, NY January 2019 to Present • Convert from legacy to cloud based systems.  • Research and implement cost saving initiatives.  • Train and document complex integrated systems  • Support G-Suite for business and fix issues.  • Remote management and support. Configure SNMP and administrate ScienceLogic.  • Transition from custom workflows to OTS hardware/software solutions.  • Thought leader. Thinking critically and identifying solutions before problems affect Business as usual.  • Knowledge of emerging technologies. Present to decision makers and then carry out plan.  • Knowledge of client site in depth and improving non-IT issues as well.  • Configure mac terminal server AquaConnect so mac/pc computers can connect via RDP.  • Use cloud mac servers to teach international students and be company SME on multiple topics.  • Cloud based wireless systems such as Aerohive/Meraki/Ubiquity and others IT Manager NDA Company - Brooklyn, NY October 2018 to Present • Responsible for 28 locations and resolving all IT issues.  • Manage Inventory and plan for current and future needs. (Capacity planning)  • Provide support on specific applications and become expert in industry apps.  • Work with other IT support companies to make measured changes to environment.  • Optimize all aspects including cost, performance and reliability.  • Support all hardware and software including BYOD like smartphones.  • Resolve all issues no matter if they were related to IT or not. Fix issues  related to electrical and building issues.  • Work with decision makers to justify purchases and provide a framework to decide if costs should be OPEX or CAPEX.  • Security manager. Improved security at all levels with software, physical and network design.  • Worked on endpoint management to address issues with current infections.  • Fixed DNS issues and optimized performance of end clients.  • Worked to move to cloud solutions for file management such as OneDrive  • Moved to new location and set up UPS, power and managed Fiber/Cable  transition.  • Assisted social media manager with optimizing video with compression for website  • All done independently and provided all network services that companies use  like VPN/ DHCP. System Administrator LTI - Manhattan, NY Present • Convert from legacy to cloud based systems.  • Research and implement cost saving initiatives.  • Train and document complex integrated systems  • Support G-Suite for business and fix issues.  • Remote management and support. Configure SNMP and administrate ScienceLogic.  • Transition from custom workflows to OTS hardware/software solutions.  • Thought leader. Thinking critically and identifying solutions before problems affect Business as usual.  • Knowledge of emerging technologies. Present to decision makers and then carry out plan.  • Knowledge of client site in depth and improving non-IT issues as well.  • Configure mac terminal server AquaConnect so mac/pc computers can connect via RDP.  • Use cloud mac servers to teach international students and be company SME on multiple topics.  • Cloud based wireless systems such as Aerohive/Meraki/Ubiquity and others System Administrator LTI - Manhattan, NY Present • Convert from legacy to cloud based systems.  • Research and implement cost saving initiatives.  • Train and document complex integrated systems  • Support G-Suite for business and fix issues.  • Remote management and support. Configure SNMP and administrate ScienceLogic.  • Transition from custom workflows to OTS hardware/software solutions.  • Thought leader. Thinking critically and identifying solutions before problems affect Business as usual.  • Knowledge of emerging technologies. Present to decision makers and then carry out plan.  • Knowledge of client site in depth and improving non-IT issues as well.  • Configure mac terminal server AquaConnect so mac/pc computers can connect via RDP.  • Use cloud mac servers to teach international students and be company SME on multiple topics.  • Cloud based wireless systems such as Aerohive/Meraki/Ubiquity and others System Administrator NEFCU July 2016 to October 2018 Responsible for Apple/iOS systems and integration into AD. Tested, bought  and solved integration issues with hardware and software. Supported creative  department/Marketing.  • Installed and configured mobile platforms using Airwatch One/Apple  Configurator which configures iOS/Android devices. Configured the company  app store, VPN connections, VPP and certificates.  • Managed storage systems including RAID/SAN/NAS and cloud storage  called Veem.  • Configuring, supporting MS Windows Systems including fixing serious AD  issues like replication.  • Financial environment which requires attention to detail and fast pace.  • Configured VMware, HyperV for both client/server.  • DesktopCentral, GPO, Macrim Reflect, Acronis, Interact Miser, Fedline  • Azure and Office 365. Helped company move to an Office 365 infrastructure  and solved issues. Manager of IT / System Administrator H.J. Baker & Bro., Inc January 2015 to June 2016 Reason for leaving: Mass layoffs    • Moved file storage from Windows SMB to Box.net.  • Provided user feedback to management to verify business requirements were  met. Created online surveys for customer satisfaction and reported summaries.  • Reduced costs by creatively finding ways to address needs like using Hyper- V to consolidate servers.  • Reduced costs by using automation software to roll out software PDQ Deploy  & PDQ Inventory.  • Researched and rolled out laptops for executive and heavy duty use.  • Secured mobile and desktop endpoints with encryption, malware protection,  web filtering  • Secured email with migration from dedicated exchange 2010 to Office 365  • Secured environment and monitored firewall re-mediating issues that  occurred with a Palo Alto PA-3020 (PAN-OS)  • Supported more than 2 dozen locations in US and a growing International  presence.  • Tested and optimized network bandwidth and expanded functionality while simplifying applications in use.    -Troubleshoot and administrate WordPress website.  • WAP Ubiquity installed and managed and building monitoring and badge key  security software.  • Worked with 3rd parties to upgrade all hardware and software as part of company movement to another location. Executive Desktop/Mobile Support Purdue Pharma L.P June 2011 to October 2014 Reason for leaving: Mass layoffs    • Cloud friendly with Rackspace/AWS/web hosting/open source technologies.  • Hired because of my SME knowledge of iOS/Apple/Mobile devices.  • Help test devices with Office 365 and fixed interoperability/performance  issues.  • Identified/researched cloud storage options for such as iCloud/Sugarsync/  Dropbox.  • Supported Video conferences (Polycom/Lifesize/Crestron), international  coordination with sister companies.  • Thought leader in proactively identifying technologies to leverage to improve  computer services.  • Used MobileIron to provision devices, fixed issues with certificates,  deployment and exchange issues.  • 96/100 score in anonymous survey from clients Manager of IT Brian Povlsen Consulting September 2010 to July 2011 Moved to CT with friend    • Supported Ad agencies, marketing companies and regular consumers. Manager of IT / System Administrator The Field Museum August 2010 to September 2010 Reason for leaving: Consultant    • Managed Mac/Windows systems for more than 50 VMware servers using  GUI tools. Had responsibility for 1,000 end clients, and approximately the same number of workstations and servers. Primarily used Windows XP/with  Mac OS X 10.5-10.6. Consolidated infrastructure from two domains into one.  Configured Macintosh and Windows servers and clients for security and performance. Researched, implemented and documented best practices.  • Provided alternative and creative strategies for reducing costs and virtualizing  service. Upgraded both Windows and Macintosh client and server computers.  Worked with 3rd party vendors to accomplish security goals. Managed  resources and was part of a 8 person team. Manager of IT / System Administrator Financial Institution March 2010 to May 2010 Reason for leaving: Consultant    Managed Mac/Windows systems for more than 20 VMware servers on the command line. Was sole source of security, performance, troubleshooting.  Had responsibility for 12 database servers, 1 Nagios, 2 NTP servers, 1 SSH,  1 SFTP, ASA 5520 firewall configuration. Specifically used CentOS 5 which is RH binary compatible. Managed maintaining physical presence of servers  and replaced hard drives and components as necessary for reliability and performance.    Managed issues with network reliability and performance. Addressed  DHCP, DNS, HTTP issues. Stabilized infrastructure with standardizing and documenting infrastructure. Worked with various DB including MySQL, SQL and Access to manage information. Managed configuration of Open Source  projects such as OpenSSH, OpenLDAP, CUPS, syslog to central server,  MySQL, Samba, DNS/DHCP, VMware, and maintained corporate standards.  Hardened Windows and Mac clients and servers for PCI requirements.    Managed upgrades to Mac desktops such as adding memory, configuring  3rd party software, and setting up networking routes and software application  issues. CCIT August 2008 to January 2009 School    Studying for additional IT certifications. Manager of IT / Windows/Macintosh System Administrator Spectrum 2009 to 2009 2009 (1 year)  Reason for leaving: Attending school full time  Managed outsourced Rackspace email for Spectrum and for their 200  customers that they resold email services too. Each client had between  10/100 clients, so roughly around 500 clients. Was sole source of email  security, performance, troubleshooting, and restoration.  Managed network for 50 server web hosting company comprised of Windows  2000/2003 and Apache.  Managed all security including current transition to PCI compliance for credit card transaction processing. Implemented the process and wrote  documentation and hardened servers. Implemented AVG for security and malware solution.  Used Backup Exec for backup solutions.  Migrated all servers from P2 and desktop servers to a rack configuration (clone  servers).  Set up IVR solution using VB Voice.  Provided desktop support for Windows and Macintosh clients.  Set up Log Server and analyzed options to better secure public web servers. Network Engineer Marketsense February 2008 to August 2008 Reason for leaving: Consultant    • Backup software: Veritas Backup Exec(9-12), Rsync. Expertise in LAN/  WAN/WLAN/SAN technology. Understanding of Storage Vendors EMC,  Netapp, McData/Brocade and Cisco. Knowledge and experience of EMC  SAN/NAS hardware such as Symmetrix/DMX, Clariion, Celerra and Centerra,  Netapp. Experience with storage provisioning (LUN masking, zoning, RAID,  data replication, etc.)  • Database: Created, managed and recovered, Microsoft Access, Microsoft  SQL 2000/2005, MySQL, and Filemaker Pro (4-9) database development,  including interfacing with OTS applications and web forms/IIS.  • Proactively identifying and providing solutions to LAN/WAN/WLAN problems. Network Engineer Sr AGI Media July 2007 to February 2008 Reason for leaving: Consultant    • E-mail: Outlook/Entourage - Setup pop/imap, Outlook - Setup Exchange,  Outlook - Setup RPC over HTTP, Importing/Exporting PST files, Sharing  Calendars and Contacts, Using Public Folders, Configuring Delegates, and Configuring Contacts and forwarding. Managed issues with email, including    archiving, setting policies and procedures for email storage. Resolved issues with extranet partners and problems in communicating with large attachments.  Used other methods of file transfer when applicable such as FTP/WebDAV.  • Macintosh: OSX - Setup and troubleshooting, Setting up printers, Connecting  to Windows Printers, Connecting to Windows Shares, Samba Setup, Remote  Desktop, and Installing Certificates. Manager of IT / Network Engineer Johnson Publishing Company June 2006 to July 2007 Reason for leaving: Mass layoffs    • Mobile phone: Treo/Palm/Blackberry setup, sync, and e-mail, Blackberry  setup, sync and e-mail, Blackberry Enterprise setup and troubleshooting, and iPhone setup and troubleshooting.  • Monitoring: Nagios, MRTG, GFI Suite, What's Up Gold, Apple Remote  Desktop, RDP, No Machine, Timbuktu, Snare, LanDesk, SMS 2003 SP3 R2,  MOM 2005, using SSH. Remedy, Lotus Notes, Sametime.  • Networking: Configuring Linksys/Netgear/Cisco Routers, Editing Hosts  Files, Configuring managed switches, Updating DNS records and zone files,  Troubleshooting network problems (TCP/IP).  • Performance: Optimized client/server machines to operate with the low  resources that were available. Windows/Macintosh System Administrator Ambrosi December 2005 to June 2006 Reason for leaving: Consultant    • Security: Security Administrator duties as well. Standardized security  violations by applying GPOs to servers, workstations. Audited logs and maintained close watch on the DMZ. Closed the open relay on our mail  server, and implemented the principle of least privilege. Used SecureID,  Radius, Kerberos in a highly secure financial environment  • SAN: Equalogic ISCSI  • VM: Moved servers as necessary with VM environments such as Parallels,  Vmware enterprise, and PowerConvert. Repurposed equipment to better align  with strategic goals. Used Altris, VMware, Parallels and Norton Ghost to do P2V changes. Network Engineer/Macintosh System Administrator Hewitt Associates May 2005 to December 2005 Reason for leaving: Consultant    For example, installed and configured Vista/XP on WinTel, Mac 10.4/10.5  upgrades/migrations for 200 clients on-site. Used PXE, BDD, Remote  Installation Services, User State Migration Toolkit, and Operating System  Deployment of SMS. Created and managed systems with Zero Touch  Deployment Methodology. Proactively assisting development department and solving issues with web-server based technologies. Including Boot  Camp, CVS, IIS both locally and remote, Apache, Dreamweaver, Golive, and  some light programming issues. Also taught how to convert files to flash, QT,  WMV, real audio and other formats. Taught automation utilities in Windows/  Macintosh OS such as batch files, applescripts, and automator. Managed  Video production support duties as well. Supported Apple Final Cut Pro/FCP  express, converting video formats, creating media servers for multimedia  content. Windows/Macintosh System Administrator Summit Publishing April 2001 to April 2005 Reason for leaving: Layoffs    • VOIP: Supported/updated 3com NX 3000 VOIP/Avaya/Lucent/Definity/Cisco  Callmanager phone system for 100 clients in three locations and 350/400  clients on site. Fixed headsets, configured conferencing devices, added individuals  to call groups, changed default messages for holidays and created call groups/  hunt groups. Fixed major outage when the phone system no longer accepted  outside calls during a critical period. Saved company thousands of dollars of lost sales/productivity. Changed phone carrier between MCI/Quest with multi-  line system. Set up advanced calling features such as groups; fax failover, and upgrades to PBX system. Proactively handled cell phones, repairs, etc.  • Windows services: Internet Information Services (IIS), DHCP Server,  Sharepoint, DNS, WINS, Certificates, RPC over HTTP, and Routing and Remote Access Education University of Portland 1995 to 1996 Skills Finance (2 years), Healthcare (Less than 1 year), Publishing (5 years), Retail (Less than 1 year), Itil (5 years), Active Directory (10+ years), Service Desk (10+ years), Cisco, Desktop Support, MAC, Help Desk, Tech Support Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/brianpovlsen http://www.chimac.net Assessments Technical Support Skills — Highly Proficient January 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/od0ewcolm4adoszw Verbal Communication — Expert January 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to effectively convey information when speaking. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/mktbyqrqm-x9m5vf Written Communication — Proficient January 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to convey written information using proper grammar rules. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/qw899vsy8hcnp2uu Proficiency with Microsoft Office: Mail & Calendar (Mac) — Highly Proficient January 2019 Measures a candidate’s proficiency in using Microsoft Office Mail and Calendar tools to manage their workload. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/qpu8qh-9bb9fd4vu Proficiency with Microsoft Office: Mail & Calendar (PC) — Proficient January 2019 Measures a candidate’s proficiency in using Microsoft Office Mail and Calendar tools to manage their workload. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/kdak3hzvngxm-ve1 Email Skills — Proficient January 2019 Measures a candidate’s ability to effectively compose and organize email messages. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/nfvf1b-fyzpmi21v Critical Thinking Skills — Highly Proficient January 2019 Measures a candidate’s ability to use logical approaches when solving problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/ppaucxczjejptmug Basic Computer Skills: PC — Highly Proficient August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to perform basic computer operations, navigate a Windows OS, and troubleshoot common computer problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/ypycp0g9pvj1entc Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information Specialties: Ad Agency, Education, Finance, Government,  Healthcare, Publishing, Retail