IT Support Manager IT Support Manager IT Support Manager Sugar Land, TX Work Experience IT Support Manager Store Commerce - Katy, TX 2013 to 2018 Responsible for managing the entire Enterprise Store Application team and serve as first point of contact for the escalation of all high severity issues for all store commerce systems. Structure a mythology to help reduced ticket count to meet the SLA requirements. Held accountable for the performance and reliability of systems as well demonstrate a desire to continually improve up time.  • Provided necessary data and reporting of KPI's and trends to IT department and others as needed.  • Perform resource planning and allocation within IT, as well as forecasting and reviewing  resource needs based upon upcoming projects and department needs.  • Managed and supported software applications on controllers at the stores and corporate level.  • Maintain all security compliance level agreements (PCI, Sarbans Oxley, and other internal audit compliances).  • Managed all 3rd party vendors' software/systems as well as vendor/budgets and contract renewals.  • Initiated all POS bridge calls for sev 1 incidents.  • Perform the duties of a liaison between departments to determine root cause.  • Contacted and coordinated all outside vender support when necessary.  • Helped Identify and design automated process to reduce possible human errors on various applications, and implemented monitoring tools and processes to be more proactive in eliminating possible down time.  • Responsible for motivating and inspiring the Enterprise Store Application support team as well as develop the team to meet their full potential.  • Created monthly support Decks for the business team to reviewing support and escalation issue of P1, P2, and P3 within each department.  • Created and implemented Standard Operating Procedures and created a Knowledge base to maintain standard practices.  • Liaison between the IT department and the Business (Treasury. Accounting, Store Operations)  • Ensures the implementation of effective applications, tools, and systems requirements met the business needs.  • Provided quarterly inventory reports for fraud, as well as managed and supported all mobile application. Senior Store System Analyst Stage Stores - Houston, TX 2012 to 2013 Project Technical Research Analyst for the store commerce hardware replacement projects, including registers Data Logic scanners, and mobile tablets devices. Coordinated the vendor installation of Ingenico ISS 350 pin  enterprise wide. Led the research and implementation for POS accessory components, including tablet  mounts, POS carts and security software and security deterrent devices.  • Documented the implementation and installation guide for installing the new register in all pilot stores.  ? Currently the Technical Lead for the 2013 Register Replacement Project, which consist of replacing 4000 IBM 4694 register with either the HP RP7 7800 or the NCR Real POS RT.  ? Technical Lead for the deployment of the HP Elite mobile POS tablet, as well as the deployment of the Ecommerce Fulfillment tablets and the IPad Mini.  ? Administer the corporate Mobile Service Platform for over 2500 handheld devices and wireless zebra printer, configure various model of store access points (1131, 1501, and 1602I), as well as manage the wireless team that consists of two associates and one contractor. Currently implementing and administering a two part 4x3 sign and receiving roll out project for 2500 MC 3090 hand held devices.  ? Project Manager for the coordinating and deploying over 4000 Ingenico ISS 350 pin pads in 2012 as well as 4000 Data Logic scanners to 875 stores.  ? Assisted with the deployment of the UPS World ship Software installation for 144 priority one stores  ? Project Manager for the rollout of 144 additional workstation for the new priority stores. Local Area Network Manager Stage Stores - Houston, TX 2007 to 2012 Provide enterprise-level leadership and direction for team of eight regional LAN Administrators, supporting firms' national LAN infrastructure and operations. Direct all administrative operations, evaluating and implementing infrastructure improvements, ensuring SLA's are maintained. Coordinate key development projects, serving as primary point of contact to vendors and working closely with teams to design, research, purchase and implement system upgrades that support business operations and maintain Point of Sale (POS) network security. Communicate daily with executive team and stakeholder groups regarding project status, budgetary forecasts, and hardware / software purchase orders. Monitor progress of all project milestones.  ? Hand-picked to serve as liaison to Ecommerce Fraud Protection team, to detect and identify potential fraud issues. I also saved the company $11,000 dollars in my first 6 weeks of monitoring.  ? Play key role in formulating and presenting Corporate LAN infrastructure annual budgetary plans.  ? Credited for increasing department Service level Agreement 1st call resolution ratio to 96% average and 72 hour call resolution ratio to 98%.  ? Serve as main point of contact in negotiating contracts / prices with 3rd-party hardware / software vendors to implement LAN infrastructure upgrades and support firm's rapid growth  ? Manage POS Network application rollouts, including Solidcore, SafeBoot and SpecOps, coordinating with sales departments to deliver proper support for client organization.  ? Served as project lead in construction of a New York satellite office that supports 25+ users.  ? Implemented process to migrate to Active Directory platform, implementing user OU's and policies, and deploying AD Disaster Recovery plan.  ? Dynamically supported Payment Card Industry Data Security Compliancy (PCI) audit activities. Regional IT Manager Lennar Corporation - Houston, TX 2003 to 2007 Held full responsibility for expanding technology operations throughout Central Region, which included Texas, Colorado, Minnesota, and Illinois. Directed daily support activities of 16 desktop support technicians charged with resolving and improving network / system infrastructure. Served as project lead and main point of contact for 3rd party vendors / suppliers; coordinated major projects involving hardware and software upgrades. Ensured implementation of industry best practices throughout application and infrastructure life cycle. Conducted technical and operational training for IT staff and managers.  ? Credited with successfully administering $1.4M annual technology budget.  ? Drove processes to assess current policies / procedures and implemented Change Management strategies to more efficiently hire and negotiate contracts with local 3rd party vendors.  ? Created and implemented desktop support knowledge base used by the support team that resolved issues, decreased system downtimes and increased customer satisfaction.  ? Assisted Security Manager in achieving Sarbanes-Oxley compliance within the region. Information Technology Manager Pacific Century Homes - Temecula, CA 2001 to 2003 Recruited to lead IT development processes, designing and implementing scalable network infrastructure as well as all operational policies and support processes. Led staff in troubleshooting and supporting all LAN / WAN operations, including completing data backups, disaster recovery efforts, and software installations. Monitored network equipment functions; evaluated end-user issues and devised solutions to maintain system operations and resources, including computer / server hardware and software.  ? Credited with saving $8K a month by eliminating computer-leasing program, purchasing and implementing more robust network infrastructure, which provided 80% less down time.  ? Standardized ghosting process for company workstations, which improved turn around time by 95%.  ? Drove process to implement VoIP network and phone system to support rapid growth of company's communication backbone, installing and configuring resources across multiple campus buildings. Network Administrator Zone Automation Corporation - Temecula, CA 1998 to 2001 Supervised development, implementation and configuration of high-volume Windows-based network. Served as primary point of contact in establishing internal controls to limit / minimize system downtimes. Evaluated technical issues and devised appropriate solutions to resolve problems quickly and efficiently. System Network Administrator CmStat Corporation - San Diego, CA 1997 to 1998 Micro Computer Technician General Instrument - San Diego, CA 1995 to 1997 Computer Technician Compudex Computer - San Diego, CA 1994 to 1995 Education Associate Degree in Applied Science in Applied Science Bee County College - Beeville, TX Associate Degree in Applied Science in Applied Science Angelina Junior College - Lufkin, TX Skills Active directory, Exchange, Firewalls, Sox, Telephony, Voip, Full life cycle, Life cycle, Ms project, Visio, Backup exec, Jd edwards, Blackberry, Video conference, Pos, Budget, Relationship management, Printers, Phone system, Excel Additional Information Highlights of Expertise  • Strategic & Tactical Infrastructure Planning  • Vendor & Supplier Relationship Management  • Contract Development / Negotiations  • Full Life Cycle Project Management  • Video Conference Equipment  • BES/Blackberry Server    • Business-driven Technology Improvements  • Million-dollar Budget Administration  • Exceeding Service-level Agreements (SLA)  • Sarbanes-Oxley (SOX) Regulatory Compliance  • POS Network  • Nortel Network PBX    Technical Proficiencies:  Platforms: MS Windows XP / 2000 / NT, Microsoft 2000 / 2003 / 2008 Sever, Microsoft Exchange 2003 / 2007, BES / Blackberry Server  Applications: Active Directory, Visio, MS Project, Heat tracking software, Backup Exec, JD Edwards Client, Microsoft Office Suite (MS365, Excel, Word, PowerPoint, Outlook), Solidcore, SafeBoot, SpecOps  Hardware: Dell Servers, Compaq PC / Workstations, HP 7000 Scanners, Printers, Video Conference Equipment, Routers / switches, firewalls, BES / Blackberry Server, IPADS / IPhones, Nortel PBX phone system, VoIP Telephony System