Network Deployment Engineer Tampa <span class="hl">Network</span> Deployment Engineer Tampa Network Deployment Engineer Tampa - FL Work Experience Network Deployment Engineer Tampa FL December 2015 to Present Network engineer in the deployment team. Joined a team of professional's working on supporting and implementing networks for our clients.  Projects Contour:  1- Genentech Lan upgrade project:  - Project description:  Black Box will work in partnership with Genentech/Roche to manage and deploy the replacement of End-of-Life (EOL) LAN hardware (Cisco 6500) with (Cisco 9400) designed to improve network stability, performance, and switching outcomes.  Genentech project includes the upgrade for 50 buildings  - My role:  • Site survey with the cabling team to determin the readiness of the IT room, including power status, Rack, Labeling, working space and convert Genentech with our findings to solve any problems if exists.  • Gathering all the required configuration, discussions with the Genentech about cleaning up the configuration.  • Receiving the new Cisco 9400 switches and configure them with the lastest approved configuration.  • Preparing a generic cutover plan for the project, which will be tweaked depending on which building is going to be upgraded next.  • One day before the cutover, gather all the required output as per the checklist and the cutover form, making sure we have all the information about what application are critical and running in the Building.  • The day of the cutover, working with the cabling team to shutdown and replace the old switches with the new switches, making sure the fiber uplinks are all back up, OSPF is running, and confirming all application are up and running, such as wireless, VOIP, building application.  • Next day hyper support, monitoring the network, and the ticketing system and making sure everything is running properly.  • Upgrading the Visio network diagrams.    2- Stella/eLoyalty:  - Project Description:  Black Box is to work with Stella/eLoyalty to perform infrastructure remediation and installation services for a Cisco LAN switching and Wireless Bridge deployment for 27 sites within the US.  - My Role  • Getting access to all the existing network device.  • Gathering all the current configuration.  • Preparing Visio network diagrams for the existing network.  • Redisgining the whole network to support the new LAN requirement, creating new vlans (Data, Voice, Management, and wireless), prepare new IP schema, prepare and configure the switches to reflect the new approved design, configuring the routes with eigrp and working with the SP of the new WAN circuits for all 27 sites  • Redisging and recreating the whole visio network diagrams to reflect the new devices added to the network for all 27 sites.  • Preparing a detailed cutover and physical installation guide for the cabling team to follow and work with for all the 27 sites  • Working with the cabling team after mouting and installing all devices in each site to make sure all sites applications are functioning properly and troubleshooting any problems.  • Provide an engineering workbook after completing the project, containing all the project details for the client.    3- Digital Realty:  - Project Descreption:  Black Box is to work with DR recouses to upgrade and replace the Exisiting Extreme switch with Cisco switches (3850,3960) for 23 sites within the US.  - My Role:  • Work with local resources to gather all the configurtaion from extreme switches and the exisiting network diagrams, gather information about the physical condition of the IT rooms from available space rack and power, and understand the type of applications that are running on the network.  • Study the extreme switches configuration files, convert them to Cisco configuration file, and propse a cleanup for the configuration.  • Access the new equipment in the staging area and configure them with the latest aproved configuration files.  • Preparing a detailed cutover, physical installation guide and a test plan.  • Working with the cabling team and the local resources to replace the old Extreme switch and install the new Cisco switch, which was done one by one as per the client requiest to minimize the downtime.  • Testing all appliction and making sure the network is up and running.  • Preparing new network visio diagrams and an engineering workbook for the client.  4- Internal IOS upgrade project:  - Project descreption:  BlackBox offices needed to upgrade the exisiting IOS on the Cisco network devices for 15 sites.  - My Role:  • Working the secuirty team in Blackbox, I was tasked to use ISE to add all our network devices to it.  • Upload all the newest IOS required for the upgrade.  • Pushing all IOS to there respective devices as per the project plan.  • Making sure that devices boot up with the latest IOS.    5- Installing and configuring Meraki switchs and Aps for different vendors Network Administrator AHS - Abu Dhabi, AE September 2010 to February 2015 Key Deliverables:  * Supervise and oversee the growing network by liaising with a team of professional's personnel  * Key role:  - Monitoring WAN links using Solar Winds software  - Opening new clinics which includes installing cisco routers (2900, 2800) and configuring them with OSPF routing protocol. Installing HP,cisco switches ( 3750 , 3560 , 2960 ) and configure the required vlans and required configuration, Installing cisco phones ( 7945, 6941 , 8961 ) and configuring them as per the business requirement.  - Implementing a wireless solution to cover around 60 clinics, providing employees, guests, Smart devices, and medical devices with a wireless connection to the network  - Installing and configuring ISE to manage and control the wireless users.  - Installing and configuring ISE using the ACS functionality to manage and control the network devices.  - Managing the Data Centre equipment including core switches (6500, 4500), cisco WLC (5508), ISE (3415) and working on CCUM version 9.  - Working with a cabling vendor to keep the IT rooms and the Data Centre organized and tidy.  - Helping the support and service team with the daily work from configuring ports on the switches, configuring phones requirement and wireless requirement.  * Function with Vendors on Annual Maintenance Contract along with SLA as per AHS business requirement; Ensuring that vendor complies the agreed SLA. Resident Engineer Abu Dhabi Islamic Bank November 2008 to August 2010 Objective: The project aims at Design, Planning, Implementation and Support of Local and Wide area complex networks using Cisco Product range with different technologies as per business requirement. It involves monitoring and maintaining the entire EIGRP enterprise network of the Bank, configuring new branches and keeps the connections up with daily based updates    Key Deliverables:  * Overseen the backbones of the network as well as all the remote sites all over the UAE (extensive EIGRP/ WAN lines troubleshooting)  * Deal with EIGRP advanced parameters, leased line connections (troubleshooting encapsulation types/ Interface parameters)  * Supervising 2 big projects in the Bank 1) LAN Upgrade 2) WAN Upgrade (MPLS)  * Functioned on Cisco works, NAC, wireless controller, and Call manager to create inventories, trouble shoot and the creation of new phones Network Support Engineer Emirates Computers - Abu Dhabi, AE June 2006 to August 2010 Key Deliverables:  * Provided network installations and support services for customers all around the UAE while liaise with a team of strong technical personnel  * Functioned on switching, routing installations and network documentation  * Vital role in Switching, Routing Installations and Network Documentation    Projects Contour Integrated the ACS RADUIS Auth. Server Ministry Of Labor 2006 to 2008 Unified (Wired / Wireless) Network Project    Objective: To implement a (wired / wireless) advanced feature network that provides a full local connectivity  Key Deliverables:  * Implemented (Layer2/ Layer3) Switching environment with inter-routing between VLANs  * Implemented Layer 3 Wireless Advanced feature environment: WLC controller440x with LWAPs (1130 / 1230) per school and securing the network with WPA2-TKIP    MOE (Ministry Of Education) Unified (Wired / Wireless) Network Project    Objective: To implement a (wired / wireless) advanced feature network that provides a full local connectivity in 13 Schools around the AUH region and extends this later for all the UAE schools.  Key Deliverables:  * Implemented (Layer2/ Layer3) Switching environment with inter-routing between VLANs  * Implemented Layer 3 Wireless Advanced feature environment: WLC controller440x with around 35 LWAPs (1130 / 1230) per school and securing the network with WPA2-TKIP    WRM (Western Region Municipality) Project  Objective: To implement WAN & LAN connection for the western region sites (Delma / Ghayathi / Mirfa / Beda Zayed / Sila / Liwa)  Key Deliverables:  * Established a point-to-point WAN connections between the remote sites and HQ  * Implemented wireless with Autonomous APs with advanced configuration and VLAN-over-wireless  * Configured multi-layer switching network with inter-routing and full HSRP (redundant / load sharing) network    Ministry of Interior Network Administration  Objective: To monitor and maintain the entire OSPF enterprise network of MOI, Configuring new sites and keeps the connections up with daily based updates.  Key Deliverables:  * Overseen the backbones of the network & all the remote sites all over the UAE (extensive OSPF/ WAN lines troubleshooting)  * Deal with OSPF advanced parameters (areas, routes, costs), Leased Line Connections (troubleshooting encapsulation types/ Interface parameters)    Abu Dhabi Educational Council Wireless Network Project  Objective: To implement a full Coverage Wireless Network inside the campus and integrate the RADUIS server with the wireless network.  Key Deliverables:  * Implemented switching environment with Cisco 4500 core switch  * Implemented Layer 2 Wireless Advanced feature environment: WLC controller440x + LWAPs  * Integrated the ACS RADUIS Auth. Server with the wireless network    Tawam Hospital Wireless Network  Objective: To implement a full Coverage Wireless Network inside the campus  Key Deliverables:  * Implemented Layer 3 Wireless Advanced feature environment: 8 WiSM controllers with LWAPs (1110) APs including WCS, and security using the ACS integrated with the Active directory    ICAD Wireless Bridging  Objective: To create a wireless bridged link between two buildings (point-to-point)  Key Deliverables:  * Implemented a wireless link with the outdoor 1300 wireless bridge with multi-VLANs over the wireless  * Implemented a backup link using "LASER POINT" device    Abu Dhabi InterCon Hotel  Objective: To implement the LAN of the entire hotel with Vedio over IP TV  Key Deliverables:  * Implemented (Layer2/ Layer3) Switching environment with inter-routing between VLANs    Abu Dhabi Ali & Sons wireless Network Project    Objective: To implement a full Coverage Wireless Network inside the campus and integrate the RADUIS server with the wireless network  Key Deliverables:  * Implemented switching environment with Cisco 4500 core switch  * Implemented-switching environment with Cisco 3560 edge switches  * Implemented Layer 2 Wireless Advanced feature environment: WLC controller440x + LWAPs  * Integrated the ACS RADUIS Auth. Server with the wireless network Education B.Sc in Computer Engineering Al Yarmouk University 2006 Mutanabi High School - Abu Dhabi, AE 2001