Manager Systems Network Administrator / Desktop Support - Exchange Office Manager Systems <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> / Desktop Support - Exchange Office Manager Systems Network Administrator / Desktop Support - Exchange Office Woodland Park, NJ Acquired extensive experience in Systems Network Administration Management and Desktop Support. Provided technical direction, participated in integration and migration strategies of various back-end and front-end systems. Strong knowledge of Intel based hardware and Microsoft Windows Technologies with a proactive work ethic that takes initiative translating the business needs into efficient technology solutions.    Looking for a position with a company where I can make the difference and add long term value. I like to be closer to the business needs and use my communication and technical skills as well as having the opportunity to continue to have direct responsibility of the level of support given to the user community. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Manager Systems Network Administrator / Desktop Support - Exchange Office Nourison Corporation 2006 to 2016 365 Admin / Windows Server Admin    Daily responsibilities include supporting a diverse user community of Windows XP, 7, 8, 10 and Mac OX 10.5 thru 10.11 client workstations including networked HP and Canon Printers. Maintained accounting software Sage 300 ERP Accpac and Human Resources managements systems Novatime 4000. FTP Servers and the Vmware provisioning environment. Managing the centralized security patch deployment systems WSUS. Managed all installed software and hardware technologies as well as desktops, laptops and mobile android and apple devices. IOS Android Blackberry Mobile Device Administration and Maintenance. Developed and deployed standardized Ghost Windows workstation images and restores. Managed user data recovery and backups. Remote desktop user support via VNC locally and Logmein remotely. Cisco IP Phone support. Researching, purchasing, evaluating, testing, implementing, deploying and troubleshooting new vendor hardware and software technologies into the live desktop production environment. Managing and maintaining all software, hardware, firmware, anti-virus and security patch updates. Audio and Video editing Wav / MP3 and hardware and software install troubleshooting and maintenance Skype. Managed Spiceworks ticketing system    Supporting an Active Directory, Exchange 2010 Office 365 Azure / Outlook 2013 Messaging and VMWARE Windows 2008 and 2012 Server environment. VERITAS Backup Exec Disaster Recovery for Exchange. Recent infrastructure and system implementation upgrades include successfully migrated the entire organization messaging backbone from Exchange 2003 and Exchange 2010 to Office 365, migrated server hardware to virtualized VMWARE EMC systems, Upgrading the centralized security patch deployment systems from Microsoft Software Update Services (SUS) to Windows Software Update Services (WSUS), upgraded and migrated the Firewall E-Mail filter server from Surf Control v5.2 to Google Apps Postini and developed and deployed standardized Windows workstation images. Migrated Blackberry Server and devices to Windows Active Sync for IOS and Android mobile devices.    Responsible for monitoring, responding and escalating ISP connection issues, Exchange 2010 Office 365 Azure provisioning, messaging, maintenance and capacity planning, user, VPN and network resource account administration and access security privileges, managing scheduled maintenance and change management control on hardware and software, managing data recovery and backup operations, providing desk side and remote user hardware and software technical support, hardware performance tuning, network diagnose troubleshooting, managing S.O.P.'s and policies for servers and workstations, managing asset inventory control on hardware and software.    Job Duties  •Management of Active Directory on 2008r2 DC for user profiles, accounts, permissions for network resources  •EMC 2 VNXe, Dell and HP Proliant Server Builds Technical Support and Maintenance  •ESXi Vmware vSphere 5.5 virtual server provisioning cloning and maintenance  •Exchange 5.5, 2003, 2010 Administration, Support and Maintenance  •Office 365 Administration, Support and Maintenance  •Azure Server Administration  •Creating Spam filter block rules for Office 365 and Google Postini  •Cisco Phone System Administration.  •Cisco Call Center Administration.  •Cisco Meraki Mobile Device Administration  •Vipre v7.0 Antivirus Console Administration, Support and Maintenance  • Vendor Management for internet or network based platforms.    Job Duties  •Sharepoint 2007 Administration  •Veritas Backup Exec for Exchange Mail Restore  •Packetshaper Administration.  •Google Postini Administration and Maintenance  •LogMeIn GoToAssist WebEx Remote Server and Desktop Access  •Creating Spam filter block rules for Office 365 and Google Postini  •Blackberry Server 3.6 4.1 5.0  •WSUS Windows Services Update Server 3.0 and 4.0  •Windows XP, Vista, 7, 8, 10  •Servers 2000, 2003, 2008, 2012  •MAC Servers and Desktops OS X  •Spiceworks 7.2 SysAid Pro Plus V15.4  •HylaFAX Enterprise FaxServer  •FACSys 4.9  •Portfolio Server Administration  •IOS Andriod Blackberry Mobile Device Administration and Maintenance  •Desktop Support to the user community.  •Symantec Endpoint Encryption  •Ghost Desktop Imaging and Backup Recovery Software  •ISP Lightpath Broadvox Calnet Troubleshoot Support and Maintenance  •Manage Network Operations Billings  •Website Administration  •Video and Audio Multimedia Editing  •Infrastructure Maintenance and capacity planning  •Administration of security access privileges to network directory application resources, groups, shares, printers  •Managing and maintaining all software, hardware, firmware, anti-virus and security patch updates  •Training consultants and operation support staff during busy roll out periods  •Managing server data recovery and backups  •Diagnose and troubleshooting networking issues  •Managing standard operating procedures and policies for servers and workstations  •Managing asset and inventory control on hardware and software  •Researching, purchasing, evaluating, testing, implementing and deploying new hardware and software technologies  •Support on Financial and HR systems software Sage 300 ERP Accpac, Equity Edge, FAS, TM1, Insource, Ceridian, Novatime4000, ADP Enterprise  •Meeting with vendors for evaluating, purchasing, planning and implementing new client/ server software and hardware infrastructure system solutions. Manager, Systems Network Administrator Healthways Communications - Secaucus, NJ 2004 to 2006 Supporting a user community of XP clients and 200x Exchange Messaging and Active Directory Servers. I was responsible for managing the entire IT operations. I have identified, evaluated and implemented various key infrastructure and system upgrades to automate and centralize patch deployment using a WSUS server, centralize McAfee Anti-Virus, migrated the Disaster Recovery systems from Tapeware to a VERITAS Backup Exec solution, maintained a Laptop and Desktop replacement program migrating legacy systems to Windows XP while helping to rationalize the helpdesk function. In order to create a remote working facility I implemented a Sonicwall VPN firewall client remote access solution. After an audit on potential disaster recovery risks, I advised, implemented and managed a redundant Redhat Fedora web host multimedia content server. I had to select and manage various expert consultants to fulfill the on demand project resource needs.    Aside from the projects, I was responsible of the day to day 3 tier helpdesk infrastructure. Administration of the Exchange 2003 Server, providing mailbox support, monitoring and capacity planning and Exchange maintenance. Administration of security privileges for all local area network accounts for end user access to application, directory, groups, shares and file print services in an Active Directory environment. Managed and provided scheduled maintenance and change management for network, hardware, software, firmware, antivirus and security component updates. Performance tuning, refurbishment, cleanup and maintenance of numerous legacy client desktop workstations and servers with minimal capital expenditure. Performed network troubleshooting to isolate and diagnose common network problems. Research, evaluate, purchase, implement and deploy into production environment new hardware and software technologies. Managed and maintained hardware, software and warranty inventory of assets. Implement and maintain Standard Operating Procedures and policies for server, desktop and laptops and managed and trained operation support staff during roll out periods. Network Administrator / Desktop Support Alpharma Inc - Fort Lee, NJ 1998 to 2004 Supporting an environment of 30 internal back-end 2000/NT Servers and a 150 node user community consisting of 2000, XP, and 9x client end users, my responsibilities included various international and domestic implementation, migration and maintenance projects which included migrating from CC Mail to a Clustered Lotus Notes R6 Domino server, implementing an advanced Ghost data imaging backup and recovery system to automate and reduce the migration process time, migrate various legacy operating systems to Windows 2000 and XP, migrate McAfee ePolicy Orchestrator to Trend Micro OfficeScan CE 5.0 for centralized automated Anti-Virus security updates, migrate the data Disaster Recovery systems from Arcserve 2000/ DLT to a VERITAS Backup Exec Super DLT tape system, implementation and deployment of various new servers, client laptop/ desktop, network printer and copier systems and develop and deploy standardized laptop/ desktop 2000/NT and XP images.    I also provided server and end user support for sensitive Financial and HR systems software such as Equity Edge, FAS, TM1, Insource, Ceridian and ADP Enterprise. I was the technical lead for meeting and working with various vendors in evaluating, purchasing, planning and implementing new client/ server software and hardware infrastructure system technologies. Other day to day infrastructure responsibilities included managing LAN, VPN and Lotus Notes messaging account administration and user access security privileges to network application, directory, groups, shares and file print resources, publishing applications on Citrix Metaframe XP server farm and secured with Verisign certificates, managing all data recovery and backup operations, managing all software, hardware, firmware, anti-virus and security patch updates as well as training consultants and operation support staff during busy roll out periods. I also performed, refurbishment and performance tuning of legacy hardware allowing expansion of project scope with minimal capital expenditure or downtime. Education Information Technology Boot Camp Berkeley Business College - Iselin, NJ 2008 Computer Science Bloomfield Community College - Bloomfield, NJ Essex County College - Newark, NJ Skills Exchange Server (10+ years) Additional Information SKILLS    Hardware: x86/x64 Intel Based Servers/ Workstations, Dell Power Edge Servers/ Workstations, HP/ Compaq Proliant Servers/ Workstations, ADIC and Compaq DLT and LTO Multi Tape Backup Systems, IBM Netfinity Servers/ Workstations, Snap Servers, Cisco & Netgear Switches, IBM ThinkPad's and Compaq Laptops, APC UPS Monitor, Hewlett Packard Network Printers/ Copiers  Security: Google Apps Postini, SurfControl E-mail Filter, Sonicwall, Linksys, Firewalls, APC Power chute, Norton Security, Trend Micro OfficeScan CE v5.0, McAfee & e-Policy Orchestrator Enterprise Virus Protection Systems v2.5, Computer Associates eTrust Antivirus  Front-End: Microsoft Windows 8/7/XP/ NT/ 200x/ 9x Workstation, Mac OS 9/ 10, Outlook 9x, 200x, ACT, Adobe Acrobat, Microsoft Office Suite, Front Page Web Development Software, Conference Place-ware, Net meeting, Ad-Aware, Spybot, Web-Ex, Equity Edge Oracle, Accutrac, Insource, F.A.S., TM1, Ceridian, ADP Enterprise Rapid Pay, All Star ID  Back-End: Windows 200x/ NT Server/ Active Directory, Exchange Azure Office 365 2010/2003/ 5.5, Blackberry Server, Linux Red Hat Fedora , Lotus Notes R6, Citrix Metaframe XP, Veritas Backup Exec, BrightStor ARCserve R11.5/ 2000, Symantec Ghost, Hyena, PC Anywhere, HTML, FTP and web site domain hosting