IT Service Manager IT Service Manager IT Service Manager - Herff Jones Avon, IN Work Experience IT Service Manager Herff Jones 2017 to Present Responsible for a team of 10 Service Desk and Desktop employees located in multiple geographic regions.  ? Accountable for hiring new team members while also performing performance reviews.  ? Manage team resources and scheduling to complete on time Skype for Business and Windows 10 migrations.  ? Create ITIL Major Incident Management and Problem Management processes and procedures.  ? Modernize ITIL Change Management process and requirements to comply with changing IT processes.  ? Remedyforce administration and configuration of CMDB, SLA and Task.  ? Team Lead on Remedyforce Self-Service Portal automation process to reduce Service Desk involvement in ticket assignment by 70%.  ? Work with team members to develop their skillset to improve service level. Decreasing time to resolve by 15%.  ? Assume lead role for any projects assigned to Service Desk or Desktop teams.  ? Drive Major incident calls to resolution; involve multiple Herff Jones IT teams.  ? Responsible for resolving escalated issues from other Herff Jones departments. ITIL Major Incident and Problem Manager Capgemini - Indianapolis, IN 2016 to 2017 Serve on Service Integration team to ensure all vendor(s) resources are engaged in the restoration of business services and following through to root cause analysis and future prevention for Severity/ Priority 1 and 2 incidents which affected Rolls-Royce services.  ? Managed Major Incident and Problem Management processes across IT and key vendor service lines.  ? Chair technical and management calls with vendors and customer to resolve Severity/Priority 1 and 2 issues.  ? Ensure major incidents are communicated within SLA to both business and user communities.  ? Provide outputs from major incidents and interlock the output into the Problem Management process (reports, e.g.  MIR, etc.)  ? Work with vendors to provide RCA (Root Cause Analysis) document within agreed SLA timeline.  ? Host weekly call with assigned network vendor to review previous Major Incidents and RCAs to identify trending of incidents and work to prevent reoccurrences.  ? Open and mange PKE (Problem Known Errors) for ongoing restoration plans and hardware replacements and PKI.  ? Meet with end customer manager to discuss and review RCAs and service improvements. Operations Manager Global Cloud Xchange - Denver, CO 2011 to 2016 Direct network related issues for multiple global customers consisting of 700 global locations.  ? Manage Global Cloud Xchange largest customer accounting for 61% of revenue for US customers  and 39% of revenue globally for Global Cloud Xchange.  ? Worked with remote Global Cloud change management team to implement ITIL v3 process to US based customers which reduced incident resolution time by 40%.  ? Global Cloud Xchange liaison between Global Cloud Xchange engineers and customers for all Severity/Priorities (1-4).  ? Produce RFO/RCA documents for Global Cloud Xchange major network outages within agreed SLA.  ? Host calls with network vendors for major outages. Work with vendors to provide RCA within their agreed SLA.  ? Manage staff of 10 local and remote network engineers.  ? Create and update Global Cloud Xchange documentation.  ? Held weekly calls with customers to review Severity/Priority 1-2 issues.  ? Reviewed all incidents 1-4 isolate trending issues and worked with engineers to proactively resolve issue. Network Administrator - Contractor Nuss Logistics - Denver, CO 2011 to 2011 Direct Nuss staff in redesign of network infrastructure.  ? Nuss liaison between Nuss management and telecommunication companies. Implemented SLA timeline for Severity/Priority 1 and 2 outages.  ? Created documentation regarding SLA, escalation and Incident Management process.  ? Oversee and manage network migration of Nuss's collocation project.  ? Create configuration for Cisco series routers for all Nuss locations.  ? Configuration and maintenance of HP switches and Palo Alto firewalls.  ? Creation of documentation to maintain standard device configurations. Network Analyst Newmont Mining - Denver, CO 2010 to 2011 Assist with in sourcing of Newmont NOC.  ? Worked with Newmont management teams to acquire baseline performance expectation from vendors for all  Incidents. Worked with vendors on SLA and escalation timelines.  ? Created all documentation regarding process, escalation and root cause analysis.  ? Chaired calls with vendors to resolve outages and to provide updates and RCAs within SLA timeframe.  ? Joined customer meetings to discuss trending incidents and provide work around details or recommend preventive steps.  ? Trained new NOC and Help Desk staff on Newmont processes and procedures.  ? Global Microsoft server administration for multiple domains. AD account creation; deletions and migrations. Security Group and Distribution list creations and implementation.  ? Manage escalated issues within SLA time frames.  ? Creation of documentation to maintain standard configurations. Network Engineer II / Assurance Manager Reliance Globalcom - Denver, CO 2009 to 2010 Accept and manage global escalations for all Reliance Globalcom customers.  ? Provide technical knowledge to internal company engineers.  ? Troubleshoot and resolve T1, T3 and VPN tunneling issues.  ? Modify router configurations to resolve routing and access issues.  ? Troubleshoot BGP and EIGRP network related issues.  ? Implemented ITIL v3 to end customers.  ? Ensured Reliance Globalcom engineers adhered to the ITL processes and SLA timelines.  ? Proactively reviewed trending incidents and engaged the Problem management team. Network Engineer - Contractor Cisco Systems - Denver, CO 2008 to 2008 Manage staff of 5 network engineers regarding network build out of all Cisco equipment to all 20 remote sites.  ? Provide onsite technical assistance to the DNCC (Democratic National Convention Committee) staff regarding all Information Technology related issues.  ? Managed all Cisco VoIP Phone installation and configuration using Cisco Call Manager and Unity systems; Aid with Cisco router (7201, 4507, 3845 series) and switch (3560, 3750 series) configurations.  ? Aid DNCC System Administrator with AD, file and folder creation, backup data issues on Windows Server 2003, Blackberry activations.  ? Supervise redistribution of donated equipment to the Denver Public Schools post-convention. Troubleshoot all network, VoIP and wireless issues for the DNCC. Network Consultant Amnet - Colorado Springs, CO 2007 to 2008 Provide computer and network support for multiple businesses throughout Colorado Springs and Woodland Park.  ? Increase uptime by 10% for businesses by doing routine maintenance.  ? Support, maintain and configure Microsoft 2003, 2000 servers along with Microsoft Exchange servers.  ? Troubleshoot and resolve all Windows XP workstation issues.  ? Configure firewalls for remote access. Network Engineer - Contractor Modis - Colorado Springs, CO 2007 to 2007 Support 500-million-dollar contract for Modis's client.  ? Primary network engineer on multiple network projects that involve cabling requests, creation of vlans, static  routes and firewall and routing changes.  ? Work with customer to assist in figuring out the scope of each project and then setting a timeline for the completion of the project. Network Analyst - Contractor Bradsby Group - Denver, CO 2006 to 2007 Tier II troubleshooting of Cisco routers and switches, resolve TCP/IP, OSPF and VPN issues for a global  network consisting of over 3,000 computers worldwide, running a variety of routing protocols (BGP, EIGRP.  OSPF).  ? Resolve circuit related issues in a cost-effective time frame for the client sites. Network Consultant TriggTech - Denver, CO 2005 to 2007 Provide computer network support for multiple law firms throughout Denver.  ? Support, maintain and configure Microsoft 2003, 2000 servers along with Microsoft Exchange servers. Network Analyst United Airlines - Denver, CO 2000 to 2005 Maintain United Airline network equipment for high availability systems at Denver International Airport (DIA) and Colorado Springs airport.  ? Support network hardware and 72 communication servers' and nine Microsoft NT 4.0 servers.  ? Maintained user accounts and folders and all Microsoft servers as well as verify integrity of nightly backups. Education Information Technology Western Governors University Skills ITIL, CISCO, LAN, Customer Service, Network Administration Additional Information Core Competencies  ITIL process  ITIL Foundation certification  ITIL Practitioner (class taken)  Team/Group leader  High Availability Software Applications  Cisco routers / switches  WAN/LAN  Office 365