Petroleum Landman Petroleum Landman Cedar Park, TX Experienced Independent Professional Landman of excellent character and integrity. Self-starter with a strong work ethic. Goal and solution-oriented with the ability to remain flexible, motivated, and focused during times of changing priorities and compressed project deadlines. Easily adaptable for working on multiple project teams as ancindividual contributor or in a leadership role. Proficient in abstracting deed research into full comprehensive reports. Successful at developing, launching and maintaining problem-solving solutions and projects. Team focused, known as a team builder with excellent communication skills in managing and assisting in crew objectives and overall goals. Quick learner, detail-oriented, and creative multitasker with an unflappable drive to getting the job done. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Petroleum Landman Digital Texan Professional Services - Cedar Park, TX September 2006 to Present Professional Landman – Areas of experience in South, Central, North East, and West Texas; Clearfield, Jefferson, Clarion, Indiana, Cambria, Somerset, Westmoreland, Fayette, Greene, Washington, Allegheny, Butler, and Venango counties in Western Pennsylvania; Ohio, Marion, Monongalia, and Marshall Counties in West Virginia; Jefferson, Belmont, Carroll, Columbiana, Harrison and Monroe Counties in Ohio; Converse County in Wyoming.  Researched and analyzed deed and title records into quick lease check, mineral ownership, due diligence or full drill-site abstract reports. Experienced in multiple courthouse computer and traditional archiving systems and mapping departments. Proficient at extensive genealogy research to locate surviving heirs. Experienced in compiling comprehensive reports into digital format utilizing custom made database reporting, ownership flowchart, and digital copy of all scanned documents into PDF packets needed for legal review.   Title Reviewer & Analyst – Completed Heirship Breakdowns to determine percentage of ownership. Prepared Affidavits and Lease Acquisition documents to facilitate leasing efforts. Reviewed Certified Title Opinions and Lease documents to gather critical information in calculating Royalty, WI, ORRI, and NRI interests.  Reviewed, Corrected, and Prepared Title Abstract Reports for client submission and upload in a timely manner to meet project deadlines. Provided feedback to Title Abstractors to educate and assist with strengthening their skills to be able to provide a more uniform abstract report that completely satisfies client requirements. Desktop Support & Network Administrator - Serviced Ginny's Printing - Austin, TX 2003 to 2006 supported and maintained 100+ Windows and  Macintosh workstations and print production systems. Supported network and email servers. Setup, fine-tuned, and installed new and current workstations. Test, install, and update software. Back-up of staff data. Setup electronic devices for presentations. Assist with VPN access for sales staff.  Graphic Design and Pre-press Print Production Specialist - Produced documents and print materials for print production on offset printing press or digital printers. Vocational Workshop Instructor Los Angeles County Sheriff's Department - Los Angeles, CA 1997 to 2002 Los Angeles, California 1997 - 2002  Corrections Division of the LA Sheriff's Department Vocation Print Shop  Vocational Workshop Instructor - Produced all digital pre-press production work for department's Vocational  Print Shop. Serviced and supported workstations within print shop, signage shop and administrative offices. Also pro- duced graphic design projects for department. The Vocational Print shop was an instructional workshop within a cor-  rectional facility serving several county departments while saving over a million dollars each year in print and copy  costs. Education Bachelor of Science in Journalism, Business Management (Minor) Texas A&M University - College Station, TX 1988 to 1992 Certifications/Licenses Registered Landman April 2019 to April 2020 Certified Professional Landman (Pending) Groups American Association of Professional Landmen (AAPL) 2007 to Present Northern Appalachian Landman Association (NALA) 2012 to 2016 National Association of Lease and Title Analysts (NALTA) 2018 to Present Austin Professional Landman Association (APLA) 2018 to Present Additional Information Technical Skills  Extensive experience in supporting a large number of hardware and software across both Windows and Macintosh platforms. Excellent at trouble shooting issues including: PCs, laptops, printers, software and LAN/WAN. Experienced with multiple deed record database systems (Landex, ACS, ImageSync Foveonics, Infocon). Deed Plotter, Metes & Bounds, OmniGraffle flowcharting software, Microsoft Office (Word, Excel, PowerPoint, Access), Google G-Suite, Adobe (Photoshop, Illustrator, InDesign, Acrobat), FileMaker Pro database software. Familiar with ArcGIS mapping software.Creation and maintenance of customized database applications. Proficient in calculations and reporting of Mineral Interest Ownership, Working Interest and Net Revenue Interest and lease burdens.