Crestron Programmer/Engineer Crestron Programmer/Engineer Crestron Programmer/Engineer - Self Rio Rancho, NM I am looking for a challenging and growing environment that will allow me to continue to expand my  skillset. Flexible work hours are a plus as well as being able to telecommute/work remotely.    Ability Summary  I have the ability to scale my services to the environment or requirements and quickly pick up new systems and  software. I can function in both A/V related venues as well as high level IT systems. Because I carry both IT  and AV experience, I interface well with both sides of the "house" bridging the gap between IT and AV  systems. In the last 4 years I have programmed 41 separate Crestron systems such as: Sports stadiums,  performing arts centers, house of worship, boardrooms, conference rooms, Emergency Operations Centers,  Security Operations Centers, and residential systems. I have also migrated two separate businesses to  Converged IT networking services, newer server OS's, and virtualization. I have considerable experience  teaching college level courses as well as in trade and technical schools. I taught at InfoComm since 2017 and  a member of the adjunct faculty.    I am also an experienced FOH or Monitor engineer for live sound. I have worked with regional, national, and  international acts. Work Experience Crestron Programmer/Engineer Self July 2016 to Present Consultant  I have been working from home as a remote Crestron programmer, engineer, troubleshooter for hire. When  required I have flown to the physical sites to accomplish my goals. Most jobs were VTC suites, huddle  spaces, Executive Board rooms. Working remotely has often required me to train the onsite staff as we work.  In order to better support clients and work remotely I maintain a 6-foot-tall rack of various AV components  such as: Multiple Crestron Processors (series II, series III, DMPS3), switchers, touch panels, DSP's, network  gear, and button pads. This allows me to bench test most systems before the code gets to site. Crestron Programmer AVI-SPL - Pleasanton, CA June 2015 to July 2016 I was the only Senior Crestron Programmer supporting the Pleasanton/Bay Area office. I designed touch  panel layouts and programming, control processor programming, and troubleshoot existing systems. When  troubleshooting I had to troubleshooting both the Crestron programming as well as the overall system design,  engineering, and DSP programming. I had to interface with various customers, project managers, engineers, and technicians both locally and remotely. network and computer system administrator SSSNM - Albuquerque, NM May 2013 to April 2015 Albuquerque, NM  I provided both IT and AV/Crestron support and training to both internal and external clients. My goal is to make IT and Crestron systems a valued business partner inside the organization. Additionally, I troubleshot  AV, security, camera, and IT systems, tuned audio systems when needed. Audio engineering applied to sound reinforcement for local charitable events. High end Audio Visual support such as "house of worship"  and performing arts centers. Programming and design of Crestron automation systems for use in AV. Training technicians in Crestron toolbox and light programming.  network and computer system administrator Network Administrator FRENCH Funerals - Cremations - Albuquerque, NM July 2010 to March 2013 Albuquerque, NM  Computer and network administration including, server and desktop support, migration for metal box Owner Timber & Associates - Albuquerque, NM April 2000 to April 2008 I provided consulting services in computer and network related areas. Both hardware and software. Small to Medium network design, administration, and maintenance. Audio engineering  applied to sound reinforcement. High end Audio Visual support such as "house of worship" and performing arts centers. Programming, design, and troubleshooting of Crestron automation  systems. Exchange administrator, end user support, help desk administrator Company WAN 2003 to 2003 servers to VmWare virtual servers, workstation and server OS upgrades (2003 to  2008R2), Exchange administrator, end user support, help desk administrator, wireless networking,  migration to new telecom services to increase bandwidth, cloud storage and backup. Support for windows XP thru Windows 7. VOIP networking, administration, and programming. 100+ user  workstations. Company WAN, LAN, WLAN, and VPN, infrastructure maintenance and upgrades.  Support of common Office software as well as industry specific software. Administration of VOIP  services. IP planning and mapping of all network services. DNS management. SSL certificate  management. Active Directory administration. In a nutshell. . . everything IT.    Additionally, Audio Visual systems including presentation systems and Crestron systems (design,  installation, and programming). Education Associate's in Computer Pennco Technical Institute Skills Cobol, Programming Certifications/Licenses Crestron Studio for Residential Present Crestron Fusion Programmer Present Crestron Digital Media Engineer 4k Present Crestron Digital Media Certified Technician 4k Present Crestron DM NVX Design and Application (DM-NVX) Present Crestron DigitalMedia Networking Certification Present Crestron Certified Programmer (Pending) Present