SELF-EMPLOYED SELF-EMPLOYED SELF-EMPLOYED - SELF-EMPLOYED Tampa, FL Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience SELF-EMPLOYED SELF-EMPLOYED - Columbia, MD September 2016 to Present Software Developer  • Led the development of an advanced web application for the creation and sharing of character load-outs for a gaming community that is over 100,000 strong; included responsibility for managing the overall software development lifecycle from needs assessment through delivery and implementation.  • Evaluated need for web application or online service sufficient to determine the most practical and efficient strategy for delivering web services to target audience and select appropriate platform.  • Leveraged state-of-the art development tools, programming methods, and equipment as well as developing necessary documentation, flowcharts, diagrams, and code comments.  • Identified and mitigated web service security concerns post-launch.  • Used community feedback to identify errors and add enhancements resulting in a significant increase in website traffic. Between January and April 2018, number of visits increased by over 1,000% from 400 to 4,777 visits and number of unique visitors increased by 1,300% from 240 to 3,487 unique visitors. Website is currently the #1 search result on Google when searching for character load-outs for the targeted gaming community.  • Drove website visits by authoring and publishing a community guide on the web application's design and purpose on Steam for the targeted gaming community. Gaming guide received a 4-star rating on Steam and trended as the #1 rated guide on Steam community hub for 2 successive weeks.  • Teamed with the community to produce language translations of the website. Systems & Network Administrator, Technical Advisor, IT Planner ORACLE NON-PROFIT July 2017 to October 2017 • Conducted system backups and produced a backup plan to automate them.  • Performed Windows 8 - 10 & XP maintenance and system hardening.  • Produced a plan for system & network upgrades.  • Mapped the organization's network to aid in future administration tasks.  • Provided network troubleshooting services to expose connection issues and help to quickly move misplaced data to the appropriate locations. System Administrator/ Information System Security Officer SPYROS & LOCKHEED MARTIN - Fort Meade, MD October 2007 to November 2014 • Implemented information assurance standards and protocols to include: FISM, FIPS, ICD 503, IICS 1199, NIST 800-18, Director of Central Intelligence Directive (DCID) 6/3, ICS/CNSSI-1253, and ICS 500-18.  • Demonstrated proficiency in system auditing tools such as Retina and DISA Gold Disk.  • Utilized IAVA reporting, patch deployment techniques, and AVT&R to keep information systems secured and up-to-date.  • Prepared, updated, and maintained System Security Plans, POA&M's, and system certification and accreditation packages.  • Put into practice contingency planning for continuity of operations in equipment malfunction and disaster events. Systems & Network Administrator UNITED STATES ARMY - Fort Meade, MD November 2001 to October 2007 • MS Exchange 2003 and 5.5, Active Directory, MS Office, Symantec Antivirus, Remote Desktop, SMS/SCCM, WSUS, Internet Explorer, Chrome, FireFox, Backup Exec, Adobe Acrobat, Adobe Reader, System imaging, STAT Guardian, Microsoft Terminal Services, Microsoft Windows 7 imaging tools, and Tumbleweed.  • Hardware/Protocols/Physical Infrastructure (Installation, Operation, and Troubleshooting).  • Dell Servers, Dell Workstations, HP ProLiant Servers, Flukes, Cisco and 3Com switches, Fiber, UTP/STP Cabling, Transceivers, Dell Laptops, Panasonic Laptops, TCP/IP, FTP, Dial-up Networking, UPS, and HP Tape Backup Machines, document scanners, and digital senders. Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Science UNIVERSITY OF MARYLAND, UNIVERISTY COLLEGE - Adelphi, MD August 2016 Skills SECURITY, CRYPTOGRAPHY, DEPLOYMENT, ACTIVE DIRECTORY, API, System Admin, System Administrator Military Service Branch: United States Army Rank: E5 Certifications/Licenses CISSP June 2019 to June 2021 CompTIA A+ July 2019 to Present