IT Systems Specialist IT Systems Specialist Centerville, IN To obtain a position in a professional field with an established organization that will utilize my educational background and work experience for professional growth with possibilities for advancement opportunities. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience IT Systems Specialist KETER NORTH AMERICA - Anderson, IN August 2018 to Present VMware and Hyper-V Administration  Veeam Backup  Windows Server Administration  IBM SAN Configuration and Management  Ubiquity Wireless System   Responsible for Enterprise IT infrastructure at multiple sites IT Systems Administrator Noble inc - Indianapolis, IN August 2017 to August 2018 Citrix configuration and management  Windows server administration  Hyper V virtualization   HP/Nimble SAN configuration and management  End user support  Wireless management  Desktop and Printer support  Budgeting and purchasing Information Systems Specialist Holland Colours Americas - Richmond, IN August 2005 to August 2017 • Created and prepared budgets for fiscal year.  • Maintained and tracked licensing for company.  • Installed, configured, and maintained routers, hubs, switches, VPN network, and access points.  • Installed and configured Windows 2003, 2008, and 2012 R2 servers.  • Managed Hyper-V environment  • Added and maintained users, computers, and printers in the Windows Active Directory.  • Remotely administered desktops and servers at other locations  • Provided troubleshooting, repair, and replacement of computers and peripherals.  • Responsible for end user support on Windows desktops and laptops.  • Obtained and submitted quotes for new equipment.  • Created group policies and implanted them on network.  • Installed new equipment and setup areas for special events.  • Managed Citrix users and created VPN connections.  • Operated Disaster and Recovery systems  • Coordinated and managed intern program Network Administrator/Contractor VPN network 2006 to 2016 • Managed staff and also several college interns.  • Installed, configured, and maintained routers, wireless access points, hubs, switches, VPN network, and backup systems.  • Installed and configured Windows 2000/2003 servers.  • Added and maintained users, computers, and networked printers in the Novell Admin.  • Developed and implemented security policies for the organization's computer networks.  • Provided troubleshooting, repairing, and replacement of computers and peripherals.  • LAN and WAN configuration and maintenance at 11 locations.  • Installation of network cabling.  • Developed and maintained company websites and email systems.    Special Services Supervisor  • Supervised employees located in several different locations  • Operated a program within budget constraints  • Documented and maintained necessary paperwork.    Computer Skills Trainer and LAN Administrator  • Developed and implemented computer training courses Trained staff members on various computer skills.  • Operated and configured local LAN Network Administrator Achieva Resources - Richmond, IN 2000 to 2005 Furniture/Delivery Setup Rosa's Office Plus - Richmond, IN 1998 to 1999 Furniture Delivery and Setup Professional  • Responsible for accurate completion of customer requests and orders.  • Assembled and transported items per customer requests. Education Associate in Computer Information Systems Ivy Tech State College - Richmond, IN 2002 to 2004 Bachelor's in General Studies Indiana University East - Richmond, IN 1997 to 2001 Criminal Justice Centerville Senior High School - Centerville, IN 1993 to 1997 High School diploma Obtained High School Skills System Administrator, System Admin, Active Directory, Vmware Groups President Centerville Youth League September 2012 to October 2014 President of the Board, organized all aspects of youth league