Owner Owner Owner - GBIT LLC Mansfield, TX A highly motivated and innovative technology professional with 18 years in the industry and a proven track record of successfully designing and applying technology to implement new functionality, improve overall system and business line performance while further improving performance and responsiveness of existing systems. Management experience with Cisco and desktop techs. Work Experience Owner GBIT LLC December 2012 to Present • Manage outsourced IT and VoIP services for small/medium sized business list of 130 clients.  • Implement and maintain Server 2008/2012/2016 server environments (New setups and environments in need of upgrades)  • Implement and maintain Asterisk VPS PBX services.  • Implement and maintain Cisco routing/switching environments.  • Design/implement VMWare and Hyper-V virtual environments  • Perform break/fix scenarios.  • Provide network maintenance and upkeep.  • Audit and assist "in-house" IT teams with major projects.  • Liason with customers on network planning and projects.  • Manage employee (2 desktop techs) scheduling, work scopes, and insure best practices are being used.  • Responsible for insuring in house staff trained and coach staff when issues/changes occur.  • Insure client IT budget is used in appropriate manner.  • Will provide client references. Network Administrator CCI Training Center November 2010 to August 2015 • Designed, implemented and managed Microsoft Server 2008 AD environment with Windows 7 clients (upgraded to Windows 10 environment).  • Maintained Exhange 2010 server/environment (later converted to Office 365 environment).  • Managed Avaya IP Office VoIP environment.  • Implemented and maintained Cisco 2811 MPLS environment to provide VoIP and data availability from main office to sub-campus.  • Maintained necessary student software sets across programs.  • Designed/implemented VMWare virtual environment to replace existing Hyper-V configuration.  • Senior IT lead that communicated with upper management on planning/cost scenarios, constructed implementation planning and timelines, managed projects and junior admins (4 full time, 4 part time). Instructor CCI Training Center November 2010 to July 2012 Taught A+, Network+, CCNA, and Microsoft Server 2008 classes for students seeking certification. Dedicated Provisioning Engineer (Contract) Collins Consulting October 2007 to October 2010 • Engineer activation for all new clients (ISDN, FRATM, ATM, PTP, IAS+, Tiered and Burstable DS3, OC3, OC12, Gigabit Ethernet).  • Configure all client assignments (IP addressing, VP/VC, DLCI, Dedicated router assignments)  • Configure AT&T router interface/sub-interfaces.  • Setup Terminal Access Controller Access Control System (TACACS+) on client routers  • Configure Multi-router Traffic Grapher (MRTG) for client to access bandwidth utilization report.  • Configure Network Address Translation (NAT) on managed client routers.  • Design and implement any custom routing requirements (BGP, EIGRP, OSPF, static routing, NAT)  • Verify firewall configurations (PIX/ASA)  • Troubleshoot physical/logical circuit issues  • Engineer AT&T Autonomous System (AS) Number changes, process service suspensions and reactivations for Billing/Finance on delinquent AT&T customer accounts, process the engineering aspect of service disconnects for AT&T customer accounts.  • Engineer AT&T POP router migrations and document all information needed for downstream maintenance.  • Configure MPLS NVPN services utilizing virtual route forwarding (VRF).  • Configure/manage HIPCS (Hosted IP Communication Service) ip phone/pc bundles.  • Second technical lead (team of 15) responsible for assisting in communicating policy, change management, and configuration specific changes to other team members.  • Trained new DPE's Network Administrator Lighthouse Trucking September 2004 to July 2007 • Perform planning, setup and administration of Windows 2000 Server and Windows Server 2003 environments.  • Active Directory configuration and management.  • Implement backup strategy with Veritas Backup Exec software.  • Desktop administration of Windows 2000 and Windows XP workstations.  • Microsoft Outlook setup for clients.  • RDP/PC Anywhere and VPN setup for remote employee data availability.  • Administration of Microsoft Exchange 2000/2003, GFI Mail Essentials setup and implementation. Cisco IPT Engineer (Contract) Externetworks October 2006 to December 2006 • Rack equipment according to schedule.  • Patch devices (Cisco 3850 and 6509).  • Configure Cisco 3850 router interfaces for turn up of T3 lines.  • Setup Cisco VPN appliance and monitor network traffic at datacenter.  • Document network devices with Visio. Network Administrator (Consultant) LTS Transport June 2006 to October 2006 • Perform planning, setup and administration of Windows Server 2003 environment.  • Active Directory configuration and management.  • Outlook setup for Windows XP clients.  • Cisco 1800 series router configuration and management.  • Create and implement backup strategy using GFI.  • RDP setup for remote users.  • Desktop administration of Windows XP/Windows 2000 clients.  • Implemented and maintained Profit Tools trucking database. Education Bachelor's Degree in Psychology in Psychology and Business Sam Houston State University - Huntsville, TX 1996 to 2000 Skills Backups (Less than 1 year), BGP (3 years), Checkpoint (Less than 1 year), Cisco (10+ years), DHCP (10+ years), DNS (Less than 1 year), EIGRP (3 years), Ethernet (10+ years), Firewalls (10+ years), Hyper-V (10+ years), IGRP (Less than 1 year), INTERNET PROTOCOL SECURITY (Less than 1 year), IPSec (Less than 1 year), Juniper (Less than 1 year), Microsoft Office (Less than 1 year), MPLS (7 years), OSPF (3 years), VMWare (10+ years), VPN (3 years), Windows 7 (4 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS SUMMARY - Details of usage in Employment History    Network Operating Systems: Windows Server 2008, 2012 2016  Desktop Operating Systems: Windows 7, Windows 8, Windows 10  Networking: Ethernet, TCP/IP, Wireless, DNS, DHCP, VPN, IPSec, NAT, MPLS    Protocols: RIP, IGRP, EIGRP, OSPF, BGP, CDP, IS-IS, NAT, QoS    Hardware: Servers - Dell, IBM, Compaq, HP  Desktops - Dell, Compaq, HP, Custom Builds  Routers - Cisco, Juniper  Switches - Cisco, Juniper, HP  Firewalls - Cisco (ASA/PIX), Watchguard, Dell SonicWall, Checkpoint  Virtual Software - VMWare 5.0 and up (vSphere/vCenter Server). Hyper-V  Backups - Unitrends, GFI    Productivity Software: Microsoft Visio, Microsoft Office, Microsoft Project, Office 365