Network Administrator/Engineer <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span>/Engineer Information Technology Professional Cornelia, GA While serving in the United States Army from 1999 to 2006, I learned the fundamentals of Windows-  basedcomputer operating systems. Following my discharge, I earned a degree in computer science with  emphasis on TCP/IP networking, switching, routing, and Windows domains. Since earning my degree, I  have dedicated myself to further develop a progressive IT career focusing on systems and network  administration. My military service fine tuned my ability to demonstrate professionalism, attention to  detail, adherence to standards, and effective written and oral communication. Work Experience Network Administrator/Engineer IS Consulting, Inc - Gainesville, GA May 2010 to February 2014 Supported small business clients by discussing and documenting their technology needs, researching the best possible solution, and implementing that solution in a timely manner. Several clients required full  network solutions including new or existing ISP communication, firewall configuration and installation,  switch configuration and installation, server, workstation, local and network printers, wireless network, and smart phone and tablet support. Used software to monitor, track, prevent, and document trending  hardware and software issues. When requested, I developed detailed technical training material for clients who had part time on-site IT support personnel to be used as reference following an initial  walkthrough and in-person training of the material provided by me. Experience with Microsoft  Exchange, DNS, DHCP, TCP/IP, on and off site data backups, command line interface configuration of layer 2 and layer 3 managed switches, and a myriad of IT standards was employed daily. Network Analyst Habersham Medical Center - Demorest, GA August 2009 to May 2010 Ensured consistent network uptime for the main hospital site as well as satellite locations. Built and maintained documentation of the network infrastructure, and LAN/WAN IP addressing for all network  devices for reference during security patching. Provided end-user support for problems ranging from network connectivity to software and hardware issues. Information Management Officer United States Army - Worldwide April 1999 to May 2006 40+ hours weekly)  United States Army - Worldwide  Although classified as a human resources specialist, I was tasked as an entry-level technician to set up and test email communication for end-users, local and network printers, local and domain user profiles, and static IP addressing for secure data devices. I also performed troubleshooting and repair on software and hardware problems. Education Associate in Computer Science North Georgia Technical College - Clarkesville, GA 2009 Skills Windows Desktop and Server Admin, Network Admin Military Service Branch: Army Service Country: United States Rank: SPC (P) April 1999 to May 2006 Information Management Officer Certifications/Licenses Microsoft Certified Professional Present