Senior Technology Security Senior Technology Security Senior Technology Security - AT&T Frisco, TX Work Experience Senior Technology Security AT&T - Dallas, TX September 2015 to Present Lead in the development and delivery of Next Generation Network Based Firewall solution for Netbond (Cloud) customers. Architecting large scale network and security solutions.    Accomplishments  * Build and configure labs and production networks to support security platform integration and end to end solution testing and on-going capacity management utilizing Cisco ASA, ASAv, Nexus, F5 Big IP Virtual Edition, Juniper MX Routers, SRX, vSRX, EX Switches, Security Director, SKY ATP, F5, KVM, and, ESXi.  * Cloud Computing (Internet data center architectures, hosting and application services, etc.)  * Advanced firewall security design and administration  * Cross team collaboration and Agile Scrum.  * Tier 4 Engineering support and provide training to the Ops and Enablement for the overall solution.  * Document deliverables include engineering technical and enablement guides.  * Provide and assist in the oversight to the Internal Audit participation of the Corporate Audit Program (PCI, SAS70, and SOX)  * Performing tasks of data collection, verification and interpretation, as instructed by the external auditors.  * Build a strong relationship with the business owners, IT management and external auditors. Cloud Network Architect IBM - Dallas, TX February 2014 to July 2015 As a Cloud Network Architect, I worked on designing the Cloud Network Globally to add new features for global customer's connectivity.    Accomplishments  * Designed and Deployed Cloud HA/DR solution in 13 datacenters globally.  * Designed a fully redundant MPLS TE network globally for Traffic Engineering.  * Designed, Planned, and Implemented the COS globally.  * Leading an effort to migrate to cloud infrastructure to IPv6 globally Sr. Consultant BMC Software - Houston, TX November 2011 to October 2013 As a Sr. Consultant I was engaged with customers for the BMC Cloud Lifecycle Management (CLM) BMC BladeLogic Network Automation (BBNA) and BMC BladeLogic Server Automation (BBSA) solutions.    Accomplishments  * Gathering and documenting virtualization, authentication, automation, and computing, costing, storage, auditing, monitoring, and networking requirements that drive the CLM solution.  * Design CLM solutions for private and public clouds.  * Provide technical leadership to implementation teams.  * Provide and reviewing ROM costing for projects.  * Design and Implement standalone solutions for Network and Servers automation.  * Design and Implemented solutions to Automate network devices such as F5, Cisco, Checkpoint, Juniper, Extreme Networks, and Dell. Sr. Network and Security Analyst Federal Home Loan Bank of Dallas - Irving, TX April 2011 to November 2011 As a Network Analyst I was worked on day-to-day operational roles. Implement new projects to enhanced Bank services to its member banks across US.    Accomplishments  * Analyzed and assessed network infrastructure for technology enhancement like retiring the EIGRP network and designing and implementing OSFP as a multivendor dynamic routing solution.  * Presented a proposal how to leverage the F5 (GTM/LTM) solutions for Active/Active solutions for redundant datacenters to achieve 99.999% service availability for our customers.  * Documented the whole infrastructure and put in the baseline and documentation for Cisco, Juniper, and F5.  * Executes audit fieldwork autonomously in accordance with audit work programs and makes improvement recommendations.  * Assist in providing IT SOX Compliance training to IT and audit staff.  * Evaluate and report internal control deficiencies/status to senior management and executive management.  * Implemented and brought Network devices in compliance with industry standard Network Security posture.  * Designed and implemented virtualization solutions by deploying VSS, VDS, and Cisco Nexus 1000v in vCenter. Contractor AT&T - Allen, TX September 2010 to April 2011 Implementation Engineer    As an Implementation Engineer within AT&T mobility, works to implement, integrate, and migrate Network Infrastructure that supports advance telecom services. Managing multiple sub-components of large capital projects.    Accomplishments  * Worked with Engineers to chalk out migration plan to roll out 4G data network devices nationwide, to ensure accuracy on plan before execution.  * Played a lead role in deploying, configuring, and integrating Juniper SRX, Cisco Nexus (various models), F5 Viprion, and Netscout nGenius in a packet core infrastructure for LTE.  * Executed test cases to verify configuration, functionality, and handing the tested devices in a certain zone and or market to the operations teams with detail documentations. Datacom Engineer III Ericsson, Inc - Plano, TX May 2006 to August 2010 In a role of Datacom Engineer within Managed Service Organization, works to implement and operate IP Network Infrastructure that supports advance telecom services by providing architectural input on over fifty-six hosted customer platforms supporting sixteen million subscribers. Purely services-oriented organization requiring an in depth knowledge of wide variety of technologies.    Accomplishments  * Day-to-day responsibilities include but are not limited to managing the ip network infrastructure (Cisco Routers/PIX/ASA/ACE/Switches, Juniper Routers/Firewalls/VPN, Extreme Switches, F5 (GTM/LTM/Viprion), configuration of OSPF/ISIS and BGP areas and associated policies, drive troubleshooting and service restoration process with customers.  * Played a key role in migrating Nortel CDMA into Ericsson realm, which involved (planning, designing, integrating, and supporting) PDSN/HA/FA.  * Played a key role in planning, designing, and implementing datacom ip network and backhaul for Mobile network infrastructure for various hosted pre-paid and post-paid platform (RBT, IMS, MMS, WAP, SMS) for Tier 1-3 carrier with diverse and alternate routing path to achieve 99.999% network availability.  * Provided inputs to Solution Architects on SLA, infrastructure design and integration requirements, supported smooth receipt of system from the appropriate implementation team as system integration works concludes.  * Played an instrumental role in deploying and supporting Netscout monitoring tool to monitor network devices, link, and application connectivity statistics for KPI measurements.  * Participated in PCI certifications to be CISP compliant as a service provider and performs security audits, re-evaluated existing platform and made necessary design changes as per ISO/IEC 27001/27002 standards.  * Supported Ericsson Wireline 2G/3G products and solutions including GSM/GPRS/EDGE WCDMA IP convergence.  * Implemented best practices to provide customer data security, privacy, availability, and compliance with PCI, SOX, SAS 70, and other applicable laws.  * Played an integral role in planning and deploying VMware VSphere solution for virtualization. IS Security Specialist ATX Group - Irving, TX September 2002 to May 2006 In a role of IS Security, played an instrumental role in developing and implementing a security culture, leverage networking technology to increase security and availability, design and implemented network, storage, and system solutions for the world's largest independent provider of personalized telematics services to some of the leading automobile brands with over five million customer base in North America and Europe.    Accomplishments  * Responsible for all threat and vulnerability efforts including vulnerability alert research, advisory release reviews, and research and development to establish an end-state of reducing risk and preventing network intrusion.  * Formulated, recommended, wrote, and provided the corporate network security policies and "best practices" for corporate data centers.  * Experienced with implementing and/or administrating the security functionality of IT systems. Bi-yearly Audits, assessments, and/or controls.  * Responsible for information technology security reviews of applications, systems, and networks using analysis tools such as NMap, Nessus, ISS, Netscout, and other open source tools.  * Provided awareness support to internal users and served as a focal point for IT Security related issues.  * Planned, designed, and deployed various network devices and applications such as: Cisco, Juniper, Extreme, Foundry, F5, SurfControl, Netscout, IPS/IDS, IBM ESS, Concentry LanShield and Retina in various configurations as per the requirements from the customers. Sr. NT Administrator ATX Group - Irving, TX April 2001 to September 2002 In a role of Sr. NT Administrator, provided technical leadership in day-to-day operations of NOS, data networks, designed, piloted, and implemented network changes. Installation, configuration, and maintenance of NT/Win2K Domain infrastructure.    Accomplishments  * Played a lead role in planning, designing, and implementing/upgrading to Win2K Active Directory Domain infrastructure globally.  * Supported the data infrastructure which included servers, routers, firewalls, LoadBalancers, and switches in a 24X7X365 call center environment.  * Played and active role in planning and designing and putting in place disaster recovery plan to ensure business continuity for our customers.  * Planned, design, and implemented separate O&M and Backup network to take the load off a production network.  * Played an instrumental role in upgrading the Core infrastructure to a layer 3 Extreme Network Black Diamond and Summit Switches from layer 2 network and securing the funding for it and completed ahead of schedule. Network Engineer Ericsson, Inc - Richardson, TX November 2000 to March 2001 Design, Installation, Configuration, and Maintenance of Network systems consisting of Cisco Routers, Firewalls, VPN's and Switches, Juniper Routers and Firewalls, Extreme Switches, Compaq, and Sun Servers for Global IT Services.    Accomplishments  * Supported Ericsson Gigabit Network in a Global IT Services.  * Configured various Cisco/Juniper routers and Extreme switches.  * Played an active role in deploying Hitachi and StorageTEK SAN  * Supported over 5000 WinNT, Win2000, and SUN servers in a Global setup. Network Engineer Buchanan Associates - Irving, TX August 1998 to November 2000 Implement and maintain data networks, WinNT domain infrastructure, and provided consulting services to various multinational companies in Aerospace, Energy, Pharmaceutical, and in Sports field.    Accomplishments  * Configured and deployed SMS servers for inventory purposes.  * Implemented, managed, and maintained complex data networks and interconnection schemes; providing 2nd level support, worked with customers to solve network and or NOS related issues.  * Played a key role in running a pilot project to deploy Win2K AD infrastructure for one off the major Aerospace company in the area. Education B.Sc in Computer Science University of Karachi - Karachi, PK 1987 to 1991 Skills Bgp, Cisco, Eigrp, Juniper, Mpls, Netscout, Ospf, Tacacs, Vmware, Vpn, Ids, Ips, Nessus, Nmap, Snort, Fiber channel, Firewalls, Nagios, Solarwinds, Security Additional Information A technical engineering professional with over 18 years' experience in the internetworking industry. Main skills include Network Engineering, Design, Implementation, Integration, IT Security, System Engineering, and Operations Roles.  Concentration on Network Design, Security, and System Engineering. Involved in all stages of requirement analysis, design, capacity planning, and application transport going on to implementation and support thereafter.    TECHNICAL PROFICIENCY  Protocols: EIGRP, IGRP, OSPF, BGP, MPLS, RTP, IS-IS, SIP, H.323, LWAPP, RADIUS, TACACS+, Ethernet, Fiber Channel, ISCSI, FCIP, FCP, FSPF, NDMP, 802.11a/b/g/n, ISDN, CDP, Frame Relay, PPP, PPTP, and STP.    Hardware: Cisco Routers/Firewalls/VPN/Switches/ACE/CSM/ASA, Juniper Routers/Firewalls/Routers/Switches/IPS, Extreme/Foundry Switches, F5 GTM/LTM/Viprion, Brocade Silkworm, StorageNet SAN Switches, IBM ESS, Ericsson SE Routers, McData Fiber Switches, Concentry Networks LanShield Switches/Controllers, Emulex Fiber Hubs, HP/IBM/Dell/Hitachi/Sun Servers.  Network Management & Security Assessment Software: BSA (BladeLogic Server Automation), BNA (BladeLogic Network Automation), Legato, Vmware VCenter, Cisco Works, Epicenter, HPOpen View, WhatsupGold, Nagios, Cacti, IPSwitch, NTOP, MRTG, PRTG, KIWI Syslog, UCS, HFNetCheck Pro, NetScout, SurfWatch, Airsnort, Snort IDS, Nessus Scanner, NMap, SolarWinds, LanGuard, ISS Scanner, Sniffer, PrismStumbler, Retina Networks, IPAM, and SamSpade.  Operating Systems: Redhat, Suse, UBuntu Linux, Sun Solaris 10, Windows NT/2000/2003/2008, and Vmware ESXi