NETWORK SPECIALIST ( NETWORK & SYSTEMS ENGINEER) <span class="hl">NETWORK</span> SPECIALIST (<span class="hl">NETWORK</span> &amp; SYSTEMS ENGINEER) IT MANAGER Waukesha, WI I'm an IT generalist. I know a little about a lot of techy things. And while I'm not an expert in, say, SD-WAN, I know how to talk to the people who are. My mission is to give organizations the technology they need to grow — on a budget they can afford — and to make IT fun.    As an IT MANAGER, I oversaw the daily activities of an IT department for a national non-profit  ? Developed and controlled a budget of $250-$300K  ? Radically transformed the technology stack in response to the org’s evolving strategic priorities    As a NETWORK/SYSTEMS ENGINEER, I administered network infrastructure and 70+ servers for a public school district  ? Provided Single Sign-On (SSO), Identity and Access Management (IAM), and automated account provisioning solutions which dramatically reduced access-related support ticket volume and eliminated repetitive procedures  ? Managed a complex district-wide roll-out of over 1,300 mobile devices    Some very nice people said some very nice things about me:  ?? "If there were issues, Brett generally was the first to know and was already intervening"  ?? "As a people manager, Brett is thoughtful, courteous, empowering, and trusting, which helped me stay focused on my job and do my best work"  ?? "Fantastic at project management"  ?? "Particularly effective at establishing rapport and developing strong, attentive working relationships"  ?? "I was consistently impressed with his ability to come up to speed quickly on complex technologies and take ownership of them" Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience NETWORK SPECIALIST ( NETWORK & SYSTEMS ENGINEER) Tamalpais Union High School District - Larkspur, CA June 2013 to June 2019 Member of a Network Operations team based at the District Office. Responsible for evaluation, installation, optimization, maintenance, and security of multiple networks, 80+ virtual servers, and dozens of applications. Served as escalation point and coach for school technicians supporting more than 5,500 students and 550 staff.    • Deployed and integrated a combination of IAM and SSO solutions to provide staff and students with password self-service and a seamless login experience. Resulted in a significant decrease in access-related service desk request volume    • Dramatically reduced IT team labor by scripting or automating account provisioning and other repetitive administration tasks    • Managed a two-year district-wide pilot of 1,300 mobile devices in one-to-one and shared (classroom cart) deployments. Authored a popular monthly newsletter for pilot participants    • Installed, configured, and administered multiple firewalls, content filters, and endpoint anti-malware applications; investigated security incident reports and took mitigating action    • Improved service availability by migrating on-premise applications to or from the Cloud. Representative projects included Microsoft Exchange to Office 365, and Sophos Endpoint Security to ESET Endpoint Security    • Created a modular MacOS disk imaging workflow which reduced classroom lab setup time by more than 75% CONSULTANT EasyWay Tech Consulting - Kentfield, CA October 2012 to June 2013 Provided strategic thought partnership and research to the Director of IT at Tamalpais Union High School District.    • Delivered proposals for migration of service desk and asset management applications to Software-as-a-Service (SaaS) alternatives. Elicited requirements, researched nearly 50 candidate applications, and produced detailed comparison matrices. Coordinated group trials and sales demos of favored candidates    • Authored technical Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) and procedures for publication on the District website IT MANAGER Stupski Foundation - San Francisco, CA May 2007 to October 2012 Managed the daily activities of the IT department and served as a technical resource cross functionally. Hired, supervised, developed, and evaluated the Systems Engineer. Administered all technology infrastructure, including voice and data communications, servers, storage, client computers, and peripherals. Selected vendors and service providers, negotiated and managed contracts, and directed the work of remote and on-site consultants. Elicited and analyzed business requirements, and documented functional requirements. Researched, purchased, recommended, deployed, and supported cost-effective technology solutions. Produced and delivered proposals, cost analysis reports, and status updates to C-level executives. In collaboration with executive leaders, developed IT plans and strategy. Utilized formal project management methodology to execute a portfolio of concurrent IT projects. Tracked and managed hardware and software assets across their lifecycle.    • Controlled capital/operating expenditures and increased adoption by migrating on-premise email, calendaring, Customer Relationship Management (CRM), and other systems to the Cloud. Migration projects utilized formal project management methodology and required extensive cross-team collaboration, end user pilot testing, and training design/delivery    • Transitioned client platform from Windows to Mac, and ensured anytime-anywhere access to existing Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) and other Windows applications by deploying and maintaining a virtual desktop infrastructure    • Exceeded business recovery time objectives by establishing and regularly testing a warm failover site in Sacramento, CA    • In collaboration with Human Resources and executive staff, drafted and formalized policies and procedures applicable to cell phone usage, equipment sales, information security, data retention, and personnel on-/off-boarding    • Worked closely with executives, architects, electricians, and cabling vendors on build-out of new office space. Supervised the relocation of all technology services and assets    • Empowered users to resolve common technical issues by producing and publishing an extensive internal knowledge base SYSTEMS ENGINEER Stupski Foundation - Mill Valley, CA April 2005 to May 2007 Charged with supporting the technology needs of 75-90 local and remote employees. Configured and administered servers, desktop/laptop computers, phones, AV systems, printers, network hardware, and keycard access systems. CONSULTANT EasyWay Tech Consulting - Corte Madera, CA June 2002 to April 2005 • Purchased, configured, and maintained a CRM server, desktop computers, and networking hardware for Business Capital & Debt Solutions, a debt arbitration service provider    • Delivered technical support and advanced malware mitigation service to remote/home office clients, including senior executives in the retail, pharmaceutical, recording, and staffing industries    • Installed and maintained endpoint security and storage/backup services for Belvedere-Tiburon Child Care Centers, a multi-site after-school daycare program NETWORK & SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR AudioBase - Sausalito, CA April 2001 to June 2002 Accountable for the day-to-day management and monitoring of the network, servers, and desktop computers. Reported to the Controller. Managed all technical aspects of an office relocation and company wind-down. TECHNICAL SUPPORT AGENT AudioBase - Sausalito, CA September 2000 to April 2001 Configured desktop, laptop computers and associated peripherals. Administered phone and security systems. Provided end user support. HELP DESK AGENT AudioBase - Sausalito, CA June 2000 to September 2000 Logged and responded to requests for technical assistance. Coached end users on appropriate use of available technology. Education Bachelors of Arts in Literature University of California - Santa Cruz, CA Skills Office 365, Active Directory, Windows Server, Network Administration, Project Management, Change Management, It Service Management, Information Security, Firewalls, Endpoint Security, Azure Active Directory, Cisco, Vmware, People Management, Collaboration, Business Analysis, Technical Support (10+ years), Google G Suite, Exchange Server, Mac OS X, Linux, VOIP, IT Management, Microsoft Office, Google G Suite, SQL Server, Sharepoint, ADFS, WSUS, System Management/Deployment Tools, Group Policy, IIS, Apache, MDM, Powershell, Bash, Email Security, Authentication, Wireless, Business Continuity, SAN, VPN, DNS, Network Security, Network Management, Vmware, Hyperconverged Infrastructure, Nutanix, Printers, ACLS, VDI (Virtual Desktop Infrastructure), Technical Writing, Desktop Support, Fortinet, Solarwinds, SSL, Asset Management, Vendor Management, Budget Management, Contract Negotiation, Policy Development and Enforcement, Service Desk Software, System deployment Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/brettmiller-tech/ Certifications/Licenses ITIL v3 Foundation: IT Service Management Present MCSE Present TCP/IP Network Analysis Present Additional Information ADDITIONAL COURSEWORK:    Business analysis, IT project management, leadership/management, communication, instructional design