Leadman/Foreman Leadman/Foreman Orlando, FL Computer engineer specialized in Network management and Computer Security. Extensive experience in ERP implementation, testing, maintenance and problem troubleshooting. Highly skilled in Customer Service.  • Infrastructure advanced support • IP-based infrastructure installation & support  • Hardware and software installation • Project management & KPI Reporting  • Fluent in both English and Spanish • ERP implementation (SAP, Oracle JD Edwards,  • Highly skilled in UTP-CAT6 & coaxial cable wiring Microsoft Dynamics, Profit+, Oracle APEX) Work Experience Leadman/Foreman McCorvey Sheet Metal Works, LP - Orlando, FL November 2017 to Present - Receives incoming service orders in a fast-paced environment and supports computer system entries, producing documentation and maintaining accurate inventory levels.  - Follows up orders providing accurate delivery dates and updating order status by supporting work procedures, instructions, safety guidelines, and company policies.  - Kept records of supplied orders including ducting assembly, cutting angles and metal sheets, spray painting, wrapping and shipping, and processed paperwork updating system database. INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY SPECIALIST Las Plumas & Asociados February 2012 to June 2016 - Implemented Business Continuity Plan exceeding 99% of data availability, and regulated database backup restoration when catastrophic failures occur.  - Installed 4 local networks running in more than 10 facilities, including switches and routers; network and telephone wiring; servers and work stations.  - Installed, managed and tested ERP (Enterprise Resource Planning) systems, data migration and production systems including Oracle JD Edwards, and Microsoft Dynamics GP, among others.  - Reduced software failures by 90% by upgrading computer hardware (45 desktops and 15 laptops), software and accessories. Wrote weekly reports for senior management to document IT support functions and emergency measured policies, procedures, and tested results. NETWORK ADMINISTRATOR Las Plumas & Asociados November 2008 to January 2012 - Saved 8% of the annual budget by installing telephone exchanges with VoIP services and Video Conferencing systems to reduce operating expenses and traveling spending from the 7 offices to the headquarters.  - Coordinated installation of remote support system facilitating diagnosis and failure repairs, reducing downtime by 98% and annual budget expenses by 6% for 7 locations.  - Standardized and automated operational processes (PoE) in main departments including Purchasing, Sales, Inventory Management and Accounting to streamline process flow and execution. COMPUTER SYSTEMS ANALYST Llano Petrol (Venezuela) October 2004 to November 2008 Managed and maintained ERP system (Oracle JD Edwards), SQL, Web solutions meeting customer needs. Education Bachelor's in COMPUTER ENGINEER Fermin Toro University