IT Consultant/Instructor/Sales Lead IT Consultant/Instructor/Sales Lead IT Consultant/Instructor/Sales Lead - Consult IT Morrisville, NC Work Experience IT Consultant/Instructor/Sales Lead Consult IT January 2014 to Present Supported and installed hardware and software for our clients and our company. Increased entire client base and raised company income.  ÷ Researched and developed entire packages for clients I.T. solutions including storage, VOIP, email, security, and desktop/server maintenance and upkeep.  ÷Setup, supported and upgraded network and all technical aspects of company. Laptops, server, desktops, cell phones, and tablets.  ÷Designed, developed and modified websites for the company as well as the email system.  ÷Responsible for sales training and sales negotiations with outside products. Involved in face to face sales as well as some over the phone sales. Independent Contractor Outside sales Energy Catchers August 2007 to November 2014 Presented upgrade and replacement solutions for customers in their homes for their homes and then sold them products that fit their needs from windows, siding, doors, gutters and roofs. Network Admin/IIS administrator State of North Carolina January 2007 to July 2007 Coordinated and executed transition of multiple state websites to newly built Windows 2003 servers with SAN storage.  ÷ Configured new servers and SAN device; replicated customers websites and information over to new boxes.  ÷ Contacted and coordinated with customers for testing; supported sites and assisted the customers after move is completed. Perimeter Networking June 2006 to January 2007 Conducted basic network/circuit troubleshooting at a 24/7 NOC; provided technical support and troubleshooting to users.  Monitored various circuits and security levels and take the necessary steps to repair the equipment upon failure.  Interacted with the customers and telecom companies via email and/or phone depending on the situation. extended Contract Brightline Compliance August 2005 to June 2006 Maintained current knowledge of relevant technology as assigned  ÷ Upgraded and installed Windows 2003 and IIS, exchange on servers, and XP on desktops.  ÷ Provided technical support and improved their helpdesk solutions and support of web based flash programs. HCS Systems Network Engineer Contractor North Carolina Department of Public Instruction - Raleigh, NC March 2005 to March 2006 Supported the Department's educational system in regards to their statewide servers;  ÷ Upgraded the operating systems and protocol suites.  ÷ Setting up, troubleshooting, and supporting Citrix, Windows 2000, and Windows 2003 servers and IIS servers.  ÷ Maintained remote accessibility for school systems throughout the state and ensuring application compatibility through Citrix, Terminal Services, and IIS servers. Network Test Engineer Contractor CTG for IBM June 2004 to March 2005 Tested new and existing Blade servers on various network operating systems (Windows 2000/2003, Suse 8/9, Red Hat Linux).  ÷ Ensured quality performance and submitted bugs/defects; worked with development engineers to resolve issues.  ÷ Trained and assisted co-workers and new hires on procedures Lead NT Administrator BuildNet, Inc October 1998 to June 2004 Supervised team of two other LAN administrators and served as manager of six desktop contractors; involved in design and general scope of current and future network needs.  ÷ Supported NT, MS Exchange, Netscape Mail, IIS server.  ÷ Served as POC for all purchases, site training, upgrades, requests, and any other interests regarding the network  ÷ Responsibly in control of building new servers, desktops, and laptops and cloning images; administered MS Exchange server, IP, NT, and Netscape mail server.  ÷ Managed tasks and priorities and consulted with other vendors/contracts for current and future needs.  ÷ Company was bought out and relocated to area with fully staffed IT department. Education Associates Degree ECPI Computer Institute - Raleigh, NC 1994