Network Analyst II <span class="hl">Network</span> Analyst II Information System Administrator Silverdale, WA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Network Analyst II Chenega Corporation - Silverdale, WA February 2017 to Present Position requires the constant troubleshooting of customer PC issues,entering tickets and management of HEAT ticket system, re-imaging of PC in a Windows 10 environment. Primary tech for setup and monitoring VTC meetings. Responsible for the surveillance of ACAS scans of workstations on a Windows 10 Network. Construction Laborer Buddy Who Handyman Services - Seabeck, WA August 2016 to February 2017 General handyman worker/installer. Information System Administrator United States Navy September 2004 to July 2015 Ensured network, system and data availability and integrity through preventative maintenance and upgrades.  Provided documentation on start-up, shut down and first level troubleshooting of processes to help desk  staff.  Implemented company policies, technical procedures and standards for preserving the integrity and security of data, reports and access.  Designed Sharepoint masterpage and page layouts, serving as company's main Sharepoint support for all  technical complications.  Trained junior members of IT team regarding network security and troubleshooting of data circuits.  Maintained 99% uptime on company networks through careful and preventative maintenance. Education High school or equivalent Bremerton High School - Bremerton, WA 2000 to 2003 Skills Carpentry, Drywall, Construction Laborer, Active Directory (10+ years), Microsoft Exchange (10+ years), Vmware, System Administrator, System Admin, SCCM Military Service Branch: USN Service Country: United States Rank: E-5 September 2004 to July 2015 Information System Technician/System Administrator Certifications/Licenses CompTIA A+ April 2009 to Present CompTIA A+ CE April 2017 to April 2020 Additional Information Following training acquired in the Military:    Server Administrator:    - VMWare virtual server  - Windows 2003 -2008 R2 platform:  - Windows Powershell  - Active Directory  - GPO creation and implementation  - File Sharing/Permissions  - DHCP control  - DNS  - Windows Exchange 2007:  - Exchange Powershell  - Mailbox database store management  - SQL Server database management  - VOIP phone install    Networking Administration:    - Cisco Router Supervisor:  - ACL management  - Firmware upgrades  - Cisco Switches  - Firmware upgrades  - Management of connection to each other and to workstations  - Alcatel Switches   - Firmware upgrades  - Management of connection to each other and to workstations  - Cat5/Cat6 installation  - Fiber connection troubleshooting    Desktop Support:    - Windows 7 OS workstations  - Hardware upgrade and replacement  - Software upgrade and replacement  - Active Directory Users and Computers  - Reset Passwords  - Create/Remove Accounts  - Update Accounts  - Create/Remove Mailboxes  - VTC Tandberg Setup and Connection  - Sharepoint Site/Database Manager  - COMPTIA A+ Certification