Owner, Operator • Sick O Sycles Owner, Operator • Sick O Sycles Owner, Operator • Sick O Sycles - RG3 Denver Ltd Morrison, CO Owner operator of a highly successful business which has gained over 75% of the local market share  Ordering all parts and supplies to operate in a timely manner  Exceptional customer service maintaining a near 100% five star rating  Completing all suspension, motor, maintenance work within a two week time frame at all times  Customer support provided as needed with tuning and testing at nearby locations to ensure product is working properly, keeping customer safe and performing at the highest possible level Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Owner, Operator • Sick O Sycles RG3 Denver Ltd - Golden, CO April 2011 to Present Owner operator of a highly successful business which has gained over 75% of the local  market share  Ordering all parts and supplies to operate in a timely manner  Exceptional customer service maintaining a near 100% five star rating  Completing all suspension, motor, maintenance work within a two week time frame at all  times  Customer support provided as needed with tuning and testing at nearby locations to ensure product is working properly, keeping customer safe and performing at the highest  possible level General Manager Starbucks Coffee Co - Lakewood, CO January 2004 to January 2011 Serving as location manager of the 3rd most profitable location in the state of Colorado.  Overseeing a team of 25 employees, ensuring achievement of business objectives and continual compliance with corporate standards.  Improved percentage of highly satisfied customers from 63% to 88% within a 60-day  period, exceeding the corporate requirements of 80%.  Maintained a minimum 4% year-over-year growth of net profit (excluding fixed expenses) for a period of 6 years.  Recognized by corporate leadership for maintaining an employee turnover rate of less  than 20% and high employee engagement scores.  Trained peer-level store managers to utilize a self-created forecasting model, designed to assist store managers with scheduling hours during seasonal volume cycles.  Led group to effectively schedule employee hours under budget requirements.  Serving as Management Mentor, paired with newly hired store managers to train during the first six months of employment.  District teacher for Shift Supervisor classes and the Starbucks Coffee orientation  classes.  Rated by District Manager at highest performance level of peer group on a consistent  basis. Department Supervisor The Home Depot - Golden, CO January 2001 to January 2004 Managed to department goals by controlling inventory, scheduling price reductions and executing promotion events, within a store location generating $52 Million of revenue  per year.  Utilized sales techniques and trained team members on customer service skills to meet  store quotas, as assigned, in various departments. Information Technology Specialist Crested Butte Mountain Resort - Crested Butte, CO January 2000 to January 2001 Responsible for first-tier desktop support for 75 computer terminals and responding to all trouble tickets related to infrastructure technology.  Lowered database malfunctions by 95% during employment.  Project Manager responsible for leading a team of contracted employees to implement a hand-held RF scanning system. LAN Network Administrator Carle Hospital - Urbana, IL January 1997 to January 2000 Served as a project manager, maintaining computer systems utilized in a hospital  environment.  Appointed to project manager of three person team responsible for inventory, maintenance, and upgrade for over four- hundred PC's for the Y2K changeover.  New computer systems purchasing and acquisition. Network Administrator United States Air Force - Riverside, CA January 1993 to January 1997 Responsible for bringing March Air Force Base up to speed in the computer and networking field  Originated and implemented requirements for technical courses for employees  Instructed e-mail and basic networking classes to expand the knowledge of military  personnel Education BBA in Business Administration And Management Colorado State University - Fort Collins, CO October 2012 Skills Business planning, Inventory, Coaching, Mentoring, Training, Budgeting, Staff training Military Service Branch: United States Air Force Rank: E5