Citrix Engineer Citrix Engineer Citrix Engineer - Florida Cancer Specialists Cape Coral, FL Work Experience Citrix Engineer Florida Cancer Specialists 2018 to Present At Florida Cancer Specialists I have been responsible for managing, optimizing and supporting our Citrix Environment. Currently that includes two Citrix Sites across 2 domains. Currently managing over ~2200 sessions spread across 250 Virtual Desktops and ~200 Virtual App Servers. Citrix environment is hosted all in Nutanix AHV. I also manage and maintain our Nutanix environment along with Citrix. I have been a vital asset on our IT vision for cloud strategy and the IT department's digital transformation to modern department. Currently working on moving our environment to Citrix Cloud and take advantage of all the benefits that would bring. I have also become the de-facto O365 expert primarily in MDM but also helping the department realize benefits to all services Microsoft has to offer in the cloud. Key team member for monthly Go-Lives for new clinics that join our practice. Involved in numerous application upgrades since most of all Tier 1 and 2 applications are delivery in Citrix. Vital to our DR project we are currently working on to get all Tier 1 applications to our secondary datacenter. I am currently in a transition period where my role will be changing to more of an EUC architect role. Focus will be on the whole end-user experience from Citrix to Windows 10 to O365.    Key Duties/Accomplishments  • Migrate XenApp 6.5 and 7.6 Environment to CVAD 7.15 CU1.  • Upgrade to 7.15 CU3, currently in process moving to CU4.  • Provisioned images with both MCS and PVS.  • Manage and support all CVAD images in both MCS and PVS  • Optimize images to get better performance.  • Streamline and cleaned up on the over 350 apps that were published in Citrix when I started.  • Upgrade VDIs from Windows 7 to Windows 10  • Upgrade XenApp Severs from 2008R2 to Server 2016 or 2019 based on Vendor support.  • Manage vendors when they are brought on for projects.  • Take over Sysadmin duties for our pharmacy application after Sysadmin left.  • Upgraded pharmacy as it was 3 version behind.  • Manage, optimize and support Nutanix AHV.  • Upgraded Nutanix to latest version to get off old unsupported version.  • Setup Replication for Nutanix Clusters between primary and secondary datacenters. Infrastructure Engineer Barnes Healthcare Services 2013 to 2018 At Barnes Healthcare Services, after initially being hired as the Citrix Administrator I quickly moved into the Infrastructure Engineer position which encompassed not only the Citrix infrastructure but also all Microsoft related products including O365, Windows Server, Hyper-V, Active Directory, System Center, SQL Server and all Window client OSes. I was the IT Champion to push for the Google to O365 migration after seeing Google Apps shortcomings at the time and the move to a more Microsoft focused IT shop. I then took lead on the support and maintenance of our Office 365 Tenant which includes all O365 services, including Azure AD, Intune, and Skype for Business.    Key Duties/Accomplishments:  * Upgrade Domain Controllers from 2008 R2 to 2012 R2.  * Upgrade Domain Controllers from 2012R2 to 2016.  * Setup Hybrid Intune with SCCM for Mobile Device Management.  * Migrate from Hybrid Intune to Intune Standalone in Azure.  * Upgrade SCCM 2012 to SCCM CB, right now on 1802.  * Setup and configure Microsoft LAPS to manage local admin privileges for end-users.  * Setup separation of privileges for IT staff so all are not just domain admins. For example, Helpdesk techs now use separate login to improve auditing and only have access to what they need.  * Migrate core infrastructure from on-premise to off-site datacenter.  * Rebuild and upgraded Citrix environment to 7.13, in new datacenter.  * Configure and maintain Citrix NetScaler as Access Gateway and VPN.  * Migrate core Line of Business applications to new datacenter.  * Reorganized AD structure and cleanup GPOs.  * Implement Microsoft OMS.  * Support/Maintain all Identity Management Services for Azure/O365/Active Directory like Azure AD Connect and MFA.  * Migrate from Dirsync to Azure AD Connect.  * Setup and maintain multiple Office 365 workloads like OneDrive for Business, Skype for Business, Stream, Exchange Online, Security and Compliance, Teams/O365 Groups, Planner.  * Migrate Distribution groups to Office 365 Groups.  * Manage and maintain our Verizon Account for cell phones, tablets and cellular routers.  * Supporting both on-site and remote users.  * Started project with Surface Pros where we Azure AD joined the devices and not join them to on-premise Active Directoy.  * Technical Lead on iPad project where we were  * Setup and maintain Service Desk, FreshService, and migrated from homegrown helpdesk product.  * Migrated company from Google Apps to Office 365  * Support and Maintain legacy XenApp 6.5 environment.  * Create, support and maintain virtual desktop images delivered with Machine Creation Services and Provisioning Services  * Migrated virtual infrastructure from XenServer 6 to a 2012 R2 Hyper-V failover cluster.  * Established patching on all systems with SCCM 2012R2 and updated all hardware/software to latest firmware and updates. Including NetApp San, Switches, Citrix Servers, Microsoft Servers and Desktops. Citrix Administrator South Georgia Medical Center 2012 to 2013 At South Georgia Medical Center, a regional non-profit hospital, I provided enterprise desktop support for over 2,600 endpoints across four hospitals and multiple smaller remote sites. Desktop support comprised of hardware repairs and reimaging with Norton Ghost. Provided support for the 200+ applications being used across the enterprise including the McKesson suite of products like HED, HEO and HEC.  As Citrix Administrator, I ensured the stability, integrity, and performance of Citrix-based services including: XenApp, XenDesktop, and NetScaler. Responsibilities also encompassed maintaining, supporting, troubleshooting, and optimizing all Citrix solutions as well as for the virtual desktop creation and virtual application publishing which required working closely with networking and applications teams to make sure Citrix environment and applications were optimized.    Key Duties/Accomplishments:  * Migrate from XenDesktop 4 running on XenServer to XenDesktop 5.6 on VMware ESXi.  * Worked closely with a Citrix consultant in designing the XenDesktop 5.6 environment for redundancy and future growth  * Implemented Citrix XenApp 6.5 to provide virtual applications to internal and remote users.  * Implemented Citrix RemotePC to reduce cost and provide more secure solution for remote access.  * Support and maintain Citrix NetScaler's.  * Create, support and maintain virtual desktop images delivered with Machine Creation Services and Provisioning Services.  * Managed persistent and pooled desktops using both Machines Creation Services and Provisioning Services to deliver desktops.  * Create and manage Group Policies as needed for Citrix environment.  * Used Windows Deployment Services and Norton Ghost to image and reimage PCs to speed up new installs or planned upgrades.  * Day to Day administration of Citrix servers, i.e. Web Interface, Desktop Controllers, XenApp Servers, Provisioning Services, EdgeSight and SQL server. Administration includes Microsoft/Citrix updates/hotfixes and optimization.  * Helped start the migration of moving enterprise from Windows XP to Windows 7.  * Installed over 110 Wyse thin clients in hospital that was purchased.  * Migrated from Wyse thin clients to nComputing thin clients to lower costs.  * Installed over 200 nComputing thin clients in new Patient Tower being built.  * Gathered and assessed needs from internal business units; created solutions to move more users and application to a virtual solution and in the process reducing costs. Network Administrator Ambling Companies 2006 to 2011 Performed IT duties which included configuring, installing and maintaining network infrastructure and telecommunications systems. Supported a user-base of 800 end-users located across three main branch offices and over 200 remote offices. Fulfilled administrative responsibilities including the addition, deletion and changes to user desktop, email and phone system accounts. Configured and monitored firewalls installed at every remote site which were tied back into main office through VPNs.    Organized and monitored the status of printers in addition to upgrading printer firmware and handling installation of other peripherals. Actively provided desktop, configuration and phone support for multiple software applications and various hardware. I was responsible for installation of all network cabling and troubleshooting of cabling issues. In addition, it was my duty to perform installations of routers, switches, hubs and new workspaces. Also, I was able to resolve network connectivity issues in addition to providing technical support both onsite and remotely in order to achieve effective troubleshooting and to accomplish the efficient resolution of issues and maximize customer satisfaction.    Key Duties/Accomplishments:  * Managed Microsoft infrastructure that included Windows 2003 to 2008 R2 Servers on their own physical server or as virtual servers installed on a VMware ESXi (e.g., Active Directory, Wins, DNS, DHCP, File/Print Services, IIS, SharePoint Server and SQL Server).  * Setup and maintained SharePoint sites and setup and maintained Office Communication Server  * Maintain and supported Citrix Presentation Server 3.0, SharePoint Servers, Exchange Server, IIS6/7, Symantec End Point Protection, Symantec Backup Exec.  * Used Windows Deployment Services and Norton Ghost to image and reimage PCs to speed up new installs or planned upgrades.  * Tested and recommended new remote support software that saved the company $10k per year.  * Initiated new project to install tracking software on all laptops and remote desktops to help recover in case of theft or lost equipment. Project resulted in most equipment that was stolen or lost being recovered, which has saved the company over $12K.  * Rolled out Windows 7 and Office 2010 to corporate office end-users.  * Supported and maintained all cellular equipment including 130 cellphones including iPhones, Android and Window Phones and mobile broadband internet connections.    Technology Summary  Applications/OSes:  Microsoft Hyper-V, System Center, O365 Suite, Intune, Azure, Citrix XenDesktop, Citrix XenApp, Citrix XenServer, VMware ESXi, MDT2013, SharePoint Online, Microsoft Office, iOS, Android, Windows Phone, Windows XP-10, Windows Server 2003-2012R2, Mac OSX.    Hardware:  Servers, SANS, desktops, laptops, tablets, netbooks, iPhones, iPads, Android phones, Window phones, switches, hubs, firewalls, ink-jet/laser printers, plotters, copiers, wireless APs, security/web cams. Education Associate of Applied Science degree in Information Security Specialist Wiregrass Georgia Technical College Skills Systems administration, Network administration, Server virtualization, Virtualization, Software troubleshooting, Migrations Additional Information Expertise Highlights  * Systems Administration  * Network Administration  * Application Virtualization  * Server Virtualization  * Desktop Virtualization    * Infrastructure Support  * Migrations and Upgrades  * Hardware and Software Troubleshooting  * Enterprise Desktop Support  * Mobile Device Management and Support