Lead Engineer Lead Engineer Lead Engineer - DISYS - Kaiser Permanente • Extensive large-scale wireless network experience 150,000+ users.  • Comprehensive knowledge of computer software systems and hardware.  • Enthusiastic, agile and experienced learner.  • Skilled at learning new concepts quickly and communicating ideas clearly and effectively.  • Strong business sense.    Cisco Advanced Wireless LAN Field Engineer  • Cisco ID# CSCO10888891  Cisco Advanced Wireless LAN Field Specialist  • Cisco ID# CSCO10888891  CCNA, Cisco Certified Networking Associate  • Cisco ID# CSCO10888891  Certified VSAT Satellite Technician  • VSAT #57314  Ekahau Certified Survey Engineer (ECSE)  • Certification # 3986 Work Experience Lead Engineer DISYS - Kaiser Permanente November 2017 to Present • Supervising 3 wireless operations engineering teams, responsible for Cisco controller upgrades (109 sites), special wireless projects (e911 Secure, Cisco Prime Infrastructure rebuild), and a multi-disciplinary (application, network and security) tiger team that troubleshoots and drives to resolution of complex critical incidents within a 125,000-user network.  • Identifying performance issues, and take ownership to drive towards resolution/improvement  • Conducting site surveys and on-site assessments and developing and maintaining network documentation.  • Providing network performance assessment following major network changes to ensure any negative performance impact is quickly identified and mitigated  • Identify pain points and collaborate with regions to identify and resolve issues  • Monitoring system performance and tuning utilizing 7Signal devices and making recommendations for improvement to the engineering and planning teams.  • Redesigning large medical centers wireless networks with Ekahau Pro predictive tools. Network/Security Engineer II Douglas County School District June 2016 to November 2017 • Wireless tuning for bandwidth and capacity using AirMagnet, Cisco spectrum Expert, Cisco Prime Infrastructure  • Rebuilt and managed large-scale monitoring for school district's critical infrastructure using Solar Winds Netflow and other tools in the Orion package.  • Manage a 60,000-user, 3800 Cisco APs wireless network, design, maintenance, troubleshooting and security.  • Managing Cisco ASA with SourceFire/FirePower, Cisco switches, Cisco 8450 WLC, Cisco ISE and Cisco Prime. Sr. Network/Security Artesia General Hospital November 2014 to June 2016 • Responsible for the hospital's network infrastructure design, maintenance, troubleshooting and security (Cisco ASA, Cisco 3850 switches, Cisco WLC.  • Managed a Microsoft active directory and Microsoft exchange environment.  • Desktop design, security and maintenance  • Responsible for the setup and maintenance of the VMware environment  • Penetration testing and remediation using SourceFire Cisco's Next Generation Intrusion Prevention System (NGIPS) and Alien Vault Unified Security Management & Threat Intelligence  • Managed large-scale monitoring for hospital's critical infrastructure using Solar Winds Netflow and other tools in the Orion package. ISP Administrator MATI September 2012 to April 2013 • Managing a Microsoft active directory and Microsoft exchange environment.  • Responsible for the ISP's network infrastructure design, maintenance, troubleshooting and security.  • Technical liaison and research team member to Sandia Labs on the IPv6 conversion for ISP's and governmental agencies.  • Desktop design, security and maintenance  • Responsible for the setup and maintenance of the VMware environment  • Set and maintained security policy on both network and desktop environments  • Managed large-scale monitoring for ISP and customer's critical infrastructure using Solar Winds Netflow and other tools in the Orion package. IT System Administrator Socorro Mental Health April 2011 to September 2012 • Managed a Microsoft active directory environment  • Responsible for network infrastructure design, maintenance and troubleshooting  • Desktop design and maintenance  • Implementation and design for custom medical software CMHC  • Set and maintained security policy on both network and desktop environments Network Engineer New Mexico Institute of Technology June 2009 to April 2011 • Tier 1 and Tier 2 network and desktop support.  • Research team member and technical liaison to Los Alamos National Labs on cloud computing for the New Mexico SBA.  • Conducted security audits on operating systems and cloud services and reported these findings to client and project lead. District Technology Director Sublette County School District #9 November 2006 to June 2009 • Directly responsible for day to day operations, network security and maintenance of all technical equipment.  • System Administrator for a Cisco enterprise system: Cisco 6509 switches, Cisco ASA, Cisco Call Manager and Unity, Cisco WLC 4400 and Cisco 2900, 3500 switches.  • Played key role in preparing and implementing a successful $3.2 million technology upgrade for the school district.  • Designed and implemented a $1.2 million technology system for the new elementary school.  • Analyzed and prepared technology financial reports and service contracts for the CFO. Wireless Field Engineer Information Systems Consulting, ISC October 2004 to November 2006 • Designed wireless networks using Air Magnet and other wireless tools.  • Implemented large scale wireless platforms using Cisco controllers and autonomous Access Points, digital surveillance systems OnSSI, and wireless network security.  • Designed and implemented large scale wireless networks in hospital settings to support handheld and other wireless devices.  • Assisted in bringing online Meditech software package in a large hospitals in Colorado.  • Spear-headed a large-scale wireless division and selected digital security software and hardware for large scale deployments. Education Bachelor of Science in Management of Information Technology Casper College - Socorro, NM Associates of Science Computer in Computer Science Casper College - Casper, WY