NOC Network Specialist NOC <span class="hl">Network</span> Specialist Colonial Beach, VA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience NOC Network Specialist U-Haul International - Phoenix, AZ August 2015 to Present Responsibilities  • Support end users with network and computer related issues.  • Coordinate network problems with internet service providers and management to fast track resolution.  • Monitor, troubleshoot, repair network connectivity between remote sites and main offices.  • Maintain VPN and internet stability at all locations.  • Setup WiFi access points and switches and routers for new or relocated locations.  • Troubleshoot level 1 VoIP issues.  • Act as level 2 support for systems issues.  • Other assigned tasks provided by management    Skills Used  Cisco Routers/Switches/APs, Active Directory, Cisco AnyConnect, Remote Desktop(Terminal Services) IT and MWR Manager Dyncorp - Zamboanga City January 2009 to June 2015 • Manage daily activities of the assigned Information Technology (IT)/Comms areas of operations and related peripherals/software equipment to ensure efficiency in compliance with corporate, government, contractual and legal requirements.  • Designed, planned, installed and provided hands on support for networking issues on a combination of both wired and wireless Mikrotik, Firetide and Cisco routers running on the LAN, WAN and VPN sides.  • Provided additional hands on support on Ubuntu and Windows servers.  • Designed, planned, installed and provided hands on support for NAS systems and backup services and file services.  • Assisted techs during short-handed times with end user support.  • Designed, planned, installed and provided hands on support for remote VSAT installations in hostile areas.  • Designed, planned, installed and provided hands on support for all security systems on both CCTV and biometric at multiple sites.  • Ensure compliance with company policies and procedures and other practices set forth by upper management or contract requirements.  • Assist with training requirements and budgets for the area of assigned area of IT operations.  • Serve as IT Subject Matter source expert for IT/Comms operations.  • Execute and act as the point of contact for all purchase requests submitted by the customer for installation of commercial internet, phone lines, CCTV and CATV.  • Oversee the implementation of network/software and Internet connections as well as radio capabilities.  • Provide effective control on inventory of all IT Comms equipment and software based on schedule and budgets for IT/Comms areas of operations.  • Responsible for the security of the network systems or software applications assigned to the contract or corporate policies.  • Provide guidance and information of assigned section for network/software application, communications equipment/contracts, policies, procedures and standards to upper management.  • Provide product specifications and vendor analysis for computer purchases.  • Provide Statement of Work ( SOW ) for IT/Comms needs when required.  • Perform personnel evaluations on a regular basis.  • Anticipate and makes adjustments for changing: A. manpower requirements B. Skill sets, and C. HW/SW needs.  • Responsible to the Project Manager for the overall supervision of all MWR functions.  • Developed and execute MWR programs, internal controls in the improvements of facility equipment.  • Verify all MWR merchandise receipts and safekeeping of all merchandise.  • Establish training program for employees for customer service, sanitation, safety standards.  • Responsible for ensuring compliance with Safety Procedures and Facility Rules and Regulations.  • Perform other duties as assigned. Property Manager Murga Estates - Zamboanga City February 2005 to January 2009 Responsibilities  • Oversaw overall operations of Real Estate rentals and sales for the family real estate business.  • Responsible for collections and payments of rentals and operations.  • Oversaw building renovations and construction.  • Supported tenant concerns and building maintenance coordination.  • Balanced accounts payable and accounts receivables ledgers.  • Ensured compliance with local safety laws and local tax laws.    Accomplishments  o The real estate section has increased in tenants and revenue. Simply by adhering to procedures in place and exploring other avenues of revenue. Either by improving current assets or venturing out into other options.    Skills Used  Real Estate Management, Cost Analysis, Accounting, Personnel Management, Construction and Maintenance Lead Systems Administrator British Nuclear Fuels Inc. - Arlington, TX January 2003 to January 2005 Responsibilities  • Maintained and installed/upgraded network servers.  • Maintained and installed all network RAS and VPN servers; and maintained user security and access rights.  • Some maintenance of UNIX firewalls and Novell servers.  • Maintained PBX system with 200 nodes and analog units.  • Maintained disaster recovery systems and backup planning.  • Provided sole end user support for 150 nodes and remote users using Citrix and Terminal Services.  • Installed and maintained all cabling for the network and phones.  • Maintained and directed inventory control and purchasing database.  • Provided end user support for MS Exchange, BEST, Costpoint issues. Lead Systems Administrator ECI Telecom - Herndon, VA March 1999 to January 2003 Responsibilities  • Maintained and installed all network file servers and network RAS and VPN servers.  • Maintained user security and access rights.  • Some maintenance of UNIX firewalls and NetAppliances.  • Maintained PBX system with 500 nodes and wireless units.  • Maintained disaster recovery systems and backup planning.  • Provided end user support for 150 nodes and remote users.  • Installed and maintained all cabling for the network and phones.  • Maintained and directed inventory control and purchasing database. Network Engineer Pace Global Energy Services - Fairfax, VA January 1997 to March 1999 Responsibilities  • Developed and implemented Internet/Intranet connectivity and security and CAT5 network topology Ethernet on TCP/IP and IPX/SPX. Developed and maintained RAS and VPN servers.  • Maintained and repaired 6 NT servers and a Novell server and 15 networked printers.  • Provided technical assistance and training to 150+ end users on desktops and laptops.  • Assist in developing new tools for productivity through research and development.  • Handled network file security applications using NT security.  • Ensured data safeguarding utilizing Seagate Backup Exec.  • Administered and maintained MS Exchange 5.5. Field Service Network Tech Quantum Tech - Chantilly, VA January 1996 to January 1997 Responsibilities  • Maintained and repaired IBM PC compatibles and Macintosh.  • Maintained and repaired NT servers and networks. Senior Tech Comstor - Chantilly, VA June 1994 to January 1996 Responsibilities  • Provided research and development on client/server PC integration with NT server.  • Provided quality control for assembled desktops and servers. Senior Tech Sunnytech Inc - Chantilly, VA August 1992 to June 1994 Responsibilities  • Assembled and configured desktop and server machines.  • Controlled RMA and product purchases. Education Technical Certificate in Information Technology Computer Learning Center of Alexandria - Alexandria 1990 to 1991 Diploma in High School Woodbridge Senior High School - Woodbridge, VA 1984 to 1988 Certifications/Licenses Driver's License Additional Information MTCNA and MTCRE Certified