Network Engineer <span class="hl">Network</span> Engineer Senior Network Engineer Merced, CA Experienced IT professional with 33 years of well-rounded experience looking to apply a strong network and systems design and managerial background in a small- to medium- sized company looking to transform an organically grown network to a structured, fully-redundant and security conscious environment. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Network Engineer Microsoft (Wipro/ACS Group) - Sunnyvale, CA January 2019 to July 2019 Work as a Level 3 support engineer, handling escalated tickets from various sources in support of the Exchange/Outlook cloud servers, as well as the Skype server farms. Troubleshoot problems with servers within a TORUS (Secure) environment, orchestrating and/or directly repairing problems with servers (HP G9 and Custom Blade Chassis) from hardware repair, network connectivity and configuration within Racks, etc. As a Level 3 support engineer, receive complex issues unable to be resolved by offshore team. For Skype, created the entire support infrastructure from scratch, writing ground-up documentation for entire project used by 35+ personnel, including teams in America and India. Written many scripts in PowerShell in support of the entire process. Network Engineer Merced Irrigation District - Merce May 2018 to October 2018 Brought on to manage their small network, including routers, switches, wireless, firewalls – Palo Alto Networks & Cisco ASA, vast RADIO (5 GHz – unlicensed, and 900 MHz licensed) network. Arrived just before the yearly budgeting and capital project submission process for the next Fiscal Year. Developed technology refresh plans, produced capital budget proposals for many tech projects. Worked with the Parks team producing a design and implementation plan for free WIFI to all park guests, including site surveys, radio line of site assessments, etc. Deep dive of the organization’s environment. Cleaned up their Solarwinds monitoring system. Oversaw the implementation of a new 60ft radio tower. Developed the AMX Audio/Video system and Polycom Video Conferencing System for their new engineering building that was to break ground in January 2019. Senior Network Engineer Telcion Communications Group - Turlock, CA November 2017 to May 2018 1-209-656-5754  http://www.telcion.com    Senior engineer on security, routing and switching projects, including cloud-based solutions. Hired to help the company perform ground-up network assessments and thorough technical reviews. Responsible for developing all new processes and project deliverables for security, network, and wireless deep-dive assessments. Implemented many small projects, performed Deep-Dive documentation on three companies producing insight needed for several smaller upgrade projects. Solved a massive routing redundancy issue for a major company based out of Fresno, producing a fault-tolerant routing design which allowed them to stay up 99.9% of the time. Implemented many hardware upgrades, developed migration plans and implemented a few before my departure. Created standards for DEEP DIVE documenting of environments. Senior Network Administrator Golden Valley Health Centers - Merced, CA May 2009 to November 2017 1-209-383-1848  http://www.gvhc.org    Maintained a large 25-site networking environment with Cisco at the core. Maintain Cisco routers (2800, 3600 , and 1700 series) - stand-alone or as a meshed router pool; Wireless LAN Controllers (4400 series and integrated WLAN Controllers in routers); Access Points (1030's, 1242's, and 3500's, as well as Aironet 1300 wireless bridges); Wireless Management (Cisco WCS/Cisco PRIME, Cisco MSE - wIPS); Cisco Switches (2960's, 3750's, express and standard IOS, single or stacked; including VLAN's, VTP, Spanning-Tree, Port-Channel); routing protocols (EIGRP and BGP, VRF/MPLS VPN, HSRP); T-1 P2P's and MPLS Circuits (single and bundles set up as Multilink); Cisco ASA 5510, PIX and Sonic firewalls; Sonicwall Email SPAM Filter; iPRISM Web Filter; Microsoft Windows Server 2003 and 2008; IBM Bladecenters (HS21, LS20's); Dell stand-alone servers; Dell Equallogic iSCSI SAN Arrays, Riverbed Traffic Compression Devices; Microsoft Terminal Services; Microsoft Exchange 2007; IIS (Web and FTP); Print Servers; Polycom Network-based Video (VSX 7000); AMX Audio-Video system for Conference Rooms; Solarwinds NPM, NCM, IPAM, APM, and NetFlow; VMWare ESXi 4.1.0; Palo Alto Networks (PAN-500) Firewalls; MobileIron MDM; Cisco Ironport. In addition to the sites that belonged to GVHC, I assist in integrating and maintaining four (4) other partner/company networks using MPLS circuits (single or bonded), bonded P2P T-1's, DS3's, and/or Comcast Metro Ethernet connections. Director of Information Services Castle Family Health Centers - Atwater, CA February 2006 to May 2008 1-209-381-2000  http://www.castlefamilyhealth.org    Managed day-to-day operations of the Information Systems division at all levels of the Information Technologies Infrastructure and related disciplines: UPS; Electrical assessments; Low-voltage (CAT-5E patch panels and wiring systems) including fiber optics; Server procurement, setup, implementation and administration; Intermediate Network Infrastructure LAN/WAN + Security (TCP/IP-IPv4, PIX & VPN); Phone Systems (PBX & VoIP); Desktop support including Corporate server-based administrative systems, i.e. DNS/DHCP/Group Policies/Active Directory, Virus/SPAM protection, imaging, virtual access; DBMS Systems Support and Operational maintenance; Disaster Recovery; Web Development; Local and Network-based Printing; Surveillance and Video-over-IP. Project Manager Special Order Systems - Rocklin, CA February 2005 to August 2005 1-888-336-7671  http://www.team-sos.com    Responsible for Project Plan development, timeline assessment and creation (pre & post sales), resource management, analysis, proposal development, project deliverables accounting and documentation; milestone, milestone payment and Sign-off management and processing. Experienced in contract and SLA writing and adherence. On-site project management as needed no matter the location. Provided project profitability analysis and reporting at project closure to team. Court Information Technologies Mgr Superior Court of California - Merced, CA December 1999 to January 2005 1-209-725-4100  http://www.mercedcourt.org    I reported directly to the Court Executive Officer (CEO) providing insight and direction on all technology matters at both the state and local level. Managed the day-to-day operations of the Court's technology infrastructure (switches, routers, firewalls, VPN), desktops (140), servers (15), database systems (Oracle, Lotus Notes), VoIP phone system (Cisco AVVID), IVR system (Frank Solutions), as well as two (2) full-time employees. Managed the creation and implementation of many Request for Proposals (RFP), including their milestone and "Schedule of Values" payment structure. Performed budget analysis as it relates to technology, wrote and was awarded many state-sponsored grants, and managed the migration on a monthly basis of all County A/P, A/R and Payroll information from the County Mainframe to Lotus Notes databases. Supervisor, Email Messaging Systems ALZA Corporation (Pharmaceutical) - Mountain View, CA April 1995 to December 1999 1-650-564-5000  http://www.alza.com    I was responsible for the management of the Information Technology's Email Messaging division. Managed the day-to-day operations of the company's three (3) disparate Email systems (Lotus cc:Mail, Lotus Notes, Microsoft Exchange 5.5) plus the company's many other message transfer agents (x.400, MCIMAIL, SMTP). Managed their weekly and monthly maintenance processes run over the weekend, including post-office rebuilds and Exchange defragmentation. Education Information Systems National University 2002 to 2003 Psychology Fresno City College 1989 Business/Computers National College 1985 to 1986 Skills Palo Alto Networks Firewalls (6 years), Cisco Routing and Switching (10+ years), Cisco Network Design (10+ years), EIGRP, BGP, OSPF, TRACK, SLA, VLSM (10+ years), Cisco Wireless LAN (9 years), Cisco PRIME (9 years), Cisco Mobility Services Engine (9 years), Cisco Wireless Intrusion Prevention System (9 years), Project Management (10+ years), Microsoft Servers (10+ years), Solarwinds (9 years), Contract Management (10+ years), Microsoft Office (10+ years), Desktop Imaging (10+ years), Application Development (10+ years), Application Workflow (10+ years), Radio Technology (Less than 1 year), End-user Support (10+ years), Procurement (10+ years), Mainframe (6 years), Employee Supervision (10+ years), Training & Development (10+ years), Cisco, BGP Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/ortizt Military Service Branch: US NAVY Service Country: United States Rank: E4 April 1991 to April 1995 Maintained eight (8) P3-C Orion "Subhunter" aircraft. Worked as an Aviation Mechanic for both Structures and Hydraulics. Qualified painter and corrosion control specialist. QA qualified.    Technology: Database developer, computer support for entire squadron.    Tours: Kadena, Okinawa, Japan; Point Magu, Oxnard, CA; Barbers Point, Oahu, Hawaii    Training: Advanced Aviation Structures and Hydraulics – “A” School, Millington, TN (1991); Secondary Hydraulics and Structures (1991); Corrosion Control (1992) Commendations: Special Recognition: Junior Sailor of the Quarter and Junior Sailor of the Year (FY 1993/1994).  Honorable Discharge: April 1995 Certifications/Licenses Driver's License Publications Golden Valley Health Centers Boosts Broadband Speeds to Enhance Health Records and Disaster Preparedness with Comcast Business Services https://business.comcast.com/resource-library/press-releases/2015/golden-valley-health-centers-boosts-broadband-speeds-to-enhance-health-records 2015-02 Requested by Comcast to act as a case study contact for their early deployment of their Metro Ethernet technology. GVHC, where I deployed Comcast services to eighteen (18) sites, became a model for other companies and a reference for the Comcast Sales Team. Additional Information I specialize in coming into an organization whose technology infrastructure was organically grown to what it is today over many years and iterations, develop stop gap and critical analysis regarding weaknesses and single points of failure, expert in developing phased multi-year approaches to upgrading environments, analyzing security vulnerabilities and developing implementation plans to fix thin policies or technologies, developing budgets and capital improvement plans, and getting folks to a point where they can rest easy and enjoy a scalable, supportable, and sustainable network infrastructure.