Senior Linux Administrator Senior Linux <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Senior Linux Administrator - HostGator Houston, TX Work Experience Senior Linux Administrator HostGator - Houston, TX 2018 to Present • Perform the tasks of the Senior Security Administrator as well as train and assist as needed.  • Performing involved dedicated server task (OS reloads, drive swaps, innodb recovery ).  • Received escalations from supervisors and other administrators including high priority issues.  • Worked/Escalated/Resolved systemic issues/JIRAs.  • Created/updated /root/bin scripts.  • Streamline the learning curve process to create a more efficient workflow. Senior Security Administrator 2015 to 2018 • Perform tasks of the Security Administrators as well as train and assist as needed.  • Identify and resolve trending issues.  • Process and manage ISPBL/blacklist issues.  • Investigate rooted servers.  • Provide documentation, assistance and training (email subject matter expert).  • Developed API to receive and route phishlabs complaints to appropriate abuse contacts.  • Created scripts that auto-delist blacklists gateway IP addresses. Security Administrator 2011 to 2015 • Monitoring, configuring and responding to security issues.  • Testing new and updated tools before they are implemented.  • Suggesting best security policy/process improvements and practice. System and Network Administrator Bentley Commercial - Greenville, SC 2009 to 2010 • Administrating Windows Server, Exchange, SAN and network printers.  • Providing technical support in a Windows environment.  • Suggesting and implementing beneficial technologies. Security Operations Engineer 2007 to 2008 • Developing and implementing system and application scripts to automate tasks and reports.  • Proactively monitoring attacks (ArcSight/LogZilla) and doing packet analysis (Wireshark).  • Working with the proper groups to resolve Windows/Unix/Linux/Cisco security vulnerabilities. Technical Support BMW - Greenville, SC 2005 to 2007 and 2008 - 2011  • Able to diagnose and resolve most issues on the first contact.  • Working with a team in a fast paced environment and follow instructions from supervisors.  • Providing fellow support representatives with technical support and training. Technical Support Coordinator II IBM - Greenville, SC 2003 to 2005 • Strong problem solving skills and the ability to articulate diagnosed problems and resolutions.  • Working with a team in a fast paced environment and follow instructions from supervisors.  • Providing fellow support representatives with technical support and training. Network Engineer Nuvox - Greenville, SC 2002 to 2003 • Developing tools to automate administrative tasks.  • Providing hostmaster/postmaster/webmaster responsibilities for 1000+ customer domains.  • Responsible for designing and implementing integrated voice and data circuits.    Kyrus. Greenville, SC Quality Assurance Engineer 1999 to 2002 • Analyzing and replicating defects to isolate the issue and report the problem.  • Design, implement, and manage the QA network including terminals, Palm Pilots and servers.  • Developing documentation and test scripts for QA testing point of sale and Palm Pilot software. Education High School Diploma Hampton Park Christian School 2007 Skills Dns, Linux, Unix, Html, Javascript, Middleware, Perl, Php, Scripting, Tcl, Vba, Cisco, Dhcp, Lan/wan, Router, Switching, T1, Tcp, Tcp/ip, Vpn Additional Information Strong analytical and problem-solving abilities, well organized and detail oriented with excellent interpersonal, teamwork, and verbal/written communication skills.    Technical Skills  • Hardware: SAN, Server, Desktop/Laptop, Firewall, Router, Switch, Wireless  • Scripting: Perl, Javascript, PHP, TCL, VBS, VBA, HTML, SQL, UNIX (BASH, awk, etc.)  • Service/Protocol: AD, CIFS, DHCP, DNS, FTP(S), HTTP(S), SMTP, SSH, SSL/TLS  • Operating System: Unix, Linux, Windows, IBM 4960, Cisco IOS  • Networking: IP routing/switching/subnetting, IPSec VPN, LAN/WAN, TCP/IP, UDP, T1  • Middleware: cPanel