Enterprise System Administrator-Supervisor/NT Administrator Enterprise System <span class="hl">Administrator</span>-Supervisor/NT <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Enterprise System Administrator-Supervisor/NT Administrator - Act1 Group of Companies Fontana, CA Pursuing a career in the information system field where my interpersonal and  communication skills will assist in the company's growth and profitability, employing  responsible and creative solutions. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Enterprise System Administrator-Supervisor/NT Administrator Act1 Group of Companies September 2003 to Present Manage and maintain Windows 2003 Active Directory system. Responsible for all corporate servers at our Colocation site. This includes application servers, web servers, and SQL Database servers. Manage and maintain VMware - ESX 5.1 and 6.0 environment. Currently involved with managing migration of Windows 2003 AD to Windows 2012 AD. Also, manage Office 365 environment. Called upon to make recommendations for our network and internal systems to upper management and to make sure they are carried out. Responsible for Research and Development of new technology and to make sure they are implemented into our environment at the right time. Network Engineer - Technical Support Administrator Supervisor AppleOne Employment Services November 1999 to September 2003 Supervisor of all Technical Support Administrators, manage technical team to assure that the offices are being supported correctly and that all operations run smoothly. Handle sensitive calls when needed and help to set all standards of supporting offices. Planned, co-created, and supervised migration from Novell to Windows NT for all offices within the company. Planned and carried out migration from Nt 4.0 Domain to Windows 2000 Active Directory Services for all of the company. Network Engineer - Technical Support Administrator AppleOne Employment Services March 1996 to November 1999 Computer Technical Administrator, configure as well as support servers and workstations on the network; Administrate OS such as Windows95, Windows NT 4.0, and Novell; Answer support lines and help users with software related problems in other offices. Support over 200 offices around the country. Troubleshoot hardware problems such as, printers, motherboards, and hard drives. Remotely administrate the WAN and LAN. Foremen and trainer responsible for various duties Disneyland April 1992 to July 1996 in charge of other employees and training of new employees; responsible for the appearance of a certain area of the park; communicate with supervision and guests on a frequent basis; assist guests by answering questions. Consultant Cal Poly Pomona Learning Resource Center - Pomona, CA September 1993 to June 1994 California State Polytechnic University, Pomona Answered student questions; troubleshooter of PC, MAC  hardware and Windows environment and related software such as Access and Visual Basic; Evaluated  applications and made recommendations. Education Bachelor of Science in Business Administration California State Polytechnic University September 1991 to June 1997 Skills WIndows Active Directory (2003 - 2012) (10+ years), VMware environment (10+ years), Office 365 (7 years), WIndows 7 and Windows 10 (10+ years), System Admin, System Administrator, Vmware, Active Directory