Cyber Security Engineer Cyber Security Engineer Cyber Security Fort Lauderdale, FL Professional Profile   Accomplished technical professional with over fifteen years IT experience including managing IT teams. An expert at securing Enterprise Information Systems. Author and implementer of security policies, programs, and procedures to meet regulatory and compliance requirements and to mitigate risks. A self-directed individual with diverse software and hardware experience. Offers a conscientious work ethic and a demonstrated record of efficiency, reliability, attention to detail, and commitment to job performance.     Leadership Profile   I am an experienced leader of Platform, Systems, and Network Engineering teams. Responsible for ensuring they deliver in their role as the team meets Deployment and Incident SLAs. Daily collaboration with Global Development, Operational, and Support teams as I cultivate effective relationships with multiple departments, customers, and vendors. I have a strong ability to manage and execute on multiple project timelines; and manage competing priorities. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Cyber Security Engineer IMA Group - Aventura, FL August 2018 to Present • Lead the Strategy, Deployment, and Implementation of tools and related Network Security Management Systems.  • Contribute to the design, development, and enforcement of security controls, policies, and procedures.  • Experienced in leading network security projects in the Government sector.   • Chair the company Information Security Steering Committee.  • Authored Policies and Procedures to ensure regular security patching across the enterprise.  • Lead the development of the company Incident Response Plan. Maintain accuracy of documentation and communication of responsible parties.  • Configure and troubleshoot security infrastructure devices.  • Engineer, implement and monitor security measures for the protection of computer systems, networks and information assets.  • Responds/investigates suspicious network activity.  • Perform complex audits and advisory projects of IT systems and applications.   • Implement corporate compliance program and policies in support of HIPAA requirements.  • Coordinates and cooperates with auditing activities by outside agencies.  • Provide regular status reporting of security strategy and projects to senior management and customers.  • Provide architectural support in a team environment for Secure Network Design.  • Implemented Data Leak Prevention (DLP) with specific HIPAA requirements to protect PII/PHI.  • Implemented EMM to increase security posture for 500 remote users.  • Enforced Off boarding procedures to increase efficacy of network access controls.  • Implemented Least-Privilege policies and procedures.  • Coordinated regular Security Awareness Training for all employees. Manager of Information Technology Banyan Gaming/DGC USA - Pompano Beach, FL April 2015 to June 2018 ·        Configure and deliver daily audit reports (Firewall Logons, Server Access, Change Reports, Account Creation, etc.).   ·        Enforce regular security and vulnerability audits (Patch levels, Account Activity, Access Permissions, Port Scans, etc).  ·        Ensures the team follow policies and procedures including software integrity (hashing, FIM), software delivery (encryption standards, configuration tools) and the use of change management tools (Mercurial).  ·        Maintains Documentation of technical procedures in a very dynamic software development environment.  ·        Ensures platforms are monitored and have appropriate alerting (SCOM, SolarWinds, Kibana, McAfee SIEM).  ·        Support and Monitor a private cloud infrastructure (Colocation Data Center).  ·        Fully virtualized environment (VMware) ~300 virtual machines  ·        All critical systems were clustered to maximize uptime   ·        Develops Policies such as Malicious Software, Security Awareness, IS Activity Review, Disaster Recovery, etc.  ·        Ensures that service management and quality processes are developed and deployed to meet expected service levels.  ·        Responsible for Installation, Customization, and Troubleshooting of complex, next generation gaming platform.   ·        Ensuring delivery of real time application services in HA (High Availability) environment.  ·        Daily collaboration with Software Development (Agile), System Engineering, Platforms, Security, and IT Management Teams on 4 continents.  ·        Team Leader – Integral in the interview, selection, training, and direction of team members.  ·        Leading a team of 6 Support Engineers and I am responsible for their development, task assignments, and for ensuring they deliver in their role as the team meets Incident and Problem SLAs in a fast-paced 24/7-365 environment.   ·        Leads the coordination of Build and Test environments.  ·        Conference with Customer (IT & Compliance) to plan custom deployments and ensure successful installations.  ·        Implemented Data-At-Rest drive encryption on critical systems  ·        Deals with release package testing to usability acceptance criteria.  ·        Responsible for final approval of all patches and upgrades to Live Certified Environment.  ·        Coordinate managed services such as MPLS and SD-WAN to eliminate network outages.  ·        Budget forecasting for IT expenditures (Licensing, Training, Procurement, etc). Senior Network Administrator EmCare - Fort Lauderdale, FL April 2004 to April 2015 ·        Manage a Windows Active Directory network with 10 sites.   ·        Install and manage virtual servers using VMware vSphere with NetApp (FAS2240) shared storage.   ·        Support wide variety of applications for multiple businesses under parent company.  ·        Administer Data Center Services such as Exchange Email, SQL Databases, Firewall Protection, Medical Billing systems, Digital Document Management, Imaging systems, Backup systems, Endpoint Protection, etc.   ·        Facilitated migrations to cloud services (Office 365 & Apptix).   ·        Project manager for opening new sites from start to finish. Including but not limited to the wiring of the new site, implementing voice and data systems, and remote connectivity to the Data Center.   ·        Frequently managed projects with outside clients and contractors.  ·        Support Cisco IP Telephony systems with Unified Messaging.   ·        Installed and managed secure wireless networks utilizing Cisco Wireless LAN Controllers.  ·         Network Login Scripting. Wrote Policies and Procedures to comply with HIPPAA regulations.  ·        Security Information and Event Management (SIEM).  ·        Kept up to date technical knowledge base and advised CIO on future technical improvements.  ·        Manage/Support a variety of wireless and portable devices for end users.  ·        Supervise Desktop Support Team.  ·        Windows System Management Tools (Active Directory, Group Policy, Hyena, SCCM).  ·        System Monitoring and Alerting including email and SMS text alerts. Network Administrator Avalon Research Group - Boca Raton, FL May 2002 to March 2004 Manager of Information Systems SNBLUSA-Biosupport - Redmond, WA June 2000 to October 2001 Education Some college Skills SECURITY (10+ years), SIEM (10+ years), ACTIVE DIRECTORY (10+ years), CISCO (10+ years), FIREWALL (10+ years), Cissp, Audiovisual, Information Technology, Application Support, Disaster Recovery, Network Administration, Strategic Planning, Vmware, exchange Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/claywebstercissp Certifications/Licenses CISSP March 2015 to April 2021 MCSE Present VMware Associate CIPT Cisco IP Telephony A+ Additional Information Technical Skills   I have implemented various security components to provide information security and data integrity across the enterprise. I have provided technical direction, security policy development, and end user security education in an effort to mitigate risk and comply with regulations. I have also delivered systems administration, services monitoring, product deployment and security maintenance for all aspects of the IT infrastructure. Other skills including but not limited to:     ·        Endpoint Protection – Trend Micro and McAfee Endpoint Security  ·        Security Incident & Event Management – McAfee SIEM, EventTracker SIEM  ·        Mobile Device Management – MobileIron, MDM for Office 365  ·        Content Filtering and Traffic Monitoring – Webroot, Fireplotter  ·        Security Policy Administration – McAfee ePO, AD Group Policy  ·        Remote Access Controls – Cisco AnyConnect VPN with Multi-Factor Authentication  ·        Vulnerability Scanning - Nessus, Nmap  ·        Server Access Controls - Citrix Xenapp, ObserveIT, Microsoft Terminal Services  ·        Networking – Advanced routing concepts (EIGRP, BGP), IPsec VPN, and site-to-site routing. Core Switch configuration and VLAN segregation. Cisco, Checkpoint and other firewall product configuration.  ·         Network Troubleshooting –TCP/IP, Cisco IOS, Ethereal, Nmap, Fire Plotter, WireShark   ·        Proprietary Platforms – Experienced with in-house developed applications, support, and customer deployment.  ·        Microsoft Platforms – 18 years installing and configuring Windows Server and Desktop Operating systems  ·        Advanced Active Directory and Group Policy Configuration  ·        Virtualization - VMware vSphere ESXi with clustered hosts   ·        NAS/SAN – HP, IBM, and NetApp Storage platforms, Fibre Channel, iSCSI  ·        IP Telephony – Cisco Call Manager & Unity, Voice Gateway Configuration, & Service Provider Solutions  ·        DevOps Tools – Kibana, Jira, Grafana, Team City  ·        Configuration & Version Mgmt Tools – Ansible, Octopus Deploy, Mercurial