Information Technology Consultant / Owner Information Technology Consultant / Owner Information Technology Consultant - Daytasolutions Oceanside, CA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Information Technology Consultant / Owner Daytasolutions 2009 to Present Created office computer networks, file sharing and security, email accounts, file and email backups remote connections for various small businesses.  ? Configured cisco pix firewall and cisco vpn concentrator for customer's new internet provider.  ? Troubleshoot and fix netapp f820 file sharing disconnections.  ? Created commercial website utilizing Dreamweaver CS4 with corresponding setup for google website indexing.  ? Updated computer network for Payment Card Industry Compliance Standard requirements.  ? Implemented web filtering and url blocking for office internet use standard.  ? Implemented FTP scanning for qualified scanner/printers for the network.  ? Provided information technology remote support to various clients. Manager Network Operations Epicept / Maxim Pharmaceuticals - San Diego, CA 2006 to 2009 Fulfilled IT Sarbanes Oxley audit requirements for public company compliance. Created numerous technical documentation such as security controls, backup policy, and audit trails to satisfy Sarbanes Oxley compliance.  ? Designed network for merging companies. Implemented various projects to merge two different companies such as placing a point - to - point link between east coast and west coast offices for data and legacy phone switch systems, centralized security account management, combining email systems to use one domain name address, and upgrading accounting systems and backup strategy.  ? Consolidated service contracts on software, network devices, servers and tape robots for efficient management of budget.  ? Fulfilled daily computer and network operation needs in both locations in San Diego and New York office.  ? Implemented virtual computer network environment utilizing vmware for application testing and patch release test. Epicept / Maxim Pharmaceuticals 2000 to 2009 Network Administrator Epicept / Maxim Pharmaceuticals - San Diego, CA 2002 to 2006 Upgraded network services to current supported versions. Moved NT4 domain to Windows Active Directory domain, exchange 5.5 to 2000 and 2003, moved data and services from aging servers to the new hardware and upgraded single tape backup to a multi tape backup robot (1TB capacity).  ? Installed, configured, and deployed virtual private networking, print and scanner servers, secure FTP, outlook webmail, enterprise blackberry servers, enterprise virus and spyware protection for servers and workstations, and windows web hosting servers.  ? Created a comprehensive company network and computer user policy by collaborating with different departments such as Executives, Human Resources, Accounting and Research.  ? Validated network, servers and workstations for 21CFR compliance.  ? Optimized, troubleshoot, and maintained server uptime, network security and traffic to provide highest level of availability.  ? Served as the highest tier of support when helpdesk personnel are unable to resolve a technical issue. Computer Specialist Epicept / Maxim Pharmaceuticals - San Diego, CA 2000 to 2002 Created remote installation computer to provide multiple installation of operating system and applicable software for new hired users.  ? Troubleshoot and solved trouble tickets by phone and email.  ? Trained new users about computer use and policy.  ? Created inventory of hardware devices, computers and software for licensing and audits.  ? Repaired workstations such as changing cpu, hard drive, motherboard, power supply and memory.  ? Created internal auction website for outdated hardwares. Education Information Decision Systems San Diego State University - San Diego, CA 1998 to 2000 Associate in Liberal Arts Palomar College - San Marcos, CA 1996 to 1998 Skills Active Directory, HTML Assessments Technical Support — Highly Proficient August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/nhcsrhh-xhsqq32n Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.