Network Analyst <span class="hl">Network</span> Analyst Network Analyst - Washington County of Minnesota Oakdale, MN Work Experience Network Analyst Washington County of Minnesota May 2015 to Present Operate communications network facilities (links, routing and switching systems), network  monitoring and control facilities  ? Monitor and implement network use and security protocols  ? Administer networks (LAN, WAN, Wireless networks) in the data center and remote locations  ? Analyze, monitor and troubleshoot network systems  ? Maintain network infrastructure, hardware, software, services and configurations  ? Implement, configure and administer routers and switches which include the data center Nexus OS IT System Generalist www.accessiblespace.org May 2014 to May 2015 Provide assistance and support in the areas of computer systems and data processing.  ? Create/update user accounts and set up of peripheral devices.  ? Provide direction and training in understanding computer hardware, software and systems  applications.  ? Provide consultation and support to all agency users when problems arise or troubleshooting is  required while working to prevent future occurrences.  ? Assist in maintaining network, monitor regular back-up processes and data storage, and monitor  anti-virus protection.  ? WAIK image cloning software.  ? Support Windows XP/7/8. Windows Server 2008/2012. Exchange Server 2010. Cisco VPN client.  Barracuda Web Filtering. IT Technical Consultant Switchback Systems (www.switchbacksystems.com ) February 2014 to May 2014 Switchback Systems is an IT Services company focuses on managed IT services and consultancies.    ? Give IT Desktop Support to end users (on call / remote session (RDP / Teamviewer / GotoAssist / Dameware remote control) / onsite) to Switchback System's customers on demand: Office IT Technical Specialist - IT Helpdesk Wells Fargo September 2013 to January 2014 Be a part of Wells Fargo IT Helpdesk team working in Call Center, providing IT Support:    ? Answer phones and provide enterprise applications and general support to end-users  ? Support Windows Active Directory logon credentials.  Confidential  ? Support Check Point Security Full Disk Encryption to protect data exposure.  ? Troubleshooting VPN connection issues for remote users (SSL VPN with RSA Token security  device).  ? Provide customer support in a friendly and courteous manner (New migration computers and Windows XP/7 end-user workstations).  ? Escalate problem tickets or transfer calls as needed using BMC Remedy ticket system. Lead Network & System Engineer BMW Euro Auto Vietnam September 2010 to May 2013 Installed, implemented and maintained functional roles of Windows 2008 R2 server (Active  Directory Services, Folder access securities, and Windows Update server, DHCP, DNS server, Routing and Remote Access, IIS ).  ? Performed the Windows 2003 Active Directory migration from old Windows 2000/2003 server to Windows 2008 Server R2 new server.  ? Experience in implementing and maintaining SQL database 2000, 2005, 2008 Server which MS  Dynamics CRM, Dynamics Navision and other applications are used.  ? Experience in MDaemon email server and anti-virus/ spam used for mailbox server and develop  email server gateway (using PineApp email appliance) to protect email to be exploited by attacks.  ? Experience in using UTM firewall appliances (Cyberoam, Fortinet, Cisco IOS state full inspection  firewall) to protect internal networks from attacks.  ? Good ability of implementing and configuring Cisco router to establish IPsec VPN site-to-site as well  as VPN client.  ? Ability to configure Layer 2 & 3 switches with VLAN securities.  ? Performed backup strategies using backup software (Symantec Backup Exec, ARCserv Brighstor, Windows Backup) and backup devices (tape drives, NAS, IBM storage) to ensure the minor  possibility of data recovery loss and system downtime.  ? Knowledge in implementing and managing VMWare ESXi Vsphere ver5 and Hyper-V. Virtually  convert physical servers to virtual environment.  ? Good experience in Desktop support, troubleshooting OS and applications such as Windows XP, 7  and MS Office 2003/2007/2010, antivirus security software (Symantec  Endpoint/Kaspersky/NOD32/).  ? Experience in Windows desktop in imaging and deployment using tools WAIK/ Sysprep/ ImageX/  MDT/ WDS.  ? Good knowledge in various hardware products (HP/DELL/IBM) to build servers, backup devices, network devices, etc.  ? Good knowledge and experience in supporting mobile & portable devices including platforms such as Apple iOS, Windows phone, Android and RIM OS (including backup & restore, Apps installation,  email setup, firmware upgrade, data synchronization). File resource manager RRAS 2010 to 2013 2010/2013, virus issues, printing, networking support, applications,  ? Manage customer's server systems remotely on the daily basis to ensure they are fully functional  and under secured.  ? Support Windows server 2003/2008/2012 networking services: Active Directory / DNS / DHCP / RRAS / File resource manager / IIS / Certificate Authority, etc  ? Manage and configure firewall features specialized in Watchguard products: Firewall policies / IPS / Web blocker / Spam blocker filtering / Traffic shaping / Failover  ? Perform and manage backup jobs using Windows NT backup / Windows Server Backup / Symantec Backup Exec 2010-2012 and Mozy online backup service. Tape and external hard drives  are destination backup devices  ? Configure and manage Exchange server 2003/2007/2010/2013 and online Exchange with Office  365.  ? Work with IT team to have solutions on improving the quality of services for customers' systems.  ? Perform other duties when needed. Network Engineer/ Administrator NETiKA IT Services September 2005 to September 2010 Evaluated, deployed and maintained Servers to operate smoothly and properly trained end-users  and technical specialists.  ? Managed I.T operations and system for customers  ? Consulted, designed and set up new system for customers based on Windows platforms  ? Supervise the installation of IT network infrastructure project for a new company setup (design  Confidential  infrastructure/cabling/server room installation).  ? Consulted, planned, built and managed implementation of Windows Systems for creating  installation standards, workstation's upgrades and consultations.  ? Developed test and recovery plans for Servers including hardware platforms, backup software, communications and power supplies  ? Designed, documented and implemented standards for upgrading several Windows 2000 Server to  2003 Server without any disruptions  ? Deployed, coordinated and maintained different kinds of mail server systems including Exchange  Server 2003, MDaemon, Lotus Domino Server 6  ? Setup, maintained, and defined backup strategies for database of ERP Server using NAVISION  application  ? Provided consultations and teamed in the implementation of numerous remote office connected via  Leased line using IPSec VPN technology  ? Planned, scheduled and managed daily backup software (NTBackup, Symantec Exec Backup or CA Brighstor, Symantec System Recovery) with different kinds of Internal and External backup  devices such as HP, IBM, Dell  ? Deployed firewall security, group policy to limit the attack of external using Cisco IOS firewall based  and Cyberoam UTM firewall appliance  ? Planned annual I.T budget for Customers  ? Good communication skills and provided quick support to customers remotely or on call effectively.  ? Company references: New Viet Dairy, Tigers Alliance Capital, Gedeon Richter, Guyomarch, Lanxess Rep. Office VN, Abbott Fournier VN, Tomboy Aqua feeds.    IT Helpdesk G.O.L Co., Ltd May 2004 to August 2005 Responsibility to support all staff in the office related to IT problems such as network, mail  problems.  ? Managed and maintained the server systems  ? Weekly reporting to the manager  Confidential Administrator Messaging Cisco Nexus OS, IOS, IOS-XE, ASA Firewall 2003 to 2003 Networking: Cisco Nexus OS, IOS, IOS-XE, ASA Firewall, NGFW, ISE,  ? IT Management Certification Wireless LAN Controller, Prime Infrastructure. Sophos UTM, Checkpoint  (certified by Infochief Academy ) R77, Palo Alto Networks  ? VMWare ESXi VSphere training  MCIPT: Microsoft 70-680 Windows Other: VMWare ESXi Vsphere ver5, Hyper-V. Cyberoam firewall UTM,  7 Configuration Training Fortinet, CCNA Wireless Training  ? Technology: EIGRP, OSPF, RIP, VRF, Policy BAsed Routing, HRSP, vPC, VTP, VLAN, Multicast, STP, Radius, AAA, L2/L3 network security, VPN,  PortChannel, 802.11x, DHCP, DNS, SNMPv2, Linux, SSH, Wireshark, tcpdump, WinSCP.  Confidential Cisco Nexus OS, IOS, IOS-XE, ASA Firewall 2000 to 2000 3000/7000 switches and Catalyst IOS-XE 3750/3850/9300  ? Install, configure and administer Cisco wireless LAN controllers 5508 and light weight/autonomous  access points 2600/3500/3700/3800  ? Install, configure and administer Cisco Prime Infrastructure 3.0  ? Install, configure and administer Cisco ISE 2.0, create network authentication/authorization policies  - 8201.x for remote access policy which includes VPN access, mobile wireless, guest wireless and employee wireless networks.  ? Install and configure Solarwinds Network Performance, Solarwinds Netflow NTA for network  monitoring.  ? Implement, configure and administer Cisco ASA firewalls 5505/5506/5540 and Cisco Next  Generation Firepower 2100/4100 including Cisco FMC for access polices and system stats  analytics.  ? Administer Check Point Security Appliance 4800 R77.30 Firewall and IPS blades only  ? Install, configure and administer Sophos UTM SG-650 for domain web filtering  ? General knowledge in Palo Alto firewall product lines, and technologies. Working on a online  PaloAlto firewall administration training course from Stormwinds LLC.  ? Analyzed and recommended solutions and upgrades to services to streamline processes.  ? Install and administer NetMotion VPN for remote users to access cooperate resources.  ? Install, maintain County fiber networks up to 10Gb links between sites.  ? Reviewed logs for all networking devices for unresolved abnormalities and problems with Solarwinds Kiwi Syslogs, PRTG  ? Install, configure secure PCI credit credit card system and related State system for the County and Sheriff departments  ? Configure and monitor Spectracom NTP devices.  ? Upgraded and expanded network systems and components.  ? Provided network support and performed troubleshooting to resolve various WAN/LAN connectivity  issues.  ? Diagnosed system hardware and software problems using advanced root-cause analysis.  ? Communicated with vendors to resolve network outages and periods of reduced performance.  ? Documented all server and network problems and other unusual events in detail.  ? Upgraded network software and hardware for optimized performance.  ? Participate in IT projects within departments and County wide  ? Work closely with Server Team to provide sufficient, efficient network resources such as connectivity, bandwidth, IP addressing, NAT, firewall policies.  Confidential Education Bachelor in Information in Technology Century College 2017 Skills Router, Ccna, Cisco, Network Security