Data Services Technician Data Services Technician Multi-Talented, Inventive Professional Erie, PA Although largely comprised of IT experience, my varied work history has made me widely versatile in my abilities to support the needs of an employer in several capacities. I am privileged to have had opportunities to fulfill the demand of crucial roles for large scope projects and depended on to deliver exceptional results. I look forward to undertaking many more challenges and advancing in my field. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Data Services Technician Process and Data Automation - Erie, PA 2018 to January 2018 Assisted Data Services team with client projects: Create databases, tables and stored procedures with SQL  ? Setup and configure new servers with client specific software and configurations Computer Technician Contractor Saint Vincent Hospital - Erie, PA September 2017 to December 2017 Supported electronic medical records software changeover to Epic EHR  ? Unpacked and assembled new PC equipment and peripherals  ? Loaded and transported new workstations to main hospital and satellite offices  ? Deployed and installed small form factors, mini PC's, thin client, laptops and peripherals  ? Setup printers, scanners, cameras, multi-display workstations and employee training facilities  ? Configured and patched over new workstations Delivery Driver Valerio's Italian Restaurant - Erie, PA June 2016 to September 2017 Primary responsibilities included delivering food to customers in a timely and professional manner along with providing an excellent customer service experience. In addition, delivered catering orders, dropped off deposit, ran business errands, took phone orders and assisted colleagues when needed Logistics Lead Veterans Affairs Medical Center - Gaithersburg, MD August 2014 to February 2016 Supervised the logistics operations for the "Point of Use" program at Veterans Affairs Medical Centers in Erie, PA/Washington D.C./Baltimore, MD/Cleveland, OH/Indianapolis, IND  ? Traveled to and assessed the project requirements of each assigned VAMC along with overseeing the successful implementation of several site specific strategies for productive logistics operations  ? Coordinated project efforts with VAMC administrative personnel, vendors and an array of contractors.  ? Served as a liaison between Veterans Affairs Medical Center, Veterans Engineering, and Shipcom Wireless providing updates, feedback and solutions to all "POU" project involved parties  ? Administrative duties included but were not limited to thorough reporting, organizing  of staff, sensitive assignments, the acquisition and deployment of materials, accounting for high value inventory, processing purchase orders, quality control checks and achieving deadlines  ? Implemented several standard operating procedures for site specific logistics processes  ? Prepared order projections and managed the shipping/receiving of equipment  ? Assisted both in house and client IT teams in the setup, patching and configuration of the project related network workstations and peripherals  ? Aided in a successful system GO LIVE and served thereafter as onsite technical support    Professional Experience continued Network Administrator Lake Erie OB - Erie, PA September 2008 to February 2010 Responsibilities as the Network Administrator included but were not limited to the management of the primary office and satellite office network infrastructures  ? Managed network security, server backups, system performance, network setup, print and email services, remote access, software licensing, and user access control  ? Performed system updates/upgrades, end user training, and troubleshooting  ? Redesigned, upgraded and configured the computer and phone network infrastructure tripling workstation efficiency, improving network security, and increasing overall network performance  ? Re-negotiated internet and phone service provider contracts including EHR software/hardware support  ? Facilitated the conversion of the paper chart system to electronic medical records  ? Facilitated a successful implementation and GO LIVE of new EHR system and served as technical support  ? Coordinated with electrical, mechanical, construction, HVAC, and plumbing contractors Education Associate in Technology Erie Institute of Technology Inc April 2012 High School Diploma Harborcreek Christian Academy Skills Sql server, Sql, Technical support, Deployment, Active directory, Customer Service, Strategic Planning, Network Administration, Vmware, Exchange, VoIP, Citrix, Excel, Vendor Management, IT Management Certifications/Licenses Driver's License December 2018 to October 2022 Pennsylvania Driver's License Assessments Management & Leadership Skills: Planning & Execution — Proficient June 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to effectively plan and manage resources to accomplish organizational goals. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/dvcuju0kvg8iu3xj CRM Skills with Salesforce — Highly Proficient June 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to demonstrate a knowledge of Salesforce objects, fields, and processes. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/a8otlxyltb3-htwt Technical Support — Proficient June 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/trgghetix8vbibf4 Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.