South Division System Administrator South Division System <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Dallas, GA Motivated I.T. professional with over 7 years of work experience and with multiple certifications in the I.T. industry. Currently pursuing mid to senior level Network/ System administration or engineer positions. Also entry-level Data Science/Analyst or Web Developer position.    *NOTE: Additional work experience and job References available upon request. Listed most recent to keep length of resume short. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience South Division System Administrator Airgas an AirLiquide company - Kennesaw, GA April 2017 to Present ? Assist IT Director in making business and network infrastructure decisions by analyzing related data, software and/or hardware and present all findings within a summarized or detailed report.  ? Weekly maintenance checks and monthly wsus patches to servers.   ? Configure and support Cisco routers and managed switches. (2911/2960, MPLS, VPN, EIGRP, HP Aruba switch)  ? Creating and providing access of shared folders to end users.  ? Reporting and performing primary troubleshoot checks for network outages or other related network issues for branches.  ? Replace hardware and configure as needed.  ? Create new or adjust current the configurations Hyper-V virtual machines. System / Data Center Administrator ABM Industries - Alpharetta, GA July 2016 to April 2017 Provide remote hands and eyes for system/ network engineers.  ? Hardware and software configurations and installation of managed products.  ? Create tickets within the established ticketing system to address customer calls, data center facility, network and/or system related alerts.  ? Communicate network status within SCOM/SCCM management system application.  ? Manage IBM iSeries backups to include offsite replication and perform restores when required via iSeries. Network Engineer (Remote) LogicForce Consulting, LLC - Atlanta, GA September 2015 to May 2016 ? Troubleshoot, identify, and resolve often complicated desktop, server, VoIP, and network issues sometimes involving customer specific software, both remotely and onsite when required.  ? Create and update documentation :  network diagrams, asset tracking spreadsheets, and specific installation procedures.  ? Provide network administration services.  ? Manage and monitor client’s backups to include offsite replication and perform restores when required. Education Not listed in Data Science and Web Development Codecademy - Atlanta, GA January 2019 to Present Associate in Network Administration ATI Career Training Center - Fort Lauderdale, FL April 2011 to April 2012 High School Diploma Dillard High School - Fort Lauderdale, FL August 2001 to June 2005 Skills System Admin, Active Directory, Vmware, System Administrator, Python (1 year), R (1 year), Excel Data Analysis (Less than 1 year), Excel, Business Intelligence, SQL, Javascript, Linux, Angular, HTML5, Jquery, CSS (Less than 1 year), Wordpress, Front End, Angularjs, HTML, Cisco routers and switches, Symantec endpoint