NMCI Premier Support Technician NMCI Premier Support Technician NMCI Premier Support Technician - Perspecta Virginia Beach, VA A dedicated and experienced Information System Technician professional who through good work ethic and quality leadership maintained, operated, and restored naval shipboard networks. Equally capable of working alone or as a member of a team, and can be counted on to complete task that show initiative and solving problems. Work Experience NMCI Premier Support Technician Perspecta 2019 to Present On-site support for Naval Expeditionary Combat Command Headquarters.  ? Closed approximately 250 incident tickets including a wide range of issues including software package installs, hardware replacement, and connectivity issues.  ? Administered over 200 upgrades from Windows 10 1607 to Windows 10 1803 NMCI Field Service Technician ACI FEDERAL 2017 to 2019 Closed and repaired approximately 900 incidents including a wide range of issues including software package installs, hardware replacement, and connectivity issues.  ? Assist in the deployment of Windows 10 operating system to 450 assets throughout the network.  ? Work with the Engineering department to assist in correcting issues in the software.  ? Trained three personnel on the standard operations and troubleshooting methods for the site. Subject Matter Expert United States Navy 2016 to 2016 Facilitated 40 hours of in-depth training of the network infrastructure, containing 30 routers and 45 servers both Microsoft/Linux, to 15 co-workers across four watch teams, resulting in 30 newly obtained qualifications, qualifying them to work at a higher level with more responsibilities, and improving operational readiness by 40%.  ? Conducted seven in-depth training evolutions to improve reaction and efficiency in responding to network outages, six out of the seven evolutions were completed at a 100% level. In example, how to isolate and determine what is causing the outage, and how to quickly fix the issue. Objects they would go down would be a specific router or a Microsoft/Linux server. System Administrator United States Navy 2015 to 2016 Conducted over 250 preventive maintenance checks on 30 Windows/Linux Servers in the process assuring as minimum downtime increasing operational uptime by thousands of hours.  ? Administered over 75 vulnerability scans using a form of McAfee Vulnerability Scanner, improving the unit's information security posture by 25%.  ? Conducted in-depth troubleshooting, on a wide variety of issues from routing loops to server outages, to isolate specific issues during major network outages.  ? Maintained server racks and Cisco, Juniper, and Mcafee hardware preventing issues caused by poor circulation.  ? Input inbound and outbound rules into firewall according to the proper documentation. Network Technician (Watch Supervisor) United States Navy 2015 to 2016 Led a watch team of four to isolate and restore 52 shipboard network outages, increasing network availability 5% to a combined total of 125 deployed units.  ? Executed 21 activations of a shipboard networks, including e-mail and internet services.  ? Isolated the causes of routing loops and directed personnel to contact proper channels.  ? Coordinated Ships crossing into other NOC's Area of Responsibility, as well as, configuring the DNS records to point accordingly.  ? Trained four individuals up to Supervisor qualification level in a span of six months.  ? Gave periodic updates to my superiors during outages.  ? Conducted 50 Security Technical Implementation Guide checks on Microsoft/Linux servers Network Technician (Watch Stander) United States Navy 2014 to 2014 Troubleshot e-mail and internet issues for ships in our respected Area of Responsibility.  ? Performed daily maintenance on virtual and physical servers, as well as routers, firewalls, and VPN's according to our maintenance standard operating procedures.  ? Monitored the network via a web application to see if there were any network outages out the time.  ? Actively troubleshoot T1 and RF communications for multiple different enclaves (Unclass, Secret, and Centrix/NATO)  ? Monitored E-mail queues to verify all ships were under threshold. Education Bachelor's Degree in Cyber and Network Security in Cyber and Network Security ECPI University - Virginia Beach, VA 2017 to 2020 "A" School - Pensacola, FL 2014 Skills Linux, Dns, Web-based, Maintenance Assessments English Communication Skills: Typing — Highly Proficient August 2019 Measures a candidate’s ability to effectively transcribe text using a standard keyboard. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/bcsvapacdelvhxaz Data Entry — Expert August 2019 Entering data quickly and accurately. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/suft-p5vgnfn4-z Technical Support — Expert August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/yv7uvj1cbkafkkno Critical Thinking — Highly Proficient August 2019 Using logic to solve problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/eho-uaxkj0-e6ayt Problem Solving — Proficient August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to analyze relevant information when solving problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/url4huuefeyhs3ta Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information TECHNICAL PROFICIENCIES  • Preventative maintenance on both Linux and Windows Servers.  • Perform security patches on Linux and Windows Servers.  • Work with and configure DNS records.  • Troubleshoot issues in a ticket format, both, Desktops and Servers.  • Work with Remote Assistance based programs.  • Monitor network infrastructures using web-based software.