PC / Network Technician PC / <span class="hl">Network</span> Technician Network administrator Cranbury, NJ Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience PC / Network Technician Avtech Institute - South Plainfield, NJ July 2018 to Present • On-site networking and technical support to internal customers providing Network Cabling, TCP/IP Intra-Networking.  • Other duties included: overseeing and managing a little over 100 desktops / work station, monitor network connectivity, configuration, cloning and image of Hard Drive, update software. Seasonal IT Equipment Coordinator Amazon - Robbinsville, NJ October 2018 to January 2019 • Repairing and managing the IT inventory.  • Solving more than 5 tickets in the IT queue every day.  • Transferring the equipment to other buildings as needed.  • Installing the software for manager's laptops as they requested.  • Re-imaging the laptops and desktops after they were isolated.  • Collaborating with team that sets up the Gift Wrap Stations during peak time.  • Configuring basic network troubleshooting for Network devices.  • Checking the four areas' equipment that are functional every day.  • Maintaining and auditing the equipment every month. Business Developer Huahai US Inc - Cranbury, NJ August 2015 to May 2016 • Created and managed the medical database using Microsoft Access which decreased the time lapse to accessing information from 2-3 hrs. to instantly (within seconds).  • Troubleshot computer hardware problems, used Dreamweaver to maintain the official website. Portfolio Manager Assistant SAC Capital Advisors - New York, NY June 2013 to August 2013 Performed data collection  Analyzed data from a variety of sources  Developed reports using Excel and Internet while ensuring accuracy of data. System Administrator China Network Communication - Tianjin, CN August 2007 to December 2008 • Provided systems administration support for 3 branches in He Xi District including server and workstation upgrades, backup and disaster recovery monitoring, user account setup and security administration.  • Helped resolve virus outbreak, isolated and removed virus that had infiltrated systems to ensured that the installed applications and network functioned properly and sorted out minor issues such as insufficient speed and crashes. Education Certification Rowan College at Burlington County - Mount Laurel, NJ Compia A+ AVTECH Institute of Technology - South Plainfield, NJ Bachelor of Arts in Information Technology and Informatics Rutgers University - New Brunswick, NJ Skills Microsoft Office (3 years), Routers (1 year), Switches (1 year), Hardware (2 years), TCP/IP (2 years), Administrative Assistant (3 years), Active Directory (1 year), Networking (2 years), Windows (2 years), Windows Server (2 years), Cisco Certifications/Licenses CompTIA A+ July 2018 to Present CCENT February 2019 to Present