Project Coordinator + Office Assistant Project Coordinator + Office Assistant Project Coordinator + Office Assistant To achieve new heights and grow in life with own efforts and skills combined with Organizational  goals to achieve a win -win situation. Work Experience Project Coordinator + Office Assistant Site January 2018 to June 2019 Place of Posting: Muweilah Commercial Sharjah, UAE    Job Responsibilities  • Assisting and supporting the Project Manager in their daily duties.  • Ensuring that relevant management information is captured and analysed.  • Providing project support to senior Project Managers.  • Reviewing the efficiency and effectiveness of service delivery.  • Responsible for handling the projects finances.  • Acting as administrative support to Project Managers and Directors on projects.  • Identify, analyze, prioritize, mitigate and communicate project risks.  • Helping the Contract Manager with the development of operating procedures.  • Writing up documentation for safety procedures.  • Communicating with project manager to report on project status.  • Resolving any financial queries that are raised.  • Involved in Coordinating projects from inception to completion.  • Developing training and briefing material for staff. Leading and organizing a team.  • Answer phone and transfer to the appropriate staff member.  • Take and distribute accurate messages.  • Receive, sort and distribute incoming mails.  • Prepare outgoing mails for distribution.  • Fax, scan and copy documents  • Maintain office filling and storage systems.  • Update and maintain internal staff contact lists.  • Type documents and, reports and correspondence.  • Monitor and maintained office supplies. Junior Network Administrator Site - Peshawar, PK December 2016 to November 2017 Place of Posting: Peshawar, KPK Pakistan    Job Responsibilities  • Managed and administered Windows/Linux systems - Performed periodic maintenance, provided technical support and executed systems engineering.  • Designing, Implementing, installing and configuring Microsoft Windows 2003 / 2008  Server.  • Troubleshoot and provide technical analysis concerning operating system, network, and application performance issues to resolution.  • Maintained the timely back-up of important data and management resources.  • Provide support for backup/recovery and disaster recovery solutions.  • Provide training on programming and system side for students.  • Managing & remote administration, user rights, accounts, policies, group policies and network resources.  • Maintained, upgraded and trouble-shoot the PC hardware and congressional office LAN  networks.  • Provided both hardware and software support to the clients.  • Troubleshoots problems with operating systems, network access and a variety of software applications.  • Coordination with students regarding their study activities and problems.    Work Experience: 1.6 Year Education Bachelor's