Field Service Representative Field Service Representative Field Service Representative - CACI International Morrisville, NC Knowledgeable IT administrator with 5+ years of military experience installing, designing and maintaining Network Operations. Actively holds Department of Defense Top Secret security clearance with SCI eligibility and possess a high aptitude of telecommunication skillsets that have been effectively applied in both high demanding environments and enterprise infrastructures. Proven problem-solving administrator, equally capable of managing a team to accomplish an objective or work independently. Ambitious and goal oriented, with initiative to work until the job is complete. Able to quickly understand organization’s network priorities and operating capabilities to meet their unique IT goals. Work Experience Field Service Representative CACI International - AF January 2019 to Present Afghanistan  Supervisor: Kenan Mcray (843) 877-2842  Hours per week: 84    Responsible for providing customer support through the performance of on-site product/solution installation and sustainment. This includes overseeing and/or performing any necessary diagnoses, troubleshooting, service, and repair of complex equipment and systems. Checks out and approves operational quality of solution components. Instructs customers in the operation and maintenance of the solution. Serves as company liaison with customer on administrative and technical matters for assigned projects. Interprets customers' needs, defines next steps, and clarifies the assignment of responsibility for problem resolution as needed. Includes any aspect of field support and is not limited to system hardware, software, network, and other technical infrastructure components    • Reside on site at location assigned OCONUS.  • Travel to customer sites as needed, to conduct troubleshooting steps. While also being able to troubleshoot remotely, to bring the system back to being fully mission capable.  • Serve as a Systems Engineer/Field Service Rep focusing on installations and O&M tasks across the Counter-RCMA mission.  • Work with highly motivated technical teammates in an individual and team environment.  • Assist supporting numerous customers that the Sky Tracker team supports  • Oversee the 24/7 requirements as part of the O&M offerings for OCONUS customers Network Systems Deployment Engineer Trident Systems Inc - Morrisville, NC May 2018 to November 2018 Supervisor: Nigel White (910) 729-9464 Hours per week: 40    Serving as a Systems Engineer while monitoring, analyzing, operating, maintaining, programming, and providing technical support for all installed vendor and government-owned IT networking hardware and software, (i.e., Cisco Ethernet switches and routers, Cisco VoIP phones, HP Servers, WSUS, Dell KACE, Active Directory, Share Folder / Shared Drives    ? Establish and maintain user accounts with Active Directory on Microsoft Windows Operating Systems.  ? Responsible for the management of day-to-day network and systems engineering development, planning, oversight, administration, management, and implementation of all Non-Secure Internet Protocol Router (NIPR).  ? Independently carries out assigned projects, interpreting policy and regulations in accordance with established objectives, resolving most conflicts, and coordinating work with others.  ? Purchased, installed and configured, HP DL 360/380 ProLiant Servers as Email, VMWare, DNS, and Web Servers.  ? Employed network encryption devices, Access Control Lists and 802.1x Port security measures on operating HP Servers.  ? Operated network management systems (NMS) such as SNMPv3  ? Uses various network diagnostic tools and test equipment to discover equipment malfunctions and operational difficulties.  ? Troubleshoot and diagnose data, voice and networking equipment problems and provide resolution/technical assistance to a diagnosed problem.  ? Recommends and implements corrective actions to several possible problems discovered during troubleshooting of various networking and switching equipment in accordance with standards and current operating procedures.  ? Configured, maintained, diagnosed and resolved networking issues on Cisco Ethernet switches.  ? Monitors network devices/ systems and interconnected equipment to verify operational capability and adherence to Information Assurance policies and guidance.  ? Analyzes equipment and software reliability and utilization reports to identify and correct problem areas, while working with supervisory staff to establish computer and telecommunications performance levels. Multi-Channel Systems Administrator US Army Active Duty - Fort Bragg, NC January 2015 to July 2018 Supervisor: Cierra Uzzle (804) 536-5455 Hours per week: 40    Serving as an Multi-Channel Systems Administrator while monitoring, analyzing, operating, maintaining, programming, and providing technical support for all installed vendor and government-owned IT networking hardware and software, (i.e., Cisco Ethernet switches and routers, Cisco VoIP phones, HP Servers, Command Post Nodes, Joint Nodal Networks, Satellite Transportable Terminals, KIV 7M, and TacLanes.    ? Design and set-up Local Area Networks in both office and field environments. Install and troubleshoot Cisco routers, switches, workstations, and HBSS (host-based security system, which includes McAfee AV and firewalls)  ? Conduct repairs and reimaging of user systems; resolve user software issues and apply patches/updates  ? Establish and maintain user accounts with Active Directory on Microsoft Windows Operating Systems.  ? Performed hands-on OSI Layer 1 and Layer 2 troubleshooting on connected Hubs, Printers, CISCO IP Phones and Switches upon trouble ticketing requests.  ? Administered Secure and Non-Secure tactical IP routing and switching LAN, managed over 22 CISCO Switches, 400 LAN lines, and 5 fiber runs to establish a Network Operation Center  ? Employed network encryption devices, Access Control Lists and 802.1x Port security measures on operating CISCO ISR Routers (2811 & 3825) & Lay-3 3560 Catalyst Switch, and DMVPN Tunneling via OSPF (Broadcast) routing.  ? Installed and maintained stationary and mobile communication system including RAID tower, Satellite Transportable Terminal (STT), Joint Network Node (JNN), and Line-of-sight (LOS) equipment.  ? Developed and implemented Standard Operating Procedures (SOP) for the repair, installation, and upgrading of assigned equipment. Education BS in Computer Science Western Governors University January 2018 to Present Skills Customer Service, Excel, Microsoft Word, Receptionist, Powerpoint, Microsoft Office, Customer Service, Active Directory, Network Administration, Remedy, Switches, Vmware, Sharepoint, Servers Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/aaron-reeves-73a06987 Military Service Branch: United States Army Rank: Specialist Certifications/Licenses CCNA July 2019 to July 2022 Security+ July 2019 to July 2022 Fiber Optic Installer August 2016 to August 2020