Technical Support Specialist Technical Support Specialist Technical Support Specialist - Vista Paint Corporation Fullerton, CA A highly competent and organized network engineer with experience of installation, troubleshooting,  upgrading and administration of networked systems and applications. Work Experience Technical Support Specialist Vista Paint Corporation - Fullerton, CA May 2018 to Present Duties:  • Troubleshooting user issues in Active Directory on a VMware ESXi  environment.  • In charge of configuration and maintenance of Cisco switches for headquarters and 50 stores (VLANs, IOS Upgrades, SSH, Port Security).  • Configuration and troubleshooting of Microsoft Windows 7, 8, 10 and Mac  OS, Office 365 and Outlook, VPN accounts, desktop and laptop computers, WinTerm thin clients, printers, copiers, scanners, mobile phones, tablets, POS  hardware.  • Installation and maintenance of security cameras and DVR equipment.  • In charge of installation and maintenance of Dash Cameras for 95 trucks.  • In charge of troubleshooting and maintenance of 230 Apple iOS and Android OS company phones.  • Walking staff/clients through a series of actions, face to face or over the telephone.  • Log all issues and resolutions into the help desk tracking system.  • troubleshooting of network LAN/WAN/Wi-Fi environments.  • Monitoring and maintaining computer systems and networks.  • Testing and evaluating new technology.  • Respond to support requests pertaining to computer software, hardware, and network-communication related issues to troubleshoot and resolve. Field Service Technician iBacc Inc - Costa Mesa, CA August 2017 to March 2018 Duties:  • Building, configuration and troubleshooting of desktop hardware.  • Network cabling (data, camera and audio).  • Installation and configuration of Sound systems (Sonos, Yamaha).  • Cabling and Installation of VOIP phones.  • Installation and configuration of (access points, IP and DVR cameras, printers, scanners).  • Hardware and software upgrades, data backup and migration.  • Implementation of smart home projects.  • Implementation of video walls, audio/video transfer.  • Cooperate in installation of POS systems.  • Windows and Mac troubleshooting.  • Ensuring that support tickets are logged and handled effectively and efficiently.  • Traveling to the sites in California and Hawaii for projects and tasks. Network Administrator Amin Etemad Karafarin - Tehran, IR December 2012 to May 2014 Iran    • Building, configuration and troubleshooting of server and desktop  hardware.  • Designing, implementing and managing Active Directory.  • Installation of Rack Units and patch panels.  • Installation, configuration and maintenance of Internet firewall.  • Installation and maintenance of closed-circuit security cameras.  • performing system backups.  • Ensure adequate antivirus protection & solutions are maintained and updated.  • Providing support over the telephone, remotely and face to face to users.  • Providing advice on selection and purchase of IT equipment.  • Obtaining quotes for supply of goods and services from suppliers.  • Responsible for disaster recovery, closing security loopholes and access  levels. Technician of Informatics Electropeyk - Tehran, IR December 2011 to December 2012 Iran    • Maintaining 200 Windows computers.  • Building, configuration and troubleshooting of desktop hardware.  • Providing support over the telephone, remotely and face to face to users.  • Installation of new network equipment (IP Cameras, printers, Copy  Machines, access points).  • In charge of anti-virus software/server for all computers and servers.  • Contacting 3rd party software companies to resolve users' problems.  • Creating employee training materials and procedures to teach in-house  workers proper software use. Education Bachelor of science in Information and Communication ICT 2011 Associate of science in Telecommunications Eqbal University 2009 Roozbeh University Skills Active directory, Dhcp, Tcp, Tcp/ip, Vmware, Dns, Firewalls, Backups, Disaster recovery, Symantec, Excel, Microsoft exchange, Microsoft office, Outlook, Word, Mac, Customer service, Cabling, Excellent customer service skills Certifications/Licenses cisco switches Additional Information KEY SKILLS AND COMPETENCIES    • Good understanding of: Server Hardware Technology, LANs, WANs.  • Knowledge & understanding of backup technologies & disaster recovery  methods.  • Experience of: VMWare, Mac, Windows 2008/2012/2016, Active Directory  Group Policies, TCP/IP, DNS, DHCP.  • Installation and configuration of SonicWALL & MikroTik firewalls  • Systems backups and recovery  • Cabling and installation of IP camera systems  • Virus and spyware removal  • Hands on experience with Veeam  • Hands on experience with Symantec backup  • Hands-on experience with Microsoft Exchange  • Hands on experience with Microsoft Office Suite (Excel, Word, Outlook,  power point, office 365)  • Experience in installation of sound systems and video walls  • excellent customer service skills