Desktop Administrator Desktop <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Desktop Administrator - ITC • Active Certified professional with Over all 5+ years' work experience in admin infrastructure design, configuration and implementations.  • Windows upgradation windows 7/8 to windows 10, windows Server 2012 to win Server 2016  • Windows 7,8,10 imaging using Win Ghost.  • Strong understanding of ticketing software ConnectWise, service now.  • Strong understanding of monitoring tools like PRTG, Caccti.  • Strong working knowledge of data center operations, administration and management to include server build, rollout and systems implementation and security.  • Expert in creating operating system images, driver packages, task sequences through Ghost and their maintenance.  • Hands on experience in Optimize system operations and perform system capacity analysis and planning.  • Hands on experience in virtualization using Vmware, ESXI 6.0, Hyper V.  • Familiar performance tuning networking/security and wireless infrastructures.  • Expert in software and patches to endpoints throughout enterprise.  • Expert in Cisco Networks, routing and switching and related protocols, LAN/WAN.  • Expert in diagnosing and resolving problems across a variety of hardware platforms.  • environments following standard configuration management processes and procedures.  • Completed documentation in relation to detailed work plans, mapping documents.  • Troubleshoot and resolve system administration related issues, providing both on-site and remote support.  • Supervise the administration of systems and servers related network to ensure availability of services to authorized users.  • Experience in responding to inquiries from staff, administrators, service providers, other internal departments and outside vendors and etc. to provide technical assistance and support.  • Able to communicate complex information clearly with all levels of staff organization wide.  • Good process orientation and ability to clarify objectives, evaluate options, consider implications, assess risks, and make key decisions.  • Sound planning, organizational, time management, and problem solving skills.  • Willingness to participate in an on call rotation as well as work after hours as necessary.  • Troubleshoot problems with hardware and software. Maintain an activity log of problems, analyze data, and make recommendations for action.  • Manage projects estimating timelines and deployment schedules.  • Installs, configure, and manage network and server software and updates.  • Design, Configuration, Implementation, and Support of all network components.  • Provide troubleshooting and diagnostic services. Work Experience Desktop Administrator ITC - College Park, MD November 2016 to Present Responsibilities:  • Expert in creating operating system images, driver packages, task sequences through Ghost, Wds, Sccm etc. and their maintenance.  • Managing domain controller, disk quota, profiles.  • Configure DNS, DHCP, FTP, FSRM, Web Server, File Server.  • Configuring Local and Network Printer.  • Configuring AP and the maintenance.  • Replacement of hardware of different server.  • Configuring Enterprise Anti-virus. Desktop Administrator Brightwood College August 2016 to 2019 Responsibilities:  • Configuration of Wireless AP and DSL modems.  • Windows upgradation windows 7/8 to windows 10.  • Windows 7,8,10 imaging using Win Ghost, Acronis.  • Managing Domain controller and Additional DC  • Managing P2P network using Optical Fiber.  • Managing Isa Server 2004/2006 standard edition as a Firewall.  • Hands on experience in Optimize system operations and perform system capacity analysis and planning.  • Familiar performance tuning networking/security and wireless infrastructures.  • Expert in software and patches to endpoints throughout enterprise.  • Expert in Cisco Networks, routing and switching and related protocols, LAN/WAN.  • Expert in diagnosing and resolving problems across a variety of hardware platforms.  • Managing Centos Linux as PBX and Eyebeam at client end (Sip Phone).  • Managing FTP server and File server.  • Hyper-V management.  • Coordinate with vendors.  • Disaster recovery testing.  • On-Call/after hours support of the Windows Server environment. Assistant Network admin International Rescue Committee March 2009 to June 2010 Responsibilities:  • Expert in diagnosing and resolving problems across a variety of hardware platforms.  • environments following standard configuration management processes and procedures.  • Completed documentation in relation to detailed work plans, mapping documents.  • Troubleshoot and resolve system administration related issues, providing both on-site and remote support.  • Supervise the administration of systems and servers related network to ensure availability of services to authorized users.  • Configuration IBM x series 346 Blade server with RAID.  • Configuring Access Point.  • Install/Update Operating Systems and business applications on Windows PC's.  • Install/Upgrade Computer Hardware.  • Configure and track IT equipment for new hires.  • Administration of Active Directory such as permission to file, creating account.  • Maintain IT Knowledgebase with known issues and resolutions.  • Configure VPN client on laptops for remote access.  • Strong customer service skills and willingness to assist others.  • Able to communicate complex information clearly with all levels of staff organization wide. Skills Associate (Less than 1 year), Ccna (Less than 1 year), Cisco (3 years)