Apprentice HVAC Apprentice HVAC Omaha, NE I desire to further my knowledge and experience in the Information Technology field. I am quick to catch on and enjoy a good challenge. I work great in a team or alone. If given the opportunity, I'd be a great asset to any company and I aspire to help them further their goals and work with them to complete projects in a quick and efficient manner. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Apprentice HVAC Aksarben Heating and Cooling - Omaha, NE May 2019 to Present Assist with the mapping out and hanging of new duct work for commercial jobs. Network Administrator First National Technology Solutions - Omaha, NE July 2018 to April 2019 Assist in Daily processes such as ticket handling, configuring firewall rules, installing new hardware and maintaining network connectivity for customers. Collaborating between departments to make sure that tickets are resolved in a timely manner, and that all Cisco devices are configured correctly. Making appropriate changes to Palo Alto configurations for firewall rules, as well as maintaining customer configurations through audits. Sr. Customer Care Specialist First National Bank of Omaha - Omaha, NE December 2017 to April 2019 To handle inbound calls for Card holders, as well as to answer questions that the Card holders have. Provide exceptional customer service and direct calls to the correct department to provide the best experience for the Card Holder. Network Support Technician Run Networks - Omaha, NE February 2017 to November 2017 Managed incoming calls for technical support ranging from simple to complex and escalated calls to the next level of support as needed. Managed Antivirus solutions for the company, which ranged from new installs to technical problems. Managed and provided support for cloud backups. Tender/Operator Intersystems - Omaha, NE May 2015 to February 2017 Maintain work area, clean cut material, load and unload material, Operate the Python, call programming for program issues, order material, order consumables, assist welders if needed, maintain list of materials. Education Associate in Applied Science Health Information Technology Professional Metropolitan Community College Skills Microsoft Office (5 years), Active Directory (1 year), Troubleshooting (1 year), Cloud Backup and Storage (Less than 1 year), Antivirus troubleshooting and Installs (1 year), Autocad (1 year), NC1 Programming (1 year), Windows 7 (3 years), windows 10 (2 years), Customer Service (2 years), EHR (Less than 1 year), Knowledge of Networking Equipment (1 year), Knowledge of Ticketing Systems (1 year), Cisco Networking (Less than 1 year), Call Center (1 year), Networking (2 years), Technical Support, Windows Additional Information Looking to expand my knowledge in the Information Technology field. I catch on quick and I'm eager to learn. I enjoy challenges as well as working as a team to achieve goals and improve aspects of the company.