Director of IT Infrastructure and Operations Director of IT Infrastructure and Operations Director of IT Infrastructure and Operations - Experior Transport Work Experience Director of IT Infrastructure and Operations Experior Transport May 2019 to Present In May 2019, I became the head of IT at Experior, working endlessly to maintain a healthy budget, train new IT staff, improve and repair existing systems, and be the bridge between IT and the rest of the company, while also taking a leading role in the company's future by suggesting new technologies and modernizing one of America's oldest industries.    EMAIL:  adlowe3@hotmail.com    FOCUS  IT Systems Infrastructure and Administration    Hardware    Software    Systems Sr. Systems Administrator III/IV December 2018 to May 2019 In December of 2019, I began management of all existing onsite IT infrastructure and systems that were not directly networking related. I also maintained all existing responsibilities, while taking a more direct role in the department's future and finances. System Administrator I September 2018 to December 2018 Trained heavily under the existing IT Director to fill the empty role of Systems Admin and IT Business Analyst, taking over management of a few servers while maintaining all previous responsibilities. Help Desk II July 2018 to September 2018 Worked hand in hand with the existing Executive level management and Directors to not only provide support for all end users, but to begin taking on projects as I saw fit to increase my skillset and improve the company IT infrastructure. IT Support Analyst II Insurance Auto Auctions August 2017 to July 2018 Provided essential Level 1, 2 and 3 support for a company with over 7,000 employees nationwide (including KAR Services), learning key enterprise level skills. Network Engineer NexGen Networks January 2017 to July 2017 Worked tirelessly to maintain all existing IT infrastructure at over a dozen companies as well servicing, repairing, and replacing servers in major data centers local to the Chicago Area. Associate Technician KMP Enterprises January 2015 to August 2015 Integrally involved in the seamless integration and deployment of Radiant 6 POS platforms at over 250 client locations nationwide. Education Computer Science and Computer Software Development Waubonsee Community College May 2012 to Present Waubonsie Valley High School May 2012 Assessments Technical Support — Expert August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/sgfpbqg6gisqjvju Project Management Skills: Time Management — Highly Proficient August 2019 Prioritizing and allocating time to effectively achieve project deliverables. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/ygspwynimnadxcln Supervisory Skills: Directing Others — Proficient August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to motivate the performance of others through feedback to identify improvements or corrective actions. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/ewc9scozfdhrmyty Supervisory Skills: Interpersonal Skills — Proficient August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to maintain productive team working relationships by identifying conflict and settling disputes. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/vse6ebk2tpio57ya Project Management Skills: Budgeting — Highly Proficient August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to manage project budgets by appropriately allocating and monitoring financial resources. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/k7udeneumnzr9c3y Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information MAJOR SKILLS (IN YEARS)