NETWORK ENGINEER <span class="hl">NETWORK</span> ENGINEER NETWORK ENGINEER - Freedom Bank Of Virginia Clinton, MD Ambitious IT professional pursuing a satisfying yet challenging career. Seeking a quality environment where my knowledge can be shared and enhanced for the growth of the organization and self. Work Experience NETWORK ENGINEER Freedom Bank Of Virginia - Fairfax, VA October 2018 to Present Managed application patches, data backup, security changes and network configuration and loaded and tested software applications.  • Performed maintenance of computer systems, server upgrades and operating systems.  • Installed, supported and maintained company hardware and software infrastructure according to best practices.  • Analyzed, troubleshot and enhanced network performance to drive efficiency.  • Diagnosed and executed resolution for all network and server issues.  • Monitored network capacity and performance, as well as diagnosed and resolved complex network problems.  • Managed application patches, data backup, security changes and network configuration and loaded and tested software applications.  • Collaborated with engineering to report issues, manage project deliverables and provide status reports. SYSTEM ADMINISTRATOR Freedom Bank Of Virginia - Fairfax, VA August 2017 to Present Ensured network, system and data availability and integrity through preventative maintenance and upgrades.  • Manage network accounts and access rights using active directory • Implemented company policies, technical procedures and standards for preserving the integrity and security of data, reports and access.  • Manage and troubleshoot daily IT issues with end users • Monitored network performance and provided network performance statistical reports for both real-time and historical measurements.  • Configured, tested and maintained network equipment.  • Recommended network security standards to management. INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY SPECIALIST INTERN D C Government - Washington, DC 2014 to 2017 • Responded to customer requests via telephone and email.  • Trained junior members of IT team regarding network security and troubleshooting of data circuits.  • Consistently met deadlines and requirements for all production work orders. INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY SPECIALIST INTERN D C Government - Washington, DC May 2016 to September 2016 • Provided end-user support to over 2000 users • Monitored servers, network connections, firewalls and corporate filters.  • Maintained hardware and software with new installations, repairs and patches.  • Identified and corrected performance issues.  • Imaging workstations to ensure a standard configuration in a uniform environment.  • Trained users in the proper use of hardware or software.  • Ensured proper release and maintenance of all systems.  • Ensured proper installation of cables, operating systems and software.  • Referred major hardware and software problems and defective products to vendors or technicians for service.  • Implemented new services into production. Education Bachelor of Science in Cyber Security Pennsylvania State University - State College 2017 Skills Vmware, Cisco, Active Directory, security, Exchange