System Administrator System <span class="hl">Administrator</span> System Administrator Singapore Work Experience System Administrator Pole to Win January 2019 to June 2019 Type: Full Time  Last Drawn Salary: $2700  Reason for Leaving: Corporate restructuring  • Collect requirements, analyse, design, Implement, test, and monitor corporate computing environment including but not limited to: Active Directory Service; Network Routers, Switches, Security Appliances, and Wireless Access Points; Office 365 administration; User Account Administration; Server backup and restore; Windows/Linux Servers.  • Management of the Office 365 environment including Office, Exchange, SharePoint and Skype for Business.  • network routing and redundancy principles and practices in a multilayer network.  • configuring and troubleshooting VPN tunnels using Cisco ASA.  • Produce regular reports for systems utilization and up-time.  • VMware configuration. L2 Desktop and L1 network Engineer Willis Towers Watson August 2018 to December 2018 Type: Full Time  Last Drawn Salary: $2500  Reason for Leaving: Contract ended  • Perform troubleshooting of desktop through remote RDP, Dameware and intel AMT  • Windows server configurations includes SQL, SCCM and AD  • Processing ticketing system through Service Now  • Liaise with vendors to troubleshoot hardware problems  • Cisco switches and routers IOS configurations with Putty  • Install, config and maintain Client machines.  • VMware configuration. IT Engineer NCS Pte Ltd, Technology Department @ MOE Schools October 2017 to June 2018 Type: Full Time  Last Drawn Salary: $2400  Reason for Leaving: Contract ended.    • Perform troubleshooting for client platform related problems  • Desktop configurations (Hyper V, remote desktop, Server configurations)  • Network switches and routers troubleshooting  • Perform service request related to client platforms  • Internet and network troubleshooting  • Install, config and maintain PC and Networkcomponents.  • Respond promptly to incident, investigate & provide temporary &/or permanent resolution of incidents escalated. Provide timely status updates to relevant parties. L1 Network Engineer(temp) Azbil Corporation April 2016 to June 2017 Type: Temp  Last Drawn Salary: $1800    • Install and configure cisco routers and switches.  • Install and maintain VAV devices throughout entire building.  • Install and configure Access Points for WIFI connections.  • Install BMS onto the servers and connecting electronic devices into the switches. L2 Desktop Engineer NCS Pte Ltd November 2014 to April 2016 Type: Full Time  Last Drawn Salary: $1800  Reason for Leaving: Contract ended    • Deployment of window s OS  • Desktop configurations (Hyper V, remote desktop, Server configurations)  • Assist IT managers in performing manual updates  • Internet and printer troubleshooting  • Install, config and maintain PC hardware components. Education Diploma in IT sevices WSG (Lithan Academy) October 2017 to July 2018 Diploma in Mechatronics ITE Tampines October 2014 to March 2017 Mechatronics Nanyang Polytechnic Certifications/Licenses Diploma in IT Services October 2017 to Present MCSA/CCNA/ITIL/PMP from lithan academy