Network Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Network</span> Systems <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Bakersfield, CA Work Experience Network Systems Administrator Holmes Western Oil Corporation - Taft, CA June 2018 to Present Hired as Network Systems Administrator role to configure, troubleshoot, evaluate, monitor and enhance the IT infrastructure. Provided ongoing development and maintenance of IT infrastructure with an emphasis on availability, reliability, scalability, security, data confidentiality and system integrity. Provide training to new and existing employees as needed.  ·        Upgraded Domain to Windows 2016 Server/Exchange 2016 Server   ·        Manage all new install projects for servers, switches, and other network resources  ·        Performed all levels of hardware and software systems support for 90 computers and 18 printers  ·        Performed hands-on administration, monitoring, and troubleshooting of LAN and WAN, resulting in optimum performance and minimum downtime  ·        Assisted other team members in providing next level Help Desk support  ·        Installed and configured all VPN solutions for wireless devices, laptops, desktops and networked printers  ·        Suggest new standards to use the security filtering feature to limit GPO application, and to utilize user preferences for mapping network drives instead of running "net use" scripts.  ·        Installing new / rebuilding existing servers and configuring hardware, peripherals, services, settings, directories, storage, etc., in accordance with the standards and project/operational requirements.  ·        Performing daily backup operations with Veritas, ensuring all required file systems and system data were successfully backed up to the appropriate media  ·        Planning the required maintenance of all servers, desktops, laptops, hardware, software and networks to provide a stable and reliable environment.  • Active Directory (Manager Account Users, OUs, Domain, Site)  • PRTG monitoring tool to manage resources, including power, environmental, server details Technology Services Manager Community Action Partnership of Kern - Bakersfield, CA March 2015 to April 2018 Recruited by CAPK to revitalize the agency’s IT department. Took full-circle approach of improving team morale, standardizing delivery of IT services, and improving both end-user and inter-departmental relationships. Responsible for effectively balancing the businesses needs within IT capability; constantly reviewing IT  processes, then identifying ways to improve efficiency & service while proactively managing all areas of Technology within the company.    ·        Manage and support hardware and software operations at 98 locations across Central California, including more than 20 Windows 2008 r2, 2012 r2 and 2016 servers providing service to 900 employees  ·        Research new technologies and calculate future needs to achieve accurate capacity planning.  ·        Negotiated hardware and software purchases and maintenance contracts.  ·        Developed, implemented and monitored service level agreements with staff, ensuring compliance and quick resolution of specific issues.  ·        Researched and implemented webinar/video conferencing for agency  ·        Implemented helpdesk ticketing system  ·        Directed and supervised a 3-member team providing email, desktop and network support, Active Directory administration and Help Desk support.  ·        Designed and implemented a wireless network for CAPK Headstart sites  ·        Facilitated team meetings, individual consulting to motivate team members and foster a cohesive work environment.  ·        Setup, implement and deploy Office365 and Skype for Business  ·        Develop, coordinate, delegate and plan work projects  ·        Applied and got CAPK approved for e-rate by creating RFP, Forms 470, 471 and 486.   ·        Create, edit and maintain GPOs and Active Directory  Create and edit IT Policy and Procedures Education High school or equivalent Kern Valley High School - Lake Isabella, CA August 1996 to June 1999