Network Administrator <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Network Administrator Miami, FL Install, configure, and support an organization's local area network (LAN), wide area  network (WAN), and Internet systems or a segment of a network system. Monitor  network to ensure network availability to all system users and may perform  necessary maintenance to support network availability. May monitor and test Web  site performance to ensure Web sites operate correctly and without interruption.  May assist in network modeling, analysis, planning, and coordination between  network and data communications hardware and software. May supervise  computer user support specialists and computer network support specialists. May  administer network security measures.  Professional, detail-oriented Network Administrator motivated to drive projects  from start to finish as part of a dynamic team. Well organized individual, used to  working under pressure. A qualified and experienced Network Administrator in  medium sized companies. Experienced in meeting strict deadlines through  effective communications skills and personal commitment to the job. Self-  motivated, with an outgoing personality and the determination to succeed.  Skill:  • Critical Thinking - Using logic and reasoning to identify the strengths and  weaknesses of alternative solutions, conclusions or approaches to problems.  • Reading Comprehension - Understanding written sentences and  paragraphs in work related documents.  • Complex Problem Solving - Identifying complex problems and reviewing  related information to develop and evaluate options and implement  solutions.  • Judgment and Decision Making - Considering the relative costs and benefits  of potential actions to choose the most appropriate one.  • Server virtualization in Linux and Windows.  • Spanish (Mother Tongue), English (Upper Intermediate). Work Experience Network Administrator Business Group GEOCUBA - Havana September 2012 to June 2015 Havana Cuba.  • Manage and monitor IT infrastructure for at more than 25 different clients and sites. Define performance indicators, monitor and generate corrective  actions needed of servers, networks, storages, applications and backups.  • Virtualization: Management and advanced monitoring. Capacity planning for the virtual infrastructure and resource optimization. Performance analysis and troubleshooting.  • Established network specifications by conferring with users, analyzed  workflow, access, information, and security requirements, designed router  administration, including interface configuration and routing protocols.  • Evaluated network performance issues including availability, utilization,  throughput and latency; planned and executed the selection, installation,  configuration, and testing of equipment, defined network policies and procedures, established connections and firewalls. Education Bachelor of Science in Telecommunications Instituto Superior Politécnico José Antonio Echeverría - Havana 2012