Network Administrator <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Virginia Beach, VA Work Experience Network Administrator Atlantic Bay Mortgage - Virginia Beach, VA September 2011 to Present Responsible for maintaining integrity of network infrastructure (WAN and LAN) and security on a company wide basis. (~350 people)  Manage firewall policies on clustered Watchguard firewalls in two branch locations. I am currently implementing a zero route policy to filter all traffic through either branch firewall clusters based on geolocation.  Manage over 20 branch locations, providing connectivity to company services via VPN tunneling and remote access to VoIP services.  Completing migration from old digital PBX to new VoIP Digium Switchvox (Asterisk) phone system for 300+ users.  Before installation of new VoIP system was directly responsible for management of NEC and Avaya digital telephone systems at multiple branch locations.  Trained (and continue to train) entire company on new phone system through interactive sessions, one-on-ones, and via video sessions to ensure transition from old PBX system as smooth as possible.  Create new users, deploy new phones, and manage number inventory for entire company via providers and internal documentation.  ?  Design and implement IVR and phone tree logic to mimic old system while utilizing new features of the phone system to greatly add to functionality and performance.  Directly responsible for maintaining communications with multiple telecom carriers for both troubleshooting and service ordering/project management. Vigilant in my efforts to make clear to carriers our needs before projects are executed and work to correct misunderstandings.  Monitor network, servers, and other devices via PRTG software and syslog messaging to ensure stable network performance , reliable VoIP operations, Netflow/Sflow data from all primary ingress/egress points, and review traffic data for anomalies that would impact security and network health.  Manage and deploy QoS strategy for all routers/ switches to ensure adequate bandwidth for all services.  Work directly with Cisco 3825 routers running IOS 15.1 and HP procurve switches including layer 3 5412z (triangle style campus LAN), Procurve 2800 series and 2500 series.  Provide project budgeting and recommendations to Sr. Management for various projects.  Examples include new VoIP phone system, security services such as network sniffers and firewall devices, branch deployment needs such as switches, routers, cabling, and provider services, and IT specific technologies such as PRTG monitoring servers, Syslog etc.  Work directly with vendors to troubleshoot issues, train on new technologies, and build relationships for future endeavors. Ensure a clear line of communication between vendors/contractors to stay within budget and to set expectations for future projects.  Manage overall direction of four help desk technicians to ensure tickets and projects are kept on-task. Also responsible for training techs on new technology/solutions and assisting techs when necessary in escalated ticket situations. Education BS in Economics James Madison University - Harrisonburg, VA 2001 to 2005 Skills Currently hold CCENT Cisco certification. Studying for CCNA Routing and Switching exam. Cisco IOS 15.1, GRE over IPSEC tunneling, OSPF, BGP, QoS, Spanning-Tree (MSTP, RSTP), HSRP and VRRP (HP) fail over, Layer three switching, VLAN trunking, Virtual Routing and Forwarding (VRF) implementations, NAT, port-mapping, ACL administration and construction, IPv4 routing, DNS, DHCP, and NTP and NetFlow. HP Procurve OS 15.0 to 15.13; VLAN trunking, SNMP, SFLOW, SSH, port trunking. Watchguard Fireware OS v. 11.6 and up; LDAP integration, Web Policy management, Static and Dynamic NAT, node monitoring and reporting, Fireclustering on XTM 850 and XTM 5 series, Application filtering. Vyatta 6.3 NAT, OSPF, GRE over IPSEC tunnels. ESXi 5.0 and 5.5, managing virtual infrastructure using a virtual switching fabric. Windows Server 2003 R2, Windows Server 2008 R2 Active directory administration, DNS, DHCP, NTP, fileserver, iSCSI, Group Policy administration, Server maintenance and DFS administration. OSX 10.5 and above, all versions iOS. Currently integrate small group of Macs in AD environment using OSX server to mimic AD policy and enforce Kerberos authentication/password policy. Sole admin of all OSX and iOS devices. Dell KACE remote management server for asset management, update and software installation standardization. Paessler PRTG network monitoring software installation, set up, monitoring and reporting. Video over IP using MCU from LifeSize and Orion. Additional Information Lead Help Desk Technician, Former Role (< 2 years):  Responsible for providing support on all company technologies for over 300+ employees.  Created, maintained, and deployed multiple system images for various platforms (mobile and workstation).  Worked very close with third party developers and software companies to ensure software performed to expectations, often times pointing out bugs related to implementation to software companies as issues presented themselves. Either used a fix from the third party or developed a work-around until vendor could develop a permanent solution. Communicated issues to upper management and company employees as Issues arose to build understanding between employees and IT department's intentions.  Eventually managed new hires for helpdesk position. Trained and managed workflow to ensure new hires could take on larger responsibilities including more advanced tickets and eventually micro-project administration, giving them free-reign to design solutions to improve helpdesk work flow and producing an environment conducive to specialization and ultimately self-reliance.  Provided a much needed upgrade in service style and trouble ticket turnaround times. Always customer-focused.  Used Spiceworks ticketing system to manage and prioritize tickets, made myself available through other mediums such as instant messenger, email, and phone to facilitate greater communication.  Set a standard for service excellence that resulted in multiple accommodations and recognition company-wide.