Network Administrator <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> San Diego, CA . I am currently located in San Diego, CA. I have received my Cisco Certified Network Associate CCNA Certification, and I am currently working on my CCNP (642-813, 642-832, 642-902). I am seeking an opportunity that will enable me to utilize my skills, experience and adaptability to obtain an entry-level Network Administrator position. I am seeking a position where I am constantly challenged. My greatest strength is that I am highly motivated and my ability to walk into a new environment and be functional immediately. I am a talent for grasping new technologies and configurations, and adapting to new or evolving situations. I work very well under pressure.  A brief highlight of the skills and values I would bring to your organization include:  • Knowledge of installation, configuration and troubleshooting switches and routers.  • Acquired analytical, research, interpersonal and organizational skills developed through on-the-job training within an IT environment.  • Hard-worker, determined achiever and team-player with initiative.  • Proven ability to provide exemplary customer service and support, contributing significantly to development of networks based on identified needs.  I believe that a combination of my analytical, technical troubleshooting skills combined with a high customer service ethic and would serve well in any position.  I greatly appreciate you taking the time to review my credentials and experience. I hope that you'll find my experience, interests, and character intriguing enough to warrant an interview, as I am confident that I could provide value to you and your customers as a member of your team. Work Experience Network Administrator Dept of US Army - Hohenfels April 2011 to May 2013 As an Intern for 69th Signal BN Network Enterprise Center, I work 3 days per week plus weekends to utilize my education and troubleshooting skills. My tasks included setup, configure, and support internal networks. I assisted with troubleshooting network performance issues, switch and router upgrades, patches, network configurations and installing new equipment. I have knowledge of commonly-used concepts, practices, and procedures. I rely upon instructions and pre-established guidelines to perform the functions of the job under immediate supervision. Education Cisco Certified Network Associate in IT Cisco 2013 to 2016 Skills • Advance knowledge with LAN/WAN, TCP/IP, EIGRP, OSPF, RIPng w/ IPv4 & IPv6 Cisco/Foundry Switches & Routers. • Excellent knowledge in IP Networking and Routing Protocols. • Ability to install, operate and troubleshoot a small enterprise branch network, including basic network security. • Skills to diagnose, restore, repair, and replace critical Cisco networking and system devices. • Knowledgeable of networking fundamentals, wireless concepts, routing and switching fundamentals, and configuring simple networks. • Proficient with Microsoft Word, Excel, Access, PowerPoint, and Internet. • Excellent knowledge with Active Directory and DHCP • Excellent knowledge with Linux Mint, Windows 8, Windows 7, Windows XP • Familiar with Ubuntu, Mac, UNIX