NETWORK ADMINISTRATOR <span class="hl">NETWORK</span> <span class="hl">ADMINISTRATOR</span> NETWORK ADMINISTRATOR - VR NETWORKS INC Chantilly, VA • Consistently recognized for technical troubleshooting skills used to rapidly and cost-effectively resolve challenging technical issues • Providing excellent customer service along and technical knowledge • Works well in a team or alone, able to quickly learn and master new technology and hardware.  • Good exposure on Cloud based technology Cisco Meraki (MDM) • Knowledge of managing mobile devices by using Cisco Meraki.  • Create user and roles, adding users into group, disable users and reset password in Active Directory.  • Managing DNS and DHCP Servers.  • Working configuration of new VLANs and extension of existing VLANs on/to the necessary equipment to have connectivity between two different data centers.  • In-depth expertise in the analysis, implementation, troubleshooting & documentation of LAN/WAN architecture and good experience on IP services. Work Experience NETWORK ADMINISTRATOR VR NETWORKS INC - McLean, VA June 2016 to Present • Used Meraki dashboard to manage networks with 50+ devices • Set up and troubleshoot APs for guest access on sites • Troubleshot Meraki hardware • Experience with captivate screens • Troubleshot user issues with MS office • Desktop support Administration • Provided Network VLAN support for operations on setting up PCs, Printers and Cisco AP's Vendor Management over Infrastructure for voice, data, fiber and phone system support Network cabling and dressing in compliance with standards, installing new hardware & swapping with old hardware.  • Set up and maintained user computers with regular updates and security cleanings.  • Work on in-house network monitoring software that monitors network traffic and networking devices such as Cisco switches & Routers and used in troubleshooting general LAN/WAN problems.  • Office 365 maintenance for different clients.  • Installation and configuration of Sonicwall firewall TZ215, TZ300 and TZ600.  • Claiming, adding and configuration of Meraki Switches (MS220) and WAP Wireless access points (MR33).  • Installed and configured Cisco Small Business managed switches.  • Set up and managed user emails on all devices (phones, computers, tablets, etc) • Created tickets for all issues using Kayako • Procured & set up IP (Polycom) 8X8 phones and troubleshot issues with the phones and their network connection • Conducted monthly maintenance on client servers • Created and maintained documentation for all sites ( Network maps, Tutorials, IP information) • Dealt with other vendors, created proposals and acquired hardware for clients.  • Experience with troubleshooting systems like Win 7, 8 & 10 as well as iOS and Android.  • Set up new users on client servers using Server 2012 R • Created group policies and connected shared drives for users • Conduct through site surveys. Education Bachelor's in Political Science VCU - Richmond, VA January 2014 to December 2016 Skills Technical Support, Active Directory, Windows, Networking, Microsoft Office, Windows 7, Vmware, Customer Service Additional Information • Quick Study  • Computer Networking    • Inter-personal skills  • Customer Service