Network Administrator <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Las Vegas, NV • Experienced Computer Engineer committed to maintaining cutting edge technical skills and up-to-date industry knowledge.  • Recent college graduate with network administration knowledge, including back-up, security management, email systems and applications support.  • Systems architect with expertise in requirement gathering and analysis, architectural, component and interface design and development for web-based applications in multiple domains.  • Possess extensive knowledge of course development, instructional design and recourse coordination  • Expertise in developing web-based instructional materials and teaching aids Proficient in delivering effective classroom training sessions  • Highly skilled in creating user guides and troubleshooting technical manuals  • Possess excellent presentation and teaching skills  • Ability to develop and lead technical training program sessions  • Ability to generate technical concepts in a clear and precise manner  • Excellent organizational skills and ability to prioritize workload  • Attention to detail and precision, solid work ethics concerning meeting deadlines and reliability. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Network Administrator Refinery Nico Lopez - La Havana, Cuba - Cuba, LA September 2012 to October 2014 • Developed and implemented complex Internet and Intranet applications on multiple platforms.  • Provided maintenance and development of bug fixes and patch sets for existing web applications.  • Ensured network, system and data availability and integrity through preventative maintenance and upgrades.  • Recommended network security standards to management.  • Coordinated with systems partners to finalize designs and confirm requirements.  • Repaired and replaced hardware  • Installed software and operating systems on company computers.  • Set up equipment for 50 employees, including installing cables and hardware.  • Resolved computer hardware and software, printing, installation, word processing, email and operating systems issues.  • Ordered necessary supplies and parts to repair malfunctioning hardware. Education Bachelor in Computer Science University of Computer Science - Cuba, MO 2007 to 2012 Skills • Computer assembling and maintenance • Troubleshooting hardware and software problems • Installing and configuring the peripherals, components and drivers • Installing software and application to user standards • Sound knowledge of digital and analog embedded computer hardware • Wide knowledge of motherboard and circuit designs of monitor • Deep knowledge of printer and cartage refilling • Expertise hands in troubleshooting of Computer hardware related problems such like UPS, Printer and Drivers • Virus Protection and Eradication • Familiar with web technology HTML CSS • Office Package: Microsoft Word, Microsoft Excel, Microsoft Access, Microsoft PowerPoint, Microsoft Outlook Express • Excellent problem-solving abilities • Windows and Linux • Network maintenance • System upgrades • PHP • Extensive knowledge of operating systems like Microsoft Office XP/2007/NT/ Vista and Linux