Network Admin <span class="hl">Network</span> Admin Network Admin - AT&T Grand Prairie, TX I am an IT Professional with building, securing, administering, and troubleshooting complex, enterprise-level computing environments. I have a demonstrated ability to manage complex technical projects, bringing together and balancing diverse technologies, vendors, personnel, and deadlines. I am also proficient in troubleshooting, diagnosing and resolving network issues, managing and maintaining network architecture, troubleshooting and repairing servers/desktop concerns, making recommendations for improvements and design in the underlying network architecture. Highly self-motivated with a reputation for developing strong relationships with peers, customers, vendors and supervisors. Can be relied upon to deliver assignments on time and to the highest quality. Able to work independently, as well as be a highly productive member of a team. Work Experience Network Admin AT&T October 2017 to Present • Serve as part of a team of network engineers responsible for base wide network upgrade from DSL to VDSL(FTTP) for enterprise customers.  • Installing, configuring and troubleshooting VOIP using AT&T gateways.  • strategies for the expansion of the MPLS VPN networks.  • Actively involved in Switching Technology Administration including creating and managing VLANS, Port security- 802.1x, Trucking 802.1Q, RPVST+, Inter-VLAN routing, and LAN security on Cisco Catalyst Switches4507R+E, 6509-E and Cisco Nexus Switches 2232, 5596, 7009.  • Worked on configuration commissioning and upgradation of the MPLS circuits for various branch offices and disabling all unused ports and putting them in unused VLAN and ensuring DHCP.  • Experience working with ASR 9000 series switches with IOS-XR.  • Provided Layer-3 redundancy by implementing HSRP and GLBP for High availability.  • Design and implement Catalyst/ASA Firewall Service Module for various LAN's.  • Integrated Microsoft active directory (LDAP) into checkpoint for identify awareness and user authentication.  • Implemented the policy rules and DMZ for multiple clients of the state on the Checkpoint firewall.  • Experience in adding Rules and Monitoring Checkpoint Firewall traffic through Smart Dashboard and Smart View Tracker applications.  • Installed and administration of Checkpoint R 75.40 Firewall.  • Involved in Management of security policies of firewalls through Checkpoint Provider-1, other tasks include license and operational support management.  • Hands on experience on all software blades of checkpoint firewall.  • Extensive Packet level debugging and troubleshooting on Palo Alto Firewalls to resolve numerous network issues. Platforms PA 4000 and PA 500 and PA- 200 firewalls.  • Upgraded all network devices for compatibility of integrating all Palo alto network with VMware NSX.  • Configuring rules and Maintaining Palo Alto Firewalls & Analysis of firewall logs using various tools.  • Configuring and monitoring IDS and IPS systems. Analyzing and correlating logs from firewalls, servers, IDS/IPS, and other network devices.  • Deployment and management of Cisco routing, switching, firewall, and IPS/IDS platforms. Monitor Intrusion Detection Systems (IDS) console for active alerts and determine priority of response.  • Provides management level reporting of firewall and Intrusion Protection System (IPS) activity on a periodic basis.  • Involved in configuring Juniper SSG-140 and Check point firewall.  • Implementation and Configuration (Profiles, I Rules) of F5 Big-IP LTM-6400 load balancers.  • Worked on troubleshooting issues on F5 LTM related to network, objects, servers and experience in rectifying issues related to F5 LTMs using F5 support services.  • Monitored and responded to network anomalies utilizing Solar winds/Orion's software and recommended appropriate network solutions for issues.  • Experience in Packet capturing, troubleshooting on network problems with Wireshark.  • Working with different teams to gather info for the new request and troubleshoot for any connectivity issues by capturing traffic using TCPDUMP and smart view tracker. Supported Senior Network Administrator WALMART December 2016 to October 2017 with network management including server administration / backup, enterprise communication services, security monitoring, performance improvement and investment decisions.  • Installation, configuration and maintenance of the Empire City Laboratories system, Windows Server platforms, user workstation applications and 2000/XP/Vista/Windows 7 operating systems, network infrastructure and communication lines.  • Troubleshooting application errors on the system, registry and network levels; diagnosed and repaired all issues.  • Administered Bring Your Own Device (BYOD) program utilizing the Good for Enterprise solution to support employee Apple, Android and Windows Phone products.  • Infrastructure support services included network configuration (e.g., user rights, sharing of drives / files, print devices, server queues); diagnosing and resolving TCP/IP and network mapping issues; installation and patching of wiring closets.  • Installation, configuration and maintenance of multiple Cisco routers and switches; troubleshooting and diagnostics of routers populated via EIGRP, Static or OSPF.  • Supported Windows Server 2003/2008 platforms including installation, administration and decommissioning of various hardware and software solutions (e.g., servers, DC's, VMware).  • Installed and configured equipment such as IP phones, IP TV's, printers, scanners, instruments, storage, HID input devices, and biometric devices.  • Assisted design, implementation and deployment of company-wide ServiceNow service desk solution.  • Provided technical support in person, by phone and via web-based helpdesk solution; assisted users with various inquiries (e.g., MS Office / Outlook, proprietary applications, data recovery using network-based same-day recovery system, remote access to resources). Network Administrator GAMESTOP December 2015 to December 2016 • Configure / Troubleshoot CISCO 9000, 7500, 3800 series routers and 3560 series switches for LAN/WAN connectivity.  • Updated and installed CISCO IOS and Catalyst OS software on different Switches and Routers.  • Involved in Configuring and deploying Cisco Catalyst 6513E, 6506, 4948E, 4510 switches and Cisco 3750, 3560, 2960, 2921, 2950 2911 series switches.  • Involved in the activity of DATA-Center migration of regular Cisco catalyst switches with the new Nexus2148, 2224T, 5548, 6018, 7010 using F3/M3 line-cards with 10GE & 40GE interfaces and Supervisor 2E/2T.  Involved in design and implementation of Data Center Migration, worked on implementation