Network Administrator <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> St. Louis, MO Work Experience Network Administrator Keyonna Daniels 314-437-1114 - St. Louis, MO January 2009 to January 2012 I received inbound calls from customers and clients who required network trouble shooting. I assisted clients with connecting their laptops to Wi-Fi; I also assisted clients with cable TV installations, also software installations, as well as in some cases hardware installations. For customers who recently purchased printers, I assisted those clients with printer setup, installation, and usage. I also helped customers with re-installing their operating systems, upgrades and patch work.  My additional Information Technology experience consists of providing technology support to end users, as well as product and services and software programs. This experience also includes the installation of computing equipment, to include computers and printers and then verifying the equipment's functionality.  I also handled computer application issues and resolutions, to include logging into computer programs, and teaching the end users how to use IT enabled tools as well as the new programs.  In summary my job description included answering technical questions, also analyzing technology problems, as well as providing assistance in regards to when computers crash, and using technology protocols.  I also diagnosed and investigated computer problems. As for educational qualifications I have a Bachelor's degree in Information Technology. Education Masters of Business Administration in Human Resource Management Colorado Technical University On-line - Colorado Springs, CO 2013 to 2014 Masters of Science in Management Information Systems Security Colorado Technical University Online 2011 to 2013 Additional Information Skills  Web Graphic Design, Project Management, Accounting I and II, Payroll Accounting Micro Computer General Ledgers, Microsoft Applications Specialist, Microsoft Application Specialist, Project Management skills  I also have a vast amount of Sales Representative experience