Network Administrator <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> IDF NETWORK ADMINISTRATOR US Work Experience Network Administrator IDF - Ramat Gan January 2015 to August 2017 I served nearly 3 years as part of a team that handled the support and maintenance of the unit's LAN, this includes  • Configuring users and group policies in our sub domain with Active Directory.  • Troubleshooting technical issues with our user's computers whether software or hardware related.  • Troubleshooting network related errors  • Keeping track of open tickets (part of our web based CRM system) with our higher level support and our users.  • Installing and troubleshooting printers in our network.  • Installing windows (custom IDF Windows image) and any other software packages needed for specific officer.  • Cable management - network racks, RJ wall connectors, PC cable management etc.  • Maintaining anti-virus installations and updates.  • Keeping track of inventory as well as orders - Printers, toners and replacement parts, Laptops, Desktops, computer replacement/upgrade parts and other related peripherals.  •Documentation of new technical concerns and troubleshooting techniques. Education High school "Mor" Metro-West - Ra'anana September 2011 to June 2014 Skills Active Directory., Cisco, DHCP, DNS, Exchange, Vmware Certifications/Licenses CompTIA A+ January 2019 to January 2022 Additional Information Skills and technologies    • MS: Windows XP-10, Windows Server 2003/2008, Exchange 2010, Office 2007-2013, Office 365, OneDrive, Skype  • Google: All platforms(Cloud, G suite, Gmail, Docs etc.)  • Hypervisors - VMware, Vsphere, Virtual Box  • Cisco switches  • Cable management  • Active Directory and Group policy  • DNS, DHCP, TCP/IP  • Mobile devices (Hardware and software repair)  • Printers and Scanners - Laser and Inkjet printers.  • Ubuntu/Unix like OS's  • Imaging software    • -Proficient in providing support over phone, e-mail or in person/remotely to both technical  and non-technical users.  • Good troubleshooting and analytical capabilities.