Network Technician <span class="hl">Network</span> Technician Monroe, GA Work Experience Network Technician Total Technology Solutions - Bogart, GA February 2017 to Present Network Administrator Quality Network Solutions - Sullivan, IL January 2015 to November 2016 Expert in computer operation and troubleshooting both computer hardware and software  ? Expert in computer networking establishment and troubleshooting  ? Familiar understanding of most office technology (fax machines, printers, scanners, etc)  ? Capable of heavy lifting if it is required to do so (60+ lbs)  ? Professional behavior when in a work area  ? Familiar with inventory controls  ? Expert in virus removal procedures  ? Some knowledge of soldering  ? Familiar with several versions of Linux Operating Systems (Ubuntoo, Mint, Fedora, Red Hat, Knoppix, and Backtrack)  ? Expert in computer repair  ? Expert in installation of Linux, Windows 2000, Windows Server 2003, Windows Server 2008, Windows XP, Windows Vista, and Windows 7  ? Knowledge of server roles (DNS, DHCP, Web Server, WINS, and Streaming Media)  ? 2 years of experience establishing and maintaining networks using Cisco Routers  ? Experience with user end communications  ? Some experience gathering quotes for users  ? Capable of standing for extended periods of time  ? Able to drive long distances between work environments  ? Experience uploading and deploying images using FOG  ? Experience creating and maintaining server backups  ? Understanding of Fortigate firewall settings  ? Able to maintain calm demeanor under pressure or stress  ? Ability to maintain and create entries in Active Directory  ? Experience creating and maintaining accounts via Gmail  ? Can respond and resolve issues made apparent by users in a timely manner  ? Experience creating and maintaining virtual servers via Hyper-V  ? Able to resolve user end issues without disrupting their work  ? Can troubleshoot advanced level network issues  ? Able to create/maintain spreadsheets documenting inventory of a work area, including but not limited to: computer counts, server addresses, IP ranges, wireless networks/passwords, printers, users, and software being deployed  ? Knowledge of deploying software to iPads via Airwatch  ? Vast knowledge of Chrome management console  ? Knowledge of Kaspersky antivirus deployment and maintenance Education Hannibal Senior High - Hannibal, MO August 2009 to May 2013 Computer Service Technology Hannibal Career & Tech. Center - Hannibal, MO 2012 to 2013 Computer Network Technology Hannibal Career & Tech. Center - Hannibal, MO 2011 to 2013 Skills Microsoft office (8 years), Microsoft Exchange (4 years), Active Directory (5 years), Network Administration (4 years), Networking (4 years), Remote support (5 years), Computer Repair (4 years), Firewalls (4 years), Customer Service Skills (2 years), Windows 7 (7 years), Windows Server (4 years), Windows 10 (3 years), Printers (4 years), School IT equipment (2 years), Group policy (4 years), Network Management (3 years), Antivirus (4 years), TCP/IP (4 years), DNS (4 years), Dhcp (4 years), Google Docs (3 years), Google Drive (3 years), Google domain (2 years), Adobe (2 years), Virtualization (3 years)