Network Administrator <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Network Administrator US An enthusiastic network engineer with the necessary drive and determination needed to resolve complex networking issues. Possessing effective organisational skills and excellent working knowledge of networking technologies and having a commitment to keep up to date with the latest developments. Experienced in providing motivation, guidance and an up to date networking consultancy service to both colleagues and clients.    Now looking for a new and challenging network engineer position, one which will make best use of my existing skills and experience and also further my development. Work Experience Network Administrator Silicon India in Bangalore - Bangalore, Karnataka January 2012 to January 2014 Company Profile:  SiliconIndia is 15-year old media firm. Over the last one decade, SiliconIndia.com has emerged as the most trusted source for news and information for professionals. The portal has a global ranking of No.5 in the IT News & Media category. With over 4 million registered users, SiliconIndia.com is the fastest growing portal and is ranked among the top 200 websites most trafficked from India.    Duties & Responsibilities:  ? Administering & designing LANs, WANs internet/intranet, and voice networks.  ? Analysing & developing key components using methodology prescribed techniques.  ? Communicating and negotiating with users, specialists, other staff and suppliers.  ? Network connectivity troubleshooting, ping, tracert, telnet.  ? Responsible for communication protocols, configuration, integration & security.  ? Investigating, diagnosing and resolve all network problems.  ? Maintaining pre-packaged software applications on the LAN.  ? Upgrading and repairing faults on CIS systems, networks & peripheral equipment.  ? Cisco switch configuration in particular VLAN configuration and troubleshooting Education Bachelor of Engineering (B.E) in Information Science Sri Revana Siddeshwara Institute of Technology - Bangalore, Karnataka 2005 to 2011 Cisco Certified Networking Associate (CCNA) in Networking ICSE - India Skills Team leader with Excellent Communication Skills. Good understanding of static routing and SQL databases. Having a good technical networking background. Working knowledge of major networking components & hardware components. Ability to explain technical issues clearly to non technical colleagues. Experience of performance measurement, capacity and tuning issues. Thorough understanding of Windows, UNIX or NT. Extensive knowledge of Microsoft based operating systems, including Windows Server 2008, Windows Vista and Windows 7. Also excellent software skills including knowledge on MS-Office (MS-Word, MS-Excel, MS PowerPoint). Windows 7,XP, Linux C, C++, C#, HTML, JAVA Script SQL, RDBMS.