Network Administrator <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Layton, UT Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Network Administrator Pro Star Fulfillment - Salt Lake City, UT April 2013 to Present Responsibilities  • Install and support LANs, WANs, network segments, Internet, and intranet systems.   • Install and maintain network hardware and software.   • Analyze and isolate issues.   • Monitor networks to ensure security and availability to specific users.   • Evaluate and modify system's performance.   • Identify user needs.   • Determine network and system requirements.   • Maintain integrity of the network, server deployment, and security.   • Ensure network connectivity throughout a company's LAN/WAN infrastructure is on par with technical considerations.   • Design and deploy networks.   • Perform network address assignment.   • Assign routing protocols and routing table configuration.   • Assign configuration of authentication and authorization of directory services.   • Maintain network facilities in individual machines, such as drivers and settings of personal computers as well as printers.   • Maintain network servers such as file servers, VPNgateways, intrusion detection systems.   • Administer servers, desktop computers, printers, routers, switches, firewalls, phones, personal digital assistants, smartphones, software deployment, security updates and patches.   • Proficient in: Windows Server 2003, 2008, 2012, Virtualization, Active Directory, Network Concepts, DHCP server/client, DNS, Subnet's and CIDR, UTM/Firewalls, VLANs, VPN, Wireless Security     Accomplishments  I was able to create an atmosphere where the users felt that IT was quick responding and timely in their work. I deployed a complete new phone system and ticketing system. I created a work environment where the users felt IT was kind and helpful and friendly, which they didn't feel they had in the past.    Skills Used  Determination to do all work assigned, and follow through.  Multitasking many issues and projects at the same time.  Maintaining a professional attitude even when faced with intense stress.  Ability to think and troubleshoot and find solutions on my own. I'm also capable of asking for help  and looking to others sources when I don't know the answers.  Organized and self motivated.