Network Administrator <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Network Administrator - United States Air Force Goldsboro, NC Dedicated transitioning service member with four years of Network Administration and Information Security experience. Motivated learner with expertise in server administration and vulnerability management. The ability to work with the latest technologies to solve real business problems. Work Experience Network Administrator United States Air Force - Seymour-Johnson AFB, NC December 2009 to Present In depth experience working with 4 Domain Controllers utilizing Active Directory, DNS, and DHCP. Microsoft Exchange, DNS and DHCP.  • Supported Microsoft Exchange for 10,000+ mail enabled user accounts, organizational mailboxes, and distribution list.    • Dedicated to working with customers to integrate solutions and pass on knowledge in a friendly professional manner.  • Maintained 6000+ machines and 10,000+ users in an Active Directory domain, while assisting with hardware and operating systems.  • Mitigate network vulnerabilities on a weekly basis, coordinating with several offices; as well as, utilizing tools such as SCCM, Retina vulnerability scanner, and PSTools to harden network and systems.  • Maximized built in Microsoft tools by learning batch, VBS, and some Powershell.    Awards  4th Fighter Wing Information Dominance Professional of the Year 2011  4th Fighter Wing Information Dominance Professional of the Year 2012  • This award is given for sustained superior performance and contributions that benefit the Air Force and DoD missions. Education Information Systems Technology Community College of the Air Force - Seymour-Johnson AFB, NC 2010 to 2013 Security Plus Certification Comptia - Downers Grove, IL 2010 to 2010 Skills • Top Secret Clearance • Hardware • Software• Customer Service • Independent • Operating Systems• Self-Motivated • DNS • Network Additional Information Skills  • Top Secret Clearance • Hardware • Software  • Customer Service • Independent • Operating Systems  • Self-Motivated • DNS • Network