Network Administrator <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Network Systems Operator - Network Administrator U.S Army Fort Huachuca, AZ Ambitious, information technology professional, seeking to use my extensive knowledge to provide the best service for the company and/or customers for which I will work for, as well as furthering my education and gaining a degree in Computer Science while obtaining technical certifications. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Network Administrator Maintainer U.S Army - Fort Huachuca, AZ February 2014 to Present Responsibilities: Supervise, install, operate and perform field level maintenance on IP based high speed electronic information systems. Integrated network control centers; network management facilities; associated multiplexing and transit cased subscriber interface equipment; communications security (COMSEC) devices; and other equipment associated with network operations. Perform network management functions in support of maintaining, troubleshooting and reengineering of network assets as needed in support of operational requirements.  Accomplishments: Completion of technical training with Network Information Systems. Operated, tested, and maintained network systems as required by the technical manuals and preventative maintenance checks and services (PMCS). Provided high-speed internet and Voice over Internet Protocol (VoIP) services to over 500 users/customers during disaster relief support training exercises, received two certificates of achievement for exceeding service standards, and one certificate of appreciation for upgrading, installing, and replacing network equipment for my organization. Education Networking U.S Army Cyber Center of Excellence - Fort Gordon, GA 2014 to 2014 WestView High School - Avondale, AZ 2011 to 2013 Skills Routing (3 years), Switches (3 years), Cisco ASA (Firewall) (3 years), Vmware (3 years), PBX (2 years), Network Administration (3 years), Networking (3 years), Network Security (3 years), VOIP (3 years), Servers (3 years), Active Directory (2 years), TCP/IP (3 years), Virtualization (3 years), Network Security (3 years) Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/felix-cabrera-12a38a111/ Military Service Branch: Army Service Country: United States Rank: E-4/ Specialist February 2014 to Present Serving in the U.S Army currently as a Network Systems Administrator. Commendations: National Defense Service Medal (NDSM), Global War on Terrorism Medal (GWTM), Army Service Ribbon (ASR). Certifications/Licenses Security+ November 2017 to November 2020 Security+ certification good for 3 years. Additional Information • Critical thinker  • Special attention to detail  • Energetic and Organized  • Dedicated and Trustworthy  • Excellent research skills  • Excellent analytical skills  • Bilingual (English & Spanish can Speak, Read, Write, and Translate).  • Hardworking  • Great working with others and talking to new people.