Engineer Engineer Engineer - Computacenter US FusionStorm Houston, TX A bilingual IT professional specialized in network infrastructure engineering, management, and support. Adaptable, professional with high technical experience ranging from but not limited to Cisco, Meraki, Juniper, Checkpoint, SonicWall, Fortigate and Dell network equipment. Outstanding ability to design, implement, and monitor network, ensuring minimum downtime and maximum uptime. Work Experience Engineer Computacenter US FusionStorm - Houston, TX November 2018 to Present Full-Time Engineer for Computacenter US FusionStorm helping our customers to source, transform and manage their IT infrastructure to deliver digital transformation, enabling users and their business.    Responsible for providing post-sales engineering and implementation services related to hardware and software technologies.  • Lead & Perform Network, Wireless Surveys, and A/V Commissioning for Uber.  • Lead & Perform Network Commissioning, Wireless Surveys and Imagining for Indeed  • Buildout New Datacenter racks (Physical Install of Equipment and Cabling) for Nvidia and GoDaddy  Identify opportunities and develop technical solutions to meet customers' needs and requirements  • Analyze technical needs, requirements, and state of customers' current infrastructure and operations  • Perform the build, configuration, testing and maintenance of servers, storage, virtualization and networking related hardware and software.  • Review Equinix current Meraki Wireless Design, Perform Wireless Site Survey with Ekahau, and advise on best practices, adjust current design to fit customer needs Network Engineer Insight Global - Houston, TX September 2018 to November 2018 Full-Time Network Engineer for Insight Global contracted to Centurylink.    Review client current cisco Meraki wireless design and troubleshoot radius authentication issues Network Engineer Perspecta - Houston, TX March 2018 to September 2018 Full-Time Network Engineer for Perspecta who provide IT Services to Center for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) Federal Agency responsible for managing Firewalls, IPS/IDS Systems, Routers, Nexus Switches, F5, Bluecoat Proxies and any Network related systems across 3 Data Centers.    Responsible for multiple network operations tasks and administration  • Act as a Firewall SME (Cisco ASA, Checkpoint & Juniper SRX)  • Administer, and Troubleshoot any issues related to Cisco ISE, F5, IPS/IDS, Routers, and Firewalls  • Created and Maintained logical network documentation  • Train Network Team/ Firewall Team on Firewalls, Routers, Switches & current Network Design  Implement security measures on network equipment to meet HIPAA Compliance  • Configure SNMP on all Network equipment (Cisco, Junipers & ASA) for network monitoring  • Update ad keep up to date signatures Tipping Point IPS/IDS Systems  • Maintain all Firewall ACLs up to date with AlgoSec Fireflow Jr. Network Administrator Houston, TX December 2016 to March 2018 Full time Junior Network Administrator for US Legal Support, which has over 1000+ users and 70+ locations. Our Network Equipment consists of Fortigate, Meraki Security Appliance, Meraki Switches, Meraki APs, Cisco Nexus, Cisco WAN Routers (MPLS), Cisco Switches, and Linksys Switches    Configure, test, deploy and maintain LAN/WAN equipment and related services  ? Designed, Implemented and maintained multiple Cisco Meraki, and Cisco Systems equipment  ? Assisted Network Team Lead in implementing SD-WAN, Circuit Failovers, and Equipment Failovers  ? Fully Migrated 70+ Offices & any new Acquisitions to Cisco Meraki SD-WAN  ? Oversaw migration of WAN Links to new service providers, designed Hub and Spoke WAN  ? Identify, diagnose, and resolve network problems  ? Experience working with Carrier class MPLS services  ? Work with ISP and Third Parties to resolve circuit issues, BGP, and outages  ? Act as a Technical Network Escalation point  Reviewed HIPAA policy and implemented security measures on network equipment to meet necessary standards.  ? Create and maintain comprehensive documentation for all implemented networks (70 + Locations)  ? Upgrade Cisco Equipment IOS, and Meraki Equipment Firmware  ? Setup VPN Clients with Two-Factor Authentication  Migrate Users to Meraki VPN Client Server from Fortigate VPN Client Server  ? Setup and troubleshoot Client VPNs  ? Aid Technical Support team in incoming tickets if necessary  Monitor Network to ensure minimum downtime  ? Configure SNMP on Cisco Equipment for use in Monitoring  ? Perform and Analyzed information provided by Solarwinds, PRTG, and Auvik Network Monitors to ensure efficiency and effective networking operation. IT Technician - Gagemaker Robert Half Technology - Houston, TX September 2016 to December 2016 Responsible for a group of 100+ users providing Desktop, Server, and Network Support. The Environment consisted of 2 Physical Servers, and 10+ Virtual Servers Backed up by 2 SANs. Network Gear consisted of Dell Switches/Routers, Cisco Switches, a Cisco Meraki MX80, SonicWall NSA 250M Firewall, & a Barracuda Web Filter.  ? Worked with the IT Manager to manage complex IT Systems.  ? Created and managed IT Asset Inventory Database using MS Access which contained over 350+ Devices and saved $1000+ annually.  ? Ensured IT Asset Inventory is up to date with incoming Assets.  ? Implemented Bar Code Software on MS Access IT Asset Inventory for a more reliable way of tracking of Assets.  System Administration  ? Worked with IT Manager to resolve all Windows Server 2008, Exchange 2013, Active Directory, and Citrix issues  ? Managed Security Groups in Active Directory  ? Managed Distributions groups in MS Exchange  IT Infrastructure/ Network Architecture  ? Configured Cisco SGE2010P Switches for use in the enterprise (VoIP and Data)  ? Documented Network topology (Used LLDP, and CDP Protocols)  ? Quarantined/Isolated/Removed any unwanted or potentially malicious emails/threats using Barracuda Web filter  ? Troubleshoot & Repaired user LAN Connectivity requests  Desktop Support  ? Provided Technical support for all PC, Network & telecommunications issues  ? Troubleshoot & repaired all print related problems  ? Administered & maintained 'Ticket' based metrics  ? Removed Malware from infected user's PC  ? Fresh Installed Windows 7, & Windows 10 Jr. Network Administrator/IT Intern TPC GROUP LLC - Houston, TX September 2015 to August 2016 Worked full time as an IT Intern under a Network Architect for a Petrochemical company, which had over 700+ users. Assisted the Network Architect as requested, & provided Desktop, & Network support. Our Network gear consists of Cisco Systems like Cisco Catalyst 2950, 2960, 2960-X for Switching, Cisco 2800 for Routing, & ASA 5510, 5520, Juniper SRX240, Netscreen SSG-140, Sonicwall TZ-180 for firewalls.    IT Infrastructure/ Network Architecture  ? Assisted with switching and routing in an enterprise environment.  ? Configured Cisco switches out of the box for use in the enterprise.  ? Configured ports for voice and data; configured basic SNMP for use in monitoring; Created basic network drawings using Visio; Upgraded Cisco IOS using TFTP.  ? Troubleshot/Responded to requests for user LAN connectivity.  ? Made/Tested network cables; Tested IP phones on the LAN; Added DNS entries/troubleshoot name resolution; Worked with DHCP scopes; used FTP & SFTP.  ? Troubleshot LAN/WAN connectivity.  ? Learned basic subnetting and routing; Used TELNET, PING, TRACEROUTE to test connectivity; Performed Solarwinds monitoring.  ? Exposed to OSPF, EIGRPv6 Routing Protocols.  ? Exposed to IPv6 fundamentals & Configurations on Cisco Devices.  Network Security  ? Worked with Cisco Adaptive Security Appliance (ASA) firewalls (via command line).  ? Increased familiarity with configuring ASA out of the box.  ? Wrote access control Lists for ASA (rules).  ? Troubleshot connectivity to and from the Internet.  ? Packet captures; TELNET to test application connectivity; TRACEROUTE; NATing and Static NATing.  ? Learned basic datacenter design.  IT Security and Compliance  ? Policies  ? Reviewed current IT acceptable use policy for accuracy & updated to reflect changes in TPC Group work environment.  ? Attended the Houston Security Conference sessions to acquire knowledge of password complexity & hacking tools.  ? Attended Change Review Board (CRB) meeting to assists in reviewing requests for changes to the Infrastructure e.g. implementing a new switch.  IT Project Management Office (PMO)  ? Learned the tenets of project management (Budget, Schedule, Requirements).  ? Plan & Executed a small project to organize IT department function.  Professional Environment  ? Experience & obtained knowledge of professional communication skills. Education Associates in Science degree HOUSTON COMMUNITY COLLEGE - Houston, TX 2021 Skills Active directory, Catalyst, Cisco, Citrix, Dhcp, Juniper, Network monitoring, Network troubleshooting, Nfs, Router, Tcp, Tcp/ip, Vlan, Vmware, Vpn, Xenapp, Xendesktop, Dns, Exchange, Firewalls, Customer Service, Project Management, Customer Service, Project Management, LAN, Security, Networking Certifications/Licenses CCNA Routing and Switching CCNA Routing & Switching CCNA Security CMNO Cisco Meraki Network Operator Additional Information AREAS OF EXPERTISE    ? Network Administration  ? Network Security  ? Network Troubleshooting  ? Communication Skills  ? Collaborative Teamwork    TECHNOLOGY  Enterprise level networking equipment configuration and troubleshooting:  ? Cisco - Catalyst Switches (Catalyst 2950, 2960, 2960-X, 3560, 3850, 3850-X) Small Business Switches (SG300-52, SG2010P, ESW-540-24P), Nexus (5Ks, 7Ks, 9Ks), Routers (Cisco 2800, 3825, 3845) & Firewalls (ASA 5510, 5520, 5585-X)  ? Juniper - Firewalls (SRX3600), Routers (MX240)  ? Checkpoint - Firewall (21400)  ? Trend Micros - IPS/IDS (5200NX, 5100N, 7100N, 250N)  ? Meraki - Security Appliance (MX400, MX84, MX64), Switches (MS350 Series, MS250 Series, MS220 Series), Access Points (MR16, MR18, MR33), Systems Manager  ? Fortinet - FortiGate 200D  ? Dell - Switch (PowerConnect 5548P), Router/Switch (PowerConnect 6248P)  ? Juniper - Juniper SRX 240, Juniper Netscreen SSG-140  ? SonicWall - TZ-180, NSA 250M  ? Wireshark - Packet Capture to analyze incoming and outbound traffic used to diagnose and solve network problems.  Enterprise Level Security:  ? DUO Security - Multi-Factor Authentication  ? Cisco ISE  ? Splunk - Completed Splunk administrator training, a business analytical tool TPC uses for security & network monitoring (Passed Splunk administrators test)  ? Advanced Malware Protection  ? Antivirus - Webroot, Kaspersky  Network Services and Management:  ? Networking - LAN, WAN, TCP/IP, VPN, DHCP, DNS, VLAN, Wi-Fi, NFS, SMB, VRF, VXLAN (Fundamentals), IPsec  Networked Applications Implementations, Configurations, Support & Troubleshooting:  ? Barracuda Web filter  ? InfoBlox NetMRI  ? DCNM  ? AlgoSec FireFlow  ? Citrix Server - XenApp, XenDesktop  ? Database - SQL, MariaDB  ? Microsoft - Office 2010, Office 2013, Office 365, Windows XP, Windows 7, Windows 8, & Windows 10, Active Directory, Windows Server 2008, DHCP, DNS, Exchange 2013, Group Policy  ? VMware LogInsight  ? Ticketing Systems - ServiceNow, Spiceworks, Samanage HP Service Manager