Network Administrator <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Corporal - Break out/Time Jacksonville, NC Work Experience Network Administrator USMC - Jacksonville, NC November 2009 to September 2013 Responsibilities  Over 4 years of Computer and Network Administration and leadership experience with a reputation for meeting the most challenging organizational goals and objectives.   • Heavily relied upon by seniors for producing higher performance standards and enhancing productivity by managing a small team of networkers who accomplish tasks necessary to stay well organized, and to help them to quickly resolve problems within the network.   • Successful resolution of technical and hardware issues in high pressure situations such as Hosting Center Disaster Recovery, and maintaining all critical assets within the network to keep network productivity at a maximum.  • Configuration Management of network system designs in LAN (Local Area Network) and WAN (Wide Area Network) environments. Installation and setup of Cisco switches, routers, Windows IOS and Microsoft Operating System servers (including Domain, DNS, and Exchange) and the client workstation computers.   • Installed and tested Network cabling to network servers and client workstations, joining clients to the network domain, maintaining Data Center port and wiring configuration records of what lines was where.   • Maintained a Customer helpdesk, and took care of trouble calls, managing network servers and workstations with Solarwinds.  • Knowledgeable with Cisco switches, and routers and have built servers including (Domain, Exchange, and DNS) from the ground up. Experience with Windows IOS and Cisco switch and routers IOS.  • Active Directory administration experience with User account, Organization Policy, Disaster Recovery and Migration management.  • Experience with installation and support of applications such as Microsoft Office, Outlook, Symantec, Active@, Hirens, Ultra ISO, Ghost, a multitude of messaging programs and map / image programs such as Falconview and Google-Earth, Cisco Packet-Tracer, Wireshark, Cisco CLI and Windows CLI.    Accomplishments  Training lead for multiple classes in network and physical security measures, classes in server and exchange, and the building of computer images. Managed a help desk supporting the Marines who needed network accessibility and currently monitor daily performance, update and inspect 280 critical serialized items such as servers, switches, 225 laptops and some encryption devices. Research and generate purchasing orders for new equipment needed for field operations. Support and manage over 600 users on our networks and through the help desk.     Skills Used  Demonstrated skills in Network managment, Network administration, Network security, and asset accountability for the USMC. possessed a high organizational skills and leadership abilitys to preform everyday tasks. Skills Server builds, Computer imaging, Server Exchange, Server DC, Server DNS, Cisco Switching and Routing, and Active directory Additional Information Occupational training received in Twenty-Nine Palms CA, from Feb 2010 to Aug 2010.  Having training within the following programs: CCNA mods 1, 2, and 3, Microsoft Server 2007, Microsoft Exchange 2007. Work within and with CompTIA A+, CompTIA net +  Certified by CompTIA in Net +, and certified by CompTIA in Security +    Volunteer Work:     Joined the Boy Scouts of America in 1997   Obtained the rank of Eagle Scout in 2009   Coached soccer for K-3rd grade students in 2009