Network Administrator <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Engineering and Technology Bradenton, FL Engineering and Technology experience. Have been working in IT ( Network Administrator) and have experience as a Marine Engineer with Electro/Mechanical systems. Work Experience Network Administrator Sysco West Coast Florida - Palmetto, FL September 2009 to Present Manage, coordinate and maintain facility IT equipment for the Company. Train all system users on usage of system and Office applications when needed. Maintain inventory of system assets and provide asset maintenance. Coordinate and correct user and customer hardware and software problems. Provide input to maintain and improve current sales systems. Provide network setup and planning, terminal services, warehouse systems, Office applications and AS400 application support. Major projects: Rolling out of approximately 200 laptops and cleaning up and refurbishing 300 laptops for return to leasing company. Setup and training of Sales Check deposit scanners and deposit account reconciliations. Migration of users off legacy terminal services to upgraded local applications.    Wellcraft Marine Sarasota, FL  Electrical Engineer:  Designing of AC and DC marine electrical systems on Wellcraft and Hydra-Sports Sport Fishing boats. Responsible for ABYC compliance. Still served as the Network (IT) Administrator for our computer and telephone systems. Used AutoCAD for electrical/mechanical design of marine systems. Integrated Designer's 3D Ideas NX with ACAD for layout and design of systems.    Key Achievements: Electrical Engineering accomplishments included completing a major prototype to production implementation of touch screen electrical power control (E-Plex) on one of Wellcraft's Sport fishing boats. Upgraded Engineering CAD to Siemens NX from Ideas 11.  Migrated Five Win 2000 Servers and Exchange Server to Two Win 2003 Servers and Email to a Hosted Exchange services. Migrated onsite Nortel phone switch to hosted VOIP phone services saving $2K in monthly maintenance.    Network Administrator:  Responsibilities included installation and administration of Wellcraft's LAN,  Windows Server 2003, MS Exchange, and AS400 client/servers for the business and engineering groups with applications such as MS Office, Siemens IDEAS & NX CAD, AutoCad, and ADP software. At one time supported up to 250 users.  Supervised and administered our Nortel phone and site security systems maintenance.    Key Achievements: Team leader in several facility moves and company merges which involved migrating/upgrading data and Exchange servers, migrating and securing data, phone service consolidation and users moving to local and remote sites. Setup AD, VPNs and backup routines for securing company and user data. Team Leader for Y2K testing.  Setup backup and recovery procedures for disasters and served as a team member during several hurricane threats. Also, participated in production and major facility consolidation/cost cutting effort.  Team leader in administration and manufacturing equipment shutdown and relocation.    Electro/Mechanical Engineering and CAD Systems Administrator with responsibilities for the design of the electrical AC and DC systems, air conditioning, fuel systems, and machinery layouts for recreational boats.  Responsible for US Coast Guard, NMMA, ABYC, EU, and Canadian Standards for Recreational Boat Design and Manufacture. Supervised an electrical technician for the prototyping of new electrical systems. Service School Instructor for dealers/mechanics on electrical systems. Supervised one CAD operator and prototype person.  Attended Intergraph course for CAD Systems Administrators.    Key Achievements: Upgraded and consolidated electrical connectors to a waterproof, less problematic connector. Savings in stockroom parts, installation times, and warranty cost. Migrated CAD workstations from UNIX and Thin Net to Solaris Ethernet platform. Took the additional responsibility as Engineering IT/CAD System Administrator.  Integrated Vendor AutoCAD drawings for use by our engineering crew.    Wellcraft Marine .  Production Engineer: Responsible for production assembly books, prototype integration to assembly and specifying parts and bill of materials.  Team lead for production flow and processes.    Key Achievements: First production engineer to use implement Intergraph CAD package for assembly, design, CNC interface, and assembly documentation.    Donzi Marine Sarasota, FL  Customer Service Technical Representative: Responsible for Dealer technical inquiries about service, parts, and product reviews. Production Supervisor of a Product Line included production planning, scheduling and final assembly. Supervised 8 to 12 production workers.    Key Achievements: As Customer Service Rep I streamlined process for a major recall.  While as a supervisor I took production from 1 boat a day to 1.75 a day. Education Master of Science in Technology Eastern Illinois University - Charleston, IL May 1987 Bachelor of Science in Technology Education Eastern Illinois University - Charleston, IL August 1986 P. G. Air Force Machinist School August 1983 Additional Information Areas of Expertise:  Electrical and Mechanical Design Technical Systems Troubleshooting  Research and Development Team and Project Facilitator  Cost to Benefit Analysis Ability to Learn and Apply Technology  CAD Systems Proficient Computer Systems and Networking