Network Administrator <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Network Administrator Rock Hill, SC • Bilingual Network Administrator offering in depth of IT infrastructure areas, particularly IT network integration. Detail-oriented, self-starter whit demonstrated success in initiating, tracking, reporting and closing projects.  • 13 years' Experience, Whit Technically and proficient skills in manage Microsoft Windows Server 2000, 2003, 2008, 32 and 64 Bits, Home server, Deploy and implementation, Remote Support and management.  • Motivated Computers System Analyst possessing exceptional troubleshooting skills for networking issues, end users problems and network security.  • Technician Support Analyst, whit extensive It background, Enjoys troubleshooting to find solutions to technical issues, Skilled in evaluating current and future technologies and leading purchase planning to support both short and long-term IT initiatives. Work Experience Network Administrator Qualitest pharmaceuticals - Charlotte, NC January 2012 to March 2014 help desk II, for department's LAN consisting of approximately 50 workstation, 80 laptops, 50 Mobile Devices, 13 servers and 5 test-lab system.  • Maintain, Windows network environment for Windows Server 2003, 2008, Windows 2000, Windows XP, 7. AD user administration, Share roll-sever, Manage Windows infrastructure environment including upgrades and patches, windows services and server and network troubleshooting, LAN, WAN and internet connectivity; Install VoIP PBX phone system with IP phones, Manage network cable structure including pulling and installing cable, network jacks, plates, and patch panels. Install and maintain Avigilon CCTV servers, user implementation, Client stations, and IP security surveillance systems.  • Manage and Implement all IT Equipment inventory (Laptops, Desktop, Printers, company, Mobile phones, and Desk phone and general supplies), Laptops Provide support for iPhone, Apple mobile devices.  • Manage Empower Oracle Database infrastructure environment including upgrades and patches, user's access, Password management. Backup projects Binary, Create monthly projects.  UV Software APP: Manage Database infrastructure environment including upgrades and patches,  Perkins software IR/FTIR Manage Database infrastructure environment including upgrades and patches, user's access, Password management, Management and maintain quota and assignation.  • Network Security, planned, installed, maintained and optimized documentation of all LAN/WAN/VPN network and software, security systems and communication links.  • Spearheaded the formation of an internal system user group to Exchange ideas and information between the IT department and other departments. Education Ashworth University - School of Information Technology - Norcross, GA 2005 Computer Science Politécnico Gran Colombiano University 2002