Network Administrator <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Network Administrator Benkelman, NE To build a long-term career in the Information Technology field with opportunites for career growth.    Ability Summary    My abilities are as follows: Network Diagnostic and PC Troubleshooting and repair. Experience with VMWare,  Windows CE, Windows XP, Windows 7, Windows 10, Windows Server 2012 R2, cPanel, DICOM associations and AE  Titles. PACS network, MDG (3am) cabinets for pharmacy dispensing. Also experienced in Microsoft Word, Excel and  Outlook along with Active Directory and Group Policy. Work Experience Network Administrator Dundy County Hospital - Benkelman, NE March 2014 to October 2018 My duties at this job consisted of the following: Trouble shooting and repairing PC's and Virtual PC's as well as servers.  Other duties at this job include running daily reports with Microsoft Report Viewer and then sending those reports to a vendor via SFTP. Diagnosing printers and network functionality, working with EHR vendor to ensure functionality in the  Hospital's EMR. Weekly scan of all hospital PC's for Malware and Spyware. VPN troubleshooting, maintaining an E-Mail  server with 120+ E-Mails attached to it. Building recipient groups on the E-Mail server. Installing new hardware and software when there was a need. Ordering items for PC's and keeping track of my inventory. Many times I would have  my supervisor come to me with questions, asking me if something is possible. 99.9% of the time I would tell her that it is  possible and I always found a way to accomplish whatever was needed. If it was going to cost money, or I needed parts for the task, I would let her know and she would decide how to proceed. Education Associate's Degree in Building and Construction North Platte Community College - North Platte, NE May 2005 Skills System Administrator, Cisco, Vmware, Active Directory, Networking, Technical Support, Windows, Security, Customer Service Assessments Supervisory Skills: Interpersonal Skills — Highly Proficient December 2018 Measures a candidate's ability to maintain productive team working relationships by identifying conflict and settling disputes. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/h7qydh3tawo0ddgs Supervisory Skills: Directing Others — Highly Proficient December 2018 Measures a candidate's ability to motivate the performance of others through feedback to identify improvements or corrective actions. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/9eevwh63hdf9yxos Technical Support Skills — Highly Proficient December 2018 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/zp5m4oyytg30hmxm Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.