Network Administrator <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Network Administrator - United States Marine Corps Randallstown, MD Self-motivated and dependable while achieving high performance with minimal  supervision. Network Administrator with background as Fiber Optics looking to join a  growing entrepreneurial organization as part of the Executive team. Excellent client and  project management skills. Action-oriented with strong ability to communicate  effectively with technology, executive, and business audiences.  Enthusiastic Network Administrator proudly offering over 3 years' experience. An astute  employee with knowledge in installation of network components. Skilled in task  prioritization and troubleshooting. Dedicated Fiber Splicer with 3 years' experience in  the field. Able to manage inventory, work from ladders and independently lift heavy  loads. Seeking a fast-paced position with room for advancement. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Network Administrator United States Marine Corps - Camp Lejeune, NC November 2016 to Present Conducted in-depth network reviews and tightened up security policies to monitor access and prevent cyber threats.  Participated in on-call shifts at certain times, including holidays and weekends in case of system or network-related emergencies.  Traveled to client sites and answered questions via phone and email so that issues  were remedied in a timely manner.  Promoted the company in maintaining a work environment focused on quality,  communication, collaboration, integration, and teamwork. Education High School Diploma Randallstown High School - Randallstown, MD 2015 Skills GRAPHICAL USER INTERFACE (Less than 1 year), GUI (Less than 1 year), maintenance (Less than 1 year), Manual labor (Less than 1 year), security (2 years) Certifications/Licenses Certified Fiber Optics Installer November 2016 to November 2020 Telecommunications Systems Operator August 2016 to Present Additional Information Skills  Proficient in Software Lifting up to 100 lbs  Network security management Troubleshooting at component level  Network repairs and maintenance Good mechanical aptitude  Task prioritization Troubleshooting  Online learning Team player  Network penetration testing Strong organizational skills  Software system testing Flexible work schedule  GUI and tools Strong work ethic  Manual labor skills Power tools  Safety understanding Terminating cables  Good at following instructions Operating equipment