Network Administrator <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Network Administrator - Active Public Trust Secret Clearance New Orleans, LA Work Experience Network Administrator Active Public Trust Secret Clearance March 2014 to Present Tier 2) (this is a federal contractor job)  Duties, Accomplishments and Related Skills:  o Active Public Trust Secret Clearance.  r Responsible for the central monitoring, coordinating remediating and reporting for all network  incidents, rnaintenance, and outages for the Custorne/s infrastructure.  e Monitor the Customer"s entenprise network  r Respond to customer requests, troubleshoot LANAA/AN issues, document incidents, and provide  root cause analysis of faults.  r Troubleshoot Cisco networks nrtilizing ticketing svstem$"  r Expenienced with monitoring and troubleshooting networks using network rnonl'toring tools  (Solarwinds, OpNet, New Relic).  o Provide support up to the LocalArea Network which constitutes approximately 2,0O0 devices and 1,700 voice and data circuits across the United States and overseag locations.  o Provide technical support up to the Wide Anea Network edge and fuGhen provide applicatlons  support for Enterprise Mission Critical Applications through the monitoring of systems and around the clock respons€ to alerts.  r Responsible for Network Managernenf Enterprise Operations ttrlonitoring Network lncident  Seryices Response, Analysis Support, f.oordination" Folicy lnput and Reporting"  o Completed 3,385 Remedy and Service Now tickets, 3,589 Work Ordertickets, and 2,985 Task  assignments related to network connectivity and site outages.  r Provide customer support worldwide for investigation and troubleshooting neturork issues and activation reguests.  . Participate in Bridge calls for critical site and netwonk outages" Responsible for the input of troubleshooting techniques in an effort to resolve all critical and urgent situations in a tirnely  manner.  o Completed an Out of Band Modem project ensuring customer device connectivity in case of catastrophic failure of all network monitoring sites in the United States.  : Quickly and responsibly assess the proper tools to resofue cdtical situations.  e Gained necessary experience that promoted character and skill growth.  o Work and interact in a team environment with experience leading technicalteams of 5+  personnel    SU PERVISOR: Eric Madara (321-704-229811    Okay to contact this Supervisor: Yes    Multifamily Management, lnc.  758 St. Michael Street    Mobile, AL 35602 United States  September 2ffi7 to August 2OL2  Hours per week: 50  Maintenance Technician  Duties, Accomplishments and Related Skills:  o EPA HVAC Universal Certification.  r Ensured that safety regulations were obeyed by residents and staff.  o Completed over 4,600 Work Order requests.  o Responsible for HVAC service and repair at numerous property locations throughout the  Southeast region of the United States.  r Provided 24 hour on-call response for ernergenry situations-    SU PE RVISO R: Adria nne Hu ngerford 1228-697 -67 O9l    Okay to contact this Supervisor: Yes Education MS in Computer Networking Technology Purdue University