Network Administrator <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> pune Engineer:  ? A customer oriented and self driven professional with excellent networking knowledge possesses rich experience of 2.5years.  ? Excellent in designing and maintaining LAN, WAN, ETHERNET and voice networks.  ? Expert in trouble shooting the existing networks.  ? Experienced in providing motivation, guidance and up to date networking consulting service to both colleagues and clients.  ? In-depth understanding of networking policies and rules.  Organizational details: - Vertrauen Engineers  Duration: Nov 2013 till May 2016 worked with Vertrauen Engineers.  Key Responsibilities:  • Manage the networking of organization.  • Responsible for installing new hardware, systems, and software for networks.  • Maintain the proper communication through LAN between various departments.  • Upgrading and repairing faults on CIS systems, networks & peripheral equipment.  • Investigating, diagnosing and resolve all network problems.  • Administrating LAN and WAN connectivity for Client Sites.  • Installation, Integration and maintenance of LAN and WAN setup.  • Provided training to new employees. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Network Administrator vetrauen engineers - pune October 2013 to May 2016 B.E. Project:  PROJECT TITLE: "Counting System Using Infrared".  Role PCB designing, defining control logic, component selection  Team Size Four  Description  : By this Counting System, the number of persons and their movement can be detected with more accuracy at a wide door.By Pattern Recognition Algorithm, number of passing persons and their direction of movements are recognized.    B.E. Project:  PROJECT TITLE: "Long Range FM Transmitter with Audio Modulation".  Role Major component selection, coil designing  Team Size Four  Description  : Aim of this project is to develop a long range FM transmitter with Audio Modulation. Hardware Requirement Transmitter, Coils, Resistors, Trimmers, Capacitors and Antenna. Education B.E. CSVT University - Bhilai, Chhattisgarh 2013 Skills C (Less than 1 year), MATLAB. (Less than 1 year) Additional Information Computer Skills    ? Programming Languages: Academic level: - C & C++, MATLAB.    Personal Strengths  ? Positive attitude in doing jobs.  ? Believe in devotion towards duty, honesty, and commitment.  ? Team work with full enthusiasm.  ? Go Getter