Network Administrator <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Weymouth, MA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Network Administrator UNITED STATES MARINE CORPS WORLDWIDE - KW 2016 to 2017 • Configured VTP, VLANs, EIGRP and tunnels to all network devices.  • Cabled, installed and configured Cisco networking devices for multiple sites supporting 3,000 military personnel in Kuwait and Iraq using Cat 5 cable, Fiber, and satellite connection to sites.  • Supported users from a helpdesk environment managing accounts through Active Directory Users and Computers and mailboxes through Microsoft Exchange.  • Assisted users with Microsoft Office, Java, network printer mapping, document scanning, and other ancillary support.  • Key member in the testing air-to-air Hatch Mounted Satellite Antenna system capabilities between KC130-J and Osprey flight systems. Network/Systems Administrator UNITED STATES MARINE CORPS WORLDWIDE - MCAS Miramar, CA 2014 to 2017 Configured, maintained and upgraded network infrastructure, computer systems, virtual/physical servers, and helpdesk support.  • Configured, installed and administered multiple network infrastructures, classified and unclassified, to support a staff of up to 3,000 personnel involved in large scale operations and deployments overseas.  • Worked with cyber security personnel to analyze network weaknesses and provide solutions to correct them.  • Allocated more IP space for saturated networks by reconfiguring all VLANs, Trunk links, routes and DHCP scopes.  • Designed, implemented and maintained four separate server environments working as lead server administrator  • Worked on the creation of a persistent server node for the 3rd Marine Aircraft Wing, first Marine Expeditionary Force  • Provided desktop configuration and phone support for software and hardware for personnel in a helpdesk environment.  • Managed user accounts and mailboxes through Active Directory and Microsoft Exchange.  • Practiced network/system setup in austere environments for months at a time training with, VOIP, VTC, EIGRP, and upgrading IOS on the networking devices.  • Trained over 40 Marines in network and server administration and the maintenance of network equipment.  • Supervised the development of networks during a major Marine Expeditionary Force field exercise standing up classified and unclassified domains for the exercise.  • Trusted with the responsibility of $5 million worth of networking and server equipment and responsible for regular functionality checks and upgrades as needed.  • Configured over 100 networking devices for live operations and equivalent server environments, culminating in the successful build of several high priority mission-capable networks.  • Planned and implemented two week cross training for Career modernization involving over 70 marines involving both server and network administration. Education Weymouth High School - Weymouth, MA Marine Corps Communications & Electronics School Skills WIndows server 2012R2, VMWARE, ESXI, ONTAP (3 years) Military Service Branch: Marine Corps Service Country: United States Rank: Corporal November 2013 to November 2017 4 years or honorable service working as a system administrator across various platforms including windows server 2012 and 2012R2, ESXI, ONTAP, CISCO, and VMWARE. Commendations: Recipient of Navy and Marine Corps Achievement Medal for exemplary conduct as Network and System Operations Chief.