NAS Storage Integrator NAS Storage Integrator NAS Storage Integrator Fenton, MO To obtain a challenging and responsible position within the information technology/ cyber-security field that facilitates learning and provides strong communicational, organizational and analytical skills. To utilize my education and previous work experience to better serve the organization. To use my knowledge, and experience to educate/ train future generations. Work Experience NAS Storage Integrator The Boeing Company October 2011 to May 2015 • Member of the Enterprise NAS storage integration team of 3.  • Met with customers to learn their storage designs needs and discuss their storage options.  • Coordinated with CSC technicians and various teams to discuss and implement storage design changes.  • Created documentation for customer design requirements for technicians.  • Approved MyServices requests for proper documentation before forwarding to technicians.  • RFCs focal for NAS Storage Integration team.  • Represented NAS storage Integration team on MIM incidents.  • Represented Storage team on data center disaster recovery plans.  • Held weekly meetings with technicians on NAS storage issues.  • Provided 3rd tier on call support Web Administrator Aerotek December 2010 to October 2011 Web Administrator (Contractor - Aerotek) December 2010 -October 2011  (RRC) August 2010 - December 2010  (Co-op) January 11 2010 - August 27 2010  Monsanto, Creve Coeur, Missouri  Member of a global web support team of 5 that manages systems for agriculture research and business functions.  • Supported 800+ web instances hosted on a total of 100+ (Dev, test, production, post production) servers, both internal and the DMZ.  • Helped managed the ACE Load Balancer by configuring server farms, Virtual IPs, SSL certs, and probes.  • Managed the installation and support of Apache, Tomcat, WebLogic, and Internet Information Server multi instanced sites, and clustered applications in UNIX, and Windows environments.  • Provided multi server administration, configuration and deployment support for web-based applications hosted within the Monsanto intranet, extranet and internet environments.  • Supported connections to SQL and Oracle backend databases.  • Utilize Active Directory to manage user / developer / service account access and application security.  • Responsible for DNS administration, internally in a Windows environment.  • Responsible for SSL administration, purchasing, and issuing external Certifications.  • Troubleshoot user / developer reported application issues to determine cause and resolution.  • Monitor web servers using SiteScope to proactively identify and resolve problems.  • Coordinate and communicate application information to all impacted individuals including upgrade and rollout schedules, maintenance times, server / application problems, etc.  • Created documentation, for existing processes, as well as documenting new processes.  • Created and modified Repliweb jobs to deploy applications, and various files in all environments.  • Supported quarterly application releases for the Monsanto Research Department.  • Supported monthly application releases for the business aspect of Monsanto.  • IT Co-op project lead. Responsible for overseeing the success of the entire project.  ? Managed 20 Co-ops  ? Presented to 7 high schools the importance of studying Math & Science.  ? Presented to 10 middle schools classes the importance of studying math and science. Network Administrator Data Manufacturing Inc - Chesterfield, MO September 2007 to February 2008 • Maintained all Data Manufacturing Inc (DMI) network computers, printers, servers and databases.  • Prepared DMI email accounts, database files, folders and user accounts.  • Experienced with the following operating systems: Windows 98, ME, 2000, XP. Linux flavors; Open SUSE, Ubuntu, Free BSD, and MAC OS X.  • Experienced with Windows Server 2000, 2003 and FileMaker databases.  • Built and interacted with clients performing troubleshooting on desktop PC's, hardware and software.  • Performed routine maintenance on the network hardware.  • Replaced patch cables, switches, and ran CAT 6 cables    Other Work Experience  Emergency Medical Services Positions held:  Gateway EMS, St. Louis Missouri, Paramedic  St. Louis City Fire Department, Paramedic  Abbott EMS, St. Louis Missouri, Paramedic Education Master of Science in Cybersecurity in Cybersecurity Webster University - St. Louis, MO August 2018 Bachelor of Science in Information Management in Information Management Webster University - St. Louis, MO May 2010 Associate of Science in Network Administration in Network Administration St. Louis Community College - Kirkwood, MO December 2007