Senior Network Administrator Senior <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Bronx, NY Work Experience Senior Network Administrator Slate Magazine - Brooklyn, NY May 2019 to Present • Primary administrator for all network, storage and server infrastructure in our NY and DC offices. This includes physical/virtual servers, VOIP systems (Dialpad + Handsets), Cisco, Meraki network switches, security, appliances and WAPs  • Managing IT-related vendor contracts including phones, ISPs, and network hardware and software. This includes being involved in the budgeting process in a consultative capacity.   • Reporting to the Director of Technology of Slate and assisting the Director of Technology in guiding the IT course of the organization and documenting changes to same.  Senior Network Administrator Peco Pallet, Inc - Irvington, NY September 2018 to 2019 Install, maintain, upgrade, and troubleshoot routers, gateways, firewalls, and other networking infrastructure for LAN/WAN, including Internet connectivity.  • Administrate, and maintain business-wide voice services including, but not limited to, Cisco Unified Communications Manager & Cisco Unity Connection, SIP trunks and remote SIP gateways, phone handset hardware, etc.  • Train users on Cisco hardware, and applications. Also created “How-To” documents for users.  • Troubleshooting audio issues on LAN/WAN, ensuring voice quality is efficient.  • Troubleshooting audio/connectivity issue for remote users.   • Work with vendors, and consultants on design, and implementation, of new sites.  • Ensure backups are current and running as scheduled.   • Test, and turn-up of new SIP connections.  • Assisted with CUCM and CUC upgrades.  • Work with Director of Infrastructure, and CIO on contracts, and financials budgets for I.T.  • Firewalls (Cisco ASA & Cisco Meraki).  • Assist with disaster recovery planning, and testing. Network Administrator III Peco Pallet, Inc - Irvington, NY September 2015 to March 2018 Assisted in daily  administrator of network/server/user environment. Acted as main support for level 1 to 3. Some of the daily duties are listed below.  • Desktop Support for end users.  • On boarding/off boarding employees.  • Installation and configuration of switches, routers, wireless access points, printers.  • Cable terminations.   • Daily administration/monitoring of Cisco Meraki environment.   • Daily administration/monitoring of VoIP infrastructure.  • Maintained site-to-site connectivity between HQ and satelliteoffices in Chicago, and Pennsylvania.   • Maintained connectivity between datacenter and DR site.  • Documented network diagrams, and changes.  • Created “How-To” documents for end users.  • Barracuda Spam Firewall monitoring/administration.  • Office 365 Administration.  • Kaseya endpoint management administration.   • Project managing.   • Work with vendors on new office setups.  • Troubleshoot network issues with vendors.  • Active Directory including Group Policy, DNS and DHCP management Education Bachelor's in CIS CUNY Lehman College - Bronx, NY August 2015 to May 2017 Applied Associates in Computer Networking Westchester Community College - Valhalla, NY 2012 to 2015 Certifications/Licenses CCNA Routing and Switching January 2015 to February 2018 CCNA Voice February 2015 to February 2018