Network Administrator <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Network Administrator (CISCO specialized) Houston, TX CISCO Network Administrator with experience configuring, monitoring, upgrading and maintaining systems hardware, software and related infrastructure. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Network Administrator OMNI SERV LLC - Houston, TX February 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Act as first responder to infrastructure trouble-tickets including: LAN switching, wireless networking, cabling, distance learning equipment, and server issues.  • Performed installation, maintenance and routine troubleshooting on switches, routers, servers, wireless devices, PCs and the network UPS tools.  • Maintain enterprise monitoring software with all device addresses and receive/respond to alerts accordingly.  • Assist with documenting configurations and maintaining enterprise repository of systems documentation.  • Collaborate with and assist site engineer with the installation, maintenance and troubleshooting of software and associated hardware.  • Manage security solutions; firewall, anti-virus, and intrusion detection systems. Network Administrator Level 1 XEROX Call Centre - Houston, TX July 2015 to August 2016 Responsibilities:  • Was part of a team that installed, connected and configured network equipment.  • Installed and configured network software as well as security software and protections.  • Set up access permissions and issued ids, configured firewalls and reset passwords.  • Participated in troubleshooting network outages and performance issues.  • Scheduled the installation of firmware patches and updates to all network devices and software.  • Managed file servers and scheduled back-ups.  • Administered access rights and permissions as required.  • Assigned network addresses and implemented protocols.  • Provided technical assistance and training to end-users as needed or requested. Technical Support Xerox Call Center - Houston, TX December 2014 to July 2015 Responsibilities:  • Recognized problems, established solutions and carried out implementation.  • Installed hardware and software configurations for workstation computers.  • Installed hardware and software for microcomputers and printers.  • Troubleshoot software and hardware for PCs in data center call rooms.  • Diagnosed and resolved technical hardware and software issues involving internet connectivity, email clients, IPTV, VOIP and more  • Researched required information using available resources  • Identified and escalated priority issues per client specifications Education Certificate in Computer Networking (Cisco Network Administration) Lone Star College - CISCO Academy - Cypress, TX August 2016 to June 2017 Master of Arts in (MA) International Development and Cooperation Ajou University - Graduate School of International Studies 2012 HND (Higher National Diploma) in Computer Networking Trustech Institute of Technology - Buea 2009 LLB in Law University of Buea - Buea 2005 Skills Network Configuration (4 years), Technical Support (5 years), Network Monitoring and Maintenance (4 years), Troubleshooting (4 years), Networking, Microsoft Office, Windows, access, Customer Service, Windows 7 Awards Dean's Award 2012-08 Dean's award for best graduating student (GPA wise) of the 2012 graduating class of the Graduate School of International Studies, Ajou University, Suwon, South Korea. Additional Information Technical experience and skills:  • Configure and maintain network devices, end user workstations and peripheral devices.   • Linux and Windows based OS & virtual environment   • System, backup and restore, storage Administration.   • Working technical knowledge of network hardware, protocols, and standards including hardware RAID, Active Directory and TCP/IP.   • Protocols: DNS, DHCP, PPP, STP, TCP/IP, RIPv2, OSPF, EIGRP, BGP, HTTP, HTTPS, SSH   • IPv4 and IPv6 resolving and troubleshooting    Personal Strength:  • Effective combination of network administration ability, some system administration knowledge, technical support skills, strong analytical and communication skills and research ability.  • Ability to work in a team environment, emphasizing team goals over personal goals.  • Strong initiative drive with the ability to absorb technical information and knowledge quickly.  • Effective time management and highly efficient in working with minimal supervision.  • Self-motivated and efficient adaptability to environments.