IT Manager / Case Manager IT Manager / Case Manager Canastota, NY Professional Summary and Specialized Experience  • Over 40 months of Information Technology and Electronics education and training in planning the sequence of actions necessary to accomplish the assignment or mission. I continue to strive to be the best at what I do and continuously develop and learn new skills every day in an ever changing IT field. I maintain excellent communication, analytical, troubleshooting and documentation skills. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience IT Manager / Case Manager Veri-Fi Investigative Services - Cicero, NY March 2019 to Present • Solely manage the entire network including a domain controller, Cisco switch and Barracuda Firewall.   • Troubleshoot issues that come up quickly to ensure maximum up-time to serve our clients.  • Active Directory management   • Customer service is a huge part of the case management position, constantly updating clients on our status of their case. System & Network Administrator New York Air National Guard - Syracuse, NY October 2014 to July 2019 • Manage service actions for multiple real-time critical OC-3 circuits to ensure network and service availability using Ericsson ATM and Cisco network equipment.  • Provide network administration, cryptologic security and computer network defense support protecting Top Secret communications.  • Provide efficient customer technical support to ensure proper functional use of a broad array of network and client systems.  • Effectively support over 500 end users accounts across 3 multi-platform windows networking devices.  • Provide network establishment and solutions, network and asset troubleshooting, access control, network connectivity, and helpdesk management.  • Provide network transmission, network administration, cryptologic security and computer network defense support protecting Top Secret communications.  • Administrate multiple Windows and UNIX based servers providing database, application, and user management Delivery Driver Lowe's - Syracuse, NY October 2018 to March 2019 • Responsible for the safe transport of anyone riding in the truck along with the appliances to be delivered.  • Trusted to keep accurate logs and stay on schedule   • Great customer service skills, constantly staying in touch with customers Staff Engineer Booz Allen Hamilton - Rome, NY May 2017 to February 2018 • Effectively manage a virtual computing environment of over 10 different sites.  • Developed procedures on password changes for the different systems throughout the virtual environment and passed them off for co-workers to utilize.  • Provided network switch configuration quality assurance and support where needed.  • Implemented and maintained new virtual machines within the environment.  • Developed an offline anti-virus scanner for OVA files in an unclassified environment. Education IT Management Columbia College of Missouri - Syracuse, NY Present High school or equivalent in Information Technology Canastota High School - Canastota, NY September 2010 to June 2014 Finance State University of New York at Oswego - Oswego, NY IT Management Morrisville State College - Morrisville, NY Skills CISCO (3 years), ACTIVE DIRECTORY (Less than 1 year), COMMUNICATION SYSTEMS (Less than 1 year), COMPTIA Security+ (4 years), Customer Service, Microsoft Office, Networking, Windows, Vmware, Windows 7, Technical Support Military Service Branch: Air National Guard Service Country: United States Rank: SrA October 2014 to July 2019 Certifications/Licenses CompTIA Security+ September 2015 to September 2021 Additional Information Highlights of Qualifications  • CompTia Security+ Certified  • Server and Client Hardware Maintenance  • System Administration (Windows/Some Linux)  • Training in Virtual environment    Technical Skills  • Proficient in the configuration and operation of encryption devices  • Ability as well as proficient in mechanical splicing of fiber optic cable  • Experience in all aspects of copper wire termination.  • Vast experience with Cisco Router and Switch configurations.  • Using systematic knowledge to properly encrypt classified information on TS/SCI networks.  • Adding and removing computers from domains, Microsoft Outlook email setup, Active Directory, understanding of OSI and TCP/IP Models  • Managing long haul communication systems    Leadership Skills  • Former SrA in the US Air Force for over a year mentoring and leading young airmen  • Former President of the Canastota Optimist Club 2014 - 2016  • Former Director of Public Relations at Canastota Central School District 2013-2014  • Former President of Student Government 2013-2014  • Former President of Future Business Leaders of America 2012-2014