Technical Support Engineer Technical Support Engineer Technical Support engineer AT Comcast West Chester, PA Self-motivated recent graduate with 3+ years of experience in IT. In addition to that, I hold various certification such as CCNA R&S, CCNA Security, CCNP, AWS-SAA, PCNSE. I am a person who thrives in a fast-paced environment. Efficient communicator, detail oriented, well organized, ability to work under pressure and prioritize analysis, problem solution and Customer focused. Currently actively seeking a full-time position in the field of Information & Technology to apply my technical experience and my creative problem-solving skills. Sponsorship required to work in the US Work Experience Technical Support Engineer Comcast - West Chester, PA February 2019 to Present • Handling development, testing, requirement gathering, feasibility analysis, support and maintenance related activities which included analyzing existing system issues, fixing and debugging application-oriented problems, consult with SAP for commonly faced and resolve them, implementing all the system change requests, maintenance requests, and other regular application & system enhancement activities.   • Provide Integration support to clients on Splunk, Netezza, Teradata and other data management systems. Provide Integration service to RDBMS.    • Working on database tools like – Teradata, Oracle, DB2  • Develop Jobs & maintain on ETL development tools like –Informatica.  • Manage the Big Data Infrastructure. This function can be performed remotely as well on site.  • Developing and managing standard reports and dashboards on key metrics. Focus on automation and efficiency.  • Systems Install and configure Hadoop Distribution using Hadoop System Management tools. Deploy Hadoop distributions – On premise, Amazon EC2 or Rack Space Open stack.  • Act as level 2 support for monitoring and alerting for Big Data Infrastructure.  • Participate in various formal & informal KT sessions for team members and client project mates as a part of the project. Network Administrator PARIVAR INDUSTRY - GUJARAT, IN November 2014 to November 2016 • Analysed, solved issue with router configuration such as DNS, DHCP.  • Established VPN tunnel using IPSEC encryption standard and implemented IDS/IPS to maintain network safe and secure.  • Hands-on Experience achieved in Configuring and trouble-shooting, layer 3 routing protocol such as EIGRP, OSPF, understanding of layer 2 protocol such as VTP, STP and RSTP, worked on 2600, 3500 CISCO routers and CISCO switches 4500, 6500, 3750 series.  • Provided on call support to administrator to troubleshoot network connectivity, WAN, VLAN, WLAN, and LAN issues.  • Build network-using Linux. Configured point-to-point virtual link and assign IP, given ACL, learned to write device access security using telnet or SSH, AAA - external and internal authentication.  • Configured enterprise networks using Cisco ASA firewall and maintain Active Directory services, WAN optimization and QoS. Network Analyst Intern LEGION ENERGY, VADODARA - GUJARAT, IN January 2014 to November 2014 • Worked on Cisco Routers 2800, 2960 and 3550, 3560 series catalyst switches Using Putty.  • Install and support of LAN/WAN and VLAN systems in the office and Configure CISCO as well as CISCO Nexus (e.g. 7000, 5000, 2000) Routers and Switches and established internet and intranet access.  • Design and implement routing/switching protocols in Complex environments including BGP, OSPF, EIGRP, RIP and learned tools like TELNET for remote login to the routers/SSH for secure login. Education Master of Science in Computer & System Engineering California State University - Los Angeles, CA January 2017 to January 2019 Bachelor of Engineering in Electronics and Communication Gujarat Technological University August 2011 to June 2015 Skills Active Directory (2 years), Bash (Less than 1 year), CISCO (3 years), IDS (2 years), Linux / Bash scripting (2 years), GNS 3 (2 years), MS office (2 years), Python (1 year), VPN (1 year), VLAN (2 years), OSPF, EIGRP (2 years), BGP (1 year), Technical Support, Networking, Customer Service, Microsoft Office, Windows, Windows 7, Vmware, access, SQL (1 year), Databases (Less than 1 year), Vmware (1 year), Jenkins, Chef (Less than 1 year), Git, MySQL Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/vishva-shah-95998a100 Certifications/Licenses CCNA Routing and Switching CCNA Security CCNP Completed CISCO IP Route   CCNP- Switch and Troubleshoot in process AWS-Solution Architect December 2017 to December 2019 Assessments Email Skills — Proficient February 2019 Measures a candidate’s ability to effectively compose and organize email messages. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/gvkamolizhh4wmdp Problem Solving — Proficient February 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to analyze relevant information when solving problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/sed4a9aoqrwe0suv Basic Computer Skills — Proficient February 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to perform basic computer operations, navigate a Windows OS, and troubleshoot common computer problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/ssphw5wyfpsupwon Technical Support Skills — Highly Proficient February 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/7nzzpaythyezjo0f Management & Leadership Skills: Planning & Execution — Familiar February 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to effectively plan and manage resources to accomplish organizational goals. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/kgoiwxk5rssv6eaw Critical Thinking Skills — Familiar February 2019 Measures a candidate’s ability to use logical approaches when solving problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/bpnmbhxeftmiru8v Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.