Network Administrator/ Network Specialist <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span>/ <span class="hl">Network</span> Specialist Network Administrator/ Network Specialist - Utilities Commission of New Smyrna Beach Lake Mary, FL • In-depth knowledge and hands-on experience in Tier II ISP Routing Policies, Network Architecture, IP Subnetting, VLSM, TCP/IP, NAT, DHCP, DNS.  • Maintaining strong conceptual, analytical, and troubleshooting skills. Excellent interpersonal and customer service skills. A versatile team player with ability to work collaboratively with team members effectively.  • Innovative problem solver, committed to goal achievement, and comfortable working in a fast-paced environment.  • Maintain high performance, up-to-date, open to learn and exchange knowledge, and flexible to work in new environments and groups.  • Connectivity & Hardware: Exchange Servers, DNS, DHCP, Web Servers Ethernet, Fast Ethernet, WAN, LAN, TCP/IP and Cisco wireless  • Design, implementation and operational support of routing/switching protocols in complex environments including BGP, OSPF, EIGRP, Spanning Tree, 802.1q, etc  • Maintained current documentation for all voice and data network systems using standard templates including cable systems, equipment inventory, spares, and floor plans  • Experience in Cisco switches and routers: IP addressing, Wide Area Network configurations.  • An enthusiastic, customer focused professional, seeking a career opportunity where I can apply my business and technical thinking and passion for delivering value-added solutions. Technical Support, consulting, implementing and quickly adapting to changing environment and always ready to learn. Work Experience Network Administrator/ Network Specialist Utilities Commission of New Smyrna Beach September 2016 to Present • Support and maintain LAN and WAN and manage the IP addresses and Subnets  • Performed troubleshooting, repair, and maintenance of computer systems, hardware, peripherals and telephony.    • Manage the IPs, DHCP and DNS and create the groups.    • Troubleshooting hardware and network related problems.    • Hands-on experience with Ether Channel, Spanning Tree, Trunking, ACLs, Syslog. Experience in the Setup of HSRP, Access-Lists, OSPF, RIP, EIGRP, and tunnel installations.    • Supports and configure Cisco layer 2 and layer 3 devices    • Managed teams for deployment of Windows 10 upgrade, hardware installations, new assets and prepared audits.    • Worked with CCIE to migrate current firewall devices to the new devices.    • Maintained system upgrades and provided documentation for user friendly "how-to" procedures, troubleshoot, repairs and best practices.    • Troubleshooting Cisco IP phone issues in Cisco Unified Communications Manager.    • Configure or modify user's voicemail for Cisco IP phones in Cisco Unity.    • Configure and make changes to our Cisco Finesse platform.    • Configure, change, update Cisco Unity platform.    • Troubleshoot basic VPN issues with assistance from CCIE.    • Maintain and troubleshoot SCADA.    • Configure and troubleshoot tablets and mobile phones.    • Add users and workstations into Active Directory.    • Perform in-person and remote troubleshooting through diagnostic techniques and relevant questioning.    • Troubleshoot customer AD account issues such as lockout etc. PC Service Technician / PESG Seminole County Public Schools July 2016 to August 2016 • Responsible for checking PC's in each school and making sure they are functioning properly.    • Responsible for troubleshooting machines with issues, and resolving them.    • Re-imaging machines that need it. Skills Active directory, Cisco, Dhcp, Ospf, Tcp Certifications/Licenses Cisco Certified Network Associate (CCNA) June 2019 to June 2022