Network Administrator II <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> II Network Engineer, Business Systems & Programming consultant Coral Springs, FL Professional in the Business Software Development industry currently seeking a position in which I can share my knowledge and experience of 30+ years. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Network Administrator II Nine Rivers Technology - West Palm Beach, FL April 1996 to April 1998 Designed imaging system for second largest chain of supermarkets in the south east. Wind-Dixie. Lead team that successfully deployed, implemented and trained end users covering eight different estates: FL, GA, NC, SC, KY, AL, LO, TX Network Administrator/Engineer Presas and Company, LLC - West Palm Beach, FL April 1995 to August 1996 Working on the implementation and administration of a TCP/IP Sun Network running Solaris 2.4 and also assisting on the implementation of a WWW Server and construction of HTML documents for electronic publishing on the Internet . Responsible for the selection of the Hardware/Software. Very familiar with Internet tools such as Netscape,HotMetal, HotDog, AsWedit, Mosaic, FTP, Telnet, Gopher, Tin, Lynx.  Responsible for the installation of Novell Netware Network, including assembly, troubleshooting, repair, upgrading and reconfiguration of model systems. Additional responsibilities included: Assisting in the design of hardware prototypes, Networking software and customer assistance through telephone diagnostics and heavy field services. Also taught end users the basics on how to administer the network installed. Founder/Owner Greenskies Technology, LLC - Coral Springs, FL 2002 Serving the medical industry with customer service call centers from South Florida and Latino America with affordable VoIP Services. Education Bachelor's in Computer Science Monterey Community College - Monterey, CA 1987 to 1990 Associate in Degree in business programming Taylor Business Institute - Hoboken, NJ 1981 to 1983 Skills System Administrator (10+ years), Linux Administrator, Linux, System Administrator (10+ years), Active Directory, Vmware, Redhat, SCCM, VOIP (10+ years) Military Service Branch: Army Service Country: United States Rank: E4 March 1982 to March 1985 12B.   101 Airborn division