System Administrator System <span class="hl">Administrator</span> System Administrator Grand Marais, MN Seeking full time opportunity in networking domain that makes use of my capabilities, skills and education that I have acquired during master's degree & job experience to my full potential; also, to provide an environment for all-round growth & professional advancement. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience System Administrator Cook County Minnesota - Grand Marais, MN August 2018 to Present 1. SERVER ADMINISTRATION  • Acquire, install, configure, upgrade server hardware and software. (Dell PowerEdge servers, Windows OS 2012R2/2016).  • Maintain Active Directory, DNS, DHCP, IIS, File and Storage Services, Group Policy, Hyper-V, Azure AD, Failover Cluster.  • Built and manage virtual machines using Hyper-V, maintain SQL database using SQL server management studio.  • Provide routine maintenance, security management, add roles and features, check logs and develop maintenance automation.  • Maintain SAN (Dell EqualLogic PS 4100); Backup SAN and servers to Tandberg Quick-Station using Veritas Backup Exec.  2. NETWORK ADMINISTRATION  • Design, configure, deploy and maintain network infrastructure, monitor network performance and Provide level 3 support.  • Building, Managing and Troubleshooting Dell X1000, N2000, N3000 series switches, Cisco 2960XR, 3560 series switches, Cradlepoint router, Cisco IP phones (7940 series), Toshiba & HP printers, ITV systems and wireless APs (Cisco WAP371).  • Maintain Wide Area Network, cabling and fiber optics for all county buildings. Maintain trunk link between buildings.  • Work with State of Minnesota I.T. department for maximum bandwidth availability and troubleshooting the network outages.  • Respond to queries, run diagnostic programs, isolates problem, and determine/implement solution.  3. SECURITY ADMINISTRATION  • Design, build and grow county’s production network, its management tools and all security components. • Keep the county network and datacenter infrastructure safe, secure and available; develop standard documentation.  • Configure and deploy Checkpoint 4400 Firewalls; Implement and administer Site to Site VPN tunnels, Intrusion Prevention System, Vulnerability management tools, Emergency Management and Mobile VPN access.  • Maintain Firewall policies and perform necessary Network Address Translation to reach other government facilities.  • Collaborate with State of Minnesota I.T. department identify and troubleshoot issues. Network Engineer Goldfield Technologies Pvt Ltd - Mumbai, Maharashtra June 2014 to July 2016 Maximized network performance by monitoring, troubleshooting network issues and outages, upgrades and optimized performance of complex network, end user support.  • Assisted in the installation, configuration and maintenance of heterogeneous multi-vendor network.  • Proactively worked with ISPs to address bandwidth expansion need and for rectification of network outages.  • Assisted in the installation, configuration and maintenance of internal network at the organization.  • Experience in configuration, diagnosis and troubleshoot for Web and Application filtering, Antivirus - Antispam, IDS-IPS, VPN, Bandwidth management and Multiple link management.  • Troubleshooting skills and experience in using network security tools: Wireshark, TCP Dump.  • Build, maintain and support new/existing LAN communication with redundancy, keep the operating systems, hardware, and firmware current.    Skill Set:  • Monitoring Tools/Hardware: SolarWinds, F5, Cisco Works, Logic Monitor, Cisco Security Manager Suite, Cisco Packet Tracer, Wireshark, GNS3.  • Networking Concepts: LAN, WAN, TCP/IP, DNS, DHCP, NAT, PAT, UDP, IPv4, IPv6, HTTP, HTTPS, SNMP, VoIP, NTP, SMTP, FTP, TFTP, PPP, ACL (Standard and Extended).  • Routing Concepts: RIP, BGP, OSPF, EIGRP, MLS, IGP, EGP, Route Redistribution.  • Switching Concepts: Ethernet, LAN, VLAN, VTP, DTP, STP, RSTP, PVSTP+, RPVSTP+, PAgP, LACP, 802.1q, PPPoE.  • Network Security: AAA, VPN (IPSec), VPN(SSL), SSH, SHTTP.  • Wireless Networking: 802.11a/b/g/n/ac, Bluetooth. Education Master of Electrical and Computer Engineer in Electrical and Computer Illinois Institute of Technology - Chicago, IL August 2016 to May 2018 Bachelor of Engineer in Electronics and Telecommunication University of Mumbai - Mumbai, Maharashtra July 2011 to May 2015 Skills LAN (3 years), Wan (3 years), TCP (3 years), TCP/IP (3 years), DNS (3 years), Dhcp (3 years), IPv4 (4 years), IPv6 (2 years), OSPF (2 years), Routers (3 years), Switches (3 years), Firewalls (2 years), Networking (4 years), Network Administration (3 years), Network Management (2 years), Ethernet (4 years), Wireless (2 years), Windows, Technical Support, Customer Service, Active Directory Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/kishan-barwaliya Certifications/Licenses Cisco Certified Network Professional (CCNP) January 2018 to January 2021 Routing and Switching. Cisco Certified Network Associate (CCNA) February 2017 to February 2020 Routing and Switching.