Gaming Associate Gaming Associate Network Administrator Lakewood, CA Energetic professional who doesn’t mind wearing multiple hats. Experienced in handling a wide range of administrative and executive support related tasks and able to work independently with little or no supervision. Well organized, flexible and enjoy the administrative challenges of supporting an office of diverse people. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Gaming Associate Blackstone Gaming, LLC - Long Beach, CA July 2017 to Present • Performs all functions in accordance with applicable Tribal, Federal and other laws and gaming regulations and Casino policies and procedures.  • Ensures the highest possible standards of guess service are provided and listens and responds to guest and employee concerns and questions.  • Independently counts and balances funds in Main Bank with outgoing banker at start of shift, and again at the end of shift  • Records inventory count amounts, by denomination, type, etc. on the summary count sheets. Network Administrator Berkshire Hathaway Home Services California Properties - Norwalk, CA August 2014 to Present Network Technician:    • Configuring network hardware like servers, routers and switches  • Upgrading and repairing computer networks  • Troubleshooting network issues  • Assisting network architects with the design of network models  • Deploying and updating software   • Managing servers and their operating systems   • Implementing security measures and basic testing  • Managing cloud and physical network storage    Printer Technician:    • Provide quality maintenance and repair of Kyocera, Ricoh, Canon, HP, and Brother printers in a specific territory of assigned machines to ensure equipment reliability.  • Troubleshoot printing / scanning failures at the machine level.  • Maintain customer satisfaction and achievement of company requirements in call production, response time and parts management.  • Maintain and inventory all parts and support equipment.    Data Entry Clerk:    • Gathering invoices, statements, reports, personal details, documents and information from employees, other departments and clients.  • Scanning through information to identify pertinent information.  • Correcting errors and organizing the information in a manner that will optimize swift and accurate capturing.  • Creating accurate spreadsheets.  • Entering and updating information into relevant databases.  • Ensuring data is backed up.  • Informing relevant parties regarding errors encountered.  • Storing hard copies of data in an organized manner to optimize retrieval.  • Handling additional duties from time to time.    Web Designer:    • Creating website designs  • Producing sample sites  • Meeting with clients to discuss requirements and/or project progress  • Demonstrating and receiving feedback about draft sites  • Keeping up to date with recent technological and software developments  • Developing skills and expertise in appropriate software/programming languages such as HTML and Javascript  • Creating products that are user-friendly, effective and appealing  • Digital retouching and image editing    Social Media Specialist:    • Building and executing social media strategy through competitive and audience research  • Setting up and optimizing company pages within each social media platform    PBX Technician:    • To install, repair, and maintain several types of IP telephone systems, including adding, moving and updating installed telephone services  • To provide technical guidance as it relates to servers, networks, telephones, and other IT systems  • To install, repair, and maintain different types of telephone systems, such as those from Toshiba, Cisco, Polycom, and Panasonic as well as hosted IP-based systems  • To maintain telephony devices, such as voicemail, facsimile terminals, and intercom systems  • To facilitate repairs that may include the replacement of wiring, station protectors and ground connections, and to run new wires and replace jacks, lids, and pedestals as required    Windows Server Engineer:    • To develop and maintain windows platform for the server as a host, connected with multiple clients (other computers)  • Test and certify new versions of windows operating system providing better solution and integration for the application like VMware and SharePoint.  • Integrate the server automation process either by custom scripts or via third-party solutions.  • Implement regular checks for the status of servers including hardware and software.  • Maintain and support multi-site windows environment along with hardware and software configuration.  • Management of server migration when required by the client. Education Certificate of Completion in UAV Operations National Drone Schools - Los Angeles, CA February 2017 to June 2017 Associate in Computer Information Science Cerritos College - Norwalk, CA June 2017 High school Columbus High School - Downey, CA June 2011 Skills Bilingual Spanish, Microsoft Office (4 years), Office Applications (4 years), Office Equipment (4 years), Mac OS X (4 years), Linux (1 year), Networking (4 years), Network Administration (2 years), Network Security (3 years), Network Management (3 years), Adobe (3 years), Computer Repair (4 years), Internet Marketing (4 years), Social Media Marketing (4 years), Social Networking (4 years), Social Media Management (2 years), Windows Xp (10+ years), Windows 7 (5 years), Windows Vista (3 years), Windows 8 (3 years), Windows 98 (6 years), Technical Support (4 years), Troubleshooting (4 years), Printers (4 years), Audio Editing (5 years), Android (4 years), IOS (4 years), Customer Service (4 years), Video Editing (2 years), Video Production (2 years), Audio Editing (4 years), Social Media Marketing (4 years), Social Networking (4 years), Social Media Management (4 years), Banking (2 years), Sales, Marketing Certifications/Licenses A+ Certified 2015 to 2016 Network+ 2015 to 2016 Security+ 2016 to 2017 Cisco Certified Network Associate (CCNA) June 2014 to 2017 ASCP 2016 to 2017 Linux+ 2017 to 2018 MCSA 2016 to 2017