Network Administrator <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Network Administrator - ClearOne Advantage Pasadena, MD Work Experience Network Administrator ClearOne Advantage - Baltimore, MD March 2018 to Present • Managing and monitoring all systems and infrastructure to ensure highest level of availability and reliability  • Installing, configuring, testing, and maintaining physical/virtual servers (Microsoft Server 2008, 2012, 2016), application software, etc.  • Amazon Web Services - EC2 Instance creation, modification, management, and backup. WorkSpaces image creation, bundle creation, troubleshooting. Route53 DNS host management. Networking changes and maintenance including Security Groups, VPC, Elastic IP's, Gateways, etc.  • Maintain inContact call flow scripts for IVR and ACD  • Redesign and implementation of infrastructure to accommodate for growth from ~150 employees to ~650  • Exchange migration of 720 mailboxes from hybrid exchange to Office 365  • Telephony/UCaaS redesign and administration, transitioning ~650 users from third party managed phone system (Spectrum/Brighthouse) to hosted VoIP system (Goto)  • Created scripts (Powershell/Batch/Python/VBScript) and implemented various technologies (WSUS/WDS), providing automation to allow administrative scalability to accommodate for rapid company growth, as well as better end user service without increasing department spend on employee capital. Systems Technician SCD Information Technology - Columbia, MD May 2015 to March 2018 • Appointed senior technician on T&M contract with property management firm to provide installation and set-up of onsite computers and networks at 200+ sites across the eastern coast of the United States. Interface with security and A/V vendors and integrate their hardware and software into the site setup. Maintain daily contact with the client's Senior Site Support IT Specialist and the Senior Manager of Information Systems on an as required basis to discuss technical and scheduling issues. Work very closely with client's internal remote helpdesk staff while onsite to both decrease response and issue resolution time. Increased scope of contract with client to include the management, configuration, and deployment of imaged PC's via KACE, as well as the configuration and deployment of Meraki security and networking assets to remote sites.  • Perform onsite and remote support to both SMBs and non-profit organizations. Provide administration and troubleshooting in Windows Server 2008 - 2012R2 Active Directory, Exchange 2008-2013, Citrix, and VMware ESXi environments.  • Configure and deploy variety of UTM and network solutions to best suit client environments.  • Responsible for assessing and deploying client needs in terms of network, server, and desktop infrastructure.  • Responsible for handling Exchange migrations, from onsite to hybrid/full cloud based solution in o365.  • Responsible for handling various Windows server and domain migrations.  • Responsible for the migration, deployment, and training of ~160 employees pertaining to the movement of a major Client's phone system from analogue telephone lines to hosted VoIP system (Nextiva). Education A.A.S. in Information Assurace and Cyber Security Anne Arundel Community College - Arnold, MD May 2014 Skills Technical Support, Windows, Networking, Active Directory, Javascript, Microsoft Office, Vmware, Mac, Customer Service Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/carl-gaskill