Oracle Database Administrator Oracle Database <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Oracle Database Administrator Maryland City, MD Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Oracle Database Administrator Chaveran Institute Technology 2017 to 2019 • Providing support services to the end users, such as making sure all users know how to use the database.  • Managing procedures for backup and recovery of data, in case of errors made by users or system crashes. You don't want to lose all the valuable data just because the power went out.  • Ensuring data integrity, which means that data are complete, accurate and current for the tasks at hand?  • Controlling data security, including preventing unauthorized access to the data and protecting against other security threats.  • Setting data privacy, which means that only authorized individuals can see certain data? For example, there is no need for everyone in the organization to be able to see all the personnel files of all the employees.  • Conduct routine assessments of Oracle and other SQL databases for Security Technical Implementation Guide (STIG) compliancy.  • Demonstrate the ability to supporting DIACAP or NIST Risk Management Framework (RMF) certification and accreditation in a DoD Environment.  • Provide reports and remediation direction to Cyber Security and Information Systems management.  • Perform occasional STIG configuration of databases to meet compliance requirements.  • Assist in documentation and maintenance of database security plans  • Assist in developing/maintaining Group Policy to ensure proper security configuration.  • Perform Information Assurance Vulnerability Alert (IAVA) remediation via SCCM.  • Interface with system administrators and help desk personnel to explain open findings and required resolution.  • Provide technical guidance, mentoring and education to others in the Cyber Security office and other mission related teams as requested or required. Field Engineer IP Plus Consulting 2016 to 2017 • Support hardware, software, and networking troubleshooting and repair for Windows 7 & 10 servicing all Washington and Baltimore areas.  • Perform printer part replacement and maintenance: HP & Dell.  • Assist in building, maintaining and examining core network services including anti-virus and backup  • Perform routine network maintenance checks as well as configure another miscellaneous network equipment  • Assist in configuring and maintaining communications; internet connection, firewall, VPN, remote access  • Diagnosing and repairing Windows desktop and laptop.  • Taking computers apart and repairing them from the minutest component.  • PC peripherals repair and troubleshooting (printers, routers, repeaters).  • Testing systems to make sure that they are working properly  • Installing hardware and software systems and Upgrading existing hardware and software  • Assist Lead Network Engineer in areas of design, configuration, testing, and implementation of solutions  • Responsible for assisting implementation, troubleshooting and maintaining operations of network systems.  • Network equipment installations; Cisco Switches  • Provide desktop support including creating images specific to client requirements and deal with issues pertaining to hardware and applications  • Break\Fix according to SLA's  • Others miscellaneous task as assigned by Team Lead Network Engineer TWD Technology Solutions 2015 to 2016 • Configure and administering Windows Server 2008/2012 R2  • Set up accounts and passwords for specific users with authorization to access networks  • Responded to reports of network problems with guidance from team leads  • Cisco switches, router and load balancer administration and maintenance  • IP routing protocols BGP, OSPF and EIGRP  • Installed server hardware  • Ensured systems complied with applicable industry and company-based policy  • Perform Break\Fix according to SLA's on desktops and laptops. Education Computer Networking and Cybersecurity University of Maryland University College Assoc. of Applied Science in Information Security Prince Georges Community College - Largo, MD Skills Oracle Additional Information RELATED SKILLS    Oracle Server SQL DBA    • Designing/architecting and developing new databases.  • Maintaining development, test and production databases.  • Protecting the databases -includes guarding the integrity and security of the data. Controlling access to the database, including creating logins for users and setting roles for each user. Some users may only need to query the data, while others enter new data.    • Installing, patching and upgrading the Oracle Database server and application tools  • Allocating system storage and planning future storage requirements for the database system  • Creating primary database storage structures (tablespaces) after application developers have designed an application  • Creating primary objects (tables, views, indexes) once application developers have designed an application  • Modifying the database structure, as necessary, from information given by application developers  • Enrolling users and maintaining system security  • Ensuring compliance with Oracle license agreements  • Controlling and monitoring user access to the database  • Monitoring and optimizing the performance of the database  • Planning for backup and recovery of database information  • Maintaining archived data on tape  • Backing up and restoring the database    Networking Engineer    • Break\Fix according to company and vendor Service Level Agreements (SLA's)  • Entry Level in Information Management  • Perform Clean Installation of Window Server 2012 R2  • Configure Servers  • Basic HTML Skills  • Experience in Windows and Microsoft office  • Basic Linux Configuration  • Basic snort configuration  • Basic knowledge on windows server 2012 configuration  • Switches basic configuration and VLAN setup on Cisco 1900, 2950, 2960 switches.  • Implementation of HSRP, DHCP, DNS, FTP, TFTP  • Experience knowledge of Router and configuration  • Perform Troubleshooting end-to-end between the two sites  • Good understanding of OSI Model, TCP/IP protocol suite (IP, ICMP, ARP, SMTP, FTP, TFTP)  • Router basic configuration and monitoring of cisco 2500, 2600, 1800.  • Implemented traffic filters using Standard Extended Access-Lists, Distribute-lists, and route maps.  • Basic knowledge of PC and Network assembly