Network/Systems Administrator <span class="hl">Network</span>/Systems <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Pomfret, MD Work Experience Network/Systems Administrator Mr. Moses September 2013 to November 2013 has extensive knowledge of hardware, software, computer networking, telecommunications and satellite technologies, which provides a combination of engineering, analysis, implementation and support. With over 10 years of experience, his areas of expertise include LAN/MAN/WAN network design, firewalls, intrusion detection systems, high performance computing, telecom systems, satellite telecom systems, Radio Frequency (RF) analysis, type 1 through type 4 encryption, distributed system security, data protection/integrity, incident/forensic analysis.    PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE  September 2013- November 2013: Exceptional Software Strategies  Mr. Moses was a member of the Electronic Commerce team. While in this role Mr. Moses performed system level maintenance which included nightly security backups, account unlocks, and hardware accountability. Mr. Moses acted as the technical lead in this role, and aided in the transfer of the Ecommerce modernization effort    Selected Accomplishments  • Installed software within virtual environment  • Planned network migration from legacy network environment  • Planned system migration from legacy SUNOS to RED HAT Linux OS  • Performed account maintenance & Active Directory account maintenance  • Performed security scans in accordance with agency approved tools  • Maintained and Implemented agency IAVA's  • Maintained windows software updates according to agency regulations    PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Network Engineer II TekMasters Mr. Moses - Chantilly, VA January 2013 to September 2013 VA  Mr. Moses was a member of the Operations and Management team. His roles and responsibilities include monitoring enterprise level networking hardware utilizing specialized tools which include SNMP traps, Remedy ticketing, and a specialized Enterprise Management tool.    Selected Accomplishments  • Provide network management utilizing agency networking tools  • Trouble shoot enterprise LAN/WAN running EIGRP and OSPF routing protocols  • Generate trouble tickets based off the ITIL model  • Resolve ITIL incident tickets according to SLA time frame  • Trouble shoot Type I bulk encryption issues Network Engineer Tensley Consulting Inc - Annapolis, MD 2010 to 2013 Mr. Moses was a member of the Software Integration and Test (SWIT) team where he provided customer support for the Glaive mission. Mr. Moses provided support in the form of account, server, and network management. Mr. Moses also led teams in system builds and installation in various locations around the world. Mr. Moses supported the customer disaster recovery plan, by maintaining proper disaster recovery procedures, and ensuring all backups were performed. MR. Moses assisted in maintaining the customer's network Confidentiality Availability, and Integrity.