Assistant Assistant Assistant Sunderland, MA I have Network Engineering Bachelor degree graduate on networking management, information security and network protocol development. And the same time I get Electrical and Computer Engineering Master degree graduates on software design, software development and logic design. Good communication and excellent problem solving skills, able to work effectively both independently and in a team. And I have confident and I believe myself I can take any challenge in the future. Work Experience Assistant Zhuzhou Branch of China Mobile Communication Corporation June 2012 to August 2013 Network station construction and tested connectivity between various station    ?Configuration and operation LAN.    ?Specific responsibility to the Optimization and testing of MPLS-VPN network station    RELEVANT COURSES  Computer Networks / Calculating method and Program design / Data Structure / Computer Operating System / Software    Engineering / Principle and Applications of Database / Network analysis and test / Principle and Applications of TCP/IP /    WLAN Technology / Web Program Design / System Software Design / Probability and Random Process / Algorithm /    Numerical Algorithm Network administrator CSR Zhuzhou Electric Locomotive Co. Ltd December 2011 to May 2012 Network maintenance and helped user solve network problems    ?Configuration and operation LAN.  ?Involved in the building of the network between all the branches and the head office within the company.    Network construction department--- Zhuzhou Branch of China Mobile Communication Corporation Network administrator Shaoyang University - Shaoyang, CN May 2010 to December 2011 Network maintenance and helped user solve network problems    ?Involved in campus network reconstruction project    Networking management center--- CSR Zhuzhou Electric Locomotive Co. Ltd Education MS in Electrical and Computer Engineering University of Massachusetts Amherst - Amherst, MA September 2013 to Present BS in Engineering Shaoyang University September 2008 to June 2012 Skills Network management, software design, java, c++, I get CCNA and CCNP.