Systems/ Network Administrator Systems/<span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems/ Network Administrator - Two Rivers Dental Management Aurora, IL SYSTEMS/ NETWORK ADMINISTRATOR    Accomplished IT professional with demonstrated success implementing strategic IT initiatives  that improve business functionality with positive impacts on the bottom line. Technology savvy,  self starter, adept at moving into new environments and extrapolate from existing experience  to quickly adapt to new technologies fluently. Possess first-rate communications and  collaboration skills to lead and work in concert with diverse groups effectively.    HIGHLIGHTS  Information Technology Systems Administration  Technical Analysis Migrations/Upgrades  Systems Integration Operations Management  Network Engineering Multi-Platform Networking Work Experience Systems/ Network Administrator Two Rivers Dental Management - Naperville, IL February 2012 to Present Installed and Maintained 16 Servers and 180 Workstations.  Configured and installed server, routers, switches and wireless  controllers.  Maintained company servers, computers, printers, cables, Wireless  Dental Equipments and other equipment.  Managed multiple operations using virtualization with VMWare  Manage client/server environment.  Acted as primary contact for computer hardware and software  problems, as well as network emergencies.  Act as technology liaison to client base.  Research and implement new technologies as needed.  Analyze internal processes, leverage technology to improve,  streamline and shorten.  Aid sales in utilizing technology in marketing, i.e.  email, website, SEO  Key Contributions Installed and managed HP Proliant and Dell  Poweredge Servers  Microsoft Server 2008 R2 Implementation Installed and maintained  Active Directories with group policies.  Managed backups on NAS Storage.  Installed and provide remote support to all server and workstations  using remote desktop softwares. Network Administrator INQ Solutions - Hyderabad, Andhra Pradesh June 2009 to December 2011 Hyderabad, India  Installed and administered Microsoft IIS Server  Managed Domain Name Servers  Responsible for research acquisition and configuration of all new  network and server hardware systems.  Remotely administered Windows Servers  General Desktop support, assisted web development and  Exchange Server administration.  Installed and maintained network availability and performance  monitoring and notification system.  Installed and maintained VMware workstations local and remote  end clients Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Science Engineering Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University - Hyderabad, Andhra Pradesh 2009 Additional Information TECHNICAL EXPERTISE  Operating Systems: Windows 2000, Xp, Vista & 7, Windows Server 2000,  2003, 2008, VMware ESXi 3.5, 4.1 and 5.0.    Networking: LAN/WAN, TCP/IP, DNS, DHCP, POP3, SMTP, FTP, Active  Directory, VPN.    Hardware: Cisco 3845, Cisco 3835, 3Com & Netgear Switches, Laptops,  Workstations & Servers (HP, Dell and IBM), RAID, SCSI and Other  Peripherals.    Software: VMware Workstation 6.5, 7 & 8, Windows Terminal Server, MS IIS  Server, Exchange 2003 & 2010, McAfee, Symantec Backup Exec, MS  Office, PC Anywhere.