Network Security Analyst <span class="hl">Network</span> Security Analyst Network Security Analyst - Wipro Technologies Painted Post, NY • Total 3 years of experience in Networking.  • 1 year of experience in configuring, administering and monitoring Check Point Firewall and Palo Alto firewall.  • Have Cisco Certifications (CCNA, CCNA Security).  • Experience Working Knowledge of Cisco IOS.  • Efficient designing of IP Addressing Scenario using VLSM and Sub netting.  • Good at OSI Layers concepts.  • Experience on ASA (5505/5510) Firewalls. Implemented security policies using ACL on firewall. Configured IPSEC VPN, SSL VPN. IPS/IDS, AAA(TACACS+ & RADIUS) etc.  • Troubleshooting & implementation of Vlan, STP, MSTP, RSTP, PVST, 802.1Q, DTP, HSRP, VRRP, GLBP, LACP, PAGP, AAA, TACACS, RADIUS and VTP.  • Configured routers using RIP, OSPF, BGP and EIGRP and also done troubleshooting.  • IOS upgrade for Cisco routers and switches.  • Experience in creating various rules on various VSYX on checkpoint firewall.  • Experience in pushing various firewall rules on Panorama on different device groups.  • Experience and knowledge of change and incident management process using Service Now ticketing tool.  • Created network diagram using Microsoft Visio 2013.  • Good communication skills and a team player, Effective inter-personal skills, adaptive to any environment, with the latest technologies and delivering solutions as an individual and as part of a team. Sponsorship required to work in the US Work Experience Network Security Analyst Wipro Technologies - Corning, NY June 2015 to Present • Have experience with migration from one data center to other data center.  • Hands on experience with Service Now ticketing tool to implement the tasks, changes and incidents.  • Have experience in making network diagram using Microsoft Visio 2013.  • Experience with migrating firewall rules on Check Point and Palo Alto.  • Experience in installing, configuring and troubleshooting of Check Point and Palo Alto.  • Experience in upgrading the operating systems on Check Point and Palo Alto during HAPO (High Availability Planned Outage) activity performed quarterly.  • Have experience in monitoring the traffic on Radware Defence Pro and also performing HA Pair configuration and synchronization between two HA pair devices.  • Have hands on experience on Panorama for pushing the various firewall rules on different VSYS.  • Worked on Cisco ACS for network authentication, authorization and accounting.  • Managed inventory using REMEDY.  • Experience in configuring and managing Cisco WSA appliance.  • Have basic understanding of Cisco ISE device and have worked on it.  • Experience in handling Checkpoint R77.30 firewall and upgrading OS from Gaia R77.20 to R 77.30  • Configuring NAT policies on ASA and Palo Alto.  • VPN implementation (Site to Site and Remote Access VPN).  • Policy, Objects and Networks creation/management by using smart dashboard.  • Checkpoint smart view tracking systems for troubleshooting and security rule maintenance and implementation.  • Configured ASA NAT for outbound PAT or static NAT  • Performed Cisco ASA configuration through command line interface. Network Administrator Penmark Global Solutions - Princeton, NJ October 2014 to May 2015 Responsibilities:  • Maintained network performance by performing network monitoring and analysis and performance; troubleshooting network problems.  • Securing network by developing network access, monitoring, controlling, evaluating and installing enhancements.  • Configuring routing protocols like OSPF and BGP for a small enterprise.  • Configuring VLAN, VTP, Ether channel, HSRP etc.. Network Administrator Nectar Education Solutions - Indore, Madhya Pradesh September 2011 to September 2013 Took Networking courses till May 2012 )    Responsibilities:  • Configured and troubleshoot routing protocols like RIP, OSPF, EIGRP and BGP.  • Implemented site to site VPN on ASA.  • Switching tasks include VTP, ISL/ 802.1q, IPSec and GRE Tunneling, VLANs, Ether Channel, Trunking, Port Security, STP and RSTP.  • Network security including NAT/PAT, ACL on ASA Firewalls.  • Worked with ACS for accounting, authorizing and authenticating users.  • Created and managed local VLANs based on department function and configure ports with static VLAN assignment and 802.1Q trunks for layer 2 forwarding. Configure edge ports for fast-transitioning into forward state to fix workstation startup connectivity delays.  • Configure frame-relay point-to-point and multipoint connections to establish connectivity between each of the four sites as required. Implement hub and spoke network between three sites with main office as the hub for redundant connections.  • Implement OSPF routing with multiple areas for networks between sites. Implement totally stubby areas to lower the system resource utilization of the routing devices for the network. Implement NSSA area to allow injection of external routes into the area and propagation into the OSPF domain.  • Configure EIGRP unequal-cost load balancing to also use the lower capacity multipoint links when routing packets.  • Experience in configuring BGP on routers.  • Have basic understanding of Cisco WSA and Cisco WLC. Have basic configuration understanding.  • Took Cisco courses from September 2011 to May 2012. Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Routers:  Cisco 2900, 3900, 4400  Switches:  Cisco 3750, 4500, 6500  Firewalls:  ASA, Check Point, Palo Alto  Routing:  OSPF, EIGRP, BGP, RIP, Route Filtering, Redistribution, Summarization, Static routing  Switching:  VLANs, Dot1Q, VTP, STP, RSTP, VLAN, HSRP, GLBP, CEF, Port Security  LAN/WAN Technologies:  Ethernet, Frame relay, MPLS, HDLC, PPP  Protocols:  IP, TCP, UDP, ICMP, NAT, DNS, DHCP, SNMP, IPSEC, SSL, HTTP, SSH.  VPN Technologies:  Site to Site VPN, DMVPN, GET VPN, EASY VPN, WEB VPN  Other Security Devices: Cisco ACS, Cisco ISE, Cisco IDS/IPS, Cisco WSA  Other technology: Microsoft Visio 2013