Network Engineer <span class="hl">Network</span> Engineer Network Engineer - AT&T Austin, TX • Cisco Certified Network Associate with Around 5 years of experience in the industry which includes Network Designing, Implementation, Installation, Configuration, Deployment, Troubleshooting, Network Operations, Administration support and Network Security.  • Experience in Configuration and Support of LAN protocols on Cisco Switches such as Layer2, Layer3 and Multi-Layer.  • Knowledge of implementing and troubleshooting complex layer 2 technologies such as VLAN Trunks, VTP Ether channel, STP, RSTP and MST.  • Strong Knowledge of the 7 layers, TCP/IP, IP Addressing and IPV6.  • Engineered traffic management solutions, including Network designing, low level engineering for F5 LTM, GTM, ASM, APM environment.  • Performed F5 appliance (LTM, GTM, APM, and ASM) maintenance and system upgrades including hot fixes and security configurations.  • Experience in designing and configuring of Layer 2/3 networking features such as VLAN, ISL, STP, VTP, 802.1X, Port Security, SPAN.  • Exposure to remote support technologies like Dial-up remote access and Telnet to provide support for remote users.  • Migration and Implementation of routing protocols (EIGRP, OSPF, RIP).  • Use and Implementation of traffic filters using standard, extended and named access lists.  • Implementation of TCP/IP & related Services-DHCP/DNS.  • Knowledgeable in monitoring network system performance to ensure maximum uptime.  • Knowledge and exposure to work with VOIP phone technologies.  • Installing & Configuring Network Access Control (NAC) using Cisco Clean Access (CCA).  • Troubleshooting routers and switches for network connectivity and performance issues.  • Monitoring and capturing the traffic with multiple network management tools like Cisco Works, Wire shark, NetFlow Analyzer, source fire, HP Open View. Sound knowledge of virtual firewalls like checkpoint VSX, IDS, IPS as well as encryption techniques.  • Implemented security policies using ACL, Firewall, IPSEC, SSL, VPN, IPS/IDS, AAA TACACS RADIUS.  • Worked on F5 Load Balancers Configuring Irules, Profiles, Nats/Snats, And Load Balancing.  • Excellent Verbal, written communication skills and Interpersonal skills with ability to work with large teams as well as independently with minimum supervision Team Player.  • Experience with Project documentation tools implementing and maintaining network monitoring systems and experience with developing network design documentation and presentations using VISIO. Work Experience Network Engineer AT&T - Austin, TX December 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Performed daily maintenance, troubleshooting, configuration, and installation of all network components.  • Configured CISCO Routers (3600, 4000 Series) and 3550, 4500 series switches.  • TCP/IP network planning, Implementation and Management with subnets.  • Implemented Virtual LANs across Routers and Switches.  • Implemented and Configured IP Routing Protocols: OSPF, EIGRP, and RIPv2.  • Analysis of the requirements and conduct technical discussion on requirements with Architects.  • Configure and install various network devices and services (routers, switches, VPN, etc.)  • Perform network maintenance and system upgrades (service packs, security configurations, etc.)  • Monitor performance and ensure system availability and reliability.  • Participate in design and support of networking and programming for light industrial equipment.  • Maintaining the Network Infrastructure, Installation, migration and configuration of routers and switches for clients.  • Test plan preparation includes classification of high-level test scenarios, detailed test cases drafting and documentation.  • Involved in test bed setup in Lab, Configuration and troubleshooting of Network Components.  • Involved in functionality QA Validation of the feature in major and minor releases.  • Tracking the functional defects by raising bugs and closing them post verification.  • Working closely with the developers and Architects for delivering the releases in timely manner.  • Preparation of daily status report, weekly status report, requirements traceability matrix, defect report.  • Lab setup and Lab activities.  • Upgrading IOS, troubleshooting network outages.  • Implemented and configured LAN Protocols: Ethernet, VLANs, VTP and STP.  • Worked with Remedy Ticketing tool in maintaining and keep a track of logs/monitor.  • Designed and implemented IP Addressing, Subnetting, Route Summarization and Route Distributions.  Environment: LAN, WAN, Subnetting, VLAN, VTP, VPN, NAT, OSPF, BGP, EIGRP. Aruba 215,315, 335, 275, 305, 315, 207 Router's, Aruba 2930M, 2930F, 3810 Switches. Salesforce, Cisco 7600 routers. Network Administrator Logikos Inc - Fort Wayne, IN July 2017 to November 2017 Responsibilities:  • Proactively monitored network health and activity through eHealth, Infoblox, Proteus, ServiceNow, Wireshark and Splunk.  • Deployment, configuration, and management of 802.1x solutions to include Cisco Identity Services Engine (ISE), ACS (Radius and TACACS+), and Cisco Prime Infrastructure.  • Update and modify KB network monitoring tool, NetFlow, SolarWinds and NETMRI for all new/old devices.  • Worked on automation of test environment using Shell, Python Scripting.  • Black listing and White listing of web URL on Bluecoat Proxy Servers.  • Performing URL filtering and content filtering by adding URL's in Bluecoat Proxy SG's.  • Experience in using NetScout sniffer analysis for testing the performance of the network.  • Successfully put in Palo Alto PA 3060 firewalls to protects information Center and provided L3 support for routers/switches/firewalls.  • Integrated TACACS and LDAP for user authentication on webpage and device.  • Implemented Zone primarily based Firewalling and Security Rules on the Palo Alto Firewall Exposure to wild hearth feature of Palo Alto.  • Regularly performed firewall audits around stop Firewall-1 solutions for purchasers.  • Helping remote and local's users daily technical issues for e.g. related to windows 7 and 10, Internet Application access issue, Shared or mapped folder access issue, office 365.  • Used network observation tools like Spectrum to confirm network property and protocol analysis tools to assess and pinpoint networking problems inflicting service disruption.  • Implementing AAA, Access Control Server configuration for RADIUS and TACACS+.  • Handling Break/Fix things, monitor, configure, policy creation on Checkpoint's sensible Center Server running on Secure Platform.  • Monitoring Traffic and Connections using cisco prime and solar winds.  • Manage project task to migrate from Cisco ASA firewalls to examine purpose firewalls.  • Preparing Metrics report description on SLA performance of tickets and method quality report back to analyze team performance & discussion on the advance areas (By monthly).  • Supporting EIGRP and BGP supported the network by partitioning level two & three issues of internal groups & external customers of all locations.  • Performing troubleshooting on slow network property problems, routing problems that involves OSPF, ISIS, BGP and distinctive the foundation reason for the problems.  • Extensive active expertise with complicated routed local area network and WAN networks, routers and switches.  • Hands-on expertise with Ether Channel, Spanning Tree, Trunking, ACLs, Syslog. Expertise within the setup of HSRP, Access-Lists, and RIP, EIGRP, Fabric path and tunnel installations.    Environment: Nexus 2k/5k/7k, Cisco 6500/7500/7200 Routers, Cisco 3550/4500/6500 switches, HP (7510,7506) switches, Brocade VPX, ICX series switches, Python, AWS, Palo Alto Firewalls, Viprion 2400 , EVPN, VXLAN, Bluecoat proxy server, LAN, WAN, WLAN, OSPF, RIP, SNMP, BGP, LDAP, IGMP, SSH, EIGRP, HSRP, PPP, VPN, Checkpoint, Cisco ISE. Network Administrator AT&T - Bridgeport, CT September 2016 to June 2017 Responsibilities:  • Maintaining the Network Infrastructure, Installation, migration and configuration of routers and switches for clients.  • Provide alternative means from dial-up connection to bring down the damage or loss that occurs for the client.  • Performed F5 appliance (LTM, GTM, APM, and ASM) maintenance and system upgrades including hot fixes and Security configurations.  • Cisco VPN Concentrators, Cisco Call Manager VOIP Phone System, Wireless LANs, Multipoint Video  Conferencing, Conference Room A/V design, Smart boards, Installation of Ethernet Cable, Patch  Panels, Wall Jacks, etc.  • Team member of Configuration of CISCO 7206 router and Configuration of Catalyst switches.  • Configuration 7609, 7606 with OSPF and catalyst 6505, 4500, 3550 switches with various VLAN.  • Create and test Cisco router and switching operations using OSPF routing protocol.  • Worked on Cisco Routers, Active /Passive Hubs, Switches, Cisco PIX Firewall, Nortel VPN Concentrators TCP/IP, NAT and Checkpoint ESX/GSX firewall.  • Configuration and troubleshooting link state protocols like OSPF in multiple areas.  • Configured HSRP and VLAN trucking 802.1Q, VLAN Routing on Catalyst 6500 switches.  • Optimized performance of the WAN network consisting of CISCO 3550/4500/6500 switches by configuring VLANs.  • Worked on F5 issues using packet capture like TCP dump, Wireshark and SolarWinds and curl commands.  • LTE and CDMA wireless testing of RF and protocols on mobile products.  • Configured VLANs with 802.1q tagging. Configured Trunk groups, ether channels, and Spanning tree for creating Access/distribution and core layer switching architecture.  • Experience with 4G and LTE RF principles and 3GPP conformance specifications.  • Responsible to evaluate, test, configure, propose and implement Network, firewall and security solution with Palo alto Networks.  • Configured BPDU Guard, port-fast, uplink fast and other spanning tree features.  • Configuration and troubleshooting of Cisco 2500, 2600, 3000, 6500, 7500, 7200 Series routers.  • Configured IP access filter policies.  • Experience with SS7 and SIGTRAN protocols for building reliable telecom systems.  • Providing Technical Support and solutions for Network Problems.  • Implementing NAT solutions on Cisco IOS routers.  • Upgrading IOS, troubleshooting network outages.  • Worked on Cisco Routers, Active /Passive Hubs, Switches.  • Install, Manage, Support & Maintain Cisco Routers, Switches.    Environment: Fortinet, Checkpoint, Palo Alto Firewalls, VPN concentrators, Cisco ACI, Viprion 2400 Cisco 6500/7500/7200 Routers, Nexus, 5K,7K, SIGTRAN, SS7, LTE, GSM, CDMA, F5 Load Balancer, ASA, LTE, CDMA, OSPF, SNMP, BGP, LDAP, IGMP, SSH, EIGRP, RIP, LAN, WAN, SSL/VPN. Bluecoat proxy server, LAN, WAN, WLAN, OSPF. Wireshark, SolarWinds Network Administrator Hyderabad, Telangana January 2015 to December 2015 Responsibilities:  • Performed daily maintenance, troubleshooting, configuration, and installation of all network components.  • Configured of CISCO Routers (3600, 4000 Series) and 3550, 4500 series switches.  • TCP/IP network planning, Implementation and Management with subnets.  • Enabled SNMP traps for our Cacti Monitoring tool to monitor traffic and check the regular health of Servers and Network Devices  • Implemented Virtual LANs across Routers and Switches.  • Maintained the Network Infrastructure, Installation, migration and configuration of routers and switches for clients.  • Provided alternative means from dial-up connection to bring down the damage or loss that occurs for the client.  • Performed F5 appliance (LTM, GTM, APM, and ASM) maintenance and system upgrades including hot fixes and Security configurations.  • Configured Routing protocols such as OSPF and policy based routing.  • Created and test Cisco router and switching operations using OSPF routing protocol.  • Configured and troubleshooting link state protocols like OSPF in multiple areas.    Environment: OSPF, BGP, Private Vlans, Gre / site to site vpn, Dhcp Snooping, IP source guard, Wireless Access Points, Vlan, Catalyst 2900/3500/3750/3850 switches. Education Master of Science in Electrical Engineering University of Bridgeport Bachelor of Science in Electronics and Communications Engineering JNTU Skills AP (Less than 1 year), BGP (3 years), Catalyst (1 year), CISCO (3 years), Cisco PIX (Less than 1 year), EIGRP (2 years), Excel (Less than 1 year), firewalls (1 year), HP OpenView (Less than 1 year), IEEE (Less than 1 year), LAN (2 years), Nexus (1 year), OSPF (3 years), Remedy (1 year), router (1 year), Routing Protocols (2 years), switching (1 year), VLAN (3 years), VPN (3 years), Wireless (1 year)