Network Engineer <span class="hl">Network</span> Engineer Network Engineer - Tejes Services, Inc Parker, CO A highly resourceful and competent networking administrator with progressive experience in installing, maintaining and troubleshooting multi-platform networks and a positive approach of understanding of current networking approaches and designs. Willingness to work for more than 10-12 hours and go an extra mile to become a competent and resourceful employee for the company. Possess considerable knowledge of networking and system applications and have the enthusiasm and ambition to complete projects to the highest standard. Excellent communication skills with experience in report/technical writing, instructing personnel, and working closely with management and clients on technology-related issues. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Network Engineer Tejes Services, Inc - Broomfield, CO March 2017 to Present Networking:  • Switches, Firewall, Windows Server, Network Design, Visio, Active Directory, TCP/IP, Microsoft Exchange, Group Policy, DHCP, System Administration, Intermedia, Superdense Jr. Network Administrator Vista IT Solutions - Cheshire, CT December 2016 to March 2017 Answered, evaluate and prioritizes incoming telephone, e-mail, and in-person request for clients experiencing hardware, software, network, resources peripheral, file permission's, account setup, and network connectivity issues.  • Hands-on desktop building, formatting, re-image and deployment.  • Updated proper inventory.  • Documented network architecture using Microsoft Visio  • Collaborated with server team to resolve network related problems  • Experience with Autotask Ticketing system.  • Worked closely with a Network Engineer on SonicWALL firewall. System/ Network Administrator Akira LLC - New York, NY July 2015 to September 2016 Voluntarily worked as a System/ Network administrator for the company. The key responsibilities were to visit the client sides and make sure for the smooth running of computer systems and ensuring users get maximum benefits from them.  • Installing and configuring computer hardware operating systems and applications;  • Monitoring and maintaining computer systems and networks;  • Remote Desktop Connectivity via LogMeIn  • Server design and maintenance, Active Directory  • Network Diagram follow-up using Microsoft Visio  • Setting up new users' accounts and profiles and dealing with password issues  • Rapidly establishing a good working relationship with customers and other professionals. Network Administrator Alacrity-E-commerce Pvt Ltd - Nagpur, Maharashtra December 2013 to November 2014 Worked as a System/ Network Administrator in the company, which is the subsidiary of the New York based company, Gogotech. The goal of the project in the company was to troubleshoot major support and connectivity issues encountered by the end users. Worked on the Network-attached Storage (NAS) which creates and stores an automatic back-up of the files of the employees on a regular basis.    Duties  • Administered LAN / WAN based network.  • Server design and maintenance.  • VPN reliability, Internet access.  • Configuration and maintenance of workstations and laptops.    • Remote dialup connectivity.  • Customer service and help desk support.  • Development of the network IT infrastructure.  • Avaya phone configuration. Education MS (CS in CS University of Bridgeport 2015 to 2016 BE in Engineering & Technology Ram Meghe College 2009 to 2013 Additional Information Key skills:    • Ability to multi-task, react quickly to shifting priorities and meet deadlines.  • Proactive, confident and with a positive "can-do" attitude.  • Able to clearly communicate technical data to non-technical colleagues and clients.  • Continuously monitoring industry trends, technologies and standards.  • Enhancing all-round analysis and networking skills.  • Excellent attention to the system needs of both front and back end.