Network Administrator <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Network Administrator - Allcol Technologies Inc Atlanta, GA To obtain a position that will utilize my skills and abilities and add value to a prospective company. Excel at identifying and analyzing procedures to generate new ideas and aid in providing growth and stability for the networks that I manage. Work Experience Network Administrator Allcol Technologies Inc - Jacksonville, FL August 2010 to Present Managing and Configuring Switches and Routers in the Data Center for Various Customers. Performing the Below Task:  • Configuring and racking routers and switches troubleshooting network LAN and WAN topologies.  • Cabling Patch Panel  • Cable Management cat5, cat5e, fiber, coaxial cable connection.  • Network monitoring configuring TCP/IP protocols suite on host devices using IPv4.  • Configuring Vlan on Network Switches.  • Level 1 customer support  • Configuring 3500 catalyst Series cisco switches  • Configuring 2800 Series Routers designed for wire-speed delivery of highly secure concurrent services and can accommodate multiple T1/E1 connections for services including voice, data, video and wireless  • Configuring Tipping Point X506 IPS unified security platform for security notification for intrusion protection  • Configuring and network monitoring 3650's layer 3 switches great PoE devices  • Configuring and network monitoring 3750's It helps increase productivity and protects your network investment by providing a unified network for data, voice, and video.  • Configuring and monitoring cisco 4500 series routers  • Cisco Nexus 1000V Switch optimizing the use of Layer 4-7 virtual networking services in virtual-machine and cloud environments through Cisco vPath architecture services.  • Cisco vPath technology is aware of all Layer 4-7 policies associated with individual virtual machines.  • Implement spanning-tree for redundancy and a layer 2 loop free environment.  • Use of ACL for traffic filtering and further layer 3 security. Network Administrator Lender Processing Services January 2012 to August 2012 Managing BGP and MPLS Wan circuits for numerous banks and mortgage clients.  • Troubleshooting LAN and WAN circuit and tunnel outages.  • Managing IP routing tables on all LAN devices.  • Updating Visio diagrams to keep track of all architecture lay outs of all remote sites.  • Packet sniffing using infinistream console for efficient packet delivery.  • Troubleshooting and configuring 5500 ASA series firewalls and also IDS/IPS devices.  • Monitoring of all Security devices were used from an application called Smart Domain Manager to track and record all inbound and outbound intranet traffic.  • Using a network application called CA Spectrum to identify any VOIP, Security, WAN, or LAN issues.  • Managing and Monitoring Ace module switches for load balancing, application acceleration, server performance, reducing data center power, and cooling needs through virtualized architecture  • Configuring Cisco routers and switches 6500, 3600, 2900, 2800, 3700, series equipment.  • Troubleshooting routing and configuring protocols such as VRRF, HSRP, VRRP, OSPF, EIGRP, BGP, RIP v2 and Static routing.  • Creating severity tickets that keeps record of all network outages for any given period of time.  • Escalating network related problems to Sr. level engineers to meet company Service Level Agreements that are were reviewed each morning and afternoon for customer satisfaction. Network Technician AT&T Lab - Atlanta, GA June 2009 to January 2010 Managing and monitoring of lab equipment for lab environment.  • Studying QOS on voice and video communication.  • Expanding LAN environment  • Configuring Cisco, Alcatel, and Juniper switches and routers.  • Structuring AT&T data center racking routers, switches, firewalls, and ips/ids systems.  • Communicating with AT&T corporate office pertaining the production of our lab environment and scheduled production output.  • Hands on configuration with cisco routers and switches for effective lab testing.  AT&T lab environment focused on improving DSL cable for customers. Whereas customers with DSL will have the option to cut cost on cable and internet and use Microsoft XBOX to watch cable through an internet connection as long as the have an acceptable game console which would lower the price of AT&T DSL cable price. Education Physical Therapy Florida A & M University - Tallahassee, FL August 2005 to April 2010 Additional Information Qualifications  Configuration and Management of Cisco 2800 Series routers and 3500 Series switches. Management of Tipping Point X506 Series IPS/Firewalls.    Link State, and/or Distance Vector Routing Protocols: RIPv2, OSPF, EIGRP, IS-IS, BGP, BGP v4 (also consider path vector), MPLS    Switching Technologies: VLAN, VTP, PVST (per vlan spanning-tree), STP (Spanning Tree), RSTP (Rapid Spanning Tree), ACL's (Access Control List), EACL's (Extended Access Control List), VLSM (Variable Length Subnet Mask), IPv4, IPv6, CIDR, 802.1q trunking.    Other Protocols: NAT, PPP, VPN, Frame Relay, FTP, TFTP, SNMP, ICMP, Telnet, Tracert, SSH, SSL,    Network Tools: Putty, Teraterm, Wireshark, Smart Domain Manager, CA Spectrum    Operating Systems: Windows 2003 Server, Windows 2008 Server, Windows XP, Windows 7, Windows Vista,    O/S Features: DNS, DHCP, Wins, Active Directory    Applications: MS Office, (Word, Excel, PowerPoint, Outlook),