Network Administrator <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Network Administrator - Vsoft Corporation • 4 years of professional experience in Planning, Implementing, Configuring, Troubleshooting of networking system on Cisco Networks  • Experience with the escalation problems for Routing, Switching and WAN connectivity issues using ticketing systems like remedy and Magic  • Experience of routing protocols like EIGRP, OSPF, RIP, and BGP  • Excellent knowledge of TCP/IP protocols IPV-4 and IPV-6  • Worked on Cisco 7200, 3800, 3600, 2800, 2600, 1800 series Routers and Cisco 2900, 3500, 4500, 5500 Switches  • Strong knowledge of VMware vSphere administration within Cisco Unified Computing System environment  VMware administration experience with vCloud and Hyper-V  • Extensive hands-on experience with complex routed LAN and WAN networks, routers and switches  • Hands-on configuration and experience in setting up Cisco routers to perform functions at the Access, Distribution, and Core layers  • Experience in the setup of Access-Lists, and RIP, EIGRP, and tunnel installations  • Proficiency in configuration of VLAN setup on various Cisco Routers and Switches  • Experienced in trouble-shooting both connectivity issues and hardware problems on Cisco based networks  • Hands-on experience in using network stimulator tools like OPNET, Solarwinds Orion  • Experience deploying BIG-IP F5 LTM, GTM Load Balancers for load balancing and traffic management of application  • Worked extensively in Configuring, Monitoring and Troubleshooting Cisco's ASA 5500 with ACL, NAT, Object Groups, Failover, Multi-Contexts  • Strong knowledge in HSRP, VRRP redundancy Protocols  • Experience in Network Management Tools and sniffers like SNMP, Wireshark and Cisco works to support 24 x 7 Network Operation Center  • Experience working with network Automation using Python  • Experience in physical cabling, IP addressing and subnetting with VLSM, configuring and supporting TCP/IP, DNS,VOIP-Cisco Call Manager installing and configuring proxies  • Access control server configuration for RADIUS & TACACS+  • Hands-on experience using Cisco Virtual Switching System (VSS)  • Knowledge of advanced technologies like Multicasting, MPLS and MPLS-VPN  • Good Experience in working with Windows 2003,2008 and 2012 servers, Linux (Cent OS and Red-Hat) Servers  • Hands-on Experience in working with VMware, creating and managing Virtual Machines  • Good Knowledge in Amazon Web Services Concepts like EC2,S3,ELB,EBS,VPC,IAM  • Ability to Install, Manage & Troubleshoot Large Networks & Systems Administration on Windows & Linux platforms in Development, Lab & Production Environments  • Good knowledge of CISCO NEXUS data center infrastructure with 5000 and 7000 series switches includes (5548, 7010) including CISCO NEXUS Fabric Extender (223, 2248)  • Hands-on Experience with CISCO Nexus 7000, Nexus 5000, and Nexus 2000 platforms  • Knowledge of virtual firewalls like checkpoint VSX, IDS, IPS as well as encryption techniques  • Good knowledge on VLAN Trunk Protocol (VTP)  • Design, configure, and implement LAN/WAN networking solutions for mid-sized to enterprise-level clients  • Conduct Wireless RF Surveys and document results  • Develop comprehensive project-based System Designs, Network Diagrams, Migration Plans, and Test Plans  • Effectively communicate with internal Account Executives and potential clients to assess and make solution  • Develop Bills of Materials (BOMs) and technical Statements of Work (SOWs)  • Great team player and able to work under pressure    CERTICATION:  • CCNA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Network Administrator Vsoft Corporation - Atlanta, GA November 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Support Network Technicians as they require training & support for problem resolution including performing diagnostics, & configuring network devices.  • Configuring of IP Allocation and sub netting for all applications and servers and other needs throughout company using FLSM, VLSM addressing.  • Experience installing & configuring of Cisco ASA, Barracuda and Fortinet Firewalls.  • Experience with converting PIX rules over to the Cisco ASA solution  • Involved in the configuration & troubleshooting of routing protocols: BGP, OSPF, EIGRP and RIP.  • Tuned BGP internal and external peers with manipulation of attributes such as metric, origin and local Preference.  • Supporting EIGRP and BGP based on the network by resolving level 2 & 3 problems of internal teams & external customers of all locations.  • Performing troubleshooting on slow network connectivity issues, routing issues that involves OSPF, BGP and identifying the root cause of the issues.  • Experience in WAN connectivity using Cisco routers by using T1, T3 and frame relay connections and its troubleshooting issues.  • Design and implementation of the LAN IP infrastructure using Layer 2 / Layer 3 switching, STP, Gigabit Ethernet and Trunking / channeling technologies.  • Installed and configured Fortinet NGFW series firewall and configured remote access and site-site IPSEC VPN on Cisco ASA 5500 series.  • Experience with deployment of Fortinet firewalls for different NAT, video conferencing traffic  • Administration of ASA and Fortinet firewalls in the DMZ and FWSM in the Server Farm to provide security and controlled/restricted access.  • Implementation and Configuration ( Profiles, I Rules) of F5 Big-IP LTM-6400 load balancers  • Experience in Configuring, upgrading and verifying NX-OS operation system with OSPF, BGP  • Implemented Access lists and policy mapping on Cisco routers installed in each branch across all the locations.  • Worked on external customer wireless network infrastructure  • Supported day to day operational needs for customer infrastructure  • Worked with a team on planning, designing, configurations, deployments and support of LAN/WAN/WLAN infrastructure  • Worked with VMware hypervisor and virtualization monitoring tools  • Participated in the evaluation of vendor hardware, software, and wireless communications products  • Operational support and troubleshooting of production wireless network issues - Cisco Meraki  • Provided technical support case escalation for customer wireless infrastructure  • Documentation of advanced enterprise wireless solutions and designs  • Experience working with ASR 9000 series switches with IOS-XR  • Actively involved in Switching technology Administration including creating and managing VLANS, Port security- 802.1x, Truncking 802.1Q, RPVST+, Inter-VLAN routing, and LAN security on Cisco Catalyst Switches 4507R+E, 6509-E and Cisco Nexus Switches 2232, 5596, 7009.  • Tested various networks which works on the protocols like of TCP/IP (IP, TCP, UDP, SNMP, DNS, DHCP, FTP, HTTP, HTTPS, ICMP, SMTP, ARP, IPSEC, and NAT)  • Represent IT department in IT/Info Sec. Audits like ISO 27001, SOC 1 Type II and customer Audits.  • Work with Internal Audit teams and create/review documentation of IT policies, procedures and generate respective evidences on a quarterly basis.  • Acts as liaison for internal management, external auditors, and various process owners.  • Conduct and Validate Disaster Recovery Activities and make sure all the challenges, if any, are addressed and the procedures and results are documented.  • Assist in developing innovative internal controls to remediate audit findings in IT Controls and procedures  • Contribute to Project Plans from an IT perspective during new customer on-boarding via. Capacity Planning and Forecast.  • Identified vulnerabilities, recommend corrective measures and ensure the adequacy of existing information security controls.  • Educated business unit managers, IT development team, and the user community about risks and security controls.  • Prepared detail practices and procedures on technical processes. Work within established configuration and change management policies to ensure awareness, approval and success of changes made to the network infrastructure.  • Analyze security incidents and present quarterly reports to the IT Vice President. Network Administrator Vsoft Technologies - Hyderabad, Telangana August 2013 to July 2015 Responsibilities:  • Responsible for implementing, supporting, and maintaining 24x7 network services  • Packet capturing, troubleshooting on network problems with Wireshark, identifying and fixing problems  • Configured and troubleshooting BGP, OSPF, EIGRP, WAN, QoS and Route Maps  • Configure BGP features such as as-override, Local pre, EBGP load sharing on client connections  • Configured and resolved various OSPF issues in an OSPF multi area environment between multiple branch routers.  • Configuring rules and Maintaining Palo Alto Firewalls & Analysis of firewall logs using various tools  • Configured and maintained IPSEC and SSL VPN's on Fortinet Firewalls.  • Providing technical security proposals, detailed RFP responses, security presentation, installing and configuring ASA firewalls, VPN networks and redesigning customer security architectures.  • Experience in working with cisco Nexus 5000 series switches for data center  • Performed redistribution with OSPF, EIGRP to enable communication with backbone  • Troubleshoot connectivity issues involving VLAN's, OSPF, and QoS  • Configured VLANs with 802.1q tagging. Configured Trunk groups, ether channels, and Spanning tree for creating Access/distribution and core layer switching architecture Network Technician BSNL - Hyderabad, Telangana January 2013 to June 2013 Responsibilities:  • Experience in Cisco switches and routers: Physical cabling, IP addressing, Wide Area Network configurations.  • Managed IP addressing and implemented IP Access Lists.  • Documented the design, implementation and troubleshooting procedures.  • Involved in network monitoring, alarm notification and acknowledgement.  • Performed switching technology administration including VLANs, inter-VLAN routing, Trunking, STP, RSTP, port aggregation & link negotiation.  • Maintained complex LAN/WAN networks with several VLANS and provided support for routing protocols.  • Maintaining Network Integrity on LAN and WAN Networks.  • Configuring and Troubleshooting Routing protocols OSPF, RIP, EIGRP & BGP.  • Have sound knowledge of Firewall architecture, routing and VPN.  • Installed and configured the ACE and CSM for firewall/Server Load balancing for Cisco Catalyst switches. Education Masters in Telecommunications in Telecommunications George Mason University May 2017 Bachelors in Electrical and Electronics Engineering in Electrical and Electronics Engineering JNTU - Hyderabad, Telangana May 2013 Skills architecture (2 years), Bgp (3 years), Catalyst (1 year), Cisco (3 years), Cisco asa (1 year), Dhcp (1 year), Eigrp (3 years), Ethernet (1 year), frame relay (1 year), Ios (1 year), Nexus (3 years), Ospf (3 years), routing protocols (1 year), security (3 years), Snmp (1 year), switching (3 years), T1 (1 year), Vlan (1 year), Vpn (3 years), Wireshark (1 year), Technical Support, Windows, Networking, Javascript, Active Directory