Sen. Network Administrator Sen. <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Sen. Network Administrator - Citibank St. Louis, MO • 10+ years of experience in the field of network engineering, managing & migration of small and large-scale enterprise network  • Experience in and extensive knowledge of deploying & troubleshooting L2/L3 TCP/IP, Multilayer Switching, QoS, IPSec, UDP, Ethernet, MPLS, DMVPN & IP Routing Protocols RIP, EIGRP, OSPF & BGP.  • Expertise in deployment and troubleshooting of Routers, Switches, ASA Firewalls, F5 and Cisco load balancers, Wireless & VPN Concentrators.  • Switching related tasks included implementing VLANs, VTP, STP, MSTP and configuring and maintaining multi VLAN environment and inter-VLAN routing on Fast-Ethernet channel.  • Designing TCP/IP networks, diagrams with Visio, and documentation of security policies.  • In-depth knowledge of Network monitoring software like Cisco Works and Packet Sniffers like Ethereal Protocol Analyzer/Wireshark, Jitter, Latency and Manage QOS for Data.  • Experience designing TCP/IP networks, diagrams with Visio, and documentation of security policies.  • Propose quality system design to achieve project objectives in line with business rules, development standard and guidelines.  • Experience in monitoring of cryptographic applications, URL filtering, alerting, syslog reporting, and logging. Planned and Installed LANs with Structured Cabling System includes installation of Mounting Racks, Server Racks, Power Panels, Jack/Patch Panels, Network Point Termination etc.  • Wireless Design, Survey, Installed, Configured and Troubleshoot Cisco Aironet AP - 1300, 1230, 1200, 1100 and 350 Series, Cisco Works WLSE and Antennas, IP Phones 7900 series and Spectral Phones, Integrated Switches 3200 and Cat 6500 series, Blue socket Appliances, Cisco ACS Server.  • Experience in installing, managing troubleshooting Cisco IP Phones, Cisco IP Communicator & Cisco IP Conference Stations.  • Experience on integrating voice, Video and data networks as well as VOIP.  • Hands on experience with installing and managing IT services such as Active Directory, Site replication, Multi Domain forests architecture, DNS, WINS, DHCP, and Terminal Services.  • Experience in Anti-virus Software Like Trend Micro Net Suite, Symantec Anti-virus, McAfee Anti-virus.    Security:  • Planned and implemented corporate network and desktop security strategy ensuring proper protection of corporate data according to company policies.  • Security experienced with implementation, troubleshooting and responding to customer driven issues pertaining to secure IP devices. Support includes CPE for Cisco, Checkpoint, Fortinet, Juniper, and Palo Alto firewalls. This includes CPE Load Balancers support for F5 devices, Ace devices, Blue Coat Proxy Servers and Juniper SSL VPN.  • Network Segmentation application migrations for all enterprise PII and PHI Firewall applications, and data behind ASA 5585-Xs  • Configured Object Grouping, Protocol Handling and Code up gradation on ASA Firewalls.  • Utilized AES/AES-256, 3DES with ASA firewall to implement Site-to-Site VPNs over the Internet.  • Negotiate VPN tunnels using IPSec encryption standards and also configured and implemented site-to-site VPN, Remote VPN.  • Configured and monitored Firewall logging, DMZ's and related security policies.  • Extensively worked on implementation of Firewall ACL's, designing perimeter security policy, allowing access to specified services, enabling IDS/IPS signatures in Firewall and fine-tuning of TCP and UDP.  • Responsible for service request tickets generated by the helpdesk in all phases such as troubleshooting, maintenance, upgrades, patches, fixes, and all around technical support.  • Configuration of ACLs in Cisco 5540 series ASA firewall for Internet Access requests for servers in LAN and DMZ and also for special user requests as authorized by management.  • Monitored systems health, performance, and security.  • Managed Secure Operations Center 2nd Level Support Engineer Secure Operation Center supporting multiple Managed IP Network Security Devices including Load Balancers and Proxy servers for International Banking and Industrial Companies.    Load Balancing:  • F5 (LTM) troubleshooting of server pools, IPSec or SSL profiles, end point load balancing, and point-to-point connectivity, and IPSec certificate offloading.  • F5 LTM traffic monitoring, logging, farm load balancing, auditing, and accounting/reporting.  Worked on F5 LTM, GTM series like 6400, 6800, 8800 and Radware for the corporate applications and their availability.  • Troubleshooting and isolation of connectivity issues and application communication, working across load-balanced server pools (F5) with disparate back-end servers on separate subnets.  • Maintained LTM (F5 Local Traffic Manager) for load-balancing multiple server pools.  • F5 LTM, Cisco ASA, and Net Screen firewall administration (managed services)  • F5 VIPRION Load Balancer: Designed and deployed new generation load balancers to support enterprise wide migration to a virtualized infrastructure.  • Deployed Riverbed WAN optimizers and F5 load balancers.  • Maintained F5 BIG-IP LTM 6900 for providing application redundancy, load balancing and policies.  • Installation and upgrades of License Certificates for F5, Radware, and Cisco load balancers and allSolar Winds software.  • The project succeeded in implementing a one arm implementation and F5's Virtual Crusted Multiprocessing (vCMP) . This resulted was the successful reduction in the number of physical load balancers to manage and maintain.    Hands on experience on the following products:  • CISCO Routers - 7500, 7200 VXR, 4500M, 3700, 3600, 2600, 1700 series  • CISCO L2/L3 Switches - 2800, 3500, 3700, 4000, 6500 series  • Cisco Nexus 300, 5000 and 7000 series  • CISCO ASA 5x00 series, CISCO IDS - 4235, CISCO PIX Firewall - 506, 515, 525, 535  • Cisco Wireless: Cisco Access Point series 350, 1200, Cisco Wireless Bridge 1130  • Microsoft Server, 2003, 2008, 2012 Active Directory  • CHECKPOINT NGX Firewall on NOKIA IPSO's, Fortigate Firewall, Gauntlet Firewall  • McAfee Total Defense Anti-Virus solution; Symantec Enterprise Antivirus solution  • F5 Network-GTM, LTM, Enterprise Manager  • Network Management software - Cisco Works, Whatsupgold, Solar Winds, OPNet  • COMPAQ Proliant Servers, DELL PoweEdge 24xx, 25xx, 4400 Servers  • IBM PCs/Compatible Desktops, peripheral devices such as network printers  • Vulnerability Assessment (VA) Tools - Nessus, NMAP.  • Remote Access Technologies (RAS), PGP Encryption, Proxy Servers of information  Security infrastructure and system development and maintenance. Work Experience Sen. Network Administrator Citibank - Irving, TX May 2013 to Present • Implementation and provisioning of new VPN customers in Cisco IP/MPLS-VPN Network using different routing protocols (e.g. MP-BGP, OSPF, Static, and others which are required)  • Planned and implemented the moves of multiple customers from old datacenter to latest technology datacenter.  • Worked on multiple migration projects like replacing End of Life (EOL) devices with Nexus 7K/5K.  • Deployment of New devices (Cisco, Nexus, Juniper routers/ F5, and Netscaler) based on customer requirements.  • Configuring, Deploying, Provisioning, Implementing and troubleshooting network, based on the request.  • Troubleshooting Cisco/Nexus/Juniper/NetScaler/F5 hardware related issues.  • Designing Standard Operating procedures (SOP) for various deployments and getting them approved in the GNS Change Advisory Board (GNS CAB)  • Configured and monitored Firewall logging, DMZ's and related security policies.  • Configured Object Grouping, Protocol Handling and Code up gradation on ASA Firewalls.  • Designed and implemented call fail-over via analog ports on the Cisco Routers for remote sites.  • Implemented and used SDM to configure Cisco IOS security features and network connection.  • Network Segmentation application migrations for all enterprise PII and PHI Firewall applications, and data behind ASA 5585-Xs  • Utilized AES/AES-256, 3DES with ASA firewall to implement Site-to-Site VPNs over the Internet.  • Negotiate VPN tunnels using IPSec encryption standards and also configured and implemented site-to-site VPN, Remote VPN.  • Extensively worked on implementation of Firewall ACL's, designing perimeter security policy, allowing access to specified services, enabling IDS/IPS signatures in Firewall and fine-tuning of TCP and UDP.  • Responsible for service request tickets generated by the helpdesk in all phases such as troubleshooting, maintenance, upgrades, patches, fixes, and all around technical support. Network Engineer Century Link - Monroe, LA March 2012 to April 2013 Responsibilities:  • Configuration and Maintenance of ASA 5550, ASA 5520, ASA 5510, PIX 535, PIX 515E, FWSM Firewalls and Cisco IDS 4250.  • Configured Site-to-Site and Remote Site VPNs using Cisco routers to Cisco routers, Pix Firewall to Pix Firewall, Cisco router to Pix Firewall.  • Dealt with Cisco ACE Load balancer.  • Providing L2/L3 Support on switching and routing issues by effectively using the tools - Ping plotter, MRTG, and Wireshark.  • Configuring and managing Routing protocols like EIGRP, OSPF, BGP and resolving LAN problems.  • Performing IOS up gradations activities periodically on Cisco Routers/Switches and Riverbed device.  • Monitoring network device health checks (using tools - WUG, HPOV, and NNM) and escalating the related issues to onsite team.  • Managing escalations of Vendors (Cisco, Riverbed, Service providers) for any major issue (Severity 1 & 2) or any downtime.  • Configured VDC, VPC, and Fex configurations in Datacenter environment.  • Preparing and submitting field technical complaints, RCA/RCCA, analysis and Availability reports.  • Resolving the Network related issues using ticketing system (Cadre, HPSM) in accordance with SLA.  • Designed and implemented an IP addressing scheme with subnets for different departments.  • Implemented and monitored the network using network sniffing and scanning tool as Wireshark.  • Worked on Replication between various domain controllers in Active Directory.    • Worked on Replication between various domain controllers in Active Directory.  • Provided access services to ISPs using leased line modems and wireless links Network Administrator EA Team Inc - Edison, NJ July 2011 to February 2012 Responsibilities:  • Designed and implemented Nationwide IP backbone network over Microwave links, Cisco routers, firewalls Designed new enterprise MPLS VPNs, as needed for policy and security reasons.  • Worked with Network Administrator in the installation and configuration of ASA firewall.  • Installed and configured DHCP server.  • Involved in troubleshooting of DHCP and other IP conflict problems.  • Planned and designed network addressing scheme with IP Subnetting.  • Time to time upgrade network connectivity between branch office and regional office with multiple link paths and routers running HSRP, EIGRP in unequal cost load balancing to build resilient network.  • Implemented Catalyst/ASA Firewall Service Module for various LAN's.  • Key contributions include troubleshooting of complex LAN/WAN infrastructure that include routing protocols EIGRP, OSPF & BGP.  • Configured ACL to allow only authorized users to access the servers.  • Participated in on call support in troubleshooting the configuration and installation issues.  • Installation, Maintenance, Troubleshooting Local and Wide Areas Network (ISDN, Frame relay, NAT, DHCP, TCP/IP.  • Provided Technical support in terms of upgrading, improving and expanding the network at multiple branch office locations.  • Installed & configured LAN & WAN using Cisco 1800 series Routers and 1900 series switches.    Network and Systems Administrator  Score IT Services & Solutions, Kochin INDIA    Responsibilities:  • Performed network documentation and created disaster recovery plan.  • Setup Cisco Entercept IDS and Cisco Works for Windows for network monitoring.  • Oversaw migration of WAN links to new service provider, designed full mesh WAN, set up TFTP server to backup, and restored configuration and IOS image files for the PIX, Cisco routers, and Catalyst switches.  • Analyzed expanding network, ran fiber, and implemented wireless communication.  • Designed configuration and layout of WAN to include IPT Internet facing VPNs and wireless subnet.  • Migrated network from full mesh frame relay to Point-Point T1 on larger sites, and implemented IPsec VPN on smaller sites.  • Administered multiple PIX firewalls throughout WAN to ensure LAN integrity from external threats.  • Monitored bandwidth and network activity by analyzing information provided by MRTG to ensure both efficient and effective network operation.  • Configured and supported multiple remote site installations. Education B.A in Economics Calicut University - Calicut, Kerala 1995