Systems Administrator Systems <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Systems Administrator - Loricus INC Brooklyn, OH I'm looking to grow individually and learn with the right career opportunity. My goals include continuing to work hard and improving in my technical skills and look to gain as much hands on experience as possible. Work Experience Systems Administrator Loricus INC November 2011 to Present Maintain or troubleshoot LAN / WAN networks  • Experience with Exchange 2010 Administration  • Experienced in supporting a 24x7 production environment  • Handle end user support issues.  • Ability to maintain, setup, and configure all operating system platforms  • On-site support while maintaining systems  • Add and change policies to the clients request if managing firewalls  • Create, and maintain accounts using Small Business Server 2011 Console  • Create and maintain accounts in Active Directory is previous server platforms  • Create new account users in WatchGaurd for VPN access.  • Experienced in using WatchGuard firewall systems.  • Document all information valuable to the clients operations  • Install, setup, and maintain Microsoft Office 365 ( Lync, Outlook, Sharepoint )  • Setup N-Able to run on end users PC's to see real time computer diagnostics.  • Setup LogMeIn access on end users PC for providing support  • Verify back-up software is backing to the cloud properly  • Complete setup of any new machine to meet the user's requirements.  • Setup Virtual Machines using numerous programs.  • Excellent problem solving and communication skills Network Administrator BlueBridgeNetworks May 2009 to June 2011 Maintain or troubleshoot LAN / WAN networks  • Handle help desk situations like troubleshooting or repairs.  • Maintain and change firewalls rules on Cisco ASA5500  • Ability to setup, configure, and maintain Cisco 3750 switches  • Make changes to the Cisco 6000 series router  • Add and change policies to the clients request if managing firewalls or bandwidth caps  • SSH or Telnet into clients managed routers for updates and repairs  • Answer client's questions or problems tickets  • Create a new account, reactivate or trouble shooting VPN accounts with in active directory  • Creating VPN tunnels on Cisco devices  • Maintain data center  • Run Ethernet cable and cross-connect drops for clients who want internet access from our providers  • Setting up and running the back-up cross connect for the back-up software.  • Create and modify DNS zones changes  • Setup Virtual Machines for internal use    4591 Forest Edge Drive  Brooklyn, Ohio 44144  Dmadd21@gmail.com  216-798-5384 Education Associate's in Computer Networking Systems ITT Technical Institute - Strongsville, OH March 2010 Additional Information Skills  • Thorough knowledge of Microsoft Platforms which includes Word, Excel, PowerPoint, and Outlook.  • Excellent knowledge in setting up and maintaining networks.  • Able to manage numerous VPN accounts for the clients at their request.  • Abilities to run, maintain, and implement servers.  • Great learner and leader with the ability to adapt with any work situation, whether spending time with one individual on a project or to adapting to group project.  • Maintain multiple windows platforms from XP, WINDOWS 7, Windows Server 03  • Handle customer issues with great respect to their problem and to resolve the issue quickly.  • Knowledge in Cisco commands and troubleshooting configurations  • The ability to run VMware  • Can setup virtual machines that include Server, Linux, or Windows