System Administrator System <span class="hl">Administrator</span> System Administrator San Juan, PR Infrastructure Professional with more than 3 years of experience administering various industries and technologies. Provided Subject Matter Expert consulting for various projects. Implemented, modified and supported high-end technology solutions for top Fortune 500 clients. Consistently recognized for technical troubleshooting skills used to rapidly and cost-effectively resolve challenging technical issues. Quickly learned and mastered new technology; equally successful in both team and self-directed settings; and proficient in a range of computer systems, languages, tools and testing methodologies. Fully bilingual with excellent communication skills. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience System Administrator Hoyos Labs, Corp - San Juan, PR November 2015 to July 2016 • As part of the infrastructure team, managed the server configuration, maintenance and administrator of the company's internal clients.  • Provided software configuration, network and PC troubleshooting and managed daily operations of enterprise switches and routers.  • Work with various technologies within Microsoft, Netscaler, Centos and Ubuntu.  • Served as a tier 1 and 2 administrator for enterprise switches, servers, routers and network configuration.  • Provide SME consulting on client projects from an infrastructure point of view.  • Administer VPN access for internal users in various time zones.    Key Project:  Citrix Product Implementation  The objective of the project was to design, configure and implement the Citrix's Netscaler Gateway and StoreFront to authenticate using proprietary biometric authentication software. As SME, I had to install and configure the Citrix products to interact with the proprietary software in order to reach the Citrix VDI (XenApp or XenDesktop) products.    Key accomplishments of this project  • Implementation of human biometrics as a source of authentication.  • Use of cellphones as a method of biometric authentication.  • Provide stronger security to our clients while minimizing the time while logging in to their work applications. Network Administrator Dreyfous & Associates - Guaynabo, PR October 2012 to October 2015 • Served as a Network Administrator for various clients within the education industry.  • Managed more than 200 server configurations in various sites.  • Provided day-to-day server administration and maintenance.  • Provided guidance when purchasing new equipment as Linux, Windows and MAC SME.  • Managed server virtualization using Promox and VMware  • As SME provided consulting services for Network Infrastructures from concept design to execution.  • As Network Administrator provided workstation and printer troubleshooting and software installation for more than 50 users in various sites.    Key Project:  WAN & IBOSS Integration within the Schools in the Education Department in San Juan  The objective of this project was to integrate all of school's networks through Dreyfous Infrastructures like an ISP. All of the schools were configured with an OSPF protocol using a Cisco Enterprise 2900 router so that all the schools would use Dreyfous WAN while being connected to a filter provided by IBOSS. This filter was installed in order to provide better security throughout all of the schools while the students where using the web.    Key accomplishments of this project  • Better control and usage of the internet resources and the content that the students were accessing  • Improved the monitoring of the school's computer equipment  • Increased the communication efficiency between the schools. Education Bachelor's in Business Administration Colegio Universitario de San Juan Associate in information Technology Systems Instituto Tecnologico de Puerto Rico Additional Information TECHNICAL SUMMARY:  Operating Systems: Windows (2012, 7 and 8), Linux, Ubuntu (12.04-14.04), Ubuntu Server 14.04, Backtrack, Cent OS.  Routers: Cisco Enterprise, Microtik, SonicWall, Fortinet, Peplink  Virtual Technologies: Promox, KVM, VMware, Citrix products (Netscaler, Storefront, XenApp, XenDesktop), Guacamole  Web Servers: Apache, IIS  Access Points: Cisco, Ruckus, and Wireless Controller Ruckus & Unifi  Switches: Cisco Catalyst, HP Enterprise  Control Websites: Dansguardian, Open DNS, Squid Guard and IBOSS  Database: Active Directory  Cloud Technologies: Open Stack  Programming Languages: Basic HTML, Basic Visual Basic and Basic .NET  Others: MS Office 365 Suite, Ansible Scripting