Lab Assistant Lab Assistant A college student with potential and an appetite for knowledge. Gastonia, NC Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Lab Assistant Ozarka College - Ash Flat, AR February 2019 to Present I currently maintain and clean the Laboratory at the Ash Flat campus of Ozarka College. Notable independent experiments is the extraction of tomato plant DNA and isolating in test tube using a concoction of chemicals and a denaturing process. Peer Tutor/Mentor Ozarka College - Ash Flat, AR August 2017 to February 2019 I worked to provide fellows peers the resources needed to pass their classes by peer review and explaining collegiate level principles to them so that they may understand them. Tutored 50+ students averaging a 82%. Serviced two college campuses. Network Administrator Intern Izard County Medical Center - Calico Rock, AR June 2018 to November 2018 I work as an intern that made headway reworking the entire network framing and wiring for the hospital. Basic networking and help desk services. Making sure everyone followed hospital guidelines with regards to the features of privacy. Security and the likeness of such. Order Processor PetSmart - Obetz, OH January 2017 to August 2017 Maintain and oversee the continual effectiveness and nature of products while maintaining efficiency. Collected, wrapped, and oversaw the handling of products so that they may be shipped without damage and received in an orderly and timely manner. Education Associate in Information Systems Technology Ozarka Colege - Ash Flat, AR August 2018 to May 2019 Skills Microsoft Office (10+ years), SQL (1 year), Javascript (2 years), JQuery (Less than 1 year), Computer Skills (10+ years), Computer Hardware (10+ years), Html5 (2 years), Web Design (2 years), Web Development (2 years), Network Management (1 year), Linux (Less than 1 year), Servers (Less than 1 year), Computer Forensics Analysis (Less than 1 year), Desktop Support, Tech Support, Help Desk, Service Desk, Helpdesk Support