Network Administrator <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Network Administrator El Monte, CA •CISCO Certified Network Engineer with experience in Network Security and troubleshooting LAN and WAN issues.  •Experienced in designing, configuration, implementation, maintenance and troubleshooting of CISCO Routers, L2 and L3 Switches, Firewalls and Load Balancer.  •Worked with industry’s top technology tools such as Cisco Packet Tracer, Wireshark and GNS3.  •Proficient in working with multiple routing and network protocols such as EIGRP, TCP, OSPF, DHCP, ICMP.  •Passionate Network Security professional with good understanding of Layer 2 Security, AAA concepts, Microsoft Active Directory and Access Control List.  •Maintaining TCP/IP devices in LAN/WAN network.  •Created Network Maintenance Documentation with status updates, troubleshooting documentation and Network Matrix for all systems across the network.  •Team-player with an attitude and experience of working in a critical, high-pressure, 24*7 support, SLA-driven environment.  •Obtained the Cisco Certified Network Associate (CCNA) certification and preparing for Cisco Certified Network Professional (CCNP) and the Juniper Networks Certified Associate (JNCIA-JUNOS).  •Completed Master of Science course from California State University with a 3.61 GPA   •Interested in jobs such as Network Engineer, Network Security Admin and Infrastructure Engineer. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Network Administrator XRoads Networks dba ZeroOutages - Irvine, CA August 2017 to Present •Diagnose and troubleshoot wireless, security, switching, phones, and other various network-related issues reported by customers and partners.  •Handling pre-installation equipment configuration, circuit outages, network testing and most pre-installation call.  •Troubleshooting with customers, their technical needs, reviewing and responding to tickets, and opening tickets with service providers/carriers.  •Implement specific network solutions to support server requirements to include load-balancing, VPN’s, Firewall context, Traffic shaping VOIP, GRE Tunneling, IPsec tunnels, and NAT rules.  •Collaborate with the support team members to fic network outages, misconfigurations and complex networking issues of customers’ device.  •Experienced with static and dynamic routing protocols like OSPF.  •Demonstrated ability to quickly learn new or unfamiliar technologies and products independently, using documentations and resources. Jr. Network Engineer Torrent Power Limited - Ahmedabad, Gujarat February 2014 to February 2015 •Worked on configuring and troubleshooting the OSPF and EIGRP network topologies with Cisco routers 2951,2621,3600,7200.  •Responsible for configuring and maintaining LAN and Ethernet using CISCO switches 2960,3560X,3560E.  •Documented, maintained and monitored the Network Matrix for each and every account in the network.  •Was part of maintaining, backup configurations and Troubleshooting of network infrastructure.  •Deployment of new server's, VM's, laptop's, and workstation PC's.  •Experienced with MS Active Directory and domains.  •Hardware and software support for legacy systems. Education Masters of Science in Electrical and Computer Engineering California State University - Los Angeles, CA September 2015 to May 2017 Bachelor of Engineering in Instrumentation & Control Gujarat Technological University June 2009 to May 2013 Skills Cisco, CCNP, Ospf, Ccna, F5, BGP, Vmware, System Administrator, Active Directory, Networking Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/desaijigar17 Certifications/Licenses CCNA Routing and Switching July 2017 to July 2020 CCNP October 2017 to October 2020 Additional Information Technical Proficiencies  • Routing Protocols: RIP, EIGRP, OSPF, BGP, TCP, ICMP  • Switching Techniques: MPLS, VPN, DHCP, DNS, VLAN, STP, RSTP  • Network Technologies: NAT, IPv6, Ethernet, Firewalls, Load Balancer  • Documentation: Network Matrix, Network Maintenance Document, Standard Operating Procedures, Troubleshooting Documentation    • Operating Systems: Linux, Windows 2008-2013  • Programming and Scripting Languages: C, Python    • Software/Tools: Cisco Packet Tracer, Wireshark, GNS3, MS Office, Matlab