Network Administrator <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Network Administrator ? Hands-on Routing experience in a Multi-Protocol environment including Routing Protocols such as RIP, OSPF, EIGRP, on Cisco Routers.  ? Hands-on LAN Switching experience includes Configuration of VLANs, Trucking, Configuring VTP server, Client and Transparent modes, Link aggregation, L2VPN, STP, RRPP, and Ether Trunk.  ? Implementation and Troubleshooting Experience on HSRP, VRRP, GLBP for Default Gateway Redundancy on Corporate and ISP Backbone network.  ? Implemented Traffic Filters using Standard and Extended Access lists.  ? Working knowledge of Cisco IPv4 Addressing, Subnets, Default Gateways, Static Routes, DHCP, DNS, NAT, PAT.  ? Proficiency in handling Network Monitoring tools Solar winds, INfoblox and Packet capture tools.  ? Implementing Wireless Controllers, AP's, Routers, Switches for 802.11 and Wireless Mobility projects.  ? Troubleshoot wireless network issues at the Wireless Controller, using Debug commands and Wireshark.  ? Taking Backup and Restore IOS, Upgrading to latest IOS Versions & Importing upgraded Configuration.  ? Experience in implementation, configuration support under senior engineer for ISR and ASR routers.  ? In depth understanding of IP Protocols (ICMP, UDP, TCP, Frame Relay)  ? Good understanding of Layer 3 VPN, GRE, VRF, DMVPN, GET VPN Technologies.  ? Knowledge in AAA, IPsec, Work Experience Network Administrator SRNL - Jersey City, NJ December 2015 to December 2016 • Configured switches by using switching techniques and protocols like Ethernet, Spanning Tree, Frame Relay, MPLS, and MPLS L3/ L2VPNs, VTP, and troubleshooting.  • Design, implementation and operational support of routing protocols in complex environments including Static, OSPF, EIGRP and BGP  • Creating VLANs and managing Spanning tree for the network and inter VLAN routing. Use Dynamic Routing Protocols including OSPF, EIGRP and BGP  • Troubleshoot issues related to VLAN, VLAN Trunking, HSRP failovers, related issues.  • Provided support for 2Tier and 3Tier firewall architecture, which includes various Cisco ASA firewalls and Palo-Alto firewalls.  • Handling Incident tickets, Service requests and Change requests raised by the customers through REMEDY tool.  • Design LAN cabling and coordinating with vendor for the implementation.  • Handling WAN related problems: Routing/ Switching, connectivity issues, router hardware problems and bandwidth chokes.  • Monitoring LAN/ WAN bandwidth utilization and traffic through advanced Monitoring Applications.  • Coordinating with vendors for installations, WAN connectivity and hardware problems and partially related to IT procurements.  • Keep detailed records of all customer interactions.  • Assist clients with setup and administration of all VIOP system via email or telephone.  • Maintain and implement Domain Name Services, TACACS privileges, and VPN accounts  • Investigating Network/ suspected network incidents and working towards mitigation, and resolution of the issue.  • Troubleshooting Switching and Routing issues. (Cisco 2800, 6500, 7200 series).  • Troubleshooting Aruba Wireless issues like slow performance, intermittent connectivity, authentication failure, low signal strength, Replacing AP's and controllers.  • Great understanding of WLAN including 802.11 standards, Lightweight and Autonomous systems, WPA, PEAP.  • Maximizes network performance by monitoring performance; troubleshooting network problems and outages; scheduling upgrades; collaborating with network architects on network optimization.  • Configured SNMP on all the network devices and added them to Solarwinds for monitoring.  • Proficiency in handling Network Monitoring tools Solar winds, INfoblox and Packet capture tools.  • Experienced working on network monitoring and analysis tools like, SOLAR WINDS, CISCO works and Wireshark. Network Support Engineer Beam Telecom - Hyderabad, Andhra Pradesh January 2013 to April 2015 Responsibilities:    • Implementation of various routing protocol like, EIGRP, OSPF  • Configuring Basic Router configuration, initial switch configuration and Interface Connectivity  • Configuring network Device security Telnet, SSH, VTYs, Enable Switch port Security  • Monitoring and Configuring EIGRP, OSPF, VLAN, Trunking, ACL,  • Monitoring DHCP IOS Router.  • Experience of implementing SNMP on various devices, allowing for network management  • Installation of switches and workstations  • Installing and configuring workstations includes Operating system, Applications, Drivers and possible hardware peripherals upgrading  • Troubleshooting problems reported by users and recommendations for future upgrades  • Ensure network connectivity throughout a company's LAN infrastructure  • Perform network address assignment IP4.  • Reporting network operational status by gathering, prioritizing information.  • Provide assistance to field engineers during installations  • Resolve any technical issues that arise during the project implementation.  • Open TAC cases with network vendors to solve issues.  • Assist in troubleshooting National Internet virus attacks and prevention of virus infiltration  • Troubleshoot and repair of local area network outages using Fluke Optiview, Telnet, Sniffer, Ping, Trace Route and Internet Technologies  • Provide project status reports to upper management  • Taking network devices backup & restoring when required  • Troubleshooting LAN and Cabling. Installing Network printers  • Troubleshooting the latency issues in the WAN network.  • Ensure all Network elements are deployed as per deployment template and standard configuration template.  • Providing 24x7 technical supports to complete team. Management of Netops server for providing uninterrupted services to customers.  • Configured SNMP on all the network devices and added them to Solarwinds for monitoring.  • To ensure high availability of system resources to the end users and to maximize the uptime of doing the necessary work to diagnose, detect and rectify the faults in time.  • Coordinating the technical activities with their vendors & Telco to keep the systems and network uptime to 98% and submission of monthly reports on the project. Education Masters in Computer Science Northwestern Polytechnic University - Fremont, CA August 2016