Network Support Technician <span class="hl">Network</span> Support Technician Network Support Technician - FactSet Research Systems Charlotte, NC Dedicated professional with excellent, multilingual communication skills seeking a challenging  Technical Support position to apply already existing experience in system administration, user  assistance and data management principles. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Network Support Technician FactSet Research Systems February 2017 to Present ? Provide comprehensive support to critical data center environment and maintain  electrical/mechanical infrastructure.  ? Manage internal user accounts with Active Directory.  ? Monitor and investigate and security alerts on the network.  ? Deploy, rebuild and troubleshoot servers and network equipment.  ? Set up copper and fiber cable networks, configure Cisco routers and switches.  ? Effectively communicate with clients over the phone and email to provide assistance with  system authentication, connectivity and access issues.  ? Manage daily tasks through ticketing system to achieve department objectives.  ? Utilize multilingual skills when working with international clients.  ? Monitor hundreds of circuit links for packet loss, errors, latency and disconnections.  ? Work with major ISP’s on circuit issues and troubleshooting.  ? Insure quick response and issue escalation for any critical problem or emergencies.  ? Manage data center equipment and item inventory. Network Administrator Elis Group January 2016 to January 2017 ? Deploy and configure Windows servers, workstations, virtual machines, mobile devices, routers,  printers and other office equipment.  ? Respond to incoming service requests, resolve technical issues for internal and remote users.  ? Manage Office 365 and Active Directory - add/disable users on company’s domain.  ? Manage backups and recovery, authentication services, encryption, remote wipe.  ? Utilize IDS/IPS and firewalls to maintain network and host security.  ? Create Group Policy Objects for domain management and processes automation.  ? Produce and maintained documentation on various internal processes and network diagrams. Education Web Development Coursework Tysons Institute - Vienna, VA 2009 to 2012 Bachelor's in Economics Lviv National Agrarian University 2005 to 2009 Skills MICROSOFT OFFICE (3 years), MS OFFICE (3 years), CISCO (2 years), SECURITY (3 years) Certifications/Licenses CompTIA Security+ September 2016 to September 2019 Additional Information Operating systems: Linux, Windows Server, Mac OS X, Cisco IOS  Networking: DHCP, EIGRP, BGP, VPN, Firewall, Nmap, Hping3, Wireshark  Applications/Tools: Active Directory, Group Policy, Microsoft Exchange, Microsoft Office, Microsoft InTune, Duo Security, VMware AirWatch, OpenVAS, IDS/IPS, DRAC, ILO, ScreenConnect, Teamviewer, Symantec Backup Exec, Secure CRT, Hyper-V, Oracle VirtualBox  Hardware: PC/Server assembly and repair, Routers, Switches, Fiber cables, Mobile devices  Development: Python