NETWORK ENGINEER <span class="hl">NETWORK</span> ENGINEER NETWORK ENGINEER Irving, TX • Experience working with 2600, 2900, 3600, 3800, 3900, 7200, 7600 series Cisco Routers  • Proficient in configuring Cisco Catalyst 2900, 2960, 3560, 3750, 4500, 4900, 6500 series.  • Implemented Quality of Service though out the network infrastructure and was responsible for policy routing.  • Expert in configuration of Virtual Local Area Networks (VLANS) using Cisco routers and multilayer Switches and supporting STP, RSTP, PVST, RPVST along with trouble shooting of inter VLAN routing and VLAN trunking using 802.1q.  • Expertise in configuration of routing protocols and deployment of RIP, OSPF, EIGRP, BGP and policy routing over Cisco routers.  • Implemented redundancy with HSRP, VRRP, GLBP, Ether channel technology (LACP, PAgP) etc.  • Managed inventory of all network hardware. Management and monitoring by use of SSH, Syslog, SNMP, NTP.  • Provided administration support, accessing network systems in their 'root' level.  • Skills include Telnet, SDM, NAT/PAT, ACLs, AAA, and ASA firewall.  • Knowledge in implementing and configuring F5 Big-IP LTM-6400 load balancers.  • Worked on T1/E1/T3 technologies and different LAN & WAN technologies  • Worked on configuring the Nexus 5K Aggregation Switch and Nexus 2K Fabric Extenders.  • Implemented VDC, VPC, VRF and OTV on the Nexus 5505 and 7009 switches.  • Experience in configuring Routing Protocols EIGRP, OSPF, BGP and RIP.  • Worked with MPLS in establishing peer ship with BGP protocol.  • Experience with route manipulation and route filtration by implementing Off-set lists, distribution-list and access-lists respectively.  • Good amount of knowledge about various WAN technologies such as Frame-Relay, PPP and HDLC.  • Solid understanding of NAT/PAT and experience with assigning static NAT IPs and NAT pools for new projects.  • Managed enterprise grade server/application load balancing using F5 LTM/GTM.  • Troubleshooting and monitoring application issues using tools like Wire-shark.  • Performed troubleshooting and diagnosis to hardware/software network failures, and provided resolutions and documentation.  • Experienced in Microsoft Visio creating a detail physical and logical network diagrams.  • Experience on troubleshooting Avaya and Cisco voice network. Work Experience NETWORK ENGINEER NIIT Limited - Hyderabad, Andhra Pradesh August 2013 to June 2015 RESPONSIBILITIES:  • Configuring and resolving various OSPF issues in an OSPF multi area environment,  • Implemented, configured BGP WAN routing, converting OSPF routes to BGP (OSPF in local routing).  • Expertise in maintenance of layer2 switching tasks which advocate VLAN, VTP, STP, RSTP, PVST, RPVST, configuring of ether channel with LACP and PAGP along with troubleshooting of inter-VLAN routing.  • Worked on commissioning and decommissioning of the MPLS circuits for various field offices & POPs.  • Worked with ASA Firewall configuration and Participated in Migration of PIX to ASA for hardware devices.  • Knowledge in implementing and configuring F5 Big-IP LTM-6400 load balancers.  • Configured ASA 5520 to ensure high-end security on the network with ACLs and Firewall.  • Worked with Cisco Catalyst 6500, 4500, 4900 switches and Cisco 2800, 3600, 3800, 7200 & 7600 series Routers. NETWORK ADMINISTRATOR SYSNET GLOBAL SOLUTIONS - Hyderabad, Andhra Pradesh August 2011 to July 2013 RESPONSIBILITIES:  • Configured RIP and EIGRP on 2600, 2900 and 3600 series Cisco routers  • Implemented VTP and trunking protocols (802.1q and ISL) on 3560, 3750 and 4500 series Cisco Catalyst switches  • Responsible for implementing, engineering, & level 2 support of existing network technologies / services & integration of new network technologies / services  • Worked on installation, maintenance, and troubleshooting of LAN/WAN (ISDN, Frame relay, NAT, DHCP, TCP/IP)  • Configured and managed Cisco access layer routers and switches.  • Support Network Technicians as they require training & support for problem resolution including performing diagnostics, & configuring network devices  • Recommended Security considerations for the Intranet data center, integrating security, providing solution design details and configuration details  • Designed WAN structure to prevent single point of failure in case of link failure.  • Maintenance and Troubleshooting of connectivity problems using Ping, Trace route.  • Planning and Implementation of Subnetting, VLSM to conserve IP addresses.  • Configured STP for loop prevention and VTP for Inter-VLAN Routing.  • Troubleshooting issues and outages on Trunks and Router interfaces extensively.  • Technical assistance for LAN/WAN management and complex customer issues.  • Provided support for troubleshooting and resolving Customer reported issues.  • Worked with Network Engineers in the installation and configuration of firewalls.  • Performed route redistribution & manipulated route updates using distribute lists, route-maps & administrative distance.  • Creating & applying different types of access-lists for these effects to take place. Internship Bharat Sanchar Nigam Limited - Hyderabad, Andhra Pradesh August 2010 to June 2011 A Telecom based company which provides services to every corner of the country.  RESPONSIBILITIES:  • Hands on experience with Mobile Communications techniques like - CDMA and GSM.  • Measuring data usage of individual customers.  • Implementing and designing point to point networks.  • Designing Intelligent Networks.  • Applying Networking Concepts like routing and switching.  • Broadband Technology management and billing management  • PCM- Pulse Code Modulation Principles.  • Designing and implementing Fiber optic Technology. Education Masters of Science in Telecommunication Systems Management Murray State University 2017 Bachelors of Technology in Electronics and Communications Engineering Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University - Hyderabad, Andhra Pradesh