Associate Network Administrator Associate <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Associate Network Administrator - World Wide Technology St. Louis, MO Network Engineer and Network Administrator with current Cisco Certified Network Professional in Routing and Switching. Experienced in enterprise-level networking and escalation issues, and has designed and documented Disaster Recovery and Business Continuity plans. Architected and deployed current DMVPN utilized by current employer. Presently managing Cisco Wi-Fi environment, DMVPN administration, Cisco Prime Infrastructure and currently gaining more exposure to and working knowledge of compute and storage technologies. Works with business stakeholders to set/mange expectation and make sure that all requirements are met by the end of a project or during problem resolution. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Associate Network Administrator World Wide Technology June 2014 to Present Responsible for Network Design, documentation and Level 3 Support for all network incidents. Other responsibilities included:  • Deploy DMVPN spoke sites with QoS to run Data, Voice, and Video applications using EIGRP as the main routing protocol.  • Worked with cabling and electrical vendors to establish requirements for new facility's IT equipment.  • Used Layer 3 switches to simplify routing and created fault tolerance.  • Updated all documentation as changes were made.  • Worked with project stakeholders to set expectations and updated on project progress regularly.  • Verified Wi-Fi installs with Air Magnet/Ekahau wireless surveys.  • Ensured all equipment complied with set security standards.  • Verified all network equipment configurations were backed up and stored per requirements from WWT.  • Use WireShark to diagnose/resolve network incidents  • Configure and maintain Commvault our 1000+ server environment and standalone servers.  • Build Redhat 6 and Windows 2012 VMs as requested by other teams with their needed specifications. Network Technician World Wide Technology September 2012 to June 2014 Responsible for completing orders to customer requirements.  • Configure networking equipment to customer liking and providing QC checks for customer to review  • Upgrade routers, switches, ASA, and WLC to customer standards  • Troubleshoot hardware errors and determine DOA material  • Testing customer configs locally with a ad hoc test. Skills EIGRP (2 years), LAYER 3 (2 years), OPTIMIZATION (2 years), SECURITY (2 years), VOICE (2 years), WIRELESS (2 years), WIRESHARK (2 years) Certifications/Licenses CCNP December 2016 to December 2019 Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  Routing and Switching Hardware  • Cisco ISR G2 Router (1900, 2900, 3900, 7200), Cisco 4451-X Router, Cisco Nexus (7000, 5000, 2000), Cisco Access Switches (2960, 3560, 3850, 3650, 3750, 4500, 6500)  Software  • WireShark, Cisco Call Manager, Cisco Prime Infrastructure, SolarWinds, Air Magnet Surveyor, Ekahau, Infoblox DNS and IPAM solutions, VMWare VCenter, VSphere, ESXi, ONTAP 9, Commvault, and some Python scripting.  WAN/Routing  • MPLS, BGP, EIGRP, DMVPN, T1, Ethernet, DSL, Layer 3 Switching  Wireless/Mobility  • RF Spectrum management and optimization (office, warehouse, industrial environments), Local Mode, Flexconnect configurations, High Availability, SSO, and redundancy configurations  • Cisco Controller deployment experience  Voice/Video/Security  • Cisco ASA (5505, 5510, 5540, 5585), Cisco ISE, 802.1x, CUCM, Cisco Unity, Tandberg/Cisco video endpoints    PROFESSIONAL EXPEREINCE