Managed Services Engineer and In House Representative under Contract. Managed Services Engineer and In House Representative under Contract. St. Louis, MO A Teacher to the Teachers, the Presentation Expert, the Technology Wizard, the Tutorial Expert, Designing, Building, Testing, Implementation and Support... is what I do. I enjoy challenging tasks and working with a good team. Managing and teaching is where I excel at this stage of my career. Looking for the next challenge relocating from Columbia MO to ST. Louis. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Managed Services Engineer and In House Representative under Contract. Professional Technologies - Columbia, MO July 2018 to July 2019 I was under contract managing a Helpdesk system for a local company here in the Columbia Area. This is an in-house position providing support for the systems they have in place and also working towards making changes for the future. I am responsible for Phones systems both in house and wireless, Exchange and Google email Administration, Active Directory Administration, Networking, DNS , VPN Administration , Print Administration, VM management running VMware Horizon to move from Windows 7 VDI to Windows 10 in progress. Medium paced position with a list of about 70-80 regular users I provide support for. I am also in the Consultant position assisting, planning and testing solutions for the current and future needs.    This position was appointed by Professional Technologies offering in house support for Primaris. I work with the Director side by side and I will be training my replacement.    I have worked on several other projects with Professional Technologies. This includes: Point to Point Wireless Internet Systems across town, Network Upgrades, Cabling, New location setup and backup checkups. Helpdesk Computer Technician EPS Networks inc - St. Louis, MO June 2016 to May 2017 At EPS Networks it was by far the quickest paced company I have worked with. Very energetic atmosphere, 20 minute or less resolutions and immediate turnarounds. Before I left I was training the new technicians and getting them up to speed and almost managing the Helpdesk. This was a very fun but high stress under the deadline type of position managing full IT support on a large list of medium to large companies. The staff were absolutely fantastic and it was amazing being a key part of the team on the Helpdesk side. We managed every part of technology and with dedicated Engineers for each company we provided the best support for all of them. Network and Systems Administrator Potential Candidate for Director of Technology FantasTechs University City School District - St. Louis, MO September 2014 to October 2015 I was hired for a potential placement for the Director of Technology Position. I worked side by side with an amazing group of people and made a good reputation for myself. I was known to come into the school and make everything work. We manged all of the Technology needs within the District of University City. I was a part of some big leaps forward for the district and it was always a new task a new day. I worked with sever different systems from Google Domains, Active Directory and the normal VM management for a multitude of environments. Networking the District together completed as my Position took off taking on daily tasks and working with the staff in a few different buildings from the Administration Building, Brittney Woods Middle School,Barbara Jordan Elementary with the IT office at the High School. I enjoyed working with all the Staff and Teachers to make technology work for them. Education Some College in Engineering Columbia College - Columbia, MO January 2011 to August 2012 High school or equivalent in Writing\General Hickman High School - Columbia, MO 1998 to 2001 Skills Technical Support (10+ years), Training & Development (7 years), System Administration (10+ years), Diagnostic, Field Service (4 years) Certifications/Licenses Dell EMC Certified November 2016 to Present Diagnose Repair and Self order warranty parts through Dell EMC Additional Information Technology Hero