System & Network Administrator System &amp; <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> System & Network Administrator - 1st Marine Division Network Operation Center Denver, CO Driven System & Network Administrator, recently transitioned from the United States Marine Corps after serving 5 honorable years. Graduated from the Microsoft Software and Systems Academy at Embry Riddle University where I expanded on my foundation of technical learning to transition into a role at a diverse, innovative and market leading technology organization where my pension for troubleshooting, leadership and personnel management & development will positively affect the overall value of the organization. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience System & Network Administrator 1st Marine Division Network Operation Center - Camp Pendleton, CA 2016 to Present • Remote Networking Infrastructure: Provide, assist and extend data services and resources to remote branch offices in various geographical locations extending up to 180 miles away.    • Costumer Service: Created information technology plans based on an understanding of the customer's organizational strategic direction, technology context and the need to customize solutions that fit their requirements and limitations.  • Network & System Engineering: Provide email services, file share, domain services, voice services, network transport, technical support and troubleshooting for up to 20 branch offices.  • Physical Hardware Setup/Configuration: Configure, install and assist branch offices in the building of virtual machines to include domain controllers, Microsoft Exchange servers, Nessus Vulnerability Scanner along with the configurations of their Cisco routers and switches.  • Team Leadership: Supervise a team of 6 network technicians to more effectively and efficiently provide support to branch offices and minimize down time during network and system outages.  • System/ Network Management: Monitor, maintain and upgrade as required, multiple hardware encryption systems while ensuring high availability and no degradation to data services to our connected branch offices.  • Information Security Compliance: Facilitate system hardening and implementing extensive ACL's and performing IOS upgrades to Cisco routers and Catalyst switches to mitigate any existing vulnerabilities and bugs to stay within the compliance policies laid out by Headquarters Marine Corps.  • Utilization of New Technology: Assisted leadership in determining technical direction and solutions for organizational information technology programs and systems to best utilize incoming/new technologies for best efficacy.  • Collaboration: Work with and alongside of information assurance team running vulnerability scans on systems ensuring the risk is at an acceptable level, and the patches go through proper patch and change management before the implementation. Network Technician 7th Communications Battalion, Okinawa Japan 2013 to 2016 • Mentoring: Provided knowledge and troubleshooting while working as part of a team in WAN and LAN technology implementation and management.  • Team Work: Worked as part of a 20-member team of technicians providing configuration, system hardening, troubleshooting and resolution of data network connectivity, and business continuity. As well as working alongside satellite technicians to assist and troubleshoot redundant satellite connections.  • Disaster Recovery: Worked as a member of the disaster recovery team, rehearsing and practicing reestablishing, and setting up services as quickly as possible at remote off-site location, while coordinating with other members prioritizing services and necessities of each business unit to effectively and safely reestablish critical business functions.  • Help Desk Procedure: Oversaw help desk procedures and operations for over 100 end users in tier I and tier II costumer support. Providing user assistance with computer hardware and software issues, handling customer telephone and e-mail issues, and providing network solutions through in-depth troubleshooting.  Technical Proficiencies:  Active Directory, DHCP, DNS, LAN/WAN, BGP, (iBGP, eBGP), EIGRP, RIPv2, SNMP, DMVPN Phase 1-3, IPSEC, VRF, VTP, PVST+, Rapid Spanning Tree, Spanning Tree, Access Lists, SLA's, Route-Maps, Prefix-Lists, VLANs, Etherchannels, LACP, PAGP, GRE, TCP/IP, UDP, SSH, ICMP, TCP/IP,  Vendor Software: Education technology Microsoft Software and Systems Academy - Camp Pendleton, CA July 2018 Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/kyle-moreta Additional Information MCSA: Windows Server 2016 | Cisco Certified Entry Networking Technician  CompTIA Security + | CompTIA Network + | Active Secret Clearance