Network Administrator <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Network Administrator - NewCo IT Corporation Washington, DC My objective is to advance my career in the private information technology market and sharpen the necessary skills to continue to become a successful and reliable business person within the IT industry. Work Experience Network Administrator NewCo IT Corporation - Falls Church, VA November 2012 to Present Facilitate the IT needs of business partners located within the D.C., Maryland and Virginia tri-state area.  Assist with budget constraints of multiple clients and facilitate implementation of cost effective technology solutions to meet their needs.  Maintain, update and patch Active Directory, File and Exchange servers within a Windows environment and ensure all processes are functioning successfully.  Maintain and update all LAN/WAN equipment at multiple client facilities and ensure that client sites with multiple connections to a central location are up and redundancy/failover is functioning at peak performance.  Develop disaster recovery plans for client sites.  Coordinate and execute security measure to protect client data. Consultant/ Network Engineer Synergistic Networks - Wilkes-Barre, PA September 2009 to November 2012 11 / 2012    Support multiple client issues on a day to day basis.  Install, support and maintain new server hardware and software infrastructure  Manage email, anti-spam and virus protection  Setting up user accounts, permissions and passwords in Active Directory  Monitoring network usage, web-filter configuration and support and maintain successful LAN/WAN continuity  Ensuring the most cost-effective and efficient use of servers client side workstations and all other necessary hardware.  Suggesting and providing cost effective IT solutions to a large client base.  Analyzing and resolving system failures/faults and undertaking routine preventative measures and implementing, maintaining and monitoring network security Education Misericordia University - Dallas, PA December 2007 to August 2009 Software and Technology Services Wilkes-Barre - Wilkes-Barre, PA June 2007 to April 2008 Additional Information Qualifications  Configuring, deploying and maintaining Windows Server 2003, 2008/R2, Small Business Server 2012  Cisco Wireless Access Point Configuration  Cisco switches and ASA/PIX series firewall configuration and maintenance  Dell SonicWall firewall appliance configuration and maintaining  Configuring, deploying and maintaining Exchange Server 2003 - 2013  Windows OS XP/Vista/7 all revisions  Citrix XenCenter Server and Desktop configuration, deployment and maintenance