Network Administrator <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Network Administrator - Corporate Colocation Los Angeles, CA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Network Administrator Corporate Colocation - Los Angeles, CA January 2015 to Present Responsible to maintain and support daily datacenter activity  • Configure and maintain network devices  • Daily backup  • Monitor network performance  • Support customer through telephone and email  • Responsible to take care of a tickets Network Solution Engineer ITZone LLC May 2012 to December 2014 Responsible to design and consultant small, mid and enterprise network infrastructure for data, voice and video infrastructure.  • Prepare tender documents for upcoming tenders.  • Customer support by telephone or on-site  • Install, configure and deliver network projects.  • Network infrastructure consulting.  Projects have included:  The one of the key roles of my position was to complete the projects successfully and deliver in given time frame.  Biggest project's names are included in below:  * EPRS (Electronic Property Registration System) - Network implementation  * Khan Bank - Core network implementation and migration  * National Statistics Office of Mongolia - Full network infrastructure upgrade  * NUBIA (New Ulaanbaatar International Airport) temporary office for project unit - Campus network infrastructure  * Bank of China Mongolian Branch office -Communication part of office area  * NUBIA (New Ulaanbaatar International Airport) main project - Communication part of entire airport Education Bachelor in Computer Science Bangalore University in India - Bangalore, Karnataka Additional Information • Cisco Certified Internetworking Expert (CCIE) #40791  • Two and a half years of experience in Central Asia (Mongolia)  • Six month of experience in American modern Data Center  • Strong self and time management, good problem solving and communication skills  Three years of extensive hands on experience in network infrastructure engineering and consultant. Have designed, installed, configured and maintained complex routed LAN and WAN networks. Excellent communication skills ability to interface at all levels. A team player also can work well independently.    Technical Skills: TCP/IP, RIP, RIPng, OSPF, OSPFv3, EIGRP, EIGRPv6, BGP, BGPv6, IS-IS, Static route, Default Route, Redistribution, IP, IPv6, Subneting, VLAN, Private VLAN, VTP, STP, HSRP, VRRP, GLBP, VPN, GRE, ADSL, DWDM, QoS, MPLS, Frame relay, Multicast, E1, PPPoE, HA, Security Policies, IPS/IDS, SNMP, SSH, Telnet, DHCP, NTP, Content Filter, URL filter, Virtualization (Context), VMWare, AutoCad, Microsoft Office programs and Domain Controller.  Hardware: Have experience with different network product manufacturer such as Cisco, Dell, Fortinet, Checkpoint, Juniper, Huawei, Imperva, Ubiquiti, Loop, D-Link, Avaya, Linksys, HP, Barracuda and Watchguard.