Network Administrator <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Network Administrator - Latemodel Restoration Supply, Inc Woodway, TX Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Network Administrator Latemodel Restoration Supply, Inc December 2014 to Present Duties Include  • Install and support LANs, WANs, network segments, Internet, and intranet  systems.  • Install and maintain network hardware and software.  • Analyze and isolate issues.  • Monitor networks to ensure security and availability to specific users.  • Evaluate and modify system's performance.  • Identify user needs.  • Determine network and system requirements.  • Maintain integrity of the network, server deployment, and security.  • Perform network address assignment.  • Assign configuration of authentication and authorization of directory  services.  • Maintain network servers such as file servers, VPNgateways, intrusion  detection systems.  • Administer servers, desktop computers, printers, routers, switches,  firewalls, phones, personal digital assistants, smartphones, software  deployment, security updates and patches. Network Technician Site Support - Waco, TX June 2012 to September 2013 Duties include supporting - and optimizing performance of - servers,  workstations, peripherals, operating systems, networks, phone systems,  hardware, and software; including installation, configuration, and preventative maintenance. Provide service-focused technical support - both remote and onsite - to achieve effective troubleshooting, efficient  resolution of issues, and maximum customer satisfaction. Intern High Performance Computing Dept - Waco, TX January 2012 to May 2012 Internship with HPC Dept. of TSTC (20 - 30 hours per week).  Duties include installing server and client operating systems, maintaining  network cabling, troubleshooting and repairing HPC Dept. computers and devices, assembly of computer clusters, and installation of Dept.  surveillance system. Education A.A.S. in Computer Networking & System Administration Texas State Technical College - Waco, TX May 2012 Additional Information Skills Summary • Computer/ Network Security • Hardware troubleshooting    • MS Office 2007/2010/2013 • Active Directory  • Win Server 2003/2008/2012 • Firewalls