Jr Network Engineer Jr <span class="hl">Network</span> Engineer Jr Network Engineer - Inyo Networks Covina, CA Motivated and detail-oriented Network Administrator Professional with a passion for continuous learning and improvement in network infrastructures. Able to work under pressure and be a team player; accustomed to providing integral technical support and troubleshooting issues relating to network equipment installation and setup. Hands on experience with:    • Software: VMware Workstation 10, Remedy, SevONE, Cisco Packet Tracer, GNS3, Wireshark, Microsoft Office Suite, PRTG. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Jr Network Engineer Inyo Networks March 2018 to Present • Tier 2 Network Operations Center (NOC) support for any network issues for business and residential customers.  • Develop and execute test plans to check infrastructure and system performance.  • Enforce policies for standardizing systems.  • Provision and test E-line, E-LAN and Internet services.  • Create documentation and guides for testing 1 and 10 Gb ethernet circuits using JDSU fiber optic testing equipment.  • Assist Lead Network Engineer with design, configuration, testing and implementation of IT solutions.  • Participate in 24/7 on-call rotation. Network Administrator Verizon Wireless August 2014 to March 2017 • Maintained Data Center elements consisting of switches, routers, load balancers, firewalls, taps, and data collection/aggregators, ensuring network integrity and quality.  • Coordinated with internal customers and adhering to process and procedures to protect the network and customers.  • Troubleshooting, upgrading, and administering multiple vendor systems (Cisco, Juniper).  • Supervised cabling technicians by assigning tasks to ensure successful completion of projects were met within timeline goals. Education B.S. in Business Administration California State Polytechnic University June 2014 Skills BGP (Less than 1 year), Cisco (2 years), EIGRP (Less than 1 year), HSRP (Less than 1 year), Juniper (2 years) Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/DavidJimenez89 Additional Information • Operating Systems: Microsoft OS (7, 8, 10), Linux Ubuntu, Cisco IOS, Juniper JUNOS  • Hardware:  ? Routers: Cisco CRS-3, ASR9K, NCS6K, 7604, Juniper MX960, MX80  ? Switches: Cisco NEXUS 7K, Juniper EX4300, QFX3500, QFX5100, Calix E7  ? Load Balancers: F5 Big IP  • Network Protocols: BGP, OSPF, EIGRP, RIP, IPV4, IPV6, VRRP, HSRP