Network Analyst <span class="hl">Network</span> Analyst Network Analyst - TekSystems Global Fort Worth, TX • Network Analyst and US Military veteran with exceptional technical ability and understanding of administrator responsibilities  • Proficient in Network Administration involving Installation, Configuration of Routers, Switches, Firewall, VPNs.  • Adept in Planning and Management of Network Administrative tasks with experience in configuring and troubleshooting various Network related issues.  • An effective and vivid communicator with excellent relationship & interpersonal skills. Strong analytical, problem solving & organizational abilities. Possesses a flexible & detail oriented attitude.    Education, Certifications, Training & Skill Set Work Experience Network Analyst TekSystems Global July 2018 to Present Roles and Responsibilities  • Access Network Planning and Operation.  • Handling Escalation and troubleshooting issues.  • Worked on Solar Winds to monitor network health and alarms.  • Created and updated network monitoring by using Sales Force to create ticket.  • Handling incident, change and problem management tickets of Multi-client environment  • Troubleshooting of network issues, routing issues and faults related to slow response, link down, access etc.  • Work closely with deployment team for remote sites to ensure consistency of both hardware and software configuration standards  • Updating and reporting on customer cases opened through Salesforce ticketing system  • Issue and resolve Problem tickets based on published Service Level Agreements(SLA) Network Engineer Solunus INC September 2017 to June 2018 Roles and Responsibilities  • Configuring and managing Cisco routers and L2, L3 switches.  • Good understanding of networking concepts, TCP/IP  • Configuring (NAT) Access rules for restricted access to users.  • Implementation of site to site VPN tunnels.  • Handling Escalation and troubleshooting issues.  • Configuring VLAN, VTP, STP, InterVLAN Routing.  • Service provisioning and fault diagnosis of Enterprise products on various platform.  • Configuration of Routing protocols such as OSPF, EIGRP.  • Improved functionality at LAN/WAN infrastructure, designing, planning and implementation of network devices.  • Hands on installation and commissioning of Cisco products.  • Preparing Visio Network diagrams for new distribution centers.  • Provide support to end users in the day to day operations in our business applications  • Performing problem determination and to resolve the issues at the earliest time frame. Network Administrator U.S. Army, Fort Wainwright March 2014 to August 2017 Roles and Responsibilities  • Access Network Planning and Operation.  • Maintain all hardware troubleshooting and performance fine tuning.  • Configuration of Routing protocols such as OSPF, EIGRP.  • Maintain all hardware troubleshooting and performance fine tuning.  • Document the event logs & critical errors on daily basis sending across client and management. Installing, supporting and maintaining new server hardware and software infrastructure  • Configuring VLANs, STP, VTP and Inter-VLAN routing in LAN environment.  • Routing Protocols Configuring and troubleshooting Static, Default Route  • Configuring and troubleshooting VLAN, VLAN Trunk, VTP, STP, and Ether Channel, Switch Port Security.  • Worked on Checkpoint (R77) Firewall to create new rules and allow connectivity for various Applications.  • Providing Network security solutions such as Firewall, Router, SSL VPN.  • Establish good relations with the user community by providing excellent customer service  • Perform regular operational tasks/reports/monitoring on business applications Education BS in Computer Information System Louisiana Tech University - Ruston, LA Skills ROUTER (3 years), VLAN (4 years), FIREWALL (1 year), SECURITY (3 years), SQL (Less than 1 year) Military Service Branch: United States Army Rank: E-4 Certifications/Licenses CCNA March 2018 to March 2021 Cisco Certified Network Associate Additional Information Skill Set  • NETWORKING HARDWARE:-  CISCO Routers: 2600, 2800, 3800, 7200  Switches: 2950, 2960, 3560, 4500, 6500  • ROUTING: Basic Connectivity Using Static & defaults Routes, Configure & Troubleshoot RIP, EIGRP, Route Redistribution, Filtering, Manipulation, Route Tracking.  • SWICHING: Basic Switching Setup Installation, Vlan Assignment, VTP, Truncking, STP Configuration & Troubleshooting, Multilayer Switching,  • Gateway Redundancy: HSRP, VRRP, Troubleshooting, Layer2 Security, Port Security, Private Vlan, STP Security.  • NETWORK MONITORING: Configure Syslog, SNMP on Router, Switch & Firewall, Solar Winds, Sales Force, Netflow for Network Monitoring, SharePoint, Putty, Secrete Server, Avaya one-X agent.  • OPERATING SYSTEMS: MS DOS, MS Windows 95/98/ME/2000/XP/Vista/7/2003, EXCEL, Power point, Visio.  • Data Base: SQL, My Access, Oracle.