Jr. Network Administrator, Shell Programmer Jr. <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span>, Shell Programmer Jr. Network Administrator, Shell Programmer, Front-End Programmer Jersey City, NJ 3+ years of network administration, web maintenance and administration. Extensive knowledge of desktop and server virtualization and virtual infrastructure management using VMware suite. Extensive knowledge planning and deploying on-demand self-service application delivery through Citrix XenApp environment. Experience writing, modifying and deploying Microsoft PowerShell scripts, VBS scripts and group policies in an enterprise environment to streamline companywide changes. Successful challenge-to-solution portfolio as well as proven communication and presentation skills to project participants and colleagues spanning different fields and companies. Work Experience Jr. Network Administrator, Shell Programmer Independence Care System - New York, NY March 2012 to Present Specializing in testing, optimization, on-time deployment and maintenance of current emerging software and hardware products in a high-work load, fast-changing environment. Lead and deployed major projects resulting in drastic increases in security, compliance and risk-management. One of two lead training resources for new IT employees and users. Extensive knowledge of Microsoft technologies including Active Directory, Exchange, Windows Server 2003/2008/2012, Microsoft OS, etc.     • Worked hand in hand with the Director of IT to deploy RSA SecurID layer and establish enterprise-wide authentication policy. Responsible for planning and integration of RSA primary servers, replica servers, seed records, physical and software tokens (iOS and Android). Integration of this technology resulted in full compliance with the New York state laws regarding data protection and identity theft.    • Served as a lead resource to research, test and implement Axway MailGate email security layer resulting in total email protection which eliminated several gaps in inbound and outbound mailflow. Designed email filtering policies that further secured email by creating keyword screening nets. Worked with the Director of IT to understand DMZ networks and separate inbound email routes from production environment.    • Instrumental in deploying VBS and PowerShell scripts. Implemented scripts ranging from printer maintenance to company-wide Exchange mailbox changes. Deployed scripts mirroring large amounts of data between file servers, often ran as scheduled tasks.     • Responsible for design, deployment and maintenance of a pre-production development network with fully operational domain controllers, file servers, Exchange server, etc.     • Considerable, but limited, ShoreTel Communicator/Agent/Supervisor software experience, as well as user management through ShoreWare Director. Assisting Content Manager, Web Developer and Graphic Designer MASLOV JEWELS - New York, NY 2010 to Present Developed, designed, and continuously support a professional online Content Management System, with an accompanying database, retrieval systems and a shopping cart.     • Assisted with re-deploying company’s website which consequentially improved customer satisfaction and engagement by 12%.  • Directed product categorization, information flow to and from the main database, as well as website/database integration.  • Work on various programming projects using PHP and MySQL languages.   • Lead and manage all social media initiatives promoting company’s brand image, new product launches, and other marketing activities. Have increasing exposure to online advertising. Project Manager, Layout Editor Saint Peter's College newspaper - Jersey City, NJ 2009 to Present Act as the layout editor for the school’s newspaper. Manage the overall newspaper content and article allocation, as well as arrange newspaper printing and campus distribution. Web Developer, Image Consultant and Graphic Designer THE VERSATILE SHOPER - New York, NY April 2010 to April 2011 Acted as a key project lead to improve order-processing workflow through Microsoft Access database and SQL. Managed all website programming activities, including back-end integration, graphic design and daily maintenance.     • Designed and created an Access database which increased order processing efficiency by almost 20%, resulting in higher customer satisfaction.   • Assisted with re-deployment of company’s website which contributed to positive public relations exposure. Education B.S. in Computer Science and E-Commerce SAINT PETER'S COLLEGE - Jersey City, NJ 2008 to 2012 Skills Windows Server 2008, Windows Server 2003, Windows 7/XP/2000, Active Directory, Microsoft Exchange 2003/2008, Citrix XenApp, Windows Server Update Service(WSUS), Microsoft Office 2000/XP/2003/2007/2010, MS Visio, Symantec Endpoint Protection, Symantec Encryption ( formerly PGP ), VMWare, TCP/IP (DHCP, DNS, NAT), Ethernet, Fast Ethernet, Gigabit Ethernet, T1, Dell Servers, Cisco router, switches, ShoreTel Telephony. Additional Information AWARDS AND ACCOMPLISHMENTS   International Honor Society for Computer and Information Discipline, 2011 - present  Treasurer of the Upsilon Pi Epsilon society at Saint Peter’s College, 2010 – present  NCAA swimming scholarship , Saint Peter’s College, 2008 – present   Senior Captain at Saint Peter’s College Swimming and Diving team ( Division 1 ), 2010 - present  Croatian swimming champion, 2004-2005