Network Administrator <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Network Administrator - Transact Futures Work Experience Network Administrator Transact Futures - Chicago, IL February 2017 to Present • Working on network security which includes packet inspection, vulnerabilities, Traffic monitoring using NetFlow and security logs for compliance.  • Worked with risk management and compliance management for NFA, ISO, PCI.  • Major role in Testing and auditing bandwidth utilization, Network Inventory maintenance and troubleshooting. Tracking down, monitoring and troubleshooting Trade networks.  • Handful experience in L1 and L2, Protocols OSPF, BGP, MPLS, VTP, LDP, STP, Multicast. Experience in consolidating sites and planning network backup security and redundancy network. And worked on IPS/IDS support and endpoint security support.  • Worked with Cisco 7200p, 6500, 3900 series routers, switches 3750, nexus5k, cisco RPS, Cisco ASA firewalls ASA5580, ASA5550, Palo Alto Firewall. And Juniper EX4300 series.  • URL Filtering and IP address filtering with help of Pal Alto firewall for miscellaneous activities.  • Designed network and implemented with DMZ for broadcasting servers with udp traffic, and Domain controllers. VPN configuration with Dual authentication (DUO) using PPTP.  • Monitoring network using SolarWinds (Orion), network topology updates using SolarWinds topology mapper.  • Datacenter rack maintenance including servers, Power modules like and network devices.  • Worked on fiber optic, cat5e/6 cabling including with SPF, SPF+ modules. Network Engineer SOS, Newark October 2014 to January 2015 • Configuring Static, EIGRP, and OSPF, BGP Routing Protocols on Cisco 2800, 3600, 7300 series.  • Using Cisco catalyst Configuring and troubleshooting switching protocols VLAN, VTP, STP, EIGRP, HSRP, Fiber-channel, 802.11a/b/g/n, 802.1x.  • Configuring and Managing BGP-MPLS VPN networks between the Corporate office and the other VPN locations of the enterprise.  • Cyber security standards ISO 27000 series, NIST, NFA standards.  • Configuring and implemented DMZ for Web servers, Mail servers & FTP Servers using Cisco ASA5500 Firewalls, intrusion detection.  • Experience in Testing, Auditing and verifying all network related latency, results and provide solutions to optimize the quality assurance process.  • Network Configurations and Management via CLI, and SNMP tracks. Jr. Network Engineer AT&T - Hyderabad, Telangana April 2011 to April 2014 Configuring/Troubleshoot issues with the following types of routers Cisco (7200, 6500, 4500, 1700, 2600 and 3500 series), to include: bridging, switching, routing, Ethernet, NAT, and DHCP, as well as assisting with customer LAN /MAN, router/firewalls.  ? Support 24x7 operations and answer calls from the customers on network emergencies and resolve issues. And maintain Cisco UCS.  ? Install and manage Cisco Catalyst 3500XL, 2960 and nexus 3k series Switches and Cisco 1800, 3900 series routers.  ? Plans, coordinates, implements and supports the LAN / WAN hardware, software and Internet /Intranet integration network connectivity, diagnose network failures and resolve any problems.  ? Responsible for implementation and day to day operations of all associated hubs, routers, bridges, gateways and related equipment along F5 load balancer.  ? Monitoring the network, troubleshooting network problems, implementing changes, communicating and working closely with vendors, customers, system administrators  ? Responsible for LAN and internet connection file and print server.  ? Handled installation of Windows NT Server and Windows NT Workstations.  ? Handled Tech Support as it relates to LAN & WAN systems.  ? Hands on Experience in Inter-VLAN routing, redistribution, access-lists and dynamic NATing.  ? Log messages using Syslog server and analyze the issues related to high CPU utilization and parameters that can degrade performance of the network  ? Involved in all technical aspects of LAN and WAN projects including, short and long term planning, implementation, project management and operations support as required  ? Conduct through analysis, problem solving, and infrastructure planning  ? Provide assistance to Network Manager and serve as Secondary Network support.  ? Managed various teams involved in site surveys, cabling specifications, Network equipment installation and configuration.  ? Design OSPF areas for reliable Access Distribution and for Core IP Routing.  ? Installation and Configuration of various types of Personal Computers and Printers. Installation of different operating systems on Intel based PC's.  ? Installed Hard disks, Floppy drives, CD Drives, Sound Blaster cards, CPU, Memory, Power supply unit, Network card, Video graphics card, Hard disk controller card on PC systems.  ? Troubleshooting of personal computers. On line Support to customers concerning their computer problems.  ? Handled Tech Support as it relates to LAN & WAN systems  ? Worked with vendors (Juniper, Cisco, etc) when issues arise and see it through all the way until issue is resolved or a bug has been identified and turned over to development.  ? Real-time network monitoring using HP Open View by implementing policies and creating custom events. Analyzed network traffic using analyzer such as MRTG 2.13.  • Monitor, troubleshoot, test and resolve Frame Relay, ATM, MLPPP, PPP, and Dial-up.  • Troubleshoot Frame Relay; T1, T3, IP and OSPF related router issues.