Network WAN Engineer <span class="hl">Network</span> WAN Engineer Network WAN Engineer - Toyota Motor North America Los Angeles, CA ? Practical familiarity installing, configuring and troubleshooting Routers (3600, 4400, 7200  Series), and Catalyst (2900, 3500, 3700 and 6500 Series) Switches  ? Hands-on experience configuring and troubleshooting OSPF, EIGRP and other routing  protocols.  ? Practical understanding of various switching phenomenon such as, STP, PVST, RSTP,  load-balancing mechanisms HSRP, FHRP and VRRP and Trunking concepts such as VTP,  802.1q, and Ether-channels.  ? Implementing NAT/PAT  ? Implementing, securing and managing remote access using VPN technologies like IPSec, SSL,  and GRE  ? Implementing security policies using ACL's, Palo Alto Firewalls and AAA (TACACS, RADIUS)  servers.  ? Good understanding of F5 products and technology (LTM, SSL offloading).  ? Hands on experience in implementation and deploying BIG-IP F5 LTM for load balancing and  network traffic management for business applications.  ? Worked on F5 LTM series like 6400, 6800, 8800 for the corporate applications and their  availability.  ? Strong documentation and diagraming skills using Microsoft Visio.  ? Working knowledge of network monitoring and management tools like Wireshark, Net Flow,  Solar Winds.  ? Hands-on experience with Windows 2012 R2 Servers including Active Directory and DHCP  services.  ? Familiarity with Amazon cloud services such as EC2, VPC, and S3 data storage.  ? Experience in diverse IT disciplines, including networking, technical support, operating systems,  virtualization and system administration  ? Strong written and verbal communication skills, self-motivated, self-managed, result oriented,  practical, always looking to learn and contribute. Work Experience Network WAN Engineer Toyota Motor North America March 2017 to Present Configure and troubleshoot F5 BIG IP LTM & GTM devices.  ? Deploy and configure F5 Viprion chassis, LTM, GTM guests.  ? Configure and Managed F5 Application Modules.  ? Troubleshoot F5 LTM for iRule and Various load-balancing policies.  ? Recommend, Design and implement network infrastructure to meet application  requirements.  ? F5 LTM: Configuration, Solution Designing and Managing F5 BIG IP LTM Load Balancer,  ? Creating VIPs, Creating Pools, and Associating Pools with VIPs, Creating Persistence Profile,  SSL Profile, SSL Offloading, Creating iRules, designing with High Availability solution with Network Failover.  ? F5 GTM: Configuring and Managing F5 GTM for Data Centers, DNS Management and Integrated with DNS Vendors for DNS Security Management.  ? F5 ASM: Creating the Security policy in ASM for Detect and Prevent the various application  base attacks based on anomaly and apply those security policy in the HTTP/HTTPS VIP in LTM  ? Design and Implement remote site network infrastructure allover US.  ? Deploy, maintain and troubleshoot Cisco ISR and ASR routes and Catalyst switches.  ? Implement DNS Changes on Infoblox creating DNS records, Configuring zones and troubleshoot.  ? Configure and troubleshoot IPSec and GRE Tunnels on Palo Alto and Cisco Devices.  ? Implement GRE tunnels between Datacenters and remote sites.  ? Involved in Cisco ACI deployment.  ? Involved in Decommissioning BlueCoat proxy and deploying Zscaler Cloud Proxy  Platform for the company wide infrastructure. Network Analyst Inkovation Inc January 2016 to December 2016 Involved in implementation and configuration of Enterprise network infrastructure.  ? Responsible for configuring network containing Cisco 3800, and Cisco 2950, 3500, 6500 series  switches.  ? Configured network using routing protocols Multi-Area OSPF, EIGRP.  ? Key contribution in troubleshooting LAN/WAN structures including EIGRP, multi-area OSPF  and BGP.  (951)-333 7454 keyur.mandani@yahoo.in  ? Designed VLAN with port security and Subnetting schemes.  ? Configured STP and VTP on layer 2 devices including HSRP and VRRP.  ? Palo Alto Firewall installation, configuration and internal traffic management.  ? Implement Security Policies, VPN connection as per requirement for Internal and External  Connection.  ? Implementing IPsec Tunnel, URL Filtering, Antivirus, Anti-Spyware policies and Providing  Vulnerability Protection.  ? Installation, Configuration and Administration of Windows Servers 2012 R2, Active Directory,  FTP, DNS, DHCP, TFTP, Linux OS under various LAN and WAN environments.  ? Implement Security Policies, VPN connection as per requirement for Internal and External  Connection.  ? Designed and implemented F5 Big IP load balancers that resulted in improving application  performance.  ? Worked on F5 BIG-IP LTM 8900, configured profiles, provided and ensured high availability.  ? Configuring various advanced features (Profiles, monitors, iRules, Redundancy, SSL  Termination, Persistence, SNATs, HA on F5 BIGIP appliances SSL termination and initiation,  Persistence, Digital.  ? Experience in configuring and troubleshooting BIG-IP F5 load balancer LTM creating virtual  servers, nodes, pools and iRules in LTM module.  ? Rebuilding data centers and redundant sites for failover, F5 load balancers  ? Configured with F5 Load balancers in Failover for Load balancing and SSL handling.  ? Designed and Implemented Virtual Server Farm for Web site load balancing with F5 Networks  Load Balancer in DMZ architecture.  ? Upgrading and backups of Cisco router configuration files.  ? Implementing and maintaining backup schedules.  ? Managing Windows 2012 R2 servers including DHCP and Active Directory.  ? Hands-on experience with Amazon Cloud services such as EC2, S3, VPC, Load-Balancing.  ? Updating necessary documents.  ? Performed technical support, troubleshooting and maintenance of network equipment, installed  and upgraded software and hardware equipment. Network Administrator E-Tech Lab Solutions January 2013 to August 2014 Education Master's in Information System in Information System California State University - Los Angeles, CA June 2016 Bachelor in Computer Science & Engineering in Computer Science & Engineering Gujarat Technological University July 2013 Skills BGP, Cisco, CCNP, F5, MPLS, Ospf, Switch, Nexus, Ccna, DNS (2 years), Zscaler Cloud Proxy (1 year) Certifications/Licenses CCNA October 2016 to October 2018 Cisco Certified Network Associate CCNP Routing November 2016 to November 2018 Cisco Certified Network Professional - Routing  Cisco Certified Network Professional - Switching - In Progress