Network Administrator <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Network Administrator Denver, CO Experienced IT professional with expertise in Windows-based environments, networking and TCP/IP. I acted as Server Administrator for 5 Microsoft Servers running Windows Server 2003/2008. I administered all Cisco equipment, including switches, routers, firewalls, VPN, and security appliances. I served as Microsoft Exchange Administrator for 80 user accounts. Monitor Solar Winds network. Maintain multiple SQL Servers, Network Monitor Servers, backup servers, Document Imaging systems, and Web Servers.    My most important responsibilities were:    • Responsible for the installation, relocation, configuration, and ongoing usability of desktop computers, equipment, and software.    • Responsible for all facets of the network including: design, implementation, administration and troubleshooting.    • Responsible for designed and implemented and maintain core Wi-Fi policy    • Responsible for create policies and secure internal systems.    • Managed and monitored network and internal/external site communications. Work Experience Network Administrator Center of Maritime Communications/Libyan Navy - Tripoli, LY July 2007 to February 2014 Libya  • Good knowledge of Microsoft windows server, and Microsoft exchange server.  • Install and maintained local area network (LAN) and wireless for Libyan Navy.  • installed and maintained wide area network (WAN) for Libyan Navy.  • installed routers and switches in 5 locations.  • maintained connectivity between host systems, including native operating system protocols and TCP/IP.  • Designed and implemented and maintain core Wi-Fi policy.  • Diagnosed and resolved all network related issues.  • Excellent troubleshooting.  • Experience with SQL scripts, Microsoft SQL server database and MySQL Server database.  • Configured end user devices such as laptops/desktops, printers, and shared office equipment. Education Masters in Network and Communications Management Keller graduate school of management - Chicago, IL March 2019 BS in Communications Engineering Academy of Maritime Studies - Tripoli, LY September 2002 Skills Active Directory (7 years), Networking (7 years), Technical Support (7 years) Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/khaled-fandi-9699ab141 Additional Information Additional information about skills   •      Windows Server administration and maintenance including Active Directory and Group Policy.  •      Monitored daily backups, antivirus status, shared storage space and network activity, adjusting network equipment and settings as needed.  •      Analyze and inventory all key network infrastructure assets for planning of corporation wide infrastructure upgrade.  •      Supported and maintained LAN/WAN and related equipment.  •      Ability to use Word, Excel, Access, PowerPoint, Microsoft project, Internet, and Email.  •      I have in depth knowledge of DNS, DHCP.  •      Set up routers and switches.