Network Administrator <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Network Administrator - CISCO Work Experience Network Administrator CISCO - San Jose, CA July 2017 to Present Worked on Cisco Switches 3750, 4500, 6500, ASR 1K, Nexus 3K, Nexus 9K, Nexus 5K, ASA-SM, EMC VNX 5600  ? Troubleshoot issues on the Cisco ASA  ? Managed IP addresses upon request with the use of Netbox  ? Providing Technical Support and solutions for Network Problems.  ? Implemented VLAN's, Trunks, SVI, Port channel, VPN,  ? Implementing, configuring, and troubleshooting various protocols like ARP, RARP, DHCP/DNS, RDP, NAT/PAT, VPN, SSH, HSRP, IPSEC VPN  ? Good Knowledge of UCS, and VMware installation/configuration/Troubleshoot  ? Worked on Docker containerization  ? Worked on Alert monitoring tool: Nagios  ? Worked on implementing bots to answer questions from customers.  ? Worked on Backing up configs of all networking devices to AWS S3 using Python Libraries. Network Engineer FACEBOOK - Menlo Park, CA November 2016 to June 2017 Worked on Cisco Switches 3750, 4500, 6500, ASR 9K, Nexus 3K, and Juniper SRX 3600, Aruba AP 109 and 155  ? Managed IP addresses upon request with use of Proteus/ IPAM  ? Worked on Caprica to generate ACL's defined by policies.  ? Configured ports security, VLANs, SVI's on Cisco Catalyst 6500 and 4500 switches  ? Implementing, configuring, and troubleshooting various protocols like OSPF and BGP, HSRP, DHCP/DNS, RDP, SSH  ? Coordinating with service providers for the timely reinstatement of failure links.  ? Worked on Centralized ticketing system for trouble reporting.  ? Worked on hardware related issues, Wifi connectivity issue, Layer 2 authentication issues  ? Worked with Linux based environment.  ? Worked on Enterprise level Network Traffic and Alerts monitoring tools: Icinga  ? Providing Technical Support and solutions for Network Problems.  ? Upgrading Cisco IOS (ASR 9K, 6500, 4500), troubleshooting network outages.  ? Managed VLANs, Port Security, Mac authentication Bypass and troubleshoot LAN and WAN issues.  ? Involved in troubleshooting of DNS, DHCP, and other IP conflict problems.  ? Gained experience working with Layer-2 and Layer-3 Switching  ? Worked on Firewall rule management as part of network operations to take care of Firewall ACL requests.  ? Helped customers in troubleshooting issues related to connectivity, Layer 2/3 switching, Ether channels, Inter-vlan routing, log messages, high CPU utilization and parameters that can degrade performance of network  ? Troubleshooting wired or wireless networking issues, including packet loss, performance, and switching issues.  ? Worked on Clear Pass Policy Manager to troubleshoot on 802.1x authentication Issues.  ? Worked on TCAM issues on Cisco 6500 and 4500.  ? Worked with Aruba Wireless Devices, RAP, Controllers, Airwave  ? Worked on implementing IPV6 addresses using SLAAC. Network Administrator CISCO - San Jose, CA July 2012 to May 2016 Experienced in configuring Cisco Catalyst Switches 3750, 4500, 6500, 6807.  ? Worked with Wireless LAN Controller WLC 5508, Access Point 3600  ? Good Knowledge of Cisco Routers Series 2900, 2800, 3900.  ? Experience in server builds on Ubuntu. It includes Installing, Upgrading, Patching, Configuring and Performance tuning hardware.  ? Experienced in setting up SSH, and SCP connectivity between hosts  ? Worked with DHCP, STP, RDP, HSRP, TFTP, SSH, Telnet, Port Security, SVI, FTP, TCP/IP, OSPF  ? Installed and Configured ESXi 5.5 and ESXi6.5  ? Use VSphere vCenter Server to monitor virtual machine resource usage  ? Involved in the installation, monitoring and support of Cisco networks, Internet technologies and remote office WAN/ LAN connectivity  ? Implemented VLAN's, Trunks, SVI, Port channel,  ? Attended and setup team meetings and provided comments on existing network and the recommendation to improve the current network performance.  ? Experience supporting 24x7 production computing environments. Experience in providing on-call and weekend support.  ? Interface effectively with other departments and staff to ensure satisfactory and timely resolution of their issues or problems  ? Perform Troubleshooting end-to-end between the two sites  ? Experience in Documenting the environment.  ? Coordinated, logistics, project management and technical skills on networking, servers, and on Cisco products.  ? Solution implementation and troubleshooting all network related issues  ? Server, Network Appliance installation, configuration, and troubleshooting  ? Good Knowledge of UCS, and VMware installation/configuration/troubleshoot  ? Troubleshooting and resolving failures in the network and Maintaining the security posture of the network  ? Good understanding of Lab build and Network topology  ? Team player with excellent communication and inter-personal skills  ? Helped the network team to install new switches and routers and configure the IOS according to the requirements.    References are available upon request. Education Bachelors in Finished Course Work San Jose State University 2016 Computer Networking Technologies OHLONE COLLEGE 2012 Skills Bgp, Catalyst, Cisco, Dhcp, Eigrp, Ospf, Tcp, Tcp/ip, Telnet, Vlan, Vmware, Vpn, Dns, Cisco asa, Hsrp, Ipsec, Wireshark, Ftp, Docker, Udp Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/mobina-baseer-4412b85a