Network Administrator <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Philadelphia, PA Work Experience Network Administrator United States Maine Corps September 2012 to Present My position as a network administrator was to ensure the successful accomplishment of all assigned mission essential tasks during training exercises and tactical operations. I ensure the successful installation, operation, and maintenance of all networking equipment during training exercises and tactical operations. I maintain accurate personnel record jackets for each marine in charge, ensuring they are counseled and mentored every thirty days and that all individual annual training requirements are completed in a timely manner. I ensure strict accountability and proper management of all consolidated memorandum receipt (CMR) equipment, to include the supervision of preventive and corrective maintenance and proper documentation. I was assigned the duties of the networking chief while he was absent or on paid leave. I trained marines in accordance with all relevant training and readiness standards and ensure all training is properly tracked and documented. I assist our service help desk with all networking related issues while in garrison. Education High school or equivalent Kensington Culinary Arts - Philadelphia, PA September 2008 to May 2012 Skills Technical Support, Stocking, Security, Organizational Skills, Customer Service Military Service Branch: united states marine corps Service Country: United States Rank: Sergeant September 2012 to Present I was assigned the billet of platoon sergeant were I advise two supervisors and trained and mentored 17 subordinate Marines; ensuring 100 percent of full duty marines completed their physical fitness test in which ten Marines achieved a first class and six Marines with a second class. I conducted a mentorship program which involved monthly counseling's, informal lectures, and mentoring events to increase troop welfare, morale, and discipline. I insured complete readiness of all Marines and equipment for retrograde upon completion of Specical Purpose Marine Air Ground Task Force Crisis Response Central Command 19.1. I scheduled Marines to see medical, insuring that these medical examinations did not impact mission operations achieving 100% medical readiness. I assembled weekly messages and rosters to pass proper information to the platoon and the company in accordance with our mission, ensuring accurate, intelligent, concise, and timely communications throught out all levels. I developed and instituted programs to ensure the communications marines were challenged to complete all training and readiness standards to ensure mission accomplishment.