Network Engineer <span class="hl">Network</span> Engineer Network Engineer - DELLEMC/Progressive Insurance • Over 7 years of experience in Networking and Security, including hands-on experience in providing network installation, network integration, network support, and analysis for a broad range of LAN/WAN/MAN communication systems.  • Expertise in configuring and troubleshooting Layer 3 Interior Gateway Routing protocols such as Link-State routing protocols (OSPF and IS-IS) and Distance Vector routing protocols (RIPv1, RIPv2 and EIGRP).  • Working experience in configuring and administration of Checkpoint, Palo Alto, Juniper SRX & Netscreen firewalls to manage large scale firewall deployments  • Hands on experience in implementing and troubleshooting complex layer 2 technologies such as VLAN Trunks, VTP, Ether channel, STP, RSTP and MST. Implementation of HSRP, VRRP for Default Gateway Redundancy and also implementation of PPP, HDLC, PAP, CHAP.  • Expertise in installing, configuring, and maintaining Cisco Switches (2900, 3500, 7600, 3700 series, 6500 series) Cisco Routers (4800, 3800, 3600, 2800, 2600, 2900, 1800, 1700, 800).  • Worked with Cisco Layer 3 switches 3750, 4500, 6500 and Cisco Nexus 2248, 5548, 6001 and 7018 in multi VLAN environment with the use of inter-VLAN routing, 802.1Q truck, ether channel  • Hands on experience in configuring Cisco Nexus 2232, 2248, 5548, 6001 and 7018(Sup 2E) and worked on nexus protocols VPC, VRF, VDC and FEX Links  • Hands on experience in configuring Cisco Catalyst 2960, 3750, 4500, 6500 and Nexus 3000, 5000, 6000, 7000 series switches and Cisco 2600, 2800, 3600 series routers, Load Balancers & Cisco Firewalls.  • Working knowledge in troubleshooting of DNS, DHCP and other IP conflict problems.  • Good knowledge and Experience on Bluecoat proxy server SG and ITIL framework.  • Experience in working with Cisco Nexus Switches and Virtual Port Channel configuration.  • Worked on F5 LTM, GTM series like 6400, 6800, 8800 for the corporate applications and their availability.  • Experience with hardware load balancer administration and support, preferably with F5 and Cisco ACE load balancers.  • Expertise in creating groups and pruning traffic flow using VLAN, VTP, ISL, 802.1Q.  • Good knowledge on Bluecoat proxy server, Knowledge of advanced technologies like VOIP, H.323, SIP, QOS, Multicasting, 802.11x wireless technology, MPLS and MPLS-VPN  • Worked on Cisco IOS for configuration & troubleshooting of routing protocols: OSPF, EIGRP, RIP, BGP v4.  • Working knowledge in configuring and supporting site-to-site and remote access Cisco, IPSec, VPN solutions using ASA/PIX firewalls, Cisco and VPN client.  • Extensively worked on Juniper modelsEX-2200, EX-4200, EX-4500, MX-480, M Series, SRX210 and SRX240.  • Configuring virtual chassis for Juniper switches EX-4300, firewalls NS 5200  • Configuring and testing Multicast for both IPv4 and IPv6 routing in Data Environment.  • Working knowledge of configuring BGP/OSPF routing policies and designs, worked on implementation strategies for the expansion of the MPLS VPN networks.  • DMZ zoning & configuring VLANs/routing/NAT with the firewalls as per the design.  • Some knowledge in documentation and updating client's network documentation using Visio  • Familiar with REMEDY, Service-now & JIRA for ticket change management process. Work Experience Network Engineer DELLEMC/Progressive Insurance - Cleveland, OH January 2019 to Present Responsibilities:    • Planning, installing, configuration and troubleshooting of networking infrastructure including routers and configuring end to end BGP sessions.  • Experience in working with Cisco Nexus Switches like 9000 and Virtual Port-Channel configuration. Implemented VPC, VRF and OTV on the Nexus 9348 and 9310-YC switches and 9508 switches.  • Implemented Zone Based Firewalls and Security Rules on the Palo Alto Firewall.  • Supported Blue Coat Proxy in explicit mode for users trying to access Internet from Corp Network.  • Configure all Palo Alto Networks Firewall models (PA-2k, PA-3k, PA-5k etc.) as well as a centralized management system (Panorama) to manage large scale Firewall deployments.  • Extensive experience in configuring and implementing OSPF and BGP.  • Implemented BGP using Route filters to communicate with primary datacenter.    • Experience Installing, configuring, Troubleshooting Cisco Nexus 9508, 9348-FXP, 2332-TQ FEX, 93180-YC models in datacenter.  • Experience with configuring Nexus 2000 Fabric extender(FEX) which acts as a remote line card(module) for several ACI switches Datacenter.  • Configured VLANs on a switch for inter-VLAN communication. Configured VLAN Trunking Protocol (VTP) on Core Switches  • Advanced implementation and consultation on all F5 Networks BIGIP platform network modules (incl. LTM, GTM).  • Hands-on experience with upgrading/downgrading operating system for Nexus 9K, F5 LTM, GTM  • Installed high availability Big IP F5 LTM and GTM load balancers to provide  • Implementing F5 BIG-IP application delivery controllers for load balancing using Virtual servers, irules and iApps  • Provided application level redundancy and availability by deploying F5 load balancers LTM.  • In data center environment configured F5 LTM and GTM load balancer as a server where GTM dynamically resolve VIPs and provided to LTM server  • Conversions to BGP WAN routing. Which will be to convert WAN routing from OSPF to BGP (OSPF is used for local routing only) which involves redistribution  • Configured Cisco Nexus 9K,5K,3K and ASR 1001 routers at client locations  • Paloalto Firewall troubleshooting and policy change requests for new IP segments that either come on line or that may have been altered during various planned network changes on the network.  • Palo Alto design and installation (Application and URL filtering, Threat Prevention, Data Filtering)  • Configured OSPF with in the network and EBGP as EGP and advertised routes according to the customers.  • Configuring EBGP route filters, prefix-lists to manipulate the traffic to the customers.  • Strong knowledge on networking concepts like TCP/IP, Routing and Switching.  • Configured and maintained IPSEC and SSL VPN's on Palo Alto Firewalls  • Audited Firewalls, Switches, Load balancers and Routers for security threats and implemented corrective measures to eliminate the risk.  • Implemented Zone Based Firewalling and Security Rules on the Palo Alto Firewall  • Troubleshoot line card issues on daily basis depending on the alarms on the Chassis.  • Hands-on experience configuring TACACS+ on Network devices (Cisco Nexus, Palo Alto, Open gear, Riverbed, Gigamon)  • Extensive experience taking copy of Cisco NX-OS, TFTP server and loading back on Nexus 9K and Palo Alto firewalls.  • Exposure to Network devices like Riverbed ARX, Netprofilers, Infoblox, Gigamon, Garland.  • Used to raise tickets and work with Cisco TAC in case of devices hardware issues  • Documented all the work done by using Visio, Excel &MS word. Network Administrator Charter Communications - Charlotte, NC March 2017 to December 2018 Responsibilities:  • Hands on and exposure to Juniper SRX, Netscreen & PaloAlto firewalls on a regular basis.  • Configured and maintained IPSEC and SSL VPN's on Pulse SecureFirewalls.  • Implemented Zone Based Firewalling and Security Rules on the PaloAlto & Juniper Firewall.  • Created security system rules and opened ports as per the user request.  • Created Firewall policies and NAT rules to provide access for websites internal and externally on PaloAlto and Juniper Firewalls.  • Configured VPN tunnels on Juniper security system clusters and tested tunnel negotiations.  • Experience working with Network security manager (NSM) to access the Juniper Firewall.  • Worked on Juniper Net Screen Firewalls such as SSG5, ISG1000.  • Worked with Junos Space to control all the Juniper devices in the network and made a documentation on working of Junos Space  • Experience in managing Active Directory, DNS and DHCP Servers and handy experience in coordinating releases, build deployments.  • Worked closely with our NOC on monitoring all servers, applications, network devices and connections along with customer traffic, using specific custom built tools.  • Palo Alto design and installation (Application and URL filtering, Threat Prevention, Data Filtering)  • Configured and maintained IPSEC and SSL VPN's on Palo Alto Firewalls  • Implemented NAT solutions on WAN applications and troubleshoot NAT issues on VPN's.  • Experience in deployment of Bluecoat as proxy and firewall solution to provide secure and optimum access of web service.  • Rolled out migration projects of vendor data-center equipment from unsupported Netscreen devices to SRX.  • Upgraded JUNOS and NX-OS with minimal or no downtime by shifting traffic to redundancy devices.  • Migrated from Juniper SRX firewalls to Palo Alto firewalls platforms PA-5000, series (5060/5050/5020).  • Troubleshoot and hands on experience on security related issues on Cisco ASA and Palo Alto firewalls  • Administering multiple Firewall of Juniper / NetScreen, in a managed distributed environment. Fulfilling routine change requests of Net Screen OS Firewall and resolving trouble tickets, maintain and monitoring firewalls.  • Established IPsec -VPN tunnels with ASA firewall and Cat 7200 between some branch offices and the headquarters  • Firewall technologies including general configuration, risk analysis, security policy, rules creation and modification of Check Point firewall  • Implemented new device of Cisco & Juniper as per policy reviewed by network architect  • Configured MPLS core using LDP protocols and troubleshooting end-to-end label issues  • Configured MPBGP between the provider edge routers and VPNv4 between them.  • Used to scan ports time to time and restrict them according to the company policies  • Interacts with major ISP's regarding the routing issues and troubleshoot the issues using ISP's looking glass  • Configured ibgp with in the network and ebgp as EGP and advertised routes according to the customers  • Closely worked with DNS team in order to shift traffic from one POP to other  • Implement Cisco Secure Access Control Server (ACS) for TACACS+ RADIUS.  • Extensive experience taking copy of Cisco IOS, Netscreen OS on TFTP server and loading back on routers and firewalls.  • Troubleshooting of complex LAN/WAN infrastructure that include routing protocols EIGRP, OSPF & BGP Network Engineer T-Mobile - Bellevue, WA October 2015 to February 2017 Responsibilities:  • Experience working with Cisco Nexus 2148 Fabric Extender and Nexus 7010 5000 series to provide a Flexible Access Solution for datacenter access architecture.  • Configured Cisco Nexus 9K,5K,3K and 2960 XR switches and 4331 and ASR 1001 routers at client locations  • Racking, Stacking, configuring, Nexus 5K and 2K and 7K, Port Channel fabric interface connection, configuring a Fabric Port Channeling, VRRP, vlans, SVI's.  • Managed fast Layer 3 switched/routed LAN/WAN infrastructure as a part of Network team. The LAN consisted of Cisco campus model of Cisco 3550 at access layer, Cisco 6513 at distribution/core layer.  • Supported core network consisting of Cisco routers running multi area OSPF.  • Troubleshooting the issues with Nexus switches regarding peer keep alives, peer link's and member ports to the servers and eliminating the blackhole traffic  • Knowledge with F5 load balancers - LTM, GTM series like 6400, 6800, 8800 for the corporate applications and their availability  • Performed load balancing and application level redundancy by deploying F5 BIG-IP LTM 3900  • Basic and advanced F5 load balancer configurations, LTM, GTM, including migrating configurations from Cisco ACE to F5 and general troubleshooting of the F5 load balancers  • Dealt with creating VIP(virtual servers), pools, nodes on F5.  • Best practice implemented on Cisco & Juniper devices of access, aggregation and core  • Experience working with frame relay, MPLS services, OSPF, BGP and EIGRP routing protocols, NAT, sub-netting, also including DNS, LDAP, DHCP, HTTP, HTML, HTTPS, TCP/IP, UDP, SNMP, OSPF, RIP, IPSEC, PPTP, VLAN,WISM, STP (Spanning tree Protocol), RTSP & Multicasting protocols  • Configured DMVPN with IPSEC on it and eigrp as IGP protocol.  • Troubleshoot routing issues on Cisco 7600, 7200VXR and Juniper QFX 5100  • Deploying and decommission of VLANs on Nexus 7K, 5K and its downstream devices  • Modified internal infrastructure by adding switches to support server farms and added servers to existing DMZ environments to support new and existing application platforms.  • Provided proactive threat defense with ASA that stops attacks before they spread through the network.  • Deployed Nexus switches 2248, 5548, 7018 and implemented features like FEX Links, VPC.  • Implementing, Monitoring, Troubleshooting and Convergence in Frame-Mode MPLS inside the core and troubleshooting VRF and MPLS VPN issues  • Managed fast Layer 3 switched/routed LAN/WAN infrastructure as a part of Network team. The LAN consisted of Cisco campus model of Cisco 3550 at access layer, Cisco 6513 at distribution/core layer.  • Experience in installing, configuring and troubleshooting juniper switches EX2200, EX2500, EX3200 and EX4200 series  • Configuring virtual chassis for Juniper switches EX-4200 and firewalls NS 5200  • Configured policy based routing on WAN links as per company requirement.  • Configured various LAN switches such as CISCO CAT 2900, 3550, 4500, 6509 switches for STP, VTP Domain, VLAN, Trunking, Fast Ether Channel configuration  • Configured and implemented centralized Syslog server on both production and corporate network and enable SNMP traps for monitoring traffic and check the health of servers and network devices  • Extensive experience taking copy of Cisco IOS on TFTP server and loading back on routers and switches Network Engineer Morgan Stanley - Brooklyn, NY October 2014 to September 2015 Responsibilities:  • Worked extensively on IGP and EGP protocols which include OSPF, EIGRP, EBGP and IBGP.  • Worked on OSPF in different architecture environments which includes broadcast network,point to point and also configured stubs, NSSA, virtuallinks.  • Configured IPsec VPN's site to site using ESP protocol and route map's.  • Configured DMVPN between offices with hub and spoke architecture using NHRP protocol and configured DMVPN phase-3.  • Configured Cisco ACS for authentication, authorization and accounting and also configured local AAA services on Cisco devices.  • Configured and maintained IPsec and SSL VPN's on Palo Alto firewalls.  • Experience in working with Virtual Private Networks VPN's on Cisco ASAs with AnyConnect, Cisco Client for authentication, as well as site to site VPN  • Worked on Cisco ISR's & CSR, Cisco Switches (Cisco3560, 3850, 3750-X, 4500, 6500 ), Cisco ASA's, Meraki AP's  • Configured Cisco routers running 15.3M5 for thick client ssl VPN's configuring webvpngateway, webvpn context, policy groups and linking it to Cisco ACS for AAA.  • Configured Clientless ssl VPN's for direct web access.  • Configured Juniper SRX firewalls creating address books, zones and security policies.  • Worked on Cisco ASA firewall configuring inside, outside, DMZ zones  • Configured transparent firewall using BVI and routed mode ASA firewall  • Worked on deep packet inspections with capture and packet tracer in ASA firewall  • Worked on configuring different contexts on ASA firewalls and creating classes and allocating resources  • For troubleshooting firewall related packet drops and reachability issues, Checkpoint's Smart Tracker  • Configured of ACL's in Cisco 5520 ASA firewall for internet Access requests for servers, Protocol Handling, Object Grouping and NAT.  • Involved in knowledge transfer to vendors and provided them network support as required  • Configuration and management of NEXUS network in the existing network infrastructure  • Worked with datacenter operations on the circuits that were down and fixed those circuits.  • Worked on different monitoring tools in the company to check the traffic and errors on the circuits  • Experience working with service providers if there is an issue with ISP. Network Administrator Life Insurance Corporation of India April 2012 to September 2014 Responsibilities:  • Designed and Implemented Cisco UCS pods in Nexus 7000 and Cisco 6500 Platform  • Creating Virtual IP address, Pools and Persistence profiles on F5 LTMs  • Configurations of load balancing in F5, SSL/VPN connections, Troubleshooting CISCO ASA firewalls, and related network security measures.  • Experience in working with Cisco Nexus Switches and Virtual Port Channel configuration.  • Setup and configured Citrix Branch Repeater and Netscaler 10 with Access Gateway load balancing.  • Configuration 7609, 7606 with OSPF and catalyst 6505, 4500, 3550 switches with various VLAN  • Checking and configuring Cisco 7600 routers at data center for remote sites' issues.  • Configuring and Maintaining TACACS+ for AAA  • Worked on Aruba Wireless LAN Implementation for 11n Infrastructure Across the Corporate Network  • Use INFOBLOX grid master for coordinating and synchronizing data and configurations across other appliances which are designated as INFOBLOX grid members.  • Worked on Cisco Layer 2 switches (spanning tree, VLAN).  • WAN Infrastructure running OSPF & BGP as core routing protocol.  • Support various Routers like 2600/3600/7200 series routers.  • Responsible team member to install and configure DDI services [DHCP, DNS and IP Add. Management] using INFOBLOX in existing network  • Played a supporting role in the expanding the dual band wireless N and 802.1X to all remote sites.  • Worked on Cisco Layer 2 switches (Spanning Tree, VLAN, QOS)  • Implemented ACLs and authenticated (EIGRP, BGP) to ensure high security on the network. Network Administrator Tata Motors - IN April 2011 to March 2012 Responsibilities:  • Configuration of various Cisco Routers & L2/L3 Switches and implementing OSPF and BGP on the routers  • Provided Load balancing solutions to clients for using F5 Load balancers.  • Implemented redundancy in BigIP F5 loads balancers to provide uninterrupted services to clients.  • Configured and edited policies on F5 network access control.  • Used Agilent as Network analyzer, INFOBLOX and also worked with Wireshark for packet sniffing  • Experience with Juniper Netscreen 520M Firewall and Palo Alto network firewall  • Implemented various OSPF scenarios on networks consisting of 7600 routers  • Checking and configuring Cisco 7600 routers at data center for remote sites' issues.  • Configured the Cisco router as IP Firewall and for NATing Configured RSTP, MST and used VTP with 802.1q trunk encapsulation  • Systems monitoring and maintenance, resolution and troubleshooting using INFOBLOX Responsible team member to monitor different DNS attacks using INFOBLOX  • Integrated VoIP with PSTN and set up voice Gateway ensuring QOS for Cisco based Voice over IP and CDR for voice call Accounting  • Used DHCP to automatically assign reusable IP addresses to DHCP clients  • Demonstrated the migration benefits from HSRP to GLBP. Successfully upgraded the existing network to GLBP for high availability and load balancing between distribution layer switches  • Negotiate VPN tunnels using IPSec encryption standards and also configured and implemented site-to-site VPN, Remote VPN Education Bachelor's