Network Administrator <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Network Administrator - BIO Reference Labs Edison, NJ • 7+ years of experience in Networking and Security, including hands-on experience in providing network support, installation and analysis for a broad range of LAN / WAN communication systems.  • Experience in planning, designing, implementing, maintaining and troubleshooting of the network.  • Technically proficient in Installation, Configuration in Cisco switches, Cisco routers, Cisco Access Points, Cisco ASA firewalls, Check Point Firewalls • Experience in the support for TCP/IP devices in LAN/WAN network • Very good knowledge in OSI layer, TCP/IP layer, Cisco IOS • Good experience in routing protocols such as RIP(version1,version 2), EIGRP, OSPF, BGP • Experience in configuring ACLS both standard and extended and also switch port security.  • Experience in IP addressing, sub netting and VLSM.  • Proficiency in configuring Nexus switches of 2k, 5k and 7k series.  • Good experience in Route summarization and redistribution.  • Expertise in implementing switch security and firewalls.  • Expertise in implementing security policies like ACLs, NAT, PAT, IPS, IDS, VPN.  • Good hands on experience in Layer-3 routing and Layer-2 switching.  • Experience in redundancy protocols such as HSRP, VRRP and good knowledge in GLBP.  • Good knowledge in Intrusion Detection and Prevention.  • Experience in configuring VoIP using asterisk server and SIP protocols are well known.  • Resolve U-Verse customer's network issues over the phone • Troubleshoot Internet, IPTV, VoIP technology phone services • Explain causes and resolutions of issues to irate customers • Experience with the monitoring tools such as Solarwinds, PRTG monitor.  • Successfully implemented VRF technology on Cisco technology.  • Understanding of TACACS and RADIUS in detail.  • Experience in configuring DNS and DHCP server and also troubleshooting them.  • Proven ability to absorb new material and transfer knowledge to co-workers and users.  • Able to communicate well and convey information with the team members, and the staff of the organization and also with the other vendors. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Network Administrator BIO Reference Labs - Elmwood Park, NJ March 2018 to Present Responsibilities: • Provided system support for the end client.  • One of the core members of the network team.  • Planning, designing, configuring and reviewing the network.  • Worked on Cisco routers, switches, and good knowledge on Cisco IOS • Configured Fabric Path to enable L2 routing in Datacenter, which would help in providing Stability to F1 module line cards.  • Planning and designing of network infrastructure consisting of LAN/WAN.  • Designing LAN/WAN according to the requirements of the organization and governing with the help of communication protocols.  • Configured redundancy protocols such as HSRP, VRRP.  • Monitoring the network with the help of solarwinds and providing solutions for the issues occurred.  • Configured security features such as IPSEC VPN, TLS, and SSL.  • Familiar with SIP and QoS.  • Designed, configured and implemented of QoS, CoS.  • Configured RADIUS server.  • Managing the active directory of DNS and DHCP servers.  • Performed automated configuration backup to the tftp servers by scripting using Python.  • Troubleshooting the network problems to make sure for the maximum availability of the network and maintaining minimum downtime.  • Established WAN communication between branch offices using MPLS and redistributing the end routers with BGP protocol.  • Worked with the Nexus switches 2k, 5k, and 7k.  • Configured layer 3 protocols such as IGRP, BGP and monitored their functions.  • Applied ACLs for the internet access to the servers using Cisco 5550 ASA Firewall and also performed NAT.  • Good experience in redistribution, ACLs and Natting (dynamic)    Environment: Cisco Routers series 2800, 3800 and 7200. Cisco Switches catalyst 2900, 3500, 4500 and 6500 series, express route, office 365, Nexus Switches 2k, 5k, 7k; F5 load balancer; Check Point Firewall, Palo Alto Firewall, Cisco ASA Firewall, Cisco Access Points, RIPv2, EIGRP, OSPF, BGP, STP, VTP, VLAN, RSTP, MS Visio, Python, VRF, FabricPath, Cisco IOS, NX-OS, Solarwinds, NAT, PAT, IPsec, VPN , RADIUS, TACACS, HSRP, VRRP, MPLS, ICM, CVP, UCCE Network Engineer On Core LLC - Sacramento, CA October 2016 to March 2018 Responsibilities: • Installation, configuring and managing the Cisco Routers and switches of series 2800, 3700, 3800, and 7200, also catalyst switches 2900, 3500, 4500, and 6500 and good knowledge on Cisco IOS and NX-OS.  • Networking support for multicast QoS/CoS.  • Configured OSPF and modified OSPF costs to reduce delay and bandwidth to divert the traffic and also performed OSPF summarization.  • Configured BGP and performed route • Cisco routers of series 7600 and 7200 on all edge routers and also the Nexus switches 5k, 7k.  • Enabled Spanning Tree Protocol, STP BPDU guard and VLANs on switches within the organization.  • Configuration and administration of F5 load balancer both BIG-IP LTM and GTM.  • Configured Check Point Firewall and Cisco ASA Firewall • Configured RADIUS and TACACS server.  • Configured the ether channel between the switches in order to improve the bandwidth and connectivity between the switches.  • Configured LAN/WAN and also maintained the routers in the network which includes OSI Layer, TCP/IP, DNS, DHCP and NAT.  • Monitored network with the tools like SNORT, Solar winds.  • Configured and managed VLANs, 802.1Q Trunk, RPVST+, Inter-VLAN routing, HSRP and LAN security for Layer-2 and Layer-3 switching domains as per the organization's requirement plan.  • Involved in the configuration and maintenance of IPSEC Site-Site VPN.  • Troubleshooting the issues with the MPLS VPN connectivity and also Configured Virtual Routing Forwarding (VRF) on Cisco routers.  • Worked in configuration of Cisco Access Points 2600.  • Monitored the access logs network infrastructure traffic to analyze the problems and find solutions.  • Involved in providing access to user machines and partners outside our network by SSL and IPsec VPN tunneling.  • Part of team in planning for the proposed network.    Environment: Cisco Routers 7600, 7200, 3800, 3700, 2800; Cisco catalyst Switches 6500, 4500, 3500, 2900; Nexus switches 5k, 7k; Check Point Firewall; F5 load balancer; Cisco ASA Firewall 5550, 5520, 802.1Q, Cisco Access Points, MS Visio, IPSEC VPN, Cisco IOS Solarwinds, RADIUS, TACACS, OSPF, BGP, MPLS Network Administrator ALL CONNECT INC - Atlanta, GA October 2014 to September 2016 Responsibilities: • Provided system support for the end client.  • Installed and verified that all AIX/Linux patches or updates are applied to the servers.  • Troubleshooting Linux network, security related issues, capturing packets using tools such as IPtables, firewall, TCP wrappers, NMAP.  • Worked on UTB and Wireless Networks Configuration, maintenance, management and Data Backup.  • Developed and configured the network to connect the company different branches together, monitored the network usage.  • Installed and maintained new server hardware and software infrastructure diagnoses and resolved network problems and related devices.  • Installs and configures client and server network software, and performs software upgrades as needed Pcs Maintenances and Devices Programming • Configures, manages and provides technical support for the firewalls, IPS, and other network security systems.  • Remote access technologies Vpn, dial-up • Performs routine preventative maintenance on network hardware and software applications.  • Worked on the automation System Project to, Maintenance, Resolved the Complexities and Development.  • Lookout Program Project Development and Configuration.  • Camera System Network and Device, Implementation, Configuration, and Backup Data & fingers print program Monitoring & manipulation.  • Configuration Implementation Documentation for the Automation Program • Oracle database manipulating and Merge.    Environment: TCP/IP, PPP, DSL, NAT Cisco Router configuration, Firewalls. Network admin ESI Healthcare Busines - Dallas, TX January 2011 to September 2014 Responsibilities: • The Office network has a distributed Local area network, which covers Routers and switches. The entire network infrastructure is being managed and supporting for Hardware Issues and maintaining the stability in network.  • 24X7 monitoring of WAN networking using Opmanager Tool.  • Configured VLANs with 802.1Q Tagging according to the Server team's requirements.  • Configuration, troubleshooting & management of devices like Cisco Routers, & Cisco Switches.  • Coordinate with the ISP like BSNL, TATA, Reliance and Bharti for Leased line (Channelized El, 64 Kbps to 2 Mbps).  • Daily Checklist on Network Equipment's to ensure Data Communication is smooth and Normal.  • Coordinating with remote engineer for installation and configuration for Routers, Switches to support WAN links.  • Taking Back-up Configurations of N/W equipment's like Routers, Switches and on weekly basis.  • Responsible for escalating the major outages to Program Manager.  • Working knowledge of the switching protocols like DTP.STP,PVSTP,RSTP • Performing redundancy testing on the MPLS circuits of main Hub locations in alternatives days.  • Involved in Design and Implementation of Active Directory and Exchange services setup across the organization.  • Administration and Level 3 support for Exchange 2K/2012R2 Servers.  • Proficient in configuring DNS, DHCP and Active directory services in Windows based server environment. Strong knowledge of IIS.  • Experience in Configuring Active Directory Objects and Trusts.  • Working on the regional server issues through Incidents Tickets of Remedy Tool Proficient in setting up LAN and WAN networks.  • Experienced in File System Management, Name Service Configuration, Mail Configuration Experience in P2V and V2V migration.  • Configure and troubleshooting OSPF issues • Creating a test Environment in Citrix or VMware for Production Team to test them.  • Applications Experience in Grid Servers Maintenance and troubleshooting.  • Involved in Exchange Server Configuration and Administration with experience in Exchange Virtual Server creation on Windows Server Cluster.  • Experience in installing and configuring Microsoft Windows 2012 Clustering Management Implementation, Publishing & Testing of applications on a Citrix Presentation Server Monitoring and Managing Citrix Meta frame Presentation Servers.  • Involved in managing backup and restoration of Exchange and Active Directory server databases with VERITAS Backup Exec. And VERITAS Netback up.  • Experience with Software and Hardware based RAID 0+1, RAID 1+0 and RAID 5 Work well both independently and as part of a team. Work well under pressure and conflicting priorities.  • Experience in working with Client documentation and Storage Procedures.  • Configure Static routes for back up lines.  • Configure VLANS, VTP and STP protocols..    Environment: CISCO routers and switches, Access Control Server, VLAN, Trunk Protocols, CISCO ASA, DHCP, DNS, Spanning tree,ISP like BSNL. Education Bachelor's Skills Cisco (8 years), DHCP (6 years), LAN (6 years), MPLS (6 years), OSPF (6 years) Additional Information Technical Skills:    Networking Concepts OSI Model, TCP/IP, Static Route, Access List, Route Redistribution, NAT/PAT, Subnet Mask.  Routers 2500,3600,3700,7200, ASR ROUTERS ASR 1k (1001, 1004, 106, 1013), ASR 9kand ASR900.  Switches Cisco 2900,3560,3750,4500,6500,juniper,catalyst switch 2960,nexus switches N5k  WAN/core ATM, Frame-Relay, ISDN, PPP, HDLC  IPSEC/VPN Configuration  PIX to Router, Router to Router, PIX to VPN wildcard client, Router to VPN wildcard client, PIX to PIX, fully meshed configurations    Network Security Technologies ASA 5550/5540 Firewalls, Juniper SRX Firewall, Palo Alto firewall PA 200, 3000, Access Control Lists, IPSec, IDS, and IPS,AAA  Routing Protocols IPv4/v6, RIPv1, RIPv2, IGRP, EIGRP, OSPF, PBR, VRF, HSRP, PIM, BGP, MPLS.  Security Protocols DHCP snooping, IP source guard, Dynamic ARP Inspection  LAN Protocols IEEE 802.1q, VTP, STP, RSTP, HSRP, IEEE 802.1x, LACP, PAGP, VLAN, Ether Channel.  Lab Tools & Software  Wire shark, Cisco Packet Tracer, GNS3, Secure CRT, Hyper Terminal, NTP, SWITCHED PORT ANALYZER,NETORK ANALYZER,TACACS,RADIUS    Network Managements SNMP, SSH, TELNET, ICMP  Operating System Windows Server 2003/2008/2012 /8/7/Vista/XP, IOS, Cisco IOS  Microsoft Office Visio, Excel, PowerPoint, Word,C