Job Seeker Network Engineer APO, AP, 96251, US To obtain the position of Senior Network Administrator where I can apply my education with sixteen years of experience and provide clients with a high-quality communications system. To seek a challenge to explore my abilities to future enhance the skills I have obtained with new skills and ideas through future experiences. Work Experience CACI LGS-LABS, Camp Humphreys South Korea March 2019 to Present • Responsible for providing specifications and detailed schematics for network architecture.  • Responsible for the design and plan of the network systems. Also establish networking environment by designing system configuration; directing system installation; defining, documenting, and enforcing system standards.  • Responsible for providing specific, detailed information for hardware and software selection, implementation techniques, and tools for the most efficient solution to meet business needs, including present and future capacity requirements.  • Responsible for the Configuration and install of various network devices and services (e.g., routers, switches, firewalls, load balancers, VPN, QoS).  • Responsible for Conducts testing of network systems. Maximizes network performance by monitoring performance; troubleshooting network problems and outages; scheduling upgrades; collaborating with network architects on network optimization.  • I work within established configuration and change management policies to ensure awareness, approval and success of changes made to the network infrastructure.  • Responsible for performing network maintenance and system upgrades including service packs, patches, hot fixes and security configurations.  • Responsible for monitors network engineering performance and ensure system availability and reliability.  • Responsible for monitoring system resource utilization, trending, and capacity planning. Working with vendors and other IT personnel for problem resolution. Provides Level-2/3 support and troubleshooting to resolve issues.  • Responsible for maintains technical expertise in all areas of network and computer hardware and software interconnection and interfacing, such as routers, switches, firewalls, hubs, bridges, gateways, etc.  • Responsible for the evaluation and reporting on new network technologies to enhance capabilities of the network.  • Working as a member of the MPLS team in Korea standing up the new MPLS infrastructure in Korea I have preform IT&A, Install and configuration of Juniper MX 480, MX 960, CTP 2000, SafeNet Encryptors, Cisco 15454 ONS and cabling for time in synch devices in several location all on the pen Sr. Network Engineer LGS INNONVATIONS, Camp Humphreys South Korea March 2017 to March 2019 • Was responsible for ensure new inside plant - active (ISP-A) equipment is prepared to be put on the network prior to installation in accordance with (IAW) local NEC TTP.  • Was responsible for updating all internetwork operating system and mitigating information assurance vulnerability alerts for all new equipment being migrated onto the existing network.  • Was responsible for uploading all circuit trace drawings and updating rack elevations (IAW) local NEC TTP.  • Was responsible for key, rekey, configure and manage high assurance internet protocol Encryptor (haipe) devices for install and after install in the NEC integrated customer advanced networking (ICAN) end user building (EUB) and NEC owned buildings and networks.  • Provided operator level haipe maintenance to ensure that the acquired devices are maintained, functional, and ready for installation and can accept a key.  • Was responsible for coordinating and manage ems for COMSEC and ICAN equipment.  • Travel to other locations or customer sites as necessary Sr. Network Administrator GENERAL DYNAMICS IT, Camp Walker South Korea March 2013 to March 2017 • Was responsible for managing the usage and performance of voice, video, and/or data communications networks. Maintained network security and ensured compliance with security policies and procedures for CENTRIX-K, GCCS-J and Transport networks.  • Supported numerous General officers during 4 Key Resolve and 3 Ulchi Freedom Guardian exercises ensuring their networks were stable and operational.  • Built a Gem-x lite server for management of 20 encryption devices for emergence cryptographic key reloads and monitoring.  • Evaluated hardware and software including peripheral, output, and related equipment. Participated in the development and implementation of network-related procedures and standards.  • Worked with key figures in the implementation of the SIPR and GCCS-J network consolidation into one SIPR network by providing them the information needed to design the infrastructure and configure the equipment.  • Lead the project for installation and upgraded the CENTRIX-K and GCCS-J networks in the USFK's main facility in Daegu by acquiring the equipment needed for the upgrade. Configured it and installed it in the facility to improve the bandwidth and stability of the classified networks in the facility.  • Worked with security personnel to meet the security requirements (STIG) for the CCRI in doing so we optimized the deployment of the security controls as so not to take down the GCCS-J network which scored an 87 at the time. This was the highest that DISA have given in the world.  • Installed, configured, and maintained over 2000 devices across the CENTRIX-K, GCCS-J and Transport Networks.  • Engineered and configured the new CENTRIX-K, GCCS-J and transported connection for the new CNFK bunker located in Busan for the YRP project.  • Provided training, consultation and technical support for the KG175-A firmware upgrades for Area IV to 36th Sig personal.  • Coordinated as necessary with RCC-K and the TNOSC for outages and ASI's for critical circuit outages, cutovers. And upgrades.  • Provided expert knowledge of telecommunication network services, such as, terminals, modems, multiplexes, and concentrators. Sr. Network Administrator General Dynamics, Camp Lemonier Djibouti December 2010 to March 2013 • Was responsible for the network monitoring, maintenance, configuration management, and troubleshooting of Cisco routers, switches, TACLANE encryption devices, Cisco Call-manager clusters for both NIPR, SIPR and Terminal Server Access Controller System (TSACS) for both NIPR and SIPR.  • Interfaced with users to support organizations to ensure smooth flow of communications in all directions by troubleshooting network connectivity issues like Spanning tree, LAN, VLAN, WAN, firewalls, and OSPF using various troubleshooting tools like TCP-dump, Wireshark, and Net-Tool.  • Experienced with designing, installing, and maintaining of standardized network configurations for all layer 3 routing devices such as Cisco Nexus, ASR's, routers also  • Experienced with maintaining information system security standards and updating documentation to record new equipment installed and changes made to network configuration for the network knowledge base.  • Installed, configured, and maintained 1200 devices across the CENTRIX-K, SIPR and NIPR Networks.  • Working knowledge of troubleshooting procedures of Cisco-based VPN encryption and KG-175, 250, 250X, and 255 Taclane network encryption devices in relation to and understanding of the function of SIPR and NIPR net as well as CENTRIXS.  • Participated in job development and placement programs, contacting prospective employers, placing clients in jobs, and evaluating the success of placements.  • Evaluated and applied firewall exception request in support of SIPR, NIPR and CENTRIX. Education Bachelor of Information Technology in Network Administration in Information Technology AMERICAN INTERCONTINENTAL UNIVERSITY May 2008 Associates of Arts in Business Administration in Business Administration AMERICAN INTERCONTINENTAL UNIVERSITY May 2006 Skills Cisco, Juniper, Networking, Brocade Additional Information CORE COMPETENCIES    Networking  • Cisco routers and switches  • Juniper routers and switches  • Brocade routers and switches    Unified Communications  • Cisco Call Manager  • Cisco Call Manager express  • Cisco Unified Communication Manger    Applications  • Cisco ACS  • Cisco Prime Infrastructure  • Cisco Solar Winds