Network Administrator <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Network Administrator - Harris Ranch inc Fresno, CA Work Experience Network Administrator Harris Ranch inc April 2018 to Present Coalinga ca. (Work Hours: Monday - Friday, 40-44 hours weekly)  - Provides network support for all of the Harris locations - Harris Feeding Co., Harris Inn and Restaurant, Harris Farms, Harris Fresh, Harris Horse Division, and Harris Ranch Beef Co.  - Install, deploy, maintain and decommission old switches at all sites.  - Standardized VLANs, work with wireless devices (APs, Bridges, PTP  - Currently deploying VOIP phones, cut over from analog/PRI to SIP.  - Work with firewall (Fortigate), creating policies and maintaining what is coming in and out of network.  - Work with DHCP/DNS on Domain Controllers.  - Re-cable IDF cabinets, new patch cables, and organizing for easy maintenance. IT Service Technician Specialist Ruiz Foods inc - Denison, TX June 2015 to February 2018 Work Hours: Monday - Friday, 40-50 hours weekly)  - Provided the exclusive IT support for plant of 1,100 at Ruiz Foods Denison Texas plant.  - Created Active Directory accounts/groups/policies  - Created email accounts  which included updates on down production days.  - Worked with vendors, purchased necessary IT equipment, maintained inventory of equipment  - Created and maintained POs. IT Intern Ruiz Foods inc - Dinuba, CA January 2015 to June 2015 25-30 hrs weekly)  - IT intern that provided help desk services  - Answering support desk calls  - Remoting to computers to troubleshoot issues  - Inputting issues in the ticketing system, reviewing, and completing tickets  - Backups of tapes and sending them to remote party to store.  - Creating AD accounts, providing new users access and instructions on how to use the assigned IT equipment.  - Tracked inventory. Technician DiscoverE Tech - Fresno, CA August 2014 to January 2015 who educated, installed, troubleshot issues with the tablets that were being used with the new initiative of having tablets in the classrooms at Fresno State.  - Worked with different tablets including IPad, Surfaces and Androids. Education Bachelor's in Computer Information Systems California State University - Fresno, CA May 2015 Center for advanced research and technology Clovis West High School Skills Active Directory (4 years), Windows (5 years), Networking (2 years), Technical Support (5 years), Teamwork (5 years), Project Management (3 years), Microsoft Office (7 years), Microsoft Exchange (3 years), Customer Service, Windows 7 Certifications/Licenses CCNA May 2009 to May 2012 Passed exam when attending C.A.R T. My junior year of high school, I took the Networking class that year.