Sr Network Engineer Sr <span class="hl">Network</span> Engineer Sr Network Engineer - GEICO Chevy Chase, MD Cisco certified Network Engineer, with over 8+ years' experience in the internetworking industry and with high-level hands-on Design, Implementation and Support of LAN/WAN (Internet, Intranet, Extranet), Cisco Router, Switches and Cisco Data Center Nexus Switches and Wireless.    • Routers and Switches - Cisco routers and switches configuration and administration.  • Cisco IOS for configuration & troubleshooting of routing protocols: OSPF, EIGRP, RIP, BGP, MPLS.  • Implementing IP addressing schemes, LAN/WAN protocols, IP Services, to fulfill network requisites in different environments.  • Troubleshooting of DNS, DHCP and implementing complex layer 2 technologies such as VLAN Trunks, VTP, Ether channel, STP, RSTP.  • Tier I ISP Routing Policies, Network Architecture, IP Sub netting, VLSM, TCP/IP, NAT, PAT, DHCP, DNS. Redundancy with HSRP, VRRP, GLBP.  • Designed and replacing Cisco ASA firewall architecture with new next generation Palo Alto devices serving as firewalls and URL and application inspection devices.  • Switching VTP, ISL/ 802.1q, IPsec and GRE Tunneling, VLANs, Ether Channel, Trucking, Port Security, STP and RSTP.  • Experience with F5 Load Balancing.  • Design and configuring of OSPF, BGP on Juniper Routers and SRX Firewalls.  • Experience in Tier- 2 support, BMC Remedy tool, NMS ticketing system, network troubleshooting, handling escalation, Root cause analysis (RCA) and SLA's  • Understanding of latest security trends, vulnerability assessment techniques and attacks like DOS and MITM.  • Hands on experience with BIG-IP environment utilizing two or more of the following: GTM, LTM, APM or ASM.  • Dealt with creating VIP pools, nodes and created custom iRules for the virtual servers like cookie persistency and redirection of URL on F5 ASM cookies issues and configures ASM policies.  • Documented standard operation policies for Cisco IOS, IOS-XR, IOS-XE, NX-OS and ASA firewalls.  • Worked on BIG-IP Access Policy Manager (APM) contextually secures, simplifies, and protects user access to apps and data, while delivering the most scalable access gateway.  • Extensive level of experience on Network firewall security like Palo Alto, ASA, IPS/IDS, checkpoints, NGX R65 Gateways, Secure Platforms.  • Networking: TCP/IP, Troubleshooting client network connectivity in SIMS Buildings, DNS Troubleshooting, Remote Access - Virtual Private Network (VPN).  • Configuring and supporting various SIMS Applications in Virtual Machine (VM); Process training for new hires and mentoring them in the first few weeks of hitting the floor  • Provided Managed firewall clients with regular status reports of their trouble tickets and opened, resolved, or updated support tickets for managed firewall clients.  • Executed changes on various firewall proxies and scripts over entire network infrastructure using Service Now ticketing tool.  • Configuring failover for redundancy purposes for the security devices. Implemented the stateful & serial failover for PIX/ASA firewall, Check Point Clustering and load balancing features.  • Configuring and troubleshooting remote access and site to site-in Check Point & ASA Firewall.  • Monitoring traffic and connections in Juniper and ASA Firewall.  • Manage project task to migrate from Cisco ASA Firewall to Check Point Firewall.  • Automated administration using PowerShell, Perl & Python scripting.  • Experience in operating and maintaining Cisco IOS, Cisco Works, Cisco ACS, and Cisco Wireless.  • Experience in configuring and troubleshoot of Wireless LAN Controller and Access Points.  • Extensive Knowledge on monitoring tools like SolarWinds, Net flow, Netbrain, and Infoblox.  • Efficient at use of Microsoft VISIO/Office as technical documentation and presentation tools  • Implemented security policies using ACL, Firewall, IPSEC, SSL, VPN, DMVPN AAA (TACACS and LDAP)  • Strong hands on experience on PIX, Firewalls, ASA (5540/5550) and Juniper SRX Firewalls. Implemented Security Policies using ACL, Firewall, IPSEC, SSL, VPN, DMVPN IPS/IDS, AAA (TACACS+ &RADIUS).  • Expertise in VOIP protocols like H.323, MGCP, SIP, and SCCP.  • Efficient at use of Microsoft VISIO/Office as technical documentation and presentation tools.  • Provided 24x7x365 availability and on-call support as required by the projects.  • Worked on the migration to new Checkpoint R75 firewalls from Juniper firewalls.  • Excellent working knowledge of TCP/IP protocol suite and OSI layers.  • Experience of communicating with customers, solving complex problems in a timely productive manner. Work Experience Sr Network Engineer GEICO - Chevy Chase, MD February 2019 to Present • Engineering traffic management solutions, including the design, low level engineering, and application load balancing solutions for client applications across the pre-provisioned ADC infrastructure.  • Collaborating with Application owners, Network Team, DNS Team, and Firewall Team, to migrate applications from Legacy Radware Alteon Load Balancer to New F5 BIG-IP Local Traffic Manager  • Engineering and configuring Virtual Server, Pools, iRules, Profiles, Persistence, and monitor on F5 LTM to match the configuration the Application had on Radware Alteon  • Successfully migrated from BIG-IP 3600 to vCMP 5200v.  • Used Confidential to dynamically assign reusable IP addresses to Confidential clients using Inflobox IPAM and resolved IP address conflicts.  • Monitoring and capturing the traffic using network management tools like InfloBox.  • F5 migration of applications to new BIG-IP vCMP infrastructure.  • F5 build-out of the base F5 BIG-IP infrastructure, including the BIG-IP 10200v platforms and vCMP guest instances.  • Updated the vCMP guest and exporting the vCMP.  • Migrating applications from cisco ACE/CSM to F5LTM, and GSS configurations to F5 GTM wide-ip's.  • Configured and troubleshooting the F5 LTM and APM and providing level 2 support for the customers.  • Configuration and troubleshooting F5 LTM and providing level 2 and level 3 support for the customers.  • Extensive hands on experience with BIG-IP 5000 and 2000 series.  • Allocation and designing appropriate virtual IP for F5 ADC through IPAM InfloBox.  • Licensing and provisioning of F5 modules such as LTM, GTM, VCMP (Virtual Cluster Multiprocessing).  • Extensively worked on code upgrades from v11.5.3 to v11.5.3 and downgrades from 12.0.0 to 11.5.4.  • Extensively worked on virtual F5 LTM module on VMware for application testing.  • Configured VCMP Host and created VCMP guests for Exchange and ACE migrations.  • Created a high availability feature between the VCMP guests for different VCMP hosts.  • Extensive knowledge in configuration via CLI (TMSH and advance shell).  • Good knowledge on basic iRules scripting and debugging.  • Creating custom profiles, health monitors, and also configuring SNAT pools, syslog and SNMP  • Implementation of major application services with the iApps templates.  • Extensive knowledge and experience regarding F5 BIG-IP LTM VIP configuration with health check.  • Extensive knowledge and experience with hosting SSL certificates on F5 platforms.  • Experience in managing the load balancers in a high-availability infrastructure.  • Strong verbal and written communication skills, problem solving skills, customer service and interpersonal skill Network Engineer Pfizer - Groton, CT July 2017 to January 2019 Roles & Responsibilities:  • Deploy manage and troubleshoot Cisco ISE for network authentication with AD integration and accounting.  • Maintain, manage and deploy Juniper SRX 340, SRX240 and VSRX cluster firewalls, ACLs, IDS and VPN  • Working on data centers using Nexus 7K and FCOE on 5548 between the data centers.  • Configured Site to Site IPsec VPN tunnels specifications of Phase 1 and Phase 2 policies using to peer with different clients and each of client having different Cisco ASA 5500 series firewalls.  • Maintain manage and deploy Cisco ASA5500 series, ACL NAT SSH SSL VPN, RA VPN, VPN S2S.  • Maintain complex LAN/WAN networks with several VLANS, VPN and provided support for routing protocols and providing secure sessions over internet using IPsec and SSL encryption.  • Worked as F5 load balancer engineer involving complete support day in and out work on the F5 load balancers LTMs, GTMs, EMs in Datacenter and remote functions.  • Maintain and manage Cisco Unified Communication solution including: CUCM, Unity and UCCX.  • Deploy manage troubleshoot and upgrade VMware infrastructure with site-to-site replication.  • Troubleshoot network issues with ScienceLogic EM7 SNMP monitoring tool and Splunk Syslog server.  • Configuring rules and Maintaining Palo Alto & Sonic Firewalls and TACACS, LDAP and RADIUS for Cisco ASA and Palo Alto firewalls.  • Configured Cisco UCS Fabric Interconnect upstream connectivity for LAN and SAN  • Troubleshoot and remediate issues with Fabric Interconnect and IO Modules in Cisco UCS platform  • Configure, troubleshoot, install and manage Cisco Catalyst Switch in Campus network (250 switches) 2960,3750.4503,6503.  • Provided systems administration and support, developed effectiveness and manageability of Citrix environment. Network Engineer/ Administrator UBS Financial Services - New York, NY August 2016 to June 2017 Roles & Responsibilities:  • Cisco Unified Computing Systems UCS deployment and configuration specific to vSphere environments for compute platform with high availability, redundancy and elasticity.  • Completed Data Center relocation activities for Virtual Infrastructure including upgrading vCenter server to 6.0 and upgrading existing hosts to vSphere from ESXi 5.5.  • vSAN implementation completed using hyper converge L infrastructure FX-FC630 / FD332.  • New UCS infrastructure utilizing 32 Cisco B200 M4 blade servers implemented for Virtual Production workloads.  • Supporting Unified Computing Environment (UCS) infrastructure across two Datacenters. Managing Service Profiles, Templates & Pools as part of UCS Administration  • Cisco UCS configuration and troubleshooting Install and configure Cisco Unified Wireless Network Architecture with WCS. WLC, Outdoor MESH AP 1520 and 1140 series. AD authentication.  • Configure and install Cisco Catalyst switch 35XX, 37XX, 29XX with DTP, 802.1q, VLAN, STP, VOIP with QOS, VTP.  • Configure and manage VMWare ESX 5.1, vSphere and Vcenter with (20 VMs), NetApp NAS.  • Implemented Citrix Access Gateway and Advance Access Control, web interface into Microsoft Share point portal.  • Provide network support for 25 sites. Maintain and manage Exchange 2007.  • Site collection administrator for SharePoint 2010 enterprise.  • Troubleshoot and resolve minor to complex Active Directory issues.  • Configure and deploy Cisco ASA 5520 5512-X. 5505 with SSH, NAT PAT, access list, SSL VPN client and Clientless with AD authentication.  • plex network design. maintain and troubleshoot Microsoft sever 2003 and 2008.  • Maintain and manage Microsoft Active Directory in multiple sites environment using DNS, DHCP, GPMC.  • Performed firmware upgrades on Cisco UCS and HP servers.  • Designed and deployed a VDI Proof of Concept (POC) environment to evaluate the benefits, performance and scalability of Windows 7 hosted virtual desktops. Network/ System Engineer AT&T - Chicago, IL December 2014 to July 2016 Roles & Responsibilities:  • Installed and Configured the Cisco 3845, 2951, 1800, 2600 routers and Cisco 4500, 2960 series switches with HSRP and various IGP routing protocols such as RIP, EIGRP, and OSPF.  • Experience with spanning tree and Network architecture design which includes dynamic routing, static routing, VLAN setup, traffic splitting.  • Identified and resolved VLAN, STP, and IP subnet issues. Implemented route redistribution between OSPF and EIGRP.  • Configuring and troubleshooting various routing protocols like BGP, OSPF, and RIP and switching protocols like STP.  • Configured Access List ACL (Std., Ext, and Named) to allow users all over the company to access different applications, Internet, and compliance with the security policy and standards.  • Supporting Unified Computing Environment (UCS) infrastructure across two Datacenters. Managing Service Profiles, Templates & Pools as part of UCS Administration  • Cisco UCS configuration and troubleshooting.  • Monitored and troubleshoot LAN and WAN issues using various network tools such as Nagios, Zenoss, and Ntop.  • Router Configurations (SonicWall, Juniper, Cisco PIX and ASA 5505-10)  • Proficient with anti-spamming tools such as IMF exchange 2003 and Exchange 2007.  • Create and maintain virtual environments using VMware products.  • Configured, deployed and maintained Cisco router and switches.  • Strong background with Backup Strategy implementation.  • Monitored web traffic and filtered web access with Squid proxy servers.  • Configured and maintained network security using Access Control List (ACL), VLANs, and Firewalls Network Engineer HCL Technologies - Chennai, Tamil Nadu June 2011 to November 2014 Roles & Responsibilities:  • Worked on network topologies and configurations, TCP/IP, UDP, Frame Relay, Token ring, ATM, bridges, routers, hubs and Switches.  • Configured and supported TCP/IP networks.  • Configuring and maintaining CISCO Routers (7600) and Switches (3750, 4900 and 6500) in multi VLAN environment and inter VLAN routing.  • Experience with data center converged networking based on Cisco Nexus 7k,5k,2k.  • Configured RIP, PPP, BGP and OSPF routing.  • Troubleshoot connectivity issues and Monitor health of the firewall resources as well as work on individual firewall for advanced troubleshooting.  • Configured and trouble shooter VLAN, VTP, STP and Trunks.  • Installing the F5 TMOS upgrades, Hot-fix installations depending on Business need.  • Managing Access list on F5s and check for the ACLs on Firewalls such as CISCO ASA,  • Providing operational support for Network Topologies and Connections TCP/IP, ATM, VOIP, and MPLS.  • Install, configure and monitor performance of UNIX Linux servers using Coding for Communication protocols  • Evaluated and recommended software, inter-connectivity hardware and services to fulfil various businesses needs as per developed requirements.  • Created VLAN and Inter-VLAN routing with multilayer switching.  • Configured VLAN Trucking Protocol (VTP) on Core Switches. Configuring VLAN, Spanning tree, VSTP, SNMP on EX series switches.  • Gained knowledge in IP sub netting for class A, B and C networks.  • Capacity planning and providing recommendations for infrastructures upgrade Vendor/Service provider management/evaluating new vendors.  • Implemented Cisco ACI infrastructure for supporting rapid application change by reducing complexity with a common policy framework that can automate provisioning and resource management. Jr. Network Administrator UniQ Technologies January 2010 to May 2011 Roles & Responsibilities:  • Installed, configured and supported CISCO routers, switches.  • Configure/Troubleshoot RIP, EIGRP, BGP and OSPF routing protocols.  • Resolve LAN/VLAN, L2/L3 TCP/IP, Access Lists and NAT/PAT issues.  • Installed and configured DHCP Client/Server.  • Debug Router/Switch network connectivity and configuration issue.  • Operation and Maintenance of top-level aggregated WAN infrastructure over 50 routers.  • Monitor network performance, identify and correct outages in timely manner.  • Monitored and troubleshooting in layer 2 and layer 3 devices: routers, switches, firewalls.  • Maintenance and Troubleshooting of connectivity problems using Ping, Trace route.  • Planning and Implementation of Sub netting, VLSM to conserve IP addresses.  • Configured Cisco Routers (2500, 3600, 3700) using RIP, OSPF, EIGRP.  • Configure Cisco Switches (3560, 3570, and 2900).  • Redistribution of routing protocols and Frame-Relay configurations.  • Configured VLANs on a switch for inter-VLAN communication.  • Troubleshoot Firewall connectivity issues between Servers and Users as well as various third party, DMZ and internet zones.  • Analyzed network performance using network monitoring and other network administration tools including IP Management, Wire shark and Network Performance Monitor.  • Diagnosed network problems involving a combination of hardware, software, power and communications issues.  • Ran cables from existing patch panels to new patch panels to secure the routers and switches in proper area.  • Coordinated meetings with engineers and technicians to resolve problems in minimum time. Education Bachelor's in Electronics and Communication Engineering in Electronics and Communication Engineering Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University - Hyderabad, Telangana 2010 Skills Active directory, Cisco, Dns, Exchange, Firewalls, Nas, Networking, Qip, Tcp/ip, Vlan, Bgp, Contivity, Eigrp, Juniper, Layer 3, Ospf, Storage area network, Switching, Tcp, Vm Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    • Networking: Conversant in LAN, WAN, Wi-Fi, DNS, WINS, Confidential, QIP, TCP/IP, ISCSI, Fiber, Firewalls/IPS/IDS    • Hardware: Dell, HP, CISCO, IBM, SUN, Checkpoint, Sonic Wall, Barracuda Appliances, SOPHOS email appliances    • Operating Systems: Windows, NT, MS-DOS, Linux, Microsoft Windows 2008 R 2/ 2008/2003/2000 /2012 NOS family, Microsoft Active directory 2008/2003/2000, VM Ware ESX/ESXi server, Cisco ISO    • Application Servers: DNS, Confidential, Windows Active Directory Services, FTP, SFTP, Microsoft Exchange 2003/2007/2010, Microsoft SharePoint 2007/2010    • CISCO Switches: Cisco 3550, 3750, 45XX, 65XX series    • JUNIPER Routers: Juniper MX480, 240, 80 series    • JUNIPER Switches: Juniper EX4500, 4200, QFX 5100, QFX 5200    • Firewalls: Check Point, ISA 2004/2006/ ASA 5585/5520, FWSM, Palo Alto /Checkpoint 4200/Nokia IP-560, Cisco PIX 535/525    • Routing/Routers: OSPF, EIGRP, BGP, RIP-2, PBR, Route Filtering, Redistribution, Summarization, Static Routing, Cisco Routers ASR 1002 / 7606 / 7304 / 7206 / 3945 / 2951 / 2600    • Infrastructure Hardware: IBM, HP, Compaq, Dell desktops\laptops\servers, Cabling, Network printers, IP KVM Switches, Cisco Routers & Switches, 802.11x Wireless gateways, Access Points, Network UPS, Storage Area Network, NAS, iSCSI SAN    • Switching: VLAN, VTP, STP, Inter VLAN routing & Multi-Layer Switching, Multicast operations, Layer 3 Switches, Ether channels, Transparent Bridging    • Protocols: TCP/IP, L2TP, PPTP, IPSEC, IKE, SSL, SSH, UDP, Confidential, DYNDNS, DNS, QIP    • VPN: ASA 5520, Cisco Concentrator 3030, Nortel Contivity Extranet 1500    • Security Tools: Wireshark, MBSA, MS Visio, Apache, VMWare ESXi 3.5, VMware Server, Encase.