Network Administrator <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Network Administrator - M.A.K.E Technologies Hormigueros, PR IT Specialist with 5+ years of experience and in-depth knowledge of a broad variety of  software and hardware platforms, plus 5 years of experience as technician  troubleshooting repair of desktop and laptops computers. Highly resourceful and detail-  oriented. Excellent technical writing skills. Proven leadership skills and strong team player.  High adaptability to rapidly changing work environments. Problem solving skills is greatest  asset possessed. Work Experience Network Administrator M.A.K.E Technologies 2015 to Present Service desk analyst tasked with diagnosing, identifying and isolating a broad spectrum of IT related issues enterprise wide. Servicing thousands of employees yearly worldwide.  Diligent responding company employees IT related needs and delivering optimal results, therefore reducing downtime for employees and maximizing the amount of employees and  external partners attended daily.  • Maintenance and monitoring of building's security cams and printers  • Daily backup of QuickBooks, SQL and Computime.  • Maintenance of company's internal work order tracking system  • Monitoring the company's network and proper usage of it  • Configuration, troubleshooting and monitoring of all employee's Outlook account Electronics Technician M.A.K.E Technologies 2009 to 2015 Team member in a repair facility tasked with diagnosing and repairing upwards of a thousand  equipment monthly. Worked as a technician for both commercial and domestic electronic  products, which range from computers to medical equipment  • Wrote repair protocols and procedures that optimized workflow and turn-around time by a 40%.  • Established long-term relationship with international companies in order to obtain the lowest cost possible of parts and repairing equipment. Education Associate Degree InterAmerican University of Puerto Rico San German - San German, Puerto Rico, US 2008 to 2010 Skills Database, Sql, Linux, Linux/unix, Unix, Unix/linux, Html, Scripting, Visual basic, Vm, Vmware, Vpn, Hyper-v, Android, Ios, R2, Java, Symantec, Windows server 2012, Windows server 2012 r2 Additional Information SKILLS  • Knowledge in virtual environments such as Hyper-V and VMware.  • Unix/Linux and Windows Scripting using tools such as AutoIT.  • Windows Server 2012 R2 - 2016 configuration, Blade Logic and VM Ware vSphere  • Shipping and Handling  • Fortinet and FortiClient with VPN  • Flexibility working on different OS's such as OSX, iOS, Windows, Android, Xubuntu and  Linux/Unix.  • Microsoft SQL database  • Visual Basic, Java and HTML  • Symantec management