Network Administrator <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Network Administrator - HID Global Edison, NJ • 9 years of experience in Networking and Security, including hands-on experience in providing network support, installation and analysis for a broad range of LAN / WAN communication systems.  • Excellent knowledge and experience on different vendor's like Cisco, Palo Alto, F5.  • Expert Level Knowledge about TCP/IP and OSI models.  • Experience with designing, deploying and troubleshooting LAN, WAN, Frame-Relay, and Ether-channel.  • Experience in Configuring & implementing VLAN, VTP, LAN switching, STP and 802.x authentication in access layer switches.  • Experienced in design, installation, configuration, administration and troubleshooting of LAN/WAN infrastructure and security using Cisco routers/Switches/firewalls.  • Experience in installing and configuring DNS, DHCP server.  • Experience in configuring Site-to-site and remote access VPN solutions.  • Enterprise Routing experience using protocols RIP v1 & 2, EIGRP, OSPF, OMP and BGP.  • Configure and setup Cisco Router, Switches and VPN Concentrators and Security appliances for access to vital business applications.  • Design, setup and configure complex switching environments.  • Assist in the design of multi-server environments including IP address schemes, DNS, DHCP, WINS, Ether-Channel (Bonding), etc.  • Maintain a thorough understanding of the basics behind the Internet and its workings (Security, IP Routing, HTTP, VPN, Email Routing etc.).  • Performed security operations on ASA firewalls.  • Worked on Citrix NetScaler Access Gateway configurations.  • Configured Security policies including NAT, PAT, VPN, Route-maps and Access Control Lists  • Configuring, Administering and troubleshooting the Checkpoint and ASA firewall.  • Enterprise Switching with VLANs, Trunks, Spanning Tree, Port Spanning etc.  • Expertise in maintenance of layer2 switching tasks which advocate VTP, STP, RSTP, PVST, RPVST, configuring of ether channel with LACP and PAGP along with troubleshooting of inter-VLAN routing.  • Experience in configuring VDC, VPC and FCOE, upgrading NX-OS for Nexus Family Switches.  • Design, configuration, and support of Cisco Nexus Platforms (Nexus7K, 5K, 2K).  • Experience in Physical cabling, IP addressing, configuring and supporting TCP/IP.  • Worked on Extensively on Cisco Firewall & ASA 5500(5510/5540) Series.  • Thorough understanding of VPN technologies like IPsec, GRE tunneling, MPLS for remote access security.  • Experienced working on network monitoring and analysis tools like, SOLAR WINDS, and Wireshark.  • Supervising the administration of systems and servers related network to ensure availability of services to authorized users.  • Experience in managing, administration and designing of IP Backbone Network and spearheaded the strengthening IP Backbone Network Security.  • Experience working with different WAN transports MPLS, VPN, Metro Ethernet  • Configured ASR 1K routers as head end WAN routers and implemented BGP with VRF & OSPF instances.  • Configuration / Troubleshooting Meraki Devices wired and wireless.  • Create a Virtual Network on Windows Azure to connect all the servers.  • Performed deep packet analysis to troubleshoot application issues using tools like Wire-shark.  • Configured Client-to-Site VPN using SSL Client on Cisco ASA 5520 ver8.2.  • Working knowledge of DNS as required when deploying load balancing configurations and also monitored packet flow in load balancers.  • Senior Network/Hardware tech; POC for tier 1 and 2 techs.  • Efficient at use of Microsoft VISIO/Office as technical documentation and presentation tools.  • Implementation and Troubleshooting of WAN authentication protocols- PPP, CHAP and PAP.  • Monitor Network and customer equipment with NMS  • Assisted with the financial development and hours to ensure that correct time is posted by Contractors and FTE's  • Cisco Prime Service Catalog Admin/Dev (Service Catalog, Lifecycle Mgmt, Portlets).  • Security implementation AAA with RADIUS and TACAS+  • Network Infrastructure Systems monitoring (HP OpenView, CiscoWorks, NetScout, Netcool)  • Expertise in Microsoft Azure Cloud Services (PaaS & IaaS), Application Insights, Document DB, Internet of Things (IoT), Azure Monitoring, Key Vault, Visual Studio Online (VSO) and SQL Azure.  • Managed multiple teams that constructed and implemented enhancements and upgrades to the FTE Wireless Operating Environments that support Mobil net Stores Retail and Billing.  • Also worked in Database Operations as a DBA and FTE  • Installation and setup of Polycom software and equipment  • Cisco and Polycom VoIP phones  • Network Monitoring with OPENNMS on Linux Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Network Administrator HID Global - Austin, TX September 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Experience with convert Checkpoint VPN rules over to the Cisco ASA solution. Migration with both Checkpoint and Cisco ASA VPN experience.  • Lead the installation and configuration of corporate wide rollout of the Cisco Catalyst 3550, 3750, 4500, and 6509 switches.  • Administer, troubleshoot, and maintain IPv6 and IPv4 (TCP, UDP, ICMP, IGMP, ARP, AH, ESP, VRRP)  • Worked in setting up Inter-VLAN routing, redistribution, access-lists and dynamic routing.  • Replaced Checkpoint firewall architecture with new next generation Palo Alto appliances serving as firewalls and URL and application inspection.  • Expertise in implementing L2 technologies including VLAN's, VTP, STP, RSTP.  • Configuring and Troubleshooting Route Redistribution between static, RIP, EIGRP OSPF & BGP protocols.  • Implemented SDN architecture to reduce operating costs, automate IT tasks, for greater scalability and visibility in a data center environment.  • Developed installation guide, provided details to release note and supported Wi-Fi testing program that attracted major customers like Cisco, Broadcom, and others to conduct their Wi-Fi testing exclusively at TUV.  • Configure and deploy Cisco ASA Meraki MX84 firewalls with site-to-site IPsec VPN tunnels to connect smaller branch sites back to the data center  • Configured Security policies including NAT, PAT, VPN's and Access Control Lists.  • Configuring IPsec VPN on Cisco Firewall.  • Installed T1's, T3's, Ds1, DDS, and DS0 in a Novell and Windows NT, Unix environment. Responsible for working in a team data center environment that installed and performed maintenance of services to include Private-line, Frame Relay, MNS, and some ATM at the physical layer level, which dealt with private line circuits, network interface to network interface and OC-12, OC-48.  • Maintained, upgraded, configured, and installed Cisco ASA 5510, 5520, & 5505 Firewalls from the CLI and ASDM.  • Managed network IP access via Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol (DHCP).  • Monitored network availability and performance using SolarWinds Orion, NetQos, Net flow, Splunk, AppDynamics, and Extra hop.  • Managed network security processes using ASA firewalls.  • Experience in configuration of AAA with ACS protocols TACACS+, RADIUS and LDAP.  • Experience on working with different security types WPA/WPA2, 802.1x, Static WEP & use different RADIUS SERVERS (ISE, ACS, and FR) for testing.  • Configured Cisco AMP (Advanced Malware Protection) for endpoint security systems.  • Upgrade ios in Nexus7700/7100, and ASR1K, Migrate traffic from interface to new interface in ASR9K  • Eliminated over 65% of Severity-1 outages, with redundancy and simplified configurations of the new Cisco SD-WAN "iWAN".  • Tested and migrated an MPLS Wide Area Network (WAN) to an SD-WAN solution. Includes Cradle point solution when secondary circuit was not readily available.  • Worked as L1 network (NOC) Engineer support and responsible for escalation of Redstone ISP issues.  • Prepared technical documentation of configurations, processes, procedures, systems and locations.  • Configuring and installing client and server network software for upgrading and maintaining  network and telecommunication systems. Researched and implemented upgrade process to support Cisco VPN solution.  • Researched, designed, tested and implemented Cisco's VPN solution for remote clients.  • Hands-on expertise with Ether Channel, Spanning Tree, Trucking, ACLs, Syslog. Expertise within the setup of HSRP, Access-Lists, and RIP, EIGRP, Fabric path and tunnel installations.  • Responsible for designing and implementation for customer network infrastructure.  • Upgrade Cisco Routers and Switches IOS using TFTP.  • Advanced SIEM troubleshooting  • Performed onsite and remote assessment for PCI 3.2 Compliance  • Office 365 performance troubleshooting, operational readiness, and optimization of Microsoft Cloud platform.  • Managed and configured Microsoft's Office 365 Azure directory.  • NetScout PM Server and Infinistream probe configuration, deployment and administration.    Environment: Palo Alto, Cisco ASA 5520/5510, VTP, STP, RSTP, F5 BIG -IP LTM 3900, DHCP, MS Visio, NAT, PAT, VPN's and Access Control. Network Administrator Cisco - Lanham, MD August 2016 to September 2018 Responsibilities:  • Hand on experience of the configuration and implementation of various Cisco Routers & L2/L3 Switches.  • Extensive experience in configuring and implementing BGP, EIGRP and OSPF.  • Configuration of EIGRP and OSPF as interior gateway protocol with route filtering and route redistribution, installed and maintained Cisco 3600, 2600 and 7200 backbone routes with HSRP  • Replaced Fast Ethernet switches with Gigabit Ethernet switches.  • Used DHCP to automatically assign reusable IP addresses to DHCP clients.  • Preparing BOM, HLD and LLD design for network implementation.  • Developed documentation, system standards and SOPs within the organization.  • Assisted in troubleshooting LAN connectivity and hardware issues in the network.  • Worked on FTP, HTTP, DNS, DHCP servers in windows server-client environment with resource allocation to desired Virtual LANs of network.  • Responsible for day to day management of Cisco Devices, Traffic management and monitoring.  • Responsible for service request tickets generated by the helpdesk in all phases such as troubleshooting, maintenance, upgrades, patches and fixes with all around technical support  • Providing daily network support for national wide area network consisting of MPLS, VPN and point-to point site with Routing Information Protocol.  • Supported Cisco router/switch (2800 and Cisco Catalyst 3500) and VoIP System.  • Working experience with A10 and F5 Load Balancer.  • Configure new routes for new endpoints into Palo Alto Firewalls.  • Experienced as Commercial technical support engineer for servers and network infrastructure.  • Analyzed LAN to determine what were the major problems and improvements needed to be made to the network infrastructure.  • Design, plan and implementation for existing On-Premises applications to Azure Cloud (ARM).  • Successfully created team sites on SharePoint Online and SharePoint migration to Office 365.  • Exported migrating data by creating PowerShell scripts.    Environments: Configure and troubleshooting of routing protocol like EIGRP, OSPF, BGP, DHCP configuration (Server & Client), MPLS, VPN, Point to Point Site, Cisco routers and switches, Access control server, VLAN Network Engineer Department of Information Technology & Telecommunications - Brooklyn, NY July 2014 to August 2016 Responsibilities:  • Configuring and troubleshooting of various networking protocols and technologies including, but not limited to BGP, OSPF, NAT, LACP, VPC, MPLS, PIM, IGMP, HSRP and VDC.  • Performed switching technology administration including VLANs, inter-VLAN routing, STP, RSTP, port aggregation & link negotiation.  • Performed troubleshooting, while maintaining trouble ticket tracking, following internal/external escalation procedures and customer notifications.  • Implementation and Configuration of Opposite Wan Simulator devices.  • Configured &Troubleshooting with BGP,OSPF, EIGRP.  • Configuring VLANs, STP, VTP and Inter-VLAN routing in LAN environment.  • Configuring and troubleshooting with Several Cisco devices Nexus 9k, 7k, 5k, 3k.  • Configuring troubleshooting with Cisco IOS routers ASR 9k, 1009, 1004.  • Design and configuring of VRf's, VDC'S and Vpc's in Cisco nexus and Core routers.  • Configuration & maintenance of Cisco 2600 series routers with OSPF protocols.  • Responsible for communication protocols configuration and integration  • Investigating diagnosing and resolve Level 1 & 2 network problem  • CISCO Switch configuration in particular VLAN configuration / troubleshooting  • Used DHCP to automatically assign reusable IP addresses to DHCP clients.  • Provided network support in the designing and implementation of Point to Point over T1s Frame Relay, DSL over ATM and IP over Frame Relay and Gigabit Ethernet.  • Made recommendations for the findings, what rules and which ones to be turned on within the IDS.  • Experienced with PPP and TCP/IP internals and debugging techniques  • Configured VTP domain, trunk links, ether channels and remote VLANs on Cisco and other vender's switches.  • Creating and updated network shares, adding permissions software and groups for users through Windows server Active Directory.  • Created test plans for Wi-Fi testing interoperability and performance  • Laying down the network design for the premises and recommending the required equipment's.  • Getting the issues solved in a timely manner and escalating the problems which require intervention from higher levels.  • Ensuring proper working of all the network equipment's (routes switches & firewall).  • Producing reports network productivity, plans and issues for higher management.  • LAN / WAN installation, Configuration and support / IOS update (CISCO routers, Switches).  • Responsible for network documentation and daily, weekly and Monthly Reports.  • Modified existing ACL's, IPsec and preform network translations. WAAS installed for increased network efficiencies and speed. Setup InfoBlox for local DHCP & DNS configuration.  • Experience working directly with ISP's during VOIP cutovers as well as circuit upgrades.  • Working directly with ISP's as a point of contact for network and VOIP outages.  • Using InfoBlox - Grid Manager - to Assign IP address to new server Builds, Production DNS System - Used for IPAM.  • Configure F5 Load balancers from Basic setup. . Assigning Mgmt ips. Upgrading images, Configuring Self ips, Floating Ips, Adding routes, HA synchronization B/w F5's and Bundled cerficates.  • Configuring LTM, GTM and DNS Listners to F5 Load balancers.  • Adding SNMP and NTP configuration to F5 Load balancers.  • Configure F5 Load balancers for SSL handling, Design and Implemented Virtual Server Farm for Web site load balancing in DMZ.  • Deployed Cisco ISR routers to Corporate and remote locations  • Configured Cisco ISR router and switch configs away from telnet to SSH using AAA  • Designed and support the consolidation of data centers utilizing Nexus 2K, 5K, 7K and juniper (EX, QFX) switch infrastructure.  • Experience on creating Visio diagrams, LLD, HLD and runbooks for datacenter and branch networks.  • L3/L2 Troubleshooting; call routing, unity connection, voice gateways, default routers, Enterprise OSPF networks, one-way audio etc.  • Configuring QOS in LAN network.  • Deployed Cisco VOIP Unified Communication Manager  • Provided load balancing towards access layer from core layer using F5 Network Load Balancers  • Understanding and knowledge of Software Defined Wide Area Network (SD-WAN)  • Implementation of SD-WAN environment from MPLS  • Troubleshoot and resolve network WAN outages and escalates with telecom provider as needed Configure Cisco ACS server for User authentication using Cisco Radius and TACAS+ protocols.  • Experience in WAN technologies like T1/T3, OC and DS3 circuit types  • Coordinated with team for the migration of T1, T3 circuits.  • Setup network monitoring and alerts for our network and server devices using SNMP, configure authentication using TACAS+ authentication and NTP setup.  • Used Cisco ACI (Application Centric Infrastructure) SDN architecture to reduce operating costs, automate IT tasks, for greater scalability and visibility in a data center environment.  • Responsible for the secure development lifecycle for Cisco's Nexus line of products, including Application Centric Infrastructure (ACI), Application Policy Infrastructure Controller (APIC) - Cisco's Software Defined Network (SDN) solution, as well as the Cisco Nexus 9k, 7k, 6k, 5k, 4k, & 2k.  • Extensive Packet level debugging and troubleshooting on Cisco Switches.  • Troubleshoot across the length and breadth of network security issues across the diverse portfolio of Palo Alto Networks Security Products- PAN NextGen firewalls - VM and Hardware models (PAN-200/500/2k/3k/4k/5k and 7k), Panorama- VM and M-100 hardware model, Wildfire Cloud and WF 500 hardware models  • Developed several SDN systems with SDN switches and Controllers including ONOS.  • Monitoring the NMS system for different Network Alerts  • Implement changes on switches, routers, load balancers (F5 and CSS), wireless devices per engineer's instructions and troubleshooting any related issues.  Environments: Implementation, configuration and troubleshooting of network using Switching technology like VLANs, inter-VLAN routing, Routing technology like EIGRP, OSPF, BGP, Web proxy. Network Engineer Mondalez - Hanover, NJ June 2012 to July 2014 Responsibilities:  • Worked on Cisco Layer 2 switches (spanning tree, VLAN).  • WAN Infrastructure running OSPF & BGP as core routing protocol.  • Configuration and troubleshooting of Cisco 2500, 2600, 3000, 6500, 7500, 7200 Series routers.  • Tested authentication in OSPF and BGP.  • Configuring ISIS protocol connectivity and multicasting protocols (PIM, IGMP).  • Configured HSRP and VLAN trucking 802.1Q, VLAN Routing on Catalyst 6500 switches.  • Optimized performance of the WAN network consisting of Cisco 3550/4500/6500 switches by configuring VLANs.  • Configuring and Troubleshooting Cisco Nexus switches.(Nx-os)  • Perform network analysis using various tools like Wireshark and SolarWinds.  • Planning and configuring the entire IP addressing plan for the clients' network.  • Assist the certification team and perform configuration of LAN\WAN technologies such as Ethernet, Fast Ethernet, and Gigabit Ethernet.  • Packet capturing, troubleshooting on network problems with Wireshark, identifying and fixing problems  • Architect, develop, plan and migrate servers, relational databases (SQL) and websites to Microsoft azure cloud.  • Contributed to our operations environment by maintaining security standards using the Palo Alto platforms, including Panorama and 7050 series.  • Working knowledge of firewall technologies Palo Alto.  • Experience in Configuring VPC, VDC and ISSU software upgrade in Nexus 7010 Including NX-OS Virtual Port Channels, Nexus port profiles, Nexus Version 4.2 and 5.0, Nexus VPC peer link.  • Demonstrated experience with Cisco, and Palo Alto Networks solutions  • In-depth expertise in the implementation of analysis, optimization, troubleshooting and documentation of LAN/WAN networking systems.  • Worked with Cisco, F5 and Opposite vendors related to Bug issues.  • Experience in working for Nexus switches 2000, 5000 and 7000 series.  • Configuring and deploy Cisco Catalyst 2960 and Meraki MS350 switches along with Meraki MR52 wireless access points, and Meraki MV21 security cameras for upgrading existing sites and new branch sites  • Effectively communicate VoIP solutions to technical staff and non-technical customers  • Deploy, install, and test working functionality of all features on Cisco VoIP phones  • Full Support and Administration for Cisco Unified Communications Manager (CUCM Call Manager), Cisco Unity Connection, PRI Voice gateway (ISR), UCCX express, multiple divisions WAN mpls.  • WAN Infrastructure running OSPF as a core routing protocol.  • Network Monitoring using tools like Cisco Works 2000.  • Hands-on experience and expert knowledge of Cisco Intelligent WAN (IWAN).  • Developed installation, troubleshooting and redundancy and restoration practices of Wi-Fi  • Created Lab demonstrations for new technology deployments with loaner equipment from various vendors and presented the findings to upper management.  • Configured Amazon Virtual Private Cloud (VPC) on AWS's scalable infrastructure.  • Experience in the AWS cloud networking like VPC, Direct Connect, etc.  • Experience on the load balancers including AWS ELB.  • Experience working with High performance data center switch like nexus 7000 series.  • Configured complex ISE implementation involving 6 agencies with GETVPN, DMVPN, SSL VPNs.  • Installed and Configured a Cisco secure ACS server for AAA authentication (RADIUS).  • Created and maintained WANs to connect multiple locations onto a common network. Integrated voice and data into DDS and frame relay circuits.  • Migrating MPLS Circuit from one ISP to another Service Provider  • Performed network monitoring, analysis using various tools like HP Open view, QRadar, NetQos, Wireshark, & SolarWinds, Dynatrace, Extra hop tool helped for tracking root cause problems.  • Performed load balancing and application level redundancy by deploying F5 BIG-IP LTM 3900.  • Expert level works on: IP internetworking, LAN/Data Center Switching, WAN protocols (Frame Relay, ISDN).  • Integrated Palo Alto next-gen firewalls with overlay VMware NSX SDN network.  • Performed network implementation that includes configuration of routing protocols, leased lines, ISDN lines, VLANs and IOS installations.  • Strong Working knowledge of access control server configuration for RADIUS & TACAS+.  • Experience in installing, configuring and managing AAA Authentication servers RADIUS & TACAS+, DNS and DHCP servers and management by means of Infoblox and Active Directory Database.  • Expert level experience on F5 from Basic level setup to advanced technologies GTM and LTM.  • Create a repeatable F5 ASM WAF violation response process  • Review the existing WAF architecture  • Stage & tighten security policies for the F5 WAF  • Configures and enables remote instrument health activation for 24 probes allowing monitoring of the probes' hardware remotely from the NetScout nGeniusONE web application.  • Created Visio topologies and rack elevation diagrams for the NetScout installations    Environment: Palo Alto, Cisco ASA 5540/5500, Rip, EIGRP, OSPF, BGP, LAN, WAN, HARP, MPLS, F5 BIG -IP LTM 3900, Nexus 2K/5K/7K, MS Visio, PPP, VLAN, VPN. Jr. Network Administrator JEWELL COMPUTING SOLUTIONS - Phillipsburg, NJ May 2010 to June 2012 Responsibilities:  • Upgrade Cisco 7200, 3600 Router IOS Software, backup Routers and Catalyst 3560, 4500 switch configurations  • Support 24x7 operations and answer calls from the customers on network emergencies and resolve issues  • Install and manage Cisco Catalyst 3500XL, &2960 series Switches and Cisco 1800, 3900 series routers.  • Plans, coordinates, implements and supports the LAN / WAN hardware, software and Internet /Intranet integration network connectivity, diagnose network failures and resolve any problems.  • Responsible for implementation and day to day operations of all associated hubs, routers, bridges, gateways and related equipment  • Monitoring the network, troubleshooting network problems, implementing changes, communicating and working closely with vendors, customers, system administrators  • Troubleshoot and fix any backup and monitoring systems related issues in conjunction with Systems team and external vendors  • Cisco Call Manager and VOIP Maintenance and setup  • Troubleshooting WAN link and coordinating with ISP.  • Active participation on operational support for routing/switching protocols in complex environments including BGP, OSPF, EIGRP, Spanning Tree, 802.1q, etc.  • Managed various teams involved in site surveys, cabling specifications, Network equipment installation and configuration.  • Design OSPF areas for reliable Access Distribution and for Core IP Routing.  • Steady state support for Call Manager/Contact Center Express and Voice Gateways  • Working with a team, develop web applications using C# .NET, Bootstrap, Agile Methodology  • Use of C# and XML to build a friendly user experience and facilitate accurate calculation and formatting of imported tax data.    Environment: Cisco 7200/3600, LAN, WAN, BGP, OSPF, EIGRP, Spanning Tree Education Bachelor's Skills Catalyst (7 years), EIGRP (9 years), LAN (8 years), OSPF (9 years), VoIP (8 years), Windows, Technical Support, Networking, Javascript, Active Directory Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Programming Languages: C, C++, C#, SQL SERVER, ASP.NET, JAVA SCRIPT  Network Configuration: Advanced switch/router configuration (Cisco IOS access list, Route redistribution/propagation)  Cisco Routers: Cisco GSR 12416, 12418, Cisco 7200vxr, Cisco 3640, Cisco 3 600  Network Protocols: TCP, UDP, HTTP, FTP, DNS, SMTP, POP3, IMAP, VoIP  Network Security: Firewalls, VPN and SSL  Load Balancer: F5-Big-Ip, LTM, Ax10  Layer 2 technology: VLAN, VTP, VMPS, ISL, DTP, Spanning-tree, PVST  Layer 3 Switching: CEF, MLS, Ether Channel  Routing Protocols: IGRP, EIGRP, OSPF, VRRP, HSRP, GLBP, and RIP  Switching Protocols: STP, RSTP, PVSTP, VTP, ARP and VLAN  IP Services: DHCP, NAT, VLAN, DNS, FTP, TFTP, LAN/WAN  Network Technologies: IPsec, GRE, IPv4, IPv6  Switches: Catalyst 6500, MSFC, MSFC2, 7600, 3700, 3500  WAN Protocols: HDLC, PPP, MLPPP  Security Technologies: Cisco FWSM/PIX/ASDM, Juniper SRX, Cisco ASA, Checkpoint, Palo Alto  WAN Technologies: ATM, ISDN, PPP, MPLS, ATT, 802.11, 802.11a, 802.11b  Operating Systems: Windows Exchange Server 2007, Window 2000/XP/Vista, DOS, Windows server 2003/2008, Linux, UNIX, PYTHON, IOS