Network Engineer <span class="hl">Network</span> Engineer Network Engineer - OCONUS (IRAQ) OCONUS Work Experience Network Engineer OCONUS (IRAQ) July 2018 to Present My role includes planning, designing, and providing enterprise level network support for headquarter and remote sites. I also provide in depth reporting to the customer. My skill set is not limited to routing and switching but I also maintain security standards, VOIP services, and some VM/Server support.  Recent Projects  • Migrated networks to hub and spoke DMVPN design.  • Re-IP'd and redesigned LAN to be easier managed.  • Upgraded software of TACLANE devices to meet security standards.  • Implemented 802.1x for client devices to provide better security and control over LAN.  • Troubleshoot and established BGP peering and connectivity for major base with DISA.  • Installed new Steel Head Riverbeds on multiple network to provide WAN optimization.  • Migrated client machines to Infoblox to be easier managed and provide adequate DHCP solutions.  • Currently planning and executing a hardware refresh for all network devices due to devices meeting end of support and life. The projects covers VTC devices, phones, switches, and routers. Network Engineer NTT DATA Services - Homestead, FL October 2017 to July 2018 My duties include planning, implementing, verifying and troubleshooting local and wide-area enterprise networks. I provide advanced security, voice, wireless and video solutions for my customer. The technologies I work on include Cisco ASR 1003's, 6500's, 4500's, 3850's, Cisco ISR, Cisco ASR, Cisco Identity Services Engine (ISE), Cisco Nexus, Cisco Unified Computing System (UCS), and Cisco Unified Communications systems. I also provide analysis and monitoring of the network through Solarwinds and SNMP products. I'm also responsible for updating, maintaining network documentation, and routine meetings with the customer.  Recent Projects  • Core network upgrade to 6506- E and the lifecycle of 80% of network infrastructure.  • Migrated network from OSPF to EIGRP  • Implemented Multicast throughout network to support video and radio assets.  • Network IP migration, to include changing routing protocols to facilitate ease of management. Creation of our outer band management to enhance security and meet best practices.  • Upgraded Cisco Call Manager, and Unity Publisher/Subscriber to 11.5  • Installed Cisco Identity Services Engine VM (ISE) 2.3 to provide Tacacs, Radius, AAA, 802.1x, and secure wireless capabilities. Network/System Administrator Salient CRGT - Doha, QA June 2017 to September 2017 I designed and maintained consistent operation of network systems for numerous geographically dispersed remote sites. Those responsibilities included designing network and system configurations, directing system installation, defining, documenting, and enforcing system standards. I also monitored network performance to determine if adjustments needed to be made.    • Recommend changes to improve systems and network configurations.  • Maintained and configured devices to use EIGRP, OSPF, BGP and multicast.  • Configured and deployed KG TACLANE devices to provide secure communication Network Engineer Dell Federal Government Service / NTT DATA - Homestead, FL November 2014 to March 2016 Technologies Used: Cisco ASA, Cisco Premise Routers, Windows Servers, Cisco ISR, TACLANE, Elemental Conductor, VMware, and Data Center technologies.  Network Engineer  Dell Federal Government Service / NTT DATA - Homestead, FL  November 2014 to March 2016  Supported Special Operation Command South (SOCSOUTH) by serving as a Network Engineer.  Responsibilities:  • Planned, designed, and implemented networked systems in an enterprise environment.  • Provided troubleshooting assistance to tier 1, 2, and 3, and remediated all network related issues.  • Primary Cisco ACS, Call Manager/Unity administrator, and managed Solarwinds.  • Maintained and upgraded Cisco IOS's on multiple devices to mitigate network vulnerabilities.  • Maintained organization's security compliance, by adhering and implementing DISA STIGs.    Technologies Used: Cisco ASA 5505, Cisco ASA 5520, Cisco 3750, Cisco 4510, Cisco 6500, Nexus 5000 Series, Cisco MDS Fabric Switches, Windows Server 2012, TACLANE (175A, 175D, 250X), HBSS, IBM HIPS Information Technology Specialist ( Network) United States Army - Fort Bragg, Iraq - Homestead, FL December 2009 to November 2014 Network Engineer/ Administrator Responsibilities:  • Installed, configured, and supported LANS and WANS using Cisco switches, routers, and iDirect modems to provide network access through satellite deployable network systems (SDN).  • Monitored network to ensure network availability to all system users and performed the necessary maintenance to support network availability.  • Performed Information Assurance (IA) duties in accordance with Defense Information Systems Agency (DISA) standards.  • Managed Active Directory, and provided servers needed to support workstations    Supervised local helpdesk and maintained continuous processes to ensure quality service was provided.    Technologies Used: Cisco ASA 5520, Cisco 3750, Cisco 2911, TACLANE (175A, 175D, 250X), SDN nodes. Education Bachelor of Science in Information Systems in Enterprise Data Management Strayer University December 2017