Network/System Administrator <span class="hl">Network</span>/System <span class="hl">Administrator</span> New Braunfels, TX Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Network/System Administrator GCS Technologies - Austin, TX April 2017 to Present Provided technical support for property management company across 10+ locations and 4 cities  ? Primary point of contact for all IT support  ? Designed and implemented network infrastructure several offsite locations in 4 different cities  ? Ensured ongoing and reliable connectivity to all offices through site to site VPN tunnels  ? Evaluate and implement network and application security processes  ? Coordinate with 3rd Party support teams for building automation and security systems  ? Primary Technologies: Active Directory, VMWare, Dell Sonicwall, Mitel, Zultys/Yiptel Network/System Administrator teleNetwork - San Marcos, TX July 2016 to March 2017 Performed network system administration for a company of 2000+ employees in three locations  ? Maintain server uptime locally and across multiple colocation data centers  ? Designed, deployed and evaluated network security practices via policy, hardware and software  solutions  ? Managed ticket queues for network related issues  ? Troubleshoot and resolve issues with Avaya phone system for 2000+ employees Team Leader Primary Technologies January 2011 to July 2016 Led a team of up to 40 remote and local technical and product support agents  ? Internally promoted from within twice from entry level position  ? Led a team of up to 40 remote and local technical and product support agents; handled all payroll, scheduling, team and process issues as the single point of contact  ? Set goals and developed individualized improvement plans using key performance indicators;  followed through with coaching and mentoring to ensure success  ? Managed simultaneous queues of chat, phone contact and email contact Skills Cisco, Vmware, Backup exec, Windows server 2003 Certifications/Licenses Network+ April 2019 to April 2022 Credential ID NGMHE033S3EQQ335 Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    ? Net+  ? Windows server 2003, 2008, 2012, 2016  ? VMWare, Horizons VDI, ESXi 6.0-6.5  ? Cisco Catalyst, Dell PowerConnect, HP Switches  ? Datto, Unitrends, Mozy, Backup Exec  ? TrendMicro, AVG