Network Administrator <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> null null Certified Network Support professional with network admin, IT support, and strong business skills seeking new opportunity.    PROFILE   • Experience in network security, network equipment upgrades, IT help desk support, and more. Work Experience Network Administrator Grande - Austin, TX March 2018 to July 2018 In this network admin and IT support role for Telecommunications Company that provides digital TV, high-speed Internet, local, and long distance services to residents and businesses in Texas: • Network security: Implemented security policies, host policies, security event, and server load monitoring for Telecommunications Company.  • Configured Active Directory users, computers, and groups for corporate domain.  • Deployed group policy objects (GPOs) for company printers and file shares.  • Help desk support: Responded to help desk tickets in an ITIL service management environment.  • Oversaw network equipment upgrades and streamlined server updates and upgrades. Pfizer - San Diego, CA 2012 to 2018 Participated in clinical research trials for a variety of medical/pharmaceutical companies, including: • WVU, Inventiv, Spaulding, Vince, Worldwide, Inflamax, Clinlabs, Biotrials, Icon, Profil, Compass, PRA, Pfizer, Celerion, SNBL, Quintiles, Paraxel Baltimore, Inflamax, Novum, Algorithm, WCCT, Worldwide, Pfizer Abbvie, Covance, Yale university, Lotus, Paraxel Glendale, PPD, OCRC, Frontage, Medpace, Jasper Clinic, Ohio clinical, and more. Helpdesk Support Specialist Sambreel Services - San Diego, CA 2011 to 2012 In this IT support role for company specializing in computer programming and support services: • Computer support: Handled imaging, staging, and setup of desktops and laptops at a 237-user location.  • Mobile IT support: Provided support for end-user mobile phones including Android and iOS.  • Increased productivity 50% by coming an hour early to start finish low priority tasks that halted employee's productivity and implemented software during afterhours to limit downtime.  • Worked from start to finish setting up tables, chairs, cable management, printers, software, laptop and desktop hardware for new hires, streamlining a week's worth of processes to be done in a single day. Education Associate of Culinary Arts and Culinary Management in CACM San Diego Mesa College 2017 Associate of Science in Computer Information Sciences in Computer Information Sciences San Diego Mesa College 2012 Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    • Operating Systems: Microsoft Windows 7/10, Server 2003/2008, Exchange 2007, MSSQL  • Networking: LAN/WAN, SAN, TCP/IP, Firewall, VPN, VoIP, DNS, DHCP, SFTP  • Software: Microsoft Office/Office 365, VMware, Citrix Kaspersky and Symantec Antivirus  • Languages: C++, Visual Basic, PowerShell  • Remote Support Tools: LogMeIn, TeamViewer, RDP  • Ticketing Systems: Remedy, Zendesk, Jira, KACE    ADDITIONAL SKILLS    • Outstanding time management and organization skills: Ability to juggle/manage multiple/high priority projects and adjust priorities as needed.    • Excellent oral and written communication skills. Experienced explaining complex IT concepts in simple terms.    • Problem solver with proven to work successfully with limited supervision, or in team environments.    • Strong critical thinking skills: Use logic and reasoning to identify the strengths and weaknesses of alternative solutions, conclusions or approaches to problems.    • Project management: Experienced ensuring work is carried out within agreed service levels and in accordance with department guidelines.    • Documentation: Proficient creating, maintaining, and distributing system documents as needed.    • Hard-working, dedicated, and motivated to succeed in new opportunity after relocating.