Network Security Engineer <span class="hl">Network</span> Security Engineer Sr Network Security Engineer CA ? Network Engineer with 8 years of experience in the industry, which includes expertise in the areas of Routing, Switching and Firewall.  ? In-depth expertise in the analysis, implementation, troubleshooting & documentation of LAN/WAN architecture and good experience on IP services.  ? Expert level knowledge of troubleshooting, implementing, optimizing and testing of static and dynamic routing protocols such as EIGRP, OSPF, BGP, RIPv1, RIPv2 ability to interpret and resolve complex route table problems.  ? Provide direct day to day support for various technologies such as: WAN technologies (MPLS, Frame Relay, etc.), Data Center infrastructure (VLANs, trunks, teaming, L2 & L3, etc.), Campus switching, Load Balancer and Virtualization, Routing protocol support (BGP, EIGRP & OSPF), VPN technology support, VoIP communications and infrastructure, enterprise wireless, RADIUS services, enterprise DNS / DHCP and other various enterprise technologies and services.  ? Installing, configuring and troubleshooting of Wireless network devices Aruba, Cisco, Motorola, Meru and Symbol Access points and controllers.  ? Deployed Automation script to built small amount of physical server to production environment to manage encryption application. Also worked on VMare vSphere and building virtual computers.  ? Experience with Cisco Wireless infrastructure planning, deployment and troubleshooting.  ? Hands on experience working with Data Center Cisco Nexus 9k,7K, 5K & 2K Switches.  ? Specialized in Fluke AirMagnet, Motorola LanPlanner, Ekahau survey tools. Visio and Adobe documentation.  ? Network Design Engineer - Switching/Routing, Cisco ASA 5500 Firewall, Local Area Networks, Network Standards  ? In-depth knowledge and hands-on experience on IP Addressing, Subnetting, VLSM and ARP, reverse & proxy ARP, Ping Concepts.  ? Hands-on experience on Linux as well as modern scripting languages like Shell, Python and Perl  ? Hands on Experience in Managing Data Center starting from installation to decommission.  ? Installation and configuration of Juniper M 120 multi service edge router and also MX 10 and MX40 series routers in datacenter.  ? Automated various repetitive tasks using scripting languages such as Python, Bash, and Ansible.  ? Knowledge of TCP/IP protocol stack, network analysis tools, load balancing technologies, and network services (DNS, DHCP, SNMP, etc).  ? Hands on expertise with Cisco Catalyst routers/switches, Cisco Nexus equipment, Infoblox appliances, Cisco wireless, Riverbed/Cascade monitoring, and Solar winds  ? Experience with Palo Alto Network Firewall, Cisco ASA and Checkpoint Firewall.  ? Hands on experience on several Ticketing Tools like JIRA, Change Management, Service Catalog, ePCR, SR, Remedy, IP center, etc.,  ? Hands on experience in building Cisco ACI fabric (policy groups, switch profiles, etc.), tenants - VRFs, Endpoint Groups, Contracts  ? Working Experience on web content filter and gateways like Blue Coat, Websense.  ? Working Experience on Network Scanning, Management, Alerting &Logging tools like Solar Winds, PRTG, and Wireshark.  ? Comprehensive understanding of OSI Model, TCP/IP protocol suite (IP, ARP, ICMP, TCP, UDP, SNMP, FTP, TFTP).  ? Moderate knowledge in configuring and troubleshooting Cisco Wireless Networks: LWAPP, WLC, WCS, Standalone Aps, Roaming, Wireless Security Basics, IEEE 802.11 a/b/g, RF spectrum characteristics.  ? Moderate knowledge in implementing and configuring F5 Big-IP LTM-6400 load balancers.  ? Adept in preparing technical documentation and presentations using Microsoft Visio/ Office.  ? Experience in configuring HSRP and redistribution between routing protocols troubleshooting them.  ? Excellent qualities such as Teamwork, Negotiation, Analysis and Communication. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Network Security Engineer Pacific Dental Services - Irvine, CA July 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  ? Configured Object Grouping, Protocol Handling and Code up gradation on Palo Alto Firewalls.  ? Implement SSL VPN solutions including Palo Alto Networks Global Protect with single and multiple gateway solutions including integration of PKI certificates. Integrate multiple vendor IPSEC site to site VPNs, including Palo Alto Networks, Cisco ASA, and Juniper SRX firewalls.  ? Experience on license installation, filtering based on Applications, Adding Zones on Palo Alto firewall.  ? Created Build-Outs of New Safe Zone in Palo Alto Panorama VLANS, VIP, IP.  ? Experience in F5 Load balancers for pool migration.  ? Experience deploying BIG-IP F5 LTM Load Balancers for load balancing and traffic management of business application.  ? Write scripts for repetitive tasks utilizing Python 3.6 and libraries such as Paramiko and Netmiko for ssh purposes.  ? Experience with Cisco ACI (Application Centric Integration) technology implementation  ? Design, deployment, Troubleshooting, and management of Cisco ASA firewalls using CLI.  ? Working in L2/L3 Switching Technology Administration including creating and managing VLANs, Port security, Trucking, STP, Inter-VLAN routing, LAN security  ? Wireless installation and configuration of Aruba, Cisco, Motorola and Meru Wireless controllers and access points.  ? I have used python to do Netconf sessions to get the yang data models from Arista and Ciena switches using ncclient library.  ? Provided support and guidance for the network automation tools and worked on ad-hoc scripts.  ? Building Automation tools for Nexus9K, 3K and Juniper QFX5100 using netconf, pyez, and Ansible module.  ? Configured the Network for NetApp SAN with a VPC Configuration on nexus side.  ? Maintained and created scripts in Python that assisted in pulling in the necessary data to meet audit and reporting requirements.  ? Successfully integrate and validate Openstack Liberty with Cisco ACI platform ML2 plugin as the next generation network infrastructure for Cisco Cloud.  ? Improve scalability and ease of deployments of the Openstack underlay network by migrating from Standalone Nexus to Cisco ACI platform.  ? Establish AWS technical credibility with customers and external parties  ? Establishing VPC between Nexus pair and doing a VPC bonding on Nexus ports for increasing bandwidth to servers.  ? Involved in Configuring and implementing of Composite Network models consists of Cisco7600, 7200, 3800 series routers and Cisco 2950, 3500, 5000, 6500 Series switches.  ? Involved in Configuration and Implementation of Juniper SRX Firewalls across various new Branch sites as a part of tech refresh.  ? Experience in configuring VDC, FEX pinning, FEX port-channel, port-channel, peer keep alives on Nexus Devices.  ? Worked on Juniper MX-960, MX-480, MX-240, MX-104, MX-80 routers and EX4600, EX4300, EX4200, EX2300, EX2200 Switches  ? Configuring and installation of Cisco ASR 920 and 100s series routers.  ? Configured HDLC, PPP, TCP/IP, BGP, EIGRP & HSRP.  ? Configured TCP/IP addressing scheme to assigned IP blocks and make changes to DNS, DHCP on infoblox appliance.  ? Performing network monitoring, providing analysis using various tools like Wireshark, Solar Winds (NCM, NTM, IPAM).  ? Optimized performance of the WAN network consisting of Cisco 3550/4500/6500 switches by configuring VLANs.  ? Configured and troubleshooting HSRP, BGP, OSPF, EIGRP, MPLS WAN, MPLS L2VPN, MPLS L3VPN, DMVPN, VPN, STP, HTTPS, NFS, VLAN, QoS.  ? Responsible for redesigning, integrating and installing on the existing network, 2 Nexus 7010, 4 Nexus 5548, and Fabric extenders during migration.  ? Worked closely with Server and storage teams for network requirements to the equipment during migrations.  ? Migrated Data Center from scratch and deployed it co-location facility.  ? Implement ASA 5500 series and Palo Alto firewall change request, troubleshoot and add new access-list policies.  ? Configured Network for NIC ports in Linux and Windows servers present in Data Center.  ? Hands on experience of data center environment also implementation of VPC, VDC and Fabric path on Nexus 7K, 5K, & 2K Switches.  ? Configured Network for Server Virtualization through VM ware in Data Center.  ? Resolving tickets through Service now which are opened by end users.  ? Install and Configure VMWare ESXi servers to include virtual machines, virtual center servers, VLANs, drives, memory and end user zero clients.  ? Implementation and upgrading core and distribution layer including multiple server with Nexus 5K and 7K.  ? Configured Network for Dell blade servers in MX7000 chassis through dell force 10mxl switches.  ? Hands on Experience working with LAN and WAN topologies, TCP/IP protocol, routers, switches, and firewalls in Internet, Intranet and Extranet environments.  ? Installed python 2.7 for network automation  ? Track, document and close all requests for assistance using BMC RemedyForce when the end user is satisfied. Network Security Engineer CMS Health - Baltimore, MD March 2017 to June 2018 Responsibilities:  ? Established BGP peering between onsite datacenter in California and AWS cloud.  ? Worked on Network automation using Python  ? Configured BPDU Guard, port-fast, uplink fast and other spanning tree features.  ? Worked on Cisco Routers, Active /Passive Hubs, Switches, Cisco ASA Firewalls, NAT and Juniper SRX firewall.  ? Perform Firewall Policy provisioning on Checkpoint using Smart Center, PAN devices using PANORAMA Management Platform and CSM for Cisco ASA's  ? Working as a Network SME for the NextGen Data Center Cloud Architecture, using Cisco ACI and Nexus 9K. Working with Cisco Account team onsite for creating and testing the POC  ? Managing & administering Cisco WSA.  ? Experience with Network Automation, Firewall Migration (FTD, FMC) and experience with configuring onsite to cloud connectivity using AWS.  ? Proficient in designing and deploying enterprise and carrier grade communications platforms by vendors including, but not limited to: Cisco, Motorola/Symbol, BaiCell, ZTE, Ericson, HP Aruba, Brocade, Ubiquiti, Apple, Microsoft, VMWare.  ? Deploying and decommission of VLANs on core ASR 9K, Nexus 9K, 7K, 5K and its downstream devices  ? Working Experience on web content filter and gateways like Blue Coat, Websense.  ? BlueCoat WAF proxy services were redeployed to provide WAF on the guests and contractors network.  ? Adding Websites to the URL filtering block list in Bluecoat Proxies and upgrading firmware on the bluecoat proxies.  ? Designed wireless mobility networks, performed surveys, installed APs and did remote/on-site troubleshooting for the DTAG corporate wireless network locations (Airport and off-site) using Motorola Access Points and HP managed switches for over 8 years in the Auto Rental/Airport vertical at over 150+ locations.  ? Have Extensive Work Experience on Python Scripting and create Framework as Ansible  ? Created different application policies in the ACI including Tenants, Application Network Profile (ANP), End Point Group (EPG), Contracts, Filters & Labels.  ? Configuration included deploying of new branch locations or new network devices in the existing infrastructure. Like, 4500-X in VSS mode and 3850 switches for distribution and POE-user switches  ? Troubleshooting the Network failure issues and thereby making the changes to Network Infrastructure.  ? Worked on maintenance and upgraded Cisco wireless WLC, LWAPP APs  ? Troubleshoot issues with Wireless Access points (Cisco 3502) and configure SSID's on 5520 Wireless LAN Controllers.  ? Developed the automation scripts using Python to validate credentials and configure interfaces and confirm their reachability of Cisco and Juniper appliances.  ? Configuring Node, pool, VIP, SSL client, server profile in F5 LTM 4000 series Bigip and thereby adding firewall rule to bring the end servers live  ? Troubleshooting when the servers are down, checking logs to identify the error and thereby taking necessary steps.  ? Responsible for Checkpoint firewall management and operations across our global networks.  ? Working with Checkpoint Support for resolving escalated issues  ? Worked with Cisco advance services to implement data center Nexus environment for new Upgraded datacenter for the NX-OS in 7004 in core layer, 6880 in aggregation layer and cisco 6800 in access layer.  ? Implemented the Core switch cut over project from Cisco 6509 to Nexus 7004 devices.  ? Configured VPC (Virtual Port Channel), VDC (Virtual Device Context) in Nexus 9K/7k/5k devices  ? Configuration and troubleshooting of Cisco 2500, 2600, 3000, 6500, 7500, 7200 Series routers.  ? Providing Technical Support and solutions for Network Problems and resolve tickets across sites and corporate offices.  ? Involved in periodic IOS upgrades, troubleshooting network outages and high severity incidents.  ? Configured VLANs with 802.1q tagging. Configured Trunk groups, ether channels, and Spanning tree for creating Access/distribution and core layer switching architecture.  ? Participate in all technical aspects of LAN, WAN, VPN and security Internet Service projects including, short and long-term planning, implementation, project management and operations support as required.  ? Creating or Modifying Firewall rules on Cisco 5555, 5520, Juniper SRX and Palo Alto VM-300 devices.  ? Upgrading the IOS on Network Devices including cisco 6800, 6500 and Palo Alto VM-300 devices  ? Experience in working in panorama, Palo Alto user interface version 8.0.2 and VM-300 series firewalls.  ? Creating templates in panorama to manage the individual devices from it.  ? Configuring HA pair for two Palo VM-300 series AWS instance firewalls and testing the failover activity as well as ENI migration.  ? Creating Network objects, dynamic address groups, FQDN and assigning it to rules based on the information in tickets  ? Creating custom URL profile based on the expressions and assigning it to rule to perform URL filtering.  ? Configuring network interfaces, static routes, and NAT rules in panorama and thereafter pushing to individual Palo Alto devices.  ? Performing the software upgrade from version 7 to 8.0.2 on panorama and VM-300 series Palo Alto firewalls.  ? Configuration included VLANs & VTP, STP port features, Gateway redundancy using HSRP, enterprise security using Cisco Port Security and Dot1X framework.  ? Experienced in up- gradation of Corporate LAN, by upgrading IOS on core switches (6509/6513), replacing/adding supervisor's modules(720/IV), GE and FE modules, GBIC/SFP modules on 4500/4006 switches. Configured STP, HSRP, VRRP. OSPF and BGP routing protocols for internal and external connectivity. Network Engineer Charles Schwab - Austin, TX October 2015 to February 2017 Responsibilities:  ? Install and configure Cisco routers, switches and firewalls of various models. Upgrade codes, IOS, and patches for different network devices.  ? Designing, implementation, configuration, and management of Cisco and Motorola enterprise wireless network hardware, software, and management systems (NMS).  ? Performed TCP/IP networking based administration including VLANs, inter-VLAN routing, Trunking, STP, RSTP, port aggregation & link negotiation and port security  ? Configuration & troubleshooting of routing protocols: Static, OSPF and EIGRP and BGP.  ? Troubleshooting LAN and WAN problems, Application working slow problems.  ? Responsible for all Load Balancing; i.e., F5 LTM/APM ASM/ and other Modules.  ? Configuration of 4000 series Cisco Wireless LAN Controllers for access points.  ? Planning the placement of wireless access points and maintaining wireless devices to provide seamless connectivity.  ? Automated network implementations and tasks and designed monitoring tools using python scripting.  ? Tracking Mac-address from core switches for port finding for Vlan change  ? Configuration of checkpoint rules and policies and pushing them in checkpoint smart dash board.  ? Hands on support for Cisco firewall solution including Cisco ASA 5xxx, Cisco AIP, Cisco SSL  ? Configured and Deployed Cisco ACL.  ? Developed Automation Scripts to configure the network appliances and Managed Code Repository by maintain code repository in GIT; and administered practices of branching and code merging.  ? Configured Security Policies including NAT, PAT, AAA, ACL's Standard Access Lists, Distribute-Lists, Route-Maps, VPN Concentrators, IPS/IDS, (PIX, ASA) firewalls.  ? Monitor/maintain network connectivity & traffic using network monitoring tools to ensure optimal performance  ? Experience working in datacenter environment, configuration changes as per the needs of company and Implementing and troubleshooting VLAN's, VTP, STP, Trunking, Ether channels  ? Convert Campus WAN links from point to point to MPLS and to convert encryption from IPSec/GRE to Get VPN.  ? Migrated FW rules from Checkpoint to the Safe Zone in Palo Alto Panorama to enable BGP at cutover. Building the Span tree primary, secondary IP Access.  ? Configuration of IP and Routing technologies for various protocols such as EIGRP, OSPF, BGP for MPLS network.  ? Expertise in document creation with technical configurations, billing, security standards design and network documentation using MS VISIO.  ? Responsible for researching new technology directions and making recommendations for improving the reliability & functionality of LAN & WAN.  ? Monitor network performance, troubleshoot using Solar winds  ? Management of all technical security equipment, including Cisco ASA, Palo Alto firewall, Cisco Defense Center - IDS/IPS devices. Network Administrator Macys - Atlanta, GA February 2014 to September 2015 Responsibilities:  ? Experience with convert Checkpoint VPN rules over to the Cisco ASA solution. Migration with Cisco ASA VPN experience  ? Involved in configuring Juniper SSG-140 and Check point firewall  ? Created effective network security by migrating from Check Point FW-1 NG to ASA 5510 Firewalls  ? Has a good experience working with the Trouble Tickets on F5 Load balancers and ASA Firewalls  ? Working with Cisco Nexus 2148 Fabric Extender and Nexus 5500 series to provide a Flexible Access Solution for datacenter access architecture  ? Working with CISCO Nexus 7000, Nexus 5000, and Nexus 2000 platforms  ? Performed network troubleshooting, second level technical support, and tape backup operations.  ? Served as a main escalation point of contact for level II personnel.  ? Configured Wireless Access Points in order to control them with RADIUS server  ? Coordinated with higher-level support and external vendors for resolution.  ? Configured VLAN's on Switches for Wireless Access Points.  ? Monitored Network Management System and responded to events, alarms and trouble tickets.  ? Included network services such as DNS, email, web, Servers, VPN and Firewall. Associate Network Engineer HSBC - IN May 2011 to November 2013 Responsibilities:  ? Configuration of Access List ACL (Std., Ext, Named) to allow users all over the company to access different applications and blocking others.  ? Troubleshoot problems on a day-to-day basis and documented every issue to share it with design teams.  ? Worked with Network Design and implementation teams on various projects across related to Branch, Campus and Data Center.  ? Deploying and decommissioning Cisco switches and their respective software upgrades.  ? Performed Break Fix support through driving to different buildings, identifying the root cause of the hardware issues with switches, routers.  ? Performing troubleshooting on slow network connectivity issues, routing issues that involves OSPF, BGP and identifying the root cause of the issues.  ? Prepare Design documents, VISIO diagrams and Implementation plan for all projects on the Network environment.  ? Troubleshoot Network Issues onsite and remotely depending on the severity of the issues.  ? Installed, configured and maintained with the latest updates on the 3700, 3800, 7200 and 7600 Cisco Routers and 2960, 3750, 3560, 6500 switches.  ? Configuring all the end ports as access ports using port fast and implementing BPDU guard.  ? Monitoring the network, troubleshooting network problems, implementing changes, provided Cisco IOS.  ? Upgrades and backups of Cisco router configuration files to a TFTP server. Education Bachelor's Skills Information Security, Network Security, Cyber Security, Palo Alto, Nessus Additional Information Cisco Platforms  Nexus 9K, 7K, 5K, 2K & 1K, Cisco routers (7600,7200, 3900, 3600, 2800, 2600, 2500, 1800 series) & Cisco Catalyst switches (6500, 4900, 3750, 3500, 4500, 2900, 6807 series), Nx-OS, IOS-XR, Cisco ASA, Cisco ACI    Juniper Platforms SRX, MX, EX Series Routers and Switches EX4600/9200, QFX 10002/QFX5100  Networking Concepts  Access-lists, Routing, Switching, Subnetting, Designing, CSU/DSU, IPSec, VLAN, VDS,VPN, WEP, WAP, MPLS, VoIP, Bluetooth, Wi-Fi, Citrix Metaframe XP Citrix Provisioning Server, Netscaler    Firewall ASA, ACI, Firewall (5505/5510), Checkpoint, Cisco ASA, Fortinet  Network Tools Solar Winds, VMware,SNMP, Cisco Works, Wireshark, HIPPA  Load Balancers Cisco CSM, F5 Networks (Big-IP)  WAN technologies Frame Relay, ISDN, ATM, MPLS, leased lines & exposure to PPP, DS1,DS3,OC3, T1 /T3 & SONET  LAN technologies Ethernet, Fast Ethernet, Gigabit Ethernet, & 10 Gigabi Ethernet, Port-channel, VLANs, VTP, STP, RSTP, 802.1Q  Security Protocols IKE, IPsec, SSL-VPN  Networking Protocols RIP, OSPF, EIGRP, BGP, STP, RSTP, VLANs, VTP, PAGP, LACP, MPLS, HSRP, VRRP, GLBP, TACACS+, Radius, AAA, IPv4 and IPv6,BGP,OSPF,    Operating System Windows 7/XP, MAC OS X, Windows Server 2008/2003, Linux, Unix