Network Engineer <span class="hl">Network</span> Engineer Network Engineer - Jubilee Consulting USA, Inc Grand Prairie, TX Experienced Network Engineer, with a demonstrated history of working in the Networking and information Technology industry, skilled in Local and wide Area networks (LAN/WAN). A proactive, result-driven professional with experience in technical services, interpersonal relations and high leadership skills. Client orientation insight, critical thinking, flexible, change oriented and work in a fast paced environment. Seeking a network professional position within an organization, to utilize my qualification, education, experience and proven skills in network engineering, system administration and support to identify and implement effective solution, timely delivery, and positively impacting the success of the organization.    NETWORK TECHNOLOGIES  ? Cisco routers 1600, 2500, 3600, 7200 and 7500 series, with Cisco Pix firewall/ASA Firewall  ? Cisco IOS Switches 3500, 6500 series.  ? VLAN management, Trunking, Spanning Tree and Ether Channeling.  ? Ethernet, fast-Ethernet, gigabit Ethernet, Ten-gigabit Ethernet and FDDI technologies.  ? EIGRP, OSPF, BGP, VPN, DMZ, TCP/IP, IPSEC, MPLS and Frame Relay.  ? Access Control list, NAT, HSRP, GRE, DHCP, DNS.    DESKTOP TECHNOLOGIES  ? Windows 10 /Office 365/SharePoint/VMware ESX Server 2.x, 3.0, 3.5, 4.0.  ? Microsoft Windows 9x/ME/NT/2000/XP/7, Microsoft Windows 2000/3/8 R2 Server  ? Microsoft Word, excel, Access, Power Point, Visio, MS Project, Internet Explorer, Mozilla Firefox, Opera, Scanners, Desktop and Networked Printers. Work Experience Network Engineer Jubilee Consulting USA, Inc June 2016 to Present Installation, configuration, Implementation and maintenance of Cisco devices, such as Cisco routers 1603, 2500, 7507 and 7513, and Cisco IOS switches 3500 and 6500 series.  ¨ Inter VLAN routing and Access List configurations.  ¨ Management, including Pro-active monitoring of LAN and WAN links, as well as capacity planning, which includes over 1500 nodes.  ¨ Maintenance and Configuration of IP routing protocols, Ethernet Switching, VLANS and trunking.  ¨ Escalation Support for various devices that support Network Management, Performance Management, Traffic Shaping, Bandwidth Management and IP Address Management.  ¨ Configuring and troubleshooting protocols, such as Spanning tree, HSRP, VRRP, BGP, OSPF, EIGRP and Static Routing.  ¨ Network documentation using Visio.  ¨ Network connectivity troubleshooting /performance problems and resolution provisioning. System Administrator Jubilee Consulting USA, Inc October 2014 to June 2016 Provided 2nd Level Support for all hardware, software and network problems reported documenting problems and solutions as required for the enterprise network.  ¨ Assisted in 1st level support when needed.  ¨ Maintained and assisted in the design and deployment of Broadcast Network Operations controlled LANs, WANs, and wireless networks.  ¨ Monitored network performance and troubleshot problem areas as needed.  ¨ Collaborated with the Network Engineering department to assess near and long-term network capacity needs.  ¨ Work with the Network Engineering team to create and maintain documentation as it relates to network configuration, network mapping, processes, and service records.  ¨ Develop, implement and maintain policies, procedures, and associated training plans for network administration, usage, and disaster recovery.  ¨ Monitor and test network performance and provide network performance reports.  ¨ 24/7 On-call availability. System Support Administrator Wave Concepts Limited September 2013 to September 2014 Provides secondary support and technical assistance for unresolved helpdesk issues  ¨ Assisted in 1st level support when needed.  ¨ Assisting with the administration and maintenance of phone systems  ¨ Monitored network performance and troubleshoot problem areas as needed.  ¨ Performing diagnostics of network communications issues  ¨ Work with the Network Engineering team to assist in testing, diagnostics and resolution of network service incidents  ¨ Develop, implement and maintain policies, procedures, and associated training plans for network administration, usage, and disaster recovery. Education Master's in Business Management Bachelor's in Business Information Systems Advanced Diploma in Software Engineering Skills Cisco, DNS, VPN, MPLS, firewalls, LAN, firewalls, Networking Certifications/Licenses CCNA Routing and Switching July 2019 to July 2022 Business Analyst Professional July 2015 to Present