Network Engineer <span class="hl">Network</span> Engineer Network Engineer - State of Ohio Harrisburg, PA • Cisco specialized network professional with 8 years of experience in network design, implementation, Troubleshooting, engineering, managing & migration of large-scale enterprise networks.  • Expertise in implementing L2 technologies including VLAN's, VTP, STP, RSTP, Port Channels, VPC, VDC, Fabric Path, & Port Security.  • Proficient in configuration & troubleshooting of routing protocols: MP-BGP, OSPF, LDP, EIGRP,RIP, BGP v4, MPLS.  • Participated in designing using OTV edge devices connecting data centers  • Good understanding of Quality of Service and Hands on experience of QOS on Cisco and Juniper gear  • Experience in configuration of VLAN with 802.1q, VTP, STP and RSTP (802.1W)  • Experience in deployment and configuration of Cisco 1800, 1900, 2800, 2900, 3800, 3900,7200, 7600, ASR 1006, 1002 series routers.  • Experience in deployment and configuration of Cisco 2900, 3300, 3500, 3650, 3750, 4300,4500, 6500 and Nexus 9k,7k, 5k, 2k series switches.  • Worked on Port Groups on M Series Module and F Series Module for Nexus 7K  • Experience in upgrading the Nexus OS on Nexus series switches  • Good knowledge of STUN and TURN protocols  • Configuration of Fabric path, VPC and connectivity between Nexus 2K, Nexus 5K, Nexus 7K and 9K  • Sound knowledge of Routing, Switching concepts and MPLS design.  • Good understanding of JUNOS platform and worked with IOS upgrade of Juniper devices.  • Provided firewall policy configuration and services with Juniper SRX 240 & 650 series.  • Extensive knowledge/experience in implementing, maintaining and troubleshooting LAN/WAN Network Security including NAT configuration, VPN, VLAN, Cisco Firewalls  • Experience with Cisco ACE, F5 (LTM) Load balancers to provide efficient switching and routing for local and global traffic.  • Worked on Cisco ACE, F5 LTM series like Viprion 2400 series Chassis with 2150 and 2250 blade series for the corporate applications load balancing and their availability  • Experience in creating Virtual Servers, Pools Members, Nodes, Profiles, Policies. Configuration of F5 iRules to manage traffic in any way according to the requirement Responsible for Cisco ASA firewall administration across global networks  • Experience in managing and securing remote access through designing and implementing various VPN technologies including IPSec and SSL  • Familiar with Cisco firewalls PIX 515 and ASA 5500series.  • Experience in Configuring Client-to- Site VPN using SSL Client on Cisco ASA 5520  • Configured Security policies including NAT, PAT, VPN, Route-maps and Access Control Lists  • Knowledge of Solarwinds Orion, NetMRI, SNMP network monitoring tools  • Maintaining and updating inventory of all network hardware, Management and Monitoring by use of SSH, Syslog, SNMP, QRadar, NTP  • Good team player, excellent communication skills, analytical skills and eagerness to learn new technologies. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Network Engineer State of Ohio - Columbus, OH November 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Configure and troubleshoot Cisco Routers and Switches such as Cisco ASR 1006, 6500, 4500, 3750, 2900, 1900 and Nexus 9K,7K, 5K, 2K.  • Configured OSPF, BGP, LDP, MP-BGP on Juniper M320 and Cisco CRS-1 in the Core  • Configure the VIPs in F5 and ACE for real traffic and monitoring that servers with probe messages. Implementing traffic filters using standard and extended access-lists, IP Prefix-lists, and Route Maps. Documenting the Visio's representing the current network designs.  • Installed enterprise-class Cisco and Palo Alto routers, switches, and firewalls.  • Configuration of Access List ACL (Std, Ext, Named) to allow users all over the company to access different applications and blocking others.  • Configuration of Juniper M320s as PE's, Cisco CRS-1 as Core, Cisco Catalyst 6500/7600 and Nexus 7010 as CE's  • Configuring and troubleshooting issues related to vrf, STP, RSTP and VLAN's allocation in Organization for maintaining Layer 2/3 Switching intact.  • Implemented Site-to-Site VPNs between ASA Firewall and Router  • Troubleshooting issues related to STP, RSTP and VLAN's allocation in Organization for maintaining Layer 2/3 Switching intact.  • Configure and troubleshoot the switches with L2 VLANs, L3 Vlans (SVI), Trunking, STP, RSTP, port aggregation & link negotiation.  • Responsible for Configuring SITE TO SITE VPN on Cisco ASA 5500 series firewall between Head office and Branch office.  • Configuring VSS to make two Nexus 7k switches to function as one logical switch  • Experience with configuring Nexus 2000 Fabric Extender (FEX) which acts as a remote line card (module) for the Nexus 7000.  • Involved in the configuration & troubleshooting of routing protocols: MP-BGP, OSPF, EIGRP, RIP, BGP v4. Configure and support Customer MPLS-VPN, VRF.  • Responsibilities also include technical documentation of all upgrades done.  • Trouble-Shooting the network issues using packet capture tools like Wireshark and wild packets. Network Engineer Big lots - Columbus, OH September 2016 to November 2017 Responsibilities:  • Configuration and troubleshooting of Cisco Routers and switches such as Cisco 6500, 4500, 7200, 7600 series devices  • Troubleshooting the Network Routing protocols (OSPF, BGP and MPLS VPN) during the Migrations and new client connections.  • Extensively worked on Cisco Routers, Switches  • Migrated L3VPN Traffic from Juniper M320's to Cisco CRS-1 with minimum disruption.  • Monitoring and configuring Cisco 7600 routers at lab data center for issues.  • Configuration of OSPFv3, BGPv6 on Juniper M and J Series Routers  • Installed enterprise-class Cisco and Palo Alto routers, switches, and firewalls  • Experience connecting a pair of VSS core switches to a pair of VSS distribution switches.  • Implemented security services, content filtering, and application-layer management using Palo Alto Firewalls.  • Primary responsibility is to design and deploy various network security & High Availability products like Cisco ASA other security products.  • Connecting VDC's using a pair of 10GE links configured as a vPC peer link.  • Implemented rules using Palo Alto Firewall (Zone based).  • Involved in the configuration & troubleshooting of routing protocols: MP-BGP, OSPF, EIGRP, RIP, BGP v4. Configure and support Customer MPLS-VPN, VRF.  • Configuring VSS to make two Nexus 7k switches to function as one logical switch  • Experience with configuring Nexus 2000 Fabric Extender (FEX) which acts as a remote line card (module) for the Nexus 7000.  • Managing traffic from a host passes through a N2K, through a N5K, and the travels to a Distr VDC at the main data center.  • Worked with vendors (Juniper, Cisco, etc) when issues arise and see it through all the way until issue is resolved or a bug has been identified and turned over to development  • Experience working with Cisco Nexus 2148 Fabric Extender and Nexus 7000 series to provide a Flexible Access Solution for data-center access architecture  • Experience configuring Virtual Device Context in Nexus 7010  • Experience in Configuring, upgrading and verifying the NX-OS operation system  • Configured IP access filter policies  • Configured and resolved various OSPF issues in an OSPF multi area environment.  • Configured and played with various BGP attributes such as Local Pref, MED, Extended Communities, Route-Reflector clusters, Route-maps and route policy implementation.  • Manage operational monitoring of equipment capacity/utilization and evaluate the need for upgrades; develop methods for gathering data needed to monitor hardware, software, and communications network performance. Configured BGP features such as as-override, Local preference, EBGP load balancing.  • Troubleshooting IOS related bugs based on past history and appropriate release notes. Work on different connection medium like Fiber and Copper Connectivity.  • Tested and implemented various BGP attributes such as Local Preference, MED, AS-PATH, Community, Extended community.  • Configure and troubleshoot the switches with L2 VLANs, L3 Vlans (SVI), Trunking, STP, RSTP, port aggregation & link negotiation.  • Configuring and troubleshooting issues related to STP, RSTP and VLAN's allocation in Organization for maintaining Layer 2/3 Switching intact.  • Implementing traffic filters using standard and extended access-lists, IP Prefix-lists, and Route Maps. Configure Routers/Switches with Vlan's, NAT/PAT and Access Lists. Network Administrator Safelite group - Columbus, OH May 2015 to August 2016 Responsibilities:  • Configure and troubleshoot Cisco Routers and Switches such as 6500, 4500, 3750, 2900, 1900 and Nexus 7K,5K, 2K.  • Configure and troubleshoot the Network Routing protocols (BGP, OSPF, and Static Routing) during the migrations and new client connections.  • Configure and troubleshoot the switches with L2 VLANs, Trunking, STP, RSTP, port aggregation & link negotiation.  • Worked on providing and bypassing authentication using Bluecoat servers for particular group of users.  • Responsible for analytics and troubleshooting large scale enterprise VOIP networks.  • Worked on configuring and troubleshooting the Fortinet 80cm and 90D routers.  • Maintaining all the store routers through Fortimanager and updating all of them remotely after business hours.  • Deploying ISE in wired environment to perform Dot1x port based authentication configure the Posture polices perform Change Of Authorization CoA for users connecting to the corporate network  • Worked on filtering HTTP/HTTPS requested according to security policy using ASM module in F5 and authentication through APM module.  • Configured Catalyst 4507R with dual supervisors 6E for redundancy.  • Worked on setting up branch router and switch upgrades by installing 2811/3824 routers with IPS, VPN, and Cisco Voice Over IP and Power over Ethernet switches using Cisco 3560, 3750 and 4507R.  • Implemented traffic classification and QoS policy actions on Cisco routers and switches.  • Configured remote desktops using Pulse Secure for the users across USA. Creating a group in Pulse Secure and assign same access to all the persons in the group.  • Worked on deploying firmware and configuration updates to all the Fortinet 80cm and Fortinet 90D routers through Fotimanager.  • Adding and making IP address reservations on Infoblox for the devices. Adding internal and external DNS entries and validating the changes after hours with the collaboration of Software team.    • Configure and troubleshoot the VDC, VPC, VPC+.  • Accomplished migration of old F5 Big 1000 platform to F5 LTM 3900 and 1600 platforms.  • Managing and configuring F5 LTM, ASM for Application Load Balancing  • Worked on configuring Aruba AP's across corporate building and maintain and monitor through the Airwave GUI.  • Worked on Infoblox for creating DNS entries, making reservations.  • Configuring and troubleshooting issues related to vrf, STP, RSTP and VLAN's allocation in Organization for maintaining Layer 2/3 Switching intact.  • Configure the VIPs in F5 for real traffic and monitoring that servers with probe messages.  • Documenting the Visio's representing the current network designs.    • Configure Cisco ACS server for User authentication using Cisco Radius and TACAS+ protocols.  • Configure the Simple Network Management Protocol (SNMP) for the monitoring and management of devices in a network. Network Consultant Limited Brands - Columbus, OH January 2014 to April 2015 Responsibilities:  • Configure and troubleshoot Cisco Routers and Switches such as Cisco ASR 1006, 6500, 4500, 3750, 2900, 1900 and Nexus 9K,7K, 5K, 2K.  • Configure and troubleshoot the Network Routing protocols (BGP, OSPF, and Static Routing) during the migrations and new client connections.  • Configure and troubleshoot the switches with L2 VLANs, L3 Vlans (SVI), Trunking, STP, RSTP, port aggregation & link negotiation.  • Configure and troubleshoot the VDC, VPC, VPC+, Fabric Path on Nexus 5K, 7K,9K.  • Designed the network for business partner extranet environment and maintain the business partner connections.  • Responsible for network monitoring tools, including Orion, HPNA and comprehensive infrastructure reporting.  • Configure the IPSec and MPLS-VPN tunnel for the Business Partner Extranet Environment.  • Work with business partners to gather the requirements for the IPSEC and MPLS tunnels and provide the recommendations for the MPLS circuits.  • Configuration of Juniper M320s as PE's, Cisco CRS-1 as Core, Cisco Catalyst 6500/7600 and Nexus 7010 as CE's  • Configuring and troubleshooting issues related to vrf, STP, RSTP and VLAN's allocation in Organization for maintaining Layer 2/3 Switching intact.  • Implemented OTV on Cisco Nexus 7K  • Support for loopback interfaces as OTV Join interfaces planned for a future NX-OS release.  • Configured OSPF, BGP, LDP, MP-BGP on Juniper M320 and Cisco CRS-1 in the Core  • Configure the VIPs in F5 and ACE for real traffic and monitoring that servers with probe messages. Implementing traffic filters using standard and extended access-lists, IP Prefix-lists, and Route Maps. Documenting the Visio's representing the current network designs.  • Configure Cisco ACS server for User authentication using Cisco Radius and TACAS+ protocols.  • Configure the Simple Network Management Protocol (SNMP) for the monitoring and management of devices in a network.  • Planning and configuring the entire IP addressing plan for the client's network. Verify the network flow analysis using CA Network Flow Analysis Tool.  • Troubleshoot network problems using Packet Analysis tools like Omni peek Wild packets and Wireshark. Follow process & procedures for change & configuration management.  • Substantial lab testing & validation prior to implementation of Business Partner Environment configurations in to the production Network Engineer Sun Trust Bank - Atlanta, GA June 2012 to December 2013 Responsibilities:  • Installed and configured Cisco ASR 1002, 7600, 7200 series router and Cisco 2950, 4500, 6500 Series switches.  • Configured network using routing protocols such as RIP, OSPF, BGP and troubleshooting L2/L3 issues.  • Mutual redistribution between RIP and OSPF in internal networks with specific requirements of client with on -demand routing.  • Configured of MPLS L2 VPN's, VPLS on Juniper M and J series Routers  • Configure, monitor and trouble-shoot National IP/MPLS backbone network.  • Implemented Site-to-Site VPNs between ASA Firewall and Router  • Troubleshooting issues related to STP, RSTP and VLAN's allocation in Organization for maintaining Layer 2/3 Switching intact.  • Manage all network and firewall devices to include Cisco routers, switches, Palo Alto Firewalls, Load Balancers. Ensure network, system and data availability and integrity through preventative maintenance and upgrade.  • Responsible for Configuring SITE TO SITE VPN on Cisco ASA 5500 series firewall between Head office and Branch office  • User authentication and resource allocation using Cisco ACS server using Radius and TACAS+ protocols for administrative control.  • Synchronization of Companies infrastructure with standard CST time zone using NTP server  • Communicating with internal customers and vendors via telephone and e-mail during troubleshooting, resolution and follow-up.  • Dealt with Cisco IP phones and VOIP devices and configured Voice VLAN's for Prioritizing voice on the network and did the documentation accordingly with changes..  • Documentation using MSOffice/Visio  • Provided recommendations on architectural changes and design enhancements to the infrastructure to improve reliability, performance, reduce cost, and anticipate company growth and acquisition.  • Performed switching technology administration including VLANs, inter-VLAN routing, Trunking, STP, RSTP, port aggregation & link negotiation  • Configuration of Access List ACL (Std, Ext, Named) to allow users all over the company to access different applications and blocking others.  • Responsibilities also include technical documentation of all upgrades done.  • Trouble-Shooting the network issues using packet capture tools like Wireshark and wild packets Network Administrator BIO Reference Labs - Elmwood Park, NJ May 2010 to April 2012 Responsibilities:  • Provided system support for the end client.  • One of the core members of the network team.  • Planning, designing, configuring and reviewing the network.  • Planning and designing of network infrastructure consisting of LAN/WAN.  • Designing LAN/WAN according to the requirements of the organization and governing with the help of communication protocols.  • Configured redundancy protocols such as HSRP, VRRP.  • Monitoring the network with the help of solarwinds and providing solutions for the issues occurred.  • Configured security features such as IPSEC VPN, TLS, and SSL.  • Managing the active directory of DNS and DHCP servers.  • Performed automated configuration backup to the tftp servers by scripting using Python.  • Troubleshooting the network problems to make sure for the maximum availability of the network and maintaining minimum downtime.  • Established WAN communication between branch offices using MPLS and redistributing the end routers with BGP protocol.  • Worked with the Nexus switches 2k, 5k, and 7k.  • Configured layer 3 protocols such as IGRP, BGP and monitored their functions.  • Applied ACLs for the internet access to the servers using Cisco 5550 ASA Firewall and also performed NAT.  • Experience in design, Deploying & Troubleshooting F5 Load Balancer Includes BIGIP Series 5050V, 10000V, 8900, 6900, and 3900.  • Hands on Experience in configuring F5 objects, components and provisioning various modules like LTM. GTM, ASM, APM  • Design & Installations from ground up of the F5 appliances and the solution delivery.  Good experience in redistribution, ACLs and Natting (dynamic)  • Troubleshooting the issues with the application owners hosted on the F5 environment in the 3- tier environments.  • Worked on solving logging issues of the F5 load balancer and how it works with the syslog servers making sure the communications go through the switches and routers.  • Worked as F5 load balancer engineer involving complete support day in and out work on the F5 load balancers LTMs, GTMs, EMs, ASM, and Firepass in Datacenter and remote functions.  • Installing and configuring Cisco VOIP SIP Phones desktop and smart phone clients.  • Assisted worldwide and VIP customers through advanced VoIP and network installations over phone and email.  • Troubleshooted VoIP device, network, and call issues with customers.  • Began integration of H.323 VoIP into current ATM network.  • Troubleshooting of network and VOIP related issues across LAN's, VLAN's and WAN's including packet sniffing with Wireshark Education voice Cisco UC Bachelor's Skills BGP (8 years), CISCO (8 years), MPLS (7 years), VPN (8 years), NEXUS (6 years), F5 Additional Information Technical Skills:    Cisco Router Platforms ASR 1000, 7600, 7200, 3800, 3600, 2800, 2600, 2500, 1800, series  Cisco Switch Platforms Nexus 9K,7K, 5K, 2K, 6500, 4900, 4500, 3750, 3500, 3300,2900, 1900 series.  Juniper Router Platforms M320, T640  Routing Protocols RIP, IGRP, EIGRP, OSPF, BGP, MPLS, and MPLS VPN.  L2 Protocols VTP, STP, RSTP, MSTP, ISL, 802.1q  Redundancy Protocols HSRP, GLBP  Load balancers F5, ACE  Firewalls Cisco ASA 5510, 5525, 5545  Cisco ACS Server management RADIUS, TACACS+  Network Management NETMRI, Solar Winds  Monitoring Tools SNMP, Syslog, HPNA  Troubleshooting Tools WireShark, Wild Packets Omni peek  Documentation MS office, MS Visio, MS Excel  Appliance Symmetricom (Microsemi) NTP appliances  Testing Tools IXIA.