Network Security Engineer <span class="hl">Network</span> Security Engineer Network Security Engineer - DHL Atlanta, GA A Network Security Engineer experience in design ,integrating and managing customer requirements and detailed oriented with strong troubleshooting skills. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Network Security Engineer DHL - Atlanta, GA April 2017 to Present • Install, configure, deploy, manage and document firewall infrastructures.  • Establish Palo Alto Site to Site VPN tunnel with filters, Access-list and NAT rule.  • Implement and administration of PAN-OS, Checkpoint Firewalls &Network Policy Management.  • Configure and maintained HA both in Check Point and Palo Alto NGFW.  • Configure IP-SEC VPN, and SSL-VPN (Mobile Access) on Check Point Gaia.  • Managed Check Point and Palo alto NG Firewalls, encryption VPN, TLS, and SSH technologies.  • Created policy and procedure documentation structure to ensure proper controls in logging, access and auditing.  • Managed VPN, Global Protect and Wildfire configurations and troubleshoot.  • Configured Dynamic, Static, and Manual NAT policies as required.  • Configured URL filtering to enable and/or disable user traffic access to unauthorized web sites.  • Backup, Restore and upgrade Check Point and Palo Alto firewalls.  • Configure, monitor and troubleshoot firewalls using CLI commands and GUI interface.  • Configure, implement and troubleshoot IPSec, SSL and remote access VPN.  • Implement high-availability (failover) configuration for security management reliability.  • Understanding of Cisco switching and routing configuration.  • Planning, designing and implementing palo alto firewalls. Network Engineer KLLM LLC January 2015 to March 2017 • Installed, configured and maintained Palo Alto PA200, PA220, PA500, PA3020 and PA5020 firewalls.  • Configured new routes for new endpoints into Palo Alto Firewalls.  • Palo Alto Management server HA for fail-over to ensure network reliability.  • Performed network monitoring, block or allow traffic on the firewall based on rules.  • Configured, maintained and analyses firewall logs using various tools.  • Performed firewall rule audit and advice on improvement and optimization.  • Comprehensive understanding of routing and switching configuration.  • VPN, Global Protect and Wildfire configuration and result interpretation.  • Monitored, troubleshot, configured, and deployed LAN/WAN solution.  • Network assessment and documentation (including technical, operational assessment).  • Remotely connected to end-user computers to troubleshoot network issues and VPN.  • Drafted documents to outline procedures for IP addressing scheme and network subnet.  • PC/LAN support in an Ethernet based TCP/IP (DCHP & Static IP allocation)  • Maintained leverage of routers data processing, switches bandwidth control through VLAN configuration and routed network with the use of routing protocol.  • Configured, administered and document firewall infrastructures - Check Point, Palo Alto.  • Installed, configured and troubleshoot Fortinet firewalls.  • Fortinet FortiGate NGFW appliances 1500D, 1200D at the data center as well as Fortinet 300, 500 at regional office locations managed through FortiManager. Firewall Administrator RCCG GLOBAL January 2012 to August 2014 • Worked extensively on Fortigate firewalls.  • Installed, configured firewall rules and troubleshoot fortinet firewalls.  • Managed fortinet firewalls and monitored all incoming and outgoing traffic.  • Installing, configuration and troubleshooting network routers, switches and security devices.  • Thorough understanding of network and routing protocols such as TCP/IP, DNS, DHCP, OSPF, RIPV2, EIGRP and BGP.  • Able to ensure a high level of customer satisfaction.  • Ability to read, analyze and interpret technical instruction and manuals.  • Documenting network configuration and operational procedures.  • Comprehensive understanding of subnetting, IP Addressing and OSI models.  • Performing the daily monitoring of the networks health and status.  • Building relationships with the technical staff of key customers. Education Bsc. Atlanta Metropolitan State College 2018 Bsc Ekiti State University 2014 Skills CISCO, FIREWALLS, NETWORKING, TCP/IP, EIGRP, OSPF, SWITCHING, TCP, VPN, SSL, IPSEC, COMMAND LINE INTERFACE, CHECKPOINT, LAN Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/segun-oyedara