Network Administrator II <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> II Network Administrator II - Discount Tire Work Experience Network Administrator II Discount Tire - Scottsdale, AZ August 2018 to Present • Administered Cisco Unified Call Manager Voice (Systems version 8.5, 10.5, 11.5)  • Administered Cisco Unity Connection (System version 11.5)  • Troubleshot Cisco Call Manager and telephone problems for over 1200 location (9000 phones systems)  • Setup and configured Informacast paging system  • Upgrade IDF Access switches: firmware, and configure 2960, 3650, 3750, 4510, 9410, Nexus 56128  • Consolidated enterprise CUCM clusters version 8.5 to 10.5.  • Port number from PSTN to Voip working with local provider and ATT to put request through and setup the porting. Updating phones configuration in Call Manager to reflect BVoip and point to the SIP Trunks rather than local 2911 analog router.  • Setup 2911 to be a voice converter while the rest of the site network run on SD WAN broadband network  • Setup vendor calls recording QMS system through CUCM, where phones replicated the audio and sent copy of the call to the recording server.  • Using CUCAM CAR to run reporting for nodes and called/calling numbers as requested by managers.  • Upgrade CUBE IOS on routers C3945  • Upgraded UCS servers C240, C260 firmware's through lunching KVM in CIMC.  • Worked with ATT to created new BOE for the building to reflect the exact address for emergency calls. Created new router pattern, CSS and partitions to accommodate the new setup for 911 calls.  • Research and create calls route diagrams documentation for CUCM clusters  • Upgrade IDF switches from 3750 to CAT9400  • Migrated collaboration licenses to Flex  • Administer WebEx accounts and created documentation to assist customers learning how to use WebEx.  • Setup and managed firewalls rules in ASA, PaloAlto, and Websense.  • Setup VPN IPSec tunnel between vendor and ASA firewall through ASDM.  • Setup Merki routers MX100, MX65 and switches MS120, MS220 at location and configured them on Meraki Dashboard. Create networks in organization, claim equipment and configure them into the network.  • Setup and configured Meraki access point MR33, MR64 at corporate building.  • Document procedures and create Visio Diagrams to represent network setup and future implementations. Network Administrator I Discount Tire - Scottsdale, AZ January 2017 to July 2018 • Converted 30 location analog phone system to BVoip and save the company $150,000+/year  • Configured and setup Enghouse CCE application sip trunks in CUCM such as call center app and call recording.  • Upgrade/replaced Access switches: firmware and configure 2960, 3650, 3750, 4510,  • Ported Combined CUCM cluster 8.0, users, phones, and created appropriate route plan configuration needed for the new lines added to cluster CUCM 10.5  • Resolved Escalated CUCM routing patterns call issues such as trunks down, or phone issues, at store and corporate clusters  • Run report in CUCM through CAR to determine users call pattern.  • Configured and setup route trunk in CUCM for third party conference application such as Zoom Rooms. Worked with vendor and user to ensure connectivity and troubleshoot firewall issues.  • Converted/uploaded MOTD as well as setup store call routing in Cisco CVP  • Setup store call route in CVP SQL to ensue calls are translated correctly to the 5 digit extension and pointed to the correct store setup.  • Research and create calls route diagrams for all 4 CUCM clusters.  • Setup SPAN on 3750 switches to send calls traffic to CCE QMS server/application  • Configuring/troubleshoot corporate floater switches 2960, 3750  • Upgrade IDF switches from 3750 to 4510R+E. Created configuration on new switches to match the old port configuration. Worked with PCC to order IDF equipment needed and supervised the physical upgrade of the IDF patch panels.  • Configure firewall in Sidewinder, Palo Alto and ASA through ASDM.  • Setup/ configured and installed 4 hotline phones for data center for emergencies.  • Created Visio diagrams documentation for to represent current CUCM cluster systems. Documented systems backup procedure as well as other procedures. Discount Tire - Scottsdale, AZ March 2016 to January 2017 Take ownership of escalated store issue calls/ emails and open Service Now tickets on their portal. Troubleshoot the issue and escalate to tier 3 if issue can't be resolved.  • Open ATT ticket directly on ATT web portal to resolve T1 Circuit issues for stores and ensure resolution in timely manner. Work with ATT or local provider field technician to trouble shoot the circuit issue and resolve it as quick as possible. Also escalate the ATT ticket via portal or calling agents.  • Configure and troubleshoot ATT Netgate as store network circuit backup system.  • Configure 2911 routers and 2960 switch for new stores, as well as break and fixes.  • Setup/delete and troubleshoot Cisco phone 7960 - 7965 models in Corporate Call Manager version 10.5  • Setup/ delete users/ phones in Store call manager cluster version 8.5  • Setup new stores phone system in call manager such as route pattern, CSS, Partitions, pool, Location, create store user profile as wells as phone profile for models 6941and 7841. Ensure phone gets registered.  • Order/claim/configure/trouble shoot Meraki access points at stores and corporate buildings.  • Create VPN Safenet account for corporate remote users and work with user to setup MobilePASS app on device. Trouble shoot VPN issues and resync tokens. Service Desk Analyst Discount Tire - Scottsdale, AZ February 2015 to March 2016 • Taking calls and open Service Now system tickets for system access and applications. In addition, document the ticket with the whole trouble shoot process and resolution for reference purposes.  • Escalating trouble ticket to the appropriate next tier team to troubleshoot further and resolve  • Ordered desktop computer, remotely guided user to setup and configured the application needed on the PC.  • Troubleshoot desktop physical/application issues remotely such as POS, SAP, Internet Explorer, Chrome, vendor websites, Lotus Notes emails accounts, Microsoft Office application, and PDF.  • Ordered and remotely setup Algo Paging system, as well as the connection to the bay-horn issue.  • Order Meraki access point for new stores as well as break and fixes. Worked with Accucode vendor to configure the AP ports on the 2960 switches. Used the Meraki dashboard to assign the AP to the correct network and setup static configuration in the corresponding subnet.  • Opened ATT Compucom ticket to troubleshoot T1 circuit issues such as being down at the store location. Accessed 2911 routers to discover/analyze the cause of circuit down. Work with store employee to reset cables and trouble shoot accordingly.  • Schedule PCC site visit to test cable issues and run cables for new setup re-run damaged cables.  • Ordered new OKI printers, Zebra receipt printers and configured them on their corresponding web portal to connect online and to the network. Guided store employee to trouble shoot printer issues and determine the damaged part and order it through Asset Management department.  • Reset Users Workday, Kronos, and email password Service network Analyst Ashley's furniture - Glendale, AZ May 2014 to February 2015 • Provide technical support on-site, phone calls and emails.  • Escalated questions and issues to the next level to get the issues resolved in timely manager  • Setup credential of new users as well as deleting credentials of terminated employee.  • Installed new desktop systems for users in different department and endures user logged in successfully and got all they needed.  • Installing/resolving issue with printers and print jobs  • Run patch cables and terminated the cables with RJ45 to install Access point at offices.  • Setup a complete sales station with desktop, credit card machine and printer and ran all cables to patch panel and patched it with the access switchs.l  • Answered questions regard application product features and resolve user problems.  • Remote/VNC to desktop/laptops to resolved client's software/hardware issues such as Microsoft Office application and Windows OS issues.  • Remote/VNC to servers and check the status to ensure all the services are in progress  • Backed up systems to ensure proper systems recovery if emergency occurs Education Pure Mathematics University of Illinois at Chicago - Chicago, IL 2006 to 2008 Bachelor of Science Northeastern Illinois University - Chicago, IL May 2006 Associate in Arts Oakton Community College - Des Plaines, IL May 2004 Certifications/Licenses CCNA Routing and Switching May 2017 to May 2020