Network Engineer <span class="hl">Network</span> Engineer Network Engineer - Interline Brands, Inc Bensalem, PA • 7+ years of experience in Information Technology as System/ Network Administrator and IT technician.  • Hands-on experience in configuring and troubleshooting ASR 1000, Cisco 4000, 3800, 2800, 1900 series ISR routers and Cisco Catalyst 2960, 3750, 3850, 3550, 6500 switches.  • Experience configuring and troubleshooting BGP, EIGRP, OSPF, and RIP.  • Experience configuring and troubleshooting route filtering using route-map, prefix-list and using ACL.  • Hands-on experience in configuring Policy-based routing.  • Hands-on experience in HP switches including H3C A5800, 5700, 5900 and HP Procurve switches.  • Configuration and troubleshooting experience on Nexus 5K and 7K switches.  • Cisco ASA firewall configuration and troubleshooting using CLI and ASDM.  • Hands-on experience on Cisco ASA firewall ACL and NAT configuration.  • Working knowledge of Site-to-site IPSec VPN, Remote access VPN using ASDM.  • Hands-on experience configuring Dynamic and Static NAT.  • DMVPN and GRE configuration over IPsec.  • LAN redundancy using Cisco proprietary HSRP and industrial standard VRRP.  • Knowledge of implementing and troubleshooting complex layer 2 technologies such as VLAN Trunk/Tagged, VTP, Ether channel, STP, PVST, RSTP, and MST. Implementation of HSRP, VRRP for Default Gateway Redundancy.  • AAA configuration on routers and switches using TACACS+ and Radius.  • Hands-on experience to support high-end servers in Data Center on their network connectivity, hardware troubleshooting, and replacement.  • Network Automation using Python. Add and remove the configuration from the Cisco switch and router.  • Installation and administration experience of network monitoring software like SolarWinds, Manage Engine, and PRTG.  • Extensive experience in Windows server 2016, 2012 R2 installation, configuration, and troubleshooting.  • DNS and DHCP configuration on Windows Server 2016 and 2012 R2.  • Involved in troubleshooting of DNS, DHCP, and other IP conflict problems.  • Excellent in creating and updating network documentation using Visio 2016/2013.  • Experience in handling Active Directory Services, Active Directory Group Policy Objects (GPO), Group Policy Management Console (GPMC), DHCP, DNS, WINS and File Server for Windows Server 2016 / 2012 R2.  • Maintain infrastructure-related documents and update changes when required.  • Set up backup servers for DHCP, DNS, and Print servers for Business Continuity.  • Successfully setup WSUS service to provide regular updates to high-end servers and end-user systems.  • Prepared and maintained knowledge-based documents for ease support to end-users and teammates.  • Excellent customer management/resolution, problem-solving, debugging skills and capable of quickly learning, effectively analyzes results and implement and delivering solutions as an individual and as part of a team. Work Experience Network Engineer Interline Brands, Inc - Mount Laurel, NJ November 2016 to Present • Configure Cisco Routers (ASR 1001, ISR 4400, 4300 series, 1900 & 800 Series small business routers), Cisco switches (2960, 2960X, 3750, 3850).  • Troubleshoot BGP, EIGRP and OSPF configuration.  • Based on the request, modify ACL on ASA firewall.  • Troubleshoot the Network issue.  • Network automation like configuration removes and push using Python.  • HSRP, track interface using IP SLA.  • Configure and install Sprint 3G/4G modem and troubleshoot remotely.  • Configure and troubleshoot wireless access points including lightweight, Cisco mobility Express and Standalone (Cisco CAPWAP 3800, 2800 and 1600 Series Access Points).  • Hands-on Experience on 1852-K9C using Cisco Mobility Express and redundancy between two access points using VRRP.  • Hands-on experience on Opmanager monitoring tool and push configuration using Device Expert remotely.  • Stack configuration on Cisco 3750 and 3850 devices.  • Schedule and participate in weekly meetings with various teams on the issue or new project requirement discussion.  • Network performance monitoring using Opmanager and Device expert.  • Administering Opmanager in NPM, NCM, NetFlow, Virtualization and IPAM. System/ Network Administrator Tata Consultancy Services - Suwanee, GA November 2014 to November 2016 • Configure VRRP between VLANs, Configuring Ether-Channels and Port-Channel on catalyst 6500.  • Deploying and decommissioning Cisco switches and their respective software upgrades.  • Working experience on Cisco Nexus 5k and 7k data center switches.  • Maintained complex LAN/WAN networks with several VLANs and provided support for routing protocols.  • Troubleshoot the Network Issues onsite and remotely depending on the severity of the issues.  • Support Data Center migration Projects.  • ITIL based Service Delivery and Management.  • Hands-on experience on HP IMC firmware upgrade on a single router and IRF (Intelligent Resilient Framework) cluster switches.  • Performed Break Fix support through driving to different buildings, identifying the root cause of the hardware issues with switches, routers.  • Created Visio detail network diagram of lab network using Cisco Discovery Protocol.  • Hands-on experience on Solar winds and Aruba network management and monitor.  • Configured switch port security for end-users connecting to switches.  • Involved in L2/L3 Switching Technology Administration including creating and managing VLANs, Port security, Trunk/Tagged, STP, Inter-VLAN routing, LAN security.  • Responsible rack mounts and set up physical connectivity on switches in Data Center.  • Hands-on experience to configure iLO and iDRAC for high-end servers.  • Hardware troubleshooting experience on HP and Dell enclosures and blades like HP C7000, Dell M915, 815, 515 servers and Chassis.  • Responsible to deploy OS using pxekick utility via network boot.  • Configured different HDD RAID on System for better performance.  • Knowledge of reset iLO/iDRAC password for Enclosure and Server.  • Monitor Integrated Management Logs on systems to verify system health and hardware issue.  • Hands-on experience on Linux flavors to troubleshoot configured NIC IP address and bash scripting.  • Managed IPs, subnet and gateway using QIP.  • Created and removed QIP entries for the host as per user's request.  • Adding nodes in SolarWinds, NCM configuration for network devices.  • SNMP troubleshooting for network devices in Solarwinds.  • Hands-on experience on the configuration of HP IMC and upgrade. System/ Network Administrator Tata Consultancy Services - Troy, MI August 2012 to October 2014 • I was supporting around 250+ TCS users who were working for GM, Chrysler, Delphi, Boeing, and Ford.  • Responsible for second/third level support for all servers and the user's system.  • Participated in the complete system builds, upgrades, migrations and patch management.  • Configured DNS, DHCP, File System, and Print Server services on Windows 2008 R2 and Windows 2012 R2 hardware.  • Configured backup servers of DHCP and Print server with regular BCP test.  • For server security, I was responsible to complete VA test for servers using McAfee VA tool.  • Monitoring security and system logs for servers every day.  • Configured file server for users to back up their data and created different quotas for regular and senior users.  • Regular incremental backup and full back up of the file server.  • Maintaining monthly reports as per company requirement.  • Successfully created Windows image for various Workstation and laptop machines as per company policy.  • Configured WSUS service to apply regular patches on servers and user systems.  • To keep consistency in all user's system with the same OS, I have created Windows Image (.wim) and deployed using PXE in new systems.  • Maintained software inventory and to track install the software in the user's system, I have installed LAN Sweeper utility which monitors and pull details from user's system over the network.  • Successfully configured Microsoft Baseline Security Analyzer to monitor VA on user's system.  • Upgraded Cisco switches 2960, 3750 with latest IOS.  • Configured remote software deployment on the network using Microsoft PSTools.  • Configuration and troubleshooting experience on MS Outlook, Communicator, Lync, Lotus Notes, and Sametime communicator. Engineer Elitecore Technology - Edison, NJ April 2012 to August 2012 • Maintains, analyzes, troubleshoots, and repairs computer systems, hardware, and computer peripherals.  • Documents, maintains, upgrades or replaces hardware and software systems.  • Works under immediate supervision.  • Provides updates, status, and completion information according to published procedures. Enters and completes problem ticket information via the approved tracking system. Logs all repairs and services performed; prepares progress reports.  • Administered change management related to server upgrades and software installation.  • Prepared and maintained documentation of technologies, standards, and procedures.  • Administered/provided troubleshooting for Lotus Notes and MS Outlook.  • Provided first and second level support to users.  • Monitored server performance using open-source utility.  • Created user account in active directory and tagged workstation to the domain. IT Technician Tesco Pvt Ltd - Leicester June 2008 to August 2010 • Supports activities assigned by the help desk, network services, or other information systems groups.  • Refers to hardware problems to the manufacturer for correction.  • Worked under immediate supervision.  • Provided first level support to users.  • Evaluates complex issues that affect a high number of users. Utilizing varies tools, services, applications and deep knowledge to address/resolve user issues  • Attempts to maximize first-level problem resolution and ensures that all issues are resolved to customer satisfaction.  • Resolving call within SLA time.  • Provided remote support to users.  • Patch management and maintain its monthly report.  • Installing and upgrading software through the management console.  • Creation of user in active directory.  • Password reset and account unlock for users. Education MSc in Computer System Engineering University of East London - East London 2006 to 2007 Bachelors in Computer Applications in Computer Applications S. P. University - Gujarat, IN 2001 to 2004