Network Administrator <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Network Engineer - Porter Hedges LLP Houston, TX • Deep understanding of networking protocols as defined by the OSI model.  • Accurate interpretation of packet flow and handling over the LAN and WAN (ISP) networks achieving minimal to none existent latency, fine tuning of protocols for redundancy and recovery, and continuous service with minimal down time.  • Management and troubles-shooting of a multivendor network environment with IEEE and proprietary technologies and protocols at layers 1, 2, 3, 4 and 7 of the OSI model.  • Great sense on urgency during and after a high priority issue along with accurate written and verbal capabilities to develop the topic/nature of the emergency.  • Experienced in designing and deployment of networks software and hardware resiliency.  • Critical and analytical thinking for proactive and reactive disasters and outages.  • Deep and accurate understanding of IP packet routing at layer 2 and 3.  • Experienced in network security policies, protocols and procedures.  • Supported a large-scale network in a high demand environment. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Network Administrator Porter Hedges LLP - Houston, TX April 2019 to Present • Hardware installation and troubleshooting  • Shell scripting (Bash / PowerShell)  • Assist with security audit and compliance tasks  • Experience with Linux servers in virtualized environments  • Familiarity with load balancing, firewalls, NAT.  • Ability to build and monitor services on production servers  • Familiarity with the following: Cisco products, Aruba, Network Monitoring Tools, Windows Domain, Active Directory, DNS, SSH, Telnet, DHCP, VLANS, & RADIUS, Microsoft Active Directory, Microsoft Member Servers, NAS Storage environment. Junior Network Engineer Knight Security July 2017 to April 2019 • Responsible for preparing, planning and designing networks for new clients based on business requirements.  • Installed, configured and service, routers, switches, wireless systems, servers, access control and intrusion systems.  • Monitored and administered systems and made recommendations to senior managers regarding hardware replacement, upgrades and new installations required.  • Maintained core security technologies at Layer 1, 2 and 3, installed, troubleshoot, and monitored network devices to maintain integrity, confidentiality and availability of data and hardware. Network Security Technician Nexlar March 2016 to July 2017 • Designed, installed, configured and service, computer hardware/software, routers, switches, Wireless Ethernet systems, IP Cameras, servers.  • Maintain the core security technologies, the installation, troubleshooting and monitoring of network devices to maintain integrity, confidentiality and availability of data and devices, and competency in the technologies that Cisco uses in its security structure.  • Establishes networking environment by designing system configuration; directing system installation; defining, documenting, and enforcing system standards.  • Maximizes network performance by monitoring performance; troubleshooting network problems and outages; scheduling upgrades; collaborating with network architects on network optimization Voice/Data Technician TradeSTAR Inc September 2015 to March 2016 • Establish voice and data networks by running, pulling, terminating, and splicing cables; installing telecommunications equipment, routers, switches, multiplexors, cable trays, and alarm and fire-suppression systems; building ironwork and ladder racks; establishing connections; programming features; establishing connections and integrations; following industry standards.  • Verifies voice and data connectivity through the testing of circuits, equipment, and alarms; identifying, troubleshooting, correcting, or escalating problems.  • Provide installation for customers IT hardware including but not limited to: PC, Printers, servers, network switches. Junior Network Engineer Oil Refinery, Camilo Cienfuegos September 2009 to June 2015 • Maintain and manage the use of LAN, WAN, computer workstations and peripheral equipment.  • Install and configure computers, network devices, and servers.  • Install and configure network components and assisted in the implementation of designed network configuration.  • Monitor network equipment; provided technical solution to senior managers regarding hardware replacement, upgrades and new installations required. Education Northern Alberta Institute of Technology 2014 Post Graduate diploma Central University Marta Abreu 2013 Bachelor of Science Telecommunications and Informatics Central University Marta Abreu 2009 Skills Accounting (Less than 1 year), Active directory (4 years), Authentication (Less than 1 year), Bgp (Less than 1 year), Cabling (Less than 1 year), Ccna (3 years), Cisco (3 years), Eigrp (Less than 1 year), Firewall (Less than 1 year), Ghost (Less than 1 year), Ieee (Less than 1 year), integration (Less than 1 year), Integrator (Less than 1 year), Ipv6 (Less than 1 year), Lan (5 years), Lan/wan (3 years), Network security (1 year), optimization (1 year), Security (3 years), wireless (3 years), Windows, Technical Support, Networking, Vmware, Customer Service, Windows 7, Microsoft Office Additional Information Areas of expertise include: Cabling Optimization, CCNA Security, CCNA R&S, LAN/WAN Strategies, Cisco Routers & Switches, Network Administration, Network Security, Team Building/Leadership, Process Optimization.    TECHNICAL SKILLS  • Switches Cisco 29xx, 35xx, 36xx, Cisco Routers 38xx, Cisco 2800, 2600, HP Procurve 5400, 325 Aruba AP's, Aruba Wireless controller 7220, Zyxell GS22xx, Ubiquiti, Server HP ProLiant DL180, DL80, Dell Power Edge R70, T410, T610.  • Administrative and Remote Tools: Active Directory, Print Servers, Wireshark, LogMeIn, TeamViewer and DameWare Utilities, Putty, MS Active Directory, Wireshark, Software Image (Ghost) (Acronis), Virtualizations Software: Windows Server 2008, 2012R2, 2016, VMware. Aruba and Cisco Enterprise Wi-Fi solutions.  Routing: Static, Default, Dynamic Routing Protocols like RIP, EIGRP, OSPF, BGP, GRE, IPv6 Route Filtering, Redistribution, Summarization.  Switching: VLAN, VTP, STP, PVSTP+, MST, Ether channel, LACP, PAgP, PVLAN, IEEE 802.1X, 802.1Q, Layer-2 security (VACL).  Firewall: NAT, ACL, Firewall Clusters, Firewall management, ASA, ASDM, VPN: Site-Site VPN, Remote Access VPN, DMVPN, AAA (Authentication, Authorization, Accounting), RADIUS, TACACS+, ISE.  Web Security: URL filtering, bandwidth management, malware protection, AD integration, Proxy authentication.  Servers: Basic Knowledge about Microsoft Active Directory, Windows Server 2008-2016.