Network Engineer <span class="hl">Network</span> Engineer Los Angeles, CA Work Experience Network Engineer CSS July 2018 to Present Configured VPC - Subnets, Route-table, Security Groups, Network ACL  Configured Transit and Spoke VPC in AWS  Configure AWS Direct Connect and Direct Connect Gateway  Build Fortinet Firewall and Add to Fortimanager  Create and Modify firewall rules  Analyze and Troubleshoot Network Problems.    Cisco / Meraki  Configure VPC on Nexus 9K  Configure Meraki Switches  Monitor Switch and Wireless Network Network and Security Engineer American Society of Composers, Authors, and Publishers - Manhattan, NY July 2016 to July 2018 Responsibilities Include:    Project Management  Task with building relocation network design ( LAN, WAN, MPLS, Wireless)  Coordinate with service providers for new location  Coordinate with vendors to order equipment for new location  Coordinate with different teams to ensure successfully transition in to new building.  Help develop and implement cloud migration strategy from data centers.  Help in design of cloud application architecture    Security  Vulnerability Scanning with Qualys  Patching Systems with IBM BigFix  Generating Weekly Security Reports    Amazon Cloud Infrastructure  Configured VPC - Subnets, Route-table, Security Groups, Network ACL  Configured Site to Site VPN with Checkpoint to AWS Virtual Gateway  Configured Direct Connect Connection - Configured Cisco ASR router to AWS Direct Connect Gateway  Configured Public and Private Virtual Interfaces for Direct Connect Connection  Configure VPC peering in AWS  Configured and Managed Virtual F5 and Virtual Checkpoint in AWS Cloud.  Configure and Provision S3 Buckets  Configure CloudTrail and Audit Logs  Troubleshoot Network Connectivity with VPC (Security Groups, Network ACL, VPC Flowlogs, etc  Create and Modify Terraform Scripts for our AWS Environment    Checkpoint Firewall  Configuring and update checkpoint firewall rules and policies.  Upgrading checkpoint firewalls from standalone to high availability cluster.  Creating and Modifying Checkpoint Threat Prevention Policy.  Configured Site to Site VPN with Checkpoint Firewalls.  Upgrade Checkpoint R77.10 to R77.30  Upgrade Management Server to R80.10    F5  Create or modify existing virtual servers, pools, and members.  Updating and modifying irule data groups  Upgrading F5 HA physical appliance to new HA physical appliance version  Modifying existing and creating new irules    Wireless  Configure new cisco access points and add them to the WLC  Configure New WLAN names and SSID on WLC  Block Devices from Guest Wireless from WLC    Switches / Router  Configure new cisco stackwise switches, and replace old switches  Configure vPC on the Nexus 5000 and 9000  Configure Cisco 3850 access switches  Configure vlans, access ports, stp, etc  Configure static routes on switches and routers.    Monitoring  Monitoring devices with solarwinds.  Configuring new devices in to solarwinds  Monitor and Act on security alerts in Dell Secureworks. Operations Engineer FTI Consulting December 2015 to August 2016 Length of Experience: 3 months  Depth of Experience: Responsible for installation, configuration and monitoring FTI Data Center  environment.    Responsibilities include:  • Network Monitoring with Microsoft SCCM and Solarwinds Orion  • Configure Portgroups, Memory and Hard Disk Expansion using Vmware Vcenter  • Perform Change Request on servers and other network devices.  • Configuration of Cisco Catalyst 3750, 4500, and 6500 series platforms.  • Configuration of Cisco Nexus 7k Devices  • Configuration of Port Channel Groups ( Vmhost to Switch)  • Configure Firewall Rules on Cisco ASA Devices  • Configure Firewall Rules on Checkpoint Firewall  • Server Patching using LANDesk Management  • Configuration and Management of Virtual Host using Vsphere  • Troubleshooting Server and Network Alert  • Vulnerability Assessment (Nessus)  • Configured and Managed Port Security on Cisco switches  • Rack and Unrack Servers in the Data Center  • Cabling Network Devices Operations Engineer FTI Consulting December 2015 to July 2016 Network Engineer / Network Administrator National Library of Medicine July 2013 to December 2015 Network Engineer/ Network Administrator, NLM Office of Computer & Communications Systems (OCCS)    Dates: 07/13 - 12/15  Length of Experience: 2 years, 5 months  Depth of Experience:  Proven proficient in installing, configuring, and troubleshooting interconnected small systems in the  NLM environment.    Responsibilities include:  • Configuration of Cisco Catalyst 3750, 4500, and 6500 series platforms.  • Support over 1200 users, on-site and remote  • Configuration and Management of Vsphere Virtual Machines (VMware ESXi)  • PC Reimaging, configuration, and data migration (Altiris).  • Vulnerability Assessment (Nessus)  • Managed Multiple Switches and Routers  • Configured and Managed Port Security on Cisco switches  • Patch Management and Maintenance (WSUS Server and • Data Back & Recovery.  • Data Encryption and Decryption (Symantec Pointsec).  • Editing and updating Group Policy Objects (Active Directory).  • TCP / IP, DNS, DHCP troubleshooting and configuration.  • Outlook and SharePoint Troubleshooting.  • Configure Antivirus & Juniper VPN Clients (Windows / Mac X OS).  • Installing and Configuring Network Printers.  • Assist remote users using Bomgar Remote Desktop Client.  • Setting up local and network printers  • Deploying and installing new PCS and peripherals Helpdesk Analyst Telesis Corporation January 2013 to July 2013 Helpdesk analyst on a team supporting numerous federal agencies.  Dates: 01/13 - 07/13  Length of Experience: 0 years, 6 months  Depth of Experience:  Responsible for providing technical support over the phone to over 70 Government agencies. Provide  remote user support ranging from hardware to software issues.    Responsibilities included:  • Answer a high volume of phone calls.  • Create and document trouble tickets using a ticketing system  • Assist users to configure Internet browser settings.  • Provide step-by-step assistance to the user for installing and configuring software.    Helpdesk Analyst  Minute Copy Computer Repairs  November 2009 to January 2013  Dates: 11/09 - 01/13  Length of Experience: 3 years, 11 months  Depth of Experience:  Responsible for installation, configuration, troubleshooting, and repair involving numerous COTS  workstations, operating systems, and applications for hundreds of customers. Demonstrate knowledge and experience with a wide array of COTS hardware and software applications.    Responsibilities included:  • Perform complete computer system diagnostics.  • Update desktop /PC software.  • Provide one-on-one support in store and over the phone.  • Networking multiple computers.  • Hardware installation for desktop/PC.  • Virus clean-up.  • Data back-up / data recovery.  • Laptop screen / keyboard replacements. Education Bachelor's of Science in Criminal Justice University of Maryland Eastern Shore Masters in Cyber Security University of Maryland University College Skills CISCO (5 years), BGP (3 years), CCNA (4 years), CCNP (5 years), OSPF (Less than 1 year), Active Directory, Security, DNS, Vmware Additional Information Cisco Certified Network Associate (CCNA)  June 2015 to June 2018  CCNA R&S  Cisco Certified Network Professional (CCNP)  June 2018 to June 2021  CCNP R&S  Cisco Certified Network Associate (CCNA)  June 2015 to June 2018  Cisco CCNA Security  Certified Ethical Hacker (CEH)  March 2018 to Present 