System Administrator System <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Tempe, AZ Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience System Administrator Zippertubing - Chandler, AZ March 2017 to Present Duties  • Administer for multiple headquarters and multiple production plants; over 100 workstations, 35 virtual servers and 8 Physical servers.   • Designed and sourced server to replace our FreePBX phone server, Configure it and tested with Local calls.  • Scripted power shell to let users know when there passwords would expire and let IT know when a users account gets locked.    • Sourced and set up 30 workstations on limited budget at each production station. Work with Dev on creating a program to set blinkstick square to display status of station.   • Designed and implemented a way to mass deploy workstations to the production floor.   • Designed and built a custom computer for high end video editing.   • Maintain network, servers, workstations and system security.  • Disaster and recovery back up plan for the two offices with failover.   • Maintained a 99.9% server update SLA.  • Audited, updated and documented; networks, servers, workstations, email systems, security measures, and backup plans in order to provide an assessment and suggest improvements.  • Designed and implemented network infrastructure.   • Setup Dev servers for Development of web servers and Enterprise Resource Planning software.   • More  Accomplishments  • Team lead for self audit and implementation to meet NIST 800-171 and PCI DSS compliance.  • Implementation of SIEM with 3rd party Total security management.   • Designed and implemented of 10gig fiber backbone to increase network speed and latency.  • Upgraded ESXi server from 5.0 to 6.5 and increased resources for high availability/failover.  • Sourced and implementation of Zerto for replication with failover between sites ESXi.  • Designed and implemented ISCSI nas to off load replication from San storage.   • Upgraded SAN and decommissioned the old one.   • Designed and implemented a wireless mesh network for office and production floor. Systems Administrator Marsoner Inc - Tempe, AZ January 2014 to March 2017 Duties  • The only System administrator for a retail company. Handling 18 stores and home office IT needs, Issues/Demands/upgrades.  • Responsible for setup and termination of users account.   • Support LANs, WANs, Vlan network segments, Internet, and intranet systems.  • Maintain and ensure optimal system efficiency, ensuring that the design of system allows all components to work properly together. Make recommendations for future upgrades.  • Management of critical large scale projects, like upgrading to EMV compatible credit card machines.   • Troubleshoot and repair problems reported by users.  • Maintain network and system security.  • Disaster and recovery back up plan for the Home office and stores.   • Troubleshoot, install and take care of Point of Sales system.  • Ensure reports run and pull as they are set up to, in order to maintain proper data at store and company level.  • Travel to stores in Arizona and Colorado as needed to address software, workstation, server, and network issues that cannot be resolvable remotely.  • Ensure that camera systems in all stores are working properly, pulling information from them in emergency situations where theft or break in was suspected.  • Worked directly with CFO and CEO on business project planning, design and implementation.  • Work directly with the CFO on creating daily SQL reports.  • Audit networks, servers, workstations, email systems, security measures, and backup plans in order to provide an assessment and suggest improvements.  • Ensure network connectivity throughout a company's LAN/WAN infrastructure is on par with technical considerations.  • Assign routing protocols and routing table configuration.  • Assign configuration of authentication and authorization of directory services.  • Maintain network facilities in individual machines, such as drivers and settings of personal computers as well as printers.  • Administer servers, desktop computers, printers, routers, switches, firewalls, phones, smartphones, software deployment, security updates and patches.  Accomplishments  • Increased network speed by 250%.  • Implementation of EMV credit card machines.    • Upgraded store SQL from 2005 to 2008 R2.  Utilized Technologies  Microsoft Windows (Desktop, Server), Microsoft SQL Server (2000, 2005, 2008, 2008R2), IIS, SharePoint, LAN, WAN, VPN, Active Directory, DHCP, DNS, Microsoft hosted Exchange, Group Policies, VBScript, Android OS, iOS, Shadow Protect, Carbonite backup, Sonic wall, Cisco Meraki, PCI compliance, Microsoft Retail Management System. Network Engineer Granite computers - Tempe, AZ November 2011 to December 2013 Duties  • Engineer in system monitoring and administration of 55 servers with 500 workstations spread across 50 clients in the greater Phoenix metropolitan area, Tucson, Las Vegas and California.  • Management of critical large scale projects, to meet client’s needs, for new and important customers.  • Engineer for addressing all major customer concerns and issues. Responsible for resolving advanced technical issues, delegating minor concerns, to meet project goals and ensure customer satisfaction.   • Travel to client sites in the greater Phoenix metropolitan area as needed to address software, workstation, server, and network issues that cannot be resolvable remotely.  • Reassure clients all their needs and concerns will be met while maintaining and building client rapport.  • Audit client networks, servers, workstations, email systems, security measures, and backup plans monthly in order to provide a regular assessment and suggest improvements.  • Train new employees on company standards and procedures with an emphasis on customer service and communication skills   Accomplishments  • Help design, development and implementation of the company's managed service program. Responsible for achieving critical milestones and resolving technical roadblocks during the roll out phase.  • Successful track record of leading and closing out majority of large scale client projects since 2011.   • Designed, built and tested image backup system with replication to our office for uses by our clients.    Utilized Technologies  Microsoft Windows (Desktop, Server), Apple Mac OS X (10.4 – 10.8), Microsoft SQL Server (2000, 2005, 2008), IIS, Terminal Services, SharePoint, LAN, WAN, VPN, Active Directory, DHCP, DNS, Microsoft Exchange (2003, 2007, 2010), Group Policies, VBScript, GFI Max, Android OS, iOS, Blackberry OS, Store Grid Cloud Backup, Shadow Protect, AISO backup. Education Associate in Computer Networking and information Technology High-Tech Institute - Phoenix, AZ 2001 to 2002 Skills System Administrator (10+ years), Active Directory (9 years), Vmware (3 years), Linux (3 years), System Admin (10+ years), Database Management (7 years), SQL (6 years), Disaster Recovery (10+ years), Voip (8 years), Linux (3 years) Assessments Basic Computer Skills: PC — Expert July 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to perform basic computer operations, navigate a Windows OS, and troubleshoot common computer problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/n6wj6c1b2x4jwbvw Technical Support — Expert July 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/3l6gxq94a-xm0h0v Project Management Skills: Time Management — Highly Proficient July 2019 Prioritizing and allocating time to effectively achieve project deliverables. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/l5q4joure0t79ou Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.