Food Service Associate Food Service Associate Food Service Associate - Cedar Fair Entertainment Company Cincinnati, OH Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Food Service Associate Cedar Fair Entertainment Company May 2016 to Present Kings Island in Mason, OH    Provided exceptional guest service.  Balanced and operated cash drawer. Network Administrator Co-op Cedar Fair Entertainment Company August 2018 to May 2019 Provided troubleshooting and technical support for 250 users worldwide.  Assisted in deployment and support for Polycom and 8x8 VoIP Phone System  Provided technical training for new employees and office setup  Managed users, groups and computers in AD  Configured Group Policy Objects.  Setup deployment server using Microsoft Deployment Toolkit (MDT) and Windows Deployment Services) WDS for imaging new computers.  Created images and task sequences for Windows Deployment.  Provided technical training for new employees and setup offices.  Upgraded computers from Windows 7 to Windows 10 using deployment  server.  Configured Cisco Meraki switches and access points.  Created and updated documentation for technical support and applications. IT@UC Service Desk Technician Cedar Fair Entertainment Company - Cincinnati, OH October 2017 to May 2018 Provided technical support for the faculty, staff, students, and affiliated  institutions of the University of Cincinnati.  Diagnosed and resolved of technical issues by using a patient and methodical,  question and answer approach.  Developed the capability to express complex computing concepts to end  users, regardless of their skill level. Crew Member The Wendy's Company - Lebanon, OH June 2014 to August 2015 Provided exceptional customer service.  Balanced and operated cash drawer.  Trained new employees.  Operated fryers and grills.  Cleaned dishes. Education Bachelor of Science in (B.S.), Information Technology University of Cincinnati 2015 to 2020 Lebanon High School 2011 to 2015 Skills Food Preparation, Foodservice, Food Prep, Food Service Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/kenttran97 Certifications/Licenses CompTIA A+ June 2019 to July 2022