Network Administrator <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Network Administrator - Embassy Management LLC Spokane Valley, WA Organized and focused Network Administrator seeks employment as part of a dynamic IT team. Adept in various technologies, as well as telecom operations and systems. Skilled at troubleshooting network devices and performance issues. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Network Administrator Embassy Management LLC - Spokane, WA February 2017 to Present Worked as part of an IT team to maintain and mange various network equipment including routers, switches, desktop computers, and windows servers. Research, presented, and implemented an MDM software on 200+ tablets spanning multiple states which resulted in increased productivity and reliability. Implemented a redesign of site to site network connections to increase security and redundancy. Provided support to multiple users experiencing software and hardware issues including no network connectivity, hard drive failure, laptop screen or monitor failure. Dispatched to office locations to troubleshoot and install equipment. Researched and implemented 2FA for off-site VPN access to better protect against unauthorized users. Network Analyst II Northwest Open Access Network - Spokane, WA August 2014 to February 2017 Acted as first point of contact for all major technical issues, including power outages, system failures along with network outages. Monitored over 2,000 network devices and end user equipment. Analyzed software, hardware and network systems for various transmission systems. Dispatched to customer locations to troubleshoot and install equipment. Lab Assistant Intern Spokane Community College - Spokane, WA April 2013 to March 2014 Installed, tested, and configured Cisco routers and switches. Assisted students with network problems during labs. Tested labs before the students. Other duties assigned. Education A.A.S in Network Administration and Design Spokane Community College - Spokane, WA March 2014 Skills Active directory, Cisco, Tcp, Tcp/ip, Ios, Firmware, Ms office, Microsoft windows, Windows 7, Microsoft windows 7, Customer service, Excellent customer service skills, Strong communication skills, Inventory, Problem solving, Policy management, Technical Support, Windows, Networking, Vmware Certifications/Licenses Cisco Certified Entry Networking Technician (CCENT) April 2017 Cisco Certified Network Associate (CCNA) February 2018 Assessments Technical Support — Highly Proficient August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/yzg94imm-l-nzdut Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information CORE COMPETENCIES    Troubleshooting proficiency  MS Office proficiency  Proficiency in TCP/IP protocols  Microsoft Windows 7/10  Vast technical knowledge  Excellent problem solving skills  Strong communication skills  Working independent  Strong collaborative skills  Ability to multitask  Mobile Device Management  Microsoft Server 2008R2/2012R2  Active Directory  Group Policy Management    PROFESSIONAL SKILLS  * Installed, configured, and maintained Cisco routers and switches as well as updated device IOS  * Actively researched and investigated trends that can benefit and optimize networks.  * Designed a network using TCP/IP protocols.  * Excelled in knowledge and ability to upgrade and repair PC hardware including processors, motherboards, laptop screens, cards or peripherals  * Developed ability to troubleshoot issues and discover solutions for network devices and software.  * Demonstrated ability to work in a team.  * Commended for attention to detail and accuracy.  * Excellent customer service skills.  * Adapt at learning new skills and technologies.  * Installed, configured, and maintained Mikrotik routers as well as updated device firmware.  * Adapt at inventory management