Network Administrator <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Network Administrator - Network Dynamics, Inc District Heights, MD Seeking a challenging position in a reputable organization with an opportunity to utilize my skills and experience. Work Experience Network Administrator Network Dynamics, Inc January 2015 to Present • Provided technical support, troubleshooting and diagnosing complicated hardware/software problems.  • Displayed courteous and strong interpersonal skills with all user interactions.  • Participated in complete system builds, upgrades, migrations, deployments and patch management.  • Imaged HP Desktops and Laptops using Symantec Ghost.  • Installed, configured and maintained Windows Servers and Windows 7 systems in a secured environment.  • Assisted the network team in diagnosing and resolving issues involving Cisco Switches.  • Ran and patched cable with the direction of Senior Network Engineers.  • Utilized Visio to map out network  • Resolved and escalated trouble tickets and conducted scheduled changes within the environment.  • Installed and configured Routers, Bridges, Terminal Servers and CSU/DSU's to support WAN links.  • Handled installations, troubleshot system hardware and network.  • Worked closely with a Network Engineer, developed configuration, review procedures, configured and managed router and switches.  • Updated documentation to provide an efficient transition from one employee to the next.  • Assisted Senior Network Engineers in design, implementation, and security of network to meet customers' business requirements.  • Monitored monthly activity of customers' server and maintained server performance through updates and repairs.  • Configured, tested, and deployed new customer desktops and servers.  • Resolved customers' technical issues remotely and on-site.  • Performed software and hardware installation and support at multiple client locations. Desktop Support Technician Network Dynamics, Inc January 2014 to December 2014 • Performed hardware and software testing, configuration and installation.  • Performed routine maintenance related to all hardware and software.  • Assisted with PC, server, network and software problems.  • Packaged, tested, deployed and updated software and desktops.  • Created and maintained desktop images.  • Performed routine network and PC installation, maintained and resolved problems.  • Assisted IT team with departmental projects and initiatives.  • Supported local area networks.  • Provided emergency response to reduce downtime.  • Performed day-to-day users support. Education Cisco Certified Network Associate Stratford University - Lanham, MD 2017 to Present High School Diploma Iwoye Area Community High School Senior 2007 Skills Technical Support, Networking, Windows 7, Customer Service, Microsoft Office