Network/Systems Administrator II <span class="hl">Network</span>/Systems <span class="hl">Administrator</span> II Network/Systems Administrator II - ThermoFisher Scientific Brookeville, MD Information technology professional with over eight years of experience in designing, installing, monitoring and securing network systems seeking a position in the networking and administration field that will utilize my technical prowess and eagerness to learn. Work Experience Network/Systems Administrator II ThermoFisher Scientific - Rockville, MD November 2014 to Present • Manage and maintain a redundant VMware, vSphere, and VDP infrastructure resulting in high availability and data protection with minimal downtime.  • Proficient in configuring and implementing Windows enterprise services to include AD, Exchange, DHCP, DNS, WSUS, IIS, GPO, and SQL.  • Provide exceptional telephone and in-person support to address tickets in a timely manner for 300 end users.  • Restructured the datacenter by deploying a VMware environment stabilizing an aging Hyper-V cluster.  • Upgraded over 80 obsolete operating systems and rebuilt applications enhancing user experience throughout the company.  • Executed FISMA grade audits for various government entities. Network Administrator Education Systems Federal Credit Union - Bowie, MD August 2012 to November 2014 • Responsible for the maintenance, reliability, and security for the internal network infrastructure servicing over 200 employees.  • Navigated the merging of two credit unions by assisting with the configuration and installation of Cisco switches.  • Launched an emergency preparedness plan via replication of production data to a disaster recovery site.  • Assembled a system allowing encrypted information to be sent to Apple and Android devices securely. DP Operator Montgomery County Teachers Federal Credit Union - Rockville, MD March 2011 to August 2012 • Executed jobs and processes on the Symitar banking system to deliver stable operations of the credit union.  • Administered an Avaya phone system to ensure a dependable customer support hotline.  • Developed a procedural manual for future employees to expedite the diagnosis and repair of common complications. Education AA in Computer Networking Systems ITT Technical Institute August 2010 Skills Active directory, Cisco, Exchange, Iis, Juniper