Sr. Network Administrator Sr. <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Haddonfield, NJ Over 8 years of successful IT, technical support, and network administration experience with an affinity for meeting the challenging goals of companies and customers alike.  • Excellent analytical skills, resulting in quicker resolutions to open customer inquiries.  • A team player who can effortlessly collaborate with clients and find the most effective solution to their problem.  • Adaptable to new environments and products. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Network Administrator SRA Associates - Somerdale, NJ April 2017 to Present Designed and implemented cisco infrastructure that consisted of sg550x access switches and catalyst 9300 as core switch.  upgraded ESXi from 5.5 to 6.5  Maintain backups via unitrends  Monitor and address any network issues.  Design and manage VMware environment which consists of 10 servers  Configure qnap NAS and maintain it.  Set up VPN on sonicwall firewall.  Manage and set up Sonicwall nsa 3600 and Watchguard 25xtm  Manage and administer Office 365.  Manage gsuite email.  Manage RHEL 7 server  Create group policies as needed.  remediation of security vulnerabilities.  Transitioned company from pots lines to VoIP.  Designed and maintains WordPress website. Jr. Systems Administrator KMT BRRR - Swedesboro, NJ September 2016 to April 2017 Implemented and maintained a xenserver envrionment.  Provided desktop support for a windows 10 environment.  Wrote scripts (PHP) for in house program.  Set up WLAN in warehouse Network Administrator SURETY TITLE COMPANY - Marlton, NJ January 2015 to September 2016 Responsibilities  Providing end-user support for software, hardware, and network issues  Configuring virtual machines, servers, and maintaining a virtual environment (VMware)  Designing and implementing wireless and Ethernet networks  Developing software applications as needed to improve workflow (VB .NET)  Configuring Cisco switches and routers  SQL database management  Network security     Skills Used  Troubleshooting, SQL, Microsoft Exchange 2010, Active Directory management, Critical thinking, Network design, Application development, Switch configuration, Router configuration, Network Security, VMware, Microsoft server 2008 r2 Support Engineer KPInterface - Limerick, PA October 2014 to December 2014 Responsibilities  Assisted with help desk tickets.  executed BDR Upgrade Project. I.T Consultant Consulting with a managed service provider - Marlton, NJ October 2010 to October 2014 Responsibilities    Providing customers and businesses with I.T solutions.    Receive customer inquiries. On average, address 5 new inquiries per day.  Troubleshoot with customer to identify issues.  Resolve technical issues quickly and effectively.  Utilize remote desktop program as needed to work directly with customer and identify cause of issue.    Skills Used  Problem solving, Customer service. Various projects include: installing and troubleshooting networking systems , Virus removal, Hardware installation, Peripheral troubleshooting, Application Programming and development, Virtualization implementation, Network Architecture, etc. Education Bachelor's in Information Technology Capella University - Minneapolis, MN 2015 to 2018 Skills VMware (8 years), Server provisioning (10+ years), Network troubleshooting (8 years), C++ (4 years), Vbscript (4 years), Microsoft Windows 7 (10+ years), Windows server 2008 (8 years), Windows server 2003 (8 years), Microsoft Office suite (10+ years), Network administration (8 years), Scripting (5 years), Cisco (8 years), Storage (8 years), Unix Administration (2 years), PHP (2 years), Xenserver (Less than 1 year), Windows 10 (4 years), Network Security (8 years), Disaster Recovery (8 years), Microsoft Azure (2 years), Network Management (8 years), Cloud Computing (3 years), Technical Support, Networking, Active Directory, Customer Service, Windows, Windows 7, Security, Microsoft Office Military Service Branch: Army Service Country: United States Rank: E3 December 2006 to July 2008 MOS:11B. Honorable discharge. Certifications/Licenses CompTIA Network+ July 2016 to July 2019 CompTIA Security+ January 2017 to January 2020