Network Administrator <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Network Engineer San Juan, PR Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Network Administrator Data Access - Caguas, PR January 2018 to Present Network and Voip Technician provisioning and troubleshooting  networks in routers and switches via CLI. Configured Hunting, pickup groups, Cfwds, Ring groups, Auto Attendants for IP Phones. Configured Mikrotiks, Fortinets, Grandstreams, FortiVoice devices. Voip Troubleshooting and configuration, also worked on Networks for devices such as Mikrotik, Fortinet and Cisco. Network Technician II Neptuno Networks - Guaynabo, PR October 2014 to January 2018 Network technician performing layer 1, 2 and 3 troubleshootings on CLI Routers and Switches. Performed troubleshooting by Telnet or SSH on HP MSR 920, Tellabs and Cisco routers verifying correct configuration of DHCP, routing table, Vlan configuration, NAT Configuration and interfaces management. Provisioned Wimax and Ubiquity Antennas with remote management and vlan configurations either Tagged or Untagged. Configure Mikrotik Interfaces Vlan, PPoe, DHCP, IP address, NAT and Bridges. Nomas network Monitoring. Troubleshoot broadsoft issues and if necessary escalate issue with voice carrier. Troubleshoot cisco UC560 and Pattons for interface errors, codecs, hunting group and if necessary create or remove options from ephone interfaces. Configure and troubleshoot Analog Telephone Adapters (ATA) Cisco SPA 122 Technical Support Representative Onelink-Liberty June 2011 to October 2014 Technical Support representative for onelink data and voip services Configuring email clients, static ip configuration, router configuration, voip troubleshooting, assisting technicians install modems and CATV boxes, diagnose and report outages in service areas. Education Associate's in Computer and Network Installation Interamerican University of Puerto Rico - Bayamón, PR 2009 to 2012 Computer Science Interamerican University of Puerto Rico - Metro 2002 to 2004 Skills Cisco, VOIP (7 years), Network Administration, Networking, Technical Support, Computer Repair, Phones Additional Information Skills:  Pwe3 and xconnect troubleshooting, static ipconfig, VLAN management, VOIP troubleshooting, H3C Troubleshooting, HP Tellabs layer 1 and 2 troubleshooting, Cisco Commands, ATA and IPphones troubleshooting.