System manager and administrator of MUSE System manager and <span class="hl">administrator</span> of MUSE Systems Manager - Networking, Windows, and Citrix Yonkers, NY Highly Motivated Systems Manager with over 10 years of technical internetwork engineering, project management, infrastructure configurations, automated deployment, installations and maintenance. Consistently recognized for Systems management that achieves maximum results and operational excellence. Seeking a new challenging opportunity that will utilize my past experience and leadership. Work Experience System manager and administrator of MUSE Montefiore Medical Center - Bronx, NY 2014 to Present for Montefiore Medical Center campuses at Weiler, Wakefield, Moses, Hutchinson, Montefiore offsite clinics, and future hospitals in Westchester and Rockland.  • Liaison between IT and clinical staff to improve workflow via in-service training with clinical management and staff.  • Support EPIC go-live integration with MUSE at all campuses and emergency departments. Interface testing and documentation for new builds in Muse to work with Epic.  • Participate in QA to implement new protocols and criteria for echo and vascular labs.  • Well versed in Montefiore Medical Center compliance, policies, and procedures.  • Manage team of 12 EKG technicians.  • Through knowledge of Windows Active directory, IT security, HIPAA Compliance, Windows 7 & 10, Windows Server, MAC OS, network and wireless devices like IP phones, printers, mobile cpu etc.  • Navigate through medical systems such as Epic-Cupid, Life-Image, and Salesforce.  • Complete testing and implementation of the migration from Care Cast to Epic (EMR).  • Complete IT documentation and videos for workflow changes and newly resolved issues.  • Manage image backups of all Vascular, Echo modalities, and EKG machines.  • Manage costs to stay within allocated budget.  • Oversee the management, inventory, and maintenance for wireless connectivity to over 200 MAC5500HD ECG (EKG) machines at four campuses and offsite clinics.  • Muse database manager, assign new user profiles, configure new wireless bridges, troubleshoot nonfunctioning bridges, and improve database quality from custom built reports.  • Address issues and improve quality of completed EKG tests.  • Proficient in active directory, windows server 2013, Windows, and remote access tools.  • Provide system testing, software/firmware upgrades, future rollouts and implementation. Network Administrator Tunstall - Long Island, NY 2012 to 2014 • Supported the director of operations while managing my own team of 15 employees.  • Oversaw resources as needed to stay within project budgets and timelines.  • Administrated level three helpdesk support.  • Assisted with Remote Access, Active Directory, Windows Server, familiar with Exchange, Visio, and Access.  • Created the rollout and implementation to move from Eagle(EMR) to Salesforce.  • Developed best practices and outlined workflow. Network Administrator Digital Signage Six Flags Entertainment Corporate Office - New York, NY 2009 to 2012 • Responsible for the critical systems of Six Flags digital signage network.  • Conducted weekly trainings to management across the country on day-to-day operations.  • Oversaw a team of 12 IT park managers.  • Managed communications with vendors of digital signage software such as C-Nario & NEC.  • Coordinated the installation of 55" Outdoor Digital Signage Monitors remotely controlled via Windows7 PCs.  • Oversaw operating schedules for 11 National Parks, vendors, and local park staff to execute daily hardware or programming related issues.  • Designed, managed, and maintained the content delivery system and local park training on critical system recovery practices.  • Relocated NYC Office infrastructure during park operations, moved from 1420 47TH ST to 210 Park Ave. Education Certification in Internetwork Engineering in Internetwork Engineering PC Age IT Career Institute - Jersey City, NJ 2009 Skills System Administrator, Networking (10+ years), Active Directory, System Admin Certifications/Licenses Certification in Internetwork Engineering Present Technical internetwork engineering, wireless configurations, project management, infrastructure configurations, automated deployment, installations and maintenance. System manager Present