Network Administrator <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Stennis Space Center, MS Active TS/SCI Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Network Administrator Leidos - Stennis Space Center, MS July 2019 to Present Responsible for overall network engineering support for a broad range of programs including planning, designing, and evaluating various components of the network. Duties may include providing specifications for network architecture, evaluating and recommending new technologies to enhance current capabilities, and performing needs assessments. Support level duties may include monitoring, installation, modification, testing and servicing of network equipment.  Responsible for leading some operations within an area that has significant impact on results. Responsible for assisting and training lower level support employees. Resolves unclear problems and issues faced, which may require understanding of broader set of issues. Problems may span a range of issues or areas. Problems are typically solved through drawing from prior experiences, with analysis of the issue. Communicates with contacts typically within and outside the company on matters to obtain or provide information on matters of significant importance to the company.  Network Administrator (Contract) TWD & Associates - Stennis Space Center, MS February 2019 to June 2019 Support the SENS3 management team; monitor voice and video operations for SENS3 Operational Networks. Test and maintain interconnectivity gateways with OGA voice/video infrastructure; Provide remedial user training as requested/required; Maintain inventories and other configuration management documentation; Perform periodic COMSEC maintenance activities; Provide onsite support for CMS and JWICs infrastructure; Maintain system phonebooks/directories and exchange; Provide audiovisual support for DHS NCR hosting facilities; Perform periodic inspection and testing of conference rooms; Secure Mobile Services.  Cashier/Customer Service Zales - The Diamond Store - Victorville, CA October 2018 to December 2018 Greet and assist customers with their jewelry needs. Accurately process payments, including payments towards zales credit card, checks, debit and cash. Signals Intelligence Analyst U.S. Army - Colorado Springs, CO June 2016 to September 2018 Examines foreign communications/activity and relays that information by producing combat, strategic and tactical intelligence reports. Organize intercepted messages and isolate valid intelligence. Identifying the target and operational patterns. Maintain analytical working aids and databases. Assist in the emplacement, camouflage and recovery of surveillance systems. Prepare technical and tactical intelligence reports. Network Administrator U.S. Army - Fort Bragg, NC November 2011 to May 2016 Responsible for making sure that the lines of communication are always up and running. They maintain strategic and tactical nodal systems. Field level maintenance on electronic nodal assemblages, combat net radios and ancillary communications equipment. Perform system/ network operations and correct system faults. Maintenance on all internal communications systems devices. Cashier C-TOWN SUPERMARKET - Brooklyn, NY October 2009 to November 2010 Responsible for accurately processing and handling money. Ensure the customer was satisfied. Education High school diploma New Dorp High School - Staten Island, NY September 2007 to June 2010 General Studies Kingsborough Community College - Brooklyn, NY April 2009 to November 2009 Skills Excel (4 years), Word (6 years), Communications (6 years), Powerpoint (4 years), Microsoft office suite (7 years), Customer Service (8 years), Microsoft Office, Remedy (Less than 1 year), Service Desk, Helpdesk Support, Help Desk, Active Directory Military Service Branch: U.S. Army Service Country: United States Rank: Specialist January 2011 to Present Commendations: Good conduct medal (2)  Army commendation medal  Army Achievement Medal  Army Service Ribbon  Afghanistan Campaign Medal with Combat Star  Global war on terrorism Medal  NATO Service Medal  Nation Defense Service Medal  Non-commissioned Officer Professional Development Ribbon  Combat Action Badge  Parachutist Badge  Driver-Mechanics Badge Additional Information After earning the job at Stennis, I was promoted to queue manager within two months. Shortly after this promotion, I received another promotion to the Quality Assurance lead. Responsible for improving processes, improving standard operation procedures, creating training briefs, and ensuring quality  services to the customer.