Network Contractor - Network Administrator, Support Specialist, Engineer <span class="hl">Network</span> Contractor - <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span>, Support Specialist, Engineer Network Support Specialist /Engineer Laguna Niguel, CA Professional with over 8 years of progressive technical experience in design, engineering, Implementation, documentation, administration, analysis, and troubleshooting of various technologies which includes proficiency in routing, routing protocols, switching, security, firewalls, wireless, telecommuting, and data center technologies.    Technical Certifications & Skills    • Cisco Certified Network Professional - Route Pending CCNP - Route  • Firewall Security Administrator / Data Center Administrator FSA / DCA  • Certified WAN Professional / Certified WAN Enterprise Administrator CWP / CWEA  • Cisco Voice Administrator / Cisco Wireless Technician CVA / CWT  • CCNA - Cisco Certified Network Associate - R & S Pending CCNA - R & S Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Network Contractor - Network Administrator, Support Specialist, Engineer MCR/LanWan Professional 2013 to Present • Member of a team of professionals responsible for design, administration/service requests, escalation support/ticket resolution and analysis in an enterprise LAN/WAN environment for datacenters, corporate, WAN links, and branch offices.  • Analyzing hardware, software, and network problems using diagnostic tools, troubleshooting procedures, and excellent analytical skills  • Responsible for large production databases capacity planning and performance tuning  • Specific Technologies handled include but not limited to Cisco ISRs/ASRs; Cisco Catalyst/Nexus Switches Cisco ASAs; Juniper EXs; F5 Big-IP; Cisco Unified Communications Manager; Cisco Unity; Cisco Wireless LAN Controller; Cisco Aironet Access Points; Palo Alto (PAN) Firewalls, Nagios, Solar Winds Orion, Cacti, Wireshark, VMware, PBX, Hubs, Patch Panels and Patch Cord.  • Coordinated network and hardware engineering teams to perform large scale change management and repairs Onsite Engineer (UPT) AT&T 2011 to 2013 • Member of a team of professionals responsible for design, administration/service requests, escalation support/ticket resolution and analysis in an enterprise LAN/WAN environment for datacenters, corporate, WAN links, and branch offices.  • Experience in Server building both physical & virtual, troubleshooting, capacity planning, application  • Specific Technologies handled include but not limited to VOIP, Wireless LAN Controllers, Access Points, Routing, Switching, Hubs, Repeaters, Patch Panels and Patch Cords.  • Various upgrades to network equipment through Service Now Change Management  • Technologies in network environment include but not limited to routers, switches, security firewalls, voice, wireless and related technologies along with various server/application administration, system reimaging, and remote setup.    Summary of Technical Accomplishments  Routing & Nexus & Catalyst Switching  • Implemented VLAN Trunking Protocol to reduce administrative overhead and to control VLANs and VXLANs using NX-OS to ensure virtual and flexible subnets that extend farther across the network than previous generation of switches.  • Implemented port-profiles in NX-OS for multiple ports and port-types to reduce errors and improve readability.  • Enabled encryption of system passwords and privileged administration to prevent unauthorized IOS user access.  • Implemented frame-relay point-to-point and multipoint WAN links between sites to establish connectivity between four sites. Established frame-relay point-to-point connections between three sites to create a full mesh network. Implemented hub and spoke network between three sites with the main office as the hub for redundant connections.  • Implemented EIGRP routing for point-to-point and Non-Broadcast Multi-Access networks. Prevented neighbor adjacencies forming and sending/receiving routing updates on unnecessary interfaces. Implemented EIGRP MD5 between sites to prevent unauthorized insertion of routes into the domain. Implemented manual EIGRP route summarization to reduce demand on CPU resources, memory, and bandwidth used to maintain the routing tables.  • Implemented multiple-area OSPF routing and totally stubby areas to lower the system resource utilization of devices. Implemented NSSA area to allow injection of external routes into the area and propagation into the OSPF domain.  • Implemented backup and recovery of Cisco IOS Images. Perform password recovery on Cisco IOS routers/switches and a Juniper EX2200 Series switch to restore administrative access. Backup and restore startup-commit file for the DR.  • Configured e/iBGP peering using directly connected networks and loopbacks with OSPF, eBGP multihop, and Route Reflectors to provide routing information with debugging diagnostic commands to monitor BGP events.    Security  • Implemented an IPSec Site-to-Site VPN between the Cisco ASA 5505 at small office location and Cisco 1841 ISR with a security IOS image at the main office.  • Implemented VPNs for IKE Policy using DES and SHA for encryption and authentication, access-lists to define VPN traffic, a transform set using esp-des esp-sha-hmac for traffic protection, crypto map to configured elements to a peer, and application of the crypto map to appropriate interface or VPN endpoint.  • Implemented of Zone-Based Policy Firewall on the Cisco 1841 ISR for three zones, applying class-maps as traffic crosses a zone-pair, policy maps to apply action to the class-maps' traffic, zone-pairs, and application of policy to zone pairs.  • Implement a Clientless SSL VPN (WebVPN) to allow users to establish a secure, remote-access VPN tunnel to the Cisco ASA 5505 using a web browser. Prepared the Cisco ASA with necessary configurations for self-signed certificate generation. Generated a general-purpose RSA key-pair for certificate authority identification. Configured certificate authority trustpoint for the WebVPN using self-enrollment, and configured CA trustpoint interface association.  • Utilized Cisco ASA 5505 Modular Policy Frame-Work to configure and manage layer 3/4 interface service policies, applied inspection and connection limits to services, and applied inspection and QoS policing to HTTP traffic. Configured HTTP inspection policy to block restricted sites and file downloads.    Voice/Wireless  • Implemented local voice network using Cisco 2811 ISR (VoIP) with a Cisco Unity Express Network Module (NM-CUE), Cisco Communications Manager Express, Cisco 3550 Switch with POE. Created and managed Data and Voice VLANs, and configured ports with static VLAN assignment and 802.1Q trunks for layer 2 forwarding. Configured edge ports for fast-transitioning into the forwarding state to fix workstation startup connectivity delays.  • Implemented Unity Voicemail on the Cisco Unity Express Network Module. Configured dial-peer on a Cisco 2811 ISR to define attributes of packet voice network connections to Cisco Unity Express Network Module. Enabled call forwarding on busy/no answer. Implemented Message Waiting Indicators and Voicemail access via SMTP.  • Implemented a wireless network infrastructure providing access to wired LANs to increase mobility and productivity on Cisco WLC 2106, Cisco 3550 switch, Cisco 1130AG and 1121G series APs. Created wireless LANs and configure interface association, security parameters, and radios used. Managed the wireless network through the WLC web GUI. Education Vocational Diploma in Computer Systems Technology United Education Institute-El monte Campus - El Monte, CA January 2008 to November 2008 Skills See Resume (8 years), Active Directory, Cisco, Exchange, Vmware, Security