Developer Developer Developer - Coding in Ruby Miramar Computer Science Engineer with six years of work experience. Good communication and interaction between the project team. Experience in programming languages such as Ruby and C#. Created and maintained websites with Ruby on Rails, ASP.NET MVC, and Content Management System. Domain over other languages such as HTML5, CSS3, PHP and JavaScript with jQuery. Possesses excellent organizational, communication, analytical and problem solving skills. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Developer Mr. Glass Doors and Windows - Miami, FL September 2017 to Present ? Coding in Ruby with Ruby on Rails framework and Active Record as ORM, following pattern Model View Controller  ? Participation in all phases of development lifecycle from the design/implementation of new features, to production deployment, and maintenance of the web application  ? Designing, coding, testing, and debugging new functionalities using web technologies and standards, including JavaScript, CSS, SASS, HTML, AJAX, JSON, HTTP and REST API  ? Professional experience with Heroku Platform, PostgreSQL, AWS, version control as Github, and BitBucket  ? Used Trello as Project Management  ? Comfortable in both, Windows and Linux environments Developer University of Holguín January 2015 to February 2017 ? Created and modified new functionalities to the existing web applications of management for professors and students, done in C#  ? Coding in C# using ASP.NET MVC and Entity framework as ORM  ? Used tools like Visual Studio 2015, Microsoft SQL Server 2012, and TortoiseSVN  ? Made reports with Crystal Reports  ? Created and maintained the Intranet of the company and other web pages done with Drupal, PHP, HTML, CSS and JavaScript  ? Used Xamp and Wamp Server to manage the web pages Developer DESOFT September 2012 to December 2014 ? Used ASP.NET MVC to program new features to a System for accounting department  ? Created new functionalities using HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, JavaScript, and jQuery  ? Coded following Object-Oriented Programming (OOP) to do new requirements and reports  ? Used Microsoft SQL Server to manage the database and create LINQ queries  ? Experience working with the Agile Scrum Methodology  ? Used Redmine as Project Management Network Administrator Integral Diagnosis Center March 2011 to February 2012 ? Configured and kept Galen Lab software  ? Configured Proxy, routers and switches  ? Installed and configured DNS and database servers  ? Managed the Network, troubleshooting and support to the users Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Science University of Informatics Sciences - Havana September 2006 to July 2012 Skills Linux, Javascript, Jquery, Json, Javascript, Jquery, MYSQL, Linux, Json Certifications/Licenses Driver's License