Teacher Teacher Experienced teacher looking to change careers Rowlett, TX Work Experience Teacher ESL - Dallas, TX August 2014 to Present • Served on the Campus Instructional Leadership Team  • Served on the Site Based Decision Making Team  • Drove student learning by establishing clear classroom plans and group objectives, as well as actionable strategies to achieve each goal.  • Helped students develop self-esteem and life skills by fostering healthy conflict-resolution, critical thinking and communication.  • Stayed abreast of changes to school and district policies as well as new trends in education by attending professional development courses and in-service trainings. Senior Corporate Trainer DMC Dallas - Irving, TX July 2012 to July 2014 • Received training and certification from DirecTV to represent brand, explain technical functions of mobile devices and guide product selection by customers.  • Supervised 20+ representatives in providing excellent customer service to customers requiring assistance for sales and installation issues.  • Advised executives on best practices for employee growth and productivity goals, consistently helping companies achieve sales goals.  • Coordinated workshops for employees to better understand company mission, streamlining daily activities and aligning worker and company priorities. Network Systems Administrator The Daniel Law Firm - Lafayette, LA June 2011 to July 2012 • Maintained flexible schedule and responded to after-hours and weekend emergencies.  • Implemented, developed and tested installation and update of file servers, print servers and application servers in all departments.  • Performed various administrative functions, including filing paperwork, delivering mail, sorting mail, office cleaning and bookkeeping.  • Made recommendations regarding information technology infrastructure overhauls. Education Bachelor of Arts in History University of North Texas - Denton, TX August 2008 to May 2011 Skills Training, Staff training, retail sales, Time Management, Organizational Skills, Teaching, Marketing Additional Information Skills    Individual and group instruction    Excellent  Curriculum development    Excellent  Network systems installation    Excellent  Hardware and software monitoring    Very Good  Mentorship    Excellent  Educational material development    Very Good  Staff training    Excellent  Math skills and analytics    Excellent  Interpersonal relations    Excellent