NNIC ADMINISTRATOR / ISSE NNIC <span class="hl">ADMINISTRATOR</span> / ISSE NNIC ADMINISTRATOR / ISSE - AECOM Edenton, NC Work Experience NNIC ADMINISTRATOR / ISSE AECOM May 2019 to Present • Authorizing Official for the Navy's repository of IPv4 and IPv6 addresses. Once approved, I would find and allocate the proper amount of IP space, as well as maintain a database of issued IPs.  • NNIC Administrator duties, assigning user roles, and revoking user privileges.  • RMF support for multiple programs as part of an overall effort to gain ATOs from the Navy as part of the Navy's transition from DIACAP to RMF.  • ISSE duties, creating and updating POA&Ms, as well as uploading the corresponding artifacts needed to satisfy control requirements. NETWORK MONITORING SPECIALIST PERSPECTA January 2019 to May 2019 • Monitor events and incidents that affect server and service health across the Enterprise.  • Document outage information that include actions taken to respond to incidents and resolve the outage.  • Monitor multiple server solutions which are critical to the functionality of users' ability to perform their mission on a daily basis.  • NGEN network monitoring in a NOC environment with 24/7/365 support as part of the incident response team.  • Escalating network incidents to the proper teams to address and resolve incidents in a timely manner. MANAGER LITECIGUSA March 2013 to January 2019 • System Administration - assign user rights and privileges, user creation, preventing authorization creep through role based access control, and account removal  • Risk Management  • Network security maintenance  • Security control implementation, primarily preventative, procedural, physical, and technical controls in each company location  • Implemented patches and updates on a regular basis as new ones were released  • Data entry; troubleshooting; training; customer service; leadership  • Direct daily operations between three locations; manage staff of nine associates, two team leaders and two assistant managers  • Microsoft excel Education B.S. in CYBERSECURITY & INFORMATION ASSURANCE WESTERN GOVERNORS UNIVERSITY 2020 Skills Incident response, Itil, Noc, Security, Database, Comptia, Nist, Customer service, Risk management, Best practices, Training, Dod, Detail-oriented, Excellent customer service skills, Goal-oriented, Staff training, Documentation Additional Information SKILLS SUMMARY  • CompTIA Security+, A+, and Axelos ITIL Foundation certified, focusing on strategic IT security best practices and effective risk management skills. Excellent customer service skills; staff training and development; goal-oriented; detail-oriented. Experience with monitoring incidents in a 24/7/365 NOC for NMCI in support of the NGEN contract as part of the incident response team. Building incident reports and escalating them to the proper teams to ensure timely resolutions to outages. Additionally, I'm an authorizing official for the Navy Network Information Center, which includes the allocating of IP space across the entire Navy. Similarly, I act as an AO for the DoD NIC, which is similar to the Navy NIC, just more of a database, instead of daily Admin duties. As an ISSE, I develop and prepare documentation as part of the Risk Management Framework, to acquire an ATO. Including the creation and updating of POA&Ms, artifacts, and other documents by referring to applicable NIST documentation.