NOC ENGINEER NOC ENGINEER NOC ENGINEER Taylorville, IL Work Experience NOC ENGINEER COLUMBUS NETWORKS DOMINICANA - Santo Domingo, DO November 2014 to January 2019 DR    • Responsible for monitoring all Columbus Business Solutions Dominican  Republic clients.  • Ensures the effective utilization of the ticketing system to accurately document  problems including diagnostic results as well as escalation and repair for performance information. Create tickets for Fiber repairs, outages and Head end  issues and follow up till resolution of issue.  • Attend all types of customers, technicians, contractors and internal requests  related to installations, repairs, maintenance or troubleshooting reports regarding dedicated circuits.  • Handle customer service calls to assure repairs requests are properly reported  and completed according to standards and procedures.  • Analyzes test from workstation or any other source, readings, computer  printouts and report trouble report to determine method of repair or report.  • Confirms isolates and dispatches Fiber Outages and Network issues with the use of various Network monitoring and escalation tools. Verifies details of  recorded problem.  • Troubleshoots and resolves network communication problems.  • Provides technical support to Fiber Metro E, Internet and Advanced technical  support to Cable Internet customers. SYSTEM ADMINISTRATOR DIGIWORLD SRL - Santo Domingo, DO May 2014 to October 2014 DR  • Assistance of users with connection issues (LAN / Wireless).  • New network devices installation.  • Preventive Maintenance of physical network and equipment.  • Servers and infrastructure maintenance for office's centralized communication.  • I.T. emerging support on overflowed service queue situations and pending tasks. NETWORK TECHNICIAN TECHNOLOGICAL INSTITUTE OF SANTO DOMINGO April 2013 to May 2014 DR    • To ensure a continuous and optimal performance of I.T. department's sources.  • To ensure a reliable wireless network infrastructure.  • Access points administration.  • Access layer equipment configuration.  • Cisco VoIP phones and ATA deployment.  • Structured Cabling  • Network documentation.  • Enabling network connectivity and physical space.    • Greeted visitors and determined to whom and when they could speak with specific  individuals    • Greeted visitors and determined to whom and when they could speak with  • specific individuals Education Associate in Telecommunications technological institute of Las Americas - La Caleta August 2011 to July 2013 Skills Ccna, Cisco, Ethernet, DWDM, NOC, Operation, BGP, Linux Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/ana-rodriguez-alberssen-8009a361/ Certifications/Licenses Cisco Certified Network Associate (CCNA) August 2016 to August 2019 Microsoft Certified Professional (MCP) July 2016 to Present Microsoft Certified Associated Networking Fundamentals July 2013 to Present Assessments Technical Support — Highly Proficient August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/trvgglwimfbkha4d Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information Billigual- Spanish