Network Administrator <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Network Administrator Livermore, CA Recently completed enlistment in the Marine Corps. Served as a Network Administrator which works with the installation and programming of switches, routers, telephones and computers. Learned a number of valuable skills while serving including leaderships skills, good judgment and how to adapt to changes. Highly motivated worker with the ability to work equally as well in a team or as an individual. Interested in learning and achieving more.  • Microsoft Office Proficiency • Detail-oriented • Comfortable in fast paced environments • Good judgment  • Good listening skills • Easily adapts to environments • Leadership experience • Records Management  • Troubleshooting Skills • Customer service • Reliable • Approachable Work Experience Network Administrator United States Marine Corps June 2015 to June 2019 • Supervised the installation and programming of switches and routers during training exercises in order to allow over 100 users to access the internet and email usage.  • Set up PA Systems for over 25 ceremonies.  • Troubleshot telephones and computers that required speedy diagnosis and repairs. Was able to distinguish the problem through visual assessment and verbal reports.  Training Coordinator  • Conducted training for 50+ employees, and ensured that they met the training standards.  • Ensured that all employees personal information, including phone numbers, addresses, and next of kins, were kept up to date.  • Gained multiple years of experience using Microsoft Office and Outlook.  • Kept and managed records for over 50 personnel. Retail Associate True Religion - Livermore, CA 2014 to 2015 • Opened and closed cash register, ensuring there is the correct amount of money and accurate documentation.  • Ensured the store stayed clean and presentable  • Assisted customers checking out at the cash register. Retail Associate JCPenney - Pleasanton, CA 2013 to 2014 • Helped an average of 60 customers a day locating and selecting products, returning items, or various other customer service related issues.  • Assisted in display preparation and maintenance. Education General Education Palomar College - Camp Pendleton, CA Las Positas College - Livermore, CA High School Diploma Granada High School - Livermore, CA Skills Customer Service