Network & Security Administrator <span class="hl">Network</span> &amp; Security <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Network & Security Administrator - Cisco, Washington , Seattle Seattle, WA ? Cisco Certified Network Engineer with 8 years of experiences in the industry, which includes expertise in the areas of Routing, Switching and Firewall.  ? Expertise in Designing, Implementation, Administration, Operations and Troubleshooting of enterprise data networks as a Network Engineer.  ? Experience in Cisco: Physical cabling, IP addressing, Wide Area Network configurations (Frame-relay & MPLS), Routing protocol configurations (RIP, EIGRP, OSPF, and BGP).  ? Hands on experience in Network Support, Delivery/Project, NOC, Implementation  ? Worked extensively in Configuring, Monitoring and Troubleshooting security appliance, Failover DMZ zoning and configuring VLANs/routing/NATing with the firewalls as per the design.  ? Experience of routing protocols like EIGRP, OSPF, RIP, and BGP.  ? Expertise knowledge and experience in networking devices like Cisco Routers, Cisco Switches, F5 Load Balancers, Proxy and Firewalls  ? Provide scalable, supportable military grade TCP/IP security solutions along with expert TCP/IP network designs that enable business functionality.  ? Experienced in Troubleshooting for connectivity and hardware problems on Cisco and HP Networks.  ? Responsible for Configuring SITE_TO_SITE VPN on Cisco Routers between Head Quarters and Branch locations  ? Specialist on MS Operating Systems installations, configurations, and troubleshoot issues.  ? Configuring IPSEC VPN (Site-Site to Remote Access) on sonic wall firewalls.  ? Active Directory, Group Policies in Domain Environment and System Based Policies Configuration and Management  ? Implemented DHCP, DNS configuration on the servers to allocate, resolute the IP addresses from Subnet.  ? The use of the "Wi-Fi Direct" protocol intead of the current WiFi Infrastructure interface.  ? With the Android smartphone in its proper Wi-Fi Direct role as "Peer-to-Peer Group Owner".  ? And with the body-worn camera in its proper Wi-Fi Direct role as "Peer-to-Peer Client".  ? Configuring IPSEC VPN (Site-Site to Remote Access) on sonic wall firewalls.  ? Active Directory, Group Policies in Domain Environment and System Based Policies Configuration and Management  ? Responsible for firewall management and operations across our global networks.  ? We will make sure all Cisco routers are running with SNMP, SSH, Syslog, AAA, IP Flow and latest Cisco IOS  ? Troubleshoot the Network Issues onsite and remotely depending on the severity of the issues.  ? Familiar with various Network management and monitoring Tools to check Networking Connectivity, Testing, Configuration and Adding or Removal of IP address blocks  ? Performing troubleshooting on slow network connectivity issues, routing issues involves OSPF, BGP and identifying the root cause of the issues.  ? Configuring VLANs, VTP's, enabling trunks between switches.  ? Experience in deployment of Layer-2 technologies like VLANS, VTP, STP, RSTP, VLAN Trunking, Inter-VLAN routing, VLAN access-maps and port security, Ether- channels.  ? In-depth knowledge in deploying routing protocols like RIP, OSPF, BGP, EIGRP, policy based routing(PBR) on Cisco routers.  ? Configured VLANs with 802.1q tagging. Configured Trunk groups, ether channels, and Spanning tree for creating Access/distribution and core layer switching architecture Setup Active/Standby High Availability for state full failover and replication as well as ZERO DOWN TIME maintenance. Backup and Recovery of Firewall IOS as well as Configurations.  ? Ensures the daily smooth Network administration for a user base of over 4000 employees at 36 locations and numerous external law-enforcement agencies. Ensures that all operational needs are met within a framework of 7 days-a-week, 24 hours a day to support all network operations. Controls the development, implementation and publication of Network Operations standards and policies and ensures that those standards and policies are followed. Prepares activity and progress reports regarding all network systems and operations.    MAJOR PROJECTS IN CAREER:  ? 50+ remote sites WAN Redesign work (it includes Hardware Upgrade, Technology Upgrade, WAN Upgrade, Core, Distribution & Access level upgrade)  ? 20+ Remote sites build globally from scratch to end (gathering information from client, Devices Procurement, Network Plan (Design), Rack build, implementation, Documentation)  ? Number of major network migrations like MPLS implementation, DMVPN implementation  ? Data Centers Nexus (7k, 6k, 5k, 2k, 1000V) implementation & hardware change from Cisco Catalyst to Nexus  ? Strong hands on experience on Cisco Catalyst (1900, 2900, 3550, 3750, 6500) series switches, VSS technology, Cisco (2500, 2600, 2800, 3600, 3800, 7200) series Routers, PIX Firewall (506, 515, 525, 535)/ ASA (5505/5510), Palo Alto Firewalls, Cisco ISE (Identity Service Engine), Load Balancers using Cisco ACE, F5, Security Device Manager ( ), Cisco Works, HP Open View, Solar Winds, Sniffer.  ? No of locations globally Site to Site VPN implementation & from normal site to site to DMVPN implementation  ? Migration of normal VPN sites to DMVPN technology  ? IOS upgrade in Cisco ( Routers, Switches, Wireless Controllers, Nexus 7k, 5k)  ? Made Standard documents, Network Designs (VISIO), Network Checklist, Server Room Audits, Network documentations, Configuration Templates  ? Tolls migration (Netqos, Ehealth, Spectrum, Cacti) to a single platform that is Solarwinds  ? Number of technical trainings conducted internally for teammates and for new joiners  ? Most of the manual work automated, with that N numbers of business hours saved & business impact also minimize  ? Good Understanding of Python scripts for system automation, monitoring and security reporting. Maintain existing Perl scripts and migration existing Perl scripts to Python. Work Experience Network & Security Administrator Cisco, Washington , Seattle - Seattle, WA June 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  ? Assist with the configuration of the Juniper Unified Access Control as RADIUS server.  ? This task involves the implementation of several devices in this environment among these are printers, phones, wireless AP, laptops, Linux servers, Windows workstations, and network devices such as firewalls (SRX240, NS5200).  ? Troubleshooting, debugging, and configuring network equipment for several types of data connections and protocols: Point-to-Point, RIP, OSPF, VRRP, HSRP, BGP, as well as Virtual router redundancy protocol and link aggregation with Rapid Spanning Tree Protocol.  ? Performed system administration functions such as traffic monitoring, performance tuning, log management, disk space monitoring, and application troubleshooting in Linux and Windows platforms. In addition, installation, configuration, log analysis and tuning of DHCP, DNS, FTP Web, and proxy servers.  ? Installation, configuration upgrading of Juniper SSG firewalls, Juniper SRX Series, Juniper EX- Series Switches, Nortel 8600 series, Cisco 6500 series, develop project plans including task and resource definition and participate in application testing; develop programmer specifications; prepare project plans including task and resource definitions.  ? Configure network connections using 802.1x protocol.  ? Assign IP addresses to new data connections.  ? Troubleshoot network connectivity Issues Company wide.  ? Experience with designing, deploying and troubleshooting LAN, WAN, Frame-Relay and Ether- channel.  ? Experience in Configuring and implementing VoIP, Switches, 802.1x authentication.    MINI PROJECT (Pulse Secure (Juniper) SSL VPN ( 8.3 Upgrade Project))    • Develop a Test Environment: Network Engineer will work on developing a Test Environment for User communities to test before the final upgrade  • Technical Task: Remove a passive node from active/passive cluster  • Assigned external ip address to this node for testing externally via internet  • Copy the configuration to storage  • Upgrade the passive node to new firmware version 8.3.1  • Preparing documentation for user community with clear instructions on how to test the new ssl vpn firmware.  • Arrange reporting for user community to reach out for issues encountered  • Troubleshoot issues  • Document these new issues  • Resolve these issues  • Working with All groups to get feedback on their experience with new firmware.  • Prepare document with new findings.  • Educating application group, helpdesks and ODSM on the new issues and its resolutions  • Document in SSL VPN Upgrade Issues Log all issues discovered during project. Update document as appropriate when status changes.    ? Experience with Spulnk Monitoring tool, to check the Logs, and Creating Dashboard's.  ? Working with Endpoint directory by using Beacon Tool, Adding missing servers, Switches, Firewalls, Etc.  ? Pulse Secure client diagnostic and troubleshooting skills.  ? Ability to work with end users to troubleshoot and solve their Pulse Secure VPN problems.  ? Experience in creating Firewall Rules to give Access to VPN.  ? Working with Desktop Team to giving Access to PCS, TAB, Remote Clients.  ? Resolving the Desktop issues, Bad Proxy Settings. WAN Redesign NYC Human Resources Administration - New York, NY May 2016 to May 2017 Project Name: WAN Redesign for 600+ Sites    Responsibilities:  ? Prepare configuration and drawing for new sites  ? Work with the vendor while moving the existing network to new hardware  ? Join bridge calls and understand the requirement of project  ? Suggest the vendor what hardware is suitable based on their site requirement  ? Conduct daily status update meetings with the team to understand where are we standing  ? Work with service provider on new WAN link activations  ? Create change request and attend CAB (Change Advisory Board) meeting to get change approval  ? Work with various teams to get downtime to start cut-over process  ? Send the start and end communication to end users before and after cut-over process  ? Do peer review before we submit for change approval (Validate configurations & drawings)  ? Work with network operation center to make sure once the cut-over is complete they can able to access the devices  ? Once cut-over complete make sure we are going to add devices in all network monitoring devices  ? Once cut-over is complete make sure end users is able to access all the applications  ? Once the site is in production prepare network documentation & handover to Network Support Team  ? Integrated Akamai's CDN services that included features such as caching, acceleration, security firewalls, DNS based traffic management; software downloads based on token authentication, video delivery.  ? Acquired working experience in DNS, HTTP, HTTPS, TCP/IP, SSL certificates, load balancers, firewalls.  ? Owned the technical components of a customer's integration project that included planning, security requirements, implementation, testing (QA), debugging, deploying, configuring files in XML and go-live support to integrate client's web architecture with Akamai's Intelligent Platform.  ? Delivered Akamai's cloud products across multiple industries to create faster, reliable and secure user experiences.  ? Analyzed technical risks and attacks that customers might face and provided mitigation strategies.  ? Configuring STP for switching loop prevention and VLANs for data and voice along with Configuring port security for users connecting to the switches.  ? Working with CIS WAN Operations Team  ? Working on ASR 9910, ASR 992, ASR 9006, ASR 9001, ASR 9004 Series Routers  ? As a team member supporting enterprise network of multiple technologies like DSL Fiber WI MAX VSAT DXX on both Cisco and Juniper router switches firewall.  ? Configure and deploy firewall SSG-20 and switch EX-3200 in different locations including remote sites, maintain and update configuration depending on corporate requirement to avoid and audit objection including IOS up gradation.  ? Provide network security on WAN and LAN. Monitoring and troubleshooting of critical links like ATM's, Core connectivity and critical application such as VISA and MasterCard. Coordinate with vendor and branch in case of media outage.  ? Worked with partners of Juniper Network for networking events, campaigns, and trade shows to make end users more aware of our company's products.  ? Helped complete 6 month backlog of interoperability and conformance testing on 10G Ethernet Devices, focus on ? IEEE 802.3 Clauses 4 and 31  ? Used standards and technical documents to detail failures in written reports and updated report templates to unify  ? formatting and results between various consortia  ? Initiated communication with vendors describing issues and possible solutions  ? Participated in 'Plug-Fests' with industry leading companies to test cutting-edge standards, technologies, and product prototypes  ? Installed and configured high availability Big IP F5 LTM and GTM load balancers like 6600, 6800 to provide uninterrupted service to customer applications and monitoring the availability.  ? Identified opportunities for implementation of network best practices, particularly F5 load balancer implementations.  ? Worked with several network engineers for the understanding of Juniper SRX firewalls along with the changeover to Palo Alto (5060s) needs.  ? A hands-on role, which involves installation, management, and support of globally developed extremely complex, highly available Palo Alto and Cisco ASA firewall infrastructure.  ? Responsible for supporting Palo Alto firewalls and Cisco VPN firewalls.  ? Configuration rules and maintaining Palo Alto Firewalls & Analysis of firewall logs using various tools.  ? Experience in handling smart UPS Backup systems.  ? Extensive Knowledge on the implementation of Cisco ASA 5500 series firewalls.  ? Hands on experience working with Cisco Nexus 7K, 5K & 2K Switches.  ? Installed different software on the systems. Install and managing network devices including Hubs, Switches.  ? Testing routers and modems, troubleshot issues related to broadband technologies for Residential and Business Customers.  ? Experience with Firewall Administration, Rule Analysis, Rule Modification.  ? Implemented Positive Enforcement Model with the help of Palo Alto Networks.  ? Implementing and troubleshooting Firewall rules in Palo Alto Pa-5000 series using Panorama, Checkpoint VSX, R75.40, R76 and R77.20 as per Business Requirements.  ? Implementing and troubleshooting firewall rules in Checkpoint R75.40and R77 Gaia as per the business requirements.  ? Created and maintained network maps for the Network Operation Center (NOC) using VISIO  ? Deployment of OSPF dynamic routing NOC engineering network routers, previously running RIP and Static routes.  ? Supported various different business units - e.g. Institutional Securities, Investment Management, Global Wealth Management, and Human Resources - as lead service engineer for firmware authentication system and SAML affiliate portals. Resolved tier 3 escalations for CA Site Minder and monitored load balancing in a global proxy configuration server infrastructure using a custom Perl script. Integrated Akamai web caching and traffic load balancing into public-facing sites.  ? Developed Python tool for password change detection. Enabled support teams to identify changes and all associated Sybase database records, then automatically compare and verify data system-wide.  ? Performing the ACL requests changes for various clients by collecting source and destination information from them.  ? Configure Corporate, Wireless and Lab Devices which includes Bandwidth Upgrade, Adding New Devices.  ? Primary responsibility is to design and deploy various network security & High Availability products  ? Implemented Site-to-Site VPNs over the Internet utilizing 3DES, AES/AES-256 with ASA Firewalls.  ? Experience with migrating from Cisco ASA 8.2 version to Cisco ASA 8.4 Version.  ? Experience with convert PIX rules over to the Cisco ASA solution.  ? Create and test Cisco router and switching operations using OSPF routing protocol, ASA Firewalls for stable VPNs. Senior Network Engineer Harrish Health System December 2014 to April 2016 Texas    Responsibilities:  ? Working on Nexus (7k, 6k, 5k, 2k) implementation for Data centers and large remote sites globally  ? Remote site network design, implement and troubleshoot in various network environments  ? Provide technical leadership to projects, working with technical project managers to understand project priorities, taking ownership of tasks, and driving them to completion.  ? Introducing MPLS, DMVPN, PFR in enterprise level in Data Centers & Large remote sites  ? As a part of new site implementation configure different routing protocol like BGP, OSPF, EIGRP as per company standards  ? New Site before coming to production we will make sure all the routers are running with SNMP, SSH, Syslog, AAA, IP Flow, latest Cisco IOS etc.  ? I will create standard documents and network VISIO for new and existed sites, which will help in troubleshoot  ? Joining on all network escalation calls like enterprise level network outages, problem incidents  ? Provide comprehensive change control plans when making changes to the network, looping in all stakeholders of the change.  ? Cisco Routers, Switches, NEXUS box IOS upgrades (with NX-OS & IOS)  ? As part of new site deployment we will configure WAAS box for network (TCP) optimization  ? Implementing HSRP, VRRP, GLBP redundancy on layer2 & Layer 3 level  ? Design and validate the next generation LAN and WAN video network architecture for high performance, availability and redundancy.  ? Configure Client VPN technologies including Cisco's VPN client via IPSEC.  ? Configure Cisco voice over IP (VOIP) phones, and Telephony.  ? Configure static routes, default routes, Frame Relay.  ? Set up and troubleshoot secured wireless access points (WAP) and wireless LAN controller (WLC) for broadband internet.  ? Provided security by using ACL, NAT.  ? Involved in troubleshooting VLAN, RSTP, & Switch Trunk issues.  ? Manage network-related projects, activities and tasks.  ? Responsible for all aspects of Aruba Clear Pass and controller configuration and enterprise network design and deployment.  ? Perform all aspects of customer equipipment survey and site survey which includes gathering information about network usage and requirements, structural and power requirements, and cabling requirements/challenges.  ? Provide configuration, installation, and troubleshooting of Aruba 220's WiFi hotspots for clients in multiple verticals including cafes, retail locations, grocery, health, auto, travel centers, resorts, and the hospitality industry  ? Globally work with end users to build network racks to mount all network devices  ? Implementing port-channel to give higher speed to servers in datacenters  ? Nexus 7k, 6K ,5k, 4k, 3k, 2k Configuring with FEX, FHRP, VPC, VDC, Fabric path implementations based on network design  ? Responsible for troubleshooting issues, configuring new rules, and also assisting with any technical design issues that arise during this time.  ? Responsible for troubleshooting network, VPN and firewall problems, specifically Checkpoint GAIA and Cisco ASA.  ? Design and configuring of OSPF, BGP on Juniper Routers (MX960, MX480) and SRX Firewalls(SRX240, SRX550)  ? Implement security policies using ACL, IPSEC, SSL, VPN on ASA [ ] AAA, ACS ISE/Dot1x.  ? Worked on Cisco Routers, Switches, Juniper SRX/SSG Firewall, NSM, SPACE, Checkpoint NOKIA Firewalls, NAT and ACL's.  ? Troubleshot on network like issues (With Cisco Routers, Switches, AP, WLC, WAAS, Nexus)  ? Network devices adding removing in monitoring tools like Solarwinds & Cisco Prime, Cisco ISE  ? New Cisco Switches configuration with VLAN's, VTP and syslog, SMP server and other security features  ? All functions associated with installing/configuring/updating SolarWinds Orion's Network Performance Monitor (NPM)  ? Integrated and maintained 5 additional Polling Engines (HP Proliant series server hardware)  ? Created Custom properties in SolarWinds Orion:  ? Geographical Region and Location (Country - State - Region )  ? Business Division & location type (HERC - RAC - HLE )  ? Network Medium (DMVPN-Domestic MPLS/BGP )  ? Criticality (HQ - Data/Reservation Center - Top 25 Revenue - Large Campus )  ? Business Venture (Cinelease - Dollar Thrifty - Penske - Lowes' )  ? Used MIB/OID query to develop customized polling in SolarWinds Orion:  ? Custom alerting triggers and subsequent actions  ? standards  ? Identifying the reoccurring outages in all regions and give the permanent fix  ? Work orders & change Controls creation with Remedy tool before we implement any change in production Sr. Network Engineer Dentsu Aegis Network, NewYork October 2013 to November 2014 Responsibilities:  ? Providing network Support from new application releases  ? Working on CA AHD ticketing system  ? As a part of new site implementation configure Cisco Devices with different routing protocol like BGP, OSPF, EIGRP based upon client requirement and as per company standards  ? As a part of new site deployment we will make sure all the routers are running with SNMP, SSH, Syslog, AAA, IP Flow, latest Cisco IOS etc.  ? As pa part of new site deployment we will configure WAAS box to enable network (TCP) optimization  ? Implementing HSRP, VRRP, GLBP redundancy on layer2 & Layer 3 level  ? Implementing port-channel to give higher speed to servers  ? Nexus 7k, 5k, 2k Configuring with FEX, FHRP, VPC, VDC, Fabric patch based on design which we are going to implement  ? Port-channel implementation on Nexus 7k, 5k, Catalyst 6500, 4500 series for servers to get high bandwidth  ? New Cisco Switches configuration with VLAN's, VTP and syslog, SMP server and other security features  ? Conducting weekly, BI-weekly, monthly report meeting to discuss about upcoming network changes and new projects and network product lifecycle  ? Working on Ehealth to adding and retiring all network devices  ? Configuring Cisco 2200, 4400, 5500 series Wireless controllers.  ? Configuring and managing Anchor controllers, tunnels, DHCP for Guest wireless.  ? Implemented HREAP and Flex for remote controller connectivity.  ? Implemented OSPF, static and BGP routing for WAN connectivity.  ? Implementing provisioning APs, WLCs and floor plans using Cisco Prime.  ? Experienced working with Cisco Nexus 2148 Fabric Extender and Nexus 5000 series to provide a Flexible Access Solution for datacenter access architecture.  ? Coordinating with service providers for WAN link outages.  ? Configuring DMVPN for remote sites.  ? Experience working with Cisco IOS-XR on the ASR9000 devices  ? Providing capacity reports to application projects  ? Worked on Load Balancer F5 LTM, GTM series like 6400, 6800, 8800 for the corporate applications and their availability  ? Experienced in tasks like managing User Accounts and Groups, managing Disks and Filesystems.  ? Install and configure Instruction Detection System (IDS) like Tripwire, Snort, and Lids.  ? Configuring & monitoring DHCP server.  ? Taking backup using tar and recovering during the data loss.  ? Experience in writing bash scripts for job automation.  ? Promoted from Global Center Network Operations Manager.Performed OSPF, BGP, DHCP Profile, HSRP, IPV6, Bundle Ethernet implementation on ASR 9K redundant pair.  ? Working on network Vantage Tool to get actual band width for network devices  ? Working on Netqos tool to get details report for device interfaces Network Support Engineer Prosper Marketplace, California July 2013 to September 2013 Responsibilities:  ? Remote sites build globally (gathering information from client, Devices Procurement, Network Plan (Design), Rack build, implementation, Documentation)  ? Attending all network project meetings to share project status  ? As a part of new site implementation & existing sites network expansions I will create a network Visio with details documentation to handover to support team  ? Network Audits on globally for all sites  ? Configured Routing protocols such as RIP, OSPF, EIGRP, MPLS, static routing and policy based routing.  ? Configured VLANs with 802.1q tagging. Configured Trunk groups, ether channels, and Spanning tree for creating Access/distribution and core layer switching architecture.  ? Upgraded Cisco ASA 5510 firewalls using 6500/7600 catalyst modules for enhanced performance, security and reliability. Security policy review and configuration in Palo Alto and Juniper SRX Firewall in Datacenter. Troubleshooting of CISCO routers like ping, trace route and basic issues.  ? Configuring, testing, troubleshooting multiple vendor device platforms like Cisco routing and switching: Cisco ASR9010, ASR901, ASR903, Catalyst Cisco 7609, 2960, and Juniper routing and switching devices: MX960, MX 480 and SRX5200, ACX2200, ALU service aggregation router: 7705 SAR 8 and 7750 service router.  ? Experienced in working with BIG-IP Edge Portal and BIG-IP Edge Client.  ? Configuring and implementing F5 Big-IP LTM, GTM load balancers to maintain global and local traffic  ? Create and test Cisco router and switching operations using OSPF routing protocol, ASA Firewalls for stable VPNs& trouble-shooting of routing protocols like static, dynamic  ? Migration of existing IPSEC VPN tunnels from Pre-Shared key to Certificate Authority for purpose of scaling.  ? Implemented site to site VPN in Juniper SRX as per customer.  ? Cisco Routers, Switches, NEXUS box IOS upgrades (with NX-OS and IOS)  ? Get permanent fix for recurring outages  ? Nexus 7k, 5k, 2k Configuring with FEX, FHRP, VPC, VDC, Fabric patch based on design which we are going to implement  ? Work with procurement to get the devices deliver to the new sites Network Engineer (Contractor) Cybernet Slash Support - Chennai, Tamil Nadu March 2010 to June 2012 Project: IO - CIMOC    Responsibilities:  ? Providing Tier 3 support for all escalation issues.  ? Manage a queue of work requests to meet service levels and KPI objectives  ? Design and deploy network solutions and enhancements to existing infrastructure, software, and network operating systems  ? As a part of new site implementation configure Cisco devices with different routing protocol like BGP, OSPF, EIGRP based upon client requirement and as per company standards  ? We will make sure all Cisco routers are running with SNMP, SSH, Syslog, AAA, IP Flow and latest Cisco IOS  ? Review technical requirements, establish project milestones and tasks and determine level of effort estimates for their completion  ? Act as project lead in the design and review of new network hardware and security appliance systems; conduct capacity planning as needed  ? Deploy and maintain WAN, LAN and wireless networks including routers, switches, and related hardware  ? Troubleshoot, identify and repair complex network issues for WAN, LAN, Internet connections and end-user issues while mentoring secondary engineering staff  ? Conduct research on network products, services, protocols, and standards to remain abreast of developments in the networking industry  ? Establish and implement design principles, policies, and strategies to ensure security and integrity of the enterprise network environment  ? Develop and perform network security audits, configuration backup procedures, and other recovery processes in accordance with the organization's disaster recovery and business continuity strategies  ? Prepare design documentation, illustrations and white papers to support design decisions. Perform all work in a manner to ensure interoperability and maintain compliance of enterprise network systems.  ? Troubleshooting MPLS, DMVPN, PFR in enterprise level in Data Centers & Large remote sites  ? Troubleshooting the network in case of any network outage.  ? On regular basis providing network support for Tier 1, Tier 2 and or Tier 3 support  ? Interacting with desktop team to understand and troubleshoot any issue related to network faced by end users  ? Building plans for scheduled maintenance activities for network and delegating it to tier 2 for implementation  ? UNIX scripts to automate various network related activities.  ? Up gradation of Cisco recommended IOS version from older version and Identification of Bug fixes and recommendation path accordingly.  ? Incident management - Analyze and report incidents escalated as per the escalations matrix defined within the agreed timescales and SLA's.  ? Change management - Raise change request, carry out risk assessment, provide detailed implementation plan, analyze and approve change request within the agreed timescales and SLA's Education Bachelor's Skills CISCO (7 years), OSPF (7 years), SECURITY (7 years), IOS (6 years), BGP (5 years), Ccna, Mcse, NOC, Vmware, Networking, System Administrator, Active Directory Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Networking SKILLS  Skilled in configuring Nexus (7k, 6k, 5k, 2k (FEX), Nexus 1000V) , Cisco Routers, Cisco Switches, VLANS, Spanning Tree (RPVST+, MST), VTP, Ether Channels, UDLD, MPLS, OSPF, RIP, EIGRP, BGP, HSRP, VRRP, GLBP, QOS, ACL,IP Prefix-list, NEXUS (FEX, OTV, FHRP, VPC, VDC), WAAS, MPLS VPN, IPSEC, IPV4, IPV6    Security protocols IKE, IPsec, SSL, AAA, Access-lists, prefix-lists  Software Microsoft Office Suite, MS SQL Server 2008, HTML  Network management SNMP, Cisco Works LMS,HP Openview,Solar winds,Ethereal.  Layer 3 Switching CEF,Multi-Layer Switching,Eather Channel.  Carrier Technologies MPLS,MPLS-VPN  Redundancy Protocols HSP,VRRP,GLBP    Operating Systems  Windows XP/Vista/7/8/10, Nexus OS, Cisco IOS, Sun Solaris 10/9/8, Red Hat EL 5.x, 6.x, 7 and Windows Server, VMware ESX, Solaris, MS Windows server, Mac OS, UNIX    Juniper Routers / Firewall J2300, J6300, M7i, M10i. SSG-5, SSG-20.,SRX-100,240  Juniper Switches EX-3200, EX-4200, Ex-8200  Language Turbo C/C++, basics in Perl and Shell scripting ,Power Shell  Tools  HPOVI, HP Service Desk, Remedy, Thousand Eyes,Solarwinds, JIRA , SMC,NAGIOS, ASDB, Cacti Opswiki, CA Ehealth, Network Vantage, NETQOS, Spectrum, MRTG, Fluke, Solar Winds, ARUBA, CACTI, CISCO Prime, CISCO ISE, Info box, Cisco Total care Excel, PowerPoint, Word, Visio,Spulnk,Beacon