Logistics Analyst Logistics Analyst IT consolidated Tech Delray Beach, FL Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Logistics Analyst Target - Delray Beach, FL September 2018 to Present Warehouse sticker flows team member cross trained Chat ops Gubagoo - Boca Raton, FL March 2018 to June 2018 Customer service rep helping customers find new cars on various dealership sites. Providing car service appointments or sales appointments. Providing what ever help is needed, to generate leads for each specific dealership through Gubagoos chat interface. Handled four chats at a time. Chat Specialist Time Warner Cable Teleperformance - Boca Raton, FL November 2017 to March 2018 Took inbound billing support chats for Time Warner/ Spectrum Charter. Helping customers pay bills extend services, add services or lite technical support if needed. Took multiple chats at a time navigating from each computer to help the customers needs using Charters billing system. IT Technical Analyst TBC Corporation - Juno Beach, FL January 2016 to November 2017 I preform remote support/troubleshooting for customers we have. Customer service is highly valued as well. TBC owns the entire Tire Kingdom Chain. We help fix their POS (POINT OF SALES) Computers Printers or anything technical. If the task was something beyond the Technical Analyst group we would end to a higher tier to be evaluated. IT Technical Support Electronic Payments - Boca Raton, FL June 2017 to September 2017 A Card card processing company where transactions are helped processed through credit card reader terminals making it possible to become a merchant to process sales for customers rather it be retail or restaurant based we have a system for you. By usinteracting with various major bank associations in the nation we make card processing possible for all sorts. I am a support rep that helps the customers rather it be from troubleshooting terminal or software/hardware. Or rather it be aquiring information for merchants or ISO groups. Sales Agent Fast Fix 123 2014 to 2014 Inbound sales calls dealing with customers wanting Remote technical computer repair services. Made $550 on first call. Troubleshooter Microsoft Account Technician, Outlook Teleperformance- Microsoft Exchange - Boca Raton, FL 2014 to 2014 Worked for Microsoft Exchange account . Working with Office 365 suites troubleshooting customers issues over the phone. Federal Student Worker ITT-Technical Institute - Deerfield Beach, FL 2013 to 2013 Worked for the college on site helping students, setting up events for the school. Chamber of commerce meetings. Movie nights. Job assistants for students. IT repair for the school working along side the school IT coordinator to gain professional experience. Licensed contractor, Government/Public Facilities and installing Surveillance Cameras. Boynton Beach Protection Video - Boynton Beach, FL 2012 to 2012 Set up surveillance cameras for government facilities. Such as county court houses jails Metro train stations. Hotels and commercial services. Intern Network System Administrator Modern AD Media 2010 to 2011 Worked with an Advertising company Assisting agents on the floor if there computers goes down we fix them. Re-image, set up group polices, telephony issues, working in server rooms and telephony rooms. Had an opportunity to work on New Job site they where setting up, running the whole network infrastructure to navigate back to the main building site.. Education Associate in Network System Administration College ITT Technical Institute - West Palm Beach, FL July 2012 to January 2015 South Technical Charter School (Cisco Networking Academy) 2008 to 2012 Skills Desktop Support, Help Desk, Service Desk, Active Directory, MAC, Tech Support Links http://www.linkedin.com/pub/rahkeim-bean/54/979/129 Certifications/Licenses Valid Drivers License Additional Information Skills    ? 92.6% Typing Accuracy (Office Suite) Computer/Technical Literacy    ? Encouraging/Trustworthy/Reliable Asset/ Goal-driven with a great smile.    ? Exceptional listener and communicator who effectively conveys information verbally and in writing.    ? Interpersonal Abilities    ? Analytical/Innovative problem-solver who can generate workable solutions and resolve complaints.    ? Adaptable to change, Flexibility    ? Reasonable and highly organized; dedicated, and committed to professionalism.    ? I am Self-Confident, committed to my work.