Local ISP - Network Technician Local ISP - <span class="hl">Network</span> Technician Bend, OR Solutions-oriented, highly motivated network engineer offering ready-to-leverage technical training and experience. 5+ years of experience and in-depth knowledge of establishing and maintaining networks and servers, security, and IP troubleshooting. Eager to join a team to help maintain the company's current IT infrastructure, as well as design and implement new solutions. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Local ISP - Network Technician Bend Broadband April 2016 to July 2017 • Installed and configured customer premise equipment to homes and businesses.  • Installed new cable service to homes following building code and guidelines.  • Provided customer support and helped company attain one of the highest customer service ratings in the industry, leading to acquisition by a fortune 500 company(TDS).  • Accurately and efficiently came up with estimates and designs for home cabling and network solutions.  • Worked with CAT5/6 and RG6/11 cable while understanding its design specifications and limitations. Webmaster Self Employed January 2015 to March 2016 • Started my own online business selling electronic cigarettes and vaporizers.  • Deployed current SEO techniques to attain market popularity.  • Achieved 100,000 unique page views per day and had profit margins exceeding 150%.  • Attained first page google results for popular products. Network/NOC Engineer Disney - Seattle, WA September 2013 to October 2014 • Provided front line operational support (24x7) for the entire network environment with a high degree of emphasis on checkpoint and Juniper SRX firewall environments.  • Responded to all network alerts/incidents and investigated, recorded, resolved, or escalated to appropriate business unit.  • Ensured each step was documented and communicated to impacted users throughout the troubleshooting process.  • Managed SSL certificates and load balancing configuration on BIG IP devices.  • Maintained service level agreements with other business units and employees.  • Drafted and installed firewall rules and policies.  • Managed Checkpoint Crossbeam and Juniper SRX Firewalls, as well as Bluecoat Proxy and Web Filters.  • Assist with release management activities including patching, firmware updates and related activities.  • Documenting new deployments or changes to deployments.  • Network analysis actions including port mirroring, blocking traffic, failing over firewalls, configuring port channels, assigning VLANs Network/System Administrator Etrixgroup Inc May 2012 to September 2013 • Design, optimize, architect and implement new and existing network infrastructure.  • Spearheaded Virtualized Desktop Infrastructure pilot program to ensure smooth execution in the production environment.  • Tested and implemented business critical applications that later provided a 100% increase in productivity.  • Created user guides and documentation for internal software/procedures, allowing next administrator to easily understand the topology.  • Created a central knowledge base on an internal wiki server and filled it with common issues and important information.  • Motivated team members to produce knowledge base entries in an effort to continue growing the available information.  • Reduced hardware footprint by migrating servers to virtual infrastructure using VMWare ESXi 4.1, VCenter Server, Vmotion, and VSphere client.  • Managed HTTP, Mail, DNS, DHCP, and FTP servers.  • Configured LAN, WAN, and VPN network.  • Enabled remote SSL VPN access and hardened security measures by migrating from consumer grade hardware to Cisco ASA and Layer 2 2900 series Access Switches.  • Designed and implemented entire network footprint from scratch.  • Installed 25U rack and cabled network hardware to industry standard.  • Implemented network monitoring solution through the open source software Nagios. System Administrator Touch Support Inc - West Lafayette, IN November 2011 to May 2012 • Provided white label support to 50+ clients with over 1000 servers running CentOS 4-6, Cpanel, WHM, and Plesk.  • Gained immeasurable Linux/Unix experience.  • Ensured SLA uptime was met by responding to server issues within 15 minutes, fixing the issue, or escalating to the proper team.  • Recorded changes and work in ticketing system. Network Administrator Columbia Forest Products Inc - Bend, OR April 2011 to September 2011 • Evaluated internal network infrastructure to identify single points of failure and eliminate them, ensuring high availability, security, and performance of tools and systems in a 4M yearly budget data center.  • Responded to user issues regarding desktop hardware, Microsoft products, and IP-based networks under mentorship of Director of Network Operations.  • Provided computer application and hardware support for 1000+ users, enabling efficient workflow.  • Performed upgrades and configuration changes of Microsoft Windows 2003 and 2008 servers, preventing security breaches and providing high-availability.  • Ensured thorough network documentation, including maintaining over 17 remote site's backup configurations and network diagrams.  • Created map of entire network encompassing a large datacenter and 17 WAN sites in Visio.  • Used port mirroring to analyze traffic with Wireshark to troubleshoot layer 2-7 issues. Technical Support/ Customer Service Ygnition Networks Inc - Seattle, WA June 2010 to December 2010 • Handled troubleshooting of customer premise equipment, sales, technical support, and service.  • Served as single point of contact for service restoration.  • Experience using enterprise level ticketing system to document service and support.  • Signed new customers up for internet, phone, VoIP, and cable.  • Handled billing issues, disconnections, customer retention, and service issues/complaints.  • 24% higher sales than next best for month of October. Education Associate of Applied Science in Computer Information Technology Ivy Tech State College - Lafayette, IN 2013 Skills DNS, Firewalls, Networking, Virtualization, DHCP, Customer Service, Security, Technical Support, Windows, Vmware, Active Directory, Microsoft Office and 365 Suite Certifications/Licenses CCNA CCNA Security A+