Network Administrator <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Roanoke, VA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Network Administrator Star City Games - Roanoke, VA August 2019 to Present Responsible for overseeing, managing,and maintaining the Company's intranet and infrastructure. Works with the Information Technology Manager to plan upgrades, installations, and research new technologies regarding business infrastructure. Provides level 2 technical support to employees. Technology Manager Star City Games - Roanoke, VA May 2013 to August 2019 Managed a Technology team consisting of upwards of 8 Programmers in completions of various projects and initiatives to further the business and operational goals of the company.    Responsible for the creation of custom reports for Company management to measure various aspects of performance.    Utilized a variety of languages and tools in the completion of duties.  • PHP  • Git  • Docker  • C#  • Kubernetes  • SQL    Proposed and managed an upgrade in the server infrastructure for the company that both boosted website stability while saving the company $30,000/yr in infrastructure costs. Shift Manager Pizza Hut - Daleville, VA July 2008 to July 2011 Lead shifts every week, making sure customers get a fast, accurate, friendly experience every visit. Provided leadership to crew and other managers during a shift to ensure great Quality, Service and Cleanliness to customers. Education Associate in Computer and Electronics Technology Virginia Western Community College - Roanoke, VA August 2006 to May 2008 High school or equivalent Lord Botetourt High School - Daleville, VA August 1996 to June 2000 Skills PHP, Excel, Customer Service, Word, Docker, Kubernetes, SQL, Project Management, Communications Military Service Branch: US Navy Service Country: United States Rank: E-5 August 2000 to August 2006 Maintained Water Chemistry and Radiological Controls on board the USS Miami SSN 755. Qualified Power Plant Operator. Branch: Navy Service Country: United States Rank: E-5 August 2000 to August 2006 Maintained Water Chemistry and Radiological Controls on board the USS Miami SSN 755. Qualified Power Plant Operator.