Linux Systems Administrator Linux Systems <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Linux Systems Administrator - CoLinx, LLC Greer, SC To pursue a career in IT Security and continue to grow my knowledge and expertise in those areas    In Depth Knowledge Skills Summary  Linux, AWS, VMWare, EMC RSA SecurID, Ansible, Ansible Tower, Jenkins    Working Knowledge Skills Summary  Splunk, Carbon Black, CrowdStrike, Aqua, Puppet, Python, Windows DNS, Windows DHCP, Windows Group Policy, Nessus, Lansweeper, Git/Gitlab/Github Work Experience Linux Systems Administrator CoLinx, LLC - Greenville, SC April 2016 to Present Assisted in deploying a new Endpoint Detection and Response (EDR) solution.  ? Assisted in deploying Aqua for Kubernetes container security.  ? Provisioned Center for Internet Security compliant Linux servers.  ? Administered Splunk to include moving our on premise splunk infrastructure to Amazon Web Services. Pushed out new server classes using our deployment server whenever developers had a new need for a log to show in splunk.  ? Setup appropriate firewalld/iptables rules on Linux servers  ? Assisted in migration of an entire E-Commerce platform from static infrastructure in a datacenter to Amazon Web Services.  ? Used Ansible to automate repetitive tasks.  ? Performed on demand provisioning of Red Hat, CentOS, and Amazon Linux based systems in VMWare for on premise needs. Accomplished using templating and kickstarting using Red Hat Satellite and Spacewalk along with baselining scripts. Added machines to dhcp/dns where needed.  ? Administered RHEL/CentOS 6/7, and Amazon Linux systems including all manners of health and status.  ? Performed patching utilizing Red Hat Satellite Server/Ansible for work loads that aren't rebuild automatically.  ? Implemented AWS backup solution using CPM (Cloud Protection Manager).  ? Provisioned Amazon Web Services such as Cloudformation, EC2, EBS, S3, Route53, EFS, and VPC.  ? Applied and troubleshot security groups on EC2. Storage Administrator Logic Technology, Inc - Greenville, SC November 2015 to November 2016 Provided expertise as an L2 Enterprise Storage Administrator.  ? Volume management, clustering, local & remote replication, project management, and process workflow.  ? Troubleshot technical issues, researched solutions and tracked problems to resolution.  ? Helped manage NAS and SAN capacity to ensure the continuous delivery of storage to the businesses.  ? Analyzed storage utilization and forecast capacity needs. Worked with Storage Engineering leadership to review the analysis and with hardware vendors to place and track orders for additional capacity.  ? Oversaw installation and configuration of new storage devices, working with other teams as needed to facilitate the installation. Jr. Network Administrator American Credit Acceptance - Spartanburg, SC November 2014 to November 2015 RSA Console and Server Manager (functioned as Systems Administrator for RSA)  ? Deployed and maintained RSA SecurID for Cisco VPN Client  ? Configured RSA Token and assigned to users  ? Applied policies and security for logon authentication  ? Troubleshot and resolved all issues with the use of RSA Server  ? Installed and configured tool according to required connections  ? Assisted users with connection from multiple locations using RSA Tokens  ? Provided tier 2 and 3 support for 900+ users.  IT Support Technician  ? Troubleshot and resolved tickets for hardware, software, and network issues.  ? Performed IT moves, adds, and changes.  ? Installed PC hardware and software as needed.  ? Performed desktop and laptop imaging using Symantec ghost and Microsoft Deployment Toolkit.  ? Technical writing and documentation. PC Technician Call Brady Computer Services - Travelers Rest, SC March 2014 to September 2014 Installed computer equipment and upgraded desktops.  ? Provided technical support for residential clients and businesses.  ? Setup networks and troubleshot network issues.  ? Wireless troubleshooting/expansion of wireless networks. Education Associate Degree in Computer Technology in Systems Administration Greenville Technical College - Greenville, SC 2014