Systems Engineer/ Network Admin Systems Engineer/<span class="hl">Network</span> Admin Systems Engineer/ Network Admin - Potent IT Services Urbana, IL A results-driven IT professional with extensive experience in the engineering, administration and support of network operating systems. In-depth expertise in the implementation, analysis, optimization, troubleshooting and documentation of LAN/WAN network systems. Demonstrated ability to prioritize and manage projects in a timely manner and on budget. Able to adapt quickly to new environments, concepts and systems. Superior customer relations, problem solving and communication skills. During my almost 10-year career, I have worked on mostly Cisco routers, switches, access points, VMware, Citrix, Windows, Linux servers and other various technologies. Productive and results oriented in team and individual projects. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Systems Engineer/ Network Admin Potent IT Services - Watseka, IL December 2012 to Present Provide IT consulting, network infrastructure, and server/web support for small/medium sized  commercial and private entities.  • Provide remote and on-site technical support for end-users and other technicians.  • Employ project management, providing solutions that align with an establishment needs while remaining within budgets.  • Maintain network topologies, Visio diagrams, and other network information for clients, updating  documentation on a regular basis.  • Serve as a contractor for businesses with special, short-term projects and always delivering.  • Troubleshoot various issues depending on target site including, but not limited to: WLAN  troubleshooting and installation, site-to-site VPN installation, installing and opening ports on firewalls, configuring MAC and IP ACLs, creating VLANs and network segmentation, machine  deployments using SCCM, installing various Windows and Linux servers with various roles,  Azure and Intune deployment. Network Administrator Urbana School District - Urbana, IL October 2018 to June 2019 Manage and maintain all network infrastructure throughout the district (13 sites, 12,000 hosts).  Including all firewalls, routers, switches, load balancers, wireless controllers, and access points.  • Collaborate with Systems Administrator and assist with implementation, monitoring, design, and troubleshooting of many physical, virtual, and cloud-based servers including domain controllers,  databases, antivirus, Office 365, and other technologies.  • Manage VPN access, policies, and configuration. Troubleshooting of VPN, DMZ, and all other  external sites within the district.  • Day-to-day includes IT help desk, break/fix of camera system, bell and intercom system,  network monitoring, firewall monitoring, wireless monitoring, and various other tasks.  • Manage any project that pertains to small or large network implementations. Network Engineer Satnet, Inc - Saint Anne, IL July 2017 to October 2018 Engineer all infrastructure in a PTMP (WISP) system - firewalls, servers, backhauls, APs,  switches, routers, and subscriber modules.  • Plan, design, and implement special projects based on current environment variables within the network (area noise, frequency scaling, attenuation, weather).  • Provide 24/7 on-call service for break/fix and server problems.  • Plan, design, and implement provider area equipment, IP subnets, frequencies, and backhauls.  • Monitor core network components and implement disaster recovery measures and procedures. Network Administrator (Contract) Logansport Community School Corporation - Logansport, IN October 2016 to July 2017 • Provide remote and on-site management for site networks, regular schedule and on-call.  • Implement projects with the primary purpose to improve overall performance, security, stability  and reliability of network infrastructure, devices and servers.  • Maintain network availability and integrity by regularly monitoring firewalls, hardware, virtual  entities, routers, switches, WLAN appliances, domain controllers, and backups.  • Collaborate with IT staff to manage operations, assign duties, and aid staff members.  • Administer deployment of operating systems, applications, policies, and updates to take  advantage of robust network facilitation with SCCM and WDS/MDT.  • Implement dynamic solutions, break/fix, diagnostics, and long-term projects by applying critical  analyses with technical knowledge, oftentimes via strategic planning and consultation, aligning with corporate long and short-term goals.  • Improve overall network: extend IP subnets, adding and implementing VLANs, implemented  wireless authentication using RADIUS and SSO, server hardening, group policy editing, and other network administration roles. Systems Engineer Roeing Corporation - Lafayette, IN October 2016 to July 2017 Provide technical knowledge, personable skills, and consulting methods to clients to not only  provide solutions and satisfaction, but to establish and improve business relationships.  • Daily operations consist of various network administration, systems engineering, or user help- desk to various clients, either on-site or remotely, depending on job criteria and priority.  • Network, server, hardware, security, telephone systems, overall IT infrastructure designated  responsibility, design, discovery, diagnosis, problem identification, troubleshooting, repair, root- cause analysis, communication, and monitoring for various private and state firms.  • Design, install, plan, break/fix, and test on small, medium, large, and enterprise-level networks.  Wide variety of duties and responsibilities. Network Systems Administrator Iroquois Memorial Hospital - Watseka, IL July 2013 to October 2016 • Provide remote and on-site tier 1-4 technical support, on call 24/7.  • Help-desk IT tasks and ticket resolution, data backups, computer repair, network  troubleshooting, network documentation, switch and router configuration, Citrix help-desk, ISP  support, packet monitoring (Cisco ASA).  • Establish and maintain HIPAA compliance, PCI-DSS compliance, State and Federal laws.  • Install/upgrade, troubleshoot, and maintain firewalls, IP subnets, VLANs, domain controllers,  vendor associations, e-mail and e-mail archive administration (iMail and MailArchiva), Intranet  site administration, HIPAA and employee education, and ITSEC.  • Citrix administrative functions: VM server farm, multiple versions of Citrix, networking  applications, database servers, DMZ control, DNS configuration, proxy server, web and e-mail  appliances, Health IT software, authentication (LDAP), and certificate establishment. Network Technician Mediacom Cable - Watseka, IL October 2011 to July 2013 Provide Internet, telephone, cable TV, and security system support for Business and home  customers.  • Apply Hybrid-Fiber-Coax System WAN concepts, allowing RF control and balance to ensure  network uptime and reliability, channel multiplexing technologies (QAM256) between digital and analog systems.  • Install, troubleshoot, and maintain telephone, Internet, cable TV, PCs and laptops, security  systems, antivirus, e-mail, modems, coax, fiber, UTP cabling. Layer 1 and 2 concepts. Education Associate in Network Systems Administration Parkland College Skills Active Directory, Windows, Vmware, Technical Support, Networking