Network Administrator <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Network Administrator - United States Marine Corps Salisbury, MD Work Experience Network Administrator United States Marine Corps August 2015 to Present • Provided solution on start-up, shut down and first level troubleshooting of processes to help desk staff.  • Managed firewall, network monitoring and server monitoring both on- and off-site.  • Recommended network security standards to management. Attractions Supervisor Frontier Town Water Park & RV Resort - Chester, MD June 2016 to October 2018 • Trained crew members in all positions in order to ensure safety of patrons and employees.  • Ensure full regulatory compliance for all staff members and swimmers and led safety training to enhance overall awareness and skills.  • Managed day to day operations of waterpark in order to maximize patron's experience and safety. Lifeguard Club One Fitness & Aerobics - Chester, MD October 2016 to January 2018 • Attentively watch over swimmers being quick to identify those in distress.  • Ensure full regulatory compliance for all staff members and swimmers and led safety training to enhance overall awareness and skills. Crew Trainer McDonald's - Denton, MD September 2012 to July 2015 • Maintained current knowledge of all team position requirements.  • Taught new team members correct procedures for all areas of operations.  • Mentored junior employees to improve performance, food safety and customer service. Education High School Diploma Salisbury University - Salisbury, MD 2015 Skills Networking Certifications/Licenses Network+ Certification July 2017 to Present • Design and implement functional networks  • Configure, manage, and maintain essential network devices  • Use devices such as switches and routers to segment network traffic and create resilient networks  • Identify benefits and drawbacks of existing network configurations  • Implement network security, standards, and protocols  • Troubleshoot network problems  • Support the creation of virtualized networks Additional Information Skills  • Dependable and reliable  • Safety procedures knowledge  • Fast learner