SharePoint Administrator SharePoint <span class="hl">Administrator</span> TIER II Help Desk Analyst Prattville, AL Work Experience SharePoint Administrator Cedge Corp - Scott AFB, IL April 2014 to October 2014 Overall technical expert for IntelShare/SharePoint systems. Responsible for SharePoint site collection administration and development of a public facing SharePoint websites. Managed configuration of users, group and permissions accounts, network rights, and access to sites. Meeting with end users and stakeholders to gather requirements, create functional and technical documents and provide end user training. Created and maintained Access 2007 databases TIER II Help Desk Analyst SAIC November 2010 to June 2011 Provided worldwide 24/7 support to over 300,000 for Defense Connect Online Collaboration tool to DISA on both Unclassified and Classified networks providing system support for Adobe Connect and Jabber Moment IM. Using TMS Remedy automated trouble ticketing system to track and document provides customer guidance concerning DCO policies and procedures. Monitor systems for identification of IT system issues and monitor DCO network devices and analyzed outages for impact and awareness to community. Maintained high quality support to customers in education and technical expertise regarding Adobe connect and Cisco Jabber software for mission essential needs. Network Technician SAIC August 2010 to November 2010 Netconn and 6/2011 - Present: Network Installations: SAIC  Project leaders responsible for the installation and maintenances of network devices, operating systems and servers. Using ITSM/TMS Trouble Management Systems Remedy to track and document maintained and updated configuration management database for the installation of switches, routers and encryption devices for Department of Defense sites. Installed Windows/UNIX OS and upgrades and maintained multiple network devices and blade servers using VMware, CHIP and ECAR. Terminated copper and fiber optics cables. Documented system requirements, testing of systems, and troubleshooting IP addressing and design of site specific equipment. Help Desk Tier III Technician Insight Technologies January 2010 to August 2010 Tier III level technician, providing trouble support to end users, testing, installing and resolving hardware issues and configured, deployed, tested and repaired hardware for end-user use including CPUs, monitors, laptop computers, local printers, network printers, local and network scanners, and other peripheral devices. Used knowledge of information technology security/information assurance policies, principles and practices in the delivery of customer support services responded to customers work areas to perform maintenance and upgrades as needed to ensure system reliability. Participated in testing and deployment planning for software upgrades and hardware, documenting inventory changes to perform fault isolation and computer problems Education Associate of Applied Science American College of Technology September 2011 Skills Secret Security Clearance Feb 2010 Associate of Applied Science Degree, American College of Technology Sept 2011, Network Design (IP addressing and network engineering) Fall 2010 Security + Certification Jan 2012 A+ Certification May 2010 Dell Certified Systems Expert May 2010 U.S. Air Force Workgroup manager training Feb 2000