Network Engineer (MSOC III) <span class="hl">Network</span> Engineer (MSOC III) Network Engineer Houston, TX Work Experience Network Engineer (MSOC III) Meriplex Communications - Houston, TX June 2018 to Present Provided L3 support while being the escalation point for L1 and L2 related issues.  ? Identify and remediate voice and data network performance issues on Cisco 29xx and 39xx routers ? Configured site-to-site, multisite IPsec VPN tunnels with Cisco routers for existing clients at remote locations to resolve routing issues.  ? Supported and configured cisco meraki switches, wireless access point and velocloud devices for SDWAN solutions at remote locations.  ? Responsible for troubleshooting fax line issues from VOIP to device with cisco ATA, Voice gateways and CUBE.  ? Interact and with employees, vendors, and contractors to maintain MPLS and DMVPN WAN solutions for nationwide clients with unique configurations. Network Administrator J.P. Morgan Chase - Houston, TX January 2013 to May 2018 Configured, implemented and monitored LAN on Cisco 3845 routers for retail branches, ATM machines and corporate business site for locations in North America.  ? Reconfigured Cisco 3845 routers, Cisco 3950 Switches, Cisco Wireless Cellular routers and Cisco 12000 series routers.  ? Coordinated with Branch Managers, field engineers, internal departments and Telco Vendors to provide solutions to branches experiencing network latency or interruption in service.  ? Provided real time L1 and L2 support while being the first point of contact in network related outages and service impacting events.  ? Triage, updated, engaged vendors to resolve alert generated tickets from internal monitoring software along with responding to emails and phone calls from effected line(s) of business.  ? Enabled, disabled troubleshoot and implemented BGP, EIGRP, and routing protocol issues on Cisco devices.  ? Interfaced directly with Cisco Corporation to replace and reconfigure failed components of Cisco equipment at commercial banking locations across North America.  ? Responsible for daily maintenance of tickets in addition to providing L2/L3 Windows OS support. o Support OS for Windows 2003, 2008/2008 R2 and 2012 Servers.  ? Coordinate with internal lines of business about downtime of issues, potential impact, and steps for resolution with prevention of recurrence.  ? First point of contact for priority 1/high severity engagement on Windows OS issues (million dollar impact).  ? Conference with related lines of business by phone, email and Skype to drive issues to resolution. o Maintain OS health for 50k+ servers, rebuild physical/virtual servers. Lead efforts with DBA on restoring SQL databases and storage engineers on restoring /configuring backups for Symantec Netbackup issues.  ? Escalated support for resolving patching issues, ITSM changes trouble or failures and critical software upgrades during scheduled maintenance window.  ? Produced quality customer service in an high volume environment, with strong written and verbal communication. Outlining, informing and/or resolving the identified issue with continuous customer engagement until completion.  ? Managed, support and maintain cluster resources using Windows Fail-over Cluster Manager. Troubleshoot TFTP connection issues.  ? Experience and exposure to VMware Vcenter with windows virtual machines, Cisco UCS, and KVM manager. Network Support Specialist NCI - Houston, TX May 2010 to January 2013 Provided quick customer service response to escalated user desktop issues and submitted work orders for completion.  ? Created and restore computer images for new users, corrupt hard drives and/or crashed operating systems.  ? Activated and maintained new/current user permissions using MS Exchange 2008/2003 in current active directory information and user profiles.  ? Troubleshoot basic computer viruses, hardware failures and network connectivity issues. o Configured and migrated MS Exchange 2008 from 2003 for new and existing users ? Analyzed LAN/WAN setting on Cisco routers, switches and VOIP phones to determine network performance issues.  ? Mapped privately accessed network drives, network printers and associated email addresses. o Restored, updated and deployed windows 7 system images.  ? Presented new hires with basic IT overview of department policies and procedures in orientation process.  ? Worked closely with the System Administrators to resolve server/application related issues with Tax- wise 05-11, website access, and Fund-ware. Help Desk Support NCI - Houston, TX September 2009 to May 2010 Recognized as the 1st level of contact and provided complete customer service for end user support. o Responsible for the timely completion or escalations of user submitted tickets.  ? Created new user profile in Active Directory and assigned permissions in MS Exchange 2003/08 while maintained and supported current user password issues.  ? Provided effective and knowledgeable phone support to users/external customers with basic login and network issues for websites and databases.  ? Setup, administer and deploy student lab hardware, network and software configurations.    Skills/Knowledge Base  Cisco Call manager 11.5, Cisco Unity Connetion, , Meraki, VeloCloud, Wireless Access points, Router/Switches CLI, EIGRP, OSPF, BGP, SIP trunking, PRI  Windows Server 2003/2008/2012/2016 DNS, DHCP, PowerShell, Education Bachelors in Computer Science in Computer Science Texas Southern University 2005 to 2009 Skills Cisco, CCNP Certifications/Licenses CCNA Routing and Switching November 2013 to November 2021