Electronic Technician Electronic Technician Romeoville, IL Primarily looking for commercial experience in the IT field but I'm also open to electrical/electronic focused positions. I'm a highly motivated worker, fairly quick learner and ready to take on new challenges. Searching for an organization that has room for progression and future opportunities. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Electronic Technician G&W Electric - Bolingbrook, IL November 2018 to Present • Reading blueprints and diagrams to assemble junction boxes and switches using a wide variety of handand power tools.  • Basic wiring, configuration and labeling of control modules.  • Bench tech work, testing functionality of junction boxes and PT ratios.  • Managing inventory of electronic equipment and tools.  • Following assembly line system and meeting deadlines for assembling products. Information Technology Specialist/ Network Administrator Army National Guard - North Riverside, IL April 2015 to Present • -Work as a network administrator for a node that can support up to 100 clients.  • Basic setup and cabling  • Providing phone services and conference calls  • Manage virtual machines using vCenter and vSphere. Truck Unloader/Sales Associate Lowes Department Store - Bolingbrook, IL October 2015 to December 2017 • Unload and maintain organization of products from the trucks.   • Disperse products to the designated department.  • Manage and train members of a small rotating four man team.  • Clean and organize receiving department.  • Help and interact with customers during downtime or as needed.  • Perform different task using certain licence required power equipment.(Forklift, Order Picker)  • Unpacking and assembling certain products based of the customers demands.(grills, snowblower, displays, etc) Education Information Technology Specialist AIT - Fort Gordon, GA August 2015 to September 2015 Skills ACTIVE DIRECTORY, CISCO, ROUTER, IMAGING, MICROSOFT OFFICE, Information Technology, Windows, Customer Service, Vmware, Forklift, Networking, Microsoft Word, Electrical, Troubleshooting Military Service Branch: United States Army Rank: SPC Additional Information ? Active SECRET security clearance  ? Microsoft Office  ? Windows 7 Prof, 8, 10  ? Cisco Router/Switches/IP Phones  ? Remote Desktop Software  ? Active Directory  ? Antivirus Software  ? Troubleshooting  ? Imaging  ? Backup Management  ? Using Military Grade Equipment  ? Cooperative  ? Cable Management  ? vCenter  ? Call Manager  ? Syslogs  ? vSphere    Romeoville, Illinois, 60446 8155141717 winters.qwentin@gmail.com