Network System Analyst <span class="hl">Network</span> System Analyst Systems Analyst - Septagon Knob Noster, MO Work Experience Network System Analyst Septagon Construction - Sedalia, MO May 2019 to Present Defines application problem by conferring with clients; evaluating procedures and processes. Develops solution by preparing and evaluating alternative workflow solutions. Controls solution by establishing specifications; coordinating production with programmers. Network Administrator Quality Network Solutions - Sullivan, IL February 2017 to May 2019 Goal-oriented and collaborative IT professional with experience applying hardware and software design, installation, administration, and configuration to support growing businesses. Proven analytic and problem-solving skills with the keen ability to assess needs, define requirements, develop value-added solutions, and execute technical solutions that streamline and improve operating efficiencies. Adept in communicating with technical and non-technical audiences. Develop systems documentation and create policies to meet the needs of dynamic and continuously changing environments.  Quality Network Solutions - Network Administrator, Sullivan Illinois 2017-Present  Responsible for performing a wide range of network administration duties including; installation/maintaining computer networks and systems along with pertaining servers for multiple school districts. Providing support using external and internal techniques of service to maintain client's needs.  • Implementation of network security measures to protect data, software, and hardware • Microsoft PC/Server technologies and software, including Active Directory, DNS and DHCP Services • Manage virtual systems for network based applications deployed by group policy • LAN/WAN/NOC Administration • Monitored client-wide trouble ticket queues • Implemented and maintained firewalls, series switches and security appliances • Troubleshot and maintained all network devices and infrastructure across the enterprise including switches, routers and firewalls • Communicated with vendors to resolve network outages and periods of reduced performances • Built server systems and installed into racks • Upgraded and expanded network systems and their components • Diagnosed system hardware and software problems using advanced root-cause analysis Territory Sales Supervisor Anderson Merchandisers - Plano, TX 2014 to 2017 Responsible for supervision and development of the assigned associates to drive sales and meet retailer and client expectations. Also responsible for project completion, stocking and maintaining the areas we are responsible for. This responsibility is demonstrated by effectively selling and education customers and store personnel about product lines and other projects deemed necessary.  • Built rapport through daily communication with store associates and management • Train, supervise, and develop skills of Sales Merchandisers, fellow Territory Sales Supervisors, and seasonal associates • Educate customers and store personnel on the features and benefits of our client's brands and products Lead, coach Marshall Habilitation Center - Marshall, MO 2012 to 2014 DA1/CMA, Marshall MO 2012-2014  Responsible for the care and wellness of consumers at the facility by providing care. Care was given by the ways of medication distribution and physical needs of care.  • Knowledge of behavior support and abilities to use approved techniques • Ability to accurately report and record observations • Ability to maintain a safe, clean and therapeutic environment for client care and treatment activities  Technical Inventory Education Electronics Fort Osage Career and Technology Center - Independence, MO DIPLOMA Fort Osage High School - Independence, MO Skills Technical Support, Windows, Networking, Active Directory, access, Customer Service, security, Windows 7, Microsoft Office, Mac, Vmware, Router, Network Security, Cisco