Local Area Network & Wide Area Network Team Supervisor Local Area <span class="hl">Network</span> &amp; Wide Area <span class="hl">Network</span> Team Supervisor APO, AP, US Seeking a position that will expand and continue to develop my Network skills and challenge my desires to learn and expand my knowledge. Work Experience Local Area Network & Wide Area Network Team Supervisor Camp Humphreys - KR September 2017 to Present • Provide technical and tactical advice to leaders and coworkers concerning all aspects of information processing system operations, maintenance and logistical support.  • Manage and held accountability of 1.2Million dollars worth of property. Within a three year period.  • Conduct daily briefings on the status, deploy ability, and interface of information processing systems to Directors. Which yielded a daily understanding of equipment readiness.  • Plan, organize and conduct quarterly technical inspections on a Command Post Node (CPN).  • Managed and integrated deployment, installation, version upgrade, maintenance of ESXI Hypervisor, and RAID servers, VMware servers and virtual machines, WAN optimizers, multi-vendor firewall, and network devices. Local Area Network & Wide Area Network Operator / Senior Network Administrator Headquarters Company 3-15th Infantry Battalion - Fort Stewart, GA April 2014 to April 2017 Fort Stewart, GA April 2014- April 2017  • Administered an organization over 500 users in Active Directory. Supervised and maintained Acceptable Use Policy (AUP) and other unit policies.  • Created, administered a workstation Re-Imaging center; that resolved over 700 trouble ticket incidents.  • Information Security Officer (ISO) / Information Management Officer (IMO). Assisted seven soldiers achieve their IMO status.  • Prevented loss of $200,000 by Troubleshooting and creating a Risk assessment that prevented damage to a Command Post Node (CPN).  • Resolved over 1,500 trouble ticket incidents on Remedy. Greatly improving workflow in the battalion. Education High school or equivalent Lyman Highschool - Longwood, FL August 2012 to August 2014 Skills Active Directory (6 years), Dhcp (6 years), Vmware (6 years), TCP/IP (6 years), Routers (6 years), Switches (6 years), Troubleshooting (6 years), Remedy (6 years) Links http://Linkedin.com/in/alexortizmarrero Assessments Basic Computer Skills: PC — Expert August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to perform basic computer operations, navigate a Windows OS, and troubleshoot common computer problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/j7deux3h5ts4ujex Technical Support — Proficient August 2019 Measures a candidate's ability to apply protocols to identify errors and solutions in order to maintain system function. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/tyb84ovuq-2-ps5r Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field. Additional Information Accomplished professional, 6 years' experience in operations, management, maintenance, and technical supervision within Local Area Networks, Wide Area Networks, and telecommunications fields. Installed, operated, instructed and maintained integrated electronics systems. Operated and installed secure and non-secure Video Tele-conferencing with satellite communications circuits and WIN-T (Warfighter Information Network-Tactical) systems. Hardware systems experienced which includes VOIP phones, Servers, Cisco Unified Call Manager, Cisco Switches, Cisco Routers, Node Center/JNN (Joint Network Node), Satellite Terminals, KG-175D Taclanes, Kiv-7, GPS (Global Position Systems), Firewalls, Intrusion Detection Devices, and Tri Tac. Currently maintain a Department of Defense Top Secret with SCI security clearance. Computer knowledge includes Windows Server 2012, Microsoft Office, Outlook, and Linux.