Experienced Engineer Experienced Engineer Experienced Engineer - Associa Inc Work Experience Experienced Engineer Associa Inc - Dallas, TX May 2019 to Present • Experienced Engineer with a demonstrated history of working in the networking industry; skilled in Cisco routers, switches, and ASA's, Palo Alto Firewalls, Solar Winds, DWDM, IPSEC, Python automation, Ubuntu Linux.  • Graduated from U.S. Cyber Center of Excellence. CCNA and CCNP Route certified.    Project Management Engineer  Associa Inc - Dallas, TX  May 2019 - Present  • Developed a cost effective out of band management system for over 150 remote sites nationwide that costed less than $200/location.  • Consolidated 20+ circuits that were being underutilized and saved our company over $100k/year in costs for uplinks.  • Provisioned and deployed various models of Cisco ASA's, routers, and switches for remote sites.  • Planned and implemented wi-fi access points based on the needs of our growing network.  • Monitored the health of our networks and implemented network management configurations to multiple devices using Solar Winds. Network Security Engineer - W2 Contract Match.com - Dallas, TX November 2018 to March 2019 • Designed a logging plan using Panorama and Palo Alto's to track east and west traffic in our data centers to provide better security/accountability.  • I migrated our company network off of ASA's to Palo Alto Firewalls and designed our VPN solution using Global Protect.  • Provided Layer 1-7 troubleshooting and research for best practices surrounding new network threats.  • Work in partnership with DevOps and other departments to collaborate on service tickets for network changes and requests.  • Developed a way to get rid of orphaned rules, address groups, and other unutilized configurations using Palo Alto's Expedition Firewall Auditor. Network Engineer Databank - Dallas, TX June 2017 to November 2018 • Provided 24/7 up-time for our managed services, cloud, and co-located networks.  • I maintained our equipment inventory and was responsible for provisioning and deploying Cisco/Juniper/Ciena devices, for data centers throughout the Midwest.  • Traveled extensively between Kansas City, Salt Lake City, and Baltimore for network turn ups.  • Tactfully prioritized a project for converting all of our network devices to use TACACS and SYS LOG servers, instead of authenticating/logging on local devices. TAC Support Engineer - W2 Contract Palo Alto Networks January 2017 to May 2017 • Provided post sales technical support to Palo Alto Networks end users via phone, e-mail and chat.  • Provided solutions in a timely and professional manner in a high call time environment. Worked with my team to achieve the best call quality and first call resolution times in support.  • Developed strong fault isolation and root cause analysis skills to solve complex technical issues. Network Administrator U.S. Army 2013 to 2017 • Conducted layer2/3 troubleshooting and trained incoming soldiers on basic networking fundamentals.  • Supported a 24/7 up time NOC environment while processing requests for data and voice access.  • I primarily worked with Cisco routers/switches, ASA's, ESXi for Cisco Call Manager (VoIP).  • Participated in a volunteer hackathon, building Linux servers for vulnerability testing. Skills Project Management, Customer Service