IT Support specialist IT Support specialist IT Support specialist - HALE AND HEARTY SOUPS Brooklyn, NY To acquire experience within a role that will supplement knowledge of information technology and enhance client service satisfaction. Work Experience IT Support specialist HALE AND HEARTY SOUPS - Manhattan, NY November 2018 to Present Working aside with the Director of IT and meeting the criteria and goals of multiple projects including support and fast paced environment decisions to optimize ideal retail and customer experience.  ? Computer and device set ups in the office and on our twenty-three locations.  ? Troubleshooting, analyzing and maintaining current and future equipment.  ? Maintaining our local and cloud servers, based on performance, security, patching and efficiency.  ? Working with office 365 and Windows Active Directory on a Azure server, maintaining users and printers on AD.  ? Networking, making sure that the environment was properly connected and communicated on the company's Domain  ? Making sure that the POS system and credit card processing was working properly on installed location file servers Computer Technician / Manager- IT Support THECOMPUTERSTORE - Brooklyn, NY November 2016 to November 2018 Troubleshot hardware and software issues for company clients, customers and business owners  ? Excellent analytical thinking and diagnostic abilities  ? Collaborated with a team across company locations to provide optimal support and evaluation of to our clients experiencing problems with Networking, Desktops, Laptops, Tablets, POS systems, Software, Hardware.  ? Established a network structure and firewall configuration of the service provided by the company for its users  ? Debugged the company's data management system and other business client's systems to mitigate interruptions.  ? Strong time-management and prioritization skills  ? Monitored, upgraded, maintained computer and network systems optimizing and executing Data loss solutions Customer Support and Network IT Administrator December 2015 to July 2016 Operated Linux Kubuntu systems and commands in real time (including SSH, Package transfer, Traffic control), MySQL Database, Windows Server, Linux environments  ? Documented and observed common issues across association to prevent future occurrences  ? Extensive knowledge of networking equipment, infrastructure and protocols.  ? Evaluated, projected and executed solutions in regards to IT related issues  ? Participated in group meetings to address company needs and updates to increase overall efficiency ADMINISTRATIVE UNITE OF MARIBOR AMIS 2016 to 2016 Maribor, Slovenia Education Bachelor of Information Technology Engineering and Communication in OpenStack Cloud Research College of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science September 2016 Skills Active directory, Database, Linux, C#, Html, Php, Xml, Security, Excel, Microsoft office, Outlook, Powerpoint, Word, Windows 7 Additional Information SKILLS  ? Advanced proficiency in Cloud systems, Windows IT Administration & Security, Linux, Windows 7, 8.0, 8.1, 10, Windows Server 2016, Active Directory and Microsoft Office (Word, Excel, PowerPoint, Outlook)  ? Intermediate proficiency in MSQL Database, HTML, XML, PHP and C# programming, Ethical Hacking  ? Fluent in Slovenian, German and Croatian