Security Vulnerability Specialist Tier 2 Security Vulnerability Specialist Tier 2 Security Vulnerability Specialist Tier 2 - The Metamorphosis Group, Inc Tucson, AZ Work Experience Security Vulnerability Specialist Tier 2 The Metamorphosis Group, Inc - Tucson, AZ July 2014 to Present Full-time)  ·        Volunteered to aid VA staff in CBOC site move. Integral member for a 5 man IT team that set up new Safford CBOC building involving workstation moving and installment of 13 workstations each with 2 monitors, 11 Voice-over IP phones, 8 printers, a new cisco switch and router and brought them successfully onto the domain/ network with a fresh IP scheme. Tactically removed all OI&T equipment from the old CBOC site and returned for inventory.  ·        Subcontracted to work on the VA IT Region 1 Vulnerability Remediation Contract Team and correct security vulnerabilities as laid out in the CRISP RSS contract. Remediated SCCM clients, ensured machines were in compliance with McAfee Antivirus/ePO/HIPS standards and policies, and corrected Nessus vulnerabilities including Adobe and Java products, rectifying MS vulnerability bulletins and enforcing VA software baselines to exceed a total of 1,000+ remediations.  ·        As a CRISP contractor on the Region 1 NEWT Remediation Team, assisted in the successful migration from SCCM 2007 to CMCB 2012, Office 2010 to Office 365, and the transition to the Adobe DC suite.  ·        Appointed as the VISN 18 NEWT Team Co-lead. Responsible for leading 5-10 locally assigned CRISP contractors with: meetings discussing changes in policy, developinfg taskes, providing training for tools or processes that enable team members to achieve expected results, and directing directing team members in efforts that require coordination with local site staff in an effiecient manner that provides the desired results and the building of better relations between CRISP contracting staff and local staff.  ·        Took a proactive leading role in remediating Nessus identified vulnerabilities during the Phoenix IG (February/March 2017) and Tucson SCA (December 2017) inspections. Coordinated with Region team members, CRISP contractors, and local site staff to remediate thousands of vulnernerabilities achieve a high success mitigation rate of 99.01% for Phoenix and 99.59% for Tucson inspections. Network Administrator 0651 USMC July 2010 to November 2013 E-2 Private First Class - E-5 Sergeant  ·        As site lead, prepared work shift schedules for under-workers, and over saw the daily deployment of help desk operations and assets. Provided IT and technical training for lower enlisted IT technicians, and demonstrated on the job customer support for instructional purposes whenever possible. Acted on and exercised initiative and independent judgment on behalf of my chain of command to ensure a strong and driving force towards mission accomplishment and customer satisfaction.   ·        Aided in planning, coordinating, and implementing network security measures by using tools such as Active Directory and Group Policies, Access Control Lists, Antivirus software and applications, both hardware and software variations of Firewalls, and IPS systems to insure the protection of three separate (Classified, Secret and NATO-Secret) secure networks. In conformance with security policies, de-commissioned equipment and correctly filled out all necessary documentation and following all procedures to remove outdated, surplus or damaged equipment from use/access.  ·        Ran multiple IT help desks in support of military operations. Maintained accurate Help Desk tracking records via a trouble ticket system for services rendered, allowing tracking of progress, prioritization of work, accurate asset assignment is up-to-date, and upholding a high satisfaction rating of 99%. Supervised and directly installed, repaired and maintained 2000+ components of computer hardware, software and other associated assets.  ·        Provided helpdesk services to NATO Coalition forces. Provided support for issues pertaining to access to domain services (DNS, DHCP, Active Directory), network connectivity (physical links, STP, IP addressing, VLAN/VTP, etc.), printer troubleshooting, installing and configuring approved software applications and its use/ function (Microsoft Office Suite 03,07,10, ATLAS, FalconView, Google Earth, etc.), and secure communication via voice/data transmission. Provided both group and one on one system/software applications training as requested or was necessary.  ·        Plan, analyze, diagnose, troubleshoot, and resolve hardware, software and other network and system problems as well as replaced defective components and peripherals when necessary. Provided training in response to customer requirements when necessary. Read, interpreted, and applied computer technical manuals and other documentation.   ·        Experience with installing and maintaining secure data and voice communications services to include: Windows XP/7, Windows Server 2003/2008, Microsoft Office 2003/2007/2010, and Microsoft Exchange 2003/2007/2010. PowerShell applications were used to configure and deploy some services. Services were networked via Cisco devices.  ·        Maintain and administer computer networks and related computing environments including computer and network systems hardware, troubleshoot applications software, and oversee and seek the optimization of daily performance of network activity. Configured and ran computer imaging stations (PXE booting, Windows WDS, and manual disk installations, etc.) for the first Windows 7 tech-refresh in Camp Leatherneck, Afghanistan. Communications closets were organized for easy access and troubleshooting. Maintained crucial backups for disaster relief.  ·        Install/move and configure 250+ Voice over IP Phones (VoIP) for as many as three separate networks running at a time, providing secure telecommunications for military VIP’s and aiding in secure communications for rescue and medical evacuations in a combat environment.  ·        Trained 300+ users in basic computer and network troubleshooting and software application. Instructed users on the importance of proper network security and common vulnerabilities.  ·        Communicated in a clear and professional manner in both oral and written communications when communicating with higher ranking officials, peers, and customers to ensure the problem was understood properly, and explained to satisfaction what the solution was, and how it was being fixed. Ensured tasks were completed to or exceeding satisfaction in a timely and efficient manner, and was a crucial team member with a 99% uptime and satisfaction rating while in a combat zone.  Received two personal awards for outstanding work and efforts in military operations, including high excellence for a 12 month tour in support of Operation Enduring Freedom from February 2011 to February 2012. Also a contributing participant in unit’s back-to-back consecutive award of the Lt. Colonel Kevin M. Shea Memorial Unit of the Year Award, a prestigious award recognizing the communications or information technology unit that made the most significant contributions to the Marine Corps command, control communications and computer field. Education Associate in Network Administration Pima Community College - Tucson, AZ May 2016 High School Diploma Palo Verde High School - Tucson, AZ May 2008 Skills Active Directory (8 years), System Admin (8 years), Vmware (4 years), Linux (Less than 1 year), System Administrator (8 years) Military Service Branch: United States Marine Corps Rank: E-5 / Sergeant Certifications/Licenses CompTIA Certified Network + January 2016 COMP001020152219 CompTIA Certified Security + January 2016 COMP001020152219 Cisco Certified Entry Networking Technician (CCENT) December 2016 CSCO012430313 Public Trust MBI August 2019 Additional Information ·        Phi Theta Kappa National Honor Society Membership                                                   (Inducted Fall 2014)  ·        Lt. Colonel Kevin M. Shea Memorial Unit of the Year Award                                           (2013 & 2014)  ·        Sergeant / E-5 (USMC)                                                                                               (November 2013)  ·        Certificate of Commendation for Superior Performance                                                  (April 2013)  ·        Certificate of Commendation for Outstanding Achievement                                             (February 2012)  ·        Eagle Scout                                                                                                                 (January 2008)