Security Engineer Security Engineer Security Engineer with over 9 years of professional experience in working with network infrastructure devices and protocols; managing, monitoring and configuring the routine operations and maintenance of network systems for high volume/high availability. I have extensive experience in Network Security, System Administration, and Network Engineering and involved in planning, installation, maintenance and optimization documentation of all LAN/WAN network hardware and software, security systems.    Network Experience Synopsis  Knowledgeable in Internet protocol and extensive networking knowledge in troubleshooting, responding and resolving problems quickly.  Provided network, systems, and security experience, knowledge, and solutions in a system and network-diverse environment. Protected confidentiality, integrity, and availability of information and information systems.  Acted as first point of contact for all major technical issues, including power outages, system failures and disaster recovery.  Oversaw infrastructure of all offices and acted as escalation personnel  Planned, installed, maintained and optimized documentation of all LAN/WAN hardware and software, security systems and communication links.  Managed all clients network LAN/WAN hardware including routers, switches, firewall, wireless and voice networking equipment.  Stood up and configured Firewalls, configured VPNs, Ipsec & SSL tunnels. Fortigate SME Work Experience Security Engineer Check Point Software Technologies - Minneapolis, MN March 2018 to Present • Lead technical contacts for my customers within my territory.  • Main technical resource on sales calls and answer/ educate the customer on issues ranging from features, specifications and functionality to integration.  • Assist my Territory manager in qualifying sales leads from a technical standpoint.  • Provide pre sales assistance to identified customers within the assigned region  • Provide training and enablement assistance to the customers that are within the assigned region MSS - Network Engineer II Century Link September 2017 to March 2018 MSS Manage Security Services Fortigate SME Engineer  Configure, support and maintain day-to-day operations of security firewalls/DDoS  Identify security issues and risks and produce mitigation plans to resolve issues  Manage CTL MPLS network as part of new clients' activation projects  Resolves trouble tickets and Escalation for the firewall and Network related issues  Manage firewall/security systems by establishing and enforcing policies; defining and monitoring access. Creates and maintains documentation as it relates to Firewall/ Network configuration Network Security Engineer SPS Commerce February 2015 to July 2017 Fortigate SME Subject Matter Expert  Resolved multiple network issues to increase business functionality  Subject matter expert for the firewall team and consult with other business units when necessary.  Build and managed all site-to-site VPN tunnels for the business, B2B and AWS.  Led the business Firewall migration project from ASAs to Fortigates  Tested and implemented new Network infrastructure to multiple new facilities/offices that were acquired by the business Implemented VPNs including site-to-site, route based VPN and client, using Fortigate with BGP and IPSEC protocols. Monitors network performance and implements performance tuning when necessary. Network Engineer IBM December 2013 to June 2014 Facility Network Management  Firewall/VPN Migration project  Assigned responsibilities of estimating cost and other strategic planning related to networking projects.  Network Management services, Project planning and managing resources to meet Customers' aggressive deadlines  Configured, deployed and maintained Cisco Switches & ASA  Creating and Administering User Accounts in Active Directory on Windows Server 2012 Network Administrator Wells Fargo Bank October 2008 to June 2013 High Value Business Bank Support  Business Bank Network support  Responsible for the Network and Servers Maintenance  Manage the site LAN/WAN including routers, switches wireless APs  Perform the task of monitoring VoIP server systems and infrastructure as well as provide escalation support, when required. Responsible for updating the required modifications in areas of switches, routers as well as hardware/software changes. Racking, stacking, cabling and cable management. Education CISCO Certified University of Minnesota - Minneapolis-Saint Paul, MN 2004 to 2006 Skills Wireless, Dns, Firewall, Active directory, Ccna, Cisco, Dhcp, Mpls, Switching, Tcp, Tcp/ip, Vpn, Ddos, Firewalls, Remedy, Routing protocols, Smtp, Cabling, Check point, Lan