SR Network/VMware Administrator SR <span class="hl">Network</span>/VMware <span class="hl">Administrator</span> SR Network/VMware Administrator - Trinitech Consulting Lewisville, TX Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience SR Network/VMware Administrator Trinitech Consulting - Beltsville, MD May 2014 to Present • Install operating system, configures brand new virtual and physical servers. Deploy Solaris 10, RHEL 6, RHEL 7, Centos 6, 7, windows 7 & 10 server to the network.  • Creating user accounts on UNIX, Linux and windows.  • Perform application of TCP/IP, DNS, DHCP, SCP, password less SCP and WINSCP protocols.  • Diagnosing and troubleshooting network connectivity in a MAN, LAN and WAN network, using tools such as ping, arp, nslookup and tracert.  • Building up window server 2008 server and setting up window active directory.  • Wide use of virtualization technologies such as VMware and terminal emulators such as putty and SSH.  • Maintain and administer computer networks and related computing environments including computer hardware, system software, application software and all configurations.  • Migrated VMs across hosts within a HA cluster to perform maintenance tasks on ESXi hosts.  • Used VMware vMotion to eliminate application downtime from planned server maintenance by migrating running virtual machines between hosts.  • Created clones from existing VMs (both live and powered-off)  • Deployed several VMs from Templates and customized their configurations as needed.  • Perform multiplatform Server builds on VMware, which include Windows Server 2008, UNIX Solaris 10, LINUX Centos 6.4, and RHEL 6.4. Responsible for assigning hostnames, static IP addresses, default gateway addresses and DNS addresses to Windows 2008 Servers to introduce them to the network. Use the "dcpromo" tool to configure DNS, Active Directory as well as to promote standard Windows 2008 servers to domain controllers  • Windows 7, 8 and 10 NOS imaging and configurations and software deployment. Create new User accounts and profile on Windows NOS, UNIX and LINUX systems. Troubleshoot and resolve OS, application, malware desktop related issues on various Windows NOS. Use TCP/IP troubleshooting tools to troubleshoot and resolve network connectivity and DNS related issues in the LAN.  • Configure Windows NOS clients to join the domain as well as configure file and print sharing on some Windows NOS to enable resource sharing.  • Experience in building and configuring VMware host and guess systems on Oracle Virtual Box as well as bridging the Guess VMware systems to communicate with other physical LAN systems. Customer Relations Specialist Jesus Calls international - Dallas, TX 2012 to 2015 • Serve as go-to point person for team members, providing all necessary support, identifying and addressing urgent matters, insuring proper and timely follow through.  • Anticipate customer and store needs by constantly evaluating environment and customers for cues. Communicate information to manager so that team can respond.  * Assist with new partner training by positively reinforcing successful performance and giving encouraging coaching as needed.  * Provide feedback to store manager on partner performance during shift.  * Contribute to positive team environment by recognizing alarms or changes in partner morale and performance and communicate to the store manager.  * Create a positive learning environment by providing clear, specific, timely and respectful coaching and feedback to partners on shift to ensure operational excellence and to improve partner performance.  * Accurately conduct all credit and debit transactions in compliance with established bank policies.  • Maintain proper cash supply on hand and prepare daily proof record while maintaining an acceptable difference record.  • Meet teller sales referral goals and actively participate in sales promotions. Education Bachelor's in computer science in computer science University of Douala - Douala, CM September 2009 to June 2014 Skills ACTIVE DIRECTORY, LAN/WAN, TCP, TCP/IP, VMWARE Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS.  . Operating Systems: UNIX, sun solaris, centos, RHEL 6&7.  . Networking: TCP/IP LAN/WAN, VPN.  . Design and implement and install VMware.  . Creating accounts in Active Directory