Project Manager Solution Architect Project Manager Solution Architect Project Manager Solution Architect - Artech Information Systems LLC Skilled Cloud Support Engineer successful at using personal judgment and advanced technical acumen to make a positive impact on IT Department. Forward-thinking and resourceful professional with a diligent mindset and disciplined approach. Ready to bring 5 years of experience in Networking to a challenging new role. Work Experience Project Manager Solution Architect Artech Information Systems LLC - Huntsville, AL April 2019 to Present • AWS provisioning via AWS CLI/API - this includes defining VPCs, ECS clusters, Auto-Scaling Policies/Groups, and Security Group  • Experience with IP networking, VPNs, DNS, load balancing and firewalling concepts - (Focus on AWS Networking, Palo Alto and Cisco DMVPN)  • Linux engineering / VM support  • Researched and resolved issues/inquiries daily.  • Escalated issues to the proper help desk associate when necessary and followed up on any escalated issues, all within a timely manner.  • Communicated thoroughly with client representatives and customers, enabling effective information exchange and efficient process management.  • Documented all inquiry activities in the appropriate reporting system.  • Provided responses to inquiries in writing using professional email skills.  • Assisted with launching new start up programs working closely with personnel to perform suitability reviews by learning and implementing protocols and engaging client awareness. Network Administrator The Boeing Company - Huntsville, AL January 2019 to May 2019 • Install, configure, automate, and monitor various Cloud Services (IaaS, PaaS, and SaaS).  • Experience with IP networking, VPNs, DNS, load balancing and firewall concepts.  • Loaded software, granted permissions and configured hardware for new employees as part of onboarding process.  • Migration of 750 User from Windows 7 to Window 10.  • Help Desk support for 750 Users.  • Network Administration for The Boeing Company and NASA Contractors. Help Desk Analyst Kelly Services - Huntsville, AL December 2017 to January 2019 • Loaded software, granted permissions and configured hardware for new employees as part of onboarding process.  • Consistently improves customer satisfaction through expert resolution of conflicts, issues and concerns.  • Built and provided basic end-user troubleshooting and desktop support on Windows, Linux and Mac systems.  • Upheld professional demeanor during stressful times.  • Fielded inbound phone calls to deliver effective support and remotely resolve service issues.  • Engaged end users and answered questions via email, phone, website, live chat and in forums.  • Set up PC and Apple desktops and laptops and all types of mobile devices.  • Authored over 25 articles and entries for ILog and Knowledge Base problem resolutions for addition to support knowledge base.  • Trained and supported end-users with software, hardware and network standards and use processes.  • Gathered pertinent data, identified and evaluated options and recommended an effective course of action. Network Administrator Energy Smart Of Atlanta - McDonough, GA December 2013 to December 2017 • AWS provisioning via AWS CLI/API.  • Defining VPCs, ECS clusters, Auto-Scaling Policies/Groups, and Security Group.  • Designing and building mission-critical solutions on AWS  • Windows Server administration and maintenance including Active Directory and Group Policy.  • Configuring and Installation of Cisco Switches by implementing Virtual Local Area Network (VLAN) over OSPF, EIGRP.  • Installed Network Infrastructure.  • Performed system maintenance and upgrades, including patches, service packs, hot fixes and new security configurations.  • Installed and upgraded internal and third-party software.  • Constructed and maintained the VLAN.  • Installed, maintained and supported all network and voice-related hardware, software and communication links for design.  • Maintained network hardware and software and monitored the network to ensure network availability to end users.    cedricgreene17@gmail.com  (561) 827-1283  Huntsville, AL Skills Active directory, Cisco, Vlan, Ipv6, Network troubleshooting, Linux, SQL, Sql Server Certifications/Licenses AWS SOLUTIONS ARCHITECT ASSOCIATES August 2019 to August 2022 CCNA February 2019 to February 2022