NETWORK ENGINEER <span class="hl">NETWORK</span> ENGINEER NETWORK ENGINEER - SOHONET New York, NY By providing intricate technical solutions for business stakeholders, I provide business-minded IT strategies by applying technical expertise to solve organizational challenges. With extensive experience in network architecture, infrastructure engineering, and cross-team administration, I bring a decade of increasing success and responsibility in multi-platform technical competency, enterprise project management, and client-focused service delivery. A natural leader, I motivate personnel and increase team engagement while designing and improving processes, procedures, and networks Work Experience NETWORK ENGINEER SOHONET 2018 to Present Engineering solutions for day-to-day IT operations, oversee the full-service lifecycle for vary of Network/ Systems implementations, gathering customer requirements and communicating project scope, advocating for clients at internal planning meetings, and leading the resulting projects. Multi-Vendor Juniper, Brocade, HP  ? Perform highest level support to ensure our product and systems are fully operational. Engineering includes Core Firewalls, 100G Arista Routers, CWDM, DWDM, BGP and MPLS. Perform relationship management with vendors and partner organizations, hiring and evaluating subcontractors and cultivating partnerships  ? Hands on experience in installing IT products including networking infrastructure: Core Firewalls, Routers, and Switches. A lot of Palo alto and Juniper, Fortinet, and even Linux systems as traffic shapers, with XML NETWORK ENGINEER Pilot Fiber 2017 to 2018 Supporting the day-to-day IT operations, oversee the full-service lifecycle for Network Systems implementations, gathering customer requirements and communicating project scope, advocating for clients at internal planning meetings, and leading the resulting projects  ? Perform Tier-2 support for on-site teams to ensure our product and systems are fully operational. Support included Firewalls, DHCP, DNS, TCP/UDP, 40Gbe and 100Gbe. Perform relationship management with vendors and partner organizations, hiring and evaluating subcontractors and cultivating partnerships  ? Hands on experience in installing IT products including networking infrastructure: Switches, Firewalls. Understand financial and administrative reports to plan for the needs of projects and set indicators of milestones, analyzing statistics and data to predict resource needs and develop plans PROJECT ENGINEER TNI TELECOM 2016 to 2017 Configuring and troubleshooting all network and server-based environment (Server 2012R2, Active Directory). Managed projects centered on wired and wireless infrastructure design and security upgrades of client business systems, and ordered and configured associated firewalls, load balancers and VoIP systems  ? Installed configured and ensured all cloud and local backup systems were operational. Implemented operational excellence initiatives based on ITIL service management best practices  ? Advised clients on appropriate network services for manufacturer networks, interfacing between technical and non-technical stakeholders at all seniority levels NETWORK ENGINEER IPSOFT, CISCO 2015 to 2016 Performed configuration, maintenance, and troubleshooting of layer 2 & 3 issues, using monitoring tools and evaluating system logs  ? Developed Python scripts to ensure the reliability of infrastructure, implement configurations and manage global network devices via the CLI and API  ? Built cross-functional teams to support IT building and design requirements NETWORK ADMINISTRATOR VERIZON & CST DESIGNS 2011 to 2015 • Designed, implemented, updated and maintained Cisco and Palo Alto network systems including firewalls, routers and switches. Focused on proactive support to optimize uptime, monitoring client networks with Cisco Prime and using Linux servers for configuration scripting  • Designed and maintained various development and production servers, including Microsoft Windows Hyper-V, VMware vSphere, and Virtual Machine Manager Education Master's in BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION Florida State University 2017 Bachelor of Science in Computer and Electrical Engineering SUNY Polytechnic 2015 Skills ACTIVE DIRECTORY, CISCO, DATA CENTER, EXCHANGE, ITIL, VPN, Networking, DNS, LAN, security, firewalls, Vmware, MPLS Certifications/Licenses Cisco Certified Network Professional (CCNP) 2018 to 2021 Cisco Certified Network Associate (CCNA)