Software Developer Software Developer Software Developer - Hellsing, LLC Denver, CO I    am    a  n    O  r  a  c  l  e    c  e  r  t  i  f  i  e  d    J  a  v  a    e  x  p  e  r  t,    a  n  d    passionate    software    developer    with    years    of    various Work Experience Software Developer Hellsing, LLC November 2018 to Present Anywhere  Freelance work, web development/ Java based REST apis  cnajoyce.com Application Developer Essendant July 2017 to May 2018 11 months)  Greater Denver Area  I am part of a team responsible for enhancing and maintaining several web  applications and APIs. I take requirements and turn them into working features and fix defects in existing ones. The work spans across the full web stack  including but not limited to: AngularJS, Java and Oracle/SQL Server.  Primary Responsibilities  Design, Code & Test across the full web stack  Interpret business requirements and turn them into working features.  Manage code changes across multiple projects and repositories.  Provide estimates and dependency information for completion of work.  Collaborate with internal and external teams  Participate in daily scrums and other agile meetings. Java Developer Self-Employed June 2016 to July 2017 1 year 2 months)  Florida  Full Stack Java Developer working on contract basis.  Developed Java applications to manage active directory users (unlock  accounts, add/remove from groups, etc) with Angular front end. System Administrator Meridian Asset Services September 2016 to April 2017 8 months)  Tampa/St. Petersburg, Florida Area  • Managed information systems for financial company with 120 internal users,  300+ external users, and 30+ servers, including public facing webservers that  drives the core product of the company.  • Utilized my knowledge of PowerShell to automate many routine tasks, allowing the IT team to allot time to more productive items.  • Restructured inefficient Active Directory to allow for better account and group  policy management.  • Configured Domain Controllers and DNS to allow for 2-way authentication for trusted domains.  • Configured SonicWALL firewall for SSL VPN access for users, as well as site-to-site VPNS connecting remote locations.  • Created and implemented written IT Security policies to increase the organization's security posture. System Administrator Engineered Management Solutions May 2016 to September 2016 5 months)  Greater Memphis Area  EMS is a small IT firm providing relevant services to businesses across the Memphis area. Support was provided for more than 40 client businesses with  more than 700 PCs (Windows, and OS Mac) and 120 servers with various  networked peripherals.  • Responsible for setup and support for exchange/hosted mail services.  • Building and configuring servers(including MS server 2008-2012 and SBS)  • Break fix for everyday client users.  • Maintenance of client Active Directory and group policy.  Maintenance of network and cloud based backups. Network System Administrator Freedom Federal Credit Union - Aberdeen, MD December 2014 to December 2015 Responsible for the maintenance and support of all infrastructure and banking support systems. This includes end user support and the installation,  maintenance and support of computers, servers, software, peripherals, telecommunications equipment, firewalls, network switches, routers, intrusion  detection equipment, cabling, systems monitoring, and backup and recovery.  • Configured, administered, and maintained Windows servers2008/2012, Active Directory, and Exchange.  • Maintained user IDs and application access control lists. Systems and network security, including server patch management, risk reduction and anti-  virus.  • Created and built desktops to user's required criteria. Creating and deploying  system images for Windows XP/7/8/10, Mac OSX, IOS and Android mobile  devices. System Administrator United States Marine Corps - Washington, DC October 2009 to July 2014 Pentagon  • Duties included desktop, VTC, Blackberry, and VOIP support approx. 170  users  • The creation and management of network accounts  • Managing hardware replacement, upgrades, and adjusting resources for changing budgets.  • Software procurement, installation, and support through successful  deployments.    Daily  work    in    an    Active  directory    environment    Familiar  with    Link, Microsoft  office    suites,    and    Adobe  pro/creative    suites    Remote  desktop    and    VNC  remote    control    software    Incudes  the    physical    security    of    IT  equipment    and    office    spaces    where    they  are    stored    or    contained.    Responsibilities  included    physical    security    of    classified    office    space, personnel    security,    maintenance    of    security    clearances,    various    IT  support.    Maintaining  and    controlling    access    to    office    spaces    Experience  with    imaging    software,    and    OS  configuration    to    meet  requirements    stated    in    the    appropriate    guidance.    Ensured  the    operability    of    IT  hardware    and    software    for    60+    users,    to    include  desktops,    laptops,    blackberries,    and    each    user's    individual    software    needs.    Managed  network    resources    utilizing    Cisco  routers    and    switches.    Experience  with    disaster    recovery    and    backup    (on-site    and    off-site)    of  information. Skills Java, jquery, Mysql, Oracle, Sql, Rest, Soap, Api, Javascript, Operations Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/sebastian-hellsing-918697136?jobid=1234&lipi=urn%3Ali%3Apage%3Ad_jobs_easyapply_pdfgenresume%3BkWkx7N10RH%2BqUjKfE3Pb8Q%3D%3D&licu=urn%3Ali%3Acontrol%3Ad_jobs_easyapply_pdfgenresume-v02_profile Additional Information Skills  Java  8/    JavaEE  SQL    (MySQL,    Oracle,    MSSQL)    SpringBoot/SpringMVC    JavaScript    jQuery    Angular1-8    Rest    and    SOAP    API    development    CI/CD/CT    Advanced    design    patterns/techniques    (streams/lamda    operations,    concurrency    techniques)