Network Administrator <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Administrator - DENIS Cape Town ? Started at Tenacity Financial Services on the Customer Service floor on the 01 May 2014, due to my handling of Fraud calls, I was then transferred into the Fraud Department on the 24 June 2014.  ? I was then approached to apply for the New Business Seconding Team Leader, which I got and started on 01 December 2014.  ? Finally obtaining my BA Degree after putting it on hold since 2007 to 2015.  ? Started working at Denis in June, got a promotion in less than 6 months Work Experience Network Administrator DENIS December 2017 to Present Contacting EDI and Tariff Non-Compliant providers  ? Dealing with Request for Service(RFS) from providers who want to join the GEMS network  ? Doing member surveys to prevent medical aid fraud for Fillings and Dentures  ? Contacting members who saw a non- network provider Client Service Consultant DENIS June 2017 to December 2017 Assisting service providers and members of GEMS with their dental medical aid queries  ? Assisting with queries regarding in hospital authorization  ? Sending e mails for authorization letters to members and service providers  ? Confirming dental benefits eg financial limit to members and service providers Client Service Consultant Old Mutual Retirement Fund Administration November 2015 to June 2017 Servicing clients that need their benefit quotations, assistance with claims.  ? Ensuring accurate information is received by our clients and intermediaries.  ? Assisting with pension and provident fund related queries.  ? Provide indirect service to clients and intermediaries  ? individually accountable for managing own time to complete tasks issued to me. Seconding Team Leader Tenacity Financial Services February 2015 to June 2015 Listening to calls and coaching agents on where to improve  ? Being available at all times for customer related queries  ? Assisting with customer queries  ? Handling escalations  ? Monitoring Vici-Dial and Fax Processor to ensure that agents are working as they should    Customer service agent then Fraud agent Tenacity Financial Services 2014 to December 2014 Dealing with both inbound and outbound calls  ? To prevent fraud in our organizations  ? Monitor and predict potential risk areas  ? Assisting victims of fraud, with opening cases Administrator e-Kwikbuild Housing Company August 2011 to December 2013 Scanning documents  ? Filing  ? Administrative work  ? Data capturing on Excel Spreadsheet, ACCPAC  ? Liaising with Subcontractors, via e mails and calls.  ? File and archive closed projects Administrator Old Mutual Retirement Fund Annuities March 2011 to August 2011 Filing  ? Administrative work  ? Data capturing  ? Requesting study records for beneficiaries that are still studying  ? Writing letters to the beneficiaries or pensioners to request copies  ? Of Identity Documents and any information that is lacking to approve claims  ? Also to back pay if any payments that are due Administrator October 2010 to February 2011 Filing  ? Administrative work  ? Data capturing  ? Verifying employment and pay dates for loan applicants Education BA degree University of the Western Cape 2015 Thakabanna Senior Secondary 2003 Skills Networking