Network Systems Analyst/ Administrator <span class="hl">Network</span> Systems Analyst/<span class="hl">Administrator</span> Network Systems Analyst/ Administrator - Offutt AFB Omaha, NE Work Experience Network Systems Analyst/ Administrator Offutt AFB - Bellevue, NE July 2017 to Present • Operate enterprise management systems to monitor the health, status, and security posture of the new Command and Control Facility (C2F) enterprise at Offutt AFB  • Substantial knowledge with Solarwinds management system used to identify network problems via  the SNMP protocol  • Extensive knowledge of Syslog systems for Security information and event management (e.g. IBM  QRadar, VRealize LogInsight). Used to identify ongoing issues and foresee imminent problems based on baseline network behavior.  • Virtual environment configuration and optimization (e.g. vRealize Operations Manager, VSphere)  • Maintain AD user account information (e.g. rights, security, and system groups)  • Optimization of Physical Firewalls (Palo Alto) as well as virtual FW's (NSX) ensuring valid  communication between end nodes via approved ports and protocols  • Performed backups of network equipment and ensured integrity of backups  • Experience with SFlow/Net Flow Systems used for monitoring bandwidth  • Knowledgeable in LAN/WAN technologies encompassing Layer 1, 2, and 3 of the OSI model  • Experience with various segmented network topologies ranging from Data Center to SAN to Perimeter topologies.  • Familiarity with various authentication systems to include Cisco ISE, RSA SecurID, and Active  Directory  • Experience with root cause analysis and troubleshooting problems with network IS systems. 185th Air Refueling Wing - Sioux City, IA April 2012 to Present Network Infrastructure - AFSC 3D152  • This is my Air Guard position, I report for duty one weekend per month and 2 weeks in the summer for the past 7 years.  • Thorough experience with LAN/WAN technologies as well as telephony (e.g. VOIP, POTS)  • Remediate Layer 2 and 3 issues with network routers, switches, firewalls, load balancers.  • Fabricate, terminate and interconnect wiring and associated network infrastructure devices.  • Thorough understanding of IP networking and relationships of the overlying technologies that ride  upon the network Network Administrator 185th Air Refueling Wing - Sioux City, IA November 2015 to July 2017 - GS 11  • Administered Domain Windows 2012 servers  • Installed hardware and software as necessary and coordinated with 3 rd party vendors.  • Maintained AD user account information (e.g. rights, security, groups)  • Responsible for day-to-day administration of various systems and applications in end-user  environments  • Ensured STIG compliance on system configurations Service Desk Technician Tier 185th Air Refueling Wing - Le Mars, IA August 2014 to November 2015 2  • Actively practiced configuration and life cycle management in identifying the need to upgrade/enhance network component capabilities in response to ne twork problems and  deficiencies  • Performed upgrades to hardware and software. Deploy new hardware and software in compliance  with internal controls, policies and standards  • Provided support to end users via multiple methods such as telephone, email, or in person.  • Developed troubleshooting documents for the service desk  • Provided technical assistance in setup, installation and configuration of hardware and software.  • Equipment supported includes, but is not limited to, PCs, tablets, mobile phones, plant vehicle and handheld equipment, and printers Help Desk Technician 185th Air Refueling Wing - Sioux City, IA January 2013 to August 2014 Effectively practiced my knowledge of concepts, principles, and practices to analyze, troubleshoot  and resolve complex hardware and software component issues and maintain the availability of communication lines and equipment.  • Created technical documentation and procedures relating to the configuring and deployment of multi-function printers, PC images, software installs, and an array of e-mail issues  • Installed system upgrades, software patches and system images.  • Skilled in troubleshooting and resolving a vast array of multi-function printer issues  • Set-up and imaged PC's with software and applications to meet Air Force demand    Certifications and Clearances  • CompTIA Security+ Certified COMP001020528885 Awarded Feb 2013  • Current DOD issued Top Secret / SCI Security Clearance  • Cisco CCENT Certified CSCO13442644 Awarded March 2019 Education Associate Skills Technical Support, Networking, Windows, Active Directory, Vmware Military Service Branch: United States Air Force Rank: Tsgt