Network Engineer <span class="hl">Network</span> Engineer Network Engineer - UPS Louisville, KY A h1b visa Holder valid until 2022 with another year of extension Work Experience Network Engineer UPS - Louisville, KY June 2018 to Present • Expert-level knowledge and understanding of installing/configuring/securing/ troubleshooting/monitoring and networking switches/routers, wireless controller's/access points and all other applicable networking equipment  • Capture network traffic with available tools and analyze them logically to provide an in-depth analysis and troubleshooting assistance to customers and various application teams.  • Utilize existing monitoring tools to provide expert analysis to clients and customers and investigate received alerts on the LAN and assist with technical support.  • Configured and performed troubleshooting with routing and switching protocols, including BGP, OSPF,PVST,VLAN,STP, DNS and DHCP.  • Manage, configure and implement, 6K plus switches across various remote sites and Data centers as part of a major project.  • Automate manual switch configuration procedures for over 1200 HP 3810 switches for a project that involved replacing old switches using scripting techniques.  • Assist clients with network traffic analysis and work closely service providers, service managers, operations teams, and program managers  • Experience installing and configuring Citrix Load balancers  • Configuration of various adds and removals of services on our company wide Citrix Netscalers.  • Document procedures and deliver training for other support teams, vendors and customers to improve efficiency.  • Implemented WAN and LAN designs in multi-datacenter configurations.  • Assist with testing updates made to monitoring tools and various applications by capturing packets using tools like Wireshark, Riverbed and Niksun.  • Diagnosed network problems involving combination of hardware, software, power and communications issues.  • Monitored network capacity and performance, as well as diagnosed and resolved complex network problems.  • Developed network test and validation processes to assist in maintaining alignment with solution design.  • Developed and wrote recommendations for departmental policies, procedures, technical standards and guidelines.  • Coordinated with various teams for disaster planning and performed network backup and monitored recovery processes.  • Work with Network Implementation management team and clients to while implementing a network Infrastructure for a remote site.  • Analyze and Review Document Business and Technical Requirements and Collaborate with interfacing Network audit team to analyze the impact of the requirement.  • Analyzed, identified and resolved complex network web-based application problems.  • Configured, managed and evaluated multi-protocol network elements to ensure effective end-to-end communications.  • Planned implementation of network enhancements, upgrades efficiently by supervising change controls and ensuring they are done during a said down window  • Collaborated on network development, implementation, and maintenance of routers, switches, load balancers and WAN optimization.  • Knowledge and experience working with wireless technologies, Virtual Private Networks (VPN), Intrusion Prevention Systems (IPS), and WAN Accelerators and associated technologies. Network Engineer G&k Services Inc - Minneapolis, MN October 2016 to June 2018 • Project Lead for implementing Wide area application services on WAN through SRE and UCSE modules on the Cisco 2900 series routers; Thus, achieving WAN optimization of over 95% by eliminating clusters caused by process hungry applications Created a standard process to determine faulty versions of SRE/UCSE modules and replacing them through Cisco Service contracts (RMA); Thereby reaching the project goal of implementing WAAS across all supported locations six months ahead of deadline.  • Hosted bi-weekly CCNA courses for Jr. Level support Engineers and worked with them to obtain their certification  • Assisted the server and VOIP team in internal projects and configuring network UPS and network Cisco phones.  • Providing technical training to our subcontractor teams for PSS 32 DWDM Eq. installation and turn up.  • Perform node insertion for new DWDM sites to connect it to other existing one  • Supervision for DWDM sites installation, commissioning  • Administration and Configuration of VPN tunnels and several NAT rules on Cisco ASA to establish site to site VPN connectivity for vendors.  • Created Standard documentation procedure and took an initiative to perform upgrades to the Cisco ASA appliances through Cisco ASDM ensuring correct Active-standby failovers to avoid VPN disconnects or cause productivity issue to our vendors and clients.  • Developed scripts and trained peers to adapt to it as a standard process to upgrade routers and switches to the latest stable versions of IOS code level to ensure stability and implement bug fixes.  • Used virtual LAN, port security and the access control list and supported the restriction of network access to each department; this was achieved by keeping users informed about the restrictions in place and configuring temporary ACL's on router's thus enhancing corporate security.  • Configure and support network management/monitoring solutions such as Cisco Prime Infrastructure.  • Coordinated with cross-functional teams at remote locations to ensure to quality of service and smooth productivity with respect to bandwidth and network installs.  • Assisted the incident manager in conducting in-house training for the Level 1 support and IMPAC teams resulting in enhanced ticket handling and routing processes.  • Increased reliability and boosted the customer-based connections to 40% by configuring their enterprise WIFI on our Wireless LAN Controller and pushing the configuration to all existing Access points on several locations hence avoiding complex VPN connections.  • Maintained all LAN and connectivity for over 1400 users and global access for both users and customers.  • Installed a wide range of network equipment; analyzed, assessed the vulnerability and risk of several complicated systems Resolved helpdesk (Or troubleshooting) tickets and tested new equipment, support of remote access and wireless access.  • Managed the networking team to a Service Level Agreement standard of 97% for customer Helpdesk tickets or consistency resolutions.  • Responsible for maintaining several server networks for maximum up time and redundancy.  • Solved complex issues and steered the troubleshooting for different networking malfunctions; collaborated with colleagues and vendors for resolutions.  • Installed and configured routers, switches, hubs, and telecommunication equipment across the internal network.  • Audit and identify all possible Rogue wireless access points reported by the Wireless LAN controller and coordinate with field teams to remove them.  • Directed IT operations on several locations through our preferred vendors including provisioning, maintenance, monitoring, upgrading and troubleshooting of organization network, including routers, switches.  • Created and maintained DNS/DHCP configurations for new site network installs and vendors.  • Facilitated and monitored multiple ISP handoffs while sites were converted throughout the transition and acquisition process.  • Administered and prepared programs for IP addresses, developed network resources and trained support personnel to provide Tier I support to end users.  • Provided firewall and VPN management, network and host-based security and incident response.  • Installed and maintained data and voice circuits through routers, switches, and WAN devices.  • Conducted security assessments and made recommendations for disaster recovery, remote access, network appliances, servers and directory services security. Network Analyst Balaji Pressure Vessels Limited April 2013 to July 2014 Hyderbad, India  • Design and maintain network documentation and assist in inventory if needed.  • Troubleshoot and maintained all networking devices and infrastructure across the enterprise including IP phones and switches.  • Setup vendor meets to resolve network outages and periods of reduced performance.  • Monitor system performance and implements performance tuning as needed.  • Diagnosed system hardware and software problems using advanced root-cause analysis.  • Upgraded network software and hardware for optimized performance.  • Provided network support and performed troubleshooting to resolve various WAN/LAN connectivity issues.  • Documented all server and network problems and other unusual events in detail.  • Troubleshot and maintained all networking devices and infrastructure across enterprise including switches, routers and firewalls.  • Configured and installed wireless controllers, routers and switches.  • Reviewed logs for all networking devices for unresolved abnormalities and problems. Network Administrator Ananth Technologies - Hyderabad, Telangana April 2012 to June 2013 India  • Optimized network operations by monitoring, troubleshooting and enforcing Department of Defense (DoD) security compliance.  • Produced average of 30 closed trouble tickets per week  • Installed, configured, and supported local area network (LAN), wide area network (WAN) and Internet system.  • Performed system maintenance and upgrades, including patches, service packs, hot fixes and new security configurations.  • Monitored stability of network and wireless services to ensure comprehensive stability.  • Managed all software and hardware issues for end-users.  • Managed and maintained stability of all network and wireless services throughout enterprise.  • Provided results of network retina scanner software audits.  • Diagnosed and resolved hardware, software and network problems and replaced defective components.  • Participated in on-call rotations during holidays, weekends and overnights to handle emergency network situations.  • Researched and recommended network products, services, protocols and standards for network development. Education Master of Science in Computer Information Systems Florida Institute of Technology - Melbourne, FL May 2016 Bachelor of Science in Electronics Engineering Technologies Sreenidhi Institute of Science and Technology - Hyderabad, Telangana 2014 Skills BGP, CISCO, CITRIX, DHCP, EIGRP, VPN, DNS, Vmware, Security, Active Directory, MPLS, firewalls, SQL, LAN, Networking Certifications/Licenses CCNA Routing and Switching