Network Administrator <span class="hl">Network</span> <span class="hl">Administrator</span> Network Administrator Katy, TX • 20+ years Network LAN/WAN Experience  • 12 years PC/Server experience including DELL, COMPAQ, HP, IBM, SUN, HP, SAN  • 10 years Laser/Matrix printer experience including LEXMARK, HP, IBM, PRINTRONIX, OKIDATA, and GENICOM  • 5 years of Microsoft SQL Server 2005/2008  • 3 years of POS install and service  • SUN Certified Network Administrator  • CA Spectrum  • Solorwind  • Dell Sonicwall  • VMware 2.0  • VMware for Desktop 10.0  • Active Directory & Group Policy  • ASA Firewall  • CISCO Routers 2900 Series, 3800 Series, 4000 Series  • CISCO Switches 3750 Series, 3750-X Series, 3850 Series, 6500 Series Catalyst Switches  • CISCO Nexus 7000 Series Switches  • Symantec NetBackup 7.7    Apex Systems/ IRS (Internal Revenue Service)  06/2018/ Present  Network Engineer    Training classes in Nexus 6000,7000,9000. CCNA LAB basic.    Introduction to Fortinet and Fortigate Firewalls, Implement and deploy Fortigate Firewall,    Implement Redundant Fortinet NGFW Solution, Fortinet NSE 4 Pre: Firewall Authentication  Fortinet NSE 4 Prep: Firewall Policies, Deploy Fortinet Site-to-Site VPNs, Configuring Fortigate Unified Threat Management Appliances    Palo Alto Networks Firewall Training, Cisco ASA Firewall Fundamentals, CCNA Security 210-260 - IINS v 3.0 - PART 4/6    Cisco ASA VPN configuration site to site, Cisco ASA VPN configuration site to site, CCIE Security v5.0 ASA 9.6.1 Deep Dive: Labs    Duties:  • Tests and analyzes all elements of the network facilities including power, software, security features, communications devices, lines, modems and terminals and for the overall integration of the enterprise network. Responsible for the planning, modeling, simulation, design, installation, maintenance, management and coordination of the network.  • Monitors and controls the performance and status of the network resources.  • Design, implement, support, monitor, and administer the enterprise network infrastructure including hardware and software which provides external connectivity (e.g., Ethernet, Cisco Routers and Switches, SNMP, firewalls, load balancers, IPSec VPN tunnel creation, network management applications suites and Out-of-band Technologies).  • Configure and troubleshoot network and firewall equipment and issues, and take appropriate steps to resolve faults as quickly as possible on a proactive basis.  • Manage the configuration aspects of network devices such as configuration file management, inventory management, software management and network documentation and diagrams    • Maintain a thorough understanding of the basics behind the Internet and its workings (DNS, Security, IP Routing, Digital Certificates, HTTP, VPN, Email Routing, SPAM, etc.). Design, setup and configure complex wireless networking that supports open or secured access and the ability to support voice and video applications. Maintain a thorough understanding of Local Area Networking including complex VLAN schemes. Assist in the design of multi-server environments including IP address schemes, DNS, WINS, VMWare Virtualization, SAN Storage, Microsoft Servers (Exchange and SharePoint) both Hardware and Software, etc. Working knowledge of Microsoft Active Directory. Configure and install client and server network software for upgrading and maintaining network and telecommunication systems. Maintain multi-site network operations and software applications, operating systems and regular maintenance with both private and public facilities. Manage assigned projects and program components to deliver services in accordance with established objectives. Respond to inquiries from staff, administrators, service providers, site personnel, outside vendors, etc. to provide technical assistance and support. Use software deployment tools to keep companywide software standards enforced. Maintain asset tracking and software license compliance. Act as second level support for companywide help request system and mentor network administrator. Troubleshoot malfunctions of network hardware and software applications, and telephones to resolve operational issues and restore services. Work Experience Network Administrator IBM/ Hilton Hotels February 2014 to June 2018 • 5 years of experience supporting Cisco networking devices (Routers/Switches/Firewall).  • Microsoft experience- Server 2008 or 2012  • Strong communication, organization, and time management skills  • Ability to manage projects and direct others in completion of projects  • Clear, accurate, and concise verbal and written communication skills  • Ability to work independently and perform assignments with minimal direction.  • Loading Windows 2008R2/2012R2 Servers software onto a Server straight out of the box, and connecting it to the Network.  • Running Windows updates and loading all Patches.  • Adding all desk side printers to the user PC and also giving the users network access to network printers.  • Ensure continued smooth operation of the global network infrastructure and be responsible for all LAN/WAN configuration and troubleshooting Administrator Microsoft Exchange Server 2010 2012 to 2012 using Active Directory & Group Policy.  • Experience with Virtualization, VMware 2.0, and VMware Desktop 10.0 Education Southwest Community College - Memphis, TN 2011 Bachelor of Sciences in Computer Science Colorado University - Boulder, CO 1990 Skills assembly, Labview