Job Seeker Independence, WI I've learned quite a few things about the company in my previous years that I have worked for  Ashley Furniture Industries. I believe Ashley offers many opportunities to work with different  people and meet new ones, as well as spark personal growth. I believe I could make a great  addition to your team by having a good work ethic and bringing a positive attitude to work. Work Experience Ashley Furniture - Arcadia, WI June 2019 to Present Job Duties Include:  ? Assembling tops, sides, drawers for the furniture.  ? Using powered tools, knowing different size screws to use for each model.  ? Knowing jig set up for proper assembly of product. Human Resources Administrator Ashley Furniture - Arcadia, WI January 2018 to June 2019 Job Duties Include:  ? Answering questions for our clients. (Benefits, pay, open positions, etc)  ? Answering phone calls, making sure we get the appropriate contact for a caller  ? Handling Verifications of Employment and doing Corrective Actions  ? Prepping personal and medical files for scanning  ? Translating  ? Setting up tours for potential candidates  ? Filing  ? Helping employees with My Ashley World  ? Setting up pre-employment drug screenings  ? Emergency Calls  ? Attendance Logs    Casegoods Assembly Idea Network Evaluator Ashley Furniture - Arcadia, WI February 2017 to January 2018 Job Duties Include:  ? Checking idea boxes in the morning every day  ? Putting new ideas into the system  ? Talking to employees about their ideas, go into detail  ? Talk to supervisor, engineers, superintendents about their thoughts on certain ideas  ? See if the idea is accepted or denied, find out savings and talk to employee  ? Keep track of ideas accepted or denied, employee encounters, meetings etc Ashley Furniture - Arcadia, WI August 2015 to February 2017 Job Duties Include:  ? Wrapping skids with corners securing the corners to the skid  ? Making sure to have enough skids such as Two-footers, Four-Footers and Six-Footers  ? Making sure the parts on the skid are not damaged before they're taken to their  destination  ? Carry the parts to the right machine making sure they have the correct paper work on them  P.O. Box 694 Independence, WI 54747  608-863-6940  cramosm163@gmail.com Ashley Furniture - Arcadia, WI June 2014 to July 2015 Job Duties Include:  ? Counting of parts are they are coming out of the Schelling Panel Saw  ? Make sure the parts are the right color as well as the length, width, and squareness.  ? Put parts on the right skid for proper stacking having two inches within the borderline of the skid  ? Fallow height limits depending on board thickness or as stated on blueprints as well  Parts Carrier Education High School Diploma Independence Public School - Independence, WI Skills Customer service, Bilingual, Detail oriented, Fast learner