Help Desk Engineer Help Desk Engineer Help Desk Engineer - Connecting Point Work Experience Help Desk Engineer Connecting Point - Greeley, CO 2018 to Present I am currently working in the help desk dept. I am tasked with working alongside our end users to determine  how we can accomplish their goals. Listed here are the typical things I handle.    Primary Duties:  ? Managing Network Infrastructure  ? Firewalls - VPNs, IPS, CFS, SSO, SSLVPN  ? Switches - VLANs, Stacking/Lag Management, QoS, routing, cable management  ? WAPS - VLANs, band steering, encryption, wireless site survey  ? Working with 50+ clients of varying industries  ? Managing ESXi Environments  ? Ncentral Management  ? Creating and deploying scripts  ? Discovery Jobs  ? Patch Management  ? Office 365 Administration  ? Managing networking infrastructure  ? Detailed ticket recording Network Administrator RMGO - Loveland, CO 2014 to 2018 I was previously employed by a National 501(c)(4) nonprofit. Originally hired to work in the mail shop, I worked  my way up to head of mailing operations by the end of the year. In February of 2015, I was promoted to the IT  department to work as a technician. I was again promoted to be the Network Admin in late August of 2015.    I was responsible for maintaining and monitoring all company servers as well as ensuring smooth and efficient  operation for 60 plus users. I handled a wide range of tasks including coding web pages, scripting database  tasks. My official job description was, "If it plugs into the wall, I'm the one to fix it."    Notably, I completed a project to nearly double the wiring in our new location in Loveland with about 50 drops.  Even more recently I performed a cutover migration from Rackspace to Microsoft Office 365, saving the company thousands per year.    Primary Duties:  ? Monitoring daily operations of service applications, physical performance, and hardware health for company servers as well as antivirus suites.  ? Managing Virtual Servers.  ? Running and Writing MySQL scripts.  ? Managing company email accounts (Office 365).  ? Managing networking infrastructure  ? Ensuring proper functionality of all company PCs and phone systems.  ? Maintaining strict file security.  ? Managing Active Directory (and LDAP).  ? Cable Running \ Making.  ? Deploying approved software.  ? Coordinating with various departments to ensure subscriptions are kept up-to-date.  ? Maintaining and configure VPN connections, allowing users to connect to local resources remotely. Technology Intern Eaton High School - Eaton, CO 2010 to 2011 I was an intern for the Weld Re-2 school district. My main duties included imaging new computers and fielding  miscellaneous issues. I spent quite a lot of time working with Clonezilla and Ghost, setting up and imaging  computers, which I would then lock changes to with DeepFreeze. During my time there, I worked very  extensively with Linux as nearly all of our lab machines ran Ubuntu. Because of my internship, I am fluent in the operations of linux drivers, CRON task scheduling, bash terminal, managing services, etc.