Network Engineer <span class="hl">Network</span> Engineer Network Engineer - Keno Kozie Associates Ltd Bethesda, MD Adept at installing network components, adding new lines and configuring components. Able to set up, troubleshoot and optimize peripheral devices. Proficient in updating software and hardware to meet performance demands. Work Experience Network Engineer Keno Kozie Associates Ltd - Washington, DC November 2018 to Present DC    • Manage the deployment, monitoring, maintenance, development, upgrade, and support of all IT systems, including servers, PCs, operating systems, hardware, software, mobile devices and other peripherals.  • Monitored multiple databases to keep track of all company inventory.  • Provided effective demonstrations of alarm systems so that customers understood how to use each feature.  • Provided onsite training. IT Manager Sirens LLC - Silver Spring, MD August 2017 to July 2018 • Manage the deployment, monitor, maintenance, development, upgrade, and support of all IT systems, including servers, PCs, operating systems, hardware, software, mobile devices and other peripherals.  • Develop, maintain, support, secure and optimize key functional areas, particularly laboratory information systems, local and wide area network infrastructure, active directory and server infrastructure, firewalls, data communications, and telecommunications systems.  • Oversee provision of end-user services, including help desk and technical support services.  • Monitor, troubleshoot, and upgrade the Microsoft Windows based application and SQL database systems, including customer relations and laboratory management systems.  • Establish and maintain regular written and in-person communications with the organization's executives, department heads, and end users regarding pertinent IT activities.  • Manage and coordinate work activities with dedicated 3rd party IT support services. Network Administrator National Association Of Broadcasters February 2015 to July 2017 - 170    • Define and administer all aspects of multiple Windows Server 2008 R2 and 2012 R2 Active Directory environments  • Administrated Microsoft Active directory, users, groups, ACL, DNS, DHCP, and ISA servers  • Use PowerShell and VBScripts to perform User and Group management  • Administer MS Office 365 (outlook, Skype for Business SharePoint)  • Performed troubleshooting on Laptop, Printers, Win10, Win7, Mac, Microsoft office application  • Administer Duo Authenticator  • Administer Microsoft Authenticator  • Oversaw network security, managed Trend Micro Anti- Virus and used scanning tools to fix Network vulnerabilities  • Configured LAN/WAN, VPN, Switches, Cisco Routers, and Cisco PIX/ASA Firewalls  • Monitor Network and Servers with Solar Wind Applications  • Remote support User via Team Viewer  • Administer iPhone, Android and Windows phones  • Administer VOIP  • GP SQL Servers 2012  • Administer Kasey to monitor Windows update  • Manage the IT inventory (Laptop, Printer, Router)  • Monitored stability of network and wireless services to ensure comprehensive stability.    • Constructed and maintained Virtual Local Area Network (VLAN).  • Protected company reputation and built loyal client base by working relentlessly to resolve problems and improve customer satisfaction. System Administrator National 4-H Council Inc April 2013 to December 2014 • Provided second-level support for all server class systems.  • Worked with users to determine areas of technology in need of improved usability.  • Analyzed complex project server issues and worked on large enterprise and business-critical applications.  • Completed reports detailing network and systems performance, costs and downtime issues.  • Made recommendations regarding information technology infrastructure overhauls.  • Evaluated latest technology innovations and adopted cost-effective, useful solutions.  • Standardized job tasks and trained junior team members on industry best practices and standards.  • Maintained flexible schedule and responded to after-hours and weekend emergencies.  • Migrated data from legacy system to SQL Server 2008 databases using SSIS to overcome transformation constraints.  • Resolved issues and escalated problems with knowledgeable support and quality service. Education NEW HORIZONS COMPUTER LEARNING CENTER 2013 Network + Harford Community College - Bel Air, MD 2009 Bachelor of Science Strayer University - Washington, DC 2006 Skills LAN/WAN, NOC, SECURITY, TECHNICAL SUPPORT, LAN, PROBLEM RESOLUTION