Network Engineer II <span class="hl">Network</span> Engineer II Network Engineer II - Bureau of Labor Statistics Fairfax, VA Having 10 years of experience in Networking and even having lots of Hardware and software skills  All the skills like Cisco NEXUS, Firewall (Cisco ASA (5 years) and PFsense (3 years)), LAN, WAN, Wireshark, Sniffer, Wireless and Proxies. Also, I have a knowledge on Juniper (GNS3).    Technologies: Work Experience Network Engineer II Bureau of Labor Statistics January 2019 to Present United States  Responsible for network configurations, integration of configurations and test plans. Develops system design specifications and network architecture designs. Performs research and requirements analysis for migration of emerging technology. Responsible for design, installation, documentation, troubleshooting, and sustainment of local- and wide-area network hardware and services. Develops network risk management and mitigation strategy.  Responsible for overseeing data center operations, network performance, system availability and monitoring. Perform all the duties of a Network Engineer 1 with increased technical proficiency and working knowledge. Additionally, lead and coach lower level technical staff to manage all aspects of configuration and administration of network devices such as layer-2 and layer-3 LAN switches and other approved telecommunication devices and assume a technical lead role, as required.  Perform all aspects of data center support duties including hardware rack installations, providing maintenance and monitoring for a large-scale local/wide area network  Perform advanced configurations and administration on layer-1, 2 and 3 technologies switch as CAT6 and fiber network cables, RJ45 interface ports, Cisco switches and routers  Maintain proficiency with current technologies to support an enterprise data center  Monitor network resource allocation, utilization and perform IT capacity planning.  Provide peer learning opportunities to lower-level staff in order to elevate overall understanding of Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS) IT operations.  Assist in developing Standard Operating Procedures (SOP) and technical documentation for data center floor designs, technical refresh, upgrades, procurement, consolidation, sociability and expansions.  Develop and review weekly and monthly network and circuit utilization reports using approved network management tools.  Onsite support  Provide rotated on call support  Design, Implement and Troubleshooting network problems and providing support for Cisco routers/switches (6513, Nexus 2K, 5K and 7K, 3850, 3750, 2960, Cat 95K and 93K etc.) and network management tools/protocols such as Solarwinds, syslog, IPv4, OSPF, static routing and SNMP.  Developing technical documentation pertaining to project plans. IDC System/ Network Administrator Alibaba Group (CAMiWell) March 2018 to January 2019 United States  Work in customer's Data Center, providing technical support  Install and configure from data link layer to application layer of the whole network system in data center  Daily monitor and maintain the network, ensure network availability so that the remote users can have stable access to the servers  Engage in site layout, network construction planning, quality control and ensure data safety  Supervise server support specialist to diagnose, troubleshoot, and resolve hardware, software, or other network and system problems, and replace defective components when necessary  Working L1-L7 network architecture, TCP/IP, Switching, Routing, and Optical communication technology  Installing servers and their components including installing boards, cards, hard drives, and a diverse number of software products  Troubleshooting and communication skills to be able to analyze hardware and software problems; research and resolve complex issues; and interface with customers, manufacturers, and technical support staff  Diagnose data communications problems with using specialized tools, test equipment, and software utilities  Unpack and install 2U to 4U servers into server racks within a large Data Center environment  Install power cables following the client's guidelines and requirements (e.g. cable management)  Install add on PCI cards and components  Perform server POST test and amber light audits  Assist in replacing the main board in server IT Support VMF NET Virginia May 2016 to February 2018 United States  Supported to many companies (Nextday Cabinets, Fairfax Tax Services, AutoLineVA, Dulles Auto and so on)  Design Implement and Troubleshoot Network  Worked with Cisco ASA, Cisco Meraki, Open Mesh, Ubiquity and PFSense, AWS  Implement VPN (Site to Site, Remote VPN, OpenVPN)  Troubleshooting Network issue with ISP  Design Network for Layer 2 and Layer 3  Server, Printer, Switch, Firewall issue detect and fix. Senior Network Administrator Xalq Bank OJSC May 2012 to June 2015 Azerbaijan  Responsible for entire Network infrastructure of corporate headquarters and 20 remote offices. Provide leadership and direction for 10 administrators at remote locations. Hands-on manager and technical lead for all IT-related projects. Led enterprise-wide disaster recovery project and network architecture re-evaluation. Designed, configured and installed wireless and wired network at remote offices. Defined, documented and published all IT policies, procedures and standards. Responsible for developing, coordinating, exercising, assessing, and communicating the Enterprise IT disaster recovery and restoration (DR&R) program for "Xalq" Bank OJSC. Incumbent develops strategies and directions for efficient recovery and restoration solutions using current and emerging technologies, development and planning for technology changes and business demands. To ensure the security and integrity of data, data systems, and data networks across the entire organization. This includes designing, configuring, maintaining, supporting, optimizing and implementing disaster recovery processes and business continuity procedures for re-establishing communication links in the event of a disruption, both minor and catastrophic. Perform and analyze disaster simulations for the prompt restoration of services, and conduct security audits where required. Network planning/designing and dealing with network equipment order according to annual planned IT budget. Implementation of various network projects in enterprise to enhance high network availability, security etc. Supervise subcontractors work related to equipment. Technical support of equipment and system software, including personal support and relations with support partners. Preventive maintenance. Troubleshoot network equipment and system software-related problems. Monitor infrastructure to identify where changes and adjustments are necessary; propose for Manager Approval and perform implementation of these adjustments. Ensure that the infrastructure has a high availability, reliability and eliminate downtimes possibility. Maintenance, day-to-day monitoring of all Cisco and Network system. Implementation of the new projects according to IT Department development plan and IT Projects Network Administrator Xalq Bank OJSC October 2010 to May 2012 Azerbaijan  Held multifaceted responsibilities to configure, install and administer network infrastructure and telecommunications systems that supported staff of 300 personal. Establish new IT policies, which define acceptable use of IT assets within the company  Carried out full installation of Cisco routers, switches and cabling for routers, switches and new devices  Successfully engineered a virtual private network (VPN) solution utilizing Cisco ASA 5520 ad Cisco routers  Implement GRE tunnels over VPN and OSPF between Branch Office and Head Office  Implementation SRST on Cisco router and Cisco Unified Call Manager  Implementation HSRP on Cisco 3925 routers  Monitoring Devices with Nagios and Kiwi Syslog servers  Backup devices configuration with Kiwi CatTools  Implementation Terminal Server (Cisco 2900)  Implement Route-Map, Port Security, RADIUS server Help Desk Xalq Bank OJSC - Baku, AZ December 2009 to September 2010 Azerbaijan  Fulfilled administrative responsibilities including the adding and changes to use desktop, email  Installed, configure and monitoring status of printers utilizing HP Jet admin in addition to upgrade printer firmware and handling installation of other peripherals  Actively provide desktop, configuration and phone support for software and hardware    AS Group Co Ltd Baku, Azerbaijan IT Manager May 2009 to November 2009 Azerbaijan  System and network administration and technical computer maintenance in a heterogeneous LAN  Installed, upgraded and configured hardware and software  Installed and maintained applications in Microsoft environment  Installed and maintained Kerio Education Master of Science in Computer Information Science American College of Commerce and Technology 2016 to 2017 Bachelor of Computer Engineering in Computer Engineering Khazar University Skills Aironet, Bgp, Cisco, Dhcp, Eigrp, Lan/wan, Mpls, Ospf, Router, Tacacs, Tcp, Tcp/ip, Telnet, Sdn, Vlan, Vpn, Dns, Fiber channel, Hsrp, Sftp, firewalls Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/nvazirov Additional Information Operating Systems:  Linux OS, Windows OS, Mac OS    Hardware:  Cisco 16k/17k/28k/29k/38k/39k series Router, Cisco 35k/37k/38k/65k/93k/95k Cisco NEXUS 77k/95k series Switches, Cisco Firewall Module, Cisco ASA5500/5515-X, Cisco ATA and 3Com Routers and Switches, Blue Coat Proxy Edition, Check Point and F5 Big IP LTM (Knowledge), Cisco Aironet 1140 series (basic), PFSense firewall, Cisco WLC    Cloud Base Hardware:  Cisco Meraki, Open Mesh, Ubiquiti    Software:  Cisco Unified Communications Manager ver. 7.1.5/10.5.2, Cisco IOS, NX-OS, JunOS, Blue Coat WebFilter, Cisco Contact Centre (basic), PFsense, ACI, Check Point, F5 Big IP LTM  Networks/Protocols:  LAN/WAN, NAT, HSRP, VRRP, GLBP, VTP, TCP/IP, DNS, DHCP, POP3, SMTP, FTP, SFTP, TFTP, TELNET, SSH, VPN, ICMP,RIP,OSPF,EIGRP, BGP, STP, LLDP, Ethernet, VLAN, GRE, DMVPN, SNMP, SPAN, RADIUS, SLB, IP SLA, Zone Based Firewall, H323, TACACS+, Dot1x, EEM,QinQ. AWS (EC2, S3, VPC, IAM), OpenVPN, FreeRadius (mOTP),Snort, SDN (Cisco API), Fiber Channel, VxLAN, OTV, VDC, VPC MPLS, PfR, iWAN, SD-WAN