Network Systems Engineer <span class="hl">Network</span> Systems Engineer Network Systems Engineer - Information Technology partners Chicago, IL To partner with a company who is looking for a IT professional that can take their IT department to the next level of growth. Work Experience Network Systems Engineer Information Technology partners - Chicago, IL January 2018 to Present Support network infrastructure for Clients of ITP  ? Manage and provide tier two support for network infrastructure core components involving Juniper and Cisco Switches, Cisco WAPs, Cisco call manager, Cisco firewalls and VPN  ? Setup, troubleshoot and support VLANs  ? Support VMware infrastructure with Dell EqualLogics SAN  ? Project management involving data center moves, VoIP implementation, circuit installations Network Systems Administrator/Manager Bandit Industries - Remus, MI June 2016 to December 2017 Supervised a crew of three, and managed the IT infrastructure for Bandit industries  ? Designed and wrote policies and procedures for IT as they relate to IT functions, service, IT staff and general employee conduct  ? Trained IT staff to advance their skills to properly support IT functions  ? Set standards for Computers, Printers and Mobile devices  ? Lowered cost of ownership on several aspects of IT, including hardware, software and infrastructure licensing  ? Completed projects to shore up network security (AD cleanup, folder permissions audit and cleanup, VPN and firewall audit and cleanup, switch audit and cleanup)  ? Developed Key Performance Indicators as required by Bandit Industries Executive committee (Help desk reports, asset reports, user concerns reports, spending reports) Network Administrator Vention Medical - Grand Rapids, MI November 2014 to May 2016 Cyber Advisors serviced Atek Medical as an I.T. Partner, supporting all I.T. Infrastructure  ? Standardized local and remote facilities Wi-Fi and switch access, by implementing radius for WAP and switch access  ? Supported the VMware Infrastructure Version 5 and 6  ? Managed and completed a successful migration of recently acquired company  ? Upgraded WAPs from Cisco 1240 series to Meraki MR34 series, 25 WAPs total  ? Migrated Firewall Infrastructure from WatchGuard to Meraki router/Firewall  ? Managed Active Directory 2008-2012 for two domains in Grand Rapids (Corporate and local domains for customer facing integration and communication)  ? Managed and supported Group Policy, DHCP, and DNS services  ? Supervised and assisted in multiple migrations of client domains to Vention, because of a sale from Atek to Vention medical  ? Set up, monitored, managed, and configured VLANs  ? Provided tier 3 support and managed MS Exchange 2010  ? Provided tier 3 support for local and remote Mitel VoIP systems  ? Managed IT aspects of local and remote MFG facilities in Grand Rapids. Approx. 350 employees and multi asset infrastructure  ? Maintained disaster recovery with the use of Veeam and Backup Exec (BEX)  ? Through the corporate helpdesk, I managed the desktop, Windows Server and IT infrastructure IT Specialist Technisource - Kalamazoo, MI January 2010 to October 2012 I assisted/supported multiple clients of Technisource  ? I supported Exchange 2003 and 2007  ? I provided administration of Active Directory objects  ? I documented processes for resetting transit trust of a forest  ? I supported/troubleshot LAN/WAN issues, including monitoring router and switch activity for errors, or signs of virus or intrusion  ? Provided data management, retention, archive and disaster recovery processes Education Bachelor's