Specialist Specialist Specialist - ITS Port Saint Lucie, FL Detail-oriented professional with 8+ years of experience and a proven knowledge of end-user support, local area network, and network setup/installation. Aiming to leverage my skills to successfully fill the Computer Systems Administrator role at your company. Work Experience Specialist ITS November 2015 to Present 2 • NYS Office of Information Technology Services  • Survey job site networks for VoIP implementation/ support. Create written reports of findings and coordinate with the networking team to implement solutions to State Agencies across NYS.  • Responsible for organizing and tracking millions of dollars of computer equipment for NYS ITS warehouse.  • Organization of all incoming and outgoing packages to the warehouse from across NYS.  • Performed agency-specific imaging of computers prior to delivery to desired locations.  • Oversee 3-10 employees for their job assignment, work distribution, and execution of computer deployments across NYS.  • Direct contact for Agencies regarding questions, scheduling, and execution of deployments Station Reviewer, Business Analyst, Deployment Manager Nfrastructure June 2013 to November 2015 • Member of Professional Services and Consulting team working with customers to identify design and build requirements, provide custom pre-engineer network solutions.  • Project team lead on various internal network installations, Voice Gateways, migrations, and upgrades.  • Planning and implementing network migrations and replacements with minimal downtime.  • Coordinate deploying VoIP UC Devices, phones and Polycoms to New York state agencies.  • Coordinate with network engineers, vendors and other subject matter experts (SME) on a variety of technical issues. Provide instruction and supervise outside vendor providing work to our NYS Customer.  • Utilizing Cisco Unified Call Manager, build Call pick groups, busy lamps. Network Administrator US Ophthalmic November 2011 to June 2013 • Analyze network data to determine network usage, disk space availability, or server function.  • Configure and define parameters for installation or testing of local area network (LAN), wide area network (WAN), hubs, routers, switches, controllers, multiplexers, or related networking equipment.  • Configure security settings or access permissions for groups or individuals.  • Configure WAN or LAN routers and evaluate performance data  • Document network support activities and help desk requests  • Identify the causes of networking problems, using diagnostic testing software and equipment.  • Install or repair network cables, including fiber optic cables.  • Perform routine maintenance or standard repairs to networking components or equipment.  • Back up network data.  • Maintain logs of network activity. Network / Systems Administrator Law offices of Nicole M. Kennedy July 2010 to May 2013 • Configure and define parameters for installation or testing of LAN, WAN, hubs, routers, switches, controllers, multiplexers, or related networking equipment.  • Configure security settings or access permissions for groups or individuals.  • Document network support activities.  • Identify the causes of networking problems, using diagnostic testing software and equipment.  • Install and configure wireless networking equipment, software and security/ firewall software  • Perform routine maintenance or standard repairs to networking components or equipment.  • Troubleshoot network or connectivity problems for users or user groups.  • Maintain and administer computer networks and related computing environments including computer hardware, systems software, applications software, and all configurations.  • Perform data backups and disaster recovery operations.  • Diagnose, troubleshoot, and resolve hardware, software, or other network and system problems, and replace defective components when necessary.  • Plan, coordinate, and implement network security measures to protect data, software, and hardware.  • Operate master consoles to monitor the performance of computer systems and networks, and to coordinate computer network access and use.  • Design, configure, and test computer hardware, networking software and operating system software.  • Monitor network performance to determine whether adjustments need to be made and analyze equipment performance records to determine the need for repair or replacement.  • Recommend changes to improve systems and network configurations and determine hardware or software requirements related to such changes. Education BA in Computer Science Miami Dade Community College 2008 Skills Detail oriented Additional Information KEY SKILLS - EXPERIENCE    Fluent in Spanish    Quick Learner    Detail Oriented