R&D Engineer R&amp;D Engineer R&D Engineer - Nokia Solutions and Networks Software Automation testing and QA engineer, currently working at Nokia as R&D  Engineer, experience with software Testing, Automation software testing (Selenium Web  drivers) with 3 Years of experience. Work Experience R&D Engineer Nokia Solutions and Networks July 2018 to Present Tools used TeX, Zabbix, Docker, Shell, Jenkins, and GIT  Duration July 2018 to Till Date    Project Description:  Providing a testing framework called Test Executor(TEX) for the execution of Robot test  cases. Product build management and maintenance of pool of labs that are installed with latest product build and are ready to be used.    Roles & Responsibilities:  • TEX execution expert.  • Zabbix expert.  • Reporting, tracking and validating bugs using JIRA.  • Clone pool expert.    Project 2:    Project Name Continuous Delivery  Company Nokia Solutions and Networks  Testing Type Automation Testing  Team Size 4  Role R&D Engineer  Tools used Python, Selenium WebDriver with Java, Eclipse, Visual Studio, REST API, Python and Shell script developer PyCharm November 2017 to April 2018 Duration Nov 2017 to Apr 2018    Project Description:  Developed python and shell scripts and provided as a web service.    Roles & Responsibilities:  • Python and Shell script developer  • Automation of test cases using Selenium WebDriver.    Project 1:    Project Name User Interface Load  Company Nokia Solutions and Networks  Testing Type Automation Testing  Team Size 20  Role R&D Engineer  Tools used QF-Test, Selenium WebDriver with Java, Python, Shell, Jenkins, VNC  Server, Zabbix  Duration July 2016 to Apr 2018    Project Description:  Automation of user test cases and providing the user interface load.    Roles & Responsibilities:  • Reading the requirement documents identifying the use case  • Involved in writing, reviewing and maintenance TCs.  • Involved UI testing, functional test, and System testing.  • Responsible for identifying and developing test cases for automation using Selenium  webdriver.  • Actively involved in maintenance of test scripts.  • Reporting, tracking and validating bugs using JIRA.  • Involved in preparing and sending test reports. Education Computer Science and Engineering Siddaganga Institute of Technology - Tumkur, KARNATAKA, IN 2016 Additional Information Skills  Software Testing  ? Test case design and execution.  ? Test plans and reports.  ? Test automation (Setting up, developing framework with TestNG, Java).  ? Database testing and Basic sql query.  ? SVN/GIT/build management.    Applications  ? Eclipse  ? SQL Developer  ? Jenkins, GIT, JIRA,  ? Project Management  ? Microsoft word, Excel, PowerPoint  ? Visual Studio, PyCharm  ? Browsers - Firefox, IE, Chrome    Platforms    Operating Systems: Windows XP (2003, 2008), Windows 7, Windows 8, Windows 10    Programming  Java, Python, SQL