Active Guard Reserve Active Guard Reserve Active Guard Reserve - Bravo Company 392nd Expeditionary Signal Battalion Quakertown, PA Work Experience Active Guard Reserve Bravo Company 392nd Expeditionary Signal Battalion September 2016 to Present • Plans and Operations NCO:  • Plans and executes Company level training events in accordance with AR 350-1.  • Develops and maintains all training and school records for 140 assigned personnel.  • Maintains historical and real time data on Army specific KPI's. Generates work plans on increasing or maintaining compliance.  • Advises Company Command team on technical aspects of Warrior Information Network- Tactical capabilities and best practices of equipment deployment.  • Facilitates the Military Decision Making Process (MDMP) by digesting Battalion level  operations orders and publishing Company level equivalent in line with Battalion and Company Commander's intent.  • Establishes vetted standard operating procedures within the Company reducing the processing  time of personnel and schools packets by 30%.  • Develops subordinate echelon tasking based on current unit capabilities and available assets. Network Administrator Ancillare May 2015 to September 2016 • Manage and administer company owned servers, security solutions, and network components.  • Managed deployment of Windows RDS applications to remote workers and sites.  • Developed and deployed company standards for company owned site-to-site VPN(s) to US and UK based remote sites.  • Developed and oversaw installation of 10Gigabit switch and fiber network backbone for company headquarters.  • Manages Windows Active Directory with over 300 Users/Groups. Performs account and group  setup, user rights, and password reset. Senior Nodal Network Manager 404th Brigade Signal Company October 2013 to September 2016 25N20]  • Provides secure and unsecure voice and data communication to Brigade level elements.  • Directs LAN/WLAN troubleshooting and provides technical support to attached units.  • Manages all unit owned Network Equipment to include Cisco 2960 switches, ASA firewalls, and Cisco 3945 routers.  • Responsible for the welfare, discipline, morale, and physical fitness of Soldiers assigned to the Network Team.  • Senior Transmission Team Manager [25Q20]  • Provides primary local area network connection between two Command Post Nodes and one  Join Network Node.  • Directs installation of transportable satellite terminals, as well as troubleshooting operations. Apprentice Electrician B.S.I October 2010 to April 2015 Built and installed electrical panels for process control systems, and silicon controlled  rectifiers.  • Created "as-built" wiring and program diagrams for customer and company use. Education BACHELOR'S DEGREE in History KUTZTOWN UNIVERSITY May 2013 Certifications/Licenses Security+ May 2016 to May 2019 Additional Information Nine years' experience in military communication technologies; six as a reserve Nodal Network  Operator-Maintainer and Multichannel Transmission Operator-Maintainer. With a focus in  microwave and radio data transmission, as well as, firewall, switching, and routing for Battalion or  higher elements. The past three years on Active/Guard/Reserve title 10 orders as the Plans and  Operations NCO for an Expeditionary Signal Company while operating two pay levels above my  current grade.    Skills & Abilities  LANGUAGE:  • Able to speak, read, write, and understand German at an intermediate level.