Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer Data Scientist/Engineer with a machine learning focus. Emphasizes model validation and parameter tuning.  Runs everything in docker and GCP/AWS when possible. High affinity for communication with team and  supervisors. Strong abilities in generating recommendations that grow out of fact based analysis. Work Experience Python Developer Newmont Goldcorp - Denver, CO April 2019 to August 2019 Contract)  Built a python engine to stream SAP data from Teradata to GCP. Real time streaming of files using  Pubsub and Kubernetes. Built using a elt methodology instead of etl. I.e everything is streamed into temp tables and then transformed using the speed of big query to produce the end views. All BDD with Gherkin and Behave. Data Scientist Nordstrom - Denver, CO September 2018 to April 2019 Built and Productionalized a targeted marketing model with LightGBM to give personalized bonus  notes to future cardholders, increasing the response rate and customer value in the credit portfolio.  Distinguishes between high and low value customers before they are acquired. Shiny dashboards  built for real time campaign status updates. Data Analyst/ Revenue Manager National Storage Affiliates - Denver, CO September 2017 to August 2018 Built XG-boosted Random Forest and Naive Bayes models in R and Python to increase efficiency in the changes of street rates in the self storage industry. Real-time dashboards built in Shiny, Tableau, and  Alteryx that give insights to upper management about the current state of their properties. Stored  Procedure creation in SQL that feeds directly into live dashboards. Education B.S in Statistics University of Wyoming - Laramie, WY 2013 to 2017 Skills PYTHON (1 year), SQL (1 year), Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud (Less than 1 year), API (Less than 1 year), AWS (Less than 1 year) Additional Information Technical Expertise  R w/Shiny. Outstanding experience using R for 6+ years. Custom functions, data melting and reshaping,  regular expressions, elegant ggplots, apply family function mastery. Analysis experience with dates, numbers,  factors, strings, and combination data. Tidyverse mastery. Development of several high functioning Shiny apps.  Very familiar with caret for ML methods.    Python. Very comfortable building hierarchical class based cloud solutions for data engineering problems,  especially in conjunction with GCP. Classes that connect to data sources via API, ODBC, or JDBC to stream and  transform. Regular expression savvy. Frequently uses Petl and Pandas.    SQL. Write complex queries and stored procedures in all sql flavors. Maximizes on efficiency of query and  will try several methods to get the fastest return time. I.e. window function over union all, etc.    Google Cloud. Knows how to set up a working Kubernetes cluster with subscriptions, topics, buckets, and  datasets connected with local docker containers. Understands how to diagnose Pub-Sub problems and get the  most out of Stackdriver logging.    AWS. Can analyze needs to size and deploy ec2 or other instances accordingly. Can launch shiny apps from  Linux AWS server.    git/BASH. Daily git use in 3-7 person teams. Can handle merge conflicts. Used to Cloudbuild but could  happily learn Jenkins or any other automatic deployment systems. Loop, automate, and pass data to scripts in  BASH.    Tableau. Build relevant, striking, and simple dashboards for field managers including customer density  maps and heat maps.