Sr. Full Stack Python Developer Sr. Full Stack <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Full Stack Python Developer - Autodesk San Rafael, CA 7+ years of experience in Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) including requirements analysis, design specification, code development, code integration, testing and deployment using Object Oriented Analysis and Design (OOAD) with Python/Django. Excellent in front-end UI design implementations by writing HTML5/HTML, CSS3/CSS, Bootstrap, JavaScript, jQuery, jQuery UI, jQuery Mobile to make better Single Page Application SPA working on Node.JS Server along with this worked on react.JS as well. Experience in working on Server less Architecture using AWS Cloud Platform and worked on API Gateways, AWS lambda, AWS kinesis Firehouse, AWS SQS, AWS cloud Watch, AWS SNS, and S3 buckets, EC2 Instances, AWS EMR, AWS AMIs etc. Good experience of software development in Python (libraries used: libraries- Beautiful Soup, NumPy, SciPy, matplotlib, python-twitter, Pandas data frame, network, urllib2, MySQL dB for database connectivity) and IDEs - sublime text, Spyder, PyCharm, emacs. Experience in the design and implementation of Continuous Integration(CI), Continuous Deployment(CD), Continuous Delivery and DevOps Operations for Agile projects, working with technologies and platforms including AWS, UNIX/Linux, Subversion(SVN), Jenkins, VMware, Ansible, Chef, Puppet, Vagrant, Docker, Tomcat, Kubernetes. Work Experience Sr. Full Stack Python Developer Autodesk - San Rafael, CA July 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Involved in building database Model and Views utilizing Python, to build an interactive web-based solution.  • Migrated present Linux environment to AWS/CentOS/RHEL by creating and executing a migration plan per scheduled timeline to complete the migration.  • Optimized the boot time for image-generation and scan data acquisition server by enhancing the startup scripts.  • Increased speed and memory efficiency on the image-generation and scan data acquisition component builds.  • Involved and worked on different Rest API's development by using Flask and Swagger.  • Modeled the application to support bi-directional communication between server and client using Akka HTTP.  • Designed front-end presentation logic using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Ajax, AngularJS and Nodejs technologies for front-end user input validations and Restful web service calls.  • Deploy and monitor scalable infrastructure on Amazon web services (AWS)& configuration management using chef.  • SQL Naming Conventions Enforcement, Using Python; Stored Procedures created a server job that enforces naming conventions for all SQL objects. Creating a more constant SQL environment.  • Developed Python scripts to monitor health of Mongo databases and perform ad-hoc backups using Mongo dump and Mongo restore.  • Created test automation framework from scratch using Cucumber with Page Object Model (POM) using python language. Developed User Stories using python in Behavior Driven Development for User Acceptance Testing.  • Involved in helping the UNIX and Splunk administrators to deploy Splunk across the UNIX and windows environment.  • Created Python and Bash tools to increase efficiency of call center application system and operations; data conversion scripts REST, JSON, and CRUD scripts for API Integration.  • Responsible for Configuring Kafka Consumer and Producer metrics to visualize the Kafka System performance and monitoring.  • Developed user interface using BOOTSTRAP UI and Angular JavaScript to simplify the complexities of the application.  • Wrote Lambda functions in python for AWS's Lambda, Kinesis and Elastic Search which invokes python scripts to perform various transformations and analytics on large data sets in AMAZON EMR clusters.  • Created Python and Bash tools to increase efficiency of retail management application system and operations; data conversion scripts, AMQP/RabbitMQ, REST, JSON, and CRUD scripts for API Integration.  • Used Python and Django creating graphics, XML processing, data exchange and business logic implementation. Full Stack Python Developer Kellogg's - Minneapolis, MN January 2016 to June 2017 Responsibilities:  • Developed, tested, and deployed Business feature set in Node.js with Express and MongoDB backend, incorporating APIs.  • Deployed and monitored scalable infrastructure on Amazon web services (AWS) & configuration management using puppet and involved in server-side applications with Django using Python programming.  • Developed GUI using Python and Django for dynamically displaying the test block documentation and other features of python code using a web browser.  • Managed datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL, queried MYSQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL DB package to retrieve information.  • Involved in development of Web Services using SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface in the XML format.  • Embedded AJAX in UI to update small portions of the web page avoiding the need to reload the entire page.  • Used Pandas API to put the data as time series and tabular format for east timestamp data manipulation and retrieval.  • Automated application deployment in the cloud using Docker technology using Elastic Container service scheduler.  • Used Kubernetes to deploy scale, load balance and manage Docker containers with multiple namespace versions.  • Implemented RESTful Web-Services For sending and receiving the data between multiple systems.  • Involved Microservice testing, functional testing using Postman, regression testing using Automated test scripts. Python Developer Duke Energy - Charlotte, NC November 2013 to December 2015 Responsibilities:  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Used Python and Django to interface with the jQuery UI and manage the storage and deletion of content.  • Developed a fully automated continuous integration system using Git, Jenkins, MySQL and custom tools developed in Python and Bash.  • Developed the ETL mappings in PL/SQL via packages, procedures, functions, views and triggers.  • Creation of Python scripts for data access and analysis (Scripts, Data Feeds, XLS, FIXML) to aid in process and system monitoring, and reporting.  • Handled operations and maintenance support for AWS cloud resources which includes launching, maintaining and troubleshooting EC2 instances, and S3 buckets and Virtual Private Clouds (VPC).  • Involved in Container management using Docker by writing Docker files and set up the automated build on Docker HUB and installing and configuring Kubernetes.  • Deployed and monitored Microservices using pivotal cloud foundry, also managed domains and routes with the cloud foundry. Python Developer Amdocs - Chesterfield, MO September 2011 to October 2013 Responsibilities:  • Responsible for gathering requirements, system analysis, design, development, testing and deployment.  • Participated in the complete SDLC process.  • Developed user interface using CSS, HTML, JavaScript and jQuery.  • Wrote Python modules to extract/load asset data from the MySQL source database.  • Designed and implemented a dedicated MYSQL database server to drive the web apps and report on daily progress.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Enhanced existing automated solutions, such as the Inquiry Tool for automated Asset Department reporting and added new features and fixed bugs.  • Embedded AJAX in UI to update small portions of the web page avoiding the need to reload the entire page.  • Created most important Business Rules which are useful for the scope of project and needs of customers.  • Involved in development of Web Services using SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface in the XML format.  • Created database using MySQL, wrote several queries to extract/store data.  • Designed and configured database and back end applications and programs.  • Performed research to explore and identify new technological platforms. Education Bachelor's Skills DJANGO (5 years), PYTHON (7 years), XML (5 years), MYSQL (5 years), WEB SERVICES (5 years) Additional Information Technical Skills:  Operating Systems: Windows, MAC OS X, Linux (Red hat, CentOS, Ubuntu)  Languages: Python, Java, C++, SQL, PL/SQL, NoSQL.  Frameworks: Django, Flask, AngularJS, React JS, web2py, Open stack, EmberJs, Tkinter, Pyramid.  Scripting languages: JavaScript, Shell Scripting.  Markup languages: HTML, XML, Json.  Databases: MySQL, MongoDB, Couch DB, DynamoDB, MS SQL, PostgreSQL, Cassandra, Sybase ASE, Redis, RDS, Redshift.  Servers: Apache Tomcat and IBM Web sphere.  IDEs: Sublime text, PyCharm, Eclipse, PyScripter, PyStudio, PyDev, Wing-IDE and Spyder, Jupyter.  Automation tools: Jenkins, Chef, puppet, ansible.  Methodologies & tools: Agile Scrum, Waterfall Model, UML.  Version Control Systems: GIT, SVN, Bitbucket, CVS, JAWS.  Cloud Computing Platforms: Amazon Web Services (AWS), Cloud Foundry, Cloud Front, AWS Beanstalk, EC2, S3, Redis, Redshift, RDS, Lambda, EMR, Elasticsearch, AWS CLI.  Python Libraries: Pandas, Numpy, Unit Test. SciPy, MatPlotLib, PyCharts, WxPython, Tkinter.