Sr. Python Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Python Developer - T-MOBILE • Around 4+ years of experience in developing web-based applications, software development and design operated Python 2.7/ Python 3.4, Java/J2EE, Django 1.9/1.8, XML, CSS, HTML, DHTML, JavaScript, JQuery and Angular Js.  • Experience in using new tools and technical developments such libraries- Beautiful Soup, Numpy, Scipy, Matplotlib, Pickle, PySide, Pandas Dataframe, urllib2 to drive improvements throughout entire software development lifecycle.  • Experienced in developing MVT/MVC architecture- based applications using Django, Flask, Web2py frameworks  • Design and Developed Web Services, RESTful API's for Mobile Apps using Python Django-REST and Flask Frameworks on Nginx and Uwsgi server  • Implemented locking mechanisms using multi-threading functionality. Proficient in developing multi-threaded web services using CherryPy & bottlePy framework  • Developed a fully automated continuous integration system using Git, Jenkins, MySQL and custom tools developed in Python and Bash  • Experience in creating test automation framework from scratch using Cucumber with Page Object Model (POM) using python language. Developed User Stories using python in Behavior Driven Development for User Acceptance Testing  • Experience in designing the front end of the application using HTML5, CSS3, AJAX, JSON and JQuery.  • Proficient in developing web-based applications using Python 2.7/2.6, Django 1.4/1.3, PHP, Flask, Webapp2, Angular.js, VB, C++, XML, CSS, HTML, DHTML, JavaScript, JQuery, Bootstrap Work Experience Sr. Python Developer T-MOBILE - Bothell, WA September 2018 to Present • Worked on front end frame works like CSS Bootstrap for development of Web applications. Launched Kubernetes to provide a platform for automating deployment, scaling and operations of application containers across clusters of hosts.  • Develop consumer-based features and applications using Python, Django, pyramid, Flask, Web2py, HTML and other web technologies. With using of Python OS module on UNIX environment, made job cloning and forking. Wrote Python modules to extract/load asset data from the MySQL source database.  • Designed and implemented a dedicated MySQL database server to drive the web apps and report on daily progress. Integrated Redis-Cache with the Django-rest-framework for reading the data faster.  • Working as an application developer experienced with controllers, views and models in Django. Involved in debugging the applications monitored on JIRA using agile methodology. Wrote and executed various MySQL database queries from Python-MySQL connector and MySQL db. Package.    • Launched Kubernetes to provide a platform for automating deployment, scaling and operations of application containers across clusters of hosts. Developed the notification service by posting the JSON request in AWS API Gateway, Validating the response in Lambda by getting the data from DynamoDB and sending the notification through AWS SNS.  • Wrote with object-oriented Python, Flask, SQL, Beautiful Soup, httplib2, Jinja2, HTML/CSS, Bootstrap, jQuery, Linux, Sublime Text, GIT  • Utilized Python 3.4 libraries such as numpy, pandas and matplotlib to read data from csv files aggregate and update data  • Developed programs to automate the testing of RAID controller firmware and utilities using Python, Java, Bash script and Windows command line, AutoIt, Auto Hotkey and Java Script  • Worked on JavaScript MVC Framework like Angular.js.  • Developed internal auxiliary web apps using Python Flask framework with CSS / HTML framework.  • Created entire application using Python, Django, MySQL and Linux.  • Involved in Web-services backend development using Python (CherryPy, Django, SQLAlchemy).  • Utilized PyUnit the Python unit test framework, for all Python applications.  • Exported/Imported data between different data sources using SQL Server Management Studio.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface. Python Developer Blue Shield May 2016 to August 2018 • Managed, developed and designed a dashboard control panel for customers and Administrators using Django, Oracle DB, PostgreSQL and VMWare API calls.  • Written Cloud formation templates and deployed AWS resourcing.  • Build application and database servers using AWS EC2 and create AMIs also using RDS for Oracle DB.  • Extensively used python modules such as requests, urllib, urllib 2 for web crawling.  • Developed the required XML Schema documents and implemented the framework for parsing XML documents.  • Written with object-oriented Python, Flask, SQL, Beautiful Soup, httplib2, Jinja2, HTML/CSS, Bootstrap, jQuery, Linux, Sublime Text, git.  • Worked closely with .Net developer to create and to write Procedure using T-SQL and PL/SQL.  • Having Knowledge on AWS Lambda, Auto scaling, Cloud Front, RDS, Route53, AWS SNS, SQS, SES.  • Gained Knowledge on Deploying apps using AWS Cloud Formation.  • Experience in using various version control systems like Git, CVS, GitHub, Heroku and Amazon EC2.  • Developed the ETL mappings in PL/SQL via packages, procedures, functions, views and triggers.  • Part of team implementing REST API's in Python using micro-framework like Flask with SQLAlchemy in the backend for management of data center resources on which OpenStack would be deployed.  • Built Continuous Integration environment (Jenkins, Nexus) and Continuous delivery environment (puppet).  • Achieved 100% coverage of user slice Ruby codebase by writing unit tests with RSpec and Capybara.  • Deployed DevOps using Puppet, Dashboard, and Puppet DB for configuration management to existing infrastructure  • Implemented Junit test runner class to call test cases in Cucumber. Python Developer Essex Bank - Richmond, VA June 2015 to April 2016 • Developed front end of web application using AngularJS and other front-end libraries and frameworks.  • Rewrite existing Python/Django modules to deliver certain format of data.  • Engaged in Design, Development, Deployment, Testing, Implementation of the application using Design Patterns.  • Wrote Python scripts to parse JSON documents and load the data in database.  • Leveraged CSS Bootstrap for development of Web applications and used JQuery for the data manipulations on client side.  • Worked on development of SQL such as DML, DDL and stored procedures for normalization and renormalization in MYSQL.  • Successfully migrated the Django database from MySQL to PostgreSQL with complete data integrity.  • Skilled in using Collections in Python for manipulating and looping through different user defined objects.  • Experience in writing tests using Scala Tests, Selenium and others.  • Responsible for debugging the project monitored on JIRA (Agile).  • Used Git version control and deployed project to Heroku.  • Worked in development of applications especially in UNIX environment and familiar with all of its commands.  • Configuring Chef to build up services and applications on the instances once they have been configured using cloud formation.  • Performed Test Automation and deployment of the project on UAT environment