Angular2, Python Django Developer Angular2, <span class="hl">Python</span> Django <span class="hl">Developer</span> Angular2, Python Django Developer - New York City Environmental Protection (DEP) Upper Marlboro, MD • 5+ years of experience as Python Developer with proficiency in Analysis, Design and Testing Enterprise applications using Python, Django framework, Flask, Django Rest Framework, Node.js and Express.js and front-end technologies like HTML5, CSS3, XML, JavaScript, Bootstrap, jQuery, AJAX, Angular 2, AngularJS.  • Experience with Angular JS to create responsive web applications with reusable and readable code.  • Extensive experience using and creating REST APIs using Django Rest Framework and Node.JS with Express.  • Hands-on experience on Bootstrap to create user-friendly web pages with visual impact.  • Experience in track tasks, progress and bugs using workflow management tools like Jira and Rally.  • Experience with the AGILE software development process, as well as participating in scrum calls and developing in sprints.  • Extensive knowledge of building single page applications (SPA) using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Angular, Bootstrap, with Python development.  • Experience in developing Web-Applications implementing Model Template View architecture using Python and Django web application framework.  • Strong experience setting up and working with operations inside Oracle SQL, Microsoft SQL, PostgreSQL, mySQL and MongoDB.  • Experienced in using Versioning tools like Git and GitHub to maintain current and historical versions of files such as source code, web pages, and documentation.  • Hands on experience in developing and implementing REST and SOAP Web Services.  • Experience in gathering data from websites using python web scraping packages such as Beautiful Soup, Scrapy and Request.  • Experience in using OpenCV and google's Tesseract OCR to implement an image recognition feature to web or mobile applications.  • Experienced in Object Oriented Design, Programming concepts and unit testing using Pythons unittest library, Jasmine and Karma.  • Experience in deployment of web application using AWS Elastic Beanstalk.  • Understanding of machine learning libraries such as SciKit-learn, TensorFlow, Numpy, Scipy and Pandas. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Angular2, Python Django Developer New York City Environmental Protection (DEP) - New York, NY January 2018 to Present The New York City Department of Environmental Protection (DEP) protects public health and the environment by supplying clean drinking water, collecting and treating wastewater, and reducing air, noise, and hazardous materials pollution. The goal of the project was to deliver a web application that allows the different DEP bureaus to interact with their data and general environmental public consumer data with a simple but effective UI. The application consumes a Bulk Data Extract API that is connected to a database containing meter readings from a citywide fixed-network type Automated Meter Infrastructure (AMI) system. My role was to implement the water module of the web application. The module consisted of keeping track of the average water usage of all DEP customers and visualize that data with graphs and charts on a user interface by consuming the Bulk Data Extract API that DEP makes available to the public.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in all phases of SDLC (Software Development Life Cycle) including Gathering Data, UI Design, Analysis of DEP's customer water usage, Development, and Deployment of the Application.  • Developed and consumed RESTful Web Services using Django and Angular  • Developed validations using Validation Form and Reactive Form from Angular 2 to achieve client side validation.  • Used Pipes from Angular 2 for filtering the data from server before displaying it in the UI.  • Visualized data using python libraries such as matplotlib, numpy and pandas  • Extracted data by consuming the Bulk Data Extract API with the Angular2 client side application.  • Managed the Web API using django models, views and admin interface.  • Used HTML5, CSS3 and Bootstrap to create a comfortable interface.  • Implemented Routing in Single Page Application using Angular Router Module.  • Designed and Developed SQL database structure with Django Framework using agile methodology  • Utilized JIRA to track bugs and interact with Quality Assurance.  • Excel and VBA to automate the gathering of data available only on excel format.  • Django Rest Framework for the creation of data endpoints not available on DEP's API  • Tested API integrity to ensure proper functionality using Postman.  • Used Git source control to manage project.  Environment: Django REST Framework (DRF), MongoDB, HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, Atom, Postman, Python Unittest, Excel VBA, Pycharm, Django, Angular2, Express, Git, Postman Angular JS, Full Stack Developer Amtrak - Washington, DC October 2016 to December 2017 The National Railroad Passenger Corporation, doing business as Amtrak, is a passenger railroad service that provides medium- and long-distance intercity service in the contiguous United States and to three Canadian cities. The goal of the project was to extend the functionality of the web application provided by Amtrak to allow users to plan ahead of time their schedules based on transit status. The application consumes the Amtrak Real-Time Data Feeds to be able to present to customers with bus schedules and railroad schedules. The application presents this data on a map with different alert warnings based on the status of the given train line or bus line. My role on this project was to maintain and add new features to this application such as creating new API endpoints using NodeJS and adding new client side features by consuming the API with AngularJS. Examples of the functionality of this web application are: ability to search bus and train stations to get details of delays in an interactive UI that follows User Experience principles to allow Amtrak's transit customers to get the information they need without much hassle.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in the various phases of the SDLC such as Requirements gathering, Analysis, Design, and implementation of the project.  • Designed and implemented application using AngularJS, HTML5, Bootstrap, CSS3, Node JS, Express JS and MongoDB.  • Responsible for creating interactive user interface with Bootstrap and HTML5.  • Utilized the AngularJS directives, factory, service and filters. Created custom directives to reuse them across the controller.  • Developed client side validation using Angular JS form validation.  • Used Angular JS ngRoute and $routeProvider to create single page applications.  • Responsible in creating API's using Node JS, Express JS and consumed in the front end using Angular JS built in service $http.  • Used Mongoose as Object relational mapping for developing Model Schema and Database design.  • Used Git source control to manage project.  • Involved in debugging the applications monitored on JIRA using agile methodology.  Environment: AngularJS, HTML5, Bootstrap, CSS3, Node JS, Express JS, MongoDB, Bootstrap, Mongoose, JIRA, Git Python Django Developer Comcast - Philadelphia, PA May 2014 to September 2016 Comcast Corporation is an American global telecommunications conglomerate headquartered in Philadelphia and Pennsylvania. The project was to create and manage an internal content management and file sharing service for the different comcast branches to upload their data in order for that data to be cleaned and presented in an interface. The main purpose of the interface was to display data for upper management to see during the last phase in their DSS (Decision Support System). My role in this project was to maintain and add new features to the interface UI which was already built using Django. Some of the data shared by the different Comcast branches was only available by their API so I was also responsible of consuming that API to present the data accordingly on the UI. Some available features and functionality on this application are: drag and drop files, ability to edit, delete and create new files on the application. Ability to share between internal Comcast branches and the ability to display clean presentable data on graphs, tables, and charts.    Responsibilities:  • Responsible for creating well-designed UI screens with Django templates using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript.  • Used JavaScript for client side validation using Regular Expressions.  • Created entire application using Python, Django Framework and MySQL Database  • Used Python and Django to interface with the JavaScript UI and manage the storage and deletion of content.  • Developed a RESTful web services using Python and Django to retrieve and save data  • Used interaction and data presentation pages developed with HTML, CSS and JavaScript  • Developed and tested features for UI dashboard using Python, HTML, Bootstrap and JavaScript  • Managed relational database applications with UI designing services and Django Framework  • Worked with various team members for necessary performance upgrades to client and server software  • Worked with other developers and project team during design and development phase to ensure built for testability.  • Worked on JIRA tools for issue tracking, reporting versions, epics, sprints etc.  • Used GitHub version control system to collaborate with team members.  • Worked on Deployment of web application using AWS server  Environment: Python, Django, MySQL, REST, HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, JavaScript, JQuery, JSON, Eclipse, GitHub, git, jira, postman, JavaScript. Python Django Developer MetroHealth - Cleveland, OH February 2013 to April 2014 The MetroHealth System is one of the biggest, most complete social insurance suppliers in Northeast Ohio, serving the medicinal needs of the Greater Cleveland community for about 170 years. A web-based interface is displayed, which permits the doctors to give proficient, successful care to patients influenced with incessant illnesses. Furthermore, gives a health data administration programming which computerized basic capacities, including report imaging and administration, doctor inquiry, diagram examination and finishing, discharge data, electronic medical record and so forth. I worked on doctor inquiry module which provides a schedule and appointment reminder that helps doctors to schedule appointments with their patients and send appointment reminders to reduce no-shows. There is also a built-in messaging feature which allows doctors to communicate with their billers, patients and employees.    Responsibilities:  • Created and designed responsive web pages with Django framework and Django Templates.  • Developed user interface using, CSS, HTML, JavaScript, and JQuery.  • Used Git source control to track project development.  • Assisted in the Advisor Portal application development using Django Web Framework and JavaScript.  • Designed and wrote server-side web application logic, developed back end templates and components to connect with third party applications using Django web framework.  • Connected the database and the application server by using the Django Web Framework ORM.  • Created a RESTful API server with Django REST API framework.  • Developed Advisor Portal front end using ReactJS, HTML5, and Bootstrap.  • Managed SQL database with Django Framework ORM.  Environment: Django REST Framework (DRF), PyMongo, MongoDB, Python Pandas, HTML5, CSS3, BootStrap, Atom, Postman, Python Unittest, Pycharm. Education Bachelor of Technology in Technology New York City College of Technology Skills HTML5 (5 years), DJANGO (4 years), PYTHON (4 years), REST (4 years), JAVASCRIPT (3 years) Additional Information SKILLS & INTERESTS:    Programming Languages Python, JavaScript, VBA, CSS3, HTML5, Java, C++, Rust, Golang  Databases MySQL, MongoDB, Oracle, PostgreSQL, SQLite  Web Developments Node.JS, Express.JS, Django REST Framework  Frameworks Django, Flask, AngularJS, Angular 2+, Express.JS, Django REST Framework  Libraries  jQuery, Beautiful Soup, Numpy, OpenCV, scikit-learn, MongooseJS, sqlalchemy, Request, Scrapy, Tkinter, Twisted, matplotlib, scipy, threading, unittest.    Tools  Pycharm, Atom, MySQL WorkBench, MongoDB Compass, Postman, Github Desktop, CLI, Eclipse IDE, Sublime Text, Microsoft Visual Studio, Webstorm.    Servers Apache HTTP, Amazon Web Services, Microsoft Azure, Microsoft Windows Server