Sr Python Developer Sr <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr Python Developer - Berkshire Hathaway Boston, MA 8+ years of Involvement in outlining, executing and testing full scale UI web application with Python as the center level crosswise over stages like Financial, e-commerce, Insurance and retail.  • Experienced in creating and refreshing a site page utilizing AngularJS, React JS, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript and jQuery crosswise over different programs and consequently accomplishing cross program similarity.  • Able to create scripts for system administration and AWS using languages such as BASH and Python.  • Experience in developing web applications and implementing MVC architecture using Django web application frameworks.  • Having experience in Agile Methodologies, Scrum stories and sprints experience in a Python based environment, along with data analytics, data wrangling and Excel data extracts.  • Experience in Infrastructure Development and Operations involving AWS Cloud platforms.  • Experience in project deployment using Jenkins and worked on Jenkins for continuous integration.  • Automated the process of launching and stopping/terminating EC2 instances on Amazon AWS.  • Used Python fabric for AWS instance provisioning.  • Experienced with build automation tools like Ant.  • Experience in designing frontend layouts on the web using HTML5, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery and Bootstrap.  • Experience in MVC frameworks like AngularJS and jQuery.  • Proven ability to analyze and understand complex systems, take them apart and put them back together again, only better, and with fewer lines of code.  • Expertise in Object-Oriented design and coding. Good knowledge of various Design Patterns and UML.  • Worked on several python packages like NumPy.  • Worked on several libraries such as Unit Test, JSON, CSV, and XML.  • Experience in Database optimization and developing stored procedures such as Triggers, Cursors, Joins, Views and SQL for various databases like MySQL, Oracle.  • Exceptional skills in Agile and Test Driven Development.  • Hands on experience in SVN, Git, GITHUB, JIRA, CVS, Perforce, Jenkins.  • Experienced in working with various Python Integrated Development Environments like Pycharm, PyStudio, and Sublime Text.  • Good Experience in Linux Bash shell scripting and following PEP Guidelines in Python.  • Designed REST/HTTP APIs, including JSON data formats and API versioning strategy.  • Proficient in developing Web Services (SOAP, RESTful) in Python using XML, JSON.  • Proficient in using Python HTTP APIs like Requests.  • Work experience for protocols in layer2 and up in the OSI stack including TCP/IP protocol stack, routing/switching algorithms.  • Experience in implementing and working on the python code using shell scripting. Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes.  • Experienced in various types of testing such as Unit testing, Integration testing, User acceptance testing and Functional testing.  • Experience in Open Stack APIs and Socket Programming.  • Experience in using UNIX shell Scripts for automating batch programs.  • Experience in programming and management in LINUX and UNIX environments.  • Responsible for debugging the project monitored on JIRA (Agile)  • Wrote Python scripts to parse JSON documents and load the data in database.  • Used Python and Django to interface with the jQuery UI and manage the storage and deletion of content.  • Created the front end of the app using Angular JS.  • Implemented migration tasks from Oracle apps to PostgreSQL databases.  • Responsible for writing/modifying scripts using sh, ksh, and Bash for day-to-day administration  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django including Tastypie Web Framework using Git.  • Created database using MySQL, wrote several queries to extract data from database.  • Setup automated cron jobs to upload data into database, generate graphs, bar charts, and upload these chartsto wiki and backup the database.  • Developed Merge jobs in Python to extract and load data into MySQL database.  • Successfully migrated the Django database from SQLite to MySQL to PostgreSQL with complete data integrity.  • Dynamic implementation of SQL server work on website using SQL developer tool.  • Designed front end using UI, HTML, Bootstrap, Node JS, underscore JS, Angular JS, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Followed AGILE development methodology to develop the application.  • Designed, developed and maintained PostgreSQL database architecture  • Used and customized apache server to for checking our developed project.  • Used Test driven approach (TDD) for developing services required for the application.  • Implemented Integration test cases  • Used Git to resolve and coding the work on python and portlets. Work Experience Sr Python Developer Berkshire Hathaway - Dallas, TX April 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Involved in all the phases of SDLC and responsible for object-orientated analysis/object-orientated design and also worked closely with the business analyst's in gathering, understanding and implementing the requirements.  • Elaborated use cases, interface definitions and services specifications in collaboration with Business and System Analysts.  • Worked on Agile development methodology and built the application with Test Driven Development (TDD)  • Implemented REST APIs using Python and Django framework.  • Developed web-based applications using Python, Django, XML, CSS, HTML, JavaScript, AngularJS and jQuery.  • Worked on server side applications with Django using Python programming.  • Worked at optimizing volumes and EC2 instances and created multiple VPC instances.  • Utilized Amazon Glacier for archiving data.  • Automated Regular AWS tasks like snapshots creation using python scripts.  • Implemented presentation layer using CSS framework, AngularJS and HTML5.  • Responsible for setting up AngularJS framework for UI development.  • Developed frontend of application using Bootstrap (Model, View, Controller), Angular.js framework.  • Worked on WAMP (Windows, Apache, MYSQL, and Python/PHP) and LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, Python /PHP) Architecture.  • Worked on Python Openstack APIs and used NumPy for Numerical analysis.  • Developed Wrapper in Python for instantiating multi-threaded application.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to created user-friendly website interface.  • Used JIRA for bug tracking and issue tracking.  • Developed the project in Linux environment.  • Work concentrated on TCP/IP stack and PPP protocol for establishing data connection with the network.  • Used Agile Methodology and SCRUM Process.  • Maintained the versions using GIT and sending the release notes for each release.  • Designed the database schema for the content management system.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Involved in development of Web Services using SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface in the XML format.  • Used PHP to write dynamically generated pages quickly.  • Experienced Python on LINUX for execution.  • Wrote Python routines to log into the websites and fetch data for selected options.  • Performed testing using Django's Test Module.  • Web pages on the internet are generated by servers running LINUX.  • Worked on middle tier and persistence layer. Created service and model layer classes and Value objects/POJO to hold values between java classes and database fields.  • Exported/Imported data between different data sources using SQL Server Management Studio. Maintained program libraries, users' manuals and technical documentation.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  • Worked PHP as a server side scripting language, for web pages.  • Successfully migrated all the data to the database while the site was in production.  • Implemented the validation, error handling and caching framework with Oracle Coherence cache.  • Worked on scripts for setting up the discovery client with attribute data.  • Worked on scripts (granite reference data scripts) for setting up adapter attributes in granite system.  • Used ReactJS to create responsive Design so that the website is compatible with different Devices like Desktops, Laptops, Tablets and Smartphones.  Environment: Python, Django, AWS, AngularJS, Bootstrap, Javascript, jQuery, JSON, HTML5, CSS3, MySQL, Linux, Ajax, Git, XML, MySQL, JavaScript, Backbone JS, JQuery, Mongo DB, MySQL, JavaScript, Git, GitHub, AWS, Linux, Shell Scripting, AJAX, JAVA, PHP. Sr Python Developer Fujitsu Computer Systems (FCS) - New York, NY October 2015 to March 2017 Responsibilities:  • Worked on variety of Frontend JavaScript frameworks like AngularJS, BackboneJS, ReactJS, Node.js, JQuery, JQuery UI and good knowledge in EmberJS.  • Performed data migration and developed Python / Django based web application, Postgre SQLDB, and integrations with 3rd party email, messaging, storage services.  • Python Object Oriented Design code for manufacturing quality, monitoring, logging, and debugging code optimization.  • Validated huge data and worked on python backend scripting.  • Automated the developed web application/portal and developed Python Automation Scripts using Selenium IDE.  • Involved in validating the Web Services related to Customer, Account and Transaction Management using the RESTful UI.  • Create shared Object repository, Selenium Library Function, saved all components functions in Library Functions in Selenium library.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Used AWS for application deployment and configuration.  • Designed the front end of the application using Python, HTML, CSS, AJAX, JSON and JQuery. Worked on backend of the application, mainly using Active Records.  • Performed debugging and troubleshooting the web applications using Subversion version control tool to coordinate team-development.  • Created Python scripts to validate based on the keyword-driven testing, test cases.  • Developed for fully automated continuous integration system using Python and Bash scripting.  • Part of Core team implementing API design and Development in integrating different components.  • Developed libraries implementing business logic related to client/patient profile data and search features.  • Provided production support for issues related to backend services as well as UI related issues.  • Experience with bug-tracking through JIRA, source code management and team collaboration software such as GIT, SVN etc.  • Construct EDIFACT and XML request/response messages and routing to back ends. Making use of EDIFACT viewer and XML spy to read data formats.  • Involved in designing and implementation of multiple Subscriptions related ETL projects and creating various Business Objects/Tableau reports.  • Used data structures like directories, tuples, object oriented class based inheritance features for making complex algorithms of networks.  • Responsible for system debugging in UAT, performance improvement for customer issues and field trials. Solved numerous customer issues.  • Developed UNIX shell scripts for batch jobs as well as testing the application.  • Worked on Continuous Integration of Centralized equipment system, which is primarily responsible for design components for using Python.  • Worked in MySQL and NoSQL database on simple queries and writing Stored Procedures for normalization and renormalization.  • Developed different map in edikit for difference message format i.e. EDIFACT, TXNF and ANSI.  • Experience with Unit testing/ Test driven Development (TDD), Load Testing.  • Involved in full Cycle of Software Development from Analysis through Design, Development, Integration and testing phases and followed Agile Software Development with Scrum methodology.  • Used TDD approach in developing and assisted in designing and testing of activities for all BRMS rules.  • Developed front end GUI using JSP, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Angular JS, jQuery, Ajax and enforced the look and feel standards using the style sheets, common headers, footers & menus, and web page templates using Apache Tiles.  • Worked on Angular JS MVC framework for developing the Single Page Application and created some custom directives like ng-date picker.  • Wrote client-side UI Validation and implemented Business logic based on user selection using jQuery, jQuery UI and AngularJS.  • Creating restful web services for Catalog and Pricing with MySQL, NoSQL and Mongo DB  • Architected services to align with business objectives and fit into overall SOA driven program and created Composite Applications, components and Adapters by using Oracle SOA technology.  • Created and maintained process development by defining user stories and maintaining them on JIRA software.  • Experience working on Distributed version control system i.e. Git.  • Developed build and deployment scripts using Maven and automated the deployment process using Jenkins.  • Developed automation test cases using Java and Selenium Web driver on Eclipse and executed scripts on different browser and different platform.  • Implemented discretization, binning, & data wrangling used to clean, transform, merge, and reshape data frames as well as upgraded two web applications from Django 0.9x to Django 1.x.  • Built Python scripts to identify and correct erroneous data in PostgreSQL database using clustering, regression, and statistics.  • Involved in development of Web Services using SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface in the XML format.  • Writing end-to-end flow i.e. controllers classes, service classes, DAOs classes as per the Spring MVC design and writing business logics using core java API and data structures  • Expert in writing Python modules to extract/load asset data from the MySQL source database. Wrote and executed various MySQL database queries from Python-MySQL connector and MySQL database package.  Environment: Python, Django, HTML5, CSS, Bootstrap, JavaScript, JQuery, JSP, UNIX, MVC architecture, AWS EC2, GitHub, Chef, JSON, XML, MYSQL, SQL, PLSQL, Heroku, Restful API, Rspec, Cucumber, Amazon AWS S3, MySQL, HTML, XML, Linux, Shell Scripting, PHP, AJAX, Cassandra. Sr Python Developer The Kroger Co - Washington, DC October 2014 to September 2015 Responsibilities:    • Developed GUI screens for XTT & LD application using JSP, HTML and CSS.  • Involved in Developing a RESTful Webservices using Python Django framework.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework with GIT.  • Designed and managed API system deployment using fast http server and Amazon AWS architecture.  • Perform Jenkins administration, updating plugins, setting up new projects and debugging build problems.  • Used ANT, Puppet/ Chef Scripts with Ivy to build the application and deploy.  • Used Chef and AWS allowed me to reduce costs for the department and eliminate unwarranted resources.  • Automated provisioning of cloud infrastructure with Chef.  • Configured AWS Identity and Access Management (IAM) Groups and Users for improved login authentication.  • Conduct systems design, feasibility and cost studies and recommend cost-effective cloud solutions such as Amazon Web Services (AWS)  • Updated and managed SharePoint site for each CCAR cycle that is utilized for CCAR communication, storage of key CCAR files including business models, and automatic audit trail that is sent to internal audit team.  • Develop Interactive front end to visualize data from backend and represent in graphical manner to batter understanding for user.  • Hand coded HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, and other UI technologies.  • Developed web applications using Django/ Python, .NET/C#, Flask/ Python, and Node.js, Angular.js, ember.js, jQuery, Ajax while using HTML/CSS/JS for server-side rendered application.  • Developed web-based open stack applications using Python and Django for Bigdata analysis and also using PySpark.  • Test-Driven Development approach was used and Developed Merge jobs in Python to extract and load data into MySQL database.  • Worked on SQL Server Integration Services (SSIS) and SQL Lite.  • Successfully migrated the Django database from SQLite to MySQL to PostgreSQL with complete data integrity.  • Initiated one-on-one interview and JAD Session to gather Business Requirements from institutional clients regarding their need of indexes and their portfolio weights on synthetic securities and options.  • Worked on report writing using SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS) and in creating various types of reports like table, matrix, and chart report, web reporting by customizing URL Access.  • Provided high-level technical support and administration for GIS-based routing software.  • Ensured data integrity, performing extensive quality control checks of GIS data and non-spatial databases  • Frontend web development using HTML/CSS, JQuery, Bootstrap as well as back-end development using Golang and SQL.  • Designed and tightly integrated Flash into the CMS with the use of Flashvars stored in the Django models. Also created XML with Django to be used by the Flash.  • Used Test driven approach for developing the application and Implemented the unit tests using Python Unit test framework.  • Responsible for all Public (AWS) and Private (OpenStack/VMWare/DCOS/Mesos/Marathon) cloud infrastructure.  • Supported development team with deployment workflow and continuous integration using GitLab, GitLab CI, Rundeck, Docker and SaltStack provisioning.  • Evaluated and tuned data model by running endurance tests using JMeter, Cassandra Stress Tool and OpsCenter.  • Wrote bash shell scripts on local setups to automate jobs  • Designed frontend using UI, HTML, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Involved in the Complete Software development life cycle (SDLC) to develop the application.  • Develop Interactive front end to visualize data from backend and represent in graphical manner to batter understanding for user.  • Involved in hand-coding HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, and other UI technologies.  • Involved in web application development using Django/ Python, Flask/ Python, jQuery, Ajax while using HTML/CSS/JS for server-side rendered application.  • Developed the entire project using PostgreSQL. Migrating from other databases to PostgreSQL.  • Developed web-based open stack applications using Python and Django for large dataset analysis  • Developed Merge jobs in Python to extract and load data into MySQL database.  • Successfully migrated the Django database from SQLite to MySQL to PostgreSQL with complete data integrity.    Environment: Python, PyQt, .NET, PyQuery, MVW, HTML5, CSS3, DOM, Angular.js, Shell Scripting, JSON, Rest, Apache Spark Web Server, Selenium, Django, Celery, Flash, Docker, SQL, UNIX, Windows, PostgreSQL, SQL SSIS, Splunk, Hadoop, Python Libraries, PySpark, NumPy, SQL Alchemy, Android. Sr Java UI Developer Well Care - Reston, VA April 2013 to September 2014 Responsibilities:  • Designed email marketing campaigns and created interactive forms that saved data into database using Django Framework.  • Wrote Python routines to log into the websites and fetch data for selected options.  • Performed efficient delivery of code based on principles of Test Driven Development (TDD) and continuous integration to keep in line with Agile Software Methodology principles.  • Worked in Test driven development with Behave in Python.  • Developed Python Django forms to record data and the Login module page for users.  • Creating Behave scripts using Gherkin syntax.  • Used collections in Python for manipulating and looping through different your defined objects.  • Implemented a login module for user, registration of the products, placing the order and tracking the order.  • Improving the performance while processing data by modifying functions, queries, cursors, triggers and stored procedures for MySQL database.  • Worked on Unit testing, Integration testing and Web application testing.  • Code review using GitHub, testing, fixing of the bugs and coding modifications.  • Performed research to explore and identify new technological platforms.  • Developed API modularizing existing python module with the help of pyYAML libraries.  • Improved performance by using more modularized approach and using more in built methods.  • Collaborated with internal teams to convert end user feedback into meaningful and improved solutions.  • Performed data manipulation/storage for incoming test data using lxml /etree libraries.  • Embedded AJAX in UI to update small portions of the web page avoiding the need to reload the entire page.  • Wrote unit test cases for testing tools.  • Enhanced existing automated solutions, such as the Inquiry Tool for automated Asset Department reporting and added new features and fixed bugs.  • Developed views and templates with python3.6.1 and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Used Amazon Web Services (AWS) for improved efficiency of storage and fast access.  • Added support for Amazon AWS S3 and RDS to host static/media files and the database into Amazon Cloud.  • Participated in the complete SDLC process and used PHP to develop website functionality.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS, BIG DATA and JavaScript.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using pythonon Django Web Framework.  • Designed and developed Use-Case, Class and Object Diagrams using UML Rational Rose for Object Oriented Analysis/Object Oriented Design techniques.  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL. Built application logic using python.  • Used Django APIs for database access.  • Provided GUI utilizing PyQt for the end user to create, modify and view reports based on client data.  • Angular.js is used to build efficient backend for client web application.  • Used pythonto extract information from XML files.  • Expertise in Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) and its related technologies like Web Services, BPEL, WSDLs, SOAP, XML, XSD, XSLT etc.  • Participated in requirement gathering and worked closely with the architect in designing and modeling.  • Worked on development of SQL and stored procedures on MYSQL.  • Implemented monitoring and established best practices around using elastic search.  • Effectively communicated with the external vendors to resolve queries.  • Used GIT for the version control.  • Developed shopping cart for Library and integrated web services to access the payment (E-commerce)  • Designed and developed a horizontally scalable APIs using python Flask.  • Designed Cassandra schema for the APIs.  Environment: Python, Django, Behave, Puppet Rspec, Jenkins, Grafana/Graphite, MySQL, Linux, HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, JQuery, JavaScript, Apache, Linux, Git, Perl, Cassandra, Azure Automation cloud services. Lead UI Developer Huntington - Columbus, OH May 2011 to March 2013 Responsibilities:  • Involved in User sessions, gathering requirements and developing a web application using agile methodology.  • Analyzed, designed and developed the system to meet the requirements of business users.  Participated in the design review of the application to come up with UI and provide best possible recommendations for the application from UI standpoint.  • Extensively involved in front end screens using Java, HTML5, DHTML, JavaScript, JQuery, JSON, node.js, CSS and Ajax.  • Implemented In-Life Application to support Tech Mobile App it is a web app that will pull tickets from TechXcel and update the ticket appropriately.  • Developed HTML prototypes and UI/UX deliverables, such as wireframes, flowcharts, screen mockups, and interface design specifications  • Everything was designed to fit into the tiny screen on iPhone or iPod/iPad so it is really easy to read and understand. That helps to Create TechXcel.  • Developed all the UI pages using extensive markup and scripting languages (HTML, DHTML, JavaScript and CSS)  • Implemented XML parsing and JSON parsing for data handling on different application.  • Extensively used jQuery core library functions for the logical implementation part at client side for all the application.  • For Responsive Web design used Bootstrap to build grids, layouts and components. Used Bootstrap components like dropdown menus, navigation bar, alerts, and labels.  • Created Utility API's for AJAX calls using JavaScript XMLHTTP Objects.  • Used AJAX for implementing dynamic Webpages where the content was fetched via API calls and updated the DOM (JSON Parsing)  • Good in developing Dynamic JQuery grids and Call Web Services from the study design using MVC Framework.  Environment HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, JSP, Bootstrap, AJAX, JSON, XML, MYSQL, SVN, Sublime Text2, Adobe Photoshop, M.S Windows's 7/Vista/XP, UNIX, LINUX. Java Developer TriNet - Dallas, TX November 2009 to April 2011 Responsibilities:  • Involved in deploying systems on Amazon Web Services Infrastructure services EC2, S3.  • Analyzed business requirements, participated in technical design, development and testing of various modules assigned.  • Worked on Design, UI, wire-framing, HTML, CSS, jQuery, JSP, accessibility, and optimization.  • Translated designs and style guides into functional user interfaces, ensuring cross browser compatibility, performance and robustness.  • Utilized various jQuery plugins to build Rich Internet Application (RIA) to make it look more intuitive.  • Worked with full UI control of HTML/CSS, maintaining code and cleanliness.  • Created some prototype to implement some of the latest features of HTML and CSS.  • Worked with back end developers to implement AJAX and dynamic HTML functionality in jQuery.  • Maximized page load by analyzing content and making adjustments to the code (by following optimization standards)  • Worked with complete redesigns of a daily events website and focused on improving readability, utility, and overall UX.  • Worked closely with QA team to understand the reported defects and fix them.  Environment: jQuery, XML, JSP, JavaScript, HTML, CSS, AJAX, Image Optimizer, Eclipse, Windows XP. Education Master's