Oracle EBS / PL SQL Developer Oracle EBS / PL SQL <span class="hl">Developer</span> Oracle EBS / PL SQL Developer - CVS Health Chicago, IL ? Software Engineer with around 8 years of experience: as a Full Stack Python Django / MEAN Stack Developer in all phases of web applications development lifecycle and 4 years of programming experience as Oracle EBS and PL/SQL Developer.  ? Expertise knowledge in building web applications using MVC framework Python Django for data processing, MySQL / PostgreSQL for the database, and HTML/CSS/JavaScript for data visualization of the served pages.  ? Strong Python knowledge, extensive experience with back-end databases, proficiency in developing database schemas (Oracle, PostGreSQL, MS SQL Server, MySQL, MongoDB, Neo4J).  ? Experienced in the development of Single Page Applications (SPA) using Front End/User Interface (UI) Technologies like JavaScript, TypeScript, Angular 2+, Node.js, Express.js, Bootstrap, HTML, CSS.  ? Experience in building RESTful APIs with Django Rest Framework and Express Node.js. and MEAN stack applications using MongoDB, Express.JS, Angular 2+, Node.JS.  ? Good experience in working with Amazon Web Services like EC2, Virtual private clouds (VPCs), Storage models (EBS, S3, instance storage), Elastic Load Balancers (ELBs).  ? Hands-on experience in Bash Shell Scripting and deployment and maintenance of Apache Web Server, MySQL, PosgreSQL and MongoDB on AWS Ubuntu Plain Server and Bitnami Launchpad.  ? Deep understanding of Object Oriented concepts (in Java and Python), principles of highly flexible reusable code, Data Structures, Algorithms, Time and Space Complexity.  ? Developed PL/SQL packages, procedures, functions, tables, views, materialized views, schemas, triggers, indexes and collections to implement customers' business logic.  ? Designed and developed application components following Agile development methodology, implemented Unit Test of Angular Web applications with Karma-Jasmine, used the version control tools like Git, CVS, SVN.  ? Good Knowledge in implementation of the following Machine Learning Algorithms: Confusion Matrix, Linear models, Naive Bayes for Spam Classifier, K-Nearest Neighbors. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Oracle EBS / PL SQL Developer CVS Health - Buffalo Grove, IL August 2018 to Present Description: Teva Pharmaceutical Industries. It specializes primarily in generic drugs, but other business interests include active pharmaceutical ingredients and, to a lesser extent,proprietary pharmaceuticals. It is the largest generic drug manufacturer in the world and one of the 15 largest pharmaceutical companies worldwide.    A few projects I worked on for Teva include:  A program to manage Siebel CRM development files saved in SVN subversion control system:  ? Developed a patch program for SVN subversion control system to automatically check in XML development files from Siebel IDE and to save developer's revision comments.  ? Implemented DOM Parsing of Siebel XML files using Core Java in Netbeans.  ? Built backend using core Java and Oracle 11g as a database.  ? Designed and developed GUI front end using Java SE with NetBeans IDE.  ? Prevented uploading checked out files with no updates, saving traffic and running time.  Environment: Java, PL/SQL, DOM Parser, NetBeans GUI builder.    Implementation and support of Oracle EBS ERP System:  ? Developed in-interfaces from Warehouse Systems staging tables to Oracle EBS Planning ASCP module using PL SQL, ETL, APIs, SQL Loader.  ? Improved the performance of the application by rewriting SQL queries using materialized views and indexes.  ? Developed out-interfaces from Oracle Apps OM / IM modules to Warehouse Systems using PL SQL.  ? Created reports in Oracle Report Builder / XML Publisher.  ? Developed PL/SQL packages, procedures, functions, tables, views, materialized views, schemas, triggers, indexes and collections to implement company's customers' business logic.    Implementation of Planisware EPPM system:  ? Developed interfaces between staging tables in Microsoft SQL Server 2008 and Oracle 11g database using PL/SQL, Microsoft T-SQL, Oracle JDeveloper BPEL and designed reports with HTML / CSS.  ? Designed and built data migration programs using Java, PL/SQL, UC4, BPEL to import data to the implemented system. Python Django, Angular Full-Stack Developer Lab Corp - Secaucus, NJ July 2016 to August 2018 Description: LabCorp is in-network for all major national plans, as a preferred national in-network provider of laboratory services for all commercial and Medicare Aetna members and continuing as a national, in-network clinical laboratory provider for all UnitedHealthcare members. With LabCorp Patient Web System, patients can schedule appointments for specimen collection and to get confirmation with appointment and location details, access test results online, view and pay lab bills, register into the system upon arrival and to get updates, manage health information for dependents and manage profile preferences. My role was to develop a front-end application using Angular and to build backend with Python Django and Express Node.js, to implement RESTful APIs with Django Rest Framework.  Responsibilities:  ? Involved in the complete Software Development Life Cycle: requirement analysis, design, development, testing and maintenance following Agile environment utilizing a test driven development approach.  ? Implemented MVC architecture and built back-end for Web Applications with Python Django Framework and PostgreSQL Database.  ? Developed front-end web clients and components to consume the API using Angular 2+, HTML5, CSS/Bootstrap.  ? Implemented RESTful APIs using HTTP protocols using Python Django Framework with PostgreSQL Workbench.  ? Built backend for web application using Express.js, Node.js, MongoDB and Mongoose library for server-side data retrieval.  ? Implemented Angular Components , Services (observable and promises), Angular Routing, Directives and Pipes using TypeScript.  ? Worked extensively with CSS3 media queries and Bootstrap while working on responsive web design.  ? Tested RESTful APIs using Postman and Robo 3T and carried out unit testing of Angular 2+ application with Jasmine & Karma Framework.  ? Implemented Unittest Python module for automated testing to validate Django test-execution framework and assorted utilities, extended built-in Django User Authentication Model.  ? Worked with Jira to manage development phases tasks following Agile Project Management Methodology, used Git as a version control tool.  ? Involved in deployment and launching of a web application to Apache Web Server on AWS Bitnami Launchpad.    Environment: Python Django, Angular2, Express.JS, Node.JS, MongoDB, PostgreSQL, AWS Bitnami, CVS, HTML5, CSS3, Visual Studio TypeScript, Mongoose, Postman, Robo 3T Python Django Backend Web Developer El Al - New York, NY June 2012 to July 2016 Description: the company implemented a payroll system. I was a Backend Django Developer on the project of implementation of a web system to manage shifts schedule for corporate employers and attendance. The main objective of this project was to help employers manage personal information, to register for weekly shifts, to trade shifts, to register day-offs and seek-leave days, to calculate overtime. The application provides an efficient means to analyses, request and record overtime hours, enabling managers to quickly assign employees to shifts weekly based on: preferences, sick leaves, days off and roles' certifications. Project Go-live was split into two phases: Phase 1 - implementation of employer shifts management and overtime system, Phase 2 - implementation of interfaces with ERP Payroll Module.  Responsibilities:  ? Involved in Software Development Life Cycle for requirements analysis, development, testing, deployment and maintenance.  ? Developed web applications using Django Web Framework and defined the underlying database structure using Django's ORM for MySQL and MongoDB.  ? Designed and implemented in and out interfaces with a Payroll ERP module APIs.  ? Implemented User Login, Authorization and Authentication extending built in Django Administration.  ? Created responsive web design with HTML, CSS and Bootstrap.  ? Developed back-end RESTful API using Python Django Framework for server-side data retrieval.  ? Deployed development, clone and test environments on AWS Bitnami and launched a production environment on AWS Ubuntu Plain Server.  ? Implemented a scalable API using AWS Gateway, S3, Lambda, used Amazon Elastic Beanstalk to deploy project into AWS.  ? Built accounting system using Django Framework and MySQL, implemented data migration programs between Oracle and MySQL databases.  ? Wrote and executed MySQL database queries from python using Python - MySQL connector and MySQLdb package.  ? Tested RESTful APIs with Robo 3T, Postman, carried out unit testing with Python Unittest module.  Environment: HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Bootstrap, JSON, XML, Django, MySQL Workbench, MongoDB, AWS Bitnami, AWS Ubuntu Plain Server Education Bachelor's in Computer Science City University of New York, Brooklyn College - Brooklyn, NY August 2018 to Present Skills VISUAL STUDIO, DJANGO, JAVASCRIPT, BOOTSTRAP, NODE.JS, Apex, PL SQL, DBA, PLSQL, PL-SQL