Sr. Python Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Python Developer - Gogo Aviations Broomfield, CO ? Having 8 years of experience as a Python Developer with deep understanding of technology trends with expertise in core of complex technologies. Solid experience in Analysis, Design and Development, Testing, Implementation, production support and maintenance of various Web Applications using Python, Django, Bottle framework.  ? Extensive experience in Requirement Analysis, Application Design & Development and profound knowledge on SDLC using agile and V-model.  ? Experienced in working with various Python IDE's using PyCharm, PyScripter, Spyder, PyStudio and PyDev and Bottle framework.  ? Experienced in developing Web-based Applications using Python, CSS, HTML, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, AJAX, J2EE, jQuery, JSON, jQuery UI, XML, Angular JS and jQuery also involving Beautiful Soap, Numpy, Scipy, Matplotlib, python-twitter, Pandas Dataframe, urlib2 libraries.  ? Experienced in developing Web Services with Python programming language and good knowledge of Web Services with protocols SOAP, REST.  ? Experience in using third party tools like Telerik, DevExpress and kendo Controls and worked containerizing applications using Docker and Vagrant and familiar with JSON based REST, SOAP, and Amazon Web Services.  ? Profiled python code for optimization and memory management and skilled experience in Python with using new tools and technical developments (Libraries Used: libraries- Beautiful Soup, Jasy, NumPy, Scipy, Matplotlib, Pickle, PySide, Pandas dataframe, Bottle framework, networkX, urllib2, Pychart, Highcharts) to drive improvements throughout entire SDLC.  ? Involved in Unit testing, Integration testing, User-Acceptance testing, and Functional testing and experienced in web applications development using, Flask / Python, Bottle framework, and Node.js, Angular.js, DOJO, jQuery while using HTML/CSS/JS for server-side rendered applications also involving Beautiful Soap, Numpy, Scipy, Matplotlib, python-twitter, Pandas Dataframe, urlib2 libraries.  ? Experienced in developing API services in Python/Tornado, NodeJS while leveraging AMQP and RabbitMQ for distributed architectures.  ? Expertise in developing web-based applications using libraries and frameworks like Bottle, Angular JS, Bootstrap, jQuery, Ruby on Rails, Knockout.js, Node Js, Backbone.js, React JS, D3 JS and Require JS.  ? Having experienced in Agile Methodologies, Scrum stories and sprints experience in a Python based environment, along with data analytics, data wrangling and Excel data extracts also involving Beautiful Soap, Numpy, Scipy, Matplotlib, python-twitter, Pandas Data frame, urlib2 libraries.  ? Experience in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on MySQL and PostgreSQL database  ? Extensive use of Object Oriented design methodology and Agile in software development and experience in Building web applications using Kendo UI widgets, jQuery, Angular JS.  ? Experience object-oriented programming (OOP) concepts using Python, C++ and PHP and expertise in NoSQL technologies like MongoDB, CouchDB Cassandra, Redis and relational databases like Oracle, SQLite, Postgre SQL and MySQL databases.  ? Experience on Web development using HTML 4/5, CSS/CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, Angularjs, AJAX, XML and JSON by following W3C standards also involving Beautiful Soap, Numpy, Scipy, Matplotlib, python-twitter, Pandas Dataframe, urlib2 libraries.  ? Extensive development experience in Java, Struts, JSPs, Servlets, taglibs, Hibernate, JDBC, HTML HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, AJAX, J2EE, jQuery, JSON, jQuery UI, XML, SQL, XML and JSON and developed J2EE applications on IDE's like Eclipse, PyCharm, My Eclipse, Google GWT, and Rational Application Developer.  ? Proficient in developing multithreaded web services using CherryPy &bottlePy framework andleveraging queuing architectures with RabbitMQ for scalability, performance and building also involving Beautiful Soap, Numpy, Scipy, Matplotlib, python-twitter, Pandas Dataframe, urlib2 libraries.  ? Knowledge in working with continuous deployment using Heroku and Jenkins and experienced on Cloud innovations including Infrastructure as a Service, Platform as a Service, and Software as a Service supplier (IaaS, PaaS, and SaaS).  ? Proficient in writing unit testing code using Unit Test/PyTest and integrating the test code with the build process worked on Python Testing frameworks like Bottle, zope, pytest, nose and Robot framework also involving Beautiful Soap, NumPy, SciPy, Matplotlib, python-twitter, Pandas Dataframe, urlib2 libraries.  ? Well versed with Agile with SCRUM, Waterfall Model and Test-driven development methodologies experienced in installing, configuring, modifying, testing and deploying applications with Apache.  ? Experience in working with different operating systems like LINUX, UNIX and WINDOWS and developed web applications and RESTful web services and APIs using Python Flask, Django and PHP also involving Beautiful Soap, NumPy, SciPy, Matplotlib, python-twitter, Pandas Data frame, urlib2 libraries. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Python Developer Gogo Aviations - Broomfield, CO September 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  ? Developed frontend and backend modules using Python on Django including Tastypie Web Framework using Git.  ? Developed Merge jobs in Python to extract and load data into MySQL database and Worked on MYSQL data lineage process to map source to target DB, table and column mappings using OO Python.  ? Successfully migrated the Django database from SQLite to MySQL to PostgreSQL with complete data integrity and Designed, developed and deployed CSV Parsing using the big data approach on AWS EC2.  ? Used Sqoop to import the data from RDBMS to Hadoop Distributed File System (HDFS) and later analysed the imported data using Hadoop Components and Created and maintained Technical documentation for launching HADOOP Clusters and for executing Hive queries and Pig Scripts.  ? Managed large datasets using Panda data frames and PostgreSQL.  ? Designed and developed data management system using postgreSQL.  ? Developed Ruby on Rails 3 web applications using MongoDB and back-ground processes using Resque and Redis and Worked on performance tuning of cluster using Cassandra Configuration file and JVM Parameters.  ? Established Postgresql databases for blog entries, created a client login portal using LinkedIn  authentication.  ? Expertise in React JS and working with React Flux architecture.  ? Designed SPA (Single page applications) in Flux architecture using React.js.  ? Comfortable working within the Django ORM, writing native SQL queries in PostgreSQL.  ? Using React Js, worked on applications for Bash terminal component to add Extensible commands and autocomplete in content writing.  ? Maintaining Tableau reports & analysis and work on enhancements to existing reports or creating new reports based on business needs and Performed Tableau type conversion functions when connected to relational data sources  ? Used Test driven approach for developing the application and Implemented the unit tests using Python Unit test framework and Development of Isomorphic ReactJS and Redux driven API client applications.  ? Developed Ruby/ Python scripts to monitor health of Mongo databases and perform ad-hoc backups using Mongo dump and Mongo restore.  ? Used integration tool: Drools rules engine that would accept JSON request via restful web services for providing a simple interface allowing anyone to capture new rules and logic defining the behavior of a system.  ? Created the Application using React.JS and Node.js libraries NPM, gulp directories to generate desired view and flux to root the URL's properly.  ? Implemented ELK stack on Hadoop cluster. Generated audit logs for Hbase, HDFS, Knox, Ambari, and other Hadoop.  ? Implemented a Continuous Delivery pipeline with Docker, Jenkins and GitHub and AWS AMI's and Worked on creating the Docker containers and Docker consoles for managing the application life cycle.  ? Wrote Python scripts to parse JSON documents and load the data in MongoDB.  ? Enhanced performance of application by developing a topology to cache resources using Gemfirefor SOA layer accessing database for saving/accessing financial information.  ? Implemented and executed code to perform CRUD operations on MongoDB using Pymongo module.  ? Published REST API's to fetch data from Elastic Search clusters for client-based applications to search patients and claims by multi-field indexes and Used Elastic Search for setting up the search cluster  ? Created MySQL queue using AWS SNS, SQS, and Golang (Go), to concurrently process SQL queries in the background and Built a Golang web server to host multiple tools so another has http access to them  ? Familiar with JSON based REST Web services and Amazon Web services (AWS) and Responsible for setting up Python REST API framework and spring frame work using DJANGO.  ? Dynamic implementation of SQL server work on website using SQL developer tool and Experience with continuous integration and automation using Jenkins and Implemented Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) using JMS for sending and receiving messages while creating web services.  ? Co-ordinated and solved issues with QA Team, who were using the utilities as their testing tool for Gemfire.  ? Created Intelligence Cubes in MicroStrategy to overcome performance issues related to Report Service Documents using high volume datasets  ? Develop applications that use MongoDB database, and pymongo.  ? Designed front end using UI, HTML, Bootstrap, Node JS, underscore JS, Angular JS CSS, and JavaScript and Strong Expertise in working with server-side technologies including databases, restful API and MVC design patterns.  ? Performed data analysis, feature selection, feature extraction using Apache Spark Machine Learning streaming libraries in Python and Creating data pipelines using Apache Spark, a big-data processing and computing framework.  ? Developed front-end using Html, CSS, Javascript, React, Redux, Bootstrap.  ? Developed new Widget-app module for MMD 2.0 using React.js with Redux architecture and ES6.  ? Implemented mapStateToProps, mapDispatchToProps for the interactions between Redux and React.  ? Developing applications using RESTFUL architecture using Node.js and PHP as backend languages and Used NumPy for Numerical analysis and Used Spring Framework to support the Hibernate tool and Struts.  ? Implemented a wide variety of statistical and graphical techniques, including linera and nonlinera modeling, classical statistical tests, time-series analysis, classification, clustering, and others using R and its libraries.  ? Involved in the Complete Software development life cycle (SDLC) to develop the application and Worked closely with software developers and DevOps to debug software and system problems.  ? Followed AGILE development methodology to develop the application and Used the GO Programming Language to refactor and redesign the legacy databases.    Environment: Python 3, Django, SQL, ZODB, MySQL, Sqlite3, git, Devops, PostgreSQL ,NoSQL,Yaml, MongoDB Golang, bitbucket, pdb, AWS, Jira, Jenkins, dockers, Pyspark, Rest, Virtual Machine, Ajax, jQuery, JavaScript, LINUX. Python Developer Infosys - Chicago, IL July 2015 to September 2017 Responsibilities:  ? Involved in integrating the GIT into the Puppet to ensure the integrity of applications by creating Production, Development, Test, and Release Branches.  ? To maintain the code using GIT version control and Cygwin for Linux commands.  ? Stored the data in the form of JSON structure-based documents, stored in a collection using MongoDB.  ? Designed and implemented Sandra NoSQL database read/write/search function. Worked on migrating data to Amazon AWS. Used AWS products like EC2, IAM, RDS, Log Monitor, Lambda, REST API Gateway etc.  ? Developed front end using Angular.js, React.JS, Node.js, bootstrap.js, backbone.js, JavaScript, where back end is java with REST webservice.  ? Used Amazon Web Services (AWS) for improved efficiency of storage and fast access.  ? Actively participated in requirement gathering sessions and capability planning for multi data center Cassandra cluster  ? Constructed powerful and modern frontend architecture, involving React, Redux, and ES6.  ? Worked in using React JS components, Forms, Events, Keys, Router, Animations and Flux concept.  ? Developed user interface by using the React JS, Flux for SPA development.  ? Developed and deployed corporate intranet platforms for data visualization and analytics using Python, Django, Django Rest Framework, PostgreSQL backend.  ? Development of Scripts for CICD using Virtual machines, Docker, python and Yaml.  ? Added support for Amazon AWS S3 and RDS to host static/media files and the database into Amazon Cloud.  ? Involved in front end and utilized Bootstrap and Angular.js for page design.  ? Organizing and configuring web application through YAML by creating and configuring app.yaml  ? Worked in DevOps group running Jenkins in a Docker container with EC2 slaves in Amazon AWS cloud configuration.  ? Managing Amazon Web Services (AWS) infrastructure with automation and configuration management tools such as uDeploy, Puppet or custom-built. Designing cloud-hosted solutions, specific AWS product suite experience.  ? Excellent experience with Python development under Linux OS (Debian/RedHat/AIX)  ? Experience with Linux command and bash shell scripting.  ? Worked on Amazon Web Services(AWS) infrastructure with automation and configuration management tools such as Chef and Puppet.  ? Created server monitoring daemon with Psutil, supported by Django app for analytics which I created. Also researched big data solutions with MongoDB database.  ? Search engine optimization by replacing existing database with MongoDB (NoSQL Database). Used Github for Python source code version control, Jenkins for automating the build Docker containers, and deploying in Mesos.  ? Working extensively on REST APIs, JSON, Microservices, CI/CD, Docker containers.  ? Worked in NoSQL database on simple queries and writing Stored Procedures for normalization and renormalization.  ? Build SQL, NOSQL queries implementing functions, packages, views, triggers, and tables  ? Followed AGILE development methodology to develop the application and Used the GO Programming Language to refactor and redesign the legacy databases.  ? Creating new MEAN / MERN stack React applications.  ? Create REST API's using DRF to be consumed by the frontend UI built on Angular JS  ? Creating restful web services for Catalog and Pricing with Django MVT, Jersey, MySQL, and MongoDB.  ? Utilized Celery to automate various tasks such as API calls.  ? Developed automated process for builds and deployments by using Jenkins, Ant, Maven, Shell Script.  ? Architected and developed Python and Django for the backend development and front-end application using React, Webpack, Redux, and ES6/7 and PostgreSQL for the database.  ? Managed datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL, queried MYSQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL dB package to retrieve information  ? Developed in Windows and going to deploy it in Linux server.  ? Conducted numerous enhancements for the system and bug-fixing tasks (C/C++, SQL scripts, UNIX Shell).  ? Python scripting with focus on Devops tools, CI/CD and AWS Cloud Architecture and hands-on Engineering.  ? Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks.  ? Successfully migrated the Django database from SQLite to MySQL to PostgreSQL with complete data integrity.  ? Performed coding in C++ on Linux Platform.  ? Developed a front-end application using React JS and FLUX architecture for internal team's productivity use.  ? Executed asynchronous tasks with help of Celery and Rabbit MQ.  ? Versatile with Version control systems including Git and SVN and Implemented RESTful API which returns data from PostgreSQL in JSON format  ? Done Job scheduling, batch-job scheduling and process control, forking and cloning of jobs and checking the status of the jobs using shell scripting.  ? Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks. Interfacing with supervisors, artists, systems administrators and production to ensure production deadlines are met.  ? Developed Business Logic using Python on Django Web Framework.  ? Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create.    Environment: Python 3, Django, SQL, ZODB, MySQL, Sqlite3, git, Devops, PostgreSQL, NoSQL,Yaml, MongoDB Golang, bitbucket, pdb, AWS, Jira, Jenkins, dockers, Pyspark, Rest, Virtual Machine, Ajax, jQuery, JavaScript, LINUX. Java Consultant Python - Atlanta, GA March 2013 to July 2015 Responsibilities:  ? Implemented user interface guidelines and standards throughout the development and maintenance of the website using the HTML, CSS, JavaScript and jQuery.  ? Developed GUI using Django and Python for dynamically displaying the test block documentation and other features with Python code for a web browser.  ? Implemented migration tasks from Oracle apps to PostgreSQL databases.  ? Used Amazon Web Services (AWS) for improved efficiency of storage and fast access.  ? Supported Amazon AWS S3 and RDS to host static/media files and the database into Amazon Cloud.  ? Used and Python Django to interface with the jQuery UI and manage the storage and deletion of content.  ? Wrote scripts to parse JSON documents and load the data in database.  ? Worked on front end frame works like CSS, Bootstrap for responsive webpages.  ? Used python libraries like Beautiful Soup and matplotlib.  ? Used Pandas for a data alignment and data manipulation.  ? Implemented monitoring and established best practices around using elastic search and Install and configuring monitoring scripts for AWS EC2 instances and AWS S3.  ? Developed front end using Angular.js, React.JS, Node.js, bootstrap.js, backbone.js, JavaScript, where back end is java with REST webservice.  ? Involved in the application development using Spring Core, MVC modules and Java web based technologies: such as, Servlets, JSP, Java Web Service (REST/SOAP based), WSDL.  ? Deployed and monitored scalable infrastructure on Amazon web services (AWS).  ? Designed and managed API system deployment using fast http server and Amazon AWSarchitecture and automated AWS S3 data upload / download using python scripts.  ? Having Knowledge on AWS Lambda, Auto scaling, Cloud Front, RDS, Route53, AWS SNS, SQS, SES.  ? Developing the Python automated scripting using Boto3 library for AWS Security audit and reporting using AWS Lambda for multiple AWS Accounts.  ? Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create user-friendly website interface.  ? Worked on Python OpenStack APIs and used NumPy for Numerical analysis.  ? Used Ajax and jQuery for transmitting JSON data objects between frontend and controllers.  ? Used Angular MVC and two-way data binding. Worked on automation scripts using Selenium in JAVA.  ? Designed, coded and tested key modules of the project using java oops concepts.  ? Install KAFKA on Hadoop cluster and configure producer and consumer coding part in java to establish connection from twitter source to HDFS with popular hash tags.  ? Developed Splunk infrastructure and related solution for application toolsets.  ? Helped team to on-board data, create various knowledge objects, Install and maintain the Splunk Apps.  ? Creating Application on Splunk to analyse the data.  ? Manage Splunk configurations files like input, props, transforms and lookups.  ? Configured Maven for Java automation projects and developed Maven Project Object Model (POM).  ? Setup automated cron jobs to upload data into database, generate graphs, bar charts, upload these chartsto wiki and backup the database.  ? Followed AGILE development methodology to develop the application.  ? Used core java concepts like Collections, Generics, Exception handling, IO, Concurrency to develop business logic.  ? Added several options to the application to choose particular algorithm for data and address generation.  ? Maintained the versions using GIT and sending the release notes for each release.  ? Supported the issues seen in the tool across all the teams for several projects.    Environment: Python 3.2, Django, HTML5/CSS, MS SQL Server 2013, MySQL, JavaScript, Eclipse, Linux, Shell Scripting, PyCharm, Urllib, jQuery, GitHub, Angular.JS, Jira Software Developer US Cellular, Inc - Chicago, IL May 2011 to March 2013 Responsibilities:  ? Involved in understanding the current business process, defining scope of the project along with position statement.  ? Re-engineered various modules for implementing changes and creating efficient system.  ? Developed dynamic web pages using python Django Frameworks.  ? Used Python and Django creating for XML processing, data exchange and business logic implementation.  ? Used python scripts to update content in the database and manipulate files.  ? Resolved issues and improvised the process to ensure a stable and accurate solution.  ? Generated Python Django Forms to record data of online users.  ? Python OO Design code for manufacturing quality, monitoring, logging, and debugging code optimization.  ? Writing Unit, Functional, and Integration test cases for Cloud Computing applications on AWS usingPython with boto library.  ? Held meetings with client and worked all alone for entire internal project with limited help from the client.  ? Worked on writing and as well as read data from csv and excel file formats.  ? Connected Flex from Backend Controller using different API services.  ? Working with the architect, developers on business and technical issues, helping in designing the system; and testers to ensure all requirements are correctly translated.  ? Expertise in writing Constraints, Indexes, Views, Stored Procedures, Cursors, Triggers, and User Defined function.  ? I have also used Selenium Library to write fully functioning test automation process that allowed the simulation of submitting different we request from multiple browser to web application.  ? Data mapping, logical data modeling, created class diagrams and ER diagrams and used SQL queries to filter data within the Oracle database.  Environment: Python, Django, Java, MySQL, XML, HTML, XHTML, CSS, AJAX, JSON, JavaScript, Apache Web Server, MYSQL Education Bachelor's