Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - Equifax Alpharetta, GA Work Experience Python Developer Equifax - Alpharetta, GA August 2017 to Present Description: Equifax is a global information solutions company that uses unique data, innovative analytics, technology and industry expertise to power organizations and individuals around the world by transforming knowledge into insights that help make more informed business and personal decisions.    Responsibilities:  • Automate different workflows, which are initiated manually with Python scripts and Unix shell scripting.  • Create, activate and program in Anaconda environment.  • Use Python unit and functional testing modules such as unit test, unittest2, mock, and custom frameworks in-line with Agile Software Development methodologies.  • Develop Sqoop scripts to handle change data capture for processing incremental records between new arrived and existing data in RDBMS tables.  • Installed Hadoop, Map Reduce, HDFS, AWS and developed multiple MapReduce jobs in PIG and Hive for data cleaning and pre-processing.  • Manage datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL, queried MYSQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL dB package to retrieve information.  • Involved in the Web/Application development using Python 3.5, HTML5, CSS3, AJAX, JSON and jQuery.  • Develop and tested many features for dashboard using Python, Java, Bootstrap, CSS, JavaScript and jQuery.  • Generated Python Django forms to record data of online users and used PyTest for writing test cases.  • Implemented and modified various SQL queries and Functions, Cursors and Triggers as per the client requirements.  • Clean data and processed third-party spending data into maneuverable deliverables within specific format with Excel macros and python libraries such as NumPy, SQL Alchemy and matplotlib.  • Used Pandas as API to put the data as time series and tabular format for manipulation and retrieval of data.  • Helped with the migration from the old server to Jira database (Matching Fields) with Python scripts for transferring and verifying the information.  • Analyze Format data using Machine Learning algorithm by Python Scikit-Learn.  • Experience in python, Jupyter, Scientific computing stack (NumPy, SciPy, pandas and matplotlib).  • Perform troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes of the two main applications that were a main source of data for both customers and internal customer service team.  • Write Python scripts to parse JSON documents and load the data in database.  • Generating various capacity planning reports (graphical) using Python packages like NumPy, matplotlib.  • Analyzing various logs that are been generating and predicting/forecasting next occurrence of event with various Python libraries.  • Developed single page application by using Angular JS backed by MongoDB and NodeJS.  • Design and maintain databases using Python and developed Python-based API (RESTful Web Service) using Flask, SQL Alchemy and PostgreSQL.  • Manage code versioning with GitHub, BitBucket and deployment to staging and production servers and implement MVC architecture in developing the web application with the help of Django framework.  • Use Celery as task queue and RabbitMQ, Redis as messaging broker to execute asynchronous tasks.  • Design and manage API system deployment using fast HTTP server and Amazon AWS architecture.  • Develop remote integration with third-party platforms by using RESTful web services and Successful implementation of Apache Spark and Spark Streaming applications for large-scale data.  • Built various graphs for business decision making using Python matplotlib library.  • Involved in development of Web Services using SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface in the XML format.  • Export Test Case Scripts and modified the selenium scripts and executed in Selenium environment.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Scraping website using Python Beautiful Soup, and then parsed it with XML.  • Outputting the parsed data as JSON/BSON and stored into MongoDB  • Used NLTK and Stanford NLP to process text data and created offline intelligence.  • Querying data from MongoDB and use them as input for the machine learning models  • Using AWS for application deployment and configuration.  • Wrote UNIX shell scripting for automation.  • Developed views and templates with Django view controller and template Language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Used JavaScript and JSON to update a portion of a webpage.  • Develop consumer-based features using Django, HTML and Test-Driven Development (TDD).  • Developed Python web services for processing JSON and interfacing with the Data layer.  • Increased the speed of pre-existing search indexes through Django ORM optimizations.  • Developed module to build Django ORM queries that can pre-load data to greatly reduce the number of databases queries needed to retrieve the same amount of data.    Environment: Python 2.7, Django, HTML5/CSS, PostgreSQL, MS SQL Server 2013, MySQL, JavaScript, Jupyter Notebook, VIM, PyCharm, Shell Scripting, AngularJS, JIRA. Python/Django Developer T-Mobile - Redmond, WA May 2016 to July 2017 Description: T-Mobile is the brand name used by the mobile communications subsidiaries of the German telecommunications company Deutsche Telekom AG. The brand is active in Austria (under the subsidiary T-Mobile Austria), the Czech Republic (T-Mobile Czech Republic), the Netherlands (T-Mobile Nederland), Poland (T-Mobile Polska), and the United States (T-Mobile US).    Responsibilities:  • Analyzed system requirements specifications and involved client interaction during requirements specifications.  • Involved in the development of front end of the application using Python 2.7, HTML5, CSS3, AJAX, JSON and jQuery. Worked on backend of the application, mainly using Active Records.  • Involved in analysis and design of the application features.  • Designed and developed communication between client and server using Secured Web services.  • Designed and managed API system deployment using fast HTTP server and Amazon AWS architecture.  • Developed Merge jobs in Python to extract and load data into MySQL database.  • Successfully migrated the Django database from SQLite to MySQL to PostgreSQL with complete data integrity.  • Used Test driven approach for developing the application and Implemented the unit tests using Python Unit test framework.  • Assisted the Hadoop team with developing Map-Reduce scripts in python.  • Also implemented live data streaming using Twitter API and Python scripts.  • Developed UDF's using python and implemented graphs using python with big data analytics.  • Reviewed and implemented instrument pricing and modeling methodologies in collaboration with technical engineers. Analyzed and documented how instrument prices move as underlying market data sources change.  • Good hands-on experience in data warehouse developer/ database engineer for high-volume data processing.  • Created UI using JavaScript and HTML5/CSS3.  • Developed and tested many features for dashboard using Python, Java, Bootstrap, CSS, JavaScript and jQuery.  • Worked extensively with Bootstrap, JavaScript and jQuery to optimize the user experience.  • Used Python and Django to interface with the jQuery UI and manage the storage and deletion of content.  • Designed and implemented Sandra NoSQL database read/write/search function.  • Built development environment with JIRA, Stash/Git  • Involved in development of Web Services using SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface in the XML format.  • Maintained program libraries, users' manuals and technical documentation.  • Managed large datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL.  • Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL DB. package.  • Carried out various mathematical operations for calculation purpose using python libraries.  • Built various graphs for business decision making using Python matplotlib library.  • Fetched twitter feeds for certain important keyword using python-twitter library.  • Used Python Library Beautiful Soup for web scrapping to extract data for building graphs.  • Performed Unit testing, Integration Testing, GUI and web application testing using Spec.  • Build SQL queries for performing various CRUD operations like create, update, read and delete.  • Designed and configured database and back-end applications and programs.  • Created a Git repository and added the project to GitHub.  • Performed research to explore and identify new technological platforms.  • Wrote Python modules to extract/load asset data from the MySQL source database.  • Collaborated with internal teams to convert end-user feedback into meaningful and improved solutions.  • Resolved ongoing problems and accurately documented progress of a project.    Environment: Python 2.7/3.4, Django 1.6, Linux, HTML5, CSS3, Node.js, JavaScript, Amazon AWS, PostgreSQL, AngularJs, Jira, Linux, Git, CRUD. Python/Django Developer Starbucks - Seattle, WA January 2015 to April 2016 Description: Every day, we go to work hoping to do two things: share great coffee with our friends and help make the world a little better. It was true when the first Starbucks opened in 1971, and it's just as true today.    Responsibilities:  • Translated the customer requirements into design specifications and ensured that the requirements translate into software solution.  • Application was based on service-oriented architecture and used Python 2.5, Django 1.5, JSF 2, Spring 2, Ajax, HTML, CSS for the frontend.  • Designed the front end of the application using Python, Java, HTML, CSS, AJAX, JSON and jQuery. Worked on backend of the application, mainly using Active Records.  • Analysed system requirements specifications and in client interaction during requirements specifications.  • Worked on Analysis and Design of application.  • Created UI using JavaScript and HTML5/CSS3.  • Developed and tested many features for dashboard using Python, ROBOT framework, Bootstrap, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Writing backend programming in Python.  • Used JavaScript and XML to update a portion of a webpage and Node.js for server-side interaction.  • Implemented web applications in Flask and Spring frameworks following MVC architecture.  • Used spring, JDBC and JPA at persistence layer (DAO)  • Used Robot Framework, RIDE and developed few test suites for testing application.  • Used Adobe CQ for helping with reusing the components and templates for creating different web pages.  • Develop consumer-based features and applications using Python, Django, HTML, Behaviour Driven Development (BDD) and pair-based programming.  • Performed Unit testing, Integration Testing, GUI and web application testing using Spec.  • Implemented user interface guidelines and standards throughout the development and maintenance of the website using the HTML, CSS, JavaScript and jQuery.  • Experience with advanced CSS concepts and building table-free layouts.  • Worked on front-endframeworks like CSS Bootstrap for development of Web applications.  • Experienced in writing SQL Queries and implementing stored procedures, functions, packages, tables, views, Cursors, triggers.  • Collaborate with Product Management and User Experience experts regarding product definition, schedule, scope and project-related decisions.  • Develop digital consumer experiences based on foundation of the Adobe CQ/AEM product suite.  • Manage, collaborate and coordinate the work of an offshore development team.  • Special skills in developing user-friendly, simple yet effective web-based applications.  • Deployed the project into Heroku using GIT version control system.  • Worked in Myself database on simple queries and writing Stored Procedures for normalization and renormalization.  • Used many regular expressions to match the pattern with the existing one.  • Build SQL queries for performing various CRUD operations like create, update, read and delete.  • Skilled in using collections in Python for manipulating and looping through different user-defined objects.  • Work with team of developers on python applications for RISK management.  • Taken part in entire lifecycle of the projects including Design, Development, and Deployment, Testing and Implementation and support.  • Used Pandas library for statistics Analysis.  • Used NumPy for Numerical analysis for Insurance premium.  • Improved code reuse and performance by making effective use of various design patterns.  • Created most important Business Rules which are useful for the scope of project and needs of customers.  • Designed the architecture of the hardware environments and methodology of the code.  • Experienced in Agile Methodologies and SCRUM Process.  • Worked in development of applications especially in Linux environment and familiar with all its commands.    Environment: Python 2.7, Django 1.6, Cassandra, Linux, HTML, CSS, Node.js, JavaScript, Jira, Linux, Git, Google Analytics, CRUD, Adobe CQ/AEM. Python Developer Duke Energy - Charlotte, NC May 2013 to December 2014 Description: Duke Energy, headquartered in Charlotte, North Carolina, is an electric power holding company in the United States, with assets also in Canada and Latin America.    Responsibilities:  • Gathered and analyzed the requirements and converted them into User Requirement Specifications and Functional Requirement Specifications for the designers and developers to understand them as per their perspective.  • Used Django API's to access the database.  • Working knowledge of modern development methodologies and tools such as Jenkins, Maven, JIRA, and Git.  • Worked on Spark Scripts to find the most trending products (day-wise and week-wise) using Scala.  • Experience with big data technologies (Spark, Kafka, HBase, HIVE, PIG).  • Coded custom processors in NiFi and implemented consumers and producers for Kafka topics  • Worked on project to retrieve log messages procured from Kafka by leveraging Spark Streaming.  • Fixing issues with routers and firewalls and IP configuration  • Having good experience in developing an enterprise MEAN Stack application by writing server-side code with Node.js and Express framework, a database to store and retrieve data with MongoDB and front-end web pages designing with ReactJS.  • Designed and implemented a Perl Nagios plug-in to monitor fleet-vehicle communication to detect outages  • Designed and implemented complex server-based Internet applications on Perl CGI and UNIX/Linux environments  • Worked on Airflow scheduler executes tasks on an array of workers while following the specified dependencies.  • We have used Airflow rich command line utilities make performing complex surgeries on DAGs a snap.  • Having good experience in implementing the Node.js server-side code to interact with MongoDB to store and retrieve data by using the Mongoose drivers.  • Worked with Passport and JSON web tokens for authentication and authorization security configurations using Node.js.  • Implemented Jenkins workflow and plugins for repeatable deployments of multi-tier applications, artifacts, and services to Docker.  • Proficient at using Spark API's to explore, cleanse, aggregate, transform and store machine sensor data.  • Developed a portal to manage and entities in a content management system using Flask.  • Knowledge of data structures, algorithms, OO design, web application design, SOA architecture.  • Worked on analysing Hadoop distribution (HDP) and different Big Data analytic tools including Hive, and Sqoop.  • Used AngularJS framework to bind HTML (views) to JavaScript objects (models), converted wireframes to web pages with behavioral design development (BDD).  • Applied the fundamentals of TDD, OOP, Agile development and continuous integration.  • Reviewed source code (Java/J2EE/Spring/FTL/JavaScript) and developed security filters within App Scan for critical applications.  • using IBM AppScan Source, triage and resolve the security vulnerabilities.  • Worked on ORC file format, bucketing, partitioning for hive performance enhancement and storage improvement.  • Monitoring system based on Docker and Big Data (HBase - OpenTSDB, Redis)  • Involved in Hive query tuning for better performance.  • Imported and exported data into HDFS and Hive using Sqoop  • Developed a remote integration with third-party platforms by using RESTful web services.  • Developed web-based application using Django framework with python concepts.  • Designed and developed data management system using Myself.  • Designed and developed the UI for the website with HTML, XHTML, CSS, JavaScript, and AJAX.  • Developed Cloud infrastructure like compute, storage, and platform Restful services to implement Open Stack API.  • Used several python libraries like wxPython, NumPy, and Matplotlib.  • Placed data into JSON files using python to test Django websites.  • Deployed and supported web hosting platform based on Linux CentOS, Ubuntu, Open Stack.  • Maintained the versions using GIT and sending the release notes for each release.  • Used JIRA for tracking, updating the project issues and issue tracking.  • Used Pandas API to put the data as time series and tabular format for east timestamp data manipulation and retrieval.  • Performed research to explore and identify new technological platforms.  • Responsible for setting up AngularJS framework for UI development.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting issues.  • Actively worked as a part of a team with managers and other staff to meet the goals of the project in the stipulated time.  • Ensured high-quality data collection and maintaining the integrity of the data.  Environment: Python, HTML, Django, CSS, JavaScript, Bootstrap, MongoDB, Spark, APIs, Git, Flask, Maven, Jenkins, JIRA, Pandas API, J2EE, Ajax, Web Services, Hive, Perl, Eclipse, Kafka, XHMTL, Airflow, WxPython, NumPy, Matplotlib, UML, SVN, JSON, Linux CentOS, Ubuntu, Open Stack, JIRA. Java Developer SRIT - Bengaluru, Karnataka December 2011 to April 2013 Description: Since its inception in 1999, SRIT has striven for excellence and thoroughness in the IT sector, with the goal to harness the potential technology must permeate an industry and transform it at every level. We focus on verticals where large-scale operations and process lifecycles can be streamlined via a single technology, thereby enabling that domain to accomplish exponentially more than it was previously capable of doing.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in Analysis, design and coding on Java and J2EE Environment.  • Implemented struts MVC framework.  • Designed, developed and implemented the business logic required for Security presentation controller.  • Set up the deployment environment on Web Logic Developed system preferences UI screens using JSP and HTML.  • Developed UI screens using Swing components like JLabel, JTable, JScrollPane, JButtons, JTextFields, etc.  • Used JDBC to connect to Oracle database and get the results that are required.  • Designed asynchronous messaging using Java Message Service (JMS).  • Consumed web services through SOAP protocol.  • Developed web Components using JSP, Servlets and Server-side components using EJB under J2EE Environment.  • Designing JSP using Java Beans.  • Implemented Struts framework 2.0 (Action and Controller classes) for dispatching request to appropriate class  • Design and implementation of front-end web pages using CSS, DHTML, JavaScript, JSP, HTML, XHTML, JSTL, Ajax and Struts Tag Library.  • Designed table structure and coded scripts to create tables, indexes, views, sequence, synonyms and database triggers.  • Involved in writing Database procedures, Triggers, PL/SQL statements for data retrieving.  • Developed using Web 2.0 to interact with other users and changing the contents of websites.  • Implemented AOP and IOC concept using UI Spring 2.0 Framework.  • Developed using Transaction Management API of Spring 2.0 and coordinates transactions for Java objects  • Generated WSDL files using AXIS2 tool.  • Developed using CVS as a version controlling tool for managing the module developments.  • Configured and Tested Application on the IBM Web Sphere App. Server  • Used Hibernate ORM tools which automate the mapping between SQL databases and objects in Java.  • Developed using XML XPDL, BPEL and XML parsers like DOM, SAX.  • Developed using XSLT to convert XML documents into XHTML and PDF documents.  • Written JUnit test cases for Business Objects, and prepared code documentation for future reference and upgrades.  • Deployed applications using WebSphere Application Server and Used IDE RAD (Rational Application Developer).    Environment: Java, J2EE, JSP, Servlets, MVC, Hibernate, Spring 3.0, Web Services, Maven 3.2.x, Eclipse, SOAP, WSDL, Eclipse, jQuery, Java Script, Swings, Oracle, REST API, PL/SQL, Oracle 11g, UNIX. Java Developer Wissen Infotech - Hyderabad, Telangana May 2009 to November 2011 Description: Established in 2000 in US, we have global offices in US, UK, Europe, Mexico, Middle East, and India, with best in class infrastructure and development facilities spread across globe. We are an end to end solution provider in Banking & Financial Services, Telecom, Healthcare & Retail verticals and have successfully delivered $350 million worth of projects.    Responsibilities:  • Designed & developed the application using Spring Framework  • Developed class diagrams, sequence and use case diagrams using UML Rational Rose.  • Designed the application with reusable J2EE design patterns  • Designed DAO objects for accessing RDBMS  • Developed web pages using JSP, HTML, DHTML and JSTL  • Designed and developed a web-based client using Servlets, JSP, Tag Libraries, JavaScript, HTML and XML using Struts Framework.  • Involved in developing JSP forms.  • Designed and developed web pages using HTML and JSP.  • Designed various applets using JBuilder.  • Designed and developed Servlets to communicate between presentation and business layer.  • Used EJB as a middleware in developing a three-tier distributed application.  • Developed Session Beans and Entity beans for business and data process.  • Used JMS in the project for sending and receiving the messages in the queue.  • Developed the Servlets for processing the data on the server.  • Developed views and controllers for client and manager modules using Spring MVC and Spring Core.  • Used Spring Security for securing the web tier Access.  • Business logic is implemented using Hibernate.  • Developed and modified database objects as per the requirements.  • Involved in Unit integration, bug fixing, acceptance testing with test cases, Code reviews.  • Interaction with customers and identified System Requirements and developed Software Requirement Specifications.  • Implemented Java design patterns wherever required.  • Involved in development, maintenance, implementation and support of the System.  • Involved in initial project setup and guidelines.  • Implemented Multi-threading concepts.  • Developed test cases for Unit testing using JUnit and performed integration and system testing  • Involved in coding for the presentation layer using Struts Framework, JSP, AJAX, XML, XSLT and JavaScript  • Closely worked and supported the creation of database schema objects (tables, stored procedures, and triggers) using Oracle SQL/PLSQL    Environment: Java / J2EE, JSP, CSS, JavaScript, AJAX, Hibernate, Spring, XML, EJB, Web Services, SOAP, Eclipse, Rational Rose, HTML, XPATH, XSLT, DOM and JDBC. Skills AJAX (8 years), CSS (8 years), database (8 years), Java (8 years), JavaScript (8 years) Additional Information SUMMARY OF SKILLS    ? Over 8+ years of experience as a Python Developer, proficient coder in multiple languages and environments including Python, REST API, AWS, C, C++ and SQL.  ? Wrote python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database and developed web-based applications using Python, CSS and HTML.  ? Worked on applications and developed them with XML, JSON, XSL (PHP, Django, Python, Rails).  ? Experienced in developing Web Services with Python programming language.  ? Experience in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on Myself and PostgreSQL database.  ? Cleaned data and processed third-party spending data into Maneuverable deliverables within specific formats with Excel macros and python libraries.  ? Experienced in developing web-based applications using Python, Django, PHP, C++, XML, CSS, HTML, DHTML, JavaScript and jQuery.  ? Experienced in working with various Python IDE's using PyCharm, PyScripter, Spyder, PyStudio and PyDev.  ? Good experience of software development in Python and IDEs: PyCharm, sublime text, Jupyter Notebook.  ? Experienced in web applications development using Django/ Python using HTML/CSS for server-side rendered applications.  ? Hands on experience working in WAMP (Windows, Apache, MYSQL, and Python/PHP) and LAMP (Linux, Apache, My SQL, and Python/PHP) Architecture.  ? Worked on Anaconda Python Environment.  ? Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  ? Experience in implementing python alongside using various libraries such as matplotlib for charts and graphs, Myself DB. for database connectivity, python-twitter, PySide, Pickle, Pandas data frame, network, urllib2.  ? Experienced in using python libraries like Beautiful Soup, NumPy, SciPy, matplotlib, Python-twitter, NetworkX, urllib2, Myself dB for database connectivity and IDEs - Sublime Text, Spyder, PyCharm.  ? Experienced in Requirement gathering, Use Case development, Business Process Flow, Business Process Modeling.  ? Extensively used UML to develop various use cases, class diagram and sequence diagrams.  ? Well versed with design and development of presentation layer for web applications using technologies like HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, AngularJS, Bootstrap, JSON, XML.  ? Exceptionally solid background in composing API's along with Web Services over Python.  ? Experience in using Adobe Flash, SVN, Eclipse, JIRA, GitHub and CVS.  ? Experience working knowledge in UNIX and Linux shell environments using command line utilities.  ? Experience with Unit Testing/ Test Driven Development(TDD), Load Testing and Integration Testing.  ? Experienced in version control systems using CVS, SVN and Git/GitHub and issue tracking tools like Jira and Bugzilla.  ? Experienced in writing SQL Queries, Stored procedures, functions, packages, tables, views, triggers.  ? Experience in working with Python ORM Libraries including Django ORM, SQLAlchemy.  ? Experience in building frameworks and automating complex workflows using Python for Test Automation.  ? Experience in implementing with server-side technologies with restful API and MVC design patterns with node JS and Django framework.  ? Hands on experience in using NoSQL libraries like MongoDB, Cassandra, Redis and relational databases like Oracle, SQLite, PostgreSQL and MYSQL databases.  ? Worked on UNIX shell scripts for business process and loading data from different interfaces to HDFS.  ? Experience in deploying applications in heterogeneous Application Servers TOMCAT, Web Logic and Oracle Application. Server.  ? Good Knowledge in Amazon AWS concepts like EMR and EC2 web services which provides fast and efficient processing of Big Data.  ? Proficiency with the application servers like WebSphere, WebLogic, JBossand Tomcat.  ? Proficient in Object-oriented design experience, with extensive experience of Python-C/C++ binding using Boost Python and Python C types.  ? Experiences with File Handling and SSH (Secure Shell).  ? Working knowledge of errors and exceptions handling debugging using PDB, Eclipse and Pycharm.  ? Experience with Docker, deployment of application inside software containers.  ? Excellent Debugging, Problem Solving, Optimization and Testing Skills using GitLab  ? Experience in Python Development and Scientific Programming and using NumPy and Pandas in Python for Data Manipulation.  ? Experience in using Scikit-Learn and Stats models in Python for Machine Learning and Data Mining.  ? Use of NLTK, OpenNLP& Stanford NLP for Natural Language Processing and sentiment analysis.  ? Experience with SQL Server Management Studio, SQL Developer, Toad and Myself GUI Tool.    TECHNICAL SKILLS    Web Languages Java, J2EE JSP, JSF, Servlets, Struts 2.0, Spring Web Flow, JSP Tag Libraries, EJB 3.0, JDBC, JavaScript, SQL  Frameworks Spring MVC, Struts, JSF Framework, Hibernate, Apache CXF, Angular JS, Bootstrap  Scripting Language JavaScript, CSS  Mark-up Language HTML, DHTML, JavaScript, Ajax, DOJO.  Python Libraries Beautiful Soup, NumPy, SciPy, Matplotlib, python-twitter, Pandas data frame, urllib2  Database Oracle11g, MySQL 5.x, and SQL Server  Operating System DOS, Windows, Unix  IDE Tools Eclipse, RSA, JBuilder, Oracle ADF, Web Logic, Rational Rose, LDAP, RUP Methodology, Clear Case/Clear Quest  Web Technologies/other  Django, Flask, Pyramid, Servlets, JSP, AJAX, HTML5, CSS3, XML/XSD, X Path, XSLT, Java Script, jQuery, Web Services (Soap, Restful), SES, Selenium, PyUnit.    Web Services SOAP, REST, WSDL  Methodologies OOPS/OOAD, UML, J2EE Design Patterns  Version Control SVN, Clear case, CVS  Tools RAD, Eclipse, Edit Plus, Apache Ant, log4j, JUnit, Visio, ANT, Maven  ORM Tools Hibernate, JPA, iBatis  Cloud Technologies AWS, S3.