Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer Wilmington, DE ? 9.5 years of IT experience in software development life cycle including Requirement Gathering, Design, Coding, Testing, Maintenance and Support of the super critical and highly complex applications.  ? Have extensive experience in application design, development, testing and support usingdiverse languages - Python, Ruby, Java,C, C++, Pro*C, Shell scripting, PowerShell, SQL/PLSQL, HTML, JavaScript, CSS.  ? Experience in developing web application on MVC, MVT, MVW architecture. Have experience in Test Driven Development (TDD) and Behavioral Driven Development (BDD).  ? Worked on automation for applications hosted on cloud (Cloud Foundry, AWS) and on premises.  ? Have experience in Test automation development using Python, Ruby with Cucumber, Selenium.  ? Have experience working in DevOps environment and involved in CI/CD effortsusing Travis CI, Jenkins, Docker, JIRA, Bitbucket.  ? Familiar with Big data concepts and data streaming technologies like Apache Kafka, Apache Spark.  ? Have worked in Banking,Financial, Card & Payment, Insurance, Healthcare domains.  ? Have extensive experience in Object Oriented Programming& worked on all phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) and used software development models like SCRUM/Agile methodology and Waterfall model.  ? Experience in several databases - Oracle, IBM DB2, MySQL, Microsoft SQL Server, PostgreSQL.  ? Familiar with using cachingtechnologies for large scale applications like Memcached.  ? Have extensive experience in building automations using Microsoft System Center Orchestrator (SCORCH), PowerShell,UNIX Shell Scripting, Python scripting.  ? Have experience in working with enterprise application monitoring&automation tools such as Microsoft System Center Operations Manager (SCOM), Splunk, IBM Netcool, Splunk, Dynatrace, AppDynamics, Docker, Kubernetes.  ? Have experience consuming REST APIs of Bitbucket, JIRA, Microsoft SharePoint to build custom application.  ? Experience in repository tools -Bitbucket, GitHub, CVS, SVN, Visual Source Safe, Fisheye.  ? Experience with ITSM/project management tools - ServiceNow, JIRA, Confluence, Pivotal Tracker.  ? Good communication and interpersonal skills with good analytical power.  ? Outstanding problem solving, strategic thinking and data analysis skills, strong focus on teamwork and achieving team goals, result oriented, fast learner and excellent communication skills  ? Have 2+ years of experience leading a team and capable of independent work as an individual contributor. Work Experience Python Developer JP Morgan Chase May 2018 to Present Build and maintain the self-service web product for automation needs. Provideautomation solutions for business and middleware applicationsand support teams usingPython, Django, REST APIs, Ansible and integrating monitoring/automation tools such as Netcool, Splunk, Dynatrace and Wily. Provide expertise and guidance to new projects to follow industry wide standards to make the application resilient and fault tolerant with better monitoring, logging and traceability. The project is Agile based and epics and stories are documented in JIRA.    Responsibilities:  • Design and develop enhancements on the self-service automation product based on the requirements from various support and application teams. This involves creating necessary design documents and updating API documentation.  • Develop new and modify existing REST APIs using Python and Django REST Framework with Oracle and Cassandra database for high availability and scalability. Provide end points to the UI team to integrate the APIs to the view layer.  • Build and maintain unit test cases using Python Django unittest library.  • Working on the proof of concept to integrate with monitoring tools like Netcool to build an event driven self-heal solution for production support teams.  • Design and develop the automated failover of various application from one datacenter to another with a click of a button. This involves creating workflow to bring down the application, switch the load balancer using AppViewX APIs, switchover the database, replicate NAS etc. This workflow was developed using the REST API calls with Python and integrate into the AAAS application. This reduced a significant amount of time and effort (approx. 50% - 70%) and eliminate the possibility of human error.  • This involves writing scripts in Python, Unix and PowerShell to automate various manual tasks performed to manage JVM clusters, Tomcat& Apache processes, starting/stopping processes and services, querying/updating database and send email reports, clearing/archiving logs etc. by application/support teams.  • Develop automated orchestration and configuration updates using Ansible. Write playbooks to run complex tasks.  • Build and manage CI/CD pipeline builds in Jenkins and code versioning in Bitbucket.  • Deploy application in private cloud environment using cloud foundry CLI.    Environment: Python, Django,AngularJS, Java, REST API, JIRA, Bitbucket, Jenkins, Ansible, Linux, Bash scripting, PowerShell, Oracle, Docker, Maven, Kubernetes, Cloud Foundry, AWS Python Developer Columbus, OH July 2017 to May 2018 Full stackapplication and test automation development for retirement system for Nationwide Finance. The application is used by the agents to provide retirement solutions to both private and public sector. The application stores the investments and purchase data of customer and help the representatives to assist with customer requests.    The team follow the AgileScrum model and each member in the team is responsible for development and testing of the application and closely work with various stakeholders such as business owners, requirements analyst. The epics and story cards are documented in IBM Rational Team Concert (RTC).    Responsibilities:  ? Discuss and understand the requirement with Product owner and requirement analysts and create detailed design document.  ? Migrate existing Java-Swing based application to a full-stack web application. Design and develop user account and plan details back-end REST services using Python, Django, Oracle.  ? Find opportunities to enhance the existing test automation framework and write automations on top of it.  ? Analyze requirements and write scenarios in Gherkin. Develop thefeatures and step definitions usingRuby and Cucumber. Build test framework on WATIR framework.  ? Design and develop the SQL queries for setting and retrieving the test data and to the yaml files.  ? Run the test case suite for each project and capture screen shots.Prepare the test plan and upload the scripts in HP ALM (QC).  ? Manage defects in QC and coordinate with QA analysts to test and close the defects.  ? Create and monitor the test automation build jobs in Jenkins.  ? Support the system testing and provide support to other dependent teams.  ? Showcase the new functionalities to the business owners and get the sign off.  ? Attend retrospective/feedback meetings with all the stakeholders to continuously improve the process and remove bottlenecks if there are any.  ? Build and integrate Chatbots on Hubot framework with Jenkins and perform various tasks such as trigger regression Jenkins jobs, get HPSM ticket details etc.    Environment: Python, Django, Java, REST, Oracle, AngularJS 1.6,Ruby, Cucumber, Selenium, WATIR, RubyMine, Postman, SoapUI, HP Quality Center, IBM Rational Team Concert, IBM Rational Requirements Composer, GitHub, Jenkins, Splunk, NodeJS, Hubot, Rocket Chat. Application Developer FirstData - Coral Springs, FL February 2016 to July 2017 Product and infrastructure development on proprietary platform for FirstData for Debit card and Credit card transaction processing. The application receives all the debit/credit card transactions from merchants (Walmart etc.) for authorization. The transaction is authorized based on the keys supplied from merchants and networks (VISA, Mastercard, Pulse, Star, NYCE, Jeanie etc.). After the transaction is approved from the network, the approval/decline response is sent back to the merchant.    Responsibilities:  ? Worked on the project to migrate from an old repository tool - Serena Dimensions to GIT and JIRA tools for version and release management respectively. Developed scripts in Python to migrate all the code and config files into a GIT repository based on the previous releases.  ? Developed a command line menu-based application in Python to manage the releases of the project by the project admins. Standard REST APIs for Bitbucket and JIRA were used to interact with the tools for branch/version creation, managing permissions, automatically update JIRA issues and merge the pull requests in bulk. The application is created using OOPS concepts and design patterns such as decorator etc.  ? Worked on developing the client-side GIT hooks in Python language.  ? Designed and developed a script in Python to automate the beautification and formatting of the revision history and comments in C code.  ? Python packages used - urllib2, subprocess, requests, re, os, sys, multiprocessing, multithreading, logging, json, unittest.  ? Design and developed a multiprocessing transformer application for parsing/formatting the transaction in/out of the system, on top of the application to handle additional load on the existing application and fully utilize the multicore CPUs.    ? Worked in designing and developing a TLS proxy layer between the debit system and outside association applications. This is to provide an extra layer of encryption between host application and outside applications. The development is done in C/C++ with multithreaded support, socket programming using OpenSSL APIs and libraries.  ? Added functionality to check for invalid card expiry dates in the incoming transaction from the merchant and decline the transaction and send the appropriate response to the merchant.  ? Worked in migrating the Pro*C transaction processing application from Solaris to Linux.  ? Integration and certification testing coordination with Merchant and Network teams.  ? Debug issue using debuggers such as DBX, GDB    Environment: Python,C/C++, STL, Multithreading, Socket Programming, OpenSSL, TLS, DB2, AIX, LINUX, GDB, DBX,Shell, Jira, Bitbucket, Splunk. Automation Developer The Home Depot - Atlanta, GA July 2013 to January 2016 Provide monitoring and automation solutions to various application teams using latest enterprise wide monitoring/automation tools.    Responsibilities:  ? Worked on development and enhancement of self-service web-basedapplication which gets the application alert and paginginformation and stores it into the IBM DB2 database. The application was created in Python/Django framework.  ? Designed and developed various enhancement and automations using Python, UNIX Shell scripting for data transaction re-format and imports from credit card services like First Data etc. to run financial reports and batch jobs to store data in the Oracle database.  ? Worked on data acquisition and wrangling for data visualization project. Extracted meaningful data from third party tools REST APIs and database in the form of CSVs and clean up the data by defaulting values or removing unnecessary rows using Python scripting using Pandas, NumPy, matplotlib libraries.  ? Designed and developed 50+ Unix shell scripts to cleanup filesystem space and process restart scripts.  ? Designed and developed a web-based application to create a composite view of all the Enterprise level monitoring. The application is developed in Ruby with Sinatraframework and front end is developed using HTML, CSS, JavaScript and AJAX. The backend is in PostgreSQL.  ? Designed and implemented a workflow-based Framework to automatically monitor the alerts generated from Microsoft System Centre Operations Manager for high file system usage / service down and remediate those alerts.  ? Designed, developed and implemented an automated process of server patching activity every month which includes automatically sending daily/weekly notifications to the application owners, generating automated schedule of servers to be patched and post patching validations.  ? The development is done using Microsoft application System Centre Orchestrator(SCORCH) and Operations Manager (SCOM). This also involves PowerShell, UNIX, Python scripting.  ? Provide support during version upgrades of various applications present in the environment (listed below).  ? Install and test new integration packs for SCORCH in test environment before deploying in the production.  ? Slack is used as the official application to communicate between applications teams and within the team.  ? Led team of 3 to successfully complete the projects on time.    Environment: Microsoft Operations Management Suite, Microsoft System Center Orchestrator (SCORCH), Microsoft System Center Operations Manager (SCOM),Azure, Ansible, ServiceNow, Splunk,IBM Netcool,MSSharePoint, MS SQL Server 2012,Linux, AIX, HP-UX, Windows Server 2012, PowerShell, Visual Studio 2013, Python, PyDev, Ruby with Sinatra, Slack, Docker. Application Developer Walgreens - Delhi, Delhi September 2011 to July 2013 Product development of the Walgreen's proprietary system ICPlus built on Tuxedo framework; which is a prescription filling and billing solution for the point of sales across 8000+ stores across US.    Responsibilities:  ? The project was a release-based project to enhance and maintain the prescription creation and billing system.  ? Design and developed an enhancement module to capture information of an individual picking up a C2-C5 controlled drug prescription to be included in Prescription Monitoring program (PMP) reporting to the state. This will allow the company to enhance its customer compliance.  ? Worked on the enhancement of the Patient Leaflets where the development was mainly in Pro* C, VC++ and Oracle.  ? Enhanced the daily, weekly and monthly Unix batch jobs by adding new fields to be reported.  ? Actively worked in collecting and understanding requirements, preparing high level and low-level design document, integration test plan.  ? Create development task in Jira, coding and testing and check-in the code in SVN.  ? Perform peer code review using Fisheye.    Environment: Pro*C,C/C++, VC++, Visual Studio, SVN, Jira, Fisheye, Oracle, PL/SQL Developer, Linux Application Developer USAA - Chennai, Tamil Nadu June 2010 to September 2011 This project involved the back-end business logic development of web and mobile application for auto insurance quote and policy purchase.    Responsibilities:  ? Designed and developed the functionality to align the current system with the changes in state rules for renewing the auto policy in Puerto Rico.  ? Worked on gathering the requirements from the client and prepare a detailed level design document.  ? Meet the architects to discuss the design and get the feedback.  ? Model new classes and make changes to existing classes.  ? Designed and developed the modules to interact with third party applications to get the credit history, driving history etc.  ? The development was mainly in Java and C++ with database as IBM DB2.    Environment: Java, J2EE,C++, Eclipse, IBM DB2, CICS, JCL, Easyretrieve, StarTeam, Mastercraft, SVN. Application Developer State farm - Chennai, Tamil Nadu December 2009 to June 2010 This project involved the product development for auto and life insurance web application.    Responsibilities:  ? Gather requirement from the client and develop the high level and low-level design documents.  ? Design the use cases and sequence diagrams.  ? Coding is done in Java, J2EE, Spring, Hibernate technologies.  ? Unit Test the code.    Environment: Java, J2EE, Spring, Hibernate, Oracle, Redvine Wiki, Apache Tomcat. Education Bachelor of Technology in Computer Science and Engineering KIIT University - Bhubaneshwar, Orissa 2009 Skills Visual studio, Android studio, C/c++, C++, Cucumber