Job Seeker Austin, TX To obtain a software engineering position with an organization whose mission and values coincide with my own, where I can actively grow as a software developer. Work Experience RenGenX and RengenLabs September 2017 to December 2018 Helped build and deploy Laravel site for KYC/AML. Currently redoing the KYC/AML application as a Django application. Helped working on their cryptocurrency trading platform, written in Python to integrate with third party apis from exchanges such as bithumb, bitfinex, etc. Wrote some portfolio tools in JavaScript to show users information about their ethereum accounts used with our contract.  Shows information such as which tokens were traded, how many of each kind the user has, etc. Backend Python developer and occasional Go developer Elite Daily October 2016 to April 2017 Wrote scripts for scraping the company's website for data, and to collect data from third party apis about the performance of individuals articles.  Third party apis included google analytics, facebook, youtube, and other sites regarding the organization's published content. Also cleaned and stored data from social media sites on user behavior and performance of publishers. Conferences and Events 2013 to 2017 DEFCON 2009, 2010, 2011, 2012, Black Hat 2009, 2010, 2011, Columbia Center June 2013 to May 2016 For Teaching and Learning/CTL (formerly Columbia Center for New  Media in Teaching and Learning/CCNMTL at Columbia University):  June 2013 - May 2016  Full stack python development in a continuous delivery environment, developing educational websites and applications for faculty and staff. Languages used included JavaScript and Python.  Libraries and frameworks for development included Django, django-restframework, django- pagetree (in house django content management system developed for managing educational content, based off of python tree-beard library, content is locked and forces user to go through in a sequential fashion), ccnmtl-django (a paste template that sets up our base django application), jQuery, Backbone.js, lunar.js (library for client side faceted search), and Bootstrap. Platforms and tools for monitoring and deployment were jenkins, hugo (static site generator in Go).    Projects for which I was the lead developer:    Brownfield: https://brownfield.ccnmtl.columbia.edu  This site was an older application that needed to be updated and moved to django from turbo gears. The application is a simulation of conducting a brownfield investigation.  Icap Nursing E-Learning: https:/elearning.icap.columbia. e du This program was designed to help teach nurses in Africa the WHO standards for testing and treating pregnant women for HIV/AIDS.    SSNM (Social Support Network Map): https://ssnm.ccnmtl.columbia.edu  This site was originally a turbo gears site, which I moved to django. This project was done on behalf of faculty members in the school of social services. It was meant to assist social workers help their clients recognize their social network and how it influenced their current situation.    Other Projects I Worked On:  Virtual Forest Initiative https://blackrock.ccnmtl.columbia.edu  Site with applications to assist in research, education, and community activities in Blackrock  Forest. Includes real time photo streams, historical forest data collections for download, and chemistry and biology modules. This project is used in Earth and Environmental Sciences courses at Columbia University and Barnard College, as well as New York City high schools and middle schools. Did software upgrades, other project maintenance, bug fixes for the weather and respiration module, re-factored templates, added tests for mammals, respiration and water quality modules.    Tobacco Cessation https://tobaccocessation.ccnmtl.columbia.edu  This site was made for the College of Dental Medicine to teach dental students how to engage patients in conversation about their smoking habits, and deliver treatments for tobacco use and dependence. Contributed with adding user maintenance via the django-registration module and adding tests and bug fixes. Intern Include Sec - New York, NY February 2013 to May 2013 Researching IDA Plugins and creating website and database to display the collected information.  Primary purpose of project was to analyze plugins for malicious contents and document their functionality. Wrote an IDA plugin to find malicious networking functions (static analysis tool) in Python. Groups 2011 to 2012 NYUPoly weekly meetings, iSEC, OWASP Intern Depository Trust and Clearance Corporation June 2008 to November 2008 Installing and updating software and hardware, software maintenance server side and client side (both remotely and locally), assisting users with software and hardware problems, basic scripting for automating tasks, flashing the BIOS in company wide "going green" project. Tutor Learning Center of New York Institute of Technology September 2006 to March 2007 Tutored approximately 25 college students (undergraduates and graduate) continuously throughout the semester in English and Java. Worked one on one with Japanese and Korean students covering conversational English. Preformed editing on literature and academic papers for English composition. Taught several students Programming 1 & 2, and Data Structures, giving lessons in the principles of Object Oriented Programming, and helping students with their projects.    Technical Experience  Programming and IDEs: Python, JavaScript, Amazon EC2 API, C/C++, Java, PHP, HTML,  Android, Mongodb, MySql, LAMP/WAMP, Postgres, Django, Eclipse  Systems: experience with Ubuntu and Fedora Linux systems, basic knowledge of Microsoft API,  Windows XP, Windows 7, VMware and VirtualBox usage  Security & Tools: IDA Pro, writing and compiling IDA plugins, familiar with basic buffer overflows and exploitation, Nepenthes, nmap, Wireshark, glastopf, familiar with basic SQL injection, cross site scripting, man in the middle attacks via ARP spoofing, have used Deft Linux distribution to step through some old forensics challenges. Education Masters of Science in Computer Science in Information Assurance Stevens Institute of Technology - Hoboken, NJ January 2013 Computer Science City College of New York - New York, NY 2009 to 2010 Bachelor of Science in Information Technology in Suma New York Institute of Technology (NYIT) - New York, NY 2009 Skills Python (5 years), Django (5 years) Links https://github.com/coati-00 https://github.com/featheredperson