Python developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">developer</span> Python Developer • More than 2 years of experience as Web Application Developer and Software Engineer using Python  • Involved in using all core java Concepts into the application for the reusability of the code  • Experience object oriented programming (OOP) concepts using Python, Java and PHP  • Experienced in developing web-based applications using Python, CSS, HTML and JavaScript.  • Familiar with JSON based REST Web services  • Involved in  • Experienced in developing Web Services with Python Programming Language.  • Experience in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures and Functions on MySQL database.  • Experience in working on different operating systems-windows, Linux, and Mac also strong development experience on Linux based operating systems such as Ubuntu  • Excellent communication and interpersonal skills, ability to work independently as well as part of an integrated team.  • Exceptional problem solving and sound decision making capabilities, recognized by associates for quality of data, alternative solutions, and confident, accurate, decision making.  • Strong analytical and problem-solving skills, always striving for new knowledge. Work Experience Python developer Verizon - Dallas, TX July 2018 to Present Python Developer Experian - Dallas, TX May 2017 to July 2018 Responsibilities:    • Used Bootstrap as a mechanism to manage and organize the html page layout.  • Involved in the requirement study, design and development with test  • Performed data analysis and cleaning on extracted data using pandas and numpy.  • Develop consumer based features and applications using Python, HTML, Behavior Driven Development (BDD) and pair based programming.  • Write Python modules to deliver certain format of data.  • Implemented front end for third party Web service using JQuery, Html, JSON and JavaScript.  • Developed Views and Templates with Python and using Django's view controller and template language, Website interface is created.  • Writing Python Scripts to check-out code from GitHub and deploy in production and updating GIT branch daily to avoid way off master code.  • Used Django configuration to manage URLs and application parameters.  • Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from Python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL database package.  • Worked with JSON based REST Web services.  • Involved in development of Rest Web Services using Django REST framework for sending and getting data from the external interface in the various formats.  • Worked on development of SQL and stored procedures on MYSQL.  • Experience in using Python features: Python Data Structure, Lambda Expressions, range and Xrange, Control and Conditional Structures.    Environment: Python 3.x, JSON, HTML5, CSS, Django, PyCharm. Python Developer Phoenix EMR systems - Hyderabad, Telangana December 2015 to November 2016 Responsibilities:  • Developed rich user interface using CSS, HTML, JavaScript, and jQuery.  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL  • Wrote PYTHON modules to extract/load asset data from the MySQL source database.  • Created database using MySQL, wrote several queries to extract/store data from database.  • Setup automated corn jobs to upload data into database, generate graphs, bar charts, upload these charts to wiki, and backup the database.  • Dashboard features were developed and tested using Django, Java Script and CSS.  • Expertise in writing Constraints, Indexes, Views, Stored Procedures, Cursors, Triggers, and User Defined function  • Used Bit bucket to do basic Git operations and controlling read and write access to the code  • Effectively communicated with the external vendors to resolve queries.  • Used Perforce for the version control.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application    Environment: PYTHON, FLASK, HTML, XHTML, CSS, JavaScript, Eclipse, MS SQL, Windows OS. Education Masters in Oklahoma Oklahoma City University Skills CSS (2 years), DJANGO (2 years), HTML (2 years), JAVASCRIPT (2 years), MYSQL (2 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:  Languages Python, Django, Flask, basic C, SQL  Databases MySQL, SQL Server 2008, Oracle 10g  Web Technologies JavaScript, HTML, CSS  Operating Systems Linux, Windows  Application Tools Visual Studio, Pycharm, eclipse  Version Control GitHub