Programmer Analyst Programmer Analyst Programmer Analyst - uData Analysts Inc Atlanta, GA • Full stack developer around 5+ years of industrial experience in Designing, Development, Deployment and maintenance of web apps developed in python, Django and flask frameworks.  • Experience in writing code using Object Oriented Programming (OOPs concept) and software development life cycle (SDLC), architecting scalable platforms, database design and agile methodologies.  • More than 4 years of Professional Web Apps development experience using Django and Flask inclusive of experience in UI using JavaScript, AngularJS and React-Redux.  • Experience in writing the python scripts and tracking customer development.  • Experience working with Vagrant virtual machine and Docker images and containers.  • Developed CI/CD pipelines using Jenkins.  • Proficient knowledge in Web services like AWS and google cloud.  • Worked with varieties of Relational Databases (RDBMS) like SQLite, MySQL and Postgresql and NoSQL DBs like MongoDB.  • Good knowledge working on Django and flask web framework to develop scalable web applications.  • Developed code using PEP8 coding standards.  • Strong experience using REST Web Services for data communication between remote systems, designed, developed and testing of REST interfaces in python and Java.  • Worked on AJAX framework to transform Datasets and Data tables into HTTP-serializable JSON strings.  • Installation, configuring and working with OSX10 Sierra, Ubuntu 14/16, Fedora23 and Red Hat Enterprise Linux server 5.0/6.0 on VMware and stand-alone platforms.  • Experience using GIT version control and testing deployments using Heroku.  • Experience working in Pycharm and sublime text coding environment.  • Deployed a lot of web application over the private cloud using AWS and managed the web applications using EC2 instances.  • Well aware of SDLC, Waterfall, Test-driven development (TDD) and Agile/Scrum Methodologies. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Programmer Analyst uData Analysts Inc - Glen Allen, VA July 2016 to Present Description: uData Analysts is designing a web based grocery shopping and enhancing on a personalized shopping experience for its users by data mining on the customers previous transactions.    Responsibilities:  • Worked on backend of the application.  • Used the Django Framework to develop the application.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Used JavaScript and JSON to update a portion of a webpage.  • Develop consumer based features and applications using Python, Django, HTML, Behavior Driven Development (BDD) and pair based programming.  • Rewrite existing Python/Django modules to deliver certain format of data.  • Wrote Python scripts to parse JSON documents and load the data in database.  • Used Python and Django to interface with the jQuery UI and manage the storage and deletion of content.  • Worked on front end frame works like CSS Bootstrap for development of Web applications.  • Involved in deployment of project using AWS (EC2, RDS, S3).  • Special skills in developing user friendly, simple yet effective web based applications.  • Deployed the project into Heroku using GIT version control system.  • Worked in MySQL database on simple queries and writing Stored Procedures for normalization and renormalization.  • Used many regular expressions in order to match the pattern with the existing one.  • Build SQL queries for performing various CRUD operations like create, update, read and delete.  • Skilled in using Collections in Python for manipulating and looping through different user defined objects.  • Performed Unit testing, Integration testing and web application testing.  • Taken part in entire lifecycle of the projects including Design, Development, and Deployment, Testing and Implementation and support.  • Worked in development of applications especially in UNIX environment and familiar with all of its commands.    Environment: Python 2.7, Django 1.6, MySQL, Linux, HTML, GIT, CSS, AJAX, Bugzilla, JavaScript, Apache Web Server, Django, Rest API's Software Engineer YP.com - Atlanta, GA November 2015 to May 2016 Responsibilities:  • Developed a Salesforce, Cloud Base CRM application with Visual Force pages, apex, triggers, test classes, SOQL, validation rules and custom sObjects.  • Experience with Salesforce.com web services APIs, force.com, SOAP and REST-based web service APIs  • Developed and Implemented Internal application for customer order tracking, Developed Front end using jQuery, and JavaScript  • Built Restful JSON APIs to respond and consume vendor integration services  • Backend Calls SQL made from application to MSSQL, Oracle, and MySQL  • Developed and enhance multiple asp.net MVC projects  • Middleware engineering for application done using Rest, LINQ, C#, ASP.Net 4.5 and LINQ, Entity Framework, and MVC  • Served as an interface between YP.com business organization and YP customers, Interacted with business clients and business analysts  • Served as a project lead for more complex projects.  • Developed and support high visibility production applications.  • Complete coding based on technical specifications within company procedures, guidelines and coding standards.  • Developed YP.com DNS system to support YP's customer's production websites  • Unit tested code to ensure product quality and to minimize defects.  • Acquire and maintain in-depth knowledge of software systems for which projects are assigned.  • Coordinate with quality assurance engineers to maintain quality code and programs.    Environment: C #, MVC, ASP.NET, Salesforce, Perl, SQL, OOD, CGI, DBI RedHat/centos, Oracle, SQL Server, DNS, Web Services, XML, MySQL, JavaScript, BIND, CSS swagger/ymal, SOQL, Visual Force Pages, Jenkins, Git, JIRA, SVN, VM ware, JavaScript Angular, LINQ, ajax, JQuery, SF workbench, HTML5, ADO.NET, JUnit Python Software Engineer GEMSOFT Tech Solutions - Atlanta, GA June 2013 to October 2015 Responsibilities:  • An e Commerce company (HQ in California, US) providing services in multiple disciplines, like - Online Shopping Cart  • Development, Online Promotion, Price Comparison Shopping, SEO, Customer & Technical Support through - Chat, Email and Voice.  • Involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) such as requirements gathering, modelling, analysis, design and development.  • Generated Use case diagrams, Activity flow diagrams, Class diagrams and Object diagrams in the design phase.  • Responsible for entire data migration from Sybase ASE server to Oracle  • Migration of API code written for Sybase to Oracle.  • Overlook the migration activity of PL/SQL programs  • Migration of the PL/SQL code from Sybase to Oracle.  • Migration of the data contained in the earlier ASPL Database from Sybase to Oracle.  • Migrate the Libraries written using Sybase API's to Oracle's OCCI API's  • Automation of testing using Python.  • Used Python based GUI components for the front end functionality such as selection criteria.  • Generated property list for every application dynamically using Python.    Environment: Python 2.7, Shell scripting, PL/SQL, SVN, Quality Center, Solaris, Windows, Perl Python Developer Cox Communications - Atlanta, GA October 2011 to April 2013 Responsibilities:  • Written Shell scripting for automation.  • Used Django to develop web applications.  • Experience with Requests, Pysftp, Gnupg, ReportLab, Numpy, Scipy, Matplotlib, HTTPLib2, Urllib2, Beautiful Soup and Pandas python libraries during development lifecycle.  • Implemented MVC framework to design modular & maintainable applications.  • Implemented Matplotlib for data representation.  • Used Python and Django creating graphics, XML processing, data exchange and business logic implementation.  • Developed consumer based features and applications using Python, Django, HTML, behavior Driven Development (BDD) and pair based programming.  • Gathering and analysis phase of project in documenting business requirements by conducting workshops and meetings with various business clients.  • Used python scripts for automated data movement.  • Involved in validating, processing files and building database models and views implementing Python to build interactive solutions  • Used GIT for controlling version.  • Implemented Agile Methodology and Scrum process for implementation.  • Used JIRA as a tracking tool for sprints.  • Used AWS for configuring and developing of application.  • Developed User Interface screens using HTML, CSS, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Successfully migrated the Django database from SQLite3 to PostgreSQL with complete data integrity.    Environment: Python, Django, Linux, Shell Scripting, GIT, Amazon (AWS, EC2, S3), HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, Education Master of Science in Computer Engineering in Computer Engineering San Jose State University 2014 Skills database. (5 years), Python (5 years), scripting (3 years), Shell scripting (3 years), SQL (4 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  • Operating systems: Windows, Unix, Linux  • Language: Python, Java, OOPs concepts, Shell Scripting  • Database: Oracle, SQL Server, MySQL, SQLite  • Tools: MS Visual Studio, Linux command  • Web Framework: Django, Flask and Pyramid  • Web Services: AWS, Amazon S3  • Operating Systems: Windows, Linux, MAC OSX, Ubuntu.  • Integration and Bug Tracking Tools: Jenkins, Git, Jira.  • Protocols: TCP/IP, HTTP/HTTPS, SMTP  • Deployment Tools: Heroku, Vagrant.