Sr. Python/Django Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Python</span>/Django <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Python/Django Developer - Bank of America TX • 7+ years full stack experiences in python and web application development, technologies include Flask, Django, AngularJS, ExtJS, Twitter Bootstrap 3.0, MySql, MongoDB, ElasticSearch, Celery, RabbitMQ etc. to solve complex business requirements and software design problems.  • Experienced in developing web-based applications using Python, Flask, PHP, Django, XML, JSON, CSS, HTML, HTML5, JavaScript, AngularJS and jQuery.  • Knowledge of Cloud Computing (Openstack(Helion), SDN (Openflow/Opendaylight), NFV, Cloud Foundry, Docker, Ansible, Chef, Jenkins.  • Used and configured NGINX and Node.js servers for the portal to run on and made them work even for CORS.  • Expertise in Amazon Cloud Services and its features (EC2, VPC, EBS, AMI, snapshots, Autoscaling, Cloud Formation, IAM, RDS, SES, SQS, SNS, RDS, EMR, ELB, CloudWatch etc.)  • Upgrading skills in the areas of Linux internals, administration, cloud computing technologies, Vmware/NSX/Storage/Vcloud Director, Openstack/Helion/Cloud Foundry, Chef, Jenkins & Ansible.  • Experience developing scripts using Shell, Ansible to automate the day-to-day processes.  • Worked on full conversion of a Razor-based MVC server based application into a SPA using asynchronous programming with the framework AngularJS and TypeScript 2.0.  • Developed a dynamic exploit deployment framework using Python, Flask, and MongoDB  • Experience in scaling the CI web application horizontally with a software load balancer (HAProxy) and scalable http & web servers (gunicorn & nginx).  • Expertise in JUNIT testing using Mockito and Power Mockito, integration testing and SOAP UI testing.  • Extensive experience in using Amazon Web Services - RDS, EC2, Redshift, SQS, SNS Cloud Watch and S3. Work Experience Sr. Python/Django Developer Bank of America - Burlington, MA May 2015 to Present Responsibilities:  • Involved in the development of front end of the application using Python 3.4, HTML5, CSS3, bootstrap 3.0, AJAX, JSON and Jquery Designed a Web Application based on Multi-Tier Architecture using the current most popular web technologies like HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript and RESTful Web Services.  • Used ADO.NET objects such as DataSet, SQLCommand, SQLConnection and SQLDataReader  • Worked on Python Scientific packages like Numpy and Pandas to handle data sets effectively.  • GUI modules is developed using HTML, .NET Controls and C#.  • Developed GUI using Python and Django for dynamically displaying the test block documentation and other features of python code using a web browser.  • Written Business Logic Components (Assemblies) using C#.NET to implement the common functions used in the entire application and used ADO.NET for database access.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Worked with different controls in ASP.NET 2.0 like MultiView, Wizard Control, Master Page and Web Administrator Tool.  • Different testing methodologies like unit testing, Integration testing, web application testing Selenium testing performed and Lock mechanisms were implemented and the functionality of multi-threading has been used.  • Followed Agile methodology and involved in daily SCRUM meetings, sprint planning, showcases and retrospective and used JIRA as a tracking tool for the sprints  • Developing software in Python, C# and web development frameworks such as Flask as well as Angular 2/Mongo DB, Express, Node.js.  • Used Python and Django to interface with the jQuery UI and manage the storage and deletion of content.  • Designed and deployed multiple applications utilizing most of the AWS services such as EC2, Route 53, RDS, DynamoDB, EMR and SQS.  • Launching Amazon EC2 Cloud Instances using Amazon Web Services (Linux/ Ubuntu) and Configuring launched instances with respect to specific applications.  • Implemented migration tasks from Oracle apps to PostgreSQL databases.  • Responsible for writing/modifying scripts using sh, ksh, and Bash for day-to-day administration.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django including Tastypie Web Framework using Git.  • Strong experience in developing entire application using Python, MySQL, Linux and Django framework, along with a rich user interface using HTML, CSS, JavaScript and jQuery.  • Sound knowledge in automation tools like Ansible, Puppet & Chef.  • Organized data exchange and integration with customers and third-party systems using CSV, XLS, XML, DBF, JSON, REST, SOAP.  • Provided DevOps support using Docker and Ansible. Python Developer Tech Data Corporation - Clearwater, FL December 2013 to April 2015 Responsibilities:  • Set up data storage using a PostgreSQL database on an AWS Relational Database Service.  • Utilized Django ORM (for simpler queries) and cursors (for more complex queries) to call many-to-many data relations. Queries were further abstracted using object-oriented programming.  • Extensive usage of User Controls and ASP.NET server controls.  • Develop and program Python scripts of automation procedure with provided API and JSON data to connect and communicate embedded hardware system, based on design documents and business objectives, including developer testing activities, like unit testing, regression testing, integration testing.  • Manage continuous build and share progress with Confluence, Bamboo and SVN.  • Managed over 50 Ubuntu servers in the cloud running server services such as: apache, nginx, supervisord, mysql, postgresql, django, ruby, and gunicorn supporting over 3 million monthly views  • Actively involved in developing the methods for Create, Read, Update and Delete (CRUD) in Active Record.  • Involved in designing application system requirements and coded back-end and front-end in Django/ Python.  • Extensively used concepts of Delegates, generics, boxing-unboxing and Inheritance in C#.NET, along with Abstract classes/Interfaces and Polymorphism.  • Developed front-end code with Ajax call in AngularJS and jQuery to retrieve data as JSON Object from controllers in back-end RESTful Server.  • Binded the entire application on Nginx & gunicorn server as well as build server work using Jenkins.  • Worked with cross-browser and cross-platform development of HTML5 and CSS3 based websites in Windows like Safari, IE 6, IE 7, IE 8, Firefox and Chrome.  • Designed a network of web pages, where the user progresses through an application by selecting links, resulting in the next page being transferred to the user and rendered for their use using REST  • Self-healing Server Infrastructure development on AWS cloud, extensive usage of AWS-EC2, VPC, CLI, S3, Route53, Cloud Formation, Cloud Front, SNS, SQS, Cloud Trail.  • Implemented task object to interface with data feed framework and invoke database message service setup and update functionality.  • Working under UNIX environment in development of application using Python and familiar with all of its commands.  • Performed security patching, configured Apache and NGINX Vhosts, optimized Varnish on Linux hosts (Ubuntu, CentOS, Amazon Linux) via SSH and sudo.  • Developed single page application by using Angular JS backed by MongoDB and NodeJS.  • Involved in Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) of tracking the requirements, gathering, analysis, detailed design, development, system testing and user acceptance testing. Python Developer Frontier Communications - Stamford, CT August 2011 to November 2013 Responsibilities:  • Developed the presentation layer and GUI framework that are written using HTML and Client-Side validations were done using JavaScript.  • Involved in document analysis and technical feasibility discussions for implementing new functionalities.  • Designed front-end and back-end of the application using Python, NodeJS on Django Web Framework.  • Involved in developing front end screens using JSP, Struts View Tags, Bootstrap, JSTL, DHTML, CSS3 and JavaScript, and jQuery.  • Implemented CI/CD using Jenkins for development process.  • Involved in document analysis and technical feasibility discussions for implementing new functionalities.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and template language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Analyzed Chef, Nginx playbooks to determine how to migrate them to Ansible.  • Developed REST APIs using Scala and Play framework to retrieve processed data from Cassandra database.  • Created custom user defined functions in Python language for Pig.  • Puppet Manifests to provision complex multi-node applications composed of Python, Node, Apache, Nginx Passenger, Unicorn, Elastic Search, Hadoop, and MySQL.  • Built application logic using Python and worked on Behavioral-driven programming in Python.  • Developed the UI using Winforms in VB.net.  • Embedded AJAX in UI to update small portions of the web page avoiding the need to reload the entire page.  • Experienced in the installation, patching and upgrading of Applications (Openfire, Apache, Nginx, Drupal, etc.) on Unix/Linux and AWS platform.  • Managed, developed, and designed a dashboard control panel for customers and Administrators using Django, MongoDB, PostgreSQL and VMWare API calls.  • Develop and program Python scripts of automation procedure with provided API and JSON data to connect and communicate embedded hardware system, based on design documents and business objectives, including developer testing activities, like unit testing, regression testing, integration testing. Associate Systems Engineer Quest Diagnostics - Madison, NJ May 2010 to July 2011 Responsibilities:  • Developed, coded, enhanced a custom web based applications to support Quest Diagnostics for different business divisions.  • Created C++ classes that encapsulate the data in database tables rows, used Informix SQL as our database server for our web based applications,  • Implemented C functions, wrapper that contain utilities, functions for database connectivity, access and update.  • Combined multiple existing batch applications into a single Spring Batch application to promote code reusability and maintainability.  • Implemented, Apache server as application server for our web applications, configured Apache server to support multiple web based applications.  • Developed Spring Based Web services SOAP through XSD and WSDL.  • Deployment, planning and scheduling of SSIS Packages through SQL jobs.  • Worked on the Web Services using SOAP and Restful web services.  • Created many complex SQL queries and used them in Oracle Reports to generate reports.  • Build custom front end UI web pages using HTML, DHTML, CGI, CSS and JavaScript.  • Developed the UI pages using HTML, DHTML, Java script, AJAX, JQUERY, Angular JS and tag libraries etc.  • Create Process Jobs running overnight using C, C++ and Unix Shell Scripting to update database application based on tasks schedule.  • Developed Stored procedures and Triggers for business rules.  • Converted existing web based applications built with C, C++, CGI, Informix ESQL-C to Java web based applications technology.  • Used CVS as a documentation repository and version controlling tool. Skills C++, Django, Docker, Git, Gui, Python, Flask, Matplotlib, Numpy, Tkinter, Subversion, Svn, Mysql, Postgresql, Sql, Scala, Linux, Solaris, Sun, Unix