Full Stack Python/Django Developer Full Stack <span class="hl">Python</span>/Django <span class="hl">Developer</span> Full Stack Python/Django Developer - Ernst & Young Orlando, FL I work with people, and independently a times, as I take part in different phases of solutions development. I can greatly collaborate in the development of computer programs, software engineering, web applications development, and management. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Full Stack Python/Django Developer Ernst & Young February 2019 to Present Technologies utilized:  Python, Postgres, Azure, Django, Javascript, Git.    Responsibilities  • Senior developer of an operational and decision-making backend application that powers a series of analytics visuals for the UI stack with Python, Javascript, Django, Machine Learning, Functional Programming, Plotly, Concurrency Programming, API, and Azure. Django Developer MeyerKimera.Com November 2017 to January 2019 Technologies utilized:  AWS, Postgres, Nginx, Python, Django, HTML, Javascript, Git.    Responsibilities  • Built a restful API and web service in order to implement a fully functional online multi-media platform for information and media type processing. Software Developer & Support Analyst iTicket POS September 2017 to November 2018 Technologies utilized:  Microsoft TFS (Team Foundation Server), ASP.NET (C#), Paradox, Github, Windows Server, SQL Server 2016, SQL Express 2016.    Responsibilities  • My role involved collaborating with the organization's Senior software developer in order to maintain and enhance the application modules' underlying and intended workflows.    • I closely collaborated with the project leadership team in order to facilitate in the Testing, Quality Assurance, and Quality Control phases. These processes included identifying bugs/errors/defects within the software modules and implementing procedures, and standards in context to verification and delivery of developed software and intended requirements.    • I assisted with the streamlining of the development and production database CRUD operations by developing automated tools which helped reduce execution time in the development, production backends. This also eliminated excessive manual DB interventions and as well helped to trim server log files to maintain desirable data storage sizes. Apple Sr Advisor iOS and Mac Devices April 2016 to April 2017 For one year, I successfully embarked on a customer service challenge/journey in order to learn, work-together with and help customers resolve software, hardware, and usability related issues by learning about the customers' experiences or issues and determining the best applicable solutions. This required an active and continuous listening as well as collaboration with customers as we worked toward a sounding solution. I successfully resolved over 3800+ tech issues. This made customers satisfied, happy and subsequently, into repeat customers. Full Stack Python Developer Umojivity.com 2013 to January 2017 Python/Django Web Application Development  As a member of the project lead development team, I collaborated in developing a user-centric, data-processor, and cross-browser web application, with a front-end that renders and views responsively across multiple viewports. I also collaborated in the building and rebuilding regular Django app APIs with Django and DRF, with authorization, rate limiting, either with pure Django or Django RestApi Framework from a continuous integration approach. I utilized the feature-driven development methodology as my first approach to finding and applying the right methods through a stack of challenges during designing, coding and iteration stages.    • Security and Stress Testing  My role also involved performing surface threat explorations on the app's front end stack in order to discover areas where security could be improved. This involved an active and collaborative role play with developers, and test users, during code performance testings, hybrid security testings, cross-browser testings, load stress performance testing, and syntax validations in the application's lifecycle stages. This phase enabled our development and production teams to iterate models, designs and deploy scalable and secure apps.    • Data Models and Development  I developed data models with Python's Object-relational-mappers to synchronize, improve, maintain and scale a custom CMS portal which performs CRUD operations on MySQL and PostgreSQL servers.    • Cloud Provisioning AWS Certified Solutions Architect  As a cloud solutions architect, I applied the best standard architectural practices to design and operate reliable, secured, efficient and cost-effective systems on Amazon Web Services that run and monitor systems to deliver business value and to continually improve supporting processes and procedures.    • Linux / LAMP / LNPP  Because Linux is designed to handIe the more demanding needs of business applications, Linux was our first choice OS. I actively designed and tested environments, components, and stack for development and production code. To ensure all processes operate within specified limits and configurations for use, I actively took part in layering of security protocols that allowed managing permissions to system's resources, perform system and package installations, updates and decommissioning of systems and packages. Python/Django Software Developer Technology Assurance Labs November 2015 to January 2016 I refactored and re-wrote python code for a Django web application. I collaborated during bug fixes, feature enhancement and application documentation of the OWL site service portal. I successfully created and implemented a multiple files uploader for parsing MID data aggregated from a multi-faceted user interactivity backend. This enabled the tracking of business-critical information from the web portal management and reporting output of the application stack. DevOps Freelancer Umojivity.com 2013 to 2015 DevOps Github, Vagrant, Jenkins, Chef, AWS, Slack, Email  leaned inward implementing with the lean and agile principles and methodologies. I collaborated in shared objectives such as capturing the right process data, curbing down and dealing with bottlenecks, inefficiencies or waste during a project, an app or a process's life cycle. I collaborated in the planning, issue tracking, monitoring, configuration management, source control interactions, computing, networking environment architecting, continuous integrations and deployments. Co-founder Corps Savants Networks 2007 to 2010 • Helped to design an Intranet application used for opportunity management and global markets forecast. HTML, CSS, PHP, Python, CGI, Apache, HTTP, MySQL.  • Web Server administration experience including hardening, website operation, and managing production web environment.  • SSL encryption/decryption, certificate maintenance, and renew (OpenSSL).  • Installed and configured Apache web servers to enable answering and secure HTTP connections.  • Installed and enabled SSL certificates in default SSL Vhosts.  • Implemented instance hardening. Education Diploma in Project management Khan Academy - Johannesburg, Gauteng 2004 to 2006 Skills C#, Django, Html, Javascript, Bootstrap, Python, Flask, Sql server, Mysql, Sql, Asp, Css, Iis, Asp.net, nginx, Apache, Linux, Unix, Html5, jquery Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    • Operating Systems: Linux, Windows, Mac OS and UNIX operating systems.  • Web Servers: Apache, Nginx, Microsoft IIS  • Web Development: JavaScript, HTML, CSS, Django, Flask, ASP.Net Core  • Mobile Development: HTML5, CSS3, jQuery, Bootstrap  • Programming Languages: Python, Javascript, C#  • Databases: SQL Server, Postresql, MySQL, SQL Server  • Cloud: AWS, Azure