Sr. Python Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Python Developer - Synchrony Financial Houston, TX • Over 8 years of experience as a Web/Application Developer and coding with analytical programming using Python, Django, C++.  • Expert knowledge of Object-Oriented Design and Programming concepts.  • Experience in object-oriented programming (OOP) concepts using Python, C++ and PHP.  • Experienced in developing web-based applications using Python, Django, PHP, C++, XML, HTML, DHTML, CSS, JavaScript and jQuery.  • Good experience of software development in Python (libraries used: libraries- Beautiful Soup, Numpy, Scipy, Matplotlib, python-twitter, Pandas data frame, network, urllib2, MySQL for database connectivity) and IDEs -sublime text, Spyder, pycharm, pytesting, Eclipse, emacs.  • Good knowledge on NoSQL databases like Cassandra, MongoDB.  • Experienced in developing Web Services with Python programming language.  • Experience in using Design Patterns such as MVC, Singleton and frameworks such as DJANGO.  • Experience in Python OpenStack API'S.  • Scaling up projects using python tools like multithreading, celery.  • Experienced with full software development lifecycle, architecting scalable platforms, object-oriented programming, database design and agile methodologies.  • Experience in using Version Control Systems like GIT, SVN and CVS. Good experience in Linux Bash scripting and following PEP Guidelines in Python.  • Extensively worked on Hudson/Jenkins, Build Forge for continuous integration and for End to End automation for all build and deployments.  • Performed integration of Code Quality Analysis Techniques like Check styles, Find Bugs and PMD with CI tool Hudson/Jenkins.  • Experience with configuration management tools like Chef, Puppet, and Ansible.  • Experience on developing Chef Cookbook for the automation of software installation and configuration of customer infrastructures.  • Experience in maintaining and executing build scripts to automate development and production builds.  • Worked with Chef to aid with deployment process and migrating in house systems to Amazon Cloud Services.  • Experience in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on MySQL and PostgreSQL database.  • Good experience in Shell Scripting, SQL Server, UNIX and Linux.  • Developed web applications and RESTful web services and APIs using Python Flask, Django and PHP.  • Wrote AJAX framework to transform Datasets and Data tables into HTTP-serializable JSON strings.  • Wrote MATLAB code to create discretized computer models of sloped levy geometries.  • Experienced in Agile and waterfall methodologies with high quality deliverables delivered on-time.  • Experienced in developing API services in Python/Tornado, Node.JS while leveraging AMQP and RabbitMQ for distributed architectures.  • Experience working with Redis, RabbitMQ for task queues and Celery to manage Asynchronous tasks.  • Experienced in installing, configuring, modifying, testing and deploying applications with Apache.  • Good Knowledge of using IDE Tools like Eclipse, NetBeans, Android Studio, Visual Studio, IDLE.  • Experience in developing ColdFusion Components, custom tags and modified CF Objects.  • Experience with Unit testing/ Test driven Development (TDD), Load Testing.  • Experienced in building tools such as ANT, MAVEN, and JENKINS.  • Experience in maintaining all the tools like Bamboo, Bit Bucket, Confluence, JIRA, and GIT.  • Experience in deploying applications in heterogeneous Application Servers TOMCAT, Web Logic and Oracle Application. Server.  • Good experience in Amazon AWS concepts like EMR, S3 and EC2 web services which provides fast and efficient processing of Big Data.  • Good experience with cloud platforms like Amazon AWS and Google App Engine.  • Strong understanding and experience in AWS EC2, network management and datacenter operations.  • Experience in administering and supporting the CM tools including Subversion and CVS on UNIX environments.  • Configured AWS Identity and Access Management (IAM) Groups and Users for improved login authentication.  • Good idea using debugging tools like Bugzilla, and JIRA.  • Ability to learn and adapt quickly to the emerging new technologies and paradigms.  • Proficient in designing Model, View, Database Architecture for a given requirement or problem statement irrespective of underlying technology. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Python Developer Synchrony Financial - Palo Alto, CA September 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Responsible for gathering requirements, system analysis, design, development, testing and deployment.  • Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks. Interfacing with supervisors, artists, systems administrators and production to ensure production deadlines are met.  • Developed multi-threaded standalone app in Python and PHP to view performance.  • Used Pandas library for statistical Analysis.  • Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks.  • Working in team of Architects and Developers to build and deploy Python Flask Peewee Linux AWS.  • Version control using GitHub.  • Involved in writing stored procedures using MySQL.  • Interfacing with supervisors, artists, systems administrators and production to ensure production deadlines are met.  • Developed Business Logic using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Used Django Database API's to access database objects.  • Used JQuery and Ajax calls for transmitting JSON data objects between frontend and controllers.  • Involved in building database Model, APIs and Views utilizing Python, in order to build an interactive web-based solution.  • Used Python based GUI components for the front-end functionality such as selection criteria,  • Created test harness to enable comprehensive testing utilizing Python.  • Used Amazon Web Services (AWS) for improved efficiency of storage and fast access.  • Added support for Amazon AWS S3 and RDS to host static/media files and the database into Amazon Cloud.  • Involved in front end and utilized Bootstrap and Angular.js for page design.  • Created Data tables utilizing PyQt to display customer and policy information and add, delete, update customer records  • Used PyQuery for selecting DOM elements when parsing HTML.  • Used Wireshark, live http headers, and Fiddler debugging proxy to debug the Flash object and help the developer create a functional component.  • Used Pandas API to put the data as time series and tabular format for east timestamp data manipulation and retrieval.  • Having very good experience with BIG DATA  • Created Business Logic using Python to create Planning and Tracking functions  • Created UI Screens for initiation and validation.  • Worked on UI using HTML5, CSS3 and Java Scripts.    Environment: Python, Django, Shell Scripting, AWS, Pandas, PyQt, PyQuery, Wireshark, Flash, DOM, JSON, PHP, HTML5, CSS3, AJAX, JavaScript, Angular.js, Bootstrap, Apache Web Server, MYSQL, GitHub, LINUX. Sr. Python Developer Schlumberger - Houston, TX January 2016 to August 2017 Responsibilities:  • Complete development and expertise in Rest framework in Django.  • Involved in Developing a Restful service using Python Django framework.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework with GIT.  • Designing Celery and multithreading for scheduling the tasks and multiple activities.  • Designed and managed API system deployment using fast http server and Amazon AWS architecture.  • Expertise in code review for the code developed by team and suggesting the relevant and appropriate changes.  • Dealing with client regarding the requirements of the projects and taking care of production issues and bugs.  • Experience in various modules like rest framework, mock, freezgun, Numpy etc.;  • Perform Jenkins administration, updating plugins, setting up new projects and debugging build problems.  • Developed unit and functional tests in Python and Ruby.  • Using ANT, Puppet/ Chef Scripts with Ivy to build the application and deploy.  • Configured AWS Identity and Access Management (IAM) Groups and Users for improved login authentication.  • Conduct systems design, feasibility and cost studies and recommend cost-effective cloud solutions such as Amazon Web Services (AWS).  • Develop Interactive front end to visualize data from backend and represent in graphical manner to batter understanding for user.  • Front End coding using Angular 2.0 using modules like angular material, angular aria, angular paging, angular google maps, etc.  • Experienced in hand coding HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, and other UI technologies.  • Experienced in web applications development using Django/ Python, .NET/C#, Flask/ Python, and Node.js, Angular.js, ember.js, jQuery, Ajax while using HTML/CSS/JS for server-side rendered application.  • Developed the entire project using PostgreSQL. Migrating from other databases to PostgreSQL.  • Expertise in developing web-based open stack applications using Python and Django for large dataset analysis.  • Developed Merge jobs in Python to extract and load data into MySQL database.  • Successfully migrated the Django database from SQLite to MySQL to PostgreSQL with complete data integrity.  • Front-end web development using HTML/CSS, JQuery, Bootstrap as well as back-end development using SQL.  • Used Test driven approach for developing the application and Implemented the unit tests using Python Unit test framework.  • Worked on Atlassian tools like Bamboo, Jira, and confluence.  • Created Branches, Labels and performed Merges in Stash and GIT.  • Administering Code Repositories in SVN and Bit bucket.  • Involved in the complete Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) to develop the application.  • Followed AGILE development methodology to develop the application.  • Used Test driven approach (TDD) for developing services required for the application.  • Implemented Integration test cases.    Environment: Python 2.7/3.5, PyQuery, HTML5, CSS3, Angular 2.0, Shell Scripting, JSON, Rest, Apache Web Server, Django, Celery, Flash, SQL, UNIX, Windows, PostgreSQL, and python libraries such as Numpy, SQLAlchemy, AWS etc. Python Developer BCBS - Detroit, MI December 2013 to December 2015 Responsibilities:  • Involved in Developing a Restful service using Python Django framework.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework with GIT.  • Designing Celery and multithreading for scheduling the tasks and multiple activities.  • Designed and managed API system deployment using fast http server and Amazon AWS architecture.  • Perform Jenkins administration, updating plugins, setting up new projects and debugging build problems.  • Using ANT, Puppet/ Chef Scripts with Ivy to build the application and deploy.  • Using Chef and AWS allowed me to reduce costs for the department and eliminate unwarranted resources. Automated provisioning of cloud infrastructure with Chef.  • Configured AWS Identity and Access Management (IAM) Groups and Users for improved login authentication.  • Conduct systems design, feasibility and cost studies and recommend cost-effective cloud solutions such as Amazon Web Services (AWS).  • Develop Interactive front end to visualize data from backend and represent in graphical manner to batter understanding for user.  • Experienced in hand coding HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, and other UI technologies.  • Experience with JavaScript Frameworks Ext JS, AngularJS, jQuery  • Experienced in web applications development using Django/ Python, .NET/C#, Flask/ Python, and Node.js, Angular.js, ember.js, jQuery, Ajax while using HTML/CSS/JS for server-side rendered application.  • Expertise in developing web-based open stack applications using Python and Django for large dataset analysis.  • Developed Merge jobs in Python to extract and load data into MySQL database.  • Successfully migrated the Django database from SQLite to MySQL to PostgreSQL with complete data integrity.  • Experience in report writing using SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS) and in creating various types of reports like table, matrix, and chart report, web reporting by customizing URL Access.  • Provide high-level technical support and administration for GIS-based routing software.  • Ensure data integrity, performing extensive quality control checks of GIS data and non-spatial databases  • Front-end web development using HTML/CSS, JQuery, Bootstrap as well as back-end development using Golang and SQL.  • Designing and tightly integrating Flash into the CMS with the use of FlashVars stored in the Django models. Also created XML with Django to be used by the Flash.  • Used Test driven approach for developing the application and Implemented the unit tests using Python Unit test framework.  • Responsible for all Public (AWS) and Private (OpenStack/VMWare/DCOS/Mesos/Marathon) cloud infrastructure.  • Supported development team with deployment workflow and continuous integration using Gitlab, GitLab CI, Rundeck, Docker and SaltStack provisioning.  • Worked on Atlassian tools like Bamboo, Jira, and confluence.  • Reviewed and implemented instrument pricing and modelling methodologies in collaboration with technical engineers. Analyzed and documented how instrument prices move as underlying market data sources change.  • Actively participated in requirement gathering sessions and capability planning for multi data center Cassandra cluster.  • Installed, Configured, administered and monitored multi Data center Cassandra clusters.  • Involved in upgrading the present Oracle data model to Cassandra data model.  • Evaluated and tuned data model by running endurance tests using JMeter, Cassandra Stress Tool and OpsCenter.  • Writing bash shell scripts on local setups to automate jobs  • Designed front end using UI, HTML, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Involved in the Complete Software development life cycle (SDLC) to develop the application.  • Full Stack Developer for custom Drupal 7 build. Responsibilities included site maintenance, new feature development and user support.    Environment: Python 2.7, PyQt, .NET, PyQuery, MVW, HTML5, CSS3, DOM, Angular.js, Shell Scripting, JSON, Rest, Apache Web Server, Django, Celery, Flash, SQL, UNIX, Windows, PostgreSQL, and python libraries such as Numpy, SQLAlchemy, Android OS Android 1.5 to Android 6.0 etc. Python Developer Advisor Group - Phoenix, AZ May 2012 to October 2013 Responsibilities:  • Responsible for gathering requirements, system analysis, design, development, testing and deployment.  • Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks. Interfacing with supervisors, artists, systems administrators and production to ensure production deadlines are met.  • Developed Business Logic using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Used Django Database API's to access database objects.  • Developed Graphical User Interfaces using CQ5, HTML and ASP's for user interaction Used JavaScript, jQuery for client-side validation. Worked in AJAX to create interactive front-end GUI. Used CSS, CSS2/CSS3for styling the Front-end pages.  • Plan and organize GIS shape files into Geodatabase; create, manage, convergent implement your databases into other file formats as required.  • Perform quality control checks of GIS data and non-spatial databases to ensure data integrity.  • Used JQuery and Ajax calls for transmitting JSON data objects between frontend and controllers.  • Involved in building database Model, APIs and Views utilizing Python, to build an interactive web-based solution.  • Created PHP/MySQL back-end for data entry from Flash  • Used Python based GUI components for the front-end functionality such as selection criteria.  • Created test harness to enable comprehensive testing utilizing Python.  • Developed multiple chef cookbooks from scratch.  • Managing Amazon Web Services (AWS) infrastructure with automation and configuration management tools such as uDeploy, Puppet or custom-built. designing cloud-hosted solutions, specific AWS product suite experience.  • Implemented secured way of Centralized login for AWS users using 389 Directory Services (LDAP) and OpenVPN.  • Implemented Vagrant, a production like virtual development environment for developers.  • Used Amazon Web Services (AWS) for improved efficiency of storage and fast access.  • Added support for Amazon AWS S3 and RDS to host static/media files and the database into Amazon Cloud.  • Involved in front end and utilized Bootstrap and Angular.js for page design.  • Responsible for Plug-in Management, User Management and Backup/Disaster Recovery Plan/Implementation (BDR) on Jenkins.  • Created Data tables utilizing PyQt to display customer and policy information and add, delete, update customer records.  • Used PyQuery for selecting particular DOM elements when parsing HTML.  • Used Wireshark, live http headers, and Fiddler2 debugging proxy to debug the Flash object and help the developer create a functional component.  • Used Pandas API to put the data as time series and tabular format for east timestamp data manipulation and retrieval.  • Used Celery framework to develop a new feature to support parallel processes and complete multiple requests simultaneously.  • Created Business Logic using Python to create Planning and Tracking functions  • Created UI Screens for initiation and validation.  • Worked on UI using HTML5, CSS3 and Java Scripts.  • Developed multi-threaded standalone app in Python and PHP to view performance.  • Used Pandas library for statistical Analysis.  • Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks.  • Working in team of Architects and Developers to build and deploy Python Flask Peewee Linux AWS.  • Version control using GitHub.  • Have used Confluence to create, share and discuss content and projects.  • Expertise in Using Version management tools Git, bit-bucket and source Tree.  • Involved in writing stored procedures using MySQL.  • Interfacing with supervisors, artists, systems administrators and production to ensure production deadlines are met.    Environment: Python 3.x, Django, Celery, Shell Scripting, AWS, Pandas, PyQt, PyQuery, Wireshark, Flash, DOM, JSON, PHP, HTML5, CSS3, AJAX, JavaScript, Angular.js, Bootstrap, Apache Web Server, MYSQL, GIS, GitHub, LINUX. Python Django Developer Asceena Retail Group - Mahwah, NJ January 2011 to April 2012 Responsibilities:  • Involved in reviewing and understanding the Business requirements.  • Involved in entire lifecycle of the projects including Design, Development, and Deployment, Testing and Implementation and support.  • Wrote scripts to Import and Export data to CSV, EXCEL formats from different environments using Python and made a Celery action using REST API call.  • Designed the user interactive web pages as the front-end part of the web application using various web technologies like HTML, JavaScript, Angular JS, JQuery and implemented CSS framework Bootstrap for better appearance and feel.  • Developed remote integration with third party platforms by using RESTful web services.  • Developed web services that make database calls for inserts, updates, and select queries.  • Developed Unit, Integration and Performance Test Cases using Junit, Selenium and Rational Function Tester.  • Improved code reuse and performance by making effective use of various design patterns.  • Used Python library BeautifulSoup for webscrapping.ss.  • Fetched twitter feeds for certain important keyword using python-twitter library.  • Managed large datasets using Panda data frames and SQL.  • Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL dB package.  • Deployed the project into Heroku using GIT version control system.  • Developed methods for Create, Read, Update and Delete (CRUD) in Active Record.  • Used Django evolution and manual SQL modifications was able to modify Django models while retaining all data, while site was in production mode.  • Proficient with Java and Android SDK version Android 1.5 to Android 7.0 (Gingerbread, Honeycomb, Ice cream sandwich, Jellybean, Kit Kat, Lollipop, Marshmallow and Nougat).  • Expertise in creating and developing applications for android operating system using Android Studio, Eclipse IDE, SQLite, Java, XML, Android SDK and ADT plugin.  • Scripted simulation hardware for testing using the Simics simulator.  • Execute Validation Process through SIMICS.  • Worked on Angular JS to augment browser applications with MVC capability.    Environment: Python, Celery, mod python, Angular, JQuery, JavaScript, AJAX, HTML/XHTML, XML, MsSQL server, T-SQL, Jasper, GIT, Reports, RESTful, Linux, Android OS Android 1.5 to Android 6.0 Build Engineer Trinity Health Organization - Livonia, MI November 2009 to December 2010 Responsibilities:  • Maintained and Administered GIT Source Code Tool.  • Created Branches, Labels and performed Merges in Stash and GIT.  • Developed Processes, Tools, Automation for Jenkins based Software for Build system and delivering SW Builds.  • Managed Build results in Jenkins and Deployed using workflows.  • Delivered specific versions of various components of an application into target environments.  • Maintain and track inventory using Jenkins and set alerts when the servers are full and need attention.  • Modeled the structure for Multi-tiered applications orchestrate the processes to Deploy each tier.  • Developed build and Deployment Scripts using ANT and MAVEN as build tools in Jenkins to move from one environment to other environments.  • Have used Confluence to create, share and discuss content and projects.  • Familiar and experienced with Agile Scrum development.  • Proposed and implemented branching strategy suitable for Agile development in Subversion.  • Created Branches and performed Merges in Source Tree & Stash.  • Installed and Configured Jenkins for Automating Deployments and providing an automation solution.  • Integrated GIT into Jenkins to automate the code check-out process.  • Used Jenkins for Automating Builds and Automating Deployments.  • Very strong Project Management experience performing ITIL RM /SCM activities.  • Experience in using Storage options in Android like Shared Preferences.    Environment: Jenkins, GIT, ANT, MAVEN, JIRA, Python, BASH & KORN Shell, JAVA/J2EE, Web Sphere, Batch file, SQL Scripts, Android OS Android 1.5 to Android 6.0 Education Bachelor's Skills C++, Git, JAVASCRIPT, JENKINS, PHP, PYTHON, Subversion, XML, DATABASE, DB2, JDBC, MS ACCESS, SQL SERVER, MYSQL, ODBC, ORACLE, SQL, SYBASE, DNS, IIS Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:  • Languages: C, C++, Python, JavaScript, PHP, XML, JAVA, SQL  • SCM Tools: Subversion, Perforce, Jenkins/Hudson, Sonar, Jira, TFS, Confluence, Clear Case, AccuRev, GIT, GitHub.  • Build Tools: Ant, Maven, Make  • Operating Systems: UNIX, Linux, Solaris, Windows, DOS, VMware  • Protocols: OSI Reference Model, IPv4 and IPv6 addressing and subnetting, Ethernet LAN, TCP/IP, DNS, HTTP, NFS, SSL, SSH, UDP, switches, routing concepts, virtual network concepts including vSwitch, VLANs, dvSwitch, TCP/IP stack for virtualization, IPVP4, IPV6, FTP, Intranet  • Database: Postgre SQL, MS Access, SQL Server, MYSQL and Sybase, Oracle, DB2, JDBC, ODBC  • Application Servers: Web logic, JBoss, IBM WebSphere, Apache tomcat5.5, IIS  • Issue Tracking Tools: ATLASSIAN JIRA, BUGZILLA, Mantis  • Delivery Tools: Saltstack, Chef & Puppet