Sr Python Developer Sr <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr Python Developer - Premier Bank Philadelphia, PA • 9+ years of experience as a professional Python Developer with deep understanding of technology trends with expertise in core of complex technologies. Strong involvement in Analysis, Design and Development, Testing, Implementation, production support and maintenance of different Web Applications utilizing Django, flask frame works.  • Skillful involvement in Python by developing software's utilizing new tools, libraries utilized: BeautifulSoup, numpy, Scipy, PySide, python-twitter, matplotlib, Pickle, Pandas data frame, urllib2, MySQL db to improve software development process.  • Good involvement in creating web applications in Object Oriented Programming concepts like Multi-Threading, Exception Handling and Collections and also executing Model View Control design utilizing Django Framework.  • Experience in developing Web Services (SOAP, Restful) in Python using XML, JSON.  • Experience in working with various version control systems like GIT, CVS and SVN.  • Hands on experience in developing business processes and system solutions utilizing prototype development, system development, and deployment.  • Proficient in building Web User Interface (UI) using HTML, DHTML, XHTML, AngularJS, Hibernate, CSS/CSS3 and JavaScript, Node.js, Backbone.js, D3, jQuery that follows W3C Web Standards and are browser compatible.  • Proficient in using editor's like Eclipse, sublime text, Netbeans, Pycharm, Pyscripter, spyder, PyStudio and PyDev.  • Used Django evolution and manual SQL modifications to retain all the data, while site is in production.  • Experience in Linux Bash Scripting and PEP guidelines in python.  • Expertise in developing web based open stack applications for large dataset analysis using Python and Django.  • Used Python Unit test framework for developing and implementing the unit tests using Test driven approach.  • Analyzed instrument pricing and modelling methodologies and documented how instrument prices move as change in market data source.  • Good experience on data warehousing for high-volume data processing.  • Good Hands on experience in establishing connections for Java and Python by configuring packages like MySQL- Python, JDBC.  • Successfully migrated the Django database from SQLite to MySQL to PostgreSQL with complete data integrity.  • Hands on experience in monitoring, developing and transforming data using SQL Server Integration Service (SSIS) and SQL Service Analysis Service (SSAS)  • Experienced in writing custom queries through database connector's.  • Hands on experience with databases using ORMs/DOMs for integrating with Oracle, MySQL, PostgreSQL.  • Providing support for Linux servers and workstation in Department of Physics.  • Experience in working with GUI frameworks with packages like PyJamas, Jytho, guidata, PyGUI, PyQt.  • Good knowledge in working with Web/application server- Apache Tomcat (6.0, 7.0, 8.0), Tornado, Cherrypy, Chaussette, Rocket  • Experience in infrastructure as service (IaaS), Platform as service (PaaS), Software as a service (SaaS) & end user computing.  • Experienced with Object Oriented design methodology and Agile Methodology in software development.  • Used Pandas API to put the data as time series and tabular form for east timestamp data retrieval and manipulation and also for statistical analysis.  • Used Amazon Web Services (AWS) for improved efficiency of storage and fast access.  • Experience on Peer Code Review, Unit testing and Integration testing.  • Interacting with supervisors, artists, system administrators and production to ensure production deadlines are met. Work Experience Sr Python Developer Premier Bank - Charlotte, NC April 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Involved in all the stages of software development lifecycle like design, development, implementation and testing.  • Used Django/flask Framework in developing web applications to implement the Model View Control architecture.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create user-friendly website interface.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django including Tastypie Web Framework using Git.  • Built main application in Python, Django using technologies like Angular.js, Backbone.js, Ember.js, and Celery.  • Developed GUI using webapp2 for dynamically displaying the test block documentation using a Python code.  • Involved in design, implementation and modifying the Python code and MySQL database on-the back end.  • Created restful web services for Catalog and Pricing with Django MVT, Ansible, MySQL, and MongoDB.  • Used Django APIs for database access and use JavaScript and MYSQL.  • Designed and developed the web application using Django web framework in python.  • Developed Web Applications using Python and Django Framework.  • Worked on Django ORM module for signing complex queries.  • Developed Restful Microservices using Flask and Django and deployed on AWS servers using EBS and EC2.  • Developed applications using mix of technologies ( Python, Django, Flask, Pandas, REST and PyCharm)  • Developed dynamic web pages using HTML5, CSS3, React JS, Bootstrap, NodeJS and AJAX.  • Designed and developed machine learning functions for different data filtering, classifying, and clustering.  • Designed and implemented open source AI frameworks like PyTorch, Tensorflow, Scikit-learn.  • Worked on the development of applications using Ruby on Rails (RoR), and Jruby.  • Worked on Single page applications using ANGULAR JS, NODE JS, GULP, and WEBPACK (ES6)  • Developed Web Application using AngularJS, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Bootstrap and JSON web token.  • Developed java based Amazon Workflow Service, AWS Elastic Beanstalk, and AWS CloudFormation.  • Used Postgres to support applications that require a great deal of flexibility in the data model with JSON.  • Developed API for using AWS Lambda to manage the servers and run the code in the Postgres DB.  • Created SQL Statement, Stored Procedure, and PL/SQL using Oracle SQL Developer.  • Extracted data from PostgreSQL, Cassandra, Redis, Influx dB and Elastic Search.  • Developed Application using web technologies like JavaScript, GitLab and GitHub.  • Worked on Mocha package and used chai to use expect method in the unit test cases results on NodeJS.  • Worked with Agile Software Development environment using SCRUM and Kanban.  • Worked on automation in AWS (EC2, Lambda, S3, RDS, and Dynamo) with AWS CloudFormation.  • Implemented AWS solutions using DynamoDB, EBS, Elastic Load Balancer, Auto scaling groups.  • Use CloudSQL to migrate existing MySQL and Hadoop/Pig/Spark/Hive workloads to Google Cloud Platform.  • Performed application development using tools like Intellij, JUNIT, and Maven for building application.  • Used SVN, GitHub, Team Foundation Server (TFS) and JIRA to developed application for the client.  • Performed Python development under Linux OS (Debian, Ubuntu, and RedHat Linux)  • Used and configured NGINX and Node.js servers for the portal to run on and made them work even for CORS.  • Used JIRA, HipChat, Slack/zoom for project tracking and team communication.  • Worked on Container Clustering and Orchestration with Docker Swarm, TeamCity and Kubernetes.  • Implemented CI/CD with GitHub, Travis CI; deploys as microservices Docker containers to Docker Hub.    Environment: Python, Django, ORM, microservices, pandas, flask, Python API, Celery, Tornado, SQLAlchemy, JavaScript, HTML5, CSS3, Angular, React, Redux, machine learning, data science, TensorFlow, PyTorch, scikit-learn, Numpy, ROR Ruby on Rails, Es6, typescript, JSON web token, Java, Postgres, MySQL, SQL, PL/SQL, PostgreSQL, Cassandra, Rest, PyCharm, Tornado, GitLab, Git, unit test, Selenium, Jest, Mockito, Agile, Scrum, AWS EC2, S3, RDS, DynamoDB, . Google Cloud Platform, MAVEN, JSON, TFS, Linux, Nginx, Slack, Zoom, Docker, Jenkins, Travis, Ansible, Kubernetes, Docker Swarm. Sr Python Developer Caremark October 2015 to March 2017 Responsibilities:  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework  • Developed API services in Python/Tornado and NodeJS while leveraging AMQP and RabbitMQ for distributed architectures.  • Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL dB package.  • Used Django framework to develop the application and used Python modules for web crawling.  • Utilized PyUnit, the Python Unit test framework, for all Python applications and used Django Database API's to access database objects.  • Used object-relational mapping (ORM) solution, technique of mapping data representation from MVC model to Oracle Relational data model.  • Implemented Microservices architecture in developing the web application with the help of Flask framework.  • Worked on several standard Python packages like Numpy, MatPlotLib, Scipy, Pandas and PyTables etc.  • Created core Python API which will be using among multiple modules  • Used Celery with RabbitMQ, MySQL, Django, and Flask to create a distributed worker framework.  • Automated the existing scripts for performance calculations using NumPy, PyCharm and SQLAlchemy.  • Worked on Cross-Browser compatibility for both Javascript and CSS, and squashed bugs in several browsers and devices.  • Designed and implemented a UI update for a server repair software tool in HTML5 and CSS3.  • Developed International Error Correction Screens using custom front end forms using XML, XSLT, Angular JS and JQuery.  • Involved in building stable React components and stand-alone functions to be added to any future pages.  • Worked with redux saga along with redux thunk to handle asynchronous calls efficiently.  • Implemented custom python machine learning algorithms and modified python open source algorithms.  • Built a Tensorflow Object Detection transfer learning model for custom dataset of client.  • Implemented PyTorch to automatically classify sleep stages based on single-channel  • Wrote python script to compare performance between support vector machine and deep neural network using Scikit-learn and NumPy.  • Used Ruby on Rails to create API endpoints that served data to multiple components.  • Constructed powerful and modern frontend architecture, involving React, Redux, and ES6.  • Created Typescript controllers for the different pages in the views using Typescript.  • Designed and implemented UI layer using JSP, JavaScript, HTML, JSON web token, JSP, and J2EE framework.  • Used Eclipse IDE for Java and XML development and QA and branched projects using Tortoise SVN.  • Worked on application development using Oracle SQL, PL/SQL, Oracle Forms/Reports and Informatica ETL.  • Design and implement disaster recovery for the PostgreSQL Database.  • Implemented AWS solutions using DynamoDB, EBS, Elastic Load Balancer, Auto scaling groups.  • Developed CRUD applications using MERN stack (MongoDB, Express, ReactJS and NodeJS) and REST based API.  • Deployed the project into Heroku using GIT version control system.  • Wrote unit test cases in Python and Objective-C for other API calls in the customer frameworks.  • Performed end to end testing using Selenium web driver, Jbehave and Testing.  • Involve in Agile software development life cycle (SDLC) with SCRUM methodology.  • Deployed cloud stacks using AWS S3 and EC2 instances & created multi AZ VPC instances.  • Worked on CI/CD pipeline and created sandbox, UAT and Production Environments in Google Cloud Platform.  • Used Maven for building, creating JPA based entity objects and compiling GWT and GXT application.  • Maintained the Source code using Team Foundation Server (TFS) in a multi developer environment.  • Implemented a Backend Server with SQLite database using Java Servlet on Debian Linux system with Tomcat server.  • Worked on JIRA development with JAVA and Hipchat.  • Developed Docker container based micro services using Spring Boot/Cloud and deployment on Kubernetes cluster.  • Developed Jenkins-Kubernetes deployment for dockerized microservices in Golang and Python.  • Automated the cloud Deployments using Chef and AWS Cloud Formation Templates.    Environment: Python, Django, ORM, microservices, pandas, flask, Python API, Celery, Tornado, SQLAlchemy, JavaScript, HTML5, CSS3, Angular, React, Redux, machine learning, data science, TensorFlow, PyTorch, scikit-learn, NumPy, ROR Ruby on Rails, angular, React, Es6, typescript, JSON web token, Java, MySQL, SQL, PL/SQL, PostgreSQL, DynamoDB, Rest, PyCharm, Tornado, Git, unit test, Selenium, Agile, Scrum, AWS EC2, S3, DynamoDB, Google Cloud Platform, Maven, JSON, TFS, Linux, hipchat, Zoom, Jenkins, Chef, Kubernetes, Docker. Python Developer TRC Solutions, Connecticut October 2014 to September 2015 Responsibilities:  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Used Python to write data into JSON files for testing Django Websites. Created scripts for data modeling and data import and export.  • Involved in building database Model, APIs and Views utilizing Python, in-order to build an interactive web-based solution.  • Performed data extraction and manipulation over large relational datasets using SQL, Python, and other analytical tools.  • Worked on Python to place data into JSON files for testing Django Websites using Eclipse.  • Developed web applications in Django Framework's model view control (MVC) architecture.  • Used ORM programming in converting data between incompatible type systems in OOP languages.  • Used various Python libraries for data analytics and extracting data using Pandas, Pyexcel, NumPy, Pickle and Pytable.  • Worked on multiple python frameworks including Pyramid and Tornado.  • Developed dynamic web pages using HTML5, CSS3 and jQuery, AngularJS, JavaScript and Oracle.  • Used ReactJS to build the UI components, developed filters to display different dimension of data and font size modifiers.  • Development of new applications using Ruby on Rails (RoR) Using GitHub.  • Developed Dynamic Web Application using AngularJS, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Bootstrap and JSON web token.  • Used XML/XSLT for transforming common XML format and SSO/SAML for Single Sign-On.  • Design and development using Java Swing, JFC Used for open source web testing.  • Designed and implemented RESTful and SOAP Microservices in Java for trading partners.  • Worked on J2EE Development of a SOA architecture using IBM WebSphere and Oracle.  • Deployed application and provide continuous maintenance using Git and SVN.  • Created test suites for unit testing UI using CasperJS and PhantomJS.  • Writing Automation test scripts using JBehave, Serenity and Selenium Webdriver for regression suite.  • Worked in an Agile environment and also Installed and Configured Drupal on a Linux server and other servers.  • Implemented AWS solutions using EC2, S3, EBS, Elastic Load Balancer, Auto scaling groups.  • Worked with MongoDB modules for database persistence using Node.js to interact with DynamoDB.  • Created custom OSGi services and servlets using Eclipse IDE with Maven.  • Integrating Jira with Stash/Crowd/Hipchat/Bitbucket Server.  • Implemented continuous deployment system with Jenkins, AWS: CodeDeploy, Ops Works, and Packer for deployment of Java Applications.    Environment: Python, Django, ORM, pandas, Tornado, JavaScript, HTML5, CSS3, AngularJS, Ruby, ROR Ruby on Rails, bootstrap, jQuery, JSON web token, SSO/SAML, Pyramid, Java, Oracle, Rest, Eclipse, Websphere, Git, SVN, unit test, Selenium, Agile, AWS EC2, S3, Dynamo DB, Maven, JSON, XML, Jira, Linux, hipchat, Jenkins Python Developer PROKARMA - Austin, TX April 2013 to September 2014 Responsibilities:  • Used Python and Django to interface with the JQuery UI and manage the storage and deletion of content.  • Used Python based GUI components for the front end functionality such as selection criteria  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL. Built application logic using Python.  • Worked on Python Openstack API's used Python scripts to update content in the database and manipulate files.  • Designed and developed persistence layers to modify data for application using Django and PostgreSQL.  • Implemented MVC architecture using Django, Servlet and RESTful, SOAP web service and SOAPUI.  • Developed views and templates with python and Django's view controller and templating language to create.  • Worked with Python ORM Libraries utilizing Django ORM.  • Scraped and retrieved web data as JSON using Scrapy, presented with Pandas library.  • Developed web applications and RESTful web services and APIs using python, Django, Tornado and PHP.  • Worked on JavaScript for developing and maintaining graphs  • Made use of HTML5/CSS3 new features such as Canvas, SVG, Media and API's.  • Worked on JavaScript frameworks like Jest, Jasmine and Karma, and AngularJS test framework Protractor.  • Developed Navigation bar, manu bar, drop down list with React widgets and bootstrap.  • Developed and tested many features for dashboard using Ruby on Rails, RSpec, Bootstrap and JavaScript.  • Worked with Passport and JSON web tokens for authentication of configurations using bootstrap and Node.js.  • Implemented SAML to achieve the security features for SSO.  • Assisted with development of web applications Flask, Pyramid, and Django.  • Developed Java UI JFC/Swing screens and components using Netbeans.  • Coded Gradle build scripts to build and deploy the application on WebSphere.  • Using IDE's like Eclipse, Netbeans and version control tools like Mercurial, SVN, and Git.  • Develop and executed unit test cases using JUnit, and Mockito as mocking framework for mocking data.  • Involved in Regression testing by following Agile-Scrum, Kanban and Waterfall software development.  • Worked in AWS Cloud platform and its features which include EC2, RDS, DynamoDB, S3, and CloudFormation.  • Implemented automated execution of tests using ANT and Jenkins.  • Used Heroku for hosting PHP application, Data exchange with third party using PHP/XML.  • Worked extensively with hipchat and Jira on UNIX platform for automation of application.    Environment: Python, Django, ORM, pandas, Tornado, JavaScript, HTML5, CSS3, Ruby, ROR Ruby on Rails, bootstrap, jQuery, JSON web token, SSO/SAML, Pyramid, Java, MySQL, Rest, Soap, Netbeans, Websphere, CVS, SVN, Junit, Waterfall, AWS EC2, S3, Ant, XML, Jira, Unix, hipchat. Web Developer Citi Bank - Silver Spring, MD May 2010 to March 2013 Responsibilities:  • Created and maintained numerous business critical applications. These applications were the cornerstone of the organization and needed to be highly effective as well as very efficient.  • Developed efficiency reports for senior management.  • Developed an online task assignment application. This application is used to assign various tasks in the business process to an employee and provide relevant metrics to management.  • Developed and maintained web services to allow clients to submits orders and receive reports.  • Worked closely with various department heads throughout the SDLC.  • Created a repository on GitHub and connected with local and server for developer maintain the application code on local.  • Involved in Automation of Web Application using Selenium.  • Experienced in ALM Tools TFS, Jira, VersionOne, Rally as Scrum Master for project planning, metrics and reporting.  • Developed a web-based system with HTML, XML, Java Script, JSP Tag Libraries, CSS and Custom Tag Libraries using Struts 1.2 framework.  • Worked with SOAP, dependency injection frameworks and Java Servlets.  • Designed and developed lots of custom Wordpress codes, themes and plug-in.  • Worked heavily on Drupal CMS development and developed various custom modules.  • Expertise in developing application using Microsoft .NET framework, ASP.NET, ADO.NET, VB.NET, C#, WPF.  • Utilized ASP.NET 2.0 validation controls and JavaScript to perform client side validation.  • Re-Designed, coded, implemented and tested new features using C#, C++, QT.    Environment: Java, J2EE, Android, IOS, Mobile Apps, C#/VB.NET, SQL Server 2005, AJAX, JavaScript, CSS, REST/SOAP, Crystal Reports, Agile, Silverlight, GITHUB, SELENIUM, SCRUM, JSP, SERVLETS, WORDPRESS, DRUPAL, .NET, ASP, C++ Education MS in Computer Science University Of Delaware