Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Bakersfield, CA Work Experience Python Developer Caam IT Solutions - Bakersfield, CA January 2018 to Present Client: E- commerce Company    Designed and developed the User Interface for the website using HTML, Django, CSS, JavaScript and JSON.  Responsibilities:  • Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate tasks. Interfacing with supervisors, artists, systems administrators, and production to ensure production deadlines  are met.  • Develop the existing application to enhance the features using Django Framework and improve the performance using SOAP Web Services.  • Responsible for setting up Python REST API framework using Django.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django view controller and templating  language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Developed web applications in Django Framework model view control (MVC) architecture.  • Used Python to write data into JSON files for testing Django Websites. Created scripts for data modelling and data import and export.  • Involved in building database Model, APIs and Views utilizing Python, in order to build an interactive web based solution.  • Used object-relational mapper (ORM) to automate the transfer of data stored in relational  databases tables into objects.  • Designed/wrote the tech specs (Source-Target mappings) for the ETL mappings along with the Unit Test scripts.  • Used Python based GUI components for the front-end functionality such as selection  criteria.  • Used Amazon Web Services (AWS) for improved efficiency of storage and fast access.  • Added support for Amazon AWS S3 and RDS to host static/media files and the database  into Amazon Cloud.  • Worked on UI using HTML5, CSS3 and Java Scripts.  • Used Python libraries and SQL queries/subqueries to create several datasets which produced statistics, tables, charts and graphs.    Environment: Python 3.x, Django, JavaScript, Shell Scripting, AWS, Pandas, PyQt, PyQuery, Flask, JSON, PHP, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, MYSQL, AWS EC2, AWS RDS. IT Consultant Caam IT Solutions - Tampa, FL August 2014 to December 2017 • Maintain windows server 2012R2 and up to 50 workstations.  • Migrated Windows Server from 2008R2 to Server 2012.  • Migrated Workstations from Windows XP to Windows 7.  • Create new user accounts and policies using Active Directory.  • Installing Operating systems (windows 7) and productivity software (MS Office) on new  machines C++ Developer Caam IT Solutions - New Delhi, Delhi April 2010 to July 2014 • Develop and maintain software tools for reconfigurable hardware.  • Develop and maintain graphical user interface for software tools.  • Modified the SQLite database schema for new tables and fields.  • Accessed and managed the data using regular queries in C++.  • Developed initial database architecture in SQLite Database System.  • Connected the SQLite Database to the GUI App. Education MBA in Business Administration University of Tampa - Tampa, FL August 2014 to August 2016 Bachelor's in Computer Science and Engineering Amity University - New Delhi, Delhi August 2006 to August 2010