Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer -- - 732-853-0775 Austin, TX MANIKIRAN DAYYALA  python.developer256@gmail.com  732-853-0775  “Only for Corp 2 Corp Jobs”    SUMMARY   • 4 years of experience IT Industry with proficiency in Design & Development of Python, Django.   • Experienced with full software development life-cycle, architecting scalable platforms, object-oriented programming, database design and agile methodologies.   • Experienced in developing web-based applications using Python, Django, XML, HTML, JavaScript and Jquery.   • Well versed with design and development of presentation layer for web applications using technologies like HTML, CSS, and JavaScript.   • Familiar with JSON based REST Web service.   • Experience in working with Python ORM Libraries including Django ORM.   • Experience with the implementation of Python libraries NumPy, SciPy, PyTables, SQL Alchemy, Matplotlib, Pandas, and Beautiful Soup.   • Experienced in working with various Python Integrated Development Environments like PyCharm, Spyder, and Sublime Text.   • Successfully migrated the Django database from SQLite to MySQL with complete data integrity.   • Experience with Version Control with GIT, Github and SVN.   • Experienced in agile and waterfall methodologies with high quality deliverables delivered on-time.   • Very strong full life cycle application development experience.  • Familiar with Cloud Services like Amazon AWS, EC2, S3 etc.   • Hands on experience deploying projects in production and staging environment.   • Have the ability understand complex systems and be in command of the details to provide solutions.  • Ability to learn and adapt quickly to the emerging new technologies and paradigms.  • Excellent communication, interpersonal and analytical skills and a highly motivated team player with the ability to work independently.  • Practical experience with working on multiple environments like development, testing, production.   • Always willing to learn, currently learning Python and SQL with Data Science on coursera. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Developer Toyota Financial Services - Plano, TX March 2018 to Present • Wrote Python routines to log into the websites and fetch data for selected options.  • Used other packages such as Beautiful soup for data parsing.  • Worked on writing and as well as read data from csv and excel file formats.  • Web-services backend development using Python (Django).  • Participated in developing the company's internal framework on Python. This framework became a basement for the quick service's development.  • Worked on resulting reports of the application and Power BI reports.  • Worked on UI using JavaScript, Git, Ubuntu, Python, Django, Postgres, Bootstrap, jQuery, Git.  • Performed QA testing on the application.  • Held meetings with client and worked all alone for the entire project with limited help from the client.  • Developed rich user interface using CSS, HTML, JavaScript and jQuery. Created a Python based GUI application For Freight Tracking and processing  • Created database using MySQL, wrote several queries to extract data from database.  • Setup automated cron jobs to upload data into database, generate graphs, bar charts, upload these charts to wiki, and backup the database. • Wrote scripts in Python for extracting data from HTML file.  • Responsible for debugging the project monitored on JIRA.  Environment: Linux, Python, Django, Ansible, HTML, XML, JavaScript, Angular JS, JQuery, MS SQL Server, Amazon s3, Jenkins, MySQL, Mongo DB, Hadoop Beautiful soup, Perl, Pandas, Matlab, Eclipse, Kafka Git, GitHub, JIRA Python Developer Walmart Inc - Bentonville, AR February 2017 to January 2018 • Involved in development using Python, bug fixing and unit testing of the layout commands.  • Created a Python/Django based web application using Python scripting for data processing, MySQL for the database, and HTML/CSS/jQuery and High Charts for data visualization of the served pages.  • Developed web-based applications using Python, Django, XML, CSS, HTML, JavaScript and jQuery.  • Developed the student's complaints application using Django Python Framework  • Developed Python based API (RESTful Web Service) to track the events and perform analysis using Django.  • Performed design, involved in code reviews and wrote unit tests in python  • Used Pandas API to put the data as time series, in a tabular format, for east timestamp data manipulation and retrieval.  • Successfully migrated the Django database from SQLite to PostgreSQL with complete data integrity.  • Managed API system deployment using fast http server and Amazon AWS architecture.  • Enhancement of the frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Used AWS for application deployment and configuration.  Environment: Hadoop, Map Reduce, HDFS, Pig, Hive, Sqoop, Flume, Oozie, Java, Linux, Teradata, Zookeeper, Autosys, Hbase, Cassandra, Apache ignite Python Developer Prathima Technologies - Hyderabad, Telangana January 2014 to August 2016 • Worked on tuples, dictionaries, object-oriented concepts-based inheritance features for making algorithms  • Interacting with team members on technical programming.  • Solving production support issues (such as bug fixes, queries, etc).  • Prepared documentation for the generated reports  • Developed GUI using Python and Django for dynamically displaying the test block documentation and other features of python code using a web browser  • Developed the customer complaints application using Django Framework, which includes Python code. Involved in development of main modules like CSV import, bulk content upload.  • Published and Consumed Contract SOAP web services and developed corresponding test cases.  • Involved in building database Model, APIs and Views utilizing Python, in order to build an iterative web-based solution.  • Performed debugging and troubleshooting the web applications using Subversion version control tool to coordinate team-development  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL  • Used Git for version control  • Monitored and troubleshot web applications  • Performed data analysis, manipulation and reporting using pivot tables and advanced functions in MS excel.  Environment: Hortonworks Data Platform (HDP), Hive, Pig, HBase, MapReduce, Flume, Spark, Spark SQL, Spark Streaming, Scala, Shell, Zookeeper, YARN, JDBC Education Masters in Computer and Information Sciences Southern Arkansas University Bachelors in Information Technology JNTU - Hyderabad, Telangana Skills DATABASE (3 years), DJANGO (3 years), MYSQL (3 years), PYTHON (3 years), Git (2 years) Additional Information SKILLS  Languages Python, Java Script.  Database SQL Server, MySQL, PostgreSQL  Web Technologies HTML, XHTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, XML, JSON  Frameworks AngularJS, Bootstrap, Django, Django Rest Framework,  Version Controls Git, SVN, CVS  Operating system Ubuntu, Mac.