Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer Shrewsbury, MA Around 8 years of experience in software field as a Software Developer and experience in other models of the Software development life cycle (SDLC).  • Expertise in developing N-tier Web applications and data analytics using python programming language and other frameworks.  • Experience in analyzing, designing, developing, documenting, testing and deploying Web applications and Web services using different languages, frameworks and tools and packages.  • Experience in Algorithms and Data structures to write smart and efficient code.  • Strong experience in implementation of Object-Oriented Programming Languages (OOPS).  • Experience in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on MySQL and PostgreSQL database.  • Experience working under the Linux and other Operations systems.  • Experience in developing databases using the Relational Database (SQLite, MySQL, PostgreSQL) and the Non-relational database -NOSQL(MongoDB).  • Experience in building web applications using major frameworks like Django and Flask.  • Experience on building RESTful API's, Design patterns, developing Web Services with Python programming language.  • Experience in using the Redis server for in-memory data structure, cache and message broker.  • Experience in developing applications for different scientific, mathematical and statistical calculations using the NumPy, Pandas and other libraries.  • Experience in python automation scripts and using CRON for running at intervals.  • Implementing Basic R language code for statistical computing.  • Experience in developing front-end UI using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, Angular 1,2 and have some experience on other JavaScript frameworks like D3.js, Nodes and React JS.  • Some experience and knowledge on AWS (EC2, lambda, S3 and DynamoDB), Azure (AZURE) cloud services.  • Good Knowledge on Time Series Analysis and Forecasting using ARIMA model, Exponential Smoothing model in Python and R.  • Experience in Data mining with large datasets of Structured and Unstructured data, Data Acquisition, Data Validation, Predictive modeling, Data Visualization.  • Experienced in working on Web Servers, Application servers for python web applications  • Experience on working in Production Support, fixing bugs, development and integration.  • Have some knowledge on DevOp's tools like Splunk, Spark and Kafka.  • Strongly experienced in mainly using Agile methodology (Scrum) and following the Agile Methodologies in SDLC using GIT and TFS version controls.  • Experience in the Test-Driven Development (TDD) using N-Unit testing. Used Manual and Automated testing of applications developed on a Windows, LINUX environment.  • Strong experience in Different Domains like Finance, Banking, Insurance, Healthcare, Networking and Transportation. Work Experience Python Developer CUAHSI - Cambridge, MA April 2019 to July 2019 • As a full stack developer using Python as a programming language and Django for building web applications.  • Developing back-end code using python and other libraries, packages to optimize the application and its performance.  • Used to fix bugs in the current running application and also developing some new templates and features.  • Used RabbitMQ messaging tool for running Celery workers for running multiple tasks.  • Django caching, sessions and Redis to reduce the server calls and increase performance.  • Used Jenkins CICD for testing and deploying after pushing the code into repo.  • Developing applications to handle large data from different organizations, institutes and from NSF (National Science Foundation) sponsored researchers and other public organizations.  • Docker and Docker compose to run the application in different environments.  Environment: Python, Django, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, RabbitMQ, Docker, Redis, Linux Env Full stack Python Developer Cisco - Boxborough, MA April 2018 to April 2019 • Developed web applications using python programming language.  • Using Django and flask frameworks for developing the web applications.  • Using high charts to plot the graphs of the data of different cisco devices.  • Application showing the KPI (Key Parameter Index) data and plotting the json data.  • Showing maps with different points and its ranges circle using the JavaScript code and passing CSV/JSON code to plot and show the networking companies signal levels.  • Creating REST API's to get the secured data and post to third parties.  • Using NumPy and Pandas for large data sets.  • Developed different applications for each networking company which shows how their networking devices performance.  • Also developed an application that take data from devices, which helps cisco to increase its device performance by doing some data analytics.  • Working on data using Anaconda and different python packages.  Environment: Python, Django, Rest API, JavaScript frameworks, SciPy, PostGre's, Linux. Software Developer, Data analyst Schneider National - Green Bay, WI February 2017 to March 2018 • Designed and developed web applications using Django and Flask.  • Worked majorly on building the pricing simulation gaming applications for businesspeople who needs to get experience for the real time business.  • Used HTML, CSS and JavaScript, jQuery in developing the front-end pages. Also used AJAX call for updating the page dynamically.  • Experience in building models to DB or using ORM as a layer between them.  • Used NumPy and Pandas to easily perform operation in data arrays received from users.  • Used Redis servers for caching and using Django sessions.  • Building a simulation application using Celery and RabbitMQ messaging tool.  • Used Web sockets for applications to reduce the calls to the server when more numbers of users using a single simulation. Daphne is a server used for the web sockets application.  • Finally build the complete application in a docker container which makes us easy in deploying into cloud service (AWS).  • In working for data analytics, used very large data for analyzing for parsing through machine learning models, we used Hive database for storing and retrieving the data.  • Developed the Restful API's for the clients and implementing using the Apache server.  • Python automation to parse the JSON data and pass through timeseries algorithms  • In the prod development used Oracle as a database (PostGre SQL)  Environment: Python, Django, AWS Docker, RabbitMQ, Redis, Sockets, Rest API, PostGre Software Developer GEICO - Chevy Chase, MD November 2016 to January 2017 • Designed and developed the applications using the Python language.  • Developed the web applications using the Django framework to implement the MVT architecture pattern.  • Placed data into JSON files using Python to test Django websites.  • Used Python scripts to update the content in database and manipulate files to the required formats as required.  • Developed the Restful API's for the clients and running using the Apache server.  • Generated Python Django forms to maintain the record of online users and providing the authentication and security to the forms/applications.  • Used Django API's to easily access the database for web servers and also for the other third parties developer or analytics developers.  • Created Unit test/ Regression test framework for working/new code.  • Learning cloud services for developing, deploying and maintaining the applications.  • Used the latest application front-end using the AngularJS framework, especially for developing the SPA (single page applications)  • Developed remote integration with third party platforms by using RESTful web services.  Environment: Python, Django, JavaScript frameworks, Rest API's, Testing, Scripting, Linux. Python Application Developer Social Internet Solutions - Sacramento, CA August 2015 to November 2016 • Involved in the complete Software Development life cycle (SDLC) in developing web application for the people of Arizona.  • Developed user interface solutions on a Django web framework.  • Experienced in various front-end tools in developing templates.  • Developed custom user defined functions in JavaScript and jQuery to validate application functionalities/features.  • Also used Jinja for flask applications.  • Wrote a code to support model-view-controller (MVT) pattern of Django framework in developing several modules for the application.  • Managed large datasets using Pandas data frames and Oracle for operations in the application and finally push the output into database using the df to SQL function.  • Built various graphs for business decision-making using Python matplotlib library.  • Used Python scripts to update content in the database and manipulate files.  • Involved in building database Model, REST APIs, and Views utilizing Python technologies to build web-based applications.  • Maintained program libraries, user's manuals and technical documentation in GitHub.  Environment: Python, Django, JavaScript, Rest API, Documentation, SciPy, Oracle. Linux. Java/ Python Developer (Offsite under a professor) Netsmart - Kansas City, MO August 2014 to June 2015 • Involved in developing an application in eclipse IDE using the Java programming language.  • Also used some python to create some automation scripts. Running it in CRON jobs.  • Developed User Interface using JSF, HTML, JavaScript, and CSS.  • Involved in the configuration of Spring and Hibernate and used generic DAO design to build Hibernate DAO classes.  • Used Object/Relational mapping tool Hibernate to achieve object persistency.  • Written Delegate services provided web services SOAP, XPATH, XSLT, DTD to the end clients  • Developed stored procedures and triggers with PL/SQL stored procedures using TOAD.  • Developed ANT Scripts to do compilation, packaging and deployment in the WebLogic application server.  Environment: Java, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, ORM, Hibernate, SQL/PLSQL. Jn Java Developer IGate - Bengaluru, Karnataka July 2010 to September 2013 • Involved in the complete SDLC - Requirement Analysis, Development, System Integration Testing and Performance Testing.  • Most of the work spent on software training and working with senior developers.  • Using JavaFX for displaying the GUI for the application  • Designed and Implemented Hibernate data persistent framework to persist any kind of Java object, manipulate a hierarchy of objects, handle collections, caching and work with transactions.  • Involved in Implementation of a Middleware framework using Hibernate and Spring Framework.  • Designed and developed a Service layer using Spring framework.  • Involved in Integration of Hibernate and Struts with a Spring Service layer.  • Implemented Struts tag libraries like html, logic, tab, bean etc. in the JSP pages.  • Used Struts tiles libraries for layout of web page and performed struts validations using Struts validation framework.  • Used WebLogic Server to develop, test and deploy all the Java components.  • Implemented Oracle database and JDBC drivers to access the data.  • Performed unit testing, system testing and integration testing.  Environment: Java, JavaFX, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Spring, Hibernate, JDBC, Testing, Linux Environment. Education Master's Skills C#, Django, Git, Javascript, Vs code, Python, Flask, Numpy, Pandas, Xml, Database, Mysql, Oracle, Postgresql, Sql, Sqlite, Apache, Linux, Unix, Iis, CSS, Jquery Additional Information Technical Skills:  Languages C, C#, Python 2.x/3.x, Core Java, JavaScript, R  Frameworks/Packages Django, Flask, Numpy, Pandas, Servlets, JSP. RESTAPI  Database SQL-MSSQL, Oracle, MySQL, SQLite, PostgreSQL, No-SQL  Web Technologies HTML5, CSS3, XML, JavaScript, AngularJS  Web Server IIS, Apache HTTP, NGINX, Apache, Tomcat  Cloud Services AWS and Azure  IDE's PyCharm, eclipse, VS code, sublime, Spyder, Jupyter Notebook, PyScripter  Operating Systems Windows, LINUX, UNIX, AWS Systems  Version Control Git, Bitbucket  Methodologies Agile, Scrum, TDD, Waterfall