Sr. Python Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Irving, TX • Over 7 years of experience as a Web/Application Developer and coding with analytical programming using Python, Django, Flask and C++.  • Experience object oriented programming (OOP) concepts using Python, C++ and PHP.  • Experienced in developing web-based applications using Python, DJANGO,GTK, QT,C++, XML, CSS3, HTML5, DHTML, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Experience with Web Development, Amazon Web Services, Python and the Django framework.  • Very good experience with cloud platforms like Amazon AWS and Google App Engine.  • Experienced in installing, configuring, modifying, testing and deploying applications with Apache and Siebel.  • Experienced in MVW frameworks like Django, Angular.js,Java Script,backbone.js,JQuery and Node.js.  • Familiar with JSON based REST Web services and Amazon Web services.  • Worked on NoSQL databases like Mongo, Cassandra and Cache database.  • Having experience in Apache Cassandra on NoSQL.  • Experienced in developing Web Services with Python programming language.  • Experienced in installing, configuring, modifying, testing and deploying applications with Apache.  • Experience in creating Open stack services for Identity, Compute, Image Service, Block Storage, Networking (Neutron, Keystone).  • Good knowledge of web services with protocols SOAP and REST.  • Experienced in WAMP (Windows, Apache, MYSQL and Python/PHP) and LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL and Python/PHP) Architecture.  • Experienced in Python's modules numpy, matplotlibetc for generating complex graphical data, creation of histograms etc.  • Experienced in installing, configuring, modifying, testing and deploying applications with Apache.  • Experienced in developing Web Services with Python programming language.  • Experience in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on SQL and PostgreSQL database.  • Worked in agile and waterfall methodologies with high quality deliverables delivered on time.  • Maintained detailed documentation and architectural solutions in IT infrastructure and sales systems.  • Experienced in developing Web Services with Python programming language and Good working experience in processing large datasets with Spark using Scala and Pyspark.  • Very strong full life cycle application development experience.  • Experience with continuous integration and automation using Jenkins.  • Experienced in Configuring LAN Switching Technologies, IP Routing technologies, IP services, IP addressing and WAN technologies.  • Experienced in WAMP (Windows, Apache, MYSQL, and Python) and LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, and Python) Architecture and Wrote Automation test cases using Selenium Web Driver, JUnit, Maven, and spring.  • Worked with Nexus Repository.  • Experience with Unit testing/ Test driven Development (TDD), Load Testing.  • Developed the required XML Schema documents and implemented the framework for parsing XMLdocuments.  • Involved in Unit testing and Integration testing.  • Extensive use of Linux (Ubuntu),SSH, Flask/Django  • Developed ColdFusion Components, custom tags and modified CF Objects.  • Worked on AJAX framework to transform Datasets and Datatables into HTTP-serializable JSON strings.  • Have good idea about tools like Bugzilla, Jira, Confluence, and Axosoft. Experienced in developing WebServices with Python programming language and Good working experience in processing large datasets with Spark using Scala and Pyspark. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Python Developer Dexmedia - Dallas, TX July 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Responsible for gathering requirements, system analysis, design, development, testing and deployment.  • Participated in the complete SDLC process.  • Processed large amount of healthcare data, finding trends, insights, and driving outcomes.  • Used panda's library for high performance data structures to prepare data for the machine learning phase and for statistical analysis.  • Developed web-based open stack applications using Python and Django for large dataset analysis.  • Written many programs to parse excel file and process many user data with data validations.  • Used Numpy for Numerical analysis for Insurance premium.  • Used Subversion version control tool to coordinate team-development.  • Developed tools to automate some base tasks using Shell Scripting, Python.  • Designed and Developed User Interface using front-end technologies like HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, Angular JS, Bootstrap and JSON.  • Worked with regularexpressions,urllib modules.  • Used PySpark to expose Spark API to Python.  • Developed Spark code using Python for faster processing of data on Hive (Hadoop). Developed  • Map Reduce jobs in Python for data cleaning and data processing.  • Used different type of transformations and actions in apache Spark.  • Experience in writing custom User Defined Functions (UDF) in Python for Hadoop (Hive and Pig).  • Used Spark cluster to manipulate RDD's (resilient distributed datasets).  • And also used concepts of RDD partitions.  • Connecting my SQL database through Spark driver.  • Used matplotlib module for easy data visualization.  • Develop applications that use MongoDB database and PyMongo.  • Integrating multiple databases and data sources in to one system.  • Wrote Python modules to extract/load asset data from the MySQL source database.  • Having experienced in Agile Methodologies, Scrum stories and sprints experience in a Python based environment, along with data analytics, data wrangling and Excel data extracts.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Worked under DEVOPS environment for continuous integration and continuous deployment using Jenkins and puppet.  • Configured and deployed project using the Amazon EC2 on AWS.  • Created unit test/regression test framework for working/new code.  • Using version control tool - Git with Jenkins to accumulate all the work done by team members.  • Using agile methodology - SCRUM, along with JIRA for project..  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  • Participated in writing scripts for test automation    Environment: Python 2.7, Django, C++, Java, JQuery, MySQL, Oracle 11.2, Linux, Django, Eclipse, Shell Scripting, HTML, XHTML, SVN, CSS, AJAX, Bugzilla, JavaScript, Apache Web Server, Apache spark,Git,Jenkins. Sr. Python Developer First Data Corporation - Atlanta, GA July 2016 to June 2017 Responsibilities:  • Implemented user interface guidelines and standards throughout the development and maintenance of the website using the HTML, CSS, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Utilized Apache Spark with Python to develop and execute Big Data Analytics and Machine learning applications, executed machine learning use cases under Spark.  • Experience in Large Data processing and transformation using Hadoop-Hive.  • Developed the interactive web pages using Angular JS 1.5 framework.  • Analysis and Design of application.  • Experience with Hive queries for data analysis to meet the business requirements.  • Created UI using JavaScript and HTML5/CSS.  • Developed and tested many features for dashboard using Python, Bootstrap, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Written backend programming in Python, Used JavaScript and XML to update a portion of a webpage.  • Developedconsumer-basedfeatures and applications using Python, Django, HTML, Behavior Driven Development (BDD) and pair based programming.  • Performed Data Ingestion from multiple internal clients using Apache Kafka.  • Performed Unit testing, Integration Testing, GUI and web application testing using Selenium.  • Implemented user interface guidelines and standards throughout the development and maintenance of the website using the HTML, CSS, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Worked in development of applications especially in UNIX environment and familiar with all of its commands.  • Used Pandas library for statistics Analysis.  • Used Numpy for Numerical analysis for Insurance premium.  • Experienced with advanced CSS concepts and building table-free layouts.  • Managed a small team of programmers using a modified version of the agile development.  • Used Python and Django to interface with the JQueryUI and manage the storage and deletion of content.  • Used advanced packages like Mock, patch and beautiful soup (b4) to perform unit testing.  • Updated the client admin tool to have the new features like support for internalization, support for customer service etc.  • Worked on rebranding the existing web pages to clients according to the type of deployment.  • Worked on Jenkins continuous integration tool for deployment of project.  • Worked on updating the existing clipboard to have the new features as per the client requirements.  • Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes of the two main applications that were a main source of data for both customers and internal customer service team.    Environment: Python 2.7, Django , HTML5, CSS, XML, Kafka, MySQL, JavaScript, Angular JS, Backbone JS, Nginix server, Amazon s3, Jenkins, Beautifulsoup, JavaScript, Eclipse, Git, GitHub, Linux, and MAC OSX. Sr. Python Developer Point global productions - New York, NY January 2015 to June 2016 Responsibilities:  • Used UML Rational Rose to develop Use-case, Class and Object diagrams for OOA/OOD techniques.  • Built database Model, Views and API's using Python for interactive web based solutions.  • Placed data into JSON files using Python to test Django websites.  • Used Python scripts to update the content in database and manipulate files.  • Developed web based application using Django framework with python concepts.  • Generated Python Django forms to maintain the record of online users.  • Used Django API's to access the database.  • Design roles and groups for users and resources using AWS Identity Access Management (IAM).  • Involved in Python OOD code for quality, logging, monitoring, and debugging code optimization.  • Wrote Python modules to view and connect the Apache Cassandra instance.  • Developed tools to automate base tasks using Python, Shell scripting.  • Created Unit test/ regression test framework for working/new code.  • Used PyQt to implement GUI for the user to create, modify and view reports based on client data.  • Installed and maintained web servers Tomcat and Apache HTTP in UNIX.  • Developed efficient Angular.js for client web based application.  • Experience with working on Linux server and Created scripts for data modeling and data import and export.  • Writing modules in Python to connect to MongoDB with PyMongo and doing CRUD operations with MongoDB.  • Responsible for designing, developing, testing, deploying and maintaining the web application.  • Designed and developed the UI for the website with HTML, XHTML, CSS, Java Script and AJAX.  • Involved in working with Python open stock API's.  • Responsible for managing large databases using Panda data frames and MySQL.  • Wrote and executed various MySQL database queries from Python-MySQL connector and MySQLdb package.  • Wrote Python code embedded with JSON and XML to produce HTTP GET request, parsing HTML data from other websites.  • Wrote code in R programming to perform data visualization on large set of data.Used R programming to publish Graphs and charts.  • Developed and designed automation framework using Python and Shell scripting.  • Involved in debugging and troubleshooting issues and fixed many bugs in two of the main applications which are main source of data for customers and internal customer service team.  • Implemented SOAP/RESTful web services in JSON format.  • Created Git repository and added the project to GitHub.  • Involved in debugging the applications monitored on JIRA using agile methodology.  • Attended many day-to-day meetings with developers and users and performed QA testing on the application.    Environment: Python 2.7,3, Java, Django 1.4, PyQT, Panda API, HTML, CSS, AJAX, Tomcat, Apache HTTP, Angular.js, JSON, Restful, XML, JavaScript, RHDT Linux, OOD, Shell Scripting, GITHub, MYSQL, Cassandra, JIRA, Agile, EXT-JS. Python Developer Mayo clinic - Rochester, MN September 2013 to November 2014 Responsibilities:  • Worked on developing internal testing tools written in Python.  • Experience in gathering business requirements and creating load test design document.  • Developed LoadRunner Scripts in Web, SAPGUI, WebServices and Ajaxprotocols.  • Reviewed testing designs before the testing phase and worked with the team in developing new testing strategies for functional and performance testing.  • Executed performance test and performance analysis with LoadRunner.  • Used Performance Center to execute Tests and DynaTrace for analyzing root-cause of performance bottlenecks.  • Responsible for monitoring the Test results, Transaction Response Time, measuring the CPU and Memory Utilization of Servers.  • Enhanced the scripts using Vugen by parameterization, and correlation to debug the scripts.  • Executed multiple load tests on various Applications  • Extensively used DynaTrace to diagnose and troubleshoot web/app server performance issues.  • Onshore and offshore coordination with project technical team on remediating performance bottlenecks.  • Attended meetings to outline and present performance testing strategies and objectives.  • Monitored different graphs like transaction response time, hits per second, and analyzed server performance status.  • Analyzed Performance test results, and prepared detailed Performance Test Reports including recommendations.    Environment: Python 2.7, Django 1.2, HTML5/CSS, AJAX, SQL, MS SQL Server, JavaScript, Eclipse, Linux, Shell Scripting, Bugzilla, Git, GitHub, Amazon EC2. Jr. UI Developer CNO IT Services - Hyderabad, Telangana May 2010 to August 2013 Responsibilities:  • Redesigned the existing site and to create new interfaces.  • Developed HTML prototypes and ready XHTML documents with CSS style sheets.  • Designed dynamic client-side JavaScript codes to build web forms and simulate process for web application, page navigation and form validation.  • Abstraction of entities was done using Java.  • Modified JSPs, used struts tag libraries and Java Server Pages Standard Tag Library (JSTL).  • Maintained Struts architecture throughout the application.  • Developed the bean classes for better data exchange between the MVC layers.  • Used multithreading and socket programming.  • Deployed the application on WebLogic, Application Server.  • Modified JavaScript to read client side activities (events) and data and event validations.  • Used CVS as version Control system.  • Suggested ER models and changes in the table structures.  • Created Stored Procedures, Trigger for database access and events.  • Modified SQL, PL/SQL procedures and triggers to obtain optimize output.  • Used Java servlets as action flow Controllers.  • The new website has made it much easier for the users to access the page and check the required information.    Environment: HTML, CSS, Java, JavaScript, J2EE, WebLogic Server, Struts Frame work, Servlets, JSP, EJB, Eclipse, UML, Windows XP/Linux. Education Master's Skills CSS (7 years), Eclipse (6 years), HTML (6 years), Java (5 years), Linux (7 years) Additional Information Technical Skills:    Frameworks Django, Flask, Zope, PyJamas, Jython, Struts and CSS Bootstrap  Web Technologies HTML, CSS, DOM, SAX, Java Script, JQuery, AJAX, XML, AngularJS, Node.JS  Programming Languages Python, Java, C/C++, PERL, SQL and PL/SQL.  J2EE Technologies JSP, Java Servlets, JNDI, JDBC and JMS.  Version Control SVN, CVS, Git.  Analytic Tools JMP PRO, SAS, Tableau, UCI NET, NodeXL  Application servers Apache Tomcat, Nginix, JBoss, WebLogic, WebSphere  Databases Oracle (9i,10g, 11g), My SQL, NoSQL, Apache Cassandra, MongoDB  IDE's/ Development Tools NetBeans, Eclipse, PyCharm, PyScripter, PyStudio, and Sublime Text.    Operating Systems Windows, Red hat Linux 4.x/5.x/6.x, MAC OSX.  Protocols TCP/IP, HTTP/HTTPS, SOAP, SMTP  Deployment Tools Heroku, Amazon EC2  Testing Tools Bugzilla, Crucible and JIRA.