JavaScript Software Engineer JavaScript Software Engineer JavaScript Software Engineer - Walmart - Bentonville - AR New York, NY Work Experience JavaScript Software Engineer Walmart - Bentonville - AR January 2018 to Present Responsibilities  • Analysis, design, and development techniques in an agile environment. Specifically, the scrum framework and extreme / pair programming.  • Developed views and templates using Python and created a user-friendly website interface using Django's view controller and template language.  • Also Working as a Full Stack JavaScript Developer on auction Single Page applications using REST principles with NodeJS, ExpressJS, Sequelize ORM, SocketCluster, XML/JSON, SQL, Agendash for scheduling jobs, Bcrypt and JWT for encryption etc. for all the API related CRUD operations for a client to analyze and process data efficiently with all security standards.  • Managing API design life cycle using API Blueprint and Swagger for developing prototypes and model APIs that describe already deployed critical APIs using Nodejs, HapiJS and Swagger.  • Written JUNIT test cases to test Rhino scripts and the application.  • Worked with npm commands and using package.json for managing dependencies and dev-dependencies of NodeJS applications.  • Created a Handler function in Python using AWS Lambda that can invoke when the service is executed.  • Designing DevOps workflow for multiple applications by orchestrating Test, Build, Release and Deploy phases through various CI/CD pipelines using Git, Jenkins, Docker, kubernetes, Ansible & Cloud formation tools.  • Developed Microservices in NodeJs for Authentication Services like Restful Authentication Service(RAS) and Biometric Authentication Service (BAS).  • Used ReactJs (along with Redux) to build SPA that communicates with AWS through NodeJs headless API integrated with S3 storage.Built a NodeJS Express API to wrap the AWS SDK. This also involved various non-trivial  data transformations to provide sensible payloads for the Redux application.  • Design & develop common platform frameworks on NodeJS. Ex:- logging, rest client, exception handling.  • Developed, tested, and deployed Business feature set in Node.js with Express and MongoDB backend, incorporating APIs.  • Develop enterprise-level both microservices and applications in Python with Django/Flask framework.  • Wrote SOAP and Restful web services, in house ESB for a web Claims application (Spring MVC, Angular JS, Active, SOAP UI, Mocking, JSON, Build forge).  • Migrating to DevOps and setting up and maintaining automated build scripts in Jenkins.  • Work closely with DevOps engineers, developers and QA testers to migrate the repository to GIT and Bitbucket.  • Worked on Microservices for Continuous Delivery environment using Docker and Jenkins.  • Developed crypto rest services using NodeJS and integrated services with HSM(Hardware Security Module).  • Working for DevOps Platform team responsible for specialization areas related to Chef for Cloud Automation.  • Designed and documented RESTful APIs for collection and retrieval of high volume IOT telemetry data.  • Web application development using Python, Django, Flask, MongoDB, JavaScript, AJAX, HTML, XML and template languages.  • Created internal diagnostic tools using Golang and Angular JS in order to assist with customer issues. Golang and Java were used as a backend REST service while Angulr JS was used for the user interface.  • Developed backend consist of Express to configure and boot the app along with a HAPI REST API.  • Designed and developed web crawler in python using Scrapy framework and using RabbitMQ as a messaging server between the microservices.  • Gained Knowledge on Electrode Platform which is a NodeJS/Web platform built on top of the ReactJS and HapiJS frameworks.  • Designed and Implemented Microservices Architecture Applications using AWS ECS and Docker.  • Developed front-end code with Ajax call in AngularJS and jQuery to retrieve data as JSON Object from controllers in back-end RESTful Server, then display the well-organized result in web pages by writing AngularJS controller, directives, services, and route providers. Also, used Angular.js filter to make the data searchable and sortable.  • Implemented Web Services (WSDLs) using JAX-WS and also implemented REST services by Golang with microservices architecture.  • Worked with NPM commands and using Package.json for managing dependencies and dev-dependencies of Node.js applications.  • Developed backup and recovery engine for VM backup/recovery using VMware vSphere APIs, GoLang programming language and RabbitMQ Message bus (communication interface).  • Used Object Oriented JavaScript concepts like Classes and Inheritance on Server-side scripting.  • Experienced in Hapi.js framework which helps in writing reusable code and helps in validating and authenticating code easily.  • Created PDF reports using Golang and XML documents to send it to all customers at the end of month with internation language support.  • Developed custom consumers and producers for Apache Kafka in Go (golang) for cars monitoring system.  • Used GoLang to create backend servers.  • Built Web pages using HTML5, JavaScript, User Interface Design, XHTML, CSS3, D3.js, ECMAScript , Angular JS, Angular 4/5, Bootstrap, JSON, AJAX, React.JS, Redux, DOM.  • Generated Python Django forms to record data of online users and used PyTest for writing test cases.  • Responsible for the Automation of the deployment of the Conductor application on AWS lambda using high-end AWS architectural components.  • By using python and JavaScript created and tested many features for dashboard and maintained program libraries, user's manuals and technical documentation.  • Handled both frontend and backend using python, Django, Angular JS, XML, CSS, HTML, JavaScript and jQuery  • Involved in building database Model, APIs and Views utilizing Python, to build an interactive web-based solution.  • Worked with source version control tool GIT to manage the code repository.  • Designed and implemented by configuring Topics in new Kafka cluster in all environment.  • Created Database on InfluxDB also worked on Interface, created for Kafka also checked the measurements on Databases  • Successfully secured the Kafka cluster with Kerberos  • Used Pandas API to put the data as time series and tabular format for east timestamp data manipulation and retrieval. Wrote scripts in Python for extracting data from HTML file.  • Developed GUI using Python and Django for dynamically displaying block documentation and other features of python code using a web browser.  • Created Python scripts for data access and analysis (Scripts, DataFeeds, XLS, FIXML) to aid in process and system monitoring, and reporting.  • Implemented Kafka Security Features using SSL and without Kerberos. Further with more grain-fines Security I set up Kerberos to have users and groups this will enable more advanced security features.  • Used Git for version controlling and regularly pushed the code to GitHub.  • Developed responsive web pages by implementing Bootstrap CSS and CSS Media Queries.  • Installed Kafka manager for consumer lags and for monitoring Kafka Metrics also this has been used for adding topics, Partitions etc.  • Creating and configuring virtual development environments with Chef and Virtual Box and Developed a fully automated continuous integration system using Git, Gerrit and custom tools developed in Python and Bash  • Created RDDs, performed analysis and ran queries in Python and Apache Spark based on retrospective and groups.  • Used AWS CloudWatch for performing Monitoring, customized metrics and file logging and successfully completed the task in using AWS Lambda to manage the servers and run the code in the AWS.  • Created a backend server with Python Flask that implemented routing for indexing & showing page and receiving the video & info data sent from the user.  • Installed, Configured, administered and monitored multi Data center Cassandra clusters and Involved in upgrading the present Oracle data model to Cassandra data model.  • Development of several Python APIs and harassers that works both in Linux and windows and maintaining them using the revision control SVN. Worked with Node.js modules like bower, express and mongoose and Involved in utilizing Node.js for the server hosting.  • Created AWS Cloud Formation templates to create custom sized VPC, subnets, EC2 instances, ELB, Security Groups. JavaScript Engineer Delta Airlines - Atlanta, GA January 2016 to December 2017 Responsibilities  • Implemented Django models to build all database mapping classes and used Python scripts to update content in the database and manipulate files. Developed the UI layout and front-end programming (HTML) for web application that matched requirements.  • Design and development of user interfaces and client displays using Java Script, CSS and troubleshoot various issues in Python code and fix them with code enhancements- code used various python libraries such as Jython  • Development of Python APIs to dump the array structures in the Processor at the failure point for debugging.  • Used standard Python modules like csv, robotparser, itertools, pickleto ensure privacy of sensitive data.  • Implemented Garbage collection with CPython to enhance the performance, by garbage collecting the older generated objects.  • Involved in development of Web Services using SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface in the XML format. Used Python library BeautifulSoup for web scraping to extract data for building graphs.  • Coordinated project activities and ensure that all project phases are followed and documented properly.  • Extensively involved design discussions and user experience sessions to provide inputs on the layout and UX.  • Used Angular2 in Single Page Application Development (SPAs).  • Designed the front-end applications, user interactive (UI) web pages using web technologies like HTML, XHTML, CSS and JavaScript framework Angular.JS and D3.JS.  • Created TypeScript reusable components and services to consume REST API's using Component based architecture provided by Angular 2.0.  • Establish and provide architectural and design for the business requirements. Identify the reusability of common Web Services across various modules within the program.  • Provide technical feasibility analysis for implementing new technology, application roadmaps and other technical considerations within the project.  • Developed non-functional HTML, CSS pages from the mock ups and involved in UI review with UI architect and Business Unit.  • Reinventing the website with react REDUX to improve the experience of 1000+ users. Working on server side configuration for API route creation and connecting with Mongo DB Database.  • Used Hapi.js which is fast, assertive, essential and moderate web framework of Node.js that helps manage a server and routes.  • Integrated Spring Data Mongo Repository to retrieve and update the data from Mongo DB.  • Configure and monitor numerous Mongo DB and No SQL instances. Mongo DB Schema Design using DB Ref, Manual Ref, Embedded Data Model Design  • The back-end use of Node.js, Hapi.js, MongoDB and Mongoose the complete MERN Stack to provide RESTful API.  • Fixed UI and api bugs and added features using React, Reflux, Immutable JS, Hapi JS and Mongoose ODM  • Designed and developed the agent portal using framework AngularJS 2 along with HTML5, CSS3, and TypeScript.  • Angular2 Built UI from components that made HTTP API calls to Laravel back end via Service Providers. Increased speed using DB caching, Ahead of Time compilation, Tree Shaking, and Minification. Advanced functionality includes events, shared services, and parent-child communication.  • Automated AWS deployments with shell scripts and Ant scripts, and connected AWS test environments with hosts used for builds. Created profiles, manifests for VMware servers, and pushing them to AWS instances using puppet.  • Implemented and maintained the monitoring and alerting of production and corporate servers/storage using AWS Cloud watch.  • Developed GUI using JavaScript, HTML4/5, DOM, XHTML, AJAX and CSS 3 in on-going projects.  • Involved in Development of Restful web services using Jersey for the functionalities like account creation, account amendment, account deactivation, account reactivation.  • Experience in cross browser compatibility check and thoroughly performed unit testing and integration testing. Python Developer McKesson - Scottsdale, AZ March 2014 to November 2015 Responsibilities  • Essentially involved in all phases of SDLC to structure the unformatted requirements.  • Used Object-Oriented design and coding, various Design Patterns and UML and Wrote Python OO Design code for manufacturing quality, monitoring, logging, and debugging code optimization.  • Involved in Agile process, monthly Sprints, and daily Scrums to discuss the development of the application.  • Involved in the requirement analysis along with the estimations and scheduling.  • Worked as UI developer for several internal projects handling the complete frontend stack using technologies like HTML, CSS, JAVASCRIPT and JQUERY.  • Implemented Single Page Application architecture and client side MVC using AngularJS and Used UI-route module to achieve nested routes in the SPA  • Worked on Model-View- Controller (MVC) Architecture on the client side making use of AngularJS and  • Involved in implementation of RESTful web service APIs using AJAX calls and JSON as data exchanging tool.  • Involved in the implementation of open- source web application frameworks like Bootstrap and AngularJS.  • Designed the responsive layout of the Website, Modal Login Page by using Bootstrap.