Senior Python Full Stack Developer Senior <span class="hl">Python</span> Full Stack <span class="hl">Developer</span> Austin, TX • Over 6+ years of IT Experience in designing, developing, testing and implementing of various stand-alone and client-server architecture based enterprise application software in Python on different domains.  • Design and Developed Web Services, RESTful API's for Mobile Apps using Python Django-REST and Flask Frameworks on Nginx and Uwsgi servers.  • Experience working with Redis, RabbitMQ for task queues and Celery to manage Asynchronous tasks.  • Skilled experience in Python with proven expertise in using new tools and technical developments (libraries used: numpy, Beautiful Soup, Jasy, , Scipy, Pickle, PySide, python-twitter, Pandas dataframe, networkx, urllib2, MySQL dB for database connectivity) to drive improvements throughout entire software development lifecycle.  • Experienced in MVC frameworks like Django, Angular JS, Java Script, JQuery and Node.js.  • Experienced in web applications development using Django/ Python, Flask/ Python and Node.js, Angular.js, DOJO, JQuery while using HTML/CSS/JS for server-side rendered applications.  • Good Experience in Linux Bash scripting and following PEP Guidelines in Python.  • Using Django evolution and manual SQL modifications was able to modify Django models while retaining all data, while site was in production mode.  • Experienced in monitoring, developing and transforming data using SQL Server Integration Service (SSIS) and SQL Server Analysis Service (SSAS).  • Experienced with databases using ORMs/DOMs for integrating with MySQL, Postgres, Neo4J, MongoDB, and Cassandra SQLite. Also, experienced with writing custom queries through database connectors.  • Expertise in establishing database connections for Python by configuring packages like MySQL- Python.  • Expertise in Installation, Configuration, Integration, Tuning, Backup, Crash recovery, Upgrades, Patching, Monitoring System Performance, System and Network Security and Troubleshooting of Linux/Unix Servers and Jinja 2, Mako  • Strong Expertise in MySQL, PostgreSQL and NO-SQL databases like Mongo DB, Redis and Couch DB.  • Configure backup, alerts, repairs and monitoring of Cassandra clusters, in conjunction with Nagios/Opscenter and custom scripts.  • Extensive experience in deploying, managing and developing MongoDB clusters.  • Good experience in Hadoop technologies like Apache Spark, Scala, and SparkSQL.  • Good Knowledge of web services using SOAP and REST protocols.  • Experience in working with Python ORM Libraries including Django ORM, SQL Alchemy.  • Expertise in working with GUI frameworks - PyJamas, Jython.  • Good idea about testing tools like Bugzilla and JIRA.  • Experienced in working with various Python Integrated Development Environments like NetBeans, PyCharm, PyScripter, Spyder, PyStudio, PyDev and Sublime Text.  • Good knowledge of version control software - CVS, GitHub,SVN.  • Experience of Build & Deployment phase and usage of Continuous Integration (CI/CD) tools, build configuration, change history for releases, Maintenance of build system, automation & smoke test processes, managing, configuring, and maintaining source control management systems.  • Good experience in Shell Scripting, SQL Server, UNIX and Linux, Open stock and Expertise python scripting with focus on DevOps tools, CI/CD and AWS Cloud Architecture.  • Familiar with JSON based REST Web services and Amazon Web Services (AWS)  • Deployed production site using Apache 2.0 with mod python.  • Experienced in Agile Methodologies, Scrum stories and sprints experience in a Python based environment, along with data analytics, data wrangling and Excel data extracts.  • Excellent experience with Python development under Linux OS (Debian, Ubuntu, CentOS SUSE Linux, Red Hat Linux, Fedora). Work Experience Senior Python Full Stack Developer Q2ebanking - Austin, TX May 2017 to Present Q2's mission has been to partner with financial institutions who want to leverage the power of virtual banking in order to grow accounts, increase market share, and become more influential within the communities they serve.  Responsibilities:  • Developed and designed an API (RESTful Web Service).  • Efficiently performed all backend tasks from OPS up to the REST API interface/Portal frontend single handedly.  • Environments using Python and made a Celery action using REST API call.  • Managed, developed, and designed a dashboard control panel for customers and Administrators using Django and VMWare API calls.  • Developed user interface using CSS, HTML, Bootstrap, JavaScript, AngularJS and JQuery.  • Developed and designed e-mail marketing campaigns using HTML and CSS.  • Tested and implemented applications built using Python.  • Developed and tested many features for dashboard using Python, ROBOT framework, Bootstrap, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Created complex dynamic HTML UI using jQuery.  • Worked under Agile/Scrum environment and handled production rollouts and issues.  • Exposure on Multi-Threading factory to distribute learning process back-testing and the various worker processes.  • Wrote Python normalizations scripts to find duplicate data in different environments.  • Developed the required XML Schema documents and implemented the framework for parsing XML documents.  • Wrote scripts to Import and Export data to CSV, EXCEL formats from different.  • Used Pandas API to put the data as time series and tabular format for east timestamp data manipulation and retrieval.  • Used Pandas library for statistics Analysis & data Science.  • Added support for Amazon AWSS3 and RDS to host static/media files and the database into Amazon Cloud.  • Creating S3 buckets and also managing policies for S3 buckets and Utilized S3 bucket and Glacier for storage and backup on AWS.  • Writing Python scripts with Cloud Formation templates to automate installation of Auto scaling, EC2, VPC, and other services.  • Responsible for user validations on client side as well as server side.  • Automated the existing scripts for performance calculations using Numpy and sql alchemy.  • Different testing methodologies like unit testing, Integration testing, web application testing, Selenium testing performed.  • Hands on experience with DevOps and Micro-architecture Docker, Kubernetes.  • JENKINS for continuous integration (CI) and deployment (CD).  Environment: Python 2.7, Django 1.8, MySQL, AJAX, SOAP, REST, JQuery, JavaScript, HTML,CSS,Bootstrap, PyCharm, GIT, Docker, Kubernetes,AWS (EC2, S3, EBS, RDS). Python Developer Magic Leap - Plantation, FL June 2016 to May 2017 Responsibilities:  • Experience in analysis, design, development and maintenance of the web applications.  • Built application logic using Python 2.7, Django and MySQL  • Worked with good enough third party django apps, like South, djcelery, django-all-auth, tastypie and django rest frameworks  • Created Shell scripts for build automation and deployment onto various environments without any manual efforts  • Used Tkinter to create Desktop applications to solve company's internal problems.  • Experience working with virtual environments like Vagrant.  • Developed GUI using HTML, AJAX, CSS, JavaScript and jQuery.  • Worked on Bootstrap, AngularJS and other Search modules API's.  • Used RESTful Web Services in the application development.  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL.  • Used Pandas library for statistics Analysis.  • Developed and tested websites using MEAN (MongoDB, Express, AngularJS, Node.js) stack.  • Have been using High charts and D3.js for creating charts of payment section.  • Utilized MEAN stack, REST design pattern, MVC framework and Single Page Applications framework based on AngularJS.  • Generated an API Reference guide to help application developers for creating the software applications to store data using DDN S3 (compatible with Amazon S3 API) or DDN OpenStack Swift API calls.  • Coded test programs and evaluated existing engineering processes.  • Designed and configured database and backend applications and programs.  • Performed research to explore and identify new technological platforms.  • Used the Python's modules numpy, mat plotlib etc for generating complex graphical data, creation of histograms etc.  • Used Redis as a cache database and optimized the application by constructing cache level between service level and data persistence level. Used "Cache Aside" scheme as the solution of data consistency.  • Used Python based GUI components for the front end functionality such as selection criteria. Administration of dedicated collocated RHEL 4 machine and configured complex Apache configuration files.  • Creating unit test/regression test framework for working/new code.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  • Developed, tested and debugged software tools utilized by clients and internal customers.  • Coded test programs and evaluated existing engineering processes.  • Designed and configured database and backend applications and programs.  • Solved production issues at time of emergency.  Environment: Python 2.7, Django 1.6, Linux, Shell Script, HTML, CSS, JQuery, JavaScript,Openstack, MongoDB, Apache, and SVN. Software Engineer Pramati Technologies - Hyderabad, Telangana December 2012 to June 2015 Responsibilities:  It's a social networking site having many sections like games, videos, photos, chat, meet up, blogs etc. It is an online and mobile based networking site for connecting Indians across the Globe. It is a place where you can Invite, Connect, Share, Speak out and Have fun. The platform is designed to provide you with unlimited freedom of expression. Indyarocks is a unique social networking community which provides users with the latest viral and social networking tools.  Responsibilities:  • Understanding the client requirement and developing the code using Python scripting.  • Developing the code by using Python modules.  • Involved to developing in Login, Register information module.  • Involved in design and implementation of project.  • Involved in creating page templates required for the project.  • Interacting with team members on technical programming.  • Solving production support issues(such as bug fixes, queries etc).  • Prepared documentation for the generated reports.  • Developed the customer complaints application using Django Framework, which includes and Python code.  • Involved in development of main modules like CSV import, bulk content upload.  • Writing unit test cases where ever required on the application.  • Performing code optimization.  Environment: Python, Django, Oracle 11g, HTML5, CSS3, Windows. Education Bachelors in Electrical and Electronics Engineering in Electrical and Electronics Engineering JNTU 2008 to 2012 Skills MS VISUAL STUDIO, VISUAL STUDIO, AMAZON WEB SERVICES, C++, DJANGO, Git, HTML, BOOTSTRAP, NODE.JS, PYTHON, FLASK, MATPLOTLIB, NUMPY, PANDAS, SVN, XML, DATABASE, MYSQL, ORACLE, CSS