Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - Levi Strauss & Co San Francisco, CA * Extensive 6 years of Web/Application Developer which involves professional Python development experience using Python and Django.  * Experience with full software development life cycle of the project including Design, Development, Testing, Implementation and support.  * Excellent Experience with Python web frameworks Django and with countable experience on Flask.  * Used Python packages like NumPy, Pandas, Pickle.  * Strong experience in developing web applications using Model View Control (MVC) and Django Framework.  * Proficient in various DBMS like MySQL, PostgreSQL, MongoDB and ORACLE.  * Ability to perform query using Django ORM.  * Have work experience with various Python Integrated Development Environments like PyCharm and sublime text.  * Experienced in object oriented programming concepts and using REST API's and web service in Python.  * I'm extremely familiar with the setup and usage of celery, and have used both Celery and Celerybeat to build high-performance applications.  * Experienced with UNIX/LINUX environments.  * Experienced in using a Version Control System like GIT and SVN.  * Experience in working with AWS (Amazon Web Services) cloud platform.  * Experienced in developing applications using Agile Methodologies and WaterFall Methodologies in a python-based environment.  * Good documentation skills with the ability to meet deadlines and have the ability to work in a cross functional environment.    Technical Skill Matrix Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Developer Levi Strauss & Co - San Francisco, CA April 2018 to Present Project Description: Levi Strauss & Co., the world's largest maker of pants, noted especially for its blue denim jeans called Levi's (registered trademark). Its other products include tailored slacks, jackets, hats, shirts, skirts, and belts, and it licenses the manufacture of novelty items. Designed a web based system to improve business intelligence, logistics, manage inventory and sales, and forecast demand.    Responsibilities  * Gathered and analysed user or business requirements as well as provided support in programming, developing, and maintaining web-based applications, websites as well as cross platform desktop GUI based applications using Python, MySQL, JavaScript, and HTML languages, including Django and Flask frameworks.  * Implemented code in python to retrieve and manipulate data.  * Used Django database API's to access database objects.  * Handled the security contents and issues.  * Created and modified required views/tables/triggers using MySQL and worked on database bug fixes.  * Experience solving the compatibility issues.  * Developed HTML, CSS and JavaScript to present GUI.  * Worked with version control GIT for the application to accumulate all the work done by team members.    Environment: Python, Django, MySQL, Flask, Linux, Javascript, GitHub, HTML, CSS. Python Developer Adobe - San Jose, CA March 2017 to March 2018 Project Description: The Company's Digital Media segment offers Creative Cloud, which is a subscription service that allows members to download and install the latest version of its creative products, such as Adobe Photoshop, Adobe Illustrator, Adobe Premiere Pro, Adobe Photoshop Lightroom and Adobe InDesign. Involved in developing and implementation of the web application using Python to manage subscriptions and allow customers representative to serve customers better.    Responsibilities  * Participating in requirement assembling, analyzing project period in recording business requirement by meeting with internet marketing team and utilizing agile and scrum methodologies.  * Using Django class based view, created several views and forms for handling the order management.  * Integrated Django Rest Framework in project to make date serialized efficiently.  * Successfully worked on the third party libraries like Pandas and Pickle.  * Implemented solutions to prevent Cross Site Scripting, CSRF and SQL injection for security and data protection.  * Experienced Django debugging toolbar to analyze query timing and make them faster.  * Writing modules in python to connect to MongoDB and doing CRUD operations with mongo DB.  * Used GIT as version control system for the application.  * Integrated with MongoDB for retrieving the data in the form of JSON using Ajax.  * Performed unit testing to test functionally utilizing Pyunit.  * For creating use cases, bug tracking and project monitoring purposes used JIRA    Environment: Python, Django, Agile, Scrum, Pandas, SQL, Jira, MongoDB, JIRA, Linux, GIT, Json, Ajax. Backend Developer Safeway Inc - Pleasanton, CA March 2015 to February 2017 Project Description: Safeway Inc. operates as a food and drug retailer in the United States. The company's stores provide a selection of food and general merchandise and features various specialty departments, such as bakery, delicatessen, floral, seafood, and pharmacy. Worked on the food distribution department for sales progression tool responsible for keeping in check the progress of retailers by analyzing the sales and profits. The tool offers real-time reports on cash flow, inventory, customer buying behavior and profitability.    Responsibilities:  * Involved in requirements gathering, Analysis, Development and Testing using Agile Methodology.  * Parsed JSON data for backend solutions.  * Worked with different version control like GIT, SVN.  * Database manipulation is done by using Django database API along with PostgreSQL.  * UnitTest python library was used for testing many programs on python and other codes.  * Developed remote integration using with third party platforms by using RESTful web services  * Used python module named Pandas for data manipulation.  * Using version tool Github with Jenkins to accumulate all the work done by team members.  * Worked on front-end technologies like HTML, CSS and Bootstrap    Environment: Python, Django, GIT, SVN, API, PostgreSQL, JSON, Agile. Python Developer M2H infotech, Calicut June 2013 to February 2015 Project Description:  M2H is the India's leading company in HR management and have several features like Applicant tracking system, attendance management. Worked on a web application for Market Analysis (Digital Infomercials and Email Marketing) using Python and Django. The data interpretations are displayed through a user-friendly UI.    Responsibilities:  * Actively involved in requirements gathering, application development, and testing and maintenance phases.  * Designed and developed the app using Django framework and web technologies such as HTML, CSS, AJAX and Bootstrap.  * Worked in UNIX/LINUX environment and familiar with all of its commands.  * Worked with Oracle SQL database and handled its connection with application using Django ORM.  * Followed Agile development and consistently delivered new features on time during sprints.  * Created REST APIs using Django Rest Framework to send data to user interface.  * Used Django ORM to access database objects. Also involved in validating and processing of files.  * Actively involved in analysis of the system requirements and specifications.  * Used JIRA for project monitoring, creating use cases and bug tracking.  * Used Git as version control system for the application.    Environment: Python, Django, HTML, CSS, AJAX and Bootstrap, UNIX/LINUX, Oracle, Agile, Jira, Git. Education Bachelor's in EEE in EEE Visvesvaraya Technological University - Bhatkal, Karnataka 2012 Skills C++, Django, Html, Javascript, Python, CSS, Git, Jquery, HTML 5, MYSQL, PHP Additional Information Operating Systems MS Windows, LINUX, UNIX, MAC OS.  Programming Languages Python, UNIX / Linux Shell Scripting (Bash), C, C++, XML, JavaScript, JQuery, HTML, HTML5, CSS, and CSS3.  Databases Oracle, MySQL Server, PostgreSQL, Mongodb  Web Frameworks Django, Flask  Configuration Management GitHub, SVN, CVS  SDLC Methods Agile, Waterfall  Application Servers Weblogic, Apache Tomcat servers, WebSphere, Django  Technical Writing Tools Sublime Text, PyCharm, Eclipse, Notepad++, MS Word, Excel, Pages,