Sr. Python developer Sr. <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">developer</span> Sr. Python developer - Samsonite Mansfield, MA • Around 8 years of experience working as a Python developer and (SDLC) of the software development process including requirement gathering, analysis, design, development, writing technical/system specifications, interface development and implementation of Client/Server application development.  • Experienced in developing web-based applications using Python, XML, HTML, CSS, JavaScript and jQuery.  • Good experience of software development in Python language and IDEs -PyCharm, Eclipse, Visual Studio Code, etc.  • Good knowledge about frameworks such as Bootstrap and Foundation.  • Expertise in usage of Django Framework for developing web applications.  • Worked on various flavors of Linux and Unix Servers (RHEL, Solaris, Oracle Enterprise Linux, Ubuntu) which included but not limited to Installation, configuration, Maintenance, Patching and Support of those servers.  • Experience in patching and upgrading OS on multiple operating environments like Solaris 10.x/8.x/Red Hat Linux 7.x/6.x/5.x and V5, V6, V7 pSeries, Ubuntu.  • Monitored and supported hundreds of Linux servers running variety of applications.  • Upgraded packages in Red Hat Linux servers using RPMs and yum repositories.  • Launched AWS EMR Instance using Amazon Web Services using spark application, implemented Spark using PySpark and Spark SQL for faster processing of data.  • Maintained detailed documentation and architectural solutions in IT infrastructure and sales systems.  • Worked in agile and waterfall methodologies with high quality deliverables delivered on-time.  • Significant application development experience in Ubuntu, RedHat and Windows environments. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Python developer Samsonite - Mansfield, MA March 2018 to Present Description: Samsonite, is one of the most well-known travel luggage brands, acquired American Tourister, High Sierra and Hartmann brands. Samsonite wants to expand its presence in the high end luggage and leather goods market. We at Samsonite have a strong expertise in Python web application development and endeavour to make websites and mobile applications that work like a charm- appealing to the eye and robust in functioning.  Our team was responsible for developing web applications using various web technologies like HTML, CSS, java script and etc.  Responsibilities:  • Used Django Framework in developing web applications to implement the model view control architecture.  • Views and Templates were developed with Python and to create a user-friendly website interface Django's view controller and template language is used.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS, BIG DATA and JavaScript.  • Used Django APIs for database access.  • Angular.js is used to build efficient front end for client web application.  • Designed and developed Data Base management system using MySQL. Built application logic using Python.  • Launched AWS EC2 Cloud Instances using Amazon Web Services (Linux/ Ubuntu/RHEL) and Configured launched instances with respect to specific applications and Software's.  • XML files were extracted using Python.  • Handled Business logics by backend Python programming to achieve optimal results and Wrote Python scripts to parse XML, CSV and text files and load the data into AWS S3 buckets and call files from AWS S3 to Tableau using AWS Athena Service.  • Creating unit test/regression test framework for working/new code.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  • Resolved ongoing problems and accurately documented progress of a project.  • Build all database mapping classes using Django models and cassandra  • Branded card tables and field's validation and testing from converting the shell, SQL scripts to python and PSQL in AWS.  • Extensive experience in using Microsoft BI Studio products for implementation of ETL methodology in data extraction, transformation and loading.  • Involved in the complete Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) to develop the application.  • Mapping the true source of the fields from the table and moving the fields from S3RAW, LOAD Ready, Extract datasets to REDSHIFT using AWS CLI and Python.  • Expertise in developing web-based open stack applications using Python and Django for large dataset analysis.  • Developed, tested and debugged software tools utilized by clients and internal customers.  • Working with AWS services like EC2, S3, IAM and REDSHIFT.  • Coded test programs and evaluated existing engineering processes.  • Work with our current application teams to understand our current applications and make migration recommendations and to-be architectures in AWS.  • Designed and configured database and back end applications and programs.  • Collaborated with internal teams to convert end user feedback into meaningful and improved solutions.  Environment: Python, Django, Python oops, MySQL, HTML5, CSS, Angular 2.0, AWS S3, AWS Anthena, Amazon EC2, etc. Sr. Python developer Mass Mutual - Springfield, MA October 2017 to February 2018 Description: We understand our client's requirements to deliver them the website development solutions as per necessity. The trust is an important aspect of our clients and us; we manage it with our partners for every assignment. Though there are many frameworks written in Python, Django is considered to be the most powerful and popular framework of all time.  Our team use to develop the web application using Django framework, we used to use GIT to coordinate the team development.  Responsibilities:  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Designing Celery and multithreading for scheduling the tasks and multiple activities.  • Develop Interactive front end to visualize data from backend and represent in graphical manner to batter understanding for user.  • Experienced in hand-coding HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, and other UI technologies.  • Involved in various phases of the project like analysis, design, development, and testing.  • Attend walk-thru meetings with the clients to understand the requirements.  • Good knowledge on Python pickles.  • Worked on Bug fixes.  • Experience in designing and deploying AWS Solutions using EC2, S3, AWS EMR, Athena and AWS Redshift.  • Used GIT to coordinate team development.  • Designed and developed ETL APIs which will automate the data mining in different database sources.  • Tested entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework  • Launched AWS EMR Instance using Amazon Web Services using spark application, implemented Spark using PySpark and Spark SQL for faster processing of data.  • Used Selenium Library to write fully functioning test automation process that allowed the simulation of submitting different we request from multiple browser to web application.  • Experience in writing Terraform scripts for AWS infrastructure.  • Responsible for handling the integration of database system.  • Worked with every phase of the software development lifecycle to develop the application.  • Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes of the two main applications that were a main source of data for both customers and internal customer service team.  • Implement code in python to retrieve and manipulate data.  Environment: Python, Django, Selenium, HTML5, CSS3, GIT, JavaScript, HP Quality Center, WS S3, Amazon EC2, AWS Athena, Amazon EMR etc. Python developer AT&T- San Roman, CA November 2016 to September 2017 Description: AT&T is a modern media company whose mission is to inspire human progress through the power of communication and entertainment. We bring together premium video content, a large base of direct-to-consumer relationships, high-speed networks optimized for video and advertising technology to lead the next revolution in technology, media and telecommunications.  Responsibilities:  • Development of Python APIs to dump the array structures in the Processor at the failure point for debugging.  • Creating RESTful web services with Django MVT, and MySQL  • Wrote and executed various MySQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL DB package.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's to create a user-friendly website interface.  • All the micro services are deployed in Mesos cluster in AWS using Jenkins, Marathon, and Chronos.  • Involved in analysis, specification, design, and implementation and testing phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) and used agile methodology for developing application.  • Involved in tokenizing the sensitive data before archiving in AWS S3 using REST based Enterprise Tokenization service, and encrypting the data before sending it over wire to external systems.  • Refactored existing batch jobs and migrated existing legacy extracts from Informatica to Python based micro services and deployed in AWS with minimal downtime.  • Gathering requirements and translating the business details into Technical design.  • Implemented responsive user interface and standards throughout the development and maintenance of the website using the HTML, CSS, JavaScript, and JQuery.  • Collaborated within a team using an Agile Development workflow and widely-accepted collaboration practices using Git.  • Worked on front end frame works like CSS, Angular JS, Bootstrap for development of Web application.  • Using Git version control tool to coordinate team-development.  • Written test cases using PyUnit and Selenium Automation testing for better manipulation of test scripts.  • Used JIRA for Bug tracking and issue tracking.  • Worked as part of an Agile/Scrum based development team and exposed to TDD approach in developing applications.  Environment: Python, Django, HTML5, CSS, Bootstrap, Git, JavaScript, AJAX, RESTful webservice, MySQL, PyUnit, Selenium, AWS S3, EC2. Python developer Softpal - Hyderabad, Telangana November 2014 to August 2016 Description: Softpal continuously explores the frontiers of technology and software application development. This gives the clients, the sort of expertise and innovation necessary to win in today's cutting edge technology driven economy, The Softpal identifies the correct technology, the correct tools and correct platform to provide you with the greatest ROI.  Responsibilities:  • Responsible for gathering requirements, system analysis, design, development, testing and deployment.  • Created Business Logic using Python 2.7.  • Used Django framework for application development.  • Participated in the complete SDLC process.  • Created database using MySQL, wrote several queries and Django API's to extract data from database.  • Effectively communicated with the external vendors to resolve queries.  • Followed Agile Methodologies to manage full life-cycle development of the project.  • Used Git for the version control.  • Wrote scripts in Python for extracting data from HTML file.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Different testing methodologies like unit testing, Integration testing, web application testing, selenium testing were performed. Used Django framework for application development.  • Ensured high quality data collection and maintaining the integrity of the data.  • Was involved in environment, code installation as well as the SVN implementation.  • Collaborated with internal teams to convert end user feedback into meaningful and improved solutions.  • Designed and configured database and back end applications and programs.  • Resolved ongoing problems and accurately documented progress of a project.  • Creating unit test/regression test framework for working/new code.  Environment: SDLC, Python 2.7, Django, HTML, CSS, MySQL, Apache, etc. Python developer ZenQ Technologies - Hyderabad, Telangana July 2012 to October 2014 Description: ZenQ Technologies is a leading provider of digital solutions to automotive industry, our team was responsible for utilized Python and python web structures to take a shot at making an application for an auto insurance client. This application encourages the customer to sell accident protections and give administrations to their clients.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in every phase of the software development lifecycle process.  • Created Business Logic using Python 2.7.  • Effectively used Django framework for application development.  • Used MySQL as the database and wrote queries to extract information into python.  • Wrote scripts in Python for extracting data from HTML file.  • Responsible for development, testing and deployment.  • Responsible for delivering the AUT to the testing team after conducting unit testing and system testing.  • Used waterfall model of approach.  • Effectively communicated with the clients and external vendors to resolve issues.  • Handled operations and maintenance support for AWS cloud resources which includes launching, maintaining and troubleshooting EC2 instances, and S3 buckets, Virtual Private Clouds (VPC), Elastic Load Balancers (ELB) and Relational Database Services (RDS).  • Involved in building database Model, APIs and Views utilizing Python, in order to build an interactive web-based solution.  • Worked with networking team in understanding the limitations of firewall, domain controllers, load balancers and switches.  • Using Amazon SQS to queue up work to run asynchronously on distributed Amazon EC2 nodes.  • Managing and troubleshooting of Python Django and Flask projects.  Environment: Python 2.7, Django, Flask, MySQL, HTML, Git, etc. Linux Administrator QEdge Technologies - Hyderabad, Telangana May 2011 to June 2012 Description: QEdge Technologies provides test automation and ideal solutions to enhance the speed of the applications, accuracy and cost effectiveness of the testing approach, in our team we were responsible for maintaining the servers, system disk partitioning, configuring the devices, managing NFS, NIS and send mail servers.  Responsibilities:  • Installed, configured and updated Red Hat Enterprise Linux and Solaris Servers using Kick start.  • Created and managed Users / Group accounts and set up a user's work environment.  • Created System Disk Partition, mirroring root disk drive, configuring device groups in Linux environment.  • Administration of RHEL and AS 5,6,7 which includes installation, testing, tuning, upgrading and loading patches, troubleshooting server issues.  • Using and configuring Red Hat Satellite server, Yum repositories and Troubleshooting activities. Experience in Installation, configuration, patching, support to application and web server.  • Provides support to customers running Red Hat Enterprise Linux on their workstations and simulation servers.  • Working closely with other IT departments to help determine and develop systems that will be implemented.  • Manages servers in development, testing, and production environments, and web/application/database tiers while adhering to proper change management and security procedures.  • Manages the provisioning and deactivation of user accounts and authorizations.  • Support Application teams and assisting with complex issues.  • Worked on Performance monitoring using native and third party tools.  • Managed NIS, NFS and Send mail Server.  • Added more resources like Memory, Disks and increasing the Swap.  • Performed User and Group Management using Admin tools.  • Wrote bash and shell scripts.  • Involved in documenting of Linux and Windows environment and configuration details including  Environment: Red hat, NIS, NFS, shell Scripting, CRONTAB/AT. Education Bachelor's Skills AJAX (2 years), Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud (5 years), Apache (1 year), AWS (5 years), CSS (4 years), database (7 years), EC2 (5 years), Eclipse (Less than 1 year), Excel (Less than 1 year), java (1 year), java script (2 years), JIRA (Less than 1 year), JQuery. (Less than 1 year), MS Excel (Less than 1 year), MS office (Less than 1 year), MySQL. (6 years), Python (6 years), Scripting (1 year), Selenium (3 years), testing (7 years), MySQL, Javascript Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Languages Python 2.0X - 3.0X, java, R, C  Database MySQL, Oracle  Automation Testing Selenium  Scripting Languages CSS, AJAX, Shell, PHP, JavaScript, JQuery.  Servers Apache Tomcat, open stock, IBM web sphere  IDEs/Tools PyCharm, Jupyter, Pyspark, Eclipse, Spyder  Project Management Tools Jira, GitHub, Slack  MS office MS Excel, Word, Power point, etc.  Cloud services AWS S3, EC2, Athena, Amazon EMR