Software Engineer Software Engineer Software Engineer - RESPEC/Sandia National Laboratories Work Experience Software Engineer RESPEC/Sandia National Laboratories - Albuquerque, NM August 2019 to Present remote) (contract) Software Developer Cause Mobile Wallet - Costa Mesa, CA September 2018 to November 2018 remote) (temp/contract)  ? Created a product variant extension to ecommerce site to facilitate sales of products with various options.  ? Integrate Ckeditor into custom web site generator.  ? Integrate cropit gem for easy uploading and resizing/recentering of images.  ? Completed other stories for the project using Ruby on Rails 5.1, Jquery, Postgresql 10, HTML5/CSS2/CSS3/Bootstrap.  ? Member of a team of 5 developers and stakeholders. Python Programmer USDA/NRCS - Temple, TX March 2018 to September 2018 contract)  ? Created a geospatial tool to complete in-house wetland determinations for USDA-NRCS's compliance of the Food Security Act.  ? Member of a team of 3 developers and stakeholders. Rails Programmer Full-Stack Ruby - Conway, AR November 2017 to February 2018 remote)  ? Refactor and extend existing codebase based upon Ruby on Rails 4.2, Coffescript, Angular2, Jquery. CSS3.  ? Perform code review with other developers.  ? Collaborate with team leads and project managers to design and develop new features.  ? Utilize behavior- and test-driven development with Rspec.  ? Utilized pair programming (remote) to gain domain knowledge. Full-Stack PHP/Rails Programmer BBA Solutions - Little Rock, AR June 2013 to November 2017 remote)  ? Maintain and extend in-house POS system using PHP 5/MySQL 5/Symfony1/Symfony2 ORM.  ? Migrate system to Ruby On Rails 4.2/Postgresql 9.4.  ? Maintain/extend financial aid accounting system written in RoR.  ? Develop and maintain ebook subscription and cataloging API interfacing with vendor's API.  ? Provide tier 3 technical support and resolution to project manager.  ? Design, document and implement new database schema.  ? Diagram and document new product features using input from store owners and project manager(s).  ? Write PHP, Ruby On Rails, Coffescript, Javascript, Jquery, CSS, and SASS code to implement new features and bug fixes.  ? Collaborate with UI/UX design team to design and implement efficient, functional user interfaces.  ? Write software tests in PHPUnit and Minitest, as well as perform manual functionality and usability testing of code.  ? Perform code review with other developers on POS and other projects, evaluating code for efficiency, maintainability, and functionality.  ? Provide input to Devops personnel regarding server configuration.  ? Utilized pair programming (remote and onsite) to gain domain knowledge.  ? Utilize behavior- and test-driven development with Test::Unit.  ? Member of a team of 8-12 developers and stakeholders. Python Programmer USDA/NRCS - Little Rock, AR December 2012 to July 2013 Wrote app in Python/ArcGIS which reads a map file and sums the acreage that makes up various land usage  types.  ? Wrote app in Python/ArcGIS which reads map plotpoints for resource inventory from a file, and plots these  points and annotates them on various maps. Education B.S. in Electronic Systems Technology Southern Illinois University at Carbondale Skills Api, Git, Javascript, Bootstrap, Json, Perl, Php, Symfony, Python, Rspec, Ruby, Rails, Ruby on rails, Software development, Visual basic, Visual basic for applications, Xml, Database, Mysql, Postgresql Links http://www.linkedin.com/pub/paul-mccubbins/56/6b7/7a9 https://claws96.bitbucket.io Additional Information SKILLS:  ? Code Frameworks: Rails, Symfony 1, Symfony 2.  ? Collaboration Tools: Hipchat, IRC, Jira, Slack.  ? Database Schema Design: MySql, Postgresql.  ? Development Environments: Linux, Windows, OS X, VMWare.  ? Miscellaneous: AJAX, API, JSON, JWT, MVC, Remote work, REST, Sidekiq, SDK, SOAP, XML.  ? Software Development: Angular2, Bash, Bootstrap, CSS, DHTML, HTML5, Javascript, Perl, PHP, Python,  React, Ruby on Rails, SASS, Tcsh, Visual Basic for Applications.  ? Source Code Management/Version Control: Bitbucket, Git, Github, Gitlab  ? Test Frameworks: Capybara, PHPUnit, Minitest, RSpec, Selenium.