Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - USAA tx • Over 7 years of experience as a Web/Application Developer and Support Engineer with analytical programming using Python, Django, HTML, CSS, JavaScript,  • Experienced in WAMP (Windows, Apache, MYSQL, Python/PHP) and LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, Experienced in developing Web Services with Python programming language.  • Excellent experience with Python development under Linux OS (Debian, Ubuntu, SUSE Linux, RedHat Linux, Fedora).  • Experience with v-model designing, involved in the Integration, Test, Verification stage Proficient in all cycles of test life cycle from test planning to defect tracking and managing defect lifecycle.  • Good knowledge in various stages of SDLC (Software Development Life Cycle), Software Testing Life Cycle (STLC) and QA methodologies from project definition to post-deployment documentation.  • Good experience in Python,Django, Zope, Pyramid Framework.  • Well versed with design and development of presentation layer for web applications using technologies like HTML, CSS and JavaScript.  • Hands-on Software Development background including architecture, design, and implementation, with particular expertise in Node.js, React.js, Java, Unix and Distributed Systems  • Experience on working extensible and reusable Components in React and State Management using Redux.  • Automation experience using Selenium IDE/RC/ Web Driver and TestNG frameworks  • Familiar with JSON based REST Web services and Amazon Web services.  • Good knowledge of web services with protocols SOAP and REST.  • Expertise in designing, developing middleware components for software in C/C++ using STL, multithreading, data structures and design patterns. Experienced with Python frameworks likeWebapp2 and, Flask.  • Experience with Unit testing/ Test driven Development(TDD) and Load Testing.  • Strong understanding of Agile and Scrum Software Development Life Cycle Methodologies.  • Experienced in working on Application Servers like WebSphere, WebLogic, Tomcat, Web Servers like Apache server, NGINX and Integrated Development Environments like PyCharm, Eclipse, MyEclipse, JDeveloper and RAD. Strong proficiency in version control systems like SVN, Git.  • Proficient in SQL databases MS SQL, MySQL, Oracle and no-SQL databases MongoDB and Cassandra.  • Well versed in writing unit test cases and selenium test cases..  • Received Mozilla badge- 'International Certified Embedded Systems with ARM Cortex M3 Engineer' in affiliation with Robotics and Computer Applications Institute, Caltech, USA and IIT, Bombay  • Experience with JSP Servlets, Web Services (SOAP, REST) and Tomcat. Effective in executing multiple tasks and assignments ahead of schedule. Created and maintained effective budgets.  • Highly motivated, result oriented professional with a short learning curve and strong communication skills.  • Hands-on experience in writing and reviewing requirements, architecture documents, test plans, design documents, quality analysis and audits. Work Experience Python Developer USAA - San Antonio, TX August 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Datastage and Informatica tools support and admin activities.  • Used debugger to validate the mappings and gain troubleshooting information about data and error conditions.  • Responsible for identifying the missed records in different stages from source to target and resolving the issue.  • Involved in analyzing the data for each load for critical cycles and working with the level3 teams to modify or re-define the transformation rules due to discrepancies in the data  • Deployment of the code across the different environments upon user requests.  • Performed admin activities such as checking server's health check and performing weekly maintenance (stopping and restarting servers across all environments dev/test and lab and production)  • Identifying the process that causing the high cpu utilization and contact appropriate application teams in Availability command center to take immediate action with in stipulated time to avoid production outage by joining in major incident calls.  • Involved in designing and developing the web pages using HTML 5, CSS3, JavaScript, Bootstrap, SASS, LESS, React.js, Redux, Flex, Node JS, Mongo DB,  • Performed following activities as etl server admin creating users, creating and assigning projects to users, creating connections for new databases  • Wrote Single Page Web Applications using RESTFUL web services, Ajax, Bootstrap, React.js.  • Involved in building database Model, APIs and Views utilizing Python in order to build an interactive web based solution.  • Monitor applications and systems on daily basis for optimal performance and issues on Server side  • Adding new Features to Integration Monitor like adding filters and pagination  • Extracting Opearations data from Workday and storing it in Hadoop  • Getting the data in Pickle file Format and Parsing it by CSV  • Creating Avro Schema file out of Avro file and creating table in hive and loading the avro files  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Developed monitoring and notification tools using Python.  • wrote functions in Python to read the XSD using lxml.etree.xml library  • Wrote functions to fetch the elements in recursive way from XSD  • Used Couchbase Python SDK to build applications that use Couchbase Server.  • Created Data tables utilizing MySQL utilized Jinja to access data and display it in the front end.  • Used Python based GUI components for the front end functionality such as selection criteria.  • Implemented navigation rules for the application and page outcomes, written controllers using annotations.  • Used Pandas API to put the data as time series and tabular format for east timestamp data manipulation and retrieval.  • wrote code to validate the XML files to XSLT  • Participated in weekly release meetings with Technology stakeholders to identify and migrate potential risks associated with the releases.  • Strong knowledge of all phases of SDLC and Strong working knowledge of Software testing (Functional Testing, Regression Testing, Load Testing).  • breaking down the XSD and read the XSD dynamically to generate the AVRO schema from a particular operation  • Experienced in designing Test Plans and Test Cases, Verifying and Validating Web based applications  • Development, Quality Assurance and Management teams to ensure cross communication and confirmed approval of all production changes.  • Connected continuous integration system with GIT version control repository and continually build as the check-in's come from the developer.  • Performed testing with RSpec, FactoryGirl, Capybara, and Selenium. Performed Continuous  • Integration with Jenkins.  Environment: Python, PyCharm,Selenium IDE, ,XML,WSDL, CSV, Web Services, Pandas, JSON, Angular.js, SQL ,Hadoop,Hive Python Developer Humana - Louisville, KY July 2016 to July 2018 Responsibilities:  • Developed programs to automate the testing of RAID controller firmware and utilities using Python  • applying software package patches in data-stage and informatica servers.  • Creating components for UI pages for different websites and search pages using React  • identified repeated issues in production batches and automated permanent solutions to avoid future failures  • Analyzed production incidents trends for the application and created knowledge articles in service now for temporary fixes where other team members can follow  • Developed and executed software systems utilizing React.JS  • Used Pandas library for statistical Analysis. Worked on Python Open stack API's.  • Worked on JavaScript MVC Framework like Angular.js.  • Developed internal auxiliary web apps using Python Flask framework with CSS / HTML framework.  • Created entire application using Python, Django, MySQL and Linux.  • Involved in Web-services backend development using Python (CherryPy, Django, SQLAlchemy).  • Created a Git repository and added the project to GitHub.  • Utilized PyUnit the Python unit test framework, for all Python applications.  • Exported/Imported data between different data sources using SQL Server Management Studio.  • Building an application UI from scratch using React Js, Redux and some Amex internal frameworks.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Identified, documented and reported bugs, errors, interoperability flaws and other issues within proprietary software applications developed for Amf Company's global user base.  • Built Continuous Integration environment (Jenkins, Nexus) and Continuous delivery environment (puppet).  • Achieved 100% coverage of of user slice Ruby codebase by writing unit tests with RSpec and Capybara.  • Deployed DevOps using Puppet, Dashboard, and Puppet DB for configuration management to existing infrastructure  • Implemented and enhanced CRUD operations for the applications using the MVC (Model View Controller) architecture of Rails framework and Ruby conducting code reviews.  • Implemented Automated Application Deployment using Puppet.  • Implemented Junit test runner class to call test cases in Cucumber.  • Used Quick Test Pro extensively to automate testing the functionalities of the application and used the scripts for Regression Testing.  Environment: Python 2.7, Django 1.5, Selenium IDE,MySQL, Zope, Angular.JS, Pandas, Flash, PyUnit, Open Stack, HTML, CSS, JQuery, JavaScript, Apache, Jira, Linux, Git, Cassandra, Windows, Linux. Python Developer American Family - Madison, WI June 2015 to June 2016 Responsibilities:  • Supporting engineering plans and schedules by providing CM/Release Engineering services to build, deploy, develop scripts, oversee branch and merge strategies, and build automated tools as necessary to offer services to engineering team.  • Responsible for Planning of the Roll-Out Process and Order of Sequence Involved for Day to Day Enterprise J2EE Software Packages for Development, Testing, and System Integration Testing, and Ultimately Production Environments.  • Wrote Python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Few Social Campaign apps were migrated from Java to Ruby on Rails Framework. Setup the Automation framework within the app in Ruby/Capybara/Selenium with Automation team.  • Designed AWS Cloud Formation templates to create custom sized VPC, subnets, NAT to ensure successful deployment of Web applications and database templates.  • Extensive experience in implementing Continuous Integration and Continuous Delivery (using Jenkins) in an AWS Environment  • Collaborated with SaaS teams on AWS cost optimization projects  • Deploy and manage Azure storage for SQL DB's (SaaS and PaaS applications), SQL Server on Azure, Windows and Linux instances among other azure cloud services  • Developed monitoring and notification tools using Python.  • Added page objects in Test Automation Framework.  • Automate administration task through use of Linux scripting.  • Built Continuous Integration environment (Jenkins, Nexus) and Continuous delivery environment (puppet).  • Achieved 100% coverage of of user slice Ruby codebase by writing unit tests with RSpec and Capybara.  • Deployed DevOps using Puppet, Dashboard, and Puppet DB for configuration management to existing infrastructure.  • Implemented and enhanced CRUD operations for the applications using the MVC (Model View Controller) architecture of Rails framework and Ruby conducting code reviews.  • Implemented Automated Application Deployment using Puppet.  • Working closely with Web Administrators to understand, participate, and experience the technical architect for web sites such as Apache, Web Sphere; and deploying J2EE Applications to these environments.  • Recommended build management, defect management development process flow. Administrator of SVN.  • Involved in editing the existing ANT/MAVEN files in case of errors or changes in the project requirements.  • Expertise in upgrading the ruby on rails versions  • Modified the Puppet files according to the requirement of application.  • Implement the supporting platform for Open Stack Infrastructure on the cloud that all services and applications will rely upon.  • Deployed the archives to tomcat Web server and web sphere Application Servers.  • Coordinating with developers for merge/build issues/failures.  • Setup and maintenance of cross development environments like windows and Linux.  Environment: Subversion, Jenkins, Ruby,Puppet, Ant,CAPYBARA, Maven, Apache Tomcat, Web sphere, Python, Open Stack, UNIX/LINUX, Apache, Java/ J2EE. Build and Release Engineer ICICI BANK , IND June 2012 to September 2014 Responsibilities:  • Build automation/Continuous integration of Insurance projects for a client on Hudson.  • Software configuration management - Migration of code from a legacy version control system to Perforce, and integrating the same with the Build system.  • Experience in setting Maven repository and pom.xml, Ant build.xml and managed the maven artifacts using Nexus repository.  • Responsible for remote end maintenance for 2G and 3G Network Elements in BSS,OSS& NSS  • Involved in design and implementation and modifying the Ruby code and MySQL database schema on-the back end.  • Used Ant scripts to perform the builds and wrote a few build.xmls for application development teams.  • Wrote ANT and MAVEN Scripts to automate the build process.  • Design and development of an in-house tool for automating the configuration of development environments for a release cycle.  • Automation of build/deployment/reporting tasks through scripts.  • Support and manage development environments as part of the SDLC.  • Proficient in Ruby on Rails implementation in building web applications.  • Work closely with the QA team, in order to properly plan and allocate resources to test applications before releasing them into production.  • Co-ordinate with a QA engineer to determine the nature of a bug, and whether it's an environment/server configuration issue, or simply a bug in the app.    Environment: ANT, Maven, Subversion,Ruby, Perforce, Hudson/Jenkins, OSS,BSS,JIRA, IBM Web sphere Integrated solutions console, Java, J2ee, Nexus, XML, TOAD,UNIX, Linux, Perl. Education Bachelor of Engineering in Computer Science in Computer Science JNT University - Hyderabad, Telangana 2012 Skills C++, DJANGO, Git, HTML, JAVASCRIPT