Python Developer - Machine Learning <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> - Machine Learning Python Developer - Machine Learning - UBS Jersey City, NJ • 5+ years of experience as software engineer with coding in multiple languages such as Python, C, C++, R, Embedded C and Object-Oriented Programming on Windows and Linux platform.  • 4+ years of experience in designing complex mathematical, computational and state machine modelling in MATLAB, NI LabVIEW and Python environment.  • 3+ years of experience with cloud platforms such as AWS, Google Cloud, Amazon Rekognition, IFTTT, Microsoft Azure and Thing speak.  • Area of expertise in statistics, probability, stochastic process and signal processing.  • Experience with Model View Controller (MVC) frameworks like Django in designing and developing application.  • Expert in designing data driven filters with python libraries such as NumPy, Matplotlib, Pandas and SciPy.  • Experience in designing artificial and convolutional neural network models with Keras and Caffe.  • Expertise in computer vision with OpenCV and PIL Library.  • Designed 2D and 3D model with Python and MATLAB.  • Experience in computer vision and robotics with perception, mapping, localization and behavioral trajectory planning for self-driving cars and drones.  • Expertise in software development environments with machine learning algorithms and deep learning frameworks such as TensorFlow, PyTorch, Computational and Recurring Neural Network.  • Skilled in Object Oriented Programming concepts, multithreading, synchronization objects and test frameworks.  • Experience in Amazon Web Service with AWS EC2, SES, S3, VPC, RDS and DynamoDB.  • Adept in networking protocols such as TCP/IP, UDP, HTTP, SIP, SSH and SSL protocols.  • Adroit in communication protocols such as SPI, USB, UART, I2C, RS-232 and ethernet.  • Expertise in communication protocols such as Bluetooth low energy technology, wireless technologies and RF communications.  • Expertise in development, designing and testing of medical devices and automation technologies.  • Experience in testing frameworks with PyTest and PyUnit.  • Expertise in processing large datasets with R programming.  • Experience with version control tools like GIT and SVN.  • Skilled in Software in loop and hardware in loop testing with model-based development.  • Certified system designing and programming expert with ARM processor, Programmable System on Chip with Bluetooth Low Energy Technology and Internet of Things by ARM University and Cypress Semiconductors. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Developer - Machine Learning UBS - Weehawken, NJ July 2018 to Present Roles and Responsibilities:  • Designed and developed computational models for cybersecurity application.  • Worked on Python scripting environment and MATLAB to determine the accuracy of the system.  • Worked on large structured and unstructured datasets.  • Designed a statistical model in Python and R for feature extracting in various cybersecurity applications.  • Modelled Linear Discriminant Analysis and Hidden Markov Model to classify extracted features for speech processing applications.  • Designed a deep reinforcement learning model for facial recognition.  • Developed common services to allow other developers to focus on product specific features.  • Illustrated data analysis with python packages such as NumPy, Matplotlib, Pillow, Sci-kit Learn and Pandas.  • Designed a deep neural network model using python package named Keras.  • Designed Perceptron model with Cross entropy and gradient descent.  • Designed a novel deep learning model to identify the facial features and manipulated images of human faces using MATLAB and python framework such as TensorFlow, PyTorch on CPU and GPU.  • Experience in ML pipeline with optimization models for scalability and performance.  • Enhanced existing model with computer vision technology.  • Designed a novel imaging technique for detecting the contour of the objects.  • Designed a stimulation model with machine learning algorithms and deep learning models for automation system.  • Trained deep neural network model by relative object tracking with MNIST Image recognition datasets.  • Developed convolutional model to determine the image is real or fake.  • Worked on python-based API (Amazon Rekognition) for powerful deep learning-based image and video recognition and analysis.  • Built interactive web-based model by utilizing database model and API.  • Developed and maintained real-time dashboard activities.  • Designed model for highly efficient in handling multi-tasking issues in a fast-paced environment.  • Experience in 3D Multiview geometry, topology concepts, representations and data structures such as surface and volume meshes, analytical surfaces/solids, functional representations.  • Mentored and guided employees ensuring all were trained in product knowledge and capable of performing assigned duties.  • Collaborating with team members for data collection, pre-processing and post processing.  • Experience in data structure, algorithms and object-oriented design.  • Connected continuous integration system with GIT version control repository. Python Developer Optum - Raleigh, NC June 2017 to June 2018 Roles and Responsibilities  • Developed and designed Python based API (AWS) to interact with company's website.  • Involved in analysis, specification, design and implementation and testing phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC).  • Implemented Django framework to design server applications.  • Developed big data workflows (Discovery, Access, Process, Maintain).  • Developed and designed cloud application using Lambda function on AWS server.  • Authored procedure to automate process with python code.  • Worked on controllers, view and models in Django.  • Created python scripting models to parse XML data into database.  • Developed consumer-based features and application using Python and Django in test driven development and pair-based programming.  • Developed web applications and implementing Model View Control (MVC) architecture using server-side application like Django and Flask.  • Designed and configured NoSQL database such as Apache Cassandra for increasing compatibility with Django.  • Successfully migrated Django database from SQLite to PostgreSQL with data integrity.  • Experience in developing RESTful API using Python.  • Created interactive data charts on web application using Tableau with data received from Apache Cassandra.  • Developed views and templates with python and Django view controller and templating language to create user-friendly website interface.  • Designed and implemented BASH scripting for monitoring, controlling and increasing efficiency of retail management application system and operations.  • Developed internal project in Flask to generate report from Google Analytics on daily, weekly and monthly basis.  • Designed front-end functionality such as selection criteria using python-based GUI components.  • Designed an alert system for wireless system by integrating mobile and email service in a cloud-based application for healthcare industry in C++.  • Hands-on networking experience with technologies such as VLAN's, WAN and routing.  • Developed a Django CMS based promotion management system offering the ability to created arbitrary forms through an admin interface.  • Responsible for analysis of design, functional, technical and user documentation.  • Developed test plans and reported the issues. Research Assistant - Software Engineer for Self-Driving Car New York Institute of Technology January 2017 to May 2017 Roles and Responsibilities  • Designed machine learning and deep learning models using TensorFlow, PyTorch.  • Developed a closed loop model with image processing and computer vision for autonomous driving car in Python, MATLAB and OpenCV.  • Designed a real-time object tracking model to identify lane lines, traffic signals from defined camera window.  • Designed a deep neural network to fit complex datasets with the help of Keras.  • Trained a convolution neural network model with MNIST Image Recognition dataset to identify traffic signs and signals.  • Experience in localization and mapping with path planning, behavior planning and trajectory generation.  • Developed firmware for communication with C++.  • Design a model for complex functional testing using Pytest.  • Trained the model that can predict steering angles based on a continuous spectrum by defining Nvidia model. Software Developer - Python Beckon Dickinson - Mumbai, Maharashtra January 2014 to July 2016 Roles and Responsibilities  • Developed monitoring and notification tools using Python.  • Expertise of Microsoft Azure, Amazon Web Services and Google cloud platform.  • Experience with managing cloud delivery platforms such as Azure and AWS.  • Developed monitoring and notification tools using Python.  • Involved in business logic discussions and use case design.  • Reviewed product requirement documents, functional specifications, and involved in developing test strategy, test plan and test case documents.  • Developed an infinity closed loop state machine model for real-time recording and stimulation of gastrointestinal activities with microcontroller and wireless communication.  • Experience with communication protocols such as Bluetooth Low Energy Technology, RF communication, Zigbee and Wi-Fi Technology.  • Experience in testing medical devices.  • Developed and controlled cloud development scripts and automated provision of AWS resource which involves EC2, S3 and RDS.  • Extensive code reviewing using GitHub pull request, improved code quality and conducted meeting among peer.  • Built database models, views and API's using Python for interactive web-based solution.  • Created business logic with Python for creating Planning and Tracking functions.  • Ensures all system level requirements and traceability given by the customer are met during release.  • Worked on version controller such as Git and GitHub.  • Deployment of cloud service on Docker.  • Virtualized the servers using Docker for test environments, needs also configuration automation using Docker.  • Experience in Linux administration Installation, configuration, tuning and upgrades.  • Involved in build and deployment of applications on various platforms such Linux and Unix.  • Worked with team of developers on python application for RISK management.  • Optimize CPU usage by fixing bugs and memory leaks in the software.  • Responsible for design and implementation of special test cases including software documentation. Education Master's in Electrical and Computer Engineering New York Institute of Technology - New York, NY Bachelor's in Electronics and Telecommunication Engineering University of Mumbai - Mumbai, Maharashtra Skills AMAZON WEB SERVICES, APACHE SPARK, C++, DJANGO, EMBEDDED C, MySQL Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    Programming Languages: Python, C, C++, Embedded C, R, SQL, Object Oriented Programming    IDE: Google Colab, PyCharm, MATLAB, IntelliJ IDEA, Jupyter, Code Composer Studio, Spyder, R Studio, Tableau, NetBeans, EMACS, LabVIEW, Anaconda.    Cloud Platforms: Amazon Web Services (AWS), Google Cloud Platform, Microsoft Azure, ThingSpeak, Phant Server, IFTTT Services.    Frameworks: Apache Spark, Caffe, Django, Flask, PyTest, PyUnit.    Libraries: NumPy, Matplotlib, Pandas, Sci-kit Learn, SciPy, Keras, TensorFlow, PyTorch.    Databases: DynamoDB, Teradata, AWS Redshift, AWS Aurora, Apache Cassandra, PostgreSQL, NoSQL, MySQL.    Version Control System: Git, GitHub, SVN    Operating System: MS Windows, Linux, Unix, MAC OS