Python developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">developer</span> Python developer - JPMorgan Chase & Co San Antonio, TX Work Experience Python developer JPMorgan Chase & Co - Houston, TX October 2018 to Present • Developing REST APIs to handle the backend and database interactions.  • Using different features of Django rest framework by using model-view sets and serializes.  • Developing unit-test cases to maintain the backend APIs.  • Developing UI using AngularJS for client side logic.  • It is an agile environment, and we use test-driven development.  Technologies: Django REST, Djnago, git, AngularJS, HTML, Python, ORACLE Python developer October 2017 to September 2018 • Koedal, San Antonio, USA 5/2018 - 9/2018  • Developed REST APIs and admin interface, for Mobile scheduling system for medical sector, using Djnago, Django rest-framework.  • Used Djnago import-export package for handling importing files from the old system.  • The application is serving a network of 6000 users, and ready for expansion.  Technologies: Django REST, Djnago, git, Python, Postgre. Python developer UPWORK, Online October 2017 to March 2018 Worked on two projects for online contractor:  • Web application for learning language:  ? Login module.  ? Questionnaire based on background scripts.  • Web application for sports betting:  ? Used STRIPE to embed the payment module.  Technologies: Flask, Pandas, Mysql, Python Senior Software Engineer IT WORX - Cairo, EG May 2017 to January 2018 Developed Restful project process APIs for an agribusiness client to prepare datasets to be used by data processing system. Developed data manipulation tasks using pandas.  • The project aimed at building a platform with the target of enabling and streamlining the execution of analytic pipelines.  • The project's impact is reflected by how it cuts down the time taken to manually perform these processes by orders of magnitude.  Technologies: Django REST Framework, Apache, Pandas, Python Masters Student, Cairo University October 2015 to September 2017 Developed tree-based models to predict the novelty and category of the locations the user intended to visit. Also developing Markov Chain models to the user's behavior, and predict the user's next location.  Technologies: python, R, Graphlab, pandas, scikit-learn Software Engineer Internet of Things GIZA SYSTEMS, Giza January 2016 to May 2017 Created Mashups, installed and maintained Thingworx, developed the Edge agent on Meshlium. Joined a project in process for client, Etisalat UAE:  • An environmental dashboard for monitoring air pollution.  • A Smart meters' dashboard for monitoring and monetizing smart meters using NES software.  • A Street lightening dashboard to control and monitor street lighting system.  Technologies: Thingworx platform, Java, JavaScript, node-red, Linux GIZA SYSTEMS, Giza - EG June 2013 to May 2017 Technical Support Engineer GIZA SYSTEMS, Giza June 2013 to December 2015 Maintained billing and customer relationship management systems using Oracle application based billing. Troubleshot and solved performance issues.  Technologies: Oracle, SQL developer, Toad, Linux Education Master Degree in Computer Engineering in Machine learning Cairo University 2017 Bachelor Degree in Computer Engineering in Computer Engineering Cairo University 2009 Skills Django, Git, Python, Flask, Tensorflow, Svn, Database, Mysql, Oracle, Postgresql, Sql, Rest, Elastic beanstalk, Ec2, Tomcat, Web server, Version control