Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - PENNDOT Harrisburg, PA ? Around 4 years of experience in Analysis, Design, Development, Testing, Support and Implementation of various stand-alone, client-server enterprise applications. Nearly 3 years of experience of software development in Python (libraries used: libraries- Beautiful Soup, numpy, scipy, re, matplotlib, Python-twitter, Pandas data frame, network, urllib2, MySQL dB for database connectivity) and IDEs - sublime text, Spyder, pycharm, emacs  ? Developed web-based applications using Python 3.3/2.7, Django 1.4/1.3, XML, CSS3, HTML5, DHTML, JavaScript and JQuery.  ? Expertise in client scripting language and server side scripting languages like JavaScript, JQuery, JSON, DOJO, bootstrap, Node.js, Angular.js, backbone.js, Require.js.  ? Developed Java/J2EE applications using Hibernate, XML, Android, XSLT, and applications including using Core Java concepts like OOPS, Multithreading, Garbage Collections, and Collections.  ? Efficient in using apache spark and apache Hive.  ? Excellent experience of databases such as MySQL, MongoDB, Oracle 8g/9g/10g, Microsoft SQL Server, PostgreSQL, SQL/PLSQL concepts such as procedures, functions, and triggers.  ? Knowledge in using Python as ETL tool for data integration.  ? Knowledge in working with continuous deployment using Heroku and Jenkins.  ? Efficient in using Python Spark (PySpark) API.  ? Knowledge in Create / Modify / Drop Teradata objects like Tables, Views, Join Indexes, Triggers, Macros, Procedures, and Databases.  ? Created several tables as a part of data modeling and determined the performance of the table through load testing with Cassandra -stress tool and querying on data present in Cassandra cluster using CQL (Cassandra Query Language)  ? Experienced with Data migration from DB2 to Apache Cassandra database, Cassandra data model designing, implementation, maintaining and monitoring using DSE, DevCentre, Datastax Opscenter.  ? Good knowledge on Spark platform parameters like memory, cores and executors.  ? Experience in project deployment using Heroku/Jenkins and using web services like Amazon Web Services (AWS) EC2 and AWS S3.  ? Proficient in using internal tools in Pycharm, Brackets, PyDev, Netbeans and Eclipse for debugging and also worked with Sublime Text 2, Vim Editors for coding.  ? Hands on experience of Git, SVN, CVS.  ? Good Experience in Linux Bash scripting and following PEP Guidelines in Python. Work Experience Python Developer PENNDOT - Harrisburg, PA September 2016 to Present Extensively used GIT for version controlling and regularly pushed the code to GitHub  ? Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  ? Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  ? Designed and developed data management system using MySQL.  ? Rewrite existing Java, C++ application in Python.  ? Wrote Python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  ? Generated property list for every application dynamically using Python.  ? Created unit test/regression test framework for working/new code.  ? Made Django web based apps for Insurance premium calculations.  ? Designed the architecture of the hardware environments and methodology of the code.  ? Used Pandas library for statistical Analysis.  ? Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  ? Involved in entire lifecycle of the projects including Design, Development, and Deployment, Testing and Implementation and support.  ? Used Django framework for application development.  ? Created entire application using Python, Django, MySQL and Linux.  ? Utilize PyUnit, the Python unit test framework, for all Python applications.  ? Enhanced existing automated solutions, such as the Inquiry Tool for automated Asset Department reporting and added new features and fixed bugs.  ? Created database using MySQL, wrote several queries to extract/store data.  ? Developed, tested and debugged software tools utilized by clients and internal customers.  ? Coded test programs and evaluated existing engineering processes.  ? Designed and configured database and back end applications and programs.  ? Performed research to explore and identify new technological platforms.  ? Collaborated with internal teams to convert end user feedback into meaningful and improved solutions.  Environment: Python 2.6, Django 1.4, Puppet Rspec, Jenkins, Grafana/Graphite, MySQL, Windows, Linux, HTML, CSS, JQuery, JavaScript, Apache, Jira, Linux, Git. Python Developer Microsoft Corp - Burlington, MA June 2015 to May 2016 Designed and developed modular tool and micro-services which trigger different workflow which mine data from database.  ? The application will interact numbers of server to get workflow and star mining job.  ? The application also look for data mining workflow and services health check and integrate HQL and ? SQL queries in it.  ? If anything has been change in any workflow or any database queries it will detects and start new job and make a log for it.  ? Maintained all job report and heath of the job. Time by time generate email to all upper management team and associated project developer regarding job status.  ? Evaluated and improved current Python SDK documentation.  ? Worked closely with project leads to learn about the Azure services, environment deployment, and integration with tooling. Used panda's library for high performance data structures to prepare data for the machine learning phase and for statistical analysis.  ? Used Numpy for Numerical analysis for Insurance premium.  ? Developed tools to automate some base tasks using Shell Scripting, Python.  ? Worked with regular expressions, urllib modules.  ? Used PySpark to expose Spark API to Python.  ? Used Python scripting to encrypt and decrypt data.  ? Used several Python libraries like wxPython, numPY and matPlotLib.  ? Used Pandas API to put the data as time series and tabular format for east timestamp data manipulation and retrieval.  ? Resolved ongoing problems and accurately documented progress of a project.  ? Used different type of transformations and actions in apache Spark.  ? Used Spark cluster to manipulate RDD's (resilient distributed datasets) and also used concepts of RDD partitions.  ? Connecting my SQL database through Spark driver.  ? Used Matplotlib module for easy data visualization.  ? Wrote Python modules to extract/load asset data from the MS SQL source database.  ? Ensured high quality data collection and maintaining the integrity of the data.  ? Worked as a support customers with SDK-usage and design related queries, and create high quality collateral (samples, notebooks, etc)  ? Release automation, system administration, system configuration, and system debugging experience.  ? Experience using scripting languages (Ruby, Python, etc), configuration management tools (Git, etc) and command execution.  Environment: Python SDK, Markdown, RST syntax, Notebooks, Ruby, Git, Java, Power BI, Sphinx Tools, Python, PyCharm, Eclipse, Sublime, Linux, Shell Scripting. Python/SQL Developer LIC of India - Peddapuram, Andhra Pradesh June 2013 to January 2015 Development of data structures, XML parsing using Python.  ? Usage of advance features like pickle/unpickle in python for sharing the information across the applications.  ? Used Django database API's to access database objects.  ? Rewrite existing Python/Django modules to deliver certain format of data.  ? Generated graphical reports using python package Numpy and MatplotLib.  ? Representation of the system in hierarchy form by defining the components, subcomponents using Python and developed set of library functions over the system based on the user needs.  ? Development of Python APIs to dump the array structures in the Processor at the failure point for debugging.  ? Wrote programs to parse excel file and process many user data with data validations.  ? Generated property list for every application dynamically using python.  ? Collecting the several usage models and functions from the team members.  ? Developing and maintenance of the tool that abstracts the information for the user.  ? Utilized various IDEs and internal debug tools during debugging.  ? Analyzing the data in design database.  ? Maintaining the data with different levels of access privileges.  ? Created database triggers to implement complex business rules and automatic background processing.  ? Created over 50 Jasper Reports and SSRS reports  ? Creating SSIS Packages migration of data across different servers and Other Databases such as Oracle.  ? Identification of various Data Sources and Development Environment.  ? Responsible for running and maintaining business processes on daily / weekly / monthly basis.    Environment: Python, MS SQL Server 2008, T-SQL, Jasper, SSRS, MY SQL, MS Access, Windows NT/2000 Skills DATABASE (3 years), PYTHON (3 years), SQL (2 years), DJANGO (2 years), XML (2 years) Additional Information Technical skills:  Python Libraries Pandas, NumPy, Urlilib, Matplotlib, Unittest, JSON, CSV, XML, XLS  Database Systems Oracle 11g/10g/9i, DB2, MS-SQL Server, MySQL, MS-Access, PostgreSQL, NoSQL (Mongo DB), SQLite3  Python Framework Django  Languages Python, Java, HiveQL, Advanced PL/SQL, SQL  IDE's Splunk, Eclipse/Net Beans, SQL Developer, IntelliJ  Bug Tracking Tools Jira, Bugzilla, Rational Clear-quest  Web Technologies Java, J2EE, Servlets, JDBC, XML, JSON  Version Control Tools Git, Github, SVN, VSS  Platforms Linux Red Hat/Ubuntu/Centos, Windows 10/8.1/7/XP