Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer Santa Clara, CA • Over 7 years of experience as a Web Application Developer and Software Engineer using Python, Django and Flask  • Hands-on-experience on python web application development using Django, Flask frameworks and front-end technologies like HTML, JavaScript, CSS for dynamic UI design.  • Experience with data science toolkits, machine learning techniques and modeling tools such as Python libraries like NumPy, Pandas and SciPy, Matplotlib.  • Experienced with Machine Learning using SCIKIT-Learn.  • Experience with semantic analysis and type checking for ChocoPy  • Hands-on experience using various python packages/libraries on data visualization, manipulation, joining data, exploratory data analysis.  • Good experience in statistics skills such as distributions, statistical testing, regression, Hypothesis Testing, ANOVA, Factor Analysis, Time Series Analysis, and Probability Distributions.  • Experience in developing python scripts for automation and performing functional tests and data validation.  • Good experience with Amazon web Services AWS.  • Excellent knowledge of OOPS, Multi-Threading and Collections concepts and in Python.  • Strong knowledge of database concepts and both SQL and non-SQL databases.  • Excellent debugging, mathematical, problem solving and optimization skills.  • Worked on SQL reporting and OBIEE analytics and Reporting Work Experience Python Developer Intel - Santa Clara, CA March 2017 to Present Worked on development of Contract Scheduling and Billing system.     ·        Responsible for gathering requirements, system analysis, design, development, testing and deployment.  ·        Participated in the complete SDLC process.  ·        Created Business Logic using Python  ·        Used Django framework for application development.   ·        Utilized PyUnit, the Python unit test framework, for all Python applications.   ·        Wrote Python OO Design code for manufacturing quality, monitoring, logging, and debugging code optimization.  Python Developer P&G - Sacramento, CA August 2015 to March 2017 To support the largest FMCG companies like Procter & Gamble and Unilever to know their Product and Market Standards. Data's received from multiple vendors and we validate the inputs and we collected it to generate a report for all the ASIA countries.    Responsibilities:  • Developed code in Python, MySQL to implement new and changes in functionality.  • Worked on development and testing of the application and various releases.  • Wrote Python Scripts to handled REST API's to retrieve Network data from data centers  • Creating data model for storing the data in database.  • Importing data from FTP offloads to Database using Python scripts.  • Writing ETL scripts in Python for SQL query execution and Writing SQL scripts and validating the data. Write unit testing for testing purposes.  • Writing Python module, to extract data from vendors in JSON format.  • Create data models in Python to store data from various sources.  • Interpreting raw data using a variety of tools ( Python, STATA or Excel Data Analysis Toolpak), algorithms, and statistical/econometric models (including regression techniques, decision trees, etc.) to capture the bigger picture of the business.  • Communicating findings through data visualization techniques and software (Excel, R, Python or Tableau, depending on needs) to produce results and reports for strategy and decision-making purposes.  • Hands on exposure to creating APIS/modules to consume data from REST endpoints and cleansing the data and store it in database.  • Knowledge in creating applications with Python and Django.  • Writing SQL queries for visualization and reporting systems. Good experience in visualization tool Tableau.  Environment: Python 2.7, Django1.4, Flask, AWS EC2, MySQL, Windows, Linux, HTML, CSS, JQuery, JavaScript, Apache, Linux. Software Engineer Dongfang Electric - Chengdu, CN June 2012 to July 2015 Worked on development of Warranty Management and Product defect tracking system.    Responsibilities:  • Provide input into developing and modifying systems to meet client needs and develop business specifications to support these modifications.  • Performing Business Requirement Study in Financials and modeling Future Process Model, Preparation of all required and User Manuals, Conducting CRP, UAT and User Training for implementations  • Used HTML, CSS, JQuery, JSON and Javascript for front-end applications.  • Managed our servers in development, testing, certification and production.  • Implemented locking mechanisms using multi-threading functionality.  • Used Python, JQuery, JavaScript and JSON at the front end.  • Used python scripts to update content in the database and manipulate files.  • Worked on SQL and Oracle OBIEE reporting and Analytics  • Identify and reconcile errors in client data to ensure accurate business requirements.  • Draft and maintain business requirements and align them with functional and technical requirements.  Environment: Python, HTML, CSS, MySQL, Oracle, Linux and Windows Education Bachelor's Skills DJANGO, Git, HTML, JAVASCRIPT, JSON, PYTHON, XML, SQL SERVER, SQL SERVER 2008, MYSQL, POSTGRESQL, SQL, APACHE, LINUX, LINUX/UNIX, UNIX, AJAX, IIS, EC2, MAC Additional Information Technical Proficiency:  Languages: Python 2.7/2.4, C, Javascript  Python Framework: Django 1.3/1.4  Storage: MySQL, PostgreSQL, SQL Server 2008  Web Technologies: AJAX, JavaScript, pyQT, HTML, JSON, XML and Load Balancers  Versioning Tools: GIT  Web Servers: Apache, IIS  Operating systems: Linux/Unix, MAC OS  Cloud: AWS-EC2