Python Developer/ Machine Learning Engineer/ Data Scientist <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span>/ Machine Learning Engineer/ Data Scientist Robbinsville, NJ • Over 2 years of experience in software development with focus on Python Development and Java Development.  • Extensive experience in developing web crawlers using Python. Worked with libraries such as Beautiful Soup, Requests, XPath and Scrapy.  • Hands on experience in installing, configuring and using Hadoop ecosystem components like HDFS, MapReduce Programming, Hive and Spark.  • In depth understanding of Spark Architecture including Spark Core, Spark SQL, Data Frames, Spark Streaming, Spark MLib and SparkML.  • Hands on knowledge in writing MapReduce programs in Java to process large data sets using Map and Reduce Tasks.  • Hands-on experience in Big Data ecosystems such as Hadoop using Java and Spark using Python (PySpark).  • Hands-on experience in developing applications in Machine Learning using SparkML(machine learning libraries in Spark).  • Have strong knowledge in using various Python libraries such as NumPy, MatplotLib and SciPy.  • Hands on experience in using GitHub and project management tool Git Kraken.  • Have strong knowledge on developing responsive websites with HTML, CSS and JavaScript.  • Strong knowledge in databases such as SQL, MySQL, Cassandra.  • A dedicated team player with excellent communication, organizational and interpersonal skills.  • Very quick learner and keen to adopt new technologies. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Developer/ Machine Learning Engineer/ Data Scientist SUNY Poly January 2017 to May 2018 Worked as a Graduate Research Assistant at SUNY Poly where the aim of the project was to determine the extent to which the structure of customer reviews on e-commerce websites drive the number of helpful votes on each review. Education Master's Skills APACHE HADOOP HDFS (Less than 1 year), C++ (Less than 1 year), CSS (Less than 1 year), DATABASE (Less than 1 year), Python (2 years), HTML 5 (Less than 1 year), Java (Less than 1 year), Javascript (Less than 1 year), R (Less than 1 year), Django, AWS, Linux, Numpy Additional Information Technical Skills  Programming Languages: Python, Java, C, C++, R  Web Technologies: HTML 5, CSS 3, JavaScript  Big Data Ecosystems: Hadoop, HDFS, Spark Core, Spark MLib, SparkML  Database: SQL, MySQL  Platforms and Tools: Eclipse, PyCharm, Knime, Visual Studio, NetBeans, Jupyter, Enthought Canopy