Teacher Teacher U of Oregon Student Seeking an Internship Eugene, OR Work Experience Teacher Thinkersmith February 2014 to Present software.  • Led teams of students in various programming environments.  • Fostered student interest in deepening their understanding of CS and its intersection with other disciplines. Python Developer and Teaching Assistant Dr. Michal Young @ University of Oregon June 2013 to March 2014 Used Python's subprocess module to run student submitted python scripts then check the output against multiple test cases.  • Future goals for CodeCheck include: smart feedback, output visualization and gamification.  • Assisted in office hours and labs for CIS 210: Intro to Computer Science.  • Wrote assignments for students to submit solutions to on CodeCheck.    Get Lucky  Language: Python Project Page  Project • Wrote a command line interface for Songza for quickly setting mood music as well as accessing other playlists by mood, activity and genre.  • Used docopt to parse command line inputs and beautiful soup to parse Songza pages to locate playlists.    Lady Lazarus  Language: C++  • Worked on a small team to develop a puzzle platformer based on the Sylvia Plath poem Lady Lazarus where the  Project  player must die to gain new powers and complete the level. i.e. If the player is killed by fire they are resurrected with the ability to run faster.  • Implemented character architecture, using the State Pattern to change the player's death powers. The states  were changed via a Visitor pattern which took care collisions (hence deaths) as to leave game objects loosely  coupled.    DNA Dance  Project Language: Python  • Parsed GenBank files using BioPython to drive Maya Autodesk animations via genetic sequences.  • Created two different animation styles where one genetic sequences drove the scale and one where the sequence drove the glow property of blinn shaders. Education CIS University of Oregon September 2010 to Present Skills Python,Java,HTML/CSS,Git,Linux Links http://github.com/TannerBaldus http://tannerbaldus.com