Python/Django Developer <span class="hl">Python</span>/Django <span class="hl">Developer</span> Kansas City, MO, MO Work Experience Python/Django Developer Sprint - Kansas City, MO August 2018 to Present • Implemented responsive user interface and standards throughout the development and maintenance of the website using the HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery.  • Developed views and templates with  Python and Django's to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Utilized  Python libraries like wxPython, NumPy, SciPy, Web2py.  • Designed RESTful Webservices using FLASK, with emphasis on improved Security for the service using FLASK-HTTPAuth with HTTPS.  • Wrote and executed various MySQL database queries from  python using  Python-MySQL connector and MySQL DB package.  • Extracted, transformed and loaded data from various heterogeneous data sources and destinations like Access, Excel, CSV, Oracle, flat files using connectors, tasks and transformations provided by SSIS.  • Development of  Python APIs to dump the array structures in the Processor at the failure point for debugging.  • Developed a fully automated continuous integration system using Git, Jenkins, MySQL and custom tools developed in  Python and Bash.  • Implemented Multithreading module and complex networking operations like raceroute, SMTP mail server and web server Using  Python.  • Automated RabbitMQ cluster installations and configuration using  Python/Bash.  • Recording of Scripts Web Services HTML using Vugen and SoapUI and script validation through co correlations, parameterizations and other methods.  • Worked with RDBMS like Oracle 11g/10i and MySQL databases to query and read data.  • Developed various  Python scripts to find vulnerabilities with SQL Queries by doing SQL injection, permission checks and performance analysis.  • Developed scripts to migrate data from proprietary database to PostgreSQL.  • Created backend database T-SQL stored procedures and Jasper Reports.  • Performed Unit testing, Integration Testing, GUI testing using Pytest and web application testing using Selenium  Python bindings.  • Used Numpy for Numerical analysis for Insurance premium.  • Built database Model, Views and API's using  Python for interactive web- based solutions.  • Placed data into JSON files using  Python to test Django websites.  • Used  Python scripts to update the content in database and manipulate files.  • Developed web-based application using Django framework with  python concepts  • Generated  Python Django forms to maintain the record of online users.  • Used Django API's to access the database.  • Involved in  Python OOP code for quality, logging, monitoring, and debugging code. Python Developer INTEL Technology Company - India February 2016 to November 2017 • Designed JQuery libraries for all client-side JavaScript manipulations.  • Utilized  Python libraries wxPython, numPY, Twisted and matPlotLib.  • Implemented SQLAlchemy which is a  python library for complete access over SQL.  • Worked on Element Tree XML API in  python to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Designing and evaluating business using historical & current data from Google Analytics.  • Managed worldwide data in Omniture for data collection and analysis and also worked on the library like pandas, NumPy, SciPy, Docker.  • Used Amazon Elastic Beanstalk with Amazon EC2 to deploy project into AWS.  • Accessed database objects using Django Database APIs.  • Worked on  Python OpenStack APIs and used Numpy for Numerical analysis.  • Used Ajax and JQuery for transmitting JSON data objects between frontend and controllers.  • Developed views and templates with  Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Managed datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL, queried MYSQL database queries from  python using  Python-MySQL connector and MySQLdb package to retrieve information.  • Implemented business logic using  Python Web frame work Django.  • Designed applications implementing MVC architecture in Pyramid, Zope frame works.  • Designing mobile search application system requirements and coded back-end and front-end in  Python.  • Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from  python using  Python-MySQL connector and MySQL dB package.  • Carried out various mathematical operations for calculation purpose using  python pandas libraries.  • Built various graphs for business decision making using  Python matplotlib library.  • Used  Python library NumPy Beautiful Soup for web-scraping.  • Used Django Database API's to access database objects.   • Developed server-based web traffic statistical analysis tool using Flask, Pandas.  • Utilized  Python libraries like NumPy and matplotlib for generating graphical reports.  • Worked on the development of SQL and stored procedures for normalization and denormalization in MYSQL.  • Executed MYSQL database queries from  python using  Python-MySQL connector and MySQL dB package to retrieve information. Python Developer Hewlett-Packard Software Company - India July 2014 to January 2016 • Created an Application was based on service-oriented architecture and used  Python, Django, JSF, Spring, Ajax, HTML, CSS for the frontend.  • Developed complex web, middleware, and back end systems in  Python, SQL for Linux and Windows.  • Developed and tested many features for dashboard using  Python, ROBOT framework, Bootstrap, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Led the design and development of Converged Enhanced Ethernet features to ensure traffic will be lossless within the Microsoft Azure Stack in a layer 2 and layer 3 environment.  • Experience working on  Python Nameko, decorators, generators, list comprehensions, list, tuples, cache, pandas and NumPy.  • Developed web applications and RESTful web services and APIs using Django, Pyramid.  • Work with team of developers on  python applications for RISK management.  • Developed web-based application using Django framework with  python concepts.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using  Python on Django Web Framework by implementing MVC architecture.  • Wrote with object-oriented  Python, Flask, SQL, Beautiful Soup, httplib2, Jinja2, HTML/CSS, Bootstrap, jQuery, Linux, Sublime Text, GIT.  • Worked on several standard  Python packages like Numpy, matPlotLib, Scipy, Pandas and PyTables etc.  • Developed dynamic web pages using  Python Django Frameworks.  • Created a  Python based web application using  Python scripting for data processing, MySQL for the database, and HTML/CSS.  • Executed MYSQL database queries from  python using  Python-MySQL connector and MySQL dB package to retrieve information.  •  Worked with a team on planning, designing, configurations, deployments and support of LAN/WAN/WLAN infrastructure.  • Utilized  Python libraries like NumPy and matplotlib for generating graphical reports.  • Worked on the development of SQL and stored procedures for normalization and denormalization in MYSQL.  • Troubleshooting problems related to packet or frame transfer across routers or switches using Wireshark.  • Developed consumer-based features and applications using  Python, Django, HTML, Behavior Driven Development (BDD) and pair-based programming.  • Automated the existing scripts for performance calculations using NumPy and SQLAlchemy.  • Used SVN as version control for existing system.  • Creating and modifying web services and stored procedures to implement new requirements using  Python. Exposing services as RESTful service in JSON format for AdminUI which is developed using Django.  • Implemented unit testing using PyUnit, and tested several RESTful services using SOAPUI.  • Experienced in Agile Methodologies and SCRUM Process.  • Worked in development of applications especially in LINUX environment and familiar with all commands.  Education Master's in Computer Science Kansas City, MO Skills Angularnode, Docker, Lamp, BeautifulSOAP, Kubernates, Flask, Ajax, Django, Pyramid, Javascript, MangoDB, Cassandra