Infotainment &Telematics Test Engineer Infotainment &amp;Telematics Test Engineer Infotainment &Telematics Test Engineer - Volkswagen Group of America Belmont, CA ? Over 6+ years of automotive experience that covers project management, software requirements (IBM Rational DOORS), system verification and validation testing, Infotainment & Connectivity Domain (Bluetooth, Phone projection), Telematics Vehicle System (E-Mobility, CAR2XServices), Navigation, FOTA, Phone Testing, AM/FM/XM Radio.  ? Experienced in Test Design and Test Case Development.  ? Bench and in vehicle testing experience performing sanity, functional, regression and integration testing.  ? Experienced with "Effective root cause analysis" and ability to solve complex issues found during the validation.  ? Good exposure to STLC Methodologies, including Updating test cases, test case execution, defect tracking, test reporting and documentation.  ? Experience with Communication protocols CAN/LIN, MOST.  ? Verification of DTC, PID/DID using On Board Diagnostics Services (ISO 14229).  ? Reporting the bugs using Defect Tracking tools IDEX, JIRA.  ? Ability to prioritize tasks and meet deadlines.  ? Knowledge of working of advanced technologies in automotive domain such as CAR2X, Smart Charging.  ? Good Knowledge on continuous integration and build tool like Jenkins.  ? Well versed with versioning tools like GIT and SVN Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Infotainment &Telematics Test Engineer Volkswagen Group of America - Auburn Hills, MI February 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Execution of end to end testing on the connected features of Audi vehicles, including troubleshooting, logging, updating and configuring the related ECUs. Capturing of ECU and web server traces for log analysis and defect management.  • Main responsible for E-Mobility Services includes Remote battery charging, Remote climate control, Remote Trip Statistics, Remote Departure Time.  • Experience in writing tickets in JIRA, KPM.  • Testing of telematics features such as Remote Services, Alerts, Charging, Climate Control and E-911 from customer channels like CWP and Call Center systems. Collecting logs from customer channels and analysis of system component logs (JSON APIs from rogcat) as well as backend traces.  • Inventorying and maintaining the functionality of various cluster components/ECUs, as test architectures are to be created for test racks and vehicles.  • Updating and configuring the test ECUs through CAN, DoIP systems and perform trace analysis through EsoTracer, Rogcat and Canoe.  • Creating and maintaining the vehicle/test rack configurations on the backend servers and analyzing the backend configurations based on vehicles/test rack and their capabilities.  • Support for the deployments on live environments.  • Preparing Test routes.  • Consolidate test results from various test activities and share with external teams based in overseas.    Environment: EsoTracer, ADB, Canoe. Telematics Test Engineer Panasonic Automotive Systems - Farmington Hills, MI September 2016 to February 2018 Responsibilities:  • Involved in bench, in-vehicle verification and validation testing for automotive infotainment systems.  • Validated Stakeholder requirements with the requirements owner documents.  • Experienced in updating software on vehicle HU through Firmware over the Air.  • Defined and drive scheduled for upcoming new software launches through Over the Air.  • Performed flash software updates on vehicle HU with USB and SD.  • Involved in writing the test Cases for FOTA, Perform the testing with different delta packages.  • Worked on Telematics feature testing and validating hardware Telematics, Internet devices.  • Performed the test to evaluate the performance of the Bluetooth and navigation.  • Performed the test reporting, scheduling vehicle tests, find the defects test case development troubleshooting, root cause evaluation  • Followed the set of phases involved in STLC and SDLC to perform the testing on infotainment modules  • Perform the on-Bench testing on safety and security, information and navigation feature such as one-shot destination, POI and auto zoom.  • In vehicle testing of Emergency Buttons, vehicle tracking applications, vehicle security and Location assistance  • Implemented traceability across requirements, designs, and tests using IBM Rational DOORS.  • Reviewed Test requirements, Design documents and prepared Test Plans which involved various Test Cases for all assigned module/projects.  • Involved in Team development and testing weekly meetings.  • Performed testing, log collection, Validation & analysis of test results of Infotainment system using vehicle spy 3 and NEOVI FIRE.  • Interpreted CAN messages using ONBOARD DIAGNOSTIC TOOL.  • Understanding of protocols such as CAN, LIN and MOST.  • On Board Diagnostics services and DTC, PID/DID verification.  • Responsible for raising tickets using the defect tracking tools JIRA.  • Successfully tested positive, negative and corner test cases.    Environment: CAN, Navigation, FOTA Python Developer GEO- COMM - Saint Cloud, MN March 2016 to September 2016 Responsibilities:  • Flask Framework that was used in developing web applications to implement model View control architecture.  • Installed and configured GIT and communicating with the repositories in GITHUB.  • Responsible for debugging the project monitored on Version One and wrote python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Used HTML/CSS, XML and JavaScript for UI development.  • Used the continuous integration (CID) tool Jenkins for automating the build processes.  • Implemented a continuous Delivery pipeline with Docker, Jenkins and GitHub, whenever a new GitHub branches are created Jenkins automatically attempts to build a new Docker container from it.  • Modified queries, functions, cursors, triggers and stored procedures for MySQL database to improve performance, while processing data.  • Created Database tables, functions, stored procedures and wrote prepared statements using PL/SQL.  • Experience in project deployment using Jenkins and using web services like Amazon Web Services (AWS).  • Automated the existing scripts for performance calculations using Numpy and Sqlalchemy.  • Used REST and SOAPUI for testing web service for server side changes.  • Developed and designed an API (Restful Web Service).  • Responsible for parsing XML data using XML parser and testing, fixing of the bugs and coding modifications.  • Database administration activities like taking backup, checking log messages, looking for database optimization.  • Designed and implemented a dedicated Postgres database server to drive the web applications and report on daily progress.  Environment: Python 3.4, Django 1.9, Postgres, AWS, Jenkins Test Engineer CMC Ltd - Hyderabad, Telangana May 2011 to December 2013 Responsibilities:  • Responsible for analyzing the requirements and prepare/update the functional test procedure  • Responsible for carrying out the testing of application and diagnostic requirements in HVAC Controller Module  • Responsible for carrying out Functional/Feature Validation testing.  • Programming the control (ECU) with given Control Software.  • Responsible for reporting the bugs, if HVAC Module software does not meet the requirements.  • Daily Interaction with client in which the project status and problems pertained to the project will be discussed.  • Worked with the Radio Head Unit module of the in-vehicle infotainment system.  • Performed Testing on AM-FM which includes features like Seek up / down, frequency buffer, Channel list, audio settings, Source Mode.  • Involved in Infotainment Testing for audio devices like CD, BT, FM, AM  • Worked with the testing of the functionalities like CD/DVD, Auxiliary cable and USB.  • Performed sanity testing for the infotainment domain such as Bluetooth  • Assisted in the creation of test cases for Bluetooth.  • Performed stress test, corner test, Regression test for the Bluetooth module  • Testing Bluetooth, Speech Recognition using different testing techniques.  • Fixing internal and customer defects related to automotive infotainment diagnostic.  • Kept track of tested requirements in the Traceability matrix using IBM DOORS  • Assured accuracy, quality and all test data was reported in a timely manner.    Environment: C, CANalyzer, JIRA, Doors, Bugzilla, Bluetooth, Radio Module. Education Master of Science in Electrical Engineering in Electrical Engineering University of Hartford 2014 to 2015 Bachelors in Electronics Communication Engineering in Electronics Communication Engineering Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University Hyderabad - Hyderabad, Telangana 2004 to 2008 Skills Generators, Signal generators, Linux, Oscilloscopes, Bugzilla