Ruby on Rails Developer Ruby on Rails <span class="hl">Developer</span> Oakland, CA Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Ruby on Rails Developer Mills College - Oakland, CA July 2016 to Present Designing an image annotation web app with two English professors intended for use in their Digital Humanities courses, with different content management systems for students and teachers.   Coding with Ruby on Rails, JavaScript, HTML, CSS; Cloud9 development environment; Cloudinary WordPress Developer UC Berkeley - Berkeley, CA September 2016 to July 2017 Designing and implementing the WordPress website for English Professor Scott Saul's spring semester course, "The Bay Area in the 1970's": http://revolution.berkeley.edu. Working directly with Prof. Saul to design custom functionality, such as PHP-coded carousel of posts Python Developer Movo Cash - Oakland, CA January 2017 to March 2017 Three-month contract to produce a security dashboard for internal use by fraud operations team. Worked directly with fraud operations to determine needed functionality. Full stack: implemented user database querying; search; flagging of fraudulent users; front end. Coded in Python (Flask), SQL, jQuery, HTML, CSS. Student Project Web App Class Project - Mills College - Oakland, CA January 2016 to May 2016 Worked in a team with three other students in my spring semester Software Engineering class to create a social network website for women in tech: https://young-reef-29553.herokuapp.com/staticpages/home. Full-stack web development using Ruby on Rails in Cloud9; deployed with Heroku; version control using GitHub; Agile design and weekly Scrum meetings tracked with Pivotal Tracker. Education Post-baccalaureate in Computer Science Mills College - Oakland, CA January 2014 to May 2017 Ph.D. in German intellectual history Harvard University - Cambridge, MA 2004 to 2013 B.A./M.A. in German Studies Stanford University - Stanford, CA 1998 to 2003 Links http://www.kristinalisejones.com Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  • Version Control: Git, GitHub.  • Development Tools: Heroku, Cloud9, Eclipse, Sublime, Agile.  • Languages: Intermediate experience in Java, Python, Ruby; lower-intermediate experience in HTML,  CSS, PHP; novice experience in JavaScript, Haskell, Scheme.  • Frameworks, Libraries and Databases: Flask, Ruby on Rails, Bootstrap, WordPress, Omeka,  Curatescape, Cloudinary, Snowflake, SQL.    Prior to my career switch into web development, I was an award-winning teacher of literature and German  language at Harvard University and a guest lecturer in literature at Tufts University and Mills College.