Python backend developer <span class="hl">Python</span> backend <span class="hl">developer</span> Python backend developer As an experienced web developer, i am seeking a position of fullstack web developer in a web development company. I am ready to put my technical, organizational and leadership skills at the service of the company. I have experienced working in a team environment or as a solo developer. Building useful service is my objective.    Resume  I am a web developer of 5 years of experienced this year. I have been involved in all the area of web development. I have worked as frond end developer, as backend developer and as fullstack web developer. I am now exercising my devop skills. I have been involved in all the area of software delivering: functional and technical requirements, estimation of software cost, software engineering, coding, test, deployment and maintenance.    Resume of qualifications  • Gathering functional and technical requirements using the unified process or using agile users stories method  • Building low and high fidelity mockups with Balsamiq and Photoshop  • Set web development environment with XAMPP, VAGRANT and now DOCKER  • Building rich web interface with HTML5, CSS3, JQUERY, JAVASCRIPT, BOOTSTRAP3, and now BOOTSTRAP4  • Use of automation tools such as GULP, WEBPACK, GRUNT  • I have built prototype deployed to HEROKU  • I have built client web app with ANGULARJS 2 (RC5) and VUEJS2  • I have a good knowledge of object oriented concept such as class, object, abstract class, encapsulation, aggregation. I use those concept to build application model using UML2  • I have a good understanding of software design pattern such as creational, structural and behavioral design pattern. I use them when possible to build maintainable and extendable application.  • I build secure API with PHP, JAVASCRIPT and PYTHON. The technologies I use are: LARAVEL5, NODEJS, EXPRESSJS, MONGO, SAILSJS, DJANGO, FLASK, REDIS  • I test those API with: POSTMAN, MOCHA, SUPERTEST and EXPECT. I have a good understanding of unit tests, integration test and user acceptance test. I know how to implement each of those tests in PHP, JavaScript and PYTHON using DOCKER  • I know how to set up a continuous deployment process with DOCKER, JENKINS and ANSIBLE. I have deploy apps to: DIGITAL OCEAN, AMAZON WEB SERVICE,  • I have some knowledge of JOOMLA and WORDPRESS  • I have develop telecommunication service using WEBRTC, ASTERIX Work Experience Python backend developer BARA TACHNOLOGIE January 2019 to February 2019 • I was building python flask backend service for an ecommerce app  ? Analyze the application architecture  ? Propose the injection some design pattern in the app  ? Testing the app  ? Familiarizing myself with the Docker development workflow  ? Building new services Fullstack web developer SCOTIA TELECOM August 2018 to January 2019 • I built a Video streaming app avec LaraveL 5  ? Functional and technical requirements  ? App design with UML2  ? Backend and frontend coding  ? Test and deployment to digital ocean    • I built a VOIP app with Laravel 5 and Asterix  ? Functional and technical requirements  ? App design with UML2  ? Backend and frontend coding  ? Test and deployment to digital ocean Frontend developer MADIA October 2017 to March 2018 • I built the front end of a collect app  ? Functional and technical requirements  ? App design  ? Frontend coding  ? Frontend testing    MADIA Yaoundé, Cameroun  Frontend developer October 2017 - March 2018  • I assisted the frontend development of an ecommerce app with Laravel 5  ? Functional and technical requirements  ? App design  ? Frontend coding  ? Frontend testing    Personal work Yaoundé, Cameroun  Fullstack web development January 2015 - January 2017  • Ecommerce app with LaraveL 5  ? Functional and technical requirements  ? App design with UML2  ? Backend and frontend coding  ? Test and deployment to digital ocean    • Blog app with avec LaraveL 5  ? Functional and technical requirements  ? App design with UML2  ? Backend and frontend coding  ? Test and deployment to digital ocean    • Blog app with the MEAN stack  ? Functional and technical requirements  ? App design with UML2  ? Backend and frontend coding  ? Test and deployment to digital ocean    • E-learning app with Sailsjs  ? Functional and technical requirements  ? App design with UML2  ? Backend and frontend coding  ? Test and deployment to digital ocean    • Language learning app with the MEAN stack  ? Functional and technical requirements  ? App design with UML2  ? Backend and frontend coding  ? Test and deployment to digital ocean    MADIA Yaoundé, Cameroun  Frontend developer October 2017 - March 2018  • I assist the frontend development of an hospital website with Joomla  ? Functional and technical requirements  ? App design  ? Frontend coding  ? Frontend testing Education Master in Information in system and software engineering Université de Yaoundé 1 Master in Industrial in engineering Université des montagnes Bachelor in instrumentation and biomedical maintenance in instrumentation and biomedical maintenance Université des montagnes