Mobile App Developer Mobile App <span class="hl">Developer</span> Mobile App Developer Ypsilanti, MI Seeking an internship opportunity with an experienced software team of engineers that will help me enhance my technical skills and  experience AGILE team environment in the realm of computer science. Work Experience Mobile App Developer April 2019 to August 2019 • Developing native mobile applications for Android and iOS using Facebook React Native  • Proficient in multiple React Native libraries such as react-navigation and react-native-maps using Google Maps API JavaScript Developer WCC January 2019 to May 2019 • Familiar with Java Script fundamentals (ES6) and functional programming  • Experience in Node.js and npm package manager  • Proficient in HTML Document Object Model (DOM)  • Developed a graphical interface for a simple website which utilized DOM principals to take in user information and re-output  that information along with basic string manipulation Java Developer CPS April 2018 to May 2019 • Created comic reader and downloader that scraped the web for specific user requested comics  • Familiar with multiple data structures such as Array Lists, Hash Maps, Linked Lists, etc.  • Experienced in JDBC creating simple person registry  • Experienced in MVC for the web, Servlets and JSP's  • Java robotics for FRC, programmed drive trains and autonomous robot movement  • Obtaining Java Advanced Certificate on May 6th Python Developer (Introduction WCC September 2017 to May 2019 • Proficient in Python fundamentals: OOP, imperative and functional programming  • Proficient in multiple data structures such as lists, tuples, dictionaries, etc.  • Experience with multiple Python libraries such as Pandas, matplotlib, and NumPy  • Created grade estimator that complies past students grades and utilizes a linear regression algorithm to estimate the next grade  • Demonstrated OOP principals by writing a simple superhero ad-lib in which saves information in objects  • Currently self-teaching machine learning Python libraries such as Tensorflow and Scikit-learn Java Developer WCC September 2017 to May 2018 • Developed robot drive trains allowing it to be controlled by game console controllers  • Designed code base for robot autonomous driving  • Created and optimized robot hardware for efficient functioning on a low budget Education B.S. in Computer Science Michigan State University (MSU) August 2019 to May 2023 Certification Washtenaw Community College (WCC) January 2018 to May 2019 High School Diploma Arbor Preparatory High School September 2015 to May 2019 Skills C+ (Less than 1 year), Css (Less than 1 year), Database (Less than 1 year), Java (2 years), Python (1 year) Links https://github.com/moehuwio Additional Information COMPUTER SKILLS  ? Programming Languages: Python, Java, JavaScript, Node.js, React.js, React Native, HTML, CSS, and C++  ? Software programs: MS Word & Excel, basics in Photoshop, Multiple JetBrains IDEs, Eclipse  ? Developer tools: Basic bash scripting, Linux CLI, SSH, SFTP, Git version control, MySQL Database  COURSE WORK  ? CIS 121 Introduction to Linux/Unix ? CPS 161 Introductions to Java ? CPS 261 Advanced Java Concepts  ? CPS 278 Java Server Programming ? Web 230 Advanced JavaScript