Apprentice Personnel Apprentice Personnel Apprentice Personnel Mesa, AZ my degree to work in an area that leads me to a desired position in a space exploration company or at a large-scale telescoping complex. This will potentially be a step towards preparing for graduate school before landing one of my coveted jobs. Work Experience Apprentice Personnel QC Construction - Colorado Springs, CO June 2017 to September 2017 • Jobs performed includes painting (interior/exterior), interior remodel, tiling, terraforming, house siding and framing  • Always punctual and highly praised for performance  • Pay raise after first week for knowledge and ability Python Developer Python Training August 2016 to December 2016 Under the guide of Nobel Prize Winning physicist Dr. Shane Burns, explored the possibilities of using Python to organize data and perform calculations of large and multi variable inputs. I learned attention to detail and the language of Python coding to fit data to a graph, build a catalog, and other useful physical science understanding operations.  Gravitational Time Dilation Experiment CO Gravitational Time Dilation Air Force Academy - Colorado Springs, CO 2015 to May 2016 I was part of joint team between Colorado College and the Air Force Academy in Colorado Springs to determine and verify the dilation of time based on the difference in gravitational effects between various elevations. We began by placing multiple atomic clocks at a plethora of different elevations and then compared each data readout to the UI. Using Python, we could fit the data to a curve and determine the subtle difference in time progression based on the distance from sea level. Bartender Jake and Telly's Greek Taverna - Colorado Springs, CO January 2016 to January 2016 • Efficiently craft cocktails in a casual family Greek setting  • Responsibilities including liquor inventory and keg selection  • Created a monthly seasonal cocktail menu  • Maintained a clean and presentable bar  • Earned loyalty from bar guests through quality service and personal interaction Technician LED Light Board By Sound - Colorado Springs, CO November 2016 I used my base level electronics knowledge to create a sound board that initiated the illumination of a series of LED lights determined by input wavelengths. The sound input involved either a 3.5mm auxiliary cable or microphone and separated the sound waves into 3 assorted sizes for the light production apparatus Astronomer Phipps Obervatory - Colorado Springs, CO September 2016 I got my first hands on experience using a professional astronomer telescope as the team leader. Used IRAF to create images of the Crab Nebula after we used a series of band filters to compose a color representation. My team had to determine the specs of the telescope through indirect measurements and calculations in order for us to triangulate the position in the sky of our object. This was preparation for the observation project that I would be a part of at the University of Wyoming affiliated WIRO. Education B.A. in Comprehensive Physics in originally Astrophysics Colorado College - Colorado Springs, CO September 2014 to 2017 Associates in Arts degree Chandler-Gilbert Community College - Chandler, AZ September 2005 to 2007 Red Mountain High School - Mesa, AZ 2003 to 2005 Skills Excel (Less than 1 year), PowerPoint (Less than 1 year), Problem Solver (Less than 1 year), very organized (Less than 1 year), Word (Less than 1 year)