Job Seeker Houston, TX Seeking full time opportunities in the field of Software Engineering. Work Experience Replica Selection January 2015 to Present Implementing a system that can select the best replica for a given data to maximize the download performance.  • Two approaches are being used for the selection: Selection by Client and Selection by the Network. Web developer, Instructional Assistant University of Houston - Houston, TX August 2014 to Present Maintain websites using Cascade Server for College of Liberal Arts and Social Sciences.  • Develop websites using HTML, CSS and JavaScript to create repositories for additional course content that  increased student-professor participation by 40%. University of Houston - Houston, TX September 2014 to December 2014 Tic-Tac-Toe February 2014 to March 2014 Designed and implemented 3x3 tic-tac-toe game using C#, WPF and ASP.NET.  • This course project helped me in getting familiar with C# .Net and WPF. It also helped me in putting the design principles into use. Python based SDN controller Tic-Tac-Toe February 2014 to March 2014 enabled router. Feb 2014 - March 2014  • Implemented a static Layer 3 switch that can match on masked IP prefix ranges, just like a real router.  • Python based SDN controller(POX) is used for implementation and simulation was performed using mininet. Software Intern Bharat Sanchar Nigam Ltd - Hyderabad, Andhra Pradesh May 2012 to July 2012 Designed and implemented a modification to Distance Vector routing protocol (DSDV) to shorten the route for subsequent packets to the same destination.  • The overall performance of the protocol was improved by 30%.  PROJECTS  Rice University, Houston, TX Education Bachelor of Technology in Electronics and Communications GITAM University - Hyderabad, Andhra Pradesh July 2009 to May 2013 Master of Science in Computer Engineering University of Houston - Houston, TX Additional Information SKILLS  Operating Systems: Linux, Windows, OSX.  Programming & Scripting: Verilog-RTL, C, OOP in C++, C#, ASP.NET, WPF, Python, Socket Programming.  Software Design: Agile Development, Scrum, Object Oriented Programming concepts and Design Principles.  Web Development: HTML, CSS and JavaScript.  Software Defined Networking: OpenFlow, Floodlight Controller, POX controller, mininet, Open vSwitch.  Computer Networks: TCP/IP Stack, Layer 3 and Layer 2 protocols, NAT, DNS, DHCP, SSL, HTTP.  Simulation & Virtualization tools: ModelSim-Altera, ns-3, Wireshark, VMware Fusion, Oracle VirtualBox.