Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Independent Python Developer Atlanta, GA Prospective Python Developer, interested in a career in both back end and front end development. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Developer Independent - Atlanta, GA May 2017 to Present • Utilizing Python in conjunction with other languages and technologies to develop APIs, currently in development of database query program utilizing Python, SQL, Django, HTML, JSON, Javascript, and CSS.  • Computer hardware and software troubleshooting, QA and bug fixing projects. Accounting Specialist Aldridge Pite LLP - Atlanta, GA October 2014 to Present • Operated the firm's "Living File", a project started by the company to ensure consistency with company standards regarding its commitment to its clients and their service-level agreements. My contributions ensured that the firm met compliance standards.  • Calculated and compiled foreclosure fees and costs quotes and figures for clients required for payoff and reinstatement purposes. Provided further clarification to inquiries made by third-parties, clients, borrowers, and borrower's counsel regarding payoff and reinstatement quotes via phone and e-mail. Manually accounted for and submitted invoices to clients for services rendered by the firm via e-mail and over a dozen client systems. Increased firm output and accuracy of submitted invoices to clients. Social Committee Chairperson NPU-Q - Atlanta, GA October 2012 to December 2014 • Devised and acted upon strategies essential for increasing participation of the approximately 1,900 residents that comprise the NPU-Q membership for important community development functions and events, such as the 2013  Cascade 5K Race, of which approximately 120 individuals had participated in the event.  • Created and published organizational content such as flyers and brochures to inform readers of community-related events, as well as created and managed the organization's Facebook group, organizational accomplishments and goals, and contact information for their community leaders. Intern League of Women Voters of Georgia - Atlanta, GA January 2012 to May 2012 • Composed and edited content of the weekly newsletter, "Under the Gold Dome", regarding state government proceedings during the 2012 Georgia Legislative Session. Researched and composed materials to be used to further the organization's mission to determine the effectiveness of bipartisan redistricting commissions to gauge its viability for the Georgia state government.  • Assisted citizens with voter registration at school campuses, convention centers, and provided information on local, state, and federal government processes. Education MA in PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION Andrew Young School - Atlanta, GA August 2012 BA in POLITICAL SCIENCE Georgia State University - Atlanta, GA August 2008 Skills MySQL, Javascript, Git, CSS, HTML 5, Python (2 years), Microsoft Office (10+ years), jQuery Links https://github.com/pmalexander https://c9.io/pmalexander https://www.linkedin.com/in/patrick-alexander-6691b262/