Python/F5 Automation Consultant <span class="hl">Python</span>/F5 Automation Consultant Python/F5 Automation Consultant - Client - Fannie Mae Woodbridge, NJ • 7.5 plus years of work experience as a R/ Python Developer, including deep expertise and experience with Programming Skills using R, Python and SQL.  • Utilizing coding and scripting background for Network Automation with routers, switches, load balancers and firewalls.  • Good understanding and working knowledge of Network API's.  • Have worked exclusively with F5 API's.  • Experience in developing scripts to process application load balancer requests using F5 LTM and Citrix Netscaler load balancers.  • Experience with both CLI (big-pipe and tmsh) and GUI on F5 Load Balancers.  • Experience in automating scripts for processing application load balancer requests using F5 LTM & Citrix Netscaler load balancers.  • Good working knowledge of BIG IP products - LTM, APM, ASM & AFM.  • Experience working in IT operations environment, data systems (servers & storage) implementation, networking system implementation & providing 24 X 7 on call support.  • Good knowledge of packet capturing (Wireshark) and troubleshooting.  • Data Driven and highly analytical with working knowledge and statistical model approaches and methodologies (Clustering, Regression analysis, Hypothesis testing, Decision trees, Machine learning), rules and ever evolving regulatory environment.  • Knowledge in Cloud services such as Amazon AWS and Microsoft Azure.  • Experience with Amazon Web Services (AWS) in planning, designing, implementing and maintaining system applications in AWS Cloud in Windows and Linux Environments.  • Experience with AWS services (S3, EC2, ELB, EBS, Route53, VPC, Auto Scaling etc.) and deployment services (Lambda and Cloud Formation) and security practices (IAM, Cloud Watch and Cloud Trail).  • Experience working in Agile Scrum Software Development.  • Knowledge about Big Data toolkits like Mahout, SparkMl, H2O.  • Knowledge in NoSQL databases such as Hbase, Cassandra, and MongoDB etc.  • Experience with various software methodologies such as Agile, SDLC and Waterfall.  • Experience in Analysis, Design, Development.  • Working experience of statistical analysis using R, SPSS, Matlab and Excel.  • Experience working with Version Control (Git).  • Experience with traditional analytics tools (Excel and Tableau).  • Knowledge in Microsoft Azure PaaS services such as SQL server, HDInsight and Cloud platform based Kusto.  • Hands on experience in writing queries in SQL and R to Extract, Transform and Load (ETL) data from large datasets.  • Experience working on Python libraries such as Pandas, matplotlib, PIL.  • Experience with Python packages such as NumPy, SciPy.  • Experience working with Web languages such as html, CSS, Rshiny etc.  • Strong Data Analysis skills using business intelligence, SQL and / or MS Office Tools.  • Strong understanding of how analytics supports a large organization including being able to successfully articulate the linkage between business objectives, analytical approaches & findings, and business decisions.  • Excellent analytical skills with demonstrated ability to solve problems.  • High Proficiency in Excel including complex data analysis and manipulation.  • Good oral and written communication skills.  • Strong interpersonal skills to successfully build long-term relationships with colleagues and business partners.  • A results-driven individual with a passion for data/analytics who can work collaboratively with others to solve business problems that drive business growth.  • Demonstrated leadership and self-direction. Demonstrated willingness to both teach others and learn new techniques.  • Ability to work with managers and executives to understand the business objectives and deliver as per the business needs and a firm believer in teamwork. Work Experience Python/F5 Automation Consultant Client - Fannie Mae - Woodbridge, NJ January 2018 to Present • Work independently and collaboratively throughout the complete project lifecycle including development, coding and documentation in Agile methodology.  • Responsible for launching Amazon EC2 instances using Amazon Web Services (Windows & Linux).  • Created S3 buckets, store data in S3, and use the URL in HTML web pages.  • Created DNS on the hosted zone to run the website using the URL.  • Worked on CuRL functionality in Python and PHP to automate URL's and retrieve the HTTP codes.  • Install/Update various drivers for apache server and used PHP admin for testing the database.  • Created websites in HTML and implement them for a user-friendly environment.  • Install gnome-panel for GUI on Ubuntu and used VNCViewer to view the GUI.  • Created a search engine to retrieve the data from the MySQL database table from a HTML page.  • Developed good understanding in SSM Studio by creating, updating and altering the tables and the database.  • Install software's and configuring the libraries in Linux OS to host applications on Apache Server.  • Full Stack developer using databases, programming, creating instances, configuring DNS and hosting the website on web server.  • Worked with various Python Frameworks such as Django in automation.  • Used various color combinations in CSS and implemented them in the HTML page.  • Assist in daily standup meetings for daily updates and roadblocks. Automation Consultant ISU Productions - Terre Haute, IN February 2016 to May 2017 • Administration, support and automation LAN, WAN, and security network.  • Utilizing F5 API's for managing F5 LTM application load balancers at Webtier.  • Helped Network team migrate applications from Cisco CSS to F5 LTM.  • Good understanding of managing monitors, iRules, persistence and other critical F5 objects.  • Responsible for launching Amazon EC2 instances using Amazon Web Services (Windows & Linux).  • Created roles for EC2, S3 and EBS resources to communicate within the team using IAM.  • Responsible for S3 bucket creation, policies and the IAM role-based policies and creating alarms and notifications for EC2 hosts using Cloud Watch.  • Build and configure Virtual Data Center in AWS cloud to support EDW hosting including Virtual Private Cloud (VPC), Public and Private Subnets, Security Groups, Route Tables and launching EC2, RDS instances in the defined virtual private connection.  • Created AWS Launch configurations based on customized AMI and use this launch configuration to configure auto scaling groups and Implemented AWS solutions using EC2, S3, RDS, Dynamo DB, Route53, Elastic Load Balancer, Auto scaling groups.  • Designed AWS Cloud Formation templates to create custom sized VPC, subnets, NAT to ensure successful deployment of Web applications and database templates.  • Configured AWS Cloud Front to serve both static and dynamic content, and used Cloud Formation templates to setup AWS WAF, creating a web Access Control List (ACL), rules, and filters.  • Deployed web applications using Amazon Cloud Front and configured AWS WAF in such a way that it protects the deployed web application from SQL injection attacks.  • Deployed web applications behind AWS Cloud Front and added a layer of security via AWS WAF.  • Integrated security at various levels such as encryption at rest and in transit of data in EBS and S3, limited accessibility, blocking of bad IPs, fixing security loopholes based on internal penetration tests, event-driven security based on cloud watch logs, AWS trusted advisor, AWS cloud trial, AWS Config and AWS WAF service.  • Used Bash and Python, including Boto3 to supplement automation provided by Chef and Terraform for tasks such as encrypting EBS volumes backing AMIs and scheduling Lambda functions for routine AWS tasks.  • Worked with Different datatypes in R such as Vectors, Lists, Matrices, Arrays and Data Frames.  • Read and write data from various.csv. xml. json files in R-studio.  • Designed web page using Rshiny to redirect the data from the excel reports.  • Perform data visualization using matplotlib library function in R such as Histograms, Pie charts, Bar charts, scatter plots etc.  • Responsible for Creating Repositories in Git for a new user story.  • Worked with datatypes in Python such as Strings, Lists and Dictionaries.  • Used various libraries and packages in Python such as Pandas, NumPy, SciPy, scikit-learn for reading, writing, calculations and modelling.  • Installed RStudio server on AWS Linux AMI as a free tier.  • Extensive data cleansing and analysis, using pivot tables, formulas (V-lookup and others), data validation, conditional formatting, and graph and chart manipulation using MS Excel.  • Verify that the proper files are uploaded into the right GIT repositories.  • Collaborate with technical and non-technical resources across the business to leverage their support and integrate our efforts.  • Coordinated and monitored the project progress to ensure the timely flow and complete delivery of the project.  • Training and Testing of Data under data modelling process for each machine learning algorithm. Associate Product Developer Computer Sciences Corporation India Pvt Ltd - Hyderabad, Telangana June 2014 to January 2016 • Responsible for Retrieving data using SQL/Hive Queries from the CyberLife database and perform Analysis enhancements.  • Used R, SAS and SQL to manipulate data, and develop and validate quantitative models.  • Worked as a RLC (Regulatory and Legal Compliance) Team Member and undertook user stories (tasks) with critical deadlines in Agile Environment.  • Involved in Analyzing system failures, identifying root causes, and recommended course of actions.  • Coded, tested, debugged, implemented and documented data using Python and R.  • Responsible for Testing and Modelling the data in order to migrate it to production environment.  • Experience in retrieving unstructured data from different sites such as in html, xml format.  • Make sure that all the requirements are gathered before working on the data and collecting valuable information from the client (customer).  • Performing Exploratory Data Analysis on the data provided by the Client.  • Retrieve data from various files such as. json, .xml, .csv using R and python.  • Worked with Pandas libraries in Python for storing the retrieved data in a file.  • Conducting Root Cause Analysis independently/collaboratively in resolving multiple occurred issues.  • Assisted in designing web applications using R/ Python.  • Worked with Data frames and other data interfaces in R for retrieving and storing the data.  • Responsible in making sure that the data is accurate with no outliers.  • Applied various machine learning algorithms such as Decision Trees, K-Means, Random Forests, Regression in R with the required packages installed.  • Applied K-Means algorithm in determining the position of an Agent based on the data collected.  • Applied Regression in identifying the probability of the Agent's location regarding the insurance policies sold.  • Used advanced Microsoft Excel functions such as Pivot tables and VLOOKUP in order to analyze the data and prepare programs.  • Performed various statistical tests for clear understanding to the client.  • Provided training to Beginners regarding the CyberLife system and other basics.  • Actively involved in Analysis, Development and Unit testing of the data and delivery assurance of the user story in Agile Environment. Associate Application Product Developer CSC Technologies - Hyderabad, Telangana January 2012 to May 2014 • Responsible for collecting patient's data from various sources including hospitals, clinics etc.  • Prepared regular patient reports by collecting samples of Diagnosed Patients using Excel spreadsheets.  • Implemented discretization and binning, data wrangling: cleaning, transforming, merging and reshaping data frames.  • Integrated applications with designing database architecture and server scripting, studying & establishing.  • Provided on-call support for monitoring and fixing the issues of production jobs.  • Experience with Requests, NumPy, SciPy, Matplotlib, and Pandas python libraries during development lifecycle.  • Worked with making changes in the HTML pages for storing and retrieving data.  • Created database-using MySQL and wrote several queries to extract data from the database.  • Created test cases during monthly sprints using agile methodology.  • Developed and designed e-mail marketing campaigns using HTML and CSS.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  • Experience working with various Python integrated development environments like PyCharm, Jupyter Notebook.  • Involved in entire lifecycle of the project. Education Master's Skills C++, DJANGO, Git, Hadoop, HBase, Hive, HTML, MapReduce, PHP, Pig, PYTHON, GGPLOT2, MATPLOTLIB, NUMPY, PANDAS, TKINTER, SCRIPTING, DATABASE, MS ACCESS, MYSQL Additional Information Technical Skills:    Programming & Scripting Languages Python, PHP, C, C++, JCL, COBOL, HTML, CSS  Database SQL, MySQL, MS Access, SSMS  Network Automation Python, Chef, Puppet and Ansible  Statistical Software SPSS, R, SAS  Web Packages Google Analytics, Adobe Test & Target, Web Trends, Rshiny  Development Tools R Studio, Notepad++, PyCharm IDE, Jupyter, Spyder IDE  Big Data (Hadoop) Mahout, SparkMl, H2O, MapReduce, Pig, Hive, Hbase  Version Control Git.  Writing Tools Latex  Web server Apache/Apache2  Packages CGI, Django, Tkinter, Dplyr, rjson, GGPLOT2, NumPy, SciPy, Pandas, matplotlib, tesseract, PIL, Rshiny, rjson, Rpart.  Business Analysis • Requirements Engineering, Business Process Modeling & Improvement, Financial Modeling  Cloud • AWS (EC2, S3, RDS, EBS, VPC, IAM, Security Groups), Azure  Network Products & Technologies • Cisco & Juniper (routers & switches), F5, Citrix & CSS load balancers. Routing, Switching  Operating Systems • Microsoft windows 7/8/8.1/10/Vista/XP, Linux (Ubuntu), CentOS