Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - L Brands • Around 5 years of experience as Python developer with proven expertise in using new tools and technical developments to drive improvements throughout entire software development lifecycle.  • Proficient in Front end development experience using Python 3, Django 1.7/1.8, HTML, XML, CSS, JavaScript, Bootstrap, jQuery, JSON and, AngularJS and Node.js.  • Experience in Analysis, Design, Development, Testing, Customization, Bug fixes, Enhancement, Support and Implementation of various stand-alone, client-server enterprise applications.  • Hands on experience working with quant/data Python libraries (pandas/NumPy)  • Build back-end application with Python/ Django, Worked on Dockers and Jenkins.  • Proficient in developing Web Services, RESTful in Python using XML, JSON.  • Expertise with cloud platforms like Amazon AWS.  • Experience in using Jenkins/Hudson as a Continuous Integration server to configure with Ant/Maven.  • Experienced in working with various Python Integrated Development Environments like Net Beans, PyCharm, PyScripter, Spyder, PyStudio, PyDev and Sublime Text.  • Experience in developing web applications by following Model View Control (MVC) Architecture using server-side applications Django, Flask, WebPy, BottlePy, NumPy and Pyramid.  • Proficient in SQL databases MS SQL, MySQL, Oracle, and MongoDB.  • Extensive experience in using Microsoft BI Studio products for implementation of ETL methodology in data extraction, transformation and loading.  • Good at writing SQL Queries, Stored procedures, functions, packages, tables, views, triggers.  • Having experienced in Agile Methodologies, Scrum stories and sprints experience in a Python based environment, along with data analytics, data wrangling and Excel data extracts.  • Experienced in various types of testing such as Unit testing, Integration testing, User acceptance testing, Functional testing. Work Experience Python Developer L Brands - Atlanta, GA January 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Used Python and Django creating graphics, XML processing, data exchange and business logic implementation.  • Utilized Python Libraries like Boto3 for AWS.  • Managed Container using Docker by writing Docker files and set up the automated build on Docker HUB and installed and configured Kubernetes.  • Generated graphical reports using Python package NumPy and used advanced features like pickle/unpickle in Python for sharing the information across the applications to deploy into AWS with tools/platforms such as JIRA, Jenkins, Docker, and Elastic search.  • Implemented Jenkins in a Docker container with EC2 slaves in Amazon AWS cloud configuration.  • Used Beautiful Soup, Matplotlib and Pandas Libraries to create access weather data and perform data analysis and visualization.  • Used JSON based REST web services and Amazon web services (AWS) for smooth operation of application.  • Wrote Python scripts to parse JSON documents and load the data in database.  • Built complete Configuration Management for the Microservices using Kubernetes, Docker and Ansible.  • Designed front end using HTML, AngularJS, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Implemented SOAP/RESTful web services in JSON format.  • Used PyQT to implement GUI for the user to create, modify and view reports based on client data.  • Worked on Jenkins continuous integration tool for deployment of project.  • Used IBM DB2 SQL stored procedures and UNIX Shell Scripts for importing/exporting Data and Conversions.  • Created RESTful API's calls with server, parse output report of excel files.  • Designed and managed API system deployment using fast http server and Amazon AWS architecture.  • Generated Python Django forms to record data of online users and used Pytest for writing test cases.  • Deployed the project into Jenkins using GIT version control system.  • Troubleshooting issues by identifying the root cause and finding solutions for the issue.  • Optimized SQL queries used in batch processing and Wrote validation scripts in SQL to validate data loading.    Environment: Python, Django 1.4, Ruby, HTML5, CSS, XML, MySQL, JavaScript, Eclipse, Git, GitHub, AWS, Linux, Shell Scripting, JIRA, Jenkins, Docker, AngularJS. Python Developer Alfred Talkie - Baytown, TX April 2016 to December 2017 Responsibilities:  • Developed web applications in Python Django with client-specific customizations.  • Created Data tables utilizing PySpark, PyQT to display customer and policy information and add, delete, update customer records.  • Used several Python libraries like Python, NumPy and matplotlib and was involved in environment, code installation as well as the SVN implementation.  • Designed and developed the UI for the website with HTML, XHTML, CSS, Java Script and AJAX.  • Designed and maintained databases using Python and developed Python based API (RESTful Web Service) using Flask, SQL Alchemy and PostgreSQL  • Added support for Amazon AWS S3 and RDS to host static/media files and the database into Amazon Cloud.  • Worked on Python OpenStack APIs and used NumPy for Numerical analysis.  • Successfully migrated the Django database from SQLite to PostgreSQL with complete data integrity.  • Wrote scripts in Python for extracting data from HTML file.  • Worked on installation of Docker using Docker toolbox.  • Created RESTful API's calls with server, parse output report of excel files.  • Worked on creation of custom Docker container images, tagging and pushing the images.  • Used Jenkins to build and troubleshoot automated testing and for continuous integration and deployment.  • Involved in development of Web Services using SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface in the XML format. Responsible for the project monitored on JIRA (Agile).  • Used GIT for the version control and deployed project into AWS.  • Create, develop and fine-tuned SQL objects: Tables, stored procedures, views and triggers.  • Used UML Rational Rose to develop Use-case, Class and Object diagrams for OOA/OOD techniques.  • Used Amazon Elastic Beanstalk with Amazon EC2 to deploy project into AWS.  • Installed and maintained web servers Tomcat and Apache HTTP in UNIX.  • Responsible for designing, developing, testing, deploying and maintaining the web application.  • Responsible for managing large databases using Pandas data frames and MySQL.  • Wrote and executed various MySQL database queries from Python-MySQL connector and MySQL dB package.  • Designed RESTful XML web service for handling AJAX request    Environment:  Python, Django 1.4, PySpark, AJAX, API, Docker, Agile, MySQL, Git, SVN, AWS. Jr. Python Developer MNR DataMight Pvt. Ltd - Hyderabad, Telangana July 2013 to May 2015 Responsibilities:  • Used Python Django framework to develop applications.  • Implemented SQL Alchemy which is a Python library for complete access over SQL.  • Used HTML, CSS, JavaScript and jQuery and Implemented AJAX for dynamic functionality of a webpages for front end applications.  • Generated automated documentation for the Python scripts using sphinx. Designed and developed continuous integration using Python, Flask, GitHub.  • Used AngularJS as the development framework to build a single-page application.  • Developed a fully automated continuous integration system using Git, Gerrit, Jenkins, MySQL and custom tools developed in Python and Bash  • Involved in entire lifecycle of the project including Design, Development, and Deployment, Testing and implementation and support.  • Managed large datasets using Pandas data frames and MySQL.  • Deployed project into Amazon web services (AWS) using amazon elastic bean stalk.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django including Tastypie Web Framework using Git.  • Developed and executed various MySQL database queries from Python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL database package.  • Develop applications that use MongoDB database, and PyMongo.  • Designed object model, data model, tables, constraints, necessary stored procedures, functions, triggers, and packages for Oracle Database.  • Used AJAX and jQuery for transmitting JSON data objects between frontend and controllers.  • Used Python and Django to interface with the jQuery UI and manage the storage and deletion of content.  • Implemented monitoring and established best practices around using elastic search.  • Wrote Python scripts to parse XML and JSON documents and load the data in database.    Environment:  Python, Flask, MongoDB, JSON, jQuery, Elastic search, XML, PyMongo, AWS bean stalk, Bash, AngularJS. Skills CSS (4 years), deployment (4 years), Django (4 years), MySQL (4 years), Python (4 years)