Part-time Software Engineer( Python, PostgreSQL) Part-time Software Engineer(<span class="hl">Python</span>, PostgreSQL) Software Engineer - Alexxa Consulting Oakland, CA ? More than 3 years' experience developing with Python and SQL  ? Experience with agile development and GIT version control  ? Hands on RESTful Web Services development and interaction.  ? Experience building machine learning models using Sci-Kit-learn  ? Experience with test driven development using unit tests, postman for APIs and selenium web driver for web  ? Expertise at data modeling and management using SQL, Pandas, SQLAlchemy and Numpy  ? Basic knowledge of micro services, Docker containers, AWS and Ngnix Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Part-time Software Engineer( Python, PostgreSQL) Alexxa Consulting December 2018 to Present Participate in the design of the data collection infrastructure  ? Design data models and seed data base tables  ? Develop RESTful Web Services to interact with other sections of the system  ? Expose json data via API that's needed for the data scientists to perform their work  ? Use Hevo to build data pipelines and python scripts to transform data as needed.  ? Automate testing using Python and selenium web driver  ? Perform analysis on a variety of data sets to discover new insights, and answer questions about data  Tools/skills: Python, PostgreSql, selenium, Hevo, Pandas, Ubuntu, javascript, html, jinja, flask Lead Data Analyst- Python developer Shelter Inc - Concord, CA June 2018 to December 2018 Managed the agency's database and helped case managers adhere to data integrity and comply with government  requirements and contractual obligations  ? Built statistical models that depict trends in homeless programs and client's populations  ? Built an ML Model that estimates the amount of time clients will spend in the program that helped in budgeting resources  ? Facilitated technical leadership in developing agency-wide targets and KPIs and guided a team of 5 program managers to complete desired reports accurately and timely  ? Used python to build internal tools that automated processes and Inspired case managers to promote data driven culture  Tools/Skills: Python, Pandas, Numpy, PostgreSql, Scikit-Learn, Excel, Tableau, Looker, Excel, Unix Data Specialist- Python and Excel Nest Labs - Palo Alto, CA August 2017 to April 2018 Designed dashboards and scorecards used to visualize the progress of KPIs like video quality, size and length  ? Set up stations for data collection and ensured the data collected met set standards  ? Managed the data collection stations and also helped troubleshoot and debug  Tools/skills: Excel, RESTful API, Bash scripting, Python, SQl Data Analyst- Python and Tableau Jackson Hewitt - Fremont, CA December 2015 to May 2017 Developed and managed interactive dashboards used to track progress of targeted matrices  ? Built data products that were used to drive decision making and improve business processes(forecasts)  ? Provided Insights and recommendations to the marketing team, that improved customer certification.  ? Tools/Skills: Python, Pandas, Numpy, PostgreSql, Scikit-Learn, Excel, Unix SAS Developer Banana Boat - Kampala, UG November 2013 to October 2015 Built a tool that automated exit of products from the sales list based on set conditions.  ? Ensured high-quality data within systems by adding database constraints to the database  ? Performed regular data checks as required to ensure validity, integrity and correctness of data.  Tools/skills: SAS, SAS- SQl, Excel, unix Education Software Engineering Program Hackbright Academy - San Francisco, CA March 2019 Mcs in Computer Science Makerere University Kampala May 2013 Skills Javascript, Git, MYSQL Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/claire-muw https://github.com/Claire56 https://rpubs.com/Claire56 Certifications/Licenses Driver's License Additional Information TECHNOLOGIES  Languages | Python, JavaScript, UNIX, AJAX, JSON, HTML, CSS, SQL, R, SAS, React.js  Frameworks & Libraries | Flask, Django, jQuery, Bootstrap, Jinja, Pandas, NumPy, Scikit-learn, matplotlib, Seaborn  Database/Industry Tools | PostgreSQL, SQL Server, MySQL, SQlite, Looker, GitHub, Command Line, AWS  Tools/Software | Tableau, ggplot2, Nginx, Docker, Agile, RESTful API web server, selenium