Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - Avidia Bank Hudson, MA ? About 6 years of experience as a Python Developer, proficient coder in multiple languages and experience in Design, Development, Implementation of Python, Django, Flask client-server technologies-based applications, RESTful services, C++, and SQL.  ? Experience in object-oriented programming (OOP) concepts using Python, and C++.  ? Good experience in developing web applications implementing MVT architecture using Django, Flask, web application frameworks, with good understanding of Django ORM and SQLAlchemy.  ? Experienced in WAMP (Windows, Apache, MYSQL, and Python/PHP) and LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, and Python/PHP) Architecture.  ? Extensive experience in developing applications by implementation of web based and client/server application using HTML, Angular JS, Node JS, CSS, JavaScript, and various Java/J2EE technologies.  ? Excellent Experience on various Python integrated IDE's such as Sublime Text, PyCharm, Eclipse and NetBeans.  ? Experience in all phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC)-Waterfall, agile Process across various workflows (Requirement study, Analysis, Design, Coding, Testing, Deployment and Maintenance) in Web & Client/Server application development.  ? Expertise in full life cycle application development and also good experience in Unit testing and Test Driven Development (TDD) and Behavior driven Development (BDD).  ? Hands on experience with continuous integration and automation using Jenkins.  ? Extensive experience in developing web applications using Python, Django, Flask frameworks.  ? Experience in working with several python libraries including Beautiful soup, NumPy, matplotlib, SciPy, PyQt, Scapy, SQLAlchemy.  ? Good knowledge of Web Services with protocols SOAP and REST.  ? Good experience in Shell Scripting, Oracle, MySQL, UNIX and Linux.  ? Expert at version control systems like Git, and SVN, Migrated repos from SVN to Github.  ? Experience in developing web applications implementing MVC architecture using Django framework and SQLAlchemy.  ? Hands on experience with bug tracking tools JIRA and Bugzilla.  ? Experience in Agile development processes ensuring rapid and high quality software delivery  ? Highly motivated, quality minded developer, with proven ability to deliver applications against tight deadlines. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Developer Avidia Bank - Hudson, MA August 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  ? Involved in analysis, specification, design, and implementation and testing phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) and used agile methodology for developing application.  ? Gathering requirements and translating the business details into Technical design.  ? Implemented responsive user interface and standards throughout the development and maintenance of the website using the HTML, CSS, JavaScript, and JQuery.  ? Developed views and templates with Python and Django's to create a user-friendly website interface.  ? Utilized Python libraries like wxPython, NumPy, SciPy, Web2py.  ? Designed RESTful Web services using FLASK, with emphasis on improved Security for the service using FLASK-HTTPAuth with HTTPS.  ? Wrote and executed various MySQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL DB package.  ? Development of Python APIs to dump the array structures in the Processor at the failure point for debugging.  ? Creating RESTful web services with Django MVT, and MySQL.  ? Collaborated within a team using an Agile Development workflow and widely-accepted collaboration practices using Git.  ? Worked on front end frame works like CSS, Angular JS, Bootstrap for development of Web application.  ? Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly interface using MVC architecture.  ? Used Python and Django to interface with the jQuery UI and manage the storage and deletion of content.  ? Using Git version control tool to coordinate team-development.  ? Developed a fully automated continuous integration system using Git, Jenkins, MySQL and custom tools developed in Python and Bash.  ? Implemented Multithreading module and complex networking operations like raceroute, SMTP mail server and web server Using Python.  ? Written test cases using PyUnit and Selenium Automation testing for better manipulation of test scripts.  ? Used JIRA for Bug tracking and issue tracking.  ? Worked as part of an Agile/Scrum based development team and exposed to TDD approach in developing applications.  Environment: Python, Django, CherryPy, HTML5, CSS, Bootstrap, Jenkins, JSON, Git, JavaScript, AJAX, RESTful webservice, MySQL, PyUnit, Selenium. Python Developer Cybersoft Technologies - IN June 2012 to May 2018 Responsibilities:  ? Involved in the project life cycle including design, development and implementation and verification and validation  ? Created a Python/Django based web application using Python scripting for data processing, MySQL for the database, and HTML/CSS/JQuery and HighCharts, matplotlib for data visualization of sales, tracking progress, identifying trends.  ? Fetched twitter feeds for certain important keyword using python-twitter library (Tweepy), Used JSON to store the twitter data which was further represented using matplotlib visualization and generated graphical reports for business decision using matplotlib library.  ? Developed internal auxiliary web apps using Python Django framework with Angular.js and Twitter Bootstrap CSS / HTML framework.  ? Extensive code reviewing using GitHub pull requests, improved code quality, also conducted meetings among Team.  ? Developed server-based web traffic using RESTful API's statistical analysis tool using Flask, Pandas.  ? Wrote PL/SQL views, Stored Procedures, database triggers & Packages.  ? Enhanced by adding Python XML SOAP request/response handlers to add accounts, modify trades and security updates.  ? Recording of Scripts Web Services HTML using Vugen and SoapUI and script validation through co correlations, parameterizations and other methods.  ? Worked with RDBMS like Oracle 11g/10i and MySQL databases to query and read data.  ? Developed various Python scripts to find vulnerabilities with SQL Queries by doing SQL injection, permission checks and performance analysis.  ? worked with automation tools like Jenkins for continuous integration and continuous delivery (CI/CD).  ? Developed scripts to migrate data from proprietary database to MySQL.  ? Logged user stories and acceptance criteria in JIRA for features by evaluating output requirements and formats.  Environment: Python, Django, HTML5, CSS, Bootstrap, JQuery, JSON, Jenkins, JavaScript, Git, T-SQL, MySQL, SoapUI, MySQL, JIRA.  Project #2:  Client: Urban Outfitters  Role: Python Developer  Responsibilities:  ? Designed views and templates with Python Django's view controller and templating language to create a web interface.  ? Provided GUI utilizing PyQt for the end user to create, modify and view reports based on client data.  ? Prepared test data files using Linux Shell scripts, Perl script as per the business requirements.  ? Worked in consuming RESTful web services using jQuery and React.js along with JSON parsing to render the response data to User Interface.  ? Developed multi-threaded standalone application in Python, PHP, C++ to view Circuit parameters and performance.  ? Used JavaScript and JSON to update a portion of a webpage.  ? Involved in back end development using Python with Flask framework.  ? Developed web applications implementing MVT/MVC architecture using Django, Flask.  ? Worked on API's deploying queries, status codes, requests to retrieve data in JSON format  ? Coordinated with team members to improve quality assurance and mitigate risks.  Environment: Python, PyQt, PyQuery, Django, MVW, HTML/CSS, Shell Scripting, JSON, SQL, UNIX, Windows, NumPy, jQuery, GitHub, MVT/MVC.    Project #3:  Client: Keen Footwear  Role: Python Developer  Responsibilities:  ? Closely involved in performance evaluation and User Acceptance Test (UAT).  ? Developed a portal to manage and entities in a content management system using Flask.  ? Wrote programs for performance calculations using Numpy and SQLalchemy.  ? Worked on CSV files while trying to get input from the MySQL database.  ? Wrote python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  ? Worked in stages such as analysis and design, development, testing and debugging.  ? Organized data exchange and integration with customers and third-party systems using CSV, XLS, XML, DBF, JSON, REST, and SOAP.  ? Developed rest API's using python with flask framework.  ? Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from Python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQLdb package.  ? Worked on HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, AngularJS, Node.JS, Git, and REST API.  ? Test software and hardware configurations of the in-fight entertainment system.  ? Worked with bug-tracking Jira, source code management tools Git.  ? Support in-fight entertainment system development designing and running system tests.  Environment: Python, Windows, MySQL, flask, Numpy, SQLAlchemy, MySQL, MySQLdb, HTML, CSS, JQuery, JavaScript. Education Bachelor's Skills DJANGO, Git, JAVASCRIPT, JENKINS, PYTHON Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:  Languages Python, C, Java, SQL, PL/SQL.  IDE's PyCharm, Eclipse, NetBeans, Sublime, SOAP UI  Web Technologies HTML5, CSS3, XML, JavaScript, JQuery, Angular JS, Node JS  Databases Oracle, MySQL  Frameworks Django, Flask, CherryPy, web2py, Tornado, Pyramid, Robot  Web Servers Web Logic, Web Sphere, Apache Tomcat  Version Controls SVN, Git.  Operating Systems MS Windows, Linux/Unix  Building& Design Tools MAVEN  CI Tools Jenkins  Bug Tracking Tools JIRA, Bugzilla  Methodologies Agile, Scrum, Waterfall