Python developer and API engineer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">developer</span> and API engineer Python developer and API engineer - 7-Eleven Dallas, TX Detail oriented Data Scientist with high level of quantitative and statistical abilities with Python and R. 5+ years of professional  experience, including 4+ years of predictive data analytics for Financial industry and 2+ years in academic research. Seeking  challenging opportunities in Data Science and machine learning Work Experience Python developer and API engineer 7-Eleven - Irving, TX October 2018 to Present to understand users and applications problem requirement and model them with a computationally efficient algorithms  ? developed codes for these algorithms with python which act as interface between different functionalities of AI algorithms  ? optimized and debug the code with python on REST API (specifically django and flask frameworks) for databases  ? created flowcharts for Dataflow architecture for processing the data. used neural networks ( with tensorflow and keras) for user  specific item suggestions and deal creations  ? did object oriented ML programming which can be containerised with python with good readability and reusability in order  implement user specific deals  ? worked on developing microservices and increasing scalability of applications  ? wrote unit tests for verifying developed code, did regression testing too. Created SMS campaign interface from existing API to messaging platform.  ? Implemented different algorithms on cloud services (AWS lambda, EC2, Mongo-db) to deploy the application Cloud ML Automation developer Capital One - McLean, VA April 2018 to October 2018 Created ML algos for Predicting quarterly results for base and normal economy. Cross-validating it with old platform results.  ? Used legoland containers for sensitive data for 'no-store' run. done data validation and stat analysis with Pandas,numpy.  ? Did improvement of existing regression and categorisation models using different ML techniques like Boosting and Tensorflow  ? wrote automation scripts for regression models with python and bash for this flow:  snowflake-aws-legoland/ec2/sagemaker-aws ( Improved Model performance from 12 to 8 hrs. )  ? worked on code transformation sas to python, sas-R, SQL-R. sas on samgw to python on ec2 migration  ? Used Apache spark on databricks for big data transformation and validation  ? Wrote SQL queries model inputs data for Teradata and snowflake too. Done improvement and parallelisation of code through python reducing runtime from 42 to 18 hr. Intern Data scientist SENSOGRAM Technologies - Plano, TX February 2018 to April 2018 • Developed algorithm for ppg signal processing & filtration, HR and SPO2 generation  • Designed and deployed AWS database architecture with Mongodb nodes  • Did Vitals data monitoring and continuous assessment through statistical analyses and data mining using python  • implemented data science algorithms such as regression, bagging & boosting, PCA, clustering , tensorflow, keras, hypothesis testing etc for supervised and unsupervised learning  • Did GUI development for medical instruments tkinter, QT  • Did Predictive modeling of healthcare data to generate alerts Research & Teaching Assistant, UT UTEP - El Paso, TX April 2016 to December 2017 Did big data analytics for personalized drug discovery (healthcare industry) (Tensorflow, Convolutional neural networks- CNN)  ? Did object oriented programming for finite element methods with python for reinforced pavement  ? Did data cleaning and preprocessing for PDBBIND protein database. Reaction and scoring function evaluation for proteins  ? DOT Geocell project: FEA modeling & analysis of pavements with Geocell using LS-dyna and experimental comparison  ? designed, deployed,Ran and monitored big scale FEA models on TACC (Texas advanced computing center ) and UTEP's local HPC  ? experienced in implementing fast forwarding the applications by making threads and processes , basically implemented parallel  and concurrent programming  ? did bash scripting for running multiple jobs simultaneously making it time and cost effective  ? Did assist in class and module preparation (MS office & Excel) Internship The Jukes Group, Houston, Tx - Houston, TX June 2017 to August 2017 Proposed & developed Innovative approach for risk assessment of existing pipeline failures using Decision tree based modeling and PCA in machine learning. Current accuracy of the model is 67 %. Handled complex categorical data.  Seismic analysis of offshore Triceratops structure (IIT Madras, India) Aug 2011 - Apr 2013  Did time series analysis of acceleration data using Matlab (free and seismic conditions both), modeled it using ANSYS and sustainability of structure for earthquake is assessed. Computed and compared RAO and PSD curves. Quantitative Analyst Algoanalytics Financial Services Pvt. Ltd - Pune, Maharashtra June 2014 to December 2015 Analysed data, modeled statistically using R, interpreted and predicted for strategic improvements (IIFL , Reliance)  ? Cleaned and preprocessed of branch wise data, done Principal Component Analysis using R    ? Wrote classes (Object oriented programming) from data mining perspective  ? Applied Linear & Logistic regression models ; Random Forest, clustering, SVM for predictive modeling  ? Analyzed financial problems and credit risk assessment (IIFL) with classification tree based problem  ? Made investment decisions by Time series analysis and data visualization using Python (Numpy, Matplotlib, Pandas)  ? Made new tools and technical developments for trading algorithms (libraries used: Beautiful Soup, numpy, Scipy, matplotlib, Pickle, PySide, python-twitter, Pandas dataframe, neural networks, urllib2, MySQL dB for database connectivity) to drive  improvements throughout the entire software development lifecycle.  ? Executed sql queries through teradata and through snowflake as well to create databases for further mining and strategic  modeling DTG Engineer Keppel Fels Ltd - Deepwater Technology Group - Mumbai, Maharashtra June 2013 to June 2014 DSS38 M design of semi-submersible (Client- Falcon Group): accommodation scantling and analysis, Designed pontoon girders  and stiffeners using DNV codes, prepared GA drawings , Load calculations, Frame analysis , Reinforcement study  ? T70 Jackup rig (client- SapuraKencana Drilling): Calculated wave, wind, current, fatigue loads on structure, Riser storage study, Hull FEM Modelling, Weight estimation, Helideck design, Crane foundation design  ? Smart Semi (GOM rig): Performed global modeling and fatigue analyses using Patran-Pre and post processor as SESAM (Xtract)  to be operated in GOM, hydrodynamic analysis of topside and pontoons  ? DSS 38 E (Falcon Group): Frame analysis, Riser Storage check , Barge preliminary scantling calculation, accommodation design  ? B362-Upper hull modeling, design for Padeye ; B348 -Living Quarter study on rule scantling, Anchor winch foundation analysis Structures October 2013 to October 2013 http://www.tandfonline.com/doi/abs/10.1080/17445302.2013.843816 ] Project intern Kirloskar Pneumatics Co. Limited - Pune, Maharashtra August 2009 to April 2010 Designed and manufactured a gear pump test rig for testing of 2HB and 2HE Pumps for GE  Plotted and studied their characteristic curves to see their functional feasibility Education MS in Computational Science University of Texas - El Paso, TX December 2017 Master of Science in Ocean Engineering in Ocean Engineering Indian Institute of Technology Madras - Chennai, Tamil Nadu June 2013 Bachelor of Mechanical Engineering in mining Pune University - Pune, Maharashtra August 2010 Skills Visual studio, C++, Python, Tensorflow, Scripting