Sr. Python Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Python Developer - Walmart Philadelphia, PA • Over 8+ years of experience as a Web/Application Developer and coding with analytical programming using Python, DJango, Java and Various JavaScript frameworks (Angular JS, TypeScript, Node JS, NPM, React JS, Redux, BackBone Js, Knockout JS, D3.JS, Vue.JS, JQuery, Ember JS and Ext JS)  • Experience with Python Libraries/Packages such as Py Query, Numpy, Scipy, Pickle, PyQT, PySide, wxPython, PyTables, DataFrames, SQLAlchemy, Twisted, Pygame, pyGtk, Pandas and Matplotlib.  • Experience using python libraries for machine learning like pandas, numpy, matplotlib, sklearn, scipy to Loading the dataset, summarizing the dataset, visualizing the dataset, evaluating some algorithms and making some predictions. Experience object oriented programming (OOP) concepts using Python.  • Developed web applications and RESTful web services and APIs using Python Flask, Django and PHP.  • Proficient in creating front end-systems using JavaScript, jQuery, Bootstrap, HTML5, CSS3 and MVC frameworks such as Angular.js and Node.js.  • Extensive experience in Requirement Analysis, Application Design & Development and profound knowledge on SDLC using agile. Experienced in web applications development using Django/ Python.  • Experience with containerizing applications using Docker Profiled python code for optimization and memory management.  • Involved in Unit testing, Integration testing, User-Acceptance testing, and Functional testing.  • Having experienced in Agile Methodologies, Scrum stories and sprints experience in a Python based environment, along with data analytics, data wrangling and Excel data extracts.  • We have implemented pyspark for Transformation and Actions in Spark Having working Knowledge of Amazon AWS ECS Worked extensively on Big Data analytical models developed in Python.  • Extensive use of Object Oriented design methodology and Agile in software development.  • Experienced in NoSQL technologies like MongoDB, CouchDB Cassandra, Redis and relational databases like Oracle, SQLite, PostgreSQL and MySQL databases. Knowledge in working with continuous deployment using Heroku and Jenkins. Experience in developing applications using Amazon web services like EC2, Cloud Search.  • Developed J2EE applications on IDE's like Eclipse, PyCharm, My Eclipse, Google GWT, and Rational Application Developer. Leveraging queueing architectures with RabbitMQ for scalability, performance and building.  • Experienced in installing, configuring, modifying, testing and deploying applications with Apache.  • Proficient in developing multi-threaded web services using CherryPy and bottlePy framework.  • Experienced in working with various IDE's Visual Studio and Vim Experienced in developing Web Services with Python. Good knowledge of Web Services with protocols SOAP, REST.  • Proficient in writing unit testing code using Unit Test/PyTest and integrating the test code with the build process.  • Experienced in using Integrated Development Environment (IDEs) inPyDev, PyScripter, Pycharm, Spider, Python IDLE, Brackets, Eclipse, JBuilder, Jdeveloper, Eric, Komodo Edit, Komodo IDE, Cloud9 IDE, DrPythonandNetBeans for debugging and also worked with SublimeText2, EditPlus, Notepad++, VimEditors for coding.  • Well versed with Agile with SCRUM, Waterfall Model and Test-driven development methodologies. Work Experience Sr. Python Developer Walmart - Philadelphia, PA November 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to created user-friendly website interface.  • Developed Restful API's using Python Flask and SQLAlchemy data models as well as ensured code quality by writing unit tests using Pytest.  • Worked on PythonOpenStack APIs and used Numpy for Numerical analysis.  • Developed rich user interface using CSS, HTML, JavaScript and JQuery. Created a Python based GUI application For Freight Tracking and processing  • Used AWS Beanstalk for deploying and scaling web applications and services developed with Java, PHP, Node.js, Python, Ruby, and Docker on familiar servers such as Apache, and IIS.  • Worked with Requests, Pysftp, Gnupg, ReportLab, Numpy, Scipy, Matplotlib, Beautiful Soup and Pandas python libraries during development lifecycle.  • Python/Django based web application, PostgreSQLDB, and integrations with 3rd party email, messaging, storage services.  • Utilized PyUnit, the Python Unit test framework, for all Python applications and used Django Database API's to access database objects.  • Created core Python API which will be using among multiple modules.  • Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks.  • Wrote and executed various MySQL database queries fromPythonusing Python-MySQL connector and MySQL dB package.  • Used object-relational mapping (ORM) solution, technique of mapping data representation from MVC model to Oracle Relational data model with an SQL-based schema  • Developed Restful Microservices using Flask and Django and deployed on AWS servers using EBS and EC2.  • Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks. Able to create scripts for system administration and AWS using languages such as BASH and Python.  • Generating various capacity planning reports (graphical) using Python packages like Numpy, matplotlib.  • Automated different workflows, which are initiated manually with Python scripts and UNIX shell scripting.  • Python Object Oriented Design code for manufacturing quality, monitoring, logging, and debugging code optimization.  • Developed API services in Python/Tornado and NodeJS while leveraging AMQP and RabbitMQ for distributed architectures.  • Used Kubernetes to deploy scale, load balance, and manage Docker containers with multiple namespace versions.  • Used Python library BeautifulSoup for web scrapping to extract data for building graphs.  • Wrote scripts to integrate API's with third party applications. Python/Django based web application, PostgreSQL, and integrations with third party messaging, storage services.  • Created UI using JavaScript and HTML5/CSS3.  • Used Celery with RabbitMQ, MySQL, Django, and Flask to create a distributed worker framework.  • Developed monitoring and notification tools using Python. Developed MVC prototype replacement of current product with Django. Worked on serializing data using Serializers in Django Rest Framework.  • Used data structures like directories, tuples, object-oriented class-based inheritance features for making complex algorithms of networks. Extensive working experience in agile environment using a CI/CD model methodology.  • Used and configured NGINX and Node.js servers for the portal to run on and made them work even for CORS.  • Worked on Container Clustering and Orchestration with Docker Swarm, TeamCity and Kubernetes.  • Involved in building database Model, APIs and Views utilizing python, to build an interactive web-based solution.  • Generated Python Django Forms to record data of online users.Used Kafka for data pipeline.  • Created Data tables utilizing Pit to display accounting information and add, delete, update records.  • Used Jenkins for Continuous Integration and deployment into AWS ECS fargate.  • Used Pandas for Statistical Analysis in the application and Numpy for the advance math functionalities.  • Installed and configured Jenkins for Automating Deployments and providing an automation solution.  • Integrated GIT into Jenkins to automate the code check-out process.  • Wrote Python normalizations scripts to find duplicate data in different environments.  • Developed and tested many features for dashboard using Python, Java, Bootstrap, CSS, JavaScript and jQuery.  • Managed builds and wrote Build scripts for JAVA and WebSphere based applications.  • Responsibilities for creation of Database, Business Logic to display the records dynamically on template based on query, providing user permission to access features of the site.  • Generated Python Django forms to record data of online users and used PyTest for writing test cases.  • Implementing change requests raised by user for server configuration, kernel tuning, software installation and OS hardening, Managing Linux VMs using Puppet as per some projects requirement.  • Experience in building frameworks in Python for Test Automation.  • Generated automatic daily build from Travis CI build server.  • Followed Agile Methodologies (Scrum) involved in daily stand-up meetings.  • Managed windows servers which included Active Directory maintenance and support  • Hands on experience with bug tracking tools such as JIRA and Bugzilla.  • Developed and designed e-mail marketing campaigns using HTML, JavaScript and CSS.  • Maintained customers relationship management databases (MySQL / PostgreSQL)  • Unit testing for the entire code and fixing bugs in unit testing  • Wrote AJAX framework to transform Datasets and Data tables into HTTP-serializable JSON strings.  • Used SVN, GitHub, Team Foundation Server (TFS) and JIRA to developed application for the client.  • Worked on various applications using python integrated IDEs like Eclipse, IntelliJ, Sublime Text and PyCharm.  • Experienced in working with different operating systems like Windows, Linux and UNIX.  • Familiar with Agile and Waterfall development methodologies.    Environment:  Python, Django, Flask, Pandas, PyCharm, PyTorch, Numpy, scikit-learn, Python API, Celery, ORM, Microservices, Tornado, SQLAlchemy, JavaScript, HTML5, CSS3, Angular, React, Redux, Machine learning, data science, TensorFlow, ROR, Es6, Typescript, JSON web token, Java, MySQL, SQL, PL/SQL, PostgreSQL, Cassandra, Rest, Travis, Ansible, AWS, DynamoDB, Google Cloud Platform, Nginx, Kubernetes, Docker Swarm, GitLab, Git, unit test, Selenium, Jest, Mockito, MAVEN, JSON, TFS, Linux, Slack, Jenkins, Agile, Scrum. Sr. Python Developer Sanofi - Raleigh, NC September 2015 to October 2017 Responsibilities:  • Developed entire front end and back end modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Developed and tested many features in an agile environment using Python, Django, HTML5, CSS, JavaScript and Bootstrap.  • Developed python scripts in order to migrate information from Oracle to MongoDB.  • Implemented data analysis with various analytical tools such as Python/SQL, Pandas, NumPy,  • Created a Python/Django based web application using Python scripting for data processing, MySQL for the database, and HTML/CSS/JQuery and High Charts for data visualization of the served pages.  • Restful web services using Python REST API Framework.  • Worked on creating Python API's  • Used object-relational mapper (ORM) to automate the transfer of data stored in relational databases tables into objects.  Involved in Developing a Restful API'S service using Python Flask framework.  • Involved in the development of front end of the application using Python, HTML5, CSS3, AJAX, JSON and JQuery and worked on backend of the application, mainly using Active Records. Developed dynamic web pages using Python, Django Frameworks.  • Developed Restful API's using Python Flask and SQLAlchemy data models as well as ensured code quality by writing unit tests using Pytest.  • Developed monitoring and notification tools using Python.  • Developed web applications and RESTful web services and APIs using Python, Elasticsearch and Tornado.  • Improved the application by designing and developing it using HTML and JavaScript.  • Used data structures like directories, tuples, object-oriented class-based inheritance features for making complex algorithms of networks. Generated Python Django Forms to record data of online users.  • Created MySQL back-end for data entry from Flash. Assisted the Flash developer send the correct data via query strings.  • Built main application in Python, Django using technologies like Angular.js, Backbone.js, Ember.js, and Celery.  • Designed, developed, implemented, and maintained solutions for using Docker, Jenkins, Git, and Puppet for microservices and continuous deployment.  • Experience in agile environment using a CI/CD model methodology.  • Involved in building database Model, APIs and Views utilizing python, to build an interactive web-based solution.  • Created Data tables utilizing PyQt to display patient and policy information and add, delete, update patient records.  • Deployed and monitored scalable infrastructure on Amazon Web Services (AWS) & configuration management using Chef.  • Have experience on Kubernetes and Docker Container for runtime environment of system to build, test & deploy.  • Maintained the Source code using Team Foundation Server (TFS) in a multi developer environment.  • Worked on Pandas to import the data, Sort and plot the statistical data using histograms.  • Wrote a Python module to connect and view the status of an Apache Cassandra instance.  • Worked on converting Hive/SQL queries into Spark transformations using Spark RDDs, Python, and OOP with Python. Worked on developing and executing shell scripts to automate the jobs.  • Developed MVC prototype replacement of current product with Django.  • Worked extensively on Spark Streaming, Spark SQL, PySpark and Hadoop/HDFS API doing MapReduce.  • Significantly improved report generation efficiency by caching, reusing and improve the security level of data.  • Experienced in automation and continuous integration process with Cloud bees Enterprise Jenkins.  • Used Jenkins for Continuous Integration and deployment into Tomcat Application Server.  • Integrated GIT into Jenkins to automate the code check-out process.  • Wrote scripts to integrate API's with third party applications. Python/Django based web application, PostgreSQL, and integrations with third party email, messaging, storage services.  • Strong experience working with Hadoop from Cloudera Data Platform and running services through Cloudera-manager.  • Pyspark we implemented Caching, Accumulators and UDF's We have implemented pyspark for Transformation and Actions in Spark Wrote Python normalizations scripts to find duplicate data in different environments.  • Used Query and Ajax calls for transmitting JSON data objects between frontend and controllers.  • Involved in building database Model, APIs and Views utilizing python, in order to build an interactive web  based solution.  • Worked on HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, AngularJS, Node.JS, Git, REST API, intellij IDEA.  • Development of real-time multi-tasking systems using Python.  • Created data access modules in python.  • Used Python IDE Pycharm for developing the code and performing unit test.  • Designed, developed, implemented, and maintained solutions for using Git and GitHub for microservice and continuous deployment.    Environment:  Python, Django, PyCharm, PyTorch, Pandas, Flask, Python API, TensorFlow, scikit-learn, NumPy, Microservices, ORM, Celery, Tornado, SQLAlchemy, JavaScript, HTML5, CSS3, Angular, React, Redux, Machine learning, data science, TFS, , ROR, Angular, React, Es6, typescript, JSON web token, Java, MySQL, PL/SQL, PostgreSQL, DynamoDB, Rest, Git, unit test, Selenium, AWS EC2, DynamoDB, Google Cloud Platform, Chef, Kubernetes, Maven, JSON, Jenkins, Docker, hipchat, Zoom, Linux, Agile, Scrum. Python Developer Comcast - Seattle, WA February 2014 to August 2015 Responsibilities:  • Implemented user interface guidelines and standards throughout the development and maintenance of the website using the HTML, CSS, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Worked on Django ORM module for signing complex queries.  • Utilized Python libraries python, NumPy, Twisted and matplotlib.  • Developed API modularizing existing python module with the help of pyyaml libraries.  • Designed and configured database and back end applications and programs.  • Used JavaScript data visualization framework (D3.js) to display the information in a chart view.  • Experienced in developing Web Services with Python programming language.  • Involved in Unit testing, Integration testing, User-Acceptance testing, and Functional testing.  • Created custom directives in Angular JS for re-usable components (multi-field form elements, background file uploads)  • Good knowledge in working with Web/application server- Apache Tomcat, Tornado, Cherrypy, Chaussette, Rocket.  • Worked on Restful API's to access the third party data for the internal analysis and statistical representation of that data.  • Worked on  • Involved in various phases of the project like Analysis, Design, Development, and Testing.  • Developed rich user interface using CSS, HTML5, JavaScript and jQuery.  • Developed a Front-End GUI as stand-alone Python application.  • Involved in Integrating and Functional System Testing for the entire Data Warehousing Application Experience in python, Jupiter, Scientific computing stack (NumPy, SciPy, pandas and matplotlib)  • Pyspark we implemented Caching, Accumulators and UDF's We have implemented pyspark for Transformation and Actions in Spark Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes of the two main applications that were a main source of data for both customers and internal customer service team.  • Wrote Python scripts to parse JSON documents and load the data in database.  • Developed new scripts a using many regular expressions to match and extract data as required to comply with various compliance reporting requirements.  • Involved in deployment using Docker Container on AWS.  • Build SQL queries for performing various CRUD operations like create, update, read and delete.  • Worked on Anti Money Laundering (AML) application to develop new modules to build reports for identifying various accounts and activities.  • Developed Python Django forms to record data and the Login module page for users.  • Designed email marketing campaigns and created interactive forms that saved data into database using Django Framework.  • Installed and configured Jenkins for Automating Deployments and providing an automation solution.  • Participated in requirement gathering and worked closely with the architect in designing and modeling.  • Generating various capacity planning reports (graphical) using Python packages like NumPy, matplotlib.  • Optimized for online queries and Data Warehousing tools using dimensional model.  • Analyzing various logs that are been generating and predicting/forecasting next occurrence of event with various Python libraries.  • Used GIT for the version control.  • Used JIRA for bug tracking and issue tracking and added several options to the application to choose particular algorithm for data and address generation.  • Worked on development of SQL and stored procedures on MYSQL.  • Developed shopping cart for Library and integrated web services to access the payment (E-commerce)  • Designed and developed a horizontally scalable APIs using pythonFlask.  • Designed Cassandra schema for the APIs.  • Development done using Eclipse IDE.  • Implemented monitoring and established best practices around using elastic search.  • Effectively communicated with the external vendors to resolve queries.    Environment:  Python, Django, ORM, Pandas, Tornado, JavaScript, HTML5, CSS3, AngularJS, Bootstrap, JQuery, JSON web token, SSO/SAML, Pyramid, ROR, Java, Oracle, Rest, Eclipse, Websphere, Git, SVN, unit test, Selenium, Maven, JSON, XML, Jira, Linux, hipchat, Jenkins, Agile. Python Developer eBay - Columbus, OH July 2012 to January 2014 Responsibilities:  • Used Python and Django to interface with the jQuery UI and manage the storage and deletion of content.  • Worked extensively with Bootstrap, Java script, and query to optimize the user experience.  • Handled all the client-side validation using JavaScript.  • Hands on experience with databases using ORMs/DOMs for integrating with Oracle, MySQL, PostgreSQL.  • Created a custom CMS built using Django, AWS (Amazon web service), REST, Json with JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX components, worked closely with designer. Converted Photoshop images into XHTML/CSS.  • Rewrite existingPython/Django modules to deliver certain format of data.  • Used Django Database API's to access database objects.  • Developed asynchronous notifications by using tornado.  • Wrote pythonscripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL.  • Used AWstat and Google Analytics to analyze web traffic.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Created scripts for system administration and AWS using languages such as BASH and Python.  • Design, develop, test, deploy and maintain the website.  • Used Selenium Library to write fully functioning test automation process that allowed the simulation of submitting different we requests from multiple browser to web application.  • Involved in development of Web Services using SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface in the XML format.  • Participated in entire lifecycle of the projects including Design, Development, and Deployment, Testing and Implementation and support.  • Participated in the complete SDLC process.  • Responsible for debugging the project monitored on JIRA (Agile)  • Used JQuery for all client-side Java script manipulation.  • Scalable, database-driven web application development using a variety of frameworks: ASP.NET on C#, Flask on Python, and PHP.  • Created unit test/regression test framework for working/new code.  • Implemented multiple high-performance MongoDB replica sets on EC2 with robust reliability.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules usingPythonon Django Web Framework.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  • Worked on developing a website for a power company. Used to get energy consumption from various customers to store it into a database. Load the data from database to display on customer accounts. Wrote various python modules to perform back-end operations on the data. Developed graphical interface for users to display in their accounts.  • Used Python's pandas and matplotlib libraries to conduct data exploration and visualization of electricity consumption data.  • Created Python scripts for analyzing large quantities of data.  • Maintained detailed databases of energy storage projects and country-specific energy policies.  • Generated Python Django Forms to record data, login, and signup of users.  • Built various graphs for business decision making using Python matplotlib library.  • Utilized standard Python modules such as csv, itertools and pickle for development.  • Worked on Python OpenStack APIs and used Numpy for Numerical analysis.  • Responsible for search engine optimization to improve the visibility of the website.  • Performed different testing methods like Unit testing, Integration testing, web application testing.  • Developed efficient Angular.js for client web based application.  • Used Netbeans IDE for development.    Environment:  Python, Django, ORM, Pandas, Tornado, JavaScript, HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, JQuery, Ruby, ROR Ruby on Rails, JSON web token, SSO/SAML, Pyramid, Java, AWS EC2, S, MySQL, Rest, Soap, Netbeans, Websphere, CVS, SVN, Junit, Waterfall, Ant, XML, Jira, Unix, hipchat. Python Developer IBM - Chicago, IL May 2010 to June 2012 Responsibilities:  • Involved in different layers such as Front and Back end.  • Developing Web Applications with W3C, XHTML, HTML, PHP, CSS standards and using Python, Django.  • Worked on Payment Processing which involves monitoring payments and provide required solutions.  • Involved in the complete software life cycle (SDLC) to develop the web application.  • Used JavaScript for Dynamic Page Functionality, popup screens and the user entry validations.  • Coding application using Python, Django in End-to-End Web application development using MVC architecture while front-end is built on CSS and HTML.  • Used Test Driven Approach for developing the application and implemented the unit tests using Python Unit Test framework called PyUnit.  • Designed Database Model for the entire application Creating tables, Views and Stored procedures.  • Implementation of client side validations using JQuery, Angular JS and ASP.NET MVC Validation implemented at Controller level.  • Performed Scalable Computing and data analytics of big data.  • Designed and developed various abstract classes, interfaces, classes to construct the business logic using C# .NET.  • Created Database Schema for MySQL Database and involved in designing ER-Diagrams using Microsoft Visio.  • Python Scripts to create Excel and CSV files for documenting the Statistical Reports.  • Experience with Python Libraries such as HTTPLib2, Urllib.  • Used GitHub for Version Control System and deployed the project code into Heroku.  • Worked on XML documents based on XML Schema definition (XSD) with python scripts to load the data to database.    Environment:  Python, Django, HTML, CSS, JIRA, TDD, AJAX, JQuery, JavaScript, AWS, MySQL, Angular JS, Linux, Apache, XML, Git. Education Master of Science in Science and Engineering University of Delaware Skills PHP, Javascript, MYSQL, Git, CSS