PYTHON DEVELOPER <span class="hl">PYTHON</span> <span class="hl">DEVELOPER</span> PYTHON DEVELOPER - ALPINE BANK • Results oriented Software Engineer with 4 years' experience in Analysis, Design, Development, Testing, and Implementation of various internet-based applications. Proficient in a variety of platforms, languages like Python using various frameworks like Django, Flask.  • Experienced in Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) methodologies such as Agile and Waterfall methodologies with high quality deliverables delivered on-time.  • Solid experience in Analysis, Design and Development, Testing, Implementation, production support and maintenance of various Web Applications using Python, Django, C/C++, MySQL.  • Experienced in developing Web-based Applications using Python, CSS, HTML, JavaScript, Angular JS and jQuery.  • Strong Working experience on several standard Python packages like NumPy, SciPy, pytables, matplotlib, Pickle, Beautiful Soup, Python-twitter, urllib2 etc.  • Experience with Design, code, debug operations, reporting, data analysis and web applications utilizing Python.  • Expert in using Django Authentication system, Django templating system, creating models and forms.  • Experience with different IDE's like Sublime Text, PyCharm.  • Proficient in developing web-based applications using PHP, MYSQL, Flask, Jinja, HTML, XML, JSON, CSS, Java Script & AJAX.  • Expertise in working with different data bases like Microsoft SQL Server, Oracle MySQL, PostgreSQL and Good knowledge in using NoSQL databases MongoDB.  • Proficient in developing complex SQL queries, Stored Procedures, Functions, Packages along with performing DDL and DML operations on the database.  • Experience in working with Python ORM Libraries including Django ORM.  • Good Command of web services with protocols SOAP, REST.  • Experience in working on source code management tools like SVN, GIT (GitHub), Creating GIT repositories with specified branching strategies.  • Extensively worked with automation tools like Jenkins, to implement the End-to-End Automation.  • Ability to learn and adapt quickly to the emerging new technologies and paradigms.  • Efficient team member with excellent work/time management skills, communications and Interpersonal Skills, ability to work under strict deadlines.  • Have flexibility and ability to learn and use new technologies and also to work in team environment as wells as independently to get things done. Work Experience PYTHON DEVELOPER ALPINE BANK - Glenwood Springs, CO January 2019 to Present Glenwood Springs, CO  JAN2019 TO PRESENT  Responsibilities:  • Involved in SDLC Agile Methodology (Scrum)  • Used Python, Django and Pyramid frameworks to develop applications and responsible for both back-end programming and front-end functionality using JavaScript, Ajax, Angular.JS, and other technologies.  • Used AJAX for transmitting JSON data objects between frontend and controllers and wrote Python scripts to parse XML and JSON documents and load the data in database.  • Implemented RESTful Web-Services for sending and receiving the data between multiple systems.  • Developed dynamic web pages to view the reports generated using Django Framework.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Designed and developed data management system using MongoDB and MySQL.  • Developed build and deployment scripts using Maven as build tools in Jenkins to move from one environment to other environments.  • Implemented SqlAlchamy (ORM) which is a python library for complete access over SQL as python objects.  • Implemented AJAX for dynamic functionality of a webpages for front end applications.  • Created GIT configuration record for builds using derived objects generated during build audit process.  • Used JIRA as Issue Tracking Tool & Setup Docker on Linux and configured Jenkins to run under Docker host.  • Worked on front end frame works like Bootstrap for responsive webpages and AngularJS for Single page application.  • Involved in writing SQL Queries, Stored procedures, functions, packages, tables, views, triggers.  • Worked with defect tracking tool like Jira.  • Used Git version control system for maintain version of code & Used agile methodology.  Environment: Python, Django, Jenkins, MySQL, MongoDB, REST, AJAX, HTML, SQLAlchemy, Shell scripting, Sublime, XHTML, Git.  PYTHON DEVELOPER Alden State Bank - New York, NY January 2018 to December 2018 Responsibilities:  • Involved in development of entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Involved Developed dynamic web pages using python Django Frameworks and used Python and Django creating graphics, XML processing, data exchange and business logic implementation Installation and setting up Python/Unix test beds and supported Apache Server on Linux Platform.  • Used the continuous integration (CID) tool Jenkins for automating the build processes.  • Implemented a continuous Delivery pipeline with Jenkins and GitHub, whenever a new GitHub branches are created Jenkins automatically attempts to build a new Docker container from it.  • Modified queries, functions, cursors, triggers and stored procedures for MySQL database to improve performance, while processing data.  • Created Database tables, functions, stored procedures and wrote prepared statements using PL/SQL.  • Automated the existing scripts for performance calculations using NumPy and Sqlalchemy.  • Used REST and SOAPUI for testing web service for server-side changes.  • Embedded AJAX in UI to update small portions of the web page avoiding the need to reload the entire page.  • Wrote scripts in Python for extracting data from HTML file.  • Involved in entire lifecycle of the projects including Design and Deployment, Testing and Implementation and support. Maintaining the scripts using the version Control.  • Involved in development of Python APIs to dump the array structures in the Processor at the failure point for debugging.  • Worked on different cross browsing capability issue for IE, Chrome, Firefox and Safari.  • Utilized PyQt to provide GUI for the user to create, modify and view reports based on client data.  • Developed complex web, middleware, and back end systems in Python, SQL and Perl for Linux and Windows.  • Created PyUnit test scripts and used for unit testing & Used Git for the version control.  • Developed Merge jobs in Python to extract and load data into MySQL database.  • Developed user interfaces using HTML5 and JavaScript.  • Created a Git repository and added the project to GitHub.  • Utilized Agile process and JIRA issue management to track sprint cycles.    Environment: Python, Django, Git, Jenkins, HTML, CSS, NumPy, SQLAlchemy, Rest, Soap, MySQL, SQL, PyQt, PyUnit PYTHON DEVELOPER T&T BANK - Greensboro, NC January 2017 to January 2018 • Worked in Agile development following Scrum process, Sprint and daily stand-up meetings  • Developed Views and Templates with Django view controller and template language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Worked on frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Created application structure based on Angular style guides and best practices  • Created user interface components using Angular Js and React Js  • Developed complex database objects like stored Procedures, Functions, Packages and triggers using SQL and PL/SQL.  • Created a Lambda Deployment function, and configured it to receive events from your S3 bucket  • Automation (Ansible) and Deploying on AWS environment.  • Implemented user interface guidelines and standards throughout the development and maintenance of the website using the HTML, CSS, JavaScript and jQuery.  • Extensively used the advanced features of PL/SQL like records, Tables, Object types and Dynamic SQL.  • Used OOP to develop network communications between departments within the building  • Created APIs, database Model and Views Utilization Python to build responsive web page application.  • Used GitHub for Python source code version control, Jenkins for automating the build Docker containers, and deploying in Mesos  • Developed multiple React Redux based pages that provided functionality for Login/Logout, display of vendor data like vendor opportunity, top vendors, a tile-based display of important overview information, summary metrics etc.  • Designed and implemented a dedicated MySQL database server to drive the web apps and report on daily progress.  • Used PyUnit, the Python unit test framework, for all Python applications  • Worked on Jenkins continuous integration tool for deployment of project.  • Design and implement availability, scalability, and performance plans for the cloud managed service environment.  • Extensively used bulk collection in PL/SQL objects for improving the performing.  • Used Git for the version control.  • Created a Git repository and added the project to GitHub.  • Collaborated with internal teams and external teams to solve the issues and giving feedbacks.  • Worked on object-oriented programming (OOP) concepts using Python, Django and Linux.  • Used JIRA for bug tracking and issue tracking.  • Practical experience with working on multiple environments like development, testing, production.  Environment: Python, Django, HTML5/CSS, MySQL, JavaScript, Eclipse, Linux, Shell Scripting, Ansible,  jQuery, AWS, GitHub, JIRA, MS Office, and UNIX. PYTHON DEVELOPER MNR DataMight Pvt. Ltd - Hyderabad, Telangana January 2014 to August 2015 Responsibilities:  • Used Python Django framework to develop applications.  • Implemented SQL Alchemy which is a Python library for complete access over SQL.  • Used HTML, CSS, JavaScript and jQuery and Implemented AJAX for dynamic functionality of a webpages for front end applications.  • Generated automated documentation for the Python scripts using sphinx. Designed and developed continuous integration using Python, Flask, GitHub.  • Used AngularJS as the development framework to build a single-page application.  • Developed a fully automated continuous integration system using Git, Gerrit, Jenkins, MySQL and custom tools developed in Python and Bash  • Involved in entire lifecycle of the project including Design, Development, and Deployment, Testing and implementation and support.  • Managed large datasets using Pandas data frames and MySQL.  • Deployed project into Amazon web services (AWS) using amazon elastic bean stalk.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django including Tasty pie Web Framework using Git.  • Developed and executed various MySQL database queries from Python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL database package.  • Develop applications that use MongoDB database, and PyMongo.  • Designed object model, data model, tables, constraints, necessary stored procedures, functions, triggers, and packages for Oracle Database.  • Used AJAX and jQuery for transmitting JSON data objects between frontend and controllers.  • Used Python and Django to interface with the jQuery UI and manage the storage and deletion of content.  • Implemented monitoring and established best practices around using elastic search.  • Wrote Python scripts to parse XML and JSON documents and load the data in database.    Environment:  Python, Flask, MongoDB, JSON, jQuery, Elastic search, XML, PyMongo, AWS bean stalk, Bash, AngularJS. Education Bachelor's in computer science JNTU Skills DJANGO (4 years), Git (4 years), JAVASCRIPT (4 years), MYSQL (4 years), PYTHON (4 years) Additional Information SKILLS  Ajax, Django, Git,  Linux, Python    Technical Skills:  Programming Languages-  Python, JavaScript    Python Packages- NumPy,  SciPy, pytables, matplotlib,  Pickle, Beautiful Soup,  Python-twitter, urllib2    Frameworks- Django,  Pyramid, Flask, AngularJS    Web Technologies -HTML5,  CSS3, JavaScript, XML,  JSON, AJAX    Web Services -REST,  SOAP, WSDL.    Databases- MYSQL,  MongoDB, Oracle    Software/IDE Sublime- Text,  PyCharm, Eclipse,  Notepad++    Operating System- Mac OS,  Windows, Linux.    Software Management- GIT,  SVN, Maven, Gradle, CVS.