Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer Chestnut Ridge, NY Goal-oriented python developer with an excellent personality and the tenacity to get things done. Dedicated to enhancing developer skills with a practical and disciplined approach. Able to work with minimal direction to solve problems quickly and efficiently. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Developer Freelance/Self employed - Chestnut Ridge, NY January 2019 to Present • Created web-scrapping and data mining programs to collect and organize relevant data  • Preformed data analysis to Identify, analyze, and interpret trends or patterns in data sets  • Wrote reusable, testable, and efficient code ADMINISTRATIVE ASSISTANT SUNY Rockland Community College - Suffern, NY March 2016 to Present • Updated old systems to modern frameworks including implementation of python programs  • Created and maintains various python programs for record-keeping and administrative services  • Coordinated efforts by establishing procedure for various activities  • Performed data entry and analysis Manager of Family Recreation SUNY Rockland Community College - Suffern, NY August 2014 to March 2016 • Managed and coordinated various work schedules as well as assigned tasks  • Responsible for ensuring the completion of tasks in a timely manner Account Executive Yelp! Inc - New York, NY March 2014 to July 2014 • Developed and designed marketing solutions for clients  • Managed various accounts while maintaining and creating long-lasting relationships with the company  • Leveraged Sales Force to track success and generation reports for businesses Education Bachelor's in Bachelors of Science - Marketing State University of New York at New Paltz - New Paltz, NY September 2011 to August 2013 Associate in Liberal Arts SUNY Rockland Community College - Suffern, NY September 2009 to May 2011 Skills Goal-oriented, Python (2 years) Links http://www.github.com/Dylan-Griffith Additional Information Proficient in Python ( python 2 and 3)  ? Created and maintains a suicide prevention bot that combs through Reddit and detects suicidal comments and responds with helpful information.  ? Strong knowledge of operating systems (Linux, Unix)  ? Strong sense of ownership, ability to work independently, and excellent communication skills  ? Good oral and written communication skills, analytical skills and a highly professional attitude  ? Ability to learn quickly  ? Knowledgeable in Microsoft programs (Outlook, Excel)