Senior Python Developer Senior <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior Python Developer - GE Healthcare * Around 7+ years of professional experience in I.T Industry with strong hands on analysis, design and development of enterprise applications using Python, Django, Flask, JAVA/J2EE Technologies.  * Equipped with the knowledge of various software's, organizing technical demonstrations with sound understanding and skill of creating new software & systems, designing, analysis, testing, database development and coding for modules while structuring customized solutions to meet customer's specific needs.  * Strong experience of software development in Python (libraries used: Beautiful Soup, Numpy, Scipy, Matplotlib, python-twitter, Pandas data frame, networkx, urllib2, MySQL dB for database connectivity) and IDEs - Sublime text, Spyder, Pycharm, Eclipse, Emacs.  * Good experience in Python in creating scalable and robust applications along with other technologies.  * Proficient in developing Web Services (SOAP, RESTful) in Python using XML, JSON.  * Driven to architect Big Data solutions on multiple platforms using data analytics.  * Hands on experience working in WAMP (Windows, Apache, MYSQL and Python/PHP) and LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, and Python/PHP) Architecture.  * Expertise in practicing the SDLC models, agile methods with Scrum, Extreme Programming, Ticketing systems using JIRA and Test Driven Development (TDD).  * Developed Java/J2ee applications using XML, XSLT and Basic ASP.net applications including using Core Java concepts like OOPS, Multithreading, Garbage Collections, and Collections.  * Experienced in developing web-based applications using Python, Django, PHP, C++, XML, CSS, HTML, DHTML, JavaScript, JQuery, MVC3, Bootstrap, RESTful, RUBY and AJAX.  * Expertise in working with different databases like Oracle, MySQL, PostgreSQL and Good knowledge in using NoSQL database MongoDB.  * Good experience in developing web applications and implementing ModelViewControl (MVC) architecture using server side applications like Django, Flask, Web2Py and Pyramid.  * Excellent experience with Python development under Linux OS (Debian, Ubuntu, SUSE Linux, Red Hat Linux).  * Well versed with Version control systems such as Git, SVN and CVS.  * Good knowledge in strategy and implementation of AWS technologies such as EC2, S3, and EBS.  * Experience in using Design Patterns such as MVC, Singleton and frameworks such as Django, WSGI.  * Experience in project deployment using Google Cloud/Jenkins, ElasticSearch and using web Services like Amazon Web Services (AWS).  * Developed a scalable logging solution in golang that could track custom log outputs to various destinations; file, stdout/stderr, syslog, email, remote.  * Created a golang script to read data from csv file and publish formatted json data to remote rabbitmq cluster.  * Experience in using UNIX Shell Scripts for automating batch programs.  * Worked on AJAX framework to transform Datasets and Data tables into HTTP Serializable JSON  strings.  * Proficient in developing complex SQL queries, Stored Procedures, Functions, Triggers, Cursor and Packages along with performing DDL and DML operations on the MySQL and PostgreSQL database and Modified Stored Procedures and complex T-SQL Queries to improve query execution process.  * Strong knowledge with REST API development and good idea using debugging tools like Bugzilla and JIRA.  * Experience in deploying applications in heterogeneous Application Servers TOMCAT, Web Logic and Oracle Application Server.  * Experience in working with SQLAlchemy in connecting with databases like Mongo DB, Cassandra, Oracle and MySQL.  * Created action filters, parameters and calculated sets for preparing dashboards and worksheets in Tableau.  * Installing / resolving hardware, firmware, driver, networking, SAN, data centre, operating system, PCI, RAID and applications on a multitude of server and desktop platforms.  * Worked on Several deployment tools using Google Cloud, Jenkins, Ansible, Pylint, cpp Check and Coverity.  * Familiarity with development best practices such as code reviews, unit testing, system integration testing (SIT) and user acceptance testing (UAT).  * Expertise in performing Unit testing using Pyunit framework and Test Automation used Robot Framework along with Error Logging using Sentry.  * Used ANT scripts to build and deploy code to other environments from Development environment.  * Performed code reviews and implemented best Pythonic programming practices.  * Possess keen business acumen in analysing and understanding business requirements, customer-value maximization and developing new business processes.  * Worked on Waterfall to Agile Methodologies.  * Good team player with excellent work history and willingness to go extra mile.  * Exceptional analytical, troubleshooting organizational, communication, prioritization and problem solving and leadership skills with ability to create and sustain high work tempo.    TECHNICAL CREDENTIALS    Programming Languages Python, C, C++, Java, shell scripting, PL/SQL,Golang. Work Experience Senior Python Developer GE Healthcare - San Ramon, CA January 2018 to Present Description: - As a leading global medical technology and life sciences company, GE Health Care provide a broad portfolio of products, solutions and services used in the diagnosis, treatment and monitoring of patients and in the development and manufacture of biopharmaceuticals by providing medical technologies, digital infrastructure, data analytics and decision support tools that help healthcare professionals diagnose, treat and monitor their patients.    Responsibilities:  • Develop moderately complex software in Python and Java consistently following coding standards and in accordance with applicable software development methodology and release processes.  • Work with Business Architects and Business Analysts to understand the business requirements.  • Application developed with Python, Flask using (Agile) methodology.  • Good understanding of the threading limitations of Python, and multi-process architecture.  • Developed entire front end and back end modules using Python on Flask, WSGI- Pyramid Web Framework.  • Expertise in using OOPS concept all over the project to leverage the code to look well defined.  • Generated statistical measurement and Image Filtering based on selected statistical measure digital image processing.  • Used Fourier Transform, Spectral Analysis, Frequency Analysis for image manipulation.  • Implement image processing using numpy, matplotlib, scipy , imageio, pil low and some other python libraries.  • Create test cases to cover the development work using pytest framework to get the minimum coverage of overall 80% minimum by maintaining the code standards.  • Utilize software engineering tools such as configuration management systems, build processes, and debuggers in the software development process.  • Improved code reuse and performance by making effective use of various design patterns.  • Collaborate and add value through participation in peer code reviews, providing comments and suggestions.  • Created Chef Cookbooks to deploy new software and plugins as well as manage deployments to the production Jenkins server.  • Used Django Database API's to access database objects. Also, involved in validating and processing of files.  • Worked with networking teams in configuring AWS Direct Connect to establish dedicated connection to datacenters, Elastic Search and AWS Cloud.  • Developed internal auxiliary web apps using Python Flask, Web2Py framework along with Bootstrap CSS / HTML framework.  • Expertise in writing Constraints, Indexes, Views, Stored Procedures, Cursors, Triggers and User Defined function.  • Wrote Lambda functions in python for AWS Lambda which invokes python scripts to perform various transformations and analytics on large data sets in EMR clusters.  • Providing daily reports to the Development Manager and participate in both the design phase and the development phase.  • Used Test driven (TDD) approach for developing the application and Implemented the unit tests using Python Unit test framework and for Automation used Robot Framework.  • Followed AGILE development methodology to develop the application and During Deployment main worked through Ansible.  • Participate in product and/or application definition activities including feature analysis and system tradeoffs  • Used advanced packages like Mock, Patch and Beautiful soup (b4) to perform unit testing.  • Used JIRA for issue tracking and bug tracking for each individual sprint and used pyChecker tool to fix bugs    Environment: Python 3.4, Django 1.8, MySQL, PyCharm, WSGI,Git, ElasticSearch, Flask,Web2Py, Linux, Windows, JSON, JQuery, HTML, XML,CSS, REST, JIRA, Bootstrap, AJAX, AWS, ANT, JavaScript,Beautiful Soup, Agile, GitHub, PyUnit, SQLAlchemy, Ansible, Tableau, SQL Developer, Robot, Jenkins, Chef, Selenium. Senior Python Developer Capital One - Richmond, VA 2016 to December 2017 Responsibilities:  ? Involved in software development life cycle (SDLC) of tracking the requirements, gathering, analysis, detailed design, development, system testing and user acceptance testing.  ? Involved in exiting the data centres (lifted and shifted) to cloud building script for data movement from S3 to EC2 using SQS back and forth using python.  ? Developed Nebula datasets registration for keeping the raw data as a backup and worked with Amazon web services EC2 and EMR as a replacement for application servers and various business processes.  ? Utilized Cloud watch to monitor resources such as EC2, CPU memory, Amazon to design high availability applications on AWS across availability zones.  ? Configured Elastic Load Balancers with EC2 Auto-scaling groups in AWS.  ? Developed dynamic web pages, monitoring, notification managing Security Vulnerability for infrastructure and application tools using Python, Django, Pyramid Frameworks and Used Python Library Beautiful Soup for web scrapping.  ? Developed tools using Python, Shell Scripting and XML to automate some of the menial tasks. Interfacing with supervisors, artists, systems administrators and production to ensure production deadlines are met.  ? Created new database objects like Functions, Packages, Triggers, Indexes and Views using T-SQL in Development and Production environment for SQL Server.  ? Managed datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL, queried MYSQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL dB package to retrieve information and made connections for the existing databases using SQLAlchemy.  ? Used Django Database API's to access database objects and Developed SQLite and Python script to convert OLAP cube data to relational data extract for business reporting  ? Created Data tables utilizing PyQt to display customer and policy information and add, delete, update customer records.  ? Involved in the development of front end of the application using Python 2.7, HTML5, CSS3, AJAX, JSON and JQuery and worked on backend of the application, mainly using Active Records.  ? Fetched twitter feeds for certain important keyword using Python-twitter library.  ? Experienced with Bootstrap as a mechanism to manage and organize the HTML page layout and used JavaScript to validate all the client side validations.  ? Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from Python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL dB package.  ? Created unit tests in golang and facilitated the integration of Jenkins CI environment with github in collaboration with the operations team.  ? Developed a concurrent in-memory caching solution using golang channels, and a FIFO queue to buffer client request on demand.  ? Used Golang to add a feature to an open-source data analytics and monitoring platform called Grafana to support customized alerting contents.  ? Worked on migration of existing Java, C++ applications in Python 2.7.  ? Wrote a Python module to connect and view the status of an Apache Cassandra instance.  ? DB2 SQL Procedures and UNIX Shell Scripts were designed and developed for Data Import/Export and Conversions.  ? Parsed various file formats including XML and JSON and loaded into Oracle database with Python XML and JSON modules.  ? Used PyQuery for selecting particular DOM elements when parsing HTML.  ? Implementing change requests raised by user for server configuration, kernel tuning, software installation and OS hardening, Managing Linux VMs using Puppet as per project requirement.  ? Implemented Test Driven Development (TDD) for developing undergoing system.  ? Developed user interface solutions using a Django and Pyramid web framework. Used Python scripts to update content in the database and manipulate files.  ? Used Element Tree XML API in Python to Parse XML documents and load the data in to the database.  ? Involved in development of Python based Web Services using REST for sending and getting data from the external interface in the JSON format and perform analysis using Django, PostgreSQL.  ? Used Jenkins to build and troubleshoot automated testing.  ? Developed automation scripts to back up the old records by using Mongo DB export command and transferred the files into backup machine with the help of ftplib.  ? Generated Python Django forms to record data of online users and used PyTest for writing test cases and Depended on Ansible for deploying the developing system.  ? Version control using GitHub and involved in writing stored procedures using MySQL.    Environment: Python 2.7, Django 1.8, PyCharm, C++, JAVA, Beautiful Soup, Apache Cassandra, HTML5, DOM, CSS3, AJAX, AWS,JSON, JQuery, SQLite, Ansible, JavaScript, MySQL, FTPlib, Mongo DB, PostgreSQL, Puppet, Jenkins, Panda, XML, SQLAlchemy, T-SQL,REST, Linux, GIT, GitHub. Senior Python Developer Ericson, NJ April 2014 to July 2016 Description:-This organisation is to develop the next generation Packet Core load testing framework for the coming needs on 5G, IoT, VNS. They aim to build TAAS (test as a service) infrastructure to enable different kinds of simulated networks to support different scenarios and responsible of developing and supporting this infrastructure and deliver test solution service to customers.    Responsibilities:  ? Worked with Business Architects and Business Analysts to understand the business requirements.  ? Application developed with Python, Django and MySQL using JIRA (Agile) methodology.  ? Configured the Django admin site, dashboard and created a custom Django dashboard for end users with custom look and feel. Used Django APIs for database access.  ? Created Data Connections, Published on Tableau Server for usage with Operational or Monitoring Dashboards.  ? Developed entire front end and back end modules using Python on Django, WSGI- Pyramid Web Framework.  ? Improved code reuse and performance by making effective use of various design patterns.  ? Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  ? Worked on development of SQL and stored procedures for normalization and de-normalization in MySQL and used SQLAlchemy for connecting with MySQL Database.  ? Created Chef Cookbooks to deploy new software and plugins as well as manage deployments to the production Jenkins server.  ? Developed remote integration with third party platforms by using RESTful web services.  ? Developed user interfaces using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Ajax, JSON and JQuery.  ? Used Django Database API's to access database objects. Also, involved in validating and processing of files.  ? Used ANT as build tools on Java projects for the development of build artefacts on the source code.  ? Worked with networking teams in configuring AWS Direct Connect to establish dedicated connection to datacentres, Elastic Search and AWS Cloud.  ? Used Wireshark, live HTTP headers and Fiddler2 debugging proxy to debug the Flash object and help the developer create a functional component.  ? Developed internal auxiliary web apps using Python Flask, Web2Py framework along with Bootstrap CSS / HTML framework.  ? Expertise in writing Constraints, Indexes, Views, Stored Procedures, Cursors, Triggers and User Defined function.  ? Worked on with several python libraries like MatPlotLib, PyTest and Selenium.  ? Wrote Lambda functions in python for AWS Lambda which invokes python scripts to perform various transformations and analytics on large data sets in EMR clusters.  ? Parsed various file formats including XML and JSON and loaded into Oracle database with Python XML and JSON modules.  ? Skilled in using collections in Python for manipulating and looping through different user defined objects.  ? Wrote Python code embedded with JSON and XML to produce HTTP GET request, URLlib 2 for parsing HTML data from websites.  ? Providing daily reports to the Development Manager and participate in both the design phase and the development phase.  ? Used Test driven (TDD) approach for developing the application and Implemented the unit tests using Python Unit test framework and for Automation used Robot Framework.  ? Followed AGILE development methodology to develop the application and During Deployment main worked through Ansible.  ? Implemented Integration test cases and done Unit testing using PyUnit framework.  ? Used advanced packages like Mock, Patch and Beautiful soup (b4) to perform unit testing.  ? Used JIRA for issue tracking and bug tracking for each individual sprint and used pyChecker tool to fix bugs.    Environment: Python 3.4, Django 1.8, MySQL, PyCharm, WSGI,Git, ElasticSearch, Flask,Web2Py, Linux, Windows, JSON, JQuery, HTML, XML,CSS, REST, JIRA, Bootstrap, AJAX, AWS, ANT, JavaScript,Beautiful Soup, Agile, GitHub, PyUnit, SQLAlchemy, Ansible, Tableau, SQL Developer, Robot, Jenkins, Chef, Selenium. Senior Python Developer Nielsen - Tampa, FL January 2013 to March 2014 Description:-Nielsen is the largest measurement company in the world with unique measurement technologies, assets, and data that make it one of the most interesting and challenging places for a data scientist to work. Digital Product team provides an opportunity to contribute to methodological innovation in the exciting and fast-changing world of digital media measurement. The Digital Product team within the Data Science Watch organization focuses on improving and enhancing Nielsen's highly successful products out in the marketplace for digital advertising and content measurement.    Responsibilities:  ? Implemented user interface guidelines and standards throughout the development and maintenance of the website using the HTML, CSS, JavaScript and JQuery.  ? Designed and implemented a dedicated MYSQL database server to drive the web apps and report on daily progress.  ? Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  ? Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks. Interfacing with supervisors, artists, systems administrators and production to ensure production deadlines are met.  ? Enhanced existing automated solutions, such as the Inquiry Tool for automated Asset Department reporting and added new features and fixed bugs.  ? Debugged Flash Object, to create Functional Component using Wireshark, Live HTTP Headers and Fiddle2 Debugging Proxy. The PHP page for displaying the data uses AJAX to sort and display the data. The page also outputs data to .csv for viewing in Microsoft Excel.  ? Played a key role in a development wide transition from Subversion to GIT, which resulted in an increase in efficiency for the development community.  ? Development of Python APIs to dump the array structures in the Processor at the failure point for debugging.  ? Developed a fully automated continuous integration system using GIT, Gerrit, Jenkins, MySQL and custom tools developed in Python and Bash.  ? Written functional PHPunit test cases for Data Layer and Search server classes using Django, Curl, XML, JSON, REST base services and MongoDB.  ? Managed, developed and designed a dashboard control panel for customers and Administrators using Django, Oracle DB, PostgreSQL and VMWare API calls.  ? Created Restful web services for Catalog and Pricing with Django MVT, Jersey, MySQL and MongoDB.  ? Generated graphical reports using Python package Numpy and MatPlotLib.  ? Created Data tables utilizing PyQtto display customer and policy information and add, delete, update customer records.  ? Used Robot Framework along with integration with Jenkins for Test Automation.  ? Integrated the existing project onto Google Cloud which in-turn reduced the workload.  ? Used REST and SOAP UI for testing web service for server side changes.  Environment: Python2.7, Django 1.8, MySQL, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Bootstrap, JQuery, AJAX, Wireshark, Fiddler 2, Flash, XML, Oracle DB, PostgreSQL, PyQtto, MongoDB, Robot, Google Cloud, PyCharm, Curl, JSON, REST, SOAP UI, Linux, Gerrit, Jenkins, GIT. Python Developer Xbreach Technologies, Andhra Pradesh, IND January 2012 to November 2012 Description:-Security Auditing, Consulting, Portal Development, Server Administration, Security Training are the main environments for deploying everything.    Responsibilities:  ? Designed the front end of the application using Python, HTML, CSS, AJAX, JSON and JQuery. Worked on backend of the application, mainly using Active Records.  ? Carried out various mathematical operations for calculation purpose using Python libraries.  ? Used Celery with RabbitMQ, MySQL, Django and Flask to create a distributed worker framework.  ? Develop consumer based features and applications using Python, Django, HTML, Web2Py, Behaviour Driven Development (BDD) and pair based programming.  ? Created PHP/MySQL back-end for data entry from Flash I had to assist the Flash developer send the correct data via query strings.  ? Generated Python Django Forms, Crispy forms to record data, login and signup of online users.  ? Worked on front end frame works like CSS Bootstrap for development of Web applications.  ? Used Python and Django to interface with the JQuery UI and manage the storage and deletion of content.  ? Created the environment specific settings for a new deployment and update the deployment specific conditional checks in code base to use specific checks.  ? Worked with AJAX framework to get the asynchronous response for the user request and used JavaScript for the validation.  ? Used Pandas API to put the data as time series and tabular format for east timestamp data manipulation and retrieval.  ? Worked extensively with Bootstrap, JavaScript and JQuery to optimize the user experience.  ? Deployed the project into Google Cloud using GIT version control system.  ? Built various graphs for business decision making using Python Matplotlib library.  ? Used Python library Beautiful Soup for web scrapping to extract data for building graphs.  ? Executing regression tests on each release and verified bugs found from automation test in Bugzilla and done error logging using Sentry by Raven Library.  ? Performed Unit testing, Integration Testing, GUI and web application testing using Rspec.  ? Planning, implementing, and converting manual test cases to automation test cases.  ? Worked on Jenkins continuous integration tool for deployment of project.    Environment: Python 2.7, Django 1.8, RabbitMQ, Flask,Web2Py MySQL, HTML/CSS, AJAX, JSON, JQuery, RSpec, PHP, JavaScript, Pandas, Bootstrap, Google Cloud, Beautiful Soup, Bugzilla, GIT, Jenkins. Java Developer Innovia Software - Mumbai, Maharashtra August 2011 to December 2011 IND    Description:-Innovia Software is a Mumbai based company specializing in design, development and implementation of software systems. Most of the customers are from manufacturing or engineering companies. But they have also worked for some well-known non-manufacturing companies as well. They have their own standard products and also design and develop custom made software systems. They are committed to the delivery of value to our customer.    Responsibilities:  ? Involved in development of Java concepts like Collections, Exception Handling, Multi-Threading.  ? Worked on MVC pattern, using various frameworks.  ? Worked on WebSphere as application deployment servers.  ? Adopted agile methods for development & delivery of the solution and participated in complete life cycle of the project (SDLC).  ? Designed the Database, written triggers and stored procedures.  ? Developed screens based on JQuery to dynamically generate HTML ad display data to the client side.  ? Written Struts services and DAOS in the service layer for SQL data retrieval operations using JDBC.  ? Demonstrated Experience and advocate for test-driven development.  ? Worked on JavaScript frame work to augment browser based applications with MVC capability.  ? Worked on front-end and back-end application development. Have upgraded additional functionalities and services with the use cases provided.  ? Involved in development of various controller classes as a part of MVC framework.  ? Worked in referential data service module to interface with various databases using JDBC.  ? Implemented REST and SOAP based web services and published using JAX-WS.  ? Worked on Database Schemas, HTML and XML services.  ? Worked on Oracle Database to store and retrieve information using SQL Developer.  ? Worked on Eclipse IDE's for build, debugging and deploy it using Apache Tomcat.  ? Developed Build Script using MAVEN.  ? Involved in unit testing and run test cases.    Environment: Java 1.6, 1.7, Java EE 6, JavaScript, JQuery, Struts, Eclipse, TOMCAT, SQL Developer, Oracle Database 11g, JDBC, Template, WebSphere, SOAP UI, Maven, REST, Windows. Education Bachelor's Skills VISUAL STUDIO, AMAZON WEB SERVICES, DJANGO, Git, GOOGLE APP ENGINE, MySQL Additional Information Operating Systems Windows 98/2000/XP/7,8, Mac OS, UNIX and Linux, Debian, Ubuntu  Web Technologies HTML/HTML5, CSS/CSS3, XML, DOM, AJAX, jQuery, JSON and CSS Bootstrap.  Frameworks Django, Flask, Pyramid, PyJamas, Jython, Angular JS, Spring, Hibernate  Python Libraries ReportLab,Numpy,Scipy,Matplotlib,HTTPLib2, Urllib2,Beautiful Soup, Pickle, Pandas, PyIMSL, PyTables.  Cloud Services Amazon Web services, Google app Engine, Salesforce.  IDE'S Sublime Text 2, Vim, Pycharm, PyDev, Netbeans, Eclipse  Database MySQL, SQL Server, NoSQL,Sqlite3, Postgresql,Cassandra, Redis and mongo DB  Web Servers Apache HTTP webserver, WebLogic, WebSphere, JBoss and Apache Tomcat  Analytics Tools JMP PRO, SAS, Tableau, UCI NET, NodeXL  Deployment tools Heroku, Amazon EC2, Jenkins and Fabric  Protocols TCP/IP, HTTP/HTTPS, SOAP, REST  Version Control Systems CVS, SVN, Git and GitHub.  Agile Methodologies TTD, SCRUM  Other Tools Used Spyder,IntelliJIDEA,Brackets,ANTBuild, SQL Developer, Visual Studio, Putty.