Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - BC Forward Indianapolis, IN Sr. Python Developer Work Experience Python Developer BC Forward - Indianapolis, IN February 2019 to Present This project was mainly involved research IT, the main focus was to help scientists in their Research by having a web application for research bioinformatics to help ease the process of conducting research, this included development of UI and Backend logic to help support the research efforts. The UI consisted of forms and dashboards, and the backend consisted of APIs to store and retrieve data from the database, I was mainly involved in the development of the backend part this included development of Restful API and adding new features in the backend to help support the UI.    Roles & Responsibilities:  ? Developed RESTful APIs using Django rest framework to help provide the data for the UI  ? Responsible for writing unit-tests for the Restful-APIs.  ? Utilized Postman tool for testing of the Restful-APIs  ? Used PostgreSQL as a backend database and standard Django ORM in connection with Python Django framework.  ? Worked in an Agile environment and participated in scrum meetings.  ? Added new features to the backend and performed testing on the new features.  ? Responsible for fixing defects in the backend.  ? Used Jenkins for continuous integration and troubleshooting unit tests.  ? Utilized Git and GitHub as version control for existing system.  Environment: Python 2.0 and 3, Django 1.9, Django Rest Framework, Visual Studio, Docker, PostgreSQL, Git and GitHub Python, Software Developer COX Auto, Dealer Track - Lake Success, NY January 2018 to December 2018 I was part of the Digital Contracting team that helps the dealer to engage in paperless contract with the car buyer, this was a pure agile team and my responsibilities in this position was adding new features to the existing application based on the given business requirement and providing maintenance and support for the existing application. There were several modules in the digital contracting application, this included data entry, the document center services module and the unified deal module. The data entry module consisted of forms, field definitions, pdf mapping, and backend logic to store the data, the document center services module allowed fetching of documents and assembling all the documents to create a complete package for the digital contracting and the unified deal module provided the means of storing the contract data in the API using JSON format to add more flexibility to the application. In this position, I was a part of team that focused on data entry module, providing maintenance and support in this area and I worked on the development of the unified deal module that provided a means for storing the data in API in one place, additionally I worked on production issues in the application that required detecting issues in the code across different modules and reporting to the appropriate team.    Roles & Responsibilities:  ? Analyzed business requirements to translate business detail into technical design.  ? Worked in an Agile environment and participated in Scrum meetings to provide size input to the user stories.  ? Performed front-end and backend debugging to fix critical defects.  ? Collaborated with developers to improve process and add new features to the existing application using Python Django framework.  ? Responsible for writing unit tests using python mock library to ensure increased coverage.  ? Worked on Front-End development of the application using HTML, CSS, React JS and ES6 JavaScript.  ? Used Oracle SQL as a backend database and SQL alchemy as ORM in connection with Python Django framework.  ? Used Mongo DB for storing critical data related to the customer including related settings.  ? Participated in production support activities to detect and analyze code issues with application systems and reported to the appropriate team.  ? Used Jenkins for continuous integration and troubleshooting unit tests.  ? Utilized Git and GitHub as version control for existing system.  ? Worked on integration of RESTful API into the existing application.  Environment: Python 2.0 and 3, Django 1.9, PyCharm, Docker, Mongo DB, Oracle SQL, HTML5, CSS3, ES6 JavaScript, React JS, Git and GitHub Python Full Stack Web Developer Jersey Shore University Medical Center - Neptune City, NJ September 2016 to October 2017 The Hospital Management and Information System used in Jersey Shore University Medical Center is a comprehensive solution that automates the clinical, electronic medical records (EMR), administrative and inventory functions thereby improving the operational effectiveness, reducing the cost and improving the quality of patient care. The application is a patient-centric platform, which has the functionality to handle various types of patients: in-patients, outpatients, accidents and emergencies, day care and referred patients. The application includes different components like Laboratory Information System, Admission Discharge Transfer System, Material Management System, Doctor Workbench, Nurse Workbench and Clinical Data Repository. I was mainly involved in redesigning the Admission Discharge Transfer (ADT) system. The patient admission details, their purpose of visit, the patient transfer to other facilities and their discharge details are managed in ADT system.    Roles & Responsibilities:  ? Involved in Full Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) including Analysis, Design and Review of Software Requirement Specifications.  ? Analyzed and gathered requirements to translate business detail into technical design.  ? Responsible for Design and Development of the Backend of the application using Python Django framework.  ? Used PostgreSQL connection with Django to design the database models  ? Built all database mapping classes using Django models and used Django configuration to manage URLs and application parameters.  ? Implemented MVT architecture using Python Django framework.  ? Worked on Front-End development of the application using HTML, CSS3, Bootstrap, Angular JS, and JavaScript.  ? Developed custom directives in AngularJS  ? Used AJAX for asynchronous calls to update portions of applications without the need of reloading the entire page.  ? Utilized SVN, Git and GitHub as version control for existing system.  ? Designed and Developed RESTful APIs using Django REST Framework  ? Utilized Python Request Library for parsing of JSON data used in the project during API calls  ? Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  Environment: Python3, Django 1.9, PostgreSQL, JSON, HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, AJAX, JavaScript, Angular JS, Bootstrap, Git and GitHub Python Developer Essilor of America Inc - Dallas, TX March 2015 to September 2016 I was mainly involved in creating a RESTful web service and its UI to view the number lens orders processed for each laboratory and generating reports to gather information on total production and sales at these laboratories, in addition, I was responsible for maintaining web application to support the installation of digital surfacing process at manufacturing labs, this included creating catalog of lenses with description and the ordering of lenses.    Roles & Responsibilities:  ? Participated in the complete SDLC process and used python to develop website functionality.  ? Analyzed and documented all requirements to understand the process flow.  ? Developed Application logic using python Flask Framework.  ? Used SQLite as a database connection and wrote SQLAlchemy Queryset to retrieve the data.  ? Worked on development of RESTful web service to display the data using Flask JSONIFY module.  ? Used AWS EC2 for deployment, worked on setting up configuration.  ? Developed a front end using HTML, CSS, Bootstrap and AngularJS.  ? Created a responsive web application integrating Twitter Bootstrap with AngularJS, and media  Queries.  ? Utilized Git and GitHub as a version controlling system.  ? Generated reports on projected sales and number of products processed in Excel format using Python Pandas Library and xls writer library.  ? Worked on Debugging and testing of the application throughout the process.  ? Used Linux for development.  Environment: Python3, Flask, JSON, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, AngularJS, Bootstrap, Git and GitHub, Linux Python Full Stack Web Developer National Oilwell Varco - Houston, TX March 2014 to March 2015 This project involved resolving data migration issues between these systems and making sure the data is consistent in these systems. I was involved in creating a dashboard providing information on parts that have been created, parts that are awaiting review and parts that have been released at each facility. Also involved in providing reporting on the type of data migration issues with engineering parts at each facility.    Roles & Responsibilities:  ? Gathered and documented requirements to understand the process and participated in the design and development phases of SDLC lifecycle.  ? Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, CSS, AngularJS and Bootstrap.  ? Followed MVC Structure to develop Application.  ? Used Git as a version control software.  ? Used python xlutils package to read and parse required data from Excel files.  ? Used Python and Django framework to develop business logic of the application.  ? Designed and developed data management system using MongoDB.  ? Integrated MongoDB with python Django framework using the PyMongo library  ? Used Python Matplotlib to generate plots on parts data.  ? Created RESTful Webservice in JSON format to view specific part information.  ? Performed debugging and troubleshooting of the application.  Environment: Python 3.0, Django 1.9, xlutils, Matplotlib, PyMongo, HTML5, CSS3, AngularJS, Bootstrap, JSON, Git and GitHub, MongoDB Python Developer American Stock Transfer & Trust Company - Brooklyn, NY September 2012 to March 2014 Roles & Responsibilities:  ? Participated in all the stages of software development lifecycle like design, development, and implementation and testing.  ? Worked on Application development using Agile Scrum process.  ? Used Python Django Framework to develop the backend of the application.  ? Used MySQL as a database connection with Django Application.  ? Developed the UI of the web application using HTML, AJAX, CSS, JQuery and AngularJS, Bootstrap.  ? Used MVC pattern of the Angular JS to display the information in an interactive way.  ? Wrote SQL Queries to enable CRUD operations in Basket Manager Tool.  ? Used SVN and GIT and GitHub as a version controlling software.  ? Utilized Python Pandas, NumPy, SciPy and xlsWriter module to support analytics and reporting.  ? Used Matplotlib to generate Bar Plots, Pie Charts, and histograms.  ? Designed and developed REST and SOAP web service using JSON.  Environment: Python 2.7/3.0, Django 1.9, MySQL, Numpy, Scipy, Pandas, Matplotlib, xlsWriter, HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, AJAX, JSON, JQuery, AngularJS Education Master's Degree in Engineering Systems in Engineering Systems University of North Texas - Denton, TX 2011 Bachelor's Degree in Electrical Power Engineering Technology in Electrical Power Engineering Technology University of Houston - Houston, TX 2008 Skills AMAZON WEB SERVICES, DJANGO, DOCKER, Git, JAVASCRIPT