PYTHON DEVELOPER <span class="hl">PYTHON</span> <span class="hl">DEVELOPER</span> PYTHON DEVELOPER - AMAZON • Having 5+ years of IT Experience in designing, developing, testing and implementing various stand-alone and client-server architecture-based enterprise application software on different domains.  • Good experience in developing web applications implementing MVT/MVC architecture using Django, Flask web application frameworks.  • Good Experience in Infrastructure Development and Operations involving Google App Engine and AWS Cloud platforms.  • Hands on experience on Django Rest Framework, Python, Google Firebase, Rest Web-Services, AWS.  • Good experience of software development in Python (libraries used: Beautiful Soup, NumPy, SciPy, matplotlib, Pandas data frame, network, urllib2, MySQL dB for database connectivity) and IDEs - sublime text, Spyder, PyCharm.  • Experienced with machine learning algorithm such as logistic regression, KNN, SVM, random forest, neural network, linear regression, lasso regression and k-means.  • Expertise in using CI tools Hudson, Build Forge, and Jenkins for automated builds  • Strong command in JavaScript leading Frameworks Team like Angular.js, React.js, bootstrap.js, Node.js and Projects UI Designing Team.  • Expertise in reporting tools like Grafana, Kibana (ELK) for setting up charts and graphs for better visual representation of test results.  • Expertise in working with GUI frameworks-Pyjamas, Jytho, guidata, PyGUI, PyQt.  • Experience with working on Linux server & Used PyGtk, python libraries.  • Experience in Object Oriented Design and Programming concepts in Python and Java.  • Having experience in Agile Methodologies, Scrum stories and sprints experience in a Python based environment, along with data analytics, data wrangling and Excel data extracts.  • Working Experience on various Python packages such as NumPy, SQLAlchemy, Beautiful soup, pickle, Pyside, Pymongo, SciPy, PyTables.  • Having good knowledge in using NoSQL databases like Apache Cassandra (1.2, 2.0 and 2.1), Kubernetes and Mongo DB (2.6, 2.4), Orient DBF net.  • Experience on development of the UI of the website using HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Experience in devops with Puppet, Ansible, Kubernetes, Chef, AWS (OPS Work) and OpenStack.  • Experience in maintaining all the tools like Bamboo, Bit Bucket, Confluence, JIRA, and GIT.  • Experience in Linux container technology including LXC, Docker and Rocket. Have setup custom lxc.    • Experience in using Git, GitHub, and Amazon EC2 and deployment using Heroku.    • Technical exposure in diverse technologies like Python, Django, Tornado, PostgreSQL, Linux, Java, MySQL and AWS. Experience in Linux Bash scripting and following PEP-8 Guidelines in Python.  • Experience in writing scripts using Gherkin Syntax in Behave framework in Python.  • Experienced in implementing data analytics solutions in AWS (EC2, EMR. S3, Cloudwatch, Lambda, Cloudtrail, SNS, SES, EBS, CLI, VPC, ELB, IAM, Redshift, RDS, Root53), Google Cloud, Microsoft Azure.  • Deployment experience with Docker and Kubernetes.  • Extensive hands on experience on using Kubernetes pod for integration testing.  • Expertise in setting up, configure, manage and scale Amazon Elastic Search cluster and used Log Stash along with Kibana (ELK Stack) for centralized logging which stores logs and metrics into an S3 bucket using Lambda functions, utilized Glacier for storage for setting up and maintenance of Auto-Scaling of AWS stacks.  • Expertise in Unit testing, Integration Testing and generating of test cases for web applications using Junit and Python Unit test framework Hudson/Jenkins in the builds triggered by each push to GIT.  • Expertise in Testing of Python applications using different Automation Testing tools such as Selenium/Selenium WebDriver/Selenium IDE/Selenium RC/Selenium Grid, PyTest, Robot, NoseTest, Cucumber, Karma, Jasmine, Junit, Qunit, JMeter, SoapUI, Sancho, SubUnit, Testify, Grail etc.  • Experienced in RSpec, Git, Object-oriented programming, MySQL, JavaScript, jQuery and, Amazon Web Services, Knockout.  • Experience with the data architecture including data ingestion pipeline design, Hadoop information architecture, data modeling, data mining, machine learning and advanced data processing frameworks. Also in optimizing ETL workflows.  • Experience in Automation scripts by using Selenium and Win Runner also used Test Director/HP ALM to manage the entire Automation testing process.  • Experienced with full software development life cycle (SDLC), architecting scalable platforms, object-oriented programming, database design and agile methodologies.  • Working experience with Unit testing/ Test driven Development (TDD), Load Testing and worked on Celery Task queue and service broker using RabbitMQ.  • Researched various Network, Storage, Compute technologies, and IaaS provisioning software to include: CloudStack, OpenStack, OnAPP, NetIQ, and BMC.  • Expertise in Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) and its related technologies like Web Services, BPEL, WSDLs, SOAP, XML, XSD, XSLT etc.  • Experience in using Version Control Systems like GIT, SVN, Tortoise and CVS to keep the versions and configurations of the code organized. Work Experience PYTHON DEVELOPER AMAZON - San Francisco, CA July 2018 to Present • Utilized PyQt to provide GUI for the user to create, modify and view reports based on client data.  • Used several Python libraries like wxPython, NumPy and matPlotLib.  • Developed and tested many features for a dashboard using Angular.JS, and jQuery.  • Involved in analysis, specification, design, and implementation and testing phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) and used agile methodology for developing the application.  • Developed and tested many features for a dashboard using Python, Java, Bootstrap, CSS, JavaScript, and jQuery.  • Utilized PyUnit, the Python unit test framework, for all Python applications.  • Used Git Version Control, JIRA for bug tracking, Trello for Dash boards and Confluence for project management.  • Worked with python editors like PyCharm, PyScripter, PyStudio, PyDev, Wing IDE and Spyder.  • Worked on utilizing SAS Procedures, Macros, and other SAS application for data extraction, data cleansing, data loading and reporting.  • Integrated lambda functions with various triggers and resources of AWS as per requirements.  • Implemented Microservices (APIs)  • Deployed microservices in Docker Swarm cluster using Docker Compose.  • Designed and developed an entire module called CDC (change data capture) in python and deployed in AWS GLUE using Pyspark library and python.  • Wrote and executed several complex SQL queries in AWS glue for ETL operations in Spark data frame using sparksql.  • Good understanding of cloud based DAG and Apache Air Flow.  • Exploring DAG's, their dependencies and logs using Air Flow pipelines for automation  • Used MQTT Pub/sub Model for the communication between different protocol components.  • Worked on establishing communications with data feeds and other applications using ActiveMQ with JMS.  • Involved in converting Hive/SQL queries into Spark transformations using Spark RDDs, Python and Scala.  • Utilized Spark, Scala, Hadoop, HQL, VQL, oozie, PySpark, Data Lake, Tensor Flow, HBase, Cassandra, Redshift, MongoDB, Kafka, Kinesis, Spark Streaming, Edward, CUDA, MLLib, AWS, Python, a broad variety of machine learning methods including classifications, regressions, dimensionally reduction etc.  • Implemented deep learning models and numerical Computation with the help of data flowgraphs using Tensor Flow Machine Learning.  • Worked on Atlassian tools like Bamboo, Jira, and confluence.  • Implemented secured way of Centralized login for AWS users using 389 Directory Services (LDAP) and OpenVPN.  • Involved in designing and deploying multitude applications utilizing almost all of the AWS stack (Including EC2, Route53, S3, RDS, Dynamo DB, SNS, SQS, IAM) focusing on high-availability, fault tolerance, and auto-scaling in AWS Cloud Formation.  • Used OAUTH and SSO for authentication and Login services.  • Developed Kafka producer and consumers, HBase clients, Spark, shark, Streams and Hadoop MapReduce jobs along with components on HDFS, Hive.  • Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML, BIG DATA to automate some of the menial tasks.  • Deployed the project into Heroku using GIT version control system.  • Used Amazon Cloud EC2 along with Amazon SQS to upload and retrieve project history and experienced in project deployment using Heroku/Jenkins and using web services like Amazon Web Services (AWS) EC2, AWS S3, Auto scaling, CloudWatch and SNS  • Leveraging queueing architectures with Rabbit MQ for scalability, performance and building.  • Worked on Application servers like Weblogic and Apache Tomcat.  • Worked with Python Libraries/Packages such as Py Query, Pickle, PyQT, Py mmock, PySide, wxPython, PyTables, Data Frames, SQLAlchemy, Twisted, Pygame, pyGtk, Pandas and Pyglet, PyQT, PyGtkpywin32, ntlk, nose, SymPy, Ipython.  • Using Air Flow to keep track of job statuses in repositories like MySQL and Postgre databases.  • Created new connections through applications for better access to MySQL database and involved in writing SQL & PLSQL - Stored procedures, functions, sequences, triggers, cursors, object types etc. Worked with AWS CLI. Automated the cloud deployments using Chef, Python (boto 3 & fabric) and AWS CloudFormation Templates.  • Used Jenkins and pipelines to drive all micro services builds out to the Docker registry and then deployed to Kubernetes, Created Pods and managed using Kubernetes.  • Worked on Hadoop technologies like Apache Spark, Scala, and SparkSQL.  • Wrote Python scripts to manage the AWS resource from API calls using BOTO SDK.  • Used Chef, deployed and configured Elasticsearch, Logstash and Kibana (ELK) for log analytics, full text search, application monitoring in integration with AWS Lambda and CloudWatch.  • Used Python scripts for security purposes, AWS IAM, AWS lambda functions and deploying the applications through elastic beanstalk.  • Created new connections through applications for better access to MySQL database and involved in writing SQL & PLSQL - Stored procedures, functions, sequences, triggers, cursors, object types etc.  • Created deep learning models using Tensor flow and keras by combining all tests as a single normalized score and predict residency attainment of students.  • Using the Numpy, Anaconda and keras module.  • Implemented NLP classifier using Keras CNN for faster case resolution of user complaints.  • Worked on virtual and physical Linux/UNIX hosts and involved in day to day administrative activities such as maintaining user accounts and providing advanced file permissions to specific users. Build a Research web with Research web design.  • Worked as different data formats such as JSON, XML and performed machine learning algorithms in Python. Data Architects and IT Architects to understand the movement of data and its storage and ER Studio 9.7 Used pandas, numpy, seaborn, matplotlib, scikit-learn, Scipy, NLTK in Python for developing various machine learning algorithms.  • Determined optimal business logic implementations, applying best design patterns.  • Used Python 3.X (numpy, spicy, pandas, scikit-learn, seaborn) and Spark 2.0 (PySpark, MLlib) to develop variety of models and algorithms for analytic purposes.  • Created Business Logic using Python to create Planning and Tracking functions and developed multi-threaded standalone applications using Python and PHP.  • Worked on HTML, CSS, AJAX, JSON Django and Test-Driven Development (TDD) designed and developed the user interface of the website.  • Implement data transformation using XPATH, XSLT, Data Weave, Custom java classes.  • Developed web-based applications using Django, Tornado, XML, CSS, HTML, JavaScript, AngularJS, jQuery and Bootstrap.  • Developed web services on cloud services such as Open Stack and AWS for project development.  • Implemented responsive web pages using HTML5/CSS3, Bootstrap & XML/JSON REST web services. Worked on several Palettes such as SOAP, REST, HTTP, FTP, JDBC, File, JMS etc.  • Good knowledge in working with application server - Apache Server, Tomcat (6.0, 7.0, 8.0), Nginx, WebLogic (10.0, 10.3, 11g), WebSphere (7.0, 8.5)  • Worked with version control systems like Git, GitHub, CVS, Tortoise and SVN to keep the versions and configurations of the code organized.  • Configured NoSQL databases like Apache Cassandra and Mongo DB to for increasing compatibility with Django and Bottle.  • Involved in MVW frameworks like Django, Tornado, Angular.js, JavaScript and Node.js.  • Installed and configured by Builder for application builds and deploying it and Developed, Deployed SOAP-based Web Services on Tomcat Server.  • Informed through mail the compilation errors to the responsible team with error logs using JIRA. PYTHON DEVELOPER COSTCO - Hackensack, NJ November 2017 to May 2018 • Involved in designing mobile search application system requirements and coded back-end and front-end in Python.  • Maintained the Selenium and Python code and resources in source control like CVS, SVN over the time for improvements and new features.  • Created test automation framework from scratch using Cucumber with Page Object Model (POM) using python language.  • Developed Docker images to support Development and Testing Teams and their pipelines and distributed images like Jenkins, Selenium, JMeter and Elasticsearch, Kibana and Logstash (ELK) and handled the containerized deployment using Kubernetes.  • Responsible for designing and deploying new ELK clusters (Elasticsearch, Logstash, Graphite Kibana, beats, Kafka, zookeeper etc.  • Implemented discretization and binning, data wrangling: cleaning, transforming, merging and reshaping data frames.  • Integrated Development Environments like IDLE, PyCharm, Atom, Eclipse, PyDev and Sublime Text.  • Developed dynamic web pages using HTML5, CSS3, React JS, Bootstrap, NodeJS and AJAX.  • Automated the existing scripts for performance calculations using NumPy.  • Wrote statistical programs for data analysis using SAS.  • Worked in Test driven development with Behave in Python and created Behave scripts using Gherkin syntax.  • Worked on Django Signals, Celery and RabbitMQ queues.  • Involved in front end and utilized Bootstrap and Angular.js for page design. Created Data tables utilizing PyQt to display customer and policy information and add, delete, update customer records.  • Developed Mercurial, ClearCase, WordPress themes to meet the needs of the small business owner.  • Proficient in specialization areas related to Chef for Cloud Automation. Automated the cloud deployments using chef, Python (boot & fabric) and AWS Cloud Formation Templates.  • Log monitoring and generating visual representations of logs using ELK stack. Implement CI/CD tools Upgrade, Backup, Restore, DNS, LDAP and SSL setup.  • Increased speed and memory efficiency by implementing code migration to convert python code to C/C++ using Cython.  • Architected and developed a Golang API using TDD to aggregate data to show application server alignment.  • Worked in Vigoursoft Global Solutions (P) Ltd. for 1.5+ years as Software Engineer focusing on and Python (Microservices)  • Involved in the Complete Software development life cycle (SDLC) to develop the application and Worked closely with software developers and DevOps to debug software and system problems.  • Experienced in developing API services in Python/Tornado, NodeJS while leveraging AMQP and RabbitMQ for distributed architectures.  • Worked on developing CRUD applications using MERN stack (MongoDB, ExpressJS, ReactJS and NodeJS) and REST based API.  • Generated consumer group lags from Kafka using their API Kafka- Used for building real-time data pipelines between clusters.  • Developed Python based API (RESTful Web Service) to track sales and perform sales analysis using Flask, SQLAlchemy and PostgreSQL.  • Developed a fully automated continuous integration system using Git, Gerrit, Jenkins, MySQL and custom tools developed in Python and Bash.  • Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML, BIG DATA to automate some of the menial tasks. Associated with working cloud computing platforms like Open Stack.  • Developed custom screens using HTML5, JavaScript, jQuery, Bootstrap, Jinja and Angular.js.  • Involved in debugging the applications monitored on JIRA using agile methodology.  • Created Jenkins pipeline jobs for Puppet release process for module deployment, using Kanban methodology for Puppet development.  • Created Terraform scripts for EC2 instances, Elastic Load balancers and S3 buckets. Implemented Terraform to manage the AWS infrastructure and managed servers using configuration management tools like Chef and Ansible.  • Worked on NoSQL technologies like MongoDB, Redis and Cassandra and relational databases like SQLite, PostgreSQL, Dynamo DB, MariaDB and MySQL databases.  • Implemented AWS solutions using DynamoDB, EBS, Elastic Load Balancer, Auto scaling groups.  • Created a Git repository and added the project to GitHub and version control on GitHub.  • Created batch jobs using Unix shell scripts and Perl scripts to process database activities.  • Recording of Scripts Web Services HTML using Vugen and SoapUI and script validation through co correlations, parameterizations and other methods. JR. PYTHON DEVELOPER FLIPKART - Bengaluru, Karnataka July 2012 to February 2015 • Developed Python based API (RESTful Web Service) to track sales and perform sales analysis using Flask, SQLAlchemy and PostgreSQL.  • Developed a fully automated continuous integration system using Git, Gerrit, Jenkins, MySQL and custom tools developed in Python and Bash.  • Used Splunk for centralized logging and debugging, experienced in Installing, Configuring and Monitoring using NAGIOS.  • Proven ability in developing selenium automation framework like Page Objects & Hybrid Frameworks.  • Design, implementation and testing of microservices (APIs) in the project.  • Worked with advanced MVC framework such as Spring MVC to implement backend functionality using microservices architecture.  • Played a key role in a department wide transition from Subversion to Git, which resulted in an increase in efficiency for the development community.  • Utilized Active Record eager loading to improve rendering time of index pages, incorporated up/down voting, reviewing, and several custom sorting methods for shows to provide smooth user experience.  • Developed Chef Cookbooks to install and configure Apache Tomcat, Jenkins and deployment automation.  • Used ReactJS to build the UI components, developed filters to display different dimension of data and font size modifiers.  • Developed Navigation bar, menu bar, drop down list with React widgets and bootstrap.  • Deployed application in Apache tomcat server for UAT and dev environments.  • Cross-referenced Seat Geek and Spotify APIs to get album artwork and track previews for each artist.  • Integrated Jenkins with various Devops tools such as Nexus, Sonar Qube.  • Evaluated and tuned data model by running endurance tests using JMeter, Cassandra Stress Tool and OpsCenter.  • Written Programs in Spark using Scala and Python for Data quality check.  • Designed and developed application front-end GUI using JSP, HTML, JavaScript, CSS, Ajax and designed controller and business logic using Spring MVC module.  • Designed and maintained databases using Python and developed Python based API (RESTful Web Service) using Flask, SQL Alchemy and PostgreSQL.  • Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks. Interfacing with supervisors, artists, systems administrators and production to ensure production deadlines are met.  • Developed web-based applications using Python 2.7/2.6, PHP, Flask, Webapp2, Angular.js, VB, C++, XML, CSS, HTML, DHTML, JavaScript and jQuery.  • Wrote python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database and Used Suds ( Python library for SOAP) to parse the WSDL files (XML content) into python data types.  • Worked on Selenium Library to write fully functioning test automation process that allowed the simulation of submitting different we request from multiple browser to web application.  • Involved in Test Planning, Test Preparation, Test Execution, Issue resolution and Report Generation to assure that all aspects of a project follow the business requirements.  • Associated with the development of Web Services using SOAP for extracting data from the external interface in the XML format. Education Master's Skills AJAX (4 years), APACHE CASSANDRA (4 years), ASTERADATA (4 years), BOOTSTRAP (4 years), CASSANDRA (4 years) Additional Information SKILLS    Operating systems Windows, Linux, MAC, UNIX    Languages Java, C, C++, Python 3.x/2.x, Ruby on Rails    Scripting languages CSS, AJAX, Java Script, JQuery, PHP, Shell Scripting    Analytics Tools SAS, Tableau, Databricks    Markup languages HTML, XML, JSON, Bootstrap    Servers Apache Tomcat    Databases Oracle, My SQL, Postgress, Apache Cassandra, MongoDB.    Virtualization xen, vmware, virtualbox, openstack, vagrand, docker, lxc, lxd,    IDEs/ Tools Eclipse, Toad, Sublime text, PyCharm, Pgadmin, SQLite    Revision Controlling Systems CVS, GitHub    Methodologies & tools Object Oriented Programming, UML, Agile Scrum, Waterfall    MS office tools Microsoft Excel (Super user), Microsoft word, Microsoft PowerPoint,    PPTPlex    Microservices Docker, Ansible, Jenkins    Cloud Services AWS, Azure, Kubernetes    Testing Frameworks PyUnit, Splunk, Selenium    Message Queue ActiveMQ, RabbitMQ