Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - Fort Legend tower US Solutions Engineer with a four (5.0) year track record of commended performance in  modular and object-oriented programming, with a strong algorithms and data  structures. Successfully developed and deployed customized solutions that improves  business processes, operations and profitability. Work Experience Python Developer Fort Legend tower - Manila April 2018 to Present Development for fixes and new features for legacy system on 6.1 version. Design and    Implement feature upgrades of legacy from 6.1 to version 12.0. Results:  ? Developed new features for 6.1 to support:  ? Last Minute Risk Analysis  ? Data Migrations  ? Sub-contracts and Technician skills  ? Unique Product Attributes  ? Resolve issues that improves business processes    ? Design and Implement features for 12.0:  ? Capacity Planning and Dispatching  ? Task Management  ? Warehouse Management  ? Configurable Data Processing  ? Survey Management  ? Server Synchronization  ? Data Migration    ? Design and Implement features for 11.0:  ? Contractual Amendments  ? Automatic Contract Report Notifications via Mail with Mailgun Tracking Solution Engineer / Technical Consultant / Functional Consultant Achieve Without Borders, Inc - Manila January 2016 to February 2018 2029 Gen Mascardo St., Makati City, Metro Manila, Philippines    Solution Engineer / Technical Consultant / Functional Consultant  January 1, 2016 to February 2018  Create and customize solutions for clients based on their requirements using Odoo  Platform. Manage design, testing and documentations. Results:  ? Served as Functional Consultant & Technical Consultant for an Internal Project  involving customizations of Payroll and HRIS for Achieve Without Borders, Inc.  ? Developed and Deployed customizations for nine (9) clients particularly with  HRIS, Payroll, Loan and Fleet Modules.  ? Enhanced existing app (Biometric Attendance Processor) and make it  compatible with two (2) more brands of biometric devices. Added new  features make it able to run along multiple devices. Junior Developer Ernst & Young May 2015 to November 2015 Configure meters using Oracle Utilities and Meter Data Management. Intern / Junior Dev 2014 to 2015 Created and implemented initial design for payroll module that eventually became one of the company's core product. Education Bachelor of Science in Information System De La Salle University 2010 to 2015 Divine Child School of Sta. Rosa 2004 to 2007 Our Lady of Assumption School 2003 to 2004 Skills SOLUTIONS (5 years), TESTING (5 years), PYTHON (5 years), Postgres (5 years), APACHE (5 years) Additional Information SKILLS    ? Software Development  ? Solutions Deployment  ? User Training & Support  ? Requirement Definition  ? Debugging & Troubleshooting  ? Testing & Documentation  TECHNOLOGY SUMMARY    Technical Skills: Python 2.7 - 3, C#, XML, Postgres, XMLRpc, Java  Software: MS Office Suite (Access, Word, Excel, PowerPoint, Project), G Suites  (Calendar, Docs, etc)  OS: Linux, Windows  Platform: Odoo versions 6.1 to 12.0, Google Cloud Engine, Nginx, Apache, Git, Visual  Studio,