Software Developer Software <span class="hl">Developer</span> Software Developer - www.thbs.com ? Having 5 years 6 months of IT experience in web based applications.  ? Expertise in Python, Django, MySQL, PostgreSQL, JavaScript, JQuery, Ajax, AngularJS.  ? Having knowledge on Object Oriented Programming SOLID Principles, Design Patterns.  ? Strong exposure to complete project development life cycle developing expertise including designing  / modeling.  ? Ability to work independently with minimum supervision in a team environment.  ? Ability to grasp concepts quickly and to use them for the development of newer system. Work Experience Software Developer www.thbs.com July 2019 to Present Back End Developer Population Health Management Solution July 2018 to Present Team Size 14  Technologies: Python3.7, Django 2.0.6, Jquery, React, Node, Linux(OS)  Client: HomeJini  Description: DigitMarket is a platform that lets you optimize, monetize and accelerate your digital transformation initiative. It allows businesses to  become platform enablers, grow profitable partnerships and build new  channels to market by allowing access to all your APIs in one place.  This integrated API store and developer portal helps you monetize your  APIs. My responsibility involves developing analytical module to the platform.    DECLARATION  I hereby confirm that the information given above is true to the best of my knowledge.    Place: Bangalore Yours Truly, Back End Developer Population Health Management Solution December 2016 to Present Team Size 8  Technologies: Python, Zope, AngularJs, CentOS(OS)  Client: BCBSAL, LUMERIS  Description: Worked on development, enhancement and bug fixing for 3 major  modules of a product in healthcare domain. Also worked on AngularJS  migration project. My responsibilities here were gathering  requirements from SMEs, planning the development effort estimation and delivering the features on time.    Project # 4 Software Developer www.zeomega.com November 2016 to June 2018 Torry Harris Business Solution Back End Developer RubanBridge April 2015 to November 2016 DashBoard for Super User and API to Communicate with multiple  devices]  Team Size 3  Technologies: Django 1.7.9, Django Rest Framework 3.3.2, PostgreSQL9.3 JavaScript  1.8.5, Jquery 1.x+, AJAX,  XHTML 1.0 Transitional, CSS Level 3, Apache 2.2(web server), Linux(OS)  Client: Head Held High Services  Description: Head Held High Services is a social enterprise that unleashes the power of rural youth through Skills, Entrepreneurship and Technology to drive their  socio-economic prosperity. Here the system capture customer data (user data) through an android application. So, my responsibility is to capture customers  data through REST API as JSON data and also provide web interface to view the synchronized data. The user activation process is completed on sending  SMS to HHH. The other part of the project will allow the registered user to order the services provided by the HHH, here we also track each request made by the user.    Project # 3 www.mahiti.org 2016 to 2016 ZeOmega CNV(Climate Samuha Organization January 2014 to April 2015 Title: CNV(Climate Neutral Village) -  climateneutralvillage.akasmika.net  Duration January 2014 - April 2015  Role Back End Developer[Worked on data representation on Map]  Team Size 2  Technologies: Django 1.5.1, SQLite 3.7.9, JavaScript 1.8.5, Jquery 1.x+, AJAX, Leafletjs  XHTML 1.0 Transitional, CSS Level 3, Apache 2.2(web server), Linux(OS)  Client: Samuha Organization  Description: CNV is a structured process to raise financial resources for climate-vulnerable  communities. It uses CSR funding to neutralize a community's carbon footprint  become Carbon-Negative, adapt and cope with the effect of climate change.  This is a geographical platform for integrated development. The application will  store all villages data with their NGO's and Donor's and system will generate  aggregate report for any level(India to Village).  Project # 2 Python Programmer Mahiti Infotech Pvt Ltd 2014 to January 2014 Education MCA Swamiji Institute of Technology 2013 Commerce Bangalore Affiliated Technological University 2009 Bangalore University Additional Information TECHNICAL PROFICIENCY    ? Operating System: Ubuntu 14.04/16.04, CentOS 6  ? Back end: Python 2.7/3.7, Django 1.5/1.7/1.9/1.11/2.0  ? Data Base: MySQL 5.6, PostgreSQL 9.2  ? Web Services: REST(JSON), SOAP(WSDL-XML)  ? Testing: Unit Test, Functional Test  ? API Integration: Google MAP, LeafletJS, Oauth2(Login - Facebook/Gmail/Twitter)  ? Tools Utilities: GIT, Sublime, PyCharm  ? Front End: HTML 5, CSS 3, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX, AngularJS  ? Coding Standard: PEP 8/pycodestyle  ? Python Concepts: Data Types(List/Tuple/Dict/Int/Float/Set/String/Boolean/None), Functions,  Classes, Inheritance, Multiple Inheritance, Method Resolution Order(MRO),  Decorators, List/Dict Comprehension, File Handling(CSV/XLS),  Exception Handling, Debugging(pdb/ipdb), Lambda Functions, Threading  Constructor, Destructor, Generators, Iterators.  ? Django Concepts: Request/Response Processing, Class Based Generic Views, Signals,  Model Managers, Template Tags, Custom Filters, Middlewares,  Migrations, Form(Static/Dynamic), Database Routing, Management Commands,  Session, Cookies, Django Rest FrameWork, django-haystack, Celery.  ? Big Data Tools: kafka2.2.0, Zookeeper 3.4.12, ElasticSearch 5.5.2, druid 0.13.0  ? Would Like to Learn: Data Analytics (Jupyter Notebook / NumPy/ Pandas)  CAREER GRAPH    Employer Period Designation