Sr. Python Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Python Developer San Jose, CA • 6+ years of experience in Web/Application Development in analytical programming using Python and Java with skills in analysis, design, development, testing and deploying software applications.  • Experienced in developing web based application using Python, Django, FLASK, java, JavaScript, J2EE, spring,  • Good experience using various Python libraries to speed up development (libraries used: Beautiful Soup, NumPy, SciPy, Matplotlib, python-twitter, Pandas data frame, network, urllib2, MySQL dB for database connectivity, JSON libraries)  • Expertise in working with different databases like Microsoft SQL Server, Oracle, MySQL, PostgreSQL and Good knowledge in using NoSQL databases NoSQL databases MongoDB, Cassandra, Oracle.  • Proficient in developing complex SQL queries, Stored Procedures, Functions, Packages along with performing DDL and DML operations on the database.  • Excellent working knowledge in UNIX and Linux shell environments using command line utilities.  • Worked on AJAX framework to transform Datasets and Data tables into HTTP-serializable JSON strings.  • Well versed with design and development of presentation layer for web applications using technologies like HTML, CSS, and JavaScript, Bootstrap.  • Experience in developing applications using AWS like EC2, Cloud Search, Elastic Load balancer ELB, S3, Cloud Front.  • Very strong experience writing API's/ and Web Services in PHP and in Python.  • Good Experience in error and exceptional handling.  • Good Experience in debugging the issues using debuggers like gdb, pdb.  • Experienced in developing web-based applications using Python, Django, QT, C++, XML, CSS, JSON, HTML, DHTML, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Experience in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on MySQL and PostgreSQL database.  • Good working experience in processing large datasets with Spark using Scala and Pyspark and Familiar with JSON based REST Web services.  • Experience in working with Spring, Hibernate, Web, Xml, Shell Scripting, JSON, angular JS and jquery.  • Versatile with Version control systems including GIT, SVC, and CVS.  • Experience in using Adobe Flash, SVN, Eclipse, JIRA, Github and CVS.  • Experience in Python OpenSatck API'S  • Worked with Jenkins and CircleCI.  • Experience in using Spring Libraries like Log4j, ANT, Maven, and Apache to increase productivity and software quality.  • Experience in development of a fully automated continuous integration system using Git, Gerrit, Jenkins, MySQL and custom tools developed in Python and Bash.  • Good experience with Unix, Linux scripting/unit testing/Load testing, Performance stress/endurance testing and Integration Testing; tools and frameworks- Junit, PyUnit, HP VUGEN LoadRunner, Selenium Web driver, Controller, Dynatrace, Performance Center, QC, JIRA. Work Experience Sr. Python Developer PayPal - San Jose, CA January 2017 to January 2019 Responsibilities:  • Worked with team of developers on Python applications for RISK management.  • Using Amazon SQS to queue up work to run asynchronously on distributed Amazon EC2 nodes.  • Used Python and Django to interface with the JQuery UI and manage the storage and deletion of content.  • Used Django APIs for database access.  • Assisted with the addition of Hadoop processing to the IT infrastructure.  • Responsible for all client side UI Validation and implementing Business logic based on user selection Angular.JS 2.  • Involved in developing the Angular.JS Meteor framework for the Single Page Application development.  • Managed large-scale, geographically-distributed database systems, including relational (Oracle, MySQL) and NoSQL (MongoDB) systems.  • Wrote Python modules to view and connect the Apache Cassandra instance.  • Responsible for Debugging and Troubleshooting issues.  • Involved in debugging the applications monitored on JIRA using agile methodology.  • Designed RESTful XML web service for handling AJAX requests.  • Worked in deploying the code into Amazon Web Server using BOTO API.  • Good coding experience with scripting languages like Perl, Ruby and Bash.  • Built a comprehensive PERL script, which would call the required ANT scripts and notify the build distribution team in case of Build errors or Completion of the builds.  • Coded test programs and evaluated existing engineering processes.  • Responsible for running and maintaining business processes on daily / weekly / monthly basis.  • Used Linux/Unix, Shell scripts, SQL Server, Sybase 12.5, CA/Autosys batch, ITIL, ITSM, Change and Release Management.  ENVIRONMENT: Python 3.x, Django 1.7, Angular.JS 2, Java Script, LESS, HTML, JSON, AJAX, XML, CSS, SQL, MySQL, NoSql, MongoDB, PySpark, Hadoop Bootstrap, Restful Web Services, AWS, Jenkins, GitHub, Linux, PyCharm, PHP, HTML5, CSS3, MYSQL, LAMP, PUPPET, Cassandra, and Oracle.    Client: Python Developer Wells Fargo - San Francisco, CA November 2014 to December 2016 Responsibilities:  • Developed and designed Python based API (RESTful Web Service) to interact with company's website.  • Designed and managed API system deployment using fast http server and Amazon AWS architecture.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Implemented code according to coding standards and Created AngularJS Controller, which Isolate scopes perform operations.  • Performed testing using Django's Test Module.  • Involved in AJAX driven application by invoking web services/API and parsing the JSON response.  • Created JIRA Work flows for multiple projects as per business needs.  • Experience with Unit testing/ Test driven Development (TDD), Load Testing.  • Automated JIRA processes using Python and bash scripts.  • Created Python and Bash tools to increase efficiency of application system  • Created Spring Batches for running batch jobs and documented the use of Spring Batch.  • Created reusable UI components using React.js  • Involved in developing the Angular JS MVC framework for the Single Page Application development.  • Developed server side RESTful services and called them from angular controllers.  • Used pearl, Python and Ruby as scripting language to automate the tasks.  • Running load/endurance tests using Vugen, ALM and controller, server monitoring, analysis using Dynatrace, UNIX putty, SQL logs and other tools and reporting the performance.  • Organized data exchange and integration with customers and third-party systems using CSV, XLS, XML, DBF, JSON, SOAP.  • Wrote Python modules to view and connect the Apache Cassandra instance.  • Developed Components using JSP, Servlets and Server side components using EJB under J2EE  • Experienced in working with server side technologies including databases, restful API and MVC design patterns.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Utilized standard Python modules such as csv, robot parser, itertools and pickle for development.  • Worked on Python OpenStack APIs and used NumPy for Numerical analysis.  • Build backend security services such as web & email security appliances and cloud services, firewall, and next-generation backend intelligence systems.  • Developed Restful microservices using Flask and Django and deployed on AWS servers using EBS and EC2.  • Used Test driven approach for developing the application and Implemented the unit tests using Python Unit test framework and Development of Isomorphic ReactJS and Redux driven API client applications.  • Developed views and templates with Django view controller and template to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Used CircleCI for continuous integration and delivery platform over GIT.  • Used Pandas library for statistics Analysis &Numpy for Numerical analysis.  Environments: Python 2.7, Django, DjangoRest, Flask, React, Redux, CircleCI, Vagrant, Splunk, MVW, DBF, New Relic Server, GitHub, Ansible, HTML5/CSS, PostgreSQL, Amazon Web Service (AWS), S3, EC2, EBS, Jenkins, GitHub, Linux, Microsoft Vistual Code, Linux, Shell Scripting, JIRA. MYSQL, Cassandra, and Oracle.  Client: Python Developer GE Energy - Seattle, WA June 2012 to October 2012 Responsibilities:  • Designed front end using UI, HTML, Bootstrap, Node JS, underscore JS, Angular JS CSS, and JavaScript and Strong Expertise in working with server side technologies including databases, restful API and MVC design patterns.  • Involved in the Complete Software development life cycle (SDLC) to develop the application and Worked closely with software developers and DevOps to debug software and system problems.  • Used jQuery and AJAX calls for transmitting JSON data objects between front end and controllers and Utilized continuous integration and automated deployments with Jenkins, Ansible and Docker.  • Designed and added new functionality extended existing application using J2EE, XML,Ajax, Servlets, JSP.  • Client side validations are done using JavaScript and server side validations are done using Struts validator framework. AJAX forms are created for update operations.  • Backend development with PHP, MYSQL, BASH, LINUX, UNIX  • Used HTML, CSS, JQuery, JSON and Javascript for front end applications.  • Involved in testing RESTFull API like Twilio, Facebook and Twitter.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  • Developed tools using python, Shell Scripting, XML to automate some of menial tasks.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, XHTML, BOOTSTRAP, AJAX, CSS, SASS and JavaScript. Used Jenkins to deploy Django application and run unit tests.  • Used SVC version control system for maintain version of code. Used agile methodology.  • Designing and Developing the Web Portal Applications, web services, Spring Hibernate workflows, Drools, back end Queuing implementations (MQ) using the technologies Spring MVC, Spring Boot, JQuery.  • Build hybrid mobile app using HTML, CSS and JavaScript consuming RESTful APIs and JSON.  • Developed a fully automated continuous integration system using Git, Gerrit, Jenkins, MySQL and custom tools developed in Python and Bash.  • Experienced in working with server side technologies including databases, restful API and MVC design patterns.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Managed datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL, queried MYSQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL dB package to retrieve  • Experience in managing MongoDB environment from availability, performance and scalability perspectives.  • Implemented user interface guidelines and standards throughout the development and maintenance of the website using the HTML, CSS, JavaScript and Jquery.  • Worked on creating documents in Mongo database and maintained the versions using GIT and sending the release notes for each release.  Environments: Python 2.7, Django, DjangoRest, Flask, React, Redux, CircleCI, MVW, DBF, , GitHub, Ansible, HTML5/CSS, PostgreSQL, Amazon Web Service (AWS), S3, EC2, EBS, Jenkins, GitHub, Linux, Microsoft Vistual Code, Linux, Shell Scripting, JIRA. MYSQL, Cassandra, and Oracle. Education Bachelor's Skills AJAX (4 years), Apache Cassandra (4 years), ASTERADATA (4 years), Cassandra (4 years), Django (4 years) Additional Information Technical Skills:  Languages: C, Assembly language, Python 3.3/2.7, Django 1.4/1.3, Flask, Java, C++, Shell Script, SQL, Java/J2EE, Pyjamas, Jython, Iron Python, Cpython.  Web Technologies: AJAX, JavaScript, HTML, DHTML, XHTML, XML, React, Hibernate, JSON, Jquery, Angular Js.  Scripting framework: Perl, Python, Shell, Node.js, jQuery, AngularJS  Databases: MYSQL, PostgreSQL, MS SQL, SQLite, NoSQL- MongoDB, Cassandra, Oracle  Markup Languages: HTML, DHTML, XHTML, XML    Operating Systems: Windows XP, Win 7, 8.1, 10, Linux, OS X.  Software Management: CVS, Tortoise SVN, Maven, Gradle, GIT    Methodologies: Agile, V Model, Waterfall, Hybrid, Debuggers: gdb, pdb.