Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - United Airlines Chicago, IL • 6+ Years of experience in Analysis, Design, Development, Management and Implementation of various stand-alone, client-server enterprise applications using Python, Django, C/C++, Java.  • Vigorous knowledge in progressing web applications and effectuating Model View Control architecture using Django web application framework.  • Implemented features using Python, C++ and Core JAVA.  • Developed all business CRUD operations using RESTFUL services.  • Experience in Designing and testing ETL data processes  • Wrote python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Experience in developing web-based applications using Python, Django, XML, CSS, HTML5, Java Script.  • Experienced with full software development life cycle (SDLC), architecting scalable platforms, object-oriented programming, database design and agile methodologies.  • Experience with object-oriented programming (OOPS) concepts using Python, C++ and Java.  • Worked on various applications using python integrated IDEs like Eclipse, Sublime Text, and PyCharm.  • Experienced with version control systems like Git, SVN to keep the versions and configurations of the code organized.  • Excellent working knowledge in Unix and Linux shell environments using command line utilities  • Hands on experience working in WAMP (Windows, Apache, MYSQL, and Python/PHP) and LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, and Python/PHP) Architecture.  • Good knowledge using various Python libraries to speed up development (libraries used: OS, Pickle, NumPy) MySQL dB for database connectivity.  • Experience in Python's modules NumPy, matplotlib for generating complex graphical data, creation of histograms etc.  • Experience in Performance Tuning, Query Optimization, Client/Server Connectivity, and Database Consistency Checks, Backup and Recovery.  • Good knowledge of web services with protocols REST.  • Experience in working on Application Servers like Tomcat and Web Servers like Apache server.  • Experience in installing, configuring, modifying, testing and deploying applications with Apache.  • Experienced with Unit Testing, System Integration Testing (SIT) and User Acceptance Testing (UAT).  • Expertise in Production support and Knowledge of deployment using Hudson and Jenkins.  • Experience in writing test scripts, test cases, test specifications and test coverage.  • Good amount of experience in handling errors/exceptions and debugging issues in large scale applications.  • Worked in the team and faced challenges during the project development and production process.  • Hands-on experience in writing and reviewing requirements, architecture documents, test plans, design documents, quality analysis and audits.  • Excellent analytical and problem-solving skills with efficient time management and result oriented attitude.  • Good interpersonal, very hands on attitude and approach, intrusive, Self-determined to assimilate and progress.  • Dedicated to tasks and provide good results and a good team player with strong communication skills.  • Willingness to work in a highly dynamic environment and ready to take up challenges. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Developer United Airlines - Chicago, IL November 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Writing python scripts to migrate data from different e-commerce websites to STIBO system.  • Designing and testing ETL data processes, capturing and analyzing business requirements, and developing reports.  • Excellent understanding of ETL process, data integration, data manipulation and data transformation and Python.  • Design, develop and maintain workflows and mappings using the appropriate data load technique.  • Writing Python scripts to extract data from XML'S.  • Identify and analyze data discrepancies and data quality issues and work to ensure data consistency and integrity.  • Work with Data Analysts to understand requirements and develop reports  • Writing python scripts to migrate data from different e-commerce websites to STIBO System (PIM).  • Performing bug fixes and performs manual testing and unit testing after the code is developed.  • Adding features on the portal and creating forms using Django Framework.  • Possess good experience with Object Relational Mapping (ORM).  • Hands on experience with Django Web Framework and REST API's.  • Good problem solving skills and excellent communication skills.  • Working successfully in a team environment using Agile Scrum methodologies.  • Possess excellent interpersonal skills and working with colleagues at various levels of the organization and across multiple locations.    Environment: Python, PIM, JIRA, Bit Bucket, XML, Django, HTML, Python Developer Equifax - St. Louis, MO March 2018 to October 2018 Responsibilities:  • Django Framework was used in developing web applications to implement the model view control architecture.  • Wrote and executed various MySQL database queries from Python using Python MySQL connector and MySQL dB Package  • Expertise in working with different databases like MySQL and PostgreSQL  • Hands on experience working in WAMP (Windows, Apache, MYSQL, and Python/PHP) and LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, and Python/PHP) Architecture.  • Knowledge of HL7 messages and FHIR standards.  • Dealing with scripts to update content in the database and manipulate files. And writing scripts to migrate data from one database to another.  • Hands on experience with Django Web Framework and REST API's.  • Analyzed performance test requirements and developed test plans and have done debugging to understand test objective requirements  • Experience in building endpoints to let the external sources consume the data.  • Experience with object-oriented programming (OOP), model-view-controller (MVC) and test-driven development (TDD).  • Has experience implementing asynchronous programming models.  • Familiarity with Redis database.  • Familiarity with containerization technologies like Docker  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  • Writing test scripts, test cases, test specifications and test coverage  • Experienced with full software development life cycle (SDLC), architecting scalable platforms, object-oriented programming, database design and agile methodologies.  • Experienced with Unit Testing, System Integration Testing (SIT)    Environment: Python, Django, Flask, HTML5, CSS, JSON, MySQL Server, PostgreSQL, GitLab, Linux, JIRA. Python Developer Advinow Medical - Scottsdale, AZ September 2017 to February 2018 Responsibilities:  • Used Python, to place data into JSON files for testing Django Websites.  • Updated and manipulated content and files by using Python scripts.  • Used Django configuration to manage URLs and application parameters.  • Generated Python Django Forms to Record data of online users.  • Experience in Python and Django in creating graphics, XML processing, data exchange and business logic implementation.  • Worked with Flask to put the data as time series and tabular format for east timestamp data manipulation and retrieval.  • Developed tools using Python, XML to automate some of the menial tasks.  • Involved development of Web Services using SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface in the XML format.  • Worked on rebranding the existing web pages to client according to the type of deployment.  • Worked on updating the existing clip board to have the new features as per the client requirements.  • Skilled in using collections in Python for manipulating and looping through different user defined objects.  • Worked on development of SQL and stored procedures on MySQL Server.  • Used Maven to Validate, compile and deploy the files.  • Responsible for debugging the project monitored on JIRA (Agile)  • Analyzed performance test requirements and developed test plans and have done debugging to understand test objective requirements.    Environment: Python, Django, HTML5, CSS, XML, MySQL Server, Maven, JIRA. Python Developer Covan Tech Private Limited - Hyderabad, Telangana November 2015 to December 2016 Responsibilities:  • Created entire application using Python, Django, Oracle.  • Developed applications especially in Linux environment and familiar with all its commands.  • Involved in development of Web Services using REST for sending and getting data from the external interface in the JSON format. Worked with Linux like OS on regular basis.  • Improved code reuse and performance by making effective use of various design patterns.  • Creating unit test/regression test framework for working with new code.  • Construct SQL queries implementing functions, packages, views, triggers, and tables.  • Involved in entire lifecycle of the projects including Design, Development, and Deployment, Testing and Implementation and support. Maintaining the scripts using the GIT version control tool.  • Maintaining customer database using MS EXCEL.  • Proactively worked with managers and development staff to meet project goals within expected timelines.  Environments: Python, SQL, Oracle, Linux, Agile, GIT, Eclipse. Software Developer Magma Fincorp Limited - Hyderabad, Telangana December 2012 to October 2015 Responsibilities:  • Creating unit test/regression test framework for working/new code.  • Generated property list for every application dynamically using Python.  • Used Subversion version control tool to coordinate team-development.  • Designed and developed data management system using MS SQL.  • Rewrite existing Java, C++ application in Python.  • Designed the architecture of the hardware environments and methodology of the code.  • Experience in Agile Methodologies and SCRUM Process.  • Involved in entire lifecycle of the projects including Design, Development and Deployment  • Worked with NumPy for Numerical analysis for Insurance premium.  • Generated property list for every application dynamically using python.  • Creating unit test/regression test framework for working/new code.  • Wrote SQL, MS SQL queries for implementing functions, packages, views, triggers, and tables.  • Used GIT version control tool to coordinate team-development.  • Handling the day to day issues and fine tuning the applications for enhanced performance.  • Worked in development of applications especially in UNIX environment and familiar with all its commands.    Environment: Python, MS SQL Server, UNIX, SVN and Apache Web Server Education Bachelor's in Electronics communications and Engineering Texas A and M University Skills C++, DJANGO, Git, JAVASCRIPT, BOOTSTRAP Additional Information Technical Skills:    Languages Python, C, C++, Core Java, SQL  Markup Languages HTML5, CSS, JSON, XML, JavaScript, Bootstrap  Frameworks Django, Flask  Protocols TCP/IP, HTTP/HTTPS, SOAP  Version Control Tools Subversion and GIT  Scrum Methodologies Waterfall and Agile  Operating Systems Windows95/98/NT/2000/XP/7/8/10, Unix, Linux (CentOS and Ubuntu)  Databases MySQL, MS SQL, Oracle, Mongo dB, PostgreSQL  Deployment Tools Jenkins, Hudson  IDE Tools PyCharm, Eclipse, PyStudio  Web Servers Apache, Tomcat, HTTP Server  Bug Reporting Tools JIRA, Bugzilla and Collab Net  MS Office Tools MS Word, MS PowerPoint, MS Excel