Sr. Python Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Atlanta, GA ? 8+ years of Python Developer experience in various domains -Financial, E-commerce, Telecom ? Developed Web Applications, Server-Side programming and Analytical programming, Automation and Micro services using Python (2.7, 3.x), C++ and python frameworks like Flask, Django, Selenium.  ? Experience in developing Python Web Services and REST APIs.  ? Designed and implemented low latency, high availability applications.  ? Have extensively worked on Object oriented programming (OOP) using Python, Java and C++ and have written reusable, efficient code.  ? Have strong understanding of Python multi-threading, multi-processing and their limitations.  ? Have used Django, SQL Alchemy ORMs to interact with application data.  ? Used multiple python libraries like Numpy, Scipy, pandas, matplotlib, requests, urllib3, pickle, json, etc.  ? Have integrated user-facing elements with the server-side logic.  ? Used JavaScript, HTML, CSS, Bootstrap in front end development for design functionality and design modifications.  ? Strong at testing and debugging, tested the applications, rest APIs using Pytest, Unitest, requests libraries.  ? Used PyCharm, Eclipse, Sublime platforms for code development.  ? Worked on relational databases like MySQL, PostgreSQL, and non- relational MongoDB. Also used python to interact with these databases using libraries like PyMySQL, MYSQL-connector, Pyongan.  ? Have written complex SQL queries and Stored Procedures and have helped database team in improving database structure in regard to application optimization and performance.  ? Have exposure to ETL, worked on Kafka brokers in configuring topics, partitions, interacting with producers and consumers for bringing in the data from source to the staging area and vice-versa.  ? Good experience in Amazon AWS concepts like EC2 instances, S3 storage, Lambda, IAM, VPC, etc.  ? Have automated configuration management, application deployment using Ansible.  ? Extensively used Jenkins for CI/CD and build pipelines.  ? Used Docker for creating docker images, files, containers.  ? Have written scripts using python, shell (bash).  ? Have used source control applications like Git, GitHub, Bitbucket for code management.  ? Used Rally, Jira for bugs, defect management, for writing product user stories, test cases, and defects.  ? Worked on various platforms like UNIX (Sun Solaris), Linux (Ubuntu, CentOS, Red hat), Windows, Mac.  ? Have experience with HIL verification and validation. Designed the test sequences in automation desk and validate them onto the ds PACE HIL bench.  ? Written HIL test cases to determine proper function of powertrain control software. Maintained HIL system operation with updated to interface models, system hardware, user interfaces and test automation.  ? Excellent at analytical and problem-solving skills with efficient time management.  ? Good at interpersonal skills, very hands-on and result oriented attitude, self-determined to learn and improve. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Python Developer Atlanta, GA August 2018 to Present Responsibilities: ? Design, build, test and maintain scalable and stable off the shelf application or custom-built technology solutions to meet business needs.  ? Contribute to the implementation process and enhancements to new and existing applications. Conduct root cause analysis and complex performance tuning, writing queries and designing schemas.  ? Worked with Android SDK and Android NDK.  ? Worked on linear, frame and relative layouts.  ? Worked on toast, Dialog notifications.  ? Responsible for build and test of applications. Experience in handling database issues and connections with SQL and NoSQL databases like MongoDB by installing and configuring various packages in python (Teradata, MySQL dB, MySQL connector, PyMongo and SQL Alchemy).  ? Design and configure database, back end applications and programs. Managed large datasets using Pandas data frames and SQL.  ? • Incorporated Google AdMob Ads SDK in the Application to display ads for unsubscribed users.  ? Write MySQL Stored Procedures and Views from scratch.  ? Write and execute MySQL database queries from python using MySQL-connector.  ? Write & consume REST API's using requests library.  ? Use several Python libraries like NumPy, Pandas, etc.  ? Help with the migration from the old server to Jira database with Python scripts for transferring and verifying the information.  ? Develop, test and deploy various ETL jobs. Experience with Docker, Kafka.  ? Write UNIX Shell Scripts and develop Data Import/Export and Conversions.  ? Use Python's Unit Testing library for testing various programs on python and other codes.  ? Experience in maintaining all the tools like Bit Bucket, Confluence, JIRA, and GIT.  ? Used AWS to create storage resources and define resource attributes, such as disk type or redundancy type, at the service level.  ? Develop a fully automated continuous integration system using Git, Jenkins, MySQL and custom tools developed in Python and Bash.  ? Designed and developed data management system using MySQL.  ? Creating unit test/regression test framework for working/new code.  ? Exploring with the Spark improving the performance and optimization of the existing algorithms in Hadoop using Spark Context, Spark-SQL, Data Frame, Pair RDD's, Spark YARN.  ? Responsible for Plug-in Management, User Management and Backup/Disaster Recovery Plan/Implementation (BDR) on Jenkins.  ? Performed automation of testing using Quick Test Pro and programmed dynamic VB Scripts in Expert view for testing GUI Functionality.  ? Automated continuous integration delivery workflows to deploy Micro services applications via Docker containers.  ? Experience working with large datasets and Machine Learning class using TensorFlow and Apache Spark. Worked with Spark Core, Spark ML, Spark Streaming and Spark SQL.  ? Enabled speedy reviews and first-mover advantages by using Oozie to automate data loading into the Hadoop Distributed File System and Pig to pre-process the data.  ? Installed, configured and managed the ELK (Elastic Search, Log Facilitated Scrum ceremonies like Sprint planning, retrospectives, Daily stand-ups, etc. Stash and Kibana) for Log management within EC2/ Elastic Load Balancer (ELB) for Elastic search ? Met client audit requirements by developing python scripts to retrieve AWS RDS logs using Boto3    Environment: Python, Android SDK,ETL, Docker, MySQL, MongoDB, Kafka, Bootstrap, REST Webservices, JSON, Jenkins, Jira, Linux Sr. Python Developer Hertz - Estero, FL July 2016 to August 2018 Responsibilities: ? Developed Python based API (RESTful Web Services) to track the events and perform analysis using Django.  ? Supported/maintained client website within the DJANGO CMS system for various website needs.  ? Performed dynamic UI designing with HTML5, CSS3, less, Bootstrap, JSON and AJAX.  ? Developed a Django CMS based promotion management system offering the ability to created arbitrary forms through an admin interface.  ? Created a Python/Django based web application for data processing using MySQL as database, and HTML/CSS/JavaScript for frontend development and D3 JavaScript for Data Visualization.  ? Part of team implementing REST API's in Python using python based micro-framework called Flask with SQL Alchemy in the backend for management of data center resources on which OpenStack would be deployed.  ? Implement and test database objects in non-production environments.  ? Move supporting data between non-production environments.  ? Used AWS to create storage resources and define resource attributes, such as disk type or redundancy type, at the service level.  ? Worked in DevOps group running Jenkins in a Docker container with EC2 slaves in Amazon AWS cloud configuration.  ? Automated various infrastructure activities like Continuous Deployment, Application Server setup, Stack Monitoring using Ansible playbooks and has integrated Ansible with Run deck and Jenkins.  ? Perform Jenkins administration, updating plugins, setting up new projects and debugging build problems.  ? Used Ansible playbooks to setup Continuous Delivery pipeline. This primarily consists of a Jenkins and Sonar server, the infrastructure to run these packages and various supporting software components such as Maven, etc.  ? To build and populate DB and to ensure the standards, the team of QA also collaborated.  ? Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting programming related issues.  ? Installed and configured configuration tool such as Chef Server/workstation and nodes via CLI tools to AWS nodes.  ? Created and configured new JIRA projects and worked with departments to maintain existing JIRA projects.  ? Created and maintained various DevOps related tools for the team such as provisioning scripts, deployment tools and staged virtual environments using Docker and Vagrant.  ? Created Python and Bash scripts to monitor & increase efficiency of retail management application system and operations.  ? Experience in Branching, Merging, Tagging and maintaining the version across the environments using SCM tools like GIT (GitHub, GitLab).    Environment: Python, Django, PostgreSQL, MySQL, Bootstrap, D3 JS, HTML, CSS, Agile, REST, JSON, Ansible, Docker Sr. Python Developer AT&T - Middletown, NJ December 2014 to June 2016 Responsibilities: ? Worked with the Stakeholders, gathered requirements developed high level design documents.  ? Have used Python libraries like NumPy/ Scipy, Pandas for market analysis and done some machine learning using Python.  ? Analyzed various logs that are been generated and used various Python libraries to predict/forecast next occurrence of event with various Python libraries.  ? Used Django framework in developing web applications to implement the model view control architecture (MVC).  ? Refactored and extended large existing Django/ Python code base, reducing the number of lines in code and duplication significantly.  ? Wrote Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on MySQL and PostgreSQL database.  ? Query Optimization through MYSQL server tools for quick response time.  ? Designed and Developed DB2 SQL Procedures and UNIX Shell Scripts for Data Import/Export and Conversions.  ? Wrote Python scripts to parse JSON documents and load the data in database and also used python scripts to update content in the database and manipulate files.  ? Responsible to set up REST API frame work using Django, Flask.  ? Developed, designed, managed dashboard control panel for customers and Administrators using Django, Oracle DB, PostgreSQL API calls.  ? Performed some operations, visualization on Oracle DB using libraries like Ox oracle, MatPlotlib, Pandas.  ? Build back-end application with Python / Django, Worked on Dockers, RabbitMQ, Celery, and Jenkins.  ? Worked with Network related python libraries for transferring the files and connecting remotely to the servers.  ? Ensured high quality data collection and maintaining the integrity of the data using integration of Python with C and C++ libraries.  ? Developed Python classes and used decorated methods to create the dependency graphs for the business logic and core applications that are pre-built using C++.  ? Developed GUI using webapp2 for dynamically displaying the test block documentation and other features of Python code using a web browser.  ? Used Python based GUI components for the front end functionality such as selection criteria and developed a GUI for a Java script product.  ? Developed the required XML Schema documents and implemented the framework for parsing XML documents.  ? Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application using Subversion version control tool to coordinate team-development.    Environment: Python 2.7, NumPy, Dockers, Pandas, C++, JSON, Oracle DB, MySQL, DB2, PL/SQL,SSIS,ETL Linux, HTML, XHTML, CSS, AJAX, JavaScript, Apache Web Server, Django 1.4 Python Developer Huawei Technologies - Bellevue, WA October 2012 to November 2014 Responsibilities: ? Business logic implementation, data exchange, XML processing and graphics creation has been done using python and Django.  ? Views and Templates were developed with python and to create a user-friendly website interface Django's view controller and template language is used.  ? Developed UI using CSS, HTML, JavaScript, AngularJS, jQuery and JSON.  ? A Django dashboard with custom look and feel for end user has been created after a careful study of the Django admin site and dashboard.  ? Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  ? Used Django Database API's to access database objects.  ? JIRA was used to build an environment for development.  ? Used web applications development using Django/ python, Flask/ python, and, jQuery, Ajax while using HTML/CSS/JS for server-side rendered application.  ? Different testing methodologies like unit testing, Integration testing, web application testing, selenium testing was performed.  ? Developed user interface using, CSS, HTML, JavaScript and jQuery &Ruby on rails.  ? Cleaned data and processed third party spending data into maneuverable deliverables within specific formats with Excel macros and python libraries.  ? Designed and developed Restful API internally in the company using Python Virtual environments, Flask and Requests.  ? Used several python libraries like wx python, NumPy, and matplotlib.  ? Was involved in the environment, code installation as well as the SVN implementation.  ? Build all database mapping classes using Django models and Cassandra.  ? Hands on experience with continuous integration and automation using Jenkins.  ? Designed and developed data management system using MySQL.  ? Creating unit test/regression test framework for working/new code.  ? Designed and configured database and back end applications and programs.    Environment: python 2.7, Django, C++, JavaScript, SQL Server, HTML, DHTML, Jenkins, CSS, Linux, jQuery, JSON, AJAX. Software Engineer Reliable Soft November 2010 to September 2012 Responsibilities: ? Involved in reviewing and understanding the Business requirements.  ? Involved in entire lifecycle of the projects including Design, Development, and Deployment, Testing and Implementation and support.  ? Wrote scripts to Import and Export data to CSV, EXCEL formats from different environments using Python and made a Celery action using REST API call.  ? Designed the user interactive web pages as the front-end part of the web application using various web technologies like HTML, JavaScript, Angular JS, jQuery and implemented CSS framework Bootstrap for better appearance and feel.  ? Developed remote integration with third party platforms by using RESTful web services.  ? Developed web services that make database calls for inserts, updates, and select queries.  ? Developed Unit, Integration and Performance Test Cases using Junit, Selenium and Rational Function Tester.  ? Improved code reuse and performance by making effective use of various design patterns.  ? Used Python library Beautiful Soup for web scrapping's.  ? Fetched twitter feeds for certain important keyword using python-twitter library.  ? Managed large datasets using Panda data frames and SQL.  ? Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL dB package.  ? Deployed the project into Heroku using GIT version control system.  ? Developed methods for Create, Read, Update and Delete (CRUD) in Active Record.  ? Used Django evolution and manual SQL modifications was able to modify Django models while retaining all data, while site was in production mode.  ? Proficient with Java and Android SDK version Android 1.5 to Android 7.0 (Gingerbread, Honey comb, Ice cream sandwich, Jellybean, Kit Kat, Lollipop, Marshmallow and Nougat).  ? Expertise in creating and developing applications for android operating system using Android Studio, Eclipse IDE, SQLite, Java, XML, Android SDK and ADT plugin.  ? Scripted simulation hardware for testing using the Simi's simulator.  ? Execute Validation Process through SIMICS.  ? Worked on Angular JS to augment browser applications with MVC capability.    Environment: Python, Celery, mod python, Angular, jQuery, JavaScript, AJAX, HTML/XHTML, XML, MS SQL server, T-SQL, Jasper, GIT, Reports, RESTful, Linux, Android OS Android 1.5 to Android 6.0 Education Bachelor's Skills C++, DJANGO, Git, GOOGLE APP ENGINE, Hadoop, HBase, HDFS, Hive, HTML, JAVASCRIPT, BOOTSTRAP, JENKINS, JSON, PERL, PHP, PYTHON, FLASK, MATPLOTLIB, NUMPY, PANDAS