SR.FULLSTACK PYTHON DEVELOPER SR.FULLSTACK <span class="hl">PYTHON</span> <span class="hl">DEVELOPER</span> • Around 7 years of experience in Web/Application Development in analytical programming using Python 3.7 with skills in analysis, design, development, testing and deploying software applications.  • Experience in developing web-based applications using Python, Django, PHP, AngularJS, Bootstrap, C++, CSS, HTML, JavaScript and jQuery.  • Worked in Apache CGI, python and Bash programming on Red Hat virtual machines to maintain Splunk server.  • Experience in write unit test cases individually and in suits with Pytest and PyUnit on SOAP messages.  • Expertise in developing API services in Tornado, React.js, Node.js while leveraging RabbitMQ for distributed architecture.  • Experience in configuring Spark Streaming to receive real time data from the Apache Kafka and storing using Scala.  • Good experience using various Python libraries including Beautiful Soup, NumPy, SciPy, Matplotlib, python-twitter, Urllib, Pandas data frame, network for database connectivity to speed up development.  • Experience in working with various Version Control Systems, mostly Perforce and GIT with knowledge of subversion tools like CVS, VSS, TFS or SVN on Windows environment.  • Fluent with current test automation tools and frameworks such as JUnit, Cucumber, TestNG, Selenium WebDriver.  • Good experience with Unix, Linux scripting as well as Performance in stress/endurance testing and Integration Testing.  • Used PyQuery to modify pure http templates that can be used for web scrapping or for theming applications.  • Experience in AWS like Amazon EC2, Amazon S3, Amazon Redshift, Amazon EMR and Amazon SQS.  • Strong exposure in User interface, Web based applications and Client-side validations using HTML5, DHTML, XHTML, CSS3, AJAX, JSON, XML, XSL, XSLT and Flask  • Proficient in developing multi-threaded web services using Pyramid, Cherrypie & Bottle framework, TensorFlow.  • Experience in deploying Micro Services using Docker and using Docker containers along with Kubernetes.  • Experience in contributing source code in Golang to developing an automation framework for AWS CFN.  • Vast experience coding in various IDEs - Eclipse, NetBeans, Sublime Text, Spyder, PyCharm.  • Designed and implemented data post processing, ingestion, and data lake modules such as Pandas, Spark or Celery.  • Experience of working with relational databases like MySQL, Oracle, SQLite, PostgreSQL, DB2, PL/SQL and on NoSQL databases like Apache Cassandra, MariaDB and MongoDB.  • Experience with bug-tracking Jira, source code management tools Git, GitHub, Stash and team collaboration software SAAS tool Confluence.  • Good hands on experience in using big data Technologies, particularly Hadoop, Hive, Pig as well as Spark.  • Working Experience on various Python packages such as SQLAlchemy, Pickle, PySide, PySpark, PyMongo, PyTable.  • Involved in development of Web Services using SOAP for sending data from the external interface in the XML format.  • Experienced in configuring and automating various AWS services like EC2, S3, RDS and other.  • Expertise in creating AWS IAM with AWS security features including data encryption, monitoring & logging, identity & access control.  • Experience in Continuous integration, Build Automation and deployment tools like Maven, Jenkins, Ansible and Docker. Work Experience SR.FULLSTACK PYTHON DEVELOPER Niceville, FL January 2019 to Present • Used Agile methodology for rewriting existing Python 3.7/Django 2.1 modules to deliver certain format of data and responsible for debugging the project monitored on JIRA.  • Worked with various Python Integrated Development Environments like Spyder, PyCharm, NetBeans and Sublime.  • Designed front end using UI, HTML, Bootstrap, CSS/CSS3 and JavaScript with server-side technologies including databases for development of Web applications.  • Extensively used JavaScript MVC Framework AngularJS to make rich internet web application for a Single page application.  • Worked with the Linux/Unix admin team to set up, configure, initialize and troubleshoot a Cassandra cluster.  • Experienced with various Python Integrated Development Environments like Spyder, PyCharm, NetBeans and Sublime.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django using Git and GitHub.  • Developed server-based web traffic statistical analysis tool using Flask, Pandas and tested it in interaction with MySQL.  • Experience in designing User Interface applications and integration of highly transactional and scalable applications using HTML5, DHTML, XHTML, Bootstrap, CSS3, jQuery, AJAX, JSON and XML.  • Developing applications using RESTFUL architecture using Node.js and PHP as backend languages.  • Write unit test cases individually and in suits with Pytest and PyUnit on SOAP messages stored by creating SOAP services.  • Experience in project deployment using Heroku/Jenkins and using web services like Amazon Web Services (AWS) EC2, AWS S3, Auto scaling, CloudWatch and SNS.  • Wrote Stored Procedures for normalization and Learned to search large number of documents inside Elasticsearch.  • Created functions in AWS Lambda to run python scripts and AWS Lambda using java to perform event driven processing.  • Developed Test Cases and Test Scripts in selenium web driver with Java using Cucumber framework with build management tool Maven.  • Used Python and Django creating graphics, XML processing, data exchange and business logic implementation.  • Experience in implementing core cache and abstraction with Jasmine and Redis cache server.  • Accessed public datasets and use TensorFlow and SQLAlchemy to load, process, clean, and transform data.  • Extensively worked on JSF Framework integrated with EJB 3.0 as well as Hibernate 4.  • Dealing with multiple terabytes of mobile ad data stored in AWS using Elastic MapReduce and Redshift PostgreSQL.  • Golang Java were used as a backend REST service and SOAP service while AngularJS was used for the user interface.  • Modify existing codes and developed PL/SQL packages to perform Certain Specialized functions/ enhancement on Oracle application. Used log4j for logging automated steps and script errors.  • Expertized in implementing Spark using Scala for faster testing and processing of data responsible to manage data from different sources. Installed Red Hat based Linux systems and familiar with specific configuration component of Red Hat.  • Analyzed the SQL scripts and designed solutions to implement using PySpark.  • Utilized Kubernetes and Docker for the runtime environment of the CI/CD system to build and test deploy.  • Developed Spark Streaming script to consume topics from distributed messaging source Kafka for real-time processing.  • Worked with the migration of existing code repository from ClearCase multisite to TFS and used Eclipse to connect to central CVS repository and SVN repository servers.  • Implemented Bottle, Pyramid and Cherrypie framework with REST API and MongoDB as back end database.  • Involved in writing application level code to interact with Web API's, web services using JSON.  • Used Perforce version control system and Python tools for visual studio (PTVS) IDE.  • Worked with AWS EC2 Container Service plugin in Jenkins which automates Jenkins master-slave configuration by creating temporary slaves. Integrated AWS-RDS Oracle to AWS-Hive using DynamoDB and MariaDB with direct connect.  • Developed API services in React.js, Node.js while leveraging RabbitMQ for distributed architectures. Experience in Linux and Unix Bash scripting and following PEP Guidelines.  • Used PyQuery to modify pure http templates that can be used for web scrapping or for theming applications.  • Responsible for CI/CD process implementation using Jenkins along with Shell scripts to automate routine jobs.  • Worked on MongoDB database concepts such as locking, transactions, indexes, replication and schema design.  • Experience in installing software's using pip command for python libraries like Beautiful Soup, NumPy, SciPy, python-twitter, Celery, matplotlib, Urllib2 and used PEP8 coding convention.  • Created custom columns while ingesting data into Hadoop lake using PyTable, PySpark, PyMongo, Pickle and PySide. FULLSTACK PYTHON DEVELOPER AT&T January 2018 to December 2018 • Experienced in designing web pages and Graphical user interfaces, front end layouts on the web by using HTML, DHTML, CSS, Bootstrap, PHP, XML, jQuery, Node.js and AngularJS.  • Used Python and Django to interface with the jQuery UI and manage the storage and deletion of content.  • Working knowledge of error and exception handling debugging using NetBeans, Eclipse, Sublime, Spyder and PyCharm.  • Mainly used Python alongside using various libraries such as matplotlib for charts and graphs, PySide, PyTable, PyMongo, Pickle, MySQL and SQLite for database connectivity.  • Designed the Web application layout and forms using HTML5, CSS3, XHTML and JavaScript.  • Implemented 11g and upgraded the existing database from Oracle 9i to Oracle 11g.  • Experience in using Python libraries (Beautiful Soup, NumPy, SciPy, Matplotlib, python-twitter) to speed up development.  • Wrote code to support MVC pattern of Python Django framework in developing several modules for the application.  • Used Ansible as Configuration management tool, to automate repetitive tasks, quickly deploys critical applications, and proactively manages change.  • Worked with the Node package manager (NPM) along with Karma, Jasmine, Grunt and Bower for test and build.  • Designed and developed a horizontally scalable APIs using python Flask.  • Installed and configured WebSphere Studio Application Developer WSAD to connect Central CVS and SVN repositories.  • Developed a dashboard to display tickets status and workflow using React.js and SOAP/REST API.  • Wrote Cucumber BDD tests for our framework. Ensured that tests ran cross-platform and cross-browser.  • Designed and implemented data post processing, ingestion, and data lake modules (Pandas, Spark, Celery, RabbitMQ).  • Worked on XSL and used XML Transformation node to transform an XML message to another form of XML message.  • Database Application Development in PL/SQL, Query Optimization and Performance Tuning in MySQL and MariaDB.  • Managed local deployments in Kubernetes, creating local cluster and deploying application containers.  • Wrote Operations and corresponding handlers to communicate with Oracle database sitting on Linux/Unix server.  • Created branching strategy for diff teams and supported parallel development by creating multiple branches in TFS.  • Worked on changes to open stack and AWS to accommodate large-scale data center deployment.  • Used PHP as an HTML embedded scripting language, in front end web development.  • Used Pagination component of jQuery for navigation and used DOM and AJAX to display page contents.  • Improved performance of the tables through load testing using Cassandra stress tool.  • Involved in developing a linear regression model to predict a continuous measurement for improving the observation on wind turbine data developed using spark with Scala API.  • Deployed the project into Heroku using GIT version control system.  • Designed and maintained databases using Python and developed Python-based API using Flask and PostgreSQL.  • Implemented two-way data binding and developed single page applications using AngularJS.  • Used Maven as Build tool to automate the build process for the entire application and Created Data driven test framework for end to end Functional testing of web application using Selenium WebDriver and Pytest.  • Proficient in developing multi-threaded web services using Cherrypie, Pyramid & Bottle framework.  • Implemented a Continuous Delivery pipeline with Docker, Jenkins and GitHub and AWS AMI's.  • Utilized Pandas API to put the information as time arrangement and forbidden organization for east timestamp.  • Developed user interface and implemented client-side Interface by using the React.js, Flux for SPA development.  • Design JSON requests according to front-end pages and Processed them according to types of modules and request data as well as created JavaScript for using DML operation with MongoDB. FULL STACK PYTHON DEVELOPER Ally Financial - Dallas, TX March 2016 to January 2018 • Analyzed the business requirements and created use cases and prepared low and high-level design documents.  • Developed server-side RESTful services, called from angular controllers, created reusable UI components using React.js.  • Used modules Beautiful Soup, SciPy, python-twitter, PyMongo, Celery, NumPy, matplotlib, Urllib2 etc. for generating complex graphical data, creation of histograms etc.  • Used Python scripts to update content in the database and manipulate files and generated Python Django Forms.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, XHTML, Bootstrap, AJAX, Angular JS, CSS and JavaScript.  • Created an Application using React Native framework for both iOS & Android.  • Worked on creating different type of indexes based on different collections to get good performance in MongoDB.  • Managed Ansible Playbooks with Ansible modules, implemented CD automation using Ansible, managing existing servers and automation of build/configuration of new servers.  • Involved in development of Web Services using SOAP for sending data from the external interface in the XML format.  • Developed web pages using advanced HTML5 and CSS3 techniques, backed by jQuery to enable optimum user experience throughout the site.  • Implemented JSON Schema for validating the structure of JSON data.  • Used PyQuery for selecting particular DOM elements when parsing HTML. Analyzed the SQL scripts and designed solutions to implement using PySpark.  • Created PDF reports using Golang and XML documents to send it to all customers at the end of month with international language support.  • Experience in working with various Version Control Systems, mostly Perforce, GIT and knowledge of subversion SVN.  • Used Scala to develop Scala coded spark projects and executed using spark-submit.  • Worked on resulting report of application and Deployed production site using Apache Servers with Python and AWS.  • Written test cases using PyUnit and Selenium Automation testing for better manipulation of test scripts.  • Experience in Importing data from various sources to the Cassandra cluster using REST API's.  • Developed PL/SQL Triggers to monitor the database activities and to implement some database constraints.  • Developed Apache Maven Project management tool POM file to automate the build process for the entire application.  • Worked with Python ORM Libraries including SQLAlchemy, Cherrypie, Pyramid and Bottle for quick service development.  • Designed database and modulation Environmental management using PostgreSQL.  • Integrated Spring web services with Zookeeper, Camel, RabbitMQ in Docker environment.  • Used Pandas API to put data as time series and tabular format for east timestamp data manipulation and retrieval.  • Built Docker containers of application to run tests in sandboxed environment for consistent test runs on local and continuous integration environments.  • Created branching strategy for diff teams and supported parallel development by creating multiple branches in TFS.  • Developed backend of the application using the flask framework. Involved in writing stored procedures using MySQL.  • Handled importing of data from various data sources, performed transformations using Hive, MapReduce, and loaded data into HDFS.  • Participate in process Documentations and audit compliance on UNIX/Linux servers.  • Prepared feature file for Cucumber framework and created step definitions and created runner file to run the Cucumber features. Applying TensorFlow in various hands-on exercises using the command line.  • Experience configuring and developing with different Database servers including MSQL, MS-SQL, Oracle and MongoDB.  • Developed API services in Python/Tornado, Node.js while leveraging RabbitMQ for distributed architectures.  • Used collections in PHP/ Python for manipulating and looping through different your defined objects.  • Exploring with the Spark improving the performance and optimization of the existing algorithms in Hadoop.  • Design, build and manage the Elasticsearch cluster for centralized logging and search functionalities for the App.  • Designed, developed and maintained solutions for using Git and GitHub for microservice and continuous deployment.  • Managed local deployments in Kubernetes, creating local cluster and deploying application containers.  • Experience in project deployment using Heroku/Jenkins and using web services like Amazon Web Services (AWS) EC2, AWS S3, Auto scaling, CloudWatch and SNS.  • Designed logic for semantic procedures and aggregate tables using standard SQL/PLSQL. PYTHON DEVELOPER R SYSTEMS January 2012 to August 2015 • Followed Agile Methodologies to manage full life-cycle development of the project.  • Worked on development of SQL and stored procedures, trigger and function on MYSQL and developed shopping cart for Library and integrated web services to access the payment.  • Participated in the complete SDLC process and used PHP to develop website functionality.  • Configuring high availability using geographical MongoDB replica sets across multiple data centers.  • Well versed with design and development of presentation layer for web applications using technologies using HTML, XHTML, CSS, Bootstrap, jQuery, XSL and JavaScript.  • Used JavaScript and JSON to update a portion of a webpage as well as used MongoDB to stored data in JSON format.  • Designed and developed Oracle forms & reports generating up to 60 reports and worked on changes to AWS to accommodate large-scale data center deployment.  • Specified, prototyped, developed and tested from the ground up an object-oriented, multiplatform C++ framework containing support to: data-structures, common algorithms (sorting, etc.), sockets, threading  • Hands on experience on Python for data analytics, data wrangling and extracting data using Beautiful Soup, NumPy, matplotlib, Python-twitter, urllib2, and SciPy.  • Developed Maven scripts to build and deploy the application in the Application Server.  • Used various python libraries such as matplotlib for charts and graphs, PySide, PyMongo, PySpark, Pickle, Pandas data frame, MySQL for database connectivity.  • Involved in implementing Ansible configuration management and maintaining them in several environments on AWS.  • Created required shell or python scripts for data push from Informatica/Teradata to S3.  • Involved in code reviews using Git, GitHub pull requests, reducing bugs, improving code and increasing knowledge sharing. Interfaced with the Oracle back-end using Hibernate Framework and XML config files.  • Extensive use of version controller Team Foundation Server (TFS). Programmed the components using C/C++.  • Worked on Jenkins continuous integration tool for deployment of project.  • Configured and Installed several Linux, Unix and Windows Operating Systems according to the client needs.  • Creation and maintenance of PostgreSQL database functions, including reflection of CRUD operations for object model.  • Used Selenium Actions class to handle mouse movements and hover-over actions on Web Elements.  • Built a complex Enterprise Java ecosystem in collaboration with development team.  • Creation of database objects like tables, views, materialized views, procedures and packages using Oracle tools like PL/SQL Developer and SQL.  • Worked on developing Restful endpoints to Cache application specific data in in-memory data clusters like Redis and exposed them with Restful endpoints by using Redis Cache.  • Used PyUnit, the Python unit test framework, for all Python applications.  • Completed basic backup/restore and implemented security functions for various applications using MariaDB.  • Actively involved in developing the methods for Create, Read, Update and Delete (CRUD) in Active Record.  • Developed various screens for the front end using React.js and used various predefined components from NPM.  • Worked with WEB API's to make calls to the web services using URLs and Installed, configured SOAP UI to test web services using WSDL file given by Development team.  • Built enterprise wide DNS historical data trending analysis tools in Golang with REST API for user queries as microservice.  • Used jQuery and Ajax calls for transmitting JSON data objects between frontend and controllers.  • Involved in developing the Angular JS MVC framework for the Single Page Application development.    Technical Skills:  Frameworks: Django, Flask, AngularJS, React JS, web2py, Open stack, EmberJs, Tkinter, Pyramid.  Python Libraries: Pandas, NumPy, Unit Test. SciPy, Matplotlib, PyCharts, WxPython, Tkinter.  Languages: Python, Java, C++, SQL, PL/SQL, NoSQL.    Databases: MySQL, MongoDB, Couch DB, DynamoDB, MS SQL, PostgreSQL, Cassandra, Sybase ASE, Redis, RDS, Redshift.  Scripting languages: JavaScript, Shell Scripting.  Markup languages: HTML, XML, Json.  Servers: Apache Tomcat and IBM Web sphere.  IDEs: Sublime text, PyCharm, Eclipse, PyScripter, PyStudio, PyDev, Wing-IDE and Spyder, Jupyter.  Automation tools: Jenkins, Chef, puppet, ansible.  Methodologies & tools: Agile Scrum, Waterfall Model, UML.  Version Control Systems: GIT, SVN, Bitbucket, CVS, JAWS.  Cloud Computing Platforms: Amazon Web Services (AWS), Cloud Foundry, Cloud Front, AWS Beanstalk, EC2, S3, Redis, Redshift, RDS, Lambda, EMR, Elasticsearch, AWS CLI.    Operating Systems: Windows, MAC OS X, Linux (Red hat, CentOS, Ubuntu) Education Bachelor's Skills DJANGO, PYTHON, FLASK, MATPLOTLIB, NUMPY, PANDAS, TKINTER, ANGULARJS, UNIT TEST, FRAMEWORKS, AngularJS, React JS