Senior Software Engineer Senior Software Engineer Senior Software Engineer San Diego, CA Work Experience Senior Software Engineer ServiceNow - San Diego, CA 2018 to 2019 Using front/backend Javascript, HTML, and ServiceNow APIs I created a tool to help debug issues in the ServiceNow Discovery plugin. I debugged code used to map networked  devices for the Discovery plugin which was written in Python, Javascript, and Java. I created solutions for the general platform like Slack notifications for unexpected CRUD operations on specific records. Software Engineer II Virtustream 2013 to 2018 Started by working on the front end client and server side for a brandable IAAS.  The server side was a python/Tornado and then node/Koa application which could communicate the OpenStack or VMWare VSphere infrastructure. The front end used Backbone and Marionette which used  polling and websockets to query an AMQP messaging service to provide a fluid single page application.  Working on this code base required a number of different skills. For example, I was tasked with debugging some C# code for AMQP messaging which caused a bug in the HTML5 SSH Console. I  debugged the Virtustream QA deployments which were composed of a number of networked Linux  virtual machines running different services (nGinx, RabbitMQ, etc). This was mostly DevOps or System  Administration work (tailing logs, configuring servers, etc). I also completed a number of projects such as a mock REST API server (Node/Koa) where oData queries were parsed into an AST used to create  queries for a Mongo DB of mock data. I created a NodeJS Electron app that is used to upload and download images to and from Virtustream servers. This application has a GUI that allows images to be  uploaded and downloaded to and from servers in chunks concurrently. I provided checksums and other  features. This application used React/Redux/and other libraries for the frontend and custom concurrent  file transfer code for the backend. The last projects I worked on consisted of creating Kubernetes pod  descriptions to host nodes running different C# services. Python/Javascript Web Engineer BitTorrent - San Francisco, CA 2011 to 2013 I worked on two projects Remote and Live. Remote is a site that allows  BitTorrent users to securely access their home torrenting software from anywhere. I also worked on a team of 3 engineers creating a new protocol for P2P live streaming video called Live. Java/JSP Developer Intern Experts Exchange - San Luis Obispo, CA 2009 to 2011 Education BS in Software Engineering California Polytechnic State University June 2011