Sr. Python Developer Sr.<span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Python Developer - Sabre Austin, TX • Over 8+ years of IT experience in Analysis, Design, Development, Implementation and Testing of various stand-alone and client-server architecture based enterprise application software in Python on various domains  • Handy experience in developing Web-Applications implementing Model View Control architecture using Django and Flask web application frameworks.  • Good experience in Shell Scripting, SQL Server, UNIX and Linux, Open stack.  • Good Experience in Object Oriented Analysis in developing Front-End and Back-End framework using various design patterns.  • Thorough knowledge in various front-end tools like HTML, JavaScript, XML, JQuery and AJAX and Angular JS  • Experienced in developing Web Services with Python programming language.  • Experienced in Object Oriented Programming (OOP) concept using Python, C++ and PHP.  • Familiar with XML/JSON based REST web services and Amazon Web services (AWS).  • Managing AWS service like EC2, S3, IAM, VPC, Cloud formation etc.  • Involved in Unit testing, Integration testing, User-Acceptance testing, and Functional testing.  • Configured PHP, MySQL and WAMP/MAMP server.  • Strong knowledge on multi-platform programmer's library S-Lang.  • Experience on Key AWS services: EC2, S3, DynamoDB (NoSQL) and Lambda.  • Expertise in handling Django ORM and SQLACHEMY.  • Created reporting using chunks of data with Big Query.  • Expertise in working with server-side technologies including databases, Restful APL and MVC design patterns.  • Superior Troubleshooting and Technical support abilities with Migrations, Network connectivity, Security, and Database applications.  • Strong knowledge of data pipelining.  • Experience in web-based application development using frameworks like Django and Flask.  • Well versed with Design and Development of presentation layer for web applications using technologies like HTML, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Configured Docker container for branching purposes.  • Good experience using various Python libraries to speed up development (libraries used: Beautiful Soup, NumPy, SciPy, Matplotlib, python-twitter, Pandas data frame, network, urllib2, MySQL dB for database connectivity, JSON libraries)  • Experience on creating new React/React-Native components, containers, services, and APIs for prototypes  • Experience in working with different operating systems Windows XP / Vista / 7 / 8, UNIX, and MAC OS X.  • Good Analytical and Problem-Solving skills and ability to work on own besides being a valuable and contributing team player.  • Excellent Interpersonal and Communication skills, Efficient Time Management and Organization Skills, ability to handle Multiple-Tasks and work well in a Team-Environment.  • Extensively worked on writing UNIX shell scripts for scheduling the sessions for my testing process of ETL.  • Good knowledge on data migration from relational database to NoSQL.  • Strong knowledge in MongoDB concepts - CRUD operations and aggregation framework  • Have been involved in testing using DB, have good knowledge in creating and executing complex SQL's  • Excellent knowledge on Python Collections and Multi-Threading.  • Skilled experience in Python with proven expertise in using new tools and technical developments  • Good experience of Web Services with protocols SOAP and REST.  • Good experience in using different kind of data bases like MySQL, Oracle.  • Experience in analyzing and handling large datasets using Oracle Relational database 9g, 10g, 11g.  • Have good experience in working with application server WebLogic (10.0, 10.3, 11g), WebSphere (7.0, 8.5, 8.5.5), Apache (6.0, 7.0, 8.0).  • Experience in writing SQL queries and Stored Procedures and implementation on different databases.  • Expertise in understanding complex codes and extending their functionality.  • Managed users, workflow, groups and projects in JIRA and reported bugs, tracked defects  • Expertise in creating test scenarios for performance testing.  • Knowledge of the software Development Life Cycle (SDLC), Agile and Waterfall Methodologies.  • Active Participation in full development life cycle (requirements, design, architecture, development, testing). Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Python Developer Sabre - Grapevine, TX March 2017 to Present Description -This project encompassed the technical infrastructure necessary for PARCC (Partnership for Assessment of Readiness for College and Careers) to provide secure, reliable, flexible, and scalable digital data storage, management, reporting, and analysis for PARCC and its member states. And my role is to build the necessary software to support all layers of the infrastructure.    Responsibilities -  • Worked with Marketing and Sales teams to enhance applications to suit their needs.  • Technical experience with LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, PYTHON) architecture.  • Involved in various phases of the project like Analysis, Design, Development, and Testing.  • Developed rich user interface using CSS, HTML, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Developed a Front-End GUI as stand-alone Python application.  • Debug application deployments on Multiple-environments.  • Created Business Logic using Python 2.7.  • Developed html views with HTML5, CSS, bootstrap and AngularJS.  • Created Restful back-end service deployed on Linode cloud VPS's using Flask web framework and SQLAlchemy ORM for data persistence.  • Develop Automation Scripts and programming libraries that interface with various devices and deal with repetitive tasks such as configuration and extraction of CLI outputs using Python.  • Trained and documented initial deployment and Supported product stabilization / debug at the deployment site.  • Used Django framework for application development.  • Created the policy to migrate the logs from AWS S3 to Glacier automatically from S3 bucket  • Designed and prepared scripts to monitor uptime/downtime of different system components  • Wrote scripts in Python for Extracting Data from HTML file.  • Involved in Developing a Restful API'S service using Python Flask framework.  • Developed the consumer-friendly front-end with an easy-to-use OpenCV UI and fast access MongoDB  • Used Git for the version control.  • Developed Application using Java J2EE Platform.  • Designed and developed components using Python.  • Developed python scripts in order to migrate information from Oracle to MongoDB.  • As a Python Developer, I designed and developed Use-Case Diagrams, Class Diagrams, and Object Diagrams using UML Rational Rose.  • Development of real-time multitasking systems using Java.  • Deployed Cloud with various templates.  • Effectively communicated with the external vendors to resolve queries.  Environment: Python 2.7, Django 1.7, MySQL, Windows, Linux, HTML, CSS, JQuery, JavaScript, Apache, Linux, JSP, UML, Rational Rose, Multithreading, HTTP, Shell Scripting, PL/SQL, ODBC, Pro*C, PVCS, Oracle 9i Sr. Python Developer Wells Fargo - Minneapolis, MN June 2015 to February 2017 Description -Developed a web based application using Python to automate the ATM cash management process. I had developed an application that fetches the reports and other data from the vendor's websites (total of different 5 vendors) and fill that data into the respective tables into the database. Analysts have used that data to generate reports and other visualizations.    Responsibilities  • Design, develop, test, deploy and maintain the website.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL.  • Implemented client-side Interface using React JS.  • Build React components and stand-alone functions to be added to any future pages.  • Rewrite existing Java application in Python module to deliver certain format of data.  • Wrote Python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Generated property list for every application dynamically using Python.  • Working on AWS services (S3, EC2) and deployment services (Lambda) and RDS, DynamoDB (NoSQL), Beanstalk, SQSand Jenkins CICD.  • Refactored messaging and storage implementation in loan originator service to use AWS SQS and S3  • Developed corresponding ETL jobs, batches and automated real-time data load.  • Created a backend server with Python Flask that implemented routing for indexing & showing page, and receiving the video & info data sent from the user  • Responsible for search engine optimization to improve the visibility of the website.  • Implemented code according to coding standards and Created AngularJS Controller, which Isolate scopes perform operations.  • Responsible for the Automation of the deployment of the Conductor application on AWS lambda using high-end AWS architectural components  • Developed AWS lambda scripts to build on demand EC2 instance formation.  • Handled all the client-side validation using JavaScript.  • Performed testing using Django's Test Module.  • Involved in AJAX driven application by invoking web services/API and parsing the JSON response.  • Created JIRA Work flows for multiple projects as per business needs.  • Used Couch base Python SDK to build applications that use Couch base Server.  • Involved in writing application level code to interact with APIs, Web Services using JSON.  • Bulk data/issues import into JIRA using CSV file templates.  • Was involved in REST client testing as part of this project  • Creating unit test/regression test framework for working/new code.  • Using Subversion version control tool to coordinate team-development.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  Environment: Python, Django, Flask, Couch base, Lambda, Python SDK, PyQt, Java, MySQL, HTML, XHTML, CSS, AJAX, JSON, JavaScript, React, Jira, Apache Web Server, Linux. Full Stack Python Developer United Health Group - Minneapolis, MN January 2014 to May 2015 Description - The United Health Group's Web Products project involved developing various web-based applications, Secure Messaging Center: A secured emailing system. Java Job-Scheduling application using Quartz Framework. Med Connect: An internal application for health-care providers. Walking Challenge: An application to keep track of steps and activities for individual participants enrolled in the program. Online Behavioral Change: A fusion of Wellness and Disease Management coaching. The program provides tools which engage, educate, and empower consumers to advocate for better health  Responsibilities -  • Developed strategic partnerships with the business unit to develop a solid knowledge base of the business line, including the business plan, products and processes.  • Created Use-Case diagrams and State diagrams using MS Visio.  • Created entire application using Python, Django, MySQL and Linux.  • Implemented and tested many features for dashboard using Flask, CSS and JavaScript.  • Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks. Interfacing with supervisors, artists, systems administrators and production to ensure production deadlines are met.  • Designed and managed API system deployment using fast http server and Amazon AWS architecture  • Creation and deployment of AWS EC2 environments for proof of concept of design assumptions  • Introduced to encapsulate the existing structures used by Keymap and help S3 Index/Keymap scale infinitely  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Used Python and Django creating graphics, XML processing, data exchange and business logic implementation  • Utilized PyUnit, the Python unit test framework, for all Python applications.  • Wrote Python OO Design code for manufacturing quality, monitoring, logging, and debugging code optimization.  • Designing ETL process and creation of ETL design and system design documents.  • Involved in Installation and setting up Python /Linux test beds.  • Worked with JSON based REST Web services.  • Architecting and deploying AWS EC2 and S3-based environments  • Worked in Python on a SQL database.  • Delivered presentations on Project Status and Current Open Issues Report to Users, Stakeholders and other involved groups.  • Conducted weekly meetings with the development and testing team to relay any changed requirements and updates on the development and testing.  • Played a key role in the planning, testing, and implementing system enhancements and conversions.  • Worked closely with project manager in handling the whole project.  Environment: Python 3.x, Django, Flask, Shell Scripting, AWS, Pandas, PyUnit, OOAD, MS Visio, HTTP, JSON, PHP, HTML5, CSS3, AJAX, JavaScript, Bootstrap, Apache Web Server, MYSQL, GitHub, LINUX. Python Developer JPMORGAN - Columbus, OH May 2011 to July 2013 • Analysis of requirements and implement different functions according to design.  • Django and Flask frameworks. Moreover, I have good knowledge in REST APIs, JSON, PostgreSQL, MySQL, Developed front-end code with Ajax call in AngularJS and jQuery to retrieve data as JSON Object from controllers in back-end RESTful Server, then display the well-organized result in web pages by writing AngularJS controller, directives, services, and route providers. Also used Angular.js filter to make the data searchable and sortable.  • Supported the bank website in creating user profiles, we can also do the simple banking transactions for the with drawls, deposit and transactions is accompanied by password check bysecuring.  • Created a RESTful web service in Scala, Akka Actors & Elastic Search to download sample projects using RESTFul API from GitHub.  • Explore fault injection tools written in different languages like C, C++ and suggest integration of tools.  • Deployed DevOps using Puppet, Dashboard, and Puppet DB for configuration management to existing infrastructure  • Implemented responsive web pages using HTML5/CSS3, Bootstrap & XML/JSON REST web  • Services Deployed DevOps using Puppet, Dashboard, and Puppet DB for configuration management to existing infrastructure  • Fix and adapt several open source components created with C/C++ and python3/2 to abide with yocto project needs individual account holder's privacy with the banking management scripts in Python.  • Developed the web applications with the use of the Django.  • Developed web pages using HTML, CSS, JQuery, CICD Script, and AngularJS.  • Backend skills in creating SQL objects like Tables, Stored Procedures, Views, Indexes, Triggers,  • Rules, Defaults, user defined data types and functions.  • Generated property list for every application dynamically using Python.  • Using Subversion version control tool to coordinate team-development.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  • Designed and maintained databases using Python and developed Python based API (RESTful  • Web Service) using Flask, SQL Alchemy, and PostgreSQL.  • Involved in Unit testing and Integration testing for the application.  • Managed, developed, and designed a dashboard control panel for customers and Administrators using Django, HTML, CSS, CICD Script, Bootstrap, jQuery and RESTAPI calls.  • Develop and validated unit test cases using PYUNIT.  • Development of erp's satellite applications with python2, C++, perl, php.  • Mentorship to developers about J2EE and C/C++ Design patterns and structured approaches.  • Performing code coverage and Pep8 standardization.  • Involved in daily Scrum meetings and followss agile methodology.  • Additionally working over pre-silicon environments to simulate and emulate pieces of graphic hardware with C/C++.  Environment: Python, Django, JSON, HTML, CICD script, JQuery, XML, Agile, SQL, Python, Python, C/C++. Python Developer Progressive Digital Media Private Limited June 2009 to April 2011 Description - Progressive Digital Media isone of the leading Telecom providers. Our project is Directory Enquiry - a search engine for Directory. The Application mainly has two modules Agent Application and Admin Application. Searching different directories based on name and city maintaining the search history of agent and maintaining reports are the main functionalities in Agent Application. Admin Application mainly comprises of creating new users, their roles, permissions, and check reports.  Responsibilities -  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Work with team of developers on python applications for RISK management.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript  • Made Django web based apps for Insurance premium calculations.  • Generated property list for every application dynamically using Python.  • Rewrite existing Java, C++ application in Python.  • Used Django APIs for database access.  • Used Python to extract weekly hotel availability information from XML files.  • Used Pandas library for statistical Analysis.  • Used Apache Couchdb (NoSQL) in AWS Linux instance in parallel to RDS MySQL to store and analyze job market info.  • Developed the required XML Schema documents and implemented the framework for parsing XML documents.  • Developed ColdFusion Components, custom tags and modified CF Objects.  • Designed the architecture of the hardware environments and methodology of the code.  • Involved in entire lifecycle of the projects including Design, Development, and Deployment  • Wrote AJAX framework to transform Datasets and tables into HTTP-serializable JSON strings.  • Build SQL, NO SQL queries implementing functions, packages, views, triggers, and tables.  Environment: Python 2.x, Django 1.4, Java Script, Matplotlib, Plotly, HTML, JQuery, JSON, AJAX, XML, CSS, Oracle, MySQL, Bootstrap, SOAP Web Services, Beautiful Soup, Jenkins, SVN, Linux, Eclipse. Education Masters in Computer and Information Science Indiana University Skills CSS (8 years), DJANGO (8 years), MYSQL (8 years), AJAX (7 years), XML (7 years), Java, Drupal, Hadoop, Cobol, AEM, Servicenow, Hybris, C#, Scala, Tibco, Javascript, PHP, Git, Jquery, Android Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  Operating Systems Windows, Linux, Mac OS  Languages C, C++, Java, Python2.x/3.x, Shell Script, Perl  Framework Django and Flask Web framework  Databases MySQL, Sqlite3, PostgreSQL, Oracle, Pl/SQL, SQL Server, MongoDB, SQLAlchemy  Web Technologies HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, XML, AJAX, Bootstrap, Angular JS, React JS  Web Server Apache, Jenkins, WebSphere, WAMP  Tools & Framework Azure, Visual Studio, Eclipse, Microsoft Visio, Sublime, PyCharm