Sr. Python Full Stack Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Python</span> Full Stack <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Python Full Stack Developer - Bank of America • 5 + years of experience in developing applications using python and worked on various stand-alone, client-server applications (front end & backend) using python and Django  • Having good knowledge on python framework like Django and flask. Proficiency in analysis, designing and developing of wed applications  • Design and maintain databases using python and developed python-based API using SQL Alchemy and PostgreSQL and installed packages using python pip and easy install  • Experienced in developing Web-based Applications using python, CSS, HTML, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, AJAX, J2EE, jQuery, JSON, jQuery UI, XML, Angular JS involving Beautiful Soap, NumPy, Matplotlib and Pandas Data frame  • Extensive working experience on MYSQL database queries from python using python-MySQL connector and MySQL dB package, DB browser (SQLite) to retrieve information and expertise in establishing database connections for python by configuring packages like MySQL- python  • Knowledge in Model View Controller (MVC) frameworks like Django, Java Script, and jQuery. Solid knowledge in various Python Integrated Development Environments like Eclipse Sublime Text and NetBeans  • Experience object-oriented programming (OOP) concepts using python and C++. Expertise in NoSQL technologies like MongoDB and relational databases like Oracle, SQLite, Postgre SQL and MySQL (PostgreSQL) databases.  • Worked on creation of REST APIs with CRUD operations for functionality and SOAP APIs for additional security.  • Strong experience with UNIX/Linux in installing and configuring LVM, RAID, NGINX, Apache HTTPD, Tomcat, Weblogic, MySQL, Oracle, patching, system & application log metrics, configured custom Cloud Watch metrics.  • Skilled in use and creation of REST APIs with CRUD operations for functionality and SOAP APIs for additional security  • Having good knowledge on public and private cloud platforms like Amazon Web Services (AWS) and Open stack. Knowledge on Gunicorn, Docker, Nginx and Kubernetes. Good knowledge on android SDK 2.3  • Good experience in AWS CLI to manage AWS infrastructure.  • Used UNIX/Linux shell scripting to automate system administration tasks, system backup/restore management and user account management.  • Expertise in AWS Identity and Access Management (IAM) such as creating users, groups,  organizing IAM users to groups, assigning roles to groups and also familiarity with hosting and participating in projects on Git and Bitbucket source control  • Ability to work independently or as part of an integrated team with experience in a leadership role at the helm of a project.  • Designed and implemented Amazon Web DevOps Services (AWS) cloud-based instances for use on their current and upcoming projects  • Designed and Created Terraform templates and used existing templates to create stacks and provisioned Infrastructure    Programming languages Python, Java, C++, AWS cloud, python Django Web Framework.  Databases Oracle, SQL Server, PostgreSQL.  Web Technologies HTML, jQuery, Ajax, CSS, JavaScript, JSON, XML, Django, Flask, Bootstrap  Technologies and Tools JSP, Spring (Boot, MVC, Security), Web Services, GitHub.  Development Tools PyCharm, Notepad++, Sublime, Slack, SQL Alchemy.  IDE's Eclipse, Net Beans.  Other Tools Jenkins, Docker, Kubernetes, Work Experience Sr. Python Full Stack Developer Bank of America - Jacksonville, FL January 2019 to Present Responsibilities:  • Designed and developed both front and backend modules using python Django and created user interface of the website used html, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery and Ajax.  • XML processing, data exchange and business logic implementation using python and Django.  • Designed and Developed dashboard using High Charts JavaScript library.  • Worked and developing of flask Restful API endpoints for accessing through UI and uploading ETL data.  • Worked with MYSQL, CSS, JavaScript, AJAX and XHTML to build a fully Web compliant networking website.  • Used python Django to develop dynamic web pages.  • Used jQuery and AJAX calls for transmitting JSON data objects between front end and controllers and Utilized continuous integration and automated deployments with Jenkins, Ansible and Docker.  • Actively involved in developing the methods for Create, Read, Update and Delete (CRUD) in Active  Record  • Good knowledge in building and managing Docker contains cluster managed by Kubernetes, linux and git and also implemented its services and building a self-hosted Kubernetes cluster using Terraform and Ansible and deploying application containers  • For building backend applications with python Django worked with work with docker, RabbitMQ, and Jenkins.  • Involved in the Complete Software development life cycle (SDLC) to develop the application.  • Experience in CI/CD model methodology using various environment.  • Integrated GIT into Jenkins to automate the code check-out process.  • Used caching, reusing and improve the security level of data for report generation.  • Developed web application using FLASK which is based on MVC design architecture  • Used python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database and performed testing using Django's Test Module.  • Automated CI/CD for our enterprise application using Stash, JUNIT, Quality  • gates, Docker and Kubernetes.  • Created RDS DB instances using Multi-AG deployments. Tested DB instance Failover using  reboot with fail-over.  • Installation of patches and packages using RPM and YUM in Red hat Linux.  • Implemented client side validations for Search and Security modules using JavaScript and Validation Framework.    Environment: Python, Django, HTML5, CSS, XML, MySQL, JavaScript, Backbone JS, jQuery, CSS Bootstrap, PL/SQL ,MongoDB, T-SQL, JavaScript, Eclipse, Git, GitHub, Shell Scripting, REST, PostgreSQL. Python Full Stack Developer USAA - Plano July 2018 to December 2018 Responsibilities:  • By using python on Django Web Framework designed both front end and backend and create database schema to represent and support business support.  • For the user interface of the website used html, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery and Ajax  • To create a user-friendly website interface used views and templates with python and Django's view controller and templating language.  • Experience in python libraries like NumPy, SciPy, and Web2py.  • Solved many MySQL database queries from python using python-MySQL connector and MySQL DB package  • Developed a fully automated continuous integration system using Git, Jenkins, MySQL and custom tools developed in python.  • Performed Software Development Life Cycle, Database designs, agile methodologies, coding, testing of enterprise applications and IDE's such as Jupiter Notebook, PyCharm and Visual Studio  • Generating graphical reports by using the python libraries like NumPy and matplotlib  • Involved in python OOP code for quality, logging, monitoring, and debugging code.  • Worked with backend python automation Gunicorn, Docker, Nginx and Kubernetes.  • Implemented MVC architecture using Django, SOAP web service and SOAPUI.  • Worked with Relational DB (RDBMD) like SQLite, PostgreSQL and No-SQL database MongoDB for database connectivity and for the structure DB browser (SQLite).  • Experience using Docker by writing Docker files and set up the automated build on Docker HUB and installing and configuring Kubernetes.  • Experienced in installation, configuration, administration, troubleshooting, tuning, security, backup, recovery and upgrades of Linux (Red Hat based 6/7 and Debian based) and Win 2008/2012 Servers in a large environment.  • By using jQuery data manipulation is done on client side.  • Using Amazon Route53 to manage public and private hosted zones.  • Used Shell/ Python scripts to automate the deployment process.  • Configured AWS Virtual Private Cloud (VPCs) and various public and private subnets to implement multi-tier architecture  • Experience in AWS CloudFront, including creating and managing distributions to provide access to S3 bucket or HTTP server running on EC2 instances.  • Experience in AWS CloudFront, including creating and managing distributions to provide access to S3 bucket or HTTP server running on EC2 instances.  • Developed rest API's using python Django framework and done the integration of various data sources including RDBMS, Shell Scripting and Text files.  • Django API's to access the database by using python Django Template developed the customer service web pages and worked on responsive user interface using HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap and JavaScript.    Environment:  Python, Django, Web Framework, HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, MongoDB, JavaScript, jQuery, JSON, Sublime Text, database access, Django-CMS plugins, Bootstrap, Agile, Eclipse, GitHub, Junit, Agile, UML, JSP, Xml, SOA., Shell Scripting MVC, Jenkins, Docker and Kubernetes. Python Django Developer Value Labs July 2015 to December 2017 Responsibilities:  • Handled both frontend and backend using python, Django, Angular JS, ReactJS, XML, CSS, HTML, JavaScript and jQuery  • By using SQL server management studio import Imported/Exported data between different data sources  • Used Pandas API to put the data as time series and tabular format for east timestamp data manipulation and retrieval  • By using python and JavaScript created and tested many features for dashboard and maintained program libraries, user's manuals and technical documentation.  • Designed Model-View-Template design pattern using Django Framework and managed.  • To access the database created Django REST API's using python and used to retrieve and save data.  • Debug application deployments on multiple environments.  • Used Jenkins for the continuous integration process, automation and assisted in the code coverage and analysis by generating reports.  • Used python and Django creating graphics, XML processing, data exchange and business logic implementation.  • Used python Django forms to record data and the Login module page for users.  • Used Ajax and JQuery for transmitting JSON data objects between frontend and controllers  • Managed large datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL.  • Code review using GitHub, testing, fixing of the bugs and coding modifications.  • To avoid the reload for the web page used AJAX in UI to update small portions.  • Ensured high-quality data collection and maintaining the integrity of the data.  • Used Django configuration to manage URLs and Application Parameters.  • Worked on python OpenStack APIs and used NumPy for Numerical analysis.  Environment:  Python, Django, Web Framework, HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, ReactJS, JavaScript, jQuery, JSON, Sublime Text, XML, database access, Bootstrap, Pandas, Agile, Eclipse, GitHub, Junit, Agile, UML, JSP, Xml, SOA., Shell Scripting MVC. Python Developer Kakatiya - IN June 2013 to June 2015 Responsibilities:  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using python Django Web Framework.  • Using the HTML, CSS, JavaScript and jQuery Implemented user interface guidelines and standards throughout the development and maintenance of the website using the HTML, CSS, JavaScript and jQuery.  • Performed Software Development Life Cycle, Database designs, agile methodologies, coding, testing of enterprise applications and IDE's.  • By using python, ROBOT framework, Bootstrap, CSS, and JavaScript developed and tested many features of dashboard.  • Executed MYSQL database queries from python using python-MySQL connector and MySQL dB package to retrieve information.  • Used Django framework in developing web applications to implement the model view control architecture.  • Worked on Dockers, RabbitMQ, Celery, and Jenkins for the backend applications.  • Designed the frontend web pages using HTML, JavaScript, Angular JS, jQuery and AJAX. Used CSS.  • Working with backend python automation, Docker and cloud provisioning/automation.  • Used Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks  • Sed AJAX to modify small portions of the web pages by sending a request to the server avoiding the need of reloading the entire web page and designed and developed Web services using XML and jQuery.  • Implemented Docker build tool for scheduling, deploying python jobs.  • Generated python Django Forms to record data, login, and signup of users.  • Used HTML, CSS, BOOTSTRAP, and JAVA Script based on client's request to develop templates.  Environment:  Python, Java, JavaScript, HTML/CSS, MySQL, BOOTSTRAP, XML, AJAX, Docker, PL/SQL, JDBC, Unix Shell Scripting, Unix/Linux, VMware, Ansible, C, GIT, Jenkins, Chef, Docker, Apache, Tomcat, Artifacts, AWS TCP/IP. Education Bachelor of Technology in Technology GITAM University - Hyderabad, Telangana