Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - Kroger Blue Ash, OH ? 8+ years of experience in IT industry involving Project analysis, design, development, testing, maintenance and documentation.  ? Actively involved in each phase of software Development life cycle (SDLC) and experience in Agile Software Methodology.  ? Extensive knowledge in Python, Core Java, MySQL, XSL, Oracle, UNIX and Linux.  ? I understand and experienced with the following; Pyramid, Django, Angular Js, Key Value Stores, Linux.  ? Skilled in Object-Oriented Design and Programming using Python and Core Java.  ? Experience in Database modelling with SQL, MySQL and Oracle.  ? Expertise in usage of Django Framework for developing web applications.  ? Good knowledge in establishing database connections for Python by configuring packages MySQL- Python.  ? Experience in developing web services (WSDL, SOAP and REST) and consuming web services with python programming language.  ? Good experience in using Shell scripting for automation by following Python PEP.  ? Experienced with Unit Testing, System Integration Testing (SIT) and User Acceptance  ? Testing (UAT).  ? Experienced with version control systems like Git, GitHub in order to keep the versions and configurations of the code organized.  ? Worked on JIRA for bug tracking and communicating for better results.  ? Experience in testing frameworks like Behave.  ? Experience in Web Application Development, hands on experience of Python/Django, Flask, JavaScript, JQuery, HTML5/CSS3, Bootstrap and JSON/AJAX.  ? Designed the UI using HTML5, Angular JS, JQuery and CSS. At client end, I use ANGULARJS framework, HTML5 and CSS3 with third party libraries.  ? Excellent analytical and problem solving skills and ability to work on own besides being a valuable and contributing team player.  ? Excellent written and oral communication skills with results-oriented attitude Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Developer Kroger - Blue Ash, OH March 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Involved in entire lifecycle of the projects including Design, Development, and Deployment, Testing and Implementation and support.  • Developed various Python scripts to find vulnerabilities with SQL Queries by doing SQL injection, permission checks and performance analysis and developed scripts to migrate data from proprietary database to PostgreSQL.  • Involved in development of Web Services using SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface in the XML format.  • Designed the user interactive web pages as the front-end part of the web application using various web technologies like HTML, JavaScript, Angular JS, jQuery and implemented CSS framework Bootstrap for better appearance and feel.  • Working in team of developers to build and deploy Flask, Linux, and AWS.  • Developed remote integration with third party platforms by using RESTful web services that make database calls for inserts, updates, and select queries.  • Developed Unit, Integration and Performance Test Cases using Junit, Selenium and Rational Function Tester.  • Improved code reuse and performance by making effective use of various design patterns.  • Used ANT to build the application and deploy.  • Managed large datasets using Panda data frames and SQL.  • Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from Python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL dB package.  • Utilized GIT for version-control and for tracking changes in source code during software development.  • Used Django evolution and manual SQL modifications was able to modify Django models while retaining all data, while site was in production mode.  • Worked on Angular JS to augment browser applications with MVC capability    Environment: Python, Django, Angular, jQuery, JavaScript, HTML/XHTML, XML, MySQL server, GIT, Reports, RESTful, Linux, ANT. Python Developer Koch Industries - Atlanta, GA December 2014 to March 2017 Responsibilities:  • Designed front end and backend of the application utilizing Python on Django Web Framework.  • Developed consumer-based features and applications using Python and Django in test driven Development.  • Worked on front end frame works like CSS Bootstrap for development of Web applications.  • Involved in various phases of the project like analysis, design, development, and testing.  • Launched Kubernetes to provide a platform for automating deployment, scaling and operations of application containers across clusters of hosts.  • Develop consumer-based features and applications using Python, Django, pyramid, Flask, Web2py, HTML and other web technologies.  • With using of Python OS module on UNIX environment, made job cloning and forking.  • Wrote Python modules to extract/load asset data from the MySQL source database.  • Designed and implemented a dedicated MySQL database server to drive the web apps and report on daily progress.  • Integrated Redis-Cache with the Django-rest-framework for reading the data faster.  • Implemented RESTful Web-Services for sending and receiving the data between multiple systems.  • Extensively worked on Jenkins by installing, configuring and maintaining for Continuous integration(CI) and for End to End automation for all build and deployments.  • Implemented Bash, Perl, Python scripting to Automate many day-to-day tasks.  • Launched Kubernetes to provide a platform for automating deployment, scaling and operations of application containers across clusters of hosts.  • Involved in Developing a Restful API'S service using Python Flask framework.  • Developed the notification service by posting the JSON request in AWS API Gateway, Validating the response in Lambda by getting the data from DynamoDB and sending the notification through AWS SNS.  • Wrote with object-oriented Python, Flask, SQL, Beautiful Soup, httplib2, Jinja2, HTML/CSS, Bootstrap, jQuery, Linux, Sublime Text, GIT.  • Implemented REST API's in Python using micro-framework like Flask with SQL Alchemy in the backend for management of data center resources on which OpenStack would be deployed.  • Involved in development of Web Services using and REST for sending and getting data from the external interface in XML and JSON format.  • Involved in various phases of the project like Analysis, Design, Development, and Testing.  • Developed and Tested features of dashboard using CSS, JavaScript, Django, and Bootstrap.  • Wrote Stored Procedures in SQL and Scripts in Python for data loading.  • Created deployment groups in one environment for the Workflows, Worklets, Sessions, Mappings, Source Definitions, Target definitions and imported them to other environments.  • Tested and debugged the product in controlled and real situations.  • Deploy third party's applications using various CI tools like Jenkins.  • Used Python IDE Pycharm for developing the code and performing unit test.  • Developed web-based applications using Python, Django, XML, CSS, HTML, DHTML.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Used AWS for application deployment and configuration.  • Responsible for Design and maintenance of databases using Python. Developed Pythonbased APIs by using Flask, SQLAlchemy and PostgreSQL.  • Worked on HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, AngularJS, Node.JS, Git, REST API, intellij IDEA.  • Development of real-time multi-tasking systems using Python.  • Developed Business Logic using python on Django Web Framework.  • Worked in an agile development environment  • Deployed Django web application in Apache webserver and carpathia cloud web deployment.  • Written numerous Django views (class based) and templates for page rendering.  • Extensively used closures in Javascript framework.  Environment: Python2.7, Django, Shell Scripting, AWS, Pandas, PyQt, PyQuery, Wireshark, Flash, DOM,  JSON, Redux,PHP, HTML5, CSS3, AJAX, JavaScript, Angular.js, Bootstrap, Apache Web Server, MYSQL, GitHub,  LINUX. Python Developer Hudson Insurance - Alpharetta, GA October 2012 to December 2014 Responsibilities:  • Responsible for gathering requirements, system analysis, design, development, testing and deployment.  • Participated in the complete SDLC process.  • Developed user interface using CSS, HTML, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Wrote Python modules to extract/load asset data from the MySQL source database.  • Designed and implemented a dedicated MYSQL database server to drive the web apps and report on daily progress.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Used Django framework for application development.  • Created entire application using Python, Django, MySQL and Linux.  • Enhanced existing automated solutions, such as the Inquiry Tool for automated Asset Department reporting and added new features and fixed bugs.  • Embedded AJAX in UI to update small portions of the web page avoiding the need to reload the entire page.  • Programming in Python as well as Perl  • Created most important Business Rules which are useful for the scope of project and needs of customers.  • Improved performance by using more modularized approach and using more in built methods.  • Involved in development of Web Services using SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface in the XML format.  • Performed data manipulation/storage for incoming test data using lxml /etree libraries.  • Developed API modularizing existing python module with the help of pyyaml libraries.  • Wrote unit test cases for testing tools.  • Created database using MySQL, wrote several queries to extract/store data.  • Coded test programs and evaluated existing engineering processes.  • Designed and configured database and back end applications and programs.  • Performed research to explore and identify new technological platforms.  • Collaborated with internal teams to convert end user feedback into meaningful and improved solutions.    Environment: Python 2.0, Django 1.4, Puppet Rspec, Jenkins, Grafana/Graphite, MySQL, Linux, HTML, CSS, JQuery, JavaScript, Apache, Linux, Git, Perl, Cassandra. Python Developer Ebix Technologies Pvt Ltd Software - Pune, Maharashtra August 2010 to October 2012 Responsibilities:  • Worked on development of internal testing tool framework written in Python.  • Exposure on Multi-Threading factory to distribute learning process back-testing and into various worker processes.  • Wrote scripts in Python for extracting data from HTML file.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Used JavaScript and JSON to update a portion of a webpage.  • Wrote Python scripts to parse JSON documents and load the data in database.  • Created database using oracle, wrote several queries to extract data from database.  • Developed Merge jobs in Python to extract and load data into Oracle database.  • Successfully migrated the Django database from SQLite to Oracle with complete data integrity.  • Used and customized apache server for checking our developed project.  • Used Test driven approach (TDD) for developing services required for the application.  • Different testing methodologies like unit testing, Integration testing, web application testing were performed.  • Designed, implemented, validate and Tested custom scripts  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.    Environment: Python 2.7, Django 1.9, Flask, HTML5, XML, Oracle, CSS, Embedded SQL, Eclipse, Git, Linux, JIRA Education Bachelor's