Sr. Python Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Python Developer - Optum Minneapolis, MN Work Experience Sr. Python Developer Optum - Minneapolis, MN October 2017 to Present Minneapolis, MN Oct 2017 - Present    Responsibilities:  • Participated in the complete SDLC process and used PHP to develop website functionality.  • Worked on Angular JS of Scopes, Models, Services, Dependency Injection, Routing and Prototyping.  • Developed Responsible Web Design (RWD) UI/UX using HTML 5, CSS3 media queries, Ajax, Angular Js and Bootstrap.  • Used open -source JavaScript libraries like React in building UI components.  • Developed GUI HTML5, XHTML, AJAX, CSS3 and JavaScript (Query).  • Used Python Library Beautiful Soup for web Scrapping.  • Worked on google cloud platform (GCP) services like compute engine, cloud load balancing, cloud storage, cloud SQL, stack driver monitoring and cloud deployment manager.  • Migrated servers, databases, and applications from on premise to AWS and Google Cloud Platform.  • Developed Restful API's using Python Flask and SQLAlchemy data models as well as ensured code quality by writing unit tests using Pytest.  • Written Programs in Spark using Scala and Python for Data quality check.  • Worked on analyzing Hadoop cluster and different big data analytic tools such as HiveQL.  • Hosted GPU based Apache spark jobs using Scala for faster data processing and used spark SQL for querying.  • Involved in writing application level code to interact with APIs, Web Services using AJAX, JSON and hence building features using jQuery, Ajax and jQuery UI.  • Used filters while coding in Angular JS.  • Involved in configured DNS, DHCP, Active Directory, with strong focus on Domain Controller maintenance including Windows Server.  • Develop consumer based features and applications using Python, Django, HTML and Test Driven Development (TDD).  • Analyzed the SQL scripts and designed the solution to implement using Scala  • Involved in debugging the applications monitored on JIRA using agile methodology.  • Involved in writing application level code to interact with APIs, Web Services using AJAX, JSON, XML, Angular JS and Node JS.  • Working on Loading and transforming large sets of structured, semi structured and unstructured data using Hadoop/Big data concepts.  • Created and maintained various DevOps related tools for the team such as provisioning scripts, deployment tools and staged virtual environment using Docker and Kubernetes  • Designed database Model, APIs and Views utilizing Python to build an interactive web-based application.  • Leveraged Angular resources for all data access, encapsulating URLs and standardizing data access interfaces.  • Developed microservice on boarding tools leveraging Python and Jenkins allowing for easy creation and maintenance of build jobs and Kubernetes deploy and services.  • Maintained and developed Docker images for a tech stack including Cassandra, Kafka , Apache , and several in-house written Java services running on Google Cloud Platform (GCP ) on Kubernetes.  • Did Web Development using Html5, CSS3, JavaScript, Jquery, AngularJS, NodeJS, Sinatra, Spring.  • Designed GUI framework using PyQt and Matplotlib for two quantitative finance patents.  • Actively involved in building Cassandra data store integrating data in real time from Oracle to Cassandra using Cassandra, Spark streaming.  • Successfully migrated the Django database from SQLite to MySQL to PostgresSQL with complete data integrity.  • Managed the Docker container through the pods and performing the load balance between the pods through Kubernetes.  • Also used PyQt to implement GUI for the user to create, modify and view reports based on client data.  • Expertise includes bash and python scripting with focus on Devops tools, CI/CD and AWS Cloud Architecture and hands-on Engineering.  • Utilized continuous integration and automated deployments with Jenkins, Ansible and Docker  • Coding in LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, and PHP) environment and installed Zookeeper to manage the Hadoop eco-system and other big data sets  • Used Pandas library for statistics Analysis. Used Numpy for Numerical analysis.  • Leveraged and integrated Google Cloud Storage and Big Query applications, which connected to Tableau for end user web - based dashboards and reports.  • Designed and managed API system deployment using fast http server and Amazon AWS architecture.  • Developed multiple high performance MongoDB replica sets on EC2 with robust reliability.  • Used Amazon Web Services (AWS) for improved efficiency of storage and fast access.  • Implemented and used custom built query script to store, index and read large sets of Object data (like MongoDb)  • Used Jenkins pipelines to drive all microservices builds out to the Docker registry and then deployed to Kubernetes, Created Pods and managed using Kubernetes  • Test driven development (TDD) and agile development using integrate platform (Quartz, subversion, Story/Jira/Sprint) for development, testing, signoff and release.  • Proficient in writing SQL Queries, Stored procedures, functions, packages, tables, views, triggers using relational databases like Oracle, DB2 and MySQL.  • Worked with with Heroku, Site5, Amazon EC2,S3 for deployment.  • Load Balancing implementations of solutions to client applications, including HTTP, HTTPS, SSH, FTP & providing global DNS design solution & successful implementation.  • Exposure in working for developing a portal to manage and entities in a content management system using Flask  • Developed single page applications using various JavaScript frameworks like SASS, AngularJS.  • Writing, testing, debugging Javascript OOP modules with AngularJS, JQuery, BackboneJS  • Used Docker and Ansible to fully automate the deployment and execution of the benchmark suite on a cluster of machines.  • Performed Troubleshooting and Technical support abilities with Migrations, Network connectivity and Security and Database applications.  • Worked mainly on Core Java, C++, STL, data structures, UNIX scripting, multithreading.  • Worked on design and implementation of an audit log system, major API design improvements, and OpenStack cloud management.  • Developed automated testing framework for command-line based tests on Linux using Objected Oriented Perl and for selenium-based tests using Python.  • Setting up network environments using TCP/IP, DNS, DHCP and proxy.  • Established OpenStack project Infrastructure Program and served as tech lead  • Involved in Unit testing and Integration testing.  • I have used AWS (Amazon Web services) in Redshift, EmR for improved efficiency of storage.  • Wrote AJAX framework to transform Datasets and Datatables into HTTP-serializable JSON strings.  • Excellent project management skill with local and international teams. Ex: Continuous Integration and smoke test projects from Jenkins.  • Scaled developer infrastructure as project grew and transitioned to OpenStack Foundation  • UIS system design ( Python Object Oriented Design approach, developing various modules/packages/utilities, e.g.: Cryptography - Encryption/Hashing, Foundation Utilities, Persona management, error/exception management etc.).  • Used WebServices to get travel destination data and rates.  • Issues pertaining to Realtime data being read from RabbitMQ into Postgres and Cassandra. Python Developer Wells Fargo - San Francisco, CA March 2016 to September 2017 Responsibilities:  • Worked extensively on the Python based proprietary framework Quartz.  • Worked on various UI/UX technologies like JSF, HTML5, XHTML, CSS3, JavaScript and JSP tag libraries.  • Used Django configuration to manage URLs and application parameters.  • Used Python, Django framework to develop applications.  • Developed server side REST web services and called them from angular controllers.  • Web application development for backend system on using Angular with cutting edge HTML and CSS techniques.  • Managed, developed, and designed a dashboard control panel for customers and Administrators using Django, Oracle DB, PostgreSQL, and VMWare API calls.  • Implemented a production ready, load balanced, highly available, fault tolerant, auto scaling Kubernetes infrastructure and microservice container orchestration.  • Performed job functions using Spark API's in Scala for real time analysis and for fast querying purposes.  • Worked on implementing GUI using PyQt in Python, REST & JSON.  • Develop Unix Shell scripts to perform ELT operations on big data using functions like Sqoop, create external/internal Hive tables, initiate HQL scripts etc.  • Wrote Python code to simplify lists in Python with list comprehension and Python OOP. Worked with POSTMAN for API testing. Developed REST APIs, and created User Model for application.  • Designed and developed a horizontally scalable APIs using Python Flask.  • Developed POC replacing Tibco BE with Cassandra and spark streaming using AWS.  • Designed and Developed Java Script frame work which is wrapper on top of JQUERY frame work and AJAX based UI frame work for UI Configuration widgets.  • Developed Date Time Picker using Object Oriented JavaScript extensively.  • Implemented user interface guidelines and standards throughout the development and maintenance of the website using the HTML, CSS, JavaScript and Jquery.  • Handled all the client side validation using JavaScript.  • Managed large datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL.  • Develop online applications using OOP as well as Python programming.  • Develop applications that use MongoDB database, and pymongo.  • Performed efficient delivery of code based on principles of Test Driven Development (TDD) and continuous integration to keep in line with Agile Software Methodology principles.  • Work application level code to interact with API's, rest web services using AJAX, JSON, Node.js, XML and Angular.js.  • Developed Golang API and chat-bot using TDD to automate software deployments and rollbacks  • Worked on front end frame works like CSS Bootstrap for responsive webpages.  • Developed and tested many features for dashboard, created using Bootstrap, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Involved in back end development using Python with framework Flask  • Implemented and consumed Task Schedulers for scheduling job priority while distributing data and map/reduce functions over Grid.  • For new website features wrote Angular controllers, views and services.  • Examined event-driven network programming using select () and Twisted framework  • Created time sensitive scripts to parse to large sets of serialized, unstructured data objects (30 Million), filtering and reducing data into functional reports.  • Worked on a large scale distributed computing environment, monitoring data nodes to prioritize jobs for processing functions.  • Used existing Deal Model in Python to inherit and create object data structure for regulatory reporting.  • Involved in environment, code installation as well as the SVN implementation.  • Used standard Python modules e.g. csv, robotparser, itertools, pickle, jinja2, lxml for development.  • Created modules to transform incoming XML trade data into trade objects, parse trade data and create outbound FPML (Financial Products Markup Language) sent to DTCC repositories.  • Trained extensively in agile methodologies and implemented by participating in scrum standups, Kanban mode, discussing and implementing requirements with Product Owners. Software Developer Verizon - Irving, TX December 2014 to February 2016 Irving, TX Dec 2014 - Feb 2016    Responsibilities:  • Responsible for all client side UI/UX Validation and implementing Business logic based on user selection using JQuery, JQuery UI.  • Used HTML/CSS and Javascript for UI/UX development.  • Converted Visual basic Application to Python, MSQL.  • Created Reports using JASPER.  • Designed database Model, Views and API's using Python for interactive web based solutions.  • Used Angular.js for creating custom directives for re-usable components (multi-field form elements, background file uploads, etc.)  • Worked with container-based deployments using Docker, working with Docker images, Docker Hub and Docker registries and Kubernetes.  • Used Test driven approach (TDD) for developing services required for the application.  • Worked on Openstack - Swift for moving large data files using Keystone and Horizon and integrated them into the web services and client server application  • Writing modules in Python to connect to MongoDB with PyMongo and doing CRUD operations with MongoDB  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Used Django framework for database application development.  • Created data access using SQL and PL/SQL stored procedures.  • Worked extensively on Multithreading and Concurrency for implementing Batch Job Scheduling.  • Used HTML, CSS, JQuery, JSON and Javascript for front end applications.  • Used Linux profiler Valgrind for optimization of code.  • Automated RabbitMQ cluster installations and configuration using Python/Bash.  • Worked responsible for development and enhancements of all the modules of raildocs and have them running with the design team for project structure.  • Implemented the presentation layer with HTML, DHTML, Ajax, CSS and JavaScript.  • Used Python, Perl, CGI, JQuery, JavaScript and JSON at the front end.  • Developed in Windows and going to deploy it in Linux server.  • Worked on data exchange from website using XML, JAVA and Web Services.  • Used python scripts to update content in the database and manipulate files.  • Generated Python Django Forms to record data of online users. Software Developer GE Energy - Seattle, WA October 2013 to November 2014 Seattle, WA Oct 2013 - Nov 2014    Responsibilities:  • Designed front end using UI, HTML, Bootstrap, and JavaScript frameworks also worked with server side technologies including databases, and MVC design patterns.  • Involved in requirement Analysis, documentation of high level and low level design.  • Created prototypes in HTML, JavaScript and CSS for different UI pages.  • Developed SOAP WebServices using Apache CXF and Axis2 framework and deployed on Tomcat.  • Developed JAX-WS WebServices and deployed on WebSphere Application Server.  • Migrated web service applications from Tomcat to WebSphere Application Server.  • Worked on java security like encryption, decryption, and generation of signature.  • Used EJB Query Language for all database interactions.  • Worked with Core java concepts. (Generics, Collections, OOP, Threads  • Designed and maintained databases using Python and developed Python based API (RESTful Web Service) using Flask, SQL Alchemy and Postgre SQL.  • Involved in implementing static and dynamic Web mapping of business logic and technical requirements.  • Collaborated with business during requirement analysis and design discussions.  • Worked on migration of light weight web applications from WebLogic to Tomcat.  • Responsible for developing the application level flow by utilizing Java, JSP and Struts.  • Responsible for developing the OS specific scripts (Shell Scripts) for automating the closing doc Process.  • Used JSP for the front-end development and JavaScript for validation. Education Bachelor's Skills C/c++, C++, Django, Docker, Hadoop, Hive, Javascript, Angular.js, Bootstrap, Node.js, Reactjs, Redux, Jenkins, Json, Pig, Python, Matplotlib, Numpy, Pandas, Visio Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:  Programming Languages: JavaScript, Python, C/C++, SQL, Scala.  DevOps Tools: Ansible, Jenkins, Docker, CI/CD, Puppet and chef, Github.  Modern Web Stack: Angular.js, JavaScript, Bootstrap, JQuery, HTML5, CSS3, SASS, LESS, npm , Kendo UI ,Node.js ReactJS, Redux, Grunt.  Technologies: Netconf, Yang, Openstack, BSCS, MSCS  Frameworks: Django, AngularJS, Mongodb  Big data: Hadoop, Pig, Hive  Web Technologies: HTML5, CSS3, AWS, Google Cloud, JavaScript, XML, Pandas, Servlet, JSP, JSON, ExtJs, JQuery, AJAX.  Web Services: AWS (EC2, AMI, EBS Cloud watch, AWS Config, Auto-scaling, REST, SOAP, WSDL  Python Libraries: BeautifulSoup, NumPy, SciPy, matplotlib, Python-twitter  Databases: MYSQL, Oracle, SQL Lite  NoSQL: MongoDB, Dynamo DB, Cassandra, Redis  Software/IDE: Sublime Text, PyCharm, NetBeans, MS Visio.  Operating Systems: Windows, Linux.  Bug Tracking tools: Bugzilla, Jira, Confluence