Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - Wipro Limited Nashville, TN • Having 8+ Years of Experience as web/application developer software development and design using python, Django, Java, Webapp2, Angular.js, HTML/CSS, JavaScript and jQuery  • Experienced in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, Subroutines, functions on SQL, PL/SQL and PostgreSQL database.  • Software development and design using Python 2.7,3.3.1 and 3.4, Django 1.9/1.8,XML, CSS,HTML, JavaScript, JQuery and Angular Js.  • Experienced in understanding principles and best practices of Software Configuration Management (SCM) processes, which include compiling, packaging, deploying and Application configurations.  • Good knowledge in working with application server - Apache Server, Tomcat (6.0, 7.0, 8.0), Nginx, WebLogic (10.0, 10.3, 11g), WebSphere (7.0, 8.5).  • Created a python, Django web-based application using Python scripting for data processing and MySQL for database, HTML, CSS, jQuery for data visualization.  • Experienced in Agile Methodologies, Scrum stories and sprints experience in a Pythonbased environment, along with data analytics, data wrangling and Excel data extracts.  • Hands on experience with Spark Core, Spark SQL and Data Frames/Data Sets/RDD API.  • Write, maintain and improve automation scripts in Python  • Expertise in MVW frameworks like Django, Angular JS, JavaScript, jQuery and Node JS.  • Used Ansible and Ansible Tower as Configuration management tool, to automate repetitive tasks, quickly deploys critical applications, and proactively manages change.  • Ability to work on own initiative and as a part of team. Willingness to learn new Technologies, openness to new ideas and ability to learn very quickly.  • Expertise with cloud platforms like Amazon AWS  • Proficient in Front end development experience using Python 3.6/2.7, Django 1.7/1.8, HTML, XML, CSS, JavaScript, Bootstrap, JQuery, JSON and, Angular.js, Node.js.  • Strong Experience with python automation in automating Rest API and UI automation using Selenium web driver using Python.  • Using Amazon EC2 command line interface along with Bash/ Python to automate repetitive work.  • Designed and managed API system deployment using fast HTTP server and Amazon AWS architecture.  • Involved in designing and developing of Automation Test cases using Selenium WebDriver, Java, and TestNG.  • Development, Quality Assurance and Management teams to ensure cross communication and confirmed approval of all production changes.  • Connected continuous integration system with GIT version control repository and continually build as the check-in's come from the developer.  • Written Programs in Spark using Scala and Python for Data quality check.  • Working experience in UNIX and Linux shell environments using command line utilities.  • Creating Python scripts to automate daily networking tasks (Ex. auto Config generation, retrieving information from network devices, parsing data, etc.) - including a custom Fortigate firewall Config generator (which included multi-threaded functionality to generate Configs for multiple firewalls at once).  • Used Python/Django MVC framework to design and develop the application.  • Experience in Kubernets which provide a platform for automating deployment, scaling and operations of application containers across clusters of hosts.  • Imported the data from different sources like AWSS3, Local file system into Spark RDD and worked on cloud Amazon Web Services (EMR, S3, EC2, Lambda).  • Good knowledge in various stages of SDLC (Software Development Life Cycle), Software Testing Life Cycle (STLC) and QA methodologies from project definition to post-deployment documentation.  • Expertise in using Application Deployments & Environment configuration using Chef. Hands on experience on Automation/Build such as Docker, Chef.  • Involved in converting Hive/SQL queries into Spark transformations using Spark RDDs, Python and Scala.  • Experience with automation, web development and engineering environment tools such as JIRA, Jenkins, Git, BitBucket, Chef, Selenium, QTP, Maven.  • Experienced in understanding principles and best practices of Software Configuration Management (SCM) processes, which include compiling, packaging, deploying and Application configurations.  • Good experience with Python frameworks like Flask and WebApp2.  • Performed Unit testing, Integration Testing and generating of test cases for web applications using Junit and Python Unit test framework Hudson/Jenkins in the builds triggered by each push to GIT.  • Proficient in SQL databases MS SQL, MYSQL, Oracle and NO SQL databases MongoDB, Cassandra.  • Ability to work on own initiative and as a part of team. Willingness to learn new Technologies, openness to new ideas and ability to learn very quickly.  • Have Experience in List Comprehensions and Python inbuilt functions such as Map, Filter and Lambda.  • Experience in working with AWS (Amazon Web Services) cloud platform and its features which includes EC2, IAM, EBS CloudWatch, AWS Config and AWS S3.  • Experience working on scalable environment in Agile/SCRUM methodologies Preparing Test Cases using TDD (test driven development) and BDD (behavior driven development)  • Having working Knowledge in DevOps Environment as an automation engineer on various technologies/ applications like GIT, SVN, Puppet, Chef, Docker, AWS, etc.  • Familiar with JSON based REST Web services and Amazon Web services (AWS) and Responsible for setting  • Experience with Unit testing/ Test driven Development (TDD), Load Testing in JIRA, JENKIN.  • Hands-on experience in writing and reviewing requirements, architecture documents, test plans, design and maintaining documents, quality analysis and helping with the software release process. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Developer Wipro Limited - Nashville, TN June 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Designed front end and backend of the application using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Develop consumer-based features and applications using Python and Django in test driven Development and pair-based programming.  • Good experience in developing web applications and implementing Model View Control (MVC) architecture using server-side applications like Django and Flask.  • Developed and tested many features for dashboard using Python, Java, Bootstrap, CSS, JavaScript and jQuery.  • Created interactive data charts on web application using High charts JavaScript library with data coming from Apache Cassandra.  • Created Terraform scripts for EC2 instances, Elastic Load balancers and S3 buckets. Implemented Terraform to manage the AWS infrastructure and managed servers using configuration management tools like Chef and Ansible.  • Wrote ANSIBLE Playbooks with Python, SSH as the Wrapper to Manage Configurations of AWS Nodes and Test Playbooks on AWS instances using Python. Run Ansible Scripts to provision Dev servers.  • Worked on frontend frameworks like CSS Bootstrap for development of Web application.  • Build Web pages that are more user-interactive using AJAX, JavaScript, and React.JS, Redux  • Worked in MySQL database on simple queries and writing Stored Procedures for normalization and denormalization.  • Used Python based GUI components for the front-end functionality such as selection criteria.  • Connected continuous integration system with GIT version control repository and continually build as the check-in's come from the developer.  • Worked with View Sets in Django-REST framework for providing web services and consumed web services performing CRUD operations.  • Experience with continuous integration and automation using Jenkins.  • Wrote ANSIBLE Playbooks with Python, SSH as the Wrapper to Manage Configurations of AWS Nodes and Test Playbooks on AWS instances using Python. Run Ansible Scripts to provision Dev servers.  • Used Flask framework for application development.  • Designed and implemented a dedicated MYSQL database server to drive the webapps and report on daily progress.  • Developed python Script for moving files from drop box to Amazon server.  • Consumed external APIs and wrote RESTful API using Django REST Framework and AngularJs.  • Developed views and templates with python and Django view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly Website interface.  • Developed internal project in Flask to generate report from google analytics on daily, monthly and weekly basis.  • Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL dB package.  • Used Python Library Beautiful Soup 4 for Web Scraping to extract data for building graphs.  • Worked in development of applications especially in UNIX environment and familiar with all its commands.  • Maintained Git repositories for DevOps environment: Version control and build automationintegrating git into Jenkins  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL.  • Developed dynamic frontend and backend applications using Python, Flask Frameworks  • Creating unit test/regression test framework for working/new code  • Building most of UI Design in Angular 4,5.  • Used Python Library Beautiful Soup for webScrapping.  • Designed SPA (Single page applications) in Flux architecture using React.js.  • Used AWS lambda to run servers without managing them and to trigger to run code by S3 and SNS  • Experience with popular React.js workflows (such as Flux or Redux  • Responsible for debugging the project monitored on JIRA.  • Designed and managed API system deployment using fast HTTP server and Amazon AWS architecture.  • Build Web pages that are more user-interactive using AJAX, JavaScript, and React.JS, Redux.  • Implemented client-side Interface using React JS.  • Used Amazon Web Services (AWS) for improved efficiency of storage and fast access  • Build React components and stand-alone functions to be added to any future pages.  • Designed and implemented a scalable data pipeline in C++ and Python for each step of the machine learning process.  • Developed Model View Controller (MVC) architecture-based Web Applications in Ruby on Rails, Backbone.js and Code Igniter.  • Successfully migrated the Django database from SQLite to MySQL to PostgreSQL with complete data integrity and Designed, developed and deployed CSV Parsing using the big data approach on AWS EC2.  • Involved in writing optimization techniques for more accuracy of Macros in C/C++, C++ routines and Oracle SQL, PL/SQL.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  • Resolved ongoing problems and accurately documented progress of a project.    Environment: Python 3.4/2.7, Django 2.0/1.6, HTML5, CSS, AWS, API Gateway, Java, J2EE, REST API, Spring framework, AngularJS, HTML, Amazon S3, CloudWatch, eclipse, MS-SQL Server, GIT, Jira, Jenkins, Confluence. , MySQL, redux, JavaScript, jQuery, Hadoop/Bigdata Python Developer UAT to PROD - Medley, FL March 2015 to June 2017 Responsibilities:  • Using Python automated manual process of archiving table data from Oracle database into CSV files and loading the extracted data into RainStor Distributed database.  • Developed Python scripts to update the content in database and manipulate files.  • Interacting with business to understand the requirement, developing and supporting it from SIT, UAT to PROD.  • Developed SQL queries for report generations.  • Created PyUnit test cases for unit testing.  • Developed web based application using Django framework with python concepts.  • Worked on integrating python with Web development tools and Web Services.  • Worked in an agile development environment and used GitHub for version control.  • Implemented SOAP/RESTful web services in JSON format.  • Developed scripts in Python for extracting data from HTML file.  • Developed the required XML Schema documents and implemented the framework for parsing XML documents  • Utilize PyUnit, the Python Unit test framework, for all Python applications.  • Good at Object oriented programming concepts Ex: Multi-Threading, Exception handling and collections.  • Improved the maintainability of the project by implementing and improving Exception Handling, Collection and performance tuning Python apps, performance testing and analysis  • Generated property list for every application dynamically using python.  • Handled all the client side validation using JavaScript.  • Build SQL queries implementing functions, packages, views, triggers and tables.  • Developed unit test/regression test using PyUnit framework for working/new code.  • Used Jenkins for continuous integration/continuous deployment  • Ensured bug less code by using JIRA for issue tracking and maintained scalability of the web applications which include code & database optimization, server performance  • Involved in merging the code into different stages like Development to System Testing, UAT, Staging and Production using Sub Version Controlling (SVN) tool  • Involved in entire SDLC process like agile.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  • Created a Git repository and added the project to GitHub.    Environment: Python, Django, SMTP, AWS, OpenStack, MySQL, PyUnit, Agile methodology, Jira, SOAP, REST API, XML, VBScripts, JavaScript, PyCharm Python Developer Optum Health - Windsor, CT December 2012 to March 2015 Responsibilities:  • Responsible for gathering requirements, system analysis, design, development, testing and deployment.  • Designed and developed the user interface of the project with HTML, CSS and JavaScript  • Entire Front end and back end modules of the project are developed using Python with Django Framework.  • Designed and developed the data management systems using MySQL databases.  • Written Python Scripts to parse the XML documents and load the data in database.  • Utilized the existing Python and Django modules and rewritten to deliver data in required formats.  • Client-side validations and manipulations are done using JavaScript and jQuery.  • Experienced in writing indexes, views, constraints, stored procedures, triggers, cursors and user defined functions or subroutines in MySQL.  • Responsible for Debugging and troubleshooting the application.  • Utilized Subversion control tool to coordinate team work.  • Used Selenium Libraries to write fully functioning test automation process.  • Designed and developed a horizontally scalable APIs using Python Flask.  • Designed Cassandra schema for the APIs  • Java implementation on given project  • Developed shopping cart for Library and integrated web services to access the payment.  • Used Php language on lamp server to develop page.  • Developed dynamic interaction page on .net MS visual basic-2014, using SQL developer tools.  • Effectively communicated with the external vendors to resolve queries    Environment: Python, Django, MySQL, Windows, Linux, HTML, CSS, jQuery, JavaScript, Apache, Linux, Quality Centre,  Ansible, PL/SQL. Python Developer Hyderabad, Telangana October 2010 to December 2012 Responsibilities:  • Associated with various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) of the application like requirement gathering, Design, Analysis and Code development.  • Developing Python Framework using Django to perform scan software unit monitoring.  • Designed the front end of the application using Python.  • Design and development of user interfaces and client displays using Java Script, JSP, CSS and troubleshoot various issues in Python code and fix them with code enhancements- code used various python libraries such as PyJamas and Jython.  • Built various graphs for business decision making using Python matplotlib library.  • Developed and tested many features for dashboard using Python, Bootstrap, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Worked on developing internal testing tools which were written in Python.  • Developed the front-end featuring rich web interface using HTML5, CSS3, and Java Script and used JQuery framework for UI centric AJAX behaviour.  • Developed server side application and server side validations using Django framework.  • Performed validations for input fields making use of mainly Active Records.  • Implemented MVC architecture in developing the web application with the help of Django framework.  • Built various graphs for business decision making using Python Matplotlib  • Analysis and Design of application.  • Implemented business logic using Python/Django.  • Responsible for setting up Python REST API framework using Django.  • Implement code in python to retrieve and manipulate data.    Environment: Python 3.x, Django 1.4, MySQL, Linux, HTML, XHTML, CSS, AJAX, JavaScript, Perl, Apache Web Server, Git, Linux. Education Bachelor's Skills MySQL, PHP, Javascript, Android, ASP