PYTHON DEVELOPER <span class="hl">PYTHON</span> <span class="hl">DEVELOPER</span> PYTHON DEVELOPER - VISA RTG • Around 6 years of professional experience in I.T Industry with strong hands on analysis, design and development of enterprise applications.  • Equipped with the knowledge of various software's, organizing technical demonstrations with sound understanding and skill of creating new software & systems, designing, analysis, testing, database development and coding for modules while structuring customized solutions to meet customer's specific needs.  • Strong experience of software development in Python (libraries used: Beautiful Soup, NumPy, SciPy, Matplotlib, python-twitter, Pandas data frame, network, urllib2, MySQL dB for database connectivity) and IDEs - Sublime text, Spyder, PyCharm, Eclipse, Emacs.  • Good experience in Python in creating scalable and robust applications along with other technologies. Proficient in developing Web Services (SOAP, RESTful) in Python using XML, JSON.  • Driven to architect Big Data solutions on multiple platforms using data analytics. Strong experience in Big data, Bigdata Integration and Analytics technologies including Apache Spark, Hadoop, cass.  • Hands on experience working in WAMP (Windows, Apache, MYSQL and Python/PHP) and LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, and Python/PHP) Architecture.  • Expertise in practicing the SDLC models, agile methods with Scrum, Extreme Programming, Ticketing systems using JIRA and Test-Driven Development (TDD).  • Experienced in developing web-based applications using Python, Django, PHP, C++, XML, CSS, HTML, DHTML, JavaScript, jQuery, MVC3, Bootstrap, RESTful, RUBY and AJAX.  • Expertise in working with different databases like Oracle, MySQL, PostgreSQL and Good knowledge in using NoSQL database MongoDB.  • Experience in implementing core cache and abstraction with Jasmine and Redis cache server.  • Good experience in developing web applications and implementing Model View Control (MVC) architecture using server-side applications like Django, Flask, Web2Py and Pyramid.  • Excellent experience with python development under Linux OS (Debian, Ubuntu, SUSE Linux, Red Hat Linux).  • Well versed with Version control systems such as Git, SVNand CVS.  • Worked on Several deployment tools using Google Cloud, Jenkins, Ansible, Pylint, cpp Check and Coverity.  • Experienced in implementing Cloud solutions in AWS (EC2, EMR. S3, Cloudwatch, Lambda, Cloudtrail, SNS, SES, EBS, CLI, VPC, ELB, IAM, Redshift, RDS, Root53), Google Cloud, Microsoft Azure.  • Experience in project deployment using Google Cloud/Jenkins, Elasticsearch and using web Services like Amazon Web Services (AWS).  • Experience in using Design Patterns such as MVC, Singleton and frameworks such as Django, WSGI.  • Experience in using UNIX Shell Scripts for automating batch programs.  • Worked on AJAX framework to transform Datasets and Data tables into HTTP Serializable JSON  strings. Good knowledge on front end frame works like CSS, Bootstrap.  • Proficient in developing complex SQL queries, Stored Procedures, Functions, Triggers, Cursor and Packages along with performing DDL and DML operations on the MySQL and PostgreSQL database and Modified Stored Procedures and complex T-SQL Queries to improve query execution process.  • Strong knowledge with REST API development and good idea using debugging tools like Bugzilla and JIRA.  • Good experience in developing web applications implementing Model View Control architecture using Django, Flask and Pyramid Python web application frameworks.  • Basic understanding of protocols/technologies like HTTP, LDAP, JDBC, SSL, Servlet/JSP, SQL, HTML, XML.  • Sound experience in Object Oriented Programming using concepts like Multi-Threading, Exception Handling and Collections.  • Knowledge about setting up Python REST API Frame work using Django and Flask.  • Good at writing SQL Queries, Stored procedures, functions, packages, tables, views, triggers using relational databases like Oracle, MySQL, PostgreSQL, DB2.  • Having good knowledge in using NoSQL databases like Apache Cassandra 3.11 Couchbase, Kubernetes and Mongo DB 4.0 Orient DBF net.  • Having experienced in Agile Methodologies, PCI, Scrum stories and sprints experience in a Python based environment, Data analytics, data wrangling and Excel data extracts.  • Worked on various operating systems like Windows, UNIX and LINUX. Experienced in Shell Scripting and UNIX commands.  • Experience in deploying applications in heterogeneous Application Servers TOMCAT, Web Logic and Oracle Application Server.  • Experience in working with SQL Alchemy in connecting with databases like Mongo DB, Cassandra, Oracle and MySQL.  • Familiarity with development best practices such as code reviews, unit testing, system integration testing (SIT) and user acceptance testing (UAT).  • Proficient in using editors Eclipse, Visual Studio Code, PyCharm, Py Scripter, Notepad++ and Sublime Text while developing different applications.  • Expertise in performing Unit testing using Pyunit framework and Test Automation used Robot Framework along with Error Logging using Sentry. Work Experience PYTHON DEVELOPER VISA - Foster City, CA February 2018 to Present • Created Terraform scripts for EC2 instances, Elastic Load balancers and S3 buckets. Implemented Terraform to manage the AWS infrastructure and managed servers using configuration management tools like Chef and Ansible. Designed front end and backend of the application using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Implemented the application using Python Spring IOC(Inversion of Control), Django Framework and Apache spark handled the security using Python Spring Security.  • Develop consumer-based features and applications using Python and Django in test driven Development and pair-based programming.  • Developed and tested many features for dashboard using Python, Java, Bootstrap, CSS, JavaScript and jQuery.  • Created interactive data charts on web application using High charts JavaScript library with data coming from Apache Cassandra.  • Worked on implementing Spark Framework a Java based Web Frame work. Worked and learned a great deal from AWS cloud services like EC2, S3.  • Create Jenkins pipeline jobs for Puppet release process for module deployment, using Kanban methodology for Puppet development & also involved in integrating the GIT into the Puppet to ensure the integrity of applications by creating Production, Development, Test, and Release Branches.  • Build Restful API web services using Node JS and Express JS and used a Full complement of Express, Angular JS, Node.js, and Mongo DB to store and present assessments.  • Worked on Mongo DB write concern to avoid loss of data during system failures and implemented read preferences in Mongo DB replica set.  • Involved in developing the Angular.JS Meteor framework for the Single Page Application development.  • Wrote ANSIBLE Playbooks with Python, SSH as the Wrapper to Manage Configurations of AWS Nodes and Test  Playbooks on AWS instances using Python. Run Ansible Scripts to provision Dev servers.  • Worked on frontend frameworks like CSS Bootstrap for development of Web application. Worked in MySQL database on simple queries and writing Stored Procedures for normalization and denormalization.  • Used Python based GUI components for the front-end functionality such as selection criteria. Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django including Tasty pie Web Framework using Git.  • Deployed and monitored Microservices using pivotal cloud foundry, also managed domains and routes. Performed Restful routing using Node.js which submits my form data to the Mongo DB database.  • Developed existing network mapping microservices using python Nmap and deployed it on kubernetes. Performed S3 buckets creation, policies on IAM role based polices, MFA and customizing the JSON template.  • Automated various service and application deployments with ANSIBLE on CentOS and RHEL in AWS.  • Wrote ANSIBLE Playbooks with Python, SSH as the Wrapper to Manage Configurations of AWS Nodes and Test Playbooks on AWS instances using Python also run Ansible Scripts to provision Dev servers.  • Worked in MySQL database on simple queries and writing Stored Procedures for normalization & deployed the project into Jenkins using GIT version control system.  • Developed spark application working with Spark Context, Spark-SQL, Data Frame, Pair RDD's.  • Wrote Restful web services to communicate with Mongo DB and performed CRUD operations on Mongo DB using Restful web API services.  • Managed Linux and windows virtual servers on AWS EC2 using open-source chef server. Worked on Apache Spark jobs using Scala in test environment for faster data processing and used Spark SQL for querying.  • Taken part in entire lifecycle of the projects including Design, Development, and Deployment, Testing and Implementation and support.  • Understanding of secure-cloud configuration, Cloud Trail, cloud-security technologies (VPC, Security Groups, etc.) and cloud-permission systems(IAM).  • Experience in Installing Jenkins/Plugins for GIT Repository, Setup SCM Polling for Immediate Build with Maven and Maven Repository and Deployment of apps using custom modules through mo as a CI/CD Process.  • Configured and maintained Jenkins to implement the CI process and integrated the tool with Ant and Maven to schedule the builds.  • Implemented Terraform to manage the AWS infrastructure and managed servers using configuration management tools like Chef.  • Done POC using Kafka and Spark Streaming to fetch data from ONCORE application into our analytics application.  • Wrote Kafka producers to stream the data from external rest APIs to Kafka topics and handful in use of version controlling systems like GIT and SVN.  • Worked on importing the real-time data to Hadoop using Kafka and implemented the Oozie job. Experience Schedule Recurring Hadoop Jobs with Apache Oozie.  • Worked with View Sets in Django-REST framework for providing web services and consumed web services performing CRUD operations.  • Utilized Python libraries wx Python, NumPy, Twisted and matplotlib and designing mobile search application system requirements and coded back-end and front-end in Python.  • Created Chef roles for different Applications and services and to spin in different environments. Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Managed datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL, queried MYSQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL dB package to retrieve information  • Implemented SQL Alchemy which is a python library for complete access over SQL.  • Having expertise on performance testing of the applications on Mongo DB using Studio3T and OPS Manager. Developed Hibernate with Spring Integration as the data abstraction to interact with the database of Mongo DB.  • Worked on Element tree XML API in python to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Used Python Library Beautiful Soup 4 for Web Scraping to extract data for building graphs as well used Angular JS as the development framework to build a single-page application. PYTHON DEVELOPER WELLS FARGO - San Francisco, CA April 2016 to February 2018 • Worked on several Python libraries like Python, NumPy and matplotlib and was involved in environment, code installation as well as the SVN implementation.  • Designed and maintained databases using Python and developed Python based API (RESTful Web Service) using Flask, SQL Alchemy and PostgreSQL.  • Developed and designed system to collect data from multiple portal using Kafka and then process it using spark.  • Developed Chef Cookbooks to install and configure Apache Tomcat, Jenkins and deployment automation.  • Added support for Amazon AWS S3 and RDS to host static/media files and the database into Amazon Cloud.Worked on Python OpenStack APIs and used NumPy for Numerical analysis.  • Successfully migrated the Django database from SQLite to PostgreSQL with complete data integrity.  • Worked on installation of Docker using Docker toolbox & used GIT for the version control and deployed project into AWS.  • Created RESTful API's calls with server, parse output report of excel files & wrote scripts in Python for extracting data from HTML file.  • Used Jenkins to build and troubleshoot automated testing and for continuous integration and deployment & worked on creation of custom Docker container images, tagging and pushing the images.  • Involved in development of Web Services using SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface in the XML format. Responsible for the project monitored on JIRA (Agile)  • Involved in installing and configuring Confluent Kafka in R&D line, also Validate the installation with HDFS connector and Hive connectors.  • Performed Disk Space management to the users and groups in the cluster & also used Storm and Kafka Services to push data to HBase and Hive tables.  • Used Chef, deployed and configured for log analytics, full text search, application monitoring in integration with AWS Lambda and CloudWatch.  • Used Spark Streaming APIs to perform transformations and actions on the fly for building common.  • Installed and configured configuration tool such as Chef Server/workstation and nodes via CLI tools to AWS nodes.  • Implemented Terraform to manage the AWS infrastructure and managed servers using configuration management tools like Chef and Ansible.  • Used UML Rational Rose to develop Use-case, Class and Object diagrams for OOA/OOD techniques.  • Used Spark Streaming to divide streaming data into batches as an input to Spark engine for batch processing.  • Good experience using various Python libraries including Beautiful Soup, NumPy, SciPy, Matplotlib, python-twitter, Urllib, Pandas data frame, network for database connectivity to speed up development  • Used Amazon Elastic Beanstalk with Amazon EC2 to deploy project into AWS.  • Worked on bug-tracking Jira, source code management tools Git, GitHub, Stash and team collaboration software SAAS tool Confluence.  • Worked on big data Technologies, particularly Hadoop, Hive, Pig as well as Spark & also installed and maintained web servers Tomcat and Apache HTTP in UNIX.  • Worked on various Python packages such as SQL Alchemy, Pickle, PySide, PySpark, PyMongo, PyTable. Responsible for designing, developing, testing, deploying and maintaining the web application.  • Responsible for managing large databases using Pandas data frames and MySQL. Wrote and executed various MySQL database queries from Python-MySQL connector and MySQL dB package.  • Deployed project into Amazon web services (AWS) using amazon elastic bean stalk. Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django including Tasty pie Web Framework using Git. PYTHON DEVELOPER BANK OF AMERICA - Charlotte, NC October 2015 to March 2016 • Used Agile methodology for rewriting existing Python/Django modules to deliver certain format of data and responsible for debugging the project monitored on JIRA.  • Designed front end using UI, HTML, Bootstrap, CSS/CSS3 and JavaScript with server-side technologies including databases for development of Web applications.  • Extensively used JavaScript MVC Framework AngularJS to make rich internet web application for a Single page application. Worked with the Linux/Unix admin team to set up, configure, initialize and troubleshoot a Cassandra cluster.  • Developing applications using RESTFUL architecture using Node.js and PHP as backend languages.  • Wrote unit test cases individually and in suits with Pytest and PyUnit on SOAP messages stored by creating SOAP services.  • Designed and developed an entire module called CDC (change data capture) in python and deployed in AWS GLUE using PySpark library and python. Installed Kerberos secured Kafka cluster with no encryption on Dev and Prod. Also set up Kafka ACL's into it. Developed Test Cases and Test Scripts in selenium web driver with Java using Cucumber framework with build management tool Maven.  • Accessed public datasets and use TensorFlow and SQL Alchemy to load, process, clean, and transform data. Worked on JSF Framework integrated with EJB 3.0 as well as Hibernate 4.  • Modify existing codes and developed PL/SQL packages to perform Certain Specialized functions / enhancement on Oracle application. Used log4j for logging automated steps and script errors.  • Implemented Spark using Scala for faster testing and processing of data responsible to manage data from different sources. Installed Red Hat based Linux systems and familiar with specific configuration component of Red Hat.  • Analyzed the SQL scripts and designed solutions to implement using PySpark & utilized Kubernetes and Docker for the runtime environment of the CI/CD system to build and test deploy.  • Developed server-based web traffic statistical analysis tool using Flask, Pandas and tested it in interaction with MySQL.  • Created Database on Influx DB also worked on Interface, created for Kafka also checked the measurements on Databases  • Developed Spark Streaming script to consume topics from distributed messaging source Kafka for real-time processing.  • Worked on Kafka Backup Index, Log4j appender minimized logs and Pointed ambari server logs to NAS Storage.  • Worked with the migration of existing code repository from ClearCase multisite to TFS and used Eclipse to connect to central CVS repository and SVN repository servers.  • Installed and configured configuration tool such as Chef Server/workstation and nodes via CLI tools to AWS nodes.  • Implemented Bottle, Pyramid and Cherrypie framework with REST API and MongoDB as back end database. Involved in converting Hive/SQL queries into Spark transformations using Spark RDDs, Python and Scala.  • Involved in writing application level code to interact with Web API's, web services using JSON. Used Perforce version control system and Python tools for visual studio (PTVS) IDE.  • Worked with AWS EC2 Container Service plugin in Jenkins which automates Jenkins master-slave configuration by creating temporary slaves. Integrated AWS-RDS Oracle to AWS-Hive using DynamoDB and MariaDB with direct connect.  • Developed API services in React.js, Node.js while leveraging RabbitMQ for distributed architectures. Experience in Linux and Unix Bash scripting and following PEP Guidelines.  • Used Py Query to modify pure http templates that can be used for web scrapping or for theming applications.  • Created custom columns while ingesting data into Hadoop lake using PyTable, PySpark, PyMongo, Pickle and PySide. PYTHON DEVELOPER DELL - Mumbai, Maharashtra May 2013 to February 2015 • Done the representation of the system in hierarchy form by defining the components, subcomponents using Python and developed set of library functions over the system based on the user needs.  • Performed Inheritance based Object Relational Mappings in tables to simplify the data using Hibernate ORM.  • Developed views and templates with Django view controller and template to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Created a Python/Django based web application using Python scripting for data processing, MySQL for the database, and HTML/CSS/jQuery and High Charts for data visualization of the served pages.  • Managed, developed, and designed a dashboard control panel for customers and Administrators using Django, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Bootstrap, jQuery and RESTAPI calls.  • Developed Action classes, Action Forms, and Struts Configuration file to handle required UI actions, JSPs for Views.  • Developed project's web page as Single Page Application (SPA) by using AngularJS and JavaScript API and build delivery driver application.  • Deployed an AWS cloud server for Python using up-to-date and consistent interface with Boto3.  • Created methods (get, post, put, delete) to make requests to the API server and tested Restful API using postman.  • Designed and Developed SQL database structure with Django Framework using agile methodology Designed and developed a responsive UI page using Bootstrap.  • Analysis, Design, Implementation, Testing and Maintenance Developed project using Django, Oracle SQL, Angular 2, JavaScript, HTML5, CSS3 and Bootstrap.  • Wrote ANSIBLE Playbooks with Python, SSH as the Wrapper to Manage Configurations of AWS Nodes and Test Playbooks on AWS instances using Python. Run Ansible Scripts to provision Dev servers.  • Worked in MySQL database on simple queries and writing Stored Procedures for normalization and denormalization.  • Extensive knowledge of building single page applications (SPA) using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Angular, Bootstrap, with Python development. Education Master of Science in Computer Science North Western Polytechnic University 2016 Bachelor of Engineering in Electronics and Telecommunication Pune University - Pune, Maharashtra 2011