SR Python Developer/Data Analyst SR <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span>/Data Analyst SR Python Developer/Data Analyst - Capital One Chicago, IL ? 8+ years of robust professional experience in Data collection, Data Extraction, Data Cleaning, Data Aggregation, Data Mining, Data verification, Data analysis, Reporting, and data warehousing environments.  ? Extensive experience in querying languages using SQL,PL/SQL, T-SQL, SAS.  ? Proficient in Data Analysis with sound knowledge in extraction of data from various database sources like MySQL, MSSQL, Oracle, Teradata and other database systems.  ? Expertise in developing advanced PL/SQL code through Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, Tables, Views and User Defined Functions.  ? Experience in building Data Integration, Workflow Solutions and Extract, Transform, and Load (ETL) solutions for data warehousing using SQL Server Integration Service (SSIS).  ? Developed OLAP Cubes by using SQL Server Analysis Services (SSAS) and defined Data Source views, Dimensions, Measures, Hierarchies, Attributes, Calculations using multi-dimensional expression (MDX), Perspectives and Roles.  ? Expertise in Normalization/De-normalization techniques for effective and optimum performance in OLTP and OLAP environments.  ? Developed Merge jobs in Python to extract and load data into MySQL database.  ? Hands on experience in SAS programming for extracting data from Flat files, Excel spreadsheets and external RDBMS (ORACLE, MySQL, DB2, Sybase) tables using LIBNAME and SQL PASSTHRU facility.  ? Expertise in Data Manipulations using SAS data step, such as SAS Formats/In formats, Merge, Procedures like PROC APPEND, PROC DATASETS, PROC SORT, PROC TRANSPOSE.  ? Experience in developing predictive models like Decision trees, Interactive decision tree, Gradient boosting, Regression, Neural networks etc using SAS enterprise miner.  ? Extensive knowledge of advanced SAS/STAT procedures including PROC REPORT, PROC TABULATE, PROC CORR, PROC GLM, PROC ANOVA, PROC LOGISTIC, PROC TTEST, PROC GPLOT, PROC REG, PROC FREQ, PROC MEANS, PROC UNIVARIATE.  ? Proficient in writing macros to create SAS data sets, tables, report and graphs from Procedure Output and automatically send to various destinations (including HTML, RTF, PDF, Printer and Listing) by using SAS ODS statement, as well as convert various file types to SAS Datasets.  ? Automate the process of data extraction, transformation and processing using shell scripts.  ? Used Test driven approach for developing the application and Implemented the unit tests using Python Unit test framework.  ? Experience in developing programs by using SQL, SAS &shell scripts and scheduling the processes to run on a regular basis.  ? Worked in creating different Visualizations in Tableau using Bar charts, Line charts, Pie charts, Maps, Scatter Plot charts, Heat maps and Table reports.  ? Extensive experience in various reporting objects like Facts, Attributes, Hierarchies, Transformations, Filters, Prompts, Calculated Fields, Sets, Groups, Parameters in Tableau.  ? Created Dashboards style of reports using Qlikview components like List Box, Slider, Buttons, Charts and Bookmarks.  ? Experience in creating Ad-hoc reports, subscription reports by using Report Builder in SSRS.  ? Extensively used Teradata, SQL, BTEQ for the backend process to build the business rules  ? Performing Ad Hoc reports by using Oracle, Teradata, BTEQ, and UNIX.  ? Performing Ad Hoc reports using Oracle, Teradata, Bteq, and UNIX.  ? Oracle Developer including SQL, PL/SQL, SQL*Plus Editor.  ? Database analysis tools TeradataSQL Assistant, TOAD and ERwin. Data cleansing tool WinPure.  ? Responsible for creating ETL design specification document to load data from operational data store to data warehouse.  ? Prepared scripts to ensure proper data access, manipulation and reporting functions with R programming languages.  ? Formulated procedures for integration of R programming plans with data sources and delivery systems.  ? Provided technical assistance for development and execution of test plans and cases as per client requirements Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience SR Python Developer/Data Analyst Capital One - Chicago, IL May 2017 to Present Capital One is a diversified financial services company that provides a broad range of banking, asset management, wealth management, and corporate and investment banking products and services. Online Brokerage provides users with the tools to track and manage their portfolios online 24/7. To integrate diverse trading work flows for fixed income business and provide a consolidated trading application interface to business users    Responsibilities:  ? Worked with the Intent Owners in understanding the intent and built the Business Intent template with all the segmentation criteria required  ? Working on Weekly ,Monthly BAU's  ? Worked on Migration Project where migrated all the data from internal system (SAS) into AWS using Mainframes  ? Working on EMAIL and Direct Mail Campaigns for Partners  ? Working on CLIPS (Credit Line Increase Program)  ? Worked on Special Project called SpamHaus which deals with email's  ? Working with Different Partners like Helzberg , Lord and Taylor ,Neiman Marcus , Furniture Row  ? Followed agile methodology and coordinated daily scrum meetings  ? Dedicated professional JIRA Administrator with an excellent knowledge and background working with such programs as JIRA Agile, JIRA Capture, JIRA Portfolio, JIRA Service Desk and a large variety of other programs.  ? Experience with Jiraupgrade with minimal down time.  ? Created and managed plans using JIRA Portfolio.  ? Provide daily communications, scrum notes, sprint reviews reports, project retrospectives, and regular snapshots of project velocity and budget burn rate.  ? Organized and facilitated sprint planning, daily stand-up meetings, reviews, retrospectives, release planning, demos and other Scrum-related meeting  ? Maintain scrum boards to ensure team engagement throughout the sprint  ? Preparing for AWS Certification  ? Extensively used SAS enterprise miner and developed predictive models in decision tree, interactive decision tree, gradient boosting, regression and neural networks.  ? Based on scores, selected best model and used model on new data to predict likelihood of hospitalization for next six months.  ? Developed statistical reports with Charts, Bar Charts, Box plots, Line plots using PROC GPLOT, PROC GCHART and PROC GBARLINE.  ? Used SAS Procedures like PROC FREQ, PROC SUMMARY, PROC MEANS, PROC SQL, PROC SORT, PROC PRINT, PROC Tabulate, PROC UNIVARIATE, PROC PLOT and PROC REPORT to generate various regulatory and ad-hoc reports.  ? Created reports in the style format (RTF, PDF and HTML) using SAS/ODS.  ? Built complex formulas in Tableau for various business calculations.  ? Created Bar Charts which is compiled with data sets and added trend lines and forecasting on future trend of the financial performance.  ? Complied interactive dashboards in Tableau Desktop and published them to Tableau Server with Quick Filters for on demand needed information with just a click of a button.  ? Possess good technical skills in SAS programming language for different SAS solutions that are utilized to analyze and generate files, tables, listings, graphs, validations, reports and documentation.  ? Quality control, execution, and maintenance (debugging, enhancements, testing) of all delivered production code.  ? Extensive experience in writing generic macros, utility macros (schedule tasks, email, audit, ftp, backup/archive files) and driver macros for integration of SAS modules for automation.  ? Skilled in writing automated SAS tasks and conversion of SAS datasets into various file types (including HTML, Excel, PDF, Word, XML) as well as converting various file types to SAS datasets.  ? Excellent understanding of data management principles, database design, data analysis and data manipulation.  Environment: Python, TeradataV2R12, Oracle, UNIX, Informatica, My Attachmate (SSO) IBM Mainframes, Quality Center, AOTS, Business Objects, Putty, SAS. Sr .Data / SAS Analyst Wells Fargo Card Services - West Des Moines, IA December 2014 to May 2017 Wells Fargo & Company is an American multinational banking and financial services holding company headquartered in San Francisco, California with "hubquarters" throughout the country. It is the third largest bank in the U.S. by assets and the largest bank by market capitalization. As Reporting Analyst for Credit Card Acquisition team, I was responsible for providing analytical support to all risk initiatives within Credit Card Acquisition. Customer's demographic data, transactional and behaviour data was extracted from various legacy systems and loaded database tables based on variables of interest for profiling and segmentation    Responsibilities:  ? Worked with the analysis teams and management teams and supported them by providing variables based on their requirements.  ? Involved in extraction, transformation and loading of data directly from different source systems (flat files/Excel/Oracle/MSSQL/Teradata) using SAS/SQL, SAS/macros.  ? Extensively read different forms of Input files like CSV and other formatted files using In-file, Proc Import and documented using SAS scripting to develop data cleaning operations.  ? Generated PL/SQL scripts for data manipulation, validation and materialized views for remote instances.  ? Reviewed basic SQL queries and edited inner, left, and right joins in Tableau Desktop by connecting live/dynamic and static datasets.  ? Created and modified several database objects such as Tables, Views, Indexes, Constraints, Stored procedures, Packages, Functions and Triggers using SQL and PL/SQL.  ? Created large datasets by combining individual datasets using various inner and outer joins in SAS/SQL and dataset sorting and merging techniques using SAS/Base.  ? Wrote Python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  ? Used Python to extract weekly information from XML files.  ? Developed Python scripts to clean the raw data  ? Developed live reports in a drill down mode to facilitate usability and enhance user interaction  ? Query Data from Hadoop/Hive &MySQL data sources to build visualization in Tableau.  ? Facilitated the automation process for the Delinquency Report -This report was required to run on a monthly basis  ? Created Macros and used macros created by other users.  ? Extensively worked on Shell scripts for running SAS programs in batch mode on UNIX.  ? Validated regulatory finance data and created automated adjustments using advanced SAS Macros, PROC SQL, UNIX (Korn Shell) and various reporting procedures.  ? SAS/STAT procedures such as UNIVARIATE, FREQ, and MEANS were used to carry out analyses and the SAS REPORT procedure is generally used to display results.  ? Performed statistical data analysis, generated ad-hoc reports,tables, listings and graphs using tools such as SAS/Base, SAS/Macros, SAS/Graph, SAS/SQL and SAS/STAT.  ? Developed statistical reports with Charts, Bar Charts, Box plots, Line plots using PROC GPLOT, PROC GCHART and PROC GBARLINE.  ? Extensive use of Procfreq, Proc Report and Proc Tabulate for reporting purposes.  ? Designed and developed various analytical reports from multiple data sources by blending data on a single worksheet in Tableau Desktop. Involved in creating Tree Map, Heat maps and background maps.  ? Involved in generating dual-axis bar chart, Pie chart and Bubble chart with multiple measures and data blending in case of merging different sources.  ? Developed story telling dashboards in Tableau Desktop and published them on to Tableau Server which allowed end users to understand the data on the fly with the usage of quick filters for on demand needed information.  ? Tested dashboards to ensure data was matching as per the business requirements and if there were any changes in underlying data.  ? Created reports using analysis output and exported them to the web to enable the customers to have access through Internet.  ? Created Dashboards style of reports using Qlik view components like List Box, Slider, Buttons, Charts and Bookmarks.  Environment: Windows 8, SAS v9.4, SAS/EG, Python, SAS/Base, SAS/Access, SAS/Macro, SAS/SQL, SAS/Graph, SAS/STAT, SAS/Connect, MS SQL Server, Oracle, Teradata, MS-Excel, Tableau 8.2, Qlikview 9.0 SR2. Sr. SAS/Data Analyst Liberty Mutual Group - Indianapolis, IN September 2012 to December 2014 Liberty Mutual Group, more commonly known by the name of its primary line of business, Liberty Mutual Insurance, is an American diversified global insurer, and the second-largest property and casualty insurer in the United States. It ranks 76th on the Fortune 100 list of largest corporations in the United States. As a research analyst I was responsible to apply modeling techniques on data to predict likelihood of claims in next six months.    Responsibilities:  ? Worked with informatics department and I was responsible to build predictive models using clinical, survey, or administrative data in support of Informatics analytical projects.  ? Extensively used Teradata-SQL Assistant and Advanced query tool to write SQL queries.  ? Worked with various complex queries with joins, subqueries, and nested queries in SQL queries.  ? Coded complex SQL queries to retrieve data from the database depending on the need.  ? Created Cursors and Ref cursors as a part of the procedure to retrieve the selected data.  ? Using set operators in PL/SQL like Union, Union all, Intersect and Minus.  ? Built various graphs for business decision making using Python matplotliblibrary.  ? Updated and manipulated content and files by using python scripts.  ? Connected a Python based script to Teradata using the ODBC driver on Unix  ? Extracted 3 years' data from different databases (Teradata/MS SQL/Oracle) using SAS/SQL.  ? Imported and Exported data files to and from SAS using Proc Import and Proc Export from Excel and various delimited text based data files such as .TXT (tab delimited) and .CSV (comma delimited) files into SAS datasets for analysis.  ? Extensively used SAS/Macro facility to create macros for statistical analysis, results reporting and data extraction.  ? Released the reports through UNIX shell scripting every month based on requirement.  ? Involved in writing code using Base SAS & SAS/Macros to clean and validate data from tables.  ? Involved in designing the project and process flow diagrams.  ? Extensively used SAS enterprise miner and developed predictive models in decision tree, interactive decision tree, gradient boosting, regression and neural networks.  ? Based on scores, selected best model and used model on new data to predict likelihood of hospitalization for next six months.  ? Developed statistical reports with Charts, Bar Charts, Box plots, Line plots using PROC GPLOT, PROC GCHART and PROC GBARLINE.  ? Used SAS Procedures like PROC FREQ, PROC SUMMARY, PROC MEANS, PROC SQL, PROC SORT, PROC PRINT, PROC Tabulate, PROC UNIVARIATE, PROC PLOT and PROC REPORT to generate various regulatory and ad-hoc reports.  ? Created reports in the style format (RTF, PDF and HTML) using SAS/ODS.  ? Built complex formulas in Tableau for various business calculations.  ? Developed Geo/Area Maps to show details on which states have more patients who are hospitalized using Tableau.  ? Created Bar Charts which is compiled with data sets and added trend lines and forecasting on future trend of the financial performance.  ? Complied interactive dashboards in Tableau Desktop and published them to Tableau Server with Quick Filters for on demand needed information with just a click of a button.  Environment: Windows 7, SAS v9.4, SAS Enterprise miner, Python, SAS/BASE, SAS/ODS, SAS/MACRO, SAS/EG, SAS/SQL, UNIX, MS SQL, TERADATA, Teradata SQL Assistant, Access, Excel, Tableau 8.0. Data Analyst Blue cross July 2010 to September 2012 Horizon Blue Cross Blue Shield of New Jersey, the only licensed Blue Cross and BlueShield plan in New Jersey, provides health insurance coverage to nearly four million people throughout all of North, Central, and South Jersey. As a SAS programmer my part was to extract, validate, analyse the claims and enrolment database and produce the high level summaries, reports, graphs and tables.  Responsibilities:  ? Worked with Healthcare data which includes membership details and various claims of the members.  ? Gathered data from Oracle, SQL Server and reporting requirements from business.  ? Extracted data from oracle database using SQL pass- through facility.  ? Develop Oracle PL/SQL triggers and procedures. Set up Oracle PL/SQL package to analyze the tables and indexes, record stables and rebuild indexes.  ? Created database objects, tables, indexes, writing procedures, SQL scripts.  ? Created complex and reusable Macros and used existing macros for Data Cleansing, Validation analysis and Report generation.  ? Provided statistical programming expertise in production of high level Reports using proc report.  ? Comprehensive skills in working with SAS/BASE, SAS EG, SAS EBI, SAS/MACRO etc. in windows and UNIX environment.  ? Prepared detailed summaries and reports for the pharmacy and health claims data using SAS Data step and various statistical procedures like procsql, proc summary, proc report, Tabulate, ODS statements and Proc Template to generate output formats in HTML Excel and RTF.  ? Performed QC and Edit Checks using various procedures and Macro facility. Coded Independent Programs for validation of analysis dataset.  ? Wrote scripts in Python for automation of testing jobs.  ? Extensive use of SAS Macros in the creation of new programs as well as modification of existing programs to improve ease and consistency of results.  ? Revised and automated daily, weekly, monthly and quarterly reports to run more efficiently and provide more meaningful information vital to the overall strategies.  ? Performed Pharmacy Claims data analysis for in-network/out-of-network claims.  ? Perform pharmacy claims data extraction and analysis to produce reports evaluating the potential financial impact associated with implementation of medical policy claim edits.  ? Extensive Use of Data _Null_ techniques for producing highly formatted and highly customized reports.  ? Coordinating the production of monthly, quarterly, and annual performance reports for senior management.  ? Created and used multiple SAS stored processes to generate high level summaries with conditional highlighting through SAS code by using call define statements in proc report.  ? Analysis the metric dashboard reports and identified the formulas and functionality of the dashboard reports and digitizing the metric dashboards to Tableau application.  ? Published the dashboard reports to Tableau Server for navigating the developed dashboards in web. • Scheduled the published dashboards from Tableau Server on weekly basis.  Environment: Windows XP, SAS EG, Python, SAS 9.1.3, SAS/BASE, SAS/MACROS, SAS/ACCESS, SAS/SQL, Oracle, MS SQL, Unix, Tableau 5. Education Bachelor's Skills Data cleaning, Database, Database design, Db2, Microsoft sql server, Microsoft sql server 2005, Sql server, Sql server 2005, Mysql, Oracle, Oracle 10g, Sql, Vsam, Hbase, Hive, Html, Python, Xml, Cassandra, Hbase