Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - Huntington Bank Columbus, OH • Over 4+ Years of Experience as web/application developer software development and design using Python, Django, Java, Webapp2, Angular.js, HTML/CSS, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Experience in all phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC), which includes Requirements Specification, Design documents, Integration, Documentation and writing Test cases using various software engineering process ranging from Waterfall to Agile methodology.  • Expertise in MVW frameworks like Django, Angular JS, JavaScript, jQuery and Node JS.  • Good experience with Python frameworks like Flask and WebApp2.  • Experience with PythonLibraries/Packages such as HTTPLib2, Urllib2, Beautiful Soup, PyQuery, Numpy, Scipy, Pickle, PyQT, PySide, wxPython, PyTables, DataFrames, SQLAlchemy, Twisted, Pygame, pyGtk, Pandas and Matplotlib.  • Experience using Python libraries for machine learning like pandas, numpy, matplotlib, sklearn, scipy to Loading the dataset, summarizing the dataset, visualizing the dataset, evaluating some algorithms and making some predictions.  • Experience in developing RESTfulAPI's using Django REST Framework, consumed via Rectangular, a 3rd party Angular.JS service.  • Experience in Implementation of MVC/ MVW architecture using Django, RESTful, SOAP webservice and SOAP UI.  • Hands-on experience in developing web applications and RESTful web services and APIs using PythonFlask, Django and PHP.  • Experienced in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, Subroutines, functions on SQL, PL/SQL and PostgreSQL database.  • Proficient in SQL databases MS SQL, MySQL, Oracle and no-SQL databases MongoDB and Cassandra.  • Developmental experience on Windows, UNIX, Linux platforms.  • Strong analytical and problem-solving skills, always striving for new knowledge. A person with multi-tasking and organizational skills and high ethical standards.  • Excellent communication and interpersonal skills, ability to work independently as well as part of an integrated team. Work Experience Python Developer Huntington Bank - Columbus, OH February 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Wrote and executed various MySQL database queries from Python using Python - MySQL connector and MySQL dB package.  • Implemented user interface guidelines and standards throughout the development and maintenance of the website using the CSS, HTML, JavaScript, and JQuery.  • Developed a fully automated continuous integration system using Git, Gerrit, Jenkins, MySQL and custom tools developed in Python and Bash.  • Developed GUI using webapp2 for dynamically displaying the test block documentation and other features of python code using a web browser.  • Added support for Apache web server and RDS to host static/media files and the database into Amazon Cloud.  • Developed user friendly and sophisticated graphical representation of the catalogue of items that would be configured for a piece of equipment.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Generated Python Django Forms to record data of online users.  • Generating various capacity planning reports (graphical) using Python packages like Numpy, matplotlib.  • Wrote Python routines to log into the websites and fetch data for selected options.  • Python Object Oriented Design code for manufacturing quality, monitoring, logging, and debugging code optimization.  • Built various graphs for business decision making using Python matplotlib library.  • Work on SCR's (source change request). Involved working on Perl, Python, PHP and ShellScripting.  • Worked with JSON based REST Web services and Amazon Web services (AWS).  • Involved in AJAX driven application by invoking web services/API and parsing the JSON response.  • Developed internal auxiliary web apps using Python Flask framework with Angular.js and Bootstrap CSS / HTML framework.  • Set up rules and policies with a Node.js/ Python back end.  • Used Python/Django based web application, PostgreSQLDB, and integrations with 3rd party email, messaging, storage services.  • Involved in design, implementation and modifying the Python code and MySQL database schema on-the back end.  • Developed complex web, middleware, and back end systems in Python, SQL and Perl for Linux and Windows.  • Created a Git repository and added the project to GitHub.  • Utilized Agile process and JIRA issue management to track sprint cycles.  • Wrote validation scripts in SQL to validate data loading.  • Interfacing with supervisors, artists, systems administrators and production to ensure production deadlines are met.    Environment: Python, HTML, AJAX, CSS, JavaScript, Django, Jenkins, Amazon Web Services (AWS), JSON, REST, Angular.js, Bootstrap, Node.js, Git, JIRA, Perl, SQL, Agile, windows and Linux. Python Developer Harleysville Insurance - Atlanta, GA February 2017 to January 2018 Responsibilities:  • Gathered and analyzed the requirements and converted them into User Requirement Specifications and Functional Requirement Specifications for the designers and developers to understand them as per their perspective.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Used Django APIs for database access.  • Angular.js is used to build efficient backend for client web application.  • Used Python to extract information from XML files.  • Participated in requirement gathering and worked closely with the architect in designing and modeling.  • Designed and developed a horizontally scalable APIs using Python Flask.  • Involved in building database Model, APIs and Views utilizing Python, in order to build an interactive web based solution.  • Used Python based GUI components for the front-end functionality such as selection criteria.  • Written test cases using PyUnit test framework and Selenium Automation testing for better manipulation of test scripts.  • Designed and managed API system deployment using fast http server and Amazon AWS architecture  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Worked on AJAX framework to transform Datasets and Data tables into HTTP-serializable JSON strings.  • Worked with JSON based REST Web services.  • Developed SQL Queries, Stored Procedures, and Triggers Using Oracle, SQL and PL/SQL.  • Used GIT for the version control.  • Utilized Agile process and JIRA issue management to track sprint cycles.  • Used data types like dictionaries, tuples and object oriented concepts based inheritance features for making complex algorithms of networks.    Environment: Python, Django, XML, Angular, js, HTML, XHTML, CSS, AJAX, JavaScript, AWS, PyUnit, JSON, GIT, Jira, Oracle, SQL, Agile and Windows. Python Developer SARK Systems India Limited June 2015 to December 2016 Responsibilities:  • Participated in the development of application architecture and blueprints to define application components, platforms, interfaces and development tools.  • Updated site with Python, Django and SQL.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Utilized PyUnit, the Python Unit test framework, for all Python applications.  • Used JavaScript and JSON to update a portion of a webpage.  • Developed GUI HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript (jQuery).  • Exported/Imported data between different data sources using SQL Server Management Studio.  • Created backend database T-SQL stored procedures. Created and updated complex views and stored procedures in MySQL.  • Worked on development of SQL and stored procedures on MYSQL.  • Used Pandas package to retrieve and analyze data.  • Created a Git repository and added the project to GitHub.  • Used JIRA for bug tracking and issue tracking and Used Agile Methodology and SCRUM Process.  • Participated in multiple sprint cycles, addressing requirements for UI development.  • Used decorators, list comprehensions, functional programming, unit tests, multiple staging environments, and global team remote collaboration.    Environment: Python, Django, PyUnit, JavaScript, JSON, HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS, JQuery, Pandas, Git, Jira, SQL, Agile and Windows. Python Developer Unitek Software Pvt Ltd March 2014 to April 2015 Responsibilities:  • Developed the presentation layer using HTML, CSS, and JavaScript, JQuery and AJAX and Used JQuery libraries for all client-side JavaScript manipulations.  • Involved in Developing a Restful service using Python Flask framework.  • Involved in the Design, development, test, deploy and maintenance of the website.  • Wrote validation scripts in SQL to validate data loading.  • Hosted various company-wide training sessions on Pandas, RESTful, Microservices.  • To fetch data of definite options that are selected, Python routines were written to log into websites.  • Developed a web tool that monitors and drives the automated continuous integration system allowing release managers to track changes.  • Developed a Coverity mail script that extracts code defects data per component for a daily report to drive reducing defects in the code base.  • Built various graphs for business decision making using Python matplotlib.  • Successfully migrated the Elasticsearch database from SQLite to MySQL to PostgreSQL with complete data integrity.    Environment: Python, Django, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX, Restful, SQL, Agile, LINUX and Windows. Additional Information Technical Skills:  Languages Python, C++, Java, Shell Script, Perl, SQL, PHP  Python Framework Flask/Django, Angular JS, Java Script, JQuery and Node.js.  Databases MS SQL, MySQL, Oracle  Web Technologies XML, CSS, HTML, XHTML, JavaScript, JQuery, JSON, MVC3, Bootstrap, RESTful, AJAX  Web Services SOAP, REST    Methodologies Agile, Scrum  Operating Systems Window, UNIX, Linux