Sr. AWS Developer/ Python Developer Sr. AWS <span class="hl">Developer</span>/<span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. AWS Developer/ Python Developer - GEICO Chevy Chase, MD • Strong experience in AWS Cloud Engineer (Administrator) and working on AWS.  Services IAM, EC2, VPC, EBS, EFS, EIP, AMI, SNS, RDS, Dynamo DB, Cloud Watch, Cloud trail, Auto.  Scaling, S3, and Route 53.  • Worked in various Linux server environments from DEV all the way to PROD and along with cloud powered strategies embracing Amazon Web Services (AWS). Good understanding of the principles and best practices of Software Configuration Management (SCM) in SDLC methodologies like Agile/Scrum and Waterfall.  • Strong experience in CI (Continuous Integration)/ CD (Continuous Delivery) software development pipeline stages like Commit, Build, Automated Tests, Deploy etc.  • Experience to build servers using AWS which includes importing necessary volumes, launching the EC2 instance, creating security groups, auto-scaling, load balancers, Route 53 and SNS as per the architecture.  • Experience on setting up the life cycle policies to back the data from AWS S3 to AWS Glacier, Worked with various AWS, EC2 and S3 CLI tools.  • Expertise in AWS platform and its dimensions of scalability including EC2, ECS, Elastic Beanstalk, S3, EBS, VPC, ELB, SNS, RDS, IAM, Route 53, Auto scaling, Cloud Front, Cloud Watch, Security Groups.  • Expertise in DevOps, Release Engineering, Configuration Management, Cloud Infrastructure, Automation. It includes Amazon Webservices (AWS), Ant, Apache Maven, Jenkins, SVN, GitHub, Tomcat, JBoss, and Linux etc.  • Excellent knowledge of Amazon EC2, Amazon S3, Amazon Elastic Load Balancing and other services of the AWS family.  • Experienced in creating User/Group Accounts, Federated users and access management to User/Group Accounts using AWS IAM service.  • Set-up databases in AWS using RDS, storage using S3 bucket and configuring instance backups to S3 bucket.  • Over 6 years of Experience as a Sr. Python Developer in developing web-based applications, software development and design using Python 2.7,3.31 and 3.4, Django 1.9/1.8, XML, CSS, HTML, DHTML, JavaScript, JQuery and Angular Js.  • Experience in working on OpenStack components along with Salesforce CRM (SAAS, PAAS) and have extensively worked with Infrastructure as a Service (IaaS) environments using tool Chef.  • Experience in project deployment using Heroku/Jenkins and using web services like Amazon Web Services (AWS) EC2 and AWS S3.  • Involved in development of Web Services using SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface in the XML format.  • Experience in AWS Cloud platform and its features which includes EC2, AMI, EBS Cloudwatch, AWS Config, Auto-scaling, IAM user management, and AWS S3.  • Expertise experience working on the Plugins, Frameworks & Packages: Django, Flask, Webapp2, MapReduce, Celery, SQL Alchemy, PyMongo, WTForms, jinja2, Bootstrap, jQuery, pycrypto, Mock, Nose, Sphinx.  • Experience in project deployment using Google Cloud/Jenkins, Elastic Search and using web Services like Amazon Web Services (AWS).  • Hands on experience on deployment and packaging tool like Ansible.  • Experience with Python development under Linux OS (Debian/Ubuntu/SUSE Linux/Red Hat Linux/Fedora).  • Experience with Apache Kafka JMS and Rabbit MQ as the message oriented middleware.  • Experienced in WAMP (Windows, Apache, MYSQL, Python /PHP) and LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, and Python) Architecture. Experience in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on MySQL and PostgreSQL database.  • Expertise in Querying RDBMS such as Oracle, MYSQL and SQL Server by using SQL for data integrity.  • Strong background in object oriented programming, design patterns, algorithms, and data structures.  • Good experience in developing web applications implementing Model View Control architecture using Django, Flask, Pyramid, and Zope Python web application frameworks.  • Experienced in Working on Big Data Integration and Analytics based on Hadoop, Kafka.  • Expertise in Object-Oriented design and coding and in analyzing and handling large database using Oracle Relational data Architecture.  • Excellent understanding and knowledge of Hadoop Distributed file system data modelling, architecture and design principles.  • Having experienced in Agile Methodologies, Scrum stories and sprints experience in a Python based environment, along with data analytics, data wrangling and Excel data extracts.  • Very strong experience writing API's/ and Web Services in PHP and in Python and utilized Python Pandas framework to provide data analysis.  • Experience in NoSQL databases like Apache Cassandra (1.2, 2.0, and 2.1) and MongoDB (2.6, 2.4), Orient DB.  • Generated Python PostGre SQL Forms to record data of online users and used Python and PostGre SQL creating graphics, XML processing, data exchange and business logic implementation. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. AWS Developer/ Python Developer GEICO - Chevy Chase, MD January 2017 to Present Responsibilities  • Implemented AWS solutions using EC2, S3, RDS, EBS, Elastic Load Balancer, VPC, Auto scaling groups.  • AWS Cloud management and Chef automation. Experience in Infrastructure Development and Operations, involved in designing and deploying utilizing almost all the AWS stack like EC2, EBS, S3, VPC, LDAP, VPN, RDS, SES, ELB, Autoscaling, CloudFront, CloudFormation, Elastic beanstalk, CloudWatch, SNS, Route 53, LDAP, VPN  • Implementing a Continuous Delivery framework using Jenkins, Jfrog, Maven & Nexus in Linux Environment. Using Jenkins AWS Code Deploy plug-in to deploy into AWS.  • Worked on AWS CLI Auto Scaling and Cloud Watch Monitoring creation and update.  • Allotted permissions, policies and roles to users and groups using AWS Identity and Access Management(IAM).  • Experienced on AWS EC2, EBS, ELB scaling groups, Trusted Advisor, S3, Cloud Watch, Cloud Front, IAM, Security Groups, Auto-Scaling.  • End to End solution for hosting the web application on AWS cloud with integration to S3 buckets. Managing AWS Infra and automation with CLI, API  • Created a best practice Build environment using Jenkins, immutable instances, and AWS.  • Deployment of the web application using the Heroku server and designed database model for the entire application. Monitoring AWS services EC2, S3, RDS etc. through Cloud Watch.  • Integration of web portal and users associated with S3 bucket.  Used Amazon S3 to backup database instances periodically to save snapshots of data.  Automated system deployment, monitoring, alarming, and scaling in the Cloud.  • Writing AWS Terraform templates for any automation requirements in AWS services.  Created database objects in AWS Redshift. Followed AWS best practices to convert data types from oracle to redshift.  • Supported application deployment in IAAS Cloud platforms like Rackspace, AWS and Google Compute engine and was responsible for resource planning of various virtual compute engines.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and template language to create a user-friendly website interface. Migrated applications to the AWS cloud Environment.  • Created Python and Bash tools to increase efficiency of retail management application system and operations; data conversion scripts, AMQP/Rabbit MQ, REST, JSON, and CRUD scripts for API Integration.  • Craft highly scalable and resilient cloud architectures that address customer business problems and accelerate the adoption of AWS services for clients.  • Strong exposure to creating API for internal and external application using REST and SOAP based design.  • Proficient in working on with REST and SOAP Web Services handling XML and JSON data.  • Developed a modular API for minibot and interchangeable modules for Raspberry Pi  • Involved in building database Model, APIs and Views utilizing Python, in order to build an interactive web based solution. Used JSON based and RESTful API for information extraction.  • Built web-services using SOAP that allowed integrating the business application with the legacy applications and facilitates for future applications.  • Developing Linux Python/Tk based GUI and control software on a Raspberry Pi to do stimulus/response testing of finished product.  • Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks.  • Designed and developed the UI using Laravel view component, HTML, CSS and BootStraps and collaborated with the project.  • Working with server side technologies including databases, restful API and MVC design patterns.  • Developed a custom skill 'MyOffice Assistant' in Alexa using AWS lambda function written in Python which connects to an accounting CRM and get the information that it is being requested for.  • Designed and developed System monitoring in Python and Redis to keep track health of Platform, Hbase, Storm, Kafka etc in the multi-node cluster environment.  • Worked on MongoDB database concepts such as locking, transactions, indexes, Sharding, replication, schema design.  • Migrate from Puppet to Ansible for configuration management. Integrated delivery (CI and CD process) Using Jenkins, Nexus, Yum and Chef.  • Used JQuery and Ajax calls for transmitting JSON data objects between frontend and controllers.  • Worked on analysing Hadoop stack and different big data analytic tools including Pig, Hive, HBase database and DynamoDB.  • Used Apache Couchdb (NoSQL) in AWS Linux instance in parallel to RDS MySQL to store and analyze job market info.  • Identifying distribution and packaging mechanism for the python package of the solution.  • Responsible for designing a toolkit for building embedded domain-specific languages in C++ using expression templates.  • Involved in designing of API's for the networking and cloud services and Leveraged spark (Pyspark) to manipulate unstructured data and apply text mining on user's table utilization data.  • Working on project deployment using Heroku/Jenkins and using web services like Amazon Web Services (AWS) EC2 and AWS S3.  • Developed remote integration with third party platforms by using RESTful web services.  • Automated Regression analysis for determining fund returns based on index returns ( Python/Excel).  • Involved in development of Web Services using SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface in the XML format.  • Expertise in MVW frameworks like Django, Angular JS, Java Script, JQuery and Node.js.  • Designed Data Quality Framework to perform schema validation and data profiling on Spark (Pyspark).  • Representation of the system in hierarchy form by defining the components, subcomponents using Python and developed set of library functions over the system based on the user needs.  • Created applications using Python under Linux OS (Debian, Ubuntu, RedHat Linux) environment.  • Working on NoSQL technologies like MongoDB, Cassandra and relational databases like Oracle, SQLite, PostgreSQL, Dynamo DB and MySQL databases.  • Implemented advanced procedures like text analytics and processing using the in-memory computing capabilities like Apache Spark written in Scala.  • Development of Python APIs to dump the array structures in the Processor at the failure point for debugging.  • Analyzed current legacy infrastructure, established business case, and built consensus for virtualized IaaS/ PaaS near term strategy with SaaS mobile cloud services end state.  • Used Pandas API to put the data as time series and tabular format for easy timestamp data manipulation and retrieval. AWS Developer Citadel LLC - Exton, PA September 2014 to January 2017 Responsibilities  • Explored various open source software projects for company use as needed, including server backup/restoration utilities, geographic information system (GIS) toolkits, and other development tools.  • Create the AWS Code pipeline, AWS Code Commit, AWS Code Build and AWS Code Deploy services to build and deployment process.  • Migrated present Linux environment to AWS/CentOS/RHEL by creating and executing a migration plan per scheduled timeline to complete the migration.  • Deployed JSON template to create a stack in Cloud Formation which include services like Amazon EC2, Amazon S3, Amazon RDS, Amazon Elastic Load Balancing, Amazon VPC, SQS and other services of the AWS infrastructure.  • Created functions and assigned roles in AWS Lambda to run python scripts, Used AWS Lambda with java to perform event driven processing. Created Lambda jobs and configured Roles using AWS CLI.  • Used Identify and Access Management (IAM) to assign roles and to create and manage AWS users and groups, and user permissions to AWS resources.  • Working with best DevOps practices using AWS, Elastic Bean stalk and Docker with Kubernetes.  • Wrote Chef Recipes for various applications and deployed them in AWS using Terraform.  • Wrote Ansible Playbooks with Python SSH as the Wrapper to Manage Configurations of AWS Nodes and Test Playbooks on AWS instances using Python.  • Automated the cloud deployments using chef, python and AWS Cloud Formation Templates.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django including Tastypie Web Framework using Git.  • Used data structures like directories, tuples, object oriented class based inheritance features for making complex algorithms. Used SOAP and RESTful API for information extraction.  • Used Python and Django creating graphics, XML, json processing, data exchange and business logic implementation.  • Developed Sqoop scripts to handle change data capture for processing incremental records between new arrived and existing data in RDBMS tables.  • Used the Node.js, Angular.js, backbone.js and Require.js MVC Frameworks in the development of the web applications.  • Used Apache Couchdb (NoSQL) in AWS Linux instance in parallel to RDS MySQL to store and analyze job market info.  • Worked in project deployment using Heroku/Jenkins and using web services like Amazon Web Services (AWS) EC2 and AWS S3.  • Responsible for on boarding Application teams to build and deploy there code using GitHub Jenkins, Nexus and Ansible.  • Developed data modeling for analytics by building queries using Map/Reduce (pymongo/mongodb) and implementing for visualization using Elastic search, kibana and logstash on Apache server.  • Improved code reuse and performance by making effective use of various design patterns.  • Develop the existing application to enhance the features using the Django Framework and improve the performance using SOAP Webservices.  • Created a concept website to present the new UX principles, motion UI guidelines and design language.  • Use Test driven approach (TDD) for developing services required for the application and Implemented Integration test cases and Developing predictive analytic using Apache Spark Scala APIs.  • Working on an Automation Project using Python and Selenium to Automate the process for calculating the Word Error Rate and Response Accuracy Rate according to Amazon Test Plan using Alexa Voice service with our Voice Enhancement solution called Clear Voice.  • Development on internal application using MEAN Stack and PHP (Laravel, Openside, Lithium Framework, Openside PHP).  • Used latest Video Conference Applications and worked extensively on them. Data mapping, logical data modeling, created class diagrams and ER diagrams and used SQL queries to filter data within the Oracle database.  • Successfully migrated the Django database from SQLite to MySQL to PostgreSQL with complete data integrity.  • Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL dB package.  • Built various graphs for business decision-making using Python mat plotlib library and used Python library Beautiful Soup for web scrapping.ss.  • Built the test code router by using Python and SSH to remote control the Raspberry PI to generate the network traffic in order to simulate the intense network environment.  • Managed, developed, and designed a dashboard control panel for customers and Administrators using Django, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Bootstrap, JQuery and REST API calls.  • Responsible for integrating Apache Kafka with Apache Storm and created Storm data pipelines for real time processing.  • Developed the required XML Schema documents and implemented the framework for parsing XML documents.  • Responsible for Developing RESTful API using Django REST framework for frontend EmberJs single page app.  • Strong Socket programming experience in Python. Implemented complex networking operations like race route, SMTP mail server and web server.  • Embedded AJAX in UI to update small portions of the web page avoiding the need to reload the entire page. Involved in Sprint planning sessions and participated in the daily Agile SCRUM meetings.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Utilized PyQt to provide GUI for the user to create, modify and view reports based on client data.  • Utilized Pandas - python library for analyzing data and data structures and Associated with working cloud computing platforms like Openstack.  • Utilized Python to create a generic framework for log collection applications, design and implement pluggable collection engine architecture customized for various network devices.  • Creating unit test/regression test framework for working/new code and used subversion version control tool to coordinate team-development.  • Created a Git repository and added the project to GitHub and responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application. AWS Developer Goldman Sachs - New York, NY March 2011 to September 2014 Responsibilities  • Worked on a large scale distributed computing environment, monitoring data nodes to prioritize jobs for processing functions.  • Added support for Amazon AWS S3 and RDS to host static/media files and the database into Amazon Cloud. Also Learnt to deploy projects using Jenkins.  • Designed and deployed AWS solutions using E2C, S3, RDS, EBS, Elastic Load Balancer, Auto scaling groups, Opsworks. Implemented scheduled downtime for non-prod servers for optimizing AWS pricing.  • Responsible for Integration test cases for Cloud Computing applications on AWS using Python with boto library. Worked with cloud platforms like Amazon AWS and Google AppEngine.  • Implemented and established best practices around using elastic search, Install and configuring monitoring scripts for AWS EC2 instance.  • Work with our current application teams to understand our current applications and make migration recommendations and to-be architectures in AWS  • Created entire application using Python, Django, MySQL and Linux and developed a fully automated continuous integration system using Git, Gerrit, Jenkins, MySQL and custom tools developed in Python and Bash. Managed Ubuntu Linux and Windows virtual servers on AWS EC2 using Puppet.  • Implemented Chef Cookbooks for OS component configuration to keep AWS server's template minimal.  • Managed and automated all aspects of our AWS infrastructure (compute, storage, network, permissions, cost) using configuration management tools like Ansible, Cloud Formation and shell scripts.  • Worked in infrastructure for high availability using multiple AWS availability zones.  • Involved in writing application level code to interact with APIs, Web Services using JSON.  • Dynamically add and remove servers from AWS production environment.  Migration to AWS on SSP  • Performed efficient delivery of code based on principles of Test Driven Development (TDD) and continuous integration to keep in line with Agile Software Methodology principles.  • Responsible for managing MongoDB environment from availability, performance and scalability perspectives.  • Worked with Tableau to connect with Hive Data Warehouse to represent the data in dashboards.  • Developed multiple spark batch jobs in Scala using Spark SQL and performed transformations using many APIs and update master data in Cassandra database as per the business requirement.  • Implemented Design Patterns like MVC, Session Facade and Data Transfer Objects.  • Managed, developed, and designed a dashboard control panel for customers and Administrators using Django, Oracle DB, PostgreSQL, and VMWare API calls.  • Packaging the monitoring application for UNIX. The packages built are installable UNIX packages and patches.  • Developed GUI using webapp2 for dynamically displaying the test block documentation and other features of Python code using a web browser.  • Created a Python based GUI application for Freight Tracking and processing and used Django framework for application development.  • Accurately mapped slum and demographic profile using GIS and validated using ANOVA, Linear/Logistic Regression.  • Worked on Apache Tomcat to run servlet and Java Server Pages (JSP) based web applications.  • Maintained web servers Tomcat and Apache HTTP Web servers in UNIX and wrote SQL scripts in Ab-initio for Data analysis.  • Used RSpec (BDD) to specify and test controller classes, models, view templates, helpers and routing.  • Wrote Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on MySQL and PostgreSQL database.  • Worked in RDBMS implementation using, SQL, PL/SQL, DB2, MySQL on Oracle database.  • Responsible for gathering requirements, system analysis, design, development, testing and deployment.  • Involved in development of Web Services using SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface in the XML format.  • Created a custom photo and video gallery that automatically resizes images to pre-determined ratio.  • Implemented the validation, error handling, and caching framework with Oracle Coherence cache. Education Bachelor's Certifications/Licenses Driver's License