Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - Dell Inc Austin, TX, TX Over 5+ years of experience in Analysis, Design, Development, Management and Implementation of various stand-alone, client-server enterprise applications.  • Skilled in constructing Web applications, Input graphs, JavaScript, CRM Data, and Web scraping scripts using Python.  • Experienced in using MVC architecture using RESTful, Soap Web services and SoapUI and high-level Python Web frameworks like Django and Flask. Experience object-oriented programming (OOP) concepts using Python, Django, and Linux.  • Experienced in developing web-based applications using Python, Django, C++, XML, CSS, HTML, JavaScript, AngularJS, and JQuery.  • Experienced in WAMP (Windows, Apache, MYSQL, and PHP) and LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, and PHP) Architecture.  • Experienced in installing, configuring, modifying, testing and deploying applications with Apache.  • Understanding of Python best practices (PEP-8)  • Well versed with static site generators such as Jekyll and Hugo.  • Familiar with JSON based REST Web services and Amazon Web Services (AWS)  • Experience in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on MySQL and PostgreSQL database.  • Worked on projects designed with agile and waterfall methodologies, high-quality deliverables delivered on-time.  • Developed the required XML Schema documents and implemented the framework for parsing XML documents.  • Worked on AJAX framework to transform Datasets and Data tables into HTTP-serializable JSON strings.  • Experienced in developing UNIX shell scripts and bash scripting.  • Excellent communication, interpersonal and analytical skills and a highly motivated team player with the ability to work independently. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Developer Dell Inc - Austin, TX September 2015 to Present Responsibilities:  • Developed Python/Django application for Google Analytics aggregation and reporting.  • Worked with a team of developers on Python applications for RISK management.  • Used Django configuration to manage URLs and application parameters.  • Worked on Python Open stack API's.  • Used Python scripts to update content in the database and manipulate files.  • Developed views and templates with Django view controller and template language to create a user-friendly web interface  • Used Python and Django creating graphics, XML processing, data exchange and business logic implementation  • Used Pandas API to put the data as time series and tabular format for fast timestamp data manipulation and retrieval.  • Used Pandas library for Statistical Analysis.  • Used TKinter to implement GUI for the user to create, modify and view reports based on client data.  • Added support for Amazon AWS S3 and RDS to host static/media files and the database into Amazon Cloud.  • Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks.  • Used HTML, CSS, JQuery, Angular.js, Bootstrap, JSON and JavaScript for front end applications.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from Python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQLdb package.  • Involved in development of Web Services using SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface in the XML format.  • Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes of the two main applications that were a main source of data for both customers and internal customer service team.    Environment: Python, Amazon AWS, MySQL, Python 2.7, Django 1.4, Angular 2, HTML5, CSS, XML, MySQL, MS SQL Server, JavaScript, GitHub, Kafka, Linux, Shell Scripting, AJAX. Python Developer ATOS September 2012 to August 2015 Responsibilities:  • Used Django configuration to manage URLs and application parameters.  • Scraped and retrieved web data as JSON using Scrapy, presented with Pandas library.  • Worked on Python Open stack API's.  • Used Python scripts to update content in the database and manipulate files.  • Generated Python Django Forms to record data of online users  • Used Python and Django Creating Graphics, XML Processing, Data Exchange and Business Logic  • Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks.  • Built various graphs for business decision-making using Python Matplotlib library.  • Wrote and executed various PostgreSQL queries from Python using Python-PostgreSQL adapter psycopg2.2.  • Implemented discretization, binning, & data wrangling used to clean, transform, merge, and reshape data frames as well as upgraded two web applications from Django 0.9x to Django 1.x  • Built Python scripts to identify and correct erroneous data in PostgreSQL database using clustering, regression, and statistics  • Involved in development of Web Services using SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface in the XML format.  • Worked on rebranding the existing web pages to clients according to the type of deployment.  • Used many regular expressions in order to match the pattern with the existing one.  • Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes of the two main  applications that were the main source of data for both customers and internal customer service team. Skills AJAX (2 years), API (2 years), Django (5 years), Python (5 years), XML (5 years) Additional Information Programming Skills Python 2.7, Python 3, R, C++, C# Shell script, Bash script, PL/SQL, ASP.net, MVC, WPF Framework, Django, OCaml  JavaScript Libraries Bootstrap, JQuery, Node.js, Grunt  Web Technologies AJAX, JavaScript, HTML, DHTML, XHTML, XML Versioning Tools Git, SVN  SQL & NOSQL MySQL, Oracle, SQL Server, MongoDB, PostgreSQL  Operating System UNIX, Linux, Windows  Modelling tools Gephi  Reporting Tools SSRS, Scribe  Web Servers Apache, Nginx, IIS 7  Frameworks & Libraries Django, Flask, Scikit-learn, MATLAB, IBM Watson API, TensorFlow, Jupyter