Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - Aetna Garland, TX • 6+ years of experience as a Python Developer, proficient coder in multiple languages and environments including Python, REST Api, AWS, C, C++ and SQL.  • Good experience in developing web applications and implementing Model View Control (MVC) architecture using server side applications like Django, Flask and Pyramid.  • Proficient in developing complex SQL queries, Stored Procedures, Functions, Packages along with performing DDL and DML operations on the database.  • Hands on Experience in Data mining and Data warehousing using ETL Tools and Proficient in Building reports and dashboards in Tableau (BI Tool)  • Excellent working knowledge in UNIX and Linux shell environments using command line utilities.  • Application Stress tester, created and stress tested stand-alone, web-applications and generated graph reports  • Hands on experience working in WAMP (Windows, Apache, MYSQL, and Python/PHP) and LAMP (Linux, Apache, My SQL, and Python/PHP) Architecture.  • Experience working in both water fall and Agile software methodologies.  • Highly motivated, quality minded developer, with proven ability to deliver applications against tight deadlines.  • Possess good interpersonal, analytical presentation Skills, ability to work in Self-managed and Team environments.  • Good experience in handling errors/exceptions and debugging the issues in large scale applications.  • Extensive knowledge of CSS and JS methods for providing performance visual effects and keeping the frame rate above 30fps at all times  • Designed and implemented large scale business critical systems using Object oriented Design and Programming concepts using Python and Django.  • Experience in Assisting and monitoring the business strategies and requirements of the company Experienced in installing, configuring, modifying, testing and deploying applications with Apache.  • Experience in working on Application Servers like Web Sphere, Web Logic, Tomcat, Web Servers like Apache Server, NGINX and Integrated Development Environments like PyCharm, Eclipse, My Eclipse, J Developer and RAD.  • Familiarity with development best practices such as code reviews, unit testing, system integration testing (SIT) and user acceptance testing (UAT)  • Experienced in Requirement gathering, Use case development, Business Process flow, Business Process Modeling: extensively used UML to develop various use cases, class diagrams and sequence diagrams.  • Expertise in Production support and Knowledge of deployment using Heroku and Jenkins.  • Experience in developing applications using amazon web services like EC2, Cloud Search, Elastic Load balancer ELB, S3, Cloud Front, Route 53 Work Experience Python Developer Aetna - Hartford, CT August 2015 to Present Role: Python Developer    Responsibilities:  • Django Framework that was used in developing web applications to implement the model view control architecture.  • Exposure on Multi-Threading factory to distribute learning process back-testing and the into various worker processes.  • Experience with continuous integration and automation using Jenkins.  • Performed efficient delivery of code based on principles of Test Driven Development (TDD) and continuous integration to keep in line with Agile Software Methodology principles  • Different testing methodologies like unit testing, Integration testing, web application testing Selenium testing performed.  • Lock mechanisms were implemented and the functionality of multithreading has been used  • Python/Django based web application, Post gre sql DB and integrations with 3rd party email, messaging, storage services.  • Designed dynamic and browser compatible pages using HTML5, CSS3, JQuery and JavaScript and Angular JS.  • Responsible for creating the screens with table-less designs meeting W3C standards  • To provide automation, used Configuration Management Tool, Chef.  • Integrate the dynamic pages with Angular JS and j-query to make the pages dynamic.  • Creating and configuring virtual development environments with Chef and Virtual Box.  • part of the SOA (Service Oriented Architecture) team enforcing best practices for services ( REST and SOAP)  • Developed a fully automated continuous integration system using Git, Gerrit, Jenkins, MySQL and custom tools developed in Python and Bash  • Design and implemented custom scripts. Extensive use of version controller Team Foundation Server (TFS)  • Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes of the two main applications that were a main source of data for both customers and internal customer service team  • Used Pandas library for statistics Analysis. Used Numpy for Numerical analysis for Insurance premium  • Managed large datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL.  • Used advanced packages in AON PATHWISE for performing unit test and deploying data models.  • Extensively used Python modules such as requests, urllib, and urllib2 for web crawling.  • Developed GUI using webapp2 for dynamically displaying the test block documentation and other features of Python code using a web browser.  • Developed the required XML Schema documents and implemented the framework for parsing XML documents.  • Responsible for user validations on client side as well as server side. Work with DNS to map the website to its IP address.  • Automated the existing scripts for performance calculations using Numpy and sql alchemy.  • Interacted with QA to develop test plans from high-level design documentation.    Environment/Tools:  Python 2.7, Django 1.4, HTML5, CSS, XML, MySQL, JavaScript, Angular JS, Backbone JS, JQuery, CSS Bootstrap, Mongo DB, T-SQL, JavaScript, Eclipse, Git, GitHub, AWS, Linux, Shell Scripting. Python Developer Charles Schwab - Austin, TX June 2014 to July 2015 Responsibilities:  • Primarily responsible for supervising a team of 4 Engineers in building database Model, APIs and Views utilizing Python, Perl in order to build an interactive web based solution.  • Interacted with management and developers in a daily scrum to discuss test cases and schedules  • Implemented role based page views based on the permissions of the user logged in.  • Removed the Common Permission Service call and implemented that by manually bootstrapping application before launching the application itself.  • Used Bootstrap and Angular UI Bootstrap for creating rich, Responsive UI Screens for varying screen sizes and devices.  • Developed multi-threaded standalone app in Python, Perl, PHP, C++ to view Circuit parameters and performance.  • Created Alerts using ELK stack.  • Assisted with the business cases by translating and simplifying the requirements.  • I elicited the requirements for an organization.  • Used R language to encrypt the data and done data analysis.  • Used TJA in the development.  • Extracted data charts using data analytics software Spotfire  • Experience in moving files to Linux server using Rsync.  • Used PostgreSQL as a database to the connectivity.  • Assisted application migration from physical servers to OpenStack based Clouds with least intervention to applications.  • Assisted hardware and software engineer by verifying and recreating debug diagnosis data collection during testing  • Responsible for gathering requirements, system analysis, design, development, testing and deployment.  • Used Ansible in the software deployment.  • Created Web applications using Drupal.  • Worked on UI using HTML5, RectJs, CSS3 and Java Scripts, AngularJS.  • Created User Controls and simple animations using Java Script and Python.  • ReactJS was used to develop interactive user interface.  • Designed and implemented Model-View-View Model pattern for many components in the project (Contracts, Products, Search Sales, Employees, BackOffice Admin)  • Worked on the OAM protocol LAMP and LMP.  • Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks.  • Interfacing with supervisors, artists, systems administrators and production to ensure production deadlines are met.  • Developed Python batch processors to consume and produce various feeds.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Developed Business Logic using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Identified Test requirements from specifications, map test case requirements and design test coverage plan.  • Implemented monitoring and established best practices around using elastic search  • Created and built out QA Automated Test frameworks.  • Designed, developed and automated test cases for complex web-scale applications.  • Developed Merge jobs in Python to extract and load data into MySQL and Mango Db database.  • Successfully migrated Django database from SQLite to PostgreSQL with complete data integrity.  Created PHP/MySQL back-end for data entry from Flash.  • Used JQuery for selecting particular DOM elements when parsing HTML.  • Used GitHub for version control.    Environment/Tools:  Python, Perl, Django, Spot fire, Drupal, Ansible, ELK, ReactJs, R, BA/DA, AngularJS, TJA, Mango Db, PHP, C++, HTML, JQuery, AWS, Open Stack, Bootstrap, QA testing, AJAX, XHTML, JavaScript, XML, LAMP, LMPGitHub, Flash, SQLite, NoSQL, PostgreSQL, Rsync, SQL, git, Gerrit, PLSQL, Oracle and Windows. Python Developer Charles Schwab - Austin, TX April 2014 to May 2015 Python Developer Citibank, irving, TX - Irving, TX April 2013 to May 2014 Role: Python Developer  Client: Citibank, irving, TX Duriation: April 2013 To May 2014    Responsibilities:  • Implemented user interface guidelines and standards throughout the development and maintenance of the website using the HTML, CSS, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Implemented AJAX for dynamic functionality of a webpages for front end applications.  • Worked on front end frameworks like CSS Bootstrap for responsive web pages.  • Implemented presentation layer using CSS framework, Node JS, Angular JS, Wire-Framing and HTML5.  • Designed and led big data algorithms using Hadoop and Java to improve forecasting and used Hive QL to generate reports.  • Analysis, design and development of Web & Enterprise applications using JAVA and J2EE Technologies.  • Design and development of the new Technical flow based on JAVA/J2EE technologies.  • Used integrated environment for java such as Eclipse, RAD, NetBeans, Clear Case and VSS.  • Working knowledge of Java Web Services with real time knowledge using SOAP and REST.  • Responsible for setting up Angular JS framework for UI development. Developed html views with HTML5, CSS3, JSON and Angular JS, Adobe flash.  • Delivered automated solutions for science models.  • Maintained and updated existing automated solutions.  • Automated the existing scripts for performance calculations using Numpy and SQL Alchemy.  • Developed test scripts for automation with Selenium.  • Used Spring MVC (Model View Controller) to intercept the user requests and used various controllers to delegate the request flow to the Backend tier of the application.  • Developed frontend of application using Bootstrap (Model, View, Controller), Angular.js framework. Created new JSP views to incorporate backend functionality to display on the UI screens using client rich technologies like JQuery, JavaScript, HTML, CSS files.  • Redesigning the existing web application with new technologies like Bootstrap, angular js.  • Developed and tested many features for dashboard, created using Bootstrap, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Worked on server side applications with Django using Python programming.  • Used Pandas for a data alignment and data manipulation.  • Utilized standard Python modules such as csv, itertools and pickle for development.  • Worked on Python OpenStack APIs and used Numpy for Numerical analysis.  • Used Ajax and JQuery for transmitting JSON data objects between frontend and controllers.  • Developed Wrapper in Python for instantiating multi-threaded application.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to created user-friendly website interface.  • Managed datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL, queried MYSQL database queries frompython using Python-MySQL connector MySQLdb package to retrieve information.  • Developed various algorithms for generating several data patterns.  • Used JIRA for bug tracking and issue tracking.  • Added several options to the application to choose particular algorithm for data and address generation.  • Developed the project in Linux environment.  • Used Agile Methodology and SCRUM Process.  • Maintained the versions using GIT and sending the release notes for each release.  • Supported the issues seen in the tool across all the teams for several projects.  Environment: Python 2.7, Django 1.4, CSS, HTML, BOOTSTRAP, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX, MYSQL, Linux, Heroku, GIT. Python Developer PMorgan - Chicago, IL February 2012 to March 2013 Responsibilities: -  • Gathered all requirements for developing and analyzing requirement of projects.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django including Tastypie Web Framework using Git.  • Developed Merge jobs in Python to extract and load data into MySQL database.  • Successfully migrated the Django database from SQLite to MySQL to PostgreSQL with complete data integrity.  • Developed Ruby on Rails 3 web applications using MongoDB and back-ground processes using Resque and Redis  • Used Django configuration to manage URLs and application parameters.  • Used Test driven approach for developing the application and Implemented the unit tests usingPython Unit test framework.  • Developed Ruby/ Python scripts to monitor health of Mongo databases and perform ad-hoc backups using Mongo dump and Mongo restore.  • Familiar with JSON based REST Web services and Amazon Web services (AWS)  • Dynamic implementation of SQL server work on website using SQL developer tool.  • Experienced in Agile Methodologies and SCRUM Process.  • Designed front end using UI, HTML, Bootstrap, Node JS, underscore JS, Angular JS CSS, and JavaScript.  • Involved in the Complete Software development life cycle (SDLC) to develop the application.  • Used Numpy for Numerical analysis.  • Followed AGILE development methodology to develop the application.  • Used and customized apache server to for checking our developed project.  • Used Test driven approach (TDD) for developing services required for the application.  • Implemented Integration test cases.  • Worked on MongoDB database concepts such as locking, transactions, indexes, Sharding, replication, schema design  • Used Git to resolve and codingthe work on python and portlet.  • Used several python libraries like wxPython, numPY and matPlotLib.  • Was involved in environment, code installation as well as the SVN implementation.  • Build all database mapping classes using Django models and Apache Cassandra.    Environment/Tools:  Python 3.3, PyQT, PyQuery, MVW, HTML5, CSS3, DOM, Angular js, Shell Scripting, JSON, Rest, Apache Web Server, Django, SQL, UNIX, Windows, MongoDB, PostgreSQL, and python libraries such as Numpy, IPython, sqlalchemy, Django Tastypie Python Developer PMorgan - Chicago, IL February 2011 to March 2013 Python Developer Pathway Informatics - Chicago, IL December 2011 to January 2012 Responsibilities:  • Used SDLC process and used PHP to develop website functionality.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, NodeJS, XHTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework on MySQL  • Used Django APIs for database access  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL. Built application logic usingPython 2.7.  • Used Django APIs for database access.  • Used Python to extract weekly hotel availability information from XML files using underscore JS.  • Parsed XML file using Python to extract data from database  • Participated in requirement gathering and worked closely with the architect in designing and modelling.  • Worked on development of SQL and stored procedures, trigger and function on MYSQL  • Developed shopping cart for Library and integrated web services to access the payment (E-commerce)  • Designed and developed a horizontally scalable APIs using Python Flask.  • Designed Cassandra schema for the APIs  • Java implementation on given project  • Developed shopping cart for Library and integrated web services to access the payment  • Used Php language on lamp server to develop page.  • Developed dynamic interaction page on .net MS visual basic 2014, using SQL developer tools.  • Generated Use case diagrams, Activity flow diagrams, Class diagrams and Object diagrams in the design phase.  • Responsible for entire data migration from Sybase ASE server to Oracle.  • Migration of API code written for Sybase to Oracle.  • Overlook the migration activity of PL/SQL programs  • Migration of the PL/SQL code from Sybase to Oracle.  • Migration of the data contained in the earlier ASPL Database from Sybase to Oracle.  • Migrate the Libraries written using Sybase API's to Oracle's OCCI API's    Environment:  Python 2.6/2.7, JavaScript, Django Framework 1.3, SQL, MySQL, LAMP, JQuery, Adobe Dreamweaver, Apache web server, PHP, Lamp, underscore JS. SQL developer tool. Python Developer Pathway Informatics - Chicago, IL December 2010 to January 2011 Education Bachelor of Technology in Computer Science and Engineering Lovely professional university Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS: -    Programming Languages Python, C, C++, Core Java.  Databases My SQL, SQL Server 2008, Oracle, Mango DB  Web servers Apache, Web Logic, Web Sphere  Versioning Tools Subversion, GIT, Perforce, SVN, CVS, Gerrit, Jenkins, Selenium  Web Technologies AJAX, AWS EC cloud, Amazon S3, Java Script, HTML, DHTML, XHTML, XML  Programming Skills Python 2.7/2.4, Java, Shell script, Bash script, PL/SQL, ASP.net, MVC, WCF, WPF  Analytic tools Adobe CQ, Google Analytics Fiddler.