Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - SQL Queries Edison, NJ ? Over 6 years of experience in Design & Development of applications using Python, Django.  ? Experience object oriented programming (OOP) concepts using Python, Java, C++.  ? Experienced in developing web-based applications using XML, CSS, HTML, JavaScript and JQuery.  ? Experienced in installing, configuring, modifying, testing and deploying applications with Apache.  ? Extensive experience in Python web frame works like Django, Pyramid and Flask in implementing MVC, singleton, factory architecture.  ? Good experience in Python scripting, Shell Scripting, SQL Server, UNIX and Linux.  ? Good Knowledge of Agile Methodologies (Scrum).  ? Hands on experience in developing the projects cloud computing platforms like Google cloud.  ? Hands on experience in writing ETL script using python Django setting for database operations and other activities (involving extracting, transforming and loading).  ? Good knowledge in various phases of SDLC - Requirement Analysis, Design, Development and Testing on various Development and Enhancement Projects.  ? Well versed with design and development of presentation layer for web applications using technologies like HTML, CSS, and JavaScript.  ? Good experience of software development in Python using libraries such as Numpy, Matplotlib and Pandas data frames.  ? Proficient in using Relational Databases like My SQL, Oracle, SQL Server and sqllite. Extensive experience in processing large datasets with millions of records for data transformation including data cleansing, data scrubbing, data profiling and applying business logic rules to incoming data.  ? Highly motivated, dedicated, quick learner and have proven ability to build and manage a team work individually.  ? Familiarity with development best practices such as code reviews and unit testing.  ? Good understanding and knowledge of Apache Spark.  ? Excellent written and oral communication skills with results-oriented attitude.  ? Experience with Version Control, ideally GIT, SVN, CVS. Good programming and problem solving skills as well as eager to learn new technologies.  ? Continuously manages multiple deadlines and competing priorities through proactively planning and managing tasks and resources.  ? Willingness to work in a highly dynamic environment and ready to take up challenges. Work Experience Python Developer SQL Queries May 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  ? Closely involved in performance evaluation and User Acceptance Test.  ? Developed a portal to manage the entities in a content management system using Flask.  ? Wrote programs for performance calculations using Numpy.  ? Worked on CSV files while trying to get input from the MySQL database.  ? Wrote python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  ? Worked in stages such as analysis and design, development, testing and debugging.  ? Involved in development of RESTful Web Services for getting and sending data from the external interface in the JSON format.  ? Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes of the main applications that were sources of data for both customers and internal customer service team.  ? Responsible for managing large databases using Panda data frames and MySQL.  ? Designed and implemented a dedicated MYSQL database server to drive the web applications and report on daily progress  ? Rewrite existing Python/Django modules to deliver certain format of data.  ? Generated graphical reports using python package Numpy and MatPlotLib.  ? Proficient in developing complex SQL Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, Functions, and Packages along with performing DDL and DML operations on the database.  ? Created Python and Bash tools to increase efficiency of call center application system  ? Developing Python Framework using Django to perform scan software unit monitoring.  ? Created Python and Bash tools to increase efficiency of call center application system and operations; data conversion scripts, AMQP/Rabbit MQ, REST scripts for API Integration.  ? Built various graphs for business decision making using Python matplotlib library.  ? Developed and tested many features for dashboard using Python, Bootstrap, CSS, and JavaScript.  ? Created hourly or daily builds automatically and also deployed builds to production environment. Used Jenkins for continuous integration(CI) and continuous deployment(CD).  ? Involved in testing RESTful API like Twilio, Facebook and Twitter.  ? Used regular expressions in order to match the pattern with the existing one.  ? Skilled in using collections in Python for manipulating and looping through different user defined objects.  ? Work with team of developers on python applications for RISK management.  ? Taken part in entire lifecycle of the projects including Design, Development, and Deployment, Testing and Implementation and support.  ? Improved code reuse and performance by making effective use of various design patterns.  ? Resolving Complexity in the scripts of the website due to the complex logic and correlations.  ? Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  ? Used Pandas library for statistical Analysis.  Environment: Python 2.7, Windows, Panda API, MySQL, PyScripter, Django 1.4, MySQL, Linux, HTML, XHTML, CSS, AJAX, JavaScript, Git Python Developer Brinker International - Dallas, TX July 2016 to April 2017 Responsibilities:  ? Involved in software development life cycle (SDLC) of tracking the requirements, gathering, analysis, detailed design, development, system testing and user acceptance testing.  ? Developed entire front-end and back-end modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  ? Involved in designing user interactive web pages as the front end part of the web application using various web technologies like HTML5, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX and implemented CSS for better appearance and feel.  ? Interactive in providing change requests, trouble reports and requirements collection with the client.  ? Actively involved in developing the methods for Create, Read, Update and Delete(CRUD) in Active Record.  ? Implemented and modified various SQL queries and Functions, Cursors and Triggers as per the client requirements.  ? Experience with Unit testing/ Test driven Development (TDD), Load Testing.  ? Managed code versioning with GitHub, Bit Bucket and deployment to staging and production servers.  ? Implemented MVC architecture in developing the web application with the help of Django framework.  ? Used Celery as task queue and RabbitMQ, Redis as messaging broker to execute asynchronous tasks.  ? Experienced in NoSQL technologies like MongoDB, Cassandra and relational databases like Oracle, SQLite, PostgreSQL, and MySQL databases. Developed various algorithms for generating several data patterns.  ? Good understanding of Big Data technologies such as Hadoop, Hive.  ? Worked on JIRA for bug tracking and communicating for better results Strong Experience in Big data technologies including Apache Spark, Hadoop, HDFS, Hive, MongoDB.  ? Designed email marketing campaigns and created responsive web forms that saved data into a database using Python/ Django Framework.  ? Skilled in using collections in Python for manipulating and looping through different user defined objects  ? Designed and managed API system deployment using fast http server and Amazon AWS architecture.  ? Developed AWS cloud formation templates and setting up Auto Scaling for EC2 instances.  ? Involved in code reviews using GitHub pull requests, reducing bugs, improving code quality, and increasing knowledge sharing.  ? Implemented monitoring and established best practices around using elastic search.  ? Implemented task object to interface with data feed framework and invoke database message service setup and update functionality.  ? Used Pandas library for statistical Analysis and created Unit Test Python library for testing many Python programs and block of codes.  ? Used many regular expressions in order to match the pattern with the existing one and store them in data base on a chronological basis.  ? Implemented code to perform CRUD operations on MY SQL using Toad.  ? Improved code reuse and performance by making effective use of various design patterns and refactoring code base.  ? Used Pandas API to put the data as time series and tabular format for east timestamp data manipulation and retrieval.  ? Built various graphs for business decision-making using Python matplotlib library. Used Django configuration to manage URLs and application parameters.  ? Deployment of the web application using the Linux server.  ? Good working Experience in Agile (SCRUM) and waterfall methodologies with high quality deliverables delivered on-time.  Environment: Python 2.7, Django 1.8, HTML5, CSS, XML, MySQL, AWS, JavaScript, JQuery, Bootstrap, RESTful, Windows 2008 Server, pandas library, GitHub and Windows, Linux. Python Developer Cloud Sherpas - Atlanta, GA October 2015 to June 2016 Responsibilities:  ? Participated in the complete SDLC process and used PHP to develop website functionality.  ? Designed and developed the UI of the website using Node JS, HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  ? Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  ? Designed and developed data management system using MySQL. Built application logic using Python 2.7.  ? Used Django APIs for database access.  ? Participated in requirement gathering and worked closely with the architect in designing and modelling.  ? Worked with the team to customize wordpress security installations.  ? Used python scripts to Work with Facebook Platform Python SDK to access and post on Facebook page's wall.  ? Worked on development of SQL and stored procedures on MYSQL.  ? Self-motivated team player with good Analytical, Logical and Problem Solving ability.  ? Designed and developed a horizontally scalable APIs using Python Flask.  ? Experience in handling errors/exceptions and debugging issues in large scale applications.  ? Wrote Python routines to log into the websites and fetch data for selected options. Used Python modules such as requests, urllib, urllib2 for web crawling.  ? Used other packages such as Beautifulsoup for data parsing  Environment: Python 2.6/2.7, Script, Django Framework 1.3, CSS, Pycharm, SQL, MySQL, LAMP, JQuery, Adobe Dreamweaver, Apache web server. Python Developer Techimax IT Services - Hyderabad, Telangana September 2014 to September 2015 Responsibilities:  • Gathered and analyzed the requirements and converted them into User Requirement Specifications and Functional Requirement Specifications for the designers and developers to understand them as per their perspective.  • Worked on object oriented programming (OOP) concepts using Python, Django and Linux.  • Developed web-based applications using Python, Django, XML, CSS, HTML, JavaScript, Angular JS and JQuery.  • Experience with JSON based REST Web services and Amazon Web Services (AWS).  • Worked on Amazon services like Amazon Cloud EC2.  • Added support for Amazon AWS and RDS to host static/media files and the database into Amazon Cloud.  • Experience in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on MySQL and PostgreSQL database.  • Worked in agile and waterfall methodologies with high quality deliverables delivered on-time.  • Experience with continuous integration and automation using Jenkins.  • Experience with Unit testing/ Test driven Development (TDD), Load Testing.  • Developed the required XML Schema documents and implemented the framework for parsing XML documents.  • Involved in Unit testing and Integration testing.  • Worked on AJAX framework to transform Datasets and Data tables into HTTP-serializable JSON strings.  • Designed Interface using Bootstrap framework.  • Experience with working on multiple environments like development, testing, production. Excellent analytical and problem-solving skills and ability to work on own besides being valuable and contributing team player.  Environment: Python, Django, REST Web services, XML, CSS, HTTP, Ajax, AngularJS, Bootstrap, JSON, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, AWS EC2, Triggers, Cursors, MySQL and PostgreSQL database, Amazon Cloud EC2, Amazon Web Services (AWS). Python Developer Aatmiya Websoft Technologies - Hyderabad, Telangana July 2011 to August 2014 Responsibilities:  ? Developed a portal to manage entities in a content management system using Flask  ? Designed the database schema for the content management system Performed Design and Code reviews.  ? Implemented the presentation layer with HTML, DHTML, Ajax, CSS and JavaScript.  ? Performed coding in C++ on Linux Platform.  ? Involved in writing stored procedures using MySQL.  ? Assisted with migrating, flattening to a temporary stand-alone wordpress site.  ? Rewrite existing Python/C++ module to deliver certain formats of data.  ? Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  ? Optimized the database queries to improve the performance.  ? Developed in Windows and going to deploy it in Linux server.  ? Responsible for Parsing XML data using XML parser and Testing, fixing of the bugs and coding modifications.  ? Configured SQL Developer to work with oracle and Oracle to work in the complicated queries required for the DAO layer development.  ? Responsible for investigating the issues, defects, determining problem root cause, formulating corrective action recommendations & implementing them.  ? Used UML to design various data models including data flow diagrams, work flow diagrams and interaction diagrams.  ? Designed Class Diagrams, Sequence Diagrams depicting flow of the application using Rational Rose.  ? Developed UI of the website using HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  ? Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  ? Evaluated, analyzed, and tested web interface to understand and enhance the overall usability of a prepping website.  ? Designed, prototyped, engineered, and usability tested a complete financial and money managing application.  ? Designed and documented an innovative approach for reserving tickets online via a web-based application.  ? Worked on data exchange from website using XML and Web Services.  Environment: C++, XML, MYSQL, Apache, CSS, ORACLE, DHTML, HTML, JavaScript, Shell Scripts, Linux and Windows, flask, Python. Education Master's Skills AJAX (7 years), CSS (7 years), DATABASE (7 years), DJANGO (7 years), JAVASCRIPT (7 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:  Platforms Windows, Unix/Linux, Mac OS  Programming Skills C, C++, Perl, Shell Scriptiong, Python 2.7/ 3.5, Java.  Frameworks Django, Flask  Web Technologies HTML, CSS, JavaScript, AJAX, JQuery, Node.js, DOM  Database MySQL, Oracle, Microsoft SQL Server, PostgreSQL, SQL/Plsql, MonogDB  Python Libraries Numpy, Scipy, Matplotlib, HTTPLib2, Urllib2, Beautiful Soup, Pickle, Pandas  Servers Websphere, Apache Tomcat  Analytics Tools Tableau  Cloud Computing Google cloud, AWS, Databricks, CLoudera  IDE's/Development Tools PyCharm, PyScripter, PyStudio, IntelliJ, Netbeans, Eclipse  Other Tools Used Eclipse, Visual Studio, Putty, Git, Jira, Confluence