Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - Capital One McLean, VA ? Over 6 years of experience in IT, which comprise of Web/Application Developer and coding analytical Programing using Python, Django.  ? Experienced with full software development life-cycle, architecting scalable platforms, object oriented programming, database design and agile methodologies  ? Extensively used SQL, Numpy, Pandas, and Spark for Data Analysis and Model building.  ? Cognitive about designing, deploying and operating highly available, scalable and fault-tolerant systems using Amazon Web Services (AWS).  ? Provide Highly available and durable data by using S3 data store, versioning and life cycle policy.  ? Built the web application by using Django, Flask, Jinja, Python, WSGI, REDIS, PostgreSQL and DynamoDB.  ? Thorough understanding of providing specifications using Waterfall and Agile Software methodology to modeling systems and business processes.  ? Experience for debugging the project monitored on JIRA(Agile)  ? Experience object oriented programming (OOP) concepts using Python.  ? Experienced in WAMP (Windows, Apache, MYSQL, and Python/PHP) and LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, and Python/PHP) Architecture.  ? Experienced with UNIX/Linux environments  ? Experienced with python PyPi packages and used those packages at run time by pulling it from artifactory  ? Experienced in developing web-based applications using Python, Django, CSS, HTML, Bottle, JavaScript and JQuery.  ? Experienced in installing, configuring, modifying, testing and deploying applications with AWS (Amazon Web services).  ? Well versed with design and development of presentation layer for web applications using technologies like HTML, CSS, and JavaScript.  ? Familiar with REST and SOAP Web services.  ? Experienced in developing Web Services with Python programming language.  ? Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on MongoDB, MySQL and PostgreSQL database.  ? Experience with continuous integration and automation using Jenkins  ? Developed the required XML Schema documents and implemented the framework for parsing XML documents.  ? Involved in Unit testing and Integration testing of the code using PyTest and Unittest  ? Worked on AJAX framework to transform Datasets and Data tables into HTTP-serializable JSON strings.    GitHub LINK: https://github.com/moneygera/ python-code.git Work Experience Python Developer Capital One - McLean, VA July 2018 to Present Capital One Financial Corporation is a bank holding company specializing in credit cards, auto loans, banking and savings accounts. Capital One is ranked 10th on the list of largest banks in the United States by assets.    Project Description: I am an integral part of Models on Cloud project. In Models on cloud we are performing model deployments. Models on cloud have multiple models like SRM (Security Risk Model), WASP (Wallet Spending) and UBR (Universal Bad Rate) that calculate scores for each account. These scores consumed by internal CLIP (Credit Line Incremental Program) team.    Responsibilities:  ? Wrote python scripts to manage AWS resources from API calls using BOTO3  ? Analyzed The SQL scripts and design the solution to implement using PySpark  ? Read the Parquet and CSV files from S3 after applying the business logic and upload the output back to S3 using Pandas and PySpark  ? Worked on PySpark and Pandas data frames, and used those data frames for analysis, extraction, and manipulation of data  ? Worked on CFT and Lambda functions to trigger EC2 instance  ? Worked on Databricks for data analysis purpose  ? Using SNS, Lambda, EC2, and Cloud Watch alert to automate the end to end process  ? Wrote python PyPi packages and used those packages at run time by pulling it from artifactory  ? Wrote shell scripts for setting up Spark configuration for reading files from S3 at run time  ? Wrote the unit test and integration test for models  ? Used PyLint to maintain the code quality.  ? Working knowledge of Amazon's Elastic Cloud Compute(EC2) infrastructure for computational tasks and Simple Storage Service (S3) as Storage mechanism  ? Used CloudWatch for monitor resources in real time Python Developer Cisco Systems, Inc - San Jose, CA June 2017 to June 2018 Cisco Systems Inc. is an American multinational conglomerate that develops, manufactures and sells networking hardware, telecommunications equipment and other high-technology services and products.    Project Description: I am part of DNA (Digital Network Architecture) project. DNA analytics and assurance helps you get the most from network. It provides an easy-to use single dashboard for monitoring network health, identifying issue root causes, evaluating network configuration and remediating issues. I am part of NDP (Network Data Platform) team. NDP collect data from multiple sources to deliver comprehensive visibility into devices, users, and applications for proper context and correlation.    Responsibilities:  ? Designed and developed and maintained DNA-C web portal using the Django framework  ? Created Forms, Views and modules using Django  ? For Object Relational Mapper I have used DJANGO ORM and SQLAlchemy  ? Wrote Python scripts to upgrade the NDP package  ? UnitTest Python library was used for testing many programs on python and other codes.  ? REST API test automation framework using Pytest and Behave module  ? Loading, analyzing and extracting data to and from Elastic Search with Python.  ? Created RESTFUL API's for several of our Intranet applications using open source software  ? Used Python and Django to interface with JQuery UI and manage to stored and deletion of content.  ? Used Docker container for end to end testing locally.  ? Working on front end technologies like Javascript, HTML, CSS, bootstrap.  ? Working on Amazon web services features  ? Experiencing manipulating data in JSON, XML, CSV, XLSX  ? Responsible for debugging the project monitored on JIRA(Agile).  ? Worked with Unix/Linux environment    Environment: Python, Django, Dockers, Elastic Search, MongoDB, InfluxDB, Django, Java Script, HTML, XHTML, codeceptJS, jQuery, JSON, XML, CSS, MySQL, Bootstrap, Git, Linux, Pycharm. Python Developer JPMorganChase - Whippany, NJ August 2016 to May 2017 J.P. Morgan is a global leader in financial services, offering solutions to the world's most important corporations, governments and institutions in more than 100 countries.    Project Description: We are moving from Calypso which was previously written in java to Athena which is in Python. Where we are working trades and deals.    Responsibilities:  ? Participated in all the stages of software development lifecycle like design, development, and implementation and testing.  ? For database access Bottle API's have been used.  ? Loading, analyzing and extracting data to and from Oracle database with Python  ? Parsing various format of files like XML, JSON format files and load into Oracle database with Python XML and JSON modules.  ? Writing modules in Python to connect to MongoDB with PyMongo and doing CRUD operations with MongoDB  ? Worked with Unix/Linux environment  ? Business logic implementation, data exchange, XML processing and graphics creation has been done using Python and Django  ? Views and Templates were developed with Python and to create a user-friendly website interface Django's view controller and template language is used.  ? Developed UI using CSS, HTML, JavaScript, AngularJS, JQuery and JSON.  ? Worked with Agile methodology  ? UnitTest Python library was used for testing many programs on python and other codes.  ? In order to avoid the reloading of the entire web page to update small portions, AJAX in UI was used.  ? For sending and receiving the data between multiple systems RESTful Web-Services were implemented.  ? Features for dashboard were developed and tested using CSS, JavaScript, Django, and Bootstrap.    Environment: Python, Athena, Bottle Framework, Hydra, OracleDB, Django, Java Script, HTML, XHTML, Angular JS, jQuery, JSON, XML, CSS, MySQL, Bootstrap, Git, Linux, Pycharm.    Project Description: Python Developer T- Mobile - Bellevue, WA June 2014 to July 2016 T-Mobile is leading wireless network operator in the world. T-Mobile provide wireless, voice, messaging and data services. T-Mobile US operators it flagship brands, T-Mobile and MetroPCS in US.    Project Description: Working on application that helps to detect the phone fraud against the company, then tries to prevent from fraud and generate alerts warning of phone fraud.    Responsibilities:  ? Worked with Python, MongoDB, CSS, HTML5, JavaScript, AJAX and XHTML, AngularJS to build a fully Web 2.0 compliant website.  ? Deployed REDIS on AWS EC2 server for storing the data.  ? Rewrite existing Python/Django modules to deliver certain format of data.  ? Used Python and Django to interface with JQuery UI and manage to stored and deletion of content.  ? Wrote Python scripts to phase XML documents and load the data in database.  ? Design and developed data management system using MongoDB.  ? Design, develop, test, deploy and maintain the website.  ? Used Django Database API's to access database objects.  ? Created Forms, Views and modules using Django.  ? Responsible for debugging the project monitored on JIRA(Agile).  ? Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  ? Integrated the user-facing elements developed by front-end developers with server side logic.  ? Involved in entire lifecycle of the project including Design, Development, and Deployment, Testing and implementation and support.  Environment: Python 2.7, Django, AWS, Flask, MySQL, REDIS, JavaScript, AJAX, HTML5/CSS, XML, Django framework, Apache, Linux, Shell Scripting, JQuery and AngularJS. Python Developer Virgin America - Burlingame, CA December 2012 to May 2014 Virgin America is US based airline. Virgin America provides point to point service between major metropolitan cities on the Eastern and West coast seaboards.    Project Description: I worked on web-based applications that gives real-time update of flights and information of baggage's from arrival to departure of passenger.    Responsibilities:  ? Maintained and improved the security level of data.  ? Responsible for security standard implementation and data protection.  ? Worked with millions of database records on a daily basis, finding common errors and bad data patterns and fixing them.  ? Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL dB package.  ? Implemented code in Python to retrieve and manipulate data.  ? Developed multi-page applications from beginning to end.  ? Collaborate in system and network security installation, configuration, and review.  ? Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  ? Contributed to development of security policies and processes.  ? Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  ? Did Content Management through front end, live search and normal search features.  ? Profiled Python code for optimization and memory management.  ? Rewrite existing Python/Django module to deliver certain format of data.  Environment: Python, Django, MySQL, Linux, HTML, XHTML, SVN, CSS, AJAX, Bugzilla, JavaScript, Apache Web Server, Django, GitHub. Education B.tech in EEE Lovely Professional University - Jalandhar, Punjab 2012 Skills Ajax (4 years), Angularjs (3 years), Css (5 years), database (4 years), Django (5 years), Git (1 year), Html (3 years), Html5 (2 years), Java (1 year), Javascript (5 years), Jquery (4 years), Linux (5 years), Mongodb (4 years), Mysql (5 years), Python (6 years), Scripting (2 years), Subversion (1 year), Svn (1 year), Unix (1 year), web services (1 year), HTML 5 Links https://github.com/moneygera/python-code.git Additional Information SKILLS  Programming/Scripting Languages  Python, Bash/Shell, JavaScript, AJAX, HTML, HTML5, SQL, PL/SQL, MySQL, MongoDB, AngularJS, CSS, CSS3, JQuery, UML and Liferay APIs, Java    Web/Middle Tier Technologies JSP, Servlets, JDBC, JMS, Web Services, GWT.  Frameworks Django, Spring MVC, Flask, Bottle  Operating Systems Windows, Unix, Linux  RDBMS Oracle Database, MySQL, MS-SQL Server.  Development Tools Terminal, PyCharm, Visual Studio, Sublime, Databricks, Git, Parquet  Application Tools MS-Office, ERWin, SQL Plus, MS-Project, SVN, CVS, ANT, Maven, Git.