Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - Samsonite Mansfield, MA • Around 8 years of IT Experience in designing, developing, testing and implementing of various stand-alone and client-server architecture-based enterprise application software in Python on different domains.  • Skilled experience in Python with proven expertise in using new tools and technical developments (libraries used: libraries- Beautiful Soup, Jasy, numpy, Scipy, matplotlib, Pickle, PySide, python-twitter, Pandas dataframe, networks, urllib2, MySQL dB for database connectivity) to drive .com  • Good experience in developing web applications implementing Model View Control architecture using Django, Flask, Pyramid and Zope Python web application frameworks.  • Experienced in working with various Python Integrated Development Environments like Net Beans, PyCharm, PyScripter, Spyder, PyStudio, PyDev and Sublime Text.  • Basic understanding of protocols/technologies like HTTP, LDAP, JDBC, SSL, Servlet/JSP, SQL, HTML, XML.  • Good knowledge on front end frame works like CSS Bootstrap.  • Experience with Design, code, and debug operations, reporting, data analysis and web applications utilizing Python.  • Strong experience in Big data, Bigdata Integration and Analytics technologies including Apache Spark, Hadoop, Kafka, Storm  • Good Experience with Django, a high-level Python Web framework.  • Sound experience in Object Oriented Programming using concepts like Multi-Threading, Exception Handling and Collections.  • Knowledge about setting up Python REST API Frame work using Django.  • Experience in working with Python ORM Libraries including Django ORM.  • Experience in implementing Model View Control (MVC) architecture using server-side applications like Django, Flask and Pyramid for developing web applications.  • Extended Testing framework by adding some helper classes and methods  • Good Knowledge in implementation of Python best Practices (PEP-8).  • Good at writing SQL Queries, Stored procedures, functions, packages, tables, views, triggers using relational databases like Oracle, MySQL, DB2.  • Proficient in using editors Eclipse, PyCharm, PyScripter, Notepad++ and Sublime Text while developing different applications.  • Experienced in developing test automation framework with Python scripting& Selenium.  • Having good knowledge in using NoSQL databases like Apache Cassandra (1.2, 2.0 and 2.1), Kubernetes and Mongo DB (2.6, 2.4), Orient DBF net.  • Having experienced in Agile Methodologies, PCI, Scrum stories and sprints experience in a Python based environment, Data analytics, data wrangling and Excel data extracts.  • Worked on various operating systems like Windows, UNIX and LINUX.  • Experienced in Shell Scripting and UNIX commands.  • Shares expertise throughout the organization and may provide user training for products  • Excellent in Business Analytics. Interpersonal and communication skills, efficient time management and organization skills, ability to handle multiple tasks and work well in team environment. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Developer Samsonite - Mansfield, MA February 2017 to Present Description: Samsonite is the worldwide leader in superior travel bags, luggage, and accessories combining notable style with the latest design technology and the utmost attention to quality and durability. We are principally engaged in the design, manufacturing, sourcing, and distribution of luggage, business and computer bags, outdoor, casual bags, travel accessories and slim protective cases for personal electronic devices.  Responsibilities:  • Designed and developed the server module and resolved issues and responsible for its enhancements.  • Architected and developed Python and Django for the backend development and front-end application using React, Webpack, Redux, and ES6/7 and PostgreSQL for the database.  • Worked on Django ORM module for signing complex queries.  • Defined different Django API profiling techniques for faster rendering information.  • Used Ansible, Vagrant, and Docker for managing the application environments.  • Developed Python scripts for testing the car functioning on different services.  • Worked with Splunk for testing the performance and debugging server level problems.  • Implemented various Validation Controls for form validation and implemented custom validation controls using Object Oriented JavaScript.  • Working close together with QA and Operations teams to understand, design, and develop and end-to-end data flow requirements.  • Used React JS in components like JSX, creating React components, Virtual DOM, React Props, Lifecycle methods, working with the React States and Events.  • Developed Restful MicroServices using Flask and Django and deployed on AWS servers using EBS and EC2.  • Developed views and templates with Django view controller and template to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Worked on Django and RabbitMQ queues.  • Imported data using Sqoop to load data from MySQL to HDFS on regular basis.  • Used Circle CI for continuous integration and delivery platform over GIT.  • Used Django Migrations for designing and expanding of the database.  • Automated most of the daily task using python scripting.  • Involved in the CI/CD pipeline management for managing the weekly releases.  • Worked on Jira for managing the tasks and improving the individual performance.  • Making recommendations to the team in terms of appropriate testing techniques, shared testing tasks.  Environment: Python 2.7, Django, Django Rest, Flask, React, Redux, Circle CI, Vagrant, Splunk, New Relic Server, GitHub, Ansible, HTML5/CSS, PostgreSQL, Amazon Web Service (AWS), S3, EC2, EBS, PyCharm, Microsoft Visual Code, Linux, Shell Scripting, JIRA. Python Developer Minneapolis, MN November 2015 to January 2017 Description: Target is recognized as a leader in innovation across the retail industry. From pioneering the concept of designer partnerships to consistently being best in class in store design, Target remains focused on not only meeting, but exceeding, its guests' needs.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in analysis, specification, design, and implementation and testing phases of Software  • Development Life Cycle (SDLC) and used agile methodology for developing application. Upgraded existing UI with HTML, CSS, jQuery and Bootstrap.  • Working as an application developer experienced with controllers, views and models in Django.  • Used Salt Stack to configure and manage the infrastructure.  • Restful web services using Python REST API Framework.  • Implemented the application using Python Spring IOC (Inversion of Control), Django Framework and handled the security using Python Spring Security.  • Tested entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Responsible for handling the integration of database systems.  • Developed Server-side automation using Node JS scripting and connecting different types of SQL and NoSQL stores from Node JS.  • Used object-relational mapping (ORM) solution, technique of mapping data representation from MVC model to Oracle Relational data model with an SQL-based schema  • Implemented Performance tuning and improved the Performance of Stored Procedures and Queries.  • Installed and configured py Builder for application builds and deploying it.  • Used Selenium Library to write fully functioning test automation process that allowed the simulation of submitting different we request from multiple browser to web application  • Developed and Deployed SOAP based Web Services on Tomcat Server  • Used Jenkins for continuous integration for code quality inspection and worked on building local repository mirror and source code management using Git hub.  • Used IDE tool to develop the application and JIRA for bug and issue tracking.  • Wrote unit testing codes using unit test, resolving bugs and other defects using Firebug,  • Used JIRA to assign, track, report and audit the issues.  • Used GIT to coordinate team development.  Environment: Python, Django Web Framework, HTML, CSS, NoSQL, JavaScript, JQuery, Sublime Text, Jira, GIT, py Builder, unit test, Firebug, Web Services. Python Developer WPS Health Solutions - Monona, WI April 2015 to October 2015 Description: This project involves testing of WPS Health Solutions Mobile application on Android, and iOS devices. WPS Health Solutions is medical apparatus and equipment for use in electronic acquisition, capture, processing, presentation, storage and transmission of patient's medical and physiological data for use in programming, monitoring and testing implanted cardiac devices.  Responsibilities:  • Defining the scope of testing within the context of each release / delivery.  • To test Sirius Programmer Mobile Application on Android and iOS devices using See Test test automation tool.  • Deploying and managing resour ces for testing.  • Analyzing test requirements and developing test scripts.  • Planning, deploying and managing the testing effort for any given engagement.  • Developing test automation framework using python and See Test APIs.  • Developing Requirement Traceability Tool using python.  • Coordinating with the development team for any assistance in issue reproduction and testing.  • Executing test scripts using Visual Studio, MTM and See Test tool.  • Involved in Code reviews and Test Case reviews.  • Prepare any risk mitigation plans if in case any delays are foreseen.  • Training new joiners on test reporting, test automation, and test management.  Environment: Python, Pytest, Pylint, Microsoft Visual Studio, Microsoft Test Manager, See Test automation Tool, and TFS. Python Developer Par Pharmaceutical - Montebello, NY December 2013 to March 2015 Description: The Project is to development of drug development and treatment tracking system. Also, there was Worked on conversion of Sales/Back Office Integration system from PHP to Python/Django System.  Responsibilities:  • Involved understanding the current business process, defining scope of the project along with position statement.  • Re-engineered various modules for implementing changes and creating efficient system.  • Developed dynamic web pages using python Django Frameworks.  • Used Python and Django creating graphics, XML processing, data exchange and business logic implementation.  • Supported Apache Server on Linux Platform.  • Installation and setting up Python/Unix test beds  • Created use-case scenarios and storyboards in MS Word and MS PowerPoint for better visualization of the application.  • Write Automation/test python scripts to test.  • Flex development exposure of Flex layout and navigation, event handling, pop-up dialogs, menus and skinning.  • Used HTML, CSS for front-end applications.  • Used python scripts to update content in the database and manipulate files.  • Resolved issues and improvised the process to ensure a stable and accurate solution.  • Generated Python Django Forms to record data of online users  • Python OO Design code for manufacturing quality, monitoring, logging, and debugging code optimization  • Responsible for analysis, design, development and integration of Market Risk applications with JAVA/ PYTHON.  • Held meetings with client and worked all alone for the entire project with limited help from the client.  • Worked on writing and as well as read data from csv and excel file formats  • Provided technical and business knowledge to clients.  • Analyzed data using Excel VBA scripts and Macros  • Working with the architect, developers on business and technical issues, helping in designing the system; and testers to ensure all requirements are correctly translated.  • Managed requirements and tasks using JIRA  • Automate the outbound/inbound EDI document to drop files in the client ftp server  • Data mapping, logical data modeling, created class diagrams and ER diagrams and used SQL queries to filter data within the Oracle database.  Environment: MS Visio, JIRA, UML, Python 2.7, Sublime text2(IDE) Windows 7, SQL, Requests, urllib, urllib2, Beautiful soup, Django. Python Developer North Face Holdings - Hyderabad, Telangana August 2009 to November 2013 Responsibilities:  • Work with team of developers on python applications for RISK management.  • Design, develop, test, deploy and maintain the website.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL.  • Rewrite existing Python/Django modules to deliver certain format of data.  • Used Django Database API's to access database objects.  • Wrote python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Handled all the client-side validation using JavaScript.  • Expertise in writing Constraints, Indexes, Views, Stored Procedures, Cursors, Triggers, and User Defined function.  • I have also used Selenium Library to write fully functioning test automation process that allowed the simulation of submitting different we request from multiple browser to web application.  • Used JQuery for all client-side Java script manipulation.  • Created unit test/regression test framework for working/new code  • Using Subversion control tool to coordinate team-development.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  Environment: Python, Django 1.3, MySQL, Linux, HTML, XHTML, SVN, CSS, AJAX, Bugzilla, JavaScript, Apache Web Server, Django Education Bachelor's in Telangana JNTU - Hyderabad, Telangana Skills PYTHON (9 years), CSS (8 years), DJANGO (8 years), LINUX (7 years), HTML (6 years), Javascript, Flask, C, AWS Additional Information Technical Skills:    Programming Languages C, C++, Python-3.5 & 2.7, SQL and Shell Scripting  Python Libraries  Python, Django, Flask, Beautiful Soup, httplib2, Jinja2, HTML/CSS, Bootstrap, jQuery, Numpy, Matplotlib, Pickle, Pyside, SciPy, wxPython, PyTables, pdb    Frameworks Django, Spark, web2py, pyramid, Flask, Mongodb and CSS Bootstrap    Technologies HTML, CSS, DOM, SAX, Java Script, JQuery, AJAX, XML, Angular JS  Version Control GIT (GitHub), SVN  Protocols TCP/IP, HTTP/HTTPS, SNMP, SMTP  IDE's/ Development Tools NetBeans, Android Studio, Py Charm, Eclipse and Sublime Text.  Application Tools Net Beans, Eclipse (SE, EE, Android), Visual Studio, MySQL  Deployment Tools Heroku, Jenkins  Tracking Tools Bugzilla and JIRA.    Methodologies Agile, Scrum and Waterfall  Databases Access, SQL Server, MySQL, Teradata, Oracle.  Software packages MS Word, Advanced MS Excel, MS PowerPoint, SQL Plus  Reporting Tools SSRS, Tableau, MS-Word, and MS-PowerPoint.  Operating systems Linux/Unix, Windows Variants