Python developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">developer</span> Python developer - AT&T Plano, TX • Almost 6 years of experience as a Web/Application Developer and Cloud Engineer as coding with analytical programming using Python, Django, HTML, CSS, JavaScript.  • Experienced in object-oriented programming (OOP) concepts using Python and PHP.  • Expert in STL containers, Design Patterns, Socket programming, Multithreading.  • Actively involved in each phase of software Development life cycle (SDLC) experience in Agile Software Methodology.  • Experience in AWS Cloud platform and its features which includes EC2, IAM, EBS Cloudwatch, AWS Config and AWS S3.  • Experience in working on various python packages such as NumPy, SQL Alchemy, matPlotlib, Beautiful soup, pickle, PySide, SciPy, PyTables.  • Experience in developing web-based applications using Python 2.7/2.6, Django 1.4/1.3, PHP, Angular JS, VB, C++, XML, CSS, HTML, DHTML, JavaScript and jQuery.  • Experience in developing web services (WSDL, SOAP and REST) and consuming web services with python programming language.  • Experience in Python open stack API's.  • Experience in using various version control systems like Git (GitHub), SVN, CVS.  • In-depth experience in LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, Python) Architecture.  • Good knowledge in working with application server - Apache Server, Tomcat (6.0, 7.0, 8.0), Nginx, WebLogic (10.0, 10.3, 11g), WebSphere (7.0, 8.5).  • Performed Unit testing, Integration Testing and generating of test cases for web applications using Junit and Python Unit test framework Hudson/Jenkins in the builds triggered by each push to GIT.  • Experienced with integration of MongoDB and Casandra databases.  • Experience in Python open stack API's.  • Experience with UML diagrams  • Excellent Experience on various Python integrated IDE's such as Sublime Text, Pycharm, Eclipse, NetBeans.  • Experience in developing web applications by following Model View Control (MVC) Architecture using server-side applications Django, Flask and Pyramid.  • Hands-on experience in Unix and Linux Kernels.  • Hands on experience in SVN, Git, JIRA.  • Hands on experience with version control tools such as SVN, GitHub, GitLab.  • Experience in SAS/STAT with linear and logistic regression.  • Working on Server-Side validations using REGEX sent response by using Json, By following the OWASP Strategies.  • Good knowledge in various stages of SDLC (Software Development Life Cycle), Software Testing Life Cycle (STLC) and QA methodologies from project definition to post-deployment documentation.  • Defined the problem statement and explored the possibilities of using deep learning algorithms for solution identification in Higgs Boson simulated dataset.  • Experience in using CI tools Hudson, Build Forge, and Jenkins for automated builds.  • Hands on Apache Spark jobs using Scala in test environment for faster data processing and used Spark SQL for queryin.  • Strong knowledge / experience in creating Jenkins CI pipelines and good- experience in automating deployment pipelines.  • Built Jenkins jobs to create AWS infrastructure from GitHub repos containing terraform code.  • Experience in designing the project workflows/pipelines using Jenkins as CI tool.  • Achieved continuous deployment using IBM uDeploy. Integrated uDeploy with nexus and Jenkins to achieve CD.  • Hands on experience with installation and configuration of Apache Tomcat server.  • Implemented SonarQube for code quality check and Nexus repository and integrated them into Jenkins to achieve Continuous Integration.  • Good Knowledge in creating processing data pipelines using Kafka and Spark Streaming.  • Assisted in pricing of securities including bonds and mortgages in programming domain such as C++, MATLAB and R programming.  • Used SonarQube for code coverage and code quality.  • Experience with Apache Spark ecosystem using Spark-SQL, Data Frames, RDD's and knowledge on Spark MLib.  • Experience in writing SQL, Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors and Functions.  • Good experience with python frameworks like Flask and WebApp2.  • Have Experience in List Comprehensions and python inbuilt functions such as Map, Filter and Lambda.  • Experienced in Agile Methodologies, Scrum stories and sprints experience in a Python based environment, along with data analytics, data wrangling and Excel data extracts.    TECHNICAL SKILSS:    • Programming Languages: Python-3.5 & 2.7, C, C++, UML (design), Java, SQL and PL/SQL.  • Python Libraries: Python, Django, Flask, Beautiful Soup, httplib2, Jinja2, HTML/CSS,  Bootstrap, jQuery, NumPy, matPlotlib, PySide, SciPy, wxPython, PyTables.  • Frameworks: Django, web2py, pyramid, Flask.  • Databases: Oracle, MySQL, PostgreSQL, MongoDB,  • Cloud Technologies: AWS, Rackspace Cloud, Amazon S3.  • Bug Tracking Tools: Jira, Bugzilla, Rational.  • Protocols: TCP/IP, HTTP/HTTPS, SOAP, SNMP, SMTP, REST. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python developer AT&T - Plano, TX September 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Interacted with Business team to gather requirements.  • Extensive experience with AWS services like S3, ELB, EBS, Auto-Scaling, Route53, Storefront, IAM, Cloud Watch, RDS etc.  • Extensively involved in infrastructure as code, execution plans, resource graph and change automation using Terraform. Managed AWS infrastructure as code using Terraform.  • Developed Merge jobs in Python to extract and load data into MySQL database.  • Created Terraform scripts for EC2 instances, Elastic Load balancers and S3 buckets. Implemented Terraform to manage the AWS infrastructure and managed servers using configuration management tools like Chef and Ansible.  • Developed file cleaners using Python libraries and made it clean.  • Worked on MVC architecture using PHP, Python as controller.  • Build numerous Lambda functions using python and automated the process using the event created.  • Created an AWS Lambda architecture to monitor AWS S3 Buckets and triggers a thumbnail create event whenever a user uploads a new picture.  • Worked on packages like socket, REST API, Django.  • Hands on experience in migrating Business from a physical data centre environment to AWS.  • Experienced in setting up EC2 instances, security groups and Setting up databases in AWS using S3bucket and configuring instance backups to S3 bucket.  • Performed S3 buckets creation, policies on IAM role based polices, MFA and customizing the JSON template  • Automated various service and application deployments with ANSIBLE on CentOS and RHEL in AWS.  • Wrote ANSIBLE Playbooks with Python, SSH as the Wrapper to Manage Configurations of AWS Nodes and Test Playbooks on AWS instances using Python. Run Ansible Scripts to provision Dev servers.  • Worked in MySQL database on simple queries and writing Stored Procedures for normalization.  • Deployed the project into Jenkins using GIT version control system.  • Learned to index and search/query large number of documents inside Elastic search.  • Taken part in entire lifecycle of the projects including Design, Development, and Deployment, Testing and Implementation and support.  • Experience in Python advanced packages and modules like Requests, Scrapy, BeautifulSoup, Multithreading, Pandas, NumPy, SciPy, MatPlotlib, wxPython, QT, Regex expressions, SQL Alchemy, SQL based database connectiors JDBC/ODBC and Py-Virtual Environment.  • Understanding of secure-cloud configuration, Cloud Trail, cloud-security technologies (VPC, Security Groups, etc.) and cloud-permission systems(IAM)  • Experience in Installing Jenkins/Plugins for GIT Repository, Setup SCM Polling for Immediate Build with Maven and Maven Repository and Deployment of apps using custom modules through Puppet as a CI/CD Process.  • Extensive use of version controlling systems like GIT and SVN.  • Loaded the data into Spark RDD and do in memory data Computation to generate the Output response.  • Configured and maintained Jenkins to implement the CI process and integrated the tool with Ant and Maven to schedule the builds.  • Created Maven POMs to automate build process for the new projects and integrated them with third party tools like SonarQube.  • Responsible for installing and administrating the SonarQube for code quality check and Nexus repository and generating reports for different projects. Also, integrated them into Jenkins.  • Helped to understand the process of SonarQube through Presentations and other business value measurement.  • Prepared scripts to ensure proper data access, manipulation and reporting functions with R programming languages.  • Formulated procedures for integration of R programming plans with data sources and delivery systems.  • Involved in writing queries in SparkSQL using Scala.  • Hands on experience in Apache Spark creating RDD's and Data Frames applying operations like Transformation and Actions and converting RDD's to Data Frames.  • Worked with View Sets in Django-REST framework for providing web services and consumed web services performing CRUD operations.  • Used Python Library Beautiful Soup 4 for Web Scraping to extract data for building graphs.  • Used AngularJS as the development framework to build a single-page application.    Environment: Amazon Web Services (AWS), Cloud Environment, Lambda, Dynamo DB, Python 3.4, Django, API Gateway, Java, J2EE, REST API, Spark, Spark API, SparkSQl, Spark Streaming Spring framework, AngularJS, HTML, Amazon S3, CloudWatch, eclipse, MS-SQL Server, GIT, Jira, Jenkins, Confluence. Python Developer IBM - Irving, TX January 2017 to August 2017 Responsibilities:  • Used Django Framework in developing web applications to implement the model view control architecture.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Develop consumer-based features and applications using Python, Django, pyramid, Flask, Web2py, HTML and other web technologies.  • Implemented web applications in Flask frame works following MVC architecture.  • Worked on front end frame works like CSS Bootstrap for development of Web applications.  • Experience in using collections in Python for manipulating and looping through different user defined objects.  • With using of Python OS module on UNIX environment, made job cloning and forking.  • Created deployment groups in one environment for the Workflows, Worklets, Sessions, Mappings, Source Definitions, Target definitions and imported them to other environments.  • Implemented Bash, Perl, Python scripting to Automate many day-to-day tasks.  • Extensive usage of SQL Profiler and Analytics for query optimization and maintenance.  • Created Business Logic using Python to create Planning and Tracking functions.  • Used web services like Amazon Web Services (AWS) EC2, AWS S3, Auto scaling, Cloud watch and SNS.  • Implemented in Jenkins for Continuous Integration and for automating all builds and deployments and Build Jenkins jobs to create AWS infrastructure from GitHub repos containing terraform code and Installed and Administered Jenkins CI for Maven Builds.  • Extensively worked on Jenkins by installing, configuring and maintaining for Continuous integration(CI) and for End to End automation for all build and deployments.  • Mentored large scale data and analytics using advanced statistical and machine learning models.  • Researched and implemented code coverage using SonarQube scanner and runner and unit test plug-ins like find bugs, check style and JUnit with Maven/Hudson.  • Deploy third party's applications using various CI tools like Jenkins.  • Integration of data storage solutions using Django ORM system for MongoDB.  • Used Unit Test Python library for testing many programs on python and other codes.  • Developed and Tested features of dashboard using CSS, JavaScript, Django, and Bootstrap.  Wrote Stored Procedures in SQL and Scripts in Python for data loading.  • Collaborated with team of QA to build and populate DB and to ensure the standards.  • Developed and Tested features of dashboard using CSS, JavaScript, Django, and Bootstrap.  • Implemented RESTful Web-Services for sending and receiving the data between multiple systems.    Environment: Python 3.4,2.7, Django 1.9/1.7, Java 1.7, SQL, Java Script, Linux, Shell Scripting, Mongo DB HTML, Angular JS, Eclipse jQuery, JSON, XML, CSS, MySQL, Bootstrap, Amazon s3, AWS. Python Developer Wells Fargo - Alpharetta, GA September 2016 to December 2016 Responsibilities:  • Built database Model, Views and API's using Python for interactive web based solutions.  • Placed data into JSON files using Python to test Django websites. Used Python scripts to update the content in database and manipulate files.  • Developed web based application using Django framework with python concepts.  • Generated Python Django forms to maintain the record of online users.  • Used Django API's to access the database.  • Involved in Python OOD code for quality, logging, monitoring, and debugging code optimization.  • Wrote Python modules to view and connect the Apache Cassandra instance.  • Created Unit test/ regression test framework for working/new code.  • Installed and maintained web servers Tomcat and Apache HTTP in UNIX.  • Developed efficient Angular.js for client web based application.  • Responsible for designing, developing, testing, deploying and maintaining the web application.  • Designed and developed the UI for the website with HTML, XHTML, CSS, Java Script and AJAX.  • Involved in working with Python open stock API's.  • Extracted log from Git using Python and performed data cleaning using regex to generate the Changelogs for comparing different software versions.  • Responsible for managing large databases using MySQL.  • Wrote and executed various MySQL database queries from Python-MySQL connector and MySQL db. package.  • Used the Python's modules Numpy, matPlotLib, etc. for generating complex graphical data, creation of histograms etc.  • Developed and designed automation framework using Python and Shell scripting.  • Involved in debugging and troubleshooting issues and fixed many bugs in two of the main applications which are main source of data for customers and internal customer service team.  • Implemented SOAP/RESTful web services in JSON format.  • Created Git repository and added the project to GitHub.  • Involved in debugging the applications monitored on JIRA using agile methodology.  • Attended many day-to-day meetings with developers and users and performed QA testing on the Application.  • Experience in using containers like Docker.  Environment: Python 2.x+ and 3.x+, Django 1.4, HTML, CSS, AJAX, Tomcat, Apache HTTP, Angular.js, JSON, Restful, XML, JavaScript, OOD, Shell Scripting, GIT Hub, MYSQL, Cassandra, JIRA. Python Developer Genpact - Bengaluru, Karnataka November 2014 to July 2016 Responsibilities:  • Followed Agile Methodologies to manage full life-cycle development of the project.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Worked on large-scale, high-traffic Python web applications to define and implement new features, enhance core functionality, and integrate with other platforms and services.  • Provided 24x7 support for several host production, QA, and development OLTP databases as well as hundreds of off-site store databases.  • Installation, configuring, upgrading, migrating, and patching of DB2, Oracle, and SQL Server.  • Expertise in establishing database connections for Python by configuring packages like MySQL- Python.  • Handled potential points of failure through error handling and communication of failure.  • Performed efficient delivery of code based on principles of Test Driven Development (TDD) and continuous integration to keep in line with Agile Software Methodology principles.  • Worked on installing and setting up the channels by using Django.  • Used JavaScript and JSON to update a portion of a webpage.  • Develop consumer-based features and applications using Python, Django, HTML, Behaviour Driven Development (BDD) and pair-based programming.  • Used many regular expressions to match the pattern with the existing one.  • Build SQL queries for performing various CRUD operations like create, update, read and delete.  • Skilled in using Collections in Python for manipulating and looping through different user defined objects.  • Performed Unit testing, Integration testing, web application testing.  • Special skills in developing user friendly, simple yet effective web based applications.  • Deployed the project into Heroku using GIT version control system.    Environment: Python 2.7, Django 1.4, HTML5, CSS, XML, MySQL, JavaScript, Angular JS, Bugzilla, JQuery, CSS Bootstrap, Mongo DB, MS SQL Server, Eclipse, Git, GitHub, Linux, Shell Scripting. Python Developer Tri Geo Technologies January 2013 to October 2014 Responsibilities:  • Involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) such as requirements gathering, modelling, analysis, design and development.  • Designed and Developed the REST style web services using Python and Flask, Postgres Database.  • Wrote complex SQL queries and PL/SQL functions.  • Developed the Command Line Interface (CLI) tool for Red hat Linux.  • Used Python's XML parser architectures (SAX) and DOM API for tracking small amounts of data without requiring the DB.  • Created the Linux Services to run REST web services using Shell script.  • Build the RPM Package for the Product with the upgrade features support.  • Design and developed the test cases for REST API, Involved REST API test framework development.  • Used Python Library Beautiful Soup for web scrapping  • Design and develop the test cases for CLI automation using Python.  • Involved in Unit testing and developed the unit test cases using PyUnit framework.  • Used Jenkins to deploy web services and run unit tests, REST API test.  • Worked on network subnet, VLAN's and Routers.  • Involved in automation of creations of VLAN, Trunk port and Routing.  • Create branch and Commit the code changes to Master branch using SVN version control and commands in Linux.    Environment: Python, Java, PL/SQL, Linux, HTML, XHTML, CSS, AJAX, JavaScript. Education Master's in Science in Computer and Information Sciences Southern Arkansas University - Magnolia, AR December 2017 Bachelor's in Engineering in Electronics & Communication Engg Andhra University April 2013 Skills Linux (4 years), Mac. (Less than 1 year), Unix (1 year)