Python developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">developer</span> Python developer - Agyle Networks • Around 7 years of industry experience working as a core Python Developer and Front end/UI Developer responsible in developing interactive web applications with valuable & intuitive user experiences.  • Worked with Python along with JavaScript to create scalable and robust common components which can be used across the whole framework.  • Extensive experience in developing Single Page Applications (SPA) using JavaScript frameworks like ReactJS and Angular2.  • Experience using version control system such as GIT.  • Experience in working with various Python Integrated Development, PyCharm, Atom, Spyder, Eclipse, Visual Studio Code, Notepad++, and Sublime Text.  • Experience in applications such as NFS, FTP, APACHE, GPMUX, SSH, HTTP/HTTPS, SIP.  • Experience in web-based applications with extensive use of Python 2.7, Python 3.3, Python 3.4 Django 1.4/1.3, JavaScript, jQuery, XML, CSS3, HTML5, DHTML.  • Experience in Automation scripts by using Selenium and Win Runner also used Test Director/HP ALM to manage the entire Automation testing process.  • Good understanding of Ethernet, IP Addressing/Subnetting, Vlans, TCP/IP, iSCSI, FCOE, FC, RDMA (RoCE, iWARP), PFC, DCBX, ETS, QOS, boot from SAN, smartAN, NPAR, VLAN, LACP and other network controller features. Working on Data structures like Lists, Tuples, Dictionaries, Sets, String.  • Hands on experience in Managing, developing and designing a dashboard control panel for customers and Administrators using Django, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Bootstrap, jQuery, and REST API calls.  • Knowledge about setting up Python REST API Framework using Django.  • Experience in performing Data driven testing to validate the components displayed on the website using Selenium.  • Experience with DNS/DHCP/WINS Standardizations and Implementation.  • Strong understanding and working knowledge of Object-Oriented design principles.  • Familiar with JSON based REST Web services and Amazon Web services.  • Worked on an AJAX framework to transform datasets and data tables into HTTP-serializable JSON strings.  • Knowledge on Selenium IDE, WebDriver, Firebug, TestNG, OOPs.  • Developed the required XML Schema documents and implemented the framework for parsing XML documents.  • Used python decorators, generator, list comprehensions, list, JSON, cache, pandas and NumPy for building python functions for processing of data.  • Hands on experience in Designing and developing API's for the application using Python, Django, MongoDB, Express, ReactJS, and NodeJS.  • Good Knowledge on developing Automation scripts for manual test cases.  • Excellent interpersonal and presentation skills and the ability to interact professionally with a diverse group, executives, managers, and subject matter experts.  • Experience in using various version control systems like CVS, Git, GitHub and Amazon EC2 and deployment using Heroku.  • Proficient in writing SQL Queries, Stored procedures, functions, packages, tables, views, triggers using relational databases like Oracle and MySQL.  • Highly motivated, quality minded developer, with proven ability to deliver applications against tight deadlines.  • Possess good interpersonal, analytical presentation Skills, ability to work in Self-managed and Team environments. Work Experience Python developer Agyle Networks - Frisco, TX September 2018 to Present RESPONSIBILITIES:  • Worked with server-side production code for application those are robust and high volume.  • Developed applications using mix of technologies ( Python, Django, Flask, Pandas, REST and SOLR).  • Involved in building database Model, APIs and Views utilizing Python in order to build an interactive web based solution.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Develop consumer-based features and applications using Python, Django, pyramid, Flask, Web2py, HTML and other web technologies.  • Worked on several standard Python packages like Numpy, matPlotLib, Scipy, Pandas and PyTables etc.  • Developed dynamic web pages using Python Django Frameworks.  • Created a Python based web application using Python scripting for data processing, MySQL for the database, and HTML/CSS.  • Troubleshoot ETL failures and performed manual loads using SQL stored procedures.  • Implemented new metrics on the MedeAnalytics' Software as a Service (SaaS) Patient Access Analytics platform.  • Wrote Python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Generated property list for every application dynamically using Python.  • Developed web applications and RESTful web services and APIs using Python, Django and Flask.  • Worked on PEP-8 coding standard and test a program by running it across test cases to ensure validity and effectiveness of code using PyChecker and PyLint.  • Involved in Unit testing and Integration testing of the code using PyTest.  • Used PowerShell for DevOps in Windows-based systems.  • Involved in various projects related to Data Modeling, System/Data Analysis, Design and Development for both OLTP and Data warehousing environments.  • Involved in development of Python based Web Services using REST for sending and getting data from the external interface in the JSON format and to track sales and perform sales analysis using Django and PostgreSQL.  • Developed UI using CSS, HTML, JavaScript, Angular.JS, JQuery and JSON.  • Consumed external APIs and wrote RESTful API using Django REST Framework and Angular's.  • Connected continuous integration system with GIT version control repository and continually build as the check-in's come from the developer.  • Wrote Stored Procedures in SQL and Scripts in Python for data loading.  • Displayed and proved capability to learn any new technology and work on it.  • Involved in writing and reviewing requirements, architecture documents, test plans, design and maintaining documents, quality analysis and helping with the software release process.    Environment: Python, Django, Pandas, Flask, REST, DevOps, Data E, SOLR, Jira, Bugzilla, Pytest, PyChecker, PyLint, JavaScript, Angular.js, JSON, JQuery, AJAX, HTML, CSS, PostGreSQL, Agile, LINUX and Windows. Python developer Chevron - Houston, TX January 2018 to August 2018 RESPONSIBILITIES:  • Used Django Framework in developing web applications to implement the model view control architecture.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Develop consumer-based features and applications using Python, Django, pyramid, Flask, Web2py, HTML and other web technologies.  • Implemented web applications in Flask frame works following MVC architecture.  • Worked on front end frame works like CSS Bootstrap for development of Web applications.  • Experience in using collections in Python for manipulating and looping through different user defined objects.  • With using of Python OS module on UNIX environment, made job cloning and forking.  • Created deployment groups in one environment for the Workflows, Worklets, Sessions, Mappings, Source Definitions, Target definitions and imported them to other environments.  • Implemented Bash, Perl, Python scripting to Automate many day-to-day tasks.  • Extensive usage of SQL Profiler and Analytics for query optimization and maintenance.  • Created Business Logic using Python to create Planning and Tracking functions.  • Used web services like Amazon Web Services (AWS) EC2, AWS S3, Auto scaling, Cloud watch and SNS.  • Implemented in Jenkins for Continuous Integration and for automating all builds and deployments and Build Jenkins jobs to create AWS infrastructure from GitHub repos containing terraform code and Installed and Administered Jenkins CI for Maven Builds.  • Extensively worked on Jenkins by installing, configuring and maintaining for Continuous integration(CI) and for End to End automation for all build and deployments.  • Mentored large scale data and analytics using advanced statistical and machine learning models.  • Researched and implemented code coverage using SonarQube scanner and runner and unit test plug-ins like find bugs, check style and JUnit with Maven/Hudson.  • Deploy third party's applications using various CI tools like Jenkins.  • Integration of data storage solutions using Django ORM system for MongoDB.  • Used Unit Test Python library for testing many programs on python and other codes.  • Developed and Tested features of dashboard using CSS, JavaScript, Django, and Bootstrap.  • Wrote Stored Procedures in SQL and Scripts in Python for data loading.  • Collaborated with team of QA to build and populate DB and to ensure the standards.  • Developed and Tested features of dashboard using CSS, JavaScript, Django, and Bootstrap.  • Implemented RESTful Web-Services for sending and receiving the data between multiple systems.    Environment: Python 3.4,2.7, Django 1.9/1.7, Java 1.7, SQL, Java Script, Linux, Shell Scripting, Mongo DB HTML, Angular JS, Eclipse jQuery, JSON, XML, CSS, MySQL, Bootstrap, Amazon s3, AWS. Python developer Great West Financials - Overland Park, KS April 2017 to December 2017 RESPONSIBILITIES:  • Involved in analysis, specification, design, and implementation and testing phases of Software  • Development Life Cycle (SDLC) and used agile methodology for developing application.  • Working as an application developer experienced with controllers, views and models in Django  • Used Salt Stack to configure and manage the infrastructure  • Restful web services using Python REST API Framework.  • Implemented the application using Python Spring IOC (Inversion of Control), Django Framework and handled the security using Python Spring Security.  • Tested entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework  • Responsible for handling the integration of database system.  • Developed Server-side automation using Node JS scripting and connecting different types of SQL and NoSQL stores from Node JS.  • Used object-relational mapping (ORM) solution, technique of mapping data representation from MVC model to Oracle Relational data model with an SQL-based scheme.  • Implemented Performance tuning and improved the Performance of Stored Procedures and Queries.  • Installed and configured py Builder for application builds and deploying it.  • Used Selenium Library to write fully functioning test automation process that allowed the simulation of submitting different we request from multiple browser to web application.  • Developed and Deployed SOAP based Web Services on Tomcat Server.  • Used Jenkins for continuous integration for code quality inspection and worked on building local repository mirror and source code management using Git hub.  • Used IDE tool to develop the application and JIRA for bug and issue tracking.  • Wrote unit testing codes using unit test, resolving bugs and other defects using Firebug.  • Used JIRA to assign, track, report and audit the issues.  • Used GIT to coordinate team development.    Environment: Python, Django Web Framework, HTML, CSS, NoSQL, JavaScript, JQuery, Sublime Text, Jira, GIT, py Builder, unit test, Firebug, Web Services. Python Developer Beckon Dickinson - Hyderabad, Telangana March 2014 to December 2016 Responsibilities:  • Followed Agile Methodologies to manage full life-cycle development of the project.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Worked on large-scale, high-traffic Python web applications to define and implement new features, enhance core functionality, and integrate with other platforms and services.  • Provided 24x7 support for several host production, QA, and development OLTP databases as well as hundreds of off-site store databases.  • Installation, configuring, upgrading, migrating, and patching of DB2, Oracle, and SQL Server.  • Expertise in establishing database connections for Python by configuring packages like MySQL- Python.  • Handled potential points of failure through error handling and communication of failure.  • Performed efficient delivery of code based on principles of Test Driven Development (TDD) and continuous integration to keep in line with Agile Software Methodology principles.  • Worked on installing and setting up the channels by using Django.  • Used JavaScript and JSON to update a portion of a webpage.  • Develop consumer-based features and applications using Python, Django, HTML, Behaviour Driven Development (BDD) and pair-based programming.  • Used many regular expressions to match the pattern with the existing one.  • Build SQL queries for performing various CRUD operations like create, update, read and delete.  • Skilled in using Collections in Python for manipulating and looping through different user defined objects.  • Performed Unit testing, Integration testing, web application testing.  • Special skills in developing user friendly, simple yet effective web based applications.  • Deployed the project into Heroku using GIT version control system.    Environment: Python 2.7, Django 1.4, HTML5, CSS, XML, MySQL, JavaScript, Angular JS, Bugzilla, JQuery, CSS Bootstrap, Mongo DB, MS SQL Server, Eclipse, Git, GitHub, Linux, Shell Scripting Python Developer Chennai, Tamil Nadu September 2012 to February 2014 Responsibilities:  • Used Python scripts to update content in the database and manipulate files.  • Generated Python Django Forms to record data of online users.  • Used Python and Django creating graphics, XML processing, data exchange and business logic implementation.  • Used Python with jinja templating for full-stack web development.  • Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS, JQuery, JSON and JavaScript.  • Used Bootstrap as a mechanism to manage and organize the html page layout.  • Used Django configuration to manage URLs and application parameters.  • Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from Python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL db package.  • Involved in development of Web Services using SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface in the XML format.  • Developed entire front-end and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL.  • Rewrite existing Python/Django module to deliver certain format of data.  • Wrote python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.    Environment: MySQL, HTML, Python 2.0, Django 1.4, CSS, XML, MySQL, JavaScript, Linux, Shell Scripting, PHP, AJAX. Skills AngularJS (Less than 1 year), databases (2 years), deployment (Less than 1 year), Django (6 years), Eclipse (3 years), GIT (4 years), Integration (4 years), INTEGRATOR (4 years), Java (Less than 1 year), Jira (1 year), LINUX (5 years), Mac (Less than 1 year), MS SQL Server (2 years), MySQL (5 years), Oracle (3 years), Python (6 years), SQL (4 years), SQL Server. (2 years), UNIX (Less than 1 year), version control (3 years)