Job Seeker New York, NY, NY, NY Work Experience Walmart Inc - New York, NY August 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Involved in development using Python, bug fixing and unit testing of the layout commands.  • Created a Python/Django based web application using Python scripting for data processing, MySQL for the database, and HTML/CSS/jQuery and High Charts for data visualization of the served pages.  • Developed web-based applications using Python, Django, XML, CSS, HTML, JavaScript and jQuery.  • Developed Python based API (RESTful Web Service) to track the events and perform analysis using Django.  • Performed design, involved in code reviews and wrote unit tests in python  • Used Pandas API to put the data as time series, in a tabular format, for east timestamp data manipulation and retrieval.  • Successfully migrated the Django database from SQLite to PostgreSQL with complete data integrity.  • Managed API system deployment using fast http server and Amazon AWS architecture.  • Enhancement of the frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Used AWS for application deployment and configuration.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript. • Performed debugging and troubleshooting the web applications using Git as a version-controlling tool to collaborate and coordinate with the team members. Toyota Financial Services January 2016 to June 2017 Responsibilities:  • Wrote Python routines to log into the websites and fetch data for selected options.  • Used other packages such as Beautiful soup for data parsing.  • Worked on writing and as well as read data from csv and excel file formats.  • Web-services backend development using Python (Django)  • Participated in developing the company's internal framework on Python. This framework became a basement for the quick service's development.  • Worked on resulting reports of the application and Power BI reports.  • Worked on UI using JavaScript, Git, Ubuntu, Python, Django, Postgres, Bootstrap, jQuery, Git.  • Performed QA testing on the application.  • Held meetings with client and worked all alone for the entire project with limited help from the client.  • Developed rich user interface using CSS, HTML, JavaScript and jQuery. Created a Python based GUI application For Freight Tracking and processing  • Created database using MySQL, wrote several queries to extract data from database.  • Setup automated cron jobs to upload data into database, generate graphs, bar charts, upload these charts to wiki, and backup the database. • Wrote scripts in Python for extracting data from HTML file.  • Responsible for debugging the project monitored on JIRA. Python Developer IBM June 2014 to December 2015 Responsibilities:  • Worked on tuples, dictionaries, object-oriented concepts-based inheritance features for making algorithms  • Interacting with team members on technical programming.  • Solving production support issues (such as bug fixes, queries, etc)  • Prepared documentation for the generated reports  • Developed GUI using Python and Django for dynamically displaying the test block documentation and other features of python code using a web browser  • Developed the customer complaints application using Django Framework, which includes Python code. Involved in development of main modules like CSV import, bulk content upload.  • Published and Consumed Contract SOAP web services and developed corresponding test cases.  • Involved in building database Model, APIs and Views utilizing Python, in order to build an iterative web-based solution.  • Performed debugging and troubleshooting the web applications using Subversion version control tool to coordinate team-development  • Participated in the development of application architecture and blueprints to define application components, platforms, interfaces and development tools.  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL  • Worked on UI using HTML, CSS and JavaScript  • Used Git for version control  • Monitored and troubleshot web applications  • Performed data analysis, manipulation and reporting using pivot tables and advanced functions in MS excel. Education Masters in Computer and Information Sciences Southern Arkansas University Skills CSS (4 years), DATABASE (4 years), DJANGO (4 years), Git (4 years), HTML (4 years) Additional Information Skills  DJANGO (4 years), Git (4 years), HTML (4 years), JAVASCRIPT (4 years), PYTHON (4 years)    SKILLS  Languages Python, Javascript.  Database SQL Server, MySQL, PostgreSQL  Web Technologies HTML, XHTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, XML, JSON  Frameworks AngularJS, Bootstrap, Django, Django Rest Framework,  Version Controls Git, SVN, CVS  Operating system Ubuntu, Mac.