Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - Kinderd Health Louisville, KY • Over 9+ years of experience as an Application developer, software development and design using Python, Django, XML, HTML, DHTML, C#, Oracle PL/SQL, Postgres.  • Developed Consumer-based custom features and applications using Python, Django, and HTML. Experienced with Software Development Life Cycle, strong experience in data engineering, Database designs, agile methodologies, coding, testing of enterprise applications and IDE's such as Jupiter Notebook, PyCharm, Emacs, Spyder and Visual Studio.  • Experience with Django and Flask a high-level Python Web framework.  • Working with backend python automation, CI pipelines, Docker and cloud provisioning/automation.  • Actively involved in each phase of software Development life cycle (SDLC) and experience in Agile Software Methodology.  • Experience in developing web applications by following Model View Control (MVC) Architecture using server side application Django.  • I understand and experienced with the following; Plone, Pyramid, Django, Angular PostgreSQL, ZODB, Key Value Stores, Couchdb, Couchbase, Linux, Nginx, Varnish, ReactJS and Odoo.  • Good knowledge about frameworks such as Bootstrap and Foundation.  • Excellent Experience on various Python integrated IDE's such as Sublime Text, PyCharm, Eclipse and NetBeans.  • Experience in working on various python packages such as NumPy, SQL Alchemy, Pyside, SciPy, and PyTables.  • Expertise in usage of Django Framework for developing web applications.  • Good knowledge in establishing database connections for Python by configuring packages MySQL- Python.  • Good experience in performing operations such as CRUD operations and writing complex queries with Oracle 10g/11g.  • Experience in developing web services (WSDL, SOAP and REST) and consuming web services with python programming language.  • Good experience in using Shell scripting for automation by following Python PEP.  • Experience in Bash Shell Scripting, SQL and Java.  • Hands on experience with installation and configuration of Apache Tomcat server.  • Used Amazon Elastic Beanstalk with Amazon EC2 to deploy project into AWS.  • Expertise in full life cycle application development and also good experience in Unit testing and Test Driven Development (TDD) and Behavior driven Development.  • Hands on experience with continuous integration and automation using Jenkins.  • Hands on experience with version control tools such as SVN, JIRA, GitHub, and GitLab.  • Experience in Database modelling with SQL, PostgreSQL, and MySQL. Knowledge of Azure fundamentals.  • Experience in testing frameworks like Behave.  • Experience in Web Application Development, hands on experience of Python/Django, Flask, SQL Alchemy, SQLite, JavaScript, JQuery, HTML5/CSS3, Bootstrap and JSON/AJAX.  • Experience in working on different operating systems-windows, Linux, UNIX, and Mac also strong development experience on Linux based operating systems such as Ubuntu, Red Hat and CentOS.  • Excellent communication, Teamwork, inter-personnel and presentation skills, fast learner and organized self-starter. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Developer Kinderd Health - Louisville, KY April 2017 to Present Description: Kinderd Health is a health care sector. My role is to provide the user interface to the end user, including the final look, feel and behavior of the interface in different contexts along with building web applications using Django framework for implementing Dependency Injection and utilized features like MVT.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in analysis, specification, design, and implementation and testing phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) and used agile methodology for developing application.  • Interacted with the client end-users during requirements gathering sessions  • Upgraded existing UI with HTML, CSS, jQuery and Bootstrap.  • Working as an application developer experienced with controllers, views and models in Django.  • Implemented Business logic, worked on data exchange, processed XML and HTML using python 2.7 and its familiar framework Django  • Restful web services using Python REST API Framework.  • Developed Application to access JSON and XML from Restful, Webservices from consumer side using JavaScript and Angular.JS  • Used AWS Cloud Watch to monitor and store logging information  • Implemented the application using Python Spring IOC (Inversion of Control), Django Framework and handled the security using Python Spring Security.  • Responsible for handling the integration of database systems.  • Used object/relational mapping (ORM) solution, technique of mapping data representation from MVC model to Oracle Relational data model with an SQL-based schema  • Implemented Performance tuning and improved the Performance of Stored Procedures and Queries.  • Installed and configured pyBuilder for application builds and deploying it.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  • Developed object-oriented programming to enhance company product management.  • Wrote unit testing codes using unit test, resolving bugs and other defects using Firebug.  • Used JIRA to assign, track, report and audit the issues.  Environment: Python, Django Web Framework, AWS, HTML, CSS, MySQL, JavaScript, jQuery, Sublime Text, Atom, PyCharm, Jira, GIT, pybuilder, unit test, Firebug, Web Services, HTML5/CSS, XML, JSON, Ajax Python developer Direct TV - El Segundo, CA July 2015 to March 2017 Description: Responsible for developing web-application for Direct TV, which aimed to complete product Introduction in market. This project required data movement from the online systems to different downstream departments for decision and reporting purposes using PL/SQL, Autosys, PERL and Data stage. Worked on varies python Modules and packages, Using Django MVC framework to develop the Web Application, Database modeling and design.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in daily Scrum meetings and follows agile methodology.  • Using OPPS concept using python programming concept.  • Involved in various phases of the project like Analysis, Design, Development, and Testing.  • Developed rich user interface using Django framework.  • Developed a Front-End GUI as stand-alone Python application.  • Involved in development of Web Services using and REST for sending and getting data from the external interface in XML and JSON format.  • Used Ajax and JQuery for transmitting JSON data objects between frontend and controllers.  • Wrote scripts in Python for Extracting Data from JSON and XML files.  • Simple web app for reviewing sitcoms that gives users the ability to view, add, review, up/down vote, search, etc.  • Developed in Windows and going to deploy it in Linux server.  • Utilized Active Record eager loading to improve rendering time of index pages, incorporated up/down voting, reviewing, and several custom sorting methods for shows to provide smooth user experience.  • Supported the development of BI portal with development in SQL.  • Designed satcom solutions for Vertical markets, conducted POCs for DSNGs with major media houses and channels.  • Cross-referenced Seat Geek and Spotify APIs to get album artwork and track previews for each artist  • Boston concert aggregator that provides a comprehensive list of shows in Boston with track previews, album artwork, tagging, up/down voting, and more to help users find the best show in town.  • Support customers with SDK-usage and design related queries, and create high quality collateral (samples, notebooks, etc.)  • Implementation exposure on service based, SOA, RESTful technologies.  • Experienced in RSpec, Git, Object-oriented programming, MySQL, JavaScript, jQuery and, Amazon Web Services, Knockout.  Environment: Oracle Database 11g/10g, TOAD, UNIX, PUTTY, PVCS, WinSCP, UNIX, PL/SQL, UNIX, Windows NT/XP, SOA. Python Developer Velocis technologies - Plano, TX March 2013 to June 2015 Description: Velocis is fast, reliable and agile, company started a pilot project. The main concentration is build amazing products/services powered by the Internet. Daily businesses are sent as a batch file from the company to make the transactions. Free Bird processes these files and process the transactions from respective channels such as ACH, EFT, and EDI payments  Responsibilities:  • The system is a full micro services architecture written in Python utilizing distributed message passing via Kafka with JSON as data exchange formats.  • Created 6 micro services that has the capability to transfer the input files to machine readable format and pass through respective payment channels.  • Managed, developed, and designed a dashboard control panel for customers and Administrators using Django, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Bootstrap, JQuery and RESTAPI calls.  • Did full-page caching well using Varnish and could handle massive traffic without breaking a sweat.  • Experienced in taking advantage of Nginx in combination with Apache by using it as a reverse proxy.  • Supported development of Web portals, completed Database Modelling in PostgreSQL, front end support in HTML/CSS, JQuery.  • Debugging the application and following messages in log files, to figure out the error if existing.  • Designed and maintained databases using Python and developed Python based API (RESTful Web Service) using Flask, SQL Alchemy and PostgreSQL.  • Involved in analyzing the problems using transaction breakdown, network monitoring and resource monitoring to find the performance bottleneck.  • Maintained and monitored frameworks like Django, flask  • Developed monitoring application which captures the error related data and store it in database.  • Involved in scrubbing project, which updates the existing data with hashed values.  • Reverse engineer and re-implement legacy back-end software into Python with minimal downtime.  • Work closely with project leads to learn about the Azure services, environment deployment, and integration with tooling.  • Used GitHub as a version control.  • Worked on UNIX environment.  • Optimized system performance and managed the API lifecycle  • Performed unit testing.  • Worked closely with leads in implementation exposure on service based, SOA, RESTful technologies.  • Strong experience in developing Micro-services using Drop wizard, Spring Boot, Lagom.  • Work experience with Java Frameworks like spring, Hibernate.  Environment: Python, Drop wizard, Spring Boot, Lagom, Kafka, JSON, GitHub, LINUX, Django, Flask, Varnish, Nginx SOA, REST Python Developer Blue Cross and Blue Shield - Chicago, IL November 2011 to February 2013 Description: Blue Cross Blue Shield Association is a federation of health insurance organizations and companies, providing health, Dental, Vision insurance in United States. The project is to build an interaction between Front-end user friendly customer UI and back-end frequent data analysis to keep track on user responses, customer Feedback and allowances and generate various kind of reports.  Responsibilities:  • Responsible for gathering requirements, system analysis, design, development, testing and deployment.  • Developed user interface using CSS, PHP, HTML, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Used Ansible to configure and manage the infrastructure.  • Wrote Python modules to extract/load asset data from the MySQL source database.  • Designed and developed Use-Cases, Classes and Object Diagrams using UML Rational Rose for Object Oriented Design techniques.  • Designed and implemented a dedicated MySQL database server to drive the web apps and report on daily progress.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Used PyUnit, the Python unit test framework, for all Python applications.  • Involved in develop the REST Web services to expose the business methods to external services in the project.  • Worked on front end frame works like CSS, Bootstrap for development of Web application.  • Participated in requirement gathering and worked closely with the architect in designing and modeling.  • Developed, tested and debugged software tools for clients and internal customers of the organization.  • Automation (Ansible) and Deploying on AWS environment.  • Coded test programs and evaluated existing engineering processes.  • Created a Git repository and added the project to GitHub.  • Having experience in Agile Methodologies, Scrum stories and sprints experience in Python  • Collaborated with internal teams and external teams to solve the issues and giving feedbacks.  • Documented the problems and progress of project most accurately.  • Worked together with team during testing of data warehouses.  Environment: Python, Django, HTML5/CSS, MySQL, REST Web Services, JavaScript, Eclipse, Linux, Shell Scripting, JQuery, GitHub, JIRA, GIT, AWS Python developer CMC Hyderabad - Hyderabad, Telangana June 2009 to October 2011 Description: CMC Limited is an information technology services, consulting and software company. Responsible for Business Development, Solution Design, and Managing Service partners, Lead Generation, Proposal Development, and Develop BOM & SOW on Site Meeting, BOM, Managing POCs, and Training Delivery. Market Intelligence, Customer Acquisition, developing new products and solutions, Development using Python/Django, HTML/CSS, JavaScript, Database modelling using PostgreSQL.  Responsibilities:  • Created a portable fully automated test tool, allowing 24/7 integration support for two development sites around the world and decreasing code turnaround time from 4 hours to 1 hour  • Automated the daily and weekly build process to allow us to build daily builds twice a day for faster turnaround time for submitted code changes  • Automated the code release process, bring the total time for code releases from 8 hours to 1 hour  • Developed a fully automated continuous integration system using Git, Gerrit, Jenkins, MySQL and custom tools developed in Python and Bash.  • Implemented a review process in integration automation using Review Board and Gerrit that eliminated the need for a 5 hour per week daily approval meeting  • Developed a web tool that monitors and drives the automated continuous integration system allowing release managers to track changes  • Played a key role in a department wide transition from Subversion to Git, which resulted in an increase in efficiency for the development community  • Developed a Coverity mail script that extracts code defects data per component for a daily report to drive reducing defects in the code base.  • Created modern, REST APIs from existing information assets.  • Manage a technician that oversees automation and carries out daily tasks.  • Designed and maintained databases using Python and developed Python based API (RESTful Web Service) using Flask, SQL Alchemy and PostgreSQL.  Environment: Python, Kafka, JSON, GitHub, LINUX. Education Bachelor's Bachelor's Skills PYTHON (9 years), SQL (7 years), LINUX (7 years), Git (6 years), MYSQL (6 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:  Operating Systems Unix, Linux, Windows and Mac  Programming Languages Python and PL/SQL, Angular JS, Java  Databases Oracle 10/11g, MySQL, SQL Server and PostgreSQL  Tools Intellij, PyCharm, FileZilla, PL/SQL Developer, and TOAD  Integration Tools Jenkins and Web Builder  Version Control GitHub and SVN  Defect Tracking JIRA, Git, and VersionOne  Cloud  VPC creation, EC2 instance, S3 buckets, RDS instances, Amazon command line, cloud Front, IAM, creating security groups, managing S3 object lifecycle, creating CDN, implementing S3 security & Encryption, Route53, working with databases and DNS, Using bootstrap scripts, AWS EC2 and S3