Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - Etransmedia Edison, NJ 6 (SIX) years of experience in the field of software development. Proficient in developing applications using Python, R and C++.  • Experience in IT industry with proficiency in Analysis, Design & Development Testing of Enterprise Applications and Database Development using, Python, Django, Flask and SQL projects.  • Experienced in complete Software Development Life Cycle, and major aspects of technological projects including Requirement Analysis, Design, Development, Database Design, Deployment, Testing, Debugging, and Application Maintenance.  • Experience of dealing with various development methodologies like Waterfall, Scrum, and Agile.  • Experienced with WAMP (Windows, Apache, MySQL, and Python/PHP) and LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, and Python/PHP) Architecture.  • Experience of using Python modules like NumPy, Matplotlib, Pickle, Pandas, SciPy, wxPython, PyTables, PyQt, etc., for generating complex graphical data, creation of histograms, etc.  • Skilled in Object-Oriented Design and Programming using Python and C++.  • Experienced in using Python, Django, PHP, C++, CSS, HTML, XHTML, JavaScript, jQuery, XML, AJAX and JSON for developing web applications.  • Experienced in implementing Model View Control (MVC) architecture using server-side applications like Django and Flask for developing web applications.  • Experienced with JSON based RESTful web services, and XML based SOAP web services.  • Worked on various applications using python integrated IDEs like Eclipse, IntelliJ, Sublime Text and PyCharm.  • Experience of working with relational databases like Oracle, SQLite, PostgreSQL, MySQL, DB2 and non-relational databases like MongoDB and Cassandra.  • Proficient in developing complex SQL Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, Functions, and Packages along with performing DDL and DML operations on the database.  • Experience Amazon SQS, and Amazon Web Services like EC2, Redshift and S3.  • Written and developed scripts for automating tasks using Jenkins and UNIX shell scripting.  • Experience in project deployment using Heroku, Jenkins and Amazon Web Services (AWS)  • Worked on various Operating Systems like UNIX, Linux, Windows, and Mac OS.  • Experienced with version control systems like Git, GitHub, CVS, and SVN in order to keep the versions and configurations of the code organized.  • Experienced with Unit Testing, System Integration Testing (SIT) and User Acceptance Testing (UAT)  • Worked on JIRA for bug tracking and communicating for better results Strong Experience in Big data technologies including Apache Spark, Hadoop, HDFS, Hive, MongoDB.  • Experience in handling errors/exceptions and debugging issues in large scale applications.  • Highly motivated, dedicated, quick learner and have proven ability to work individually and as a team.  • Excellent written and oral communication skills with results-oriented attitude Work Experience Python Developer Etransmedia - Troy, NY January 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Responsible for Design and maintenance of databases using Python. Developed Python based APIs (RESTful Web services) by using Flask, SQL Alchemy and PostgreSQL.  • Designed test cases and test plans, and developed an embedded software data driven test automation framework in Linux/ Python.  • Developed an autonomous continuous integration system by using Git, Gerrit, Jenkins, MySQL and custom tools developed in Python and Bash.  • Developed web components by using JSP, Servlet under J2EE Environment and implemented security features for the APIs.  • Worked with various python libraries such as Pandas and matPlotLib for analysis and manipulation of data.  • Wrote Python scripts in order to parse and load the data into the database, from the XML and JSON files, and wrote programs for performance calculations by using NumPy and SQL Alchemy.  • Designed and developed asynchronous messaging systems using JMS, MDB, and MQ series.  • Used REST based microservices with REST template based on RESTful APIs and designed, developed the UI for the client websites by using HTML, CSS, jQuery and React.js.  • Designed and developed the presentation layer using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery and AJAX.  • Worked on AJAX framework to transform Datasets and Data tables into HTTP- serializable JSON strings.  • Migrated the Django database from SQLite to MySQL to PostgreSQL with complete data integrity.  • Dealt with large datasets by using Pandas data frames and MySQL, and performed dynamic implementation of SQL server work on the website using SQL developer tool.  • Deployed the project onto the Jenkins server, and organized the configurations and versions of the code using SVN version control system.  • Used AWS for application deployment and configuration. Responsible for setting up REST APIs using Django.  • Built an AWS and REDIS server for storing the data and performed defect analysis and interaction with Business Users during UAT/SIT.  • Developed Merge jobs in Python in order to extract and load data into MySQL database and used Test driven approach for developing applications.  • Designed, developed, implemented, and maintained solutions for using Docker, Jenkins, Git, and Puppet for microservices and continuous deployment.  • Implemented the unit testing by using Python Unit test framework.  Environment: Python 3.2, Django, HTML5, CSS, XML, MySQL, JavaScript, jQuery, CSS, Bootstrap, MongoDB, MS SQL Server, T-SQL, JavaScript, Eclipse, Git, GitHub, AWS, Linux, Shell Scripting. Python Developer Tetragenetics - Cambridge, MA May 2015 to December 2016 Responsibilities:  • Wrote Python routines to log into the websites and fetch data for selected options. Used Python modules such as requests, urllib, urllib2 for web crawling.  • Used other packages such as Beautifulsoup for data parsing.  • Worked on writing and as well as read data from csv and excel file formats.  • Developed a MATLAB algorithm which determines an object's dimensions from digital images.  • Web-services backend development using Python (CherryPy, Django, SQLAlchemy)  • Participated in developing the company's internal framework on Python. This framework became a basement for the quick service's development. Framework based on CherryPy with GnuPg encryption (reGnuPg module) on the top.  • Worked on resulting reports of the application and Tableau reports.  • Worked on HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Git, REST API, Mongo DB, intelliJ IDEA.  • Design and Setting up of environment of Mongodb with shards and replicasets. (Dev/Test and Production)  • Private VPN using Ubuntu, Python, Django, Postgres, Redis, Bootstrap, Jquery, Mongo, Fabric, Git, Tenjin, Selenium.  • Performed QA testing on the application.  • Developed approaches for improving NLP pipeline.  • Create custom VB scripts in repackaging applications as needed. NLP File Prep Settlement-Prepare files for review for Settlement.  • Held meetings with client and worked all alone for the entire project with limited help from the client.  • Managed and reviewed Hadoop log file and worked in analyzing SQL scripts and designed the solution for the process using PySpark.  • Developed rich user interface using CSS, HTML, JavaScript and JQuery. Created a Python based GUI application For Freight Tracking and processing  • Used Django framework for application development. Excellent knowledge with distributed storages (HDFS) and distributed processing (MapReduce, Yarn)  • Developed and maintained various automated web tools for reducing manual effort and increasing efficiency of the Global Shipping Team.  • Developed automated testing framework for command-line based tests on Linux using Objected Oriented Perl and for selenium-based tests using Python.  • Created database using MySQL, wrote several queries to extract data from database.  • Setup automated cron jobs to upload data into database, generate graphs, bar charts, upload these charts to wiki, and backup the database.  • Wrote scripts in Python for extracting data from HTML file.  Environment: MySQL, HTML, Python 2.7, Django 1.8, HTML5, CSS, XML, MySQL, MS SQL Server, JavaScript, AWS, Linux, Shell Scripting, AJAX, urllib, urllib2, Json, CherryPy, Unix, Redis, Bootstrap, Mongodb, SQLAlchemy, Jquery. Python Developer Clever Devices - Woodbury, NY October 2014 to April 2015 Responsibilities:  • Developed Python based API (RESTful Web Service) to track the events and perform analysis using Django.  • Involved in development using Python, bug fixing and unit testing of the layout commands.  • Dealt with development of parsers for handling JSON, XML responses and JAXB binding and worked with JMS (java messaging service) for asynchronous communication.  • Created a Python/Django based web application using Python scripting for data processing, MySQL for the database, and HTML/CSS/jQuery and HighCharts for data visualization of the served pages.  • Developed web-based applications using Python, Django, XML, CSS, HTML, DHTML, JavaScript and jQuery.  • Developed automated process for builds and deployments by using Jenkins, Ant, Maven, Shell Script.  • Used Pandas API to put the data as time series, in a tabular format, for east timestamp data manipulation and retrieval.  • Published and Consumed Contract SOAP web services and developed corresponding test cases.  • Designed and managed API system deployment using fast http server and Amazon AWS architecture.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Used AWS for application deployment and configuration.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Performed debugging and troubleshooting the web applications using Subversion version control tool to coordinate team-development.  Environment: Python 2.7, Django, HTML5/CSS, MS SQL Server 2013, MySQL, JavaScript, Eclipse, Linux, Shell Scripting, jQuery, AJAX, GitHub, Jira Python Developer Evon Technologies Pvt Ltd - Dehra Dun, Uttarakhand August 2013 to September 2014 Responsibilities:  • Participated in the development of application architecture and blueprints to define application components.  • Specification of platforms, interfaces and development tools.  • Used Python scripts for automation of production tasks.  • Generated property list for every application dynamically using Python.  • Rewrite existing Java application in Python module to deliver certain format of data.  • Designed statistical analysis tools using R for data analysis and visualization.  • Was responsible for analyzing various cross-functional, multi-platform applications systems enforcing Python best practices and provide guidance in making long term, scalable architectural design decisions.  • Used PyQuery for selecting particular DOM elements when parsing HTML.  • Created PyUnit test scripts and used for unit testing.  • Worked with JSON based REST Web services.  • Used JQuery and Ajax calls for transmitting Json data objects between frontend and controllers.  • Used Github for version control.  • Worked in an agile development environment.  • Developed SQL Queries, Stored Procedures, and Triggers Using Oracle.  • Actively participated in System Testing, production support and maintenance/patch deployments.  Environment: Python Django, Flashvars, PyUnit, PyQuery, PyQt, HTML, CSS, PHP, DOM, REST, AJAX, JQuery, AWS, GitHub, agile, Oracle and Windows. Python Developer Spice Digital Limited - Dehra Dun, Uttarakhand June 2012 to July 2013 Responsibilities  • Gathered and analyzed the requirements and converted them into User Requirement Specifications and Functional Requirement Specifications for the designers and developers to understand them as per their perspective.  • Worked on object oriented programming (OOP) concepts using Python, Django and Linux.  • Developed web-based applications using Python, Django, XML, CSS, HTML, JavaScript, Angular JS and JQuery.  • Experience with JSON based REST Web services and Amazon Web Services (AWS)  • Worked on Amazon services like Amazon Cloud EC2.  • Added support for Amazon AWS and RDS to host static/media files and the database into Amazon Cloud.  • Experience in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on MySQL and PostgreSQL database.  • Worked in agile and waterfall methodologies with high quality deliverables delivered on-time.  • Experience with continuous integration and automation using Jenkins.  • Experience with Unit testing/ Test driven Development (TDD), Load Testing.  • Developed the required XML Schema documents and implemented the framework for parsing XML documents.  • Involved in Unit testing and Integration testing.  • Worked on AJAX framework to transform Datasets and Data tables into HTTP-serializable JSON strings.  • Designed Interface using Bootstrap framework.  • Experience with working on multiple environments like development, testing, production. Excellent analytical and problem-solving skills and ability to work on own besides being valuable and contributing team player.  Environment: Python, Django, REST Web services, XML, CSS, HTTP, Ajax, AngularJS, Bootstrap, JSON, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, AWS EC2, Triggers, Cursors, MySQL and PostgreSQL database, Amazon Cloud EC2, Amazon Web Services (AWS) Skills AJAX. (5 years), AWS (5 years), CSS (5 years), Django (5 years), HTML (5 years) Additional Information Skills  Programming Languages Python, C, C++, Java    Technologies HTML, XHTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, XML, JSON  Frameworks Django, Flask, Pyramid, Struts  Version Control Git, GitHub, SVN, CVS  Databases Oracle, SQL, PL/SQL, MySQL, PostgreSQL, DB2, MongoDB  IDE's/Development Tools PyCharm, Eclipse, Sublime Text, NetBeans  Web Services AWS, RESTful Web Services, SOAP    Operating Systems UNIX, Linux, Windows, Mac OS  Deployment Tools Heroku, Jenkins    Methodologies Agile, Scrum and Waterfall  Servers WebSphere, WebLogic, JBoss, Apache Tomcat  Testing Tools Selenium and JUnit