Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - Kabbage, Inc Atlanta, GA, GA • Around 8 years of experience as an Application Developer and coding with Analytical programming using Python, Django Perl, Oracle, UNIX.  • Experienced with Object Oriented Programming, Software Development Life Cycle, Database designs, agile methodologies, coding and testing of enterprise applications.  • Experienced in developing web-based applications using Python, Django, XML, CSS, HTML, JavaScript and JQuery, Angular JS.  • Experienced in LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, and Python/PHP) and WAMP (Windows, Apache, MYSQL, and Python/PHP) Architecture.  • Extensive experience in Statistical Analysis, Reporting involving analysis, Design, Development, testing and validating the applications.  • Familiar with JSON based REST Web services and Amazon Web Services.  • Experience in writing scripts using Gherkin Syntax in Behave framework in Python.  • Worked with different kind of data bases like MySQL, MSSQL Server, Oracle DB and PostgreSQL.  • Experienced in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, Subroutines, functions on SQL .PL/SQL and PostgreSQL database.  • Worked on AJAX framework to transform Datasets and Data tables into HTTP-serializable JSON strings.  • Developed the required XML Schema documents and implemented the framework for parsing XML documents.  • Strong experience in using different Python libraries like Pandas, Numpy, pypyodbc, pymssql, PyHamcrest, Beautiful Soup, requests, grequests, urllib, urllib2, celery, pickle, jinja2, itertools, matplotlib etc. and used pep8 coding convention.  • Worked on version control tools like GIT and SVN to maintain and deploy code and has also been involved in creating modules for company's designed pipeline architecture to make it efficient and precise.  • Experienced in using frameworks and tools like Django, Angular JS, Django REST and ORM.  • Experience in working with IDE's like PyCharm, PyScripter, Eclipse PyStudio, PyDev and Sublime text.  • Experience with Unit testing/ Test driven Development (TDD), Behavior Driven Development Testing.  • Experienced in working with different operating systems like Windows, Linux and UNIX.  • Good experience in Shell Scripting/Perl Scripting.  • Proficient knowledge in Web services like Google Cloud and Amazon AWS Services.  • Experienced in AWS services like EC2, S3, Lambda and DynamoDB.  • Experience working with Docker images and containers and Ansible.  • Worked with Jenkins.  • Extensively worked on writing UNIX shell scripts for scheduling the sessions for my testing process of ETL.  • Performed Data analysis using Hadoop distributed file system, MapReduce framework and Hadoop big data ecosystem.  • Experience in using different components of Spark like Spark Streaming to process real-time data as well as historical data. Work Experience Python Developer Kabbage, Inc - Atlanta, GA January 2017 to Present Description: Kabbage, Inc. is an online financial technology company. It provides funding directly to small businesses through an automated lending platform. As of now, Kabbage has extended more than $3.5 billion to over 115, 000 small business customers.  Responsibilities:  • Worked on projects related to the client Santander UK, ING Italy and ING France.  • Validated the quality of the partner files that Kabbage delivers to partner financial institutions.  • Behave Framework and native Python programming was used in developing the application.  • Worked with different Python libraries like Pandas, Numpy, PyHamcrest, pymssql, pypyodbc etc.  • Developed the UI of the application using Django and implemented MVT framework.  • Worked on Django ORM module for signing complex queries.  • Experience with Data migration from Sqlite3 to MongoDB.  • Worked on developing UI using CSS, HTML, JavaScript, JQuery and JSON.  • Participated in all the stages of software development lifecycle including design, development, implementation, and testing.  • Experienced in Cucumber/Gherkins syntax of coding.  • Developed Behave framework scenarios backed up with the Python code.  • Involved in Validation and Integration Testing of the Partner files.  • Developed and tested various dashboard features using CSS, JavaScript, Django, and Bootstrap.  • Used Django APIs for database access.  • Extracted, loaded, and analyzed data to and from MSSQL Server database with Python.  • Parsed various file formats including XML and JSON and loaded into MSSQL Server database with Python XML and JSON modules  • DB2 SQL Procedures and UNIX Shell Scripts were designed and developed for Data Import/Export and Conversions.  • Used Unit Test Python library for testing many programs.  • In order to avoid the reloading of the entire web page to update small portions, AJAX in UI was used.  • Implemented RESTful web services for sending and receiving the data between multiple systems.  • Used GIT for version control.  • Worked on Jira for managing the tasks and improving the individual performance.  • Good knowledge in Agile, Jira and scrum methodologies.  • Worked on Docker and Ansible.  • Automated MySQL container deployment in Docker using Python and monitoring of these containers.  • Implemented programming automations using Jenkins and Ansible on unix/linux based OS over cloud like Docker.  Environment: Python 3.6, Behave, Django, Java Script, HTML, XHTML, JQuery, JSON, XML, CSS, MSSQL Server, Bootstrap, Git, Linux, PyCharm. Python Developer Wayfair - Boston, MA April 2015 to December 2016 Description: This project was to use Google analytics, conduct SEO and enhance the existing web portal by reengineering the search, sort, list, shopping cart, cancellation, payment processor and payment gateways.  Responsibilities:  • Developed Python Django forms to record data and the Login module page for users.  • Designed email marketing campaigns and created interactive forms that saved data into database using Django Framework.  • Used collections in Python for manipulating and looping through different your defined objects.  • Wrote Python routines to log into the websites and fetch data for selected options.  • Implemented a login module for user, registration of the products, placing the order and tracking the order.  • Improving the performance while processing data by modifying functions, queries, cursors, triggers and stored procedures for MySQL database.  • Designed and configured database and back end applications and programs.  • Worked on Unit testing, Integration testing and Web application testing.  • Code review using GitHub, testing, fixing of the bugs and coding modifications.  • Performed research to explore and identify new technological platforms.  • Developed API modularizing existing python module with the help of pyYAML libraries.  • Wrote scripts in Python for extracting data from HTML file using Python library Beautiful Soup.  • Improved performance by using more modularized approach and using more in built methods.  • Collaborated with internal teams to convert end user feedback into meaningful and improved solutions.  • Performed data manipulation/storage for incoming test data using lxml /etree libraries.  • Embedded AJAX in UI to update small portions of the web page avoiding the need to reload the entire page.  • Wrote unit test cases for testing tools.  • Developed Spark scripts by using Scala shell commands as per the requirement.  • Used Spark-Streaming APIs to perform necessary transformations and actions.  • Developed Restful micro services using Django and deployed on AWS servers using EBS and EC2.  • Used the AWS-CLI to suspend an AWS Lambda function. Used AWS CLI to automate backups of ephemeral data-stores to S3 buckets, EBS.  • Used Docker for managing the application environments.  Environment: Python 2.7, Django 1.4, Behave, Puppet Rspec, Jenkins, Grafana/Graphite, MySQL, Linux, HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, JQuery, JavaScript, Apache, Linux, Git, Perl, Cassandra, Azure Automation cloud services, AWS EC2, AWS Lambda, Docker. Python Developer OneBlood - Fort Lauderdale, FL January 2014 to February 2015 Description: OneBlood is one of the healthcare organization which consists of three million people approximately.  They perform research to enhance the health and well-being of others through their work with blood and stem cell products.  Responsibilities:  • Developed the front end module of the application using Python 2.7, HTML5, CSS3, AJAX, JSON and JQuery.  • Involved in the design and maintenance of the databases using Python and Python based API using Flask, SQL and PostgreSQL.  • Hands-on experience in Python scripting, in web development using Django.  • Used Python scripts to update the content in the database and manipulate files.  • Involved in the refactoring the UI which involves extensive use of AJAX.  • Expertize in LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL and Python) architecture.  • Used Pandas library for statistical analysis.  • Experienced in NoSQL technologies like MongoDB, Cassandra and relational databases like Oracle, SQLite, MySQL, PostgreSQL and Dynamo DB.  • Worked mostly on the active records for the backend of the application.  • Involved in development of web services using SOAP for sending and getting the data from external interface in XML format.  • Involved in the development of ORM queries.  • Deployed and tested different modules in Docker containers and GIT.  • Experienced in Agile Methodologies, Scrum stories, Sprints experience in Python along with data analytics, data wrangling and Excel data extracts.  • Worked on JavaScript MVC framework like Angular JS.  • Worked on Test Driven Approach for developing services required for the application.  • Exported Test case scripts and modified the selenium scripts and executed in Selenium RC environment.  • Responsible for loading unstructured data into Hadoop File System (HDFS)  • Supported Map Reduce Programs those are running on the cluster.  • Analyzed the SQL scripts and designed the solution to implement using Pyspark  Environment: Python 2.7, Django, HTML5, CSS, Bootstrap, Pyramid, MySQL, MS SQL, T-SQL, JavaScript, Hadoop, MapReduce, Eclipse, Spark, Git. Python Developer Hudson Insurance - Alpharetta, GA November 2012 to December 2013 Description: The old Customer Service Website is being replaced with a modern, attractive, SOA-oriented site. It has various parts of the functionality to communicate with the backend system through web services. It uses the ACORD (Association for Cooperative Operations Research and Development) Life and Annuity Standards expressing the insurance concepts in a formally defined specification to enable trading partner and intra-enterprise of sharing insurance data, giving a well-defined vocabulary for expressing the insurance concepts.  Responsibilities:  • Designed and Developed the Solution Architecture package to identify all possible solutions for the project using UML methodologies.  • Used J2EE Design patterns (Singleton, Service Locator and DAO)  • Implemented MVC Architecture using JSF and Struts framework and custom tag libraries.  • Developed a multi-user web application using JSP, JSTL, Action Forms, Action Classes, JavaScript and JDBC to provide the needed functionality.  • Used Hibernate for data manipulation and access.  • Used Spring AOP and dependency injection framework for business aspect of the application.  • Used Spring DAO classes for data access.  • Testing - unit testing & integration testing of the application.  • Developed Java beans and JSP's by using Spring and JSTL tag libs for supplements.  • Designed and developed middleware, using RESTful web services based on a centralized schema which is consumed by thousands of users.  • Worked on Python Modules and Packages.  • Deployed Django web application in Apache webserver and carpathia cloud web deployment.  • Used Python Data structures like lists, dictionaries, tuples  • Used RAD 7.0 for implementing Static and Dynamic web services for consuming and providing services related to the business.  • Created creating tables, data manipulation and retrieval using Oracle and DB2.  • Used MQ Series to send, receive and read the messages and also Created Queues.  • Involved in the deployment process of the application on WebSphere Application Server.  • SVN are used as source code controls and developed test cases using JUnit.  • Deployed the Web application using ANT build script  • Used Mercury Quality Center for requirement management, executing the test plans and defect management.  • Used SOA architecture for communication between various business entities.  • Communicated with the business people to get more clarity on the requirements/changes.  Environment: Java, Spring, Python, JavaScript, JDBC, XML, JAXB, Web services, SOAP, WSDL, Hibernate, Spring, IBM MQ, PL/SQL, WebSphere, RAD 7.0, JUnit, Oracle 10g, DB2, Mercury Quality Center, SVN. Python Developer Selectsys Pvt. Ltd - Hyderabad, Telangana June 2009 to September 2012 Description: This project was designed to develop a segment for Engineering Group which was used to collect the budget across India, to assist the management in visualizing the budget needed for different projects, to monitor the costs incurred till date, to forecast the budget costs for the projects in further years, also to review the impact of budget revisions for various projects.  Responsibilities:  • Designed and developed the User Interface for the project using HTML, CSS, JavaScript and AJAX.  • Developed views and templates with Django's MVT (model, view and template) to create a user-friendly website.  • Experience with Data migration from Sqlite3 to MongoDB.  • Entire Front end and back end modules of the project are developed using Python with Django Framework.  • Designed and developed the data management of the project using MySQL databases.  • With the use of Django's Database API, accessed database objects.  • Written Python Scripts to parse the XML documents and load the data in database.  • Used existing Python and Django modules and rewritten to deliver data in certain formats.  • Created Python and Bash tools to increase efficiency of call center application system and operations, data conversion scripts, REST, JSON, and CRUD scripts for API Integration.  • Client side validations are handled using JavaScript.  • Client side manipulations are done using JQuery and JavaScript.  • Experienced in writing indexes, views, constraints, stored procedures, triggers, cursors and user defined functions or subroutines in MySQL.  • Responsible for Debugging and troubleshooting the application.  • Used Subversion control tool to coordinate team work.  • Used Selenium Library to write fully functioning test automation process.  Environment: Python, Django 1.3, MySQL, UNIX, HTML, CSS, AJAX, JavaScript, Apache Web Server, SVN. Skills AJAX (7 years), Apache (7 years), CSS (7 years), Django (8 years), JavaScript (8 years) Additional Information Technical Skills:  Operating Systems Windows, Linux  Languages C, C++, Java, Python2.x/3.x, Shell Script, Perl  Framework Django Web framework, Behave  Databases MySQL, Sqlite3, MongoDB, MSSQL, Oracle  Web Technologies HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, XML, AJAX, Bootstrap, Angular JS, React JS  Code version control tool GIT, SV  Web Server Apache, Jenkins  Tools & IDEs Visual Studio, Eclipse, Microsoft Visio, Web Storm, PyCharm, Sublime Text, Jira, Dockers  Web Services AWS, REST  Big DataTechnologies Hadoop (HDFS, MapReduce), Spark