Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - Medical Mutual of Ohio Edison, NJ • Around 8 years of experience as a Web/Application Developer and coding with analytical programming using Python, Django.  • Experienced with full software development life-cycle, architecting scalable platforms, object oriented programming, database design and agile methodologies  • Experienced in MVC frameworks like Django, Angular JS, Java Script, JQuery and Node.js.  • Expert knowledge and experience in Object oriented Design and Programming concepts.  • Expert knowledge in all versions of Python such as Python-2.7 and Python-3.5  • Experience in object oriented programming (OOP) concepts using Python, C++ and PHP.  • Expert knowledge in Big-Data Technology.  • Experienced in WAMP (Windows, Apache, MYSQL and Python/PHP) and LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL and Python/PHP) Architecture.  • Experienced in developing web-based applications using Python, Django, PHP, XML, CSS, HTML, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Experienced in installing, configuring, modifying, testing and deploying applications with Apache.  • Well versed with design and development of presentation layer for web applications using technologies like HTML, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Familiar with JSON based REST Web services and Amazon Web services.  • Experienced in developing Web Services with Python programming language.  • Experience in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on MySQL and PostgreSQL database.  • Worked in Agile and Waterfall Methodologies with high quality deliverables delivered on-time.  • Maintained detailed documentation and architectural solutions in IT infrastructure and sales systems.  • Experience with continuous integration and automation using Jenkins  • Experience with Unit testing/ Test driven Development (TDD), Load Testing.  • Created video publishing toolkit using Word press (PHP/MySQL) and JavaScript to allow easy uploading of video by non-technical content mangers.  • Developed a data migration feature using GZ File Compression and AES 256 encryption.  • Developed the required XML Schema documents and implemented the framework for parsing XML documents.  • Involved in Unit testing and Integration testing  • Extensive use of Linux (Ubuntu), SSH, Flask/Django  • Developed ColdFusion Components, custom tags and modified CF Objects.  • Worked on AJAX framework to transform Datasets and Data tables into HTTP-serializable JSON strings. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Developer Medical Mutual of Ohio - Cleveland, OH April 2015 to Present Responsibilities:  • Designed the front end of the application using Python, HTML, CSS, AJAX, JSON and JQuery. Worked on backend of the application.  • Used the Django Framework to develop the application.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Used JavaScript and JSON to update a portion of a webpage.  • Develop consumer based features and applications using Python, Django, HTML, Behavior Driven Development (BDD) and pair based programming.  • Rewrite existing Python/Django modules to deliver certain format of data.  • Responsible for debugging the project monitored on JIRA (Agile)  • Wrote Python scripts to parse JSON documents and load the data in database.  • Used Python and Django to interface with the jQuery UI and manage the storage and deletion of content.  • Implemented web applications in Flask frame works following MVC architecture.  • Worked on front end frame works like CSS Bootstrap for development of Web applications.  • Involved in deployment of project using AWS.  • Special skills in developing user friendly, simple yet effective web based applications.  • Deployed the project into Heroku using GIT version control system.  • Worked in MySQL database on simple queries and writing Stored Procedures for normalization and denormalization.  • Used many regular expressions in order to match the pattern with the existing one.  • Build SQL queries for performing various CRUD operations like create, update, read and delete.  • Skilled in using Collections in Python for manipulating and looping through different user defined objects.  • Performed Unit testing, Integration Testing, web application testing.  • Taken part in entire lifecycle of the projects including Design, Development, and Deployment, Testing and Implementation and support.  • Worked in development of applications especially in UNIX environment and familiar with all of its commands.  Environment: Python 2.7, Django 1.6.1, HTML-5, CSS-3, XML, MySQL, JavaScript, Angular JS, Backbone JS, JQuery, CSS Bootstrap, Mongo DB-3.2, MS SQL Server-2014, T-SQL, Eclipse, Git, GitHub, AWS, Linux, Shell Scripting. Python Developer Laureate Education, Inc - Baltimore, MD December 2013 to March 2015 Responsibilities:  • Developed web applications in Django Framework's model view control (MVC) architecture.  • Exposure on Multi-Threading factory to distribute learning process back-testing and into various worker processes.  • Performed efficient delivery of code based on principles of Test Driven Development(TDD) and continuous integration to keep in line with Agile Software Methodology principles  • Different testing methodologies like unit testing, Integration testing, web application testing  • Developed test scripts for automation with Selenium.  • Python/Django based web application, Postgre sql DB, and integrations with 3rd party email, messaging, storage services.  • Developed a fully automated continuous integration system using Git, Gerrit, Jenkins, MySQL and custom tools developed in Python and Bash  • Design and implemented custom scripts.  • Extensive use of version controller Team Foundation Server(TFS).  • Tested and validated the custom scripts.  • Delivered automated solutions for science models  • Managed, developed, and designed a dashboard control panel for customers and Administrators using Django, Oracle DB, PostgreSQL, and VMWare API calls.  • Implemented configuration changes for data models.  • Maintained and updated existing automated solutions  • Handled potential points of failure through error handling and communication of failure  • Risk analysis for potential points of failure (database, communication points, file system errors)  • Troubleshoot the process execution and worked with other team members to correct them.  • Actively worked as a part of team with managers and other staff to meet the goals of the project in the stipulated time.  • Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes of the two main applications that were a main source of data for both customers and internal customer service team  • Used Pandas library for statistics Analysis.  • Managed large datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL.  • Extensively used python modules such as requests, urllib, urllib 2 for web crawling.  • Developed GUI using webapp2 for dynamically displaying the test block documentation and other features of python code using a web browser.  • Developed the required XML Schema documents and implemented the framework for parsing XML documents.  • Responsible for user validations on client side as well as server side.  • Interacted with QA to develop test plans from high-level design documentation  Environment: Python, Django1.4, HTML/CSS, MS SQL Server 2012, MySQL, Script, Eclipse, Linux, Shell Scripting, JQuery, GitHub, Angular.JS, Jira Python Developer Orchestra Technology-Richardson, Texas - Richardson, TX October 2012 to November 2013 Responsibilities:  • Designed front end and backend of the application using Python on Django Web Framework  • Used HTML, CSS, AJAX, JSON designed and developed the user interface of the website.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Used Script and JSON to update a portion of a webpage.  • Develop consumer based features and applications using Python, Django, HTML and Test Driven Development (TDD).  • Rewrite existing Python/Django modules to deliver certain format of data.  • Responsible for tracking and monitoring project status in JIRA (Agile)  • Developed Python web services for processing JSON and interfacing with the Data layer.  • Worked on deployment of project on to Amazon S3.  • Used GIT version control and deployed project to Heroku  • Worked on development of SQL and stored procedures for normalization and renormalization in MYSQL.  • Build SQL queries for performing various CRUD operations like create, update, read and delete.  • Skilled in using Collections in Python for manipulating and looping through different user defined objects.  • Engaged in Design, Development, Deployment, Testing, and Implementation of the application.  • Worked in development of applications especially in UNIX environment and familiar with all its commands.  Environment: Python, Django, HTML, CSS, XML, MySQL, Script, C++, Angular JS, Backbone JS, JQuery, CSS Bootstrap, Mongo DB, MS SQL Server-2012, T-SQL, Script, Eclipse, GitHub, AWS, Linux, Shell Scripting. Python developer Bayer Crop Science - Hyderabad, Andhra Pradesh October 2010 to September 2012 Responsibilities:  • Analysis and Design of application.  • Created UI using Java script and HTML/CSS.  • Developed and tested many features for dashboard using Python, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Implemented business logic using Python/Django.  • Created backend database T-SQL stored procedures and Jasper Reports.  • Worked with millions of database records on a daily basis, finding common errors and bad data patterns and fixing them.  • Exported/Imported data between different data sources using SQL Server Management Studio.  • Maintained program libraries, users' manuals and technical documentation.  • Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL dB package.  • Carried out various mathematical operations for calculation purpose using python libraries.  • Built various graphs for business decision-making using Python mat-plotlib library.  • Fetched twitter feeds for certain important keyword using python-twitter library.  • Used Python Library Beautiful Soup for web scrapping.ss.  • Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes of the two main applications that were a main source of data for both customers and internal customer service team.  • Implement code in python to retrieve and manipulate data.  • Created most important Business Rules which are useful for the scope of project and needs of customers  • Build SQL queries for performing various CRUD operations like create, update, read and delete.  Environment: Python, Django, HTML/CSS, MS SQL Server 2008, T-SQL, Jasper Reports, JavaScript, Eclipse, Linux, Shell Scripting. Python Developer Motorola Solutions - Hyderabad, Andhra Pradesh August 2008 to September 2010 Responsibilities:  • Involved in the Design, development, test, deploy and maintenance of the website.  • UI was developed using HTML, AJAX, CSS and Script.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Generated property list for every application dynamically using Python  ' Developed Merge jobs in Python to extract and load  • data into MySQL database.  • Designed and developed the presentation layer/client end using HTML, XML, DHTML and JSP.  • Handled all the client side validation using Script.  • Wrote validation scripts in SQL to validate data loading.  • Use Git for version control.  • Performed Unit and system testing.  • Trained users and did production support.  Environment: Python, Django, MySQL, HTML, XHTML, CSS, AJAX, Script, Apache Web Server, Git, Linux. Education Bachelors in Electronics and Communication Engineering JNTU 2004 to 2008 Additional Information Technical Skills:  Frameworks Django, web2py, Flask, Struts, pylons and CSS Bootstrap  Web Technologies HTML, CSS, DOM, SAX, Java Script, JQuery, AJAX, XML, Angular JS  Programming Languages Python-3.5 & 2.7, Java, SQL and PL/SQL.  J2EE Technologies JSP, Java Servlets, JDBC and JMS.  Version Control Git (GitHub), SVN, CVS  Application servers Apache Tomcat, Nginix, JBoss, WebLogic, WebSphere  Databases Oracle (9i,10g,11g), MySQL, PostgreSQL, MongoDB,  IDE's/ Development Tools NetBeans, Eclipse, PyCharm, and Sublime Text.  Web Services AWS, Rackspace Cloud, Amazon S3    Operating Systems Windows, Red hat Linux, MAC OSX.  Protocols TCP/IP, HTTP/HTTPS, SOAP, SNMP, SMTP  Deployment Tools Heroku, Jenkins.  Tracking Tools Bugzilla and JIRA.