PYTHON DEVELOPER <span class="hl">PYTHON</span> <span class="hl">DEVELOPER</span> PYTHON DEVELOPER - EDUCATIONAL TESTING SERVICES Cary, NC • 8+ Years of experience in Analysis, Design, Development, Testing, Customization, Bug fixes, Enhancement, Support and Implementation of various web, stand-alone, client-server enterprise applications.  • Experience in software development in Python using Django framework.  • Worked on several python packages like Numpy, Scipy, MatPlotLib, Pandas, and CSV.  • Worked on various applications using python integrated IDEs Sublime Text, PyCharm.  • Strong expertise in development of web based applications using Python, PHP, C#, HTML, Angular JS, CSS, JavaScript, ASP. Net, AJAX, JQuery, JSON and BOOTSTRAP, BASH Scripting.  • Experienced in relational databases like MS SQL server, MySQL, PostgreSQL, SQLite3, Oracle and non-relational databases like Mongo DB, Saas.  • Installed Hadoop, Map Reduce, HDFS, and AWS and developed multiple Map Reduce jobs in PIG and Hive for data cleaning and pre-processing.  • Good experience in developing web applications implementing MVT/MVC architecture using Django, Flask, Webapp2 and spring web application frameworks.  • Architecture, size (Capacity planning), Data modeling, implementation and support Cassandra Clusters including install, configure and upgrade DSE v3/4 (Cassandra v 1/2.x) and OpsCenter v 4.x/5.x on Bare metal and Cloud including AWS (Amazon Web Services).  • Experience in using Python REST API Frame work using Django.  • Familiar with XML/JSON based REST web services and Amazon Web services (AWS).  • Experience in using various version control systems like Git, Github and SVN.  • Experience in working with different operating systems like UNIX, LINUX and WINDOWS.  • Expertise in Object-Oriented design, coding and open stack development.  • Experienced in Agile Methodologies, Scrum stories and sprints experience in a Python based environment, along with data analytics, data wrangling and Excel data extracts.  • Skilled in writing and reviewing requirements, architecture documents, test plans, design, documents, quality analysis and audits.  • Having experience in Agile Methodologies, Scrum stories and sprints experience in Java and Python based environment, along with data analytics, data wrangling and Excel data extracts.  • Sound experience in Core Java and Object Oriented Programming using concepts like Multi-Threading, Exception Handling and Collections.  • Good knowledge of web services with protocols SOAP, REST.  • Expertise in implementation of MVC using framework such as Struts, spring, Spring Web flow.  • Good knowledge of spring's IOC, Spring MVC, Web flow and spring's integration with Hibernate and Struts technologies.  • Extensive experience in open source framework like Struts, JSF, iBATIS, spring and Hibernate ORM (Object Relational Mapping) Framework.  • Good experience in developing web applications implementing Model View Control architecture using Django, Flask, Pyramid and Zope Python web application frameworks.  • Experience in working with various Python Integrated Development Environments like Net Beans, PyCharm, PyScripter, Spyder, PyStudio, PyDev and Sublime Text.  • Experience of SCMs and build tools like Git and Jenkins.  • Environment provisioning solutions using Docker, Red Hat Satellite.  • Experienced in working with server side technologies including databases, restful API and MVC design patterns.  • Special skills in development of effective, user-friendly web applications.  • Experience in requirement gathering, Use case development, Business Process flow, Business Process modeling: extensively used UML to develop various use cases, class diagrams and sequence diagrams.  • Superior Troubleshooting and Technical support abilities with Migrations, Network connectivity and Security and Database applications.  • Experience with Elastic search, Drool.  • Hands on Experience in databases such as MYSQL, Microsoft SQL Server, ORACLE, MongoDB (No Sql).  • Knowledge about setting up Python REST API Frame work using Django.  • Experience in SOAP, JAXB, JAXP, JAX-RPC, XML/XSLT and WSDL for developing Web Services.  • Having good knowledge in using NoSQL databases like Apache Cassandra (1.2, 2.0 and 2.1) and MongoDB (2.6, 2.4), Orient DB.  • Experience in using various version control systems like CVS, Git, GitHub and Amazon EC2 and deployment using Heroku.  • Proactive and well organized with effective time management skills. Work Experience PYTHON DEVELOPER EDUCATIONAL TESTING SERVICES - Lawrence, KS March 2016 to Present Description: ETS works with education institutions, businesses and governments to conduct research and develop assessment programs that provide meaningful information they can count on to evaluate people and programs. ETS develops, administers and scores more than 50 million tests annually in more than 180 countries at more than 9,000 locations worldwide. We design our assessments with industry-leading insight, rigorous research and an uncompromising commitment to quality so that we can help education and workplace communities make informed decisions.    Responsibilities:  • Business logic implementation, data exchange, XML processing and graphics creation has been done using Python and Django.  • Views and Templates were developed with Python and to create a user-friendly website interface Django's view controller and template language is used.  • Developed UI using CSS, HTML, JavaScript, AngularJS, JQuery and JSON.  • DB2 SQL Procedures and UNIX Shell Scripts were designed and developed for Data Import/Export and Conversions  • A Django dashboard with custom look and feel for end user has been created after a careful study of the Django admin site and dashboard.  • Unit Test Python library was used for testing many programs on python and other codes.  • This project also used other technologies like JQuery for java script manipulations, bootstrap for the front-end html layout and BASH Scripting.  • Written functional phpunit test cases for Data Layer, and Search server classes using Django, Curl, XML, JSON, REST based services, and Mongo DB.  • Used Github for version control and added support for Amazon AWS S3 and RDS to host static/media files and the database into Amazon Cloud.  • Developed, Deployed Enterprise Web Services (SOAP and RESTFUL) and Consumed and generated client using Jersey using Eclipse.  • Developed web applications in Django Framework's model view control (MVC) architecture.  • Exposure on Multi-Threading factory to distribute learning process back-testing and into various worker processes.  • Python/Django based web application, Postgresql DB and integrations with 3rd party email, messaging, storage services.  • Developed a fully automated continuous integration system using Git, Gerrit, Jenkins, MySQL and custom tools developed in Python and Bash.  • Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from Python using Python -MySQL connector and MySQL dB package.  • Generated Python Django Forms to record data of online users and used Flask, Django frameworks for creation of web pages.  • Used Python and Django creating graphics, XML processing, data exchange and business logic implementation, used DCL (SQL) and OpenVMS.  • Designed and developed UI for the website with HTML, XHTML, CSS, Java Script AJAX and Angular JS.  • Extensively used Hibernate in data access layer to access and update information from the Oracle database and used Hibernate Query Language (HQL) for writing the queries.  • Designed and implemented the User Interface using Google's Angular.JS, Node.JS, MVC framework (which means JavaScript, HTML, and CSS), jQuery, JSP and Ajax.  • Implemented CSS (Cascading Style Sheets) for branding purposes and user look and feel and JavaScript for Client side validation.  • Worked with different design patterns like singleton etc.  • Used Python-based Framework where Python is used for Server-side scripting & HTML and CSS may be used to control some of the presentation and styling aspects of a web page, JavaScript may be used for Client-side scripting.  • Worked with Mongo DB for document databases and the working nature of MongoDB in the project like storage of documents using Mongo DB.  • Used several python libraries like wxPython, numPY and matPlotLib.  • Was involved in environment, code installation as well as the SVN implementation.  • Build all database mapping classes using Django models and Cassandra.  • Used Pandas API to put the data as time series and tabular format for east timestamp data manipulation and retrieval.  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL.Working Knowledge in NoSQL Databases like Cassandra.  • Testing, evaluation and troubleshooting of different NoSQL database systems and cluster configurations to ensure high-availability in various crash scenarios.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  • Performed research to explore and identify new technological platforms.  • Collaborated with internal teams to convert end user feedback into meaningful and improved solutions.  • Resolved ongoing problems and accurately documented progress of a project.    Environment: Python 2.7, scipy, Pandas, Mongo DB, Bugzilla, SVN, C++, Java, JQuery, MySQL, Linux, Eclipse, Shell Scripting, HTML5/CSS. Red hat Linux, Apache, BASH, RUBY, Cassandra, AWS. PYTHON DEVELOPER VERIZON - Dallas, TX August 2014 to February 2016 Description: Verizon Wireless is an American telecommunications company, a wholly owned subsidiary of Verizon Communications, which offers wireless products and services.    • Followed Agile Methodologies to manage full life-cycle development of the project.  • Writing backend programming in Python and used the Django Framework to develop the application.  • Implemented user interface guidelines and standards throughout the development and maintenance of the website using the HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery and Angular JS.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Developed RESTful services using Django.  • Designed and developed communication between client and server using Secured Web services.  • Developed and tested many features for dashboard using Python, Java, Bootstrap, CSS, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Used JavaScript and XML to update a portion of a webpage.  • Developed consumer based features and applications using Python and Django in test driven Development.  • Successfully migrated the Django database from SQLite3 to PostgreSQL with complete data integrity.  • Performed Unit testing, Integration Testing, GUI and web application testing using Rspec.  • Worked on Jenkins continuous integration tool for deployment of project.  • Worked on changes to open stack and AWS to accommodate large-scale data center deployment.  • Used Amazon Cloud EC2 along with Amazon SQS to upload and retrieve project history.  • Experience in project deployment using Heroku/Jenkins and using web services like Amazon Web Services (AWS) EC2, AWS S3, Auto scaling, Cloud watch and SNS.  • Created interactive data charts on Customer portal web application using High charts JavaScript library with data coming from Apache Cassandra.  • Worked on front end frame works like CSS, Bootstrap for development of Web application.  • Worked in MySQL database on simple queries and writing Stored Procedures for normalization.  • Deployed the project into Jenkins using GIT version control system.  • Learned to index and search/query large number of documents inside Elastic search.  • Creating invitation flow for customers to use the client portal for monitoring applications.  • Created the environment specific settings for a new deployment and update the deployment specific conditional checks in code base to use specific checks.  • For the large data management used TFS and delivered reliable end product.  • Used advanced packages like Mock, patch and beautiful soup (b4) to perform unit testing.  • Worked on translation of web pages to different languages as per client requirements.  • Updated the client admin tool to have the new features like support for internalization, support for customer service etc.  • Collaborate with Product Management and User Experience experts regarding product definition, schedule, scope and project-related decisions.  • Worked on updating the existing clip board to have the new features as per the client requirements.  • Used many regular expressions to match the pattern with the existing one.  • Taken part in entire lifecycle of the projects including Design, Development, and Deployment, Testing and Implementation and support.  • Improved code reuse and performance by making effective use of various design patterns.    Environment: Python 3.4, 2.7, Java 1.7, Django 1.9/1.7, HTML5, CSS3, XML, JSON, MySQL, JavaScript, Angular JS, Backbone JS, JQuery, CSS Bootstrap, Puppet, Postgre SQL, Amazon s3, AWS, Jenkins, Mongo DB, Elastic search, T-SQL, Beautiful soup, TFS, nose, JavaScript, Eclipse, Git, GitHub, Linux. PYTHON DEVELOPER FLORIDA DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH - Tallahassee, FL May 2013 to July 2014 Description: The Florida Department of Health is responsible for protecting the public health and safety of the residents and visitors of the state of Florida. It is a cabinet-level agency of the state government, headed by a state surgeon general who reports to the governor.    Responsibilities:  • Developed Python based API (RESTful Web Service) to track the events and perform analysis using Django.  • Created a Python/Django based web application using Python scripting for data processing, MySQL for the database, and HTML/CSS/JQuery and High Charts for data visualization of the served pages.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Added support for Amazon AWS S3 and RDS to host static/media files and the database into Amazon Cloud.  • Used Python libraries like Beautiful Soup, Numpy and SQL Alchemy.  • Build integration with a number of third parties, making heavy use of asynchronous processing with Celery and RabbitMQ.  • Implemented migration tasks from Oracle apps to PostgreSQL databases.  • Responsible for both back-end programming in PHP and front-end functionality using JavaScript, Ajax, JQuery libraries, and other technologies and developed GUI using PHP, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, Bootstrap.  • Involved in creating the MQA Online Services Portal for healthcare professionals.  • Involved in advancements of Environmental public health tracking section to show the trend of different diseases data.  • Designed Cassandra schema for the APIs and Parsed XML file using Python to extract data from database.  • Worked on Python Openstack API's and used NoSQL as database and followed Python test-driven development techniques.  • Worked on installations of JBoss, Apache and PostgreSQL server.  • Involved in development of Web Services using SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface in the XML format.  • Implemented Cloud Infrastructure as a Service environment using open source technology OpenStack to enable portability of cloud services across hybrid cloud environments.  • Developed server based web traffic statistical analysis tool using Flask, Pandas and implemented on premise MongoDB Monitoring Service (MMS) and created dashboards for monitoring the MongoDB environment.  • Worked with HTTP which is designed to permit intermediate network elements to improve or enable communications between clients and servers.  • Provided technical support on networking including port-forwarding, TCP/IP settings.  • Built web-services using SOAP that allowed integrating the business application with the legacy applications and also facilitates for future applications.  • Involved in debugging the applications monitored on JIRA using agile methodology.  • Automated the existing scripts for performance calculations using Numpy and SQL Alchemy.  • Developed application which accessed the Cloud foundry API to monitor trends in development environments using other CF tools: Jenkins, Chef, and Puppet.  • Involved in creating and extracting data from database using SQL Queries, PL/SQL on Oracle database.  • Used Python and Django creating graphics, XML processing, data exchange and business logic implementation  • Involved in Using AWS Cloud Watch performed Monitoring, customized metrics and file logging.    Environment: Python 2.7, Django 1.6, HTML5, CSS, XML, MySQL, MongoDB, JavaScript, Angular JS, JQuery, CSS Bootstrap, RabbitMQ, Celery, T-SQL, JavaScript, Eclipse, Git, GitHub Linux, Redis, Shell Scripting. PYTHON DEVELOPER HP - Reston, VA September 2012 to April 2013 Description:It specializes in developing and manufacturing computing, data storage, and networking hardware, designing software and delivering services. Major product lines included personal computing devices, enterprise and industry standard servers, related storage devices, networking products, software and a diverse range of printers and other imaging products. HP also had services and consulting business around its products and partner products.    Responsibilities:  ? Django Framework that was used in developing web applications to implement the model view control architecture.  ? Performed efficient delivery of code based on principles of Test Driven Development (TDD) and continuous integration to keep in line with Agile Software Methodology principles  ? Different testing methodologies like unit testing, Integration testing, web application testing Selenium testing performed.  ? Python/Django based web application, Postgresql DB and integrations with 3rd party email, messaging, storage services.  ? Designed dynamic and browser compatible pages using HTML5, CSS3, JQuery and JavaScript and Angularjs.  ? Responsible for creating the screens with table-less designs meeting W3C standards.  ? To provide automation, used Configuration Management Tool, Chef.  ? Integrate the dynamic pages with Angular JS and j-query to make the pages dynamic.  ? Creating and configuring virtual development environments with Chef and Virtual Box.  ? Part of the SOA (Service Oriented Architecture) team enforcing best practices for services (REST and SOAP).  ? Developed a fully automated continuous integration system using Git, Gerrit, Jenkins, MySQL and custom tools developed in Python and Bash  ? Design and implemented custom scripts. Extensive use of version controller Team Foundation Server (TFS)  ? Experience to transition to using an automated testing framework for ATDD, ROBOT (keyword-driven testing approach and Selenium based)  ? Managed, developed and designed a dashboard control panel for customers and Administrators using Django, Oracle DB and PostgreSQL.  ? Implemented configuration changes for data models. Maintained and updated existing automated solutions  ? Handled potential points of failure through error handling and communication of failure  ? Used Pandas library for statistical Analysis. Used Numpy for Numerical analysis for Insurance premium and Managed large datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL.  ? Used advanced packages in AON PATHWISE for performing unit test and deploying data models.  ? Developed GUI using webapp2 for dynamically displaying the test block documentation and other features of Python code using a web browser.  ? Developed the required XML Schema documents and implemented the framework for parsing XML documents.  ? Interacted with QA to develop test plans from high-level design documentation. PYTHON DEVELOPER GLOBALLOGIC INDIA Ltd - Bengaluru, Karnataka June 2008 to August 2012 Description: Global Logic provides full-lifecycle software product development services, including experience design, complex systems engineering, content engineering, and self-contained engineering labs. The company specializes in software engineering for cloud platforms, embedded software, Internet of Things, mobile, and security GlobalLogic works with global enterprises and product and services companies in the communications, media, high-tech, automotive, medical technology, and retail industries    Responsibilities:  ? Designed and Developed the Solution Architecture package to identify all possible solutions for the project  ? using UML methodologies.  ? Used J2EE Design patterns (Singleton, Service Locator and DAO).  ? Implemented MVC Architecture using JSF and Struts framework and custom tag libraries.  ? Developed a multi-user web application using JSP, JSTL, Action Forms, Action Classes, JavaScript and  ? JDBC to provide the needed functionality.  ? Used Hibernate for data manipulation and access.  ? Used Spring AOP and dependency injection framework for business aspect of the application and DAO for data access.  ? Testing - unit testing & integration testing of the application.  ? Developed Java beans and JSP's by using spring and JSTL tag libs for supplements.  ? Designed and developed middleware, using RESTful web services based on a centralized schema which is consumed by thousands of users.  ? Worked on Python Modules and Packages also structures.  ? Deployed Django web application in Apache webserver and carpathia cloud web deployment.  ? Used RAD 7.0 for implementing Static and Dynamic web services for consuming and providing services  ? related to the business.  ? Created creating tables, data manipulation and retrieval using Oracle and DB2.  ? Used MQ Series to send, receive and read the messages and also Created Queues.  ? Involved in the deployment process of the application on Web Sphere Application Server.  ? SVN are used as source code controls and developed test cases using JUnit.  ? Deployed the Web application using ANT build script  ? Used Mercury Quality Center for requirement management, executing the test plans and defect  ? management.  ? Used SOA architecture for communication between various business entities.  ? Communicated with the business people to get more clarity on the requirements/changes.    Environment: Java, Spring, Python, JavaScript, JDBC, XML, JAXB, Web services, SOAP, WSDL, Hibernate, Spring, IBM MQ, PL/SQL, Web Sphere, RAD 7.0, JUnit, Oracle 10g, DB2, Mercury Quality Center, SVN. Skills Apache (8 years), Django. (9 years), Oracle (7 years), PYTHON (9 years), XML (9 years) Additional Information Technical skills:  Primary Languages Python, Java, C, C#  Python Libraries Beautiful Soup, numpy, scipy, py2neo, Neo4j, python-twitter, Pandas data frame, urllib2  Frameworks Bootstrap, Django, Node.JS, Flask, PyJamas, Pyramid, Hibernate  Database Sqlite3, MSSQL, MySQL, Mongo DB, Oracle 11g, NoSQL  IDE's PyCharm, Eclipse, NetBeans, MS Visual Studio, PyDev, RIDE  Servers Apache Tomcat, Web Sphere, JBoss, Web Logic, XAMPP  Web Technologies HTML, CSS, DHTML, XML, Java Script