Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - GENFARE Elk Grove Village, IL • Over 8+ years of experience as a Web/Application Developer with deep understanding of technology trends with expertise in core of complex technologies.  • Solid experience in Analysis, Design and Development, Testing, Implementation, production support and maintenance of various Web Applications using Python, Django, C/C++, MySQL.  • Experienced in developing Web-based Applications using Python, CSS, HTML, JavaScript, Angular JS and jQuery.  • Experience with Design, code, debug operations, reporting, data analysis and web applications utilizing Python.  • Proficient in developing web-based applications using PHP, MYSQL, Flask, Jinja, HTML, XML, JSON, CSS, Java Script & AJAX.  • SQL Reference Mapper, using Regular Expressions Successfully mapped over a hundred thousand SQL references inside of SQL Object source code, SSRS reports, and DTS packages.  • Expertise in working with different data bases like Microsoft SQL Server, Oracle MySQL, PostgreSQL and Good knowledge in using NoSQL databases MongoDB.  • Proficient in developing complex SQL queries, Stored Procedures, Functions, Packages along with performing DDL and DML operations on the database.  • Hands on experience working in WAMP (Windows, Apache, MYSQL, and Python/PHP) and LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, and Python/PHP) Architecture.  • Experience in working with Python ORM Libraries including Django ORM.  • Good Command of web services with protocols SOAP, REST.  • Experience in AWS Cloud platform and its features which includes EC2, AMI, EBS CloudWatch, AWS Config, Auto-scaling, IAM user management, and AWS S3.  • Experience with Unit testing/ Test driven Development (TDD), Load Testing.  • Developed the required XML Schema documents and implemented the framework for parsing XML documents.  • Experience in working on source code management tools like SVN, GIT (GitHub), Creating GIT repositories with specified branching strategies.  • Developed a fully automated continuous integration system using Git, Gerrit, Jenkins  • Extensive development experience in Java, Struts, JSPs, Servlets, TagLib, Hibernate, JDBC, HTML, JavaScript, SQL, XML and JSON.  • Developed J2EE applications on IDE's like Eclipse, PyCharm, My Eclipse, Google GWT, and Rational Application Developer.  • Hands on experience with version control tools such as SVN, GitHub, GitLab.  • Experienced in implementing and configuring Devops tools like Git bash, Jenkins, Ansible, Docker, Puppet, Chef and Nagios in various Linux distributions.  • Expertise in using Go Programming Language (Golang) and Scala in the development of the application.  • Extensively worked with automation tools like Jenkins, to implement the End-to-End Automation.  • Experience in using Tomcat apache servers and Docker containers for deployment.  • Installed, Configured, Managed Monitoring Tools such as Splunk, Nagios, iCinga for Resource Monitoring/Network Monitoring/Log Trace Monitoring.  • Ability to learn and adapt quickly to the emerging modern technologies and paradigms.  • Good debugging, root cause analysis and problem-solving skills. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Developer GENFARE - Elk Grove Village, IL January 2017 to Present Description: Genfare offers solutions designed for several modes of transportation and Data/Revenue collection. From procurement and implementation through service and support, as innovative technologies emerge so does the accompanying service and support. It can be integrating an innovative technology into your current fare collection system to maximize ridership.  Responsibilities:  • Participated in all phases of the System Development Life Cycle Analysis (SDLC) and responsible for gathering requirements, system analysis, design, development, testing and deployment.  • Used Python to write data into JSON files for testing Django Websites. Created scripts for data modelling and data import and export.  • Used jQuery and Ajax calls for transmitting JSON data objects between frontend and controllers.  • Used object-relational mapper (ORM) to automate the transfer of data stored in relational databases tables into objects.  • Used PyQuery for selecting DOM elements when parsing HTML.  • Developed web applications in Django Framework's model view control (MVC) architecture.  • Worked on converting Hive/SQL queries into Spark transformations using Spark RDDs, Python, and OOP with Python. Worked on developing and executing shell scripts to automate the jobs.  • Worked extensively on Spark Streaming, Spark SQL, PySpark and Hadoop/HDFS API doing MapReduce.  • Familiarity with development best practices such as code reviews, unit testing, system integration testing (SIT) and user acceptance testing (UAT).  • experience working in WAMP (Windows, Apache, MYSQL, and Python/PHP) and LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, and Python/PHP) Architecture.  • SQL Workflow System, using Python created an adapter allowing communication between SharePoint lists and SSIS packages. This system provides users the ability to create complex automation workflows.  • Developed frontend and backend modules using Python on Django including Tastypie Web Framework using Git  • Implemented a wide variety of statistical and graphical techniques, including linear and nonlinear modeling, classical statistical tests, time-series analysis, classification, clustering, and others using R and its libraries.  • Successfully migrated the Django database from SQLite to MySQL to PostgreSQL with complete data integrity and Designed, developed and deployed CSV Parsing using the big data approach on AWS EC2.  • Knowledge of cross-browser and cross-platform development of HTML and CSS based websites in Windows like IE 6, IE 7, IE 8 and FF.  • Responsible for writing python scripts to scrape web data for data usage/collection using  Beautiful SOUP, Scrapy, Selenium.  • Created PDF reports using Golang and XML documents to send it to all customers at the end of month with international language support.  • Programmed the invoicing web application using Golang and PostgreSQL as the backend.  • Experience in Wireshark, live http headers, and Fiddler debugging proxy to debug the Flash object and help the developer create a functional component.  • Built enterprise wide DNS historical data trending analysis tools in Go (Golang), Languages with REST API for user queries as microservice.    Environment: XML, Golang, Python, Wireshark, Beautiful SOUP, SQL, MYSQL, HTML, CSS, AWS EC2, Git, Django, PostgreSQL, PySpark Python Developer Marriott International - Gaithersburg, MD September 2015 to December 2016 Description: Marriott International is a diversified hospitality company that Creates solutions that serve business leveraging current and leading-edge technologies in an innovative and impactful manner. Defines and creates the next generation of solutions to drive Marriott value. Monitors projects by Service Provider to successful completion, maintaining scope within the time and budget constraints.  Responsibilities:  • Worked on Element Tree XML API in python to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Utilized Python libraries wxPython, NumPy, Pandas, Twisted and matplotlib.  • Installed, configured, and managed the AWS server.  • Worked on python-based test frameworks and test-driven development with automation tools.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework with GIT.  • Build and release software baselines, code merges, branch and label creation in Subversion/GIT and interfaced between development and infrastructure.  • Implemented a continuous Delivery Pipeline with Docker, Jenkins and GitHub to build a new Docker.  • implemented advanced procedures like text analytics and processing using the in-memory computing capabilities like Apache Spark written in Scala.  • Strong experience working with real time streaming application and batch style large scale distributed computing applications using tools like Spark Streaming.  • Worked in MySQL database on simple queries and writing Stored Procedures for normalization and renormalization.  • experienced in using Design Patterns such as Singleton and MVC frameworks like Django and Angular JS.  • Excellent working knowledge in UNIX and Linux shell environments using command line utilities.  • Experience working in Agile development and Test-Driven Developments.  • Used JavaScript and JSON to update a portion of a webpage.  • Cleaned data and processed third party spending data into maneuverable deliverables within specific formats with Excel macros and python libraries.  • Supporting the data warehousing application to make sure the jobs are run as scheduled and the SLAs are met.  • Maintenance and continues development of the applications in PL/SQL procedures, ETL modules and shell scripting using best practices.  • Used Python libraries and SQL queries/subqueries to create several datasets which produced statistic statistics, tables, figures, charts and graphs.  • Created a GitHub repository for code collaboration and worked on JIRA issue management to track sprint cycles  • Extensive code reviewing using GitHub pull requests, improved code quality, and conducted meetings among peers  Environment: Python, JSON, Numpy, UNIX, Angular JS, Django, JavaScript, XML, Scala,  GitHub, Docker, Jenkins Python Developer FIVE9, San Roman, CA January 2014 to August 2015 Description: Five9 is the leading provider of cloud contact center software. It is driven by a passion to transform contact centers into customer engagement centers of excellence, coupled with a deep understanding of the cost and complexity involved in running a contact center.  Responsibilities:  • Develop the existing application to enhance the features using Django Framework and improve the performance using SOAP Web services.  • Managed, developed, and designed a dashboard control panel for customers and Administrators using Django, HTML, Bootstrap, and REST API calls using the JSON.  • Involved in the design, development and testing phases of application using AGILE methodology.  • Designed and maintained databases using Python and developed Python based API (RESTful Web Service) using Flask, SQLAlchemy and PostgreSQL.  • Creating Restful web services for Catalog and Pricing with Django MVT, MySQL and Oracle.  • Used REST and SOAP API for testing web service for server-side changes.  • Developing scripts for build, deployment, maintain and related task using Jenkins, Maven, Python, Bash.  • Extensively used XLSX reader and writer modules to read, write and analyze data and project the results as per the client request.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  • Involved in development of Web Services using SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface in the XML format  • Involved in entire lifecycle of the project including Design, Development, and Deployment, Testing and Implementation and support.  • Built development environment with JIRA, Stash/Git.  • Responsible for debugging the project monitored on JIRA (Agile).  • Deployed the project into Heroku using GIT version control system.  • Utilized PyUnit, the Python Unit test framework, for all Python applications.  Environment: Flask, SQLAlchemy, PostgreSQL, Python, MySQL, HTML, JSON, Django, Bootstrap, JIRA, XML Python Developer Healthfirst, NY October 2011 to December 2013 Description: Healthfirst is a provider-sponsored health insurance company, performs research, analysis, design, creation and implementation of applications to meet current and future user requirements. Healthfirst has developed a process to validate that each contracted entity has met the requirements.  Responsibilities:  • Experienced with Design, code, debug operations, reporting, data analysis and web applications utilizing Python.  • Design and development of user interfaces and client displays using Java Script, JSP, CSS and troubleshoot various issues in Python code and fix them with code enhancements- code used various python libraries such as PyJamas and Jython.  • Designed the front end of the application using Python.  • Developed and tested many features for dashboard using Python, Bootstrap, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Developed the front-end featuring rich web interface using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript and used jQuery framework for UI centric AJAX behavior.  • Managed large datasets using Panda data frames and PostgreSQL.  • Wrote and executed various PostgreSQL database queries from python.  • Wrote Python scripts to parse JSON documents and load the data in the database.  • Built web applications by using Python, Django, AWS, Flask, Jinja, WSGI, nginx, Fabric, PostgreSQL, REDIS.  • Experienced in working with server-side technologies including databases, Restful API and MVC design patterns.  • Worked on AJAX framework to transform Datasets and Data tables into HTTP serializable JSON string.  • experience in writing SQL Queries and implementing stored procedures, functions,  packages, tables, views, cursors, triggers.  • Responsible for configuring NoSQL databases like Apache Cassandra and Mongo DB to for increasing compatibility with Django.  • Angular JS directives were used to develop custom HTML elements.  Environment: Python, AJAX, HTML, CSS, SQL, JavaScript, AngularJS, Django, MongoDB, Bootstrap, PostgreSQL, Pyjamas, Jython Python Developer Thrive Technologies - IN June 2010 to September 2011 Description: Thrive Technologies is an software service, consulting and business solutions company and provides services to various industries like Banking/Financial Media & Technology, communications, also transportation & Hospitality.  Responsibilities:  • Designed and developed the User Interface for the website using HTML, AJAX, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Wrote python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database also,  performed testing using Django's Test Module.  • Involved in developing Rest-API for the web-applications using Python, HTML, XML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery and Flask web framework.  • Program queries using Python/SQL scripts to get data from different databases such as ERP, OPLA etc. and, build REST API and NoSQL queries using Flask web-framework and MongoDB.  • Created data base tables, functions, stored procedures and wrote prepared statements using PL/SQL.  • Responsible for Parsing XML data using XML parser and Testing, fixing of the bugs and coding modifications.  • Database Administration activities like taking backup, checking log messages, looking for database optimization.  Environment: Python, HTML, XML, AJAX, CSS, JavaScript, NoSQL, MongoDB, jQuery Education Bachelor's Skills DJANGO (6 years), HTML (6 years), JSON (6 years), PYTHON (8 years), DATABASES (6 years) Additional Information Technical skills:  Languages Python, C, C++, XML, JAVA, SQL  Operating Systems Linux, Windows, Mac OS, Solaris, Debian, Red Hat  Frameworks Django, Flask, Pyjamas, Jython  Web Technologies AJAX, JSON, JavaScript, PERL, jQuery, HTML, XML, CSS, XSLT, Bootstrap  Python Libraries Beautiful Soup, NumPy, SciPy, Matplotlib, Pandas data frame  Databases PostgreSQL, SQL Server, MYSQL, MongoDB