Python & Webdeveloper <span class="hl">Python</span> &amp; Webdeveloper Columbus, OH Experience Summary:  ? Over 7and half years of IT Experience in design, development, testing and implementation of various stand-alone and client-server based enterprise applications with clients from health, finance, retail and manufacturing sectors.   ? Experienced of software development in Python (libraries used: libraries- Beautiful Soup, numpy, scipy, matplotlib, python-twitter, Pandas data frame, network, urllib2, MySQL dB for database connectivity) and IDEs – sublime text, Spyder, pycharm, emacs.  ? Used various IDE tools such as Sublime, PyCharm, NetBeans, Eclipse, and IntelliJ IDEA for software development.  ? Experienced in developing web-based applications using Python, Django, Robot Framework, PHP, XML, CSS, HTML, DHTML, JavaScript and JQuery, RUBY,AJAX  ? Knowledge of servers Apache Tomcat, Web logic, and Apache HTTP  ? Expertise in working with GUI frameworks – PyJamas, Jython.  ? Good knowledge of web services with protocols SOAP, REST.  ? Experience in using Docker and Ansible to fully automate the deployment and execution of the benchmark suite on a cluster of machines.   ? In depth knowledge of Cassandra and hands on experience with installing, configuring and monitoring DataStax Enterprise cluster.   ? Good idea using tools like Bugzilla and JIRA, Confluence.  ? Hands-on experiences in Shell scripting, Python STL, Pylons, Django,UI and web development.  ? Experience in working with AWS: Amazon S3, Amazon EC2, and Amazon SQS  ? Knowledge of the Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC), Agile and Waterfall Methodologies.   ? Good understanding of Object-Oriented Technologies and Relational Database Systems.  ? Experience in working with Robot Framework and Test Automation  ? Experience in transforming XML documents into XHTML documents using XSLT  ? Good knowledge of SQLite, MSSQL, and Cassandra databases with Python.  ? Excellent knowledge in developing web application using Model View Control (MVC) architecture using Django, Flask and Spring web frameworks.   ? Experience in analyzing and handling large datasets using Oracle Relational database 9g, 10g, 11g.  ? Strong experience in Shell Scripting, Perl, SQL Server, Linux,Openstack, and Mongo DB  ? Experienced in writing SQL Queries, Stored procedures, functions, packages, tables, views, triggers.  ? Good Experience in requirement gathering, Use case development, Business Process Modeling: extensively used UML to develop various use cases, class diagrams and sequence diagrams  ? Understanding of Python best Practices (PEP-8)  ? Very strong experience writing API’s and Web Services in PHP and Python  ? Well versed with design and development of presentation layer for web applications using technologies like HTML, CSS, and JavaScript.   ? Skilled in Debugging/Troubleshooting issues in complex applications  ? Experience in J2EE Architecture (JSP, JDBC, Data Source, JNDI, JMS, Servlets).  ? Experience in working with different operating systems WINDOWS,LINUX, and iOS  ? Expert in maintaining technical documentation for projects.  ? Good analytical and problem solving skills and ability to work on own besides being a valuable and contributing team player.  ? Excellent Interpersonal and communication skills, efficient time management and organization skills, ability to handle multiple tasks and work well in a team environment.    Technical Skills:    Operating systems Windows, Linux(Ubuntu), iOS   Languages Python, C, Java, PHP, Ruby  Frontend Technologies HTML, Java Script, CSS, AJAX, JQuery,Jboss AngularJS, JSON  Analytics/ Visualization Pandas, PyTables, PySpark, matplotlib, Bokeh, Tableau, D3JS, HighCharts  Methodologies and tools Object Oriented Programming, UML, Agile, Scrum  Markup Languages HTML, XML  DB Oracle, My SQL, Cassandra  IDE PyCharm, IntelliJ IDEA, Eclipse, Sublime text, Spyder, PyStudio  Design Patterns MVC, Observer, Façade, Command, State and others  Version Control Tools GIT, SVN, CVS, Code Collaborator  Application Servers Apache Tomcat, IBM Web sphere, Apache HTTP  Cloud AWS(EC2, S3, SQS, RDS, SNS, ElastiCacheetc), Openstack Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python & Webdeveloper Erie Insurance October 2015 to Present Python & Webdeveloper  Responsibilities:  ? Extensively worked in backend development using Python.  ? Followed AGILEdevelopment methodology to develop the application.  ? Designed the front end of the application using Python 2.7, HTML, CSS, AJAX, JSON andJQuery. Worked on backend of the application, mainly using Active Records.  ? Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Flask Web Framework.  ? Used Python and Django creating graphics, XML processing, data exchange and business logic implementation.  ? Involved in back end development using Python with framework Flask.  ? Involved in analysis and design of the application features.  ? Designed and developed communication between client and server using Secured Web services.  ? Created UI using JavaScript and HTML5/CSS.  ? Developed & tested many features for dashboard using Python, Bootstrap, CSS, JavaScript and JQuery.  ? Developed Restful API's using Python and Flask framework.  ? Wrote unit test cases for testing tools.  ? Used Graphical User Interface Testing and API driven Testing  ? Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  ? Work with multiple teams to guide and influence the architecture and design of the various  products  ? Created unit test/regression test framework for working/new code  ? Used design patterns efficiently to improve the code reusability and also used JIRA for bug tracking and issue tracking.  ? Developed API modularizing existing python module with the help of pyYAML libraries.  ? Developed, tested and debugged software tools utilized by clients and internal customers.  ? Used several python libraries like wxPython, numPY and matPlotLib.  ? Added unit tests and improved existing ones.  ? DevelopedRESTful XML web service for handling AJAX requests.  ? Created project designs utilizing MVC architecture components.  ? Performed research to explore and identify new technological platforms  ? Built development environment with JIRA, Stash/Git.  ? Utilized continuous integration and automated deployments with Jenkins, Ansible and Docker    Environment: Python 2.7, Vagrant, Docker, Ansible, Jira, GIT, Confluence, C++, Java, JQuery, Jboss, IntelliJ IDEA, Linux, Eclipse, Shell Scripting, HTML5/CSS, Apache, Tornado, Cassandra, and Tableau. Python developer VISA, SFO, CA March 2014 to September 2015 Responsibilities:  ? Used Django framework for application development.  ? Running Robot Framework on Python using the ipybot runner script  ? Assisted in reduction of cost and optimization of supplier selection for the CRM Applications.  ? Provides a command line interface and XML based outputs for integration into existing build infrastructure by using Robot Framework  ? Used Graphical User Interface Testing and API driven Testing  ? Used several python libraries like wxPython, numPY and matPlotLib.  ? Using features that supportcomplex data structures, first class functions by using PERL  ? Experience in working on Freeform Calculation, and Lasso and Radial Selection by using Tableau  ? Implementing Robot Framework using python  ? Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  ? Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  ? Generated property list for every application dynamically using python.  ? Using Subversion version control tool to coordinate team-development.  ? Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  ? Build all database mapping classes using Django models and Cassandra.  ? Used Pandas API to put the data as time series and tabular format for east timestamp data manipulation and retrieval.  ? Designed and developed data management system using MySQL.  ? Created Python and Bash tools to increase efficiency of call center application system and operations; data conversion scripts, AMQP/RabbitMQ, REST, JSON, and CRUD scripts for API Integration.  ? Created server monitoring daemon with Psutil, supported by Django app for analytics which I created. Also researched big data solutions with Cassandra database.  Environment: Python 2.7, scipy, Pandas, Bugzilla, SVN, C++, Java, JQuery, MySQL, Linux, Eclipse, Shell Scripting, HTML5/CSS. Red hat Linux, Apache, RUBY, Cassandra, Perl, and Tableau Python developer BCBS, TN September 2013 to February 2014 Responsibilities:  ? Developed and tested many features for dashboard using Python, Bootstrap, CSS, and JavaScript.  ? Implemented business logic using Python/Django.  ? Using Amazon SQS to queue up work to run asynchronously on distributed Amazon EC2 nodes.  ? Created backend database T-SQL stored procedures and Jasper Reports.  ? Worked with millions of database records on a daily basis, finding common errors and bad data patterns and fixing them.  ? Experience in ability to package code as reusable modules by using PERL  ? Experience in working with Cisco Technologies UCS, and network management devices.  ? Exported/Imported data between different data sources using SQL Server Management Studio.  ? Maintained program libraries, users' manuals and technical documentation.  ? Experience in working with Drag and Drop Calculation, and Geographic Search by using Tableau  ? Managed large datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL.  ? Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes of the two main applications that were a main source of data for both customers and internal customer service team  ? Build SQL queries for performing various CRUD operations like create, update, read and delete.  ? Work with team of developers on python applications for RISK management.  ? Taken part in entire lifecycle of the projects including Design, Development, and Deployment, Testing and Implementation and support.  ? Used Pandas library for statistics Analysis.  ? Created most important Business Rules which are useful for the scope of project and needs of customers.  ? Designed the architecture of the hardware environments and methodology of the code  ? Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL dB package.  ? Thorough knowledge in various front end tools like HTML, DHTML, CSS, JavaScript, XML, JQuery, Angular JS, and AJAX  ? Hands-on experiences in writing and reviewing requirements, architecture documents, test plans, design documents, quality analysis and audits.    Environment: Python 2.7, Django, HTML5/CSS, UNIX, MS SQL Server 2013, T-SQL, Jasper, Reports, JavaScript, Eclipse, Linux, Shell Scripting, RESTful, MVC3, Git, Perl, Tableau Python Developer American Airline - Dallas, TX June 2012 to August 2013 Responsibilities:  ? Responsible for gathering requirements, system analysis, design, development, testing and deployment.  ? Participated in the complete SDLC process.  ? Wrote Python modules to extract/load asset data from the MySQL source database.  ? Designed and implemented a dedicated MYSQL database server to drive the web apps and report on daily progress.  ? Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  ? Experience in doing automatic data-typing and automatic memory management by using PERL  ? Created entire application using Python, Django, MySQL and Linux.  ? Enhanced existing automated solutions, such as the Inquiry Tool for automated Asset Department reporting and added new features and fixed bugs.  ? Embedded AJAX in UI to update small portions of the web page avoiding the need to reload the entire page.  ? Programming in Python as well as Perl  ? Improved performance by using more modularized approach and using more in built methods.  ? Involved in development of Web Services using SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface in the XML format.  ? Performed data manipulation/storage for incoming test data using lxml /etree libraries.  ? Developed API modularizing existing python module with the help of pyyaml libraries.  ? Wrote unit test cases for testing tools.  ? Created database using MySQL, wrote several queries to extract/store data.  ? Coded test programs and evaluated existing engineering processes.  ? Used Spring ORM to integrate Spring Framework with hibernate  ? Designed and configured database and back end applications and programs.  Environment: Python 2.7, Django 1.4, Puppet Rspec, Jenkins, Grafana/Graphite, MySQL, Linux,  HTML, CSS, JQuery, JavaScript, Apache, Linux, Cassandra, Perl. Python Developer iMation - IN March 2009 to December 2011 Responsibilities:  ? Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  ? Work with team of developers on python applications for RISK management.  ? Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript  ? Made Django web based apps for Insurance premium calculations.  ? Generated property list for every application dynamically using Python.  ? Rewrite existing Java, C++ application in Python.  ? Used Django APIs for database access.  ? Used Python to extract weekly hotel availability information from XML files.  ? Used Pandas library for statistical Analysis.  ? Used Apache Couchdb (NoSQL) in AWS Linux instance in parallel to RDS MySQL to store and analyze job market info.  ? Developed the required XML Schema documents and implemented the framework for parsing XML  documents.  ? Involved in Unit testing and Integration testing.  ? Developed ColdFusion Components, custom tags and modified CF Objects.  ? Designed the architecture of the hardware environments and methodology of the code.  ? Involved in entire lifecycle of the projects including Design, Development, and Deployment  ? Wrote AJAX framework to transform Datasets and Datatables into HTTP-serializable JSON strings.  ? Issues pertaining to Real time data being read from RabbitMQ into Postgres and Cassandra.  ? Build SQL, NO SQL queries implementing functions, packages, views, triggers, and tables.  Environment: Python, Django 1.3, MySQL, Linux, HTML, XHTML, CSS, AJAX, JavaScript, and Apache Web Server, NO SQL. Education Bachelors of Aeronautical Engineering in Aeronautical Engineering JNTU Additional Information Experience Summary:  ? Over 7and half years of IT Experience in design, development, testing and implementation of various stand-alone and client-server based enterprise applications with clients from health, finance, retail and manufacturing sectors.   ? Experienced of software development in Python (libraries used: libraries- Beautiful Soup, numpy, scipy, matplotlib, python-twitter, Pandas data frame, network, urllib2, MySQL dB for database connectivity) and IDEs – sublime text, Spyder, pycharm, emacs.  ? Used various IDE tools such as Sublime, PyCharm, NetBeans, Eclipse, and IntelliJ IDEA for software development.  ? Experienced in developing web-based applications using Python, Django, Robot Framework, PHP, XML, CSS, HTML, DHTML, JavaScript and JQuery, RUBY,AJAX  ? Knowledge of servers Apache Tomcat, Web logic, and Apache HTTP  ? Expertise in working with GUI frameworks – PyJamas, Jython.  ? Good knowledge of web services with protocols SOAP, REST.  ? Experience in using Docker and Ansible to fully automate the deployment and execution of the benchmark suite on a cluster of machines.   ? In depth knowledge of Cassandra and hands on experience with installing, configuring and monitoring DataStax Enterprise cluster.   ? Good idea using tools like Bugzilla and JIRA, Confluence.  ? Hands-on experiences in Shell scripting, Python STL, Pylons, Django,UI and web development.  ? Experience in working with AWS: Amazon S3, Amazon EC2, and Amazon SQS  ? Knowledge of the Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC), Agile and Waterfall Methodologies.   ? Good understanding of Object-Oriented Technologies and Relational Database Systems.  ? Experience in working with Robot Framework and Test Automation  ? Experience in transforming XML documents into XHTML documents using XSLT  ? Good knowledge of SQLite, MSSQL, and Cassandra databases with Python.  ? Excellent knowledge in developing web application using Model View Control (MVC) architecture using Django, Flask and Spring web frameworks.   ? Experience in analyzing and handling large datasets using Oracle Relational database 9g, 10g, 11g.  ? Strong experience in Shell Scripting, Perl, SQL Server, Linux,Openstack, and Mongo DB  ? Experienced in writing SQL Queries, Stored procedures, functions, packages, tables, views, triggers.  ? Good Experience in requirement gathering, Use case development, Business Process Modeling: extensively used UML to develop various use cases, class diagrams and sequence diagrams  ? Understanding of Python best Practices (PEP-8)  ? Very strong experience writing API’s and Web Services in PHP and Python  ? Well versed with design and development of presentation layer for web applications using technologies like HTML, CSS, and JavaScript.   ? Skilled in Debugging/Troubleshooting issues in complex applications  ? Experience in J2EE Architecture (JSP, JDBC, Data Source, JNDI, JMS, Servlets).  ? Experience in working with different operating systems WINDOWS,LINUX, and iOS  ? Expert in maintaining technical documentation for projects.  ? Good analytical and problem solving skills and ability to work on own besides being a valuable and contributing team player.  ? Excellent Interpersonal and communication skills, efficient time management and organization skills, ability to handle multiple tasks and work well in a team environment.    Technical Skills:    Operating systems Windows, Linux(Ubuntu), iOS   Languages Python, C, Java, PHP, Ruby  Frontend Technologies HTML, Java Script, CSS, AJAX, JQuery,Jboss AngularJS, JSON  Analytics/ Visualization Pandas, PyTables, PySpark, matplotlib, Bokeh, Tableau, D3JS, HighCharts  Methodologies and tools Object Oriented Programming, UML, Agile, Scrum  Markup Languages HTML, XML  DB Oracle, My SQL, Cassandra  IDE PyCharm, IntelliJ IDEA, Eclipse, Sublime text, Spyder, PyStudio  Design Patterns MVC, Observer, Façade, Command, State and others  Version Control Tools GIT, SVN, CVS, Code Collaborator  Application Servers Apache Tomcat, IBM Web sphere, Apache HTTP  Cloud AWS(EC2, S3, SQS, RDS, SNS, ElastiCacheetc), Openstack