Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - Cisco San Jose, CA * 7+ years of experience in IT industry as a software developer, having strong background in object-oriented programming and Web/Application Development.  * Expertise in developing software applications using Python.  * Familiarity with object oriented programming (OOP) concepts.  * Worked on python MVC web-frameworks like Django and Flask.  * Experience in developing web applications and implementing Model View Controller (MVC) architecture.  * Worked on several standard Python packages like NumPy, MatplotLib, SQLAlchemy, pyGtk, SciPy and urllib2.  * Actively involved in development of front-end side of web-application using HTML, CSS, JavaScript and jQuery.  * Hands on experience API management platforms and RESTFUL services.  * Experienced in working with both the SQL (MySQL, MS SQL Server, PostgreSQL) based and NoSQL (MongoDB) based databases.  * Actively involved in developing the methods for Create, Read, Upload and Delete (CRUD) in SQL based databases.  * Hands on experience of installing, configuring, modifying, testing and deploying applications using AWS and Jenkins.  * Experienced on web servers such as Apache Tomcat, WebLogic server and coherence.  * Worked on AJAX client-side script to transform Datasets and Data tables into HTTP- Serialization JSON strings.  * Working experience while following AGILE and WATERFALL methodologies with high quality deliverables delivered on-time.  * Experience with Test driven Development (TDD), Unit testing and regressive Integration testing.  * Strictly follow PEP8 coding standard and test a program by running it across test cases to ensure validity and effectiveness of code using PyChecker and PyLint.  * Hands on experience in UNIX/LINUX and Shell Scripting.  * Experienced with full software development life-cycle (SDLC).    Technical Skill Matrix Work Experience Python Developer Cisco - San Jose, CA August 2018 to Present Project Description: Cisco DNA Center is at the heart of Cisco's intent-based network. The project was DNA Center Platform to create value-added applications that leverage the native capabilities of DNA Center. Used DNA Center Intent APIs, Integration Flows, Events and Notification Services, and the optional DNA Multi Vendor SDK to enhance the overall network experience by optimizing end-to-end IT processes.    Responsibilities  * Developed entire shell script and backend modules using Python.  * Created and develop APIs which will automate the data mining in different database sources.  * Involved in building database Model, APIs and Views utilizing Python, in order to build an interactive web based solution.  * Worked MVC framework to build modular & maintainable applications.  * Architect and implement proactive and reactive monitoring methodologies for a fast growing software platform.  * Develop Interactive front end to visualize data from backend and represent in graphical manner to batter understanding for user.  * Involved in building database Model and Views utilizing Python, in order to build an interactive web based solution.  * Used AWS for application deployment and configuration.  * Hands-on contributions to the progress of application and infrastructure automation framework (Jenkins, Docker, Kubernetes, cloud integration and automated software delivery Provided technical assistance for maintenance, integration and testing of software solutions during development and release processes.  * For version control I have use Gitlab.    Environment: Python, MySQL, Groovy, Docker, Jenkins, Linux, Javascript, Jquery, GitHub, HTML5, CSS3 Python Developer CDK Global - Seattle, WA March 2017 to July 2018 Project Description: Working on a secure and collaborative development environment that connects product department of managing system. Established a single source of the truth for product information and processes.    Responsibilities  * Complete software development was designed and implemented using Agile Methodology and SCRUM Process.  * Design and develop PMS APIs which will automate the data mining in different database sources.  * Used Django/ Python web-framework to develop application.  * Used MVC framework to build modular & maintainable applications.  * Installed/configured/maintained PostgreSQL database and MongoDB database.  * Develop Interactive front end to visualize data from backend and represent in graphical manner to batter understanding for user.  * Involved in building database Model and Views utilizing Python, in order to build an interactive web based solution.  * Used AWS for application deployment and configuration.  * Designed database schema design and defined relationships between tables.  * Provided technical assistance for maintenance, integration and testing of software solutions during development and release processes.  * Developed UI screens using HTML, CSS, AJAX, JavaScript and jQuery  * For version control I have use Gitlab.  Environment: Python, Django, Amazon (AWS, EC2, S3), PostgreSQL, MongoDB, JIRA, Linux, Shell Scripting, GITLAB. Python Developer Verizon Data Services - Tampa, FL February 2016 to March 2017 Project Description:  The project was to extend the existing CAAS tool. CAAS is a software tool to address the common set of Business challenges. On company side the challenges include managing the cost of Underutilized Resources and on the customer side there are challenges such as chargebacks, redundant charges and service complaints. So, the application serves as an easy solution to the both the Verizon employees and as well as simple web based complaint portal to submit complains that are redirected to customer support team.  Responsibilities:  * Requirement gathering and analysis phase of the project in documenting the business requirements by conducting workshops/meetings with various business users.  * Worked with Agile Methodology and SCRUM Process.  * Used Django/ Python web-framework to develop application.  * Used MVC framework to build modular & maintainable applications.  * Designed and developed transactions and persistence layers to save/retrieve/modify data for application functionalities using Django and PostgreSQL.  * Used Pandas API to put the data as time series and tabular format for data manipulation and retrieval.  * Automated data movements using python scripts.  * Involved in splitting, validating and processing of files.  * Used AWS for application deployment and configuration.  * Written shell scripting for automation.  * Designed database schema design and defined relationships between tables.  * Developed UI screens using HTML, CSS, AJAX, JavaScript and jQuery  * Applied unit test framework for testing code regressively.  * Ensured quality by versioning with Git.    Environment: Python, Django, Amazon (AWS, EC2, S3), PostgreSQL, JIRA, Linux, Shell Scripting, GIT. Python Developer United Airlines - Houston, TX July 2014 to January 2016 Project Description:  The project was based on passenger's information management (PIM) which is an information management applied to travel and customer satisfactions. It was the practice of acquiring, analyzing passenger information to provide quality passengers satisfactions. With the widespread computerization of records, company provided quality services and responsibilities.  Responsibilities:  * Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  * Used the Model View controller (MVC) framework to build modular and maintainable applications  * Building reusable code and libraries for future use.  * Developed scalable applications using Django framework.  * Performed documentation and user training.  * Build all database mapping classes using Django models with the help of ORM like SQLAlchemy.  * Wrote multi-thread scripts to obtain optimal performance.  * Integration of user-facing elements developed by a front-end developer with server side logic.  * Used data structures like directories, tuples, object oriented class based inheritance features for making  * Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL dB package.  * Operated all the user side validation using JavaScript and AJAX.  * Profiled python code for optimization and memory management.  * Implemented locking mechanisms using multithreading functionality.  * Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  * Involved in entire lifecycle of the project including Design, Development, and Deployment, Testing and implementation and support.  Environment: Python, Django, HTML5/CSS, MS SQL, MySQL, JavaScript, Eclipse, Linux, Shell. Python Developer First Data - Denver, CO March 2013 to June 2014 Project Description:  Worked on internal Human Resource Management System application.  Responsibilities:  * Worked on requirement gathering and High level design. Worked on Waterfall model to get best result.  * Developed the application using Python and MySQL  * Build all database mapping classes using Django ORM models.  * Used several Python libraries like NumPy, Pandas and MatplotLib.  * Developed object-oriented programming to enhance company product management  * Written programs to parse excel file and process many user data with data validations.  * Ensured high quality data collection and maintaining the integrity of the data.  * Used HTML/CSS and JavaScript for UI development.  * Involved in environment code installation as well as the SVN implementation.  Environment: Python, Django, MS SQL, Eclipse, Linux, Shell Scripting, SVN & XML. Python Developer DirecTV - El Segundo, CA August 2012 to February 2013 Project Description:  DirecTV is an American direct broadcast satellite service provider and broadcaster based in El Segundo, California. DirecTV provides television and audio services to subscribers through satellite transmissions. Services include the equivalent of many local television stations, broadcast television networks, subscription television services, satellite radio services, and private video services.  Responsibilities:  * Participate and provide leadership in the system design and development activities focused on data management and analytics.  * Designed Forms, modules, Views and Templates using Django/ Python.  * Installed/configured/maintained MySQL database and MongoDB database.  * Analyze, develop, integrate, and then direct the operationalization of new data sources.  * Developed widgets for GUI using PyGtk modules of Python.  * Developed tools using python and Shell Scripting to automate some of menial tasks.  * Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS, SASS and JavaScript.  * Used Jenkins to deploy Django application.  * Work proactively to predict and minimize potential issues before they arise, and resolves those that do in a timely manner.  * Profiled python code for optimization and memory management.    Environment: Python, GIT, Jenkins, Shell Scripting, Django Framework, SQL, MySQL. Python Developer IECL. Ltd - Dhaka, BD June 2010 to October 2011 Responsibilities:  * Participated with team on implementing new features and UX in an agile environment.  * Used Netbeans IDE and developed the complete HTML, CSS and JavaScript of the pages with emphasis on performance, accessibility (AA) and SEO standards.  * Developed templates using HTML, CSS, BOOTSTRAP, and JAVASCRIPT based on client's request.  * Helped create interactive prototypes and UI specifications, including screen layouts, color palettes, typography, and user-interface elements.  * Worked closely with Technical Development Manager to help track, prioritize, estimate, and recommend resources for all Technical Development Team projects.  * Participated in day-to-day meeting, status meeting, strong reporting and effective communication with project manager and developers.  Environment: MySQL, Linux, HTML, XHTML, SVN, CSS, AJAX, JavaScript. Education Bachelor in Computer Engineering in Computer Engineering University of Dhaka - Dhaka, BD 2010 Skills DJANGO (6 years), JAVASCRIPT (7 years), PYTHON (7 years), CSS (7 years), LINUX (7 years) Additional Information Operating Systems MS Windows, Red Hat LINUX, UNIX, MAC OS, UBUNTU  Programming Languages Python, UNIX / Linux Shell Scripting (Bash), C, C++, XML, JavaScript, JQuery, HTML, HTML5, CSS, and CSS3.  Databases Oracle, MySQL Server, PostgreSQL, Mongodb  Web Frameworks Django, Flask  Configuration Management GitHub, SVN, CVS  SDLC Methods Agile, Waterfall  Application Servers Weblogic, Apache Tomcat servers, WebSphere, Django  Technical Writing Tools Sublime Text, PyCharm, Eclipse, Notepad++, MS Word, Excel, Pages,