Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - Thermo Fisher Scientific Pittsburgh, PA Work Experience Python Developer Thermo Fisher Scientific - Pittsburgh, PA September 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Participated in the complete SDLC process and used PHP to develop website functionality.  • Developed Business Logic using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Used Python and Django to interface with the JQuery UI and manage the storage and deletion of content.  • Developed a fully automated continuous integration system using Git, Jenkins, MySQL, PostgreSQL and custom tools developed in Python and Bash.  • Worked on HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Git, REST API, Mongo DB, intelliJ IDEA.  • Performs in cloud computing environments using AWS EC2, S3, AWS RDS, and Redshift.  • Experience working with AWS Redshift, S3 and Lambda.  • Adapted functionality in AWS S3 and Redshift to allow incremental loading by adding staging layer and scripting SQL code to integrate staged data with the delta files.  • Experience of using Python modules like NumPy, Matplotlib, Pandas etc., for generating complex graphical data, creation of histograms, etc.  • Generated property list for every application dynamically using Python.  • Worked with QA team to create detailed test strategies, test scenarios and test cases.  • Involved in front end and utilized Bootstrap and Angular.js for page design.  • Implemented AngularJS Controllers to maintain each view data.  • Developed custom directives, services, filters and modules in AngularJS  • Created Data tables utilizing PyQt to display customer and policy information and add, delete, update customer records  • Experience with DB2 and Java Persistence.  • Involved in using all core Java Concepts into the application for the reusability of the code.  • Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks.  • Coding in LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, and PHP) environment.  • Built application logic using Python 3.1.  • Used Core Java features threads in developing applications  • Designed and developed the application using Java Server Faces (JSF) framework  • Used the Django Framework to develop the application and Django APIs for database access.  • Worked on development of SQL and stored procedures on MYSQL.  • Interfacing with supervisors, artists, systems administrators and production to ensure production deadlines are met.  • Participated in requirement gathering and worked closely with the architect in designing and modeling.    Skills  Python 3.1x, Django 1.4, Java, Angular.js, Bootstrap, Bash, Django ORM, PyQt, XML, AWS S3, AWS Redshift, MySQL, HTML, XHTML, CSS, AJAX, JavaScript, Jenkins, Apache Web Server, Linux. Python developer NIH - Bethesda, MD August 2016 to August 2017 Responsibilities:  • Worked in stages such as analysis and design, development, testing and debugging.  • Performance tuning and stress-testing of NoSQL database environments in order to ensure acceptable database performance in production mode.  • Created and executed test plans using PyUnit.  • Worked on Apache CGI, Chirrupy, Python and Bash programming on Red Hat machines to maintain and automate Splunk server deployments and other in house IT operations.  • Wrote most of the logical code in Angular Services, writing minimal code in Angular Controllers.  • Worked with various python libraries such as Pandas and matPlotLib for analysis and manipulation of data.  • Dealt with large datasets by using Pandas data frames and MySQL, and performed dynamic implementation of SQL server work on the website using SQL developer tool.  • Used Decorators, Generators, Lambda and Comprehension to write effective codes.  • Implementing and configuring VMware Auto Deploy and VMware Update Manager.  • Configuring VMware vSphere 5.5 in a VMware ESXi environment.  • With using of Python OS module on UNIX environment, made job cloning and forking.  • Thoroughly used Unit Test Python library for testing many Python programs and block of codes.  • Developed Python/Django application for Google Analytics aggregation and reporting.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Manage the configurations of multiple servers using Ansible.  • Utilized PyUnit, the Python unit test framework, for all Python applications.  • Set up rules and policies with a Node.js/ Python back end.  • Involved and played a leading role in database migration projects from Oracle to Mongo DB, Couch DB databases based on my custom software.  • Worked on CSV files while trying to get input from the MySQL database.  • Created PHP/MySQL back-end for data entry from Flash.  • Developed weekly, monthly nightly job process through UNIX shell scripting.  • Involved in development of Web Services using SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface in the XML format.  • Having Strong Knowledge on Data Management Department. Coding with Rumba, Statics with Microsoft Excel, SAS,  • Closely involved in performance evaluation and User Acceptance Test.    Skills  Python 2.7, Django, Bash, PyUnit, Node.js, Mongo DB, MySQL, Numpy, sqlalchemy, Angular.js, Windows, UNIX. Python Developer Centene Corporation - St. Louis, MO January 2016 to June 2016 Responsibilities:  • Worked with team of developers on Python applications for RISK management.  • Made Django web based apps for Insurance premium calculations.  • Designed the architecture of the hardware environments and methodology of the code  • Done Job scheduling, batch-job scheduling and process control, forking and cloning of jobs and checking the status of the jobs using shell scripting.  • Used Ansible to document all infrastructures into version control.  • Used Ansible to document application dependencies into version control.  • Used Python OS module on UNIX environment, made job cloning and forking.  • Responsible for search engine optimization to improve the visibility of the website.  • Handled all the client side validation using JavaScript.  • Created PyUnit test cases for unit testing.  • Created Data tables utilizing PyQt to display customer and policy information and add, delete, update customer records.  • Used Python based GUI components for the front end functionality such as selection criteria.  • Involved in writing application level code to interact with APIs, Web Services using JSON.  • Used Unit Test Python library for testing many Python programs and block of codes.  • Used HTML, CSS, JQuery, JSON and JavaScript for front end applications.  • Involved in testing RESTFull API like Twilio, Facebook and Twitter.  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL.  • Involved in Agile Methodologies and SCRUM Process.  • Participated in entire lifecycle of the projects including Design, Development, and Deployment, Testing and Implementation and support.    Skills  Python, Django, XML, Java, Apache, CSS, MySQL, JSON, DHTML, HTML, JavaScript, Shell Scripts, agile, Restfull, UNIX and Windows. Jr Python Developer ARIS Global - Bengaluru, Karnataka January 2013 to July 2015 Responsibilities:  • Responsible for development and enhancements of all the modules of raildocs and have them running quickly with online features.  • Developed Python batch processors to consume and produce various feeds.  • Developed internal auxiliary web apps using Python Flask framework with CSS / HTML framework.  • Used Python, Perl, CGI, JQuery, JavaScript and JSON at the front end.  • Used Python scripts to update content in the database and manipulate files.  • Generated Python Django Forms to record data of online users.  • Engineered stable, isolated environments per game team.  • Used HTML, CSS, JQuery, JSON and Javascript for front end applications.  • Managed our servers in development, testing, certification and production.  • Using Subversion version control tool to coordinate team-development.  • Developed SQL Queries, Stored Procedures, and Triggers Using Oracle, SQL, PL/SQL.  • Used Linux profiler Valgrind for optimization of code.  • Implemented locking mechanisms using multi-threading functionality.    Skills  C++, Python, Perl, Linux, Shell Scripting, Java Script, JQuery, JSON, MySQL, Apache, Linux. Education Bachelors in Information Science Engineering Visvesvaraya technological University - Bengaluru, Karnataka Skills APACHE (4 years), DJANGO (4 years), MYSQL (4 years), PYTHON (4 years), SQL (4 years) Additional Information Technical Skills:    Languages- Python 3.x,2.7/2.4, Java, Shell Script, SQL  Python Framework-Django 1.3/1.4  Databases-MySQL 5.1, SQL Server 2008, Oracle 10g  Web Technologies-JavaScript, HTML, DHTML, XHTML, XML, Angular.js, Node.js  Versioning Tools-Subversion, GIT, Perforce, SVN, CVS  Web servers-Apache, IIS  Cloud Services-AWS S3, EC2 and Lambda  Operating systems-Linux/Unix, Windows-98/NT/2000/XP/2003/2008