Python & Webdeveloper <span class="hl">Python</span> &amp; Webdeveloper Pennsylvania Work Experience Python & Webdeveloper Erie Insurance October 2015 to Present Python & Webdeveloper  Responsibilities:  ? Extensively worked in backend development using Python.  ? Followed AGILEdevelopment methodology to develop the application.  ? Designed the front end of the application using Python 2.7, HTML, CSS, AJAX, JSON andJQuery. Worked on backend of the application, mainly using Active Records.  ? Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Flask Web Framework.  ? Used Python and Django creating graphics, XML processing, data exchange and business logic implementation.  ? Involved in back end development using Python with framework Flask.  ? Involved in analysis and design of the application features.  ? Designed and developed communication between client and server using Secured Web services.  ? Created UI using JavaScript and HTML5/CSS.  ? Developed & tested many features for dashboard using Python, Bootstrap, CSS, JavaScript and JQuery.  ? Developed Restful API's using Python and Flask framework.  ? Wrote unit test cases for testing tools.  ? Used Graphical User Interface Testing and API driven Testing  ? Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  ? Work with multiple teams to guide and influence the architecture and design of the various  products  ? Created unit test/regression test framework for working/new code  ? Used design patterns efficiently to improve the code reusability and also used JIRA for bug tracking and issue tracking.  ? Developed API modularizing existing python module with the help of pyYAML libraries.  ? Developed, tested and debugged software tools utilized by clients and internal customers.  ? Used several python libraries like wxPython, numPY and matPlotLib.  ? Added unit tests and improved existing ones.  ? DevelopedRESTful XML web service for handling AJAX requests.  ? Created project designs utilizing MVC architecture components.  ? Performed research to explore and identify new technological platforms  ? Built development environment with JIRA, Stash/Git.  ? Utilized continuous integration and automated deployments with Jenkins, Ansible and Docker    Environment: Python 2.7, Vagrant, Docker, Ansible, Jira, GIT, Confluence, C++, Java, JQuery, IntelliJ IDEA, Linux, Eclipse, Shell Scripting, HTML5/CSS, Apache, Tornado, Cassandra, and Tableau. Python developer VISA, SFO - CA March 2014 to September 2015 Responsibilities:  ? Used Django framework for application development.  ? Running Robot Framework on Python using the ipybot runner script  ? Assisted in reduction of cost and optimization of supplier selection for the CRM Applications.  ? Provides a command line interface and XML based outputs for integration into existing build infrastructure by using Robot Framework  ? Used Graphical User Interface Testing and API driven Testing  ? Used several python libraries like wxPython, numPY and matPlotLib.  ? Using features that supportcomplex data structures, first class functions by using PERL  ? Experience in working on Freeform Calculation, and Lasso and Radial Selection by using Tableau  ? Implementing Robot Framework using python  ? Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  ? Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  ? Generated property list for every application dynamically using python.  ? Using Subversion version control tool to coordinate team-development.  ? Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  ? Build all database mapping classes using Django models and Cassandra.  ? Used Pandas API to put the data as time series and tabular format for east timestamp data manipulation and retrieval.  ? Designed and developed data management system using MySQL.  ? Created Python and Bash tools to increase efficiency of call center application system and operations; data conversion scripts, AMQP/RabbitMQ, REST, JSON, and CRUD scripts for API Integration.  ? Created server monitoring daemon with Psutil, supported by Django app for analytics which I created. Also researched big data solutions with Cassandra database.  Environment: Python 2.7, scipy, Pandas, Bugzilla, SVN, C++, Java, JQuery, MySQL, Linux, Eclipse, Shell Scripting, HTML5/CSS. Red hat Linux, Apache, RUBY, Cassandra, Perl, and Tableau Python developer BCBS - TN September 2013 to February 2014 Responsibilities:  ? Developed and tested many features for dashboard using Python, Bootstrap, CSS, and JavaScript.  ? Implemented business logic using Python/Django.  ? Using Amazon SQS to queue up work to run asynchronously on distributed Amazon EC2 nodes.  ? Created backend database T-SQL stored procedures and Jasper Reports.  ? Worked with millions of database records on a daily basis, finding common errors and bad data patterns and fixing them.  ? Experience in ability to package code as reusable modules by using PERL  ? Experience in working with Cisco Technologies UCS, and network management devices.  ? Exported/Imported data between different data sources using SQL Server Management Studio.  ? Maintained program libraries, users' manuals and technical documentation.  ? Experience in working with Drag and Drop Calculation, and Geographic Search by using Tableau  ? Managed large datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL.  ? Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes of the two main applications that were a main source of data for both customers and internal customer service team  ? Build SQL queries for performing various CRUD operations like create, update, read and delete.  ? Work with team of developers on python applications for RISK management.  ? Taken part in entire lifecycle of the projects including Design, Development, and Deployment, Testing and Implementation and support.  ? Used Pandas library for statistics Analysis.  ? Created most important Business Rules which are useful for the scope of project and needs of customers.  ? Designed the architecture of the hardware environments and methodology of the code  ? Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL dB package.  ? Thorough knowledge in various front end tools like HTML, DHTML, CSS, JavaScript, XML, JQuery, Angular JS, and AJAX  ? Hands-on experiences in writing and reviewing requirements, architecture documents, test plans, design documents, quality analysis and audits.    Environment: Python 2.7, Django, HTML5/CSS, UNIX, MS SQL Server 2013, T-SQL, Jasper, Reports, JavaScript, Eclipse, Linux, Shell Scripting, RESTful, MVC3, Git, Perl, Tableau Python Developer American Airline - Dallas, TX June 2012 to August 2013 Responsibilities:  ? Responsible for gathering requirements, system analysis, design, development, testing and deployment.  ? Participated in the complete SDLC process.  ? Wrote Python modules to extract/load asset data from the MySQL source database.  ? Designed and implemented a dedicated MYSQL database server to drive the web apps and report on daily progress.  ? Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  ? Experience in doing automatic data-typing and automatic memory management by using PERL  ? Created entire application using Python, Django, MySQL and Linux.  ? Enhanced existing automated solutions, such as the Inquiry Tool for automated Asset Department reporting and added new features and fixed bugs.  ? Embedded AJAX in UI to update small portions of the web page avoiding the need to reload the entire page.  ? Programming in Python as well as Perl  ? Improved performance by using more modularized approach and using more in built methods.  ? Involved in development of Web Services using SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface in the XML format.  ? Performed data manipulation/storage for incoming test data using lxml /etree libraries.  ? Developed API modularizing existing python module with the help of pyyaml libraries.  ? Wrote unit test cases for testing tools.  ? Created database using MySQL, wrote several queries to extract/store data.  ? Coded test programs and evaluated existing engineering processes.  ? Used Spring ORM to integrate Spring Framework with hibernate  ? Designed and configured database and back end applications and programs.  Environment: Python 2.7, Django 1.4, Puppet Rspec, Jenkins, Grafana/Graphite, MySQL, Linux,  HTML, CSS, JQuery, JavaScript, Apache, Linux, Cassandra, Perl. Python Developer iMation March 2009 to December 2011 Responsibilities:  ? Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  ? Work with team of developers on python applications for RISK management.  ? Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript  ? Made Django web based apps for Insurance premium calculations.  ? Generated property list for every application dynamically using Python.  ? Rewrite existing Java, C++ application in Python.  ? Used Django APIs for database access.  ? Used Python to extract weekly hotel availability information from XML files.  ? Used Pandas library for statistical Analysis.  ? Used Apache Couchdb (NoSQL) in AWS Linux instance in parallel to RDS MySQL to store and analyze job market info.  ? Developed the required XML Schema documents and implemented the framework for parsing XML  documents.  ? Involved in Unit testing and Integration testing.  ? Developed ColdFusion Components, custom tags and modified CF Objects.  ? Designed the architecture of the hardware environments and methodology of the code.  ? Involved in entire lifecycle of the projects including Design, Development, and Deployment  ? Wrote AJAX framework to transform Datasets and Datatables into HTTP-serializable JSON strings.  ? Issues pertaining to Real time data being read from RabbitMQ into Postgres and Cassandra.  ? Build SQL, NO SQL queries implementing functions, packages, views, triggers, and tables.  Environment: Python, Django 1.3, MySQL, Linux, HTML, XHTML, CSS, AJAX, JavaScript, and Apache Web Server, NO SQL. Education Bachelors of Aeronautical Engineering in Aeronautical Engineering JNTU