Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Automation Developer Chicago, IL • 7 years of overall experience in Software Development and Testing.  • 4 years+ of Experience in developing applications in Python.  • Good understanding and knowledge on Design Patterns and object oriented programming.  • Experience in developing system automation tools in Python.   • Experience in developing applications in C++.  • Experience in Firmware QA Automation.  • Experience working with HP storage devices and knowledge on storage protocols like SCSI, SAS, iSCSI, FC etc.  • Experience in using Version Control Systems like GIT, SVN and CVS.  • Experience in development methodologies like Agile Scrum and Waterfall.  • Experience with Linux command and bash shell scripting.  • Experience with Web Services (RESTful and SOAP).  • Experience with Selenium automation with Python.  • Experience in developing applications using Django.   • Knowledge on Hadoop framework and its related technologies – HDFS, Map reduce, PIG, Hive and Hbase   • Knowledge on Java and its related frameworks like Struts 2 and Hibernate.  • Ability to learn quickly and adapt to new technical environments Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Developer CallOne - Chicago, IL August 2015 to Present • Added functionality to the existing call detail project, to parse data feed files from new vendors like McLeod etc.  • Creating a BTN Inventory management system in Python, using Django, and Linux  • Added functionality to existing Scope application, to get data from a new billing system called CDG  • Developed scripts to fetch daily lockbox files from various banks, decrypt them and push the data to CDG.  • Developed web services for scope provisioned details, and accessed them from inventory management.  • Developed scripts to generate daily reports, fetching data from salesforce and CDG by calling there APIs.  • Involved in coding, Unit testing, code walkthrough, code review etc.    Environment: Python, Ubuntu, PostgreSQL, fabric, puppet, Django, Selenium, GIT Python Developer Wells Fargo - Charlotte, NC November 2013 to November 2013 • Developed python Key edits for different Lockboxes as per the functionality needed which helps the Keyer to validate the customer lockbox requirements.  • Developed check digit Python modules which will validate the check digit calculation of lockbox coupon scanlines.  • Created the Account specifications for both wholesale and whole tail Lockboxes based on the lockbox customer requirements.  • Developed scripts for various modes of transmission lockbox files like ECS, DTS and SAFET.  • Developed Extended DDA lookup modules, this will be used for multi DDA lockbox setups.  • Created and parsed stop files using Python for some boxes which have specific stop DDA requirements.  • Developed Python scripts which format and create daily transmission files.  • Created shell scripts for various tasks.  • Modified already existing Perl scripts.  • Involved in design analysis, creating design documents planning and managing day-to-day activities and interaction with team members to facilitate smooth implementation.  • Developed a Django application to track the status of migrating boxes and new implementations.  • Added Selenium test automation in Python.  • Involved in coding, Unit testing, code walkthrough, code review etc.    Environment: Python, UNIX, Django, PostgreSQL, Perl, Selenium, HTML, CVS, etc. Developer HP Smart Array SAS - Houston, TX February 2009 to November 2013 • Developed automated test validation framework for validating HP Smart Array SAS controllers and HP Moonshot  • HP smart array family storage controller cards support wide range of storage JBODs. These SAS controllers support various features like RAID support, Mirroring, Caching, Extension, Expansion, Multipath failure etc.; Developed library in python and test cases which communicate with underlying hardware issuing various SCSI/BMIC commands to the storage controllers.  • Involved in design and development of the automation which executes all test cases and reduced a lot of manual effort for testing team.  • Involved in development of Moonshot test Library which implements all the firmware specifications mentioned.  • Involved in developing IPMI Codecs in python to communicate with the Chassis Manager.  • Developed AFVS web application to track test cases and logs in Python using Django.  • Modified existing Perl scripts to parse the configuration files and to get the hardware configuration information.  • Added test cases in Python to test thoroughly the developed features in Library.  • Triaged the failures, reported and tracked.  • Added Utilities for the corresponding library features.  • Involved in Diskless PXE booting all the Servers from Network running purely on RAM for Ubuntu and RHEL.  • Developed multithread automated test cases to stimulate real-time scenarios.  • Involved in design analysis, creating design documents planning and managing day-to-day activities and interaction with team members to facilitate smooth implementation.  • Involved in coding, Unit testing, code walkthrough, code review, build and configuration management etc.  • Coordinating with various infrastructure teams and communicating/managing outages with the partner systems during Production Deployments.  • Added new functionality to already existing C++ test library, for testing sustenance projects  • Implemented features in the library to test the firmware of storage controller firmware  • Modified and added the library that implements SCSI/BMIC protocol in Python.  • Implemented features in the library to test the firmware of storage controller firmware  • Involved in code-merge, code review, code integration and module integration.  • Written Codec's parse BMIC protocol messages exchanged with storage controller.  • Modified Perl scripts were developed to automate routine jobs and a utility to connect with other servers.  • Triaging Failures of test cases and determining root cause for failure    Environment: Python, C++, Perl, Django, SVN, MySQL, RHEL, VMware, HP SAS Controllers, DL/ML servers, c3k/c7k enclosures, switches. Education B Tech in Computer science and Engineering JNTU - Hyderabad, Andhra Pradesh 2008 Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  Computer Languages  • Python, C++, Java, Perl, Bash, JavaScript, SQL, HTML, CSS.  Tools and Systems  • HP SCSI, SAS, FC, iSCSI storage controllers, PostgreSQL, Django, SVN, GIT, MySQL, VMWare, Selenium, Puppet