Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - Premier Community Bank Hillsboro, OR • Over 5 years of experience as an Application developer, software development and design using   Python, Django, XML, HTML, DHTML, Oracle PL/SQL.  • Experienced with Software Development Life Cycle, strong experience in data engineering,   Database designs, agile methodologies, coding, testing of enterprise applications and IDE's   such as PyCharm, IDLE, and Spyder.  • Actively involved in each phase of Software Development life cycle (SDLC) and experience in   Agile Software Methodology.  • Experience with Django and Flask a high-level Python Web framework.  • Experience in developing web applications by following Model View Control (MVC) Architecture   using server-side application Django.  • Experienced with WAMP (Windows, Apache, MySQL, and Python/PHP) and LAMP (Linux,   Apache, MySQL, and Python/PHP) Architecture.  • Experience of using Python modules like NumPy, Matplotlib, Pickle, Pandas, SciPy, wxPython,   PyTables, PyQt, etc., for generating complex graphical data, the creation of histograms, etc.  • Skilled in Object-Oriented Design and Programming using Python and C++.  • Excellent Experience on various Python integrated IDE's such as Sublime Text, PyCharm,   Eclipse and NetBeans.  • Experience in working on various python packages such as NumPy, SQL Alchemy, Pyside,   SciPy, and PyTables.  • Good knowledge in establishing database connections for Python by configuring packages   MySQL- Python.  • Good experience in performing operations such as CRUD operations and writing complex   queries with Oracle, MS SQL Server, and MongoDB.  • Experience in developing web services (WSDL, SOAP and REST) and consuming web services   with Python programming language.  • Proficient in developing complex SQL Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, Functions,   and Packages along with performing DDL and DML operations on the database.  • Good experience in using Shell scripting for automation by following Python PEP.  • Experience in Bash Shell Scripting, SQL and Java.  • Hands-on experience with installation and configuration of Apache Tomcat server.  • Expertise in full life cycle application development and also good experience in Unit testing and   Test Driven Development (TDD) and Behavior-driven Development.  • Hands on experience with continuous integration and automation using Jenkins.  • Hands on experience with Build Automation tool like Maven, and version control tools such as   Git, and GitHub.  • Experience in Web Application Development, hands-on experience of Python/Django, Flask,   SQL Alchemy, SQLite, JavaScript, JQuery, HTML5/CSS3, Bootstrap, and JSON/AJAX.  • Experience in working on different operating systems-windows, Linux, UNIX, and Mac also   strong development experience on Linux based operating systems such as Ubuntu, Red Hat,   and CentOS.  • Excellent communication, Teamwork, inter-personnel and presentation skills, fast learner and   organized self-starter.  • Ability to work on multiple projects with aggressive timelines, to prioritize and meet operational   deadlines in a demanding, fast-paced environment or quickly changing priorities.  • Ability to handle multiple tasks, Initiative and Adaptable. Self-motivated, organized team player   with strong problem solving and analytical skills and total commitment to the organization goals Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Developer Premier Community Bank - Hillsboro, OR January 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Involved in analysis, specification, design, and implementation and testing phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) and used agile methodology for developing application.  • Participate in requirement gathering and analysis phase of the project in documenting the business requirements by conducting workshops/meetings with various business users  • Worked with team of developers on Python applications for RISK management  • Worked on Python Open stack API's,used Python scripts to update content in the database and manipulate files  • Implemented machine learning schemes using Python libraries scikit-learn and scipy.  • Experience in MVC architecture using Django for web based application in OOP concepts.  • Worked on several python packages like Matpoltlib, Pillow, Numpy, SQL Alchemy, and sockets.  • Designed and deployed machine learning solutions in Python to classify millions of previously unclassified Twitter users into core data product  • Used Pandas API to put the data as time series and tabular form for east timestamp data manipulation and retrieval to handle time series data and do data manipulation  • Worked on front end frame works like CSS, Angular JS, Bootstrap for development of Web application.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly interface using MVC architecture.  • Used Python and Django to interface with the jQuery UI and manage the storage and deletion of content.  • Using Git version control tool to coordinate team-development.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript, also used Bootstrap as a mechanism to manage and organize the html page layout  • Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from Python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL db package  • Involved in development of Web Services using SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface in the XML format  • Responsible for debugging the project monitored on JIRA (Agile)  Environment: Windows, Linux, Python, Django, Angular JS, libraries - (NumPy, SciPy, Pandas, PyCharm, PyQuery, Matpoltlib, Pillow), SQL Alchemy, MVC, HTML5, Shell Scripting, JSON, Apache Web Server, SQL, UNIX. Python Developer Shutterfly - Redwood City, CA September 2016 to December 2017 Responsibilities:  • Involved in daily Scrum meetings and follows agile methodology.  • Wrote Python routines to log into the websites and fetch data for selected options. Used Python modules such as requests, urllib, urllib2 for web crawling.  • Used other packages such as Beautiful soup for data parsing.  • Worked on developing web applications and implementing Model View Control (MVC) architecture using server-side applications like Django and Flask.  • Involved in developing views and templates with Python and Django view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly Website interface.  • Worked on writing and as well as read data from csv and excel file formats.  • Involved in working with Web-services backend development using Python (CherryPy, Django, and SQLAlchemy).  • Worked on HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Git, REST API, and Mongo DB.  • Design and Setting up of environment of Mongodb with shards and replicasets. (Dev/Test and Production).  • Worked on analyzing SQL scripts and designed the solution for the process using PySpark.  • Developed rich user interface using CSS, HTML, JavaScript and JQuery. Created a Python based GUI application For Freight Tracking and processing  • Used Django framework for application development.  • Responsible for search engine optimization (SEO) to improve the visibility of the website.  • Developed automated testing framework for command-line based tests on Linux using Objected Oriented Perl and for selenium-based tests using Python.  • Created database using MySQL, wrote several queries to extract data from database.  • Setup automated cron jobs to upload data into database, generate graphs, bar charts, upload these charts to wiki, and backup the database.  • Wrote scripts in Python for extracting data from HTML file.  • Used Git as version control tool, and Maven as Build tool.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application using Jira Bug Tracking Tool.  Environment: MySQL, HTML, Python, Django, HTML5, CSS, XML, MySQL, JavaScript, Linux, Shell Scripting, AJAX, urllib, urllib2, Json, CherryPy, Unix, Bootstrap, Mongodb, SQL Alchemy, Jquery. Python Developer MSP IT Concepts PVT Ltd March 2014 to August 2016 Responsibilities:  • Responsible for gathering requirements, system analysis, design, development, testing and deployment.  • Having experience in Agile Methodologies, Scrum stories and sprints experience in Python  • Developed user interface using CSS, PHP, HTML, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Wrote Python modules to extract/load asset data from the MySQL source database.  • Designed and developed Use-Cases, Classes and Object Diagrams using UML Rational Rose for Object Oriented Design techniques.  • Designed and implemented a dedicated MySQL database server to drive the web apps and report on daily progress.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Used PyUnit, the Python unit test framework, for all Python applications.  • Involved in develop the REST Web services to expose the business methods to external services in the project.  • Worked on front end frame works like CSS, Bootstrap for development of Web application.  • Participated in requirement gathering and worked closely with the architect in designing and modeling.  • Created a Git repository and added the project to GitHub.  • Collaborated with internal teams and external teams to solve the issues and giving feedbacks.  • Documented the problems and progress of project most accurately.  • Worked together with team during testing of data warehouses.  Environment: Python, Django, HTML5/CSS, MySQL, REST Web Services, JavaScript, Eclipse, Linux, Shell Scripting, JQuery, GitHub, JIRA, GIT. Education Master's in Computer Science California State University-Los Angeles - Los Angeles, CA August 2016 to August 2018 Bachelor's in Information Technology Ganpat University - Mehsana, Gujarat May 2012 to May 2016 Skills Ajax (2 years), C++ (Less than 1 year), Databases (Less than 1 year), Dhtml (Less than 1 year), Django (5 years), Frameworks (Less than 1 year), Html (5 years), Java. (Less than 1 year), Javascript (5 years), jquery (5 years), Json (2 years), Linux (5 years), Linux/unix (Less than 1 year), Mongo db. (1 year), Mysql (5 years), Python (5 years), Sdlc (1 year), Sql (2 years), Unix. (2 years), Xml (2 years), HTML 5, Git, Shell Script (2 years), Flask (4 years), NumPy (4 years), matplotlib (2 years), Pickle (4 years), Pandas (3 years), SciPy (2 years), wxPython (2 years), PyTable (2 years), PyQt (2 years), SQL Alchemy (2 years), Ajax (4 years), DHTML (2 years), XHTML (2 years), XML (3 years), Oracle (3 years), Agile (4 years), Waterfall (5 years), AngularJS (2 years), NodeJS (2 years), ExtJS (2 years), CSS Additional Information Technical Skills:  Programming Languages Python 3.3/2.7, Java, C++, Shell Script, SQL  Python Frameworks Django, Flask  Python Libraries NumPy, Matplotlib, Pickle, Pandas, SciPy, wxPython, PyTables, PyQt, SQL Alchemy  Web Technologies AJAX, JavaScript, HTML, DHTML, XHTML, XML, JSON, JQuery  Databases MySQL, SQL Server, Oracle, MongoDB  Operating systems Windows, Linux/UNIX  SDLC Methodologies Agile, Waterfall  JavaScript Frameworks Angular JS, Node JS, ExtJS