Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - cantor fitzergeralnd, NJ Lewis Center, OH • 8+ Years of experience in Analysis, Design, Development, Management, and Implementation of various standalone and client-server enterprise Python/Django based web-applications. (Developed web-based applications using Python 2.7/2.6, Django 1.4/1.3).  • Installed and configured monitoring scripts for AWS EC2 instances also Configured and deployed project using the Amazon EC2 on AWS.  • Experienced in developing web applications using Django, Pyramid frameworks.  • Worked with several python packages like Numpy, Matplotlib, Scipy, PyQt, wxpython, PyTables.  • Good experience in developing web applications implementing MVT/MVC architecture using Django and Flask web application frameworks.  • Hands-on experience with industry-standard IDE's like Pycharm, Eclipse, NetBeans, Anaconda.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface  • Created applications using Python under Linux OS (Debian, Ubuntu, RedHat Linux) environment.  • Good knowledge of TLS,TCP/IP, UDP, HTTP, HTTPS, SSH and SSL protocols.  • Good working experience in using version control systems Git and GitHub.  • Experienced in requirement gathering, Use case development, Business process flow, Business process Modeling like extensively used UML to develop various use cases, Class diagrams and Sequence diagrams.  • Development of real-time multi-tasking systems using Python.  • Created data access modules in python.  • Proficient in creating visually interacting dashboards and generate reports as per the client requirement.  • Deployed project using Heroku/Jenkins and using web services like Amazon web services(AWS).  • Used Restful and Flask framework and web programming that allow user to utilize the create/read/update/delete (CRUD) functionality on the site.  • Worked extensively with Unit testing/ Test Driven Development(TDD), and Load Testing.  • Good experience in working with web services like Amazon AWS EC2.  • Good Experience in UNIX Shell scripting& Windows Batch Scripting for Parsing Files & automation of batch ETL jobs.  • Skilled in writing and reviewing requirements, architecture documents, test plans, design, documents, quality analysis and audits.  • Good experience in handling errors/exceptions and debugging the issues in large scale applications.  • Admirable problem solving and decision-making capabilities which are renowned by associates for quality of work and unconventional solutions.  • Highly motivated, dedicated, quick learner and have proven ability to build and manage a team and work individually.  • Write, maintain and improve automation scripts in Perl, BASH, PHP & Python  • Strong analytical and problem-solving skills, always striving for new Knowledge.  • Excellent communication and interpersonal skills, ability to work independently as well as part of an integrated team. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Developer cantor fitzergeralnd, NJ August 2017 to Present Responsibilities:    • Responsible for creating company's internal platform called DCAE by using python to develop and test the components.  • Worked with various Python libraries such as Six, Click, Pandas and Matplotlib for analysis and manipulation of data.  • Used Click package to create the command line interface.  • Designed Docker proof-of-concept using Hashicorp's Nomad and Consul.  • Used Consul for Service Discovery and to create Key-Value pair.  • Wrote Python scripts to parse JSON files and load the data into the Consul.  • Used Python IDE Pycharm for developing the code and performing unit test.  • Involved in development using Python, bug fixing.  • Developed web-based applications using Python, Django, XML, CSS, HTML, DHTML.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Used AWS for application deployment and configuration.  • Responsible for Design and maintenance of databases using Python. Developed Python based APIs by using Flask, SQL Alchemy and PostgreSQL.  • Worked on HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, AngularJS, Node.JS, Git, REST API, intellij IDEA.  • Development of real-time multi-tasking systems using Python.  • Created data access modules in python.  • Designed, developed, implemented, and maintained solutions for using Git and GitHub for microservice and continuous deployment.  • Involved in Developing a Restful API'S service using Python Flask framework.    Environment: Python 3.x, Django 1.9, Flask, SQL Alchemy, Consul, HTML, AJAX, MYSQL, Linux, GIT. Python Developer Inteletech Global, Florida August 2016 to July 2017 Responsibilities:  • Developed Python Django forms to record data and the Login module page for users.  • Designed email marketing campaigns and created interactive forms that saved data into database using Django Framework.  • Worked in Test driven development with Behave in Python.  • Creating Behave scripts using Gherkin syntax.  • Used collections in Python for manipulating and looping through different your defined objects.  • Wrote Python routines to log into the websites and fetch data for selected options.  • Performed efficient delivery of code based on principles of Test Driven Development(TDD) and continuous integration to keep in line with Agile Software Methodology principles  • Implemented a login module for user, registration of the products, placing the order and tracking the order.  • Improving the performance while processing data by modifying functions, queries, cursors, triggers and stored procedures for MySQL database.  • Worked on Unit testing, Integration testing and Web application testing.  • Code review using GitHub, testing, fixing of the bugs and coding modifications.  • Performed research to explore and identify new technological platforms.  • Developed API modularizing existing python module with the help of pyYAML libraries.  • Improved performance by using more modularized approach and using more in built methods.  • Collaborated with internal teams to convert end user feedback into meaningful and improved solutions.  • Performed data manipulation/storage for incoming test data using lxml /etree libraries.  • Embedded AJAX in UI to update small portions of the web page avoiding the need to reload the entire page.  • Wrote unit test cases for testing tools.  • Enhanced existing automated solutions, such as the Inquiry Tool for automated Asset Department reporting and added new features and fixed bugs.    Environment: Python 2.7, Django 1.4,Behave, Puppet Rspec, Jenkins, Grafana/Graphite, MySQL, Linux, HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, JQuery, JavaScript, Apache, Linux, Git, Perl, Cassandra, Azure Automation cloud services. Sr. Python Developer CK'S ADVANTAGE Pvt. Ltd June 2009 to July 2015 Responsibilities:  • Worked on Restful web services which enforced a stateless client server and support JSON few changes from SOAP to RESTFUL Technology Involved in detailed analysis based on the requirement documents.  • Designed and maintained databases using Python and developed Python based API (RESTful Web Service) using Flask, SQL Alchemy and PostgreSQL.  • Provided Database Administration support for high volume production Oracle 11g ,12c Databases.  • Designed and created backend data access modules using PL/SQL stored procedures and Oracle.  • Designed and developed components using Python with Django framework. Implemented code in Python to retrieve and manipulate data.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Used Python and Django creating graphics, XML processing, data exchange and business logic implementation  • Created data access modules in python.  • Developed API endpoints in Scala. Used functional programming, data aggregation with pagination, and parsing using Jackson library.  • Used Django Database API's to access database objects.  • Created data frames in particular schema from raw data stored at Amazon S3, lambda using PySpark.  • Used PySpark Data frame for creation of table and performing analytics over it.  • Participated in developing view pages using HTML5, CSS3, and Tag Libraries.  • Experienced the server-side Java Script like Node.js, The creation of Web servers and Package  manager like (Node Package Manager) NPM.  • Involved in creating responsive web pages using Bootstrap tables and grids for displaying data and styling using CSS3 for enhancing the look and feel of Webpages.  • Used Python IDE's such as Pycharm, sublime text for developing the code and performing unit test and SIT.  • Decent experience in UNIX in developing the application and familiar with all its commands.  • Developed the back-end web services using Python and Django REST framework.  • Performing Functional testing, regression testing, integration testing, and communication testing.  • Wrote Perl scripts to Progress DB procedure.  • Wrote Perl scripts and Sybase procedures.  • Have expertise with an in depth understanding of the wide range of AWS services like EC2.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  • Used Design patterns efficiently to improve the code reusability.  • Knowledge of Chef/Puppet as Configuration management tool, to automate repetitive tasks, quickly deploy critical applications, and proactively manage change.  • Experience working with Puppet Enterprise and Puppet Open Source.  • Integrated data from multiple applications using ETL tools like SSIS, Informatics.  • Migration of Test Content to Automation Tool using Python and XML.  • Worked in developing the screens for delete, Edit, Enable, Disable and Impersonate Users in web application.  • Created and implemented SOA services utilizing SOA programs  • Extensive use of version controller Team Foundation Server(TFS).  • Involved in start to end process of Hadoop cluster installation, configuration and monitoring.  • Responsible for building scalable distributed data solutions using Hadoop.  • Managed and reviewed Hadoop log file and also worked in analyzing SQL scripts and designed the solution for the process using PySpark.  • Built reusable Hive UDF libraries for business requirements which enabled users to use these UDF's in Hive Querying.  • Experienced in migrating Hive QL into Impala to minimize query response time.  • Creating database schema for MySQL Database and helped to draw ER-Diagrams using Microsoft Visio.  • Managed code versioning with GitHub and deployment to staging and production servers.  • Involved in deployment using AWS.    Environment: Python 2.7& 3.6, Django 1.6, CSS, HTML, AJAX, MYSQL, Linux, AWS, GIT. Education Master's Skills AJAX (7 years), Django (7 years), Git (7 years), Linux (7 years), Python (7 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Languages Python, SQL.  IDE's PyCharm, Anaconda, Notepad++Eclipse, NetBeans, Spider.  Web Technologies/Other Django, Flask, Pyramid, Ajax, HTML5.  Frameworks Django, Flask, Bootstrap, Tornado, Pyramid.  Version Controls Git, GitHub.  Operating Systems MS Windows, Linux/Unix, Ubuntu.  Cloud Computing Platforms Amazon Web Services (AWS), AWS Cloud Formation AWS Cloud Front.  MS office tools: Microsoft Excel, Microsoft Word, PowerPoint