Python Developer/Analyst <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span>/Analyst Python Developer/Analyst - Capital One Bank Richmond, VA • 5+ years of experience as a Web/Application Developer and coding with analytical programming using Python, Django, C++.  • Experienced with full software development life-cycle, architecting scalable platforms, object oriented programming, database design and agile methodologies  • Experienced in MVW frameworks like Django, Angular JS, Java Script, JQuery and Node.js.  • Expert knowledge of and experience in Object oriented Design and Programming concepts.  • Experience object oriented programming (OOP) concepts using Python, C++ and PHP.  • Experienced in WAMP (Windows, Apache, MYSQL, Python/PHP) and LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, Python/PHP) Architecture.  • Experienced in developing web-based applications using Python, Django, PHP, C++, XML, CSS, HTML, DHTML, , JavaScript and JQuery.  • Experienced in installing, configuring, modifying, testing and deploying applications with Apache.  • Well versed with design and development of presentation layer for web applications using technologies like HTML, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Familiar with JSON based REST Web services and Amazon Web services.  • Experienced in developing Web Services with Python programming language.  • Experience in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on MySQL and PostgreSQL database.  • Worked in agile and waterfall methodologies with high quality deliverables delivered on-time.  • Maintained detailed documentation and architectural solutions in IT infrastructure and sales systems.  • Very strong full life cycle application development experience  • Experience with continuous integration and automation using Jenkins  • Unit testing/ Test driven Development (TDD), Load Testing.  • Created video publishing toolkit using Wordpress (PHP/MySQL) and JavaScript to allow easy uploading of video by non-technical content mangers.  • Developed a data migration feature using GZ File Compression and AES 256 encryption.  • Developed the required XML Schema documents and implemented the framework for parsing XML documents.  • Developed ColdFusion Components, custom tags and modified CF Objects.  • Wrote AJAX framework to transform Datasets and Datatables into HTTP-serializable JSON strings    Authorized to work in US for any employer Work Experience Python Developer/Analyst Capital One Bank - Richmond, VA August 2013 to Present Description: Developed a web based application using python to automate the ATM cash management process. I had developed an application that fetches the reports and other data from the vendors websites (total of different 5 vendors) and fill that data into the respective tables into the database. Analysts used that data to generate report and other stuff.    Responsibilities:  ? Worked alone on the project from gather requirement developing the entire application, with help from other analyst.  ? Wrote python routines to log into the websites and fetch data for selected options.  ? Used python modules such as requests, urllib, urllib2 for web crawling.  ? Used other packages such as Beautifulsoup for data parsing.  ? Worked on writing and as well as read data from csv and excel file formats.  ? Worked on a resulting reports of the application and Tableau reports.  ? Performed QA testing on the application.  ? Held meetings with client and worked all alone for the entire project with limited help from the client.    Environment: Python 2.7, Sypder (IDE), Windows 7, Terdata, Requests, urllib, urllib2, Beautifulsoup, Tableau. Python developer Solar Turbines - San Diego, CA September 2011 to July 2013 Description: Insight system was a system developed to help costumers understand the performance of the machinery. A graphical notation of the performance of turbines is given to the costumers on their mobile application and alert is raised if the performance drops down or any break down may happen based on the various other performance tracking as well.    Responsibilities:  ? Worked in stages such as analysis and design, development, testing and debugging.  ? Wrote programs for performance calculations using Numpy and sqlalchemy.  ? Worked on CSV files while trying to get input from the MySQL database.  ? Created and executed test plans using PyUnit.  ? Worked with the testing team for resolving bugs.  ? Closely involved in performance evaluation and User Acceptance Test.  Environment: Python 2.7, Windows, MySQL and python libraries such as Numpy, sqlalchemy, MysqlDB. Python Developer Fox Interactive - Los Angeles, CA September 2009 to August 2011 Description: Worked on development and Enhancement of Travelzoo, the premier travel reservation site. Travelers can find their dream destinations and post their requirements and inquiries. Travel agents can post their promotions and can respond to the inquiries and interests of travelers. Features include memberships, destination search, payment system for travel agents membership renewal, newsletters, promotion campaigns, shopping cart.    Responsibilities:  Participated in the complete SDLC process and used PHP to develop website functionality.  ?Coding in LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, and PHP) environment.  ?Developed GUI HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript (jQuery)  ?Built application logic using Python 2.7.  ?Used the Django Framework to develop the application.  ?Used Django APIs for database access.  ?Used Python to extract weekly hotel availability information from XML files.  ?Used WebServices to get travel destination data and rates.  ?Participated in requirement gathering and worked closely with the architect in designing and modeling.  ?Worked on development of SQL and stored procedures on MYSQL.  ?Developed shopping cart for Library and integrated web services to access the payment (E-commerce)    Environment: Python 2.6/2.7, JavaScript, Django Framework 1.3, CSS, SQL, MySQL, LAMP, JQuery, Adobe Dreamweaver, Apache web server. Education Btech in Computer Science JNTU - Hyderabad, Andhra Pradesh 2008 Additional Information Technical Skills:    Operating Systems Windows, Linux, Mac OS  Web technologies Django, AJAX, HTML/HTML5/CSS, PHP, jQuery, Node.js, Angular,  Languages C (basic), Python, Django, Java, JQuery, MySQL, PostgreSQL  Database SQL SERVER, Informix 10.0, MYSQL 5  Software Tools  Eclipse, NetBeans, AutoDock, Informatica ETL, FASTQC, Cufflinks, TOPHAT, BOWTIE, BWA, MACS, AllPathsLG, Abyss, CEGMA, OASIS, GLIMMER, Trinity, Ray, Reptile, Samtools, DeSeq.    Version Control Tools CSV, Perforce, Code Collaborator