Development Team - Intern Development Team - Intern Edison, NJ Sponsorship required to work in the US Work Experience Development Team - Intern Valparaiso University January 2019 to May 2019 * Developed a database (MySQL) and a web - based (PHP) inventory management application for Hilltop Neighborhood house, a non - profit organization in Valparaiso, IN, USA.  * It is Inventory Management Application which will control both inflow and outflow related to Hilltop.    ? W3Global India Private Limited  Salesforce Administartor - Intern  Hyderabad, IND    * Maintained administrative functions including user account maintenance, reports and dashboards, workflows and other routine tasks.    ? Tatva Thinkers  Curriculum Associate - Intern  India (Non - Profit Organization)    * Served as a part of charity work, conducted many awareness programs regarding child welfare.  * Conducted blood donation camps for the benefit and raised funds for the orphanage people. Python Developer W3Global India Private Limited - Hyderabad, Telangana June 2016 to April 2017 Job Description:  * Played a vital role in increasing the rate of marketing automation. Responsible for observing and supporting an incredible number of specialized administrations. Responsible for checking and support of a relational database system.    Responsibilities:  * Experience with Python development under Windows OS.  * Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly to interface.  * Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes.  * Responsible in Working with various Python integrated development environments like PyCharm, Idle Education Master of Science in Information Technology in Information Technology Valparaiso University - Valparaiso, IN August 2017 to May 2019 Bachelor's degree in Information Science and Engineering in Information Science and Engineering Malnad College of Engineering - Hassan, Karnataka August 2012 to August 2016 Skills Mysql, Sql, Visual studio, C++, Python, Css, Linux, Excellent verbal and written communication skills, Team player, Excel, Management, Microsoft Office, User interface, Data mining