Senior Python Developer Senior <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior Python Developer - VERIZON Temple Terrace, FL • 5+ Years of experience in Analysis, Design, Development, Testing, Customization, Bug fixes, Enhancement, Support and Implementation of various web, stand-alone, client-server enterprise applications.  • Experience in software development in Python using Django framework.  • Worked on several python packages like Numpy, Scipy, MatPlotLib, Pandas, and CSV.  • Worked on various applications using python integrated IDEs Sublime Text, PyCharm.  • Strong expertise in development of web based applications using Python, PHP, C#, HTML, Angular JS, CSS, JavaScript, AJAX, JQuery, JSON and BOOTSTRAP.  • Experienced in relational databases like MS SQL server, MySQL, PostgreSQL, SQLite3, Oracle and non-relational databases like Mongo DB, Saas.  • Good experience in developing web applications implementing MVT/MVC architecture using Django, Flask, and spring web application frameworks.  • Architecture, size (Capacity planning), Data modeling, implementation and support Cassandra Clusters including install, configure and upgrade DSE v3/4 (Cassandra v 1/2.x) and OpsCenter v 4.x/5.x on Bare metal and Cloud including AWS (Amazon Web Services).  • Experience in using Python REST API Frame work using Django.  • Familiar with XML/JSON based REST web services and Amazon Web services (AWS).  • Experience in using various version control systems like Git, GitHub and SVN.  • Experience in working with different operating systems like UNIX, LINUX and WINDOWS.  • Expertise in Object-Oriented design, coding and open stack development.  • Skilled in writing and reviewing requirements, architecture documents, test plans, design, documents, quality analysis and audits.  • Having experience in Agile Methodologies, Scrum stories and sprints experience in Java and Python based environment, along with data analytics, data wrangling and Excel data extracts.  • Sound experience in Core Java and Object Oriented Programming using concepts like Multi-Threading, Exception Handling and Collections.  • Good knowledge of web services with protocols SOAP, REST.  • Expertise in implementation of MVC using framework such as Struts, spring, Spring Web flow.  • Good knowledge of spring's IOC, Spring MVC, Web flow and spring's integration with Hibernate and Struts technologies.  • Extensive experience in open source framework like Struts, JSF, iBATIS, spring and Hibernate ORM (Object Relational Mapping) Framework.  • Special skills in development of effective, user-friendly web applications.  • Experience in requirement gathering, Use case development, Business Process flow, Business Process modeling: extensively used UML to develop various use cases, class diagrams and sequence diagrams.  • Superior Troubleshooting and Technical support abilities with Migrations, Network connectivity and Security and Database applications.  • Experience with Elastic search, Drool.  • Knowledge about setting up Python REST API Frame work using Django.  • Proactive and well organized with effective time management skills. Work Experience Senior Python Developer VERIZON - Temple Terrace, FL April 2015 to Present Description: Verizon Wireless is an American telecommunications company, a wholly owned subsidiary of Verizon Communications, which offers wireless products and services.    • Followed Agile Methodologies to manage full life-cycle development of the project.  • Writing backend programming in Python and used the Django Framework to develop the application.  • Implemented user interface guidelines and standards throughout the development and maintenance of the website using the HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery and Angular JS.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Developed RESTful services using Django.  • Designed and developed communication between client and server using Secured Web services.  • Developed and tested many features for dashboard using Python, Java, Bootstrap, CSS, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Used JavaScript and XML to update a portion of a webpage.  • Developed consumer based features and applications using Python and Django in test driven Development.  • Successfully migrated the Django database from SQLite3 to PostgreSQL with complete data integrity.  • Performed Unit testing, Integration Testing, GUI and web application testing using Rspec.  • Worked on Jenkins continuous integration tool for deployment of project.  • Worked on changes to open stack and AWS to accommodate large-scale data center deployment.  • Used Amazon Cloud EC2 along with Amazon SQS to upload and retrieve project history.  • Experience in project deployment using Heroku/Jenkins and using web services like Amazon Web Services (AWS) EC2, AWS S3, Auto scaling, Cloud watch and SNS.  • Created interactive data charts on Customer portal web application using High charts JavaScript library with data coming from Apache Cassandra.  • Worked on front end frame works like CSS, Bootstrap for development of Web application.  • Worked in MySQL database on simple queries and writing Stored Procedures for normalization.  • Deployed the project into Jenkins using GIT version control system.  • Learned to index and search/query large number of documents inside Elastic search.  • Creating invitation flow for customers to use the client portal for monitoring applications.  • Created the environment specific settings for a new deployment and update the deployment specific conditional checks in code base to use specific checks.  • For the large data management used TFS and delivered reliable end product.  • Used advanced packages like Mock, patch and beautiful soup (b4) to perform unit testing.  • Worked on translation of web pages to different languages as per client requirements.  • Updated the client admin tool to have the new features like support for internalization, support for customer service etc.  • Collaborate with Product Management and User Experience experts regarding product definition, schedule, scope and project-related decisions.  • Worked on updating the existing clip board to have the new features as per the client requirements.  • Used many regular expressions to match the pattern with the existing one.  • Taken part in entire lifecycle of the projects including Design, Development, and Deployment, Testing and Implementation and support.  • Improved code reuse and performance by making effective use of various design patterns.    Environment: Python 3.4, 2.7, Java 1.7, Django 1.9/1.7, HTML5, CSS3, XML, JSON, MySQL, JavaScript, Angular JS, Backbone JS, JQuery, CSS Bootstrap, Puppet, Postgre SQL, Amazon s3, AWS, Jenkins, Mongo DB, Elastic search, T-SQL, Beautiful soup, TFS, nose,, Eclipse, Git, GitHub, Linux. PYTHON DEVELOPER Masco Corporation - Seattle, WA August 2014 to May 2015 In 2001, Milgard was purchased by Masco Corporation, one of the world's largest manufacturers of brand-name consumer products for the home and family. Masco owns many admired companies within the building community. Masco is a leading provider of services that include the sale and installation of insulation and other building products. Through Masco, Milgard is receiving the support it needs to bring its high-quality windows and doors to more homes throughout the country. The main goal of the project was to create web based application that lets you electronically tests and view the saving results. Also application supports customer information and provides quick access to the Transaction for easier and efficient manner  Responsibilities:  • Participated in all stages of Software Development Life Cycle like Planning, Analysis, Design, Implementation and Testing.  • Model View Control architecture is implemented using Django Framework to develop web applications.  • Implemented Business logic, worked on data exchange, processed XML and HTML using Python 3.4 and its familiar framework Django.  • Worked on Django API's for accessing the database.  • Developed Views and Templates with Python and Website interface is created using Django's view controller and template.  • Designed and Developed User Interface using front-end technologies like HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, AngularJS, Bootstrap and JSON.  • Used SQL stored procedures and UNIX Shell Scripts for importing/exporting Data and Conversions.  • Participated in regular reviews of customer Testing data and RMA issues with the production Customer Focus Teams.  • Experience in Spark Streaming to receive real time data and to store the stream data into HDFS us-ing Scala.  • Hands on experience in Spark creating RDD's, applying Transformations and Actions.  • Good understanding of Hive tables design, loading the data into Hive tables.  • Responsible for loading unstructured and semi-structured data into Hadoop cluster coming from different sources using Flume and managing.  • Responsible for Data Ingestion like Flume and Kafka.  • Used Hive data warehouse tool to analyse the data in HDFS and developed Hive queries.  • Led the introduction of PC/Windows based test platforms for Keysight and GenRad test systems  • Experienced with the Agile Documentation and Production Control System.  • Created Django dashboard with custom look and feel for end user after a careful study of Django admin site and dashboard.  • Python Unit test library was used for the purpose of testing many programs on Python and other codes.  • For the manipulation of data from the database various queries using SQL were written and created a database using MySQL.  • Installed and configured Hadoop MapReduce, HDFS, Developed multiple MapReduce jobs in java for data cleaning and processing.  • Importing and exporting data into HDFS and Hive using Sqoop.  • Created partitioned tables in Hive, mentored analyst and test team for writing Hive Queries.    • Developed Pig Latin scripts to extract the data from the web server output files to load into HDFS.  • Involved in cluster setup, monitoring, test benchmarks for results.  • Used AJAX for Better interactivity for the end user and easier navigation and AJAX is compact.  • Implemented RESTful Web Services for the data transportation between multiple systems.  • Used Python Library Beautiful Soup for web Scrapping.  • Worked on Jenkins continuous integration tool for deployment of project.  • Deployed the project into Jenkins using GIT version control system; Created Git repository and added to GitHub project.  • AWS provides a secure global infrastructure, plus a range of features that you can use to secure your data in the cloud  • To provide a complete solution for computing, query processing, and storage across a wide range of applications.  • provides resizable computing capacity - literally, servers in Amazon's data centers  • Physical access to AWS data centers is strictly controlled, monitored, and audited.  Environment: Python 3.4, Django, Java Script, HTML, Angular JS, JQuery, JSON, AJAX, XML, CSS, SQL, MySQL, Hadoop, Bootstrap, Big Data, Restful Web Services, Beautiful Soup, Jenkins, Git, GitHub, Linux, PyCharm.  Environment: Python 2.7, Django 1.6, HTML5, CSS, XML, MySQL, MongoDB, JavaScript, Angular JS, JQuery, CSS Bootstrap, RabbitMQ, Celery, T-SQL, JavaScript, Eclipse, Git, GitHub Linux, Redis, Shell Scripting. PYTHON DEVELOPER ZETA INTERACTIVE - INDIA - IN April 2012 to July 2014 Description: ZETA Interactive provides full-lifecycle software product development services, including experience design, complex systems engineering, content engineering, and self-contained engineering labs. The company specializes in software engineering for cloud platforms, embedded software, Internet of Things, mobile, and security ZETA Interactive works with global enterprises and product and services companies in the communications, media, high-tech, automotive, medical technology, and retail industries    Responsibilities:  ? Designed and Developed the Solution Architecture package to identify all possible solutions for the project  ? Using UML methodologies.  ? Used J2EE Design patterns (Singleton, Service Locator and DAO).  ? Implemented MVC Architecture using JSF and Struts framework and custom tag libraries.  ? Developed a multi-user web application using JSP, JSTL, Action Forms, Action Classes, JavaScript and  ? JDBC to provide the needed functionality.  ? Used Hibernate for data manipulation and access.  ? Used Spring AOP and dependency injection framework for business aspect of the application and DAO for data access.  ? Testing - unit testing & integration testing of the application.  ? Developed Java beans and JSP's by using spring and JSTL tag libs for supplements.  ? Designed and developed middleware, using RESTful web services based on a centralized schema which is consumed by thousands of users.  ? Worked on Python Modules and Packages also structures.  ? Deployed Django web application in Apache webserver and carpathia cloud web deployment.  ? Used RAD 7.0 for implementing Static and Dynamic web services for consuming and providing services  ? Related to the business.  ? Created creating tables, data manipulation and retrieval using Oracle and DB2.  ? Used MQ Series to send, receive and read the messages and also Created Queues.  ? Involved in the deployment process of the application on Web Sphere Application Server.  ? SVN are used as source code controls and developed test cases using JUnit.  ? Deployed the Web application using ANT build script  ? Used Mercury Quality Center for requirement management, executing the test plans and defect  ? Management.  ? Used SOA architecture for communication between various business entities.  ? Communicated with the business people to get more clarity on the requirements/changes.    Environment: Java, Spring, Python, JavaScript, JDBC, XML, JAXB, Web services, SOAP, WSDL, Hibernate, Spring, IBM MQ, PL/SQL, Web Sphere, RAD 7.0, JUnit, Oracle 10g, DB2, Mercury Quality Center, SVN. Education Master's Skills Django (5 years), Java (5 years), JavaScript (5 years), Python (5 years), SQL (5 years), Python 3.x,2.7/2.4, C++, Java, Shell Script, Perl, SQL Django 1.3/1.4/1.5 MySQL 5.1, SQL Server 2008, Oracle 10g, Siebel AJAX, JavaScript, HTML, DHTML, XHTML, XML, JQuery Subversion, GIT, Perforce, CVS Eclipse, My Eclipse, PyCharm, RAD Apache, IIS, Web Sphere MongoDB, Cassandra Linux/Unix, Windows NT/2000/XP/2003/Vista, Mac OSX AWS, OpenStack (5 years) Additional Information Technical Skills:    Languages Python 3.x,2.7/2.4, C++, Java, Shell Script, Perl, SQL  Python Framework Django 1.3/1.4/1.5  Databases MySQL 5.1, SQL Server 2008, Oracle 10g, Siebel  Web Technologies AJAX, JavaScript, HTML, DHTML, XHTML, XML, JQuery  Versioning Tools Subversion, GIT, Perforce, CVS  IDE Eclipse, My Eclipse, PyCharm, RAD  Web servers Apache, IIS, Web Sphere  NO SQL MongoDB, Cassandra  Operating systems Linux/Unix, Windows NT/2000/XP/2003/Vista, Mac OSX  Cloud Technologies AWS, OpenStack