Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - Comcast Philadelphia, PA • Over 7+ years of experience as an Application developer, product development, software  development and design using Python, Django, XML, HTML, DHTML, C#, Oracle PL/SQL,  Postgres.  • Developed Consumer-based custom features and applications using Python, Django, and HTML.  Experienced with Software Development Life Cycle, Database designs, agile methodologies,  coding, testing of enterprise applications and IDE's such as Jupyter Notebook, PyCharm, Emacs,  Spyder and Visual Studio.  • Experience with Machine Learning algorithms like Linear Regression, Logistic Regression, knn,  SVM, Neural Networks, CNNs, LSTMs, RNNs, xgboost and machine learning libraries like  tensorflow, pytorch, Theano.  • Experience with Django and Flask a high-level Python Web framework. Working with  backend python automation, CI pipelines, Docker and cloud provisioning/automation.  • Experienced in MVC frameworks like Flask and Pyramid and MVT framework like Django.  • Experience with CI/CD systems like Git and Jenkins.  • Have experience working with Bitbucket.  • Worked on Jenkins continuous integration tool for deployment of project.  • Extensive experience in technologies like Java, UML, HTML, JSP, Servlets, JMS, JDBC, JNDI.  • Proficient in SQL databases MSSQL Server, MySQL, Oracle DB and Postgres.  • Basic Knowledge on JSON based REST Web services and Amazon Web Services (AWS).  • Knowledge of SOA/REST based service development.  • Having experienced in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions  on MySQL, PL/SQL and PostgreSQL database.  • Basic understanding of protocols/technologies like HTTP, LDAP, JDBC, SSL, Servlet/JSP, SQL,  HTML, XML.  • Generate and verify Firebase auth tokens. Extensive programming experience in Struts, Spring  MVC, Spring Security, Spring IOC and Spring DAO.  • Access Google Cloud Platform resources like Cloud Storage buckets and Firestore databases  associated with Firebase project.  • Basic knowledge on Rest API, JSON Parsing and JQuery. Experience with Angular front end web  application.  • Used Python, Perl, JQuery, JavaScript and JSON at the front end.  • Monitor all users/Firewall traffic using smart view-tracker, and smart view-monitor.  • Ensured standards are maintained for firewalls and other network device version updates.  • Experience in Bash Shell Scripting, SQL and Java.  • Interested and have good experience with Computer Vision, Deep Learning, OpenCV4.  • Having Good Experience in Object Oriented Concepts with C# and Python 3.x.  Chetan S saipy252@gmail.com 267-377-4676 www.linkedin.com/in/chetans2  Python Developer  • Extensive experience in using Python/Perl to code and design various phases for data processing  pipeline. Good Experience in error and exceptional handling.  • Experience in designing the automation framework using Shell scripting.  • Experience in writing test plans, test cases, test specifications and test coverage.  • Familiar with Agile and Waterfall development methodologies.  • Followed Agile Methodologies (Scrum) involved in daily stand-up meetings.  • Managed windows servers which included Active Directory maintenance and support.  • Hands on experience with bug tracking tools such as JIRA and Bugzilla.  • Unit testing for the entire code and fixing bugs in unit testing.  • Experienced in working with different operating systems like Windows, Ubuntu Linux and UNIX. Work Experience Python Developer Comcast - Philadelphia, PA August 2016 to Present Responsibilities:  • Responsible for gathering requirements, system analysis, design, development, testing and deployment.  • Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks.  Interfacing with supervisors, artists, systems administrators, and production to ensure production  deadlines are met.  • Developed Business Logic using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Troubleshoot any product issues with vendors.  Python Developer  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language  to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Used Django Database API's and SQLAlchemy to access database objects.  • Used JQuery and Ajax calls for transmitting JSON data objects between frontend and controllers.  • Involved in building database Model, APIs and Views utilizing Python, in order to build an interactive web based solution.  • Used Python based GUI components for the front-end functionality such as selection criteria.  • Created test harness to enable comprehensive testing utilizing Python.  • Developed new pages in web application and added functionality to existing application  using Java/j2ee and ATG framework.  • Developed Data driven, Keyword driven and Hybrid automation framework for web application  testing using Java/j2ee and selenium framework.  • Involved in front end and utilized Bootstrap and Angular.js for page design.  • Used PyQuery for selecting particular DOM elements when parsing HTML.  • Used Wireshark, live http headers, and Fiddler2 debugging proxy to debug the Flash object and help the developer create a functional component.  • Used Pandas API to put the data as time series and tabular format for east timestamp data  manipulation and retrieval.  • Created Business Logic using Python to create Planning and Tracking functions.  • Created UI Screens for initiation and validation.  • Worked on UI using HTML5, CSS3 and Java Scripts.  • Developed multi-threaded standalone app in Python and PHP to view performance.  • Used Pandas library for statistical Analysis.  • Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks.  • Version control using Github. Developed Dog Breed Classifier web application using Flask.  • Preprocessed 1.1GB of dog dataset including 133 dog breeds and 8,351 dog images, and 188MB  human dataset including 13,233 human images using Keras.  • Analyzed datasets using pre-trained ResNet50 deep learning neural network model and compared  3 CNN models including transfer learning to optimize performance. Best CNN model achieved  82.5% accuracy.  • Identified of malign moles on skin. Created a tool that considering the image of a mole, can  calculate the probability that a mole can be malign.  • Analyzed 1208 benign images and 849 malignant images collected from International Skin Imaging  Collaboration archive.  • Performed various fine-tuning tricks on my own CNN as well as VGG16(Data Augmentation,  Transfer Learning) implemented in Keras and Tensorflow. Achieved a testing accuracy of 96%.  • Involved in writing stored procedures using MySQL.  • Idea generation, Research and development, Testing, Analysis and Rollout are done on the prototype we developed.  Python Developer  • Interfacing with supervisors, artists, systems administrators and production to ensure production  deadlines are met.    Environment: Python 3.x, Django, Shell Scripting, Pandas, PyQuery, Wireshark, Flash, DOM, JSON,  PHP, HTML5, CSS3, AJAX, JavaScript, Angular.js, Bootstrap, Apache Web Server, MYSQL, GitHub,  LINUX. Python Developer Barclays - Hanover, NJ October 2013 to August 2016 Responsibilities:  • Developed Views and Templates with Django view controller and template language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Configured the Django admin site, dashboard and created a custom Django dashboard for end  users with custom look and feel. Used Django APIs for database access.  • Used Python and Django for XML, JSON processing, data exchange and business logic  implementation.  • We created web-sockets by using Django to get a handle on what we needed to be done on the backend of the applications  • Built database Model, Views and API's using Python for interactive web based solutions.  • Used Python scripts to update the content in database and manipulate files.  • Created UI using JavaScript and HTML5. Designed and developed data management system using  MySQL.  • Worked in MySQL and NoSQL database on simple queries and writing Stored Procedures for normalization and renormalization.  • Worked on Jenkins continuous integration tool for deployment of project.  • Played a key role in a development wide transition from Subversion to Git, which resulted in increase in efficiency for the development community.  • Developed most of the application part in Linux environment and very much familiar with all of its  commands.  • Used TKinter to implement GUI for the user to create, modify and view reports based on client  data.  • Implemented Restful Web-Services for sending and receiving the data between multiple systems.  • We used to send text data through we socket with most APi's and JSON  • Used Python Library Beautiful Soup for web-Scrapping. ss.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  • Developed, tested and debugged software tools utilized by clients and internal customers.  • Coded test programs and evaluated existing engineering processes.    Environment: Linux, Python 2.7, 2.5, Django 1.7, 1.5, HTML5, XML, JavaScript, JQuery, MS SQL  Server, NoSQL, Amazon s3, Jenkins, Mongo DB, Beautiful soup, Eclipse, Git, GitHub, JIRA.  Python Developer Python developer Zettastar Solutions, Hyd June 2011 to September 2012 Responsibilities:  • Designed and managed build and release methodologies using Witbe Tool.  • Experience in writing branching and merging methodologies in Python.  • For update and manipulation of file, Python scripts were used.  • Performed various tasks in a cross functional project team during the product acceptance test phase  of the product development lifecycle.  • Deploy Test cases from Tool and automate them. Created projects and portal sites in Web portal.  • Installed and configured build manager and agents to queue builds in Application.  • Installed Witbe, Python, Jira, test Rail as part of server setups.  • Experience in deploying and troubleshooting code to Data stage.  • SQL and PL/SQL stored procedures were used to create access to data and deployed them to Oracle  and SQL server databases.  • Using MYSQL a system of data management was designed and developed where queries were  optimized in order to improve the performance.  • Experience in setting up App pools and web sites in Python.  • Features for dashboard were developed and tested using CSS, JavaScript, Django, Bootstrap.  • Git repository was created and added to GitHub project. Can review code as part of build and deployment.  • Experience in setup and deploying front office application called Front Arena.  • Worked with bug tracking tools like BUGZILLA and JIRA.  • Maintained technical documentation for projects along with the development of marketing material  such as flyers, presentations, case studies.  • Skilled in writing and reviewing requirements, architecture documents, test plans, design,  documents, quality analysis and audits.    Environment: Python 2.7, Git, CSS 3, HTML 5, Bootstrap, Django, MYSQL, PL/SQL, JIRA.    Project 1: May' 10 - June '11  Responsibilities:  • Designed the front end of the application using Python, HTML, CSS, AJAX, JSON and JQuery.  Worked on backend of the application.  • Prototype modeling and testing various web applications. Used the Django Framework to develop  the application.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language  to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Used JavaScript and JSON to update a portion of a webpage.  Python Developer  • Develop consumer based features and applications using Python, Django, HTML, Behavior Driven  Development (BDD) and pair based programming.  • Responsible for debugging the project monitored on JIRA (Agile).  • Wrote Python scripts to parse JSON documents and load the data in database.  • Used Python and Django to interface with the JQuery UI and manage the storage and deletion of content.  • Special skills in developing user friendly, simple yet effective web based applications.  • Designed Frontend with in object oriented JavaScript Framework like JQuery.  • Worked in MySQL database on simple queries and writing Stored Procedures for normalization  and renormalization.  • Used many regular expressions in order to match the pattern with the existing one.  • Build SQL queries for performing various CRUD operations like create, update, read and delete.  • Skilled in using Collections in Python for manipulating and looping through different user defined  objects.  • Performed Unit testing, Integration testing, web application testing.  • Worked in development of applications especially in UNIX environment and familiar with all of its  commands.    Environment: Python 2.7, Django 1.4, HTML5, CSS, XML, MySQL, JavaScript, Angular JS, Backbone  JS, JQuery, CSS Bootstrap, MS SQL Server, T-SQL, JavaScript, Eclipse, Git, GitHub, Linux, Shell  Scripting. Education Master's Skills Javascript, MySQL, Python Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/chetans2 Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    Operating Unix, Linux, Windows and Mac  Systems  Programming Python  Language and (Flask/pandas/matplotlib/tensorflow/pyTorch/numpy/DataTable/OpenCV4),  Skills PL/SQL, Product Development, AngularJS, JAVA, R, C++, LINUX, UNIX  Databases Oracle 10/11g, MySQL, SQLAlchemy SQL Server, PostgreSQL, MONGODB.    Tools Intellij, Docker, Kuberneters, CI/CD systems, Jenkins, PyCharm, File Zilla,  Spyder, PL/SQL Developer, and TOAD, Eclipse, Visual studio code, Jupyter  Notebook, MySQL workbench.  Integration Jenkins and Web Builder  Tools  Cloud and AWS, GCP, GitHub and SVN  Version Control  Defect Tracking JIRA, Git, and Version One