Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Python Developer - CISCO Systems INC • 7+ years of professional experience as a Python Developer, proficient coder in multiple languages and experience in Design, Development, Implementation of Python, Django, Flask, Pyramid and client-server technologies-based applications, RESTful services, AWS, C, C++, JAVA and SQL.  • Hands-on-experience on python web application development using Django and Serverless framework.  • Worked in Python Integrated Development Environments like NetBeans, PyDev, PyCharm and Sublime Text.  • Experienced in developing web-based applications using Python, Django, XML, CSS, HTML and JavaScript.  • Experience in developing python scripts for automation and performing functional tests and data validation.  • Excellent knowledge of OOPS, Multi-Threading and Collections concepts and in Python. Used Pandas library for Statistical Analysis.  • Experience in data analysis and machine learning techniques with hands-on-experience on various python libraries like NumPy/Pandas/SciPy.  • Developed web applications and RESTful web services and APIs using Python Flask, Django, Pyramid.  • Designed and managed API system deployment using fast http server and Amazon AWS architecture.  • Extensive knowledge in relational and non-relational databases MySQL, Cassandra, Mongo db.  • Worked with MVW frameworks like Django, Angular JS, HTML, CSS, XML, Java Script, jQuery, Bootstrap, JSON.  • Wrote REST APIs in python for large-scale applications.  • Experience in building frameworks and automating complex workflows using Python for Test Automation.  • Good working Experience in Agile (SCRUM) using Rally and TFS, RUP and Waterfall methodologies with high quality deliverables delivered on-time.  • Good at automating repetitive work through Shell scripts and Python.  • Experience in Creation and managing user accounts, security, rights, disk space and process monitoring in Solaris and Red hat Linux.  • Experience in Building and deploying the applications on OpenShift Pods.  • Configured Secrets, config maps, services and routes in OpenShift.  • Familiar with JSON based REST Web services and Amazon Web services.  • Experienced in developing Web Services with Python programming language.  • Working with backend python automation, CI pipelines, Docker and cloud provisioning/automation.  • Actively involved in each phase of software Development life cycle (SDLC) and experience in Agile Software Methodology.  • Having experience in Agile Methodologies, Scrum stories and sprints experience in a Python based environment and Excel data extracts.  • Built all database mapping classes using Django models and Cassandra.  • Created the Automation scripts using Python for testing applications as well as the integration of these application (API's &UI's) based on REST calls using Python, phrasing the JSON responses • Performed research to explore and identify new technological platforms.  • Created Data layer in MYSQL.  • Extracted and loaded data using Python scripts and PL/SQL packages.  • Migrated applications to the AWS cloud and Involved in DevOps processes for build and deploy systems.  • Build and lead POCs for tools for internal use to support DevOps best practices using Docker for Container based Virtualization and documenting with MS Word and SnagIt.  • Worked on creating the Docker containers and Docker consoles for managing the application life.  • Actively involved in each phase of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) and experience in Agile Software Methodology. Work Experience Python Developer CISCO Systems INC - San Jose, CA March 2017 to Present Responsibilities: • Responsible for gathering requirements, system analysis, design, development, testing and deployment.  • Developed Business Logic using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Created Python script to monitor server load performance in production environment and horizontally scale the servers by deploying new instances.  • Proficiency with AWS Technologies like (e.g. EC2, RDS, DynamoDB, ELB, Lambda, S3, IAM, CloudWatch, KMS, SNS, SQS) • Wrote Python routines to log into the websites and fetch data for selected options.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Used Django Database API's to access database objects.  • Used Restful API's with JSON, XML to extract Network traffic information.  • Created the Automation scripts using Python for testing applications as well as the integration of these application (API's &UI's) based on REST calls using Python, phrasing the JSON responses.  • Implemented RESTful Web Services to retrieve data from client side using Micro Services architecture.  • Used JSON based and RESTful API for information extraction.  • Experience in working with AWS services like S3, EBL, ESB, Autoscaling, cloud Watch, RDS etc.  • Managed large datasets using Panda data frames and PostgreSQL.  • Designed and developed data management system using PostgreSQL.  • Integrated application with 3rd party APIs (Google, Facebook, Stripe, PayPal, Google's Natural language API) • Creating the API with the Serverless framework, in Python 3.6.  • Configured and maintained Jenkins to implement the CI process and integrated the tool with Ant and Maven to • schedule the builds.  • Working on MVC architecture using Python, PHP AS controller.  • Created reproducible builds of the Kubernetes applications, managed Kubernetes manifest files and Managed releases of Helm packages.  • Container management using Docker by writing Docker files and set up the automated build on Docker HUB and installed and configured Kubernetes.  • Worked on Agile Methodologies, Scrum stories and sprints experience in a Python based environment.  • Used GitHub for Python source code version control, Jenkins for automating the build Docker containers.  • Responsible for installing and administrating the SonarQube for code quality check.  • Used MySQL as backend database and MySQL dB of python as database connector to interact with MySQL server.  • Version control using GitHub.  • Involved in writing queries in SparkSQL using Scala.  • Involved in writing stored procedures using MySQL.  ENVIRONMENT:  Python 3, Django, Jenkins, Linux, HTML, CSS, JSON, Restful Web Services, JavaScript, Serverless framework, PostgreSQL, MySQL, Docker, Amazon Web Services (AWS), REST API, SPARK, Jenkins, Eclipse, CloudWatch, GIT,  LAMBA, Kubernetes, Docker. Python Developer Santander Bank - Dorchester, MA February 2016 to February 2017 Responsibilities: • Gathering requirements and translating the Business details into Technical design for developing CRITs tool.  • Participated in all the stages of software development lifecycle (SDLC) like design, development and implementation and testing.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework by implementing MVC architecture.  • Implemented first-hand the best/worst practices for integrating Micro Services into existing system architecture.  • Micro Services were being used as a strategy to gradually replace a core monolithic application while still adding business features.  • Used Pivotal Cloud Foundry to deploy Micro Service applications.  • Involved in conducting trainings to user on interact, filter, sort and customize views on an existing visualization generated thru Tableau desktop.  • Experience in Data analysis and mapping, creation and usage of metadata.  • Utilized Apache Spark with Python to develop and execute Big Data Analytics and Machine learning applications, executed machine Learning use cases under Spark ML.  • Data sources are extracted, transformed and loaded to generate CSV data files with Python programming and SQL queries.  • Experience in Building and deploying the applications on OpenShift Pods.  • Configured Secrets, config maps, services and routes in OpenShift.  • Automation of OpenShift operations using Jenkins as orchestrating tool.  • Creating Jenkins jobs for automation of Devops tools.  • Created Advance connections, join new tables, create & manage Extract and Monitor Queries using SQL Assistant.  • Defended the dashboard requirements and provided the best practices/approach to perform ETL and publish data to the reports/dashboards.  • Used Python based GUI components for the front-end functionality such as selection criteria. Administration of dedicated collocated RHEL 4 machine and configured complex Apache configuration files.  • Familiar with UNIX / Linux internals, basic cryptography & security • Generated graphical reports using python package NumPy and Matplotlib.  • Implemented task object to interface with data feed framework and invoke database message service setup and update functionality.  • Install and configure IBM HTTP Server, test the installation, map the default application to use the Web Server and regenerate the plug-in configuration file.  • Install and configure WebSphere Portal v7.0 in Windows and Linux environment.  • Administer WebSphere Message Broker and WebSphere MQ Series Administrations in Windows and Linux environment • Performed efficient delivery of code based on principles of Test Driven Development (TDD) and continuous integration to keep in line with Agile Software Methodology principles.  • Created PHP/MySQL back-end for data entry from Flash.  • Used Python based GUI components for the front-end functionality such as selection criteria.  • Managing Amazon Web Services (AWS) infrastructure with automation and configuration management tools such as uDeploy, Puppet or custom-built. Designing cloud-hosted solutions, specific AWS product suite experience.  • Implemented secured way of Centralized login for AWS users using 389 Directory Services (LDAP) and OpenVPN.  • Used Amazon Web Services (AWS) for improved efficiency of storage and fast access.  • Added support for Amazon AWS S3 and RDS to host static/media files and the database into Amazon Cloud.  • Involved in front end and utilized Bootstrap and Angular.js for page design.  • Responsible for Plug-in Management, User Management and Backup/Disaster Recovery Plan/Implementation (BDR) on Jenkins.  ENVIRONMENT:  Python 3.4/2.7, Django 1.7, CherryPy, HTML5, CSS, Bootstrap, JSON, JavaScript, AJAX, RESTful webservice, MongoDB, MySQL, jQuery SQLite, Docker, Windows 12 Server, AWS (EC2, S3), PyUnit, Jenkins, Selenium Automation Testing. Python Developer Illumina Inc - San Diego, CA September 2013 to November 2015 Responsibilities: • Involved in preparing engineering specification with OOA and OOD. Used UML Tools to develop Use Case diagrams, Class diagrams, Collaboration and Sequence Diagrams, State Diagrams and Data Modeling.  • Developed application logic using Python, Java script, Java, C++.  • Used JMS for updating Mailing plans and tracking them.  • Used Java Server Pages for content layout and presentation.  • Added support for Amazon AWS S3 and RDS to host static/media files and the database into Amazon Cloud.  • Proficient using Python packages such as NumPy, SciPy, Requests, matplotlib, Pickle, Pandas, Fragment.  • Developed a fully automated continuous integration system using Git, Jenkins, MySQL and custom tools developed in Python and Bash.  • Designed and managed API system deployment using fast http server and Amazon AWS architecture.  • Develop consumer-based features and applications using Python, Flask, HTML and Test-Driven Development (TDD) • Used ORM to avoid the duplication of data and reduce the cost of maintenance.  • Configured JMS Modules, SAF Agents, SAF Modules using Configuration Management Process using Ansible.  • Setting up continuous integration and formal builds using Jenkins with GIT repository.  • Also used Bootstrap and Angular.js as a mechanism to manage and organize the HTML page layout.  • Wrote python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Built front-end SPA using CSHTML, AngularJS and bootstrap and back-end using ASP.NET MVC and Web API.  • Helped implement the DAL layer of Web API using Entity Framework 5.  • Experienced in designing and deployment of Hadoop cluster and various Big Data Analytic tools including PIG, HIVE, Spark, Kafka, Oozie, Sqoop, Impala with Horton works distribution.  • Performed source data transformations using HIVE.  ENVIRONMENT:  Java, Python, JavaScript, HTML/CSS, MySQL, PL/SQL, JDBC, Jenkins, Unix Shell Scripting, Angular JS, TCP/IP, UDP, SNMP, GIT, Red Hat Linux, AWS, Ansible. Education Bachelor's Skills JAVASCRIPT (7 years), LINUX (7 years), MYSQL (7 years), PYTHON (7 years), DATABASE (6 years), Git Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Languages C, C++, Python, JavaScript, PHP, XML, JAVA, SQL  SCM Tools Subversion, Perforce, Jenkins/Hudson, Sonar, Jira, TFS, Confluence, Clear Case, GIT, GitHub  Build Tools Ant, Maven, Make  Operating Systems UNIX, Linux, Solaris, Windows, DOS, VMware  Protocols  OSI Reference Model, IPv4 and IPv6 addressing and subnetting, Ethernet LAN, TCP/IP, DNS, HTTP, NFS, SSL, SSH, UDP, switches, routing concepts, virtual network concepts including VLANs, TCP/IP stack for virtualization, IPVP4, IPV6, FTP, Intranet    Database PostgreSQL, MS Access, SQL Server, MYSQL and Sybase, Oracle, DB2, JDBC, ODBC  Application Servers Web logic, JBoss, IBM WebSphere, Apache tomcat5.5, IIS  Issue Tracking Tools ATLASSIAN JIRA, BUGZILLA, Mantis, Service Now  Delivery Tools Saltstack, Chef & Puppet