Sr. Python Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Python Developer - Monsanto St. Louis, MO • Over 6+ years of experience in developing web-based applications, software development and design using Python 3.3/2.7, Django 1.9/1.8, XML, CSS, HTML, DHTML, JavaScript, jQuery & Angular.js.  • Experienced in working on Application Servers like WebSphere, WebLogic, Tomcat, Web Servers like Apache server, NGINX and Integrated Development Environments like Pycharm, Eclipse, MyEclipse, JDeveloper and RAD, Built the web application by using Python, Django, AWS, J2EE, PostgreSQL, MySQL, Oracle 10g and MongoDB.  • Expertise in working with Perl and Shell scripting for designing automation framework.  • Expertise in Object-Oriented design and coding. Good knowledge of various Design Patterns and UML and Wrote Python OO Design code for manufacturing quality, monitoring, logging, and debugging code optimization.  • Experience in analyzing and handling large datasets using Oracle Relational database9i, 10g, 11g. Architecture and worked on JavaScript implementation of Tetris game, using ES6 and HTML5 Canvas.  • Experienced in writing SQL Queries, Stored procedures, functions, packages, tables, views, triggers.  • Used R Language among statisticians and data miners for developing statistical software and data analysis.  • Have clever idea about tools like Bugzilla, Jira, Confluence, and Axosoft and Design the front end of company website with CSS, Sass, and Bootstrap and implemented Web Services based on SOA architecture with Restful.  • Expertise in working with server-side technologies including databases, Restful API and MVC design patterns.  • Knowledge of the Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC), Agile and Waterfall Methodologies and Familiar with concepts and devices such routers, switches and TCP/IP protocols and OSI layer.  • Experienced in MVC frameworks like Django, Angular JS, Java Script, jQuery, React.js and Node.js. Flask and Pyramid, well versed in Django ORM and SqlAlchamy and Extensive use of Linux (Ubuntu), SSH, Flask/Django.  • Experience with AWS instances spanning across Dev, Test and Pre-Production and Cloud Automation through Open Source DevOps tools like Ansible, Jenkins & Docker.  • Extensive experience with multiple technologies like Python, Perl, C++, Shell Scripting, Core Java and C.  • Proficient in SQL databases MS SQL, MySQL, Oracle and no-SQL databases MongoDB, Cassandra.  • Worked on AJAX framework to transform Datasets and Data tables into HTTP-serializable JSON strings.  • Experienced in developing service-oriented architecture (SOA) and web Services using SOAP, JAX-WS, WSDL and UDDI.  • Expertise in creating Restful API in NodeJS and communicate with Clojure server via protocol and use Backbone to generate template.  • Well versed with design and development of presentation layer for web applications using technologies like HTML, CSS, and JavaScript, Bootstrap.  • Good knowledge on Cloud and Virtualization environments such as Azure, Aws, Google Cloud Engine.  • Hands on experience in using NOSQL libraries like MongoDB, Cassandra, Redis and relational databases like Oracle, SQLite, PostgreSQL and MYSQL databases.  • Had knowledge on continuous integration and deployment using Jenkins, Docker.  • Experience in scripting languages including Shell Scripting, PERL Scripting and build automation using ANT, MAVEN and other UNIX, Windows system level programming.  • Experience in developing applications using amazon web services like EC2, Cloud Search, Elastic Load balancer ELB, S3, Cloud Front.  • Expertise in operating Symantec Altiris Remote Agent to remotely fix problems.  • Extensive experience with Amazon Web Services (AWS), Open stack, Docker Puppet, Chef, Ansible, AWS Cloud Formation, AWS Cloud Front and Experience in using containers like Docker and familiar with Jenkins.  • Experience in Agile development methodology, waterfall and TDD (test driven development).  • Experienced in understanding Service Virtualization needs/ Requirements & creating VSI's using WSDL, WADL, Recording, Request & Response pairs.  • Strong experience in DevOps Environment by enhancing Continuous Delivery and infrastructure change by using Chef, Ansible, Kubernetes and Docker to deploy code with GIT, Jenkins.  • Experience in RESTful Web-Services for sending and receiving the data between multiple systems.  • Experienced in Agile Methodologies, Scrum stories and sprints experience in a Python based environment, along with data analytics, data wrangling and Excel data extract.  • Extensive experience with Object Oriented Design and SDLC methodologies using Rational Rose, Unified Modelling Language (UML) and Developed Web Applications using Java/J2EE, JSF on JVM.  • Built the web application by using Python, Django, AWS, J2EE, PostgreSQL, MySQL, Oracle 10g and MongoDB and Knowledgeable with continuous deployment using Heroku and Jenkins.  • Experienced in WAMP (Windows, Apache, MYSQL, and Python) and LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, and Python) Architecture and Wrote Automation test cases using Selenium Web Driver, JUnit, Maven, and Spring. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Python Developer Monsanto - St. Louis, MO April 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Developed frontend and backend modules using Python on Django including Tasty Pie Web Framework using Git.  • Performed code reviews and implemented best Python programming practices.  • Designed front end using UI, HTML, Bootstrap, Node JS, underscore JS, Angular JS CSS, and JavaScript and Strong Expertise in working with server-side technologies including databases, restful API and MVC design patterns.  • Enabled Cloud Foundry support on Azure through open source collaboration which enabled millions in cloud spend.  • Involved in automating builds and deployment process using Shell scripting.  • Automated Cloud deployments using chef, python and Azure Resource Manager templates.  • Used jQuery and AJAX calls for transmitting JSON data objects between front end and controllers and Utilized continuous integration and automated deployments with Jenkins, Ansible and Docker.  • Involved in deployment of the web application using the Linux server.  • Developed Ruby/ Python scripts to monitor health of Mongo databases and perform ad-hoc backups using Mongo dump and Mongo restore.  • Designed and built automated infrastructure using open source tools like Dockers, Jenkins.  • Learned to index and search/query enormous number of documents inside Elastic search.  • Implemented and managed penetration testing, vulnerability assessment and Symantec Altiris Patch Management tools in a client server model.  • Integrated Redis-Cache with the Django-rest-framework for reading the data faster.  • Used Restful API's with JSON, XML to extract Network traffic information.  • Wrote Shell Scripting to check security setting of the server and to change the server settings.  • Wrote functional tests for REST interfaces in Clojure and Python.  • Built an AWS and REDIS server for storing the data and performed defect analysis and interaction with Business Users during UAT.  • Designed and developed middleware, using RESTful web services based on a centralized schema which is consumed by thousands of users.  • Familiar with JSON based REST Web services and Amazon Web services (AWS) and Responsible for setting up Python REST API framework and spring frame work using DJANGO.  • Involved in developing java microservices which are interconnected in the AWS cloud.  • Managed Ubuntu, Linux and Windows virtual servers on AWS EC2 instance by creating Chef Nodes through Open-Source Chef Server.  • Involved in the Complete Software development life cycle (SDLC) to develop the application and Worked closely with software developers and DevOps to debug software and system problems.  • Created azure templates to automate server creation and DSE deployments.  • Dynamic implementation of SQL server work on website using SQL developer tool and Experience with continuous integration and automation using Jenkins and Implemented Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) using JMS for sending and receiving messages while creating web services.  • Used Thales theorem for applying encryption and decryption of ISO standard message in Python programming.  • Mentor and provide leadership to team members in all aspects of virtualization.  • Developing applications using RESTFUL architecture using Node.js and PHP as backend languages and Used Numpy for Numerical analysis and Used Spring Framework to support the Hibernate tool and Struts.  • Worked with Perl, shell scripting (bash) to automate administration tasks.  • Written various AWS Lambda services for Automating the process of taking EBS Snapshots every day in production environment on the cloud.  • Created database using MySQL, wrote queries and Django API's to extract data Used Restful APIs to access data from different suppliers.  • Used Elastic search as an open source search engine with a REST API.  • Build back-end application with Python / Django, work with Docker, RabbitMQ, Celery, Jenkins.  • Implemented a wide variety of statistical and graphical techniques, including linear and nonlinear modeling, classical statistical tests, time-series analysis, classification, clustering, and others using R and its libraries.  • Involved in the Complete Software development life cycle (SDLC) to develop the application.  • Developed Merge jobs in Python to extract and load data into MySQL database and Worked on MYSQL data lineage process to map source to target DB, table and column mappings using OO Python.  • Automated different workflows, which are initiated manually with Python scripts and Unix shell scripting.  • Involved in evaluating existing server and virtualization environments for needed and useful upgrade opportunities.  • Drive end to end deployment of various Components on the Azure Platform.  • Implemented new microservices in Clojure to support new business capabilities.  • Worked on project scaffolding using yomen, grunt, bower, node.js.  • Used Shell scripting for building and deploying java application to target environments.  • Involved in creating and maintaining Windows 7 and Windows 10 image using Symantec Altiris and Ghost.  • Installed and configured Jenkins for Automating Deployments and providing an automation solution.  • Designed and developed the application using Agile Methodology and followed TDD and Scrum.  • Involved in development of business logic by backend python programming to achieve optimal results.  • Involved in Installation and setting up Python/Linux test beds.  • Deployed and monitored scalable infrastructure on Amazon web services (AWS).  • Worked on QA (quality assurance) Automated testing tools can execute tests, reporting outcomes and comparing results with earlier test runs.  • Developed all business CRUD operations using RESTFUL services.  • Worked with development, QA, and Automation engineers to research, design, and develop test automation units.  • Implemented monitoring and established best practices around using elastic search.  • Worked as primary liaison between Virtualization and EUC teams to deliver the highest quality experience for the user community.  • Lead the team applying the test-driven development (TDD) strategy to optimize system quality and to enable rapid refactoring.  • Designed and implemented remote upgrade system mostly in Clojure.  • Created functions and assigned roles in AWS Lambda to run python scripts, and to perform event driven processing.  • Developed backend web services using Node.js and stored dependencies using Node Package Manager (NPM).  • Deployed and maintained Symantec Altiris Deployment Solution environment.  • Developed Ruby on Rails 3 web applications using MongoDB and back-ground processes using Resque and Redis and Worked on performance tuning of cluster using Cassandra Configuration file and JVM Parameters.  • Used Test driven approach for developing the application and Implemented the unit tests using Python Unit test framework and Development of Isomorphic ReactJS and Redux driven API client applications.  Environment: Python 2.7, Django 1.8, CSS, HTML, JavaScript, jQuery, webbapp2, AJAX, MYSQL, Linux, Rest, Heroku, GIT, urllib, urllib2, Oracle DB, MongoDB, PostgreSQL, and VMWare API. Python Developer State of Alabama, AL January 2015 to March 2017 Responsibilities:  • Developed Wrapper in Python for instantiating multi-threaded application and Deploy and monitor scalable infrastructure on Amazon web services (AWS).  • Used Test driven approach(TDD) for developing services required for the application.  • Managed datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL, queried MYSQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL dB package to retrieve information.  • Maintained the Shell and Perl scripts for the automation purposes.  • Developed remote integration with third party platforms by using RESTful web services.  • Developed various algorithms for generating several data patterns and Worked on Node.js for developing server-side web applications and Used JIRA for bug tracking and issue tracking.  • Developed the project in Linux environment and Used Agile Methodology and SCRUM Process.  • Used Shell scripting for building and deploying java application to target environments.  • Worked with Agile development team to develop continuous integration/continuous delivery in the delivery of the product in an open source environment using tools such as Jenkins.  • Worked on creating documents in Mongo database and Maintained the versions using GIT and sending the release notes for each release.  • Handled RESTful services with the help of Python library urllibs.  • Supported the issues seen in the tool across all the teams for several projects.  • Wrote scripts in Python for automation of testing jobs.  • Involved in Using AWS Cloud Watch performed Monitoring, customized metrics and file logging.  • Worked on server-side applications with Django using Python programming.  • Used python libraries like Beautiful Soup and matplotlib and Built efficient Node.js backend for client web application.  • Utilized standard Python modules such as csv, robot parser, itertools and pickle for development.  • Involved in testing process for every release and make the QA process robust through lesson learn.  • Worked on Python OpenStack APIs and used Numpy for Numerical analysis.  • Utilized Agile software development methodologies including pair programming, continuous integration, and scrum events.  • Developed and performed unit testing using JUnit framework in a Test-Driven environment (TDD).  • Working with an agile development team to deliver an end to end continuous integration/continuous delivery product in an open source environment using Chef and Jenkins.  • Valuable experience in developing web applications implementing MVT/MVC architecture using Django, Flask, Webapp2 and spring web application frameworks.  • Involved in Developing a RESTful service using Python Django framework.  • Implemented user interface guidelines and standards throughout the development and maintenance of the website using the HTML, CSS, JavaScript and jQuery.  • Worked on AWS Cloud and Created instances in EC2.  • Coordinated with the development team and updated the QA manager with the progress.  • Implemented AJAX for dynamic functionality of a webpages for front end applications.  • Worked on front end frame works like CSS Bootstrap for responsive webpages and Added dynamic functionality to the application by implementing jQuery and Angular JS.  • Developed and tested many features for dashboard, created using Bootstrap, CSS, and JavaScript.  Environment: Python 2.4, Django, CSS, HTML, BOOTSTRAP, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, MYSQL, Linux, Heroku, GIT. Python Developer Wells Fargo - New York, NY August 2012 to December 2014 Responsibilities:  • Developed the presentation layer using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery and AJAX and Used jQuery libraries for all client-side JavaScript manipulations.  • Exposure on Multi-Threading factory to distribute learning process back-testing and the into various worker processes.  • Performed efficient delivery of code based on principles of Test Driven Development (TDD) and continuous integration to keep in line with Agile Software Methodology principles.  • Lock mechanisms were implemented, and the functionality of multithreading has been used.  • Developed a fully automated continuous integration system using Git, Gerrit, Jenkins, MySQL and custom tools developed in Python and Bash.  • Experience in managing MongoDB environment from availability, performance and scalability perspectives.  • Managed, developed, and designed a dashboard control panel for customers and Administrators using Django, Oracle DB, PostgreSQL, and VMWare API calls.  • Extensively used python modules such as requests, urllib, urllib2 for web crawling.  • Implemented configuration changes for data models.  • Used Pandas library for statistics Analysis &Numpy for Numerical analysis.  • Managed large datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL.  • Handled potential points of failure through error handling and communication of failure.  • Developed GUI using webapp2 for dynamically displaying the test block documentation and other features of python code using a web browser and Responsible for user validations on client side as well as server side.  • Automated the existing scripts for performance calculations using Numpy and sqlalchemy.  • Interacted with QA to develop test plans from high-level design documentation.  • Involved in developing web applications using Django Framework to implement the model view control architecture.  • Involved in Developing a Restful service using Python Flask framework.  • Created entire application using Python, Django, MySQL and Linux.  Environment: Python 2.7, Django 1.8, CSS, HTML, JavaScript, jQuery, webbapp2, AJAX, MYSQL, Linux, Rest, Heroku, GIT, urllib, urllib2, Oracle DB, MongoDB, PostgreSQL, and VMWare API. Education Bachelor's degree in Computer Science in Computer Science University of Mumbai 2011 Skills DJANGO (6 years), HTML (6 years), JAVASCRIPT (6 years), PYTHON (6 years), MYSQL (6 years), php Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:  Programming Languages: Python 3.3/2.7, Django 1.4/1.3, Flask, Java, C++, Shell Script, SQL, Java/J2EE, Pyjamas, Jython, Iron Python, Cpython.  Web Technologies: AJAX, JavaScript, HTML, DHTML, XHTML, XML, React, JSON, jQuery, Angular.js  Database: MySQL, SQL Server, Oracle 11g.  Operating systems: Windows XP, Win 7, 8.1, 10, Linux, OS X.  Methodologies: Agile, V Model, Waterfall, Hybrid.  JavaScript Frameworks: Node.js, jQuery, Backbone.js, Ext.JS, Ember.js, AngularJS