Python developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">developer</span> Python developer - Berkshire Hathaway Omaha, NE • Around 6 years of experience in IT Industry with proficiency in Design & Development of Python, Java/J2EE, Django, flask project.  • Extensive experience in system analysis, design, development and implementation of web based and client/server application using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, AJAX, Java/J2EE, Servlets, JSP, JDBC, XML, XSLT, Python, Django, PHP.  • Working knowledge in multi-tiered distributed environment, OOAD concepts, good understanding of Software Development Life cycle (SDLC).  • Expertise in working with server side technologies including databases, Restful API and MVC design patterns using Python Flask framework.  • Experience with Requests, Pysftp, Gnupg, ReportLab, Numpy, Scipy, Matplotlib, HTTPLib2, Urllib2, Beautiful Soup and Pandas python libraries during development lifecycle.  • Good understanding of NoSQL databases such as MongoDB, Datastax, Redis and Apache Cassandra.  • In depth knowledge of Cassandra and hands on experience with installing, configuring and monitoring Data Stax Enterprise cluster.  • Experienced in Worked on various applications using python integrated IDEs Sublime Text, PyCharm, NetBeans, Spyder and Intellij.  • Experienced in working with various Python IDE's using PyCharm, PyScripter, Spyder, PyStudio and PyDev.  • Experience in NoSQL databases like Apache Cassandra (1.2, 2.0, and 2.1) and MongoDB (2.6, 2.4), Orient DB  • Experience in project deployment using Heroku/Jenkins and using web Services like Amazon Web Services (AWS)  • Experience in developing web-based applications using .NET 4, Angular.js, VB, C#, XML, CSS, HTML, ASP, JavaScript and Jquery.  • Experience in using Version Control Systems like GIT, SVN and CVS. Good Experience in Linux Bash scripting and following PEP Guidelines in Python  • Good knowledge on the complete Cassandra with in detail understanding of read, write and delete processes.  • Experienced in web applications development using Django/ Python, .NET/C#, Flask/ Python, and Node.js, Angular.js, ember.js, Jquery, Ajax while using HTML/CSS/JS for server-side rendered application.  • Familiar with JSON based REST Web services and Amazon Web services (AWS).  • Good experience with cloud platforms like Amazon AWS and Google AppEngine.  • Developed Java/J2ee applications using Hibernate, XML, XSLT, and Basic ASP.net applications. using Core Java concepts like OOPS, Multi threading, Garbage Collections, and Collection etc.  • Experience in Implementation of MVC architecture using Spring MVC and SOAP web service and SOAP UI.  • Expertise in Installation, Configuration, Integration, Tuning, Backup, Crash recovery, Upgrades, Patching, Monitoring System Performance, System and Network Security and Troubleshooting of Linux/Unix Servers and Jinja 2, Mako.  • Hand on experience on Linux Shell Scripting.  • Highly proficient in design/development of standalone and web applications using JavaScript, XML, DHTML, Ajax, Tomcat and Apache Application server over various platforms (UNIX, Linux, and Windows).  • Strongly knowledge of PEP-8 coding standard and test a program by running it across test cases to ensure validity and effectiveness of code using PyChecker and PyLint.  • Good Knowledge over Objected Oriented Concepts, Standard Template Library, Smart Pointers, Data Structures and Design patterns.  • Hands on Experience in working with the Cassandra Query Language (CQL) for querying the data present in the Cassandra.  • Good idea using debugging tools like Bugzilla, and JIRA. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python developer Berkshire Hathaway - Omaha, NE November 2014 to Present Responsibilities:  • Involved in the development of front end of the application using Python 3.3, HTML5, CSS3, AJAX, JSON and Jquery.  • Developed GUI using Python and Django for dynamically displaying the test block documentation and other features of python code using a web browser.  • Developing applications using RESTFUL architecture using Node.js and PHP as backend languages.  • Designed the front end of the application using Python, HTML5, CSS3, AJAX, JSON and Jquery. Package.  • Developed and tested many features in an agile environment using Python, Django, HTML5, CSS, JavaScript, Bootstrap and Rspec.  • Added support for Amazon AWS S3 and RDS to host static files and the database into Amazon Cloud.  • Automated the existing scripts for performance calculations using Numpy and SQL Alchemy.  • Developed test scripts for automation with Selenium.  • Developed a fully automated continuous integration system using Git, Gerrit, Jenkins, MySQL and custom tools developed in Python and Bash.  • Developed application using Amazon Web Service like EC2, cloud search, Elastic load balancer ELB, Cloud Fron Deploy and monitor scalable infrastructure on Amazon web services (AWS) & configuration management using puppet.  • Used integrated environment for java such as Eclipse, RAD, NetBeans, Clear Case and VSS.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django including Tastypie Web Framework using Git.  • Used agile development tools and methodologies in Python, Git, PyCharm, code review.  • Writing SOAP and RESTFul web services, in house ESB for a web Claims applications (Spring MVC, Angular JS, Active MQ, SOAP UI, Mockito, JSON, Build forge).  • Used Code Collaborator for reviewing the code and document to meet the software quality, did Integrations with Jira, SVN and eclipse and Deployed the project into Jenkins using SVN version control system.  • Deployed the project into Heroku and also used Github version control system also Updated and maintained Heroku for automatic building jobs and deployment  • Develop consumer based features and applications using Python, Django, HTML, Behavior Driven Development (BDD) and pair based programming.  • Used Python and Django to interface with the jQuery UI and manage the storage and deletion of content.  • Refactored and extended large existing Django/ Python code base by maintaining PEP-8 code standards and fix the bugs.  • Develop programs to automate the testing of controller in CI/CD environment using Python, Java, Bash script, Git, Linux command line, Java Script  • Implemented migration tasks from Oracle apps to PostgreSQL databases.  • Developed Merge jobs in Python to extract and load data into MySQL database.  • Designed front end using UI, HTML, Bootstrap, Node JS, underscore JS, Angular JS, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Managed large datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL.  • Wrote python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework  • Organized data exchange and integration with customers and third-party systems using CSV, XLS, XML, DBF, JSON, REST, SOAP  • Used Git to resolve and codingthe work on python and portlet also • Used several python libraries like wxPython, numPY and matPlotLib.  • Designed front end using UI, HTML, Bootstrap, Node JS, underscore JS, Angular JS CSS, and JavaScript.  • Expertise in Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) and its related technologies like Web Services, BPEL, WSDLs, SOAP1.1, XML, XSD, XSLT etc.  • Developed and designed automation framework using Python and Shell scripting.  • Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from Python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL db package.  • Managed datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL, queried MYSQL database queries from python using Python MySQL connector and MYSQLdb package to retrieve information.  • Writing SOAP and RESTFul web services, in house ESB for a web Claims applications (Spring MVC, Angular JS, Active MQ, SOAP UI, Mockito, JSON, Build forge)  • Used Python and PostGre SQL creating graphics, XML processing, data exchange and business logic implementation  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Implemented unit testing, test driven development and integration test automation in order to test a group of related functionality.  • Automated the existing scripts for performance calculations using Numpy and sql alchemy.  • balancer ELB, S#, Cloud FronDeploy and monitor scalable infrastructure on Amazon web  • services (AWS) & configuration management using puppet. Python developer Allstate - Northbrook, IL July 2012 to October 2014 Responsibilities:  • Writing SOAP and RESTFul web services, in house ESB for a web Claims applications (Spring MVC, Angular JS, Active MQ, SOAP UI, Mockito, JSON, Build forge).  • Develop consumer based features and applications using Python, Django, HTML, Behavior Driven Development (BDD) and pair based programming.  • Used Python and Django to interface with the jQuery UI and manage the storage and deletion of content.  • Implemented migration tasks from Oracle apps to PostgreSQL databases.  • Developed Merge jobs in Python to extract and load data into MySQL database.  • Designed front end using UI, HTML, Bootstrap, Node JS, underscore JS, Angular JS, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Wrote python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Created a Python/Django based web application using Python scripting for data processing, MySQL for the database, and HTML/CSS/JQuery and High Charts for data visualization of the served pages.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework  • Organized data exchange and integration with customers and third-party systems using CSV, XLS, XML, DBF, JSON, REST, SOAP  • Experienced in developing web-based applications using Python, Django, XML, CSS, HTML, DHTML, JavaScript and Jquery.  • Worked on Python OpenStack APIs and used Numpy for Numerical analysis.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Designed the front end of the application using Python, HTML, CSS, AJAX, JSON and Jquery.  • Used Django configuration to manage URLs and application parameters.  • Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from Python using  • Used several python libraries like wxPython, numPY and matPlotLib.  • Involved in development of Web Services using SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface in the XML format.  • Successfully migrated the Django database from SQLite to MySQL to PostgreSQL with complete data integrity.  • Used AngularJ Sas the development framework to build a single-page application.  • Develop consumer based features and applications using Python, Django, HTML, Behavior Driven Development (BDD) and pair based programming.  • write Python/Django modules to deliver certain format of data.  • Able to create scripts for system administration and AWS using languages such as BASH and Python.  • Designed front end using UI, HTML, Bootstrap, Node JS, underscore JS, Angular JS, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Successfully migrated the Django database from SQLite to MySQL to PostgreSQL with complete data integrity.  • Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from Python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQLdb package.  • Implemented front end for third party Web service using JQuery, Html, AJAX, JSON and JavaScript.  • Developed Views and Templates with Python and using Django's view controller and template language, Website interface is created. Python developer Aflac - Columbus, GA October 2010 to July 2012 Responsibilities:  • Worked on development of internal testing tool framework written in Python.  • Developed GUI using Python and Django for dynamically displaying the test block documentation and other features of python code using a web browser.  • Designed and developed Python Django templates and UI components using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery and JSON.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework on MySQL  • Effectively communicated with the external vendors to resolve queries.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templeting language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Used Angular.JS as the development framework to build a single-page application.  • Develop consumer based features and applications using Python, Django, HTML, Behavior Driven Development (BDD) and pair based programming.  • Developed GUI using webapp2 for dynamically displaying the test block documentation and other features of Python code using a web brows  • Designed and developed middleware, using RESTful web services based on a centralized schema which is consumed by thousands of users.  • Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks. Able to create scripts for system administration and AWS using languages such as BASH and Python.  • Successfully migrated the Django database from SQLite to MySQL to PostgresSQL with complete data integrity.  • Wrote Python scripts to parse JSON documents and load the data in database.  • Used Python and Django to interface with the jQuery UI and manage the storage and deletion of content.  • Implemented migration tasks from Oracle apps to PostgreSQL databases.  • Developed globally used GUI tools with Python, allowing warehouse managers to track product  movement through the warehouse.  • Used Python, Flask and AngularJS for the design, development and deployment of the application  • Implemented algorithms in Python and used AngularJS for graphs and user interface.  • Successfully migrated the Django database from SQLite to MySQL to PostgreSQL with complete data integrity.  • Dynamic implementation of SQL server work on website using SQL developer tool.  • Developed scripts using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks.  • Designed front end using UI, HTML, Bootstrap, Node JS, underscore JS, Angular JS, CSS, and JavaScript. Involved in developing the UI pages using HTML, DHTML, CSS, JavaScript, JSON, jQuery, Ajax. Skills Web Technologies: HTML5, CSS3, DOM, XML, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX Cloud Services: Google App Engine, Amazon Web Services Python Libraries: Report Lab, Numpy, Scipy, Mat plotlib, HTTPLib2, Urllib2, Beautiful Soup, Pandas, requests, Pysftp, Gnupg IDE's/Development Tools: Sublime Text 2, Vim, Pycharm, PyDev, Netbeans, Eclipse SQL Databases: MySQL, SQLite, PostgreSQL NoSQL Databases: MongoDB, Cassandra Database tools: MySQL Benchmark, SQLite Expert Personal, Robomongo (6 years) Additional Information Technical Skills:  Programming Languages: Python, SQL  Frameworks: Django, Flask  Web Technologies: HTML5, CSS3, DOM, XML, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX  Cloud Services: Google App Engine, Amazon Web Services  Python Libraries: Report Lab, Numpy, Scipy, Mat plotlib, HTTPLib2, Urllib2,  Beautiful Soup, Pandas, requests, Pysftp, Gnupg  IDE's/Development Tools: Sublime Text 2, Vim, Pycharm, PyDev, Netbeans, Eclipse  SQL Databases: MySQL, SQLite, PostgreSQL  NoSQL Databases: MongoDB, Cassandra  Database tools: MySQL Benchmark, SQLite Expert Personal, Robomongo  Servers: Apache, Tomcat  Version Control Systems: CVS, SVN, Git and GitHub.    Operating Systems: Windows XP/ 7/10, UNIX, Ubuntu, Red hat Linux  Agile Methodologies: TDD, SCRUM  Protocols: TCP/IP, HTTP/HTTPS, SOAP, REST  Deployment Tools: Heroku, Jenkins  Issue Trackers: Bugzilla, selenium