Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - Ellie May • Over seven years of experience as a Web/Application Developer and coding with analytical programming using Python, Django, Flask and C++.  • Experienced in developing web-based applications using Python, DJANGO, GTK, QT, C++, XML, CSS3, HTML5, DHTML, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Hands on experience in using NOSQL libraries like MongoDB, Cassandra, Redis and relational databases like Oracle, SQLite, PostgreSQL and MYSQL databases.  • Experience in designing the automation framework using Perl and Shell scripting.  • Experience in Web Automation Testing with tools like Selenium IDE and Cucumber  • Strong knowledge of software QA methodologies, tools, and processes  • Familiarity with development best practices such as code reviews and unit testing and experience in designing the Automation frameworks.  • Experience with REST APIs, message queues and asynchronous processes.  • Experience with Web Development, Amazon Web Services, Python and the Django framework.  • Very good experience with cloud platforms like Amazon AWS and Google App Engine.  • Experienced in installing, configuring, modifying, testing and deploying applications with Apache and Siebel.  • Experienced in MVW frameworks like Django, Angular.js, Java Script, backbone.js, JQuery and Node.js.  • Familiar with JSON based REST Web services and Amazon Web services.  • Experienced in developing Web Services with Python programming language.  • Experienced in installing, configuring, modifying, testing and deploying applications with Apache.  • Experience in creating Open stack services for Identity, Compute, Image Service, Block Storage, Networking (Neutron, Keystone).  • Good knowledge of web services with protocols SOAP and REST.  • Experienced in WAMP (Windows, Apache, MYSQL and Python/PHP) and LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, Python/PHP) Architecture.  • Good understanding of NoSQL databases such as MongoDB, Datastax, Redis and Cassandra.  • Experienced in Python's modules numpy, matplotlib etc. for generating complex graphical data, creation of histograms etc.  • Experienced in developing web-based applications using Python, Django, PHP, XML, CSS, HTML, Java Script and JQuery.  • Experienced in developing Web Services with Python programming language.  • Experience in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on SQL and PostgreSQL database.  • Worked in agile and waterfall methodologies with high quality deliverables delivered on-time.  • Experience with continuous integration and automation using Jenkins  • Experience with Unit testing/ Test driven Development (TDD), Load Testing.  • Experienced in MVW frameworks like Django, Angular.js, Java Script, JQuery and Node.js.  • High-level experience in Base SAS, SAS/Macros, SAS/SQL, SAS/Stat, SAS/Connect, SAS/Access, SAS/Graph, SAS/ODS, SAS/EBI, SAS/Grid, SAS Visualizer, SAS/ETS and SPSS modeler.  • Experienced in installing, configuring, modifying, testing and deploying applications with Apache.  • Well versed with design and development of presentation layer for web applications using technologies like HTML, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Familiarity with development best practices such as code reviews and unit testing and experience in designing the Automation frameworks.  • Exposure to automation in Ansible using its Python API.  • Experience in working Asynchronous Frameworks like NodeJS, Twisted and designing the automation framework using Python and Shell scripting.  • Familiar with JSON based REST Web services and Amazon Web services.  • Experience in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on MySQL and PostgreSQL database.  • Experience with continuous integration and automation using Jenkins.  • Experience with Unit testing/ Test Driven Development (TDD), Load Testing. Work Experience Python Developer Ellie May - Pleasanton, CA February 2016 to Present Responsibilities:  • Building and supporting libraries in the test automation infrastructure.  • Wrote Automation test cases using Selenium WebDriver using Python API  • Managed firewalls on hypervisors  • Maintained security policies for stateful firewalls and IPSs  • Wrote technical documentation for firewalls and server management  • Developed a firewall policy scanner  • performed network security duties in successfully preventing breaches to the enterprise's networks, systems, and corporate files  • Acted as Network Security Analyst responsible for protecting the information found on computers and data networks.  • Developed automated test design, frontend and backend feature implementation, and any other improvements to the test automation framework.  • Configured and installed network and security related devices (e.g., routers, switches, firewalls and load balancers)  • Responsible for gathering requirements, system analysis, design, development, testing and deployment.  • Created Database Schema for MySQL Database and involved in designing ER-Diagrams using Microsoft Visio.  • Developed Business Logic using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Developed Python, Django, Twisted and Asyncio web service applications concentrating in class based views to analyze and report financial data analysis results and deploy as a Windows service.  • Using Redis to store pieces of data in a much more structured, durable and robust manner.  • Used Django Database API's to access database objects.  • Used JQuery and Ajax calls for transmitting JSON data objects between frontend and controllers.  • Involved in building database Model, APIs and Views utilizing Python, in order to build an interactive web based solution.  • Worked on Amazon Web Services (AWS) infrastructure with automation and configuration management tools such as Chef and Puppet  • Planning, implementing, and converting manual test cases to automation test cases.  • Written shell scripting for automation  • Used Python based GUI components for the front end functionality such as selection criteria,  • Created test harness to enable comprehensive testing utilizing Python.  • Used Amazon Web Services (AWS) for improved efficiency of storage and fast access.  • Added support for Amazon AWS S3 and RDS to host static/media files and the database into Amazon Cloud.  • Developed the required XML Schema documents and implemented the framework for parsing XML documents.  • Developed the core web framework based on asyncio using aiohttp.  • Involved in Unit testing and Integration testing.  • Developed ColdFusion Components, custom tags and modified CF Objects.  • Worked on AJAX framework to transform Datasets and Datatables into HTTP-serializable JSON strings.  • Developed web applications using MongoDB and back-ground processes using Resque and Redis and Worked on performance tuning of cluster using Cassandra Configuration file and JVM Parameters.  • Developed applications using MongoDB, Redis, and MySQL.  • Used Pandas API to put the data as time series and tabular format for east timestamp data manipulation and retrieval.  • Created Business Logic using Python to create Planning and Tracking functions  • Created UI Screens for initiation and validation.  • Working in team of Architects and Developers to build and deploy Python Flask Peewee Linux AWS.  • Version control using GITHub.  • Involved in writing stored procedures using MySQL.  • Interfacing with supervisors, artists, systems administrators and production to ensure production deadlines are met.    Environment: Python 3.x, Django, Shell Scripting, AWS, Pandas, PyQt, PyQuery, Wireshark, Flash, DOM, JSON, PHP, HTML5, CSS3, AJAX, JavaScript, Angular.js, Bootstrap, Apache Web Server, MYSQL, GitHub, LINUX. Python Developer Burlington Coat Factory - Florence, NJ December 2014 to February 2016 Responsibilities:  • Participated in requirement gathering and worked closely with the architect in designing and modeling.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Executing regression tests on each release and verified bugs found from automation test in Bugzilla.  • Used PyQt for the functionality filtering of columns helping customers to effectively view their transactions and statements. Implemented navigation rules for the application and page.  • Performed testing using Django's Test Module.  • Used Django configuration to manage URLs and application parameters.  • Involved in Web development, programming, and engineering Django, UWSGI and SQL internal admin tools behave BDD.  • Wrote Automation test cases using Selenium Web Driver, JUnit, Maven, and Spring.  • Implemented the web framework using Python's asyncio package to improve the performance of information processing  • Used Python and Django to interface with the JQuery UI and manage the storage and deletion of content.  • Involved in Highload, fault-tolerant systems design and development ( Python/Twisted, RabbitMQ, Erlang, Javascript and etc.).  • Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks.  • Used Python (Pandas, PyBrain) to spot trends and predict future movements in investment vehicles  • Developed a fully automated continuous integration system using Git, Jenkins, MySQL and custom tools developed in Python and Bash.  • Worked on continuous integration and automation using Jenkins.  • Designed and managed API system deployment using fast http server and Amazon AWS architecture  • Wrote and executed various MYSQL Workbench database queries from Python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL dB package  • Created of Python scripts for data access and analysis (Scripts, DataFeeds, XLS, FIXML) to aid in process and system monitoring, and reporting.  • Rewrote existing Java application in Python module to deliver certain format of data.  • Wrote Python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Generated property list for every application dynamically using Python.  • Also used Bootstrap and Angular.js as a mechanism to manage and organize the HTML page layout.  • Developed scripts to migrate data from proprietary database to MySQL.  • Responsible for search engine optimization to improve the visibility of the website.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML5, XHTML, AJAX, CSS3 and JavaScript.  • Handled all the client side validation using JavaScript.  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL.  • Created a Git repository and added the project to GitHub.  • Build development environment with JIRA.  • Developed and executed test automation through LabView, Python and hardware and software test tools  • Creating unit test/regression test framework for working/new code.  • Using Subversion version control tool to coordinate team-development.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.    Environment: Python 2.7, Django 1.4, Java, Angular.js, Bootstrap, AWS, Bash, PyQt, XML, Shell Scripting, MySQL, HTML, XHTML, CSS, AJAX, JavaScript, Jenkins, Apache Web Server, Linux. Python Developer United Parcel Service, Inc - Atlanta, GA March 2011 to November 2013 Responsibilities:  • Worked with team of developers on Python applications for RISK management.  • Developed Python/Django application for Google Analytics aggregation and reporting.  • Used Django configuration to manage URLs and application parameters.  • Worked on Python Open stack API's.  • Used Python scripts to update content in the database and manipulate files.  • Generated Python Django Forms to record data of online users  • Used Python and Django creating graphics, XML processing, data exchange and business logic implementation  • Used Pandas API to put the data as time series and tabular format for east timestamp data manipulation and retrieval.  • Added support for Amazon AWS S3 and RDS to host static/media files and the database into Amazon Cloud.  • Used Pandas library for statistical Analysis.  • Built web applications by using Python, Django, AWS, Flask, Jinga, PostgreSQL, and Redis.  • Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the manual tasks.  • Converted Visual Basic Application to Python, MySQL.  • Designed and developed System monitoring in Python and Redis to keep track health of Platform, Hbase, Storm, Kafka etc. in the multi-node cluster environment  • Developed automation scripts to test storage appliances in Python.  • Worked very closely with designer, tightly integrating Flash into the CMS with the use of Flashvars stored in the Django models. Also created XML with Django to be used by the Flash.  • Used HTML, CSS, JQuery, JSON and JavaScript for front-end applications.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Also used Bootstrap as a mechanism to manage and organize the html page layout.  • Used Django configuration to manage URLs and application parameters.  • Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from Python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL db package.  • Involved in development of Web Services using SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface in the XML format.  • Designed the application architecture and implemented using MySQL database.  • Worked on development of SQL and stored procedures on MYSQL.  • Responsible for debugging the project monitored on JIRA (Agile).  • Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes of the two main applications that were a main source of data for both customers and internal customer service team.    Environment: Python, Django, Panda API, AWS, JSON, PHP, Flash, Shell Scripting, HTML, CSS, AJAX, JQuery, XML, SOAP, Jira, Agile, SQL, MYSQL and Windows. Skills DJANGO (6 years), PYTHON (6 years), XML (6 years), DATABASE (6 years), jQuery (6 years) Additional Information Technical Skills:    Primary Languages: Python 3.5, Java, SQL, PL/SQL  Python Libraries: memcache, pika, UnitTest, JSON, CSV, XLS  Web Technologies: HTML5, XML, CSS3, Java Script, JQuery,  Python Framework: Webpy, Bottlepy, Flask, Pyramid, Django  Version Control Tools: Git, Github, SVN  Bug Tracking Tools: Jira, Bugzilla  Database: Sqlite3, MongoDB, Oracle (9i, 10g, 11g)  IDE's/ Development Tools: NetBeans, Eclipse, PyCharm, PyScripter, PyStudio, and Sublime Text.  Operating System: Unix, Linux, Windows  Machine Learning Libraries: Keras, Scikit-learn, MLLib, Statsmodels, PyBrain, Caret, Nnet  Software Development Lifecycle: Agile Methodology, Scrum framework