Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - Walmart California City, CA -  • Over 6+ Years of Experience in Analysis of various stand-alone, Client-Server and Web Based Software applications using Python, Django, AngularJS/2, Node and Express.  • Experience in Object Oriented Analysis in developing Python Back-End framework using various design patterns.  • Experience in developing Web-Applications implementing Model Template View architecture using Python and Django web application framework.  • Expertise in establishing database connections for Java and Python by configuring packages like JDBC, MySQL- Python.  • Experience in Amazon AWS concepts like EMR, S3 and EC2 web services which provides fast and efficient processing of Big Data.  • Experience with cloud platforms like Amazon AWS and Google App Engine.  • Experience with design, coding, debug operations, reporting and data analysis utilizing python and using python libraries to speed up development.  • Experienced in WAMP (Windows, Apache, MYSQL, Python/PHP) and LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, Python/PHP) Architecture.  • Experience of writing queries for Flask with MongoDB.  • Expertise in Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) and its related technologies like Web Services, SOAP, Flask, Rest API, XML and Mongo DB.  • Extensive experience with CI tools (AWS Cloud formation and Jenkins)  • Experience on Containerization tool like AWS lambda and Docker.  • Experience in automating the infrastructure in AWS using web services.  • Experienced with full software development life-cycle, object-oriented programming and agile methodologies.  • Experienced in developing API services in Python/Tornado, NodeJS while leveraging AMQP and RabbitMQ for distributed architectures to deploy AWS & MS Azure. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Developer Walmart - Potsdam, NY July 2017 to Present Responsibility:  • Experience of analysis, specification, design, and implementation and testing phases of Software.  • Designed front end and backend of the application using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Experienced with controllers, views and models in Django & working as an application developer.  • Develop consumer-based features and applications using Python and Django in test driven Development and pair-based programming.  • Good experience in developing web applications and implementing Model View Control (MVC) architecture using server-side applications like Django and Flask.  • Developed and tested many features for dashboard using Python, Java, Bootstrap, CSS, JavaScript and jQuery.  • Developed python Script for moving files from drop box to Amazon server.  • Extensively used Python modules such as requests, urllib, and urllib2 for web crawling.  • Designed and configured database and backend applications and programs.  • Created unit test/regression test framework for working/new code.  • Creating restful web services for Catalog and Pricing with Django MVT, Jersey, MySQL, and MongoDB.  • Developed user interface using CSS, HTML, Bootstrap, JavaScript, AngularJS and jQuery.  • Developed a dashboard to display tickets status and workflow using React and REST API.  • Developed the Stateless Session bean for processing the business logic. Python Developer Dell, Inc - New York, NY August 2014 to December 2016 Responsibilities: -  • Developed framework to inject single, double and multiple bit injections.  • Worked on Python OpenStack APIs and used NumPy for Numerical analysis.  • Created an Application using React Native framework for both iOS & Android.  • Developed and tested many features for dashboard, created using Bootstrap, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Designed and developed new features for application using HTML, JSTL, JavaScript and XSL.  • Developed Java utility classes for common application functionality like database access.  • Developed a web application for developers to generate their own REST API calls in, JAVA, and Python.  • Developed Wrapper in Python for instantiating multi-threaded application.  • Created required shell or python scripts for data push from Informatica/Teradata to S3.  • Creating invitation flow for customers to use the client portal for monitoring applications.  • Developed Application to access JSON and XML from Restful Web Service from consumer side using JavaScript.  • Designed Forms, modules, Views and Templates using Django and Python.  • Designed and implemented large scale business critical systems using Object oriented design and Programming concepts using Python and Django.  • Designed complex application database SQL statements for querying.  • Developed in Windows and going to deploy it in Linux server. Python Developer Citi Bank - New York, NY July 2012 to June 2014 Responsibility:  • Create custom VB scripts in repackaging applications as needed.  • Extensive experience in deploying, managing and developing Oracle SQL developer clusters.  • Developed UI using CSS3, HTML5, JavaScript, jQuery and JSON.  • Responsible for testing, debugging, bug fixing and documentation of the system.  • Created specific images using Python Imaging Library for the custom images used for each book.  • Designed object model, data model, tables, constraints, necessary stored procedures, functions, triggers, and packages for Oracle Database.  • Developed and executed User Acceptance Testing portion of test plan.  • Deployed Django web application in Apache webserver and Carpathia's cloud operations.  • Created Data driven test framework for end to end Functional testing of web application.  • Good knowledge of development best practices such as code reviews.  • Responsible for user validations on client side as well as server side.  • Designed and developed a horizontally scalable APIs using Python Flask.  • Worked on Flex Data Grid and Flex Data Services Components.  • Deployed web applications on LINUX Environment by using Django Application Server.  • Developed and designed automation framework using Python and Shell scripting. Education Master's Skills DJANGO (6 years), JAVASCRIPT (6 years), PYTHON (6 years), SQL (4 years), CSS (4 years), PHP, Git, ASP, MySQL, Android Additional Information Skills: -  • CSS, HTML, JAVASCRIPT, PYTHON, SQL, Django.