Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - Citibank Irving, TX Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Developer Citibank - Irving, TX June 2014 to Present Responsibilities:  • Implemented user interface guidelines and standards throughout the development and maintenance of the website using the HTML, CSS, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Implemented AJAX for dynamic functionality of a web pages for front end applications.  • Worked on front end frameworks like CSS Bootstrap for responsive web pages.  • Implemented presentation layer using CSS framework, Node JS, Angular JS, Wire-Framing and HTML5.  • Designed and led big data algorithms using Hadoop and Java to improve forecasting and used Hive QL to generate reports.  • Analysis, design and development of Web & Enterprise applications using JAVA and J2EE Technologies.  • Design and development of the new Technical flow based on JAVA/J2EE technologies.  • Used integrated environment for java such as Eclipse, RAD, NetBeans, Clear Case and VSS.  • Working knowledge of Java Web Services with real time knowledge using SOAP and REST.  • Responsible for setting up Angular JS framework for UI development. Developed html views with HTML5, CSS3, JSON and Angular JS, Adobe flash.  • Delivered automated solutions for science models.  • Maintained and updated existing automated solutions.  • Automated the existing scripts for performance calculations using Numpy and SQL Alchemy.  • Developed test scripts for automation with Selenium.  • Used Spring MVC (Model View Controller) to intercept the user requests and used various controllers to delegate the request flow to the Backend tier of the application.  • Developed frontend of application using Bootstrap (Model, View, Controller), Angular.js framework. Created new JSP views to incorporate backend functionality to display on the UI screens using client rich technologies like JQuery, JavaScript, HTML, CSS files.  • Redesigning the existing web application with new technologies like Bootstrap, angular js.  • Developed and tested many features for dashboard, created using Bootstrap, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Worked on server side applications with Django using Python programming.  • Used Pandas for a data alignment and data manipulation.  • Utilized standard Python modules such as csv, itertools and pickle for development.  • Worked on Python OpenStack APIs and used Numpy for Numerical analysis.  • Used Ajax and JQuery for transmitting JSON data objects between frontend and controllers.  • Developed Wrapper in Python for instantiating multi-threaded application.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to created user-friendly website interface.  • Managed datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL, queried MYSQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector MySQLdb package to retrieve information.  • Developed various algorithms for generating several data patterns.  • Used JIRA for bug tracking and issue tracking.  • Added several options to the application to choose particular algorithm for data and address generation.  • Developed the project in Linux environment.  • Used Agile Methodology and SCRUM Process.  • Maintained the versions using GIT and sending the release notes for each release.  • Supported the issues seen in the tool across all the teams for several projects.  Environment: Python 2.7, Django 1.4, CSS, HTML, BOOTSTRAP, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX, MYSQL, Linux, Heroku, GIT. Python Developer JPMorgan - Chicago, IL June 2012 to May 2014 Responsibilities  • Gathered all requirements for developing and analyzing requirement of projects.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django including Tastypie Web Framework using Git.  • Developed Merge jobs in Python to extract and load data into MySQL database.  • Successfully migrated the Django database from SQLite to MySQL to PostgreSQL with complete data integrity.  • Developed Ruby on Rails 3 web applications using MongoDB and back-ground processes using Resque and Redis  • Used Django configuration to manage URLs and application parameters.  • Used Test driven approach for developing the application and Implemented the unit tests using Python Unit test framework.  • Developed Ruby/ Python scripts to monitor health of Mongo databases and perform ad-hoc backups using Mongo dump and Mongo restore.  • Familiar with JSON based REST Web services and Amazon Web services (AWS)  • Dynamic implementation of SQL server work on website using SQL developer tool.  • Experienced in Agile Methodologies and SCRUM Process.  • Designed front end using UI, HTML, Bootstrap, Node JS, underscore JS, Angular JS CSS, and JavaScript.  • Involved in the Complete Software development life cycle (SDLC) to develop the application.  • Used Numpy for Numerical analysis.  • Followed AGILE development methodology to develop the application.  • Used and customized apache server to for checking our developed project.  • Used Test driven approach (TDD) for developing services required for the application.  • Implemented Integration test cases.  • Worked on MongoDB database concepts such as locking, transactions, indexes, Sharding, replication, schema design  • Used Git to resolve and codingthe work on python and portlet.  • Used several python libraries like wxPython, numPY and matPlotLib.  • Was involved in environment, code installation as well as the SVN implementation.  • Build all database mapping classes using Django models and Apache Cassandra.  • Used Pandas API to put the data as time series and tabular format for east timestamp data manipulation and retrieval.  Environment  Python 3.3, PyQT, PyQuery, MVW, HTML5, CSS3, DOM, Angular.js, Shell Scripting, JSON, Rest, Apache Web Server, Django, SQL, UNIX, Windows, MongoDB, PostgreSQL, and python libraries such as Numpy, IPython, sqlalchemy, Django Tastypie Python Developer Pathway Informatics - Chicago, IL May 2009 to May 2012 Responsiblities:  • Used SDLC process and used PHP to develop website functionality.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, NodeJS, XHTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework on MySQL  • Used Django APIs for database access  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL. Built application logic using Python 2.7.  • Used Django APIs for database access.  • Used Python to extract weekly hotel availability information from XML files using underscore JS.  • Parsed XML file using Python to extract data from database  • Participated in requirement gathering and worked closely with the architect in designing and modelling.  • Worked on development of SQL and stored procedures, trigger and function on MYSQL.  • Developed shopping cart for Library and integrated web services to access the payment (E-commerce).  • Designed and developed a horizontally scalable APIs using Python Flask.  • Designed Cassandra schema for the APIs  • Java implementation on given project  • Developed shopping cart for Library and integrated web services to access the payment.  • Used Php language on lamp server to develop page.  • Developed dynamic interaction page on .net MS visual basic-2014, using SQL developer tools.  • Generated Use case diagrams, Activity flow diagrams, Class diagrams and Object diagrams in the design phase.  • Responsible for entire data migration from Sybase ASE server to Oracle.  • Migration of API code written for Sybase to Oracle.  • Overlook the migration activity of PL/SQL programs  • Migration of the PL/SQL code from Sybase to Oracle.  • Migration of the data contained in the earlier ASPL Database from Sybase to Oracle.  • Migrate the Libraries written using Sybase API's to Oracle's OCCI API's  • Automation of testing using Python.  Environment: Python 2.6/2.7, JavaScript, Django Framework 1.3, SQL, MySQL, LAMP, JQuery, Adobe Dreamweaver, Apache web server, PHP, Lamp, underscore JS. SQL developer tool. Skills Python (7 years), Excel (7 years), django, MySQL, Windows, Linux, HTML, CSS, JQuery, Javascript, Bash, Apache, Linux, Ajax, AWS EC Cloud, Amazon SQS/S3 JavaScript, HTML, Dhtml, XHTML, XML, MySQL, SQL Server 2008, PostgreSQL Additional Information Skills  Python, Django 1.4, MySQL, Windows, Linux, HTML, CSS, JQuery, JavaScript, Bash, Apache, Linux. , AJAX, AWS EC Cloud, Amazon SQS/S3 JavaScript, HTML, DHTML, XHTML, XML, MySQL, SQL Server 2008, PostgreSQL , Git, SVN