Sr. Python Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Python Developer - Johnson & Johnson New Brunswick, NJ • Extensive experience in developing web-based applications, software developmentand design using Python 3.4/2.7, Django 1.9/1.8, XML, CSS3, HTML5, DHTML, JavaScript, JQuery & Angular Js.  • Experienced in MVC frameworks like Django, Angular JS, Java Script, Jquery, React.js and Node.js. Flask and Pyramid, Well versed in Django ORM and SqlAlchamy and Extensive use of Linux (Ubuntu), SSH, Flask/Django.  • Experience in implementing server side technologies with restful API and MVC design patterns using Django framework.  • Proficient in SQL databases MS SQL, MySQL, Oracle and no-SQL databases MongoDB, Cassandra.  • Experience on Web Technologies using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX, AngularJS, XML, JSON and Node.js.  • Exposure working with virtual machines and containers with Vagrant, Virtual Box and Docker.  • Extensive knowledge and experience in developing Single Page Applications (SPA) using AngularJS.  • Good Experience in implementing SOAP and Restful Web Services using XML, JSON and JERSEY.  • Good hands on experience with GO Lang and its Built-in concurrency features such as go-routines, channels and select statement.  • Strong experience in developing Microservices using Docker, Mesos, GO Lang and Python.  • Worked on AJAX framework to transform Datasets and Data tables into HTTP-serializable JSON strings.  • Knowledge in working with webservers and application servers of Apache server, Apache Server Tomcat, Nginix, Web logic and WebSphere.  • Have good knowledge in using NoSQL database with Apache Cassandra, MongoDB and Orient DB.  • Great knowledge of continuous integration and deployment using Jenkins, docker.  • Expertise in setting up development environment using cloud based Amazon Web Services AWS EC2 instances, Vagrant, and Docker container.  • Extensive experience with Amazon Web Services (AWS), Openstack, Docker Puppet, Chef, Ansible, AWS CloudFormation, AWS CloudFront and Experience in using containers like Docker and familiar with Jenkins.  • Experience in developing applications using amazon web services like EC2, Cloud Search, Elastic Load balancer ELB, S3, CloudFront.  • Sound knowledge in Spring, Hibernate, RDBMS, Web, XML, Ant/Maven, HTML, Python, Shell Scripting.  • Good working experience in processing large datasets with Spark using Scala and Pyspark and Familiar with JSON based REST Web services.  • Experience in Agile development methodology, waterfall and TDD (test driven development).  • Experience with Version Control systems with SVN, CVS and GIT.  • Experienced in NoSQL technologies like MongoDB, CouchDB Cassandra, Redis and relational databases like Oracle, SQLite,PostgreSQL and MySQL databases.  • Experienced in WAMP (Windows, Apache, MYSQL, and Python) and LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, and Python) Architecture and Wrote Automation test cases using Selenium Web Driver, JUnit, Maven, and Spring.  • Expertise in using Relational Databases using SQLite, MySQL, MSSQL and Oracle databases with Python.  • Good Experiences in consuming and producing Web Services such as RESTful services integrated with Spring MVC and SOAP web services.  • Knowledge on No-SQL databases like MongoDB, DynamoDB, ElasticSearch and Cassandra.  • Good experience in Shell Scripting,SQL Server, Unix and Linux, Open stock and Expertise python scripting with focus on Devops tools, CI/CD and AWS Cloud Architecture.  • Experienced in developing WebServices with Python programming language and Good working experience in processing large datasets with Spark using Scala and Pyspark.  • Experienced in working on Application Servers like WebSphere, WebLogic, Tomcat, Web Servers like Apache server, NGINX and Integrated Development Environments like Pycharm, Eclipse, MyEclipse, JDeveloper and RAD, Built the web application by using Python, Django, AWS, J2EE, PostgreSQL, MySQL, Oracle 10g/11g and MongoDB.  • Expertise in working with GUI frameworks-PyJamas, Jytho, guidata, PyGUI, PyQt PyWebkitGtk and Experienced with Elasticsearch, Logstash and Kibana (ELK).  • Expertise in working with the JavaScript, prototype JS and various MVC JavaScript frameworks Backbone.js and React.JS.  • Good understanding of NoSQL databases such as MongoDB, Datastax, Redis and Cassandra.  • Extensive experience with Object Oriented Design and SDLC methodologies using Rational Rose, Unified Modeling Language (UML) and Developed Web Applications using Java/J2EE, JSF on JVM.  • Excellent understanding & hands on in Hibernate, Hibernate Query Language (HQL), Transactions, Exceptions, Java Message Service (JMS), Java Transaction API (JTA), Active MQ.  • Experience in NodeJs Unit Testing using Mocha, and Angular End-End testing using Jasmine.  • Experienced in deploying the projects using microservices.  • Experience with Test Driven development like JUNIT, TestNG, Mockito, Selenium, Cucumber.  • Extensive experience in working IDE tools like Eclipse, Net Beans, RAD, WID (Web Sphere Integration Designer).  • Hands on experience in using NOSQL libraries like MongoDB, Cassandra, Redis and relational databases like Oracle, SQLite, PostgreSQL and MYSQL databases.  • Experiences in Unit and Integration Testing using testing tools like Junit and Mockito.  • Experiences in writing ANT, Maven build scripts and configuring and using Log4j for System Logging.  • Expertise in Object-Oriented design and coding. Good knowledge of various Design Patterns and UML and Wrote Python OO Design code for manufacturing quality, monitoring, logging, and debugging code optimization.  • Have good idea about tools like Bugzilla, Jira, Confluence, and Axosoft and Design the front end of company website with CSS, Sass, and Bootstrap and implemented Web Services based on SOA architecture with Restful.  • Knowledge of the Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC), Agile and Waterfall Methodologies and Familiar with concepts and devices such routers, switches and TCP/IP protocols and OSI layer.  • Extensive experiences in development of Hibernate ORM framework with Spring Data Access Object and experience in writing HQL for complex and dynamic queries.  • Experienced in working environment with different types of Software Development Life Cycle and Software Testing Methodology. Work Experience Sr. Python Developer Johnson & Johnson - New Brunswick, NJ May 2015 to Present Responsibilities:  • Developed frontend and backend modules using Python on Django including Tastypie Web Framework using Git.  • Designed front end using UI, HTML, Bootstrap, Node JS, underscore JS, Angular JS CSS, and JavaScript and Strong Expertise in working with server side technologies including databases, restful API and MVC design patterns.  • Developed Merge jobs in Python to extract and load data into MySQL database and Worked on MYSQL data lineage process to map source to target DB, table and column mappings using Python.  • Developed backend web services using Node.js and stored dependencies using Node Package Manager (NPM).  • Performed GO Lang unit testing and benchmarking for microservices.  • Responsible for gathering requirements, system analysis, design, development, testing and deployment.  • Implemented new microservices in Clojure to support new business capabilities.  • Installing and automation of application using configuration management tools Puppet and Chef and Creating and configuring virtual development environments with Chef and Virtual Box.  • Worked with version control, used Github version control for GO Lang source code.  • Involved and played a leading role in database migration projects from Oracle to MongoDB, Cassandra, CouchDB databases based on my custom software.  • Worked with search business and search team to implement dynamic rule updates to search using elasticsearch.  • Involved in MVC frameworks like Django, Angular.js, React.js, Java Script, and Node.js.  • Designed and developed the application using Agile Methodology and followed TDD and Scrum.  • Build back-end application with Python / Django, work with docker, RabbitMQ, Celery, Jenkins.  • Familiar with JSON based REST Web services and Amazon Web services (AWS) and Responsible for setting up Python REST API framework and spring frame work using Django.  • Involved in development of business logic by backend python programming to achieve optimal results.  • Designed a tool called netconf (Network configuration) which automatically configures network switches by parsing XML files.  • Designed web application to register, authenticate users to upload files on Google storage using Go Lang.  • Used Vagrant to implement environment for microservices deployments and testing in Docker images.  • Worked on HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Angular JS, Node.JS, Git, REST API, Mongo DB, intelliJ  • Worked on project scaffolding using yomen, grunt, bower, nodejs.  • Worked in the devops team, delivered new agile environments & build/release/configuration and deployment automation/monitoring using Jenkins, ant, maven, artifactory, chef, custom scripting and Jira.  • Used Apache Couchdb (NoSQL) in AWS Linux instance in parallel to RDS MySQL to store and analyze job market info.  • Used MQ Series to send, receive and read the messages and also Created Queues.  • Wrote SOAP and RESTFul web services, in house ESB for a web Claims applications (Spring MVC, Angular JS, Active MQ, SOAP UI, Mockito, JSON, Buildforge  • Successfully migrated the Django database from SQLite to MySQL to PostgreSQL with complete data integrity and Designed, developed and deployed CSV Parsing using the big data approach on AWS EC2.  • Wrote and executed various RDBMS, MYSQL database queries from Python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQLdb package.  • Used Celery as task queue and RabbitMQ, Redis as messaging broker to execute asynchronous tasks.  • Used jQuery and AJAX calls for transmitting JSON data objects between front end and controllers and Utilized continuous integration and automated deployments with Jenkins, Ansible and Docker.  • Developed web applications using MongoDB and back-ground processes using Resque and Redis and Worked on performance tuning of cluster using Cassandra Configuration file and JVM Parameters.  • Implemented Backbone JS for creation of networking applications using JavaScript.  • Used Heroku for continuous integration and deployed the project using GIT version control.  • Strong Socket programming experience in Python. Implemented complex networking operations like race route, SMTP mail server and web server.  • Developed Python scripts to monitor health of Mongo databases and perform ad-hoc backups using Mongo dump and Mongo restore.  • Created Automation test framework using Selenium.  • Deployed Django web application in Apache webserver and carpathia cloud web deployment.  • Work on NoSQL database MongoDB using the pymongo driver. Imported datasets into MongoDB from JSON files.  • Worked on Jenkins continuous integration tool for deployment of project.  • Exported/Imported data between different data sources using SQL Server Management Studio.  • Worked on cross browser compilation and Responsive web Design using HTML5, CSS3 and Bootstrap.  • Designed and implemented remote upgrade system mostly in Clojure.  • Developed applications using RESTFUL architecture using Node.js and Python as backend languages and Used Numpy for Numerical analysis and Used Spring Framework to support the Hibernate tool and Struts.  • Involved in the Complete Software development life cycle (SDLC) to develop the application and Worked closely with software developers and DevOps to debug software and system problems.  • Used Selenium Library to write fully functioning test automation process that allowed the simulation of submitting different requests from multiple browsers to web application.  • Migrated the Django database from SQLite to MySQL to PostgreSQL with complete data integrity.  • Used advanced packages like Mock, patch and BeautifulSoup (bs4) to perform unit testing.  • Spearheaded adoption of Responsive web design principles and converted existing websites to Responsive websites by using Bootstrap.  • Created creating tables, data manipulation and retrieval using Oracle and DB2.  • Designed and developed middleware, using RESTful web services based on a centralized schema  • Used Test driven approach for developing the application and Implemented the unit tests using Python Unit test framework and Development of Isomorphic ReactJS and Redux driven API client applications. Python Developer CIGNA Corp - Bloomfield, CT January 2013 to April 2015 Responsibilities:  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework with GIT.  • Designed and managed API system deployment using fast http server and Amazon AWS architecture.  • Designed the user interactive web pages as the front end part of the web application using various web technologies like HTML, JavaScript, Angular JS, JQuery and implemented CSS framework.  • Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQLdb package.  • Implemented Chef/Puppet scripts for running and deploying applications on to the Cloud Foundry.  • Utilized continuous integration and automated deployments with Jenkins, Ansible and Docker.  • Designed, automated the process of installation and configuration of secure DataStax Enterprise Cassandra using chef.  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL. Built application logic using Python.  • Used Python library BeautifulSoup for webscrapping.  • Used MongoDB implemented automate scripts to back up the old records and transfer these backup files using ftplib library.  • Designed, implemented, and maintained solutions for using Docker, Jenkins, Git, and Puppet for microservices and continuous deployment.  • Developed python code using version control tools like GIT hub and SVN on vagrant machines.  • Build JSON objects using the framework which will be used by JavaScript to control the flow of the page.  • Developed automated process for builds and deployments; Jenkins, Ant, Maven, Shell Script.  • Responsible for gathering requirements, system analysis, design, development, testing and deployment.  • Automated different workflows, which are initiated manually with Python scripts and Unix shell scripting.  • Wrote programs for performance calculations using NumPy and SQLAlchemy.  • Used Python and Django creating graphics, XML processing, data exchange and business logic implementation.  • Maintained multiple copies of data in different database servers using MongoDB Replication concept.  • Designed and managed API system development using fast http server and Amazon AWS architecture.  • Developed Spark code using Scala and Spark-SQL for faster testing and processing of data.  • Created entire application using Python, Flask, MySQL and Linux.  • Worked on Element Tree XML API in python to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Developed API services in Python/Tornado, Node.JS while leveraging AMQP and RabbitMQ for distributed architectures.  • Developed intranet portal for managing Amazon EC2 servers using Python, Tornado and MongoDB  • Developed web-based applications using Python, Django, XML, CSS, HTML, JavaScript, AngularJS and jQuery.  • Worked on Python OpenStack APIs and used NumPy for Numerical analysis.  • Developed Wrapper in Python for instantiating multi-threaded application.  • Worked on Angular JS to create single page applications (SPA) using its features like routers, Controllers, Services, Directives.  • Developed web applications and RESTful web services and APIs using Python, Django and PHP.  • Worked on HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, AngularJS, NodeJS, Git, REST API, Mongo DB, IntelliJ IDEA.  • Designed Cassandra schema for the APIs.  • Automated AWS S3 data upload / download using Python scripts.  • Created database objects like Stored Procedures, Tables, Views, Sequences, Cursors, Packages and Triggers.  • Developed web GUI involving HTML, NodeJS, JavaScript under MVC architecture.  • Developed backend of the application with Python, Django, Oracle DB.  • Successfully migrated the Django database from SQLite to MySQL to PostgreSQL with complete data integrity.  • Used Test driven approach for developing the application and Implemented the unit tests using Python Unit test framework. Python Developer SunTrust Bank - Atlanta, GA July 2010 to December 2012 Responsibilities:  • Designed the front end of the application using Python, Java, HTML, CSS, AJAX, JSON and JQuery. Worked on backend of the application, mainly using Active Records.  • Involved in the design, development and testing phases of application using AGILE methodology.  • Maintained databases using Python and developed Python based API (RESTful Web Service) using Flask, SQLAlchemy and PostgreSQL.  • Worked on development of SQL and stored procedures, trigger and function on MYSQL.  • Developed server based web traffic statistical analysis tool using Flask, Pandas.  • Used Python and Django creating graphics, XML processing of documents, data exchange and business logic implementation between servers.  • Created restful web services for Catalog and Pricing with Django MVT, Jersey, MySQL, and MongoDB.  • Developed rich UI web application using java script libraries like JQuery UI, data grid, Jscolor, high charts.  • Used MySQL as backend database and MySQL dB of python as database connector to interact with MySQL server.  • Developed applications using MongoDB, Redis, and MySQL.  • Involved in writing application level code to interact with APIs, Web Services using JSON.  • Involved in Agile Methodologies and SCRUM Process.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Actively involved in developing the methods for Create, Read, Update and Delete (CRUD) in Active Record.  • Designed and managed API system deployment using fast http server and Amazon AWS architecture.  • Used MVC architecture for developing the application.  • Involved use cases, class diagrams, activity diagrams and collaboration diagrams in UML. Skills DATABASE (6 years), DJANGO (6 years), HTML (6 years), jQuery (6 years), JSON (6 years) Additional Information Technical Skills:  Programming Languages: Python 3.4/2.7, Django 1.9/1.8, Flask, Java, C++, Shell Script, SQL, Java/J2EE, PyJamas, Jython, IronPython, Cpython.  Web Technologies: AJAX, JavaScript, HTML, DHTML, XHTML, XML, React, JSON, Jquery, Angular Js, Node.js  Database: MySQL, SQL Server, Oracle 11g.  Operating systems: Windows XP, Win 7, 8.1, 10, Linux, OS X.  Methodologies: Agile, V Model, Waterfall, Hybrid.  JavaScript Frameworks: Node.js, jQuery, Backbone.js, ExtJS, Ember.js, AngularJS