Sr Python Developer Sr <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr Python Developer - Nike Hillsboro, OR Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr Python Developer Nike - Hillsboro, OR March 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  ? Good experience in developing web applications and implementing Model View Control (MVC) architecture using server-side applications like Django and Flask.  ? Experience in developing views and templates with Python and Django view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  ? Developed views and templates with Python and Django view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly Website interface.  ? Implemented client-side validation to avoid back and forward between server-client and provide better user experience.  ? Migrated platform from physical server to virtual environment. Took it from development into production by wiring up a Nginx stack.  ? AGILE (SCRUM) practices and attending daily agile (SCRUM) meetings and SPRINT retrospective meetings to produce quality deliverables within time and setting weekly goals.  ? Consumed external APIs and wrote RESTful API using Django REST Framework and AngularJs. Equally comfortable working within the Django ORM or writing native SQL in SQL Server.  ? Developed Python Script for moving files from dropbox to Amazon server.  ? Written Python Scripts for loading data from CSV files into the database tables.  ? Documented tasks in Confluence and related them to the JIRA tickets.  ? Extensive experience in using Python /Perl to code and design various phases for data processing pipeline.  ? Experience working with version control systems such as Git and Apache SVN for maintaining a consistent state throughout the application development process.  ? Involved in database-driven web application development using a variety of frameworks such as Django on Python.  ? Created Docker images, upload/download in and out from the Docker Hub.  ? Worked on setting up new tools with Docker to assist with auto-scaling, continuous integration, rolling updates with no downtime.  ? Developed UI for handling different phases of exceptions for the data in SQL Server database and fix them. Developed web pages for the exception statistics for each phase.  ? Excellent experience in designing and maintaining complex SQL queries and developing PL/SQL stored procedures.  ? Worked on MongoDB database concepts such as locking, transactions, indexes, Sharding, replication, schema design, etc.  ? Developed MEAN Stack from scratch including MongoDB server setup and Express JS server development.  ? Used automation Jenkins for continuous integration on Amazon EC2.  ? Hands on Experience in AWS Cloud in various AWS Services such as Route 53 Domain configuration.  ? Designed and developed the framework to consume the web services hosted in Amazon EC2.  ? Created monitors, alarms and notifications for EC2 hosts using Cloud watch.  ? Developed Python scripts to execute Stored Procedures and load data from various forms of CSV files into staging tables in SQL Server database.  ? Involved in back end development using Python with framework Flask.  ? Developed internal project in Flask to generate report from google analytics on daily, monthly and weekly basis.  ? Worked on Jenkins continuous integration tool for deployment of project.    Environment: Python 2.7/3.5, Python, Django 1.10/2.0, Django REST Framework, Flask, XML, HTTP, Ajax, Bootstrap, JSON, HTML, CSS, jQuery, Pandas, Bugzilla, GITHUB, Java Script, PL/SQL, Microsoft SQL Server, Shell Scripting, MongoDB, Amazon Web Services (AWS).    Python Developer  Blackhawk  Harrisburg, PA  Dec 2014 to Mar 2017    Responsibilities  ? Prepared and analyzed reports using Python libraries and involved in environment Setup.  ? Created the environment specific settings for a new deployment and update the deployment specific conditional checks in code base to use specific checks.  ? Placed data into JSON files using Python to test Django websites.  ? Involved in writing unit test cases for the functionalities using Nose Test.  ? Wrote Automation Test cases using Robot Framework.  ? Using Amazon SQS to queue up work to run asynchronously on distributed Amazon EC2 nodes.  ? Used Python and Django to interface with the JQuery UI and manage the storage and deletion of content.  ? Assisted with the addition of Hadoop processing to the IT infrastructure.  ? Implementing customer data collection with PySpark/Hadoop analytics.  ? Developed Hadoop integrations for data ingestion, data mapping and data processing.  ? Used XML for dynamic display of options in select box and description on web page.  ? Responsible for all client side UI Validation and implementing Business logic based on user selection Angular.JS 2.  ? Involved in developing the Angular.JS Meteor framework for the Single Page Application development.  ? Wrote Python modules to view and connect the Apache Cassandra instance.  ? Responsible for Debugging and Troubleshooting issues.  ? Involved in debugging the applications monitored on JIRA using agile methodology.  ? Setting up network environments using TCP/IP, DNS, DHCP and proxy.  ? Involved in postproduction support for solving complex tickets.  ? Resolved user problems in a timely and accurate manner as a member of the End-User support team.  ? Involved in presenting demos to the clients and also reporting the daily and weekly status to the Project manager.  ? Involved in assigning the tasks to the development team.  ? Created Windows Service to Database Migration.  ? Involved in handling the developing team and mentoring the junior developers.  ? Involved in creating the database modelling to the project and wrote queries for retrieving data from backend.  ? Deployed the project into Heroku using GIT version control system.  ? Designed RESTful XML web service for handling AJAX requests.  ? Involved in deploying the code into Amazon Web Server using BOTO API.  ? Designed and developed Application Module with Windows Service and C#.  ? Reorganized couple of windows service with WCF.  ? Experience in managing large-scale, geographically-distributed database systems, including relational (Oracle, MySQL) and NoSQL (MongoDB) systems.  ? Familiar with MongoDB clusters, performance tuning, backup and recovery.  ? Manage run-time configuration, processes, scaling, backup and recovery, monitoring, and performance tuning for production MongoDB instances.  ? Used Python to integrate third party application on windows.  ? Used embedded python to interface code like convert data values from C to Python; Perform a function call to a python interface routine using the converted values, and convert the data values from the call from python to C.  ? Developed, tested and debugged software tools utilized by clients and internal customers.  ? Good coding experience with scripting languages like Perl, Ruby and Bash.  ? Responsible for specialization areas related to Chef for Cloud Automation.  ? Automated the cloud deployments using chef, Python (boto& fabric) and AWS Cloud Formation Templates.  ? Built a comprehensive PERL script, which would call the required ANT scripts and notify the build distribution team in case of Build errors or Completion of the builds.  ? Coded test programs and evaluated existing engineering processes.    Environment: Python 3.0, Django 1.7, Meteor Framework , Angular.JS 2,Java Script, Coffee Scripting, LESS, HTML, Angular JS, JSON, AJAX, XML, CSS, SQL, MySQL, NoSql, MongoDB, PySpark, Hadoop Bootstrap, Restful Web Services, Beautiful Soup, Jenkins, GitHub, Linux, PyCharm, PHP, HTML5, CSS3, MYSQL, LAMP,PUPPET and CHEF. Python Developer AgFirst Farm Credit Bank - Columbia, SC September 2012 to 2014 Responsibilities:  ? Developed and designed Python based API (RESTful Web Service) to interact with company's website.  ? Successfully implemented Django framework (including Tastypie) to design server applications.  ? Wrote Python code and actively participated in the procedure to automate processes.  ? Build and test functionality within a production pipeline.  ? Implemented Python code to fix bugs and provides upgrades to existing functionality.  ? Provided fault isolation and root cause analysis for technical problems.  ? Highly efficient in handling multi-tasking issues in a fast paced environment.  ? Created Business Logic using Python to create Planning and Tracking functions.  ? Worked very closely with designer, tightly integrating Flash into the CMS with the use of Flashvars stored in the Django models. Also created XML with Django to be used by the Flash.  ? Developed multi-threaded standalone app in Python, PHP, C++ to view Circuit parameters and performance.  ? Involved in building database Model, APIs and Views utilizing Python, in order to build an interactive web based solution.  ? Developed Business Logic using Python on Django Web Framework.  ? Designed and managed API system deployment using fast http server and Amazon AWS architecture.  ? Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks.  ? Developed internal auxiliary web apps using Python Flask framework with Angular.js and Twitter Bootstrap CSS / HTML framework.  ? Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks. Interfacing with supervisors, artists, systems administrators and production to ensure production deadlines are met.  ? Used Django configuration to manage URLs and application parameters.  ? Utilized PyQt to provide GUI for the user to create, modify and view reports based on client data.  ? Developed complex web, middleware, and back end systems in Python, SQL and Perl for Linux and Windows.  ? Created PyUnit test scripts and used for unit testing.  ? Developed Merge jobs in Python to extract and load data into MySQL database.  ? Developed user interfaces using HTML5 and JavaScript.  ? Created a Git repository and added the project to GitHub.  ? Utilized Agile process and JIRA issue management to track sprint cycles.  ? Wrote validation scripts in SQL to validate data loading.  ? Interfacing with supervisors, artists, systems administrators and production to ensure production deadlines are met.    Environment: Python, Django, PYQt, Python SDK, AWS, Flash, PHP, PyQuery, DOM, Bootstrap, XML, HTML5, JavaScript, Angular.js, JSON, Rest, Apache Web Server, Git Hub, MySQL, LINUX. Python Developer Dart - Dallas, TX May 2010 to September 2012 Responsibilities:  ? Designed and managed build and release methodologies using Witbe Tool.  ? Experience in writing branching and merging methodologies in Python.  ? For update and manipulation of file, Python scripts were used.  ? Performed various tasks in a cross functional project team during the product acceptance test phase of the product development lifecycle.  ? Deploy Test cases from Tool and automate them.  ? Deploy and monitor scalable infrastructure on Amazon web services (AWS) & configuration management using puppet.  ? Created projects and portal sites in Web portal.  ? Installed and configured build manager and agents to queue builds in Application.  ? For the implementation of batch job scheduling the concepts of multithreading and concurrency were practiced.  ? Installed Witbe, Python, Jira, test Rail as part of server setups.  ? Experience in deploying and troubleshooting code to Data stage.  ? SQL and PL/SQL stored procedures were used to create access to data and deployed them to Oracle and SQL server databases.  ? Using MYSQL a system of data management was designed and developed where queries were optimized in order to improve the performance.  ? Experience in setting up App pools and web sites in Python.  ? Features for dashboard were developed and tested using CSS, JavaScript, Django, Bootstrap.  ? Git repository was created and added to GitHub project.  ? Can review code as part of build and deployment.  ? Experience in setup and deploying front office application called Front Arena.  ? Worked with bug tracking tools like BUGZILLA and JIRA.  ? Deployed applications to Witbe server also experience in creating host instances.  ? Maintained technical documentation for projects along with the development of marketing material such as flyers, presentations, case studies.  ? Skilled in writing and reviewing requirements, architecture documents, test plans, design, documents, quality analysis and audits.    Environment: Python 2.7, Witbe Tool, Git, CSS 3, HTML 5, Bootstrap, Django, MYSQL, PL/SQL, JIRA. Education Bachelor's