Sr. Python Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Python Developer New York, NY • Around 6+ years of experience as a Python Developer, proficient coder in multiple languages and environments including Python, REST Api, AWS, C, C++ and SQL.  • Wrote python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database and developed web-based applications using Python, CSS and HTML.  • Worked on applications and developed them with XML, JSON, XSL (PHP, Django, Python, Rails).  • Experienced with full software development life cycle, architecting scalable platforms, object oriented programming, database design and agile methodologies.  • Experienced in developing Web Services with Python programming language.  • Experience in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on MySQL and PostgreSQL database.  • Cleaned data and processed third party spending data into maneuverable deliverables within specific formats with Excel macros and python libraries.  • Experienced in developing web-based applications using Python, Django, PHP, C++, XML, CSS, HTML, DHTML, JavaScript and Jquery.  • Experienced in working with various Python IDE's using PyCharm, PyScripter, Spyder, PyStudio and PyDev.  • Good experience of software development in Python and IDEs: pycharm, sublime text, Jupyter Notebook.  • Working Knowledge of Pandas, Numpy, Scipy, Scikit-Learn, Matplotlib.  • Experienced in web applications development using Django/ Python using HTML/CSS for server-side rendered applications.  • Managed tasks and acted as point of contact for off-shore team coordination. Develop technical design documents UML, reverse engineering code.  • Hands on experience working in WAMP (Windows, Apache, MYSQL, and Python/PHP) and LAMP (Linux, Apache, My SQL, and Python/PHP) Architecture.  • Worked on Anaconda Python Environment.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Experience in implementing python alongside using various libraries such as mat plotlib for charts and graphs, MySQL db for database connectivity, python-twitter, PySide, Pickle, Pandas data frame, network, urllib2.  • Experienced in using python libraries like BeautifulSoup, NumPy, SciPy, matplotlib, Python-twitter, NetworkX, urllib2, MySQLdb for database connectivity and IDEs - Sublime Text, Spyder, PyCharm.  • Experienced in Requirement gathering, Use Case development, Business Process flow, Business Process Modeling.  • Extensively used UML to develop various use cases, class diagram and sequence diagrams.  • Well versed with design and development of presentation layer for web applications using technologies like HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX, AngularJS, Bootstrap, JSON, XML.  • Exceptionally solid background in composing API's along with Web Services over Python.  • Experience in using Adobe Flash, SVN, Eclipse, JIRA, Github and CVS.  • Experience working knowledge in UNIX and Linux shell environments using command line utilities.  • Experience with Unit Testing/ Test Driven Development(TDD), Load Testing and Integration Testing.  • Developed a fully automated continuous integration system using Git, Gerrit, Jenkins, MySQL and custom tools developed in Python and Bash.  • Experienced in version control systems using CVS, SVN and Git/Github and issue tracking tools like Jira and BugZilla.  • Experienced in writing SQL Queries, Stored procedures, functions, packages, tables, views, triggers.  • Experience in working with Python ORM Libraries including Django ORM, SQLAlchemy.  • Experience in building frameworks and automating complex workflows using Python for Test Automation.  • Experience in implementing with server side technologies with restful API and MVC design patterns with node JS and Django framework.  • Hands on experience in using NOSQL libraries like MongoDB, Cassandra, Redis and relational databases like Oracle, SQLite, PostgreSQL and MYSQL databases.  • Extensive Knowledge on automation tools such as Puppet and Chef.  • Worked on UNIX shell scripts for business process and loading data from different interfaces to HDFS.  • Experience in deploying applications in heterogeneous Application Servers TOMCAT, Web Logic and Oracle Application. Server.  • Good Knowledge in Amazon AWS concepts like EMR and EC2 web services which provides fast and efficient processing of Big Data.  • Experienced in Application Development using Python, Hadoop, RDBMS and Linux shell scripting and performance tuning.  • Hands on experience working on NoSQL databases including Hbase, Cassandra and its integration with Hadoop cluster.  • Extensive knowledge in writing and executing CRUD operations using JDBC with MySQL.  • Proficiency with the application servers like WebSphere, WebLogic, JBOSS and Tomcat. Work Experience Sr. Python Developer HSBC - New York, NY January 2015 to Present Responsibilities:  • Automated different workflows, which are initiated manually with Python scripts and Unix shell scripting.  • Created, activated and programmed in Anaconda environment.  • Used Python unit and functional testing modules such as unit test, unittest2, mock, and custom frameworks in-line with Agile Software Development methodologies.  • Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from Python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQLdb package.  • Created and maintained Technical documentation for launching Hadoop Clusters and for executing Hive queries and Pig Scripts.  • Developed Sqoop scripts to handle change data capture for processing incremental records between new arrived and existing data in RDBMS tables.  • Installed Hadoop, Map Reduce, HDFS, AWS and developed multiple MapReduce jobs in PIG and Hive for data cleaning and pre-processing.  • Managed datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL, queried MYSQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL dB package to retrieve information.  • Involved in the Web/Application development using Python 3.5, HTML5, CSS3, AJAX, JSON and Jquery.  • Developed and tested many features for dashboard using Python, Java, Bootstrap, CSS, JavaScript and Jquery.  • Generated Python Django forms to record data of online users and used PyTest for writing test cases.  • Implemented and modified various SQL queries and Functions, Cursors and Triggers as per the client requirements.  • Cleaned data and processed third party spending data into maneuverable deliverables within specific format with Excel macros and python libraries such as NumPy, SQLAlchemy and matplotlib.  • Prototype proposal for Issue Tracker website using Python/Django connecting MySQL as Database.  • Used Pandas as API to put the data as time series and tabular format for manipulation and retrieval of data.  • Helped with the migration from the old server to Jira database (Matching Fields) with Python scripts for transferring and verifying the information.  • Analyze Format data using Machine Learning algorithm by Python Scikit-Learn.  • Experience in python, Jupyter, Scientific computing stack (numpy, scipy, pandasand matplotlib).  • Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes of the two main applications that were a main source of data for both customers and internal customer service team.  • Wrote Python scripts to parse JSON documents and load the data in database.  • Developed new scripts a using many regular expressions in order to match and extract data as required to comply with various compliance reporting  requirements.  • Build SQL queries for performing various CRUD operations like create, update,  read and delete.  • Worked on Anti Money Laundering (AML) application to develop new modules to build reports for identifying various accounts and activities.  • Generating various capacity planning reports (graphical) using Python packages like Numpy, matplotlib.  • Analyzing various logs that are been generating and predicting/forecasting next occurrence of event with various Python libraries.  • Used Pandas library for statistics Analysis. Used Numpy for Numerical analysis for Insurance premium and Managed large datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL.  • Analyzing the source data coming from different sources (SQL Server, Oracle, Sales force and also from flat files like Access and Excel) and working with business users and developers to develop the Model.  • Developed single page application by using Angular JS backed by MongoDB and NodeJS.  • Designed and maintained databases using Python and developed Python based API (RESTful Web Service) using Flask, SQL Alchemy and PostgreSQL.  • Managed code versioning with GitHub, Bit Bucket and deployment to staging and production servers and Implemented MVC architecture in developing the web application with the help of Django framework.  • Used Celery as task queue and RabbitMQ, Redis as messaging broker to execute asynchronous tasks.  • Designed and managed API system deployment using fast http server and Amazon AWS architecture.  • Developed remote integration with third party platforms by using RESTful web services and Successful implementation of Apache Spark and Spark Streaming applications for large scale data.  • Wrote and executed various MySQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL dB package.  • Deployed the project into Heroku using GIT version control system.  • Built various graphs for business decision making using Python mat plotlib library.  • Involved in development of Web Services using SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface in the XML format.  • Exported Test case Scripts and modified the selenium scripts and executed in Selenium environment.  • Wrote SQL Queries and implementing stored procedures, functions, packages, tables, views, Cursors, triggers.  • Built SQL queries for performing various CRUD operations like create, update, read and delete.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Built main applications in Python, Django leveraging technologies such as Tasty pie, Angular.js, Backbone.js and Ember.js. Python Developer M&T Bank - Buffalo, NY August 2012 to November 2014 Responsibilities:  • Developed dynamic web pages using python Django Frameworks.  • Used Python and Django creating graphics, XML processing, data exchange and business logic implementation.  • Managed large datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL..  • Used Anaconda for data-mining and visual interaction with matlibplot and pandas libraries.  • Created use-case scenarios and storyboards in MS Word and MS PowerPoint for better visualization of the application.  • Write Automation/test python scripts to test.  • Involved in writing application level code to interact with APIs, Web Services using JSON.  • Used Unit Test Python library for testing many Python programs and block of codes.  • Responsible for development of entire lifecycle of the projects including Design, Development, and Deployment, Testing and Implementation and support.  • Created a Python/Django based web application using Python scripting for data processing, MySQL for the database, and HTML/CSS/JQuery and High Charts for data visualization of the served pages.  • Developed Application based on service oriented architecture and used Python, Django, JSF, Spring, Ajax, HTML5, CSS3.  • Managed, developed, and designed a dashboard control panel for customers and Administrators using Django, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Bootstrap, JQuery and RESTAPI calls.  • Automated RabbitMQ cluster installations and configuration using Python/Bash.  • Deployed the project into Heroku using GIT version control system.  • Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from Python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL dB package.  • Used Django configuration to manage URLs and application parameters.  • Used Python and Django to interface with the jQuery UI and manage the storage and deletion of content.  • Involved in development of Web Services using SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface in the XML format.  • Working with Python ORM Libraries including Django ORM, SQLAlchemy.  • Used several Python libraries like wxPython, numPY and matPlotLib.  • Participated in the complete SDLC process and used Python to develop website functionality.  • Familiar with Machine Learning, NLP, NLTK, SciKit, NumPy, SciPy.  • Built various graphs for business decision making using Python matplotlib library.  • Worked with Python OO Design code for manufacturing quality, monitoring, logging, and debugging code optimization.  • Developed notebooks using Jupyter and involved in software development using python in Spyder.  • Having experience in Agile Methodologies, Scrum stories and sprints experience in a Python based environment, along with data analytics, data wrangling and Excel data extracts.  • Used Python scripts to update the database with the latest pricing information for securities.  • Optimized SQL queries used in batch processing.  • Contributed to rewriting various external vendor specific modules in Java for retrieving and processing Pricing data.  • Used Single Sign on solutions at Intranet level by using cookies to retrieve data.  • Prepared Test Cases to perform Unit, Integration and System Testing. Tested the developed components using Junit.  • Redesigned Employment application system to efficiently manage employee  movements and re-orgs.  • Wrote Python code embedded with JSON and XML to produce HTTP GET request,  parsing HTML data from websites.  • Interacted with Business users and Business Analyst to gather requirements.  • Worked on Python OpenStack APIs and used NumPy for Numerical analysis.  • Rewrite existing Python/Django modules to deliver certain format of data.  • Managed datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL, queried MYSQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL dB package to retrieve information.  • Responsible for debugging the project monitored on JIRA (Agile).  • Involved in Developing a job server (REST API, Spring boot, ORACLE DB) and job shell for job submission, job profile storage, job data (HDFS) query/monitoring.  • Involved in Implementing solutions for ingesting data from various sources and processing the Data utilizing Big Data Technologies such as Hive, Pig, Sqoop, Hbase, Map reduce, etc.  • Developed a fully automated continuous integration system using Git, Jenkins, MySQL and custom tools developed in Python and Bash.  • Involved in Developing data pipeline using Flume, Sqoop, Pig and MapReduce to ingest data into HDFS for analysis.  • Worked on JavaScript MVC Framework like Angular.js OpenStack Command-line client.  • Designed and developed data management system using MongoDB.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Wrote Python scripts to parse JSON documents and load the data in database.  • Used Python and Django to interface with the jQuery UI and manage the storage and deletion of content.  • Used python libraries like Beautiful Soap, NumPy and SQLAlchemy.  • Generated Python Django Forms to record data of online users.  • Python OO Design code for manufacturing quality, monitoring, logging, and debugging code optimization.  • Enhanced existing REST services using NodeJs, ExpressJS and Mongoose modules.  • Involved in developing and writing the test cases for Python based Test Automation platform for testing software in a real time, embedded, multi-processor and multi interface environment. Python Developer Santander Bank - Boston, MA September 2010 to July 2012 Responsibilities:  • Worked on data frames with Python Scientific packages like Pandas and Datetime to handle big data effectively.  • Part of team implementing REST API's in Python using micro-framework like Flask with SQLAlchemy in the backend for management of data center resources on which OpenStack would be deployed.  • Analysis performed using various python modules including pandas, scikit-learn and numpy.  • Implemented user interface guidelines and standards throughout the development and maintenance of the website using the HTML, CSS, JavaScript and Jquery.  • Developed and tested many features for dashboard, created using Bootstrap, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Used several python libraries like wxPython, numPY and matPlotLib.  • Used Python scripts to update content in the database and manipulate files.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, NodeJS, XHTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes of the applications and involved in fine tuning of existing processes followed advance patterns and methodologies.  • Skilled in using collections in Python for manipulating and looping through different user defined objects.  • Used the Python's modules like numpy, matplotlib, plotly and many more for generating complex graphical data, creation of histograms etc.  • Used python packages like cx_oracle, pyodbc and MySQL dB for working with Oracle, SQL Server and MySQL DB respectively.  • Developed a self-serve reporting tool using Python which enabled users to generate the reports themselves, thereby reducing the manual report generation requests to the support team.  • Developed and tested many features for the dashboard using Django, HTML, CSS and JavaScript.  Writing backend programming in Django.  • Used various python libraries like collectd, rsyslog, pyparsing, reportlabs, pyExcelerator.  • Designed and implemented an application for managing customers, purchases and invoices.  • Created RESTful http services to interact with UI.  • Used JavaScript and XML to update a portion of a webpage.  • Implemented user interface guidelines and standards throughout the development and maintenance of the website using the HTML, CSS, JavaScript, and JQuery.  • Knowledge on JSON and SimpleJSON based web services.  • Involved in development of Web Services using SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface in the XML format.  • Developed the required XML Schema documents and implemented the framework for parsing XML documents.  • Develop consumer based features and applications using Python, Django, HTML, Behavior Driven Development (BDD) and pair based programming.  • Designed and developed middleware, using RESTful web services based on a centralized schema which is consumed by thousands of users.  • Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks. Able to create scripts for system administration and AWS using languages such as BASH and Python.  • Successfully migrated the Django database from SQLite to MySQL to PostgresSQL with complete data integrity.  • Wrote Python scripts to parse JSON documents and load the data in database.  • Used Python and Django to interface with the jQuery UI and manage the storage and deletion of content.  • Implemented migration tasks from Oracle apps to PostgreSQL databases.  • Developed globally used GUI tools with Python, allowing warehouse managers to track product movement through the warehouse.  • Used Python, Flask and AngularJS for the design, development and deployment of the application.  • Implemented algorithms in Python and used AngularJS for graphs and user interface.  • Successfully migrated the Django database from SQLite to MySQL to PostgreSQL with complete data integrity.  • Dynamic implementation of SQL server work on website using SQL developer tool.  • Developed scripts using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks.  • Designed front end using UI, HTML, Bootstrap, Node JS, underscore JS, Angular JS, CSS, and JavaScript. Involved in developing the UI pages using HTML, DHTML, CSS, JavaScript, JSON, jQuery, Ajax.  • Installed numerous python packages using pip and easy_install.  • Very good understanding of Python requests module and HTTP requests, response, methods, headers.  • Created independent libraries in Python which can be used by multiple projects which have common functionalities.  • Used Pandas API to put the data as time series and tabular format for east timestamp data manipulation and retrieval.  • Developed and designed automation framework using Python and Shell scripting.  • Developed web applications in Django Framework's model view control (MVC) architecture and Developed with Python and Django web frame work.  • Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks as well as coded in LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, and Python) environment.  • Developed the project in Linux environment.  • Use of agile development tools and methodologies in Python, Git, PyCharm, code review. Skills Python (6 years), Pandas (6 years), Numpy (6 years), JAVA (6 years), HTML (6 years), CSS (6 years), Unix (6 years), Linux (6 years), JSON (6 years), XML (6 years), SQL (6 years), MySQL (6 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    Programming Languages: Java, C++, Python, Perl  Python Libraries: Pandas, Numpy, UnitTest, JSON, CSV, XML, XLS  Version Control Tools: Git, GitHub, SVN, VSS  Bug Tracking Tools: Jira, BugZilla, VersionOne  Database: Sqlite3, MongoDB, Cassandra  Operating System: Unix, Linux, Windows  RDBMS: Oracle, SQL Server, DB2, MS Access Software Development Life cycle Agile Methodology, Scrum framework