Senior Python Developer Senior <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sponsorship required to work in the US Work Experience Senior Python Developer Walmart - Bentonville, AR December 2016 to Present Responsibilities:  • Used Django Database API's to access database objects.  • Used Query and Ajax calls for transmitting JSON data objects between frontend and controllers.  • Involved in building database Model, APIs and Views utilizing python, in order to build an interactive web  based solution.  • Used python based GUI components for the front-end functionality such as selection criteria.  • Created test harness to enable comprehensive testing utilizing python.  • Used Amazon Web Services (AWS) for improved efficiency of storage and fast access  • Added support for Amazon AWS S3 and RDS to host static/media files and the database into Amazon Cloud.  • Involved in front end and utilized Bootstrap and Angular.js for page design.  • Created Data tables utilizing PyQt to display customer and policy information and add, delete, update  customer records.  • Used PyQuery for selecting particular DOM elements when parsing HTML.  • Used Wireshark, live http headers, and Fiddler debugging proxy to debug the Flash object and help the developer create a functional component.  • Used Pandas API to put the data as time series and tabular format for east timestamp data manipulationand retrieval.  • Having very good experience with BIG DATA.  • Created Business Logic using pythonto create Planning and Tracking functions.  • Created UI Screens for initiation and validation.  • Worked on UI using HTML5, CSS3 and Java Scripts.  • Developed multi-threaded standalone app in python and PHP to view performance.  • Used Pandas library for statistical Analysis.  • Developed tools using python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks  • Working in team of Architects and Developers to build and deploy python Flask Peewee Linux AWS.  • Version control using GITHub.  • Involved in writing stored procedures using MySQL.  • Interfacing with supervisors, artists, systems administrators and production to ensure production deadlines are met.  • Responsible for gathering requirements, system analysis, design, development, testing and deployment.  • Developed tools using python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks. Interfacing with supervisors, artists, systems administrators and production to ensure production deadlines are met.  • Developed Business Logic using pythonon Django Web Framework.  • Developed views and templates with pythonand Django's view controller and templating language to create.  • Responsible for creating company's internal platform called DCAE by using python to develop and test the components.  • Worked with various Python libraries such as Six, Click, Pandas and Matplotlib for analysis and manipulation of data.  • Used Click package to create the command line interface.  • Designed Docker proof-of-concept using Hashicorp's Nomad and Consul.  • Used Consul for Service Discovery and to create Key-Value pair.  • Wrote Python scripts to parse JSON files and load the data into the Consul.  • Used Python IDE Pycharm for developing the code and performing unit test.  • Involved in development using Python, bug fixing.  • Developed web-based applications using Python, Django, XML, CSS, HTML, DHTML.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Used AWS for application deployment and configuration.  • Responsible for Design and maintenance of databases using Python. Developed Python based APIs by using Flask, SQL Alchemy and PostgreSQL.  • Worked on HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, AngularJS, Node.JS, Git, REST API, intellij IDEA.  • Development of real-time multi-tasking systems using Python.  • Created data access modules in python.  • Designed, developed, implemented, and maintained solutions for using Git and GitHub for microservice and continuous deployment.  • Involved in Developing a Restful API'S service using Python Flask framework.  Environment: Python3.x, Django, Shell Scripting, AWS, Pandas, PyQt, PyQuery, Wire shark, Flash, DOM, JSON, PHP, HTML5, CSS3, AJAX, JavaScript, Angular.js, Bootstrap, Apache Web Server, MYSQL, GitHub, LINUX. Python Developer Citi Bank - Manhattan, NY February 2015 to September 2016 Responsibilities:  • Developed Python Django forms to record data and the Login module page for users.  • Designed email marketing campaigns and created interactive forms that saved data into database using Django Framework.  • Worked in Test driven development with Behave in Python.  • Creating Behave scripts using Gherkin syntax.  • Used collections in Python for manipulating and looping through different your defined objects.  • Wrote Python routines to log into the websites and fetch data for selected options.  • Performed efficient delivery of code based on principles of Test Driven Development(TDD) and continuous integration to keep in line with Agile Software Methodology principles  • Implemented a login module for user, registration of the products, placing the order and tracking the order.  • Improving the performance while processing data by modifying functions, queries, cursors, triggers and stored procedures for MySQL database.  • Worked on Unit testing, Integration testing and Web application testing.  • Code review using GitHub, testing, fixing of the bugs and coding modifications  • Performed research to explore and identify new technological platforms.  • Developed API modularizing existing python module with the help of pyYAML libraries.  • Improved performance by using more modularized approach and using more in built methods.  • Collaborated with internal teams to convert end user feedback into meaningful and improved solutions.  • Performed data manipulation/storage for incoming test data using lxml /etree libraries.  • Embedded AJAX in UI to update small portions of the web page avoiding the need to reload the entire page.  • Wrote unit test cases for testing tools.  • Enhanced existing automated solutions, such as the Inquiry Tool for automated Asset Department reporting and added new features and fixed bugs.  • Developed views and templates with python3.6.1 and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Used Amazon Web Services (AWS) for improved efficiency of storage and fast access.  • Added support for Amazon AWS S3 and RDS to host static/media files and the database into Amazon Cloud.  • Participated in the complete SDLC process and used PHP to develop website functionality.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS, BIG DATA and JavaScript.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using pythonon Django Web Framework.  • Designed and developed Use-Case, Class and Object Diagrams using UML Rational Rose for Object Oriented Analysis/Object Oriented Design techniques.  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL. Built application logic using python.  • Used Django APIs for database access.  • Provided GUI utilizing PyQt for the end user to create, modify and view reports based on client data.  • Angular.js is used to build efficient backend for client web application.  • Used pythonto extract information from XML files.  • Expertise in Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) and its related technologies like Web Services, BPEL, WSDLs, SOAP, XML, XSD, XSLT etc.  • Participated in requirement gathering and worked closely with the architect in designing and modeling.  • Worked on development of SQL and stored procedures on MYSQL.  • Developed shopping cart for Library and integrated web services to access the payment (E-commerce).  • Designed and developed a horizontally scalable APIs using pythonFlask.  • Designed Cassandra schema for the APIs.  • Implemented monitoring and established best practices around using elastic search.  • Effectively communicated with the external vendors to resolve queries.  • Used GIT for the version control.    Environment: Python 2.7, Django 1.4, Behave, Puppet Rspec, Jenkins, Grafana/Graphite, MySQL, Linux, HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, JQuery, JavaScript, Apache, Linux, Git, Perl, Cassandra, Azure Automation cloud services. Python Developer REST, Json November 2012 to December 2014 Responsibilities:  • Used Python and Django to interface with the jQuery UI and manage the storage and deletion of content.  • Worked extensively with Bootstrap, Java script, and query to optimize the user experience.  • Handled all the client-side validation using JavaScript.  • Created a custom CMS built using Django, AWS (Amazon web service), REST, Json with JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX components, worked closely with designer. Converted Photoshop images into XHTML/CSS.  • Rewrite existingPython/Django modules to deliver certain format of data  • Used Django Database API's to access database objects.  • Wrote pythonscripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL.  • Used AWstat and Google Analytics to analyze web traffic.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Created scripts for system administration and AWS using languages such as BASH and Python.  • Design, develop, test, deploy and maintain the website.  • Used Selenium Library to write fully functioning test automation process that allowed the simulation of submitting different we requests from multiple browser to web application.  • Involved in development of Web Services using SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface in the XML format.  • Participated in entire lifecycle of the projects including Design, Development, and Deployment, Testing and Implementation and support.  • Participated in the complete SDLC process.  • Responsible for debugging the project monitored on JIRA (Agile).  • Used JQuery for all client-side Java script manipulation.  • Scalable, database-driven web application development using a variety of frameworks: ASP.NET on C#, Flask on Python, and PHP.  • Created unit test/regression test framework for working/new code.  • Implemented multiple high-performance MongoDB replica sets on EC2 with robust reliability.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules usingPythonon Django Web Framework.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  • Worked on developing a website for a power company. Used to get energy consumption from various customers to store it into a database. Load the data from database to display on customer accounts. Wrote various python modules to perform back-end operations on the data. Developed graphical interface for users to display in their accounts.  • Used Python's pandas and matplotlib libraries to conduct data exploration and visualization of electricity consumption data  • Created Python scripts for analyzing large quantities of data  • Maintained detailed databases of energy storage projects and country-specific energy policies  • Generated Python Django Forms to record data, login, and signup of users  • Built various graphs for business decision making using Python matplotlib library.  • Utilized standard Python modules such as csv, itertools and pickle for development.  • Worked on Python OpenStack APIs and used Numpy for Numerical analysis.  • Responsible for search engine optimization to improve the visibility of the website.  • Performed different testing methods like Unit testing, Integration testing, web application testing.  • Developed efficient Angular.js for client web based application.