Sr. Python Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Python Developer - RESTful Web Service OH • Having over 6 years of experience as a Python Developer with proficiency in Design & Development of Python 2.7, Django(full stack developer).  • Worked with team of developers on Python applications for RISK management.  • Used Pandas for a data alignment and data manipulation.  • Designed and developed reusable Autosys jobs parsing and documentation software in Python using object oriented features  • Worked in Python Integrated Development Environments like NetBeans, PyCharm, PyScripter, Spyder, PyStudio, PyDev and Sublime Text.  • Worked on automating the weekly data archive jobs using autosys.  • Having experience in .Net development, encompassing analysis, design, development and execution of business applications in N-Tier and SOA architectures.  • Used Pandas API to put the data as time series and tabular format for east timestamp data manipulation and retrieval.  • Developed Real-time messaging system for new payment framework for Linux, UNIX (HP), AIX OS platforms.  • Used Autosys version control tool for concurrent and simultaneous operations  • Expertize in developing web based applications using ASP.NET, C#, .NET, ADO.NET, Entity Framework, VB. Net, Silverlight, Javascript, Jquery, WCF, LINQ, JSON, Bootstrap, Angular JS, MSEL, HTML5, CSS, CSS3, XML, XSL, XSLT.  • Scheduled Sybase stored procedures using Autosys  • Worked in UI development for market risk analysis using Quartz a Python framework  • Have good exposure in LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, and Python) Architecture  • Had used Pandas API to put the data as time series and tabular format for east timestamp data manipulation and retrieval.  • Responsible for analysis, design, development and integration of Market Risk applications with FLEX/JAVA/ PYTHON.  • Having experience in NoSQL databases like Apache Cassandra (1.2, 2.0, and 2.1) and MongoDB (2.6, 2.4), Orient DB.  • Used Pandas library for statistical Analysis using R Studio  • Involved in Developing a Restful API'S service using Python Flask framework.  • Having experience with configuration management and related tools like Puppet.  • Written SOAP and RESTFul web services, in house ESB for a web Claims applications (Spring MVC, Angular JS, ActiveMQ, SOAP UI, Mockito, JSON, Buildforge).  • Created Autosys jobs as per requirement, maintained the existing scripts and administrated the Autosys entries  • Created the routing logic by using Controller in ASP.NET MVC and Entity Framework.  • Worked onpython based test frameworks and test driven development with automation tools.  • Involved in UIS system design ( Python Object Oriented Design approach, developing various modules/packages/utilities, e.g.: Cryptography - Encryption/Hashing, Foundation Utilities, Personal management, error/exception management etc.).  • Used Autosys for the batch scheduling in UNIX.  • Used Python, Perl, CGI, JQuery, JavaScript and JSON at the front end.  • Performed efficient delivery of code based on principles of Test Driven Development(TDD) and continuous integration to keep in line with Agile Software Methodology principles  • Used python to extract weekly hotel availability information from XML files.  • Exposure in working for developing a portal to manage and entities in a content management system using Flask  • Wrote AJAX framework to transform Datasets and Data tables into HTTP-serializable JSON strings.  • Used the Django Framework to develop the application.  • Developed a fully automated continuous integration system using Git, Gerrit, Jenkins, MySQL and custom tools developed in Python and Bash.  • Developed many KSH and Autosys based deployment and monitoring scripts.  • Having experience in managing MongoDB environment from availability, performance and scalability perspectives.  • Created ASP.NET web services using WSDL and SOAP for interacting with other sub systems and to access Reports, Forms and Notices.  • Extensively used python modules such as requests, urllib, urllib2 for web crawling.  • Used Pandas library for statistics Analysis &Numpy for Numerical analysis.  • Involved in Managing large datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL.  • Developed GUI using webapp2 for dynamically displaying the test block documentation and other features of python code using a web browser.  • Used python libraries like Beautiful Soup and matplotlib.  • Utilized standard Python modules such as csv, robotparser, itertools and pickle for development.  • Worked on Python OpenStack APIs and used Numpy for Numerical analysis. Work Experience Sr. Python Developer RESTful Web Service - Cleveland, OH March 2015 to Present Responsibilities:  • Involved in the development of front end of the application using PHP, Python 2.7, HTML5, CSS3, AJAX, JSON and Jquery.  • Involved in automated conversion process of Autosys and Cron batch cycles to Control-M utilizing Perl and Excel.  • Managed datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL, queried MYSQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector and MYSQLdb package to retrieve information.  • Having good experience with Amazon Cloud EC2, Simple Storage Service S3 and Amazon SQS.  • Designed and maintained databases using Python and developed Python based API (RESTful Web Service) using Flask, SQL Alchemy and PostgreSQL.  • Good experience in Python, Flask, Django, Pyramid Framework. Knowledge of Pandas, Numpy, Scipy.  • Developed the application Framework in ASP.NET 3.5 primarily using C#.NET with the business logic implemented using .Net Assemblies.  • Involved in the Complete Software development life cycle (SDLC) to develop the application.  • Involved in UI refactoring that involves extensive use of Ajax.  • Added support for Amazon AWS S3 and RDS to host static/media files and the database into Amazon Cloud and used Pandas library for statistical analysis.  • Worked on backend of the application, mainly using Active Records.  • Good exposure in building CMS using tool Saas.  • Written code to access secure web service using .NET, Web form using C# and ASP.Net MVC, WSDL, Proxy Class, XML/SOAP.  • Implemented Python script (Pandas, Numpy, xlrd) to combine, migrate and transpose excel files  • Have good exposure in LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, and Python) Architecture and in WAMP (Windows, Apache, MYSQL, and Python/PHP)  • Worked on ASP.NET MVC Architecture using Ajax and Ajax toolkit.  • Designed and developed rich user interfaces with C#, ASP.NET, HTML, CSS, Ajax and JavaScript.  • Hands-on experience in Python scripting, Python STL, Django, UI and web development.  • Analyzed the code completely and have reduced the code redundancy to the optimal level  • Develop programs to automate the testing of RAID controller firmware and utilities using Python 2.7, Java, Bash script, Windows command line, AutoIt, AutoHotKey.  • Involved in designing and developings reusable Autosys jobs parsing and documentation software in Python using object oriented features  • Experienced in NoSQL technologies like MongoDB, Cassandra and relational databases like Oracle, SQLite, PostgreSQL, Dynamo DB and MySQL databases.  • Involved in the development ORM Queries.  • Involved in bug fixing and code review of the application using ASP.Net, C#, ADO.Net, Sybase.  • Having experienced in Agile Methodologies, Scrum stories and sprints experience in a Python based environment, along with data analytics, data wrangling and Excel data extracts  • Graphical data representation using Numpy, SciPy, Pandas, Pygal  • Used Test driven approach (TDD) for developing services required for the application.  • Exported Test case Scripts and modified the selenium scripts and executed in Selenium RC environment.  • Developed consumer based features and applications using Python, Django, HTML, Behavior Driven Development (BDD) and pair based programming.  • Having strong experience in Big data technologies including Apache Spark, Hadoop, HDFS, Hive, Cassandra, MongoDB.  • Experienced with batch processing of data sources using Apache Spark.  • Good working experience in processing large datasets with Spark using Scala and Pyspark.  • Used Pandas library for statistical Analysis.  • Worked on JavaScript MVC Framework like Angular.JS.    Environment: Python 2.6/2.7, Django 1.5, HTML5/CSS, CSS Bootstrap, Pyramid, MySQL, MS SQL, T-SQL, Jasper Reports, JavaScript, Eclipse, Git, Linux, Shell Scripting, Autosys, Putty, Mercury Quality Center Python Developer West Interactive - Omaha, NE October 2013 to February 2015 Responsibilities:  • Worked extensively on the Python based proprietary framework Quartz.  • Worked in the devops team, delivered new agile environments & build/release/configuration and deployment automation/monitoring using Jenkins, ant, maven, artifactory, chef, custom scripting and Jira for ticketing.  • Used Pandas library for statistics Analysis.  • Developed web pages using ASP. Net, C#, HTML, CSS, AJAX, Java Script, JQuery and IIS. Used ADO.NET Enterprise Library to connect with SQL Server Database.  • Worked on implementing GUI using PyQt in Python, REST & JSON.  • I was also involved in working in database management using autosys.  • Designed and developed a horizontally scalable APIs using Python Flask.  • Developed POC replacing Tibco BE with Cassandra and spark streaming using AWS.  • Generated data frames using Pandas from JSON response for customizing the CSV output.  • Developed service class in WCF service using ADO.Net for database connectivity with SQL Server 2012.  • Performed efficient delivery of code based on principles of Test Driven Development (TDD) and continuous integration to keep in line with Agile Software Methodology principles.  • Involved in back end development using Python with framework Flask  • Utilized Pandas - python library for analyzing data and data structures.  • Implemented and consumed Task Schedulers for scheduling job priority while distributing data and map/reduce functions over Grid.  • Autosys is something which is  • Created time sensitive scripts to parse to large sets of serialized, unstructured data objects (30 Million), filtering and reducing data into functional reports.  • Involved in data analysis with Visualization and Machine Learning Algorithms using Numpy Pandas Matplotlib.  • Design and implement integration components using ASP.NET (C#) and JavaScript, using latest industry standards and best practices. Design and implement Restful API layer along with calls to consume an API layer.  • Involved in environment, code installation as well as the SVN implementation.  • Used standard Python modules e.g. csv, robotparser, itertools, pickle, jinja2, lxml for development.  • Created modules to transform incoming XML trade data into trade objects, parse trade data and create outbound FPML (Financial Products Markup Language) sent to DTCC repositories.  • Trained extensively in Agile methodologies and implemented by participating in scrum standups.  • Developed and tested many features for dashboard using Python, ROBOT framework, Bootstrap, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Used JavaScript and XML to update a portion of a webpage and Node.js for server side interaction.  • Implemented web applications in Flask and Spring frame works following MVC architecture.  • Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL dB package.  • Built various graphs for business decision making using Python matplotlib library.  • Converted Visual basic Application to Python, MSQL.  • Used python scripts to update content in the database and manipulate files.  • Developed API modularizing existing python module with the help of pyyaml libraries.  • Developed GUI using webapp2 for dynamically displaying the test block documentation and other features of python code using a web browser.    Environment: Python, Bugzilla, SVN, C#, Linux, Shell, File handling, SSH, UNIX, Pandas. Python Developer BeautifulSoup - New York, NY March 2011 to September 2013 Responsibilities:  • Involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) such as requirements gathering, modelling, analysis, design and development.  • Generated Use case diagrams, Activity flow diagrams, Class diagrams and Object diagrams in the design phase.  • Designed 3-Tier system having Business Logic Layer (C#.NET), Presentation Layer and Database Layer  • Used Pandas API to put the data as time series and tabular format for east timestamp data manipulation and retrieval.  • Worked on the modules implementing the business logic in C#.NET.  • Responsible for entire data migration from Sybase ASE server to Oracle  • Learned and used various Python libraries such as Scrapy, Pandas, BeautifulSoup to collect and extract data.  • Migration of the PL/SQL code from Sybase to Oracle.  • Migration of the data contained in the earlier ASPL Database from Sybase to Oracle.  • Migrate the Libraries written using Sybase API's to Oracle's OCCI API's  • Implemented design patterns and the entire backend of the application in C#.Net, using various object oriented features like Encapsulation, inheritance, polymorphism and Abstraction.  • Environment: Python 2.7, Shell scripting, PL/SQL, SVN, Quality Centre, Solaris, Windows, Perl.  • Used Django framework for application development.  • Having hands on experience in data processing automation using python.  • Having hands on experience in SQL and PL/SQL and writing stored procedures.  • Having good Knowledge Objected Oriented Concepts, Data Structures and Design patterns. Skills django (6 years), mongodb (6 years), Ajax (6 years), css, css (6 years), javascript (6 years), selenium (6 years), testing (6 years) Additional Information Technical Skills:    Programming Languages: Python 3.3/2.7, Django 1.4/1.3, Flask, Java, C++, Shell Script, SQL, Java/J2EE, PyJamas, Jython, IronPython, Cpython.  Web Technologies: AJAX, JavaScript, HTML, DHTML, XHTML, XML, JSON, Jquery, Angular Js.  Database: MySQL, SQL Server, Oracle 11g.  Operating systems: Windows XP, Win 7, 8.1, 10, Linux, OS X.  Methodologies: Agile, V Model, Waterfall, Hybrid,scrum.  Versioning Tools: Git, Heroku Git  Web servers: Apache, Tomcat, Nginx  Framework: Django, Flask, web.py  Other Tools: Pycharm IDE, Putty, SQL developer, JIRA.