Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - Century Bank Sharon, MA ? Around 6+ years of experience as a Python Developer, proficient coder in multiple languages and experience in Design, Development, Implementation of Python, Django, Flask client-server technologies-based applications, RESTful services, AWS, C, C++, JAVA and SQL.  ? Experience in all phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC)-Waterfall, agile Process across various workflows (Requirement study, Analysis, Design, Coding, Testing, Deployment and Maintenance) in Web & Client/Server application development.  ? Experience object-oriented programming (OOP) concepts using Python, and C++.  ? Extensive experience in developing web applications using Python, Django, Flask frameworks.  ? Experience in working with several python libraries including Beautiful soup, NumPy, matplotlib, SciPy, PyQt, Scapy, SQLAlchemy.  ? Good experience in developing web applications implementing MVT architecture using Django, Flask, Webapp2 web application frameworks, with good understanding of Django ORM and SQLAlchemy.  ? Hands-on experience with industry-standard IDEs like PyCharm, Sublime, NetBeans.  ? Extensive experience in developing applications by implementation of web based and client/server application using HTML, Angular JS, Node JS, CSS, JavaScript, and various Java/J2EE technologies.  ? Good experience in Shell Scripting, Oracle RDBMS, SQL Server, UNIX and Linux.  ? Good knowledge of TCP/IP, UDP, HTTP, HTTPS, SSH and SSL protocols.  ? Expert at version control systems like Git, SVN and CVS, Migrated repos from SVN to Github.  ? Proficient in writing SQL Queries, Stored procedures, functions, packages, tables, views, triggers using relational databases like Oracle, MSSQL Server.  ? Experience in working with various Version Control systems like CVS, Git, Git Hub etc, Build Automation tools such as Maven, and Continuous Integration Tools such as Jenkins.  ? Experience with source code testing frameworks like Robot, PyUnit.  ? Good experience in working with Amazon Web Services (AWS) like AWS EC2, S3, VPC, SES, ELB, EBS, RDS, Glacier, DynamoDB etc.  ? Good knowledge on C, C++ languages including threads, templates, Encapsulation, Abstraction, Polymorphism and OO concepts.  ? Experienced in developing web services (WSDL, SOAP and REST) and consuming web services with Python programming language.  ? Hands on experience with bug tracking tools JIRA and Bugzilla.  ? Experience in Agile development processes ensuring rapid and highquality software delivery  ? Highly motivated, quality minded developer, with proven ability to deliver applications against tight deadlines. Work Experience Python Developer Century Bank - Somerville, MA June 2017 to December 2018 Responsibilities:  * Gathering requirements and translating the business details into Technical design.  * Implemented responsive user interface and standards throughout the development and maintenance of the website using the HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery.  * Developed views and templates with Python and Django's to create a user-friendly website interface.  * Utilized Python libraries like wxPython, NumPy, SciPy, Web2py.  * Designed RESTful Webservices using FLASK, with emphasis on improved Security for the service using FLASK-HTTPAuth with HTTPS.  * Wrote and executed various MySQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL DB package.  * Development of Python APIs to dump the array structures in the Processor at the failure point for debugging.  * Creating RESTful web services for Catalog and Pricing with Django MVT, MySQL, and MongoDB.  * Collaborated within a team using an agile development workflow and widely-accepted collaboration practices using Git.  * Developed a fully automated continuous integration system using Git, Jenkins, MySQL and custom tools developed in Python and Bash.  * Implemented Multithreading module and complex networking operations like raceroute, SMTP mail server and web server Using Python.  * Automated RabbitMQ cluster installations and configuration using Python/Bash.  * Written test cases using PyUnit and Selenium Automation testing for better manipulation of test scripts.  * Used automation Jenkins for continuous integration on Amazon EC2.  * Used JIRA for Bug tracking and issue tracking.  * Worked as part of an Agile/Scrum based development team and exposed to TDD approach in developing applications.    Environment: Python, Django, CherryPy, HTML5, CSS, Bootstrap, JSON, JavaScript, AJAX, RESTful webservice, MySQL, SQLite, Cassandra, AWS (EC2, S3), PyUnit, Karma, Jenkins, Selenium. Python Developer Bouvier Insurance - West Hartford, CT February 2016 to May 2017 Responsibilities:  * Involved in the project life cycle including design, development and implementation and verification and validation  * Created a Python/Django based web application using Python scripting for data processing, MySQL for the database, and HTML/CSS/JQuery and HighCharts, matplotlib for data visualization of sales, tracking progress, identifying trends.  * Fetched twitter feeds for certain important keyword using python-twitter library (Tweepy), Used JSON to store the twitter data which was further represented using matplotlib visualization and generated graphical reports for business decision using matplotlib library.  * Participate in the design, build and deployment of NoSQL implementations like MongoDB.  * Added support for Amazon AWS S3 and RDS to host static/media files and the database into Amazon Cloud.  * Extensive code reviewing using GitHub pull requests, improved code quality, also conducted meetings among Team.  * Developed server-based web traffic using RESTful API's statistical analysis tool using Flask, Pandas.  * Wrote PL/SQL views, Stored Procedures, database triggers & Packages.  * Enhanced by adding Python XML SOAP request/response handlers to add accounts, modify trades and security updates.  * Recording of Scripts Web Services HTML using Vugen and SoapUI and script validation through co correlations, parameterizations and other methods.  * Worked with RDBMS like Oracle 11g/10i and MySQL databases to query and read data.  * Developed various Python scripts to find vulnerabilities with SQL Queries by doing SQL injection, permission checks and performance analysis.  * Developed scripts to migrate data from proprietary database to PostgreSQL.  * Created backend database T-SQL stored procedures and Jasper Reports.  * Performed Unit testing, Integration Testing, GUI testing using Pytest and web application testing using Selenium Python bindings.  * Logged user stories and acceptance criteria in JIRA for features by evaluating output requirements and formats.    Environment: Python, Django, HTML5, CSS, Bootstrap, JQuery, JSON, JavaScript, PostgreSQL, T-SQL, MongoDB, SoapUI, MySQL, Amazon AWS S3, Bugzilla, JIRA. Python Developer Minerva Soft, India - IN March 2012 to December 2015 Responsibilities:  ? Used UML Rational Rose to develop Use-case, Class and Object diagrams for OOA/OOD techniques.  ? Built database Model, Views and API's using Python for interactive web based solutions.  ? Placed data into JSON files using Python to test Django websites.  ? Used Python scripts to update the content in database and manipulate files.  ? Developed web based application using Django framework with python concepts.  ? Generated Python Django forms to maintain the record of online users.  ? Used Django API's to access the database.  ? Involved in Python OOP code for quality, logging, monitoring, and debugging code optimization.  ? Developed tools to automate some base tasks using Python, Shell scripting and XML.  ? Used Python and Django to interface with the JQuery UI and manage the storage and deletion of content.  ? Used Test driven approach for developing the application and Implemented the unit tests using Python Unit test framework.  ? Designed dynamic client-side JavaScript codes to build web forms and simulate process for web application, page navigation and form validation.  ? Involved in writing and modifying procedure, Queries, Views and Triggers and called them from JavaScript using the local application framework.  ? Used Angular.JS built-in directives, custom directives and services for developing interceptor and complex UI data table grids.  ? Created Angular.JS controllers, services and used Angular.JS filters for filter functionality in search box and integrator functionalities.  ? Develop applications that use MongoDB database, and Oracle.  ? Wrote Python code embedded with JSON and XML to produce HTTP GET request, parsing HTML data from websites.  ? Wrote Python code to simplify lists in Python with list comprehension and Python OOP. Worked with POSTMAN for API testing. Developed REST APIs, and created User Model for application.  ? Developed RESTful service interface using Spring MVC to the underlying customer event API.  ? Worked on development of Hibernate, including mapping files, configuration file and classes to interact with the database.  ? Developed remote integration with third party platforms by using RESTful web services.  ? Wrote Python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  ? Generated property list for every application dynamically using Python.    Environment: Python, Django, XML, Java, Apache, CSS, MySQL, JSON, DHTML, HTML, JavaScript, Shell Scripts, agile, Restfull, UNIX, MongoDB, Linux, APIs, Git, Scrum, Spring, MongoDB, SOAP Education Bachelor's Skills Javascript