Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - Sai Technology, Santa Clara-CA Santa Clara, CA • 5+ years of experience as a Web/Application Developer with a deep understanding of technology trends with expertise in the core of complex technologies. Solid experience in analysis, design, and development, testing, implementation and maintenance of various web applications using Python and Django  • Experience in application development using PYTHON, Django, HTML5, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, Oracle, MySQL, PostgreSQL and SQLite.  • Experienced in working with various Python IDE's using PyCharm, PyScripter, Spyder, PyStudio, and PyDev.  • Hands on Experience with the implementation of Python libraries NumPy, SciPy, PyTables, SQL Alchemy, Matplotlib, Pandas, Beautiful Soup and urllib in various tasks.  • Strong knowledge of Object Oriented Design and Programming concepts and Experience in Object Oriented Programming (OOP) concepts using Python, C++.  • Worked on Cloud Computing AWS - EC2, RDS, S3, Glacier, SQS, SNS, Cloud Formation, VPC, IAM, Route 53, EBS, DynamoDB, Lambada, Redshift  • Experienced in Working on Big Data Integration and Analytics based on Hadoop, Spark and No-SQL databases like HBase and MongoDB.  • Expertise in client scripting language and server side scripting languages like JavaScript, jQuery, Node.js, Underscore.js, Express.js, React.js, Angular.js, Angular2, bcrypt.js, Crypto.js, Backbone.js, Require.js, Ext JS.  • Experience in end to end design and deploy rich Graphic visualizations with Drill Down and Drop down menu option and Parameterized using Tableau.  • Hands on experience in Agile Methodologies, Scrum stories and sprints experience in a Python based environment.  • Experience in developing Web Services with Python programming language.  • Experience in using Design Patterns such as MVC, Singleton and frameworks such as DJANGO.  • Experience in writing Subqueries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on MySQL and PostgreSQL database.  • Basic knowledge on Rest API and JSON Parsing, jQuery and AngularJS  • Experience in Shell Scripting, SQL Server, Unix and Linux.  • Developed consumer-based features and applications using Python, Django, HTML, Behavior Driven Development (BDD) and pair-based programming.  • Good knowledge on front-end frameworks like CSS Bootstrap.  • Good knowledge of Apache server, Apache Server Tomcat, and Web logic.  • Experience in designing the automation framework using Shell scripting.  • Experience in writing test plans, test cases, test specifications and test coverage.  • Worked on analyzing Hadoop distribution (HDP) and different Big Data analytic tools including Hive, and Sqoop.  • Experience on Hadoop (HDFS), Hive QL, Impala, Apache Drill, Apache Spark, SQOOP, FLUME/Kafka.  • Experience with Version Control with SVN, CVS, and GIT.  • Wrote AJAX framework to transform Datasets and Data tables into HTTP-serializable JSON strings.  • Experience in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on MySQL, PostgreSQL, Oracle and MongoDB. Designed and Developed automation scripts using Selenium Web Driver.  • Experienced in working with different operating systems like Windows, Ubuntu, Linux and UNIX.  • Experience in implementing PEP8 coding standards.  • Experienced in installing, configuring, modifying, testing and deploying applications with Apache.  • Experience in developing big data applications using Hadoop framework and its eco systems like MapReduce.  • Designed and implemented Hive and Pig UDF's using Python for evaluation, filtering and storing of data.  • Developed the required XML Schema documents and implemented the framework for parsing XML documents.  • Developed and designed e-mail marketing campaigns using HTML, JavaScript and CSS.  • Excellent interpersonal and communication skills, efficient time management and organization skills, ability to handle multiple tasks and work well in a team environment. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Developer Sai Technology, Santa Clara-CA February 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Responsible for gathering requirements, system analysis, design, development, testing and deployment.  • Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks. Interfacing with supervisors, artists, systems administrators, and production to ensure production deadlines are met.  • Responsible for setting up Python REST API framework using Django.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Developed web applications in Django Framework's model view control (MVC) architecture.  • Used Python to write data into JSON files for testing Django Websites. Created scripts for data modelling and data import and export.  • Used JQuery and AJAX calls for transmitting JSON data objects between frontend and controllers.  • Involved in building database Model, APIs and Views utilizing Python, in order to build an interactive web based solution.  • Used object-relational mapper (ORM) to automate the transfer of data stored in relational databases tables into objects.  • Used Python based GUI components for the front-end functionality such as selection criteria.  • Created test harness to enable comprehensive testing utilizing Python.  • Used Amazon Web Services (AWS) for improved efficiency of storage and fast access.  • Added support for Amazon AWS S3 and RDS to host static/media files and the database into Amazon Cloud.  • Created Data tables utilizing PyQt to display customer and policy information and add, delete, update customer records.  • Used PyQuery for selecting DOM elements when parsing HTML.  • Created Business Logic using Python to create Planning and Tracking functions.  • Created UI Screens for initiation and validation.  • Worked on UI using HTML5, CSS3 and JavaScript's.  • Developed multi-threaded standalone app in Python and PHP to view performance.  • Performed data extraction and manipulation over large relational datasets using SQL, Python, and other analytical tools.  • Used Python libraries and SQL queries/subqueries to create several datasets which produced statistic statistics, tables, figures, charts and graphs.  • Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks.  • Working in team of Architects and Developers to build and deploy Python Flask Peewee Linux AWS.  • Version control using GitHub.  • Involved in writing stored procedures using MYSQL.  • Interfacing with supervisors, artists, systems administrators and production to ensure production deadlines are met.  Environment: Python 3.x, Django, Shell Scripting, AWS, Pandas, PyQt, PyQuery, Flash, DOM, JSON, PHP, HTML5, CSS3, AJAX, JavaScript, Bootstrap, Apache Web Server, MYSQL, GitHub, LINUX. Python Developer NewView, Inc July 2017 to February 2018 Responsibilities:  • Involved in analysis, specification, design, and implementation and testing phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) and used agile methodology for developing application.  • Interacted with the client end-users during requirements gathering sessions  • Upgraded existing UI with HTML, CSS, jQuery and Bootstrap.  • Working as an application developer experienced with controllers, views and models in Django.  • Implemented Business logic, worked on data exchange, processed XML and HTML using python 2.7 and its familiar framework Django  • Restful web services using Python REST API Framework.  • Developed Application to access JSON and XML from Restful, WebServices from consumer side using JavaScript and Angular.JS  • Used AWS Cloud Watch to monitor and store logging information  • Implemented the application using Python Spring IOC (Inversion of Control), Django Framework and handled the security using Python Spring Security.  • Responsible for handling the integration of database systems.  • Used object/relational mapping (ORM) solution, technique of mapping data representation from MVC model to Oracle Relational data model with an SQL-based schema  • Implemented Performance tuning and improved the Performance of Stored Procedures and Queries.  • Installed and configured pyBuilder for application builds and deploying it.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  • Developed object-oriented programming to enhance company product management.  • Wrote unit testing codes using unit test, resolving bugs and other defects using Firebug.  • Used JIRA to assign, track, report and audit the issues.  Environment: Python, Django Web Framework, AWS, HTML, CSS, MySQL, JavaScript, jQuery, Sublime Text, Atom, PyCharm, Jira, GIT, pybuilder, unit test, Firebug, Web Services, HTML5/CSS, XML, JSON, Ajax Python Developer Blackhawk Network - Pleasanton, CA October 2016 to June 2017 Responsibilities:  • Designed and developed customer preferences portal in Python using Django framework.  • Extensive use of Python / Django Framework for developing some backend components.  • Used secured web services for communication and integrations with other enterprise applications.  • Achieved business process automation via applications developed using Git, Gerrit, Jenkins, MySQL and custom tools developed in Python and Bash.  • Used Numpy, Scipy, Matplotlib libraries for n-dimensional representation of data and plotting graphs.  • Analyzed the code completely and have reduced the Python code redundancy to an optimal level.  • Improved the website part of the application using Django, and REST API  • Implemented Ajax calls to get, post, delete REST API calls for upload and delete files.  • Enhanced the design of user interface using Bootstrap framework for Django.  • Worked on writing and as well as read data from CSV, HTML and excel file formats.  • Implemented web scraping using Python's Beautiful Soup library.  • Performed Data framing, Data Analysis, and Data representation using Python Pandas.  • Orchestration of real time data analytics, and batch analytics in SPARK using pyspark module.  • Built python scripts for SparkSQL, to work on database tables for interactive analytics.  • Designed a python script to load transformed data into cloud services (AWS, Azure, and GCP).  • Involved in Sprint planning sessions and participated in the daily Agile SCRUM meetings.  • Conducted every day scrum as part of the SCRUM Master role.  • Wrote python scripts to perform CRUD operations on MySQL database.  • Responsible for debugging the project monitored on JIRA (Agile).  • Involved in unit testing using unit test and Pytest.  • Performed QA testing on the application.  • Worked on Jenkins continuous integration tool for deployment of project. Deployed the project into Jenkins using GIT version control system.  • Held meetings with design team and worked for the entire project with limited help from the design team.  • Automating the deployment of applications as portable, self-sufficient containers that can run on the cloud or on-premises using Docker.  • Helped various teams to deploy the application on AWS.  • Managed Build, Reporting, and documentation using Maven.  • Maintaining release boards in JIRA and ensuring release velocity.  Environment: Python, SparkSQL, MongoDB, Pytest, Pylint, Django REST framework, Bootstrap Framework, AWS, Nodejs, Jenkins, GIT, Zeus, JBOSS, Ruby, MySQL, GCP, Jira, AWS, PEP8. Python Developer Webtrace Software Solution Pvt. Ltd August 2014 to March 2016 Responsibilities:  • Developed Python Django forms to record data and the Login module page for users.  • Designed email marketing campaigns and created interactive forms that saved data into database using Django Framework.  • Worked in Test driven development with Behave in Python.  • Creating Behave scripts using Gherkin syntax.  • Used collections in Python for manipulating and looping through different your defined objects.  • Wrote Python routines to log into the websites and fetch data for selected options.  • Performed efficient delivery of code based on principles of Test Driven Development(TDD) and continuous integration (CI) to keep in line with Agile Software Methodology principles  • Implemented a login module for user, registration of the products, placing the order and tracking the order.  • Created PHP/MySQL back-end for data entry from Flash  • Improving the performance while processing data by modifying functions, queries, cursors, triggers and stored procedures for MySQL database.  • Worked on Unit testing, Integration testing and Web application testing.  • Code review using GitHub, testing, fixing of the bugs and coding modifications.  • Performed research to explore and identify new technological platforms.  • Developed API modularizing existing python module with the help of pyYAML libraries.  • Improved performance by using more modularized approach and using more in built methods.  • Collaborated with internal teams to convert end user feedback into meaningful and improved solutions.  • Performed data manipulation/storage for incoming test data using lxml /etree libraries.  • Embedded AJAX in UI to update small portions of the web page avoiding the need to reload the entire page.  • Wrote unit test cases for testing tools.  • Enhanced existing automated solutions, such as the Inquiry Tool for automated Asset Department reporting and added new features and fixed bugs.  Environment: Python 2.7, Django 1.4, Behave, Puppet Rspec, Jenkins, Grafana/Graphite, MySQL, Linux, HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, CI, JQuery, PHP, JavaScript, Apache, Linux, Git, Perl, Cassandra, Azure Automation cloud services. Programmer Analyst Arraygen Technologies Pvt. Ltd August 2013 to July 2014 Responsibilities:  • Followed Agile Methodologies to manage full life-cycle development of the project.  • Involved in web designing using HTML 4/5, XHTML, CSS 2/3, jQuery, JavaScript extensively used Table Less Design in CSS for positioning.  • Developing applications using RESTFUL architecture using Node.js and PHP as backend languages.  • Writing SOAP and RESTful web services, in house ESB for a web claims application (Spring MVC, AngularJS, Active MQ, SOAP UI, Mockito, JSON, Build forge)  • Develop consumer-based features and applications using Python, Django, HTML, Behavior Driven Development (BDD) and pair-based programming.  • Used Python and Django to interface with the jQuery UI and manage the storage and deletion of content.  • Implemented modules using Core Java APIs, Java collection, Threads, XML, and integrating the modules.  • Developed Reporting framework using JAVA and J2EE which will generate daily, monthly and yearly reports and prepared different framework design documents.  • Created tables, views, Types, triggers, complex join queries, stored procedures, and functions and modifications to existing database structure as required for addition of new features using SQL developer.  • Generated Use case diagrams, Activity flow diagrams, Class diagrams and Object diagrams in the design phase  • Used Java/J2EE Design Patterns such as Business Delegate, Session Facade, singleton in the project extensively, which facilitates clean distribution of roles and responsibilities across various layers of processing.  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL  • Automated several processes by developing Python scripts  • Developed web application using FLASK, Python micro-frame work based MVC design architecture  • Exported/Imported data between different data sources using SQL Server Management Studio.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  Environment: Python, Django, HTML5, CSS, XML, MySQL, JavaScript, jQuery, CSS Bootstrap, MongoDB, T-SQL, JavaScript, Eclipse, Git, GitHub, AWS, Linux, Shell Scripting, SOAP, REST Education Master's Skills DJANGO (4 years), Git (3 years), HTML (4 years), BOOTSTRAP (4 years), PYTHON (4 years) Additional Information Technical Skills:  Languages Python 3.5/2.7, Python with Django, Java, C, SQL, Shell Scripting  Frameworks Django, Flask  Databases Oracle, SQL, SQL Server, Teradata, MongoDB,  Web Technologies AJAX, JSON, JavaScript, PERL, JQuery, HTML, XML, CSS, XSLT, Bootstrap  Web Services SOAP, RESTful  IDES/Tools PyCharm, Sublime Text, Spyder, Emacs, NetBeans, Eclipse  Cloud Platforms Azure, Amazon web services  Operating Systems Linux, Unix, Windows 10, 08, 07, XP  Python Libraries Beautiful Soup, Numpy, SciPy, Matplotlib, Pandas data frame  Version Control Systems Git, GitHub  SDLC Agile methodologies, scrum framework