Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - Duke Energy Charlotte, NC • Around 6+ years of experience as a Web/Application Developer and coding with analytical programming using Python.  • Good Experience with Django, a high - level Python Web framework. Experience object-oriented programming (OOP) concepts using Python, Django, and Linux.  • Experienced in developing web-based applications using Python, Django, C++, XML, CSS, HTML, JavaScript, Angular JS and jQuery.  • Experience object-oriented programming (OOP) concepts using Python, C++, and PHP.  • Experienced in WAMP (Windows, Apache, MYSQL, Python/PHP) and LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, Python/PHP) Architecture.  • Experienced in installing, configuring, modifying, testing, and deploying applications with Apache.  • Understanding of Python Best Practices (PEP-8).  • Well versed with design and development of presentation layer for web applications using technologies like HTML, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Worked on SQL and PL/SQL stored procedures which are used to create access to data and deployed them to Oracle and SQL server databases.  • Familiar with JSON based REST Web services and Amazon Web Services (AWS).  • Experienced in developing Web Services with Python programming language.  • Good experience with Amazon Cloud EC2, Simple Storage Service S3 and Amazon SQS.  • Experience in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on MySQL and PostgreSQL database.  • Worked in agile and waterfall methodologies with high quality deliverables delivered on-time.  • Maintained detailed documentation and architectural solutions in IT infrastructure and sales systems.  • Experience with continuous integration and automation using Jenkins.  • Experience with Unit Testing/ Test Driven Development (TDD), Load Testing.  • Wrote Unit Tests and maintained PEP8 code.  • Developed a data migration feature using File Compression.  • Developed the required XML Schema documents and implemented the framework for parsing XML documents.  • Implemented automation script using Crontab in python to run the web crawler.  • Designed test systems and integrate LabView automation with hardware test methods.  • Worked in Leveraging our offshore delivery infrastructure and our global network of sales and service offices.  • Experience in Infrastructure Development and Operations involving AWS Cloud platforms.  • Worked on AJAX framework to transform Datasets and Data tables into HTTP-serializable JSON strings.  • Practical experience with working on multiple environments like development, testing, production.  • Good experience with Unix, Linux scripting/unit testing/Load testing, Performance stress/endurance testing and Integration Testing; tools and frameworks- Junit, PyUnit, HP VUGEN LoadRunner, Selenium Web driver, Controller, Dynatrace, Performance Center, QC, JIRA. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Developer Duke Energy - Charlotte, NC August 2017 to Present Python Developer Utilize SVN and Review Board May 2015 to July 2017 Responsibilities.  • Designed and Developed User Interface using front-end technologies like HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, AngularJS, Bootstrap and JSON.  • Worked with marketing company to build several Django, Pyramid, Flask and CherryPy applications.  • Worked on Django API's for accessing the database.  • Developed Views and Templates with Python and using Django's view controller and template language, Website interface is created.  • Knowledge in PIP in working with Software packages.  • Utilize SVN and Review Board for version control, pep8 styling, and potential bugs Designed and created backend data access modules using PL/SQL stored procedures and Oracle.  • Good experience in writing SQL Queries and implementing stored procedures, functions, packages, tables, views, Cursors, triggers.  • Involved and played a leading role in database migration projects from Oracle to MongoDB, Cassandra, CouchDB databases based on my custom software. experience in using collections in Python for manipulating and looping through different user defined objects.  • Developed and executed User Acceptance Testing portion of test plan.  • Generated Python Django forms to record data of online users and used PyTest for writing test cases.  • Involved in capturing the requirements for serial functional interface and other software requirements specification document.  • Used many regular expressions to match the pattern with the existing one.  • Monitoring and optimizing the database performance through database tuning, system tuning, application/SQL tuning.  • Involved in developing a video calling application using python web-sockets.  • Exposure to automation in Ansible using its Python API.  • Building and supporting libraries in the test automation infrastructure.  • Skilled in using collections in Python for manipulating and looping through different user defined objects.  • Worked on development of SQL and stored procedures on MYSQL.  • Worked on Oracle 12C Grid Control including monitoring/setup and performance tuning purposes.  • Used Maven to validate, compile and deploy the files.  • Backup and restoration process in Solaris.  • Have hands on experience on EMC commands for AIX, which we use in our environment.  • Experience in working with Video Conference Solutions.  • Responsible for generating and delivering the complete test status reports.  • Generated Python Django Forms to record data of online users.  • Created PHP/MySQL back-end for data entry from Flash.  • Developed monitoring and notification tools using Python.  • Wrote Python routines to log into the websites and fetch data for selected options.  • Handled all the client-side validation using JavaScript  Environment: Python, MySQL, Django, Flask, PHP, XML, HTML, DHTML, CSS, Angular JS, Java script, Windows, Linux  Virtu Financial  Python Developer  May 2015 - July 2017 Python Developer Cardinal Health - Dublin, OH October 2012 to April 2015 Responsibilities:  • Responsible for SDLC process in gathering requirements, system analysis, design, development, testing and deployment.  • Designed the front-end applications, user interactive (UI) web pages using web technologies like HTML, XHTML, CSS, JavaScript and jQuery.  • Work with team of developers on python applications for RISK management.  • Design, develop, test, deploy and maintain the website.  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL.  • Rewrite existing Python/Django modules to deliver certain format of data.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  • Using Subversion control tool to coordinate team-development.  • Used Django Database API's to access database objects.  • Developed server-based web traffic statistical analysis tool using Flask, Pandas.  • Wrote python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Handled all the client-side validation using JavaScript.  • Automated the existing scripts for performance calculations using NumPy and sql alchemy.  • Used jQuery for all client-side JavaScript manipulation.  • Created unit test/regression test framework for working/new code  • Created a Python based GUI application for Freight Tracking and processing  • Used Django framework for application development.  • Created database using MySQL, wrote several queries to extract data from database.  • Wrote scripts in Python for extracting data from HTML file.  • Effectively communicated with the external vendors to resolve queries.  • Used Perforce for the version control.  • Worked in development of applications especially in UNIX environment and familiar with all commands.  Environment: Python, Django, HTML5, CSS, XML, MySQL, JavaScript, Angular JS, Bugzilla, JQuery, CSS Bootstrap, Mongo DB, MS SQL Server, Eclipse, Git, GitHub, Linux, Shell Scripting  Cardinal Health - Dublin, OH  Python Developer  Oct 2012-April 2015 Education Bachelor's