Sr. Python Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Python Developer - Aetna Hartford, CT • 6 years of experience as a Python Developer, proficient coder in multiple languages and environments including Python, REST Api, AWS, C, C++ and SQL.  • Expertise with software development in Python and IDEs - Sublime text, PyCharm, Eclipse PyDev and web application development using Python [ ] Django 1.9, Flask, MongoDB, JavaScript, AJAX, HTML, XML and template languages.  • Experienced in NoSQL technologies like MongoDB, Cassandra and relational databases like Oracle, SQLite, PostgreSQL, Dynamo DB and MySQL databases.  • Experience in leading multiple efforts to build Hadoop platforms, maximizing business value by combining data science with big data.  • Experience in NoSQL databases like Apache Cassandra (1.2, 2.0, and 2.1) and MongoDB (2.6, 2.4), Orient DB and Experienced in WAMP (Windows, Apache, MYSQL, and Python) Architecture.  • Experience in implementing python alongside using various libraries such as mat plotlib for charts and graphs, MySQL db for database connectivity, python-twitter, PySide, Pickle, Pandas data frame, network, urllib2.  • Experienced in developing web-based applications using Python, Django, PHP, C++, XML, CSS, HTML, DHTML, JavaScript and Jquery.  • Experienced in Requirement gathering, Use case development, Business Process flow, Business Process Modeling: extensively used UML to develop various use cases, class diagrams and sequence diagrams.  • Experienced in WAMP (Windows, Apache, MYSQL, Python /PHP) and LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, and Python) Architecture and Experienced in installing, configuring, modifying, testing and deploying applications with Apache.  • Experienced in agile and waterfall methodologies with high quality deliverables delivered on-time and Experience in utilizing SAS Procedures, Macros, and other SAS application for data extraction, data cleansing, data loading and reporting.  • Experience in Assisting and monitoring the business strategies and requirements of the company Experienced in installing, configuring, modifying, testing and deploying applications with Apache.  • Experience in working on Application Servers like Web Sphere, Web Logic, Tomcat, Web Servers like Apache Server, NGINX and Integrated Development Environments like PyCharm, Eclipse, My Eclipse, J Developer and RAD.  • Experienced in developing Web Services with Python programming language and Experience in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on MySQL and PostgreSQL database.  • Experienced with full software development life cycle, architecting scalable platforms, object oriented programming, database design and agile methodologies  • Designed and implemented large scale business critical systems using Object oriented design and Programming concepts using Python and Django.  • Deployed production site using Apache 2.2 with mod Python and started developing with Django 1.3 beta and currently developing with Django 1.9 and Very strong experience in writing API's and Web Services in Python.  • Good experience in developing web applications and implementing Model View Control (MVC) architecture using server side applications like Django, Flask and Pyramid.  • Proficient in developing complex SQL queries, Stored Procedures, Functions, Packages along with performing DDL and DML operations on the database.  • Hands on Experience in Data mining and Data warehousing using ETL Tools and Proficient in Building reports and dashboards in Tableau (BI Tool)  • Maintained detailed documentation and architectural solutions in IT infrastructure and sales systems and Very strong full life cycle application development experience.  • Responsible for SW product quality by ensuring by conducting code reviews, coding standards are met, using industry best practices, and using static analysis tools.  • Excellent working knowledge in UNIX and Linux shell environments using command line utilities.  • Hands on experience working in WAMP (Windows, Apache, MYSQL, and Python/PHP) and LAMP (Linux, Apache, My SQL, and Python/PHP) Architecture and Experience working in both water fall and Agile software methodologies.  • Highly motivated, quality minded developer, with proven ability to deliver applications against tight deadlines.  • Familiarity with development best practices such as code reviews, unit testing, system integration testing (SIT) and user acceptance testing (UAT)  • Well versed with design and development of presentation layer for web applications using technologies like HTML, CSS, and JavaScript and Familiar with JSON based REST Web services and Amazon Web services.  • Worked closely with software developers and DevOps to debug software and system problems  • Utilized continuous integration and automated deployments with Jenkins, Ansible and Docker Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Python Developer Aetna - Hartford, CT February 2015 to Present Responsibilities:  • Django Framework that was used in developing web applications to implement the model view control architecture.  • Exposure on Multi-Threading factory to distribute learning process back-testing and the into various worker processes and Experience with continuous integration and automation using Jenkins.  • Design and implemented custom scripts. Extensive use of version controller Team Foundation Server (TFS)  • Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes of the two main applications that were a main source of data for both customers and internal customer service team  • Used Pandas library for statistics Analysis. Used Numpy for Numerical analysis for Insurance premium and Managed large datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL.  • To provide automation, used Configuration Management Tool, Chef and Integrate the dynamic pages with Angular JS and j-query to make the pages dynamic.  • Responsible for user validations on client side as well as server side. Work with DNS to map the website to its IP address and Automated the existing scripts for performance calculations using Numpy and sql alchemy.  • Interacted with QA to develop test plans from high-level design documentation and Analyzed the code completely and have reduced the code redundancy to the optimal level  • Develop programs to automate the testing of RAID controller firmware and utilities using Python 2.7, Java, Bash script, Windows command line, AutoIt, AutoHotKey.  • Different testing methodologies like unit testing, Integration testing, web application testing Selenium testing performed and Lock mechanisms were implemented and the functionality of multi-threading has been used  • Designed dynamic and browser compatible pages using HTML5, CSS3, JQuery and JavaScript and Angular JS and Responsible for creating the screens with table-less designs meeting W3C standards  • Performed efficient delivery of code based on principles of Test Driven Development (TDD) and continuous integration to keep in line with Agile Software Methodology principles  • Creating and configuring virtual development environments with Chef and Virtual Box and Developed a fully automated continuous integration system using Git, Gerrit, Jenkins, MySQL and custom tools developed in Python and Bash  • Designed and maintained databases using Python and developed Python based API (RESTful Web Service) using Flask, SQL Alchemy and PostgreSQL and Involved in the development ORM Queries.  • Involved in the Complete Software development life cycle (SDLC) to develop the application and Involved in UI refactoring that involves extensive use of Ajax  • Used advanced packages in AON PATHWISE for performing unit test and deploying data models and Extensively used Python modules such as requests, urllib, and urllib2 for web crawling.  • Developed GUI using webapp2 for dynamically displaying the test block documentation and other features of Python code using a web browser.  • Developed the required XML Schema documents and implemented the framework for parsing XML documents.  • Used Test driven approach (TDD) for developing services required for the application and Exported Test case Scripts and modified the selenium scripts and executed in Selenium RC environment.  Environment: Python 2.7, Django, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Ajax, JSON, JQuery, Mango DB, RISK management, TDD, SOAP, REST, MVC, GitHub. Python Developer Grand Bank of Texas - Dallas, TX March 2013 to January 2015 Responsibilities:  • Involved in building database Model, APIs and Views utilizing Python, in order to build an interactive web based solution and Used Python to place data into JSON files for testing Django Websites.  • Used Python scripts to update content in the database and manipulate files and Used the Django Framework to develop the application.  • Generated Python Django Forms to record data of online users and Used Django APIs for database access.  • Worked with Python OO Design code for manufacturing quality, monitoring, logging, and debugging code optimization.  • Wrote a Python module to connect and view the status of an Apache Cassandra instance and Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks.  • Used Python unit and functional testing modules such as unit test, unittest2, mock, and custom frameworks in-line with Agile Software Development methodologies and Utilized PyQt to provide GUI for the user to create, modify and view reports based on client data.  • Involved in Flex development exposure of Flex layout and navigation, event handling, pop-up dialogs, menus and skinning and Built efficient Angular.js backend for client web application.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript and Worked on Python Open stack API's.  • Managed large datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL and Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from Python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQLdb package.  • Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes of the two main applications that were a main source of data for both customers and internal customer service team and Worked with JSON based REST Web services.  • Created a Git repository and added the project to GitHub and Worked on development of SQL and stored procedures on MYSQL.  • Responsible for debugging the project monitored on JIRA (Agile) and Performed QA testing on the application.    Environment: Python, Django, PyQT, Panda API, HTML, CSS, AJAX, Angular.js, Flex, JSON, Restful, XML, JavaScript, OOD, Shell Scripting, GITHub, MYSQL, Cassandra, Jira, agile. Python Developer Chartis Insurance - Jersey City, NJ January 2011 to March 2013 Responsibilities:  • Analysis and Design of application and Created UI usingJavascript and HTML5/CSS.  • Developed and tested many features for dashboard using Python, Bootstrap, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Implemented business logic using Python/Django and Created backend database T-SQL stored procedures and Jasper Reports.  • Worked with millions of database records on a daily basis, finding common errors and bad data patterns and fixing them.  • Exported/Imported data between different data sources using SQL Server Management Studio and Maintained program libraries, users' manuals and technical documentation.  • Managed large datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL and Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL dB package and Carried out various mathematical operations for calculation purpose using python libraries.  • Built various graphs for business decision-making using Python matplotlib library and Fetched twitter feeds for certain important keyword using python-twitter library.  • Used Python library Beautiful Soup for webscrapping.ss and Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes of the two main applications that were a main source of data for both customers and internal customer service team.  • Implement code in python to retrieve and manipulate data and Created most important Business Rules which are useful for the scope of project and needs of customers  • Build SQL queries for performing various CRUD operations like create, update, read and delete.    Environment: Python, Django, HTML5/CSS, MS SQL Server 2013, T-SQL, Jasper Reports, Javascript, Eclipse, Linux, Shell Scripting. Skills Python, Python (6 years), Django (6 years), HTML, HTML (6 years), CSS, CSS (6 years), Node.js, Node.js (6 years), Angular.js, Angular.js (6 years), Javascript (5 years), MongoDB, MongoDB (4 years), MongoDB (5 years), Cassandra, Cassandra (5 years), SQL (5 years), MySQL (5 years), NoSQL, NoSQL (4 years), XML, XML (4 years), Ajax, Ajax (4 years), Agile, Agile (4 years), JQuery (4 years), Jenkins, Jenkins (4 years), DevOPs, DevOPs (4 years), Bootstrap, Bootstrap (4 years), RESTful, RESTful (4 years), Amazon Web Services (4 years), GIT, GIT (4 years), MVC, MVC (4 years), TDD, TDD (4 years) Additional Information Operating Systems: Windows 95, 98, NT, 2000, Xp, Vista, Windows 7, 8 Linux, Unix, MicrosofT Server 2003, Mac Os, Android, Windows Mobile, Mac Osx  Bugs Tracker Apps: Bugzilla, Firebug, Jira, HP QC, Testlodge, TFS  Others: HTML 4.02, HTML5, CSS, JS, XML, XHTML, Javascript, JQuery, Angular.JS, Knockout.JS, Mainframe, Python, Selenium, Watir, Sikulli, docker, Jenkins, Sybase, Informatica Power Center, DVO, SAS, Oracle, PostgreSQL, MySQL, Sqlite3, MongoDB, Cassandra, SVN.