Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - Cardinal Health Dublin, OH Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Developer Cardinal Health - Dublin, OH January 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Developed Views and Templates with Django view controller and template language to create a user-friendly website interface  • Implemented user interface guidelines and standards throughout the development and maintenance of the website using the HTML, CSS, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Created APIs, database Model and Views Utilization Python in order to build responsive web page application.  • Used Github for Python source code version control, Jenkins for automating the build Docker containers, and deploying in Mesos.  • Developed application using Python, Java.  • Used Java Server Pages for content layout and presentation.  • Migrated the Django database from SQLite3 to PostgreSQL with complete data integrity.  • Worked on REST API calls and integration with UI. Used AngularJS to develop the component to the application team, Spring MVC to consume REST API's and used JavaScript, CSS3 and JQuery to display the data in front end.  • Developed Merge jobs in Python to extract and load data into MySQL database.  • Stored the data in the form of JSON structure-based documents, stored in a collection using MongoDB.  • Created PHP/MySQL back-end for data entry from Flash.  • Performed Unit testing, Integration Testing, GUI and web application testing using Rspec.  • Worked on Jenkins continuous integration tool for deployment of project.  • Automated the continuous integration and deployments using Jenkins, Docker, Ansible and AWS Cloud Templates.  • Developed automated process for builds and deployments by using Jenkins, Ant, Maven, Shell Script.  • Worked on changes to open stack and AWS to accommodate large-scale data center deployment.  • Used Spark for interactive queries, processing of streaming data and integration with popular NoSQL database for huge volume of data.  • Good experience in developing web applications implementing Model View Control architecture using Django, Flask, Pyramid and Zope Python web application frameworks.  • Used Amazon Cloud EC2 along with Amazon SQS to upload and retrieve project history.  • Experience in project deployment using Heroku/Jenkins and using web services like Amazon Web Services (AWS) EC2, AWS S3, Auto scaling, Cloud watch and SNS.  • Created interactive data charts on Customer portal web application using High charts JavaScript library with data coming from Apache Cassandra.  • Worked on front end frame works like CSS, Bootstrap for development of Web application.  • Worked in MySQL database on simple queries and writing Stored Procedures for normalization.  • Deployed the project into Jenkins using GIT version control system.  • Used python scripts to update content in the database and manipulate files.  • Redesigned existing task management systems using Python.  • Developed web-based applications using Python 2.7/2.6, Django 1.4/1.3, PHP, Flask, Webapp2, Angular.js, VB, C++, XML, CSS, HTML, DHTML, JavaScript and jQuery  • Worked on frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Implemented and enhanced CRUD operations for the applications using the MVC (Model View Controller) architecture of Django framework and Python conducting code reviews.  • Used Python, JQuery, JavaScript and AJAX at the front end.  • Worked on design, implementation and modifying the Python code, MySQL and PostgreSQL database schema on-the back end.  • Search engine optimization by replacing existing database with MongoDB (NoSQL Database).  • Documented company Restful API's using Swagger for internal and third part use and also worked on Unit testing and Integration testing.  • Used Git for the version control  • Involved in the development using Drupal, AWS and PHP.  • Responsible for installing, configuring and maintaining CodeIgniter, PHP, Apache and MySQL on AWS Cloud Servers  • Extensively worked on PHP, MySQL, Python, OOPS, Design Patterns, HTML and CSS.  • Develop user friendly and sophisticated graphical representation of the catalogue of items that would be configured for a piece of equipment.  • Worked on object-oriented programming (OOP) concepts using Python, Django, and Linux.  • Used JIRA for bug tracking and issue tracking.  • Experience in deploying applications in heterogeneous Application Servers TOMCAT, Web Logic and Oracle Application. Server.  • Practical experience with working on multiple environments like development, testing, production.  Environment: Python, Java,Django, AWS, Angular Js, Jenkins, Docker, MySQL, MongoDB, HTML, JavaScript, JSON, XML, JQuery, Linux WSDL, Restful, CSS, Postgre-SQL, Swagger, Git, JIRA. Python Developer 3M - Albany, NY January 2016 to December 2016 Responsibilities:  • Interacted with the client end-users during requirements gathering sessions.  • Developed dynamic web pages using Python, Django Frameworks.  • Designed and Developed User Interface using front-end technologies like HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, AngularJS, Bootstrap and JSON.  • Worked on Django API's for accessing the database.  • Supported Apache Server on Linux Platform.Designed and managed API system deployment using fast HTTP server and Amazon AWS architecture  • Setup database in AWS using RDS and configuring backups for S3 bucket.  • Experience in setting up Elastic Load Balancers (ELB's) and Auto Scaling groups on Production EC2 Instances to build Fault-Tolerant and High Availability applications. Having Knowledge on AWS Lambda, Auto scaling, Cloud Front, RDS, Route53, AWS SNS, SQS, SES.  • Gained Knowledge on Deploying apps using AWS Cloud Formation.  • Experience in using various version control systems like Git, CVS, GitHub, Heroku and Amazon EC2.  • Experience in using Jenkins/Hudson as a Continuous Integration server to configure with Ant/Maven  • Created the tests that have no user interaction as a set and executed them as Batch tests using ANT.  • Generated Python Django forms to record data of online users and used PyTest for writing test cases.  • Created specific images using Python Imaging Library for the custom images used for each book  • Implemented Business logic, worked on data exchange, processed XML and HTML using Python 2.7 and its familiar framework Django.  • Worked on creating the Docker containers and Docker consoles for managing the application life cycle.  • Setup Docker on Linux and configured Jenkins to run under Docker host.  • Model View Control architecture is implemented using Django Framework to develop web applications.  • Used IBM DB2 SQL stored procedures and UNIX Shell Scripts for importing/exporting Data and Conversions.  • Developed programs in Spark based on the application for faster data processing than standard MapReduce programs.  • Developed a fully automated continuous integration system using Git, Jenkins, MySQL and custom tools developed in Python and Bash  • Developed scripts to migrate data from proprietary database to PostgreSQL.  • Implemented continuous integration using Jenkins and involved in the deployment of application with Ansible automation engine.  • Experience in Bash Shell Scripting, SQL and Java Full stack web development using Python  • Created backend database T-SQL stored procedures and Jasper Reports.  • Created Django dashboard with custom look and feel for end user after a careful study of Django admin site and dashboard.  • Worked on Jenkins continuous integration tool for deployment of project.  • Deployed the project into Jenkins using GIT version control system.  • Developed Application to access JSON and XML from Restful, Webservices from consumer side using JavaScript and Angular.JS.  • Ensured high quality data collection and maintaining the integrity of the data.  • Developed object-oriented programming to enhance company product management  Environment: Python, Django, AWS, Angular Js,Java, Jenkins, Docker, HTML5/CSS, XML, MySQL, JQuery, JavaScript, JSON, Ajax Python Developer Business Intelli Solutions - Hyderabad, Telangana April 2012 to June 2015 Responsibilities:  • Involved in preparing engineering specification with OOA and OOD.  • Used Rational Rose Enterprise to develop Use Case diagrams, Class diagrams, Collaboration and Sequence Diagrams, State Diagrams, Data Modeling.  Developed application logic using Python, Jython, and Java script.  • Used JMS for updating Mailing plans and tracking them.  • Implemented front end for third party Web service using JQuery, HTML, AJAX, JSON and JavaScript.  • Used Java Server Pages for content layout and presentation with Jython.  • Developed the frontend for interaction by using the Django framework.  • Worked with version controlling system CVS and SVN.  • Created Data layer in MYSQL.  • Extracted and loaded data using Python scripts and PL/SQL packages.  • Used Pandas library for statistical Analysis.  • Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks.  • Working in team of Developers to build and deploy Python Flask Peewee Linux AWS.  • Version control using GITHub.  • Involved in writing stored procedures using MySQL.  • Interfacing with supervisors, artists, systems administrators and production to ensure production deadlines are met.  • Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks.  • Working in team of Architects and Developers to build and deploy Python Flask Peewee Linux AWS.  • Supported Java application for Media portal management.  • Debugging and testing of the applications & fine-tuning performance. Provided maintenance support in production environment.  • Implemented DAO database access objects.  Environment: Java, Python 2.7, PHP, Django, CVS, JavaScript, HTML/CSS, MYSQL, PL/SQL, JDBC, UNIX Shell Scripting, Red Hat Linux, Web Logic Application Server. Education Bachelor's degree in Electrical &Electronics in Electrical &Electronics Acharya Nagarjuna University Skills DJANGO (5 years), HTML (5 years), JAVASCRIPT (5 years), JSON (5 years), PYTHON (5 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:  Operating systems: UNIX, MS Windows, LINUX, MacOS.  Methodologies: Agile, Scrum.  Web Technologies: JSON, XML, HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX and MVC.  Web Frameworks: Django, Flask, Pyramid.  Languages: Python, C, C++, SQL and Android.  Databases: SQLite, MYSQL, MongoDB, PostgreSQL.  Configuration Management: GIT, GITHUB  Testing Tools: Selenium.  Protocols: TCP/IP, ICMP, HTTP/HTTPS and SOAP.  Development Tools: IDE's Sublime Text, Jet Brains PyCharm, Visual Studio, Eclipse Python, Pydev, Django Plug-in.