Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - Cincinnati Children's Hospital ( Python Developer) Cincinnati, OH • Extensive experience as a Web/Application Developer and Cloud Engineer as coding with analytical programming using Python, Django, HTML, CSS, JavaScript.  • Actively involved in each phase of software Development life cycle (SDLC) experience in Agile Software Methodology.  • Experience in developing web applications by following Model View Control (MVC) Architecture using server side applications Django, Flask, Web2Py and Pyramid,  • Excellent Experience on various Python integrated IDE's such as Sublime Text, Pycharm, Eclipse, NetBeans.  • Experience in working on various python packages such as NumPy, SQL Alchemy, matPlotlib, Beautiful soup, pickle, Pyside, SciPy, PyTables.  • Expert in STL containers, Design Patterns, Socket programming, Multithreading.  • Used PyQt to provide GUI for the user to create and perform operations, view reports based on client data.  • Experienced in designing web pages and Graphical user interfaces, front end layouts on the web by using HTML, DHTML, CSS, Bootstrap framework, PHP, XML, JavaScript, node Js and Angular Js.  • Knowledge in Using Amazon Elastic Beanstalk with Amazon EC2 to deploy project into AWS.  • Expertise in usage of python/Django Framework for developing web applications.  • Experience with GUI frameworks such as PyJamas, Python.  • Good experience with python frameworks like Flask and WebApp2.  • Experience and understanding of React Redux life cycle with components and rendering to DOM.  • Expertise in developing web-based applications using libraries and frameworks like Angular.js, Bootstrap, JQuery, Knockout.js, Node.js, Backbone.js and React.js.  • Hands on experience working in WAMP (Windows, Apache, MYSQL, and Python/PHP) and LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, and Python/PHP) Architecture.  • Experience on Python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Good knowledge in establishing database connections for Java and Python by configuring packages like JDBC, MySQL- Python.  • Experience object oriented programming (OOP) concepts using Python, C++ and PHP.  • Good experience with JDBC to perform operations such as CR UD operations and writing complex queries with Oracle 10g/11g.  • Good experience in Core Java concepts like object oriented programming, Multi-Threading and Exception Handling and knowledge in client server environment.  • Good experience in ORM mapping using SQL Alchemy.  • Experienced with integration of MongoDB and Cassandra databases.  • Experience in developing web services (WSDL, SOAP and REST) and consuming web services with python programming language.  • Experience in Python open stack API's.  • Experience with UML diagrams.  • Expertise in building strong websites confirming Web 3.0 standards using Yahoo User Interface (YUI) compressor, jshint, eslint, JQuery, HTML, & CSS to develop valid code and table-free sties.  • Good hands on experience with JSON based REST web services.  • Good experience in using Shell scripting for automation by following Python PEP.  • Experience in utilizing SAS procedures, Macros and other SAS application for data extraction, data loading, cleaning and reporting.  • Performed mapping of JSON/XML formatted data with relational databases like MySQL, PostgreSQL and SQLite.  • Hands on experience with installation and configuration of Apache Tomcat server.  • Good knowledge in developing ColdFusion components, custom tags and modified CF objects  • Expertise in full life cycle application development and good experience in Unit testing and Test Driven Development (TDD) and Behavior driven Development.  • Hands on experience with continuous integration and automation using Jenkins  • Hands on experience with version control tools such as SVN, GitHub, and GitLab. Work Experience Python Developer Cincinnati Children's Hospital (Python Developer) June 2017 to Present Sr. Python developer    Responsibilities:  • Experience working in a fast paced scrum environment.  • Writing backend programming in Python and used the Django Framework to develop the application.  • Designed base project structure and different modules using Microservices architecture.  • Developed Shared Services, Event and Data processors using Lambda functions.  • Implemented AWS API Gateway.  • Developed and tested many features for dashboard using Python, Java, Bootstrap, CSS, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Developed consumer based features and applications using Python and Django in test driven Development.  • Configured Cloud Formation, AWS IOT and, IAM.  • Developed dynamic web pages, monitoring and notification tools using Python, Django, Pyramid Frameworks and Used Python Library Beautiful Soup for web scrapping.  • Accessed database objects using Django Database APIs.  • Developed internal auxiliary web apps using Python Flask, Web2Py framework along with Bootstrap CSS / HTML framework.  • Developed S3 and Cloud Watch clients for data operations.  • Used AJAX and JQuery for transmitting JSON data objects between frontend and controllers.  • Involved in UI development for the application using HTML5, CSS3, React.js and Angular.js.  • Developed user interface solutions using a Django and Pyramid web framework. Used Python scripts to update content in the database and manipulate files.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Flask to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Used Flask framework for application development.  • Used ECMAScript 6, ReactJS, Flux, Babel, Node and Web-Pack to create a SPA.  • Created entire application using Python, Flask, MySQL and Linux.  • Developed methods for Create, Read, Update and Delete (CRUD) in Active Record.  • Implemented Lambda to configure Dynamo DB Autoscaling feature.  • Implemented Data Access Layer to access AWS DynamoDB data.  • Created Python and Bash tools to increase efficiency of application system.  • Created Device Simulator using Spring Boot.  • Utilized Python libraries like wxPython, NumPy, Twisted, PyQT, Web2py, Pygal, Plot.ly..  • Designed and developed components using Python with Django framework. Implemented code in python to retrieve and manipulate data.  • Did code reviews and implemented best practices.  • Used Git and Bit Bucket server for source repository.  • Built up a completely computerized ceaseless reconciliation framework utilizing Git, Gerrit, Jenkins, MySQL and custom devices created in Python and Bash.  • Involved in creating a reusable component using React.js and Redux for DOM Manipulation.  • Developed entire front end and back end modules using Python on Django, WSGI- Pyramid Web Framework.  • Involved in development of Web Services using SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface in the XML format.  • Implemented MVC architecture in developing the web application with the help of Django framework.  • Designed and created backend data access modules using PL/SQL stored procedures and Oracle.  • Wrote unit test cases for Controller, Service and DAO layers.  • Developed front end using Angular.js, React.js, Node.js, Bootstrap, backbone.js, JavaScript, where back end is java with REST webservices.  • Worked on front end frame works like CSS, Bootstrap for development of Web application.  • Worked in MySQL database on simple queries and writing Stored Procedures for normalization.  • Deployed the project into Jenkins using GIT version control system.  • Learned to index and search/query large number of documents inside Elastic search.  • Extensive knowledge in database transactions management for database related changes by integrating JDBC, Hibernate with Spring Boot.  • Taken part in entire lifecycle of the projects including Design, Development, and Deployment, Testing and Implementation and support.    Environment: Amazon Web Services (AWS), Cloud Environment, Lambda, Python 3.6, 3.5, DynamoDB, API Gateway, Java, J2EE, REST API, Spring framework, AngularJS, HTML, Amazon S3, CloudWatch, Gradle, eclipse, MSSQL Server, GIT, Jira, Jenkins, Confluence. Sr. Python Developer Plant-OS March 2016 to May 2017 Responsibilities:  • Followed Agile Methodologies to manage full life-cycle development of the project.  • Writing backend programming in Python and used the Django Framework to develop the application.  • Implemented user interface guidelines and standards throughout the development and maintenance of the website using the HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery and AngularJS.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Designed and developed communication between client and server using Secured Web services.  • Developed and tested many features for dashboard using Python, Java, Bootstrap, CSS, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Used JavaScript and XML to update a portion of a webpage.  • Automated JIRA processes using Python and bash scripts.  • Developed rating and sharing single page application by using Angular.js, Bootstrap, Node.js and React.js.  • Developed consumer based features and applications using Python and Django in test driven Development.  • Performed Unit testing, Integration Testing, GUI and web application testing using Rspec.  • Worked on Jenkins continuous integration tool for deployment of project.  • Used JQuery to make the frontend components interact with the Javascript functions to add dynamism to the web pages at the client side.  • Created the Application using React.js and Node.js libraries NPM, gulp directories to generate desired view and flux to root the URL's properly.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to created user-friendly website interface.  • Worked on changes to open stack and AWS to accommodate large-scale data center deployment.  • Develop remote integration with third party platforms by using RESTful web services and Successful implementation of Apache Spark and Spark Streaming applications for large scale data.  • Using Amazon EC2 command line interface along with Bash/ Python to automate repetitive work.  • Used Amazon Cloud EC2 along with Amazon SQS to upload and retrieve project history.  • Developed Spark scripts by using Scala shell commands as per the requirement.  • Experience in project deployment using Heroku/Jenkins and using web services like Amazon Web Services (AWS) EC2, AWS S3, Auto scaling, Cloud watch and SNS.  • Worked on front end frame works like CSS, Bootstrap for development of Web application.  • Worked in MySQL database on simple queries and writing Stored Procedures for normalization.  • Deployed the project into Jenkins using GIT version control system.  • Learned to index and search/query large number of documents inside Elastic search.  • Creating invitation flow for customers to use the client portal for monitoring applications.  • API Created the environment specific settings for a new deployment and update the deployment specific conditional checks in code base to use specific checks.  • Used advanced packages like Mock, patch and beautiful soup (b4) to perform unit testing.  • Taken part in entire lifecycle of the projects including Design, Development, and Deployment, Testing and Implementation and support.  • Improved code reuse and performance by making effective use of various design patterns.    Environment: Python 3.5, 3.4, 2.7, Java 1.7, Django 1.9/1.7, HTML5, CSS3, XML, JSON, MySQL, JavaScript, Angular JS, Backbone JS, JQuery, CSS, Bootstrap, Puppet, Postgre SQL, Amazon s3, AWS, Jenkins, Mongo DB, Elastic search, T-SQL, Beautiful soup, TFS, nose, JavaScript, Eclipse, Git, GitHub, Linux. Python Developer Cybermatriks systems October 2012 to June 2015 Responsibilities:  • Designed the front end of the application using Python, HTML, CSS, AJAX, JSON and JQuery. Worked on backend of the application.  • Used the Django Framework to develop the application.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Used JavaScript and JSON to update a portion of a webpage.  • Develop consumer based features and applications using Python, Django, HTML, Behavior Driven Development (BDD) and pair based programming.  • Rewrite existing Python/Django modules to deliver certain format of data.  • Responsible for debugging the project monitored on JIRA (Agile).  • Wrote Python scripts to parse JSON documents and load the data in database.  • Used Python and Django to interface with the JQuery UI and manage the storage and deletion of content.  • Worked on front end frame works like CSS Bootstrap for development of Web applications.  • Involved in deployment of project using AWS.  • Special skills in developing user friendly, simple yet effective web based applications.  • Designed Frontend with in object oriented JavaScript Framework like JQuery.  • Deployed the project into Heroku using GIT version control system.  • Worked in MySQL database on simple queries and writing Stored Procedures for normalization and renormalization.  • Used many regular expressions in order to match the pattern with the existing one.  • Build SQL queries for performing various CRUD operations like create, update, read and delete.  • Skilled in using Collections in Python for manipulating and looping through different user defined objects.  • Performed Unit testing, Integration testing, web application testing.  • Taken part in entire lifecycle of the projects including Design, Development, and Deployment, Testing and Implementation and support.  • Worked in development of applications especially in UNIX environment and familiar with all of its commands.    Environment: Python 2.7, Django 1.4, HTML5, CSS, XML, MySQL, JavaScript, Angular JS, Backbone JS, JQuery, CSS Bootstrap, Mongo DB, MS SQL Server, T-SQL, JavaScript, Eclipse, Git, GitHub, AWS, Linux, Shell Scripting. Education Master's Skills DJANGO (5 years), Git (5 years), BOOTSTRAP (5 years), PYTHON (5 years), XML (5 years) Additional Information Technical Skills:    Frameworks: Django, web2py, pyramid, Flask, Struts, pylons and CSS Bootstrap  Technologies: HTML, CSS, DOM, SAX, Java Script, JQuery, AJAX, XML, Angular JS  Programming Languages: C, C++, UML (design), Python-3.6, 3.5 & 2.7, Java, SQL and PL/SQL.  Python Libraries: Python, Django, Flask, Beautiful Soup, httplib2, Jinja2, HTML/CSS, Bootstrap, JQuery, Numpy, matPlotLib, Pickle, PySide, Scipy, wxPython, PyTables, pdb  Version Control: GIT (GitHub), SVN, CVS, Bitbucket.  Databases: Oracle, MySQL, PostgreSQL, MongoDB,  IDE's/ Development Tools: Py Charm, and Sublime Text.  Web Services: AWS, Rackspace Cloud, Amazon S3  Operating Systems: Windows, Red hat Linux, MAC OSX.  Protocols: TCP/IP, HTTP/HTTPS, SOAP, SNMP, SMTP, REST.  Deployment Tools: Heroku, Jenkins  Tracking Tools: Bugzilla and JIRA.  Methodologies: Agile, Scrum and Waterfall