Sr. Python Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Python Developer - Rockwell Automation Cleveland, OH • 6 years of experience as a Python Developer, proficient coder in multiple languages and environments including Python, REST Api, AWS, C, C++ and SQL.  • Expertise with software development in Python and IDEs - Sublime text, PyCharm, Eclipse PyDev and web application development using Python [ ] Django 1.9, Flask, MongoDB, JavaScript, AJAX, HTML, XML and template languages.  • Experienced in NoSQL technologies like MongoDB, Cassandra and relational databases like Oracle, SQLite, PostgreSQL, Dynamo DB and MySQL databases.  • Experience in leading multiple efforts to build Hadoop platforms, maximizing business value by combining data science with big data.  • Experience in NoSQL databases like Apache Cassandra (1.2, 2.0, and 2.1) and MongoDB (2.6, 2.4), Orient DB and Experienced in WAMP (Windows, Apache, MYSQL, and Python) Architecture.  • Experience in implementing python alongside using various libraries such as mat plotlib for charts and graphs, MySQL db for database connectivity, python-twitter, PySide, Pickle, Pandas data frame, network, urllib2.  • Experienced in developing web-based applications using Python, Django, PHP, C++, XML, CSS, HTML, DHTML, JavaScript and Jquery.  • Experienced in Requirement gathering, Use case development, Business Process flow, Business Process Modeling: extensively used UML to develop various use cases, class diagrams and sequence diagrams.  • Experienced in WAMP (Windows, Apache, MYSQL, Python /PHP) and LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, and Python) Architecture and Experienced in installing, configuring, modifying, testing and deploying applications with Apache.  • Experienced in agile and waterfall methodologies with high quality deliverables delivered on-time and Experience in utilizing SAS Procedures, Macros, and other SAS application for data extraction, data cleansing, data loading and reporting.  • Experience in Assisting and monitoring the business strategies and requirements of the company Experienced in installing, configuring, modifying, testing and deploying applications with Apache.  • Experience in working on Application Servers like Web Sphere, Web Logic, Tomcat, Web Servers like Apache Server, NGINX and Integrated Development Environments like PyCharm, Eclipse, My Eclipse, J Developer and RAD.  • Experienced in developing Web Services with Python programming language and Experience in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on MySQL and PostgreSQL database.  • Experienced with full software development life cycle, architecting scalable platforms, object oriented programming, database design and agile methodologies  • Designed and implemented large scale business critical systems using Object oriented design and Programming concepts using Python and Django.  • Deployed production site using Apache 2.2 with mod Python and started developing with Django 1.3 beta and currently developing with Django 1.9 and Very strong experience in writing API's and Web Services in Python.  • Good experience in developing web applications and implementing Model View Control (MVC) architecture using server side applications like Django, Flask and Pyramid.  • Proficient in developing complex SQL queries, Stored Procedures, Functions, Packages along with performing DDL and DML operations on the database.  • Hands on Experience in Data mining and Data warehousing using ETL Tools and Proficient in Building reports and dashboards in Tableau (BI Tool)  • experience in processing large datasets with Spark using Scala and Pyspark.  • Extensive experience with Object Oriented Design and SDLC methodologies using Rational Rose, Unified Modeling Language (UML) and Developed Web Applications using Java/J2EE, JSF on JVM.  • Built the web application by using Python, Django, AWS, J2EE, PostgreSQL, MySQL, Oracle 10g and MongoDB and Knowledgeable with continuous deployment using Heroku and Jenkins.  • Experienced in WAMP (Windows, Apache, MYSQL, and Python) and LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, and Python) Architecture and Wrote Automation test cases using Selenium Web Driver, JUnit, Maven, and Spring.  • Experience in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on MySQL and PostgreSQL database and Implemented machine learning algorithms in Spark and Python, for segmentation of data.  • Good experience in Shell Scripting,SQL Server, Unix and Linux, Open stock and Expertise python scripting with focus on Devops tools, CI/CD and AWS Cloud Architecture.  • Experienced in working on Application Servers like WebSphere, WebLogic, Tomcat, Web Servers like Apache server, NGINX and Integrated Development Environments like Pycharm, Eclipse, MyEclipse, JDeveloper and RAD, Built the web application by using Python, Django, AWS, J2EE, PostgreSQL, MySQL, Oracle 10g and MongoDB.  • Expertise in Object-Oriented design and coding. Good knowledge of various Design Patterns and UML and Wrote Python OO Design code for manufacturing quality, monitoring, logging, and debugging code optimization.  • Experience in analyzing and handling large datasets using Oracle Relational database9i, 10g, 11g. Architecture and worked on Javascript implementation of tetris game, using ES6 and HTML5 Canvas.  • Experienced in writing SQL Queries, Stored procedures, functions, packages, tables, views, triggers.  • Used R Language among statisticians and data miners for developing statistical software and data analysis.  • Maintained detailed documentation and architectural solutions in IT infrastructure and sales systems and Very strong full life cycle application development experience.  • Responsible for SW product quality by ensuring by conducting code reviews, coding standards are met, using industry best practices, and using static analysis tools.  • Excellent working knowledge in UNIX and Linux shell environments using command line utilities.  • Hands on experience working in WAMP (Windows, Apache, MYSQL, and Python/PHP) and LAMP (Linux, Apache, My SQL, and Python/PHP) Architecture and Experience working in both water fall and Agile software methodologies.  • Highly motivated, quality minded developer, with proven ability to deliver applications against tight deadlines.  • Familiarity with development best practices such as code reviews, unit testing, system integration testing (SIT) and user acceptance testing (UAT)  • Well versed with design and development of presentation layer for web applications using technologies like HTML, CSS, and JavaScript and Familiar with JSON based REST Web services and Amazon Web services.  • Worked closely with software developers and DevOps to debug software and system problems  • Utilized continuous integration and automated deployments with Jenkins, Ansible and Docker Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Python Developer Rockwell Automation - Cleveland, OH October 2015 to Present Responsibilities:  • Developed frontend and backend modules using Python on Django including Tastypie Web Framework using Git.  • Developed Merge jobs in Python to extract and load data into MySQL database and Worked on MYSQL data lineage process to map source to target DB, table and column mappings using OO Python.  • Successfully migrated the Django database from SQLite to MySQL to PostgreSQL with complete data integrity and Designed, developed and deployed CSV Parsing using the big data approach on AWS EC2.  • Developed Ruby on Rails 3 web applications using MongoDB and back-ground processes using Resque and Redis and Worked on performance tuning of cluster using Cassandra Configuration file and JVM Parameters.  • Used Test driven approach for developing the application and Implemented the unit tests using Python Unit test framework and Development of Isomorphic ReactJS and Redux driven API client applications.  • Developed Ruby/ Python scripts to monitor health of Mongo databases and perform ad-hoc backups using Mongo dump and Mongo restore.  • Familiar with JSON based REST Web services and Amazon Web services (AWS) and Responsible for setting up Python REST API framework and spring frame work using DJANGO.  • Dynamic implementation of SQL server work on website using SQL developer tool and Experience with continuous integration and automation using Jenkins and Implemented Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) using JMS for sending and receiving messages while creating web services.  • Designed front end using UI, HTML, Bootstrap, Node JS, underscore JS, Angular JS CSS, and JavaScript and Strong Expertise in working with server side technologies including databases, restful API and MVC design patterns.  • Developing applications using RESTFUL architecture using Node.js and PHP as backend languages and Used Numpy for Numerical analysis and Used Spring Framework to support the Hibernate tool and Struts.  • Implemented a wide variety of statistical and graphical techniques, including linera and nonlinera modeling, classical statistical tests, time-series analysis, classification, clustering, and others using R and its libraries.  • Involved in the Complete Software development life cycle (SDLC) to develop the application and Worked closely with software developers and DevOps to debug software and system problems.  • Followed AGILE development methodology to develop the application and Used the GO Programming Language to refactor and redesign the legacy databases.  • Used and customized apache server to for checking our developed project and Used AWS for application deployment and configuration and Implemented web applications in Flask frame works following MVC architecture and Worked on Server side programming using TCP/IP protocol.  • Used Test driven approach (TDD) for developing services required for the application and Implemented Integration test cases and Developing predictive analytic using Apache Spark Scala APIs.  • Worked with core web front end technologies like HTML, JavaScript (Core and Object Oriented JS), ES6, CSS, and Web Accessibility and Worked on performance tuning of cluster using Cassandra Configuration file and JVM Parameters.  • Worked on MongoDB database concepts such as locking, transactions, indexes, Sharding, replication, schema design and Used Git to resolve and codingthe work on python and portlet.  • Used several python libraries like wxPython, numPY and matPlotLib and I was involved in environment, code installation as well as the SVN implementation and Hands-on experience with Hadoop applications (such as administration, configuration management, monitoring, debugging, and performance tuning).  • Experience in performing signal processing and machine learning algorithm development for a variety of programs and Implemented RS232 and TCP/IP protocols using Python scripting language and Developed SOA Services for transferring data between different applications.  • Build all database mapping classes using Django models and Apache Cassandra and Experienced in developing Restful applications with HATEOAS and documenting the API in Swagger.  • Used Pandas API to put the data as time series and tabular format for east timestamp data manipulation and retrieval and Automation of various administrative tasks on multiple servers using DevOps.  Environment:  Python 3.3, PyQT, PyQuery, MVW, HTML5, CSS3, DOM, Angular.js, Shell Scripting, JSON, Rest, Apache Web Server, Django, SQL, UNIX, Windows, AWS, MongoDB, PostgreSQL, and python libraries such as Numpy, IPython, sqlalchemy, Django Tastypie Python Developer Aetna - Hartford, CT December 2013 to September 2015 Responsibilities:  • Django Framework that was used in developing web applications to implement the model view control architecture.  • Exposure on Multi-Threading factory to distribute learning process back-testing and the into various worker processes and Experience with continuous integration and automation using Jenkins.  • Design and implemented custom scripts. Extensive use of version controller Team Foundation Server (TFS)  • Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes of the two main applications that were a main source of data for both customers and internal customer service team  • Used Pandas library for statistics Analysis. Used Numpy for Numerical analysis for Insurance premium and Managed large datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL.  • To provide automation, used Configuration Management Tool, Chef and Integrate the dynamic pages with Angular JS and j-query to make the pages dynamic.  • Responsible for user validations on client side as well as server side. Work with DNS to map the website to its IP address and Automated the existing scripts for performance calculations using Numpy and sql alchemy.  • Interacted with QA to develop test plans from high-level design documentation and Analyzed the code completely and have reduced the code redundancy to the optimal level  • Develop programs to automate the testing of RAID controller firmware and utilities using Python 2.7, Java, Bash script, Windows command line, AutoIt, AutoHotKey.  • Different testing methodologies like unit testing, Integration testing, web application testing Selenium testing performed and Lock mechanisms were implemented and the functionality of multi-threading has been used  • Designed dynamic and browser compatible pages using HTML5, CSS3, JQuery and JavaScript and Angular JS and Responsible for creating the screens with table-less designs meeting W3C standards  • Performed efficient delivery of code based on principles of Test Driven Development (TDD) and continuous integration to keep in line with Agile Software Methodology principles  • Creating and configuring virtual development environments with Chef and Virtual Box and Developed a fully automated continuous integration system using Git, Gerrit, Jenkins, MySQL and custom tools developed in Python and Bash  • Designed and maintained databases using Python and developed Python based API (RESTful Web Service) using Flask, SQL Alchemy and PostgreSQL and Involved in the development ORM Queries.  • Involved in the Complete Software development life cycle (SDLC) to develop the application and Involved in UI refactoring that involves extensive use of Ajax  • Used advanced packages in AON PATHWISE for performing unit test and deploying data models and Extensively used Python modules such as requests, urllib, and urllib2 for web crawling.  • Developed GUI using webapp2 for dynamically displaying the test block documentation and other features of Python code using a web browser.  • Developed the required XML Schema documents and implemented the framework for parsing XML documents.  • Used Test driven approach (TDD) for developing services required for the application and Exported Test case Scripts and modified the selenium scripts and executed in Selenium RC environment.  Environment: Python 2.7, Django, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Ajax, JSON, JQuery, Mango DB, RISK management, TDD, SOAP, REST, MVC, GitHub. Python Developer Trustwave Holdings - Chicago, IL February 2011 to November 2013 Responsibilities:  • Participated in entire lifecycle of the projects including Design, Development, and Deployment, Testing and Implementation and support.  • Wrote Python routines to log into the websites and fetch data for selected options.  • Used Python modules such as requests, urllib, and urllib2 for web crawling and Performed Design, involved in code reviews and wrote unit tests in Python and Updated site with JavaScript, JQuery, Python, Django, and SQL.  • Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks. Interfacing with supervisors, artists, systems administrators and production to ensure production deadlines are met.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework and Utilize PyUnit, the Python unit test framework, for all Python applications.  • Developed the required XML Schema documents and implemented the framework for parsing XML documents.  • Used JQuery and Ajax calls for transmitting JSON data objects between frontend and controllers.  • Utilized PyQt to provide GUI for the user to create, modify and view reports based on client data.  • Worked with JSON based REST Web services and Created a Git repository and added the project to GitHub.  • Utilized Agile process and JIRA issue management to track sprint cycles.  • Created backend database T-SQL stored procedures and Jasper Reports.    Environment: Python, Django, PyUnit, PyQt, JQuery, JavaScript, HTML, CSS, XML, JSON, AJAX, Shell scripting, GitHub, agile, Jira, SQL, T-SQL and Windows. Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:  • Programming Languages: Python 3.3/2.7, Django 1.4/1.3, Flask, Java, C++, Shell Script, SQL, Java/J2EE, PyJamas, Jython, IronPython, Cpython.  • Web Technologies: AJAX, JavaScript, HTML, DHTML, XHTML, XML, React, JSON, Jquery, Angular Js  • Database: MySQL, SQL Server, Oracle 11g.  • Operating systems: Windows XP, Win 7, 8.1, 10, Linux, OS X.  • Methodologie: Agile, V Model, Waterfall, Hybrid.  • JavaScript Frameworks: Node.js, jQuery, Backbone.js, ExtJS, Ember.js, AngularJS