Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - Deloitte Nashville, TN • Around 8 Years of strong professional software experience with deep understanding of technology trends with expertise in core of complex technologies. Strong involvement in Analysis, Design, Development, Testing and deployment of web-based and Client-Server business applications using Python, JavaScript and Java technologies in various domains.  • Skillful involvement in creating in python by developing software's utilizing new tools, libraries utilized: Numpy, Scipy, Pyside, Python-twitter, matplotlib, Pickle, MySQL to improve software development process.  • Good understanding of both backend and frontend modules.  • Good experience in developing web applications in object-oriented Programming concepts like Multi-treading, Exception Handling and collections and executing ModelViewControl design utilizing Django Framework.  • Experience in developing Web Services(SOAP, Restful) in Python using XML, JSON.  • Experience in working with various version control systems like GIT, CVS and SVN.  • Hands on experience in developing business processes and system solutions utilizing Prototype development, system development and deployment.  • Experience and proficient in building Web User Interface(UI) with HTML,Angular 2, JavaScript, Node.js, jQuery that follows W3C Web Standards and are browser compatible.  • Expertise in client scripting language and serve scripting languages.  • Proficient in using editor's like Eclipse, Sublime text, Netbeans, Pycharm, Pyscripter, Pystudio.  • Used Django evolution and manual SQL modifications to retain all the data, while site is in production.  • Experience in developing front-end with React-Redux, HTML, JSX, CSS, SCSS, Bootstrap, TypeScript, ES6 and Webpack.  • Expertise in developing web based open stack applications for large dataset analysis using Python and Django.  • Familiar and Worked on various Operating Systems like UNIX (Sun Solaris, AIX), Linux and Windows.  • Experience in using UNIX shell Scripts for automating batch programs.  • Used Python Unit test framework for developing and implementing the unit tests using Test driven approach.  • Analyzed instrument pricing and modelling methodolies and documented how instrument prices move as change in market data source.  • Good experience on data warehousing for high-volume data processing.  • Good Hands on experience in establishing connections for Java and Python by configuring packages like MySQL- Python, JDBC.  • Successfully migrated the Django database from SQLite to MySQL to PostgreSQL with complete data integrity.  • Hands on experience in monitoring, developing and transforming data using SQL.  • Migrated the existing SharePoint sites to Azure cloud environment.  • Worked on various Azure services like Compute(Web Roles, Worker Roles), Azure Websites, Caching, SQL Azure, NoSQL, Storage, Network services, Azure Active Directory, API Management, Schedulling, Auto Scaling and PowerShell Automation.  • Ability to create scripts using Azure Powershell during for automation and build process.  • Proficient in applying design patterns like MVC, Singleton, Session Facade, Factory, Front Controller, Data Access Object.  • Automate report generation in MongoDB using JavaScript, shell scripting.  • Strong experience with MongoDB development (reports, schema design, map reduce functions) and migrations from SQL relational databases.  • Familiarity with development best practices such as code reviews, unit testing, system integration testing (SIT) and user acceptance testing(UAT).  • Expertise in Production support. Provided first, second and third level support to different organizations.  • Performed code reviews and implemented best Python programming practice. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Developer Deloitte - Nashville, TN April 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Standard Deloitte infrastructure for maximum cross-teamInteroperability (for billing/checkout integrators)  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework with GIT.  • Developing and leading Scrum meetings: Stand-up, Sprint planning, Backlog grooming, Review and retrospective for different cross functional teams.  • Determined project schedules and tracked progress for stakeholders.  • Assisted senior scrum masters and coaches to mentor new individuals oneffective execution of Agile Scrum methodology.  • Participated in all phases of data mining, data collection, data cleaning, developing models, validation, and visualization and performed Gap analysis.  • Developed MapReduce/Spark Python modules for machine learning & predictive analytics in Hadoop on AWS and implemented a Python-based distributed random forest via Python streaming.  • Used Pandas, NumPy, seaborn, SciPy, Matplotlib, Scikit-learn in Python for developing various machine learning algorithms and utilized machine learning algorithms such as linear regression, multivariate regression, naive Bayes, Random Forests, K-means, & KNN for data analysis.  • Track, updates and record scrum team velocity and sprint capacity for reports.  • Wrote and executed various SQL database queries from python using Dremel.  • Involved in front end designing using HTML, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Profiled python code for optimization and memory management.  • Created Automation to reduce manual effort in detecting, diagnosingand resolving problems with the testing environments.  • Created automation to identify potential casual changes when a serveris failing.  • Created automation to assign Bugs to team upon breakage.  • Created automated removal of the clients to keep from bumping up thequota limits.  • Detected when a particular Piab Box by Spool is repeatedly failing tostart and provide alerting when it occurs.  • Automated triage of repeated failures, automatic identification ofcommon root causes and automatically taking initial action in response to those failures.  • Worked on Python Open stack API's.  • Used Python scripts to update content in the database and manipulate files.  • Generated Python Django Forms to record data of online users  • Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some ofthe menial tasks. Interfacing with supervisors, artists, systems administrators and production to ensure production deadlines are met.  • Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from Python usingPython-MySQL connector and MySQLdb package.  • Involved in development of Web Services using SOAP for sending andgetting data from the external interface in the XML format.  • Worked on development of SQL and stored procedures on MYSQL.  • Responsible for debugging the project monitored on JIRA (Agile).  • Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixesof the two main applications that were a main source of data for both customers and internal customer service team.  • Worked on Angular 2 routers, components, custom directives, services &form validations.  • Involved in design, development and testing phases of project andinvolved in design, analysis and architectural meetings with clients.  • Used Angular 2 to create a Single Page Application (SPA) which can bebind data to specific views and synchronize data with sever.  • Converted data from database in JSON format files and retrieve usefulinformation using AJAX calls to render the responsive in UI.  • Implemented ng2-google charts, ngx-cookie service and ng2-dragula.  • Used primeng data tables, SQL tables, messages and primeng drag anddrop in angular 4.  • Used moments.js and wrote generic classes for time zones.  • Used various Core Java concepts such as Exception Handling, CollectionAPIs to implement various features and enhancement.  Environment: Python, MySQL, HTML, Python 2.7, Django 1.4, HTML5, CSS, Angular 2, MS SQL Server, JavaScript, Linux, Shell Scripting, AJAX , mongo DB.  Google Tools: Piper (version control), Critique, Code search, Buganizer, Dremel, Sigma and Cider (IDE) Python Developer Northwestern Bank December 2014 to April 2017 Responsibilities:  • Involved in Developing Restful services using Python Django framework.  • Expertise in developing web-based open stack applications using Python and Django for large dataset analysis.  • Implemented the product traceability dashboard with ReactJS with React-Native.  • Part of Design team and developed the UI components for two different personas analyst and end user, using the ReactJS framework  • Responsible for cross-device compatibility.  • Generated Python Django Forms to record data of online users and Used Django APIs for database access.  • Responsible for business logic implementation, data exchange, XML processing and graphics creation has been done using Python and Django.  • Involved in tasks Designing, Developing and building a system using Python, Shell Scripts & Perl to automate Oracle patching, Grid Patching, Upgrade, Migration & rollback.  • Worked with team of Developer on Python application for RISK management.  • Developed Python application on for Google Analytics aggregation and reporting.  • Worked on python Open stack API's used python scripts to update content in the database and manipulate files.  • Experience in MVC architecture using Django for web based application in OOP concepts.  • Worked on several python package like Matpolib, Numpy and sockets.  • Developed views and templates with python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly interface using MVC architecture.  • Added support for Amazon AWS S3 and RDS to host static/media files and the database into Amazon Cloud.  • Integrate the dynamic pages with Angular JS and jQuery to make the pages dynamic.  • Deployed and monitored scalable infrastructure on Amazon web services (AWS) & configuration management using puppet.  • Expertise building and monitoring software projects continuously with CI Tool Jenkins or other similar tools.  • Created proof-of- concept using responsive web design,Node.js, ReactJS, HTML5 and CSS3.  • Prototyped in Angular, Bootstrap, CSS and JQuery capabilities and designed and developed the Rating site using JQuery UI and JQuery Based Ajax.  • Designed, developed and implemented architectural framework to manage and monitor password expiration period for LDAP users using python.  • Developed utility to deploy Network automation job using SOAP request framework.  • Successfully migrated the Django database from SQLite to MySQL to Postgres SQL with complete data integrity.  • Using django evolution and manual SQL modifications, I was involved to modify Django models while retaining all data, while site was in production mode.  • Developed a fully automated continuous integration system using Git, Gerrit, Jenkins, MySQL and custom tools developed in Python and Bash.  • Designed ETL specification documents and created Tables, Keys (Unique and Primary) and Indexes in the Oracle.  • SQL and PL/SQL stored procedures were used to create access to data and deployed them to Oracle and SQL server databases.  • Created Python and Bash tools to increase efficiency of call center application system and operations.  • Involved in converting Hive/SQL queries into Spark transformations using Spark RDD, Scala and Python.  • Wrote Python code embedded with JSON and XML to produce HTTP GET request,parsing HTML data from websites.  • Developed tools to automate some base tasks using Python, Shell scripting and XML.  • Used Python library Beautiful Soup for web scrapping to extract data for building graphs.  • Executing regression tests on each release and verified bugs found from automation test in Bugzilla.  • Planning, implementing, and converting manual test cases to automation test cases.  • Use of data structures and algorithms for time and memory complexity reduction.    Environment: Python,Django 1.6.2,react.js, JavaScript, Angular.js, AWS, Radarclient,CSS,HTML,HTTP,jQuery, JSON, Oracle SQL developer, REST, Shell scripting, Apache2, Gitlab, Sublime, Pycharm, XML. Python Developer Detroit, MI June 2011 to December 2014 Responsibilities:  • Involved in complete development of 'Agile Development Methodology/SCRUM', developed and tested the application during various iterations.  • Used Collection Framework and Multithreading for performing cache Operation.  • Used JMS for updating Mailing plans and tracking them.  • Developed application logic using Python, JavaScript, Java, and C++.  • Used Java Server Pages for content layout and presentation.  • Worked extensively with Bootstrap, JavaScript, and jQuery to optimize the user experience.  • Enhanced existing automated solutions, such as the Inquiry Tool for automated Asset Department reporting and added new features and fixed bugs.  • Created database using MySQL, wrote several queries to extract/store data.  • Developed, tested and debugged software tools utilized by clients and internal customers.  • Extracted and loaded data using Python scripts and PL/SQL packages.  • Supported Java application for Media portal management.  • Worked on custom Panels, Blocks, content types, and Views for better look and feel of the application.  • Worked on PHP programming, including OO, procedural, data structures and design patterns.  • Embedded PHP and HTML formatting pages and JavaScript validation.  • Developed PHP based server side API using Zend framework and implemented MVC architecture.  • Wrote python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Generated property list for every application dynamically using python.  • Developed, and debugged the servlets and EJB with Web Sphere Application server.  • Designed and developed the UI usingStruts view component, JSP, HTML, CSS and JavaScript, AJAX, JSON.  • Designed and developed web pages using with HTML5, DHTML, XHTML, CSS3, Ajax, JSP and JQuery based on the W3C standards and Web 2.0.  • Achieved role control functionality mainly by retrieving JSON data from AJAX and combining the retrieved data with jQuery to manipulate nodes in DOM tree.  • Utilized a combination of regular expression and jQuery Validation Plugin to conduct input check.  • While in the newer sub project, conducted validation in AngularJS way.  • Designed the data flow for the client-side screens and the object interaction layer for the server side components using Rational Rose and also Involved in Use Case Diagrams, Class Diagrams and Sequence diagrams using Rational Rose.  • Designed configuration XML Schema for the application.  • Developed Maven scripts and developed builds using Maven and continuous integration servers like Jenkins.  • Used JavaScript for the client side validation.  • Used XMLHttpRequest Object to provide asynchronous communication as part of AJAX implementation.  • Designed and implemented Java Classes to use JAXP parser to create Java objects so as to be able to modify the data received in the response.  • Performance Testing experience using Jmeter.  • Involved in complete development of 'Agile Development Methodology/SCRUM', developed and tested the application during various iterations. Involved in Code Review, Unit Testing and Integration Testing.  • Extensively used MVC, Factory, Delegate and Singleton design patterns.  • Used Spring Framework AOP Module to implement logging in the application to know the application status. Used Spring DAO Module along with Struts Framework to deal with Database.  • Spring MVC Framework IOC (Inversion of Control) design pattern is used to have relationships between application components. It is also used to separate the application configuration and dependency specification from the actual application code.  • Junit tests were written to test each module in the application and Wrote Ant Scripts to automate the build and deploy process.  Environment: Python, Django1.4, HTML/CSS, MS SQL Server 2012, MySQL, Script, Eclipse, GIT, GitHub, AWS, Linux, Shell Scripting. Core Java/J2EE, Servlets, JSP, Java Spring, AJAX, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Eclipse, UML, Rational Rose, Windows XP, CVS, JUnit, , Adobe Flex, Visio. Education Bachelor's