Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - Aetna Hartford, CT • 7+ years of experience as a Python Developer, proficient coder in multiple languages and environments including Python, REST Api, AWS, C, C++ and SQL.  • Expertise with software development in Python and IDEs - Sublime text, PyCharm, Eclipse PyDev and web application development using Python 3.4.3/2.7, Django 1.9, Flask, MongoDB, JavaScript, AJAX, HTML, XML and template languages.  • Deployed production site using Apache 2.2 with mod Python and started developing with Django 1.3 beta and currently developing with Django 1.9.  • Very strong experience in writing API's and Web Services in Python.  • Good experience in developing web applications and implementing Model View Control (MVC) architecture using server side applications like Django, Flask and Pyramid.  • Proficient in developing complex SQL queries, Stored Procedures, Functions, Packages along with performing DDL and DML operations on the database.  • Hands on Experience in Data mining and Data warehousing using ETL Tools and Proficient in Building reports and dashboards in Tableau (BI Tool)  • Excellent working knowledge in UNIX and Linux shell environments using command line utilities.  • Hands on experience working in WAMP (Windows, Apache, MYSQL, and Python/PHP) and LAMP (Linux, Apache, My SQL, and Python/PHP) Architecture.  • Experience working in both water fall and Agile software methodologies.  • Highly motivated, quality minded developer, with proven ability to deliver applications against tight deadlines.  • Designed and implemented large scale business critical systems using Object oriented design and Programming concepts using Python and Django.  • Experience in Assisting and monitoring the business strategies and requirements of the company Experienced in installing, configuring, modifying, testing and deploying applications with Apache.  • Experience in working on Application Servers like Web Sphere, Web Logic, Tomcat, Web Servers like Apache Server, NGINX and Integrated Development Environments like PyCharm, Eclipse, My Eclipse, J Developer and RAD.  • Familiarity with development best practices such as code reviews, unit testing, system integration testing (SIT) and user acceptance testing (UAT)  • Experienced in Requirement gathering, Use case development, Business Process flow, Business Process Modeling: extensively used UML to develop various use cases, class diagrams and sequence diagrams.  • Experienced with full software development life cycle, architecting scalable platforms, object oriented programming, database design and agile methodologies  • Experienced in developing web-based applications using Python, Django, PHP, C++, XML, CSS, HTML, DHTML, JavaScript and Jquery.  • Experienced in installing, configuring, modifying, testing and deploying applications with Apache.  • Well versed with design and development of presentation layer for web applications using technologies like HTML, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Familiar with JSON based REST Web services and Amazon Web services.  • Experienced in developing Web Services with Python programming language.  • Experience in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on MySQL and PostgreSQL database.  • Experienced in agile and waterfall methodologies with high quality deliverables delivered on-time.  • Experience in utilizing SAS Procedures, Macros, and other SAS application for data extraction, data cleansing, data loading and reporting.  • Maintained detailed documentation and architectural solutions in IT infrastructure and sales systems.  • Very strong full life cycle application development experience.  • Experienced in WAMP (Windows, Apache, MYSQL, Python /PHP) and LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, and Python) Architecture.  • Responsible for SW product quality by ensuring by conducting code reviews, coding standards are  met, using industry best practices, and using static analysis tools.  • Worked closely with software developers and DevOps to debug software and system problems  • Utilized continuous integration and automated deployments with Jenkins, Ansible and Docker  • Experienced in NoSQL technologies like MongoDB, Cassandra and relational databases like Oracle, SQLite, PostgreSQL, Dynamo DB and MySQL databases.  • Experience in leading multiple efforts to build Hadoop platforms, maximizing business value by combining data science with big data.  • Experience in NoSQL databases like Apache Cassandra (1.2, 2.0, and 2.1) and MongoDB (2.6, 2.4), Orient DB.  • Experienced in WAMP (Windows, Apache, MYSQL, and Python) Architecture.  • Experience in implementing python alongside using various libraries such as mat plotlib for charts and graphs, MySQL db for database connectivity, python-twitter, PySide, Pickle, Pandas data frame, network, urllib2. Work Experience Python Developer Aetna - Hartford, CT August 2014 to Present Responsibilities:-  • Django Framework that was used in developing web applications to implement the model view control architecture.  • Exposure on Multi-Threading factory to distribute learning process back-testing and the into various worker processes.  • Experience with continuous integration and automation using Jenkins.  • Performed efficient delivery of code based on principles of Test Driven Development (TDD) and continuous integration to keep in line with Agile Software Methodology principles  • Different testing methodologies like unit testing, Integration testing, web application testing Selenium testing performed.  • Lock mechanisms were implemented and the functionality of multithreading has been used  • Designed dynamic and browser compatible pages using HTML5, CSS3, JQuery and JavaScript and Angular JS.  • Responsible for creating the screens with table-less designs meeting W3C standards  • To provide automation, used Configuration Management Tool, Chef.  • Integrate the dynamic pages with Angular JS and j-query to make the pages dynamic.  • Creating and configuring virtual development environments with Chef and Virtual Box.  • Developed a fully automated continuous integration system using Git, Gerrit, Jenkins, MySQL and custom tools developed in Python and Bash  • Design and implemented custom scripts. Extensive use of version controller Team Foundation Server (TFS)  • Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes of the two main applications that were a main source of data for both customers and internal customer service team  • Used Pandas library for statistics Analysis. Used Numpy for Numerical analysis for Insurance premium  • Managed large datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL.  • Used advanced packages in AON PATHWISE for performing unit test and deploying data models.  • Extensively used Python modules such as requests, urllib, and urllib2 for web crawling.  • Developed GUI using webapp2 for dynamically displaying the test block documentation and other features of Python code using a web browser.  • Developed the required XML Schema documents and implemented the framework for parsing XML documents.  • Responsible for user validations on client side as well as server side. Work with DNS to map the website to its IP address.  • Automated the existing scripts for performance calculations using Numpy and sql alchemy.  • Interacted with QA to develop test plans from high-level design documentation.  • Analyzed the code completely and have reduced the code redundancy to the optimal level  • Develop programs to automate the testing of RAID controller firmware and utilities using Python 2.7, Java, Bash script, Windows command line, AutoIt, AutoHotKey.  • Designed and maintained databases using Python and developed Python based API (RESTful Web Service) using Flask, SQL Alchemy and PostgreSQL.  • Involved in the development ORM Queries.  • Involved in the Complete Software development life cycle (SDLC) to develop the application.  • Involved in UI refactoring that involves extensive use of Ajax  • Used Test driven approach (TDD) for developing services required for the application.  • Exported Test case Scripts and modified the selenium scripts and executed in Selenium RC environment. Python Developer Capital One - Richmond, VA September 2012 to July 2014 Responsibilities:-  • Worked in stages such as analysis and design, development, testing and debugging.  • Involved in Unit testing and Integration testing.  • Developed SaaS (software as a service) ERP system for Logistics  • Involved in mobile application development on IOS and Android.  • Used Python, Perl, CGI, JQuery, JavaScript and JSON at the front end.  • Performed efficient delivery of code based on principles of Test Driven Development (TDD) and continuous integration to keep in line with Agile Software Methodology principles  • Used python to extract weekly hotel availability information from XML files.  • Used Web Services to get travel destination data and rates.  • Exposure in working for developing a portal to manage and entities in a content management system using Flask  • Wrote AJAX framework to transform Datasets and Data tables into HTTP-serializable JSON strings.  • Used the Django Framework to develop the application.  • In depth exposure to creating API for internal and external application using REST and SOAP based design  • Designed, automated the process of installation and configuration of secure DataStax Enterprise Cassandra using chef.  • Wrote Automation test cases using Selenium WebDriver, Junit, Maven, and Spring.  • Participated in requirement gathering and worked closely with the architect in designing and modeling.  • Issues pertaining to Realtime data being read from RabbitMQ into Postgres and Cassandra.  • Performed Design and Code reviews and worked on development of SQL and stored procedures on MYSQL.  • Worked extensively on Multi-threading and Concurrency for implementing Batch Job Scheduling.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework with GIT  • Used HTML, CSS 5, JQuery, JSON and Javascript for front end applications.  • Managed our servers in development, testing, certification and production.  • Used Linux profiler Valgrind for optimization of code.  • Designed and developed a horizontally scalable APIs using Python Flask.  • Extensive use of version controller Team Foundation Server (TFS)  • Responsible for development and enhancements of all the modules of rail docs and have them running in the design team for project structure  • Implemented the presentation layer with HTML5, DHTML, Ajax, CSS and JavaScript.  • Implemented locking mechanisms using multi threading functionality.  • Worked on data exchange from website using XML, JAVA and Web Services.  • Used Python scripts to update content in the database and manipulate files.  • Generated Python Django Forms to record data of online users Python Developer Varizon Data Service - Tempa, FL July 2009 to August 2012 Responsibilities:-  • Wrote Python routines to log into the websites and fetch data for selected options.  • Built application logic using Python 2.7.  • Install and Configure Linux with Apache, Oracle 8I and PHP (LAMP Project) and web services and Amazon Web services (AWS)  • Performed web testing and automated testing using Selenium in the test environment and opened bugs in the bug tracking tool.  • Developed high availability real time Messaging system for financial/Banking transactions and developed associated components in Linux, UNIX, AIX platforms. Tools C++, STL, BOOST, XML (XPath and XSLT) IBM MQ libraries, Perl, Python scripting  • Developed Real-time messaging system for new payment framework for Linux, UNIX (HP), AIX OS platforms.  • Knowledge of the Server, Network, and Hosting Environment.  • Involved in Developing a Restful API'S service using Python Flask framework.  • Developed GUI HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS 5 and JavaScript (jQuery)  • Writing SOAP and RESTFul web services, in house ESB for a web Claims applications (Spring MVC, Angular JS, ActiveMQ, SOAP UI, Mockito, JSON, Buildforge)  • Worked onpython based test frameworks and test driven development with automation tools  • Held meetings with client and worked all alone for the entire project with limited help from the client.  • Used ansible for automating cloud deployment process.  • Worked on Jenkins continuous integration tool for deployment of project. Skills Operating Systems: Windows 95, 98, NT, 2000, Xp, Vista, Windows 7, 8 Linux, Unix, MicrosofT Server 2003, Mac Os, Android, Windows Mobile, Mac Osx  Bugs Tracker Apps: Bugzilla, Firebug, Jira, HP QC, Testlodge, TFS  Others : HTML 4.02, HTML5, CSS, JS, XML, XHTML, Javascript, JQuery, Angular.JS, Knockout.JS, Mainframe, Python, Selenium, Watir, Sikulli , docker , Jenkins, Sybase, Informatica Power Center, DVO, SAS, Oracle, PostgreSQL, MySQL,Sqlite3, MongoDB, Cassandra, SVN Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:-    Operating Systems: Windows 95, 98, NT, 2000, Xp, Vista, Windows 7, 8 Linux, Unix, MicrosofT Server 2003, Mac Os, Android, Windows Mobile, Mac Osx  Bugs Tracker Apps: Bugzilla, Firebug, Jira, HP QC, Testlodge, TFS  Others: HTML 4.02, HTML5, CSS, JS, XML, XHTML, Javascript, JQuery, Angular.JS, Knockout.JS, Mainframe, Python, Selenium, Watir, Sikulli, docker, Jenkins, Sybase, Informatica Power Center, DVO, SAS, Oracle, PostgreSQL, MySQL, Sqlite3, MongoDB, Cassandra, SVN