Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - Home Street Bank Seattle, WA • Over 4+ years of extensive experience as a Web Application Developer and Software Engineer using Python and Django.  • Hands-on-experience on Python web application development using Django and Serverless framework.  • Experience with Requests, NumPy, SciPy, Matplotlib, and Pandas python libraries during development lifecycle.  • Experience in developing web applications by following Model View Control (MVC) Architecture using server-side application Django.  • Good experience with Python frameworks like Flask and WebApp2.  • Excellent Experience on various Python integrated IDE's such as Sublime Text, PyCharm, Eclipse and NetBeans.  • Experience in developing web services (WSDL, SOAP and REST) and consuming web services with Python programming language.  • Experience in Creating Python, Django web-based application using Python scripting for data processing and MySQL for database, HTML, CSS, JQuery for data visualization.  • Experienced in developing Web Services with Python programming language.  • Experienced in working on Application Servers like WebSphere, WebLogic, Tomcat, Web Servers like Apache server, NGINX and Integrated Development Environments like PyCharm, Eclipse, MyEclipse, JDeveloper and RAD.  • Experience in managing datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL.  • Experience implementing Object Oriented Python, Hash Tables (Dictionaries) and Multithreading, Django and MYSQL.  • Experience in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on SQL and PostgreSQL database.  • Having experienced in Agile Methodologies, Scrum stories and sprints experience in a Python based environment, along with data analytics, data wrangling and Excel data extracts.  • Strong analytical and problem-solving skills, always striving for new knowledge. A person with multi-tasking and organizational skills and high ethical standards.  • Excellent communication and interpersonal skills, ability to work independently as well as part of an integrated team. Work Experience Python Developer Home Street Bank - Seattle, WA January 2018 to Present Responsibilities: • Gathered and analyzed the requirements and converted them into User Requirement Specifications and Functional Requirement Specifications for the designers and developers to understand them as per their perspective.  • Worked with various Python libraries such as Six, Click Pandas and Matplotlib for analysis and manipulation of data.  • Developed web applications in Django Framework's model view control (MVC) architecture and manipulated databases by using Django database API along with MySQL.  • Worked on various applications using python integrated IDE Eclipse, PyCharm, NetBeans, and Geany.  • Utilized Python libraries Numpy, Twisted and Matpoltlib.  • Created a Python, Django web-based application using Python scripting for data processing and MySQL for database, HTML5, CSS3 and JQuery for data visualization.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Provided GUI utilizing PyQt for the end user to create, modify and view reports based on client data.  • Designed and developed a horizontally scalable APIs using Python Flask.  • Using Amazon EC2 command line interface along with Bash/ Python to automate repetitive work.  • Worked with View Sets in Django-REST framework for providing web services and consumed web services performing CRUD operations.  • Used Pandas library for statistical Analysis.  • Designed and Developed User Interface using front-end technologies like HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Bootstrap and JSON.  • Integrate the dynamic pages with Angular.JS,Node.JS and jQuery to make the pages dynamic.  • Wrote REST APIs, as part of developing web-based applications using Django REST framework.  • Used Test driven approach for developing the application and Implemented the unit tests using Python Unit test framework.  • Created multiple Python and UNIX shell Scripts for various application level tasks.  • Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from Python using Python -MySQL connector and MySQL dB package.  • Involved in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on MySQL and PostgreSQL database.  • Created a Git repository and added the project to GitHub.  • Worked in an agile development environment.  • Excellent analytical and problem-solving skills and ability to work on own besides being valuable and contributing team player.    Environment: Python, Django, Numpy, Twisted, Matpoltlib, JavaScript, HTML5, CSS, Bootstrap, JSON, JQuery, PyQt, Angular.js, AWS, Eclipse, NetBeans, PyCharm, Geany, Git, GitHub, MySQL, PostgreSQL, UNIX, Agile and Windows. Python Developer Founders Insurance - Des Plaines, IL September 2016 to December 2017 Responsibilities: • Responsible for gathering requirements, system analysis, design, development, testing and deployment.  • Rewrite existing Python/Django modules to deliver certain format of data.  • Used Django Database API's to access database objects.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework and Utilize PyUnit, the Python unit test framework for all Python applications.  • Implemented code MVC framework using JSP's JavaBeans and Servlets.  • Developed GUI using webapp2 for dynamically displaying the test block documentation and other features of Python code using a web browser.  • Used Python module named Pandas for data manipulation.  • Involved in building database Model, APIs and Views utilizing Python, to build an interactive web-based solution.  • Wrote Python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Used Wire shark, live http headers, and Fiddler2 debugging proxy to debug the Flash object and help the developer create a functional component.  • Utilized Python in the handling of all hits on Django, Redis, and other applications.  • Created Python Scripts to automate AWS services which includes Web servers, ELB, Cloud Front distribution, database, EC2 and database security groups, S3 bucket and application configuration.  • Implemented user interface guidelines and standards throughout the development and maintenance of the website using the CSS3, HTML5, JavaScript, Angular.js and Node.JS • Used jQuery for all client-side JavaScript manipulation.  • Used Python to place data into JSON files for testing Django Websites.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Development of Python APIs to dump the array structures in the Processor at the failure point for debugging.  • Worked on Python Open stack API's used Python scripts to update content in the database and manipulate files.  • Utilized Agile process and JIRA issue management to track sprint cycles.  • Used GitHub for version control.  • Interfacing with supervisors, artists, systems administrators and production to ensure production deadlines are met.    Environment: Python, Django, Pandas, PyUnit, XML, AWS, JavaScript, HTML5, CSS3, Angular.js, JQuery, JSON, Redis, GitHub, Jira, Agile and Windows. Python Developer 3D WEB WINDOW, India - IN May 2015 to June 2016 Responsibilities: • Involved in building database Model, APIs and Views utilizing Python, in order to build an interactive web-based solution.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Developed the customer complaints application using Django Framework, which includes Python code.  • Implemented web applications in Flask frame works following MVC architecture.  • Developed Restful API's using Python Flask and SQL Alchemy data models as well as ensured code quality by writing unit tests using PyTest.  • Used Pandas API to put the data as time series and tabular form for east timestamp data manipulation and retrieval to handle time series data and do data manipulation.  • Worked on JavaScript MVC Framework like Angular.js.  • Worked on Python Open stack API's.  • Used Python library Beautiful Soup for web scrapping to extract data for building graphs.  • Created entire application using Python, Django, MySQL and Linux.  • Created Data tables utilizing PyQt to display patient and policy information and add, delete, update patient records.  • Involved in web designing using HTML 5, XHTML, CSS 3, Node.JS JavaScript extensively used Table less Design in CSS for positioning.  • Developed the required XML Schema documents and implemented the framework for parsing XML documents.  • Used JQuery and Ajax calls for transmitting JSON data objects between frontend and controllers.  • Utilize PyUnit, the Python unit test framework, for all Python applications.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Worked in MySQL and NoSQL database on simple queries and writing Stored Procedures for normalization and renormalization.  • Utilized agile process and JIRA issue management to track sprint cycles.Supported user groups by handling target-related software issues/service requests, identifying/fixing bugs.  • Used data types like dictionaries, tuples and object oriented concepts based inheritance features for making complex algorithms of networks.    Environment: Python, Django, PyTest, PyQt, PyUnit, Pandas, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Node.JS, JSON, AJAX, XML, Jira, MySQL, LINUX, Agile and Windows. Python Developer Technocrat Technologies - IN March 2014 to March 2015 Responsibilities: • Involved in reviewing and understanding the Business requirements • Involved in entire lifecycle of the projects including Design, Development, and Deployment, Testing and Implementation and support.  • Used Django evolution and manual SQL modifications were able to modify Django models while retaining all data, while site was in production mode.  • Used Python library Beautiful Soup for webscrapping.ss.  • Managed large datasets using Panda data frames and SQL.  • Worked on object-oriented programming (OOP) concepts using Python, Django and Linux.  • Used Python to write scripts to automate launch, starting and stopping of EC2 instances and taking snapshots of the servers.  • Used Python and Django to interface with the JQuery UI and manage the storage and deletion of content.  • Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from python using Python -MySQL connector and MySQL dB package.  • Designed the user interactive web pages as the front-end part of the web application using various web technologies like HTML, JavaScript, Angular.JS, Node.JS and implemented CSS framework Bootstrap for better appearance and feel.  • Participated in multiple sprint cycles, addressing requirements for UI development.  • Used decorators, list comprehensions, functional programming, unit tests, multiple staging environments, and global team remote collaboration.    Environment: Python, Django, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Angular JS, Node.JS Panda, LINUX, MySQL and Windows. Education Master's Skills ASP, Javascript, MySQL