Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - Aetna Phoenix, AZ • Having experience as Python developer with 5+ years of IT experience, as strong background in object-oriented programming and Web/Application Developer. Proven ability to design, develop and deliver top-quality, working software on Python, Django. Additional knowledge of statics and machine learning.  • Expertise with software development in Python and IDEs - Sublime text, PyCharm, Eclipse PyDev.  • Web application development using Python 3.5/3.4/2.7, Django 1.9, Flask, MongoDB, WSGI, JavaScript, AJAX, HTML, JSON, and template languages.  • Started developing with Django 1.3 beta and currently developing with Django 1.9.  • Versatile with Version control systems including Git, SVC, CVS, SourceSafe.  • Implemented dashboard using Django, Redis, Bootstrap, JQuery- AJAX tools.  • Created initial website prototype from a Django skeleton, building out, page views, templates, and CSS layouts for the complete site within the Django framework.  • Managed and deployed multiple environments to AWS and Rackspace Linux instances and built out overall web infrastructure as need.  • Familiar with REST and AWS (Amazon Web services) in Redshift, EMR for improved efficiency of storage and Proficient in SQL databases MS SQL, MySQL, Oracle and no-SQL databases MongoDB, Cassandra.  • Deep understanding of HTTP and RESTful architecture: Apache, uWSGI.  • Familiar with UNIX / Linux internals, basic cryptography & security.  • Database development with Python SQL, MySQL, PostgreSQL, MongoDB.  • Knowledge of Test Driven Development (TDD), Pair Programming with PyUnit, Junit and PythonUnit-test.  • Strongly follow PEP-8 coding standard and familiar with PyLint, PyChecker, PyFlakes tools.  • Experienced with full software development life-cycle, architecting scalable platforms, object oriented programming, database design and agile methodologies.  • Using django evolution and manual SQL modifications was able to modify Django models while retaining all data, while site was in production mode.  • Built the web application by using Python, Django, AWS, MongoDB, Jinja, WSGI, Fabric, PostgreSQL, and Redis.  • Experience in full SDLC starting from collecting Business specifications, Analysis, Design and Development, Testing and documenting the entire life cycle using various methodologies. Involved in projects using agile and Extreme Programming methodologies.  • Applied HTML, HTML5, XML, DHTML, CSS3, CSS, JavaScript, JQUERY, and AJAX to deliver cutting-edge user interfaces and components.  • Familiar with JSON based REST Web services and Amazon Web services.  • Testing a program by running it across test cases to ensure Experience in creating unittest cases and mock objects to ensure validity and effectiveness of code.  • Experience in writing/editing web content, technical and user documentation, business process analysis, process flowcharting and documentation.  • Expertise using and deploying enterprise applications in Tomcat.  • Thorough understanding of Database Application Designs and Implementation using Oracle, MySQL and SQL Server.  • Good understanding of PL/SQL Normalizing and De-Normalizing Databases for performance.  • Experience with Unit testing/ Test driven Development (TDD), Load Testing.  • Wrote AJAX framework to transform Datasets and Data tables into HTTP-serializable JSONstrings.  • Good experience in Python, Django, Shell Scripting, SQL Server, Unix and Linux and Open stock.  • Experienced in web applications development using Django/ Python, Flask/ Python, and Node.js, Angular.js, DOJO, JQuery, while using HTML/CSS/JS for server-side rendered applications.  • Experienced in writing SQL Queries, Stored procedures, functions, packages, tables, views, triggers.  • Well versed with design and development of presentation layer for web applications using technologies like HTML, CSS, JavaScript, and Angular JS.  • Hands on experience in developing business processes and system solutions utilizing prototype development, system development and deployment.  • Extensive experience in various UI widgets using JavaScript libraries (JQuery) and developing rich Internet Applications.  • Thorough knowledge in various front end tools like HTML, DHTML, CSS, JavaScript, XML, JQuery, Angular JS, and AJAX.  • Expertise in Object Modeling with Use Cases, Sequence, Activity and Class Diagrams using UML 1.4/2.0 with IBM Rational Rose and Microsoft Visio.  • Expertise using and deploying enterprise applications in JBoss AS and Tomcat.  • Experience in open-source technologies such as Ant, Maven and Eclipse IDE.  • Experience in using Design Patterns such as MVC, Singleton and frameworks such as DJANGO. Work Experience Python Developer Aetna - Phoenix, AZ September 2015 to Present Responsibilities:-  • Created Use-Case diagrams and State diagrams using MS Visio.  • Created entire application using Python, Django, MySQL and Linux.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Used Python and Django creating graphics, XML processing, data exchange and business logic implementation  • Wrote Python OO Design code for manufacturing quality, monitoring, logging, and debugging code optimization.  • Involved in Installation and setting up Python/Linux test beds.  • Worked with JSON based REST Web services.  • Worked in Python on a SQL database.  • Delivered presentations on Project Status and Current Open Issues Report to Users, Stakeholders and other involved groups.  • Developed a Coverity mail script that extracts code defects data per component for a daily report to drive reducing defects in the codebase.  • Conducted weekly meetings with the development and testing team to relay any changed requirements and updates on the development and testing.  • Designed & developed custom workflows to automate Database Patching & Rollback using Pythonas part of Post Provisioning.  • Designed, developed & tested workflows in HP DMA to automate Migration using Python & UNIX Scripts.  • Worked in the capacity of Change Manager to ensure end-to-end delivery of project.  • Designed & implemented database cloning using Python.  • Built alert & monitoring scripts for applications & servers using Python & Shell Script.  • Built Automation scripts on various Oracle Standalone and RAC databases.  • Lead Engineer for Oracle Database Migration efforts. Conduct training session and provide support to end users for Oracle Patching and Migration. Code promotion and track bug fixes amongst team members. Worked with HPE Support and internal stuff to resolve issues.  • Automated Business requirements of UBS into scripts thereby improved efficiency and reduced time in process completion.  • Worked on Oracle 11gR1/R2, 12C, OEM, EMCLI & Exadata.  • Managed Full-Stack Development such as Application, Database, API's and Security.  • Participate in Scrum Meetings. Member of team managed by Agile Methodology Management.  • Built Integration between Automated Service Now (SNOW) and HPDMA as part of automation.  • Build Back-end support for Application from ground up using Python, Shell scripts & Perl.  • Worked Extensively on integrating Application with Oracle Database.  • Prepare Python & KSH Shell Scripts for Automation of administration tasks.  • Maintain PL/SQL objects like packages, triggers, procedures etc.  • Built Scripts for Monitoring of Oracle database - 9i, 10g, 11g, 12c, RAC, ASM, Grid.  • Work Extensively in Shell Scripting for Run book Automation purposes.  • Prepare Scripts in Python and Shell for Automation of administration tasks.  • Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes of the two main applications that were a main source of data for both customers and internal finance team.  • Created script in Python for calling REST APIs.  • Overrode Django Rest Framework internals to allow for more dynamic routing.  • Created authorization scheme which enforced limitations on API clients (with an emphasis on securing user data)  • Actively hunting for and dissecting previously unidentified threats in the environment.  • Collaborate full stack project on Waterfall methodology.  • Designed and documented REST/HTTP APIs, including JSON data formats and API versioning strategy. Used Git to collaborate with other developers.  • Successfully migrated the Django database from SQLite to MySQL with complete data integrity. Python Developer APPLE Inc - Sunnyvale, CA June 2013 to August 2015 Responsibilities:-  • Worked on live application Caesar which is same as Jira for ticket generate and track all the records of the assigned work.  • Based on this application user can make new request and update request for particular task.  • Developed web applications in Django Framework's model view control (MVC) architecture.  • Developed with Python 2.7 and Django 1.6.2 web frame work.  • Involved in building database Model, APIs and Views utilizing Python, in order to build an interactive web based solution.  • Created Restful API's to integrate and enhance functionalities of the application. Also Utilized Restful API in communicating with third parties.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and template language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Managed, developed and designed a dashboard control panel for customers and Administrators using Django, Oracle DB.  • Used Apache2 web services for these Caesar application.  • Experience with working on Linux server.  • Created scripts for data modeling and data import and export. Extensive experience in deploying, managing and developing Oracle SQL developer clusters.  • Designed and developed the UI for the website with HTML, XHTML, CSS, Java Script, Ajax, jQuery.  • Used jQuery and AJAX calls for transmitting JSON data objects between front end and controllers.  • Involved in development of Web Services using SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface in the XML format.  • Imported SSL certs from other hosts to new host and properly configured Apache to use certs.  • Experienced in various types of testing such as Unit testing, Integration testing, User acceptance testing, Functional testing.  • Worked on several python packages like Numpy, shutil, Beautiful Soup, Pickle, Python-gitlab.  • Used gitlab distributed version control tool to coordinate team development.  • All applications were developed with Python, Django, and PostgreSQL using JIRA (Agile) methodology.  • Added retry mechanism to API calls using jQuery deferred object and accumulative recursion.  • Design and documentation of RESTful APIs for collection and retrieval of high volume IOT telemetry data.  • Refactored and extended large existing Django/ Python code base by maintaining PEP-8 code standards and fix the bugs.  • Implemented a selectable template structure in Django making it possible to change the HTML layout and design based on site URL and /or domain.  • Development and maintenance of Lodging Operations support application.  • Significantly improved report generation efficiency by caching, reusing and improve the security level of Data.  • Developed MVC prototype replacement of current product with Django:  • Implemented RESTful API which returns data from PostgreSQL in JSON format.  • Able to scrape data from external sources and put them into a central database.  • Expertise in Python scripts to phase XML documents and load the data in database.  • Design and developed data management system using PostgreSQL.  • Web service integration: customized & integrated med-fusion secure practice portal's Secure Message Web.  • Integrated the user-facing elements developed by front-end developer with server side logic.  • Worked on high level design and detail design Developed GUI using Python, MySQL, HTML, AJAX, CSS, JavaScript and jQuery.  • Built application logic using Python, Django and MySQL.  • Used Restful web services for integration with many monitoring devices.  • Developed REST/HTTP APIs for exposing geospatial applications.  • Designed Forms, Modules, Views, and Templates using Django.  • Contributed to development of security policies and processes.  • Installed/configured/maintained Apache servers on all machines (production server and development servers)  • Installed/configured/maintained MySQL database and MongoDB database.  • Developed and enhanced Unicode functionality on character set mapping from input character set to internal character set and from internal set to display set, enhanced OPAC Unicode search performance and browse searches.  • Conducted numerous enhancements for the system and bug-fixing tasks (C/C++, SQL scripts, UNIX Shell)  • Created a JSON update mechanism for pushing data model updates to client.  • Monitored database changes, proposed modification for subsystem-related tables, fields or indexes and developed scripts (SQL, SQL scripts, UNIX shell scripts) Python Developer AT&T - Bothell, WA August 2011 to June 2013 Responsibilities:-  • Worked with Python, MySQL, CSS, HTML, JavaScript, Angular JS, Node JS, AJAX and XHTML to build a fully Web 2.0 compliant social networking website around online HD streaming video.  • Developed scalable applications using Django framework.  • Performed documentation and user training.  • Built key modules including photo gallery, blogging system, forums, profiles, articles, newsletters and email.  • Integrated third party software such as ImageMagic, TinyMceAJAX.  • Used Pandas API to put the data as time series and tabular format for east timestamp data manipulation and retrieval.  • Build all database mapping classes using Django models and Cassandra.  • Used several python libraries like wxPython, numPY and matPlotLib.  • Used the Model View controller (MVC) framework to build modular and maintainable applications.  • Developed multi-page applications from beginning to end.  • Performed Flow Control, response to Front-End Request using Python /MySQL/AJAX.  • Conceived and created tables using MySQL 5.  • Created tables, stored procedures, triggers and views for data access and manipulation.  • Involved in entire lifecycle of the projects including Design, Development, and Deployment, Testing and Implementation and support.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, XHTML, CSS, JavaScript, Angular JS, andAJAX.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Created backend database T-SQL stored procedures and Jasper Reports.  • Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes of the two main applications that were a main source of data for both customers and internal customer service team.  • Added support for Amazon AWS S3 and RDS to host static/media files and the database into Amazon Cloud.  • Deployed with Fabric on AWS on EC2 instance with Postgres RDS and S3 file storage.  • Wrote HTMLfront-end pages using Django templates.  • Experienced in Agile Methodologies and SCRUM Process.  • Deployed the project into Heroku using GIT version control system.  • Used Django configuration to manage URLs and application parameters.  • Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL dB package.  • Also used Bootstrap as a mechanism to manage and organize the html page layout.Developed, tested and debugged software tools utilized by clients and internal customers.  • Coded test programs and evaluated existing engineering processes.  • Designed and configured database and back end applications and programs.  • Performed research to explore and identify new technological platforms.  • Collaborated with internal teams to convert end user feedback into meaningful and improved solutions.  • Resolved ongoing problems and accurately documented progress of a project.  • Developed applications especially in UNIX environment and familiar with all of its commands  • Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes of the two main applications that were a main source of data for both customers and internal customer service team.  • Implement code in Python to retrieve and manipulate data. Additional Information TECHNICAL SUMMARY:-    • More than 5 years of software industry experience, with strong analytical skills and a broad range of computer expertise.  • Experience in Python, Django, MVC Patterns, Java, Oracle, MySQL and Embedded SQL.  • Experienced in Design, Development and support of Data warehousing solutions for Extraction, Transformation and Loading (ETL) mechanism using Datastage and Talend.  • Have very good experience in developing Test Frameworks  • Extensive experience working with Django framework.  • Solid experience installing numerous Python packages using pip install- sphinx, reportlab, xlwt, xlrd, virtualenv, lxml, etc.  • Strong exposure in writing simple and complex SQL queries and creating PL/SQL Functions, Stored Procedures.  • Experienced in re-designing PL/SQL procedures and fine tune queries to improve performance  • Expertise in handling web applications - UI (experience), security, logging, backend services.  • Strong experience in developing UI applications using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery and Bootstrap  • Good experience on using Mercurial, Git (GERITT review) and CVS for configuration management.  • Experience in development methodologies like Agile Scrum and Waterfall.  • Experience with Linux command and bash shell scripting.  • Experience with Web Services (RESTful and SOAP)  • Experience with Selenium automation with Python.  • Determined optimal business logic implementations, applying best design patterns.  • Expanding personal and team knowledge on continuous basis, performing extensive self-study and effective peer training.  • Self-motivated and proactive leader with technical and exemplary communication skills.  • Results-driven, "can-do" attitude, proven problem solving and troubleshooting skills.  • Excellent written and verbal communication of complex ideas in simple terms.  • Able to deliver project under stringent timelines and high pressure.    TECHNICAL SKILLS:-    Languages:- Python, Java, C, C++, Embedded SQL  Frameworks:- Django, AngularJS, Hibernate, Sqlalchemy Orm.  Scripting Languages:- HTML, CSS, Java Script, J-Query, Angular JS  Databases:- MS SQL Server MS-Access, MY SQL, Oracle, SQLite, PL/SQL  User Interfaces:- HTML, HTML5, DHTML, CSS, XML, DOM, XAML, IIS, AJAX, SOAP, Restful, WSDL, Web Services, Angular JS  Operating Systems:- Linux, Windows, Windows Server 2003, Version Control Team Foundation Server (TFS), Subversion, Clear Case  Protocols:- TCP/IP, HTTP, FTP  Tools & IDE: - PowerShell, Jenkins (build process), Eclipse Pydev, Wing 3.1, Django South, Fabric deployment tool, Pytest, Selenium, SoapUI, Chef, Jenkins, PyCharm, Sublime, Eclipse, NetBeans.  SDLC:- Waterfall, RAD, Agile, Scrum  Packages:- MS Office (Word, Excel and PowerPoint), MS outlook, Lotus Notes.  Others:- GIT, PIP, PEP8, Celery, Redis, RESTful Web Services, Heroku, OpenCV, Django-Debug-Toolbar, Datastage, CA workload automation, Service now, Microstartegy, Quality center.