Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - Goldman Sachs Portland, OR • Having over 5+ years of experience as a Web/Application Developer and coding with analytical programming using Python, Django.  • Experience in developing web-based applications using Python 2.7/3.0, Django 1.7/1.8, PHP, Angularjs, C++, XML, CSS, HTML, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Experienced with Python Libraries Numpy, Pandas data frame.  • Experience in working with Relational DB (RDBMD) like SQLite, MYSQL Workbench, PostgreSQL and No-SQL database MongoDB for database connectivity.  • Experience in analyzing and handling large datasets using Oracle Relational database  • Familiar with JSON based REST Web services and Amazon Web services.  • Experienced in MVW frameworks like Django, Angular.js, Java Script, JQuery and Node.js.  • Implemented responsive web pages using HTML, CSS, Bootstrap and XML/JSON.  • Experienced with full software development life-cycle (SDLC), architecting scalable Platforms, object oriented programming, database design and agile methodologies.  • Extensive experience in implementation of the version control software like Git and TFS.  • Good knowledge of web services with protocols SOAP and REST.  • Experience in various Client-Server development technologies with the help of JavaScript, CSS, Bootstrap, HTML, jQuery, AJAX and XML.  • Experience with continuous integration and automation using JENKINS.  • Experience in working with deployment tools like Jenkins  • Understanding of Python Best Practices (PEP-8).  • Experienced in WAMP (Windows, Apache, MYSQL, and Python/PHP) and LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, and Python/PHP) Architecture.  • Excellent working knowledge in UNIX and Linux shell environments using command line utilities.  • Assisted in Developing testing plans and procedures for Unit testing/Test Driven Development, system test, and Load testing.  • Extensive use of Linux (Ubuntu), SSH, Flask/Django  • Experience with different IDE's like Sublime Text, Jet Brains PyCharm and Visual Studio.  • Ability to learn and adapt quickly to the emerging new technologies and paradigms.  • Efficient team member with excellent work/time management skills, communications and Interpersonal Skills, ability to work under strict deadlines. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Developer Goldman Sachs - New York, NY December 2016 to Present Responsibilities:  • Developed Views and Templates with Django view controller and template language to create a user-friendly website interface  • Implemented user interface guidelines and standards throughout the development and maintenance of the website using the HTML, CSS, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Created APIs, database Model and Views Utilization Python in order to build responsive web page application.  • Implemented user interface guidelines and standards throughout the development and maintenance of the website using the HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery and Angular JS.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Used Github for Python source code version control, Jenkins for automating the build Docker containers, and deploying in Mesos.  • Migrated the Django database from SQLite3 to PostgreSQL with complete data integrity.  • Worked on REST API calls and integration with UI. Used AngularJS to develop the component to the application team, Spring MVC to consume REST API's and used JavaScript, CSS3 and JQuery to display the data in front end.  • Performed Unit testing, Integration Testing, GUI and web application testing using Rspec.  • Worked on Jenkins continuous integration tool for deployment of project.  • Automated the continuous integration and deployments using Jenkins, Docker, Ansible and AWS Cloud Templates.  • Worked on changes to open stack and AWS to accommodate large-scale data center deployment.  • Used Amazon Cloud EC2 along with Amazon SQS to upload and retrieve project history.  • Experience in project deployment using Heroku/Jenkins and using web services like Amazon Web Services (AWS) EC2, AWS S3, Auto scaling, Cloud watch and SNS.  • Created interactive data charts on Customer portal web application using High charts JavaScript library with data coming from Apache Cassandra.  • Worked on front end frame works like CSS, Bootstrap for development of Web application.  • Worked in MySQL database on simple queries and writing Stored Procedures for normalization.  • Deployed the project into Jenkins using GIT version control system.  • Used python scripts to update content in the database and manipulate files.  • Redesigned existing task management systems using Python.  • Worked on frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Implemented and enhanced CRUD operations for the applications using the MVC (Model View Controller) architecture of Django framework and Python conducting code reviews.  • Used Python, JQuery, JavaScript and AJAX at the front end.  • Worked on design, implementation and modifying the Python code, MySQL and PostgreSQL database schema on-the back end.  • Search engine optimization by replacing existing database with MongoDB (NoSQL Database).  • Documented company Restful API's using Swagger for internal and third part use and also worked on Unit testing and Integration testing.  • Used Git for the version control.  • Develop user friendly and sophisticated graphical representation of the catalogue of items that would be configured for a piece of equipment.  • Worked on object oriented programming (OOP) concepts using Python, Django and Linux.  • Used JIRA for bug tracking and issue tracking.  • Practical experience with working on multiple environments like development, testing, production.    Environment: Python, Django, AWS, Angular Js, Jenkins, Docker, MySQL, MongoDB, HTML, JavaScript, JSON, XML, JQuery, Linux WSDL, Restful, CSS, Postgre-SQL, Swagger, Git, JIRA. Python Developer Raymond James Financial - Saint Petersburg, FL March 2014 to November 2016 Responsibilities:  • Interacted with the client end-users during requirements gathering sessions.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Developed dynamic web pages using Python, Django Frameworks.  • Designed and Developed User Interface using front-end technologies like HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, AngularJS, Bootstrap and JSON.  • Worked on Django API's for accessing the database.  • Supported Apache Server on Linux Platform.  • Generated Python Django forms to record data of online users and used PyTest for writing test cases.  • Created specific images using Python Imaging Library for the custom images used for each book  • Implemented Business logic, worked on data exchange, processed XML and HTML using Python 2.7 and its familiar framework Django.  • Worked on creating the Docker containers and Docker consoles for managing the application life cycle.  • Setup Docker on Linux and configured Jenkins to run under Docker host.  • Model View Control architecture is implemented using Django Framework to develop web applications.  • Used IBM DB2 SQL stored procedures and UNIX Shell Scripts for importing/exporting Data and Conversions.  • Developed a fully automated continuous integration system using Git, Jenkins, MySQL and custom tools developed in Python and Bash  • Developed scripts to migrate data from proprietary database to PostgreSQL.  • Implemented continuous integration using Jenkins and involved in the deployment of application with Ansible automation engine.  • Created backend database T-SQL stored procedures and Jasper Reports.  • Created Django dashboard with custom look and feel for end user after a careful study of Django admin site and dashboard.  • Worked on Jenkins continuous integration tool for deployment of project.  • Deployed the project into Jenkins using GIT version control system.  • Developed Application to access JSON and XML from Restful, WebServices from consumer side using JavaScript and Angular.JS.  • Actively worked as a part of team with managers and other staff to meet the goals of the project in the stipulated time.  • Ensured high quality data collection and maintaining the integrity of the data.  • Developed object-oriented programming to enhance company product management.    Environment: Python, Django, AWS, Angular Js, Jenkins, Docker, HTML5/CSS, XML, MySQL, JQuery, JavaScript, JSON, Ajax Python Developer Mangstor Storage Systems Pvt. ltd - Hyderabad, Telangana April 2012 to December 2013 Responsibilities:  • Responsible for gathering requirements, system analysis, design, development, testing and deployment.  • Used Django framework for application development.  • Created entire application using Python, Django, MySQL and Linux.  • Used Django configuration to manage URLs and application parameters  • Involved in working with Python open stock API's.  • Created database using MySQL, wrote several queries and Django API's to extract data from database.  • Developed applications especially in UNIX environment and familiar with all of its commands.  • Worked with HTML, CSS and JavaScript in developing web applications  • Embedded AJAX in UI to update small portions of the web page avoiding the need to reload the entire page.  • Improved code reuse and performance by making effective use of various design patterns.  • Creating unit test/regression test framework for working with new code.  • Wrote scripts in Python for extracting data from HTML file.  • Involved in entire lifecycle of the projects including Design and Deployment, Testing and Implementation and support. Maintaining the scripts using the version Control.  • Maintaining school database using MS EXCEL.  • Proactively worked with managers and development staff to meet project goals within expected timelines.    Environment: Python, Django, AJAX, CSS, HTML, SQL, MySQL, JavaScript, XML, Linux, UNIX. Education Master's Skills DJANGO (6 years), HTML (6 years), JAVASCRIPT (6 years), PYTHON (6 years), XML (6 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Operating systems UNIX, MS Windows, LINUX, MacOS.  Methodologies Agile, Scrum.  Web Technologies JSON, XML, HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX and MVC.  Web Frameworks Django, Flask, Pyramid.  Languages Python, C, C++, SQL and Android.  Databases Oracle, SQLite, MYSQL, MongoDB, PostgreSQL.  Configuration Management GIT, GITHUB  Testing Tools Selenium.  Protocols TCP/IP, ICMP, HTTP/HTTPS and SOAP.  Development Tools/IDE's Sublime Text, Jet Brains Pycharm, Visual Studio, Eclipse Python, Pydev, Django Plug-in.