Sr. Python Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Python Developer - Frontier Communications Stamford, CT • 5+ years of client facing experience as a software developer in the telecom sector.  • Extensive experience in Requirement Analysis, Application Design & Development and profound knowledge on SDLC using agile and V-model.  • Experienced in developing Web-based Applications using Python, CSS, HTML, JavaScript, Angular JS and Jquery.  • Experienced in developing Web Services with Python programming language.  • Good knowledge of Web Services with protocols SOAP, REST.  • Developed widgets for GUI using Tkinter, Gtk modules of Python.  • Profiled python code for optimization and memory management.  • Skilled experience in Python with using new tools and technical developments (Libraries Used: libraries- Beautiful Soup, Jasy, numpy, Scipy, matplotlib, Pickle, PySide, Pandas dataframe, networkx, urllib2, Pychart, Highcharts) to drive improvements throughout entire SDLC.  • Involved in Unit testing, Integration testing, User-Acceptance testing, and Functional testing.  • Experienced in web applications development using Django/ Python, Flask/ Python, and Node.js, Angular.js, DOJO, Jquery while using HTML/CSS/JS for server-side rendered applications.  • Experienced in developing API services in Python/Tornado, NodeJS while leveraging AMQP and RabbitMQ for distributed architectures.  • Having experienced in Agile Methodologies, Scrum stories and sprints experience in a Python based environment, along with data analytics, data wrangling and Excel data extracts.  • Experienced in writing SQL Queries, Stored procedures, functions, packages, tables, views, triggers.  • Having working Knowledge of Amazon AWS S3.  • Sound knowledge in Spring, Hibernate, RDBMS, Web, XML, Ant/Maven, HTML, Python, Shell Scripting.  • Extensive use of Object Oriented design methodology and Agile in software development.  • Hands on experience in SVN, Git, JIRA, Bugzilla.  • Experience object oriented programming (OOP) concepts using Python, C++ and PHP.  • Experienced in WAMP (Windows, Apache, MYSQL, Python/PHP) and LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, Python/PHP) Architecture.  • Experienced in developing web-based applications using Python, Django, PHP, XML, CSS, HTML, JavaScript and Jquery.  • Experienced in installing, configuring, modifying, testing and deploying applications with Apache.  • Well versed with design and development of presentation layer for web applications using technologies like HTML, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Familiar with JSON based REST Web services and Amazon Web services.  • Experienced in developing Web Services with Python programming language. Work Experience Sr. Python Developer Frontier Communications - Stamford, CT July 2014 to Present Responsibilities:  • Enhanced existing framework by incorporating SSH functionality into existing Telnet-based automation framework. Developed and successfully integrated Python scripts to automate SSH login and data collection for network devices not supporting Telnet.  • Developed and implemented Python scripts to automate retrieval, parsing and reporting of configuration parameters from Network Devices connected to customer networks.  • Designed and developed components using Python.  • As a Python Developer, I designed and developed Use-Case Diagrams, Class Diagrams, and Object Diagrams using UML Rational Rose.  • Major contributor to the Python scripting project. Created scripts to extract configuration parameters from various network devices including Cisco switch, F5 load balancer, Sun Netra Switch.  • Wrote and tested Python scripts to create new data files for Linux server configuration using a Python template tool.  • Developed Python scripts to automate loading and testing of LDAP directory and SQL database files on MMSC servers, minimizing the risk of introducing service-affecting errors into the customer's network.  • Modified controlling databases using SQL generated via Python and Perl code, collected and analyzed data with Python programs using SQL queries from the database of data collected from the systems under tests.  • Technical experience with LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, PYTHON) architecture.  • Involved in various phases of the project like Analysis, Design, Development, and Testing.  • Developed rich user interface using CSS, HTML, JavaScript and Jquery.  • Developed a Front-End GUI as stand-alone Python application.  • Created numerous reports using reportlab and xlrt/xlwt python packages.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Developed user interface using CSS, HTML, JavaScript and Jquery.  • Created entire application using Python, Django, MySQL and Linux.  • Designed and implemented a dedicated MYSQL database server to drive the web apps and report on daily progress. Python Developer Deltacom - Huntsville, AL August 2012 to June 2014 Responsibilities:  • Developed API modularizing existing python module with the help of pyyaml libraries.  • Designed and configured database and back end applications and programs.  • Performed research to explore and identify new technological platforms.  • Experienced in developing Web-based Applications using Python, CSS, HTML, JavaScript, Angular JS and Jquery.  • Experienced in developing Web Services with Python programming language.  • Good knowledge of Web Services with protocols SOAP, REST.  • Involved in Unit testing, Integration testing, User-Acceptance testing, and Functional testing.  • Technical experience with LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, PYTHON) architecture.  • Involved in various phases of the project like Analysis, Design, Development, and Testing.  • Developed rich user interface using CSS, HTML, JavaScript and Jquery.  • Developed a Front-End GUI as stand-alone Python application.  • Wrote python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Used Python and Django to interface with the jQuery UI and manage the storage and deletion of content.  • Involved in development of Web Services using SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface in the XML format.  • Worked with PYTHON, MYSQL, CSS, JavaScript, AJAX and XHTML to build a fully Web 2.0 compliant social networking website aroundonline HD streaming video.  • Performed Flow Control, response to Front-End Request using PYTHON/MYSQL/AJAX.  • Implemented business logic in Python to prevent, detect and claim the duplicate payments.  • Used Django configuration to manage URLs and application parameters.  • Build all database mapping classes using Django models.  • Wrote Python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Worked with JSON based REST Web services and Amazon Web Services.  • Used Jenkins to deploy your Django application and run unit tests.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework. Python Developer TDS Telecom - Madison, WI October 2010 to July 2012 Responsibilities:  • Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks.  • Implemented code to perform CRUD operations on Mongo DB using Py Mongo module.  • Worked in a team, Involved in developing the UI, layout and front-end programming (HTML) for web application that matches requirements of the company.  • Excellent Coordination in project activities and ensure that all project phases are followed and documented properly.  • Extensively involved design discussions and user experience sessions to provide inputs on the layout and UX.  • Designed the front-end applications, user interactive (UI) web pages using web technologies like HTML, XHTML, and CSS.  • Developed Python/Django application for Google Analytics aggregation and reporting.  • Built efficient Node.js backend for client web application.  • Created Python and Bash tools to increase efficiency of call center application system and operations; data conversion scripts, AMQP/RabbitMQ, REST, JSON, and CRUD scripts for API Integration.  • Created server monitoring daemon with Psutil, supported by Django app for analytics which I created. Also researched big data solutions with Cassandra database.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Utilize PyUnit, the Python unit test framework, for all Python applications.  • Created a Git repository and added the project to GitHub.  • Set up rules and policies with a Node JS/ Python back end.  • Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQLdb package.  • Carried out various mathematical operations for calculation purpose using python libraries.  • Built various graphs for business decision making using Python matplotlib library. Skills PYTHON, R, , SAS, JAVA (5 years), C C++, DBMS: SQL Server 7.0 (5 years), Oracle, MySQL PLSQL (5 years), XSLT, WSDL, SHELL (5 years), Progress Sonic 8.5, Progress Savion 7.6 (5 years), Eclipse, SOAP UI, ANT, R studio, MQ (5 years), Oracle BPM, Oracle P6 (5 years), MS SharePoint, Tableau Desktop (5 years), Weblogic 8.1, Apache Tomcat (5 years), ML, CSS, Web-Services, XML, (5 years), JSP, JavaScript, Java EE, JBoss Application Server, JBOSS DROOLS engine (5 years), Developer, Struts, Core Java, Helix framework (5 years), Hibernate, DB2, EBI, PHP, Jquery (5 years), Agile Development, Oracle 9i/11i, Spring (5 years), SQL, PL/SQL, UNIX/Linux Shell Scripts (5 years), Python, Ruby, PHP, JavaScript, XML (5 years), Design Patterns, OOA/OOD, UML, RUP (5 years), Eclipse, NetBeans, WSAD (5 years), jBuilder, RAD, Visual Studio (5 years) Additional Information Technical Skills-    Languages: PYTHON, R, , SAS, JAVA, C C++, DBMS: SQL Server 7.0, Oracle, MySQL  PLSQL, XSLT, WSDL, SHELL  Tools: Progress Sonic 8.5, Progress Savion 7.6, Oracle BPEL, Software Utilities: Eclipse, SOAP UI, ANT, R studio, MQ  Oracle BPM, Oracle P6, MS SharePoint, Tableau Desktop  Application Server: Weblogic 8.1, Apache Tomcat Web Languages and Frameworks: ML, CSS, Web-Services, XML,  JSP, JavaScript, Java EE