Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - Comcast, PA Lake Worth, FL ? 6 years of experience in Analysis, Design, Development, Management and Implementation of various stand-alone, client-server enterprise applications.  ? Developed Restful API's integrating web exe with Django and Python implementations with data exchange through JSON and XML formats.  ? Experience with testing libraries such as pyUnit, pyTest etc.  ? Experience in gathering business requirements from stakeholders, making high level/detail design.  ? Skilled in creating test plans, test cases, test matrices and other test documentation.  ? Developed web exe implementations using Service and Provider modules and integrated Restful services with Django.  ? Experienced in installing, configuring, modifying, testing and deploying applications using tools such as Jenkins, Svs etc  ? Develop automated tests by building test cases from scratch using Python, Selenium.  ? Experience in writing Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors and Functions on MySQL and Oracle database.  ? Extensively experienced with developing UNIX scripting and utilities.  ? Excellent debugging, problem solving, optimization and testing skills.  ? Experience in Agile development techniques.  ? Active participation in full SDLC development life cycle(Requirements, design, architecture, development, testing)  ? Keen on learning and adaptable to any platform.  ? Hands on experience in writing, rewriting requirements, architecture documents, test plans design documents, quality analysis and audits.  ? Excellent communications skills in handling complex requirements and interacting with multiple geographical teams. Work Experience Python Developer Comcast, PA December 2016 to Present Responsibilities  ? Developed entire backend modules using Python.  ? Implemented business logic using Python/Django. Worked with millions of database records on a daily basis, finding common errors and bad data patterns and fixing them.  ? Managed large datasets using Panda data frames and Cassandra.  ? Used Python Library Beautiful Soup 4 for Web Scraping to extract data for building graphs.  ? Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes of the two main applications that were a main source of data for both customers and internal customer service team.  ? Taken part in entire lifecycle of the projects including Design, Development, and Deployment, Testing and Implementation and support.  ? Worked in development of applications especially in LINUX environment and familiar with all of its commands.  ? Worked on Jenkins continuous integration tool for deployment of project. Deployed the project into Jenkins using GIT version control system.  ? Responsible for debugging the project monitored on JIRA (Agile).  ? Refactored existing project to make it more RESTful and thread-safe.  ? Added unit tests and improved existing ones and Created project designs utilizing MVC architecture components.  ? Designed RESTful XML web service for handling AJAX requests.    Environment: Python 3.3, Django, Cassandra, PyCharm, GIT, Linux, Shell Scripting, RESTful, AWS S3 CLI, Vagrant, Docker, Confluence Python Developer John Derre - East Moline, IL September 2014 to December 2016 Responsibilities  ? Part of Core team implementing API design and Development in integrating different components  ? Developed libraries implementing business logic related to client/patient profile data and search features  ? Developed RESTful API implementations in Django and integrated with AngularJS UI components  ? Developed unit test cases using Python and automated tests in Linux using internal tools.  ? Provided production support for issues related to backend services.  ? Experience with bug-tracking through JIRA, source code management and team collaboration software such as GIT, SVN etc  ? Responsible for system debugging in UAT, performance improvement for customer issues and field trials. Solved numerous customer issues.  ? Collaborated with development, program management, Scrum and testing teams to develop product features and sprint releases - automated tests.  ? Used python pip to install modules and PEP8 code styling practices  ? Working in agile environment. Daily scrum meetings with the Agile team on updates and improvements.  ? Experience in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors and Functions  ? Experience with multiple software development tools for source control, code review, code quality, bug tracking and functional testing.  ? Developed UNIX shell scripts for batch jobs as well as testing the application.  ? Worked on Continuous Integration of Centralized equipment system, which is primarily responsible for design components for using Python.  ? Experience with continuous integration and automation using Jenkins.  ? Experience with Unit testing/ Test driven Development (TDD), Load Testing.    Environment: Python 2.7, pyUnit, pytest, JIRA, SVN, UNIX, PL/SQL, Oracle 11g, Selenium, JSON, Open stack etc Python Developer American Express - Phoenix, AZ September 2011 to August 2014 Responsibilities  ? Designed and developed an application using Python technologies using nose test for concurrent programming a simple pattern of components that sends and receives data.  ? Used both Django/Circuit framework to develop and manage the application for the implementation of concurrency in a Linux environment.  ? Coordinated with product owners and technical team members for preparation and review of solution based documentation.  ? Used Circuit framework for lightweight, high performance and scalable server as well as various I/O and Networking components.  ? Developed scalable infrastructure solutions and related components in collaboration with technical leads.  ? Used Django and Python for designing of forms, modules, Views and Templates which incorporates various graphical elements for the content produced.  ? Apache servers were installed/configured/maintained on all machines like on both production servers and development servers. Rewriting existing Python/Django modules for creating a scheduling system of linear data.  ? Applied REST API development via Django REST Framework model to develop an information management system.  ? Implemented extensive range of Python libraries for managing automation mechanisms, manipulation, stream management and integrating various protocols for the system.  ? Worked with SCRUM Agile methodology to ensure delivery of high quality work with one month sprints.  ? Define, create, execute and maintain test cases for regression, integration, automation,  exploratory, performance, security, user acceptance testing.  ? Administered Continuous Integration services using Jenkins and Repository.  ? Extensively involved in performing unit testing using PyUnit which are bundled and imported automatically.    Environment: Python, Django, Nose, REST API, HTML, XML, SCRUM Agile and Jenkins. Skills PYTHON (6 years), XML (3 years), Git (3 years), APACHE (3 years), HTML (3 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    Operating systems Windows, Unix  Languages Python, Java  Scripting languages Javascript, Shell Script  Markup languages HTML, XML, JSON  Servers Apache Tomcat, IBM WebSphere  Databases Oracle, MySQL  IDEs/ Tools IDLE, Pycharm, Eclipse, Toad  Revision Controlling Systems SVN, Git  Methodologies & tools Object Oriented Programming, Agile, Scrum  MS office tools Excel, Word, PowerPoint