Sr. Python Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Python Developer - BNY Mellon Philadelphia, PA • Over 6+ years of experience in developing web-based applications, software developmentand design using Python 3.3/2.7, Django 1.9/1.8, XML, CSS, HTML, DHTML, JavaScript, JQuery & Angular Js.  • Experienced in MVC frameworks like Django, Angular JS, Java Script, Jquery, React.js and Node.js. Flask and Pyramid, Well versed in Django ORM and SqlAlchamy and Extensive use of Linux (Ubuntu), SSH, Flask/Django.  • 3+ years of QA experience working in environment with different types of Software Development Life Cycle and Software Testing Methodology  • Proficient in SQL databases MS SQL, MySQL, Oracle and no-SQL databases MongoDB, Cassandra  • Worked on AJAX framework to transform Datasets and Data tables into HTTP-serializable JSON strings.  • Experienced in developing service oriented architecture (SOA) and web Services using SOAP, JAX-WS, WSDL and UDDI.  • Well versed with design and development of presentation layer for web applications using technologies like HTML, CSS, and JavaScript, Bootstrap.  • Hands on experience in configuring and managing device based aliasing and zone based aliasing via CISCO Nexus OS command line and also knowledgeable in using the CISCO DCNM (Data Center Network Manager), Brocade Network Advisor and McData zone administration.  • Experience in developing applications using amazon web services like EC2, Cloud Search, Elastic Load balancer ELB, S3, CloudFront.  • Experience working with network protocols SNMP, NetConf.  • Good working experience in processing large datasets with Spark using Scala and Pyspark and Familiar with JSON based REST Web services.  • Extensive experience with Amazon Web Services (AWS), Openstack, Docker Puppet, Chef, Ansible, AWS CloudFormation, AWS CloudFront and Experience in using containers like Docker and familiar with Jenkins.  • Excellent understanding and knowledge of Hadoop Distributed file system data modelling, architecture and design principles and Developed Python Mapper and Reducer scripts and implemented them using Hadoop streaming.  • Expertise in working with PHP, MYSQL, CSS, JavaScript, AJAX and XHTML to build a fully Web 2.0 compliant networking website.  • Experienced in understanding Service Virtualization needs/ Requirements & creating VSI's using WSDL, WADL, Recording, Request & Response pairs.  • Experienced in Agile Methodologies, Scrum stories and sprints experience in a Python based environment, along with data analytics, data wrangling and Excel data extract.  • Experienced in developing WebServices with Python programming language and Good working experience in processing large datasets with Spark using Scala and Pyspark.  • Extensive experience with Object Oriented Design and SDLC methodologies using Rational Rose, Unified Modeling Language (UML) and Developed Web Applications using Java/J2EE, JSF on JVM.  • Built the web application by using Python, Django, AWS, J2EE, PostgreSQL, MySQL, Oracle 10g and MongoDB and Knowledgeable with continuous deployment using Heroku and Jenkins.  • Experienced in WAMP (Windows, Apache, MYSQL, and Python) and LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, and Python) Architecture and Wrote Automation test cases using Selenium Web Driver, JUnit, Maven, and Spring.  • Experience in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on MySQL and PostgreSQL database and Implemented machine learning algorithms in Spark and Python, for segmentation of data.  • Experience analyzing the requirements and Proficient in establishing QA Procedures, Standard Methods, and Software Requirement Specifications (SRS)  • Good experience in Shell Scripting, SQL Server, Unix and Linux, Open stock and Expertise python scripting with focus on Devops tools, CI/CD and AWS Cloud Architecture.  • Experienced in working on Application Servers like WebSphere, WebLogic, Tomcat, Web Servers like Apache server, NGINX and Integrated Development Environments like Pycharm, Eclipse, MyEclipse, JDeveloper and RAD, Built the web application by using Python, Django, AWS, J2EE, PostgreSQL, MySQL, Oracle 10g and MongoDB.  • Expertise in Object-Oriented design and coding. Good knowledge of various Design Patterns and UML and Wrote Python OO Design code for manufacturing quality, monitoring, logging, and debugging code optimization.  • Experience in analyzing and handling large datasets using Oracle Relational database9i, 10g, 11g. Architecture and worked on Javascript implementation of tetris game, using ES6 and HTML5 Canvas.  • Experienced in writing SQL Queries, Stored procedures, functions, packages, tables, views, triggers.  • Used R Language among statisticians and data miners for developing statistical software and data analysis.  • Have good idea about tools like Bugzilla, Jira, Confluence, and Axosoft and Design the front end of company website with CSS, Sass, and Bootstrap and implemented Web Services based on SOA architecture with Restful.  • Knowledge of the Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC), Agile and Waterfall Methodologies and Familiar with concepts and devices such routers, switches and TCP/IP protocols and OSI layer. Work Experience Sr. Python Developer BNY Mellon - Philadelphia, PA January 2015 to Present Responsibilities:  • Developed frontend and backend modules using Python on Django including Tastypie Web Framework using Git.  • Developed Merge jobs in Python to extract and load data into MySQL database and Worked on MYSQL data lineage process to map source to target DB, table and column mappings using OO Python.  • Involved in evaluating existing server and virtualization environments for needed and useful upgrade opportunities.  • Implement new Cisco DCNM to perform Cisco MDS switch zoning for VMAX, VNX, Netbackup, Linux/VMware.  • Involved in development of Java package on Tail-f platform to handle NETCONF notifications from newly created cloud resources.  • Involved in designing of API's for the networking and cloud services.  • Involved in development of business logic by backend python programming to achieve optimal results.  • Involved in Installation and setting up Python/Linux test beds.  • Successfully migrated the Django database from SQLite to MySQL to PostgreSQL with complete data integrity and Designed, developed and deployed CSV Parsing using the big data approach on AWS EC2.  • Worked on QA (quality assurance) Automated testing tools are capable of executing tests, reporting outcomes and comparing results with earlier test runs.  • Designed a tool called netconf (Network configuration) which automatically configures network switches by parsing XML files.  • Implement zones on redundant fabrics utilizing Cisco DCNM for Linux and vmWare hosts.  • Implemented monitoring and established best practices around using elastic search.  • Worked as primary liaison between Virtualization and EUC teams to deliver the highest quality experience for the user community.  • Developed Ruby on Rails 3 web applications using MongoDB and back-ground processes using Resque and Redis and Worked on performance tuning of cluster using Cassandra Configuration file and JVM Parameters.  • Used Test driven approach for developing the application and Implemented the unit tests using Python Unit test framework and Development of Isomorphic ReactJS and Redux driven API client applications.  • Performed code reviews and implemented best Python programming practices.  • Strong Socket programming experience in Python. Implemented complex networking operations like race route, SMTP mail server and web server.  • Interacted with QA to develop test plans from high-level design documentation.  • Used jQuery and AJAX calls for transmitting JSON data objects between front end and controllers and Utilized continuous integration and automated deployments with Jenkins, Ansible and Docker.  • Involved in deployment of the web application using the Linux server.  • Developed Ruby/ Python scripts to monitor health of Mongo databases and perform ad-hoc backups using Mongo dump and Mongo restore.  • Learned to index and search/query large number of documents inside Elastic search.  • Familiar with JSON based REST Web services and Amazon Web services (AWS) and Responsible for setting up Python REST API framework and spring frame work using DJANGO.  • Dynamic implementation of SQL server work on website using SQL developer tool and Experience with continuous integration and automation using Jenkins and Implemented Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) using JMS for sending and receiving messages while creating web services.  • Used Thales theorem for applying encryption and decryption of ISO standard message in Python programming.  • Mentor and provide leadership to team members in all aspects of virtualization.  • Implemented Backbone JS for creation of networking applications using JavaScript.  • Designed front end using UI, HTML, Bootstrap, Node JS, underscore JS, Angular JS CSS, and JavaScript and Strong Expertise in working with server side technologies including databases, restful API and MVC design patterns.  • Developing applications using RESTFUL architecture using Node.js and PHP as backend languages and Used Numpy for Numerical analysis and Used Spring Framework to support the Hibernate tool and Struts.  • Build back-end application with Python / Django, work with docker, RabbitMQ, Celery, Jenkins.  • Implemented a wide variety of statistical and graphical techniques, including linera and nonlinera modeling, classical statistical tests, time-series analysis, classification, clustering, and others using R and its libraries.  • Involved in the Complete Software development life cycle (SDLC) to develop the application and Worked closely with software developers and DevOps to debug software and system problems.  • Followed AGILE development methodology to develop the application and Used the GO Programming Language to refactor and redesign the legacy databases.  • Worked with development, QA, and Automation engineers to research, design, and develop test automation units.  • Used and customized apache server to for checking our developed project and Used AWS for application deployment and configuration and Implemented web applications in Flask frame works following MVC architecture and Worked on Server side programming using TCP/IP protocol.  • Used Test driven approach (TDD) for developing services required for the application and Implemented Integration test cases and Developing predictive analytic using Apache Spark Scala APIs.  • Worked with core web front end technologies like HTML, JavaScript (Core and Object Oriented JS), ES6, CSS, and Web Accessibility and Worked on performance tuning of cluster using Cassandra Configuration file and JVM Parameters.  • Used Amazon Elastic Beanstalk with Amazon EC2 to deploy project into AWS.  • Worked on MongoDB database concepts such as locking, transactions, indexes, Sharding, replication, schema design and Used Git to resolve and codingthe work on python and portlet.  • Used several python libraries like wxPython, numPY and matPlotLib and I was involved in environment, code installation as well as the SVN implementation and Hands-on experience with Hadoop applications (such as administration, configuration management, monitoring, debugging, and performance tuning)  • Experience in performing signal processing and machine learning algorithm development for a variety of programs and Implemented RS232 and TCP/IP protocols using Python scripting language and Developed SOA Services for transferring data between different applications.  • Build all database mapping classes using Django models and Apache Cassandra and Experienced in developing Restful applications with HATEOAS and documenting the API in Swagger.  • Used Pandas API to put the data as time series and tabular format for east timestamp data manipulation and retrieval and Automation of various administrative tasks on multiple servers using DevOps.  Environment:  Python 3.3, PyQT, PyQuery, MVW, HTML5, CSS3, DOM, Angular.js, Shell Scripting, JSON, Rest, Apache Web Server, Django, SQL, UNIX, Windows, AWS, MongoDB, PostgreSQL, and python libraries such as Numpy, IPython, sqlalchemy, Django Tastypie Python Developer American Express - Phoenix, AZ April 2012 to December 2014 Responsibilities:    • Worked on server side applications with Django using Python programming.  • Used python libraries like Beautiful Soup and matplotlib and Built efficient Node.js backend for client web application.  • Utilized standard Python modules such as csv, robotparser, itertools and pickle for development.  • Involved in testing process for every release and make the QA process robust through lesson learn.  • Worked on Python OpenStack APIs and used Numpy for Numerical analysis.  • Used Ajax and JQuery for transmitting JSON data objects between frontend and controllers and Worked on configuring TCP/IP, network interface, assigning static routes and hostnames.  • Involved in the implementation of analysis, optimization, troubleshooting and documentation of LAN/WAN networking systems.  • Good experience in developing web applications implementing MVT/MVC architecture using Django, Flask, Webapp2 and spring web application frameworks.  • Implemented user interface guidelines and standards throughout the development and maintenance of the website using the HTML, CSS, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Experience in Implementation of MVC architecture using Spring MVC and SOAP web service and SOAPUI and Creating data pipelines using Apache Spark, a big-data processing and computing framework.  • Experience in leading multiple efforts to build Hadoop platforms, maximizing business value by combining data science with big data.  • Coordinated with the development team and updated the QA manager with the progress.  • Implemented AJAX for dynamic functionality of a webpages for front end applications.  • Worked in the DevOps team, delivered new agile environments & build/release/configuration and deployment automation/monitoring using Jenkins, ant, maven, artifactory, chef, custom scripting and Jira for ticketing.  • Worked on front end frame works like CSS Bootstrap for responsive webpages and Added dynamic functionality to the application by implementing jQuery and Angular JS.  • Developed and tested many features for dashboard, created using Bootstrap, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Developed Wrapper in Python for instantiating multi-threaded application and Deploy and monitor scalable infrastructure on Amazon web services (AWS)  • Managed datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL, queried MYSQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQLdb package to retrieve information.  • Developed various algorithms for generating several data patterns and Worked on Node.js for developing server side web applications and Used JIRA for bug tracking and issue tracking.  • Implemented advanced procedures like text analytics and processing using the in-memory computing capabilities like Apache Spark written in Scala.  • Developed the project in Linux environment and Used Agile Methodology and SCRUM Process.  • Worked on creating documents in Mongo database and Maintained the versions using GIT and sending the release notes for each release.  • Supported the issues seen in the tool across all the teams for several projects.    Environment:  Python 2.4, Django, CSS, HTML, BOOTSTRAP, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX, MYSQL, Linux, Heroku, GIT. Python Developer JP Morgan Chase & Co - New York, NY July 2010 to March 2012 Responsibilities:    • Involved in developing web applications using Django Framework to implement the model view control architecture.  • Involved in Developing a Restful service using Python Flask framework.  • Created entire application using Python, Django, MySQL and Linux.  • Developed the presentation layer using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery and AJAX and Used JQuery libraries for all client side JavaScript manipulations.  • Exposure on Multi-Threading factory to distribute learning process back-testing and the into various worker processes.  • Performed efficient delivery of code based on principles of Test Driven Development (TDD) and continuous integration to keep in line with Agile Software Methodology principles.  • Lock mechanisms were implemented and the functionality of multithreading has been used.  • Developed a fully automated continuous integration system using Git, Gerrit, Jenkins, MySQL and custom tools developed in Python and Bash.  • Experience in managing MongoDB environment from availability, performance and scalability perspectives.  • Managed, developed, and designed a dashboard control panel for customers and Administrators using Django, OracleDB, PostgreSQL, and VMWare API calls.  • Extensively used python modules such as requests, urllib, urllib2 for web crawling.  • Implemented configuration changes for data models.  • Used Pandas library for statistics Analysis &Numpy for Numerical analysis.  • Managed large datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL.  • Handled potential points of failure through error handling and communication of failure.  • Developed GUI using webapp2 for dynamically displaying the test block documentation and other features of python code using a web browser and Responsible for user validations on client side as well as server side.  • Automated the existing scripts for performance calculations using Numpy and sqlalchemy.  • Interacted with QA to develop test plans from high-level design documentation.    Environment:  Python 2.7, Django 1.8, CSS, HTML, JavaScript, JQuery, webbapp2, AJAX, MYSQL, Linux, Rest, Heroku, GIT, urllib, urllib2, OracleDB, MongoDB, PostgreSQL, and VMWare API. Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:  Programming Languages: Python 3.3/2.7, Django 1.4/1.3, Flask, Java, C++, Shell Script, SQL, Java/J2EE, PyJamas, Jython, IronPython, Cpython.  Web Technologies: AJAX, JavaScript, HTML, DHTML, XHTML, XML, React, JSON, Jquery, Angular Js  Database: MySQL, SQL Server, Oracle 11g.  Operating systems: Windows XP, Win 7, 8.1, 10, Linux, OS X.  Methodologie: Agile, V Model, Waterfall, Hybrid.  JavaScript Frameworks: Node.js, jQuery, Backbone.js, ExtJS, Ember.js, AngularJS