Sr. Python Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Python Developer • Around 5+ years of Professional Python development experience using Python, Django framework  • .Involved in entire lifecycle of the projects including Design, Development, and Deployment, Testing and Implementation and support.  • Well versed in Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) management models namely Waterfall and Agile (SCRUM) models.  • Built the web application by using Python, Django, Flask, Jinja, WSGI and Fabric.  • Experienced in Authentication management and Django Session which were used to create numerous Django applications.  • Experienced in object oriented programming (OOP) concepts using Python.  • Build Python Django forms for recording of data for online users and writing test cases using PyTest.  • Applied HTML, HTML5, XML, CSS3, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, Bootstrap and AJAX to deliver cutting-edge user interfaces and components.  • Hands-on experience in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on MySQL, PostgreSQL, Oracle 10g and MongoDB.  • Experienced in following PEP8 coding standards across various projects.  • Experience in Apache, Tomcat.  • Installed and configured GIT and was responsible to work for commit, resolve conflict and merge, fetching code.  • Excellent skills in problem solving, analysis, communication and documentation. Work Experience Sr. Python Developer Comcast - Philadelphia, PA May 2015 to November 2017 Responsibilities:  • Performed Systems Analysis and detail application design. Worked on development and enhancement of automated tools for testing, integration and global application development. This includes detail description of availability. Also enhanced the check out and registration process.  • Work with team of developers on python applications for RISK management. Managed full-life development cycles  • Held overall responsibility of coordination of implementations of software builds and releases  • Provided analytics to help determine optimal way to assemble releases  • Tracked any additions, deletions or change in scope on the published release plan including efficient tracking of defects.  • Automating analysis of large data sets. Built the release plan roadmap and keep maintained for communication  • Worked on UI modification using HTML, CSS. Developed Application logic using Python 2.7 and Django framework.  • Wrote backend data access Logic using MYSQL and SQL Server. Used Web Services to extract Supplier inventory for various high end items.  • Integrated the application with different internal system.  • Designed and implemented a distributed, QA infrastructure for automated testing of a multi process software product.  • Involved in Unit, integration and smoke testing. Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Developed entire front end and back end modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Designed and developed data center management system using MySQL. Rewrite existing Python/Django modules to deliver certain format of data.  • Used Django Database API's to access database objects. Wrote python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Generated property list for every application dynamically using python. Handled all the client side validation using JavaScript.  • Using Subversion version control tool to coordinate team-development. Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  Environment: Python 2.7, Django 1.8, MySQL, Windows, Linux, HTML, CSS, JQuery, JavaScript, Apache, Linux. Python Developer Rockwell Collins - Chicago, IL September 2014 to April 2015 Responsibilities:  • Providing daily reports to the Development Manager and participate in both the design phase and the development phase. Utilized Agile Methodology and SCRUM Process.  • Participated in Daily Stand-up meetings and provided status on work progress.  • Wrote Backend python code to interact with Active directory using LDAP Module for the Authentication.  • Implemented code to create dynamic Excel reports for thousands of metadata using xlswriter.  • Implemented code in Python to retrieve and manipulate data.  • Wrote Python scripts to parse JSON documents and load the data in MongoDB. Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Implemented and executed code to perform CRUD operations on MongoDB using Pymongo module.  • Designed and developed the UI for the website with HTML5, CSS3, Java Script and Bootstrap.  • Used JQuery and Ajax calls for transmitting JSON data objects between frontend and controllers.  • Also used Bootstrap as a mechanism to manage and organize the HTML page layout  • End to end testing of the applications. Re-engineered various modules for implementing changes and created efficient system.  • Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes of the applications that were a main source of data for the customers.  • Build development environment with Rally. Maintained program libraries, user's manuals and technical documentation. Used Bitbucket for version control.  Environment: Python 2.7, Django 1.10, Xlswriter, MongoDB, Elasticsearch, Linux, HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX, Rally, Bitbucket. Python Developer Sonata Software - Hyderabad, Telangana April 2012 to July 2014 Responsibilities:  • Actively involved in requirement gathering and analysis period of the project in recording the business requirements by leading workshops/gatherings with different business clients.  • Working cross-functionally to ensure proper functionality and delivery.  • Composed python scripts to parse XML and JSON reports and load the information in database.  • Maintain a solid understanding of MySQL database.  • Implemented Cross Site Scripting, CSRF and SQL injection for security and data protection.  • Develop scalable applications and to effectively manage technology -tradeoffs and risks.  • Design database structures and develop/tune data access utilizing SQL Server by creating Django based ORM.  • Used Django Database API's to access database objects. Also involved in validating and processing of files. Handled RESTful services with the help of python library URLLIBS.  • Closely analyzed the database tables using sequel pro tool of MySQL to resolve integrity issues.  • Used jQuery and AJAX calls for transmitting JSON data objects between front end and controllers.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, CSS, Bootstrap and JavaScript.  • Deployed the entire code using Linux parameters of the virtual machines for UAT phase.  • Collaborate with key stakeholders and project managers to design, develop, integrate, test, document and implement the system.  • Tracking defects and resolving bugs using JIRA. Ensured quality by versioning with GIT.    Environment: Python 2.7, Django 1.9, MySQL, Linux, Shell Scripting, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JIRA, GIT.