Sr. Python Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Python Developer - PayPal Omaha, NE • Over 5+ years of IT Experience in designing, developing, testing and implementing various stand-alone and client-server architectures based on enterprise/ web application software on different domains.  • Good experience in developing web applications implementing MVT/MVC architecture using Experience in Object Oriented Design and Programming concepts in Python web application frameworks.  • Experience in Object Oriented Design and Programming concepts.  • Working Experience on various Python packages such as NumPy, SQLAlchemy, Beautiful soup, pickle, Pyside, Pymongo, SciPy, PyTables.  • Experienced in developing web-based applications using Python, Django, C++, XML, CSS, HTML, DHTML, JavaScript, Bootstrap and JQuery.  • Experienced in NoSQL technologies like MongoDB and Redis and relational databases like SQLite, PostgreSQL, Dynamo DB, MariaDB and MySQL databases.  • Proficient in developing Web Services (SOAP, RESTful) in Python using XML, JSON.  • Experience in Linux Bash shell scripting and following PEP Guidelines in Python.  • Working knowledge on Hadoop, Spark, Big data Technologies.  • Efficient knowledge in using different version control systems like Git, CVS and GitHub.  • Hands on Experience in Data mining and Data warehousing using ETL Tools and Proficient in Building reports and dashboards.  • Strongly follow PEP-8 coding standard and test a program by running it across test cases to ensure validity and effectiveness of code using PyChecker and PyLint.  • Expert with modern Python and be fluent in using web technologies with Python  • Involved in all the phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) using Project management tools JIRA, Redmine and Bugzilla.  • Familiarity with development best practices such as code reviews and unit testing and experience in designing the Automation frameworks.  • Experienced with Unit testing/Test driven Development (TDD), and Load Testing.  • Experience with design, code, debugs operations, reporting, and data analysis utilizing Python.  • Worked on multiple python frameworks like: Django, Flask, Pyramid, Tornado.  • Good experience using various Python libraries to speed up development (libraries used: Beautiful Soup, NumPy, SciPy, Matplotlib, python-twitter, Pandas data frame, network, urllib2, MySQL dB for database connectivity, JSON libraries).  • Experienced in MVW frameworks like Django, Java Script, and Node.js.  • Experience working in both water fall and agile software methodologies.  • Converted Visual Basic Application to Python, MySQL.  • Involved in Unit testing and Integration testing of the code using PyTest.  • Application Stress tester, created and stress tested stand-alone, web-applications and generated graph reports.  • Used Matplotlib to plot the two-dimensional graphs of test performance.  • Vast experience coding in various IDEs - PyCharm, Eclipse, Netbeans, Sublime Text, Spyder,  • Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on MySQL and PostgreSQL database  • Experience in AWS like Amazon EC2, Amazon S3, Amazon Redshift, Amazon EMR and Amazon SQS.  • Extensive knowledge of Cloud/SaaS architecture using AWS/Azure/Google Cloud Platform.  • Hands on experience in debugging and fixing the bugs and very good with support and maintenance.  • Ability to participate to solve business and technical issues.  • Good Experience in C/C development of multi-threaded applications in a Linux Environment.  • Good Experience in error and exceptional handling.  • Proficient in developing complex SQL queries, Stored Procedures, Functions, Packages along with performing DDL and DML operations on the database.  • Experience in Application Development and Object Oriented Programming Analysis and Design (OOAD).  • Migrated C and C++ tasks to Python.  • Worked on requirement gathering and High-level design. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Python Developer PayPal - Omaha, NE March 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Analyzed and gathered business requirements specifications by interacting with client and understanding business requirement specification documents.  • Implemented REST APIs using Python and Django framework.  • Developed web-based applications using Python, Django, XML, CSS, HTML, JavaScript, AngularJS, jQuery and Bootstrap.  • Unit Test Python library was used for testing many programs on python and other codes.  • Wrote Python scripts to parse JSON documents and load the data in database.  • Expertise in working with different databases like Microsoft SQL Server, Oracle, MySQL, PostgreSQL and knowledge of using NoSQL databases like MongoDB.  • Implemented web applications in Flask frame works following MVC architecture.  • Used AngularJS as the development framework to build a single-page application.  • Implemented SQL Alchemy which is a python library for complete access over SQL.  • Designed and maintained databases using Python and developed Python based API (RESTful Web Service) using Flask, SQLAlchemy and PostgreSQL.  • Maintained and improved the security level of data.  • Responsible for security standard implementation and data protection.  • Leveraged spark (Pyspark) to manipulate unstructured data and apply text mining on user's table utilization data.  • Developed mobile cross-browser web application Angular JS, JavaScript API.  • Implemented JSON Schema for validating the structure of JSON data.  • Successfully migrated the Django database from SQLite to MySQL to PostgreSQL with complete data integrity.  • Created Automation test framework using Selenium.  • Generated various report using Python Report lab and sent to Business users to improve their decision  making.  • Resolved ongoing problems and accurately documented progress of Python project.  • Utilized PyUnit, the Python unit test framework for testing the functionality of the application.  • Followed AGILE development methodology to develop the application.  • Development of user-defined data structures and library functions using C and C languages  • Used Test driven approach (TDD) for developing services required for the application.  • Used Git to resolve and coding the work on python.  • Planning, Analyzing, Troubleshooting of Billing Application and MS SQL Server 2008/2012 data base handling  • Automation for execution of tests in batch using Shell scripting.  • Running and debugging the Python harassers on the Linux environment.  • Parsers written in Python for extracting useful data from the design data base.  • Development of XMLs for several components which maintains data for several registers  • Development of data structures, xml parsing using Python. Python Developer Forgeahead Solutions - Mountain View, CA July 2015 to February 2017 Responsibilities:  • Followed Agile Methodologies to manage full life-cycle development of the project.  • Writing backend programming in Python and used the Django Framework to develop the application.  • Implemented user interface guidelines and standards throughout the development and maintenance of the website using the HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery and Angularjs.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Worked with GUI frameworks - PyJamas, Jython.  • Developed RESTful services using Django.  • Designed and developed communication between client and server using Secured Web services.  • Developed and tested many features for dashboard using Python, Java, Bootstrap, CSS, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Used JavaScript and XML to update a portion of a webpage.  • Successfully migrated the Django database from SQLite3 to PostgreSQL with complete data integrity.  • Used AWS for application deployment and configuration.  • Written shell scripting for automation.  • Integrated AWS-RDS MySQL, Oracle and Aurora DBs to AWS-Hive EMR using DynamoDB with direct connect VPC-to-VPC.  • Designed database schema design and defined relationships between tables.  • Worked on changes to openstack and AWS to accommodate large-scale data center deployment.  • Used Amazon Cloud EC2 along with Amazon SQS to upload and retrieve project history.  • Worked on front end frameworks like CSS, Bootstrap for development of Web application.  • Worked in MySQL database on simple queries and writing Stored Procedures for normalization.  • Deployed the project into Jenkins using GIT version control system.  • Created stored procedure, trigger on the database to provide/insert specific data from multiple tables for Web API services.  • Wrote code to support model-view-controller (MVC) pattern of Python Django framework in developing several modules for the application.  • Implemented JSON Schema for validating the structure of JSON data.  • Developed Application to access JSON and XML from Restful Web Service from consumer side using JavaScript.  • Developed remote integration with third party platforms by using RESTful web services.  • Developed remote integration with third party platforms by using RESTful web services.  • Extensive code reviewing using GitHub pull requests, improved code quality, and conducted meetings among peers  • Responsible for Parsing XML data using XML parser and Testing, fixing of the bugs and coding modifications  • Creating invitation flow for customers to use the client portal for monitoring applications.  • Used Restful API's to gather network traffic data from servers.  • Supported Apache Tomcat web server on Linux Platform. Python Developer Forgeahead Solution - Pune, Maharashtra July 2013 to December 2014 Responsibilities:  • Responsible for SDLC process in gathering requirements, system analysis, design, development, testing and deployment.  • Designed the front-end applications, user interactive (UI) web pages using web technologies like HTML, XHTML, CSS, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Work with team of developers on python applications for RISK management.  • Design, develop, test, deploy and maintain the website.  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL.  • Rewrite existing Python/Django modules to deliver certain format of data.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  • Used Django Database API's to access database objects.  • Developed server based web traffic statistical analysis tool using Flask, Pandas.  • Wrote python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Handled all the client side validation using JavaScript.  • Designed and developed corporate website using the D jango framework.  • Automated the existing scripts for performance calculations using Numpy and SQL alchemy.  • Created a Python based GUI application for Freight Tracking and processing  • Created database using MySQL, wrote several queries to extract data from database.  • Wrote scripts in Python for extracting data from HTML file.  • Worked in development of applications especially in UNIX environment and familiar with all commands.  • Developed server based web traffic statistical analysis tool using Flask, Pandas.  • Managed companies virtual servers at Amazon EC2, S3    Accomplishments:  • Python • Django • SQLite • Sqlalchemy Orm  • API • J2EE • HTML • JAVA  • CSS • JavaScript • JQuery • SCALA  • C • C++ • PHP • MS SQL Server  • MYSQL • Oracle • MongoDB • AngularJS  • PL/SQL • Linux • MAC • PowerShell  • Django South • TCP/IP • Wing 3.1 • Pytest  • Selenium • SOAPUI • Chef • Jenkins  • Pycharm • Atom • Spyder • Sublime  • Netbeans • RAD • Agile • Scrum  • GIT • PIP • PEP 8 • Celery  • REST Full Web • OpenCV • Datastage • IDLE Education Master's in Electrical and Computer Engineering Illinois Institute of Technology - Chicago, IL January 2015 to December 2016 Bachelor's in Electrical and Electronics Engineering Gayatri Vidya Parishad College of Engineering - Vishakapatnam, Andhra Pradesh June 2009 to April 2013 Skills AngularJS (4 years), CSS (5 years), Django (5 years), Git (4 years), JavaScript (5 years), MySQL (5 years), PHP, jQuery (5 years), ASP, Python (5 years), Flask (4 years), Tornado (4 years), MySQL (5 years), XML (5 years), NumPy (5 years), SDLC (5 years), AWS (4 years), unit testing (5 years), Load Testing (4 years)