Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - Axillon Group • 5 years of experience as a Web/Application Developer and coding with analytical programming using Python, Django, C++.  • Experienced with full software development life-cycle, architecting scalable platforms, object oriented programming, database design and agile methodologies & did pojects based on content management systems(CMS).  • Expert knowledge of and experience in Object oriented Design and Programming concepts.  • Experience object oriented programming (OOP) concepts using Python, C++ and PHP.  • Experienced in WAMP (Windows, Apache, MYSQL, Python/PHP) and LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, Python/PHP) Architecture.  • Experience in leading multiple efforts to build Hadoop platforms, maximizing business value by combining data science with big data & also worked for CMS.  • Advised organizations about big data, a big data strategy, the implementation of big data, which technologies best fit the needs of the organization and even implements the selected big data solution  • Expertise in writing Automation test scripts using QTP 10.0 and VB script.  • Experienced in MVW frameworks like Django, Angular JS, Java Script, JQuery and Node.js.  • High-level experience in Base SAS, SAS/Macros, SAS/SQL, SAS/Stat, SAS/Connect, SAS/Access, SAS/Graph, SAS/ODS, SAS/EBI, SAS/Grid, SAS Visualizer, SAS/ETS and SPSS modeler.  • Experienced in developing web-based applications using Python, Django, PHP, C++, XML, CSS, HTML, DHTML, , JavaScript and Jquery in Linux based OS. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Developer Axillon Group - New York, NY May 2014 to Present Responsibilities:  • Wrote python routines to log into the websites and fetch data for selected options.  • Used python modules such as requests, urllib, urllib2 for web crawling.  • Used other packages such as Beautifulsoup for data parsing.  • Worked on writing and as well as read data from csv and excel file formats.  • Worked on a resulting reports of the application and Tableau reports.  • Modifying data using SAS/BASE, SAS/ MACROS.  • Performed QA testing on the application.  • Developed approaches for improving NLP pipeline.  • Create custom VB scripts in repackaging applications as needed.  • NLP File Prep Settlement-Prepare files for review for Settlement.  • Held meetings with client and worked all alone for the entire project with limited help from the client.  Environment: Python 2.7, Sypder(IDE), Windows 7, Terdata, Requests, urllib, urllib2, Beautifulsoup, Tableau & Linux. Python developer Princeton Information - Jersey City, NJ April 2012 to April 2014 Responsibilities:    • Worked in stages such as analysis and design, development, testing and debugging.  • Worked on CSV files while trying to get input from the MySQL database.  • Created and executed test plans using PyUnit.  • Translate Linear Algebra to MATLAB syntax.  • Performed data cleansing by analyzing and eliminating duplicate and inaccurate data using PROC FREQ, PROC COMP, PROC UNIVARIATE, PROC RANK, and macros in SAS.  • Demonstrate validation via MATLAB simulation for interpretation.  • Worked with the testing team for resolving bugs.  • Having Strong Knowledge on Data Management Department. Coding with Rumba, Stastics with Microsoft Excel, SAS,  • Closely involved in performance evaluation and User Acceptance Test.    Environment: Python 2.7, Windows, Linux, MySQL and python libraries such as Numpy, sqlalchemy, MysqlDB. Python Developer Deloitte, Hallisburg, PA March 2010 to March 2012 Responsibilities:  • Worked with the design team for project structure.  • Performed Design and Code reviews.  • Implemented the presentation layer with HTML, DHTML, Ajax, CSS and JavaScript.  • Performed coding in C++ on Linux Platform.  • Involved in writing stored procedures using MySQL.  • Optimized the database queries to improve the performance.  • Developed in Windows and going to deploy it in Linux server.  • Worked on data exchange from website using XML, JAVA and Web Services.  • Involved in writing stored procedures using MySQL.  • Optimized the database queries to improve the performance.  • Developed in Windows and going to deploy it in Linux server.  • Worked on data exchange from website using XML, JAVA and Web Services.    Environment: C++, XML, Java, MYSQL, Apache, CSS, ORACLE, DHTML, HTML, JavaScript, Shell Scripts, Linux and Windows Education Btech in computer Science IIT Kanpur - Kanpur, Uttar Pradesh 2007