Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - Staples Framingham, MA ? Over 6 years of experience in developing web-based applications, software development and design with analytical programming using Python, Django, C++.  ? Expert knowledge of Object Oriented Design and Programming concepts.  ? Experience in object oriented programming (OOP) concepts using Python, C++.  ? Experienced in developing web-based applications using Python, Django, C++, XML, HTML, DHTML, CSS, JavaScript and jQuery.  ? Good experience in libraries Scrapy, URL lib, Robot framework, Beautiful Soup, Numpy, SciPy, matplotlib, python-twitter, Pandas, network, urllib2, MySQL for database connectivity and IDEs - Sublime Text, Spyder, Pycharm, Eclipse, Visual Studio, IDLE.  ? Has good knowledge on NoSQL databases.  ? Experienced in developing Web Services with Python programming language.  ? Experience in using Design Patterns such as MVC, Singleton and frameworks such as DJANGO.  ? Experience in Python OpenStack API'S.  ? Experienced with full software development life-cycle, architecting scalable platforms, object oriented programming, database design and agile methodologies.  ? Experience in developing big data applications using Hadoop framework and its eco systems like MapReduce.  ? Designed and implemented Hive and Pig UDF's using Python for evaluation, filtering, loading and storing of data  ? Experience with Unit testing/ Test driven Development (TDD), Load Testing.  ? Experienced in building tools such as ANT, MAKE, GULP, MAVEN, and JENKINS.  ? Good experience with cloud platforms like Amazon AWS, Azure and Google App Engine.  ? Good idea using debugging tools like Bugzilla, and JIRA.  ? Experience in using Version Control Systems like GIT, SVN and CVS.  ? Good Experience in Linux Bash scripting.  ? Experienced in working on Application Servers like WebSphere, WebLogic, Tomcat, Web Servers like Apache server, NGINX.  ? Concise coding and following PEP 8 Guidelines in Python.  ? Good experience in Shell Scripting, SQL Server, UNIX and Linux.  ? Developed web applications and RESTful web services and APIs using Python Flask, Pyramid and Django.  ? Wrote AJAX framework to transform Datasets and Data tables into HTTP-serializable JSON strings.  ? Experienced in Agile and waterfall methodologies with high quality deliverables delivered on-time.  ? Experienced in developing API services in Python/Tornado, Node.JS while leveraging AMQP and RabbitMQ for distributed architectures.  ? Experienced in installing, configuring, modifying, testing and deploying applications with Apache.  ? Experience in developing ColdFusion Components, custom tags and modified CF Objects.  ? Ability to learn and adapt quickly to the emerging new technologies and paradigms.    Environments:  + Programming Languages: Python, C, C++, Java, PL/SQL, JavaScript  + Markup Technologies: HTML5, CSS, Node.js, Bootstrap, jQuery, SAX, DOM, XML,  + Databases: MySQL, Oracle, SQL Server, MongoDB  + Frameworks: Django, AngularJS, J2EE, Struts  + Tools & IDE: Pytest, Selenium, PyCharm, Sublime, Eclipse, NetBeans  + Application Server: Tornado, WebLogic, Tomcat  + Python Libraries: Pandas, NumPy, SciPy, Matplotlib  + J2EE Technologies: JSP, Servlets, JDBC, Ajax, Web Services  + Software Methodologies: SDLC, Agile, Waterfall Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Developer Staples - Framingham, MA January 2016 to Present Staples mainly focuses on developing a Retail application for the Staples Incorporation for selling products such as printer, scanners, floppy, office accessories, sheets etc. Worked on development of Warehouse Management system for Staples.com. The Staples 3D Vision system takes care of various activities at fulfilment centers including order processing, shipment and Inventory management.  Responsibilities:  + Involved in Developing Restful services using Python Django framework.  + Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework with GIT.  + Expertise in developing web-based open stack applications using Python and Django for large dataset analysis.  + Developed Merge jobs in Python to extract and load data into MySQL database.  + Developed Simple to complex Map/reduce streaming jobs using Python language that are implemented using Hive and Pig.  + Successfully migrated the Django database from SQLite to MySQL to PostgreSQL with complete data integrity.  + Used Test driven approach for developing the application and Implemented the unit tests using Python Unit test framework.  + Reviewed and implemented instrument pricing and modelling methodologies in collaboration with technical engineers.  + Analyzed and documented how instrument prices move as underlying market data sources change.  + Good hands on experience in data warehouse developer/ database engineer for high-volume data processing.  + Installed, Configured, administered and monitored multi Data center Cassandra clusters.  + Involved in upgrading the present Oracle data model to Cassandra data model.  + Evaluated and tuned data model by running endurance tests using JMeter, Cassandra Stress Tool and OpsCenter.  + Installing and configuring NIS servers to authenticate between Linux, Apple and Windows environments.  + Writing bash shell scripts on local setups to automate jobs.  + Designed front end using Vue.Js, HTML, CSS, and jQuery.  + Involved in the Complete Software development life cycle (SDLC) to develop the application.  + Followed AGILE development methodology to develop the application.  + Used Test driven approach (TDD) for developing services required for the application.  + Implemented Integration test cases.  Technical Environment: Python 3.3, PyQT, PyQuery, MVW, HTML5, CSS3, DOM, Angular.js, Shell Scripting, JSON, Rest, Apache Web Server, Django, SQL, UNIX, Windows, PostgreSQL, and python libraries such as Numpy, Django Tastypie Python Developer Capital IQ - Hyderabad, ANDHRA PRADESH, IN January 2011 to December 2014 The project scope was to move membership data from existing systems into SAP CRM using IBM Integration Bus as middleware integration tool. Developed interfaces to sync data between two systems. Implemented Request-Reply model, Fire and Forget model and Pub/Sub approaches in developing Applications. Developed reusable interfaces as an approach to reduce development cycle time and empower IT to rapid develop/deploy mission critical functionality. This allows enterprise wide data enrichment and data routing via a set of shared and re-usable services.  Responsibilities:  + Participated in requirement gathering and worked closely with the architect in designing and modeling.  + Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  + Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML, BIG DATA to automate some of the menial tasks.  + Used PyQt for the functionality filtering of columns helping customers to effectively view their transactions and statements. Implemented navigation rules for the application and page.  + Performed testing using Django's Test Module.  + Used Django configuration to manage URLs and application parameters.  + Involved in Web development, programming, and engineering Django, Web Server Gateway Interface (WSGI) and SQL internal admin tools behave Behavior-driven development (BDD).  + Used Python and Django to interface with the jQuery UI and manage the storage and deletion of content.  + Developed a fully automated continuous integration system using Git, Jenkins, MySQL and custom tools developed in Python and Bash.  + Designed and managed API system deployment using fast http server and Amazon AWS architecture  + Creation of Python scripts for data access and analysis (Scripts, Data Feeds, XLS, FIXML) to aid in process and system monitoring, and reporting.  + Rewrite existing Java application in Python module to deliver certain format of data.  + Wrote Python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  + Generated property list for every application dynamically using Python.  + Responsible for search engine optimization to improve the visibility of the website.  + Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML5, XHTML, AJAX, CSS3, BIG DATA and JavaScript.  + Handled all the client-side validation using JavaScript.  + Designed and developed data management system using MySQL.  + Created a Git repository and added the project to GitHub.  + Build development environment with JIRA.  + Creating unit test/regression test framework for working/new code.  + Using Subversion version control tool to coordinate team-development.  + Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  Technical Environment: Python 2.7, Django 1.8, CSS, HTML, JavaScript, jQuery, webbapp2, AJAX, MYSQL, Linux, Heroku, GIT, urllib, urllib2, Oracle DB, PostgreSQL, and VMWare API. Python Developer CITI Bank - Hyderabad, ANDHRA PRADESH, IN January 2010 to December 2010 This Project aims to help the employees of CITI Bank to refer candidates for open positions in the organization. Through this application admin can post new referral schemes for open positions in the organization and accordingly the employees can refer candidates and can get the benefit of cash rewards or gifts that are available under a particular referral scheme. This project also has various reports, which helps the admin to do a detailed analysis as per his criteria.  Responsibilities:  + Design, develop, test, deploy and maintain the website.  + Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  + Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  + Designed and developed datacenter management system using MySQL.  + Rewrite existing Python/Django modules to deliver certain format of data.  + Used Django Database API's to access database objects.  + Wrote python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  + Generated property list for every application dynamically using python.  + Creating unit test/regression test framework for working/new code  + Using Subversion version control tool to coordinate team-development.  + Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  Technical Environment: Python, MYSQL, Apache, CSS, ORACLE, DHTML, HTML, JavaScript, Shell Scripts. Education MS in Technology University of Central Missouri 2015 B.Com in Computers Acharya Nagarjuna University 2009 Skills Linux (5 years), UNIX (1 year) Additional Information + Operating Systems: Windows, UNIX, Linux.