Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer Mountain View, CA • 5+ years of experience in IT Industry with proficiency in Design & Development of Python, Java/J2EE, Django, flask project.  • Experienced in MVW frameworks like Django, Angular.js, Java Script, JQuery and Node.js. React.js.  • Extensive experience in system analysis, design, development and implementation of web based and client/server application using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, AJAX, Java/J2EE, Servlets, JSP, JDBC, XML, XSLT, Python, Django, PHP.  • Experienced in object oriented programming (OOP) concepts using Python, C++ and PHP.  • Experienced in WAMP (Windows, Apache, MYSQL, and Python/PHP) and LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, and Python/PHP) Architecture.  • Experience in AWS Cloud platform and its features which includes EC2, AMI, EBS Cloudwatch, AWS Config, Auto-scaling, IAM user management, and AWS S3  • Expertise in using source control and build tools Git, Subversion, Jenkins, Maven  • Experienced in NoSQL technologies like MongoDB, Cassandra, Redis and relational databases like Oracle, SQL ite, PostgreSQL and MySQL databases.  • Good experience with Unix, Linux scripting/unit testing/Load testing, Performance stress/endurance testing and Integration Testing; tools and frameworks- Junit, PyUnit, HP VUGEN Load Runner, Selenium Web driver, Controller, Dynatrace, Performance Center, QC, JIRA.  • Implemented responsive web pages using HTML5/CSS3, Boot Strap and XML/JSON JavaScript, JQuery, Angular JS, AJAX, based SOAP and REST web services.  • Sound Knowledge on RDBMS concepts and extensively worked with Oracle, SQL Server 2008, MYSQL.  • Good experience in developing web applications and implementing Model View Control  • (MVC) architecture using server side applications like Django, Flask and Pyramid.  • Hands on Experience in Data mining and Data warehousing using ETL Tools and Proficient in Building reports and dashboards in Tableau (BI Tool)  • Experienced in various types of testing such as Unit testing, Integration testing, User acceptance testing, Functional testing.  • Experience with creating scripts for data modeling and data import and export. Extensive experience in deploying, managing and developing MongoDB clusters.  • Involved in all the phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) using Project management tools JIRA, Red mine and Bugzilla.  • Hands on experience working in WAMP (Windows, Apache, MYSQL, and Python/PHP) and LAMP (Linux, Apache, My SQL, and Python/PHP) Architecture.  • Experience in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on MySQL and PostgreSQL database.  • Have good idea about tools like Bugzilla, Jira, Confluence, Axosoft and Cassandra.  • Experienced in writing API's and Web Services in Python. Also developed Rest API for the projects.  • Good experience with cloud platforms like Amazon AWS and Google AppEngine.  • Proficient understanding of code versioning tools such as Git and continuous integration frameworks like Jenkins.  • Experienced in developing web-based applications using Python and JavaScript in Linux based OS.  • Experience working with database management systems (PostgreSQL, MySQL or SQLite)  • Expertise in Windows environment including OOP, PyQt, sockets, and threading  • Worked on MongoDB database concepts such as locking, transactions, indexes, Sharding, replication, schema design.  • Experienced in Agile Methodologies, Scrum stories and sprints experience in a Python based environment, along with data analytics, data wrangling and Excel data extracts.  • Experience in writing test scripts, test cases, test specifications and test coverage. Work Experience Python Developer Caligiri Corporation - Mountain View, CA October 2015 to Present Responsibilities:  • Analyzed and gathered business requirements specifications by interacting with client and understanding business requirement specification documents.  • Developing applications using RESTFUL architecture using Node.js and PHP as backend languages.  • Developed Web application using Python 3.3/2.7, Django 1.9, Flask, MongoDB, JavaScript, AJAX, HTML, XML and template languages  • Used python packages like cx_oracle, pyodbc and MySQL dB for working with Oracle, SQL Server and MySQL DB respectively.  • Designed the front end of the application using Python, HTML5, CSS3, AJAX, JSON and Jquery.  • Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL dB package.  • Extensively worked on Python scripting and development. CSS is used to style Web pages, XHTML and XML markup.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to created user-friendly website interface.  • Developed and tested many features for dashboard using Python, Bootstrap, CSS3, and JavaScript.  • Developed a fully automated continuous integration system using Git, Gerrit, Jenkins, MySQL and custom tools developed in Python and Bash  • AWS data pipeline for Data Extraction, Transformation and Loading from the homogeneous or heterogeneous data sources.  • Developed application using Amazon Web Service like EC2, cloud search, Elastic load balancer ELB, S#, Cloud Front.  • Worked on Python Open stack API's and used NoSQL as database and followed Python test-driven development techniques.  • Successfully migrated the Django database from SQLite to MySQL to PostgreSQL with complete data integrity.  • Worked on CSV files while trying to get input from the MySQL database as well NOSQL on Cassandra  • Worked on HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Angular JS, Node.JS, Git, REST API, Mongo DB, intelliJ  • Utilized continuous integration and automated deployments with Jenkins, Ansible and Docker.  • Performed web testing and automated testing using Selenium in the test environment and bugs opened bugs in the bug tracking tool.  • Deploy and monitor scalable infrastructure on Amazon web services (AWS) & configuration management using puppet  • Involved in Designing front end using UI, HTML, Bootstrap, Node.JS, underscore.JS, Angular.JS CSS, and JavaScript.  • Created Restful API's to integrate and enhance functionalities of the application. Also Utilized Restful API in communicating with third parties.  • Writing SOAP and RESTFul web services, in house ESB for a web Claims applications (Spring MVC, Angular JS, Active MQ, SOAP UI, Mockito, JSON, Buildforge)  • Designed and developed components using Python with Django framework. Implemented code in python to retrieve and manipulate data.  • Designed and managed API system deployment using fast http server and Amazon AWS architecture.  • Private VPN using Ubuntu, Python, Django, CherryPy, Postgres, Redis, Bootstrap, Jquery, Mongo, Fabric, Git, Tenjin, Selenium, Sphinx, Nose  • Involved in the dynamic User Interface by JSP utilizing Custom Tag Libraries, HTML, CSS, and JavaScript. Python Developer Merck & Co. Inc - Kenilworth, NJ September 2013 to September 2015 Responsibilities:  • Developed web applications in Django Framework's model view control (MVC) architecture.  • Exposure on Multi-Threading factory to distribute learning process back-testing and into various worker processes.  • Python/Django based web application, Postgre sql DB and integrations with 3rd party email, messaging, storage services.  • Developed a fully automated continuous integration system using Git, Gerrit, Jenkins, MySQL and custom tools developed in Python and Bash  • Worked on HTML, CSS, JavaScript, AngularJS, Node.JS, Git, REST API, Mongo DB, intelliJ.  • Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL dB package.  • Designed and developed the UI for the website with HTML, XHTML, CSS, Java ScriptAJAX and Angular JS.  • Implemented AWS solutions using S3, RDS, EBS, Elastic Load Balancer, and Auto scaling groups.  • Developed intranet portal for managing Amazon EC2 servers using Python, Tornado and MongoDB  • Used Celery as task queue and RabbitMQ as messaging broker to execute asynchronous tasks.  • Created a Python/Django based web application using Python scripting for data processing, MySQL for the database, and HTML/CSS/JQuery and High Charts for data visualization of the served pages.  • Used Python and Django creating graphics, XML processing, data exchange and business logic implementation  • Involved in development of Web Services using SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface in the XML format.  • Developing applications using RESTFUL architecture using Node.js and PHP as backend languages.  • Used Python and Django creating graphics, XML processing, data exchange and business logic implementation  • Created database schema for MySQL Database and helped to draw ER-Diagrams using Microsoft Visio.  • Involved in Developing a Restful API'S service using Python Flask framework.  • Writing SOAP and RESTFul web services, in house ESB for a web Claims applications (Spring MVC, Angular JS, Active MQ, SOAP UI, Mockito, JSON, Buildforge)  • Implemented user interface guidelines and standards throughout the development and maintenance of the website using the HTML, CSS, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Designed and implemented large scale business critical systems using Object oriented design and Programming concepts using Python and Django. Python Developer Hawlett Packard June 2011 to August 2013 Responsibilities:  • Involved in building database Model, APIs and Views utilizing Python, in order to build an interactive web based solution.  • Worked on MongoDB database concepts such as locking, transactions, indexes, Sharding, replication, schema design, etc.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templatelanguage to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Designed XML Schemas and developed XSL and XML gateway and used XSD files that are used to validate XML.  • Implemented user interface guidelines and standards throughout the development and maintenance of the website using the HTML, CSS, JavaScript and Jquery.  • Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks.  • Used Django framework for application development of Python APIs to dump the array structures in the Processor at the failure point for debugging.  • Involved in design and developing re-usable web services using SOAP, XML, WSDL, XML Schemas and XSL  • Creating restful web services for Catalog and Pricing with Django MVT, Jersey, MySQL, and MongoDB.  • Creating data pipelines using Apache Spark, a big-data processing and computing framework.  • Used JQuery and AJAX calls for transmitting JSON data objects between front end and controllers.  • Used SOAP and Restful API for information extraction.  • Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from python using Python MySQL connector and MySQL dB package.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript. Additional Information Technical Skills:    Backend- Python, Django, Django REST Framework, Golang, Pandas, NumPy, PostgreSQL, Post GIS, NoSQL  Frontend - AngularJS, D3.js, , HTML, Bootstrap.js, Java script, Jquery, CSS  Others-Amazon Web Services (AWS, EC2, S3) MySQL, JIRA, Linux, Shell Scripting, GIT., MysqlDB, 7, UI, HTML5/CSS3, MS SQL Server, MySQL, Node.js, Cassandra, Java script, Eclipse, Linux, Shell Scripting, JQuery, Jira, Web Framework, HTML, CSS, SSH, Javascript, JQuery, SOAP, MVT, MySQL, MongoDB.