Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - Aetna Hartford, CT 7 years of IT Experience in designing, developing, testing and implementing of various stand-alone and client-server architecture based enterprise application software in Python on different domains. Work Experience Python Developer Aetna - Hartford, CT June 2015 to Present Responsibilities:  • Django Framework that was used in developing web applications to implement the model view control architecture.  • Exposure on Multi-Threading factory to distribute learning process back-testing and the into various worker processes.  • Experience with continuous integration and automation using Jenkins.  • Performed efficient delivery of code based on principles of Test Driven Development (TDD) and continuous integration to keep in line with Agile Software Methodology principles  • Different testing methodologies like unit testing, Integration testing, web application testing Selenium testing performed.  • Lock mechanisms were implemented and the functionality of multithreading has been used  • Python/Django based web application, Post gre sql DB and integrations with 3rd party email, messaging, storage services.  • Designed dynamic and browser compatible pages using HTML5, CSS3, JQuery and JavaScript and Angular JS.  • Responsible for creating the screens with table-less designs meeting W3C standards.  • To provide automation, used Configuration Management Tool, Chef.  • Integrate the dynamic pages with Angular JS and j-query to make the pages dynamic.  • Creating and configuring virtual development environments with Chef and Virtual Box.  • part of the SOA (Service Oriented Architecture) team enforcing best practices for services ( REST and SOAP).  • Developed a fully automated continuous integration system using Git, Gerrit, Jenkins, MySQL and custom tools developed in Python and Bash  • Design and implemented custom scripts. Extensive use of version controller Team Foundation Server (TFS)  • Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes of the two main applications that were a main source of data for both customers and internal customer service team  • Used Pandas library for statistics Analysis. Used Numpy for Numerical analysis for Insurance premium  • Managed large datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL.  • Used advanced packages in AON PATHWISE for performing unit test and deploying data models.  • Extensively used Python modules such as requests, urllib, and urllib2 for web crawling.  • Developed GUI using webapp2 for dynamically displaying the test block documentation and other features of Python code using a web browser.  • Developed the required XML Schema documents and implemented the framework for parsing XML documents.  • Responsible for user validations on client side as well as server side. Work with DNS to map the website to its IP address.  • Automated the existing scripts for performance calculations using Numpy and sql alchemy.  • Interacted with QA to develop test plans from high-level design documentation.  Environment: Python 2.7, Django 1.4, HTML5, CSS, XML, MySQL, JavaScript, Angular JS, Backbone JS, JQuery, CSS Bootstrap, Mongo DB, T-SQL, JavaScript, Eclipse, Git, GitHub, AWS, Linux, Shell Scripting. Python Developer UBS - Chicago, IL April 2014 to May 2015 Responsibilities:  • Worked with team of developers on Python applications for RISK management.  • Developed Python/Django application for Google Analytics aggregation and reporting.  • Used Django configuration to manage URLs and application parameters.  • Generated Python Django Forms to record data of online users  • Used Python and Django creating graphics, XML processing, data exchange and business logic implementation  • I have used Pandas API to put the data as time series and tabular format for east timestamp data manipulation and retrieval.  • Participate in high level team discussions in understanding of Networking Technologies like Load balancer (F5), Firewall, VIP, DNS  • Used Jenkins plug-ins like Build pipeline, job DSL, templates etc.  • Worked very closely with designer, tightly integrating Flash into the CMS with the use of Flashvars stored in the Django models. Also created XML with Django to be used by the Flash.  • Used Python based GUI components for the front end functionality such as selection criteria.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Experience with using Gradle, a project automation tool with Apache Ant and Apache Maven for a Groovy-based specific DSL (Domain-Specific Language.).  • Designed dynamic and browser compatible pages using HTML5, CSS3, JQuery and JavaScript and Angular JS.  • Responsible for creating the screens with table-less designs meeting W3C standards.  • To provide automation, used Configuration Management Tool, Chef.  • Integrate the dynamic pages with Angular JS and j-query to make the pages dynamic.  • Creating and configuring virtual development environments with Chef and Virtual Box.  • part of the SOA (Service Oriented Architecture) team enforcing best practices for services ( REST and SOAP).  • Developed a fully automated continuous integration system using Git, Gerrit, Jenkins, MySQL and custom tools developed in Python and Bash  • Used Django configuration to manage URLs and application parameters.  • Added support for Amazon AWS S3 and RDS to host static/media files and the database into Amazon Cloud. Also Learnt to deploy projects using Jenkins.  • Utilized PyUnit, the Python unit test framework, for all Python applications.  • Develop Informatica mapping, SQL, concurrent workflows, and unix scripts to execute the DFL jobs.  • Used HTML, CSS, JQuery, JSON and Java script for front end applications.  • Involved in development of Web Services using SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface in the XML format.  • Optimized the runtime for the android stability test suite by 10% by automating the setup steps on the device using Robot framework  • Written queries in MySQL and Native SQL. Worked in an agile development environment.  • Used GitHub for version control.  • Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes of the two main applications that were a main source of data for both customers and internal customer service team. Python Developer Capital Bank - Richmond, VA April 2013 to March 2014 Environment: Python, Django, Panda API, JSON, PHP, Flash, HTML, CSS, AJAX, JQuery, Bootstrap, AWS, PyUnit, XML, SOAP, GitHub, Jira, Agile, SQL, MYSQL and Windows.  Python Developer  Capital Bank - Richmond, VA  April 2013 to March 2014  Responsibilities:  • Design, develop, test, deploy and maintain the website.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL.  • Rewrite existing Java application in Python module to deliver certain format of data.  • Wrote Python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Generated property list for every application dynamically using Python.  • Responsible for search engine optimization to improve the visibility of the website.  • Handled all the client side validation using JavaScript.  • Performed testing using Django's Test Module.  • Involved in AJAX driven application by invoking web services/API and parsing the JSON response.  • Used Couch base Python SDK to build applications that use Couch base Server.  • Involved in writing application level code to interact with APIs, Web Services using JSON.  • Creating unit test/regression test framework for working/new code.  • Using Subversion version control tool to coordinate team-development.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  Environment: Python, Django, Couch base Python SDK, PyQt, Java, MySQL, HTML, XHTML, CSS, AJAX, JSON, JavaScript, Apache Web Server, Linux. Python Developer Ecotech IT Solutions Pvt. Ltd - Pune, Maharashtra March 2011 to May 2012 Responsibilities:  • Application architecture designed as per the requirements using spring framework.  • Requirement Analysis and Estimation of project timelines.  • Developed Python batch processors to consume and produce various feeds.  • Generated Pdf daily and Monthly statements using Aspose PDF Kit. Wrote python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Developed front end page using HTML, CSS, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Generated property list for every application dynamically using python.  • Collecting the several usage models and functions from the team members.  • Developing and maintenance of the tool that abstracts the information for the user.  • Development of XMLs for several components which maintains data for several registers.  • Designed and developed SQL procedures and Linux shell scripts for data import/export and data conversions.  • Developed internal auxiliary web apps using Python Flask framework with CSS / HTML framework.  • Implemented Test Driven Development (TDD) strategy for the project.  • Wrote SQL Queries, Store Procedures, Triggers and functions in MySQL Databases.  • Created database access layer using JDBC and PL/SQL stored procedures.  • Coordinate with SMEs, other architects, and senior technical staff to identify client's needs, document assumptions, and build-out new requirements and move code through user acceptance testing.  Environment: Python, C++, HTML, CSS, TDD, SQL, MYSQL and Windows. Java Developer Xoriant solutions Private LTD - Pune, Maharashtra July 2008 to February 2011 Responsibilities:  • Involved in Requirement study, Analysis and Design.  • Designed and developed ASP. JScript, GUI for user interfaces with various Server Controls (textbox, labels, data grid, data list, validations controls).  • Developed Custom User Controls to reduce the Complexity in User Interface Coding and provide better look and feel.  • Used Java Script for validating client side data entry screens.  • Used CSS (Cascading Style Sheets) for maintaining appearance of Web Pages.  • Involved in design of the database using normalization techniques, and developed the data layer of system.  • Wrote classes for data access layer, which acts as a bridge between the business and data layers; contributed to business layer by writing business objects and validation classes.  • Efficiently involved in Focus Group Sessions at different stages of Application development to ensure optimum results.  • Developed Application on IDEs like Eclipse, Rational Application Developer, Rational Software Architect and Version control tools like Perforce P4V, CVS, SVN, Visual SourceSafe and Team foundation server.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and temp lating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Designed, developed and bundled various small financial utilities using JAVA, Hibernate, XML parser SAX which was distributed to different development teams.  • Created Connection Pools in Web Sphere and configured as needed.  • Responsible for Parsing XML data using XML parser and Testing, fixing of the bugs and coding modifications.  • Involved in writing Stored Procedures that generates the output in XML Format by using SQLXML utility.  • Job responsibilities also included creating the database objects like Tables, Indexes, and Triggers.  • Responsible for development, modification and maintenance of Invoice Management System (IMS) which is used to streamline invoice processing, tracking and reporting.  Environment: Java, JSP, HTML, JavaScript, ASP. JScript, GUI, XML, Web Logic, Apache Tomcat, CSS. Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    Programming Languages python, Java, MYSQL, C/C++. Shell Script, Perl, SQL  Python Framework Django1.6,Webapp2,Flask, Code Collaborator  JavaScript Libraries Angular JS, Bootstrap, JQuery, Node JS, Backbone JS  Databases MySQL 5.1, SQL Server 2008, Oracle 10g MySQL, Oracle, SQL Server  Web Technologies AJAX, JavaScript, Angular JS, HTML, DHTML, XHTML, XML  Versioning Tools Subversion, GIT, Perforce, SVN, CVS  Web servers Apache, IIS  Operating System UNIX, SUN Solaris, Linux, HPUX, Windows  Modeling tools TOAD, Erwin, Rapid Sql