Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - Ericsson Township of Brick, NJ • 9+ years of experience infield of software development. Proficient in developing applications using Python and C++.  • Experienced in working with various stages of Software Development Life Cycle(SDLC),Software Testing Life Cycle(STLC) and QA methodologies from project definition to post-deployment documentation.  • Experience of working with WAMP (Windows,Apache,MYSQL,and Python/PHP) and LAMP (Linux,Apache,MYSQL,and Python/PHP) Architecture.  • Good Experience with Django, a high-level Python Web framework. Experience object-orientedprogramming (OOP) concepts using Python.  • Knowledge about setting up Python REST API Frame work using Django.  • Experience in working with Python ORM Libraries including Django ORM.  • Experienced in using various control systems like CVS, SVN,Git, Mercurial,GitHub, Amazon EC2.  • Experience in working with Python packages like NumPy, Pandas, BeautifulSoup, Requests, matplotlib, PyTables, SciPy.  • Knowledgeable with continuous deployment using Heroku, Jenkins and Ansible.  • Worked on automation using the Python Scripting language.  • Experience in implementing Model View Control (MVC) architecture using server-side applications like Django, Flask and Pyramid for developing web applications.  • Experienced with JSON based RESTful web services, and XML based SOAP web services.  • Proficient in Front end development experience using HTML, XML, CSS, jQuery, JSON, JavaScript, and Bootstrap.  • Proficient in writing SQL Queries, Stored procedures, functions, packages, tables, views, triggers using relational databases like Oracle, MySQL, Apache Spark, Cassandra, and MongoDB.  • Hands on Experience in AWS like Amazon EC2, Amazon S3, Amazon Redshift,Amazon EMR and Amazon SQS. Cloud system design, implementation and troubleshooting (AWS,Rackspace, Google, AZURE).  • Good experience with AWSLambda Services.  • Good Experience on testing tools like JIRAand Bugzilla for bug tracking.  • Worked on various operating systems like Windows, UNIX, LINUX and Mac OS.  • Special skills in development of effective, user-friendly web applications. Experienced in requirement gathering, use case development, Business Process flow, Business Process Modeling: extensively used UML to develop various use cases, class diagrams and sequence diagrams.  • Experienced in working with various Python Integrated Development Environments like NetBeans, PyCharm, PyScripter, PyDev, Eclipse and sublime Text.  • Evaluates engineering approaches and risks to produce development plans that ensure high quality, low cost products and systems.  • Experienced in Shell Scripting and UNIX commands.  • Excellent interpersonal and communication skills, efficient time management and organization skills, ability to handle multiple tasks and work well in team environment. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Developer Ericsson March 2018 to Present Project Description: In Ericsson we have been finding ways to communicate for over a century. We are committed to enabling new means of communication through our innovation and creativity. The applications we build in our software campus in Athlone make it possible for billions of people to communicate with each other, surf the web and engage with social media on their smart devices every day. The role will involve working in an Agile team of software developer and will help build highly scalable & available network management applications deployed on cloud environments.  Responsibilities: • Designed the front end of the application using Python, HTML, CSS, AJAX, JSON and jQuery, Django.  • Used the Django Framework to develop the application.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Used Test driven approach for developing the application and Implemented the unit tests using Python Unit test framework.  • Involved in implementing the complete Application in the in-build Spring MVC Architecture with Angular JS.  • Used JavaScript and JSON to update a portion of a webpage.  • Used Selenium Library to write fully functioning test automation process that allowed the simulation of submitting different requests from multiple browser to web application.  • Worked on several Palettes such as SOAP, REST, HTTP, FTP, JDBC, File, JMS etc.  • Rewrite existing Python /Django modules to deliver certain format of data.  • Responsible for debugging the project monitored on JIRA (Agile).  • Wrote Python scripts to parse JSON documents and load the data in database.  • Used Python and Django to interface with the jQuery UI and manage the storage and deletion of content.  • Implemented web applications in Flask frame works following MVC architecture.  • Worked on front end frame works like CSS Bootstrap for development of Web applications.  • Also, created XML with Django to be used by the Flask.  • Deployed the Django application on NGINX along with CI/CD tools and docker.  • Involved in deployment of project using AWS.  • Special skills in developing user friendly, simple yet effective web-based applications.  • Worked in MySQL database on simple queries and writing Stored Procedures for normalization and DE normalization.  • Used many regular expressions to match the pattern with the existing one.  • Build SQL queries for performing various CRUD operations like create, update, read and delete.  • Performed Unit testing, Integration Testing, web application and automation testing. Python Developer Medifast - Baltimore, MD July 2014 to March 2018 Project Description:Develops and applies advanced methods, theories and research techniques in the investigation and solution of complex and advanced software applications and problems. Plans, conducts, technically directs, and evaluates projects or major phases of significant projects, coordinating the efforts of engineers and technical support staff in the performance of assigned projects. Conducts investigations and test of considerable complexity. Reviews literature, patents and current practices relevant to the solution of assigned projects. Evaluates vendor capabilities to provide required products or services. Provides technical consultation to other organizations.    Responsibilities: • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Worked with team of developers on python applications for RISK management.  • Made Django web-based apps for Insurance premium calculations.  • Generated property list for every application dynamically using Python.  • Designed and developed Use-Case, Class and Object Diagrams using UML Rational Rose for Object Oriented Analysis(OOA)/Object Oriented Design techniques(OOD).  • Troubleshoot the process execution and worked with other team members to correct them.  • Worked on automated existing scripts for performance calculations using machine library like NumPy and SQL Alchemy for Insurance premium.  • Test and Validated the custom scripts.  • Developed GUI using webapp2 for dynamically displaying the test block documentation and other features of Python code using a web browser.  • Extensively used Python modules such as requests, urllib and urllib2 for web crawling.  • Involved in entire lifecycle of the projects including Design, Development, and Deployment.  • Used AWS RestAPI gateway and connected with lambda functionality.  • Added support Amazon AWS S3 and RDS to host static/media files and the database into Amazon Cloud.  • Worked on development of SQL and stored procedures on MySQL.  • Worked automated continuous integration system using Git, Jenkins, MySQL and custom tools developed in Python and Bash.  • Managed code versioning with GitHub, Bit Bucket and deployment to staging and production servers. Python Developer Huawei - Bellevue, WA January 2013 to June 2014 Project Description: Huawei has started a research and development effort focus on providing a scalable, multi-tenant computing and communication infrastructure platform capable of serving the needs of CT & IT customers. This project is to define the platform interface for our edge computing services, design and implement solutions ranging from large scale distributed online services to lean and powerful edge settings.    Responsibilities: • Conducted my role in entire Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) of the project.  • Developed web applications in Django Framework's model view control (MVC) architecture and manipulated databases by using Django database API along with MySQL.  • Wrote scripts using python modules and libraries to develop programs which improve processing of access request.  • Wrote Python scripts to extract/load asset data from the MySQL source database.  • Enhanced existing automated solutions, such as the Inquiry Tool for automated Asset Department reporting and added new features and fixed bugs.  • Played a key role in a development wide transition from Subversion to Git, which resulted in an increase in efficiency for the development community.  • Developed a fully automated continuous integration system using Git, Jenkins, MySQL and custom tools developed in Python and Bash.  • Interacted with databases by writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on MySQL and PostgreSQL database.  • Used python module named Pandas for data manipulation.  • Involved in building database Model, APIs and Views utilizing Python, to build an interactive web-based solution.  • Created Restful API's to integrate and enhance functionalities of the application. Also Utilized Restful API in communicating with third parties.  • Used Python to place data into JSON files for testing Django Websites.  • Managed code versioning with GitHub, Bit Bucket and deployment to staging and production servers.  • Involved in code reviews using GitHub pull requests, reducing bugs, improving code quality, and increasing knowledge sharing.  • Installed and configured monitoring scripts for AWS EC2 instances.  • Configured and deployed project using the Amazon EC2 on AWS.  • Used Amazon Elastic Beanstalk with Amazon EC2 to deploy project into AWS.  • Coded test programs and evaluated existing engineering processes.  • Worked with team of developers on Python applications for RISK management.  • Utilized PyUnit, the Python Unit test framework, for all Python applications.  • For testing purpose, used unit test framework - unit test.  • Used JIRA for bug tracking and issue tracking and Used Agile Methodology and SCRUM Process.  • Using version control tool - GitHub with Jenkins to accumulate all the work done by team members. Python Developer Deloitte, Pittsburg, PA October 2011 to December 2012 Project Description:Deloitte is one of the leading professional services organization in the united states. The team Systems Integration at Deloitte consulting LLP, our systems integration specialists help clients manage the complexity inherent with technology change, from requirements planning to architecture,testing to deployment and helping to link their IT programs to organizational goals.  Responsibilities: • Participate in requirement gathering and analysis phase of the project in documenting the business requirements by conducting workshops/meetings with various business users.  • Used Django configuration to manage URLs and application parameters.  • Worked on information trade from site utilizing XML and Web Services.  • Build all database mapping classes utilizing Django models.  • Worked on writing and as well as reading data from CVS and Excel file formats.  • Worked with Level two support group, DBAs and framework team to enhance the proficiency and capacity of our system.  • Used PyUnit, the Python unit test frame work, for all Python applications.  • Developed and controlled Cloud development scripts, also automated the provision of AWS resources, which involve EC2, S3, RDS.  • Worked on Docker containerization.  • Used Docker to execute a high-level API to give lightweight containers that run forms segregation and dealt with production of customized Docker container images, tagged and pushed these to the Docker repository.  • Implemented a continuation Delivery Pipeline with Jenkins and GitHub to create another Docker holder consequently.  • Developed different algorithms for generating many test environments data patterns.  • Worked with Level two support team, DBAs and setup team to improve the proficiency and cap ability of our system.  • Worked on development of internal testing tool framework written in Python.  • Developed GUI using Python and Django for dynamically displaying block documentation and other features of Python code using a web browser.  • Used JavaScript and JSON to update a portion of a webpage.  • Used SDLC process and used PHP to develop website functionality.  • Extensive code reviewing using GitHub pull requests, improved code quality, and conducted meetings among peer.  • Successfully migrated the Django database from SQLite to MySQL to PostgreSQL with compile data integrity.  • Used Restful API's to gather network traffic data from Servers.  • Supported Apache Tomcat web server on Linux Platform.  • Involved in User Acceptance Testing and prepared UAT Test Scripts  Built database Model, Views and API's using Python for interactive web-based solution. Software Developer Quad One Technologies PrivateLtd - Hyderabad, Telangana June 2009 to September 2011 Responsibilities: • Worked in a team, involved in developing the UI, layout and front-end programming (HTML) for web application that matches requirements of the company.  • Wrote Python routines to log into the websites and fetch data for selected options.  • Excellent Coordination in project activities and ensure that all project phases are followed and documented properly.  • Good hands on experience in data warehouse developer/ database engineer for high-volume data processing.  • Resolved several hidden bugs caused by complicated multithreading issues such as race conditions caused by asynchronous events.  • Developed GUI HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS 5 and JavaScript (jQuery).  • Built application logic using Python.  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL.  • Rewrite existing Python modules to deliver certain format of data.  • Handling cross browser/platform compatibility issues (IE, Firefox, and Chrome) on both Windows.  • Managed application state using server and client-based State Management options.  • Coded in Java Script for page functionality and Lightbox plugins using JQUERY • Generated various reports in Java for cost analysis and expenditures.  • Converted paycheck confirmation physical mails to pdf electronic version and email as encrypted/password protected. Education Bachelor of Technology in Technology Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University - Hyderabad, Telangana Skills AWS. (7 years), deployment (7 years), Django. (7 years), MySQL (9 years), Python (9 years) Additional Information Technical Skills:    Programming Languages Python and C++, Shell Scripting    Technologies HTML, XML, CSS, jQuery, JSON, JavaScript and Bootstrap  Frameworks Django, Flask and Pyramid  Databases Oracle,MYSQL, PostgreSQL, Cassandra, MongoDB,Apache spark  IDE's/Development Tools NetBeans, PyCharm, PyScripter, PyDev, Eclipse and Sublime Text.  Web Services AWS, SOAP and RESTful Web Services  Version Control Systems GIT, GITHUB, CVS, Mercurial, AmazonEC2  Protocols TCP/IP, HTTP/HTTPS, SNMP,SMTP.    Methodologies Agile, Scrum and Waterfall  Deployment Tools Heroku, Jenkins  Servers WebSphere, JBoss, Apache Tomcat    Operating Systems Windows, LINUX, UNIX and Mac OS.  Testing Tools Selenium and JUnit