Python developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">developer</span> Python developer - JPMC Northborough, MA Sponsorship required to work in the US Work Experience Python developer JPMC - New York, NY 2016 to Present Responsibilities:  • Business logic implementation, data exchange, XML processing and graphics creation has been done using Python and Django  • Views and Templates were developed with Python and to create a user-friendly website interface Django's view controller and template language is used.  • Developed UI using CSS, HTML, JavaScript, AngularJS, JQuery and JSON.  • DB2 SQL Procedures and UNIX Shell Scripts were designed and developed for Data Import/Export and Conversions  • A Django dashboard with custom look and feel for end user has been created after a careful study of the Django admin site and dashboard.  • Unit Test Python library was used for testing many programs on python and other codes.  • Worked on selenium testing framework.  • JIRA was used to build an environment for development.  • Different testing methodologies like unit testing, Integration testing, web application testing, selenium testing were performed. Used Django framework for application development.  • Developed user interface using, CSS, HTML, JavaScript and JQuery& Ruby on rails.  • Assisted in reduction of cost and optimization of supplier selection for the CRM Applications.  • Ensured high quality data collection and maintaining the integrity of the data.  • Cleaned data and processed third party spending data into maneuverable deliverables within specific formats with Excel macros and python libraries.  • Used several python libraries like wxPython, numPY and matPlotLib.  • Was involved in environment, code installation as well as the SVN implementation.  • Build all database mapping classes using Django models and cassandra.  • Used Pandas API to put the data as time series and tabular format for east timestamp data manipulation and retrieval.  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL.  • Creating unit test/regression test framework for working/new code  • This project also used other technologies like JQuery for java script manipulations, bootstrap for the front-end html layout.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  • Developed, tested and debugged software tools utilized by clients and internal customers.  • Coded test programs and evaluated existing engineering processes.  • Designed and configured database and back end applications and programs.  • Performed research to explore and identify new technological platforms.  • Collaborated with internal teams to convert end user feedback into meaningful and improved solutions.  • Resolved ongoing problems and accurately documented progress of a project.  Environment: Python 2.7, scipy, Pandas, Bugzilla, SVN, C++, Java, JQuery, MySQL, Linux, Eclipse, Shell Scripting, HTML5/CSS. Red hat Linux, Apache, RUBY, Cassandra Python developer UHG - Minneapolis, MN July 2015 to February 2016 Responsibilities:  • Utilized PyQt to provide GUI for the user to create, modify and view reports based on client data.  • Involved in Flex development exposure of Flex layout and navigation, event handling, pop-up dialogs, menus and skinning.  • Built efficient Angular.js backend for client web application.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Worked on Python Open stack API's.  • Analysis and Design of application.  • Created UI using Javascript and HTML5/CSS.  • Developed and tested many features for dashboard using Python, Bootstrap, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Implemented business logic using Python/Django.  • Created backend database T-SQL stored procedures and Jasper Reports.  • Worked with millions of database records on a daily basis, finding common errors and bad data patterns and fixing them.  • Exported/Imported data between different data sources using SQL Server Management Studio.  • Maintained program libraries, users' manuals and technical documentation.  • Managed large datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL.  • Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL dB package.  • Thorough knowledge in various front end tools like HTML, DHTML, CSS, JavaScript, XML, JQuery, Angular JS, and AJAX  • Hands-on experience in writing and reviewing requirements, architecture documents, test plans, design documents, quality analysis and audits.  • Built various graphs for business decision-making using Python matplotlib library.  • Fetched twitter feeds for certain important keyword using python-twitter library.  • Used Python library Beautiful Soup for webscrapping.  • Added support for Amazon AWS S3 and RDS to host static/media files and the database into Amazon Cloud.  • Added support for open stock.  • Deployed with Fabric on AWS on EC2 instance with Postgres RDS and S3 file storage.  • Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes of the two main applications that were a main source of data for both customers and internal customer service team.  • Created most important Business Rules which are useful for the scope of project and needs of customers  • Build SQL queries for performing various CRUD operations like create, update, read and delete.  • Work with team of developers on python applications for RISK management.  • Taken part in entire lifecycle of the projects including Design, Development, and Deployment, Testing and Implementation and support.  • Used Pandas library for statistics Analysis.  • Created most important Business Rules which are useful for the scope of project and needs of customers.  • Designed the architecture of the hardware environments and methodology of the code  • Experienced in Agile Methodologies and SCRUM Process.  • Worked in development of applications especially in UNIX environment and familiar with all of its commands.  • Refactored existing project to make it more RESTful and thread-safe.  • Added unit tests and improved existing ones.  • Designed RESTful XML web service for handling AJAX requests.  • Created project designs utilizing MVC architecture components.    Environment: Python 2.7, Django, HTML5/CSS, UNIX, MS SQL Server 2013, T-SQL, Jasper Reports, JavaScript, Eclipse, Linux, Shell Scriptingo, RESTful, MVC3, Amazon AWS, Amazon BotoPil. Python Developer UBS - Weehawken, NJ February 2014 to June 2015 Responsibilities:  • Responsible for gathering requirements, system analysis, design, development, testing and deployment.  • Participated in the complete SDLC process.  • Developed user interface using CSS, HTML, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Wrote Python modules to extract/load asset data from the MySQL source database.  • Designed and implemented a dedicated MYSQL database server to drive the web apps and report on daily progress.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Used Django framework for application development.  • Created entire application using Python, Django, MySQL and Linux.  • Enhanced existing automated solutions, such as the Inquiry Tool for automated Asset Department reporting and added new features and fixed bugs.  • Embedded AJAX in UI to update small portions of the web page avoiding the need to reload the entire page.  • Programming in Python as well as Perl  • Created most important Business Rules which are useful for the scope of project and needs of customers.  • Improved performance by using more modularized approach and using more in built methods.  • Involved in development of Web Services using SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface in the XML format.  • Performed data manipulation/storage for incoming test data using lxml /etree libraries.  • Developed API modularizing existing python module with the help of pyyaml libraries.  • Wrote unit test cases for testing tools.  • Created database using MySQL, wrote several queries to extract/store data.  • Coded test programs and evaluated existing engineering processes.  • Designed and configured database and back end applications and programs.  • Performed research to explore and identify new technological platforms.  • Collaborated with internal teams to convert end user feedback into meaningful and improved solutions.  Environment: Python 2.7, Django 1.4, Puppet Rspec, Jenkins, Grafana/Graphite, MySQL, Linux, HTML, CSS, JQuery, JavaScript, Apache, Linux, Git, Perl, Cassandra. Python Developer Vodafone - Hyderabad, Andhra Pradesh November 2012 to December 2013 Responsibilities:  • Involved in Client Interaction on a weekly basis to gather requirements and also involved in creating Business Requirements documents based on Requirements.  • Used the Django Framework to develop the application.  • Created specific images using Python Imaging Library for the custom images used for each book.  • Used Python to place mdata into JSON files for testing Django Websites.  • Updated and manipulated content and files by using python scripts.  • Implemented web applications in Flask and spring frameworks following MVC architecture.  • Used Django configuration to manage URLs and application parameters.  • Worked on Python Open stack API's.  • Used Python scripts to update content in the database and manipulate files.  • Generated Python Django Forms to record data of online users.  • Used Python and Django creating graphics, XML processing, data exchange and business logic implementation  • Optimized the code using smart pointers, profilers and C++ Standard template library.  • Directly responsible for various enhancements of Equipment updates/transmission of signals on OC/STS cables.  • Added support for Amazon AWS S3 and RDS to host static/media files and the database into Amazon Cloud.  • Involved in development of Web Services using SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface in the XML format.  • Analyzed performance test requirements and developed test plans and have done debugging to understand test objective requirements.  • Managed datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL, queried MYSQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL dB package to retrieve information.  • Rewrite existing Java, C++ application in Python.  • Responsibilities for creation of Database, Business Logic to display the records dynamically on template based on query, providing user permission to access particular features of the site.    Environment: Python, MySQL, Django, Flask, PHP, XML, Linux, HTML, Java script, SOAP. Java Developer Patni Computer Systems - Hyderabad, Andhra Pradesh May 2010 to November 2012 Responsibilities:  • Involved in Requirements study, Functional analysis, detailed design including entity relations and various table design.  • The web application framework used by the Pilot is Apache Turbine, which follows the MVC designpattern.  • Involved in the implementation of user interface with the Velocity template engine on top of Turbine and Java Servlets on the server side, and HTML with JavaScript (DHTML) on the client side.  • Involved in writing the screen classes and Actionclasses for implementing the business logic of Pilot.  • Implemented the torque criteria objects to retrieve data from the database, wrote various sql queries and pl/sql blocks.  • Data display.  • Developed a POC for Integration of Spring Web Flow with Turbine Framework.  • Actively interacted with team members discussing the performance and GUI look and feel of the application.  • Used Turbine Intake.xml for specifying the validations rules.  • Developed Java Script for Client Side validations.  • Used SVN for version control of the code and configuration files  Environment:Java 1.5, Jakarta Turbine Framework 2.3, Velocity 1.3, Torque 3.1(The apache DB project), Tomcat 6.0.18, Sybase 9, jQuery 1.2.6, dojo, JavaScript, HTML, XML, Windows XP, RedHat Linux 9.0, Log4j, eclipse 3.3 Additional Information TechnicalSkills:  Operating systems Windows, Linux Ubuntu  Languages Java, C, C++, Python, Perl, Ruby  Scripting languages CSS, AJAX, Java Script, JQuery, PHP, Shell Scripting  Markup languages HTML, XML, JSON  Servers Apache Tomcat, IBM Web sphere, open stock,  Databases Oracle, My SQL  IDEs/ Tools Eclipse, Toad, Sublime text, Spyder  Revision Controlling Systems CVS, Github, SVN  Methodologies & tools Object Oriented Programming, UML, Agile Scrum