Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - Citadel LLC CA • Over 6+ Years of experience in Analysis, Design, Development, Management and Validation of various stand-alone, client-server enterprise applications.  • Good Knowledge of the Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) and Waterfall Methodologies.  • Good experience in Python, Django and Pyramid Framework.  • Experience with Design, code, and debug operations, reporting, data analysis and web applications utilizing Python.  • Experienced with Python frameworks like Webapp2 and, Flask.  • Good Knowledge in implementation of Python best Practices (PEP-8).  • Working Knowledge of Pandas, Numpy, Scipy, Scikit-Learn, Matplotlib.  • Proficient in Front end development experience using HTML, XML, CSS, JQuery, JSON and Javascript.  • Strong proficiency in version control systems: SVN, Git, JIRA, Bugzilla, Amazon EC2/S3.  • Good understanding of Microsoft Azure with applications to Machine Learning.  • Working Experience with OpenStack for cloud security and automation using Shell Scripting.  • Good knowledge of .NET Framework features including Namespace and Inheritance.  • Expertise in client scripting language and server side scripting languages like JavaScript, JQuery, JSON, DOJO, bootstrap, Node.js, Angular.js and backbone.js.  • Excellent experience with Python development under Linux OS (Debian, Ubuntu, SUSE Linux, RedHat Linux, Fedora).  • Experience in Working with Celery Task queue and service broker using RabbitMQ.  • Experience with JSP Servlets, Web Services (SOAP, REST) and Tomcat. Effective in executing multiple tasks and assignments ahead of schedule. Created and maintained effective budgets.  • Implementing RESTful interfaces.  • Hands-on experience in UNIX and Linux Kernels, Shell Scripting.  • Proficient in SQL databases MySQL, Oracle and no-SQL databases MongoDB and Cassandra.  • Having experienced in Agile Methodologies, Scrum stories and sprints experience in a Python based environment, Data analytics, data wrangling and Excel data extracts.  • Advised management on improvement strategies, Competitive & Profitability Analysis.  • Excellent in Business Analytics. Highly effective management and organizational skills with ability to prioritize.  • Exposure to Client/Server, Web Application developmental tools and Software development and design. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Developer Citadel LLC - Chicago, IL December 2015 to Present Chicago, IL. Dec 15 - Till Date Citadel LLC offers a variety of banking products and financial solutions like hedge funds, small business, retail banking, equity loans, asset management, wealth management, corporate and investment banking and credit card services to its customers. Involved with the Insurance Department and provide development and maintenance and web support of the online portal handling the transactions.  Role: Python Developer  Responsibilities:  • Worked with team of developers on Python applications for RISK management.  • Made Django web based apps for Insurance premium calculations.  • Used Django configuration to manage URLs and application parameters.  • Involved in Web development, programming, and engineering Django, UWSGI and SQL internal admin tools behave BDD.  • Used Amazon Web Services (AWS) for improved efficiency of storage and fast access.  • Used Pandas API to put the data as time series and tabular format for east timestamp data manipulation and retrieval.  • Designed the architecture of the hardware environments and interface of hardware-software components.  • Job scheduling, batch-job scheduling, process control, forking and cloning of jobs and checking the status of the jobs using shell scripting.  • Created Open stack services for Identity, Compute, Image Service, Block Storage, Networking (Neutron, Keystone).  • With using of Python OS module on UNIX environment, made job cloning and forking.  • Created Data tables utilizing PyQt to display customer and policy information and add, delete, update customer records  • Used Pandas library for statistical Analysis.  • Used Numpy, Scipy for Numerical analysis for Finance data.  • Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks.  • Working in team of Architects and Developers to build and deploy Python Flask Peewee Linux AWS.  • Used Angular.js as a mechanism to manage and organize the HTML page layout.  • Developed weekly, monthly nightly job process through UNIX shell scripting.  • Thoroughly used Unit Test Python library for testing many Python programs and block of codes.  • Involved in Agile Methodologies and SCRUM Process.  • Created a Git repository and added the project to GitHub.  • Also have rich experience on Micrsoft Azure for Machine Learning.  • Automated data extraction process from legacy system and used 'Nose' Testing framework with Assertion module to testing many automated process.  • Participated in entire lifecycle of the projects including Design, Development, and Deployment, Testing and Implementation and support.    Environment: Python 2.7/3.x, Django, C++, AWS, Pandas, XML, Open stack, PyQt, Java, Angular.js, Apache, CSS, MySQL, ORACLE, HTML, JavaScript, Shell Scripts, Microsoft Azure, GitHub, MYSQL, Agile, Windows and Linux. Python Developer Fidelity Investments - New York, NY October 2014 to November 2015 New York, NY. Oct 14 - Nov 15  Regulatory and compliance issues gave rise to high volume of intercompany transactions. Aim of this project was to streamline of trade processing systems and reduce volume of intercompany transactions for US Equities, Foreign Exchange (FX) and Credit and Equity Derivative group and phase II of project was to support the finance organization for budget forecast and actual reporting using the Python-based web apps.  Role: Python Developer  Responsibilities:  • Worked with team of developers on python applications for RISK management and in Agile Methodologies and SCRUM Process.  • Developed programs to automate the testing of RAID controller firmware and utilities using newly released Python 2.7, Java, Bash script, Windows command line, AutoIt, AutoHotKey, Java Script and C.  • Worked on Python Open stack API's.  • Created entire application using Python, Django, MySQL and Linux.  • Worked with Open stack Command-line client  • Used Django ORM for mapping object-oriented systems to relational databases.  • Used Python and Django to interface with the JQuery UI and manage the storage and deletion of content.  • Creation of Python scripts for data access and analysis (Scripts, DataFeeds, XLS, FIXML) to aid in process and system monitoring, and reporting.  • Utilized PyUnit, the Python unit test framework, for all Python applications.  • Exported/Imported data between different data sources using SQL Server Management Studio  • Used Pandas library for statistical Analysis.  • Worked on JavaScript MVC Framework like Angular.JS.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Created backend database T-SQL stored procedures and Jasper Reports.  • Using Subversion version control tool to coordinate team-development.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.    Environment: Python 2.7, Django 1/1.5, Angular.js, HTML, CSS, JQuery, JavaScript, Apache, Jira, Linux, Git. Python Developer Discover Financial Services - Plano, TX January 2014 to September 2014 Plano, TX. Jan 14 - Sep 14  Discover Financial Services is a leading credit lending firm providing wide range of credit products and services that include student loans and rental insurance. Involved in development of credit management data warehouse to assist credit analysis professionals to analyze and administer the credit card requests in an efficient manner. The operational data came from multiple sources and was then loaded into claim management data warehouse.  Role: Python Developer  Responsibilities:  • Participated in the development of application architecture and blueprints to define application components, platforms, interfaces and development tools.  • Wrote unit test and worked on the CHDP (Cigna Home Delivery) Project.  • Updated site with JavaScript, JQuery, Python, Django, and SQL.  • Created backend database T-SQL stored procedures and Jasper Reports. Created and updated complex views and stored procedures in PostgreSQL.  • Created a Git repository and added the project to GitHub.  • Exported/Imported data between different data sources using SQL Server Management Studio.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Worked on development of SQL and stored procedures on MYSQL.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Used Pandas package to retrieve and analyze data.  • Utilized Agile process and JIRA issue management to track sprint cycles.  • Participated in multiple sprint cycles, addressing requirements for UI development.  • Used decorators, list comprehensions, functional programming, unit tests, multiple staging environments and global team remote collaboration.    Environment: Python, Django, C++, HTML, CSS, AJAX, JavaScript, Github, MySQL, Apache Web Server, Linux. Python Developer StrategyWise Inc - Birmingham, AL November 2012 to December 2013 Birmingham, AL. Nov 12 - Dec 13  Worked on a web-based, distributed marketing analytics application, built to run on the global proprietary platform across multiple lines of business. The application provided a web view, a Graphical User Interface and basis for various clients to make better business marketing decisions.  Role: Python Developer  Responsibilities:  • Participated in the development of application architecture and blueprints to define application components,  • Specification of platforms, interfaces and development tools.  • Used Python scripts for automation of production tasks.  • Generated property list for every application dynamically using Python.  • Rewrite existing Java application in Python module to deliver certain format of data.  • Designed statistical analysis tools using R for data analysis and visualization.  • Was responsible for analysing various cross-functional, multi-platform applications systems enforcing python, best practices and provide guidance in making long term, scalable architectural design decisions.  • Deployed Engineering bill of material (EBOM) on cloud based platform (Heroku) and to automate calculation of items cost from different source of database.  • Proficient in Software Design and Development with a solid background in developing.  • Strong Knowledge of web application security and access control.  • Involved in Agile Methodologies and SCRUM Process.  • Worked through the entire lifecycle of the projects including Design, Development, and Deployment, Testing and Implementation and support.    Environment: Python, XML, Java, MYSQL, Apache, CSS, ORACLE, DHTML, HTML, JavaScript, Shell Scripts, Linux and Windows. Software Developer Trident Software - IN June 2010 to October 2012 India. Jun 10 - Oct 12  This System implementation enables Hutch customers to view and pay their bills over the Internet. This framework has different modules, like Enrollment for Online Billing, Payment Options, Payment Schedule Options, Payment Delivery Options, Payment History, E-mail Notifications and Integration to the SSO Framework (Single Sign-on). Also Generated mail would be sent to the customers informing them about their bills being due. The Customer completes the forms indicating amount, percentage of the bill, from which account and when the bills are to be paid.  Role: Software Developer  Responsibilities:  • Worked with the design team for project structure.  • Performed Design and Code reviews.  • Implemented the presentation layer with HTML, DHTML, Ajax, CSS and JavaScript.  • Designed and developed Use-Case Diagrams, Class Diagrams, Object Diagrams using UML Rational Rose for OOA/OOD techniques.  • Programmed the components using C/C++.  • Software release to internal clients by compiling the code into C/C++ libraries and implementing the APIs.  • Involved in designing optimized stored procedures using MySQL.  • Designed object model, data model, tables, constraints, necessary stored procedures, functions, triggers, and packages for Oracle Database.  • Designed and created backend data access modules using PL/SQL stored procedures and Oracle.  • Developed and executed User Acceptance Testing portion of test plan.  • Optimized the database queries to improve the performance.  • Developed in Windows and going to deploy it in Linux server.    Environment: C++, Scikit-learn, XML, Java, MYSQL, Apache, CSS, ORACLE, DHTML, HTML, JavaScript, Shell Scripts, Linux and Windows. Additional Information Technical Skills:  Languages Python 3.x,2.7/2.4, C++, Java, Shell Script, Perl, SQL  Python Framework DJANGO, MVC, Caffe, TesnorFlow.  Web Technologies AJAX, JavaScript, HTML, DHTML, XHTML, XML, JQuery  Versioning Tools Subversion, GIT, Perforce, SVN, CVS  Web servers Apache, WebLogic, WebSphere  IDE Visual studio, Vim, Eclipse.  Databases MYSQL, POSTGRESQL, SQL server, Oracle.  Operating systems Linux/Unix, Windows Variants