Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - Bank of America Calabasas, CA Having 6+ years of experience in Web/Application Development and coding with Python, Django. Experienced with entire software development life-cycle (SDLC) of the projects including Design, Development, Deployment, Implementation and Testing.    QUALIFICATTIONS    • Experience with object oriented programming (OOP) concepts using Python, database design and agile methodologies.  • Experience in developing web based applications using Python, Django, Flask, MySQL, JavaScript, AJAX, HTML, CSS and XML.  • Experienced in MVC frameworks like Django.  • Proficient in developing Web Services with Python using Django REST framework.  • Good Knowledge of using IDE Tools like Sublime text, PyCharm, Eclipse, PyDev, IDLE.  • Familiar with JSON based REST Web services and AWS (Amazon Web services).  • Hands on experience with Version control systems such as Git, SVN, CVS, and Source Tree.  • Strong experience in developing entire application using Python, MySQL, Linux and Django framework, along with a rich user interface using HTML, CSS, JavaScript and jQuery.  • Ability to install, configure, modify, test and deploy applications using Apache.  • Strong experience in using python libraries like NumPy, Matplotlib, Pandas, Scrapy, etc.  • Worked in Agile methodology with high quality deliverables delivered on-time.  • Proficient with Unit testing/ Test driven Development (TDD) and Integration testing.  • Followed PEP-8 coding standard across all projects.  • Very good experience in using Python requests module and HTTP requests, response, methods.  • Maintained detailed documentation and architectural solutions in IT infrastructure and sales systems.  • Experienced with relational databases like MySQL, PostgreSQL, Oracle, SQLite and NoSQL databases like MongoDB and Cassandra.  • Extensively used UNIX shell Scripts for automating batch programs.  • Used Test driven approach for developing the application and Implemented the unit tests using Python Unit test framework.  • Good experience in handling errors/exceptions and debugging the issues in large scale applications.  • Strong experience in full life cycle application development.  • Excellent analytical and communication skills with ability to interact with individuals at all levels. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Developer Bank of America - Calabasas, CA May 2016 to Present Bank of America is one of the world's largest financial institutions, serving individuals, small and middle market businesses and large corporations with a full range of banking, investing, asset management and other financial and risk management products and services.  Description  Working on a Fraud Transaction Analyzer, which is a full scope project that can be used by the Bank of America's internal team to analyze and generate reports for the fraud transactions reported. This project helps to timely monitor and respond to the reports and keep an active check on different transactions.  Responsibilities  • Involved in all the stages of software development lifecycle like design, development, implementation and testing.  • Used Django Framework in developing web applications to implement the model view control architecture.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Python's Unit Test library was used for testing code.  • Developed UI using CSS, HTML, JavaScript, jQuery, JSON and AJAX.  • Used MySQL as backend database and MySQL dB of python as database connector to interact with MySQL server.  • Build SQL queries for performing various CRUD operations like create, update, read and delete.  • Python's Unit Test library was used for testing many programs on python and other codes.  • To build and populate DB and to ensure the standards, the team of QA also collaborated.  • Wrote Python scripts to parse JSON documents and load the data in database.  • Used AJAX to update small portions of the web page instead of reloading the entire web page.  • Responsible for setting up Python REST API framework using Django.  • Features for dashboard were developed and tested using CSS, JavaScript, Django, and Bootstrap.  • Followed Agile methodology and involved in daily SCRUM meetings, sprint planning, showcases and retrospective and used JIRA as a tracking tool for the sprints.  • Used GIT for the version control.  • Involved in analysis and design of the application features.  • Responsible debugging and troubleshooting programming related issues.  • Ensured the best possible performance, quality, and responsiveness of the applications.    Environment  Python 2.7, Django 1.9, MySQL, Linux, Shell Scripting, REST, HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, JavaScript, jQuery, JSON, AJAX, matPlotLib, pyTest, Sublime, JIRA, GIT. Python Developer VMware - Mountain View, CA June 2015 to April 2016 VMware is a global leader in cloud infrastructure and business mobility. VMware accelerates customers' digital transformation journey by enabling enterprises to master a software-defined approach to business and IT.  Description  Worked on development of Customer Order Processing and fulfillment System. This system tracks the customer Orders and Feedback after order have been fulfilled. It also tracks Warranty, Defects and Customer Satisfaction.  Responsibilities  • Developed application using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Designed and developed data management system using PostgreSQL.  • Used Django Database API's to access database objects.  • Wrote python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Configured and deployed project using the Amazon EC2 on AWS.  • Creating Unit Test framework for working/new code.  • Using version control tool to coordinate team-development using GIT.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  • Resolved ongoing problems and accurately documented progress of a project.  Environment  Python, Django, PostgreSQL, AWS, HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, JSON, JavaScript, AJAX, pytest, Sublime, GIT. Python Developer Jones Lang Lasalle (JLL) - Chicago, IL January 2014 to May 2015 JLL is a professional services and investment management firm specializing in real estate. JLL help organizations around the world achieve their ambitions by owning, occupying and investing in real estate.  Description  Property Manager is a in house application which is used for maintaining Property and Contract data of the clients. This application is responsible for storing and maintaining company's entire data.  Responsibilities  • Involved in the SDLC phases to analyze the requirement design, development, testing and deployment.  • Developed the application using Python Django framework.  • Providing Python programming support for the existing applications in other environments.  • Implemented batch jobs using python and shell scripts.  • Loaded data into reference database using Python and MySQL connector.  • Design and development of Web pages using HTML, CSS.  • Develop and validated unit test cases using PYUNIT.  • Used AJAX, JSON to send request to server to integrate with the server-side modules.  • Worked on fixing the bugs on existing JIRA and validated in the integration environment.  • Developed prototype using Python/Django framework and using MySQL as Database.  • Managed API system deployment using Amazon AWS architecture.  • Used GIT version control.  Environment  Python, Django, MySQL, AWS, pyunit HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, JIRA, JSON, AJAX, Sublime, Mercurial. Python Developer LegalZoom - Glendale, CA October 2012 to December 2013 LegalZoom is a trusted technology platform that gives the world access to professional legal advice. From starting a new business to assisting in protecting families, contracts to copyrights, trademarks to trusts, - it is the leading provider of online legal solutions for families and small businesses.  Description  Developed a tool to help customers create legal documents online which removes the necessity of hiring an attorney. It also recommends attorney or agent if required.  Responsibilities  • Designed and developed modules using Python.  • Implemented code in python to retrieve and manipulate data.  • Participated in regular code reviews and pair programming.  • Used pyChecker tool to fix bugs.  • Demoed project progress to management.  • Ensured quality by versioning with GIT.  • Involved in Unit testing and Integration testing.  Environment UI Developer Python - Gujarat, IN April 2011 to September 2012 Description  TatvaSoft provides trusted, reliable and cost-effective outsourced software development and support services to small and mid-size companies. Clients ranges from well-known companies to early-stage ventures developing cutting-edge technology products.  Responsibilities  • Worked closely with system analyst to understand the technical requirements of the projects.  • Worked closely with Photoshop designers to implement mock ups and the layouts of the application.  • Design and development of Web pages using HTML, CSS including Ajax controls and XML.  • Played a vital role in defining, implementing and enforcing quality practices in the team organization to ensure internal controls, quality and compliance policies and standards.  • Used JavaScript for custom client-side validation.  • Involved in designing and developing the GUI for the user interface with various controls.  • Worked with View State to maintain data between the pages of the application.  Environment  HTML, CSS, JavaScript, AJAX. Education B.Tech in Electronics & Communication Engineering Ganpat University 2011 Skills Git (6 years), AJAX (5 years), CSS (5 years), HTML (5 years), JAVASCRIPT (3 years) Additional Information SKILLS  Programming/Scripting Languages Python, Java, UNIX / Linux Shell Scripting (Bash), C, C++, JavaScript, SQL.  Web Technologies HTML, CSS, Ajax, jQuery, Angular.js, JSON, XML, JSP, Servlet, Bootstrap, REST, AWS.  Framework Django, Flask, Spring MVC.  Database Technologies MySQL, PostgreSQL, Oracle, SQLite, MongoDB, Cassandra.  Simulators/IDE/Tools PyCharm, Eclipse, NetBeans, JIRA, PyDev, Maven, Junit, pyLint, pyChecker.  Version Control GIT, SVN, Source Tree, CVS.  Operating Systems Microsoft Windows, OS X, Ubuntu Linux, Debian Linux, Windows Server