Python developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">developer</span> Python developer - Master Card New York, NY • Around 5 years of experience as a Web/Application Developer and Cloud Engineer as coding with analytical programming using Python, Django, HTML, CSS, JavaScript.  • Experienced in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, Subroutines, functions on SQL, PL/SQL and PostgreSQL database.  • Experienced in understanding principles and best practices of Software Configuration Management (SCM) processes, which include compiling, packaging, deploying and Application configurations.  • Good knowledge in working with application server - Apache Server, Tomcat (6.0, 7.0, 8.0), Nginx, WebLogic (10.0, 10.3, 11g), WebSphere (7.0, 8.5).  • Created a python, Django web-based application using Python scripting for data processing and MySQL for database, HTML, CSS, jQuery for data visualization.  • Experienced in Agile Methodologies, Scrum stories and sprints experience in a Python based environment, along with data analytics, data wrangling and Excel data extracts.  • Expertise in MVW frameworks like Django, Angular JS, JavaScript, jQuery and Node JS.  • Used Ansible and Ansible Tower as Configuration management tool, to automate repetitive tasks, quickly deploys critical applications, and proactively manages change.  • Ability to work on own initiative and as a part of team. Willingness to learn new Technologies, openness to new ideas and ability to learn very quickly.  • Proficient in Front end development experience using Python 3.6/2.7, Django 1.7/1.8, HTML, XML, CSS, JavaScript, Bootstrap, JQuery, JSON and, Angular.js, Node.js.  • Using Amazon EC2 command line interface along with Bash/ Python to automate repetitive work.  • Designed and managed API system deployment using fast HTTP server and Amazon AWS architecture.  • Involved in designing and developing of Automation Test cases using Selenium WebDriver, Java, and TestNG.  • Development, Quality Assurance and Management teams to ensure cross communication and confirmed approval of all production changes.  • Strong knowledge / experience in creating Jenkins CI pipelines and good- experience in automating deployment pipelines.  • Connected continuous integration system with GIT version control repository and continually build as the check-in's come from the developer.  • In-depth experience in LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, Python) Architecture.  • Good knowledge in working with application server - Apache Server, Tomcat (6.0, 7.0, 8.0), Nginx, WebLogic (10.0, 10.3, 11g), WebSphere (7.0, 8.5).  • Performed Unit testing, Integration Testing and generating of test cases for web applications using Junit and Python Unit test framework Hudson/Jenkins in the builds triggered by each push to GIT.  • Experienced with integration of MongoDB and Casandra databases  • Experience in Python open stack API's  • Experience with UML diagrams  • Experienced in Agile Methodologies, Scrum stories and sprints experience in a Python based environment, along with data analytics, data wrangling and Excel data extracts.  • Excellent Experience on various Python integrated IDE's such as Sublime Text, Pycharm, Eclipse, NetBeans  • Hands-on experience in Unix and Linux Kernels.  • Hands on experience in SVN, Git, JIRA, Bugzilla.  • Hands on experience with version control tools such as SVN, GitHub, GitLab  • Experience in SAS/STAT with linear and logistic regression.  • Good knowledge in various stages of SDLC (Software Development Life Cycle), Software Testing Life Cycle (STLC) and QA methodologies from project definition to post-deployment documentation.  • Experience in using CI tools Hudson, Build Forge, and Jenkins for automated builds.  • Strong knowledge / experience in creating Jenkins CI pipelines and good- experience in automating deployment pipelines.  • Worked on Microservices for Continuous Delivery environment using Docker and Jenkins.  • Developed existing network mapping microservices using python nmap and deployed it on kubernetes.  • Experience in Kubernetes which provide a platform for automating deployment, scaling and operations of application containers across clusters of hosts.  • Worked on real time data integration usingkafka, Spark streaming.  • Used Build Tool Maven for Developing Kafka Ingestion and Spark- Scala project.  • Built Jenkins jobs to create AWS infrastructure from GitHub repos containing terraform code.  • Experience in designing the project workflows/pipelines using Jenkins as CI tool.  • Achieved continuous deployment using IBM uDeploy. Integrated uDeploy with nexus and Jenkins to achieve CD.  • Hands on experience with installation and configuration of Apache Tomcat server.  • Experience in writing SQL, Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors and Functions.  • Good experience with python frameworks like Flask and WebApp2.  • Have Experience in List Comprehensions and python inbuilt functions such as Map, Filter and Lambda.  • Hands on experience with installation and configuration of Apache Tomcat server. Work Experience Python developer Master Card - New York, NY November 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Designed front end and backend of the application using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Develop consumer-based features and applications using Python and Django in test driven Development and pair-based programming.  • (MVC) architecture  using server-side applications like Django andFlask.  • Developed and tested many features for dashboard using Python, Java, Bootstrap, CSS, JavaScript and jQuery.  • Created interactive data charts on web application using High charts JavaScript library with data coming from Apache Cassandra.  • Created Terraform scripts for EC2 instances, Elastic Load balancers and S3 buckets. Implemented Terraform to manage the AWS infrastructure and managed servers using configuration management tools like Chef and  Ansible.  • Wrote ANSIBLE Playbooks with Python, SSH as the Wrapper to Manage Configurations of AWS Nodes and Test  Playbooks on AWS instances using Python. Run Ansible Scripts to provision Dev servers.  • Worked on frontend frameworks like CSS Bootstrap for development of Web application.  • Worked in MySQL database on simple queries and writing Stored Procedures for normalization and denormalization.  • Used Python based GUI components for the front-end functionality such as selection criteria.  • Deployed and monitored Microservices using pivotal cloud foundry, also managed domains and routes.  • Hands on experience in migrating Business from a physical data centre environment to AWS.  • Experienced in setting up EC2 instances, security groups and Setting up databases in AWS using S3bucket and configuring instance backups to S3 bucket.  • Developed existing network mapping microservices using python nmap and deployed it on kubernetes.  • Performed S3 buckets creation, policies on IAM role based polices, MFA and customizing the JSON template  • Automated various service and application deployments with ANSIBLE on CentOS and RHEL in AWS.  • Wrote ANSIBLE Playbooks with Python, SSH as the Wrapper to Manage Configurations of AWS Nodes and Test Playbooks on AWS instances using Python. Run Ansible Scripts to provision Dev servers.  • Worked in MySQL database on simple queries and writing Stored Procedures for normalization.  • Deployed the project into Jenkins using GIT version control system.  • Learned to index and search/query large number of documents inside Elastic search.  • Taken part in entire lifecycle of the projects including Design, Development, and Deployment, Testing and Implementation and support.  • Understanding of secure-cloud configuration, Cloud Trail, cloud-security technologies (VPC, Security Groups, etc.) and cloud-permission systems(IAM)  • Experience in Installing Jenkins/Plugins for GIT Repository, Setup SCM Polling for Immediate Build with Maven and Maven Repository and Deployment of apps using custom modules through Puppet as a CI/CD Process.  • Extensive use of version controlling systems like GIT and SVN.  • Configured and maintained Jenkins to implement the CI process and integrated the tool with Ant and Maven to schedule the builds.  • Done POC using Kafka and Spark Streaming to fetch data from ONCORE application into our analytics application.  • Wrote Kafka producers to stream the data from external rest APIs toKafka topics.  • Worked with View Sets in Django-REST framework for providing web services and consumed web services performing CRUD operations.  • Used Python Library Beautiful Soup 4 for Web Scraping to extract data for building graphs.  • Used AngularJS as the development framework to build a single-page application.    Environment: Amazon Web Services (AWS), Cloud Environment, microservices, Lambda, Dynamo DB, Python 3.4, Django, API Gateway, Java, J2EE, REST API, Kafka, Spring framework, AngularJS, HTML, Amazon S3, CloudWatch, eclipse, MS-SQL Server, GIT, Jira, Jenkins, Confluence. Cloud Engineer/ Python Developer Rocket Software - Boston, MA May 2017 to October 2017 Responsibilities:  • Used Django Framework in developing web applications to implement the model view control architecture.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Develop consumer-based features and applications using Python, Django, pyramid, Flask, Web2py, HTML and other web technologies.  • Implemented web applications in Flask frame works following MVC architecture.  • Worked on front end frame works like CSS Bootstrap for development of Web applications.  • Experience in using collections in Python for manipulating and looping through different user defined objects.  • With using of Python OS module on UNIX environment, made job cloning and forking.  • Created deployment groups in one environment for the Workflows, Worklets, Sessions, Mappings, Source Definitions, Target definitions and imported them to other environments.  • Implemented Bash, Perl, Python scripting to Automate many day-to-day tasks.  • Extensive usage of SQL Profiler and Analytics for query optimization and maintenance.  • Created Business Logic using Python to create Planning and Tracking functions.  • Used web services like Amazon Web Services (AWS) EC2, AWS S3, Auto scaling, Cloud watch and SNS.  • Implemented in Jenkins for Continuous Integration and for automating all builds and deployments and Build Jenkins jobs to create AWS infrastructure from GitHub repos containing terraform code and Installed and Administered Jenkins CI for Maven Builds.  • Launched Kubernetes to provide a platform for automating deployment, scaling and operations of application containers across clusters of hosts.  • Experienced in container-based deployments using Docker, Docker Hub and Docker registries and Kubernetes  • Extensively worked on Jenkins by installing, configuring and maintaining for Continuous integration(CI) and for End to End automation for all build and deployments.  • Deploy third party's applications using various CI tools like Jenkins.  • Integration of data storage solutions using Django ORM system for MongoDB.  • Used Unit Test Python library for testing many programs on python and other codes.  • Developed and Tested features of dashboard using CSS, JavaScript, Django, and Bootstrap.  Wrote Stored Procedures in SQL and Scripts in Python for data loading.  • Collaborated with team of QA to build and populate DB and to ensure the standards.  • Developed and Tested features of dashboard using CSS, JavaScript, Django, and Bootstrap.  • Implemented RESTful Web-Services for sending and receiving the data between multiple systems.    Environment: Python 3.4,2.7, Django1.7,Java 1.7, SQL, Java Script, Linux, Shell Scripting, Mongo DB HTML, Angular JS, Eclipse jQuery, Kubernets, Ansible, JSON, XML, CSS, MySQL, Bootstrap, Amazon s3, AWS. Python Developer T-Mobile - Bellevue, WA January 2016 to December 2016 Responsibilities:  • Built database Model, Views and API's using Python for interactive web-based solutions.  • Placed data into JSON files using Python to test Django websites. Used Python scripts to update the content in database and manipulate files.  • Developed web-based application using Django framework with python concepts.  • Generated Python Django forms to maintain the record of online users.  • Used Django API's to access the database.  • Responsible for designing, developing, testing, deploying and maintaining the web application.  • Involved in Python OOD code for quality, logging, monitoring, and debugging code optimization.  • Wrote Python modules to view and connect the Apache Cassandra instance.  • Created Unit test/ regression test framework for working/new code.  • Installed and maintained web servers Tomcat and Apache HTTP in UNIX.  • Developed efficient Angular.js for client web-based application.  • Designed and developed the UI for the website with HTML, XHTML, CSS, Java Script and AJAX.  • Involved in working with Python open stock API's.  • Responsible for managing large databases using MySQL.  • Wrote and executed various MySQL database queries from Python-MySQL connector and MySQL db. package.  • Developed and designed automation framework using Python and Shell scripting.  • Involved in debugging and troubleshooting issues and fixed many bugs in two of the main applications which are main source of data for customers and internal customer service team.  • Implemented SOAP/RESTful web services in JSON format.  • Created Git repository and added the project to GitHub.  • Involved in debugging the applications monitored on JIRA using agile methodology.  • Attended many day-to-day meetings with developers and users and performed QA testing on the Application.  • Experience in using containers like Docker.  Environment: Python 2.x+ and 3.x+, Django 1.4, HTML, CSS, AJAX, Tomcat, Apache HTTP, Angular.js, JSON, Restful, XML, JavaScript, Shell Scripting, GIT Hub, MYSQL, Cassandra, JIRA. Python Developer Napier Healthcare Solutions (India) Ltd February 2014 to November 2015 Responsibilities:  • Followed Agile Methodologies to manage full life-cycle development of the project.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Worked on large-scale, high-traffic Python web applications to define and implement new features, enhance core functionality, and integrate with other platforms and services.  • Provided 24x7 support for several host production, QA, and development OLTP databases as well as hundreds of off-site store databases.  • Installation, configuring, upgrading, migrating, and patching of DB2, Oracle, and SQL Server.  • Expertise in establishing database connections for Python by configuring packages like MySQL- Python.  • Handled potential points of failure through error handling and communication of failure.  • Performed efficient delivery of code based on principles of Test-Driven Development (TDD) and continuous integration to keep in line with Agile Software Methodology principles.  • Worked on installing and setting up the channels by using Django.  • Used JavaScript and JSON to update a portion of a webpage.  • Develop consumer-based features and applications using Python, Django, HTML, Behaviour Driven Development (BDD) and pair-based programming.  • Used many regular expressions to match the pattern with the existing one.  • Build SQL queries for performing various CRUD operations like create, update, read and delete.  • Skilled in using Collections in Python for manipulating and looping through different user defined objects.  • Performed Unit testing, Integration testing, web application testing.  • Special skills in developing user friendly, simple yet effective web-based applications.  • Deployed the project into Heroku using GIT version control system.    Environment: Python 2.7, Django 1.4, HTML5, CSS, XML, MySQL, JavaScript, Angular JS, Bugzilla, JQuery, CSS Bootstrap, Mongo DB, MS SQL Server, Eclipse, Git, GitHub, Linux, Shell Scripting Education Master's Skills Css (4 years), Django (4 years), Html (4 years), Mysql (4 years), Python (4 years), PHP, Javascript, Android, Git, ASP