Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - PROFESSIONAL EXPERIRNECE San Francisco, CA • 6+ Years of experience in Analysis, Design, Development, Testing, Customization, Bug fixes, Enhancement, Support and Implementation of various web, stand-alone, client-server enterprise applications using Python, Django in various domains.  • Experienced in WAMP (Windows, Apache, MYSQL, Python).  • Experienced with full software development life-cycle (SDLC), architecting scalable platforms, object-oriented programming (OOPs) database design.  • Experience in developing web-based applications using Python 3.5/3.6, Django 1.7  • Good experience of software development in Python (libraries used: NumPy, SciPy, matplotlib, python-twitter, Pandas data frame, network, urllib2, MySQL dB for database connectivity) and IDEs - sublime text, Spyder, PyCharm.  • Extensive experience in system analysis, design, development and implementation of web based and client/server application using HTML, Bootstrap, CSS, JavaScript, JDBC, XML, Python, Django.  • Good experience in developing web applications implementing MVT/MVC architecture using Django.  • Experienced in MVC frameworks like Django, Java Script, jQuery.  • Worked on Cloud Computing AWS - EC2, RDS, S3, Glacier, SQS, SNS, Cloud Formation, VPC, IAM, Route 53, EBS, DynamoDB, Lambada, Redshift.  • Worked closely with designer, tightly integrating Flash into the CMS with the use of Flashvars stored in the Django models. Also created XML with Django to be used by the Flash.  • Good Experience in Linux Bash scripting and following PEP Guidelines in Python.  • Developed consumer-based features and applications using Python, Django, HTML, Behavior Driven Development (BDD) and pair-based programming.  • Using Django evolution and manual SQL modifications was able to modify Django models while retaining all data, while site was in production mode.  • Good experience with Amazon Cloud EC2, Simple Storage Service S3 and Amazon SQS.  • Experienced with databases using ORMs/DOMs for integrating with MySQL, Postgres, Neo4J, MongoDB, and Cassandra SQLite. Also, experienced with writing custom queries through database connectors.  • Expertise in establishing database connections for Python by configuring packages like JDBC, MySQL- Python.  • Successfully migrated the Django database from SQLite to MySQL to PostgreSQL with complete data integrity.  • Configure backup, alerts, repairs and monitoring of Cassandra clusters, in conjunction with Nagios/OpsCenter and custom scripts.  • Good Knowledge of web services using SOAP and REST protocols.  • Used Django as a proxy to interact with Rest services and also interacting with Database.  • Excellent Experience and knowledge in using XML, SOAP web Service for inter operable software applications.  • Good knowledge of version control software - CVS, GitHub  • Efficient in demonstrating all phases of software development life cycle (requirements, design, architecture, development, testing).  • Deployed production site using Apache 2.0 with mod python.  • Experienced in a Python based environment, along with data analytics, data wrangling and Excel data extracts.  • Hands on experience with bug tracking tools JIRA and Bugzilla.  • Skilled in writing and reviewing requirements, architecture documents, test plans, design, documents, quality analysis and audits.  • Skilled in debugging/troubleshooting issues in complex applications.  • Experience in Database Administration, development, design, maintenance and production support of relational databases, business applications, new server setup, MySQL Server installation, upgrade, migration.  • Reviewed requirement documents with the business and development team to understand the architecture and functionality of the application and consolidated these requirements in appropriate modules in Test strategy.  • Experienced in Unit testing, Integration testing, User acceptance testing, Functional testing.  • Experienced in Requirement gathering, use case development, Business Process flow, Business Process Modeling: extensively used UML to develop various use cases, class diagrams and sequence diagrams. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Developer PROFESSIONAL EXPERIRNECE February 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Responsible for gathering requirements, system analysis, design, development, testing and deployment.  • Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks. Interfacing with supervisors, artists, systems administrators, and production to ensure production deadlines are met.  • Responsible for setting up Python REST API framework using Django.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Developed web applications in Django Framework model view control (MVC) architecture.  • Used Python to write data into JSON files for testing Django Websites. Created scripts for data modelling and data import and export.  • Used JQuery and Ajax calls for transmitting JSON data objects between frontend and controllers.  • Involved in building database Model, APIs and Views utilizing Python, in order to build an interactive web based solution.  • Thorough knowledge in various front end tools like HTML, CSS, JavaScript, XML, JQuery, Angularjs, and AJAX. Managed large datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL.  • Used object-relational mapper (ORM) to automate the transfer of data stored in relational databases tables into objects.  • Used Python based GUI components for the front-end functionality such as selection criteria.  • Created test harness to enable comprehensive testing utilizing Python.  • Used Amazon Web Services (AWS) for improved efficiency of storage and fast access.  • Added support for Amazon AWS S3 and RDS to host static/media files and the database into Amazon Cloud.  • Created Data tables utilizing PyQt to display customer and policy information and add, delete, update customer records.  • Used PyQuery for selecting DOM elements when parsing HTML.  • Created Business Logic using Python to create Planning and Tracking functions.  • Created UI Screens for initiation and validation.  • Worked on UI using HTML5, CSS3 and JavaScript's.  • Developed multi-threaded standalone app in Python and PHP to view performance  • Performed data extraction and manipulation over large relational datasets using SQL, Python, and other analytical tools.  • Used Python libraries and SQL queries/subqueries to create several datasets which produced statistics, tables, figures, charts and graphs.  • Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks.  • Working in team of Architects and Developers to build and deploy Python Flask Peewee Linux AWS.  • Version control using GITHub.  • Involved in writing stored procedures using MySQL.  • Interfacing with supervisors, artists, systems administrators and production to ensure production deadlines are met.  Environment: Python 3.x, Django, Go language, Shell Scripting, AWS, Pandas, PyQt, PyQuery, Flash, DOM, JSON, PHP, HTML5, CSS3, AJAX, JavaScript, Bootstrap, Apache Web Server, MYSQL, GitHub, LINUX. Python Developer Incomm, Alphareretta - GA October 2016 to January 2018 Responsibilities:  • Instigated user interface guidelines and standards throughout the development and maintenance of the website using the HTML, CSS, JavaScript and jQuery.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Refactor Python/Django modules to deliver certain format of data.  • Managed datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL, queried MYSQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL dB package to retrieve information.  • Utilized Python libraries NumPy and matplotlib.  • Wrote Python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Used Wireshark, live http headers, and Fiddler2 debugging proxy to debug the Flash object and help the developer create a functional component.  • Parsers written in Python for extracting useful data from the design data base.  • Development of Python APIs to dump the array structures in the Processor at the failure point for debugging.  • Involved in development of Web Services using SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface in the XML format.  • Installed, setup, and configured Cisco switches for TCP/IP intra-network and wireless access point across the network for the local area network and Wi-Fi.  • Hardware installation of patch panels and fiber optic connectivity, hubs, cabling of cat5 and RJ45 connectors.  • Setup and configured DHCP on Windows 2003 for external wireless clients and mobile PC kiosks within the hospital.  • Installed and configured Windows XP workstations using standard software configuration and configured TCP/IP and network interface cards.  • Managing internet security and acceleration throughout the network using Microsoft's ISA server.  • Written functional test cases for Data Layer, and Search server classes using Django, XML base services, and MongoDB.  • Creating restful web services for Catalog and Pricing with Django MVT, Jersey, MySQL, and MongoDB.  • Representation of the system in hierarchy form by defining the components, subcomponents using Python and developed set of library functions over the system based on the user needs.  • Generated graphical reports using python package NumPy and matplotlib.  • Created Data tables utilizing PyQt display customer and policy information and add, delete, update customer records.  • Used Python and Django creating graphics, XML processing, data exchange and business logic implementation.  • Used Python based GUI components for the front-end functionality such as selection criteria.  • Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks. Interfacing with supervisors, artists, systems administrators and production to ensure production deadlines are met.  • Used third party jQuery-based plug-ins like Data tables etc. Heavily used JavaScript for Form Submit and other UI elements during development.  • Representation of the system in hierarchy form by defining the components, subcomponents using Python and developed set of library functions over the system based on the user needs.  Environment: Python 3.4/2.7, Django 1.7, MongoDB, MySQL, AJAX, SOAP, jQuery, JavaScript, PyCharm. Python Developer Bloomin' Brands - Tampa, FL February 2015 to September 2016 Responsibilities:  • Created Python and Bash tools to increase efficiency of call center application system and operations; data conversion scripts for API Integration.  • Recording of Scripts (Web, Web Services HTML) SoapUI and script validation through co correlations, parameterizations and other methods. Scripting - web and web services.  • Application was based on service-oriented architecture and used Python 2.7, Django1.5, Ajax, HTML, CSS for the frontend.  • Build the Silent Circle Management System (SCMC) in Django, Python, and Node.JS while integrating with infrastructure services.  • Created a Python/Django based web application using Python scripting for data processing, MySQL for the database, and HTML/CSS/jQuery and High Charts for data visualization of the served pages.  • Used existing Deal Model in Python to inherit and create object data structure for regulatory reporting.  • Used standard Python modules e.g. csv, xml for development.  • Managed, developed, and designed a dashboard control panel for customers and Administrators using Django, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, and jQuery calls.  • Automated RabbitMQ cluster installations and configuration using Python/Bash.  • Used Pandas API to put the data as time series and tabular format for east timestamp data manipulation and retrieval.  • Improved the coding standards, code reuse. Increased performance of the extended applications by making effective use of various design patterns (Front Controller, DAO).  • Worked on a large scale distributed computing environment, monitoring data nodes to prioritize jobs for processing functions.  • Worked extensively with JavaScript, and jQuery to optimize the user experience.  • Used Python and Django to interface with the jQuery UI and manage the storage and deletion of content.  • Carried out various mathematical operations for calculation purpose using python libraries.  • Built various graphs for business decision making using Python matplotlib library.  • Fetched twitter feeds for certain important keyword using python-twitter library.  • Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes of the two main applications that were a main source of data for both customers and internal customer service team.  • Executing regression tests on each release and verified bugs found from automation test in Bugzilla.  • Planning, implementing, and converting manual test cases to automation test cases.  Environment: Python, Django, Cassandra, SoapUI, REST API, Bash, PyDev, Spyder. Python Developer Cyient May 2014 to November 2014 Responsibilities:  • Translated the customer requirements into design specifications and ensured that the requirements translate into software solution.  • Application was based on service-oriented architecture and used Python 2.5, Django 1.5, Ajax, HTML, CSS for the frontend.  • Designed the front end of the application using Python, HTML, CSS, AJAX, JSON and jQuery. Worked on backend of the application, mainly using Active Records.  • Developed and designed an API (RESTful Web Service).  • Used the Python language to develop web-based data retrieval systems.  • Designed and maintained databases using Python and developed Python based API (RESTful Web Service) using Flask, SQL Alchemy and PostgreSQL.  • Developed web sites using Django, Python, XHTML, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Developed and designed e-mail marketing campaigns using HTML and CSS.  • Tested and implemented applications built using Python.  • Developed and tested many features for dashboard using Python, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Created complex dynamic HTML UI using jQuery.  • Automated Regression analysis for determining fund returns based on index returns ( Python/Excel).  • Worked on development of SQL and stored procedures, trigger and function on MYSQL.  • Developed shopping cart for Library and integrated web services to access the payment.  • Developed server-based web traffic statistical analysis tool using Flask, Pandas.  • Implemented and tested python-based web applications interacting with MySQL.  • Simple web app for reviewing sitcoms that gives users the ability to view, add, review, up/down vote, search, etc.  Environment: Linux, Python, Mod Python, MySQL, JavaScript, Ajax, Shell Script, HTML, CSS. Software Developer Precision IT Solutions Pvt. Ltd January 2012 to March 2014 Responsibilities:  • Analyzed the system requirement specifications and in client interaction during requirements specifications.  • Providing daily reports to the Development Manager and participate in both the design phase and the development phase. Utilized Agile Methodology and SCRUM Process.  • Implemented code in Python to retrieve and manipulate data.  • Implemented user interface guidelines and standards throughout the development and maintenance of the website using the HTML, CSS, JavaScript, and jQuery.  • Developed dynamic web pages using Python Django frameworks and Used Django APIs for database access.  • Utilized PyUnit, the Python unit test framework, for all Python applications.  • Used jQuery and Ajax calls for transmitting JSON data objects between frontend and controllers.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Designed and implemented an application for managing customers, purchases and invoices.  • Created RESTful http services to interact with UI.  • Worked in MySQL database on simple queries and writing Stored Procedures for normalization and renormalization.  • End to end testing of the applications.  • Re-engineered various modules for implementing changes and created efficient system.  • Maintained program libraries, user's manuals and technical documentation.  Environment: Python, Django, RESTful, Linux, HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, MySQL, Shell, JIRA, GIT Education Master's Skills CSS (6 years), HTML (6 years), JQuery (6 years), MySQL. (6 years), Python (6 years), C, Javascript, Django Additional Information Technical skills:  Operating Systems Unix, Linux, Windows and Mac  Programming Languages Java, C, C++, Python 3.3/2.7/2.4.  Scripting Languages CSS, Java Script, JQuery, Shell Scripting  Markup languages HTML, XML, JSON  Analytics Tools JMP PRO, SAS, Tableau, UCI NET, Node XL, MVC3  Python Libraries Beautiful Soup, numpy, matplotlib, python-twitter, Pandas data frame, urllib2.  Databases Oracle 10/11g, MySQL, SQL Server and PostgreSQL  Servers Apache Tomcat, IBM Web sphere, RESTful web services  Tools Intellij, PyCharm, FileZilla, PL/SQL Developer, and TOAD  Integration Tools Jenkins and Web Builder  Version Control GitHub and SVN  Defect Tracking JIRA, Git, and VersionOne  Methodologies & tools Object Oriented Programming, UML, Agile Scrum