Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer Ashburn, VA • Qualified Python Developer with 8 years of experience as a Web Application Developer and Software Engineer using Python.  • Expertise in MVW frameworks like Django, Angular JS, Java Script, JQuery and Node.js.  • Carried out various mathematical operations for calculation purpose using pythonlibraries.  • Experience object oriented programming (OOP) concepts using Python, Django and Linux.  • Familiar with JSON based REST Web services and Amazon Web Services (AWS).  • Hands on experience on deployment and packaging tool like Ansible.  • Experience in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on MySQL, Oracle, and Postgre and SQLite3 concepts.  • Developing high availability real time Messaging system for financial/Banking transactions and developed associated components in Linux, UNIX, AIX platforms. Tools C++, STL, BOOST, XML (XPath and XSLT) IBM MQ libraries, Perl, Python scripting.  • Created a Python/Django based web application using Python scripting for data processing, MySQL for the database, and HTML/CSS/JQuery and High Charts for data visualization of the served pages.  • Experienced in developing Web Services with Python programming language.  • Did sites configuration on Apache2, Ngnix web servers.  • Worked on AJAX framework to transform Datasets and Data tables into HTTP-serializable JSON strings.  • Extensive experience with Object Oriented Design and SDLC methodologies using Rational Rose, Unified Modelling Language (UML).  • Understanding of Python best Practices (PEP-8) andpackage management system (PIP) in Python.  • ExperienceinwritingSubQueries,StoredProcedures,Triggers,Cursors,andFunctionsonMySQLand PL SQL database.  • Good experience with RDMS like SQL, Postgre SQL , Oracle and NOSQL database like Mongo DB  • Good exposure to STLC Methodologies, including Updating test cases, test case execution, defect tracking, test reporting and documentation  • Worked in agile and waterfall methodologies with high quality deliverables delivered on time.  • Experience with continuous integration and continuous deployment using Jenkins.  • Good Knowledge in building and running python modules in spark environment  • Well versed with versioning tools like GIT and SVN.  • Experience with Communication protocols CAN/LIN, MOST.  • Experienced with "Effective root cause analysis" and ability to solve complex issues. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Developer People's United Bank - Bridgeport, CT March 2016 to December 2017 Responsibilities:  • Django Framework that was used in developing web applications  • Exposure on Multi-Threading factory to distribute learning process back-testing and the into various worker processes.  • Performed efficient delivery of code based on principles of Test Driven Development (TDD) and continuous integration to keep in line with Agile Software Methodology principles  • Different testing methodologies like unit testing, Integration testing, web application testing, Selenium testing performed.  • Lock mechanisms were implemented and the functionality of multithreading has been used  • Python/Django based web application, Postgresql DB, and integrations with 3rd party email, messaging, storage services.  • Developed a fully automated continuous integration system using Git, Gerrit, Jenkins, MySQL and custom tools developed in Python and Bash  • Design and implemented custom scripts.  • Extensive use of version controller Team Foundation Server (TFS).  • Test and validated the custom scripts.  • Delivered automated solutions for science models  • Implemented configuration changes for data models.  • Handled potential points of failure through error handling and communication of failure  • Anticipated potential parts of failure( database, communication points, file system errors)  • Troubleshoot the process execution and worked with other team members to correct them.  • Actively worked as a part of team with managers and other staff to meet the goals of the project in the stipulated time.  • Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes of the two main applications that were a main source of data for both customers and internal customer service team  • Used Pandas library for statistics Analysis.  • Used Numpy for Numerical analysis for Insurance premium  • Managed large datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL.  • Used advanced packages in AON PATHWISE for performing unit test and deploying data models.  • Extensively used python modules such as requests, urllib, urllib2 for web crawling.  • Developed GUI using webapp2 for dynamically displaying the test block documentation and other features of python code using a web browser.  • Developed the required XML Schema documents and implemented the framework for parsing XML documents.  • Responsible for user validations on client side as well as server side.  • Automated the existing scripts for performance calculations using Numpy and sql alchemy.  • Strong Object Oriented Analysis and Design (OOAD), ERD documentation, UML artifacts modeling with Rational Rose and Enterprise Architect. Applied the requirements engineering, analysis, and design disciplines of the RUP to J2EE projects.  Environment: Python 3.0, Django, HTML5/CSS, MS SQL Server 2013, MySQL, Javascript, Eclipse, Linux, Shell Scripting, JQuery, J2EE, GitHub, Angular.JS, Jira Python Developer Guide One Insurance - Des Moines, IA April 2015 to February 2016 Responsibilities:  • Involved in software development life cycle (SDLC) of tracking the requirements, gathering, analysis, detailed design, development, system testing and user acceptance testing.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Involved in designing user interactive web pages as the front end part of the web application using various web technologies like HTML, JavaScript, Angular JS, JQuery, AJAX and implemented CSS for better appearance and feel.  • Knowledge of cross-browser and cross-platform development of HTML and CSS based websites in Windows like IE 6, IE 7, IE 8 and FF.  • Interactive in providing change requests, trouble reports and requirements collection with the client.  • Actively involved in developing the methods for Create, Read, Update and Delete (CRUD) in Active Record.  • Used Numpy for Numerical analysis for Insurance premium.  • Used Robot Test automation framework for Testing of the GUI of the application.  • Implemented and modified various SQL queries and Functions, Cursors and Triggers as per the client requirements.  • Managed code versioning with GitHub, Bit Bucket and deployment to staging and production servers.  • Implemented MVC architecture in developing the web application with the help of Django framework.  • Used Celery as task queue and Rabbit MQ, Redis as messaging broker to execute asynchronous tasks.  • Designed and managed API system deployment using fast http server and Amazon AWS architecture.  • Involved in code reviews using GitHub pull requests, reducing bugs, improving code quality, and increasing knowledge sharing  • Implemented monitoring and established best practices around using elastic search.  • Install and configuring monitoring scripts for AWS EC2 instances.  • Implemented task object to interface with data feed framework and invoke database message service setup and update functionality.  • Working under UNIX environment in development of application using Python and familiar with all of its commands.  • Developed remote integration with third party platforms by using RESTful web services.  • Automated Production tasks.  • Updated and maintained Jenkins for automatic building jobs and deployment.  • Used Apache CQ, Team Foundation Server for the content management.  • Used many regular expressions in order to match the pattern with the existing one and store them in data base on a chronological basis.  • Implemented code to perform CRUD operations on MongoDB using PyMongo module.  • Improved code reuse and performance by making effective use of various design patterns and refactoring code base.  • Involved in development of a Map based application for integral analysis purpose.  • Updated and maintained Puppet rspec unit/system test.  • Involved in analysis and design of the application features.  • Experience in debugging and troubleshooting programming related issues.  • Worked in MySQL database on simple queries and writing Stored Procedures for normalization.  • Deployment of the web application using the Linux server.    Environment: Python, Django, HTML, CSS, XML, KML, MySQL, JavaScript, Angular JS, JQuery, CSS Bootstrap, RESTful, MS SQL Server, MongoDB, Elastic Search, Ubuntu server, Apache CQ, TFS, Amazon s3, Jenkins, Map Box, Mongo DB, zope, pytest, Robot, GitHub, Bit Bucket, Linux, and Windows. Python Developer EXAMITY - Natick, MA December 2013 to March 2015 Examity offers live online proctoring for academic institutions & universities by using a webcam to monitor students taking exams online to prevent cheating.    Responsibilities:  • Created Python and Bash tools to increase efficiency of call center application system and operations; data conversion scripts, AMQP/Rabbit MQ, REST, JSON, and CRUD scripts for API Integration.  • Used Celery with Rabbit MQ, MySQL, Django, and Flask to create a distributed worker framework.  • Recording of Scripts (Web, Web Services HTML) using Vugen and Soap UI and script validation through co correlations, parameterizations and other methods. Scripting- web and web services.  • Application was based on service oriented architecture and used Python 2.7, Django1.5, JSF 2, Spring 2, Ajax, HTML, CSS for the frontend.  • Created server monitoring daemon with Psutil, supported by Django app for analytics which I created. Also researched big data solutions with Cassandra database.  • Experience with Data migration from Sqlite3 to Apache Cassandra database. Cassandra data model designing, implementation, maintaining and monitoring using DSE, Dev Centre, Data stax Ops center.  • Build the Silent Circle Management System (SCMC) in Django, Python, and Node.JS while integrating with infrastructure services.  • Created a Python/Django based web application using Python scripting for data processing, MySQL for the database, and HTML/CSS/JQuery and High Charts for data visualization of the served pages.  • Strong Socket programming experience in Python. Implemented complex networking operations like race route, SMTP mail server and web server.  • Used existing Deal Model in Python to inherit and create object data structure for regulatory reporting.  • Used standard Python modules e.g. csv, robot parser, iter tools, pickle, jinja2, lxml for development.  • Managed, developed, and designed a dashboard control panel for customers and Administrators using Django, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Bootstrap, JQuery and RESTAPI calls.  • Automated RabbitMQ cluster installations and configuration using Python/Bash.  • Used Pandas API to put the data as time series and tabular format for east timestamp data manipulation and retrieval.  • Deployed the project into Heroku using GIT version control system.  • Built various graphs for business decision making using Python mat plotlib library.  • Fetched twitter feeds for certain important keyword using python-twitter library.  • Used Python library Beautiful Soup for web scrapping to extract data for building graphs.  • Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes of the two main applications that were a main source of data for both customers and internal customer service team.  • Executing regression tests on each release and verified bugs found from automation test in Bugzilla.  • Planning, implementing, and converting manual test cases to automation test cases.  • Trained extensively in agile methodologies and implemented by participating in scrum stand ups, Kanban mode, discussing and implementing requirements with clients.    Environment: Python, Django, Cassandra, RabbitMQ, Vugen, Soap UI, Node.JS, REST API, Bash, PyDev, Spyder, Agile. Python Developer ANZ Bank - Bengaluru, Karnataka November 2011 to September 2013 Responsibilities:  • Worked on requirement gathering and High level design.  • Created PHP/MySQL back-end for data entry from Flash. I had to assist the Flash developer send the correct data via query strings  • Used HTML/CSS, XML and JavaScript for UI development.  • Converted Visual basic Application to Python, MySQL.  • Generated Python Django Forms, Crispy forms to record data, login and signup of online users.  • Experience in development test automation.  • Designed and Implemented a Random Unique Test Selector Package on processing large volume of data using Python and Django ORM.  • Skilled in using collections in Python for manipulating and looping through different user defined objects.  • Designed email marketing campaigns and also created responsive web forms that saved data into a database using Python/ Django Framework.  • Skilled in using collections in Python for manipulating and looping through different user defined objects.  • Created data base tables, functions, stored procedures and wrote prepared statements using PL/SQL.  • Modified queries, functions, cursors, triggers and stored procedures for MySQL database to improve performance, while processing data.  • Involved in capturing the requirements for serial functional interface and other software requirements specification document.  • Extensive code reviewing using GitHub pull requests, improved code quality, and also conducted meetings among peer.  • Responsible for Parsing XML data using XML parser and Testing, fixing of the bugs and coding modifications.  • Database Administration activities like taking backup, checking log messages, looking for database optimization.  Environment: Python2.7, Django 1.4, Jenkins, MySQL, Linux, HTML, CSS, JQuery, JavaScript, Apache, Linux, Git. Web developer Rofous - Hyderabad, Telangana January 2010 to October 2011 Responsibilities:  • Developed the web application using MS SQL SERVER, HTML, CSS and JavaScript.  • Developed the front end of the portal using HTML, JavaScript, AJAX and CSS  • Used JavaScript as the scripting language and is used for detecting the visitor's browser, validating the forms, providing event functions, animation etc.  • Used JavaScript to provide AJAX functionality to make website perform better for image loading and for dynamic loading of the web page without refreshing.  • Designed and Developed Database using MS SQL. Extensively used CRUD operations while maintaining the database.  • Used jQuery extensively for event handling, DOM manipulation and cross-browser compatibility.  • Performed extensive unit testing (end-to-end) and prepared detailed test scripts as part of it.  • Involved in setting up the environment, installing the application and web servers.    Environment:MS SQL, HTML AJAX, JavaScript, CSS, DOM, XML, jQuery, SVN. Education Bachelor of Science in BioTechnology Acharya Nagarjuna University March 2007 Skills CSS (7 years), DATABASE (7 years), JAVASCRIPT (7 years), SQL (6 years), XML (6 years) Additional Information Operating Systems Unix, Linux, Windows and Mac  Web technologies JavaScript, XML, HTML, CSS  Languages Python , Java, C, SQL, Shell Scripting  Database SQL SERVER, MYSQL, Oracle    Software Tools Microsoft Visual Studio .Net 2008, MS Visio, Valgrind  Frameworks Django, web2py, Flask, Struts, pylons and CSS Bootstrap  Deployment Tools Heroku, Jenkins.  Tracking Tools Bugzilla and JIRA.