Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - Mastercard Purchase, NY • Over 5 years of experience as an Application developer, software development and design using Python, Django, XML, HTML, DHTML, Oracle PL/SQL.  • Experienced with Software Development Life Cycle, strong experience in data engineering, Database designs, agile methodologies, coding, testing of enterprise applications and IDE's such as PyCharm, IDLE, and Spyder.  • Actively involved in each phase of software Development life cycle (SDLC) and experience in Agile Software Methodology. Experience with Django and Flask a high-level Python Web framework.  • Experience in developing web applications by following Model View Control (MVC) Architecture using server side application Django and also experienced with WAMP (Windows, Apache, MySQL, and Python/PHP) and LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, and Python/PHP) Architecture.  • Experience of using Python modules like NumPy, Matplotlib, Pickle, Pandas, SciPy, wxPython, PyTables, PyQt, etc., for generating complex graphical data, creation of histograms, etc.  • Skilled in Object-Oriented Design and Programming using Python and C++. Excellent Experience on various Python integrated IDE's such as Sublime Text, PyCharm, Eclipse and NetBeans.  • Experience in working on various python packages such as NumPy, SQL Alchemy, Pyside, SciPy, and PyTables.  • Good knowledge in establishing database connections for Python by configuring packages MySQL- Python.  • Good experience in performing operations such as CRUD operations and writing complex queries with Oracle, MS SQL Server, and MongoDB.  • Experience in developing web services (WSDL, SOAP and REST) and consuming web services with python programming language.  • Proficient in developing complex SQL Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, Functions, and Packages along with performing DDL and DML operations on the database.  • Good experience in using Shell scripting for automation by following Python PEP.  • Experience in Bash Shell Scripting, SQL and Java.  • Hands on experience with installation and configuration of Apache Tomcat server.  • Expertise in full life cycle application development and also good experience in Unit testing and Test Driven Development (TDD) and Behavior driven Development.  • Hands on experience with continuous integration and automation using Jenkins.  • Hands on experience with Build Automation tool like Maven, and version control tools such as Git, and GitHub.  • Experience in Web Application Development, hands on experience of Python/Django, Flask, SQL Alchemy, SQLite, JavaScript, JQuery, HTML5/CSS3, Bootstrap and JSON/AJAX.  • Experience in working on different operating systems-windows, Linux, UNIX, and Mac also strong development experience on Linux based operating systems such as Ubuntu, Red Hat and CentOS.  • Excellent communication, Teamwork, inter-personnel and presentation skills, fast learner and organized self-starter.  • Ability to work on multiple projects with aggressive timelines, to prioritize and meet operational deadlines in a demanding, fast-paced environment or quickly changing priorities.  • Ability to handle multiple tasks, Initiative and Adaptable. Self-motivated, organized team player with strong problem solving and analytical skills and total commitment to the organization goals Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Developer Mastercard - Purchase, NY June 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Building the foundation, with all top Drupal modules including the development modules to assist developers. Setting up Drupal environment from Scratch for the entire development team.    • Implemented SEO based Drupal modules optimizing the search function all over the site and developed Custom module using Drupal form API as a multistep form for app creation workflow.    • Used UML Rational Rose to develop Use-case, Class and Object diagrams for OOA/OOD techniques.    • Prepared and analyzed reports using Python libraries and involved in environment Setup and have created the environment specific settings for a new deployment and update the deployment specific conditional checks in code base to use specific checks.    • Placed data into JSON files using Python to test Django websites. Involved in writing unit test cases for the functionalities using Nose Test. Wrote Automation Test cases using Robot Framework.    • Using Amazon SQS to queue up work to run asynchronously on distributed Amazon EC2 nodes. Used Python and Django to interface with the JQuery UI and manage the storage and deletion of content.    • Assisted with the addition of Hadoop processing to the IT infrastructure and implementing customer data collection with PySpark/Hadoop analytics.    • Developed Hadoop integrations for data ingestion, data mapping and data processing. Used XML for dynamic display of options in select box and description on web page.    • Responsible for all client-side UI Validation and implementing Business logic based on user selection Angular.JS 2 and involved in developing the Angular.JS Meteor framework for the Single Page Application development.    • Wrote Python modules to view and connect the Apache Cassandra instance. Responsible for Debugging and Troubleshooting issues and involved in debugging the applications monitored on JIRA using agile methodology.    • Setting up network environments using TCP/IP, DNS, DHCP and proxy. Involved in postproduction support for solving complex tickets and resolved user problems in a timely and accurate manner as a member of the End-User support team.    • Involved in presenting demos to the clients and also reporting the daily and weekly status to the Project manager. Involved in assigning the tasks to the development team. Created Windows Service to Database Migration.    • Develop Windows service for calling data object from salesforce. Involved in handling the developing team and mentoring the junior developers.    • Involved in creating the database modelling to the project and wrote queries for retrieving data from backend. Deployed the project into Heroku using GIT version control system. Designed RESTful XML web service for handling AJAX requests.    • Involved in deploying the code into Amazon Web Server using BOTO API. Designed and developed Application Module with Windows Service and C#. Reorganized couple of windows service with WCF.  Experience in managing large-scale, geographically-distributed database systems, including relational (Oracle, MySQL) and NoSQL (MongoDB) systems.    • Familiar with MongoDB clusters, performance tuning, backup and recovery.  Manage run-time configuration, processes, scaling, backup and recovery, monitoring, and performance tuning for production MongoDB instances.    • Used Python to integrate third party application on windows. Used embedded python to interface code like convert data values from C to Python; Perform a function call to a python interface routine using the converted values, and convert the data values from the call from python to C.    • Developed, tested and debugged software tools utilized by clients and internal customers. Expertise in configuration management automation tools such as Chef, Puppet and Salt, Good coding experience with scripting languages like Perl, Ruby and Bash.    • Responsible for specialization areas related to Chef for Cloud Automation. Automated the cloud deployments using chef, Python (boot & fabric) and AWS Cloud Formation Templates.    • Built a comprehensive PERL script, which would call the required ANT scripts and notify the build distribution team in case of Build errors or Completion of the builds.    • Coded test programs and evaluated existing engineering processes. Responsible for running and maintaining business processes on daily / weekly / monthly basis. Python Developer IBM Global - Harrisburg, PA July 2017 to June 2018 Responsibilities:  • Involved in analysis, specification, design, and implementation and testing phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) and used agile methodology for developing application.  • Participate in requirement gathering and analysis phase of the project in documenting the business requirements by conducting workshops/meetings with various business users  • Worked with team of developers on Python applications for RISK management. Worked on Python Open stack API's, used Python scripts to update content in the database and manipulate files  • Implemented machine learning schemes using Python libraries sickie-learn and scipy. Experience in MVC architecture using Django for web based application in OOP concepts.  • Worked on several python packages like Matplotlib, Pillow, Numpy, SQL Alchemy, and sockets.  • Designed and deployed machine learning solutions in Python to classify millions of previously unclassified Twitter users into core data product.  • Used Pandas API to put the data as time series and tabular form for east timestamp data manipulation and retrieval to handle time series data and do data manipulation  • Worked on front end frame works like CSS, Angular JS, Bootstrap for development of Web application.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly interface using MVC architecture.  • Used Python and Django to interface with the jQuery UI and manage the storage and deletion of content.  • Using Git version control tool to coordinate team-development.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript, also used. Bootstrap as a mechanism to manage and organize the html page layout.  • Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from Python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL db package.  • Involved in development of Web Services using SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface in the XML format. Responsible for debugging the project monitored on JIRA (Agile) Python Developer West Pharmaceutical Services - Exton, PA February 2015 to July 2017 Responsibilities:  • Designed front end and backend of the application using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Developed consumer-based features and applications using Python and Django in test driven Development and pair-based programming.  • Good experience in developing web applications and implementing Model View Control (MVC) architecture using server-side applications like Django and Flask.  • Developed and tested many features for dashboard using Python, Java, Bootstrap, CSS, JavaScript and jQuery. Created interactive data charts on web application using High charts JavaScript library with data coming from Apache Cassandra.  • Created Terraform scripts for EC2 instances, Elastic Load balancers and S3 buckets. Implemented Terraform to manage the AWS infrastructure and managed servers using configuration management tools like Chef and Anisole.  • Expert with at least one language and good with several others, such as React, Ruby/Rails, Node.js and Python.  • Wrote ANSIBLE Playbooks with Python, SSH as the Wrapper to Manage Configurations of AWS Nodes and Test Playbooks on AWS instances using Python. Run Ansible Scripts to provision Dev servers.  • Worked on frontend frameworks like CSS Bootstrap for development of Web application. Proficiency with VMWare, Hyper-V and Azure.  • Worked in MySQL database on simple queries and writing Stored Procedures for normalization and demoralization. Used Python based GUI components for the front-end functionality such as selection criteria.  • Connected continuous integration system with GIT version control repository and continually build as the check-in's come from the developer.  • Worked with View Sets in Django-REST framework for providing web services and consumed web services performing CRUD operations.  • Wrote ANSIBLE Playbooks with Python, SSH as the Wrapper to Manage Configurations of AWS Nodes and Test Playbooks on AWS instances using Python. Run Anisole Scripts to provision Dev servers.  • Used Flask framework for application development.  • Designed and implemented a dedicated MYSQL database server to drive the web apps and report on daily progress. Creating Tenacity build jobs ( Python, custom Docker images).  • Developed python Script for moving files from drop box to Amazon server. Consumed  external APIs and wrote RESTful API using Django REST Framework and Agular's.  • Developed views and templates with python and Django view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly Website interface.  • Developed internal project in Flask to generate report from google analytics on daily, monthly and weekly basis.  • Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL dB package.  • Used Python Library Beautiful Soup 4 for Web Scraping to extract data for building graphs. Worked in development of applications especially in UNIX environment and familiar with all its commands. Python Developer PayPal - San Jose, CA October 2014 to February 2015 Responsibilities:  • Designed front end and backend of the application utilizing Python on Django Web Framework.  • Developed consumer-based features and applications using Python and Django in test driven Development.  • Worked on front end frame works like CSS Bootstrap for development of Web applications.  • Launched Kubernetes to provide a platform for automating deployment, scaling and operations of application containers across clusters of hosts.  • Develop consumer-based features and applications using Python, Django, pyramid, Flask, Web2py, HTML and other web technologies.  • With using of Python OS module on UNIX environment, made job cloning and forking. Wrote Python modules to extract/load asset data from the MySQL source database.  • Designed and implemented a dedicated MySQL database server to drive the web apps and report on daily progress.  • Integrated Redis-Cache with the Django-rest-framework for reading the data faster. Implemented RESTful Web-Services for sending and receiving the data between multiple systems.  • Extensively worked on Jenkins by installing, configuring and maintaining for Continuous integration (CI) and for End to End automation for all build and deployments.  • Implemented Bash, Perl, Python scripting to automate many day-to-day tasks. Launched Kubernetes to provide a platform for automating deployment, scaling and operations of application containers across clusters of hosts.  • Developed the notification service by posting the JSON request in AWS API Gateway, Validating the response in Lambda by getting the data from Dynamo DB and sending the notification through AWS SNS.  • Wrote with object-oriented Python, Flask, SQL, Beautiful Soup, httplib2, Jinja2, HTML/CSS, Bootstrap, jQuery, Linux, Sublime Text, GIT. Implemented REST API's in Python using micro-framework like Flask with SQL Alchemy in the backend for management of data center resources on which OpenStack would be deployed.  • Involved in development of Web Services using and REST for sending and getting data from the external interface in XML and JSON format.  • Involved in various phases of the project like Analysis, Design, Development, and Testing. Developed and Tested features of dashboard using CSS, JavaScript, Django, and Bootstrap.  • Wrote Stored Procedures in SQL and Scripts in Python for data loading. Created deployment groups in one environment for the Workflows, Work lets, Sessions, Mappings, Source Definitions, Target definitions and imported them to other environments.  • Tested and debugged the product in controlled and real situations. Deploy third party's applications using various CI tools like Jenkins Education Master's Skills Apache (3 years), Apache Cassandra (3 years), ASTERADATA (3 years), Bootstrap (3 years), Cassandra (3 years), CSS (3 years), Database (4 years), Django (4 years), front end (3 years), GIT (4 years), Java (2 years), JQuery (4 years), MODEL VIEW CONTROLLER (3 years), MODEL-VIEW-CONTROLLER (3 years), MVC (3 years), MySQL (4 years), Python (4 years), Stored Procedures (2 years), version control (4 years), XML (2 years), Javascript, ASP, Android, PHP, HTML 5 Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  Operating Systems: Ubuntu, Windows XP, Vista, 7, 8, 10, LINUX  Programming Languages: Python, C, C++, JAVA, J2EE, LUA  Programming Shells: Eclipse Mars, Eclipse Neon, Torch, Borland Turbo C, Turbo C++, Dev C++, CMD  Technologies:  Python, jQuery, angular JS, front end, Java, JDBC, Spring, J2EE, Servlets, Java Beans, EJB, JSP, Struts, Bootstrap, NodeJS, React.js, IDE IBM RAD, RSA, Eclipse, NetBeans, JBuilder, IntelliJ Application/Web Server IBM WebSphere, Oracle WebLogic, JBOSS, Apache Tomcat and Glassfish, HTML, DHTML, AngularJS, XML, XSLT, CSS, JSON, JSON-DTD, AJAX    Database:  SQL server and MySQL (Queries, Stored Procedures, Functions, Triggers, DB Normalizations), DB2, MongoDB, Flume, Cassandra, Oozie    XML Technologies: XML, XSLT, XPATH, SAX, DOM, JDOM, AXIS, JAXB  Application Frameworks:  Django, Flask, Struts 1.x/2.x, Spring (Dependency Injection, Spring MVC, Factory Pattern, Core, Spring Context, Spring DAO, Spring IOC, Spring JDBC, Spring Security, Spring, Boot, Spring Batch, Spring with Hibernate) ORM Frameworks JPA, Hibernate, Spring JPA, DAO OO Modeling Rational Rose, MS Visio Version Control Clear    Editors: Notepad, Notepad +  Gaming Engines: Game Maker, Epic Unreal 4  Version Control: GitHub, Bitbucket, Git Bash  Software Development Environment: Rational Rose 98 Professional Edition, MATLAB