Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - Guess Inc Los Angeles, CA ? Python Developer with 6+ years overall experience in Information Technology - strong background in Development, Design, and Roll-out.  ? Experience with Design, code, debug operations, reporting, data analysis and web applications utilizing Python.  ? Used Extensively on several standard python packages like Numpy, MatPlotlib, Scipy, Requests during development lifecycle.  ? Experience in using Design Patterns such as MVC and frameworks such as Django, Flask.  ? Built Web application using Python, Django, JavaScript, AJAX, HTML and template languages.  ? Experience object oriented programming (OOP) concepts using Python and C++  ? Experienced in working with various Python Integrated Development Environments like IDLE, PyCharm, Eclipse, PyDev and Sublime Text.  ? Front end development experience using HTML, CSS, JQuery, Bootstrap and JavaScript.  ? Experienced in WAMP and LAMP Architecture.  ? Expert knowledge of and experience in Object Oriented Design and Programming concepts.  ? Utilized PyUnit, the Python unit test framework, for all Python applications.  ? Experienced in developing web-based applications using Python, Django, C++, XML, CSS, HTML, JavaScript and jQuery.  ? Expertise in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions with different databases like Microsoft SQL Server, MySQL, PostgreSQL and Good knowledge in using NoSQL databases MongoDB.  ? Good experience in working with web services like Amazon EC2, AWS and Amazon S3.  ? Good Exposure in maintaining various version control software - GIT, SVN, CVS, GitHub.  ? Good working Experience in Agile (SCRUM) using Rally and TFS, RUP and Waterfall methodologies with high quality deliverables delivered on-time.  ? Experienced in following PEP8 coding standards across various projects.  ? Prepared best practice documents for external customers and worked closely with third party vendors.  ? Ability to work independently, and with minimum supervision. Work Experience Python Developer Guess Inc - Los Angeles, CA March 2016 to Present Description:  Guess(Clothing) is an American clothing brand and retailer. In addition to clothing, Guess markets other fashion accessories such as watches, perfumes, jewelry and shoes with over 14k employees focusing on leading the business with their reason of success.    Responsibilities:  ? Analyzed the system requirement specifications and in client interaction during requirements specifications.  ? Providing daily reports to the Development Manager and participate in both the design phase and the development phase. Utilized Agile Methodology and SCRUM Process.  ? Implemented code in Python to retrieve and manipulate data.  ? Implemented user interface guidelines and standards throughout the development and maintenance of the website using the HTML, CSS, JavaScript, and jQuery  ? Developed dynamic web pages using Python Django frameworks and Used Django APIs for database access.  ? Utilized PyUnit, the Python unit test framework, for all Python applications.  ? Used jQuery and Ajax calls for transmitting JSON data objects between frontend and controllers.  ? Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  ? Designed and implemented an application for managing customers, purchases and invoices.  ? Created RESTful http services to interact with UI.  ? Wrote Python scripts to parse JSON documents and load the data in MongoDB.  ? Implemented and executed code to perform CRUD operations on MongoDB using Pymongo module.  ? Worked in MySQL database on simple queries and writing Stored Procedures for normalization and denormalization.  ? End to end testing of the applications.  ? Re-engineered various modules for implementing changes and created efficient system.  ? Maintained program libraries, user's manuals and technical documentation.    Environment: Python , Django, RESTful, Linux, HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, MongoDB, MySQL, Shell, JIRA, GIT Python Developer First Data - Omaha, NE April 2015 to February 2016 Description:  First Data is a global payment technology solutions Company, handles Debit card, credit card and pre- paid gift card transactions. The company's STAR interbank network offers PIN-secured debit acceptance at ATM and retail locations.    Responsibilities:  ? Worked with product management to translate requirements into software design, implementation, and test.  ? Worked under UNIX environment in development of application using Python and familiar with all of its commands.  ? Usage of advance features like pickle/unpickle in Python for sharing the information across the applications.  ? Worked on Django API's for accessing the database.  ? Designed and developed data management system using MySQL, wrote several queries to extract data from database.  ? Developed and maintained parsing modules, which read CSV, XML and JSON data from files and other REST services, processed the data.  ? Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  ? Used version control and added support for Amazon AWS S3 to host static/media files and the database into Amazon Cloud.  ? Implemented Business logic, worked on data exchange, processed XML and HTML.  ? Understanding of testing methodologies such as TDD.  ? Developed object-oriented programming to enhance company product management.  ? Designed and Developed User Interface using front-end technologies like HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, Bootstrap and JSON.  ? Automated the cloud deployments using chef, python (boto & fabric) and AWS Cloud Formation Templates.  ? Used Jenkins to deploy Django application and run unit tests.  ? Followed Scrum/Agile methodology.  ? Resolved performance related issues using efficient coding.  ? Responsible for writing high quality and well documented code according to standards and documentation of various processes.    Environment: Python, Django, Mongodb, AWS, REST API, Windows/Linux, HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, jQuery, JavaScript, Git Python Developer Blue Cross Blue Shield Association - Durham, NC March 2014 to March 2015 Description:  Blue Cross Blue Shield Association (BCBSA) is a federation of 36 separate United States health insurance organizations and companies, providing, health insurance to millions of Americans.    Responsibilities:  ? Analyzed the Business Requirement Documents and created the technical specification documents. Experienced working in Waterfall model.  ? Analyze, develop, integrate, and then direct the operationalization of new data sources.  ? Created Forms, views, models using Django.  ? Scripted the entire code in Python language.  ? Generating various capacity planning reports (graphical) using Python packages like Numpy, matplotlib  ? Wrote Python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  ? Used Python's XML parser architectures (SAX) and DOM API for tracking small amounts of data without requiring the DB.  ? Used the Model View controller (MVC) framework to build modular and maintainable applications.  ? Designed and configured database and backend applications and programs.  ? Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL dB package.  ? Used AJAX to reduce page reloads.  ? Developed HTML, CSS, jQuery and JavaScript to present Client side GUI.  ? Successfully migrated all the data to the database while the site was in production.    Environment: Python, Django, HTML/XHTML, CSS, JavaScript, Ajax, PostgreSQL, Linux, Shell Scripting, GIT. Python Developer A1 Technology - New York, NY February 2013 to February 2014 Description: The scope of the project was to create and expand in-house tools and help to develop agile framework which adapts the quickly evolving business requirements.    Responsibilities:  ? Ensured the best possible performance, quality, and responsiveness of the tools.  ? Identify bottlenecks and bugs, and devise solutions to these problems  ? Use server-side logic to integrate user-facing elements.  ? Developed a fully automated continuous integration system using Git, PostgreSQL and custom tools developed in Python and Bash.  ? Created dashboard, scrum board, project and sprint timeline navigation panels integrated with the database  ? storage using JavaScript, HTML, CSS and Django's ORM.  ? Created a cross-platform functionality to link version control with the sprint ticketing tool.  ? Designed a web based system to improve business methodology  ? Created a method to generate a wire-framed workflows of the project with the timeline statistical data under ? the purview of the hierarchy.  ? Environment: - Python, PostgreSQL, CSS, JavaScript, HTML, XML, GITLAB, Apache, Linux, Shell Scripting. Java Developer IndiaNIC Infotech Limited - Ahmedabad, Gujarat July 2011 to December 2012 Responsibilities:  ? Involved in each phase of SDLC.  ? Followed Java & J2EE design patterns and the coding guidelines to design and develop the application  ? Designed database by creating tables, Participated In developing triggers, stored procedures and queries using SQL in SQL Server.  ? Responsible for transforming design mockups to W3C standards compliant HTML pages using CSS, JavaScript, and jQuery.  ? Developed and maintained elaborate services based on MVC architecture.  ? Used Eclipse as IDE tool to develop the application and JIRA for bug and issue tracking.  ? Used Team Studio and Build Manager tools to develop applications and promote the new design to test environment.  ? Leading technical projects with a focus on quality and improving the user experience.    Environment: Java, J2EE, JSP, HTML, XML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, JSON, AJAX, Eclipse Education Bachelor's in Electronics & Communication Engineering Gujarat Technological University Skills CSS (6 years), HTML (6 years), JAVASCRIPT (6 years), jQuery (5 years), Git (4 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    Programming/Scripting Languages Python, Java, UNIX / Linux Shell Scripting (Bash), C, C++, JavaScript, SQL.  Python Framework Django 1.10/1.11, Flask, Spring MVC  Databases MySQL, PostgreSQL, MS SQL, MongoDB, Oracle 10g  Web Technologies HTML, CSS, AJAX, JavaScript, jQuery, JSON, Bootstrap, XML, REST  Versioning Tools Subversion, GIT, CVS, SVN  Web servers Apache, IIS  Operating systems Microsoft Windows, OS X, Ubuntu Linux, Debian Linux, Windows Server