Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Boston, MA ? 6+ Years of professional experience in Analysis, Design, Development and Implementation of various client-server applications in Python.  ? Experienced in developing web-based applications using Python, Werkzeug, Django, XML, Perl, CSS, HTML, JavaScript, Mongodb, Couch base, Memcache, Elastic search, Kibana, JQuery and Coffee Scripting.  ? Experience in Test Driven Development and Behavior Driven Development methodologies for consulting firms and enterprise projects.  ? Scripting to deploy monitors, checks and critical system admin functions.  ? Automated Build and deployment process, across java projects using Jenkins/Hudson and Bamboo.  ? Good knowledge on data migration from relational database to NoSQL.  ? Expertise with PROC SQL, SAS arrays and SAS Macros.  ? Excellent Knowledge on Predictive Modelling using Python.  ? Good Knowledge on K-mean Clustering for Python Machine Language.  ? Excellent knowledge on Python Collections and Multi-Threading.  ? Extreme knowledge on creating EC2 instances, AMI's, Load balancers and Auto Scaling.  ? Highly knowledge on AWS cloud platform features which includes EBS, Cloud watch, Cloud Trail, R53.  ? Skilled experience in Python with proven expertise in using new tools and technical developments  ? Hands on experience with the Big Data environment on technologies including Hadoop.  ? Good Experience in micro service architecture for simple request and response using Restful services.  ? Good Knowledge in extracting data from data storages like elastic search and Memcache.  ? Good experience of Web Services with protocols SOAP and REST.  ? Having experienced in Agile Methodologies, Scrum stories and sprints experience in a Python based environment, along with data analytics, data wrangling and Excel data extracts.  ? Knowledge of the software Development Life Cycle (SDLC), Agile and Waterfall Methodologies. Work Experience Python Developer 5 - Oxford, GA March 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  ? Prepared and analyzed reports using Python libraries and involved in environment Setup.  ? Extensively used Werkzeug micro service framework for simple request and response.  ? Created Social Media services in order to retrieve the data using the appropriate url's.  ? Implemented and migrated the database from mysql to Couch base.  ? Extracted the data from data storage like elastic search and Memcache.  ? Created the environment specific settings for a new deployment and update the deployment specific conditional checks in code base to use specific checks.  ? Involved in database scrapes, folder cleanup, applying data retention using Airflow.  ? Placed data into JSON files using Python to test Django websites.  ? Worked with Kibana log monitoring system and fixed critical issues easily by capturing the context.  ? Involved in writing unit test cases for the functionalities using Nose Test.  ? Automated batch Job Schedules and performed DAG operation on the existing data sets.  ? Administration of Continuous Integration tool in Jenkins. Create and configure new jobs for each and every application in Jenkins.  ? Using Amazon SQS to queue up work to run asynchronously on distributed Amazon EC2 nodes.  ? Used Python and Django to interface with the JQuery UI and manage the storage and deletion of content.  ? Managed all the 14 web destinations content in a single CMS called Quill.  ? Used XML for dynamic display of options in select box and description on web page.  ? Wrote Python modules to view and connect the Apache Cassandra instance.  ? Involved in debugging the applications monitored on JIRA using agile (Kanban Board).  ? Involved in postproduction support for solving complex tickets.  ? Identify, troubleshoot and resolve issues related to build and deploy process.  ? Inform through mail the compilation errors to the responsible team with error logs using JIRA.  ? Resolved user problems in a timely and accurate manner as a member of the End-User support team.  ? Designed RESTful XML web service for handling AJAX requests.  ? Involved in deploying the code into Amazon Web Server using BOTO API.  ? Developed, tested and debugged software tools utilized by clients and internal customers.  ? Coded test programs and evaluated existing engineering processes.    Environment: Python 3.x, Django 1.8, Werkzeug, Jinja2, Java Script, Elastic Search, Kibana, Kanban, Kafka, Airflow, DAG, LESS, HTML, Angular JS, JSON, AJAX, XML, CSS, SQL, MySQL, JIRA, PySpark, Hadoop, Bootstrap, Restful Web Services, Beautiful Soup, Jenkins, Ansible, GitHub, Linux, PyCharm. Python Developer Garden City, GA July 2014 to March 2017 Responsibilities:  ? Extensively used OOD concepts in overall design and development of the system.  ? Used UML Rational Rose to develop Use-case, Class and Object diagrams for OOA/OOD techniques.  ? Prepared and analyzed reports using Python libraries and involved in environment Setup.  ? Created the environment specific settings for a new deployment and update the deployment specific conditional checks in code base to use specific checks.  ? Involved in database scrapes, folder cleanup, applying data retention using Airflow.  ? Produce SAS Graphical reports showing GPLOT charts as well as PIE and BAR charts for analysis while providing the drill down capabilities.  ? Used Python and Django to interface with the JQuery UI and manage the storage and deletion of content.  ? Assisted with the addition of Hadoop processing to the IT infrastructure.  ? Administration of Continuous Integration tool in Jenkins.  ? Implementing customer data collection with PySpark/Hadoop analytics.  ? Developed Hadoop integrations for data ingestion, data mapping and data processing.  ? Used XML for dynamic display of options in select box and description on web page.  ? Wrote Python modules to view and connect the Apache Cassandra instance.  ? Responsible for Debugging and Troubleshooting issues.  ? Involved in debugging the applications monitored on JIRA using agile methodology.  ? Setting up network environments using TCP/IP, DNS, DHCP and proxy.  ? Involved in postproduction support for solving complex tickets.  ? Resolved user problems in a timely and accurate manner as a member of the End-User support team.  ? ETL process for continuously bulk importing catalog data from MySQL into Elastic search  ? Involved in presenting demos to the clients and also reporting the daily and weekly status to the Project manager.  ? Involved in creating the database modelling to the project and wrote queries for retrieving data from backend.  ? Deployed the project into Hebrok using GIT version control system.  ? Developed, tested and debugged software tools utilized by clients and internal customers.  ? Coded test programs and evaluated existing engineering processes.  ? Responsible for running and maintaining business processes on daily / weekly / monthly basis.    Environment: Python 3.x, Django 1.7, Java Script, Coffee Scripting, Elastic Search, Kafka, Airflow, DAG, LESS, HTML, Angular JS, JSON, AJAX, XML, CSS, MySQL, PySpark, SAS/SQL, Hadoop Bootstrap, Restful Web Services, Beautiful Soup, Jenkins, GitHub, Ansible, Linux, PyCharm. Python Developer Canton city, GA September 2013 to June 2014 Responsibilities:  ? Developed and tested many features for dashboard using Python, Bootstrap, CSS, and JavaScript.  ? Implemented business logic using Python/Django.  ? Using Amazon SQS to queue up work to run asynchronously on distributed Amazon EC2 nodes.  ? Created backend database T-SQL stored procedures and Jasper Reports.  ? Worked with millions of database records on a daily basis, finding common errors and bad data patterns and fixing them.  ? Experience in ability to package code as reusable modules by using PERL  ? Involved in writing unit test cases and automated test cases using Selenium web driver.  ? Experience in working with Cisco Technologies UCS and network management devices.  ? Exported/Imported data between different data sources using SQL Server Management Studio.  ? Maintained program libraries, users' manuals and technical documentation.  ? Experience in working with Drag and Drop Calculation, and Geographic Search by using Tableau  ? Managed large datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL.  ? Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes of the two main applications that were a main source of data for both customers and internal customer service team.  ? Implementing customer data collection with PySpark/Hadoop analytics.  ? Developed Hadoop integrations for data ingestion, data mapping and data processing.  ? Build SQL queries for performing various CRUD operations like create, update, read and delete.  ? Work with team of developers on python applications for RISK management.  ? Used Pandas library for statistics Analysis.  ? Created most important Business Rules which are useful for the scope of project and needs of customers.  ? Designed the architecture of the hardware environments and methodology of the code  ? Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL dB package.  ? Thorough knowledge in various front end tools like HTML, DHTML, CSS, JavaScript, XML, JQuery, Angular JS, and AJAX  ? Hands-on experiences in writing and reviewing requirements, architecture documents, test plans, design documents, quality analysis and audits.    Environment: Python 2.7, Django, HTML5/CSS, UNIX, MS SQL Server 2013, T-SQL, Jasper, Reports, JavaScript, PySpark, Hadoop, Eclipse, Linux, Shell Scripting, RESTful, MVC3, Git, Perl, Tableau Python Developer Marietta, GA March 2012 to September 2013 Responsibilities:  ? Developed Views and Templates with Django view controller and template language to create a user-friendly website interface.  ? Configured the Django admin site, dashboard and created a custom Django dashboard for end users with custom look and feel. Used Django APIs for database access.  ? Used Python and Django for XML, JSON processing, data exchange and business logic implementation.  ? Built database Model, Views and API's using Python for interactive web based solutions.  ? Used Python scripts to update the content in database and manipulate files.  ? Created UI using JavaScript and HTML5. Designed and developed data management system using MySQL.  ? Worked on Jenkins continuous integration tool for deployment of project.  ? Played a key role in a development wide transition from Subversion to Git, which resulted in increase in efficiency for the development community.  ? Used TKinter to implement GUI for the user to create, modify and view reports based on client data.  ? Added support for Amazon AWS S3 and RDS to host static/media files and the database into Amazon Cloud.  ? Implemented RESTful Web-Services for sending and receiving the data between multiple systems.  ? Used Python Library Beautiful Soup for webScrapping.ss.    Environment: Python 2.7, Flask, Java Script, Matplotlib, HTML, Angular JS, JQuery, JSON, AJAX, XML, CSS, Oracle 10G, SQL, MySQL, Bootstrap, Restful Web Services, Beautiful Soup, Jenkins, GitHub, SVN,  Linux, PyCharm. Software Developer Grovetown, GA August 2010 to March 2012 Responsibilities:  ? Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  ? Work with team of developers on python applications for RISK management.  ? Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript  ? Made Django web based apps for Insurance premium calculations.  ? Generated property list for every application dynamically using Python.  ? Rewrite existing Java, C++ application in Python.  ? Used Django APIs for database access.  ? Used Python to extract weekly hotel availability information from XML files.  ? Used Pandas library for statistical Analysis.  ? Used Apache Couched (NoSQL) in AWS Linux instance in parallel to RDS MySQL to store and analyze job market info.  ? Developed the required XML Schema documents and implemented the framework for parsing XML documents.  ? Developed ColdFusion Components, custom tags and modified CF Objects.  ? Designed the architecture of the hardware environments and methodology of the code.  ? Involved in entire lifecycle of the projects including Design, Development, and Deployment  ? Wrote AJAX framework to transform Datasets and DataTables into HTTP-serializable JSON strings.  ? Issues pertaining to Real time data being read from Rabbit MQ into Postgres and Cassandra.  ? Build SQL, NO SQL queries implementing functions, packages, views, triggers, and tables.    Environment: Python 2.x, Django 1.4, Java Script, Matplotlib, Plotly, HTML, JQuery, JSON, AJAX, XML, CSS, Oracle, MySQL, Bootstrap, SOAP Web Services, Beautiful Soup, Jenkins, SVN, Linux, Eclipse. Education Masters in Information Systems Central Michigan University Skills AJAX (7 years), DJANGO (7 years), HTML (7 years), jQuery (7 years), LINUX (7 years) Additional Information Skills    Languages: Python, PHP, C++, .NET, SAS/SQL, PL/SQL, Anaconda.  Markup Languages: HTML, JSON, XML.  Scripting: JQuery, Java Script, AJAX, Shell scripting, COFFEE, LESS  Frameworks: Django, Werkzeug, Flask, Angular JS, Robot Framework, Selenium Webdriver, Nose Test  Big Data Technologies: HdfsCLI, Kafka, Kibana, Airflow, PySpark, Splunk, Map Reduce.  Protocols: TCP/IP, HTTP/HTTPS  Build Tools and Configuration Management Tools: Ant, Maven, Ansible, chef, puppet  Version Control Tools: SVN and GIT.  Programming Methodologies: Waterfall and Agile (Kanban Board).    Operating Systems: Windows, UNIX, Linux (CentOS and Ubuntu).  Data Stores: Memcache, Elastic Search  Databases: Oracle, MySQL, MongoDB, Couch base.