Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - Sherwin-Williams Minneapolis, MN • 8 years of experience as a Python Developer with a deep understanding of technology trends with expertise in the core of complex technologies.  • Experience in Analysis, Design, Development, Testing, Customization, Bug fixes, Enhancement, Support and Implementation of various web, stand-alone, client-server enterprise applications using Python, Django, in various domains.  • Experience in application development using PYTHON, Django, HTML5, CSS, JavaScript, and jQuery, Oracle, MySQL, PostgreSQL and SQLite.  Experienced in working with various Python IDE's using PyCharm, PyScripter, Spyder, PyStudio, and PyDev.  Proficient with various Python libraries like SciPy, NumPy, Matplotlib, Pandas, PyTables, PyIMSL pickle to enhance the performance throughout the SDLC.  • Hands on experience programming with C++, Python, Django and Ajax technologies.  • Successfully migrated Django database from SQLite to MySQL to Postgres SQL with complete data integrity.  • Working with backend python automation, Docker and cloud provisioning/automation.  • Experienced in MVC frameworks like Flask and MVT framework like django  • Experienced in NoSQL technologies like MongoDB, Cassandra and relational databases like Oracle, SQLite, Postgre SQL and MySQL databases.  • Have flexibility and ability to learn and use new technologies and to work in team environment as wells as independently to get things done.  • Knowledge in Data mining and Data warehousing using ETL Tools and Proficient in Building reports and dashboards in Tableau (BI Tool).  • Proficient in writing unit testing code using Unit Test/PyTest and integrating the test code with the build process worked on Python Testing frameworks like Bottle, zope, pytest, nose and Robot framework also involving Beautiful Soap, Numpy, Scipy, Matplotlib, python-twitter, Pandas Data frame, urlib2 libraries.  • Experience in developing web-based applications using Python 2.7/2.6, Django 1.4/1.3, PHP, Flask, Webapp2, Angular.js, XML, Ajax, CSS, HTML, DHTML, JavaScript and JQuery.  Having very strong experience writing API's/ and Web Services in PHP and in Python.  • Experience with Jenkins and Enterprise GitHub. Worked on Jenkins continuous integration tool for deployment of project.  • Good knowledge of version control software -SVN, CVS, GitHub.  • Analytical, problem-solving and interpersonal skills. Ability to learn new concepts fast consistent team player with excellent communication skills.  • Strong independent learning ability, easily adaptable to different development environments, collaborative, highly motivated and dedicated to delivering quality software.  • Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Developer Sherwin-Williams - Minneapolis, MN March 2017 to Present Description: The Sherwin-Williams Company is an American Fortune 500 company in the general building materials industry. The company, with headquarters in Cleveland, Ohio, primarily engages in the manufacture, distribution, and sale of paints, coatings and related products to professional, industrial, commercial, and retail customers primarily in North and South America and Europe. The company is mostly known through its Sherwin-Williams Paints line.  Responsibilities:  • Developed strategic partnerships with the business unit to develop a solid knowledge base of the business line, including the business plan, products and processes.  • Involved in preparing engineering specification with OOA and OOD. Used UML Tools to develop Use Case diagrams, Class diagrams, Collaboration and Sequence Diagrams, State Diagrams and Data Modeling.  • Developed application logic using Python, Java script, Java, C++.  • Used JMS for updating Mailing plans and tracking them. Integrate with back-end Restful Flask APIs  • Used Java Server Pages for content layout and presentation.  • Prepared scripts to ensure proper data access, manipulation and reporting functions with R programming language.  • Formulated procedures for integration of R programming plans with data sources and delivery.  • Worked extensively with Bootstrap, JavaScript, and jQuery to optimize the user experience.  • Enhanced existing automated solutions, such as the Inquiry Tool for automated Asset Department reporting and added new features and fixed bugs  • Created database using MySQL, wrote several queries to extract/store data.  • Developed, tested and debugged software tools utilized by clients and internal customers  • Extracted and loaded data using Python scripts and PL/SQL packages  • Supported Java application for Media portal management.  • Wrote python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Generated property list for every application dynamically using python.  • Creating unit test/regression test framework for working/new code.  • Design and create ETL mapping configurations via Informatica Cloud into differing endpoints, Validate and test the progression/evolution of the ETL design relative to the desired reporting capability user interface  • Debugging and testing of the applications & finetuning performance. Used open stack Nova, Ceilometer, Swift, Heat, Cinder, Glance, Neutron, Key Stone  • Environment: Python, Django, HTML/CSS, MS SQL Server 2012, MySQL, Script, Eclipse, GIT, GitHub, AWS, Linux, Shell Scripting, Rest API, Proven ETL development skills Python Developer Minneapolis, MN December 2015 to February 2017 Description: Optum, the fast-growing part of UnitedHealth Group, is a leading information and technology-enabled health services business. In this project data from a different line of business and sent back to the different line in Optum.  Responsibilities:  • Design, and maintain develop, test, deploy the website.  • Developed entire front-end and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Implemented SQL Alchemy, which is a python library for complete access over SQL.  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL and wrote several queries to extract/store data.  • Rewrite existing Java application in Python module to deliver certain format of data.  • Wrote Python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Generated property list for every application dynamically using Python.  • Responsible for search engine optimization to improve the visibility of the website.  • Used Apache, htaccess to provide authentication system for Django/MySQL sites.  • Handled all the client-side validation using JavaScript.  • Performed testing using Django's Test Module.  • Added support for Amazon AWS S3 and RDS to host static/media files and the database into Amazon Cloud.  • Developed MapReduce jobs in python data cleaning and data processing.  • Involved in AJAX driven application by invoking web services/API and parsing the JSON response.  • Involved in writing application level code to interact with APIs, Web Services using JSON.  • Deployed the project into Heroku using Django and GIT version control system.  • Designed and Developed Restful web-services for both consumer and producer using Django, Swagger, Gunicorn.  • Creating unit test/regression test framework for working/new code.  • Using version control tools like Zookeeper Curator, Guava, Logging (slf4j, logback, log4j), Junit  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  Environment: Python, Django 1.8, Swagger, Hadoop, MySQL, XML, HTML, XHTML, CSS, AJAX, JSON, JavaScript, AWS, Apache Web Server, MYSQL and Linux. Python- Developer Alliance Global Services-Hyderabad March 2014 to October 2015 Responsibilities:  • Responsible for Architecture and design implementation.  • Developed an automation module which processes chunks of CSV file uploaded by an end user in an asynchronous manner.  • Knowledge of LTE/IMS RAN and EPC architecture, working knowledge of lab network and vendor infrastructure  • Strong knowledge of 3GPP2 Layer 2 / Layer 3 LTE protocols, IMS SIP protocols  • Developed web application using Python, Django framework, MySQL.  • Written Unit test cases using the Unit testing framework with 95% of code coverage.  Used Python scripts to update content in the database and manipulate files.  • Worked on User Interface using Django templates, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Bootstrap.  • Documented all the workflow with design details and flowchart.  • Involved in capturing the requirements for the serial functional interface and other software requirements specification document.  Environment: Python, Django, Flask, MySQL, HTML5, CSS, XML, MySQL, JavaScript, Backbone JS, jQuery, MongoDB, Node.js. Python Developer Syndicate Bank - Hyderabad, Telangana October 2011 to February 2014 Responsibilities:  • Participated in the complete SDLC process and used Python to develop website functionality.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python scripting on Django Web Framework.  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL. Built application logic using Python 2.7.  • Used Django APIs for database access.  • Participated in requirement gathering and worked closely with the architect in designing and modeling.  • Worked with the team to customize word press security installations.  • Used python scripts to Work with Facebook Platform Python SDK to access and post on Facebook page's wall.  • Worked on development of SQL and stored procedures on MYSQL.  • Self-motivated team player with good Analytical, Logical and Problem-solving ability.  • Designed and developed a horizontally scalable APIs using Flask.  • Designed Cassandra schema for the APIs.  • Designed RESTful XML web service for handling AJAX requests.  • Developed remote integration with third party platforms by using RESTful web services.  • Updated and maintained Jenkins for automatic building jobs and deployment.  • Implemented database access using Django ORM.  • Backend data access modules using PL/SQL stored procedures and Oracle were designed and created.  • Created RESTful API's calls with server, parse output report of excel files.  • Extensively used python modules such as requests, urllib, urllib2 for web crawling.  • Used Pandas API to put the data as time series and tabular format for east timestamp data manipulation and retrieval.  • Used Test Driven Approach for developing the application and implemented the unit tests using Python Unit Test framework.  • Used many regular expressions in order to match the pattern with the existing one and store them in data base on a chronological basis.  • Implemented code to perform CRUD operations on MYSQL using Toad.  • Deployment of the web application using the Linux server  Environment: Python 2.7, Django Framework 1.3, CSS, PyCharm, SQL, MySQL, LAMP, jQuery, Adobe Dreamweaver, Apache web server. Software Developer SITEL India - Hyderabad, Telangana July 2010 to September 2011 Description: SITEL Group combines comprehensive customer care capabilities with unparalleled digital, training and technology expertise to help build brand loyalty and improve customer satisfaction. We partner with our clients to effectively harness our industry's explosive digital transformation to ensure an innovative, end-to-end solution to managing and enhancing the customer experience.  Responsibilities:  • Participated in the development of application architecture and blueprints to define application components.  • Specification of platforms, interfaces and development tools.  • Used Python scripts for automation of production tasks.  • Generated property list for every application dynamically using Python.  • Rewrite existing Java application in Python module to deliver certain format of data.  • Was responsible for analyzing various cross-functional, multi-platform applications systems enforcing Python best practices and provide guidance in making long term, scalable architectural design decisions.  • Involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) such as requirements gathering, modeling, analysis, design and development.  • Used PyQuery for selecting particular DOM elements when parsing HTML.  • Created PyUnit test scripts and used for unit testing.  • Worked with JSON based REST Web services.  Environment: Python, Django, PyUnit, PyQuery, HTML, CSS, DOM, REST, AJAX, jQuery, AWS, Git, Oracle and Linux. Education Masters in Computer Science in Computer Science Wilmington University 2017 Skills CSS (8 years), HTML (5 years), Linux (6 years), MySQL (7 years), Python (8 years) Additional Information Operating Systems Unix, Linux, Ubuntu, Solaris, Windows and MacOS  Programming Languages Python, PL/SQL, Java, CSS, HTML, JavaScript  Databases Oracle 10/11g, MySQL, SQL Server and PostgreSQL, MongoDB  Tools PyCharm, PL/SQL Developer, Spyder, Visual Studio, Jupiter, BeeWare, BOA Constructor  Integration Tools Jenkins and Web builder  Message Broker RabbitMQ, IBM MQ  Web Server Apache Webserver,  Defect Tracking JIRA and VersionOne  Cloud services AWS, Microsoft Azure, GCP