Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - Alert Enterprises Seattle, WA • Around 7+ years of experience in Web and Application Development coding in Python, Django and Amazon WebServices(AWS).  • Experienced with full software development life cycle, architecting scalable platforms, object oriented programming, database design and agile methodologies  • Expert knowledge of and experience in Object Oriented Design and Programming concepts.  • Experience object oriented programming (OOP) concepts using Python.  • Experienced in WAMP (Windows, Apache, MYSQL, Python /PHP) and LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, and Python) Architecture.  • Experienced in developing web-based applications using Python, Django, PHP, XML, CSS, HTML, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Experienced in installing, configuring, modifying, testing and deploying applications with Apache.  • Familiar with JSON based REST Web services and Amazon Web services.  • Experienced in developing Web Services with Python programming language.  • Experience in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on SQL databases.  • Worked in agile methodologies to deliver high quality products on-time.  • Maintained detailed documentation and architectural solutions in IT infrastructure and sales systems.  • Very strong full software development life cycle(SDLC) application development experience.  • Experience with continuous integration and automation using Jenkins & Heroku  • Experience with Unit testing/ Test driven Development (TDD), Load Testing.  • Developed the required XML Schema documents and implemented the framework for parsing XML documents.  • Involved in Unit testing and Integration testing  • Extensive use of Linux (Ubuntu), SSH, Flask/Django Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Developer Alert Enterprises - Fremont, CA June 2015 to Present Responsibilities:  • Designed front end and backend of the application using Python on Django Web Framework  • Used HTML, CSS, AJAX, JSON designed and developed the user interface of the website.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Used JavaScript and JSON to update a portion of a webpage.  • Develop consumer based features and applications using Python, Django, HTML and Test Driven Development (TDD).  • Rewrite existing Python/Django modules to deliver certain format of data.  • Responsible for tracking and monitoring project status in JIRA (Agile)  • Developed Python web services for processing JSON and interfacing with the Data layer.  • Worked on deployment of project on to Amazon S3.  • Used GIT version control and deployed project to Heroku  • Worked on development of SQL and stored procedures for normalization and renormalization in MYSQL.  • Build SQL queries for performing various CRUD operations like create, update, read and delete.  • Skilled in using Collections in Python for manipulating and looping through different user defined objects.  • Engaged in Design, Development, Deployment, Testing, Implementation of the application.  • Worked in development of applications especially in UNIX environment and familiar with all of its commands.    Environment: Python 3.3, Django 1.4, HTML5, CSS, XML, MySQL, JavaScript, C++, Angular JS, Backbone JS, JQuery, CSS Bootstrap, Mongo DB, MS SQL Server, T-SQL, JavaScript, Eclipse, Git, GitHub, AWS, Linux, Shell Scripting. Python Developer Rockwell - Phoenix, AZ November 2014 to April 2015 Responsibilities:    • Developed web applications in Django Framework's model view control (MVC) architecture.  • Exposure on Multi-Threading factory to distribute learning process back-testing and into various worker processes.  • Performed efficient delivery of code based on principles of Test Driven Development(TDD) and continuous integration to keep in line with Agile Software Methodology principles  • Different testing methodologies like unit testing, Integration testing, web application testing  • Developed test scripts for automation with Selenium.  • Python/Django based web application, Postgre sql DB, and integrations with 3rd party email, messaging, storage services.  • Developed time management/schedule tools using C++  • Developed a fully automated continuous integration system using Git, Gerrit, Jenkins, MySQL and custom tools developed in Python and Bash  • Design and implemented custom scripts.  • Extensive use of version controller Team Foundation Server(TFS).  • Tested and validated the custom scripts.  • Delivered automated solutions for science models  • Managed, developed, and designed a dashboard control panel for customers and Administrators using Django, Oracle DB, PostgreSQL, and VMWare API calls.  • Implemented configuration changes for data models.  • Maintained and updated existing automated solutions  • Handled potential points of failure through error handling and communication of failure  • Risk analysis for potential points of failure (database, communication points, file system errors)  • Troubleshoot the process execution and worked with other team members to correct them.  • Actively worked as a part of team with managers and other staff to meet the goals of the project in the stipulated time.  • Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes of the two main applications that were a main source of data for both customers and internal customer service team  • Used Pandas library for statistics Analysis.  • Managed large datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL.  • Extensively used python modules such as requests, urllib, urllib 2 for web crawling.  • Developed GUI using webapp2 for dynamically displaying the test block documentation and other features of python code using a web browser.  • Developed the required XML Schema documents and implemented the framework for parsing XML documents.  • Responsible for user validations on client side as well as server side.  • Interacted with QA to develop test plans from high-level design documentation  Environment: Python 2.7, Django, HTML5/CSS, MS SQL Server 2013, MySQL, JavaScript, Eclipse, Linux, Shell Scripting, JQuery, GitHub, Angular.JS, Jira Automation engineer SMARTNET IT SOLUTIONS October 2011 to September 2014 Responsibilities:    • Converted existing Manual Tests and developed new automated test scripts which cut the test completion time from 2-3 weeks down to 3-5 days.  • Wrote test instructions for the other QA team members.  • Mentored more junior QA team members.  • Reported and processed software issues, verified bug fixes.  • Helped develop QA procedures to improve QA processes  • Worked closely with Developers to troubleshoot and resolve some issues reported by customers.    Environment: XML Schemas, XML, Linux, Shell Scripting, Python 2.6, Selinium, Robot framework, JSON, XML, MySQL Python Developer SMARTNET IT SOLUTIONS - Hyderabad, Andhra Pradesh August 2008 to September 2014 Python Developer SMARTNET IT SOLUTIONS August 2008 to September 2011 Responsibilities:  • Involved in the Design, development, test, deploy and maintenance of the website.  • UI was developed using HTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Generated property list for every application dynamically using Python  ' Developed Merge jobs in Python to extract and load  • data into MySQL database.  • Designed and developed the presentation layer/client end using HTML, XML, DHTML and JSP.  • Handled all the client side validation using JavaScript.  • Wrote validation scripts in SQL to validate data loading.  • Use Git for version control.  • Performed Unit and system testing.  • Trained users and did production support.    Environment: Python, Django, MySQL, HTML, XHTML, CSS, AJAX, JavaScript, Apache Web Server, Git, Linux. Additional Information Technical Skills:  Application servers Apache Tomcat, J Boss, WebLogic, WebSphere  Databases MySQL, PostgreSQL, Oracle (10g, 11g)  Deployment Tools Heroku, Jenkins.  Frameworks Django, Flask, CSS Bootstrap and Struts  IDE's Eclipse, PyCharm, and Sublime Text.    Operating Systems Windows, Red hat Linux, MAC OSX.  Protocols TCP/IP, HTTP/HTTPS, SOAP  Programming Languages Python, Java, SQL, PL/SQL, And C++  Tracking Tools Bugzilla and JIRA.  Version Control Git (GitHub), SVN, CVS  Web Services AWS, Amazon S3, Amazon EC2  Web Technologies HTML, CSS, Java Script, JQuery, AJAX, XML, AngularJS