Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - Trustwave Holdings Santa Clara, CA 201-423-6079  • Over 7+ years of experience as a Web/Application Developer and coding with analytical programming using Python, Django and C++.  • Experienced with full software development life-cycle, architecting scalable platforms, object oriented programming, database design and agile methodologies.  • Experience in developing web-based applications using Python 2.7/2.6, Django 1.4/1.3, PHP, Flask, Webapp2, Angular.js, VB, C++, XML, CSS, HTML, DHTML, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Experience object oriented programming (OOP) concepts using Python, Django and Linux.  • Experience with Design, code, and debug operations, reporting, data analysis and web applications utilizing Python.  • Familiar with JSON based REST Web services and Amazon Web services (AWS).  • Good experience with cloud platforms like Amazon AWS and Google AppEngine.  • Experience with WAMP and LAMP environments.  • Proficient in Front end development experience using HTML, XML, CSS, JQuery, JSON, Javascript, CSS and Bootstrap.  • Experience with Web Development, Web Services, Python and the Django framework.  • Experience in working on Application Servers like WebSphere, WebLogic, Tomcat, Web Servers like Apache Server, NGINX and Integrated Development Environments like PyCharm, Eclipse, MyEclipse, JDeveloper and RAD.  • Experience in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on MySQL and PostgreSQL database.  • Experience configuring and developing with different Database servers including MySQL, MSSQL, Oracle and Mongo Db.  • Experience in using UNIX shell Scripts for automating batch programs.  • Have the ability to understand complex systems and be in command of the details to provide solutions.  • Ability to learn and adapt quickly to the emerging new technologies and paradigms.  • Excellent communication, interpersonal and analytical skills and a highly motivated team player with the ability to work independently. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Developer Trustwave Holdings - Chicago, IL November 2014 to Present Responsibilities:  • Responsible for gathering requirements, system analysis, design, development, testing and deployment.  • Worked very closely with designer, tightly integrating Flash into the CMS with the use of Flashvars stored in the Django models. Also created XML with Django to be used by the Flash.  • Created PHP/MySQL back-end for data entry from Flash. I had to assist the Flash developer send the correct data via query strings.  • Developed monitoring and notification tools using Python.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks.  • Created Business Logic using Python to create Planning and Tracking functions  • Used Django for framework for accessing various Clinical Trial Data from various sources.  • Created Data tables utilizing PyQt to display customer and policy information and add, delete, update customer records.  • Designed and managed API system deployment using fast http server and Amazon AWS architecture  • Implemented navigation rules for the application and page outcomes, written controllers using annotations.  • Used Python based GUI components for the front end functionality such as selection criteria.  • Created test harness to enable comprehensive testing utilizing Python.  • Used PyQuery for selecting particular DOM elements when parsing HTML.  • Created PyUnit test scripts and used for unit testing.  • Worked with JSON based REST Web services.  • Used JQuery and Ajax calls for transmitting Json data objects between frontend and controllers.  • Used Github for version control.  • Worked in an agile development environment.  • Developed SQL Queries, Stored Procedures, and Triggers Using Oracle.  • Actively participated in System Testing, production support and maintenance/patch deployments.    Environment: Python, Django, Flashvars, PyUnit, PyQuery, PyQt, HTML, CSS, PHP, DOM, REST, AJAX, JQuery, AWS, GitHub, agile, Oracle and Windows. Python Developer Jefferies Group - Jersey City, NJ September 2013 to October 2014 Responsibilities:  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Utilize PyUnit, the Python unit test framework, for all Python applications.  • Used the Django Framework to develop the application.  • Build all database mapping classes using Django models.  • Implemented the presentation layer with HTML, DHTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript  • Successfully migrated the Django database from SQLite to MySQL with complete data integrity.  • Developed multi-threaded standalone app in Python, PHP, C++ to view Circuit parameters and performance.  • Worked on UI using HTML5, CSS3 and Java Scripts.  • Worked with JSON based REST Web services and Amazon Web services.  • Created User Controls and simple animations using Java Script and Python.  • Generated Python Django Forms to record data of online users.  • Wrote Python routines to log into the websites and fetch data for selected options.  • Involved in writing application level code to interact with APIs, Web Services using JSON.  • Involved in AJAX driven application by invoking web services/API and parsing the JSON response.  • Rewrite existing Java application in Python module to deliver certain format of data  • Creating unit test/regression test framework for working/new code  • Using Subversion version control tool to coordinate team-development.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.    Environment: Python, Django 1.4, PyUmit, Java, AWS, MySQL, Linux, HTML, XHTML, CSS, AJAX, REST, JSON, JavaScript, SVN, Apache Web Server and Windows. Python Developer Gambit Technologies - New York, NY July 2012 to August 2013 Responsibilities:  • Built a GC analytic tool using Python, to help clients analyze data and profile risk against a wide spectrum of reinsurance options.  • Developed custom reports using HTML, Python and MySQL.  • Developed monitoring and notification tools using Python.  • Documented the revised workflow using confluence wiki.  • Used Python based GUI components for the front end functionality such as selection criteria.  • Key performance index and filtering of displayed columns to help customers understand the analytics data that is provided by GC.  • Implemented navigation rules for the application and page outcomes, written controllers using annotations.  • Written queries in MySQL and Native SQL.  • Created PyUnit test cases for unit testing.  • Added the navigations and paginations and filtering columns and adding and removing the desired columns for view.  • Worked in an agile development environment.  • Used GitHub for version control.  • Used PyQuery for selecting particular DOM elements when parsing HTML.    Environment: Python, MySQL, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, DOM, Ajax, agile, XML, PL/SQL, and Oracle SQL Developer. Python Developer Fannie Mae Washington, DC November 2011 to June 2012 Responsibilities:  • Design, develop, test, deploy and maintain the website.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL.  • Rewrite existing Python/Django modules to deliver certain format of data.  • Used Django Database API's to access database objects.  • Wrote Python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Generated property list for every application dynamically using python.  • Handled all the client side validation using JavaScript.  • Creating unit test/regression test framework for working/new code.  • Using Subversion version control tool to coordinate team-development.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.    Environment: Python, Django 1.3, HTML, XHTML, CSS, AJAX, JavaScript, Apache Web Server, MYSQL, UNIX. Software Developer Vision InfoTech Pvt Ltd July 2008 to October 2011 Responsibilities:  • Designed and developed Use-Case Diagrams, Class Diagrams, and Object Diagrams using UML Rational Rose for OOA/OOD techniques.  • Designed and developed components using Java J2EE.  • Created UI using HTML CSS and JavaScript's.  • Created Servlets and Beans to implement Business Logic  • Used SAX/DOM Parser for parsing the data to Oracle Database.  • Designed and created backend data access modules using PL/SQL stored procedures and Oracle.  • Created database access layer using JDBC and PL/SQL stored procedures.  • Designed object model, data model, tables, constraints, necessary stored procedures, functions, triggers, and packages for Oracle Database.  • Developed and executed User Acceptance Testing portion of test plan.  • Debugging Software for Bugs.    Environment: JAVA, DOM, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Shell Scripting, SQL, PLSQL, Oracle and Windows. Additional Information Technical Skills:  Languages Python 3.x, 2.7/2.4, C++, Java, Shell Script, Perl, SQL  Python Framework Django, Webapp2, Flask  Web Technologies AJAX, JavaScript, HTML, DHTML, XHTML, XML, JQuery  Script Languages JavaScript, Angular.js, Bootstrap, JQuery, JSON  Versioning Tools Subversion, GIT, Perforce, SVN, CVS  Web servers Apache, WebLogic, Websphere  Databases MySQL, SQL Server 2008, Oracle  Operating systems Linux/Unix, Windows Variants