Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - Capital One Dallas, TX • Seven years of Professional IT experience as web Application Developer and coding with analytical programming and client-server enterprise applications using Python, Django, flask, MySQL, JavaScript, XML, Unix and Linux.  • Experienced with full software development life-cycle, architecting scalable platforms, object oriented programming, database design and agile methodologies.  • Knowledge about setting up Python REST API Frame work using Django.  • Experienced in working on Application Servers like WebSphere, WebLogic, Tomcat, Web Servers like Apache server, NGINX and Integrated Development Environments like PyCharm, Eclipse, MyEclipse, JDeveloper and RAD  • Experience in Test Driven Development and Behavior Driven Development methodologies for consulting firms and enterprise projects.  • Extensive knowledge of J2EE Architecture (JSP, JDBC, Data Source, JNDI, JMS, Servlets,).  • Having good exposure over working with deployment of Python and Java projects using cloud architecture.  • Superior Troubleshooting and Technical support abilities with Migrations, Network connectivity, Security and Database applications.  • Hands on experience in data processing automation using python.  • Experience in handling database issues and connections with SQL and NoSQL databases like MongoDB (2.6, 2.4) by installing and configuring various packages in python (Teradata, MySQL dB, Pyodbc, MySQL connector, Pymongo and SQLAlchemy)  • Having good knowledge in using NoSQL databases, various version control systems like Git (GitHub), SVN, CVS.  • Proficient in writing SQL Queries, Stored procedures, functions, packages, tables, views, triggers using relational databases like Oracle, DB2, MySQL and MSSQL Server.  • Worked with issue tracking tools like Bugzilla, and JIRA.  • Skilled in frontend web designing using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery and AJAX to enhance user experience.  • Experience in working with different operating system Windows Vista/7/8, UNIX, and MAC OSX.  • Excellent Interpersonal and communication skills, efficient time management and organization skills, ability to handle multiple tasks and work well in a team environment. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Developer Capital One - Plano, TX October 2015 to Present Responsibilities:  • Participate in requirement gathering and analysis phase of the project in documenting the business requirements by conducting workshops/meetings with various business users.  • Worked with team of developers on Python applications for RISK management.  • Developed Django application for Google Analytics aggregation and reporting.  • Used Django configuration to manage URLs and application parameters.  • Worked on Python Open stack API's.  • Used Python scripts to update content in the database and manipulate files.  • Generated Python Django Forms to record data of online users  • Used Python and Django creating graphics, XML processing, data exchange and business logic implementation  • I have used Pandas API to put the data as time series and tabular format for east timestamp data manipulation and retrieval.  • Added support for Amazon AWS S3 and RDS to host static/media files and the database into Amazon Cloud.  • Used Pandas library for statistical Analysis.  • Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks. Interfacing with supervisors, artists, systems administrators and production to ensure production deadlines are met.  • Worked very closely with designer, tightly integrating Flash into the CMS with the use of Flash vars stored in the Django models. Also created XML with Django to be used by the Flash.  • Used HTML, CSS, JQuery, JSON and JavaScript for front end applications.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Also used Bootstrap as a mechanism to manage and organize the html page layout.  • Used Django configuration to manage URLs and application parameters.  • Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from Python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL package.  • Involved in development of Web Services using SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface in the XML format.  • Responsible for debugging the project monitored on JIRA (Agile).  • Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes of the two main applications that were a main source of data for both customers and internal customer service team.  Environment: Python, Amazon AWS S3, MySQL, HTML, Python 2.7, Django 1.4, HTML5, CSS, XML, MySQL, MS SQL Server, JavaScript, AWS, Linux, Shell Scripting, AJAX. Python Developer Capital One - Plano, TX December 2014 to September 2015 Responsibilities  • Participated in requirement gathering and analysis phase of the project in documenting the business requirements by conducting workshops/meetings with various business users.  • Worked with team of developers on Python applications for RISK management.  • Developed Python/Django application for Google Analytics aggregation and reporting.  • Used Django configuration to manage URLs and application parameters.  • Worked on Python Open stack API's.  • Used Python scripts to update content in the database and manipulate files.  • Generated Python Django Forms to record data of online users  • Used Python and Django creating graphics, XML processing, data exchange and business logic implementation  • Used Pandas API to put the data as time series and tabular format for east timestamp data manipulation and retrieval.  • Used JavaScript and XML to update a portion of a webpage.  • Develop consumer based features and applications using Python, Django, HTML, behavior Driven Development (BDD) and pair based programming.  • Implemented user interface guidelines and standards throughout the development and maintenance of the website using the HTML, CSS, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Experience with advanced CSS concepts and also building table-free layouts.  • Worked on front end frame works like CSS Bootstrap for development of Web applications.  • Worked with Network related python libraries for transferring the files and connecting remotely to the servers.  • Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes of the two main applications that were a main source of data for both customers and internal customer service team.  • Generating various capacity planning reports (graphical) using Python packages like Numpy, matplotlib.  • Analyzing various logs that are been generating and predicting/forecasting next occurrence of event with various Python libraries.  • Worked in development of applications especially in UNIX environment and familiar with all of its commands.  • Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes of the applications and involved in fine tuning of existing processes followed advance patterns and methodologies.  • Skilled in using collections in Python for manipulating and looping through different user defined objects.  • Used Design patterns efficiently to improve the code reusability.  Environment: Python 2.7, 2.5, Django 1.7, 1.5, HTML5, CSS, XML, MySQL, PyQt, Java, MySQL, Linux, HTML, XHTML, CSS, AJAX, JavaScript, Apache Web Server. Python Developer Cognizant April 2013 to November 2014 Responsibilities:  • Designed the architecture of the hardware environments and methodology of the code.  • Worked with the architect, developers on business and technical issues, helping in designing of the system; and testers to ensure all requirements are correctly translated.  • Rewrite existing Python /Django modules to deliver certain format of data.  • Wrote Python scripts to parse JSON documents and load the data in database.  • Developed intranet portal for managing Amazon EC2 servers using Python, Tornado and MongoDB  • Developed python scripts to tokenize XML data and store them to MongoDB Load tested REST API's using SIEGE  • Used JQuery for the data manipulations on client side.  • Leveraged CSS Bootstrap for development of Web applications.  • Worked on deployment of project on to Amazon S3.  • Worked in development of applications especially in UNIX environment with shell.  • Django Framework was used in developing web applications to implement the model view control architecture.  • Created entire application using Python, Django, MySQL and Linux.  • Developed the presentation layer using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery and AJAX.  • Developed a fully automated continuous integration system using Git, Gerrit, Jenkins, MySQL and custom tools developed in Python and Bash.  • Used JQuery libraries for all client side JavaScript manipulations.  • Exposure on Multi-Threading factory to distribute learning process back-testing and the into various worker processes.  • Performed efficient delivery of code based on principles of Test Driven Development (TDD) and continuous integration to keep in line with Agile Software Methodology principles.  • Designed/Developed/Maintained Data Warehouse for second screen analytics  • Wrote Test cases for the given application.  • Managed requirements and tasks using JIRA.  • Used Git, managed GitHub repositories and other users.  Environment: Python 2.7, Java 1.7, Django 1.7, 1.5, HTML5, CSS, XML, MySQL, JavaScript, Angular JS, Backbone JS, JQuery, CSS Bootstrap, Puppet MS SQL Server, Nginix server, Amazon s3, Jenkins, Mongo DB Python Developer Cognizant January 2011 to March 2013 Responsibilities:    • Participated in requirement gathering and analysis phase of the project in documenting the business requirements by conducting workshops/meetings with various business users.  • Used the Django Framework to develop the application.  • Implemented web applications in Flask and spring frameworks following MVC architecture.  • Utilized standard Python modules such as csv, robotparser, itertools and pickle for development.  • Worked on Python OpenStack APIs and used Numpy for Numerical analysis.  • Worked on high level design and detail design Developed GUI using Python, MySQL, HTML, AJAX, CSS, JavaScript and jQuery.3  • Used Ajax and JQuery for transmitting JSON data objects between frontend and controllers.  • Developed Wrapper in Python for instantiating multi-threaded application.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Managed datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL, queried MYSQL database queries from Python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL dB package to retrieve information.  • Developed various algorithms for generating several data patterns.  • Used JIRA for bug tracking and issue tracking.  • Added several options to the application to choose particular algorithm for data and address generation.  • Updated and manipulated content and files by using python scripts.  • Used Django configuration to manage URLs and application parameters.  • Using version control tools such as SVN coordinated the team development.  • Used Python scripts to update content in the database and manipulate files.  Environment: Python 2.7, Django 1.4, HTML5, CSS, XML, MySQL, MySQL, JavaScript, Angular JS, Backbone JS, JQuery, CSS Bootstrap, MS SQL Server, T-SQL, JavaScript, Eclipse, Git, GitHub, AWS, Linux, Shell Scripting. Java Developer Cognizant June 2009 to December 2010 Responsibilities:  • Worked on Agile Environment having daily stand up meetings, pre planning and planning meeting and face-to-face communication.  • Responsible for completion of the User stories assigned for each Sprint including Analysis, Development, Testing, Defect fix, Tech Spec update, without any deviations in schedule.  • Developed and implemented the MVC Architectural Pattern using Struts Framework including JSP, Servlets, Form Bean and Action classes.  • Implemented server side tasks using Servlets and XML.  • Implemented Struts Validation Framework for Server side validation.  • Updated CSS layout to reflect the new changes as per the addition of new components  • Involved in development of Web services (SOAP) using CXF, JAX-WS, WSDL, XSD and JAXB to send fusion data to different upstream systems.  • Used Hibernate with JPA for attaining Object Relational Mapping.  • Implemented various design patterns like Factory and Singleton.  • Used Spring IOC to inject DAO objects into the Business delegate classes.  • Provided declarative and programmatic security by authorizing the logged in user based on User designation.  • Deployed the Application in WebSphere server.  • Used Eclipse as the IDE for development  • Maven is used as the build tool.  • Created unit test cases and mock objects using JUnit framework.  Environment: Java JDK 1.5, J2EE, JSF 1.2, Junit, Spring, Hibernate 3.0, JSP2.0, Web Sphere Application Server 6.1, HTML5, Java script, AJAX, CSS, Oracle 10g, JQuery, Agile TOAD, Eclipse. Additional Information Technical Skills:    Frameworks Django, Flask, Zope, Struts and CSS Bootstrap  Web Technologies HTML, CSS, DOM, SAX, Java Script, JQuery, AJAX, XML, AngularJS  Programming Languages Python, Java, SQL and PL/SQL.  J2EE Technologies JSP, Java Servlets, JNDI, JDBC and JMS.  Version Control Git (GitHub), SVN, CVS  Application servers Apache Tomcat, Nginix, JBoss, WebLogic, WebSphere  Databases Oracle (9i,10g, 11g), My SQL, PostgreSQL, Apache Cassandra, MongoDB  IDE's/ Development Tools NetBeans, Eclipse, PyCharm, and Sublime Text.  Web Services AWS, Amazon S3    Operating Systems Windows, Red hat Linux, MAC OSX.  Protocols TCP/IP, HTTP/HTTPS, SOAP, SMTP  Deployment Tools Heroku, Jenkins.  Tracking Tools Bugzilla, Crucible and JIRA.