Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - American Airlines Dallas, TX • Python Developer with 7+years over-all experience in Information Technology - strong background in Development, Design, and Roll-out.  • Experienced with full software development life-cycle, architecting scalable platforms, object oriented programming, database design and agile methodologies.  • Expertise in writing Automation test scripts using QTP 10.0 and VB script.  • Experienced in MVW frameworks like Django, Splunk, Angular JS, Java Script, JQuery and Node.js.  • Experience object oriented programming (OOP) concepts using Python, C++ and PHP.  • Experienced in WAMP (Windows, Apache, MYSQL, Python /PHP) and LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, Python /PHP) Architecture.  • Experienced in installing, configuring, modifying, testing and deploying applications with Apache.  • Excellent experience with Python development under Linux OS (Debian, Ubuntu, SUSE Linux, Red Hat Linux, Fedora).  • Expert knowledge of and experience in Object oriented Design and Programming concepts.  • Experienced in developing web-based applications using Python, Django, PHP, C++, XML, CSS, HTML, DHTML, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Experience with Unit testing/ Test driven Development (TDD), Load Testing.  • Experienced in developing Web Services with Python programming language.  • Created video publishing toolkit using Word press (PHP/MySQL) and JavaScript to allow easy uploading of video by non-technical content mangers.  • Developed the required XML Schema documents and implemented the framework for parsing XML documents.  • Developed ColdFusion Components, custom tags and modified CF Objects.  • Wrote AJAX framework to transform Datasets and Data tables into HTTP-serializable JSON strings.  • Excellent analytical and communication skills with ability to interact with individuals at all levels.  • Hands-on experience in writing and reviewing requirements, architecture documents, test plans, design documents, quality analysis and audits.  • Front end development experience using HTML, CSS, JQuery, JSON and JavaScript.  • Good Exposure in maintaining various version controls.  • Experience in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on MySQL and Postgre SQL database.  • Extensive experience in Installation, Configuration, and Migration, Trouble-Shooting and Maintenance of Splunk, ApacheWebServer on different UNIX flavors like Linux.  • Prepared best practice documents for external customers and worked closely with third party vendors.  • Ability to work independently, and with minimum supervision. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Developer American Airlines - Dallas, TX April 2016 to Present Responsibilities:  • Created Dashboards, Visualizations, Statistical reports, scheduled searches, alerts and also worked on creating different other knowledge objects.  • Knowledge about Splunk architecture and various components (indexer, forwarder, search head, deployment server), Universal and Heavy forwarder.  • Provide Regular support guidance to Splunk project teams on complex solution and issue resolution.  • Expertise with Splunk UI/GUI development and operations roles.  • Detect errors and Trouble shooting by using S.O.S on Splunk environment  • Involved in helping the UNIX and Splunk administrators to deploy Splunk across the UNIX and windows environment.  • Worked on installing Universal Forwarders and Heavy Forwarders to bring any kind of data fields in to Splunk.  • Designing and maintaining production-quality Splunk dashboards.  • Involved in admin activities and worked on inputs.conf, index.conf, props.conf and transform.conf to set up time zone and time stamp extractions, complex event transformations and whether any event breaking.  • Integrate Service Now with Splunk to consume the alerts from Splunk and create service now tickets.  • Splunk DB Connect 2.0 in search head cluster environments of Oracle, MySql.  • Involved in Automation and error checking to reduce admin tasks and alert users of input errors allowing users to resolve the issues.  • Involved in writing complex IFX, rex and Multikv command to extracts the fields from the log files.  • Field Extraction, Using Ifx, Rex Command and Regex in configuration files.  • Use techniques to optimize searches for better performance, Search time field extractions. And understanding of configuration files, precedence and working.  • Troubleshooting of searches for performance issues by adding lookups, correct joins and using summary indexes.  • Scripting and development skills (Perl, Python, Java) with strong knowledge of regular expressions.  • Various types of charts Alert settings Knowledge of app creation, user and role access permissions. Creating and managing app, Create user, role, Permissions to knowledge objects.  Environment:- Python 2.7/3.x, Windows, MySQL and python libraries such as Numpy, sqlalchemy, MysqlDB. Python Developer At&t, New Jersey February 2015 to March 2016 Responsibilities:  • Followed the SDLC activity to fulfill the business requirements and use cases  • Developed Python Scripts to transform data and to drive execution of SQL server  • Create a current state process map and documentation  • Updated and maintained a web server in Unix environment  • Developed document flow reports using Python  • Create database triggers for data validations in Oracle  • Created job scheduling for periodic load processing using SQL and shell scripts  • Responsible for capacity planning, space management, problem resolution, database monitoring and performance tuning of Production Databases  • Analyzed business needs and drafted process maps  • Implemented discretisation, binning and data wrangling in Python  • Automated the addition of transactions to database tables by writing required packages using SQL  • Designed Unix Scripts to automate the verification of the information inserted in the database which was extensively used in Admin Module  • Worked with Agile methodology to ensure delivery of high quality work  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller  • Designer for developing various jobs to extract, cleansing, transforming, integrating and loading data into Data Warehouse  • Involved in tuning and optimization of SQL statements.  • Managed Backend using Python and MVC framework Django  • Worked on development and maintenance of SQL code embedded in PL/SQL  • Managed and support outages during urgency  • Supported compliance to all regulatory and audit requirements  • Provided 24x7 support during application deployment  • Established a connection between Oracle and Python for the transformation module  • Implemented hash tables in Unix shell scripting to retrieve data faster  • Responsible for scripting data manipulation using SQL  • Performed periodic analysis of business critical systems to provide issue resolution if needed  • Maintained complete documentation of trading module, system maintenance requirements    Environment: Python, DBI/DBD, Oracle 11g, PL/SQL, SQLPLUS, SQL*Loader, Unix Python Developer FirstData Corporation - Denver, CO October 2013 to January 2015 Responsibilities:  • Requirement gathering and analysis phase of the project in documenting the business requirements by conducting workshops/meetings with various business users.  • Used Agile Methodology and SCRUM Process to complete software design and implementation.  • Used Django/ Python web-framework to develop application.  • Used MVC framework to build modular & maintainable applications.  • Used Django and PostgreSQL for design and develop transactions and persistence layers to save/retrieve/modify data for application functionality.  • Used python scripts for automated data movement.  • Involved in splitting, validating and processing of files.  • Involved in building database Model and Views utilizing Python, in order to build an interactive web based solution.  • Used Matplotlib for data visualization.  • Used AWS for application deployment and configuration.  • Written shell scripting for automation.  • Designed database schema design and defined relationships between tables.  • Developed UI screens using HTML, CSS, AJAX, JavaScript and jQuery  • Applied unit test framework for testing code regressively.  • Used JIRA as a tracking tool for the sprints.  • Used Git for version control    Environment:- Python, Django, Amazon (AWS, EC2, S3), PostgreSQL, JIRA, Linux, Shell Scripting, GIT. Python Developer Hucon Solutions July 2012 to September 2013 Responsibilities:  • Participated in the complete SDLC process and used PHP to develop website functionality.  • Coding in LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, and PHP) environment.  • Developed GUI HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS 5 and JavaScript (jQuery)  • Worked mainly on Core Java, C++, STL, data structures, UNIX, multithreading.  • Built application logic using Python2.7.  • Used Apache Couchdb (NoSQL) in AWS Linux instance in parallel to RDS MySQL to store and analyze job  • Developed the required XML Schema documents and implemented the framework for parsing XML  • Wrote AJAX framework to transform Datasets and Datatables into HTTP-serializable JSON strings.  • Used the Django Framework to develop the application.  • Used Django APIs for database access.  • UIS system design ( Python Object Oriented Design approach, developing various Modules/packages/utilities, e.g.: Cryptography - Encryption/Hashing, Foundation Utilities, and Personal Management, error/exception management etc.)  • Used python to extract weekly hotel availability information from XML files.  • Used Web Services to get travel destination data and rates.  • Worked on development of SQL and stored procedures on MYSQL.  • Developed shopping cart for Library and integrated web services to access the payment (E- commerce)  Environment: Python, Windows, Django, MySql, Linux, HTML, CSS, JQuery, JavaScript, Apache. Programmer Analyst Cognizant Technology Solutions - IN February 2010 to May 2012 Responsibilities:  • Updated and maintained a web server in Unix environment  • Worked on development and maintenance of SQL code embedded  • Work with team of developers on Python applications for Inventory Management  • Created HTML forms and used Perl scripting language for online querying and reporting for order entry module and Inventory module  • Involved in SQL debugging and support  • Managed and support outages during urgency  • Designed the front end of the application using Python, HTML, CSS, AJAX, JSON and JQuery  • Supported compliance to all regulatory and audit requirements  • Performed periodic analysis of business critical systems to provide issue resolution if needed.  • Wrote Unix Korn scripts to manipulate the data and then load it into database  • Used SQL to filter and load data from other production databases  • Developed and tested many features for dashboard using Python, Bootstrap, CSS, and JavaScript  • Wrote Python code embedded with JSON and XML to produce HTTP GET request, parsing HTML data from websites  • Designed an HTML interface for a JavaScript- and Perl-driven price  • Monitored and trouble shooted the data loading problems of Informatica  • Maintained complete documentation of trading module, system maintenance requirements.  • Developed tables and SQL packages, procedures and functions  • Wrote python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database  • Used Oracle SQL to generate schema and retrieve data  • Designing mobile search application system requirements and coded back-end and front-end in Python  • Wrote scripts in Unix shell and Perl to streamline indexing process  • Involved in data load using SQL and SQL*Loader  • Resolved ongoing problems and accurately documented progress of Python  • Worked on performance tuning and monitoring of database  • Involved in requirement analysis, database design, coding, testing, implementation and review.  • Developed SQL code to work with Workflow design  • Used Python to interface with the JQuery UI and manage the storage and deletion of content.    Environment: Perl, DBI/DBD, SQL, Oracle PL/SQL, SQLPLUS, SQL*Loader, UNIX, HTML, JavaScript, Informatica. Skills AJAX (4 years), CSS (4 years), HTML (4 years), jQuery (4 years), Python (7 years) Additional Information Technical Skills:-    Frameworks Django, web2py, Flask, Struts, pylons and CSS Bootstrap, TurboGears, web2py, Openstack  Web Technologies HTML, CSS, DOM, SAX, Java Script, JQuery, AJAX, XML, Angular.JS  Programming Languages Python, Java, SQL and PL/SQL.  J2EE Technologies JSP, Java Servlets, JDBC and JMS.  Version Control Git (GitHub), SVN, CVS  Cloud Computing Platforms Amazon Web Services (AWS), Openstack, Azure Puppet, Chef, Ansible, AWS CloudFormation, AWS CloudFront  Hypervisors Ubuntu, Red Hat, CentOS VM Ware, KVM, Hyper-V  IDE's Tools NetBeans, Eclipse, PyCharm, and Sublime Text.  Web Services AWS, Amazon S3, Google Cloud Platform    Operating Systems Windows, Red hat Linux, MAC OSX.  Protocols TCP/IP, HTTP/HTTPS, SOAP, SMTP  Deployment Tools Heroku, Jenkins.  Tracking Tools Bugzilla and JIRA