Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - Sprint • 8 years of experience as a Web/Application Developer and coding with analytical programming using Python, Perl, C++.  • Experience in Object oriented Design and Programming concept.  • Experienced with full software development life-cycle, architecting scalable platforms, object oriented programming, and database  • Design and develop required JavaScript components.  • Experienced in installing, configuring, modifying, testing and deploying applications with Apache.  • Experienced in automating deployment to a distributed architecture with tools such Chef.  • Experience with continuous integration and automation using Jenkins.  • Experience with Unit testing/ Test driven Development (TDD), Load Testing.  • Sound experience in Python, Java, Object Oriented programming and Multithreading, etc.  • Experienced in developing web-based applications using Python and JavaScript in Linux based OS.  Ability to learn and adapt quickly to the emerging new technologies and paradigms.  • Excellent communication, interpersonal and analytical skills and a highly motivated team player with the ability to work independently.  • Practical experience with working on multiple environments like development, testing, production.  • Developed and designed automation framework using Python and Shell scripting.  • Hands-on experience in writing and reviewing requirements, architecture documents, test plans, design documents, quality analysis and audits.  • Sound knowledge of networking protocols like TCP/IP, UDP, HTTP.  • Special skills in developing user friendly, simple yet effective web based applications.  • Implemented Python components and deployed under the Web Logic server.  • Ability to understand project requirements and deliver it with proper estimation and quality.  • Has good knowledge in algorithm complexities, parallelism and distributed systems.  • Worked on various Integrated Development Environments like PyDev, PyCharm, PyScripter and NINJA-IDE.  • Good understanding of Groovy and Grails.  • Experience in working with different operating systems Windows 98/NT/2000/XP/Vista/7/8, Linux, Solaris, Ubuntu and UNIX. Work Experience Python Developer Sprint - Overland Park, KS June 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Responsible for translating the customer requirements into design specifications and then into software solution.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Worked on developing internal testing tools which were written in Python. Developed Wrapper in Python for instantiating multi-threaded application.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Developed user interface prototypes and worked on internal Web tools for enhancement features.  • Helped on development of several network administration policies which increased support efficiency for the users.  • Worked on bash scripting to automate the application processes.  • Developed various algorithms for generating several data patterns.  • Used JIRA for bug tracking and issue tracking.  • Added several options to the application to choose particular algorithm for data and address generation.  • Worked on OpenNMS project for network server maintenance. Worked on maintain scripts for restarting servers and pausing services whenever it was required.  • Developed and designed automation framework using Python and Shell scripting. Python Developer GE, GS, San Ramon May 2015 to June 2017 Responsibilities:  • Developed the project in Linux environment.  • Performed data manipulation and storage for incoming test data using lxml /etree libraries.  • Worked in development of applications especially in UNIX environment and familiar with all of its commands.  • Worked on data alignment and integrated handling of data using Pandas.  • Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes of the applications and involved in fine tuning of existing processes followed advance patterns and methodologies.  • Skilled in using collections in Python for manipulating and looping through different user defined objects.  • Used Design patterns efficiently to improve the code reusability.  • Managed code versioning with GitHub, Bit Bucket and deployment to staging and production servers.  • Implemented MVC architecture in developing the web application with the help of Django framework.  • Used Celery as task queue and RabbitMQ as messaging broker to execute asynchronous tasks.  • Implemented task object to interface with data feed framework and invoke database message service setup and update functionality.  • Working under UNIX environment in development of application using Python and familiar with all of its commands.    Environment: Python, Git, Amazon, UNIX, Object Oriented Programming, Ubuntu server, Windows 12 Server, Amazon s3, Jenkins Python Developer (Intern) Hitachi Data Systems - Santa Clara, CA August 2013 to May 2015 Responsibilities:  • Database modeling and design. Involved in developing and implementation of the web application using Javascript  • Simple web app for reviewing the packet tracing information in the virtual machine (router packet simulation)  • Worked on OpenNSM for monitoring a number of modules to ensure which network based services like HTTP, DNS, etc.  • Worked on Gzip with AWS Cloudfront to forward compressed files to destination node.  • Worked with team regarding deployment and support for Memcache-AWS ElasticCache.  • Utilized ActiveRecord eager loading to improve rendering time of index pages, incorporated up/down voting, reviewing, and several custom sorting methods for shows to provide smooth user experience  • Cross-referenced SeatGeek and Spotify APIs to get album artwork and track previews for each artist  • Boston concert aggregator that provides a comprehensive list of shows in Boston with track previews, album artwork, tagging, up/down voting, and more to help users find the best show in town.  • Experience working with Puppet Enterprise. Installed, upgraded and managed Puppet Master, Agents and Databases.  • Assisted in upgrading hardware and network protocols for the users.  • Deploy and monitor scalable infrastructure on Amazon web services (AWS) & configuration management using puppet.  • Experienced in Git, Object-oriented programming, JavaScript, and, Amazon Web Services.  • Followed agile methodology and involved in daily SCRUM meetings, sprint planning, showcases and retrospective.  • Designed user friendly Interface using Bootstrap framework.  • Worked in MySQL database on simple queries and writing Stored Procedures for normalization and renormalization. Also, worked with teams who managed NoSQL databases in production domain.  • Using Subversion version control tool to coordinate team-development.  • Worked on updating the existing clip board to have the new features as per the client requirements.  • Found critical bugs in the firmware and helped other teams in making the software stable.  • Migration of Test Content to Automation Tool using Python and XML.  • Development of Media OS based Validation test content in ACS (Automation) using Python and XML.  • Developed and executed software systems using JavaScript and Groovy.  • Worked on End user applications for Grails.  • Worked on performance optimization using Pandas.  • Experience in UNIX environment in developing the application and familiar with all of its commands.  • Worked in developing the screens for delete, Edit, Enable, Disable and Impersonate Users in web application.    Challenges - We had a dependency conflict for the Web App project as the data we required had to be supplied by the configuration management tool. The issue was resolved by integrating the code directly with the tool so that we could get the data at the earliest.    Environment: Python, Git, Amazon , Linux , Object Oriented Programming, Web Services, ADB, Logic Analyzer, Debussy Emulation wave capture. Python Developer Behr Electronics India Pvt Ltd August 2010 to June 2013 Responsibilities:  • Part of team implementing REST API's in Python using micro-framework like Flask with SQLAlchemy in the backend for management of data center resources on which OpenStack would be deployed.  • Used python libraries like Beautiful Soap, NumPy and SQLAlchemy.  • Utilized standard Python modules such as csv, robot parser, itertools and pickle for development.  • Worked on Python OpenStack APIs and used NumPy for Numerical analysis.  • Implemented user interface guidelines and standards throughout the development and maintenance of the website using the HTML, CSS, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Developed and tested many features for dashboard, created using Bootstrap, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Developed Wrapper in Python for instantiating multi-threaded application.  • Used JIRA for bug tracking and issue tracking.  • Added several options to the application to choose particular algorithm for data and address generation.  • Created AWS Multifactor Auth for SSH logon and worked with teams to lock down security groups.  • Basic experience in NAS for mounting/unmounting netapp storage LUNs to RedHat Linux servers and troubleshooting the issues encountered.  • Developed and designed automation framework using Python and Shell scripting.  • Developed the project in Linux environment(CentOS)  • Responsible for testing, debugging, bug fixing and documentation of the system  • Implemented Python components and deployed under the Web Logic server  • Participated actively in unit testing, integration testing and GUI    Environment: Python, Git, AWS , Linux , Object Oriented Programming, Web Services, Python 2.7,  Shell scripting, Linux, Testing, Debugging, NAS Education Master of Science in Computer Engineering San Jose State University 2015