Sr. Python Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> • Over 7 years of Experience as a Sr. Python Developer in developing web-based applications, software development and design using Python 2.7,3.31 and 3.4, Django 1.9/1.8, XML, CSS, HTML, DHTML, JavaScript, JQuery and Angular Js.  • Experience in working on OpenStack components along with Salesforce CRM (SAAS, PAAS) and have extensively worked with Infrastructure as a Service (IaaS) environments using tool Chef.  • Experience in project deployment using Heroku/Jenkins and using web services like Amazon Web Services (AWS) EC2 and AWS S3.  • Experienced in working on Application Servers like WebSphere, WebLogic, Tomcat, Web Servers like Apache server, NGINX and Integrated Development Environments like Pycharm, Eclipse, MyEclipse, JDeveloper and RAD.  • Involved in development of Web Services using SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface in the XML format.  • Working knowledge of Java Web Services with real time knowledge using SOAP and REST.  • Experience in AWS Cloud platform and its features which includes EC2, AMI, EBS Cloudwatch, AWS Config, Auto-scaling, IAM user management, and AWS S3.  • Experience developing web-based applications using Python 2.7/2.6, Django 1.4/1.3, PHP, Flask, Webapp2, Angular.js, VB, C++, JSON, XML, CSS, HTML, DHTML, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Good experience of software development in Python (libraries used: Beautiful Soup, numpy, scipy, matplotlib, python-twitter, Pandas data frame, network, urllib2, MySQL dB for database connectivity) and IDEs - sublime text, Spyder, pycharm, Emacs.  • Expertise experience working on the Plugins, Frameworks & Packages: Django, Flask, Webapp2, MapReduce, Celery, SQL Alchemy, PyMongo, WTForms, jinja2, Bootstrap, jQuery, pycrypto, Mock, Nose, Sphinx.  • Experience in project deployment using Google Cloud/Jenkins, Elastic Search and using web Services like Amazon Web Services (AWS).  • Hands on experience on deployment and packaging tool like Ansible.  • Experience with Python development under Linux OS (Debian/Ubuntu/SUSE Linux/Red Hat Linux/Fedora).  • Experience with Apache Kafka JMS and Rabbit MQ as the message oriented middleware.  • Experienced in WAMP (Windows, Apache, MYSQL, Python /PHP) and LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, and Python) Architecture. Experience in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on MySQL and PostgreSQL database.  • Extensive knowledge and experience in developing Single Page Applications (SPA) using AngularJS & PowerShell.  • Expertise in Querying RDBMS such as Oracle, MYSQL and SQL Server by using SQL for data integrity.  • Strong background in object oriented programming, design patterns, algorithms, and data structures.  • Good experience in developing web applications implementing Model View Control architecture using Django, Flask, Pyramid, and Zope Python web application frameworks.  • Experienced in Working on Big Data Integration and Analytics based on Hadoop, Kafka.  • Experienced in web applications development using Django/ Python, .NET/C#, Flask/ Python, and Node.js, Angular.js, ember.js, Jquery, Ajax for server-side rendered application.  • Expertise in Object-Oriented design and coding and in analyzing and handling large database using Oracle Relational data Architecture.  • Experience working on scalable environment in Agile/SCRUM methodologies Preparing Test Cases using TDD (test driven development) and BDD (behavior driven development) approach using RSpec/Cucumber on multiple platforms like Linux, Mac and Windows.  • Excellent understanding and knowledge of Hadoop Distributed file system data modelling, architecture and design principles.  • Having experienced in Agile Methodologies, Scrum stories and sprints experience in a Python based environment, along with data analytics, data wrangling and Excel data extracts.  • Expertise in MVW frameworks like Django, Angular JS, Java Script, JQuery and Node.js.  • Very strong experience writing API's/ and Web Services in PHP and in Python and utilized Python Pandas framework to provide data analysis.  • Experience in NoSQL databases like Apache Cassandra (1.2, 2.0, and 2.1) and MongoDB (2.6, 2.4), Orient DB.  • Generated Python PostGre SQL Forms to record data of online users and used Python and PostGre SQL creating graphics, XML processing, data exchange and business logic implementation. Work Experience Sr. Python Developer cargill , Amazon, Nike, Dart - Dallas, TX August 2016 to Present Responsibilities:  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  Involved in Developing a Restful service using Python Django framework.  • Designed Celery and multithreading for scheduling the tasks and multiple activities.  • Designed and managed API system deployment using fast http server and Amazon AWS architecture.  • Involved in code review for the code developed by team and suggesting the relevant and appropriate changes.  • Dealt with client regarding the requirements of the projects and taking care of production issues and bugs.  • Worked with various modules like rest framework, Mock, Freezgun, Numpy etc.  • Perform Jenkins administration, updating plugins, setting up new projects and debugging build problems  • Developed unit and functional tests in Python and Ruby.  • Used ANT, Puppet/ Chef Scripts with Ivy to build the application and deploy.  • Configured AWS Identity and Access Management (IAM) Groups and Users for improved login authentication.  • Conduct systems design, feasibility and cost studies and recommend cost-effective cloud solutions such as Amazon Web Services (AWS).  • Develop Interactive front end to visualize data from backend and represent in graphical manner to batter understanding for user.  • Involved in hand-coding HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, and other UI technologies.  • Involved in web application development using Django/ Python, Flask/ Python, jQuery, Ajax while using HTML/CSS/JS for server-side rendered application.  • Developed the entire project using PostgreSQL. Migrating from other databases to PostgreSQL.  • Developed web-based open stack applications using Python and Django for large dataset analysis  • Developed Merge jobs in Python to extract and load data into MySQL database.  • Successfully migrated the Django database from SQLite to MySQL to PostgreSQL with complete data integrity.  • Front-end web development using HTML/CSS, JQuery, Bootstrap as well as back-end development using SQL.  • Used Test driven approach for developing the application and Implemented the unit tests using Python Unit test framework.  • Used Go Lang to create backend servers. Developed Micro services using Go language and developed corresponding test cases  • Contributed source code in Golang to developing an automation framework for AWS CFN.  • Created PDF reports using Golang and XML documents to send it to all customers at the end of month with international language support.  • Worked on Atlassian tools like Bamboo, Jira, and confluence.  • Created Branches, Labels and performed Merges in Stash and GIT.  • Administered Code Repositories in SVN and Bit bucket.  • Involved in the complete Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) to develop the application.  • Followed AGILE development methodology to develop the application.  • Developed Golang API and chat-bot using TDD to automate software deployments and rollbacks  • Used Test driven approach (TDD) for developing services required for the application.  • Implemented Integration test cases.    Environment: Python 2.7/3.5, GoLang, PyQuery, HTML5, CSS3, Angular 2.0, Shell Scripting, JSON, Rest, Apache Web Server, Django, Celery, Flash, SQL, UNIX, Windows, PostgreSQL, and python libraries such as Numpy, SQL Alchemy, AWS Sr. Python Developer Nike - Hillsboro, OR December 2014 to July 2016 Responsibilities:  • Involved in Developing a RESTful Webservices using Python Django framework.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework with GIT.  • Designed and managed API system deployment using fast http server and Amazon AWS architecture.  • Perform Jenkins administration, updating plugins, setting up new projects and debugging build problems.  • Used ANT, Puppet/ Chef Scripts with Ivy to build the application and deploy.  • Used Chef and AWS allowed me to reduce costs for the department and eliminate unwarranted resources.  • Automated provisioning of cloud infrastructure with Chef.  • Configured AWS Identity and Access Management (IAM) Groups and Users for improved login authentication.  • Conduct systems design, feasibility and cost studies and recommend cost-effective cloud solutions such as Amazon Web Services (AWS).  • Updated and managed SharePoint site for each CCAR cycle that is utilized for CCAR communication, storage of key CCAR files including business models, and automatic audit trail that is sent to internal audit team.  • Develop Interactive front end to visualize data from backend and represent in graphical manner to batter understanding for user.  • Hand coded HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, and other UI technologies.  • Developed web applications using Django/ Python, .NET/C#, Flask/ Python, and Node.js, Angular.js, ember.js, jQuery, Ajax while using HTML/CSS/JS for server-side rendered application.  • Developed web-based open stack applications using Python and Django for BigData analysis and also using PySpark.  • Test-Driven Development approach was used and Developed Merge jobs in Python to extract and load data into MySQL database.  • Worked on SQL Server Integration Services (SSIS) and SQL Lite.  • Successfully migrated the Django database from SQLite to MySQL to PostgreSQL with complete data integrity.  • Initiated one-on-one interview and JAD Session to gather Business Requirements from institutional clients regarding their need of indexes and their portfolio weights on synthetic securities and options.  • Worked on report writing using SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS) and in creating various types of reports like table, matrix, and chart report, web reporting by customizing URL Access.  • Provided high-level technical support and administration for GIS-based routing software.  • Ensured data integrity, performing extensive quality control checks of GIS data and non-spatial databases  • Frontend web development using HTML/CSS, JQuery, Bootstrap as well as back-end development using Golang and SQL.  • Designed and tightly integrated Flash into the CMS with the use of Flashvars stored in the Django models. Also created XML with Django to be used by the Flash.  • Used Test driven approach for developing the application and Implemented the unit tests using Python Unit test framework.  • Responsible for all Public (AWS) and Private (OpenStack/VMWare/DCOS/Mesos/Marathon) cloud infrastructure.  • Supported development team with deployment workflow and continuous integration using GitLab, GitLab CI, Rundeck, Docker and SaltStack provisioning.  • Evaluated and tuned data model by running endurance tests using JMeter, Cassandra Stress Tool and OpsCenter.  • Wrote bash shell scripts on local setups to automate jobs  • Designed frontend using UI, HTML, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Involved in the Complete Software development life cycle (SDLC) to develop the application.    Environment: Python 2.7, PyQt, .NET, PyQuery, MVW, HTML5, CSS3, DOM, Angular.js, Shell Scripting, JSON, Rest, Apache Spark Web Server, Selenium, Django, Celery, Flash, Docker, SQL, UNIX, Windows, PostgreSQL, SQL SSIS, Splunk, Hadoop and Python Libraries such as PySpark, Numpy, SQL Alchemy, Android OS Android 1.5 to Android 6.0 Python Developer Seattle, WA February 2013 to November 2014 Responsibilities:  • Closely involved in performance evaluation and User Acceptance Test.  • Developed a portal to manage and entities in a content management system using Flask.  • Designed the database schema for the content management system.  • Wrote programs for performance calculations using Numpy and sqlalchemy.  • Worked on CSV files while trying to get input from the MySQL database.  • Wrote python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Worked in stages such as analysis and design, development, testing and debugging.  • Organized data exchange and integration with customers and third-party systems using CSV, XLS, XML, DBF, JSON, REST, SOAP.  • Web-services backend development using Python (CherryPy, Django, SQLAlchemy).  • Participated in developing the company's internal framework on Python. This framework became a basement for the quick service's development. Framework based on CherryPy with GnuPg encryption (reGnuPg module) on the top.  • Worked on resulting reports of the application and Tableau reports.  • Worked on HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, AngularJS, Node.JS, Git, REST API, Mongo DB, intelliJ IDEA.  • Design and Setting up of environment of Mongo db with shards and replicasets. (Dev/Test and Production).  • Test software and hardware configurations of the in-fight entertainment system.  • Experience with bug-tracking Jira, source code management tools Git, GitHub, Stash and team collaboration software SAAS tool Confluence.  • Support in-fight entertainment system development designing and running system tests.  • Responsible for system debugging in lab, performance improvement for customer issues and field trials. Solved numerous customer issues.    Environment: Python 2.7, Windows, MySQL, flask and python libraries such as Numpy, sqlalchemy, MysqlDB, Django 1.4, MySQL, Windows, Linux, HTML, CSS, JQuery, JavaScript, Apache, Linux. Python Developer Minneapolis, MN December 2011 to January 2013 Responsibilities:  • Wrote Python routines to log into the websites and fetch data for selected options.  • Implemented code in Python to retrieve and manipulate data.  • Used Python modules such as requests, urllib, and urllib2 for web crawling.  • Used other packages such as Beautiful soup for data parsing.  • Worked on writing and as well as read data from CSV and excel file formats using Python.  • Web-services backend development using Python (CherryPy, Django, SQL Alchemy).  • Worked on resulting reports of the application and Tableau reports.  • Participated in developing the company's internal framework on Python. This framework became a basement for the quick service's development.  • Worked on HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, AngularJS, Node.JS, Git, REST API, MongoDB.  • Design and setting up of the environment of MongoDB with shards and replica sets (Dev/Test and productions).  • Designed and developed components using Python with Django framework.  • Created a Python-based GUI application for Freight Tracking and processing.  • Experience in designing and developing applications in Spark using Scala.  • Wrote scripts in Python for extracting data from HTML file.  • Used Python and Django creating graphics, XML processing of documents, data exchange and business logic implementation between servers.  • Participated in the complete SDLC process..  • Extracting acting data from the database using SAS/Access, SAS SQL procedures and create SAS data sets.  • Created and modified PL/SQL scripts for data conversions.  • Created database using MySQL, wrote several queries to extract data from the database.  • Communicated effectively with the external vendors to resolve queries.    Environment: Python, Django, MySQL, Windows, Linux, HTML, CSS, jQuery, JavaScript, Apache, Linux, Quality Centre, Ansible, PL/SQL Education Bachelor's Skills Python, Django