Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - National Registry of Emergency Medical Technicians Columbus, OH • Around6 years of experience in various stages in Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) of various stand-alone, client-side enterprise applications using Python, Django and Java.  • Experienced in Object Oriented Programming in Python and Java.  • Expertise in processing web applications and establishing Model View Template (MVT) architecture using Python's Django web application framework.  • Strong expertise in development of web based applications using Python, Django, Flask, Dojo, HTML, XML, Angular.JS, CSS, DHTML, JavaScript, JSON and JQuery.  • Sound knowledge in spring, Hibernate, RDBMS, Web, XML, Ant/Maven, HTML, Python, Shell Scripting.  • Experience in developing web services (WSDL, SOAP and REST) and consuming web services with python programming language.  • Well versed with the design and development of presentation layer for web applications using technologies like HTML, CSS and JavaScript.  • Good working knowledge on scraping the web pages using python Beautiful Soup.  • Extensive expertise in AJAX frameworks to transform Datasets and Data tables in to HTTP - serializable JSON strings.  • Good knowledge in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors and Functions on MySQL and PostgreSQL.  • Good knowledge on Big data analytic tools in Hadoop, PIG, Docker and Spark, PySpark.  • Experienced in working with several standard data analytic python packages like Numpy, Pandas, MatplotLib, Seaborn and Scikit.  • Experience in working with business analysts to identify and understand requirements to create Technical Design Documents.  • Experience of working with relational databases like Oracle, SQLite, PostgreSQL, MySQL, DB2 and non-relational databases like MongoDB and Cassandra.  • Successfully migrated the Django database from SQLite to MySQL to PostgreSQL with complete data integrity.  • Experience in Performing data analysis and data modelling to create source to target mappings.  • Knowledge of Hadoop Architecture and various components such as HDFS, MapReduce, HadoopGEN2Federation.  • Expertise in developing fully automated continuous integration system using Git, Gerrit, Jenkins, MySQL and custom tools developed in Python and Bash.  • Knowledge on Cloud innovations including Infrastructure as a Service, Platform as a Service, and Software as a Service supplier (IaaS, PaaS, and SaaS) such as Amazon Web Services (AWS)  • Knowledge in AWS services like Auto Scaling, CloudFormation, CloudTrail, CloudWatch, DynamoDB, EBS, EC2, ELB, IAM, Redshift, RDS, S3, and VPC.  • Developed the required XML Schema documents and implemented the framework for parsing XML documents.  • Excellent Experience and knowledge in using XML, SOAP, web Service for inter operable software applications.  • Fully fledged in working with various Python Integrated Development Environments such as IDLE, Jupyter Notebook, PyCharm, Atom, Eclipse, Sublime Text and PyDev.  • Worked in Agile and Waterfall methodologies with high quality deliverables delivered on time.  • Excellent communication, time-management skills and ability to work alone besides being a valuable and contributing team player. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Developer National Registry of Emergency Medical Technicians - Columbus, OH February 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Implemented full life cycle development of new web applications and modification of existing applications to add new components and features emphasizing maintainability, reliability, scalability and performance.  • Providing daily reports to the Development Manager and participate in both the design phase and the development phase, utilizing Agile Methodology and SCRUM process.  • Worked on tuples, dictionaries, object-oriented concepts based inheritance features for making algorithms.  • Created and updated views with python and Django view controller and template language to create new functionalities to the website.  • Developed scripts using pandas to easily perform read/write operations to CSV files, manipulate and compare data by columns.  • Queried MySQL database queries from Python using MySQL connector and MySQL DB package to retrieve information.  • Design reports, dashboards and data visualization using tableau.  • Successfully interpreted data to draw conclusions for managerial action and strategy.  • For larger datasets, used PysparkDataFrames to analyse the data.  • Developed the required XML Schema documents and implemented the framework for parsing XML documents.  • Developed and maintained parsing modules, which read CSV, XML and JSON data from files and other REST services, processed the data.  • Developed and tested many features for dashboard using Python, Java, Bootstrap, CSS, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Generated Python Django forms to record data of online users and used PyTest for writing test cases.  • Written SQL quires for filtering data from multiple inter linked tables using ORM of Django.  • Implemented and modified various SQL queries and Functions, Cursors and Triggers as per the client requirements.  • Implemented user interface guidelines and standards throughout the development and maintenance of the website using HTML, CSS, JavaScript and jQuery.    Environment: Python, Django, HTML5, XML, CSV, JSON, REST Services, JavaScript, jQuery, MySQL, AJAX, Flask, PostgreSQL, Shell, Bootstrap, Linux, Pytest, Tableau. Python Developer CenturyLink - Dallas, TX January 2017 to December 2017 Responsibilities:  • Developed Enterprise Application in an AGILE environment using Python, Django, HTML, CSS3, JavaScript and Bootstrap.  • Involved in various phases of project like Analysis, Design, Development and Testing.  • Used PyQtto Python Package to create Data tables and perform CRUD operations on SQL database.  • Automated the existing scripts for performance calculations using Numpy and SQLAlchemy to fetch the data.  • Designed and maintained databases using Python and developed python based API using Flask and PostgreSQL.  • Used Django configuration to manage URLs and application parameters.  • Created RESTfulAPI's calls with server parse output json data and perform field by field comparison in State Farm database.  • Implemented and enhanced CRUD operations for the applications using the MVC architecture of Django framework and conducted code reviews.  • Modified queries, functions, cursors, triggers and stored procedures for MySQL database to improve performance, while processing data.  • Used Python and Django to interface with the jQuery UI and manage the storage and deletion of content.  • Developed Python code to gather the data from HBase and designs the solution to implement using PySpark.  • Used Pyspark for machine learning purposes to train the data.  • Used Collections in Python for manipulating and looping through different user defined objects.  • Developed rich user interface using CSS, HTML, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Improved code reuse and performance by making effective use of various design patterns.  • Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes of the two main applications that were a main source of data for both customers and internal customer service team.  • Implemented sambaserver to deploy code from Linux environment to windows environment for easy development and testing of code.  • Designed and developed the UI for the website with HTML, XHTML, CSSand JavaScript.    Environment: Python 2.7, HTML, CSS3, JavaScript, PyQtto, Django, Numpy, Linux, MySQL, Bootstrap, Git, XML, PostgreSQL, RESTfulAPI, HBase, Pyspark, JQuery, SQLAlchemy. Full Stack Python Developer Charles Schwab - Chicago, IL October 2015 to December 2016 Responsibilities:  • Worked with Product Manager on documenting the requirements, conducted conceptual designs, details analysis and technical specification.  • Worked on Python OpenStack APIs and used numpy for Numerical analysis.  • Used HTML, CSS, JavaScript and JQuery for dynamic functionality of a webpage for front end applications.  • Developed non-functional HTML, CSS pages from the mock ups and involved in UI review architect and Business Units.  • Designed and created SQL Databases, tables, indexes, and views based on user requirements.  • Worked with the application developers and provide necessary SQL Scripts using T-SQL.  • Worked on front end frameworks like Bootstrap for responsive webpages.  • Designed and Developed Use-Case Diagrams, Class Diagrams and Object Diagrams using UML Rational Rose.  • Rewrite existing Python/Django/Java module to deliver certain format of data.  • Debug application deployments on Multiple-Environments.  • Assigned to validate all the user inputs before submitting to the back-end.  • Continuously maintained and troubleshoot the Python Django modules.  • Pyro library was used to enable the communication between the host and client machine.  • Implemented the Task Component with CRUD methods and searching and filtering methods.  • Created Stored Procedures, T-SQL statements, Functions to manipulate the databases.  • Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes of the two main applications that were a main source of data for both customers and internal customer service team.    Environment: Python 2.7, Django, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Bootstrap 3, JSON, jQuery, MySQL, SQLite, Pyro, UML, MVC, Shell scripting, Rational Rose, Oracle 9i. Python Developer Value Labs - Hyderabad, Telangana August 2013 to July 2015 Responsibilities:  • Worked effectively on elevating user experience with software solutions by working with design teams.  • Generated Python Django forms to record data of users online and used pytest for writing test cases.  • Modified existing software to upgrade interfaces and improve performance.  • Wrote python scripts to load data and parse XML scripts.  • Rewrite existing Python/Django/Java module to deliver certain format of data.  • Improved user experience by creating and designing new web components and features.  • Developed and tested new features using Bootstrap, HTML and JavaScript.  • Extracted the data from scripts written in python using Beautiful Soup.  • Used SQLAlchemy as Object Relational Mapper (ORM) for writing ORM queries.  • Used AJAX and jQuery for transmitting JSON data objects between frontend and backend.  • Worked with backend engineers and QA team to see projects through, from conception to completion.  • Developed views and templates in Django to create user-friendly website interface.  • Continually established clear operational specifications and formulated software requirements.    Environment: Python 2.7, Django, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, MySQL, Shell scripting, Bootstrap, Linux, ETL, SQLAlchemy. Education Master's Skills BOOTSTRAP (5 years), CSS (5 years), DJANGO (5 years), HTML (5 years), JAVASCRIPT (5 years), PHP, ASP, Android, MySQL, Git, jQuery, HTML 5 Additional Information Technical Skills    Programming skills Python, Java, Java Script, Shell Script, SQL  Operating Systems Window, UNIX, Linux  Python Libraries Numpy, Pandas, MatplotLib, Seaborn, Scikit, BeautifulSoup  Database MySQL, Oracle, NoSQL.  Analytical tools Tableau, MS - Excel, SQL, Pandas,  Web Technologies HTML, CSS, JavaScript, XML, Bootstrap, JSON, NodeJS, MVC, REST APIs.  Frameworks Django, Flask.  Cloud Technologies Hadoop, PIG, Spark, AWS, Docker.  IDE and Other Software  NetBeans, Eclipse, Informatica, MS Office, MS Visual Studio, Sublime Text, Notepad++, Git & GitHub, Atom, Google chart, WEKA, Agile Development Methodology and Agile Sprint.