Sr. Python Developer Sr.<span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Python Developer - Verizon Dayton, OH Work Experience Sr. Python Developer Verizon - Dayton, OH January 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  ? Responsible for gathering requirements, system analysis, design, development, testing and deployment.  ? Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks. Interfacing with supervisors, artists, systems administrators and production to ensure production deadlines are met.  ? Developed Business Logic using Python on Elasticsearch Web Framework.  ? Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, AJAX, CSS and Ruby.  ? Designed and developed data management system using MySQL.  ? Developed Business Logic using Python on Elasticsearch Web Framework.  ? Write scripts using python modules and its libraries to develop programs that improve processing of access requests.  ? Used Ruby and Ajax calls for transmitting JSON data objects between frontend and controllers.  ? Involved in building database Model, APIs and Views utilizing Python, in order to build an interactive web-based solution.  ? Used Python based GUI components for the front-end functionality such as selection criteria, created test harness to enable comprehensive testing utilizing Python.  ? Used Amazon Web Services (AWS) for improved efficiency of storage and fast access.  ? Added support for Amazon AWS S3 and RDS to host static/media files and the database into Amazon Cloud. Involved in front end and utilized Bootstrap and Angular.js for page design.  ? Created Data tables utilizing PyQt to display customer and policy information and add, delete, update customer records.  ? Used Ruby and Ajax calls for transmitting JSON data objects between frontend and controllers.  ? Involved in building database Model, APIs and Views utilizing Python, to build an interactive web-based solution.  ? Used Python based GUI components for the front-end functionality such as selection criteria, Created test harness to enable comprehensive testing utilizing Python.  ? Used Amazon Web Services (AWS) for improved efficiency of storage and fast access.  ? Added support for Amazon AWS S3 and RDS to host static/media files and the database into Amazon Cloud.  ? Involved in front end and utilized Bootstrap and Angular.js for page design. Sr. Python Developer Nordstrom - Seattle, WA March 2014 to December 2016 Responsibilities:  ? Created Python and Bash tools to increase efficiency of call center application system and operations; data conversion scripts, AMQP/Rabbit MQ, REST, JSON, and CRUD scripts for API Integration.  ? Used Celery with Rabbit MQ, MySQL, Elasticsearch, and Flask to create a distributed worker framework.  ? Recording of Scripts (Web, Web Services HTML) using Vugen and Soap UI and script validation through co correlations, parameterizations and other methods. Scripting - web and web services.  ? Application was based on service-oriented architecture and used Python 2.7, Elasticsearch1.5, JSF 2, Ajax, HTML, CSS for the frontend.  ? Created server monitoring daemon with Psutil, supported by Elasticsearch app for analytics which I created. Also researched big data solutions with Cassandra database.  ? Experience with Data migration from Sqlite3 to Apache Cassandra database. Cassandra data model designing, implementation, maintaining and monitoring using DSE, Dev Centre, Data stax Ops center.  ? Build the Silent Circle Management System (SCMC) in Elasticsearch, Python, and Node.JS while integrating with infrastructure services.  ? Created a Python/Elasticsearch based web application using Python scripting for data processing, MySQL for the database, and HTML/CSS/Ruby and High Charts for data visualization of the served pages.  ? Strong Socket programming experience in Python. Implemented complex networking operations like race route, SMTP mail server and web server.  ? Used existing Deal Model in Python to inherit and create object data structure for regulatory reporting.  ? Used standard Python modules e.g. csv, robot parser, iter tools, pickle, jinja2, lxml for development.  ? Managed, developed, and designed a dashboard control panel for customers and Administrators using Elasticsearch, HTML, CSS, Ruby, Bootstrap, Ruby and RESTAPI calls.  ? Automated RabbitMQ cluster installations and configuration using Python/Bash.  ? Used Pandas API to put the data as time series and tabular format for east timestamp data manipulation and retrieval.  ? Deployed the project into Heroku using GIT version control system.  ? Built various graphs for business decision making using Python mat plotlib library.  ? Fetched twitter feeds for certain important keyword using python-twitter library.  ? Used Python library Beautiful Soup for web scrapping to extract data for building graphs.  ? Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes of the two main applications that were a main source of data for both customers and internal customer service team.  ? Executing regression tests on each release and verified bugs found from automation test in Bugzilla.  ? Planning, implementing, and converting manual test cases to automation test cases.  ? Trained extensively in agile methodologies and implemented by participating in scrum stand ups, Kanban mode, discussing and implementing requirements with clients. Python Developer Vanguard - Wayne, PA September 2012 to February 2014 Responsibilities:  ? Used Elasticsearch Framework for developing web applications using model view control architecture.  ? Used Multi-Threading factory model to distribute learning process back-testing and the into various worker processes.  ? Managed, developed, and designed a dashboard control panel for customers and Administrators using Elasticsearch, Oracle DB and VMWare API calls.  ? Implemented configuration changes for data models.  ? Maintained and updated existing automated solutions.  ? Handled potential points of failure through error handling and communication of failure.  ? Performed efficient delivery of code based on principles of Test Driven Development (TDD) and continuous integration to keep in line with Agile Software Methodology principles.  ? Different testing methodologies like unit testing, Integration testing, web application testing Selenium testing performed.  ? Lock mechanisms were implemented and the functionality of multithreading has been used.  ? Python/Elasticsearch based web application, Postgresql DB, and integrations with 3rd party email, messaging, storage services.  ? Developed a fully automated continuous integration system using Git, Gerrit, Jenkins, MySQL and custom tools developed in Python and Bash.  ? Design and implemented custom scripts. Extensive use of version controller Team Foundation Server (TFS).  ? Test and validated the custom scripts.  ? Delivered automated solutions for science models.  ? Anticipated potential parts of failure (database, communication points, file system errors).  ? Troubleshoot the process execution and worked with other team members to correct them.  ? Actively worked as a part of team with managers and other staff to meet the goals of the project in the stipulated time.  ? Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes of the two main applications that were a main source of data for both customers and internal customer service team.  ? Used Pandas library for statistics Analysis.  ? Used RESTful for Numerical analysis for Insurance premium.  ? Managed large datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL.  ? Used advanced packages in AON PATHWISE for performing unit test and deploying data models.  ? Troubleshooting the issues related to all domain reported by L2 team on daily basis.  ? Developed GUI using webapp2 for dynamically displaying the test block documentation and other features of python code using a web browser.  ? Developed the required XML Schema documents and implemented the framework for parsing XML documents.  ? As point on the L2 support team worked with application, database, reporting, SQM and project managements team to resolve.  ? Responsible for user validations on client side as well as server side.  ? Automated the existing scripts for performance calculations using RESTful and SQL alchemy.  Interacted with QA to develop test plans from high-level design documentation. Python Developer Comcast - Philadelphia, PA September 2010 to August 2012 Responsibilities:  ? Developed web applications and RESTful web services and APIs using Python, Elasticsearch, Tornado and PHP.  ? Created and integrated APIs on RESTful.  ? Created element locking mechanism using SSE and RESTful.  ? To fetch data of definite options that are selected, Python routines were written to log into websites.  ? Responsible for setting up Python REST API framework using Elasticsearch.  ? Developed ETL jobs in Python to extract, transform and load data into MySQL database.  ? Developing Python Framework using Elasticsearch to perform scan software unit monitoring.  ? Design and development of user interfaces and client displays using Ruby, CSS and troubleshoot various issues in Python code and fix them with code enhancements- code used various python libraries such as Jython.  ? Used python modules like RESTful, Matplotlib and Pandas library for statistical analysis and generating complex graphical data.  ? Used Pandas API to put the data as time series and tabular format for east timestamp data manipulation and retrieval.  ? Wrote MapReduce code to make unstructured data into semi- structured data and loaded into Hive tables  ? Hosted various company-wide training sessions on Pandas, RESTful, Microservices.  ? Built various graphs for business decision making using Python matplotlib.  ? Developed and tested many features for dashboard using Python, Bootstrap, CSS, and Ruby.  ? Research on Data mining techniques using python and comparing data mining algorithms  ? Developed new C++ encapsulation wrapper classes for OCCI classes.  ? Responsible for setting up Python REST API framework using Elasticsearch.  ? Developed views and templates with Python and Elasticsearch view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  ? Used Ruby, AJAX and JSON to update a portion of a webpage.  ? Responsible for debugging the project monitored on JIRA (Agile).  ? Wrote Python scripts to parse JSON documents and load the data in database.  ? Created database using MySQL and Postgres, wrote several queries to extract data from database  ? Setup automated cron jobs to upload data into database, generate graphs, bar charts, upload these charts to wiki and backup the database.  ? Successfully migrated the Elasticsearch database from SQLite to MySQL to PostgreSQL with complete data integrity.  ? Designed front end using UI, HTML, Bootstrap, Node JS, underscore JS, Angular JS, CSS, and Ruby.  ? Followed AGILE development methodology to develop the application.  ? Used Test driven approach (TDD) for developing services required for the application. Education Bachelor's Skills Java, Drupal, Hadoop, Cobol, AEM