Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - Merck & Co Inc Monmouth Junction, NJ ? 5 years of IT experience in Analysis, Design, Development, Implementation and Testing of various stand-alone and client-server architecture based enterprise application software in Python on various domains.  ? Hands-on experience to design and code in various technologies such as Python and SQL.  ? Experience with Design, code, debug operations, reporting, data analysis and web applications utilizing Python.  ? Developed views and templates with Python and Django view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  ? Experience with Core Python and NumPy, Django, Panda and Flask.  ? Experience working on with Integrated Development Environments (IDE's) like PyCharm, PyScripter, Spyder, PyStudio, PyDev and Sublime text.  ? Good experience in developing web applications implementing Model View Control architecture using Django, Flask, Pyramid Python web application frameworks.  ? Strong expertise in the development of web based applications using Python, Django, HTML, XML, Angular JS, CSS, DHTML, JavaScript, JSON, and JQuery.  ? Good Knowledge and experience in Object Oriented Design and Programming concepts.  ? Hands on experience in using Python /Perl to code and design various phases for data processing pipeline.  ? Good experience in using different kind of data bases like MySql, OracleDb, Teradata and Apache Cassandra.  ? Good knowledge in SQL and coding PL/SQL Packages, Procedures.  ? Good knowledge in PL/SQL programming: stored procedures, functions, packages, triggers, performance tuning and optimization.  ? Hands on experience in Shell Scripting, SQL Server, Unix and Linux.  ? Good Understanding of the threading limitations of python and multi-process architecture.  ? Experience in building frameworks and automating complex workflows using Python.  ? Worked in agile and waterfall methodologies with high quality deliverables delivered on-time.  ? Experience in working with different operating systems like Windows, Linux and Unix.  ? Good Knowledge on software development and frameworks of GO.  ? Having experienced in Agile Methodologies, Scrum stories and sprints experience in a Python based environment, along with data analytics, data wrangling, and Excel data extracts.  ? Good problem solving and sound decision-making capabilities, recognized by associates for the quality of data, alternative solutions, confident, and accurate. Work Experience Python Developer Merck & Co Inc - North Wales, PA April 2016 to Present Responsibilities:  ? Managed large datasets using Pandadata frames and PostgreSQL.  ? Maintained program libraries, users' manuals and technical documentation.  ? Developed and tested many features for dashboard using Python, Bootstrap, CSS, and JavaScript.  ? Automated Regression analysis for determining fund returns based on index returns ( Python/Excel).  ? Wrote and executed various PostgreSQL database queries from python.  ? Analyzed and Designed application and created UI using JavaScript and HTML5/CSS.  ? Implemented business logic using Python/Django.  ? Uploading, copying, downloading and deleting files using Amazon S3.  ? Exported/Imported data between different data sources using SQL Server Management Studio.  ? Designed and developed a testing suite using Python to perform an automated test for testing every function of the website.  ? Thorough knowledge in various frontend tools like HTML, DHTML, CSS, JavaScript, and XML.  ? Designed the architecture of the hardware environments and methodology of the code.  ? Experienced in Agile Methodologies and SCRUM Process and added unit tests and improved existing ones.  ? Worked in development of applications especially in UNIX environment and familiar with all of its commands.  ? Refactored existing project to make it more Restful and thread-safe.  ? Designed Restful XML web service for handling AJAX requests.  ? Deployed with Fabric on AWS on EC2 instance with Postgres RDS and S3 file storage.  ? Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes of the two main applications that were the main source of data for both customers and internal customer service team.  ? Created most important Business Rules which are useful for the scope of project and needs of customers  ? Build SQL queries for performing various CRUD operations like create, update, read and delete.  ? Work with a team of developers on python applications for RISK management.  ? Used Pandas library for statistics Analysis and added support for the open stock.  ? Created unit and functional test cases through the use of testing tools such as Python and Bash.  ? Created most important Business Rules which are useful for the scope of project and needs of customers.  ? Built various graphs for business decision-making using Python matplotlib library.  ? Fetched twitter feeds for certain important keyword using the python-twitter library.  ? Used Python library Beautiful Soup for webscrapping.css.  ? Added support for Amazon AWS S3 and RDS to host static/media files and the database into Amazon Cloud.    Environment: Python 2.7, Django, HTML5/CSS, SVN, UNIX, MS SQL Server 2013, Shell Scripting, RESTful, AWS S3 CLI, JavaScript, Eclipse, Linux. Python Developer CMC Limited - Hyderabad, Telangana April 2014 to December 2014 Responsibilities:  ? Conducting my role in entire Software Development Life Cycle of the project.  ? The base of the projects has been developed using Django, Python and MySQL.  ? Database manipulation is done by using Django database API along with MySQL.  ? Created tables, stored procedures, triggers and views.  ? Contributed in writing views of the Django.  ? Developed algorithms to deliver business function and components.  ? Wrote scripts using python modules and libraries to develop programs which improve processing of access request.  ? For testing purpose, used unit test framework - unit test.  ? Developed remote integration with third party platforms by using RESTful web services.  ? Configured and deployed project using the Amazon EC2 on AWS.  ? Using agile methodology - SCRUM, along with JIRA for project.  ? Used python module named Pandas for data manipulation.  ? Worked on front end technologies like AngularJS, HTML, CSS, bootstrap.  ? Using version control tool - Github with Jenkins to accumulate all the work done by team members.  Environment: Python, Django, MySQL, Github, Jenkins, AngularJS, AWS, Linux, JIRA, HTML, CSS, Bootstrap. Jr. Python Developer Hindustan Petroleum - Hyderabad, Telangana May 2013 to March 2014 Responsibilities:  ? Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  ? Design, develop, test, deploy and maintain the website.  ? Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  ? Designed and developed data management system using MongoDB.  ? Rewrite existing Python/Django modules to deliver certain format of data.  ? Used Django Database API's to access database objects.  ? Wrote python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  ? Generated property list for every application dynamically using python.  ? Handled all the client side validation using JavaScript.  ? Creating unit test/regression test framework for working/new code.  ? Training environment created with Docker.  ? Build SQL queries implementing functions, packages, views, triggers and tables.  ? AWS data pipeline for Data Extraction, Transformation and Loading from homogeneous or heterogeneous data sources.  ? Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  ? Handling the day to day issues and fine tuning the applications for enhanced performance.  Environment: Python 2.7, Django 1.0, MySQL, Linux, HTML, XHTML, CSS, AJAX, JavaScript, SQL, MySQL, Apache Web Server. Python Developer Chennai, Tamil Nadu July 2012 to April 2013 Responsibilities:  ? Worked on server side applications using Python programming.  ? Worked on front end frame works like CSS Bootstrap for responsive WebPages.  ? Developed and tested many features for dashboard, created using Bootstrap, CSS, and JavaScript.  ? Utilized standard Python modules such as CSV, robot parser, itertools and pickle for development.  ? Worked on Python Open Stack APIs and used NumPy for Numerical analysis.  ? Used AJAX and JQuery for transmitting JSON data objects between frontend and controllers.  ? Developed Wrapper in Python for instantiating multi-threaded application.  ? Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  ? Managed datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL.  ? Queried MySQL database queries from Python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL dB package to retrieve information.  ? Developed various algorithms for generating several data patterns.  ? Used JIRA for bug tracking and issue tracking.  ? Added several options to the application to choose algorithm for data and address generation.  Environment: Python 2.7, CSS, HTML, BOOTSTRAP, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX, MYSQL, Linux. Education Master of Computer and Information Science in Computer and Information Science Kent State University - Kent, OH 2015 to 2016 Bachelor of Engineering in Electronics and Communication Bapatla Engineering College - Bapatla, Andhra Pradesh 2008 to 2012 Skills CSS (4 years), HTML (4 years), LINUX (4 years), PYTHON (4 years), AJAX (3 years) Additional Information Skills    • Programming Languages: Python, Java, C, C++, SQL, Perl, Ruby.  • Web Technologies: HTML/HTML5, CSS/CSS3, XML, JavaScript, AJAX, JQuery, JSON, Shell Scripting.  • Frameworks: Django, Flask, Pyramid, Angular Js, Node Js, CSS Bootstrap  • Application Servers: Apache Tomcat, Apache HTTP webserver, Weblogic, Websphere, JBoss    • Operating Systems: Windows, RedHat Linux, Unix, Ubuntu.  • Databases: MYSQL, SQLite3, PostgreSQL, MongoDB, Oracle.  • Version Control: SVN, CVS, Git, Github.  • Development Tools: Eclipse, PyCharm, NetBeans, PyStudio, PyDev, Sublime Text  • Deployment Tools: Heroku, Jenkins, Docker, Amazon EC2  • Agile Methodologies: TTD, SCRUM  • J2EE Technologies: JSP, Java Servlets, JDBC, JMS