Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - Verizon Wireless Boston, MA • 5+ Years of experience in Analysis, Design, Development, Testing, Customization, Bug fixes, Enhancement, Support and Implementation of various web, stand-alone, client-server enterprise applications using Python, Django in various domains.  • Experienced with full software development life-cycle (SDLC), architecting scalable platforms, object oriented programming (OOPs), database design and agile methodologies.  • Good experience of software development in Python (libraries used: Beautiful Soup, numpy, scipy, matplotlib, python-twitter, Pandas data frame, network, urllib2, MySQL dB for database connectivity) and IDEs - sublime text, Spyder, pycharm, emacs.  • Extensive experience in system analysis, design, development and implementation of web based and client/server application using HTML, AngularJS, Bootstrap, underscore.JS, Node.JS, CSS, JavaScript, AJAX, JSP, JDBC, XML, XSLT, Python, Django.  • Good experience in developing web applications implementing MVT/MVC architecture using Django, Flask, Webapp2 and spring web application frameworks.  • Good Experience in Linux Bash scripting and following PEP Guidelines in Python.  • Experienced in monitoring, developing and transforming data using SQL Server Integration Service (SSIS) and SQL Server Analysis Service (SSAS).  • Experienced with databases using ORMs/DOMs for integrating with MySQL, Postgres, Neo4J, MongoDB, and Cassandra SQLite.  • Architecture, size (Capacity planning), Data modeling, implementation and support Cassandra Clusters including install, configure and upgrade DSE v3/4 (Cassandra v 1/2.x) and OpsCenter v 4.x/5.x on Bare metal and Cloud including AWS (Amazon Web Services).  • Configure backup, alerts, repairs and monitoring of Cassandra clusters, in conjunction with Nagios/OpsCenter and custom scripts.  • Extensive experience in designing MongoDB multi-shared cluster and monitoring with MMS.  • Experience with creating script for data modeling and data import and export. Extensive experience in deploying, managing and developing MongoDB clusters.  • Good Knowledge of web services using SOAP and REST protocols.  • Used Node.js as a proxy to interact with Rest services and interacting with Database.  • Good knowledge of version control software - CVS, GitHub.  • Experience in working with deployment tools like Microsoft Azure, Heroku and Jenkins.  • Deployed production site using Apache 2.0 with mod_ python.  • Hands on experience with bug tracking tools JIRA and Bugzilla.  • Skilled in debugging/troubleshooting issues in complex applications.  • Excellent experience with Python development under Linux OS (Ubuntu, RedHat Linux, Fedora).  • Adept in analyzing business data and building reports using complex queries, stored procedures, triggers, cursors and user defined functions.  • Experienced communicating with business users, well-being with a team or as an individual, working in Agile development environment adhering to deadlines. Sponsorship required to work in the US Work Experience Python Developer Verizon Wireless - Tampa, FL January 2015 to Present Responsibilities:  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Refactor Python/Django modules to deliver certain format of data.  • Managed datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL, queried MYSQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQLdb package to retrieve information.  • Implemented user interface guidelines and standards throughout the development and maintenance of the website using the HTML, CSS, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Utilized Python libraries wxPython, numPY, Twisted and matPlotLib.  • Wrote Python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Used Wireshark, live http headers, and Fiddler2 debugging proxy to debug the Flash object and help the developer create a functional component. The PHP page for displaying the data uses AJAX to sort and display the data. The page also outputs data to .csv for viewing in Microsoft Excel.  • Parsers written in Python for extracting useful data from the design data base.  • Development of Python APIs to dump the array structures in the Processor at the failure point for debugging.  • Involved in development of Web Services using SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface in the XML format.  • Experienced in Install, setup, and configured Cisco switches for TCP/IP intra-network and wireless access point across the network for the local area network and Wi-Fi.  • Experienced hardware installation of patch panels and fiber optic connectivity, hubs, cabling of cat5 and RJ45 connectors.  • Managing of internet security and acceleration throughout the network using Microsoft's ISA server.  • Written functional phpunit test cases for DataLayer, and Searchserver classes using Django, Curl, XML, JSON, REST base services, and MongoDB.  • Creating restful web services for Catalog and Pricing with Django MVT, Jersey, MySQL, and MongoDB.  • Representation of the system in hierarchy form by defining the components, subcomponents using Python and developed set of library functions over the system based on the user needs.  • Generated graphical reports using python package Numpy and matPlotLib.  • Usage of advance features like pickle/unpickle in python for sharing the information across the applications.  • Used Selenium Library to write fully functioning test automation process that allowed the simulation of submitting different requests from multiple browsers to web application.  • Created Data tables utilizing PyQtto display customer and policy information and add, delete, update customer records.  • Used Python and Django creating graphics, XML processing, data exchange and business logic implementation.  • Used Python based GUI components for the front end functionality such as selection criteria. Administration of dedicated collocated RHEL 4 machine and configured complex Apache configuration files.  • Added support for Amazon AWS S3 and RDS to host static/media files and the database into Amazon Cloud.  • Writing Python scripts with CloudFormation templates to automate installation of Autoscaling, EC2, VPC, and other services.  • Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks. Interfacing with supervisors, artists, systems administrators and production to ensure production deadlines are met.  • Used third party JQuery based plug-ins like JQueryUI, Datatables etc. Heavily used JavaScript for Form Submit and other UI elements during development.  • Utilize in-depth knowledge of Technical experience in LAMP and other leading-edge products and technology in conjunction with industry and business skills to deliver solutions to customer.  • Representation of the system in hierarchy form by defining the components, subcomponents using Python and developed set of library functions over the system based on the user needs.  • Used REST and SOAP UI for testing web service for server side changes.    Environment: Python 3.4/2.7, Django 1.7, MongoDB, MySQL, AJAX, SOAP, REST, JQuery, JavaScript, Bootstrap, PyCharm, AWS (EC2, S3, RDS). Python Developer MD Anderson Cancer Center - Houston, TX December 2013 to November 2014 Responsibilities:  • Created Python and Bash tools to increase efficiency of call center application system and operations; data conversion scripts, AMQP/RabbitMQ, REST, JSON, and CRUD scripts for API Integration.  • Used Celery with RabbitMQ, MySQL, Django, and Flask to create a distributed worker framework.  • Recording of Scripts (Web, Web Services HTML) using Vugen and SoapUI and script validation through co correlations, parameterizations and other methods. Scripting- web and web services.  • Application was based on service oriented architecture and used Python 2.7, Django 1.5, JSF 2, Spring 2, Ajax, HTML, CSS for the frontend.  • Created server monitoring daemon with Psutil, supported by Django app for analytics which I created. Also researched big data solutions with Cassandra database.  • Build the Silent Circle Management System (SCMC) in Django, Python, and Node.JS while integrating with infrastructure services.  • Created a Python/Django based web application using Python scripting for data processing, MySQL for the database, and HTML/CSS/JQuery and HighCharts for data visualization of the served pages.  • Used existing Deal Model in Python to inherit and create object data structure for regulatory reporting.  • Used standard Python modules e.g. csv, robotparser, itertools, pickle, jinja2, lxml for development.  • Managed, developed, and designed a dashboard control panel for customers and Administrators using Django, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Bootstrap, JQuery and REST API calls.  • Automated RabbitMQ cluster installations and configuration using Python/Bash.  • Used Pandas API to put the data as time series and tabular format for east timestamp data manipulation and retrieval.  • Deployed the project into Heroku using GIT version control system.  • Improved the coding standards, code reuse. Increased performance of the extended applications by making effective use of various design patterns (Front Controller, DAO).  • Worked on a large scale distributed computing environment, monitoring data nodes to prioritize jobs for processing functions.  • Worked extensively with Bootstrap, Javascript, and JQuery to optimize the user experience.  • Used Python and Django to interface with the JQuery UI and manage the storage and deletion of content.  • Carried out various mathematical operations for calculation purpose using python libraries.  • Built various graphs for business decision making using Python matplotlib library.  • Fetched twitter feeds for certain important keyword using python-twitter library.  • Used Python library BeautifulSoup for webscrapping to extract data for building graphs.  • Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes of the two main applications that were a main source of data for both customers and internal customer service team.  • Executing regression tests on each release and verified bugs found from automation test in Bugzilla.  • Planning, implementing, and converting manual test cases to automation test cases.  • Trained extensively in agile methodologies and implemented by participating in scrum standups, Kanban mode, discussing and implementing requirements with clients.    Environment: Python, Django, Cassandra, RabbitMQ, Vugen, SoapUI, Node.JS, REST API, Bash, PyDev, Spyder, Agile. Python Developer Citigroup Inc - New York, NY December 2012 to November 2013 Responsibilities:  • Used Django framework for application development.  • Developed user interface using, CSS, HTML, JavaScript and Jquery and Django.  • Assisted in reduction of cost and optimization of supplier selection for the CRM Applications. Also, used methods for cross application use using the Class Builder and Object Oriented programming. Generated an API Reference guide to help application developers for creating the software applications to store data using DDN S3 (compatible with Amazon S3 API) or DDN OpenStack Swift API calls.  • Ensured high quality data collection and maintaining the integrity of the data.  • Cleaned data and processed third party spending data into maneuverable deliverables within specific formats with Excel macros and python libraries. Used TDD (Test driven development) methodology.  • Used several python libraries like wxPython, numPY and matPlotLib.  • Was involved in environment, code installation as well as the SVN implementation.  • Build all database mapping classes using Django models and Cassandra.  • Used Pandas API to put the data as time series and tabular format for east timestamp data manipulation and retrieval.  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL.  • Creating unit test/regression test framework for working/new code.  • This project also used other technologies like JQuery for Javascript manipulations, bootstrap for the front-end html layout.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  • Coded test programs and evaluated existing engineering processes.  • Designed and configured database and backend applications and programs.  • Performed research to explore and identify new technological platforms.  Environment: Python, Django, CSS, HTML, JavaScript, Jquery, wxPython, numPY, matPlotLib, MySQL Python Developer PlantoGraph Solutions Pvt. Ltd - Hyderabad, Andhra Pradesh October 2011 to November 2012 Responsibilities:  • Translated the customer requirements into design specifications and ensured that the requirements translate into software solution.  • Application was based on service oriented architecture and used Python 2.5, Django 1.5, JSF 2, Spring 2, Ajax, HTML, CSS for the frontend.  • Designed the front end of the application using Python, Java, HTML, CSS, AJAX, JSON and JQuery. Worked on backend of the application, mainly using Active Records.  • Involved in the design, development and testing phases of application using AGILE methodology.  • Developed and designed an API (RESTful Web Service).  • Used the Python language to develop web-based data retrieval systems.  • Designed and maintained databases using Python and developed Python based API (RESTful Web Service) using Flask, SQLAlchemy and PostgreSQL.  • Developed web sites using Django, Python, XHTML, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Developed and designed e-mail marketing campaigns using HTML and CSS.  • Tested and implemented applications built using Python.  • Developed and tested many features for dashboard using Python, ROBOT framework, Bootstrap, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Created complex dynamic HTML UI using jQuery.  • Automated Regression analysis for determining fund returns based on index returns ( Python/Excel).  • Worked on development of SQL and stored procedures, trigger and function on MYSQL.  • Developed shopping cart for Library and integrated web services to access the payment.  • Used PHP language on lamp server to develop page.  • Developed server based web traffic statistical analysis tool using Flask, Pandas.  • Implemented and tested python based web applications interacting with MySQL.  • Simple web app for reviewing sitcoms that gives users the ability to view, add, review, up/down vote, search, etc.  • Involved in doing AGILE (SCRUM) practices and planning of sprint attending daily agile (SCRUM) meetings and SPRINT retrospective meetings to produce quality deliverables within time.    Environment: Linux, Python, Mod Python, Perl, PHP, MySQL, JavaScript, Ajax, Shell Script, HTML, CSS. Skills BOOTSTRAP (5 years), CSS (5 years), DJANGO (5 years), HTML (5 years), MYSQL (5 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  Primary Languages  Python, Java, C/C++.  Database  Sqlite3, MSSQL, MySQL, Mongo DB, Oracle 11g.  Bug Tracking Tools  Axosoft, JIRA, Bugzilla, Rational Clear-quest.    Python Libraries  Beautiful Soup, numpy, scipy, matplotlib, python-twitter, Pandas data frame, urllib2.  Web Technologies  HTML, CSS, DHTML, XML, Java Script.  SDLC Methods  SCRUM, Agile    Frameworks  Bootstrap, Django, Node.JS, Flask, PyJamas, Pyramid, Hibernate.  Version Controls  VSS, SVN, Github, Source Tree.  Operating systems  Windows, Mac, Fedora Linux, Red hat Linux.