Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - Wipro Limited Nashville, TN ? Having 8+ Years of Experience as web/application developer software development and design using python, Django, Java, Webapp2, Angular.js, HTML/CSS, JavaScript and jQuery  ? Experienced in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, Subroutines, functions on SQL, PL/SQL and PostgreSQL database.  ? Software development and design using Python 2.7,3.3.1 and 3.4, Django 1.9/1.8,XML, CSS,HTML, JavaScript, JQuery and Angular Js.  ? Experienced in understanding principles and best practices of Software Configuration Management (SCM) processes, which include compiling, packaging, deploying and Application configurations.  ? Good knowledge in working with application server - Apache Server, Tomcat (6.0, 7.0, 8.0), Nginx, WebLogic (10.0, 10.3, 11g), WebSphere (7.0, 8.5).  ? Created a python, Django web-based application using Python scripting for data processing and MySQL for database, HTML, CSS, jQuery for data visualization.  ? Experienced in Agile Methodologies, Scrum stories and sprints experience in a Pythonbased environment, along with data analytics, data wrangling and Excel data extracts.  ? Hands on experience with Spark Core, Spark SQL and Data Frames/Data Sets/RDD API.  ? Write, maintain and improve automation scripts in Python  ? Expertise in MVW frameworks like Django, Angular JS, JavaScript, jQuery and Node JS.  ? Used Ansible and Ansible Tower as Configuration management tool, to automate repetitive tasks, quickly deploys critical applications, and proactively manages change.  ? Ability to work on own initiative and as a part of team. Willingness to learn new Technologies, openness to new ideas and ability to learn very quickly.  ? Expertise with cloud platforms like Amazon AWS  ? Proficient in Front end development experience using Python 3.6/2.7, Django 1.7/1.8, HTML, XML, CSS, JavaScript, Bootstrap, JQuery, JSON and, Angular.js, Node.js.  ? Strong Experience with python automation in automating Rest API and UI automation using Selenium web driver using Python.  ? Using Amazon EC2 command line interface along with Bash/ Python to automate repetitive work.  ? Designed and managed API system deployment using fast HTTP server and Amazon AWS architecture.  ? Involved in designing and developing of Automation Test cases using Selenium WebDriver, Java, and TestNG.  ? Development, Quality Assurance and Management teams to ensure cross communication and confirmed approval of all production changes.  ? Connected continuous integration system with GIT version control repository and continually build as the check-in's come from the developer.  ? Written Programs in Spark using Scala and Python for Data quality check.  ? Working experience in UNIX and Linux shell environments using command line utilities.  ? Creating Python scripts to automate daily networking tasks (Ex. auto Config generation, retrieving information from network devices, parsing data, etc.) - including a custom Fortigate firewall Config generator (which included multi-threaded functionality to generate Configs for multiple firewalls at once).  ? Used Python/Django MVC framework to design and develop the application.  ? Experience in Kubernets which provide a platform for automating deployment, scaling and operations of application containers across clusters of hosts.  ? Imported the data from different sources like AWSS3, Local file system into Spark RDD and worked on cloud Amazon Web Services (EMR, S3, EC2, Lambda).  ? Good knowledge in various stages of SDLC (Software Development Life Cycle), Software Testing Life Cycle (STLC) and QA methodologies from project definition to post-deployment documentation.  ? Expertise in using Application Deployments & Environment configuration using Chef. Hands on experience on Automation/Build such as Docker, Chef.  ? Involved in converting Hive/SQL queries into Spark transformations using Spark RDDs, Python and Scala.  ? Experience with automation, web development and engineering environment tools such as JIRA, Jenkins, Git, BitBucket, Chef, Selenium, QTP, Maven.  ? Experienced in understanding principles and best practices of Software Configuration Management (SCM) processes, which include compiling, packaging, deploying and Application configurations.  ? Good experience with Python frameworks like Flask and WebApp2.  ? Performed Unit testing, Integration Testing and generating of test cases for web applications using Junit and Python Unit test framework Hudson/Jenkins in the builds triggered by each push to GIT.  ? Proficient in SQL databases MS SQL, MYSQL, Oracle and NO SQL databases MongoDB, Cassandra.  ? Ability to work on own initiative and as a part of team. Willingness to learn new Technologies, openness to new ideas and ability to learn very quickly.  ? Have Experience in List Comprehensions and Python inbuilt functions such as Map, Filter and Lambda.  ? Experience in working with AWS (Amazon Web Services) cloud platform and its features which includes EC2, IAM, EBS CloudWatch, AWS Config and AWS S3.  ? Experience working on scalable environment in Agile/SCRUM methodologies Preparing Test Cases using TDD (test driven development) and BDD (behavior driven development)  ? Having working Knowledge in DevOps Environment as an automation engineer on various technologies/ applications like GIT, SVN, Puppet, Chef, Docker, AWS, etc.  ? Familiar with JSON based REST Web services and Amazon Web services (AWS) and Responsible for setting  ? Experience with Unit testing/ Test driven Development (TDD), Load Testing in JIRA, JENKIN.  ? Hands-on experience in writing and reviewing requirements, architecture documents, test plans, design and maintaining documents, quality analysis and helping with the software release process Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Developer Wipro Limited - Nashville, TN September 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  ? Designed front end and backend of the application using Python on Django Web Framework.  ? Develop consumer-based features and applications using Python and Django in test driven Development and pair-based programming.  ? Good experience in developing web applications and implementing Model View Control (MVC) architecture using server-side applications like Django and Flask.  ? Developed and tested many features for dashboard using Python, Java, Bootstrap, CSS, JavaScript and jQuery.  ? Created interactive data charts on web application using High charts JavaScript library with data coming from Apache Cassandra.  ? Created Terraform scripts for EC2 instances, Elastic Load balancers and S3 buckets. Implemented Terraform to manage the AWS infrastructure and managed servers using configuration management tools like Chef and Ansible.  ? Wrote ANSIBLE Playbooks with Python, SSH as the Wrapper to Manage Configurations of AWS Nodes and Test Playbooks on AWS instances using Python. Run Ansible Scripts to provision Dev servers.  ? Worked on frontend frameworks like CSS Bootstrap for development of Web application.  ? Build Web pages that are more user-interactive using AJAX, JavaScript, and React.JS, Redux  ? Worked in MySQL database on simple queries and writing Stored Procedures for normalization and denormalization.  ? Used Python based GUI components for the front-end functionality such as selection criteria.  ? Connected continuous integration system with GIT version control repository and continually build as the check-in's come from the developer.  ? Worked with View Sets in Django-REST framework for providing web services and consumed web services performing CRUD operations.  ? Experience with continuous integration and automation using Jenkins.  ? Wrote ANSIBLE Playbooks with Python, SSH as the Wrapper to Manage Configurations of AWS Nodes and Test Playbooks on AWS instances using Python. Run Ansible Scripts to provision Dev servers.  ? Used Flask framework for application development.  ? Designed and implemented a dedicated MYSQL database server to drive the webapps and report on daily progress.  ? Developed python Script for moving files from drop box to Amazon server.  ? Consumed external APIs and wrote RESTful API using Django REST Framework and AngularJs.  ? Developed views and templates with python and Django view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly Website interface.  ? Developed internal project in Flask to generate report from google analytics on daily, monthly and weekly basis.  ? Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL dB package.  ? Used Python Library Beautiful Soup 4 for Web Scraping to extract data for building graphs.  ? Worked in development of applications especially in UNIX environment and familiar with all its commands.  ? Maintained Git repositories for DevOps environment: Version control and build automationintegrating git into Jenkins  ? Designed and developed data management system using MySQL.  ? Developed dynamic frontend and backend applications using Python, Flask Frameworks  ? Creating unit test/regression test framework for working/new code  ? Building most of UI Design in Angular 4,5.  ? Used Python Library Beautiful Soup for webScrapping.  ? Designed SPA (Single page applications) in Flux architecture using React.js.  ? Used AWS lambda to run servers without managing them and to trigger to run code by S3 and SNS  ? Experience with popular React.js workflows (such as Flux or Redux  ? Responsible for debugging the project monitored on JIRA.  ? Designed and managed API system deployment using fast HTTP server and Amazon AWS architecture.  ? Build Web pages that are more user-interactive using AJAX, JavaScript, and React.JS, Redux.  ? Implemented client-side Interface using React JS.  ? Used Amazon Web Services (AWS) for improved efficiency of storage and fast access  ? Build React components and stand-alone functions to be added to any future pages.  ? Designed and implemented a scalable data pipeline in C++ and Python for each step of the machine learning process.  ? Developed Model View Controller (MVC) architecture-based Web Applications in Ruby on Rails, Backbone.js and Code Igniter.  ? Successfully migrated the Django database from SQLite to MySQL to PostgreSQL with complete data integrity and Designed, developed and deployed CSV Parsing using the big data approach on AWS EC2.  ? Involved in writing optimization techniques for more accuracy of Macros in C/C++, C++ routines and Oracle SQL, PL/SQL.  ? Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  ? Resolved ongoing problems and accurately documented progress of a project.  Environment: Python 3.4/2.7, Django 2.0/1.6, HTML5, CSS, AWS, API Gateway, Java, J2EE, REST API, Spring framework, AngularJS, HTML, Amazon S3, CloudWatch, eclipse, MS-SQL Server, GIT, Jira, Jenkins, Confluence. , MySQL, redux, JavaScript, jQuery, Hadoop/Bigdata Python Developer Koch Industries - Atlanta, GA June 2015 to September 2017 Responsibilities:  ? Designed front end and backend of the application utilizing Python on Django Web Framework.  ? Developed consumer-based features and applications using Python and Django in test driven Development.  ? Worked on front end frame works like CSS Bootstrap for development of Web applications.  ? Involved in various phases of the project like analysis, design, development, and testing.  ? Launched Kubernetes to provide a platform for automating deployment, scaling and operations of application containers across clusters of hosts.  ? Develop consumer-based features and applications using Python, Django, pyramid, Flask, Web2py, HTML and other web technologies.  ? With using of Python OS module on UNIX environment, made job cloning and forking.  ? Wrote Python modules to extract/load asset data from the MySQL source database.  ? Designed and implemented a dedicated MySQL database server to drive the web apps and report on daily progress.  ? Integrated Redis-Cache with the Django-rest-framework for reading the data faster.  ? Implemented RESTful Web-Services for sending and receiving the data between multiple systems.  ? Extensively worked on Jenkins by installing, configuring and maintaining for Continuous integration(CI) and for End to End automation for all build and deployments.  ? Implemented Bash, Perl, Python scripting to Automate many day-to-day tasks.  ? Launched Kubernetes to provide a platform for automating deployment, scaling and operations of application containers across clusters of hosts.  ? Involved in Developing a Restful API'S service using Python Flask framework.  ? Developed the notification service by posting the JSON request in AWS API Gateway, Validating the response in Lambda by getting the data from DynamoDB and sending the notification through AWS SNS.  ? Wrote with object-oriented Python, Flask, SQL, Beautiful Soup, httplib2, Jinja2, HTML/CSS, Bootstrap, jQuery, Linux, Sublime Text, GIT.  ? Implemented REST API's in Python using micro-framework like Flask with SQL Alchemy in the backend for management of data center resources on which OpenStack would be deployed.  ? Involved in development of Web Services using and REST for sending and getting data from the external interface in XML and JSON format.  ? Involved in various phases of the project like Analysis, Design, Development, and Testing.  ? Developed and Tested features of dashboard using CSS, JavaScript, Django, and Bootstrap.  ? Wrote Stored Procedures in SQL and Scripts in Python for data loading.  ? Created deployment groups in one environment for the Workflows, Worklets, Sessions, Mappings, Source Definitions, Target definitions and imported them to other environments.  ? Tested and debugged the product in controlled and real situations.  ? Deploy third party's applications using various CI tools like Jenkins.  ? Used Python IDE Pycharm for developing the code and performing unit test.  ? Developed web-based applications using Python, Django, XML, CSS, HTML, DHTML.  ? Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  ? Used AWS for application deployment and configuration.  ? Responsible for Design and maintenance of databases using Python. Developed Pythonbased APIs by using Flask, SQLAlchemy and PostgreSQL.  ? Worked on HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, AngularJS, Node.JS, Git, REST API, intellij IDEA.  ? Development of real-time multi-tasking systems using Python.  ? Developed Business Logic using python on Django Web Framework.  ? Worked in an agile development environment  ? Deployed Django web application in Apache webserver and carpathia cloud web deployment.  ? Written numerous Django views (class based) and templates for page rendering.  ? Extensively used closures in Javascript framework.  Environment: Python2.7, Django, Shell Scripting, AWS, Pandas, PyQt, PyQuery, Wireshark, Flash, DOM,  JSON, Redux,PHP, HTML5, CSS3, AJAX, JavaScript, Angular.js, Bootstrap, Apache Web Server, MYSQL, GitHub,  LINUX. Python Developer Hudson Insurance - Alpharetta, GA March 2013 to June 2015 Responsibilities:  ? Responsible for gathering requirements, system analysis, design, development, testing and deployment.  ? Participated in the complete SDLC process.  ? Developed user interface using CSS, HTML, JavaScript and JQuery.  ? Wrote Python modules to extract/load asset data from the MySQL source database.  ? Designed and implemented a dedicated MYSQL database server to drive the web apps and report on daily progress.  ? Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  ? Used Django framework for application development.  ? Created entire application using Python, Django, MySQL and Linux.  ? Enhanced existing automated solutions, such as the Inquiry Tool for automated Asset Department reporting and added new features and fixed bugs.  ? Embedded AJAX in UI to update small portions of the web page avoiding the need to reload the entire page.  ? Programming in Python as well as Perl  ? Created most important Business Rules which are useful for the scope of project and needs of customers.  ? Improved performance by using more modularized approach and using more in built methods.  ? Involved in development of Web Services using SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface in the XML format.  ? Performed data manipulation/storage for incoming test data using lxml /etree libraries.  ? Developed API modularizing existing python module with the help of pyyaml libraries.  ? Wrote unit test cases for testing tools.  ? Created database using MySQL, wrote several queries to extract/store data.  ? Coded test programs and evaluated existing engineering processes.  ? Designed and configured database and back end applications and programs.  ? Performed research to explore and identify new technological platforms.  ? Collaborated with internal teams to convert end user feedback into meaningful and improved solutions.  Environment: Python 2.0, Django 1.4, Puppet Rspec, Jenkins, Grafana/Graphite, MySQL, Linux, HTML, CSS, JQuery, JavaScript, Apache, Linux, Git, Perl, Cassandra. Python Developer Optum Health - Windsor, CT December 2010 to March 2013 Responsibilities:  ? Responsible for gathering requirements, system analysis, design, development, testing and deployment.  ? Designed and developed the user interface of the project with HTML, CSS and JavaScript  ? Entire Front end and back end modules of the project are developed using Python with Django Framework.  ? Designed and developed the data management systems using MySQL databases.  ? Written Python Scripts to parse the XML documents and load the data in database.  ? Utilized the existing Python and Django modules and rewritten to deliver data in required formats.  ? Client-side validations and manipulations are done using JavaScript and jQuery.  ? Experienced in writing indexes, views, constraints, stored procedures, triggers, cursors and user defined functions or subroutines in MySQL.  ? Responsible for Debugging and troubleshooting the application.  ? Utilized Subversion control tool to coordinate team work.  ? Used Selenium Libraries to write fully functioning test automation process.  ? Designed and developed a horizontally scalable APIs using Python Flask.  ? Designed Cassandra schema for the APIs  ? Java implementation on given project  ? Developed shopping cart for Library and integrated web services to access the payment.  ? Used Php language on lamp server to develop page.  ? Developed dynamic interaction page on .net MS visual basic-2014, using SQL developer tools.  ? Effectively communicated with the external vendors to resolve queries  Environment: Python, Django, MySQL, Windows, Linux, HTML, CSS, jQuery, JavaScript, Apache, Linux, Quality Centre,  Ansible, PL/SQL. Education Bachelor's