Python developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">developer</span> Python developer - Incomm, Alphareretta, GA Alpharetta, GA, GA Around 6 years of experience as a Web/Application Developer and coding with analytical programming using Python, Django.  To serve the organization with the best of my technical skills and abilities by utilizing my  educational and professional knowledge and competencies acquired by me in my academic career and professional experience.    CORE QUALIFICATION  • Experienced with full software development life-cycle, architecting scalable platforms, object oriented programming, database design and agile methodologies.  • Built Web application using Python, Django, Flask, JavaScript, AJAX, HTML and template languages.  • Used Apache to deploy production site.  • Strong experience using Web Services and API's in python.  • Experience in using Design Patterns such as MVC and frameworks such as Django, Flask.  • Proficient in SQL databases MySQL, PostgreSQL, Oracle and MongoDB.  • Good knowledge in maintaining various version controls systems such as GIT, SVN, CVN and Source Tree.  • Experience in Application Development and Object Oriented Programming Analysis and Design (OOAD).  • Experience object oriented programming (OOP) concepts using Python, C++ and java.  • Experience in working with AWS(Amazon Web Services) cloud platform.  • Experienced in working with various Python Integrated Development Environments like IDLE, PyCharm, Atom, Eclipse, PyDev and Sublime Text.  • Experience with Requests, Numpy, Scipy, Matplotlib, and Pandas python libraries during development lifecycle.  • Experience in creating initial website prototype from Django skeleton and building out Views, Templates using CSS for whole site following Django MVC architecture.  • Deep understanding of HTTP methods, RESTful architecture.  • Familiar with UNIX / Linux internals, basic cryptography & security.  • Strongly follow PEP-8 coding standard and test a program by running it across test cases to ensure validity and effectiveness of code using PyChecker and PyLint.  • Involved in Unit testing and Integration testing of the code using PyTest.  • Displayed and proved capability to learn any new technology and work on it.  • Hands-on experience in writing and reviewing requirements, architecture documents, test plans, design and maintaining documents, quality analysis and helping with the software release process.  • Ability to successfully multi-task and prioritize work. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python developer Incomm, Alphareretta, GA July 2016 to Present Responsibilities:  • Instigated user interface guidelines and standards throughout the development and maintenance of the website using the HTML, CSS, JavaScript and jQuery.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Refactor Python/Django modules to deliver certain format of data.  • Managed datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL, queried MYSQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL dB package to retrieve information.  • Utilized Python libraries NumPy and matplotlib.  • Wrote Python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Used Wireshark, live http headers, and Fiddler2 debugging proxy to debug the Flash object and help the developer create a functional component.  • Parsers written in Python for extracting useful data from the design data base.  • Development of Python APIs to dump the array structures in the Processor at the failure point for debugging.  • Involved in development of Web Services using SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface in the XML format.  • Installed, setup, and configured Cisco switches for TCP/IP intra-network and wireless access point across the network for the local area network and Wi-Fi.  • Hardware installation of patch panels and fiber optic connectivity, hubs, cabling of cat5 and RJ45 connectors.  • Setup and configured DHCP on Windows 2003 for external wireless clients and mobile PC kiosks within the hospital.  • Installed and configured Windows XP workstations using standard software configuration and configured TCP/IP and network interface cards.  • Managing internet security and acceleration throughout the network using Microsoft's ISA server.  • Written functional test cases for Data Layer, and Search server classes using Django, XML base services, and MongoDB.  • Creating restful web services for Catalog and Pricing with Django MVT, Jersey, MySQL, and MongoDB.  • Representation of the system in hierarchy form by defining the components, subcomponents using Python and developed set of library functions over the system based on the user needs.  • Generated graphical reports using python package NumPy and matplotlib.  • Created Data tables utilizing PyQt display customer and policy information and add, delete, update customer records.  • Used Python and Django creating graphics, XML processing, data exchange and business logic implementation.  • Used Python based GUI components for the front-end functionality such as selection criteria.  • Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks. Interfacing with supervisors, artists, systems administrators and production to ensure production deadlines are met.  • Used third party jQuery-based plug-ins like Data tables etc. Heavily used JavaScript for Form Submit and other UI elements during development.  • Representation of the system in hierarchy form by defining the components, subcomponents using Python and developed set of library functions over the system based on the user needs.  Environment: Python 3.4/2.7, Django 1.7, MongoDB, MySQL, AJAX, SOAP, jQuery, JavaScript, PyCharm. SolutionBuilt - Atlanta, GA April 2015 to June 2016 Responsibilities:  Created a portable fully automated test tool, allowing 24/7 integration support for two development sites around the world and decreasing code turnaround time from 4 hours to 1 hour  • Automated the daily and weekly build process to allow us to build daily builds twice a day for faster turnaround time for submitted code changes  • Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks. Interfacing with supervisors, artists, systems administrators, and production to ensure production deadlines are met.  • Developed a fully automated continuous integration system using Git, Gerrit, Jenkins, MySQL and custom tools developed in Python and Bash.  • • Thorough knowledge in various front-end tools like HTML, CSS, JavaScript, XML, jQuery, Angularjs, and AJAX. Managed large datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL.  • Used Amazon Web Services (AWS) for improved efficiency of storage and fast access.  • Played a key role in a department wide transition from Subversion to Git, which resulted in an increase in efficiency for the development community  • Full software development life-cycle, architecting scalable platforms, object-oriented programming, database design and agile methodologies and WAMP (Windows, Apache, MYSQL, Python Architecture.  • Manage a technician that oversees automation and carries out daily tasks  • Worked on Big Data infrastructure for batch processing and real-time processing using Apache Spark. Built scalable distributed Hadoop cluster running Hortonworks Data Platform  • Involved in creating data-lake by extracting customer's data from various data sources to HDFS which include data from Excel, databases, and log data from servers.  • Migration of huge amounts of data from different databases (i.e. Oracle, SQL Server) to Hadoop  • Develop Sqoop scripts to handle change data capture for processing incremental records between new arrived and existing data in RDBMS tables.  • Developed multi-threaded standalone app in Python and PHP to view performance  • Worked on Node.js Middleware framework like Express.js and Hapi.js and Yeoman, essentially developed microservices and serve them through middleware. Served any Client-side libraries through microservice.  • Used JavaScript and JSON to update a portion of a webpage. Shiro Technologies LLC - Atlanta, GA January 2013 to April 2015 -Atlanta, GA  01/2013 to 04/2015  Responsibilities:  Designed and developed the presentation layer using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery and AJAX.  • Created an entire application using Python, Django, MySQL and Linux.  • Involved in developing a Restful service using Python Flask framework.  • Application was based on service-oriented architecture and used Python 2.7, Django1.5, Ajax, HTML, CSS for the frontend  • Performed Unit testing, Integration Testing, and web application testing  • Launched Amazon EC2Cloud Instances using Amazon Images (Linux/Ubuntu) and configuring launched instances with respect to specific applications.  • Provided support for Amazon AWS S3 and RDS to host static/media files and the database into Amazon Cloud.  • Used Pandas API to put the data as time series and tabular format for east timestamp data manipulation and retrieval.m  • Used object-relational mapper (ORM) to automate the transfer of data stored in relational databases tables into objects.  • Worked on UI using HTML5, CSS3 and JavaScript's.  • Interfacing with supervisors, artists, systems administrators and production to ensure production deadlines are met.  Environment: Python 3.x, Django, Go language, Shell Scripting, AWS, Pandas, PyQt, PyQuery, Flash, DOM, JSON, PHP, HTML5, CSS3, AJAX, JavaScript, Bootstrap, Apache Web Server, MYSQL, GitHub, LINUX.  • Written unit testing querying for newly developed components using Junit, Involvement in Automation Environment setup using Eclipse, java, selenium web driver java language bindings and TestNG jars.  Environment: Hadoop, HDFS, MapReduce, Pig, Hive, Sqoop, Flume, Unix, Java/J2EE, JDBC, Junit, JSON, MAVEN, Cloudera, HBASE  • Managed datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL, queried MYSQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL dB package to retrieve information  • Performed Scrum master role and managed Sprints efficiently Education Bachelor's Skills Architecture. (3 years), C+ (Less than 1 year), CSS (6 years), Data management (Less than 1 year), Git (1 year), HTML (6 years), java (2 years), JIRA (Less than 1 year), JMP (Less than 1 year), jQuery. (6 years), JSON (3 years), Linux. (2 years), Mac (Less than 1 year), object oriented (Less than 1 year), object oriented programming (Less than 1 year), Python (6 years), scripting (6 years), Shell scripting (6 years), Unix (2 years), XML (3 years), Javascript, MySQL Additional Information SKILLS    • Core Python.  • Web frameworks.  • Object-relational mappers.  • Understand multi-process architecture.  • Developing and using RESTful APIs.  • Building Python application.  • Good communication skills.  • Good design skills.  • Data management  • Hardware and software installation  • Network development and administration  • Programming Languages Java, C, C++, Python 3.3/2.7/2.4.  • Scripting Languages CSS, Java Script, JQuery, Shell Scripting  Markup languages HTML, XML, JSON  • Operating Systems Unix, Linux, Windows and Mac  • Analytics Tools JMP PRO, SAS, Tableau, UCI NET, Node XL, MVC3  • Defect Tracking JIRA, Git, and VersionOne  • Methodologies & tools Object Oriented Programming, UML, Agile Scrum