Sr. Python Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Python Developer - Coke Work Experience Sr. Python Developer Coke - Atlanta, GA April 2015 to Present Responsibilities:  • Extensively used Python / Django Framework for developing backend of applications.  • Responsible for analysing various cross-functional, multi-platform applications systems enforcing Python best practices and provide guidance in making long term architectural design decisions.  • Experience in AWS like Amazon EC2, Amazon S3, Amazon Redshift, Amazon EMR and Amazon SQS.  • Use Spark Data frame APIs to inject Oracle data to S3 and stored in Red shift.  • Has experience working as an AWS cloud Engineer in managing the end to end operations and working on automation orchestration tools like JENKINS, PUPPET and CHEF.  • Used Amazon S3 to backup database instances periodically to save snapshots of data.  • Helped the big data analytics team with implementation of python scripts for Sqoop, spark and Hadoop batch data streaming.  • Involved in Developing a Restful service using Python Flask framework.  • Actively involved in Initial software development life cycle (SDLC) of requirement gathering and also in suggesting system configuration specifications during client interaction.  • Designed mockups, GUI layouts by using HTML4, DHTML, XHTML, XML, CSS and JavaScript.  • Analysis the logs data and filter required columns by logstash configuration and send it to elasticsearch.  • Used Jenkins for Adding scripts, building the Suites and analyzing the results.  • Handled Business logics by backend Python programming to achieve optimal results.  • Implementing admin sites to manage database information with Flask Admin, MySQL and SQLite.  • Designed Rich Internet Applications (RIA's) and GUI layouts by using Adobe Dreamweaver CS4 and AJAX.  • Migrated C and C++ tasks to Python. Generated SWIG interfaces for tasks that are good to be left in C++. Interacted with Python using SWIG interfaces.  • Involved building Hadoop platforms, maximizing business value by combining data science with big data.  • Generated various graphs for business decision making using Python matplotlib library.  • Tested various regular expression in URL Dispatchers in Django.  • Improving pre-existed client based applications by introducing Django framework in backend  • Worked on Spark Scripts to find the most trending products (day-wise and week-wise) using Scala.  • Collect the data using Spark Streaming and dump into Cassandra Cluster  • Based on new spark versions, applying different optimization transformation rules.  • Developed frontends using HTML5, CSS, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Analysed and Designed workflows based on business logic.  • Designed user friendly Interface using Bootstrap framework.  • Implemented AJAX to update necessary section of webpages and hence, avoiding the need for reloading the entire web page.  • Wrote python code within the Hadoop framework to solve Natural Language Processing problems.  • Executed asynchronous tasks with help of Celery and RabbitMQ.  • Participated in implementation, design, development and testing stages of projects.  • Prepared design and impact analysis documents.  • Design, model and optimize relational databases tables in MySQL.  • Modified queries, functions, cursors, triggers and stored procedures for MySQL database to improve performance, while processing data.  • Developed a portal to manage and entities in a content management system using Flask.  • Design and developed applications to be cross-browser and cross-platform compatible  • Coordinated and supported validation team during testing phase.  • Extensive code reviewing using GitHub pull requests, improved code quality, and also conducted meetings among peer.  • Developed carrier API's and canonical API's for different carriers. Developed RAML  objects based on each carrier specific response. Developed Groovy scripts for the API workflow extension.  • Deployed the project into Heroku and also used Github version control system.  • Followed best practices and standards throughout the development of the project, while implementing various design patterns.  • Modified existing webpages to enhance the usability.  • Maintained Puppet rspec for testing various unit/system automation schemes  • Well skilled in maintain records of change requests, trouble reports and requirements collection.  • Worked with team of Python developers while developing applications.  Environment: Python, Django, Java Script, HTML, XHTML, Angular JS, jQuery, JSON, XML, CSS, MySQL, Bootstrap, Git, Linux, Pycharm, Python Developer Consumers Energy, MI July 2013 to March 2015 Responsibilities:  • Involved in entire lifecycle of the projects including Design, Development, and Deployment, Testing and Implementation and support.  • Developed a portal to manage and entities in a content management system using Flask.  • Worked with the database team on automating their backup and restore processes on UNIX, Oracle, LINUX and WINDOWS environments.  • Converting manual paper forms into InfoPath documents with automated Workflows.  • Contributing Source code on Java and Object Oriented Concepts.  • Utilized Reflection, OOPS methodologies for the reducing the code re work.  • Worked on installation of Docker using Docker toolbox.  • Worked on creating the Docker containers and Docker consoles for managing the application life cycle.  • Worked on workflows responsible for automating a majority of the business processes within the department, modelled workflows, integrated them into existing infrastructure and managed offsite Team.  • Developed JAXB components to marshall and unmarshall the XML request and response of the REST service.  • Implemented Data Access Layer using ADO.NET to communicate with the database.  • Used ASP.NET Validation controls and Client side Java Script like JSON, External Java Script Libraries to perform front end validation at the browser level.  • Extensively used OOPS, multi-threading, STLs, socket programming.  • Worked on creation of custom Docker container images, tagging and pushing the images.  • Hands on experience with Windows Azure, Cloud Services, Storage/Storage Accounts, Azure Traffic Manager.  • Experience in developing UNIX shells scripts in Bash Shell for Input file logic/requirement validations, calling SQL files and SQL*Loader part.  • Used/modified Unix scripts and commands for fixing the issues as part of production support and maintenance.  • Designed, configured and deployed Microsoft Azure for a multitude of applications utilizing the Azure stack (Including Compute, Web & Mobile, Blobs, ADF, Resource Groups, HD Insight Clusters, Azure SQL, Cloud Services, and ARM), focusing on high-availability, fault tolerance, and auto-scaling.  • Updating the instance counts in the production in the Azure platform.  • Web implementation for different web sites (landing pages) with Flask and Python  • Dealt with company-wide transition from Redis to Elastic search for caching and catalog browsing/searching.  • Experience with design, management, configuration and troubleshooting of distributed production environments based on NoSQL technologies like MongoDB, Apache Hadoop/HBase, Couchbase, etc.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript and JQuery.  • Configured & troubleshot Wi-Fi Network connections with the WCA (Wi-Fi Configuration Tool) & device logs  • Testing in examining WAN link issues by implementing hardware and software loops.  • Performed testing on developing advanced concepts for good user end-to-end data connection experience IOT internet of things across various wireless technologies currently in use by users (Wi-Fi, WLAN)  • Performed testing 3G, 4G routers wireless routers  • Wrote a cross platform file event logger to update documents in Elastic search using Django and Tika.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Developed Python application using Mongo DB.  • Created scripts in Python for manipulating, parsing and converting data in excel sheets  • Created backend database T-SQL stored procedures and Jasper Reports.  • Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes of the two main applications that were a main source of data for both customers and internal customer service team.  • build high-performance streaming REST server in Flask  • Design the Elastic search configuration files based on number of hosts available, naming the cluster and node accordingly.  • Added support for Amazon AWS S3 and RDS to host static/media files and the database into Amazon Cloud.  • Assisted the Hadoop team with developing Map-Reduce scripts in python.  • Deployed with Fabric on AWS on EC2 instance with Postgres RDS and S3 file storage.  • Wrote HTML front end pages using Django templates.  • Experienced in Agile Methodologies and SCRUM Process.  • Used Django configuration to manage URLs and application parameters.  • Also used Bootstrap as a mechanism to manage and organize the html page layout.  • Involved in debugging the applications monitored on JIRA using Agile methodology.  Environment: Python, Django, HTML5, CSS, XML, MySQL, JavaScript, Used ASP.NET Python Developer IBM - Newark, NJ January 2012 to July 2013 Responsibilities:  • Created Python ETL code to extract information about artists, channel information and on-demand shows from various sources including binary, text files, scraping the websites and then clean up the data and storing this info into Microsoft SQL Server.  • Designed and developed database schema, various stored procedures, triggers and data reports.  • Used Angular JS in developing single page applications.  • Involved in the creation of interface to manage user menu and Bulk update of Attributes using Angular js, Bootstrap.js and jQuery.  • Debugged and Tested Android app using Charles debugging session as man-in-middle proxy and monitored traffic flowing thru the device.  • Test and refine systems throughout the development cycle of the project. Work closely with design in the development of products. Write clear, maintainable, portable code. Participate in code and architecture reviews.  • Successfully integrated the accounting/technical functions between channel data providers and internal XM Sirius API's to track the usage in Python and C++.  • Generated various reports in Python for channel usage, system downtimes, catching exceptions, and performance related metrics.  • Developed SOAP web service to provide server side info on user attributes, channel descriptions and other on-demand live show information.  • Built internal tools to automate manual process and testing.  • Agile/Kanban methods used to develop software.    Environment: Python, Android OS, Charles, multiprocessing, TCP/IP programming, Microsoft SQL Server, C++, Angular js, Bootstrap js, Coverity, Pylint, Jira, Agile, Kibana, ETL. Python developer Automation - Hyderabad, Andhra Pradesh September 2009 to January 2012 Responsibilities:  • Analyzed the Functional Business requirements and Design documents, and Developed Test plans for different Testing stages.  • Developed and Designed Basic J2EE Patterns, Object Relational mapping, and Performance.  • Implementing scalable program modules using OOPS concepts to investigate data visualization techniques.  • Developed Manual Test Cases to test the functionality and behaviour of the application using HP Quality center.  • Created and maintained Test Scripts and Test Cases based on High Level Functional Requirements Document (FRD).  • Involved in writing Test Cases and running Test cases.  • Created and executed detailed test cases with step by step procedure and expected results and maintained the test logs, test reports, test issues, defect tracking using Quality Center.  • Involved in Black box testing methods -Functional, Integration, System and Acceptance tests.  • Performed various types of testing such as Smoke, Regression, Integration, Functional and End-to-end testing.  • Involved in test case Execution and Analyzing the Results. Performed Functional testing, regression testing, and Sanity testing, migration testing.  • Analyze system requirements and develop test conditions, test plans and test cases.  • Created functionality test cases after establishing critical values and workflow.  • Involved in updating the Test Procedure document, iteratively, whenever a Change Request is done.  • Responsible for preparation of status reports.  • Attended Daily/Weekly status calls from the Client/Onsite Coordinators.  • Monitored log files using Python for any errors and exceptions and raised alarms based off of that. Issues are fixed proactively before client notices the downtime.  • Involved in End-to- End testing of business rules on the Web based application.  • Worked on Maintenance and Enhancement change requests.  • Performed Functionality testing, System Testing, Regression Testing.  • Involved in System, Functional, Integration, Regression, and User Acceptance Testing.  • Involved in writing Test Plans, Test Cases and Test Scripts for High priority -Functional specifications and Business requirements of the application.  • Analyze system requirements and develop test conditions, test plans and test cases.  • Participate in Review meetings, Walkthrough and Defect Triage meetings. Attended daily status meetings and weekly team status meetings for reporting testing status.  Environment: Python, Javascript, HP QC, Java, Windows 2000, SQL Server, HTML, VSTS 2008, TSF. Skills PYTHON (7 years), TESTING (7 years), HTML (6 years), JAVA (6 years), JAVASCRIPT (6 years), SQL (5 years), DATABASE (5 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SUMMARY  • Over 8 years of experience in design, development, testing and implementation of various stand-alone and client-server architecture based enterprise application software in Python on different domains.  • Good experience in developing web applications implementing Model View Control architecture using Django web application frameworks.  • Around 5 years in Python (libraries used: libraries- Beautiful Soup, numpy, SciPy, matplotlib, python-twitter, Pandas data frame, networks, urllib2, MySQL DB for database connectivity) and IDEs - sublime text, eclipse, PyCharm, emacs. Flask.  • Good Knowledge of Django Frameworks. Good knowledge of web services with protocols SOAP, REST.  • Experience in Object Oriented Technology, including Smalltalk and Java design and development.  • Having good knowledge of spark and spark SQL.  • Good knowledge of server Apache Tomcat, Web logic.  • Experienced in working with various Python Integrated Development Environments like NetBeans, PyCharm, PyScripter, PyDev, Eclipse and Sublime Text.  • Experienced with databases using ORMs/DOMs for integrating with MySQL, Postgres, Neo4J, MongoDB, and Cassandra SQLite. Also, experienced with writing custom queries through database connectors.  • Worked on various operating systems like Windows XP/ 7/10, UNIX, Ubuntu, Red hat Linux.  • Extensive knowledge in Software Development Lifecycle (SDLC) using Waterfall, Agile methodologies - SCRUM  • Experienced in web applications development using Django/ Python while using HTML/CSS/JS for server-side rendered applications.  • Experienced in developing API services in Python/Tornado.  • Having experienced in Agile Methodologies, Scrum stories and sprints experience in a Python based environment, along with data analytics, data wrangling and Excel data extracts.  • Experienced in writing SQL Queries, Stored procedures, functions, packages, tables, views, triggers.  • Experience in automating the infrastructure in AWS using web services.  • Involved in Developing a Restful API'S service using Python Flask framework.  • Hands on experience in using version control systems Git and GitHub.  • Knowledgeable in Angular JS and Node JS.  • Excellent presentation and graphics designing skills.  • Good Knowledge of user authentication and authorization between multiple systems, servers, and environments.  • Created Linux shell scripting using Python for unattended execution of lengthy and repetitive sequences of commands.  • Exposure to threading limitations of Python, and multi-process architecture.  • Familiarity with event-driven programming in Python.  • Provided guidance around technical ideas to improve efficiency and meet technical requirements.  • Good at managing multiple tasks within stipulated time and ability to cope up with latest technologies.  • Product Data base maintenance and Contract Performance Reporting. Highly motivated, hard-working and result-oriented person with excellent communication skills.  • US Employment authorized  Technical Skills:  Programming Languages: Python, Java HTML, CSS, XML, XHTML, JavaScript, AJAX, Perl, C, Shell Script, VB(script)  Frameworks: Testing, Junit, JQuery, Spring MVC, Data Driven  Automation Scripts: Selenium WebDriver/IDE/Grid  Testing Tools: QC/ALM, Load Runner  Build Tools: Apache Maven, Ant  Databases: SQL server, Oracle, MySQL  IDE & Tools: Eclipse, Notepad++, Sublime Text, Ultra edit  Debugging Tools: Firebug, Chrome Developer toolbar, IE Developer Toolbar,  Operating System: Windows 98/2000/XP/Vista/7/8/10, Android, MAC OS