Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - John Muir Hospital San Francisco Bay Area, CA • Over 7 years of core IT experience, a strong background in Backend and Web/Application Development. Proven ability to design, develop and deploy top-quality software projects.  • Experience in web application development using Python, Django, PHP.  • Experience in working with Web Technologies such as HTML, CSS, JavaScript, XML and JSON following W3C standards.  • Proficient in SQL databases MySQL, SQL Server.  • Good experience in using Shell scripting for automation by following Python PEP.  • Involved in Developing a RESTful service using Python Django framework  • Sound Experience in using different version control systems like Git.  • Experience in working with different operating systems Windows, Linux, Mac OS and UNIX.  • Worked on several standard python packages like Numpy, matPlotLib, Pickle, PySide, Scipy, WxPython, PyTables etc.  • Experience in working with Amazon Web Services like EC2, Storage models (EBS, S3), Work Experience Python Developer John Muir Hospital - Walnut Creek, CA October 2016 to Present Worked on development of Patient registration and treatment portal for John Muir.  • Worked with clients to Design and analyze the requirements of in-house applications.  • Worked on frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Implemented and enhanced CRUD operations for the applications using the MVT (Model View Template) architecture of Django framework and Python conducting code reviews.  • Implemented user interface guidelines and standards throughout the development and maintenance of the website using the HTML, CSS, JavaScript.  • Created APIs, database Model and Views Utilization Python to build responsive web page application  • Wrote Python modules to extract/load asset data from the MySQL source database.  • Used PyUnit, the Python unit test framework, for all Python applications.  • Used Git for the version control.  • Collaborated with internal teams and external teams to solve the issues and giving feedbacks.  • Worked on object-oriented programming (OOP) concepts using Python, Django and Linux.  • Documented the problems and progress of project most accurately.  • Ported parts of application on cloud using AWS.  • Used Amazon Cloud EC2 along with Amazon SQS to upload and retrieve project history.  • Used JSON based and RESTful API for information extraction  • Debug application deployments on multiple environments.  Environment: Python 3.0/2.7, Django 1.4, MySQL, Amazon EC2, Amazon SQS, S3, Windows, Linux HTML5/CSS3, AJAX, JQuery, JavaScript, Apache. Python Developer Key Bank - San Francisco, CA May 2015 to September 2016 Worked on development of online Bill pay system for Key bank.  Responsibilities:  • Responsible for gathering requirements, system analysis, design, development, testing and deployment.  • Used Django configuration to manage URLs and application parameters.  • Used HTML, CSS, JQuery, JSON and JavaScript for front-end applications.  • Added support for Amazon AWS S3 host static/media files and the database into Amazon Cloud.  • Created Data extract jobs using Python and MongoDB.  • Used Pandas library for statistical Analysis.  • Designed and developed System monitoring in Python to keep track health of Platform, Hbase, Storm, Kafka etc. in the multi-node cluster environment  • Developed automation scripts to test storage appliances in Python.  • Created documents in collections to store and extract data in MongoDB.  • Wrote and executed various MongoDB database queries from Python using MongoEngine and PyMongo  • Involved in development of Web Services for sending and getting data from the external interface in the XML format.  • Worked on Python Open stack API's.  • Used Ansible to define host, tasks and variables and configure deployment.  • Wrote and edited Playbooks for Provisioning of the application using Ansible.  • Responsible for debugging the project monitored on JIRA (Agile).  Environment: Python 2.7, Django 1.4, MongoDB, Ansible, Windows, Linux, HTML, CSS, JQuery, JavaScript, Apache. Python Developer AskART.com - Los Angeles, CA February 2014 to May 2015 Worked on development of Art Auctioning website.  Responsibilities:  • Responsible for gathering requirements, system analysis, design, development, testing and deployment.  • Participated in the complete SDLC process.  • Developed rich user interface using CSS, HTML, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Used Django framework for application development.  • Created entire application using Python, MySQL and Linux  • Enhanced existing automated solutions, such as the Editorial Tool for automated request reporting and the Who's Who site, by adding new features and fixing bugs.  • Created database using MySQL, wrote several queries to extract/store data.  • Used Perforce for the version control.  Environment: Python, Django 1.4, MySQL, Windows, Linux, HTML, CSS, JQuery, JavaScript, Apache, Linux, and Perforce Python Developer TCS - Bengaluru, Karnataka March 2011 to January 2014 Responsibilities:  • Interacted with management and developers in a daily scrum to discuss test cases and schedules  • Used Bootstrap and Angular UI Bootstrap for creating rich, Responsive UI Screens for varying screen sizes and devices.  • Developed multi-threaded standalone app in Python, PHP, C++ to view Circuit parameters and performance.  • Web application development using Python 2.7, 1.9, Flask, MongoDB, JavaScript, AJAX, HTML, XML and template languages.  • Worked on different Rest API's and involved in handling the JSON responses of those API's  • Experience involving designing, development, testing, implementation and support of applications using Python.  • Written object-oriented Python, Django, SQL, HTML/CSS, Bootstrap, jQuery, Linux, Sublime Text, git.  • Implemented user interface guidelines and standards throughout the development and maintenance of the website using the HTML, CSS, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Worked on UI using HTML5, Rect.js, CSS3 and Java Scripts, AngularJS.  • Developed and tested many features for dashboard using PHP, Bootstrap, CSS JavaScript.  • Developed Merge jobs in Python to extract and load data into MySQL and MongoDb database. Education Bachelor's Skills DJANGO (7 years), HTML (7 years), JAVASCRIPT (7 years), PYTHON (7 years), DATABASE (7 years) Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/prabhleen-marwa-949936167 Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:  • Languages: Python 3.0/2.7, C++, Shell Script, PHP, SQL  • Framework: Django 1.3/1.4  • Database: MySQL, SQL Server 2008, MongoDB, PostgreSQL, Amazon AWS cloud, Amazon Cloud EC2, Elastic Bean, Amazon S3,  • Web Technologies: AJAX, JavaScript, AngularJS, JQuery, HTML, DHTML, XHTML, XML  • Versioning Tools: Git, Perforce, Heroku, SVN, CVS  • Appl/Web servers: Apache  • Operating systems: Linux/Unix, MAC OS, Windows