Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> • 8+ years of experience in Analysis, Design, Development, Testing, Customization, Bug fixes, Enhancement, Support and Implementation of various web, stand-alone, client-server enterprise applications using Python/Django, XML, HTML, DHTML, C#, Oracle PL/SQL, Postgres.  • Experienced with full software development life-cycle, object-oriented design, object-oriented programming and database design.  • Good experience of software development in Python libraries used NumPy, SciPy, matplotlib, Pandas data frame, network, urllib2, MySQL dB for database connectivity and IDEs - sublime text, Spyder, PyCharm.  • Having experience in Agile Methodologies, Scrum stories and sprints experience in a Python based environment, along with data analytics, data wrangling and Excel data extracts.  • Good experience in developing web applications implementing Model View Control architecture using Django, Flask, Python web application frameworks.  • Experience of working with relational databases like Oracle, SQLite, PostgreSQL, MySQL, DB2 and non-relational databases like MongoDB, Cassandra.  • Experience in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on MySQL, PostgreSQL, Oracle and MongoDB. Designed and Developed automation scripts using Selenium Web Driver.  • Experienced in working with various Python Integrated Development Environments like IDLE, PyCharm, Atom, Eclipse, PyDev and Sublime Text.  • Experienced with JSON based RESTful web services, and XML/QML based SOAP web services and worked on various applications using python integrated IDEs like Sublime Text and PyCharm.  • Used Apache to deploy production site and Strong experience using Web Services and API's in python.  • Experience in object-oriented programming (OOP) concepts using Python, C++ and java.  • Familiar with JSON based REST Web services and Amazon Web services (AWS) and Responsible for setting up Python REST API framework and spring frame work using Django.  • Expert in using Django Authentication system, Django templating system, creating models and forms.  • Experience in working with AWS (Amazon Web Services) cloud platform and its features which includes EC2, IAM, EBS CloudWatch, AWS Config and AWS S3.  • Extensively worked with automation tools like Jenkins for continuous integration and continuous delivery (CI/CD) and to implement the End-to-End Automation.  • Have experience on Kubernetes and Docker Container for runtime environment of system to build, test & deploy  • Good knowledge in maintaining various version controls systems such as GIT and SVN.  • Experience with Requests, NumPy, SciPy, Matplotlib, and Pandas python libraries during development lifecycle.  • Experience in creating initial website prototype from Django skeleton and building out Views, Templates using CSS for whole site following Django MVC architecture.  • Deep understanding of HTTP methods, RESTful architecture.  • Familiar with UNIX / Linux internals, basic cryptography & security.  • Strongly follow PEP-8 coding standard and test a program by running it across test cases to ensure validity and effectiveness of code using PyChecker and PyLint.  • Involved in Unit testing and Integration testing of the code using PyTest.  • Displayed and proved capability to learn any new technology and work on it.  • Hands-on experience in writing and reviewing requirements, architecture documents, test plans, design and maintaining documents, quality analysis and helping with the software release process. Work Experience Python Developer Minneapolis, MN October 2017 to Present Description:  Optum helps modernize the health system's infrastructure, advance care and empower individuals as they take control of their own health.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in analysis, specification, design, and implementation and testing phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) and used agile methodology for developing application. Upgraded existing UI with HTML, CSS, jQuery and Bootstrap.  • Working as an application developer experienced with controllers, views and models in Django.  • Restful web services using Python REST API Framework.  • Developing GUI using Python and Django for dynamically displaying the test block documentation and other features of python code using a web browser.  • Developing and tested many features for dashboard using Python 3.x, Bootstrap, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Involved in back end development using Python with framework Flask Restful web services using Python REST API Framework.  • Developed scripts using pandas to easily perform read/write operations to CSV files, manipulate and compare data by columns.  • Developed complex web, middleware, and back end systems in Python, SQL and Perl for Linux and Windows.  • Involved in designing and deploying multitude applications utilizing almost all the AWS services Including EC2, Route53, S3, RDS, Dynamo DB, SNS, SQS, IAM focusing on high-availability, fault tolerance, and auto-scaling in AWS Cloud Formation.  • Automated Regular AWS tasks like snapshots creation using Python scripts.  • Build servers using AWS, importing volumes, launching EC2, RDS, creating security groups, auto-scaling, load balancers (ELBs) in the defined virtual private connection.  • Implemented the application using Python Spring IOC (Inversion of Control), Django Framework and handled the security using Python Spring Security.  • Tested entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Responsible for handling the integration of database systems.  • Successfully migrated the Django database from SQLite to MySQL to PostgreSQL with complete data integrity.  • Developed Server-side automation using Node JS scripting and connecting different types of SQL and NoSQL stores from Node JS.  • Used object-relational mapping (ORM) solution, technique of mapping data representation from MVC model to Oracle Relational data model with an SQL-based schema.  • Working on Loading and transforming large sets of structured, semi structured and unstructured data using Hadoop/Bigdata concepts.  • Implemented Performance tuning and improved the Performance of Stored Procedures and Queries.  • Installed and configured py Builder for application builds and deploying it and Developed, Deployed SOAP based Web Services on Tomcat Server.  • Used Jenkins for continuous integration for code quality inspection and worked on building local repository mirror and source code management using Git hub.  • Used GIT to coordinate team development.  • Used IDE tool to develop the application and JIRA for bug and issue tracking and Used JIRA to assign, track, report and audit the issues.  • Wrote unit testing codes using unit test, resolving bugs and other defects using Firebug,  Environment: Python, Django Web Framework, Flask, REST API, AWS, HTML, CSS, NoSQL, PostgreSQL. JavaScript, jQuery, Sublime Text, Jira, GIT, py Builder, unit test, Firebug, Web Services.    Python Developer  Target - Minneapolis, MN leader January 2016 to September 2017 in innovation across the retail industry. From pioneering the concept of designer partnerships to consistently being best in class in store design, Target remains focused on not only meeting, but exceeding, its guests' needs.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in entire lifecycle of the projects including Design, Development, and Deployment, Testing and Implementation and support.  • Developed various Python scripts to find vulnerabilities with SQL Queries by doing SQL injection, permission checks and performance analysis and developed scripts to migrate data from proprietary database to PostgreSQL.  • Involved in development of Web Services using SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface in the XML format.  • Designed the user interactive web pages as the front-end part of the web application using various web technologies like HTML, JavaScript, Angular JS, jQuery and implemented CSS framework Bootstrap for better appearance and feel.  • Working in team of developers to build and deploy Flask, Linux, and AWS.  • Developed remote integration with third party platforms by using RESTful web services that make database calls for inserts, updates, and select queries.  • Developed Unit, Integration and Performance Test Cases using Junit, Selenium and Rational Function Tester.  • Improved code reuse and performance by making effective use of various design patterns.  • Managed large datasets using Panda data frames and SQL.  • Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from Python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL dB package.  • Deployed the project into Heroku using GIT version control system.  • Developed methods for Create, Read, Update and Delete (CRUD) in Active Record.  • Used Django evolution and manual SQL modifications were able to modify Django models while retaining wall data, while site was in production mode.  • Expertise in creating and developing applications for android operating system using Android Studio, Eclipse IDE, SQLite, Java, XML, Android SDK and ADT plugin.  • Worked on Angular JS to augment browser applications with MVC capability  Environment: Python, Angular, jQuery, JavaScript, HTML/XHTML, XML, MySQL server, GIT, Reports, RESTful, Linux, JSON. Python Developer Nationwide Insurance Group - Columbus, OH April 2014 to December 2015 Description:  Nationwide Mutual Insurance Company and affiliated companies is a group of large US insurance and financial services companies based in Columbus, OH.    Responsibilities:  • Design, develop, test, deploy and maintenance of the website.  • Worked on Teradata SQL queries, Teradata Indexes, Utilities such as Mload, Tpump, Fast load and Fast Export.  • Used Teradata OLAP functions like RANK, ROW_NUMBER, QUALIFY, CSUM and SAMPLE.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using PHP/ Python.  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL.  • Rewrite existing Java modules to deliver certain format of data.  • Wrote python scripts to parse XML documents and loaded the data in database.  • Generated property list for every application dynamically using python.  • Handled all the client-side validation using JavaScript.  • Creating unit test/regression test framework for existing code.  • Created a Test Automation Framework with Selenium for test automation process  • Using Subversion version control tool to coordinate team-development.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting of web application.  Environment: Python 2.6, Django web framework, MySQL, Teradata, Linux, HTML, XHTML, CSS, AJAX, JavaScript, and Apache Web Server Python Developer Guardian Life Insurance - Philadelphia, PA November 2012 to March 2014 Description:  The Guardian Life Insurance Company of America is one of the largest mutual life insurance companies in the United States.    Responsibilities:  • Created a portable fully automated test tool, allowing 24/7 integration support for two development sites around the world and decreasing code turnaround time from 4 hours to 1 hour.  • Automated the daily and weekly build process to allow us to build daily builds twice a day for faster turnaround time for submitted code changes.  • Automated the code release process, bring the total time for code releases from 8 hours to 1 hour.  • Developed a fully automated continuous integration system using Git, Jenkins, MySQL and custom tools developed in Python and Bash.  • Built Web pages that are more user-interactive using AJAX, JavaScript, and ReactJS. Implemented a review process in integration automation using Review Board and Gerrit that eliminated the need for a 5 hour per week daily approval meeting.  • Resolved QA bugs for front end and back end.  • Played a key role in a department wide transition from Subversion to Git, which resulted in an increase in efficiency for the development community.  • Developed a mail script that extracts code defects data per component for a daily report to drive reducing defects in the code base.  • Created modern, REST APIs from existing information assets.  • Designed the UI using HTML5, Angular JS, J-Query and CSS.  • Manage a technician that oversees automation and carries out daily tasks.  • Deploying, managing, and operating scale, highly available, and fault tolerant systems to AWS.  • Development of modules using Angular JS and HTML.  • Designed and maintained databases using Python and developed Python based API (RESTful Web Service) using Flask, SQL Alchemy and PostgreSQL.  Environment: Python, Kafka, JSON, GitHub, LINUX, HTML, CSS, Java Script, ReactJS, MySQL. Python Developer CoMakeIT - Hyderabad, Telangana August 2010 to October 2012 Description:  coMakeIT provides product engineering, application modernization, and digital transformation services to ISVs and enterprises across The Netherlands, UK, US.    Responsibilities:  • Designed and developed the user interface of the project with HTML, CSS and JavaScript  • Entire Front end and back end modules of the project are developed using Python with Django Framework.  • Designed and developed the data management systems using MySQL databases.  • Written Python Scripts to parse the XML documents and load the data in database.  • Utilized the existing Python and Django modules and rewritten to deliver data in required formats.  • Client-side validations and manipulations are done using JavaScript and jQuery.  • Experienced in writing indexes, views, constraints, stored procedures, triggers, cursors and user defined functions or subroutines in MySQL.  • Responsible for Debugging and troubleshooting the application.  • Utilized Subversion control tool to coordinate team work.  • Used Selenium Libraries to write fully functioning test automation process.  Environment: Python 2.6, Django, UNIX, HTML, XML, CSS, JavaScript, MySQL and Bugzilla.