Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - Sonikpass San Francisco, CA • Over 8+ years of experience as a Web/Application Developer, analytical programming software development and design using Python, Django.  • Experienced with Python Libraries Beautiful Soup, NumPy, Pandas data frame, Matplotlib, python-twitter, urllib2.  • Experience in developing web-based applications using Python 2.7/3.0, Django, PHP, AngularJs, Reactjs, C++, XML, CSS, HTML, JavaScript and jQuery.  • Extensive experience in designing and implementing various web applications in WAMP (Windows, Apache, MySQL, PHP)  • Developed Consumer-based custom features and applications using Python, Django, and HTML  • Experienced with Software Development Life Cycle, Database designs, agile methodologies, coding, testing of enterprise applications and IDE's such as Jupiter Notebook, PyCharm, Emacs, WebStorm, Intellij and Visual Studio.  • Having good experience in MEAN Stack (Mongo DB, Express.js, Angular.js, and Node.js) applications.  • Extensive experience in designing and implementing various web applications in both LAMP (Linux, Apache, MY SQL, PHP) Environments  • Working with backend python automation, CI pipelines, Docker and cloud provisioning/automation.  • Experience with Django and Flask a high-level Python Web framework.  • Experienced in MVC frameworks like Flask and Pyramid and MVT framework like django  • Experience in Implementation of MVC/ MVW architecture using Servlet, Django, and RESTful, SOAP web service and SOAPUI.  • Experience and understanding of React Redux life cycle with components and rendering to DOM.  • Good experience in Shell Scripting, UNIX commands.  • Experience in developing applications in Linux Environments such as Red Hat, CentOS, Ubuntu.  • Good Experience in Linux Bash scripting and following PEP Guidelines in Python.  • Experience in working with Relational DB (RDBMD) like SQLite, MYSQL Workbench, PostgreSQL, AURORA and No-SQL database MongoDB for database connectivity  • Experience in analyzing and handling large datasets using Oracle Relational database  • Having experienced in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on MySQL, PL/SQL and PostgreSQL database.  • Basic Knowledge on JSON based REST Web services and Amazon Web services.  • Basic knowledge on Rest API and JSON Parsing, jQuery and Angular JS  • Experience in building frameworks in Python for Test Automation.  • Hands on Machine Learning Experience and SAS experience.  • Excellent Experience in Code Refactoring and Udeploy. Solid ability to code in JavaScript.  • Thorough knowledge in various front-end tools like HTML, JavaScript, XML, jQuery and AJAX.  • Experience in Bash Shell Scripting, SQL and Java Full stack web development using Python  • Having Good Experience in Object Oriented Concepts with C# and Python2.7/ 3.x.  • Extensive experience in using Python/Perl to code and design various phases for data processing pipeline.  • Experienced on Installation, Integration and Configuration of third party tools, Content Management System (CODEIGNITER, Zend, Laravel, Smarty)  • Managing Amazon Web Services (AWS) infrastructure with automation and orchestration tools such as Chef.  • Good knowledge on IBM WebSphere Application Deployment and maintenance of an application on Application Server using clusters concept and IBM Tivoli Monitoring.  • Good knowledge in various phases of SDLC Requirement Analysis, Design, Development and Testing on various Development and Enhancement Projects.  • Experienced in Agile Methodologies and SCRUM process including Sprint planning, backlog grooming, Daily Standups, Code review, Pert Chart, Gant Chart  • Good Experience in error and exceptional handling.  • Proven ability in working with Shell scripting for designing automation framework.  • Knowledge of automation technology such as Chef, Ansible and Puppet  • Experience in writing test plans, test cases, test specifications and test coverage.  • Familiar with Agile and Waterfall development methodologies  • Followed Agile Methodologies (Scrum) involved in daily stand-up meetings.  • Managed windows servers which included Active Directory maintenance and support  • Hands on experience with bug tracking tools such as JIRA and Bugzilla  • Developed and designed e-mail marketing campaigns using HTML, JavaScript and CSS.  • Maintained customers relationship management databases (MySQL / PostgreSQL)  • Unit testing for the entire code and fixing bugs in unit testing  • Wrote AJAX framework to transform Datasets and Data tables into HTTP-serializable JSON strings.  • Experienced in working with different operating systems like Windows, Ubuntu, Linux and UNIX. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Developer Sonikpass - San Francisco, CA June 2017 to Present The Project is based on the bulk messaging services and Oauth module. It provides secure auth and messaging services to all companies. Also make Web & iOS Application on Different Client Requirements and maintain that web applications.    Responsibilities:  • Developed the application using agile methodology and Scrum method of project management.  • Developed web applications in Django Framework's model view control (MVC) architecture.  • Exposure on Multi-Threading factory to distribute learning process back-testing and into various worker processes.  • Performed efficient delivery of code based on principles of Test Driven Development (TDD) and continuous integration to keep in line with Agile Software methodology principles.  • Different testing methodologies like unit testing, Integration testing, web application testing  • Worked very closely with designer, tightly integrating Flash into the CMS with the use of FlashVars stored in the Django models.  • Design and implement Provisioning Server 5.6 upgrade to Provisioning Server 6.1.  • Developed test scripts for automation with Selenium.  • Python/Django based web application, Postgre SQL DB, and integrations with 3rd party email, messaging, storage services.  • Architected, designed and implemented SAML and symmetric key based Single Sign On service provider systems.  • Build development environment with JIRA.  • Implemented multi-site Enterprise SOA using Oracle SOA Suite and also worked in SOA architecture WebSphere Message broker for integration.  • Also Created Angular JS controllers, directives, models for different modules of the application.  • Developed a fully automated continuous integration system using Git, Gerrit, Jenkins,  • MySQL and custom tools developed in Python and Bash  • Involved in converting Hive/SQL queries into Spark transformations using Spark RDDs, Python.    Environment: Python, Django1.4, HTML/CSS, MS SQL Server 2012, MySQL, Script, Eclipse, GIT, GitHub, AWS, Linux, Shell Scripting. Python Developer LPL - San Diego, CA February 2015 to June 2017 Description: LPL is the financial Advisor. My role is to develop a Web application for users for Retirement Plan Payments (RPP) to provide an automated web application for users to select, modify, and delete existing or new plans. This also allows users to manage their investments online to get the best market rates instantly.    Responsibilities:  • Worked in Agile development following Scrum process, Sprint and daily stand-up meetings  • Developed Views and Templates with Django view controller and template language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Worked on frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Implemented and enhanced CRUD operations for the applications using the MVT (Model View Template) architecture of Django framework and Python conducting code reviews.  • Implemented user interface guidelines and standards throughout the development and maintenance of the website using the HTML, CSS, JavaScript and jQuery.  • Created APIs, database Model and Views Utilization Python to build responsive web page application.  • Wrote Python modules to extract/load asset data from the MySQL source database.  • Used GitHub for Python source code version control, Jenkins for automating the build Docker containers, and deploying in Mesos  • Designed and implemented a dedicated MySQL database server to drive the web apps and report on daily progress.  • Used PyUnit, the Python unit test framework, for all Python applications.  • Worked on Jenkins continuous integration tool for deployment of project.  • Worked with product teams to improve documentation of Ansible development environments; identified additional tests for Ansible roles that could be done via Test Kitchen, Docker, and Serverspec or GitLab CI  • Automated the continuous integration and deployments using Jenkins, Docker, Ansible and AWS Cloud Templates.  • Installed and maintained Jenkins for Continuous Delivery as well as automate Ansible Playbook runs against production infrastructure  • Participated in requirement gathering and worked closely with the architect in designing and modeling.  • Developed, tested and debugged software tools for clients and internal customers of the organization.  • Coded test programs and evaluated existing engineering processes.  • Search engine optimization by replacing existing database with MongoDB (NoSQL Database).  • Documented company Restful API's using Swagger for internal and third part use and also worked on Unit testing and Integration testing.  • Used Git for the version control.  • Created a Git repository and added the project to GitHub.  • Collaborated with internal teams and external teams to solve the issues and giving feedbacks.  • Worked on object-oriented programming (OOP) concepts using Python, Django and Linux.  • Used JIRA for bug tracking and issue tracking.  • Practical experience with working on multiple environments like development, testing, production.  • Documented the problems and progress of project most accurately.    Environment: Python, Django, HTML5/CSS, MySQL, JavaScript, Eclipse, Linux, Shell Scripting, Ansible, jQuery, GitHub, JIRA. Python Developer Kinderd Health - Louisville, KY December 2012 to February 2015 Description: Kinderd Health is a health care sector. My role is to provide the user interface to the end user, including the final look, feel and behavior of the interface in different contexts along with building web applications using Django framework for implementing Dependency Injection and utilized features like MVT.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in analysis, specification, design, and implementation and testing phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) and used agile methodology for developing application.  • Interacted with the client end-users during requirements gathering sessions  • Upgraded existing UI with HTML, CSS, jQuery and Bootstrap.  • Working as an application developer experienced with controllers, views and models in Django.  • Implemented Business logic, worked on data exchange, processed XML and HTML using python 2.7 and its familiar framework Django  • Restful web services using Python REST API Framework.  • Developed Application to access JSON and XML from Restful, Webservices from consumer side using JavaScript and Angular.JS  • Used AWS Cloud Watch to monitor and store logging information  • Implemented the application using Python Spring IOC (Inversion of Control), Django Framework and handled the security using Python Spring Security.  • Responsible for handling the integration of database systems.  • Used object/relational mapping (ORM) solution, technique of mapping data representation from MVC model to Oracle Relational data model with an SQL-based schema  • Implemented Performance tuning and improved the Performance of Stored Procedures and Queries.  • Installed and configured pyBuilder for application builds and deploying it.  • Upgraded internal and customer TLS/SSL Apache Web Server configurations; trained staff on proper implementations, potential issues/concerns, and automated changes with Ansible  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  • Developed object-oriented programming to enhance company product management  • Wrote unit testing codes using unit test, resolving bugs and other defects using Firebug  • Used JIRA to assign, track, report and audit the issues.    Environment: Python, Django Web Framework, AWS, HTML, CSS, MySQL, JavaScript, jQuery, Sublime Text, Atom, PyCharm, Jira, GIT, pybuilder, unit test, Firebug, Web Services, HTML5/CSS, XML, JSON, Ajax Python Developer Illumina, CA September 2010 to December 2012 Description: Web applications are developed to store and retrieve data by implementing HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, JavaScript for user interface and Django, ReactJs , Python based packages are implemented.    Responsibilities:  • Created Python and Bash tools to increase efficiency of call center application system and operations; data conversion scripts, REST, JSON, and CRUD scripts for API Integration.  • Created a Python/Django based web application using Python scripting for data processing, MySQL for the database, and HTML/CSS/jQuery and High Charts for data visualization of the served pages.  • Built Python scripts to identify and correct erroneous data in PostgreSQL database using clustering, regression, and statistics  • Used standard Python modules e.g. csv, robot parser, itertools, pickle, jinja2, lxml for development.  • Worked extensively with Bootstrap, JavaScript, and jQuery to optimize the user experience.  • Used Python and Django to interface with the jQuery UI and manage the storage and deletion of content. Developed entire frontend and backend modules using PHP/ Python.  • Used Python Library Beautiful Soup for web scrapping to extract data for building graphs.  • Rewrite existing Java modules to deliver certain format of data.  • Handled all the client-side validation using JavaScript.  • Using Subversion version control tool to coordinate team-development.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting of web application.  • Design, develop, test, deploy and maintenance of the website    Environment: Python 2.6, Django web framework, Java, MySQL, Linux, HTML, XHTML, CSS, AJAX, JavaScript, Apache Web Server, REST API, Beautiful Soup. Education Bachelor's