Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - Media Services Around 6 years of IT work experience as Web/Application Developer which involves professional Python development experience using Python and Django.  ? Experienced with full software development life cycle of the projects including Design, Development, Deployment, Testing, Implementation and Support.  ? Hold deeper understanding of Django, Django Rest Framework with countable experience on Flask.  ? Experience with Django Authentication modules with custom modifications as needed.  ? Strong experience in developing web applications using Model View Control (MVC) and Django framework.  ? Experienced in working with various Python Integrated development Environment like IDLE, PyCharm, Eclipse and Sublime Text.  ? Build User Interface utilizing HTML/HTML5, CSS/CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, Bootstrap and AJAX.  ? Experienced in object-oriented programming concepts and using REST API's and Web services in Python.  ? Used python packages like SQL Alchemy, Pandas, IPython, Dateutil etc.  ? Ability to perform query using Django ORM.  ? Proficient in various DBMS like MySQL, PostgreSQL, MongoDB and Oracle.  ? Experienced in using Version Control Systems like GIT, and SVN.  ? Have experience working in LINUX and UNIX environment and basic BASH scripting.  ? Experienced in working with AWS (Amazon Web Services) cloud platform.  ? Extensively followed development methodologies such as Agile (SCRUM) and Waterfall.  ? Good documentation skills with the ability to meet deadlines and have the ability to work in a cross functional environment. Work Experience Python Developer Media Services - Los Angeles, CA November 2017 to Present Project Description:  Media Services is a leading payroll and production resource for the entertainment industry, exceeding clients' expectations for over 40 years. Currently working on a web application for Customer Relationship Management using Python and Django as part of the backend team. Purpose of this application is to maintain track of customer relationships, feedback from issues and keeping track of prospective customers and follow-ups.    Responsibilities:  ? Actively involved in requirements gathering, application development, testing and maintenance phases.  ? The base of the project has been developed using Django, Python and MySQL.  ? Worked in UNIX/LINUX environment and familiar with all of its commands.  ? Followed Agile development and consistently delivered new features on time during sprints.  ? Created REST APIs using Django Rest Framework to send data to user interface.  ? Composed python scripts to parse XML and JSON reports and load the information in database.  ? Used Django ORM to access database objects. Also involved in validating and processing of files.  ? Used Angular and REST calls for sending JSON data objects between frontend and backend.  ? Used JIRA for project monitoring, creating use cases and bug tracking.  ? Used PyUnit, the Python unit test framework for integration and unit testing.  ? Version control for the project was implemented using GIT. Python Developer Acxiom - Austin, TX November 2016 to October 2017 Acxiom Corporation is a Conway, Arkansas-based database marketing company. The company collects, analyzes and sells customer and business information used for targeted advertising campaigns. Currently working on a web application for Market Analysis (Digital Infomercials and Email Marketing) using Python and Django. The data interpretations are displayed through a user-friendly UI.    Responsibilities:  ? Involved in requirement gathering, specifications and designing phases of the project.  ? Designed and developed the app using Django framework and web technologies such as HTML, CSS, AJAX and Bootstrap.  ? Used Django Forms to create work orders and inventory entries. Used Django Models for database creation and CRUD operations. Used Views for backend processing and display through templates.  ? Deployed application on Amazon Web Services using EC2.  ? Provided bi-weekly work reports to the supervisor and participated in daily SCRUM meetings.  ? Utilized PyUnit, the Python unit test framework, for all Python applications.  ? Worked with Oracle SQL database and handled its connection with application using Django ORM.  ? Used SVN for version control.  ? Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes of the applications and involved in fine tuning of existing processes followed advance patterns and methodologies. Python Developer JPMorgan Chase - Columbus, OH July 2014 to October 2016 JPMorgan is an American multinational investment bank and financial services company that offers solutions to the world's most important corporations, governments and institutions. I am part of CSWA (Customer Support Web Application) project. The web application was built using Django framework. It provides an interface for the customer support team to talk to the database and provide assistance to the customers.    Responsibilities:  ? Implemented project using Agile Scrum methodology. Involved in daily stand up meetings.  ? Writing modules in Python to connect to MongoDB with PyMongo and doing CRUD operations with MongoDB.  ? Generate Django Forms and Models to record and validate data of new projects.  ? Communicating and sharing ideas with other team developers using Slack.  ? Actively involved in analysis of the system requirements and specifications.  ? Design and implement elegant and scalable REST APIs using Django Rest Framework.  ? Used Git as version control system for the application.  ? Integrated with MongoDB for retrieving the data in the form of JSON using AJAX.  ? Collaborated with other developers to handle complicated issues related to deployment of applications.  ? Used JIRA for ticket assignment and bug tracking. Python Developer NextVR Inc - Newport Beach, CA July 2012 to June 2014 NextVR is the world's largest virtual reality broadcast platform that delivers live sports and entertainment to fans around the world. Our team was working on Project life cycle management application that keeps track of all ongoing and upcoming projects. The application facilitated with all phases of System Development Life Cycle.    Responsibilities:  ? Provided daily reports to the Development Manager and participate in both the design and development phases of Agile Methodology.  ? Developed entire backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  ? Views and Templates were developed with Python and to create a user-friendly website interface Django's view controller and template language is used.  ? Implemented and executed code to perform CRUD operations on PostgreSQL.  ? For sending and receiving the data between multiple systems RESTful Web-Services were implemented.  ? PyUnit framework was used for unit testing of python codes. Skills DJANGO (6 years), PYTHON (6 years), Git (3 years), REST (3 years), MONGODB (2 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    Programming Languages/Frameworks Python, HTML/HTML5, CSS/CSS3, Bootstrap, Django, Django REST, Flask  Databases/Web Servers SQL, MySQL, PostgreSQL, MongoDB, AWS, Apache, Nginx  Development Tools PyCharm, Terminal, Sublime, Slack, JIRA  Version Controls SVN, GIT, Bitbucket  Software Methodology Agile, Scrum, Waterfall.