Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - Apria Healthcare * Around 6 years of experience as a Python Developer, pro•cient coder in multiple languages and experience in Design, Development, Implementation of Python, Django , Flask, Pyramid and client-server technologies-based applications , RESTful services, AWS, C, C++ , JAVA and SQL * Experience in all phases of Software Development Life Cycle Process across various workflows (Requirement study, Analysis, Design, Coding, Testing, Deployment and Maintenance) in Web &  Client/Server application development.  * Good experience in developing web applications implementing MVT architecture using Django , Flask ,  Webapp2 and spring web application frameworks, with good understanding of Django ORM and  SQLAlchemy.  * ands-on experience with industry-standard IDEs like PyCharm, Sublime, Emacs, Eclipse, NetBeans ,  Intellij, and TOAD.  * Extensive experience in developing applications by implementation of web based and client/server application using HTML , Bootstrap , PHP , CSS , JavaScript, Bootstrap, D3.js * Expert at version control systems like Git, SVN and CVS , Migrated repos from SVN to Github * Experienced in requirement gathering, use case development, Business Process flow, Business Process  Modeling: extensively used UML to develop various use cases, class diagrams and sequence diagrams.  * Proficient in writing SQL Queries, Stored procedures, functions, packages, tables, views, triggers using relational databases like Oracle, DB2, MySQL and MSSQL Server.  * Experience in developing consumer-based features and applications using Python , Django , HTML ,  Behavior Driven Development ( BDD ) and pair-based' programming.  * Expertise in using Django evolution and manual SQL modifications, able to modify Django models while retaining all data, while site was in production mode.  * Experience with source code testing frameworks like JUnit, PyUnit.  * Good experience in working with Web services like Amazon AWS EC2, S3, SES, ELB, EBS.  * Excellent Experience and knowledge in using XML , SOAP , REST web Service for inter operable software applications.  * Hands on experience with bug tracking tools JIRA and Bugzilla * Skilled in debugging/troubleshooting issues in complex applications.  * Experience in all phase of SDLC like Requirement Analysis, Implementation and Maintenance, and extensive experience with Agile and SCRUM.  * Highly motivated, quality minded developer, with proven ability to deliver applications against tight deadlines. Work Experience Python Developer Apria Healthcare - Lake Forest, CA April 2018 to Present Responsibilities: ? Developed and designed Python based API (RESTful Web Service) to interact with company's website.  ? Wrote Python code and actively participated in the procedure to automate processes.  ? Build and test functionality within a production pipeline.  ? Implemented Python code to fix bugs and provides upgrades to existing functionality.  ? Provided fault isolation and root cause analysis for technical problems.  ? Highly efficient in handling multi-tasking issues in a fast paced environment.  ? Created Business Logic using Python to create Planning and Tracking functions.  ? Worked very closely with designer, tightly integrating Flash into the CMS with the use of Flashvars stored in the Django models. Also created XML with Django to be used by the Flash.  ? Developed multi-threaded standalone app in Python , PHP, C++ to view Circuit parameters and performance.  ? Involved in building database Model, APIs and Views utilizing Python, in order to build an interactive web based solution.  ? Developed Business Logic using Python on Django Web Framework.  ? Designed and managed API system deployment using fast http server and Amazon AWS architecture.  ? Developed tools using Python , Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks.  ? Developed internal auxiliary web apps using Python Flask framework with Angular.js and Twitter  Bootstrap CSS / HTML framework.  ? Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks. Interfacing with supervisors, artists, systems administrators and production to ensure production deadlines are met.  ? Used Django configuration to manage URLs and application parameters.  ? Utilized PyQt to provide GUI for the user to create, modify and view reports based on client data.  ? Developed complex web, middleware, and back end systems in Python, SQL and Perl for Linux and Windows.  ? Created PyUnit test scripts and used for unit testing.  ? Developed Merge jobs in Python to extract and load data into MySQL database.  ? Developed user interfaces using HTML5 and JavaScript.  ? Created a Git repository and added the project to GitHub.  ? Utilized Agile process and JIRA issue management to track sprint cycles.  ? Wrote validation scripts in SQL to validate data loading.  ? Interfacing with supervisors, artists, systems administrators and production to ensure production deadlines are met.  Environment: Python, Django, PYQt, Python SDK, AWS, Flash, PHP, PyQuery, DOM, Bootstrap, XML,  HTML5, JavaScript, Angular.js, JSON, Rest, Apache Web Server, Git Hub, MySQL, LINUX. Python Developer Resource Bank - San Francisco, CA June 2016 to March 2018 Responsibilities: ? Developed and designed Python based API (RESTful Web Service) to interact with company's website.  ? Successfully implemented Django framework (including Tastypie ) to design server applications.  ? Wrote Python code and actively participated in the procedure to automate processes.  ? Build and test functionality within a production pipeline.  ? Implemented Python code to fix bugs and provides upgrades to existing functionality.  ? Created Business Logic using Python to create Planning and Tracking functions.  ? Involved in building database Model, APIs and Views utilizing Python, in order to build an interactive web based solution.  ? Developed Business Logic using Python on Django Web Framework.  ? Utilized PyQt to provide GUI for the user to create, modify and view reports based on client data.  ? Developed complex web, middleware, and back end systems in Python, SQL for Linux and Windows.  ? Created PyUnit test scripts and used for unit testing.  ? Developed Merge jobs in Python to extract and load data into MySQL database.  ? Developed user interfaces using HTML5 and JavaScript.  ? Created a Git repository and added the project to GitHub.  ? Utilized Agile process and JIRA issue management to track sprint cycles.  ? Wrote validation scripts in SQL to validate data loading.  ? Interfacing with supervisors, artists, systems administrators and production to ensure production deadlines are met.  Environment: Python, Django, PYQt, Python SDK, AWS, Flash, PHP, PyQuery, DOM, Bootstrap, XML,  HTML5, JavaScript, Angular.js, JSON, Rest, Apache Web Server, Git Hub, MySQL, LINUX. Python Developer Covered California - Sacramento, CA January 2015 to May 2016 Responsibilities: * Involved in Design, Development and Support phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) * Built and maintained code libraries to support analytics using NumPy and SciPy.  * Worked on parsing of JSON data to be used in the project received by API calls using Python Request library * Used SQLAlchemy to operate across various databases.  * Designed the front end of the application using HTML, CSS, AJAX, Bootstrap, JSON and JQuery * Worked on backend of the application using Python, mainly using Active Records. Used Python and Django to interface with the JQuery UI and manage the storage and deletion of content * Used GIT as version control for existing system.  * Creating and modifying webservices and stored procedures to implement new requirements using  Python * Extensively used XML and RESTful Web Services to retrieve and send data from different applications.  * Developed DOM-based interactive directory structure diagram with dynamically expandable directory trees.  * Implemented unit testing using PyUnit, and tested several RESTful services using SOAP UI * Worked in development of applications especially in LINUX environment and familiar with all commands.  Environment: Python, Django, HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, XML, AJAX, JSON, JQuery, JavaScript, Oracle,  RESTful API's, Linux, Soap UI, GIT. Python Developer WorkMethods Inc - Pune, Maharashtra May 2013 to December 2014 Responsibilities: * Documented the design documents using Class Diagrams and Sequence Diagrams using IBM Rational rose.  * Used Python scripts language on LAMP Server to develop web-application with MySQL as the database.  * Used Python libraries like beautiful soup, matplotlib, PyTest, Tweepy, urllib2.  * Utilized CherryPy coupled with Nginx to serve Python WSGI based applications.  * Designed and maintained databases using Python and developed Python based API (RESTful Web  Service) using Flask - SQLAlchemy with Oracle database.  * Extensively used XML and RESTful Web Services to retrieve and send data from different applications.  * Used GIT as a version control software.  * Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes of the two main applications that were a main source of data for both customers and internal customer service team.  * Involved in optimizing the python program by following best practices with different Data structures that best enhances the performance of application.  * Created Several XML Schemas and Developed Stored PL/SQL Procedures and Packages to automatically create and drop table indexes.  * Experience in creating test cases using PyUnit framework and used fiddler as logging tool to get detailed report of traffic between clients.  * Involved in doing AGILE practices and planning of sprint attending daily agile meetings and SPRINT meetings to produce quality deliverables within time.  Environment: Python, Django, HTML, CSS, XML, Bootstrap, JQuery, JSON, JavaScript, SQLAlchemy, IBM  Rational Rose, Oracle, REST webservices, LAMP. Skills Ant (Less than 1 year), Apache (2 years), Bea (Less than 1 year), Bootstrap (5 years), Bugzilla (Less than 1 year), Cvs (Less than 1 year), databases. (3 years), Django (5 years), Eclipse (Less than 1 year), Git (5 years), Jira (2 years), Linux (4 years), Mysql (4 years), Oracle (3 years), Pl/sql (1 year), Python (5 years), Soap (1 year), Sql (4 years), Ui (1 year), User interface (1 year)