Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer • Excellent Good Experience with Python web frameworks Django and Flask.  • Have work experience with various Python Integrated Development Environments like PyCharm and sublime text.  • Expertise in handling Django ORM.  • Experienced in developing User Interface using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, JSON and AJAX.  • Experienced in developing applications using Agile Methodologies and Scrum stories in a python-based environment  • Knowledge in Model View Controller (MVC) frameworks.  • Installed various packages in python using pip and easy install.  • Experience in using LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, and Python) Architectures.  • Experience in working with different operating systems like LINUX and WINDOWS.  • Experience in handling REST Web Services.  • Experience in using various version control systems like Gitlab.  • Having knowledge on deploying applications by using Jenkins that provides Continuous Integration and Continuous Deployment.  • Design and maintain databases using Python and developed Python-based API (RESTful Web Service) using Django models and PostgreSQL.  • Effective communication and business analyst skills worked with end users, architects and DBAs across the enterprise and worked in R&D team which helped with sequencing the project activities by conducting the feasibility analysis and brain stormingsessions.  • Experienced in developing Web Services with python programming language.  • Very strong full life cycle application development experience  • Experience in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on SQL and PostgreSQL database Work Experience Python Developer AT&T - Scottsdale, AZ January 2017 to August 2018 Designed front end and backend of the application utilizing Python on Django Web Framework.  • For the development of the user interface of the website used HTML, CSS, JavaScript.  • Experience in developing views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Expertise in developing consumer-based features and applications with Python, Django, HTML, Behavior Driven Development (BDD) and pair-based programming.  • Modify the existing Python/Django modules to deliver certain format of data.  • Have work knowledge on JIRA(Agile) for the bug tracking of the project.  • Worked on deployment on AWS EC2 instance with Postgres RDS and S3 file storage  • Developed Chef Cookbooks to install and configure Apache Tomcat, Jenkins and deployment automation.  • Used Django-celery with the help of RabbitMQ message broker for large processing.  • Experience with Streaming platforms like Apache Kafka.  • Worked on Python scripts to parse JSON documents and load the data in database.  • Build SQL queries for performing various CRUD operations.  • Developed full stack Python web framework with an emphasis on simplicity, flexibility, and extensibility.  • Worked on AWS Cloud Platform and its features which includes EC2, S3, EBS  • Integrated Redis-Cache with Django Rest Framework for reading the data faster  • Involved in Design, Development, Deployment, Testing, Implementation of the application.  • Implemented the application in LINUX environment and comfortable with all its commands.  • Developed Restful Microservices using Flask and Django and deployed on AWS servers using EBS and EC2  • Automated most of the daily task using python scripting. Python Developer Upc insurance - Saint Petersburg, FL August 2015 to December 2016 Developed web pages using advanced HTML5 and CSS3 techniques, backed by jQuery to enable optimum user experience throughout thesite.  • Customized FullCalender.js, implemented concept of context menu and made it specific to the application. Also, handled jQuery context menu changes with respect totime.  • Used concepts of local storage in HTML for no networkscenarios.  • Develop consumer-based features and applications using Python and Django.  • Implemented Sessions and Cookie logic to achieve uninterrupted userexperience  • Designed the front end of the application using Python.  • Used Apache (NoSQL) in AWS Linux instance in parallel to RDS MySQL to store and analyze job market info.  • Skilled in using collections in Python for manipulating and looping through different user-defined objects.  • Used Django API's to access the database.  • Knowledge of data structures, algorithms, OO design, web application design.  • Maintained the versions using GIT and sending the release notes for each release  • Defining the scope of testing within the context of each release / delivery.  • To test Sirius Programmer Mobile Application on Android and iOS devices using test automation tool.  • Deploying and managing resources for testing.  • Installed and configured PY Builder for application builds and deploying it.  • Developed and Deployed SOAP based Web Services on Tomcat Server Python Developer Innominds - Hyderabad, Telangana May 2013 to June 2015 Developed web pages using advanced HTML5 and CSS3 techniques, backed by jQuery to enable optimum user experience throughout thesite.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using python on Django Web Framework.  • Developed tools using python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks.  • Used PyQt for the functionality filtering of columns helping customers to effectively view their transactions and statements. Implemented navigation rules for the application and page.  • Performed testing using Django's Test Module.  • Used Django configuration to manage URLs and application parameters.  • Involved in Web development, programming, and engineering Django, UWSGI and SQL internal admin tools behave BDD.  • Used python and Django to interface with the jQuery UI and manage the storage and deletion of content.  Developed a fully automated continuous integration system using Git, Jenkins, MySQL and custom tools developed in python and Bash.  • Designed and managed API system deployment using fast http server and Amazon AWS architecture  Creation of python scripts for data access and analysis (Scripts, Data Feeds, XLS, FIXML) to aid in process and system monitoring, and reporting.  • Rewrite existing Java application in python module to deliver certain format of data.  • Wrote python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Generated property list for every application dynamically using python. Also used Bootstrap and Angular.js as a mechanism to manage and organize the HTML page layout. Responsible for search engine optimization to improve the visibility of the website.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML5, XHTML, AJAX, CSS3 and JavaScript  • Handled all the client-side validation using JavaScript.  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL.  • Created a Git repository and added the project to Gitlab.  • Build development environment with JIRA. Python Developer GlobalLogic Technologies - Hyderabad, Telangana March 2011 to April 2013 Developed web pages using advanced HTML5 and CSS3 techniques, backed by jQuery to enable optimum user experience throughout thesite.  • Used several python libraries like wxPython, numPY and matPlotLib and was involved in environment, code installation as well as the SVN implementation also involving Beautiful Soap, Numpy, Scipy, Matplotlib, python-twitter, Pandas Data frame, urlib2 libraries.  • Build all database mapping classes using Django and Flask models and Cassandra and used Pandas API to put the data as time series and tabular format for east timestamp data manipulation and retrieval.  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL and developed and tested websites using MEAN (MongoDB, Express, AngularJS, Node.js) stack.  • Have been using High charts and D3.js for creating charts of payment section and utilized MEAN stack, REST design pattern, MVC framework and Single Page Applications framework based on AngularJS.  • Running load/endurance tests using Vugen, ALM, and controller, server monitoring, analysis using Dynatrace, UNIX putty, SQL logs and other tools and reporting the performance. Analyzing errors and exceptions using putty logs (UNIX), etc.  • Creating unit test/regression test framework for working/new code and responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  • Developed, tested and debugged software tools utilized by clients and internal customers and coded test programs and evaluated existing engineering processes.  • Developed screens using jQuery, JSP, JavaScript, Ajax and ExtJS