Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - CVS Health Phoenix, AZ • Having 8+ years of IT Industry experience in designing, developing and maintaining large-scale systems/applications.  • Significant expertise in Python 2.7, 3.2 and 3.5.  • Experienced with full software development life-cycle, architecting scalable platforms, object oriented programming, database design and agile methodologies  • Expert knowledge of and experience in Object Oriented Design and Programming concepts.  • Experience in writing REST APIs in Python for large-scale applications.  • Experience using Python's REST framework.  • Significant experience in using Python's application development frameworks such as Django.  • Experience in real-time configuration and management of MySQL, MongoDB, Cassandra and PostgreSQL databases on a large scale.  • Experienced in developing web-based applications using Python, Django, XML, CSS, HTML, JavaScript, Angular JS,React JS.  • Worked on several Python packages like Numpy, Beautiful Soup, Pickle, PySide, Scipy, PyTables.  • Experience in Shell Scripting, SQL Server, UNIX and Linux.  • Implementation and extensive working experience in wide array of tools in the Hadoop like HDFS, Spark, MapReduce, Hive, Pig, Sqoop and HBase.  • Familiar with JSON based REST Web services and Amazon Web services.  • Good experience in writing SQL queries and implementing stored procedures, functions, packages, tables, views, cursors, triggers.  • Automated the continuous integration and deployments using Jenkins, Docker and AWS Cloud Templates deployment services (Lambda).  • Experience in project deployment using Jenkins and using web services like Amazon Web Services (AWS) EC2, AWS S3 and Cloud watch.  • Significant application development experience in Ubuntu, RedHat and Windows environments.  • Extensive usage of developmental tools such as Eclipse, PyCharm and Sublime Text, version control tools like Git and Apache SVN.  • Experience in adopting security best practices during development and production.  • Experience in testing and debugging applications using PyUnit, PyTest and JUnit frameworks.  • Experience in writing test cases from the requirements and also, writing various test scripts for the applications.  • Conducted data analytics and visualization on data using Python NumPy, Pandas.  • Experience working in a Test-Driven Development environment and software development lifecycles such as Waterfall and Agile (Scrum).  • Experienced in developing Web Services with Python programming language.  • Experience in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on MySQL and PostgreSQL database.  • Worked in agile and waterfall methodologies with high quality deliverables delivered on-time.  • Maintained detailed documentation and architectural solutions in IT infrastructure and sales systems. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Developer CVS Health - Phoenix, AZ October 2016 to Present Description:    CVS is an American retail Pharmacy and Health care company. It Includes CVS Pharmacy, CVS Caremark and CVS Specialty. CVS Health provides evidence-based healthcare solutions in the areas of Radiology, Radiation Therapy, Cardiology, Lab Management, Oncology, Pain Management and Sleep Management. Exports Services is a platform comprised of over 30 products that range from UI, Web Services, Windows Services, and Database Systems. The day to day maintenance for these platforms entrails building new database scripts, creating new web services, implementing new customers onto the platform, and enhancing existing products.    Responsibilities:  • Designing, developing and managing REST APIs utilizing Django's Rest framework and overlooking the API system.  • Responsible for developing an automated system to identify redundant server instances with the same session IDs and mark them for deletion, thereby freeing the memory by a significant amount at times.  • Successful migration of the default Django's database (SQLite) to PostgreSQL to improve efficiency, integrity and security of data.  • Involved in database-driven web application development using a variety of frameworks such as Django on Python.  • Proficient in PostgreSQL development (tables, views, joins) and migrations from SQLite databases preserving the integrity. Also proficient in database normalization process and the various normal forms.  • Experienced Hadoop Developer has a strong background with file distribution systems in a big-data arena. Understands the complex processing needs of big data and has experience developing codes and modules.  • Responsible for developing data pipeline using Hadoop ecosystem to extract the data from weblogs and store in HDFS.  • Knowledge on handling Hive queries using Spark SQL that integrate Spark environment.  • Experience working with complex datasets including Python's native lists, dictionaries and tuples.  • Designed and developed templates using Django's template library and utilized them using Django's forms library.  • Implemented user interface guidelines and standards throughout the development and maintenance of the website using the HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery and Angular JS.  • Developed single page web application using AngularJS, HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, jQuery for interactive cross-browser functionality,  • Used AngularJS framework for single page applications and validating the client-side user information based on their business rules.  • Generated property list for every application dynamically using Python and was responsible for search engine optimization to improve the visibility of the website.  • Experience working with version control systems such as Git and Apache SVN for maintaining a consistent state throughout the application development process.  • Followed Scrum along with Test-Driven Development to develop applications, services and software solutions.  • Developed, tested, and deployed proprietary data analytics and visualization Python Django application in an agile team, used packages like Pandas, NumPy and tool including Git.  • Responsible for constantly communicating the progress and issues to the higher management and making necessary changes to the application based on flexibility, scalability and security issues.  Environment: Linux, Angular JS, sDjango 1.10, JSON, Hadoop, Mango DB, RISK management, SOAP, REST, GitHub. Python Developer Symantec - Herndon, VA April 2015 to August 2016 Responsibilities:  • Developed web applications in Django Framework's model view control (MVC) architecture.  • Exposure on Multi-Threading factory to distribute learning process back-testing and into various worker processes.  • Performed efficient delivery of code based on principles of Test Driven Development (TDD) and continuous integration to keep in line with Agile Software Methodology principles.  • Different testing methodologies like unit testing, Integration testing, web application testing.  • Python/Django based web application, PostgreSql DB, and integrations with 3rd party email, messaging, storage services.  • Developed a fully automated continuous integration system using Git, Jenkins, MySQL and custom tools developed in Python and Bash  • Designed and managed API system deployment using fast http server and Amazon AWS architecture.  • Used Github for Python source code version control, Jenkins for automating the build Docker containers.  • Design and implemented custom scripts.  • Develop consumer based features and applications using Python, Django, HTML and Test Driven Development (TDD)  • Rewrite existing Python/Django modules to deliver certain format of data.  • Responsible for tracking and monitoring project status in JIRA (Agile)  • Developed Python web services for processing JSON and interfacing with the Data layer.  • Worked on deployment of project on to Amazon S3.  • Used GIT version control.  • Worked on development of SQL and stored procedures for normalization and renormalization in MYSQL.  • Build SQL queries for performing various CRUD operations like create, update, read and delete.  • Skilled in using Collections in Python for manipulating and looping through different user defined objects.  • Engaged in Design, Development, Deployment, Testing, Implementation of the application.  • Worked in development of applications especially in UNIX environment and familiar with all of its commands.  • Environment: Python 2.7, Django 1.4, HTML5, CSS, XML, MySQL, Script, C++, Angular JS, Backbone JS, JQuery, CSS Bootstrap, Mongo DB, MS SQL Server, T-SQL, Script, Eclipse, Git, GitHub, AWS, Linux, Shell Scripting. Python Developer Intuit February 2013 to February 2015 Responsibilities:  • Involved in building database Model, APIs and Views utilizing Python, in order to build an interactive web based solution.  • Responsible for gathering requirements, system analysis, design, development, testing and deployment.  • Creating Python API's  • Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks.  • involved in building database Model, APIs and Views utilizing Python, in order to build an interactive web based solution.  • Designed and managed API system deployment.  • Developed Python batch processors to consume and produce various feeds.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Developed Business Logic using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Developed Merge jobs in Python to extract and load data into MySQL database.  • Successfully migrated the Django database from SQLite to MySQL with complete data integrity.  • Also used Bootstrap as a mechanism to manage and organize the html page layout.  • Added support for Amazon AWS S3 and RDS to host static/media files and the database into Amazon Cloud.  • Used GitHub for version control.  • Developed SQL Queries, Stored Procedures, and Triggers Using Oracle, SQL, PL/SQL.  Environment: Python, Django, PHP, C++, HTML5, CSS3, JQuery, API, AJAX, XHTML, Bootstrap, AWS, JavaScript, XML, GitHub, Flash, SQLite, MYSQL, SQL, PLSQL, Oracle and Windows, Linux. Python developer Innovative Technologies - IN June 2009 to December 2012 Description:  Innovative Technologies private limited deliver software solutions in a manner that materially improves customer experience by applying new and disruptive technology to customer's business situations. Provides an intelligent business decision enabling service designed to grow customer's business and give them the best returns on intelligence.  Responsibilities:  • Responsible for using the best technologies to add features to the existing system and services.  • Involved in all aspects of the development process from product inception to scaling in production.  • Responsible for driving software development best practices for the team and also, mentoring and developing junior engineers.  • Working in collaboration with project managers and higher management in cross-functional teams within Sales and Account Management, to understand business requirements and develop efficient, elegant approaches to their implementation.  • Writing REST APIs, as part of developing web-based applications for insurance premium calculations, using Django's REST framework.  • Heavily leveraged Python's graphics APIs for creating graphics and serialization libraries for encoding data in XML/JSON formats.  • Also involved in writing REST APIs using Django framework for data exchange and business logic implementation.  • Experience in using collections in Python for manipulating and looping through different user defined objects.  • Design and implemented custom Bash scripts for controlling the data flow from the PostgreSQL database.  • Assisted the development team in sending the correct data via query strings using PostgreSQL as the back-end for storing data.  • Used Django configuration to manage URLs and application parameters.  • Responsible for configuring NoSQL databases like Apache Cassandra and Mongo DB to for increasing compatibility with Django.  • Designed and created backend data access modules using PL/SQL stored procedures.  • Good experience in writing SQL Queries and implementing stored procedures, functions, packages, tables, views, cursors, triggers.  • Responsible for debugging the project monitored on JIRA.  • Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many bug fixes for applications that were a main source of data for both customers and internal customer service team.  • Handled potential points of failure through error handling and communication of failure.  • Risk analysis for potential points of failure (database, communication points and file system errors).  • Troubleshoot the process execution and worked with other team members to correct them.  • Actively worked as a part of team with managers and other staff to meet the goals of the project in the stipulated time.  • Developed and executed User Acceptance Testing portion of test plan.  • Generated Django forms to record data of online users and used PyTest for writing test cases.  • Extensive use of version controlling systems like GIT and SVN.  • Involved in capturing the requirements for serial functional interface and other software requirements specification document.    Environment: Python, Django, MySQL, SVN, Unit Test. Education Bachelor's Skills Django (8 years), MySQL (6 years), Python (8 years), SQL (8 years), Subversion (4 years) Additional Information Technical skills:  Programming Languages Python, Java  Web services SOAP, RESTful  Data bases Oracle 10/11g, MySQL, NoSQL, SQL Server  IDE's and tools Eclipse, Pycharm, NetBeans  Python Frameworks Django  OS &Environment XP, windows, Linux, Unix, Ubuntu  Unix Shell Scripting Unix Shell Scripting  Version control GitHub, SVN  Development Methodologies Agile, Scrum  Hadoop HDFS, MapReduce, Spark, Hive, Pig, Sqoop