Sr. Python Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Python Developer - REST, Json • 7 years of experience in IT Industry with proficiency in Design & Development of Python, Java/J2EE, Django, flask projects.  • Experience in distributed worker queues, cloud servers process aptitude assessment exams in real-time and render beautiful, and insightful HR reports.  • Experience in designing the automation framework using Python, Corn and Shell scripting.  • Extensive experience in system analysis, design, development and implementation of web based and client/server application using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, AJAX, Java/J2EE, Servlets, JSP, JDBC, XML, XSLT, Python, Django, PHP  • Worked on reverse-engineered legacy algorithm (VBA/Excel to Python) to a modern cloud platform  • Extensive experience working both for the backend (designing the data model and integration logic) and front-end (UX design and polishing the sales experience).  • Deployed Django web application in Apache webserver and carpathia cloud web deployment.  • Working knowledge in multi-tiered distributed environment, OOAD concepts, good understanding of Software Development Lifecycle (SDLC)  • Developed Java/J2ee applications using Hibernate, XML, XSLT, and Basic ASP.net applications using Core Java concepts like OOPS, Multithreading, Garbage Collections, and Collection etc.  • Experience in Implementation of MVC architecture using Spring MVC and SOAP web service and SOAPUI  • Worked on several python packages like Numpy, matPlotLib, Beautiful Soup, Pickle, PySide, Scipy, wxPython, PyTables etc.  • Extensively followed development methodologies such as Agile (SCRUM), Water Fall  • Proficient in Front end development experience using MEAN, HTML, XML, Backbone, CSS, JQuery, JSON and Javascript, CSS, Bootstrap.  • Expertise in establishing database connections for Java and Python by configuring packages like JDBC, MySQL- Python.  • Excellent Experience of Databases such as MySQL, MongoDB, Cassandra, Oracle 8g/9g/10g, Microsoft SQL Server, PostgreSQL, SQL/PLSQL concepts  • Good Knowledge of using IDE Tools like Eclipse, NetBeans, Android Studio, Visual Studio, IDLE.  • Experienced in MEAN stack technologies and MVW frameworks like Django, Angular JS, Java Script, JQuery and Node.js.  • Wrote AJAX framework to transform Datasets and Datatables into HTTP-serializable JSON strings.  • Experience on Ruby Reg-Ex for pattern and Text matching.  • Highly dedicated, quick starter, solution driven pattern programmer with excellent at solving complex problems under strict deadlines.  • Maintained detailed documentation and architectural solutions in IT infrastructure and sales systems.  • Experience with continuous integration and automation using Jenkins  • Experience with Unit testing/ Test driven Development (TDD), Load Testing.  • Created video publishing toolkit using WordPress (PHP/MySQL) and JavaScript to allow easy uploading of video by non-technical content mangers.  • Detailed oriented and resourceful in the completion of projects with an ability to multitask and meet strict deadlines.  • Willingness to work in a highly dynamic environment and ready to take up challenges Work Experience Sr. Python Developer REST, Json - Milwaukee, WI September 2014 to Present Responsibilities:  • Full Stack developer, created a custom CMS built using Django, AWS(Amazon web service), REST, Json with JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX components, worked closely with designer. Converted Photoshop images into XHTML/CSS.  • Maintained using PHP/MySQL and developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Worked on reverse-engineered legacy algorithm (VBA/Excel to Python) to a modern cloud platform  • Customed Cloud Portal to integrate AWS APIs for Automated Network configuration and Server/Application provisioning  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to createa user-friendly website interface.  • Worked on several python packages like Numpy, matPlotLib, Beautiful Soup, Pickle, PySide, Scipy, wxPython, PyTables etc.  • Expertise in establishing database connections for Java and Python by configuring packages like JDBC, MySQL- Python.  • Implementation of Cross Connectivity of Virtual Private Clouds (AWS VPC) across regions using OpenSwan over IPSec as part of Disaster Recovery in AWS.  • Started developing with, Python sdk, Django 0.96 and currently developing with Django 1.0  • Deployed production site using Apache 2.0 with mod_ python  • Successfully migrated the Django database from SQLite to MySQL to PostgresSQL with complete data integrity.  • Using django evolution and manual SQL modifications was able to modify Django models while retaining all data, while site was in production mode.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Developed Merge jobs in Python to extract and load data into MySQL database.  • Successfully migrated the Django database from SQLite to MySQL to PostgreSQL with complete data integrity  • Used Test driven approach for developing the application and Implemented the unit tests using Python Unit test framework.  • Designed front end using UI, HTML, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Involved in the Complete Software development life cycle (SDLC) to develop the application.  • Followed AGILE development methodology to develop the application.  • Used Test driven approach (TDD) for developing services required for the application. Implemented Integration test cases.  • Worked using AJAX with jQuery  • Worked closely with designer, tightly integrating Flash into the CMS with the use of Flashvars stored in the Django models. Also created XML with Django to be used by the Flash.  • Created PHP/MySQL back-end for data entry from.  • Imported SSL certs from other hosts to new host and properly configured Apache to use certs.  • Used Apache .htaccess to provide authentication system for PHP/MySQL sites  • Experience using mod_rewrite to create SEO friendly links.  • Creating complex dynamic HTML UI using jQuery.  • Deployed internal wiki (PHP dokowiki) and ticketing system (Zope - Python, IssueTrackerProduct) to help document and manage tasks.  • Organized data exchange and integration with customers and third-party systems using CSV, XLS, XML, DBF, JSON, REST, SOAP.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework. Sr. Python Developer Capital One - McLean, VA July 2012 to August 2014 Responsibilities:  • Designed front end and backend of the application using Python on Django Web Framework  • Used HTML, CSS, AJAX, JSON designed and developed the user interface of the website.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to createa user-friendly website interface.  • Extensive coding using several Python Modules and controls to rapidly build application.  • Used Python Data structures including lists, dictionaries, and tuples.  • Worked with complicated List comprehensions and various built-in functions like map, filter etc. and worked on Python Modules and Packages.  • Used subversion for version controlling and eclipse for debugging the application and Query Optimization through SQL server tools for quick response time.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Used JavaScript and JSON to update a portion of a webpage.  • Develop consumer based features and applications using Python, Django, HTML, Behavior Driven Development (BDD) and pair based programming.  • Rewrite existing Python/Django modules to deliver certain format of data.  • Responsible for debugging the project monitored on JIRA (Agile)  • Wrote Python scripts to parse JSON documents and load the data in database.  • Used JQuery for the data manipulations on client side.  • Leveraged CSS Bootstrap for development of Web applications.  • Worked on deployment of project on to Amazon S3.  • Used GIT version control and deployed project to Heroku  • Worked on development of SQL and stored procedures for normalization and renormalization in MYSQL.  • Build SQL queries for performing various CRUD operations like create, update, read and delete.  • Skilled in using Collections in Pythonfor manipulating and looping through different user defined objects.  • Engaged in Design, Development, Deployment, Testing, Implementation of the application.  • Worked in development of applications especially in UNIX environment and familiar with all of its commands.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Used Django configuration to manage URLs and application parameters.  • Created entire application using Python, Django, MySQL and Linux. Python Developer Flagstar Bank - Troy, MI March 2011 to June 2013 Responsibilities:  • Implemented user interface guidelines and standards throughout the development and maintenance of the website using the HTML, CSS, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to createa user-friendly website interface.  • Worked with Django REST framework and Python routines to log into the websites and fetch data for selected options.  • Implemented AJAX for dynamic functionality of a webpages for front end applications.  • Worked on front end frame works like CSS Bootstrap for responsive webpages.  • Developed and tested many features for dashboard, created using Bootstrap, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Worked on server side applications with Django using Python programming.  • Used python libraries like Beautiful Soup and matplotlib.  • Used Pandas for a data alignment and data manipulation.  • Utilized standard Python modules such as csv, robotparser, itertools and pickle for development.  • Worked on Python OpenStack APIs and used Numpy for Numerical analysis.  • Used Ajax and JQuery for transmitting JSON data objects between frontend and controllers.  • Developed Wrapper in Python for instantiating multi-threaded application.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Managed datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL, queried MYSQL database queries frompython using Python-MySQL connector and MySQLdb package to retrieve information.  • Developed various algorithms for generating several data patterns.  • Used JIRA for bug tracking and issue tracking.  • Added several options to the application to choose particular algorithm for data and address generation.  • Developed the project in Linux environment.  • Used Agile Methodology and SCRUM Process.  • Maintained the versions using GIT and sending the release notes for each release.  • Supported the issues seen in the tool across all the teams for several projects. Python Developer NBC Universal - New York, NY January 2010 to February 2011 Responsibilities:  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Work with team of developers on python applications for RISK management.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript  • Made Django web based apps for Insurance premium calculations.  • Generated property list for every application dynamically using Python.  • Rewrite existing Java, C++ application in Python.  • Used Django APIs for database access.  • Used Python to extract weekly hotel availability information from XML files.  • Used Pandas library for statistical Analysis.  • Used Apache Couch dB (NoSQL) in AWS Linux instance in parallel to RDS MySQL to store and analyze job market info.  • Developed the required XML Schema documents and implemented the framework for parsing XML  documents.  • Involved in Unit testing and Integration testing.  • Developed ColdFusion Components, custom tags and modified CF Objects.  • Designed the architecture of the hardware environments and methodology of the code.  • Involved in entire lifecycle of the projects including Design, Development, and Deployment  • Wrote AJAX framework to transform Datasets and Data tables into HTTP-serializable JSON strings.  • Issues pertaining to Real time data being read from RabbitMQ into Postgres and Cassandra.  • Build SQL, NO SQL queries implementing functions, packages, views, triggers, and tables. Additional Information Technical Skills:    Working as Python Developer 7 years  Python Libraries Pandas, Numpy, UnitTest, JSON, CSV, XLS, Perl  Python Framework Django, Pandas, Pyramid, Flask, Ansible, Bottle, Salt  Source version Control GITHUB, SVN, Emacs  Database Sqlite3, MEAN, SQL, Cassandra, Oracle 8i, Cloud  Operating System Unix, Microsoft Windows 7, XP  Web Technologies AngularJS, JavaScript, AJAX, HTML, CSS and XML  Software Development Lifecycle Agile Methodology, Scrum Framework