Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - Infosys Technologies Limited ? Having total experience of 3.6 years as a Python developer which includes requirement understanding, solution design, development, support, maintenance projects  ? 2+ years of experience in implementing Object-Oriented Python, Hash Tables (Dictionaries) and Multi threading.  ? Experience in installing software using pip command for python libraries and extensive usage of the PEP8 coding convention.  ? Good understanding on Django ORM and SQLAlchemy.  ? Experienced in interfacing with third party API's using REST and SOAP  ? Worked with varieties of Relational Databases (RDBMS) like SQLite, MySQL and PostgreSQL.  ? Experienced in writing Subqueries, Triggers, Cursors, Stored Procedures and Functions.  ? Proficient knowledge of Web services like Google Cloud and Amazon AWS Services.  ? Good Knowledge on Linux and Shell Scripting.  ? Experienced in developing web-based applications using Python, PHP, XML, JSON and MVC3  ? Well versed in design and development of presentation layer for web applications using technologies like HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX and Bootstrap. Work Experience Python Developer Infosys Technologies Limited August 2015 to Present Involved in building database model, APIs and views utilizing Python, in order to build an interactive web based solution.  • Used data types like dictionaries, tuples and object -concepts based inheritance features for making complex algorithms of networks.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Expertise in client scripting languages like JavaScript, jQuery, JSON, DOJO, bootstrap, Angular.js.  • Designed and managed API system deployment using fast http server and Amazon AWS architecture  • Worked on Python Open stack API's.  • Carried out various mathematical operations for calculation purpose using python libraries.  • Managed large datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL.  • Worked with JSON based REST Web services.  • Performed testing using Django's Test Module    Environment: Python, XML, Java, MySQL, Apache, CSS, HTML, JavaScript, Shell Scripts, Linux and Windows. Education Bachelor of Technology in Information Technology Swami Keshvanand Institute of Technology - Jaipur, Rajasthan, IN 2015 Additional Information Technical Skills  Primary Skills:  ? AJAX  ? CSS  ? HTML  ? JavaScript  ? MySQL