Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - Huntington National Bank Cincinnati, OH • Over 5+ years of experience in Analysis, Design, Development, Management and Implementation of various stand-alone, client-server enterprise applications in Python.  • Experienced with full software development life-cycle, architecting scalable platforms, object-oriented programming, database design and agile methodologies.  • Experience object-oriented programming (OOP) concepts using Python and C++.  • Experienced in developing web-based applications using Python, DJANGO, C++, XML, CSS3, and HTML5.  • Experience with Web Development, Python and the Django framework.  • Experience in developing web applications implementing MVC architecture using Django framework and SQLAlchemy.  • Hands on experience in working with WAMP (Windows, Apache, MYSQL, Python/PHP) and LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, Python/PHP) Architecture.  • Experience with Requests, Pysftp, Gnupg, Reportlab, Numpy, SciPy, Matplotlib, HTTPLib2, Urllib2, Beautiful Soup and Pandas python libraries during development lifecycle.  • Good experience in developing web applications and implementing Model View Control (MVC) architecture using server-side applications like Django, Flask and Pyramid.  • Hands on experience in working with Python ORM libraries including Django ORM, SQL Alchemy.  • Working knowledge in multi-tiered distributed environment, OOAD concepts, good understanding of Software Development Lifecycle (SDLC).  • Experienced in Python's modules NumPy, matplotlib for generating complex graphical data, creation of histograms etc.  • Good knowledge of web services with protocols SOAP and REST.  • Excellent experience with Python development under Linux OS.  • Experience in using various version control systems like CVS, Git, GitHub and Amazon EC2 and deployment using Heroku.  • Proficient in writing SQL Queries, Stored procedures, functions, packages, tables, views, triggers using relational databases like Oracle and MySQL.  • Highly motivated, quality minded developer, with proven ability to deliver applications against tight deadlines.  • Possess good interpersonal, analytical presentation Skills, ability to work in Self-managed and Team environments.  • Ability to work on own initiative and as a part of team. Willingness to learn new Technologies, openness to new ideas and ability to learn very quickly. Sponsorship required to work in the US Work Experience Python Developer Huntington National Bank - Cincinnati, OH March 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Worked with server-side production code for application those are robust and high volume.  • Developed applications using mix of technologies ( Python, Django, Flask, Pandas, REST and SOLR).  • Involved in building database Model, APIs and Views utilizing Python in order to build an interactive web based solution.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Develop consumer-based features and applications using Python, Django, pyramid, Flask, Web2py, HTML and other web technologies.  • Worked on several standard Python packages like Numpy, matPlotLib, Scipy, Pandas and PyTables etc.  • Developed dynamic web pages using Python Django Frameworks.  • Created a Python based web application using Python scripting for data processing, MySQL for the database, and HTML/CSS.  • Troubleshoot ETL failures and performed manual loads using SQL stored procedures.  • Implemented new metrics on the MedeAnalytics' Software as a Service (SaaS) Patient Access Analytics platform.  • Wrote Python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Generated property list for every application dynamically using Python.  • Developed web applications and RESTful web services and APIs using Python, Django and Flask.  • Worked on PEP-8 coding standard and test a program by running it across test cases to ensure validity and effectiveness of code using PyChecker and PyLint.  • Involved in Unit testing and Integration testing of the code using PyTest.  • Used PowerShell for DevOps in Windows-based systems.  • Involved in various projects related to Data Modeling, System/Data Analysis, Design and Development for both OLTP and Data warehousing environments.  • Involved in development of Python based Web Services using REST for sending and getting data from the external interface in the JSON format and to track sales and perform sales analysis using Django and PostgreSQL.  • Developed UI using CSS, HTML, JavaScript, Angular.JS, JQuery and JSON.  • Consumed external APIs and wrote RESTful API using Django REST Framework and Angular's.  • Connected continuous integration system with GIT version control repository and continually build as the check-in's come from the developer.  • Wrote Stored Procedures in SQL and Scripts in Python for data loading.  • Displayed and proved capability to learn any new technology and work on it.  • Involved in writing and reviewing requirements, architecture documents, test plans, design and maintaining documents, quality analysis and helping with the software release process.    Environment: Python, Django, Pandas, Flask, REST, DevOps, Data E, SOLR, Jira, Bugzilla, Pytest, PyChecker, PyLint, JavaScript, Angular.js, JSON, JQuery, AJAX, HTML, CSS, PostGreSQL, Agile, LINUX and Windows. Python Developer Great West Financials - Overland Park, KS November 2016 to February 2018 Responsibilities:  • Worked with full software development life-cycle (SDLC), architecting scalable platforms, object oriented Programming, database design and agile methodologies  • Developed Views and Templates with Python and using Django's view controller and template language for the Web application.  • Performed testing using Django's Test Module.  • Wrote small code to test their behaviour and web-based desktop applications.  • Implemented Microservices architecture in developing the web application with the help of Flask framework.  • Worked with Python ORM Libraries including Django ORM and have good knowledge on Project management tools. Develop consumer-based features and applications using Python and Django in test driven Development and pair-based programming.  • Used Apache to deploy production site.  • Developed and delivered training presentations on logical data modeling, application process modeling and metadata management for business units (underwriting, claims, actuarial).  • Work with the database modeling manager to identify the requisites of a project.  • Used Web Services and API's in python.  • Developed Python Script for moving files from drop box to Amazon server.  • Involved SQL databases MySQL and PostgreSQL.  • Performed DevOps for Linux Mac and Windows platforms.  • Involved in object oriented programming (OOP) concepts using Python and C++.  • Worked with various Python Integrated Development Environments like IDLE, Pycharm, Atom, Eclipse, PyDev and Sublime Text.  • Worked with Requests, Numpy, Scipy, Matplotlib, and Pandas python libraries during development lifecycle.  • Involved in creating initial website prototype from Django skeleton and building out Views, Templates using CSS for whole site following Django MVC architecture.  • Worked with View Sets in Django-REST framework for providing web services and consumed web services performing CRUD operations.  • Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL dB package.  • Worked with UNIX / Linux internals, basic cryptography & security.  • Participated in weekly release meetings with Technology stakeholders to identify and migrate potential risks associated with the releases.    Environment: Python, Django, DevOps, Flask, BitBucket, GitHub, AWS, Eclipse, Numpy, Pandas, MAtplotlib, Scipy, HTML, CSS, UNIX, LINUX, Agile and Windows. Python Developer Milwaukee, WI September 2015 to October 2016 Responsibilities:  • Involved in building database Model, APIs and Views utilizing Python, in order to build an interactive web based solution.  • Responsible for setting up Python REST API framework using Django.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Developed web applications in Django Framework model view control (MVC) architecture.  • Worked on UI using HTML5, CSS3 and Java Scripts.  • Involved in Python OOP code for quality, logging, monitoring, and debugging code optimization.  • Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks. Interfacing with supervisors, artists, systems administrators and production to ensure production deadlines are met.  • Developed Python batch processors to consume and produce various feeds.  • Design and documentation of REST APIs using Django Rest framework for collection and retrieval of high volume data which is results of search query.  • Developed Business Logic using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Developed Merge jobs in Python to extract and load data into MySQL database.  • Successfully migrated the Django database from SQLite to MySQL with complete data integrity.  • Used JQuery and Ajax calls for transmitting JSON data objects between frontend and controllers.  • Used JQuery for selecting particular DOM elements when parsing HTML.  • Used GitHub for version control.  • Developed SQL Queries, Stored Procedures, and Triggers Using Oracle, SQL and PL/SQL.  • Attended everyday Enterprise Workflow Stand-Up meeting to provide current status, thus implementing Agile (Scrum) Methodology with Test Driven Development.    Environment: Python, Django, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, XML, JQuery, AJAX, GitHub, DOM, SQL, Oracle, Agile and Windows. Python Developer InfraSoft Technologies Limited October 2013 to August 2015 Responsibilities:  • Designed the Web application Using Python on Django Web Framework pattern to make it extensible and Flexible.  • UI was developed using HTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS, JQuery, and JavaScript.  • Used the Model View controller (MVC) framework to build modular and maintainable applications  • Building reusable code and libraries for future use.  • Developed scalable applications using Django framework.  • Used data structures like directories, tuples, object oriented class based inheritance features for making.  • Maintained and improved the security level of data.  • Responsible for security standard implementation and data protection.  • Worked with millions of database records on a daily basis, finding common errors and bad data patterns and fixing them.  • Developed internal auxiliary web apps using Python Flask framework with CSS/HTML framework.  • Utilized PyUnit, the Python unit test framework for testing the functionality of the application.  • Profiled python code for optimization and memory management.  • Implemented locking mechanisms using multithreading functionality.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  • Involved in entire lifecycle of the project.    Environment: Python, Django, PyUnit, JavaScript, HTML, XHTML, CSS, Ajax, JQuery, SQL, LINUX, Windows. Education Master's Skills C+ (1 year), Css. (5 years), databases (1 year), Django (5 years), Dom (1 year), Eclipse (1 year), Frameworks. (1 year), Git (1 year), Html (5 years), Html5 (1 year), Linux (4 years), Oracle (1 year), Pl/sql. (1 year), Python (5 years), Restful web services (1 year), Sdlc (1 year), Sql (5 years), version control (2 years), web services (2 years), Xml (2 years) Additional Information Technical Skills:  Languages Python, SQL, C , C++  Frameworks Django, Pyramid, Flask  Databases MS SQL Server MS-Access, MY SQL, Oracle, MongoDB, SQLite, PL/SQL, NoSQL  User Interfaces HTML, HTML5, DHTML, CSS, XML, DOM, XAML, Restful, WSDL, Web Services, Angular.js  Libraries NumPY, Panda, Beautiful Soup    Operating Systems Linux, Windows, Windows Server 2003, Version Control Team Foundation Server (TFS), Subversion, Clear Case  Tools & IDE Eclipse PyDev, Django South, Pytest, PyCharm, Sublime, Eclipse, NetBeans  SDLC Waterfall, RAD, Agile, Scrum  Packages Dockers ,Kubernetes, MS Office (Word, Excel and PowerPoint), MS outlook, Lotus Notes  Others GIT, RESTful Web Services, Django-Debug-Toolbar