Sr. PYTHON DEVELOPER Sr. <span class="hl">PYTHON</span> <span class="hl">DEVELOPER</span> Python developer Seattle, WA Over 6 years of IT Experience in designing, developing, testing and implementing various stand-alone and client-server architectures-based enterprise application software on different domains. Proficient coder in multiple languages and environments including Python, Django, Flask, web2py, bottle, CherryPy, sanic, tornado, Giotto, pylon, TurboGears MongoDB, C, C++ and SQL. Experience in developing web - based applications using Python 2.x and 3.x, UI/UX, PHP, C++, XML, CSS3, HTML5, DHTML, JavaScript, Jdk1.7, jQuery, Angular.JS. Experience in version control systems using CVS, SVN and Git/GitHub and issue tracking tools like Jira and Bugzilla, Spark and rabbit MQ and Good Experience in Infrastructure Development and Operations involving Google App Engine and AWS Cloud platforms. Good experience using various Python libraries to speed up development (libraries used: Beautiful Soup, NumPy, SciPy, Matplotlib, python-twitter, Pandas data frame, network, urllib2, MySQL dB for database connectivity, JSON libraries).Experience in Machine Learning Algorithms. Experienced in NoSQL technologies like MongoDB, Redis and Cassandra and relational databases like SQLite, PostgreSQL, Dynamo DB, MariaDB and MySQL databases. Hands on Experience in Data mining and Data warehousing using ETL Tools. Experienced with databases using ORMs/DOMs for integrating with MySQL Experience in working with various Python IDE's using PyCharm, Spyder, PyStudio, PyScripter, and yDev. Knowledge of the Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC), Agile and Waterfall Methodologies. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. PYTHON DEVELOPER Nordstrom Apparel - Seattle, WA August 2018 to Present Responsible for gathering requirements, system analysis, design, development, testing and deployment by participating in complete SDLC process.  ? Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  ? Followed Agile development methodology to develop the application and used the GO Programming language to refactor and redesign the legacy databases.  ? Created MySQL queue using AWS, SNS, SQS and Golang (Go) to concurrently process SQL queries in the background. Used Machine learning techniques like unsupervised Classification, optimization and prediction and good knowledge of working with Rabbit MQ.  ? Designed, developed, coded, worked in penetration testing and implemented a concurrent - multi-parallel - event oriented-processing - AKKA Actor System and Actors; to consume Scala Spark-SQL Rules which aggregated data to produce Quality Performance Reports (QPR) on Fiscal projections against Apprentice and Intern Job data.  ? Developed application using Amazon Web Service like EC2, cloud search, Elastic load balancer ELB, Cloud from Deploy and monitor scalable infrastructure on Amazon web services (AWS) & configuration management using Puppet.  ? Designed and deployed machine learning solutions in Python to classify millions of previously unclassified Twitter users into core data product  ? Worked in Apache CGI, CherryPy, python and Bash programming on Red Hat virtual machines to maintain and automate Splunk server deployments and other in-houses IT operations.  ? Implemented database change controls, as well as development, staging & production PostgreSQL databases. Implemented machine learning schemes using Python libraries Sci kit-learn and SciPy.  ? Used R for prototype on a sample data exploration to identify the best algorithmic approach and then wrote Scala scripts using Spark Machine Learning module.  ? Implemented AWS solutions using E2C, S3, RDS, EBS, Elastic Load Balancer, Auto-scaling groups and written modules in Python to connect to PostgreSQL and doing CRUD operations with PostgreSQL.  ? Worked on Linux server and Created scripts for data modeling and data import and export and worked on Python ecosystem packages like Numpy, pandas, Matplotlib and Ipython Jupyter notebook.  ? Performed data cleaning, analysis/munging and visualization of large dataset like stocks data using Numpy, Pandas, and Matplotlib and Ipython Jupyter notebook.  ? Worked on AWS services (S3, EC2) and deployment services (Lambda) and RDS, DynamoDB (NoSQL), Beanstalk, SQSand Jenkins CICD.  ? Successfully migrated the Django database from SQLite to MySQL to PostgreSQL with complete data integrity and Designed, developed and deployed CSV Parsing using the Big Data approach on AWS EC2.  ? Developed Python Mapper and Reducer scripts and implemented them using Hadoop streaming.  ? Created and maintained Technical documentation for launching Hadoop Clusters and for executing Hive queries and Pig Scripts.  ? Development of Python APIs to dump the array structures in the Processor at the failure point for debugging and good knowledge on Spark platform parameters like memory, cores and executors.  ? Built articles, updated landing pages, and approved assets for publishing on a CMS platform (Oracle WebCenter Sites) and used Bitbucket and hosted the web site on Heroku and AWS.  ? Involved in the development of front-end of the application using Python 3.4, HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap 3.0, AJAX, JSON and jQuery.  ? Worked on different data formats such as JSON, XML and performed Machine Learning algorithms in R.  ? Designed, developed and deployed applications on to several clouds-based solutions using configuration Management tools like Chef, Puppet, Ansible and Saltstack.  ? Worked in the DevOps team, delivered new Agile environments & build/release/configuration and deployment automation/monitoring using Jenkins, ANT, Maven, Artifactory, Chef, custom scripting and JIRA for ticketing.  ? Automate scenarios using Selenium WebDriver Testing Tools used: Selenium IDE, Selenium WebDriver.  ? Creating YAML driven query engines in Python for SQL, Sqoop, HDFS, and Teradata, BTEQ, TDT and Implemented Algorithms for Data Analysis from Cluster of Web Services.  ? Worked with lxml to dynamically generate SOAP requests based on the services. Developed custom Hash-Key (HMAC) based algorithm in Python for Web Service authentication.  ? Worked on Python Scientific packages like NumPy and Pandas to handle data sets effectively.  ? Used Test driven approach (TDD) for developing services required for the application and Implemented Integration test cases and Developing predictive analytic using Apache Spark Scala APIs.  ? Developed GUI using Python and Django for dynamically displaying the test block documentation and other features of Python code using a web browser.  ? Developing applications using RESTFUL architecture using Node.JS and Python as backend languages.  ? Test-Driven Development approach was used and hence worked intensively on developing test cases and Involved in Quality Control Activities such as defect tracking, fixing using JIRA.  ? Involved in doing AGILE (SCRUM) practices and planning of sprint attending daily Agile (SCRUM) meetings and SPRINT retrospective meetings to produce quality deliverables within time and Worked with Machine Learning Libraries like Theano, Scikit-learn.  ? Worked closely with Data Scientist and Data Visualization specialist to develop prototypes from various datasets using Machine Learning, natural language processing, and predictive analytics techniques  ? Developed application using Amazon Web Service like EC2, cloud search, Elastic load balancer ELB, S#, Cloud FronDeploy and monitor scalable infrastructure on Amazon Web Services (AWS) & configuration management using Puppet.  ? Writing SOAP and Restful Web Services, in house ESB for a web Claims application (Spring MVC, Angular.JS, ActiveMQ, SOAP UI, Mockito, JSON, Build forge). PYTHON DEVELOPER Schneider National - Green Bay, WI August 2016 to May 2018 Implemented Full Life Cycle Development of new web applications and modification of existing applications to add new components and features emphasizing maintainability, reliability, scalability and performance.  ? Implemented financial models in Python as well as refactor and update existing model implementations to enhance stability, increase performance and reduce memory usage.  ? Work in Agile-Scrum and TDD environment with distinct roles. Present daily report of software planning, issues diagnosis and potential solutions.  ? Reviewed and debugged Client's Jupyter/ Ipython notebooks also improving navigation experience over long pages and Used Python to build notepads to manipulate user data in Jupyter.  ? Developed Merge jobs in Python to extract and load data into MySQL database and worked on MySQL data lineage process to map source to target DB, table and column mappings using OO Python.  ? Performed server-side application using Django framework and developed a chat application with it and integrated with the main application by client-server architecture.  ? Developed GUI using webapp2 for dynamically displaying the test block documentation and other features of python code using a web browser.  ? Implemented deep learning models and numerical Computation with the help of data flow graphs using Tensor Flow Machine Learning.  ? Used various IDE's like Eclipse, Jupyter/IPython Notebooks, IDLE and Notepad++ for Python developments and experienced with batch processing of data sources using Apache Spark and Elastic search.  ? Develop Machine Learning API in the backend using libraries such as Numpy, SciPy, Matplotlib, Pandas, Seaborn, Sklearn, OpenCV and NLTK.  ? Worked with core web front end technologies like HTML, JavaScript (Core and Object-Oriented JS), ES6, CSS, and Web Accessibility and Worked on performance tuning of cluster using Cassandra Configuration file and JVM Parameters.  ? Planned and coordinated the administration of PostgreSQL databases to ensure accurate, appropriate, and effective use of data, including database definition, structure, documentation, long-range requirements, and operational guidelines.  ? Created Natural Language Processing model in R using OpenNLP, Stanford NLP, ANN and developed R application showcasing machine learning for improving business forecasting.  ? Implementing change requests raised by user for server configuration, kernel tuning, software installation and OS hardening. Managing Linux VMs using Puppet as per some project's requirement.  ? Managed datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL, queried MySQL database queries from Python using Python-MySQL connector MySQL dB package to retrieve information.  ? Develop and program Python scripts of automation procedure with provided API and JSON data to connect and communicate embedded hardware system, based on design documents and business objectives, including developer testing activities, like Unit Testing, Regression Testing, Integration Testing. Manage continuous build and share progress with Confluence, Bamboo and SVN.  ? Used jQuery and AJAX calls for transmitting JSON data objects between front end and controllers and Utilized continuous integration and automated deployments with Jenkins, Ansible and Docker.  ? Troubleshooting and resolving issues in JIRA and Confluence as users and provided documentation of customer JIRA terms, standard practices, and implementation and weekly status reports.  ? Designed and managed API system deployment using fast HTTP server and Amazon AWS architecture and Setup database in AWS using RDS and configuring backups for S3 bucket.  ? Developed Hadoop integrations for data ingestion, data mapping and data processing.  ? Used Sqoop to import the data from RDBMS to Hadoop Distributed File System (HDFS) and later analyzed the imported data using Hadoop Components.  ? Developed API modularizing existing Python module with the help of Pyyaml libraries which is an YAML parser and emitter for Python.  ? Enhanced existing REST services using Node.JS, Express.JS and Mongoose modules.  ? Design and develop XSD scheme-based XML assays to validate software function based on product requirements, which is used to transferring data and operation between software and hardware.  ? Actively involved in developing the methods for Create, Read, Update and Delete (CRUD) in Active Record. Involved in designing application system requirements and coded back-end and front-end in Django/ Python.  ? Involved in designing user interactive web pages as the front-end part of the web application using various web technologies like HTML5, JavaScript, Angular.JS, jQuery, AJAX and implemented CSS3 for better appearance and feel.  ? Worked with cross-browser and cross-platform development of HTML5 and CSS3 based websites in Windows like Safari, IE 6, IE 7, IE 8, Firefox and Chrome.  ? Used AJAX to modify small portions of the web pages by sending a request to the server avoiding the need of reloading the entire web page.  ? Interactive in providing change requests, trouble reports and requirements collection with the client.  ? Managed code versioning with GitHub, Bitbucket and deployment to staging and production servers and also worked with WordPress modules, theming, distributions & content management.  ? Implemented MVC architecture in developing the web application with the help of Django framework.  ? Implemented task object to interface with data feed framework and invoke database message service setup and update functionality.  ? Leveraging queueing architectures with Rabbit MQ for scalability, performance and building.  ? Working under UNIX environment in development of application using Python and familiar with all its commands and Developed remote integration with third party platforms by using RESTful Web Services.  ? Improved code reuse and performance by making effective use of various design patterns and refactoring code base and developed single page application by using Angular.JS backed by MongoDB and Node.JS.  ? Involved in Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) of tracking the requirements, gathering, analysis, detailed design, development, system testing and user acceptance testing. PYTHON DEVELOPER Comcast - Philadelphia, PA June 2014 to March 2016 Developed the presentation layer and GUI framework that are written using HTML and Client-Side validations were done using JavaScript.  ? Exposure on Multi-Threading factory to distribute learning process back-testing and the into various worker processes and Experience with continuous integration and automation using Jenkins.  ? Implemented multi-tier application provisioning in OpenStack cloud, integrating it with Ansible/Puppet.  ? Implemented and designed AWS virtual servers by Ansible roles to ensure deployment of web applications.  ? Cleaned data and processed third party spending data into maneuverable deliverables within specific formats with Excel macros and Python libraries by using TDD (Test driven development) methodology.  ? Spearheaded adoption of Responsive web design principles and converted existing websites to responsive websites by using Bootstrap.  ? Managed, developed and designed a dashboard control panel for customers and administrators using Django, Oracle DB, PostgreSQL and VMWare API calls  ? Leveraged SaltStack event system for distributed application monitoring and reporting.  ? Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes of the two main applications that were a main source of data for both customers and internal customer service team.  ? Designed front-end and back-end of the application using Python, Node.JS on Django Web Framework.  ? Written Cloud formation templates and deployed AWS resourcing and built application and database servers using AWS EC2 and create AMIs also using RDS for Oracle DB.  ? Implemented CI/CD using Jenkins for development process. Installing, configuring, maintaining and administering WordPress blog sites.  ? Creating test environment to verify and confirm compatibility of latest version WordPress and Plugins.  ? Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and template language to create a user-friendly website interface.  ? Developed single page application by using Angular.JS backed by MongoDB and Node.JS.  ? Created custom user defined functions in Python language for Pig.  ? Built application logic using Python and worked on Behavioral-Driven Programming in Python.  ? Embedded AJAX in UI to update small portions of the web page avoiding the need to reload the entire page. Implemented responsive vector maps and charts on web pages using the data from PostgreSQL  ? Managed, developed, and designed a dashboard control panel for customers and administrators using Django, MongoDB, PostgreSQL and VMWare API calls.  ? Pull information from JIRA using REST API and Python to populate Excel files for management reports.  ? Design and develop XSD scheme-based XML assays to validate software function based on product requirements, which is used to transferring data and operation between software and hardware.  ? Develop and program Python scripts of automation procedure with provided API and JSON data. PYTHON DEVELOPER City Group - New York, NY September 2013 to March 2014 Writing backend programming in Python and used the Django Framework to develop the application.  ? Implemented user interface guidelines and standards throughout the development and maintenance of the website using the HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery and Angularjs.  ? Developed views and templates with Python and Django view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  ? Designed and developed communication between client and server using Secured Web services.  ? Developed and tested many features for dashboard using Python, Java, Bootstrap, CSS, JavaScript and JQuery and used JavaScript and XML to update a portion of a webpage and Developed RESTful services using Django.  ? Developed consumer-based features and applications using Python and Django in test driven Development and successfully migrated the Django database from SQLite3 to PostgreSQL with complete data integrity.  ? Performed Unit testing, Integration Testing, GUI and web application testing using Rspec.  ? Worked on Jenkins continuous integration tool for deployment of project also worked on changes to openstack and AWS to accommodate large-scale data center deployment.  ? Used Amazon Cloud EC2 along with Amazon SQS to upload and retrieve project history and experienced in project deployment using Heroku/Jenkins and using web services like Amazon Web Services (AWS) EC2, AWS S3, Auto scaling, CloudWatch and SNS.  ? Created interactive data charts on Customer portal web application using High charts JavaScript library with data coming from Apache Cassandra.  ? Worked on front end frameworks like CSS, Bootstrap for development of Web application also worked in MySQL database on simple queries and writing Stored Procedures for normalization.  ? Deployed the project into Jenkins using GIT version control system and followed Agile Methodologies to manage full life-cycle development of the project.  ? Learned to index and search/query large number of documents inside Elastic search and worked with WEB API's to make calls to the web services using URLs, which would perform GET, PUT, POST and DELETE operations on the server.  ? Created stored procedure, trigger on the database to provide/insert specific data from multiple tables for Web API services.  ? Wrote code to support model-view-controller (MVC) pattern of Python Django framework in developing several modules for the application.  ? Developed Application to access JSON and XML from Restful Web Service from consumer side using JavaScript.  ? Developed remote integration with third party platforms by using RESTful web services and creating invitation flow for customers to use the client portal for monitoring applications.  ? Created the environment specific settings for a new deployment and update the deployment specific conditional checks in code base to use specific checks.    Skills Sets:  Programming Languages: Python 2.x/3.x, Go Language, Scala, C, C++, Java, SQL, HTML/HTML5, CSS/CSS3  Python Libraries: Requests, Scrapy, wxPython, Pillow, SQL Alchemy, Beautiful Soup, Twisted, NumPy, SciPy, matplotlib, Pygame, Pyglet, PyQT, PyGtk, Scapy, Pywin32, ntlk, Nose, SymPy, Ipython  Web Frameworks: Django, Flask, Pyramid, TurboGears, Muffin, CherryPy, Tornado,web2py,pylon.  GUI Frameworks: PyJamas, Gnome Python, GUI2py, PyFltk, PyForms, PyGtk, PySide, TkInter  Version Control Tools: Concurrent Versions System (CVS), Subversion (SVN), Git, Mercurial, Saltstack.  Automation Tools: doit, Buildbot, Chef, Puppet, Ansible, Docker  Testing Tools: Unit Test, Pytest, Pythoscope, PyMock, Mocker, Antiparser, Web Unit, Web Test, PAMIE, Selenium, Splinter, PyFIT, PyUseCase, Automa, PyChecker  IDE: Netbeans, Thonny, Komodo, PyCharm, PyDev, PyScripter, Pyshield, Spyder, PyStudio  Databases: MySQL, MongoDB, Cassandra, NoSQL, PostgreSQL  Bug Tracking Tools: Bugzilla, JIRA, HP ALM/Quality Center, IBM Rational ClearQuest  Operating Systems: IBM OS/2 Warp, Windows 98/NT/2000/XP/Vista/7/8, UNIX/Linux, Sun Solaris  Other Technical Skills: Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC), Object Oriented Programming (OOP), Agile, Waterfall, Test Driven Development (TDD), Behavioral Driven Development (BDD), Pair Programming, Scrum, Elasticsearch, Kanban, Kafka, Python Scripting, OpenStack, Amazon Web Services (AWS), YAML, Bash scripting, Jetty, JSON, Shell scripting, Logstash, Kibana, LAMP and WAMP architecture, AMQP, RabbitMQ, Celery, Heroku, Samba, Confluence, Bamboo, Education Master's Skills Amazon web services, Json, Object oriented, Object oriented programming, Oop