Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - JP Morgan Chase Houston, TX • Around 8 Years of experience in Analysis, Design, Development, Management, and Implementation of various standalone and client-server enterprise Python/Django based web-applications.(Developed web-based applications using Python 2.7/2.6, Python 3 Django 1.4/1.3).  • Experienced in statistical analysis by using SAS and Python.  • Experienced in Cobol for creating interfaces for mainframes.  • Extensive experience in Text Analytics, developing different Statistical Machine Learning, Data Mining solutions to various business problems and generating data visualizations using SAS, Python and Tableau.  • Experienced in developing web applications using Django, Pyramidframeworks.  • Analyze Business problems from data and create predictive models Using Machine learning  • Good knowledge of TLS,TCP/IP, UDP, HTTP, HTTPS, SSH and SSL protocols.  • Worked with several python packages like Numpy, Matplotlib, Scipy, PyQt, wxpython, PyTables.  • Designed and managed API system deployment using fast HTTP server and Amazon AWS architecture  • Setup database in AWS using RDS and configuring backups for S3 bucket.  • Worked no Amazon Web Services (AWS) Cloud services such as EC2, EBS, S3, VPC, Cloud Watch, and Elastic Load Balancer.  • Hands-on Experience monitoring servers to identify and troubleshoot issues by Nagios, Splunk ,ELK.  • Good working experience in using version control systems Git and GitHub.  • Good experience in working with web services like Amazon AWS EC2.  • Worked extensively with Unit testing/ Test Driven Development(TDD), and Load Testing.  • Write, maintain and improve automation scripts in Python  • Designing of Physical Data Architecture of New system engines.  • Hands on experience in implementing LDA, Naive Bayes and skilled in Random Forests, Decision Trees, Linear and Logistic Regression, SVM, Clustering, neural networks, Principle Component Analysis and good knowledge on Recommender Systems.  • Proficient in Statistical Modeling and Machine Learning techniques (Linear, Logistics, Decision Trees, Random Forest, SVM, K-Nearest Neighbors, Bayesian, XG Boost) in Forecasting/ Predictive Analytics, Segmentation methodologies, Regression based models, Hypothesis testing, Factor analysis/ PCA, Ensembles.  • Strong experience in Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) including Requirements Analysis, Design Specification and Testing as per Cycle in both Waterfall and Agile methodologies.  • Strong Experience with python automation in automating Rest API and UI automation using Selenium web driver using Python.  • Experience with automation, web development and engineering environment tools such as JIRA, Jenkins, Git, BitBucket, Chef, Selenium, QTP, Maven.  • Experience and Technical proficiency in Designing, Data Modeling Online Applications, Solution Lead for Architecting Data Warehouse/Business Intelligence Applications.  • Highly skilled in using visualization tools like Tableau, ggplot2 and d3.js for creating dashboards.  • Having working Knowledge in DevOps Environment as an automation engineer on various technologies/ applications like GIT, SVN, Puppet, Chef, Docker, AWS, etc.  • Strong analytical and problem-solving skills,always striving for new Knowledge.  • Excellent communication and interpersonal skills, ability to work independently as well as part of an integrated team. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Developer JP Morgan Chase - Houston, TX October 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Worked with various Python libraries such as Six, Click, Pandas and Matplotlib for analysis and manipulation of data.  • Designed Docker proof-of-concept using Hashicorp's Nomad and Consul.  • Used Consul for Service Discovery and to create Key-Value pair.  • Wrote Python scripts to parse JSON files and load the data into the Consul.  • Worked with SAS and Python for data analysis and visualization purpose to get a better understanding about the data.  • Migrated the SAS code to Python for the better use of python visualization and analytical models.  • Created own algorithms to predict the Tax payers behavior which will be helpful for future purpose.  • Involved in development using Python, bug fixing.  • Developed web-based applications using Python, Django, XML, CSS, HTML, DHTML.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Involved in developing a web service for print using a SOAP HTTPs request and response.  • Consumed various RESTful API using apache Http service.  • Used Wireshark, live http headers, and Fiddler2 debugging proxy to debug the Flash object and help the developer create a functional component.  • Development of real-time multi-tasking systems using Python.  • Combination of these elements (future prediction & multi-dimensional segmentation) would enable the department to design better web platform and have a vision for the future Taxation.  • Worked on distributed test automation execution on different environment as part of Continuous Integration Process using Selenium Grid and Jenkins.  • Hands on experience with continuous integration and automation using Jenkins.  • Developed automation scripts to test storage appliances in Python.  • Maintained Git repositories for DevOps environment: Version control and build automation integrating git into Jenkins  • Utilized ELK for log analysis, web analytics, business intelligence, compliance analysis and visualization.  • Expertise in setting up, configure, manage and scale Amazon Elastic Search cluster and used Log Stash along with Kibana (ELK Stack) for centralized logging which stores logs and metrics into an S3 bucket using Lambda functions, utilized Glacier for storage for setting up and maintenance of Auto-Scaling of AWS stacks.  • Used Python 3.X (numpy, spicy, pandas, scikit-learn, seaborn) and Spark 2.0 (PySpark, MLlib) to develop variety of models and algorithms for analytic purposes.  • Deployed GUI pages by using JSP, JSTL, HTML, DHTML, XHTML, CSS, JavaScript, and AJAX.  • Utilized Spark, Scala, Hadoop, HBase, Kafka, Spark Streaming, MLlib, Python, a broad variety of machine learning methods including classifications, regressions, dimensionally reduction etc.  • Developed MapReduce/Spark, R modules for machine learning & predictive analytics in Hadoop on AWS. Implemented a R-based distributed randomforest.    Environment: Python3.x(Scikit- Learn/Scipy/Numpy/Pandas/Matplotlib/Seaborn),SAS Spark (Pyspark, MLlib, Spark SQL), Informatica 9.0, ODS, OLTP, Oracle 10g, Hive, OLAP, DB2, Metadata, MS Excel, Rational Rose. Python Developer Walgreens - Deerfield, IL June 2016 to September 2017 Responsibilities:  • Participated in the complete SDLC process and used PHP to develop website functionality.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Designed and developed Use-Case, Class and Object Diagrams using UML Rational Rose for Object Oriented Analysis/Object Oriented Design techniques.  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL. Built application logic using Python 2.6.  • Used Django APIs for database access.  • Provided GUI utilizing PyQt for the end user to create, modify and view reports based on client data.  • Angular.js is used to build efficient backend for client web application.  • Used Python to extract information from XML files.  • Expertise in Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) and its related technologies like Web Services, BPEL, WSDLs, SOAP1.1, XML, XSD, XSLT etc.  • Participated in requirement gathering and worked closely with the architect in designing and modeling.  • Worked on development of SQL and stored procedures on MYSQL.  • Developed shopping cart for Library and integrated web services to access the payment (E-commerce)  • Designed and developed a horizontally scalable APIs using Python Flask.  • Analyzing business requirements, responsible for manually testing functionality and then automation using python.  • Written test cases using PyUnit test framework and Selenium Automation testing for better manipulation of test scripts.  • Experience in Implementing ELK stack Elastic Search, Log Stash and Kibana for log indexing and setup/teardown of ELK stack and troubleshoot the build issues with ELK and work towards the solution.  • Automate the installation of ELK agent (filebeat) with Ansible playbook.  • Designed Cassandra schema for the APIs.  • Implemented monitoring and established best practices around using elastic search.  • Effectively communicated with the external vendors to resolve queries.  • Used GIT for the version control.  Environment: Python 2.6/2.7, JavaScript, Django Framework 1.3, CSS, PostgreSQL, MySQL, LAMP, JQuery, Adobe Dreamweaver, Apache web server. Python developer HCSC - Chicago, IL September 2015 to May 2016 Responsibilities:  • Gathered and analyzed the requirements and converted them into User Requirement Specifications and Functional Requirement Specifications for the designers and developers to understand them as per their perspective.  • Worked on object oriented programming (OOP) concepts using Python, Django and Linux.  • Developed web-based applications using Python, Django, XML, CSS, HTML, JavaScript, Angular JS and JQuery.  • Experience with JSON based REST Web services and Amazon Web Services (AWS).  • Worked on Amazon services like Amazon Cloud EC2.  • Added support for Amazon AWS and RDS to host static/media files and the database into Amazon Cloud.  • Experience in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on MySQL and PostgreSQL database.  • Worked in agile and waterfall methodologies with high quality deliverables delivered on-time.  • Experience with continuous integration and automation using Jenkins.  • Experience with Unit testing/ Test driven Development (TDD), Load Testing.  • Developed the required XML Schema documents and implemented the framework for parsing XML documents.  • Involved in Unit testing and Integration testing.  • Worked on AJAX framework to transform Datasets and Data tables into HTTP-serializable JSON strings.  • Experience with working on multiple environments like development, testing, production. Excellent analytical and problem-solving skills and ability to work on own besides being valuable and contributing team player.  Environment: Python, Django 1.4, MySQL, Amazon EC2, Amazon SQS, S3, Windows, Linux HTML5/CSS3, AJAX, JQuery, JavaScript, Apache. Python/AWS Developer First Indian Corp Pvt. Ltd - Hyderabad, Telangana July 2012 to July 2014 Responsibilities:  • Responsible for gathering requirements, system analysis, design, development, testing and deployment.  • Participated in the complete SDLC process. Written many programs to parse excel file and process many user data with data validations.  • Created network architecture on AWS VPC, subnets, Internet Gateway, Route. Perform S3 buckets creation, configured the storage on S3 buckets, policies and the IAM role-based policies.  • Designed high availability environment for Application servers and database servers on EC2 by using ELB and Auto-scaling.  • Used Cloud-watch for monitoring AWS cloud resources and the applications that deployed on AWS by creating new alarm, enable notification service.  • Add project users to the AWS account with multi factor authentication enabled and least privilege permissions.  • AWS Import/Export accelerates moving large amounts of data into and out of AWS using portable storage devices for transport.  • Used Subversion version control tool to coordinate team-development.  • Developed tools to automate some base tasks using Shell Scripting, Python.  • Designed and Developed User Interface using front-end technologies like HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Bootstrap and JSON. Worked with Regular Expressions, URLLIB modules.  • Develop applications that use MongoDB database and PyMongo.  • Integrating multiple databases and data sources in to one system.  • Managed and trained peers on the installation of MYSQL and in writing queries to achieve performance optimization.  • Created backend database T-SQL stored procedures and Jasper Reports.  • Wrote Python modules to extract/load asset data from the MySQL source database.  • Having experienced in Agile Methodologies, Scrum stories and sprints experience in a Python based environment, along with data analytics, data wrangling and Excel data extracts.  • Extensive hands-on engineering and implantation knowledge of leading container orchestration and infrastructure management tools (Kubernetes)  • Experience in Kubernetes & writing the scripts in Perl and Shell Scripts for managing various enterprise applications.  • Created multiple Python and UNIX shell Scripts for various application level tasks.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Developed and tested many features for dashboard using Django, CSS and JavaScript.  • Created unit test/regression test framework for working/new code  • Using Git as version control tool to coordinate team-development.  Java Developer Education Python developer SS InfoTech-Hyderabad - Hyderabad, Telangana June 2010 to June 2012