Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer • Having 7+ Years of Experience as web/application developer software development and design using python, Django, Java, Webapp2, Angular.js, HTML/CSS, JavaScript and jQuery  • Experienced in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, Subroutines, functions on SQL, PL/SQL and PostgreSQL database.  • Experienced in understanding principles and best practices of Software Configuration Management (SCM) processes, which include compiling, packaging, deploying and Application configurations.  • Good knowledge in working with application server - Apache Server, Tomcat (6.0, 7.0, 8.0), Nginx, WebLogic (10.0, 10.3, 11g), WebSphere (7.0, 8.5).  • Created a python, Django web-based application using Python scripting for data processing and MySQL for database, HTML, CSS, jQuery for data visualization.  • Experienced in Agile Methodologies, Scrum stories and sprints experience in a Python based environment, along with data analytics, data wrangling and Excel data extracts.  • Expertise in MVW frameworks like Django, Angular JS, JavaScript, jQuery and Node JS.  • Used Anisole and Anisole Tower as Configuration management tool, to automate repetitive tasks, quickly deploys critical applications, and proactively manages change.  • Ability to work on own initiative and as a part of team. Willingness to learn new Technologies, openness to new ideas and ability to learn very quickly.  • Proficient in Front end development experience using Python 3.6/2.7, Django 1.7/1.8, HTML, XML, CSS, JavaScript, Bootstrap, JQuery, JSON and, Angular.js, Node.js.  • Using Amazon EC2 command line interface along with Bash/ Python to automate repetitive work.  • Designed and managed API system deployment using fast HTTP server and Amazon AWS architecture.  • Involved in designing and developing of Automation Test cases using Selenium WebDriver, Java, and Testing.  • Development, Quality Assurance and Management teams to ensure cross communication and confirmed approval of all production changes.  • Connected continuous integration system with GIT version control repository and continually build as the check-in's come from the developer.  • Working experience in UNIX and Linux shell environments using command line utilities.  • Creating Python scripts to automate daily networking tasks (Ex. auto Config generation, retrieving information from network devices, parsing data, etc.) - including a custom Frigate firewall Config generator (which included multi-threaded functionality to generate Configs for multiple firewalls at once).  • Used Python/Django MVC framework to design and develop the application.  • Experience in Kubernets that provide a platform for automating deployment, scaling and operations of application containers across clusters of hosts.  • Good knowledge in various stages of SDLC (Software Development Life Cycle), Software Testing Life Cycle (STLC) and QA methodologies from project definition to post-deployment documentation.  • Experienced in understanding principles and best practices of Software Configuration Management (SCM) processes, which include compiling, packaging, deploying and Application configurations.  • Good experience with Python frameworks like Flask and WebApp2.  • Performed Unit testing, Integration Testing and generating of test cases for web applications using Junit and Python Unit test framework Hudson/Jenkins in the builds triggered by each push to GIT.  • Proficient in SQL databases MS SQL, MYSQL, Oracle and NO SQL databases MongoDB, Cassandra.  • Ability to work on own initiative and as a part of team. Willingness to learn new Technologies, openness to new ideas and ability to learn very quickly.  • Have Experience in List Comprehensions and Python inbuilt functions such as Map, Filter and Lambda.  • Experience in using CI tools Hudson, Build Forge, and Jenkins for automated builds. Work Experience Python Developer Allstate Sales Group - Holmdel, NJ March 2017 to March 2019 Description: The project is developing a web application that is used by Branch Managers and Assistant vice presidents of the different branches of the company assign the work and track the work of the employees and employees can track their tasks assigned by managers and AVP'S.    Roles & Responsibilities  • Designed front end and backend of the application using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Develop consumer-based features and applications using Python and Django in test driven Development and pair-based programming.  • Good experience in developing web applications and implementing Model View Control (MVC) architecture using server-side applications like Django and Flask.  • Developed and tested many features for dashboard using Python, Java, Bootstrap, CSS, JavaScript and jQuery.  • Created interactive data charts on web application using High charts JavaScript library with data coming from Apache Cassandra.  • Created Terraform scripts for EC2 instances, Elastic Load balancers and S3 buckets. Implemented Terraform to manage the AWS infrastructure and managed servers using configuration management tools like Chef and Ansible.  • Wrote ANSIBLE Playbooks with Python, SSH as the Wrapper to Manage Configurations of AWS Nodes and Test Playbooks on AWS instances using Python. Run Ansible Scripts to provision Dev servers.  • Worked on frontend frameworks like CSS Bootstrap for development of Web application.  • Worked in MySQL database on simple queries and writing Stored Procedures for normalization and demoralization.  • Used Python based GUI components for the front-end functionality such as selection criteria.  • Connected continuous integration system with GIT version control repository and continually build as the check-in's come from the developer.  • Designed and implemented a dedicated MYSQL database server to drive the webapps and report on daily progress.  • Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL dB package.  • Used Python Library Beautiful Soup 4 for Web Scraping to extract data for building graphs.  • Worked in development of applications especially in UNIX environment and familiar with all its commands.  Environment: Python 3.6/2.7, Django 2.0/1.6, HTML5, CSS, AWS, API Gateway, REST API, Spring framework, AngularJS, HTML, Amazon S3, Cloud Watch, eclipse, MS-SQL Server, GIT, Jira, Jenkins, Confluence. Python Developer United Health Care - Cypress, CA June 2015 to February 2017 Description: United Health Care is an American for-profit managed health care company.    Roles & Responsibilities:  • Designed front end and backend of the application utilizing Python on Django Web Framework.  • Developed consumer-based features and applications using Python and Django in test driven Development.  • Worked on front end frame works like CSS Bootstrap for development of Web applications.  • Develop consumer-based features and applications using Python, Django, pyramid, Flask, Web2py, HTML and other web technologies.  • With using of Python OS module on UNIX environment, made job cloning and forking.  • Extensively worked on Jenkins by installing, configuring and maintaining for Continuous integration (CI) and for End to End automation for all build and deployments.  • Implemented Bash, Perl, Python scripting to automate many day-to-day tasks.  • Launched Kubernetes to provide a platform for automating deployment, scaling and operations of application containers across clusters of hosts.  • Involved in various phases of the project like Analysis, Design, Development, and Testing.  • Developed and Tested features of dashboard using CSS, JavaScript, Django, and Bootstrap.  • Wrote Stored Procedures in SQL and Scripts in Python for data loading.  • Created deployment groups in one environment for the Workflows, Work lets, Sessions, Mappings, Source Definitions, Target definitions and imported them to other environments.  • Tested and debugged the product in controlled and real situations.  • Deploy third party's applications using various CI tools like Jenkins  Environment: Python 3.5/2.7, Django 2.0/1.6, HTML5, CSS, AWS, API Gateway, REST API, Spring framework, AngularJS, HTML, Amazon S3, Cloud Watch, eclipse, MS-SQL Server, GIT, Jira, Jenkins, Confluence. Python Developer Info Max - Hyderabad, Telangana July 2013 to November 2014 Description: Info Max is an Indian software company to help our utility customers manage their resources more efficiently and more effectively serve their customers. The project was to manage the customers from in house and make sure the invoices are sent and payments are done at the end of their installments or billing cycle.    Roles & Responsibilities:  • Actively involved in Initial software development life cycle (SDLC) of requirement gathering and in suggesting system configuration specifications during client interaction.  • Developed web-based applications using Python, Django, XML, CSS, HTML, DHTML, JavaScript and JQuery  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Involved in Developing a Restful service using Python Flask framework.  • Involved in debugging and troubleshooting issues and fixed many bugs in two of the main applications, which are main source of data for customers and internal customer service team.  • Installed and maintained web servers Tomcat and Apache HTTP in UNIX.  • Wrote Python modules to view and connect the Apache Cassandra instance.  • Involved in develop the REST Web services to expose the business methods to external services in the project.  • Built an Interface between Django and Salesforce and Django with RESTAPI.  • Embedded AJAX in UI to update small portions of the web page avoiding the need to reload the entire page  • Working as an application developer experienced with controllers, views and models in Django.  • Involved in debugging the applications monitored on JIRA using agile methodology.  • Wrote and executed various MySQL database queries from Python-MySQL connector and MySQL db. Package.  • Implemented admin sites to manage database information with Flask Admin, MySQL and SQLite.  • Responsible for analyzing various cross-functional, multi-platform applications systems enforcing Python best practices and provide guidance in making long term architectural design decisions.  • Prepared and analyzed reports using Python libraries and involved in environment Setup.  Environment: Python 2.7 and 3.0, Django 1.4, HTML, CSS, AJAX, Tomcat, Apache HTTP, Angular.js, JSON, Restful, XML, JavaScript, Shell Scripting, GIT Hub, MYSQL, Cassandra, JIRA. Python Developer Dhakshita Sri Software Solutions - Hyderabad, Telangana May 2011 to June 2013 Description: Dhakshita Sri Software Solutions is an Indian information and communications technology company providing end to end ICT solutions including telecom services, data center services, cloud & managed services, transformation integration services and application integration services.    Roles & Responsibilities:  • Designed front end using HTML, Bootstrap, and CSS.  • Created entire application using Python, Django, MongoDB and Linux.  • Developed and implemented the user registration and login feature for the application process by extending Django user model.  • Design develop and test HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, JavaScript, and React that meets accessibility and web browser standards for website.  • Created a Python based web application using Python scripting for data processing, MySQL for the database, and HTML/CSS.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML and CSS.  • Wrote & executed various MYSQL database queries from Python using Python-MySQL connector & MySQL dB package.  • Developed and designed automation script using Python and Bash.  • Built SQL queries for performing various CRUD operations like create, update, read and delete.  Environment: Python, MySQL, Hive, JSON, RESTful, Pandas, Machine Learning, Version One, Linux, Shell Scripting, IBM Natuzzi, JavaScript, AngularJS, Toad Data Point (SQL), Putty (Linux). Education Master's Degree Monmouth University Bachelor's Degree TKR college of Engineering Additional Information Technical Skills:  Programming Languages Python-3.5 & 2.7, C, C++, UML (design), Java, SQL and PL/SQL.  Python Libraries  Python, Django, Flask, Beautiful Soup, httplib2, Jinja2, HTML/CSS, Bootstrap, jQuery, Numpy, matPlotLib, PySide, Scipy, wxPython, PyTables.    Frameworks Django, web2py, pyramid, Flask.  Databases Oracle, MySQL, PostgreSQL, MongoDB,  Cloud Technologies AWS, Rackspace Cloud, Amazon S3.  Bug Tracking Tools Jira, Bugzilla, Rational.  Protocols TCP/IP, HTTP/HTTPS, SOAP, SNMP, SMTP, REST.    Methodologies Agile, Scrum and Waterfall.  Operating Systems Linux, Unix, Windows.