Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - Movado Piscataway, NJ ? Over 6+ years of experience as an Application developer, software development and design using Python, Django, XML, HTML, DHTML, Oracle PL/SQL.  ? Experienced with Software Development Life Cycle, strong experience in data engineering, Database designs, agile methodologies, coding, testing of enterprise applications and IDE's such as PyCharm.  ? Actively involved in each phase of software Development life cycle (SDLC) and experience in Agile Software Methodology.  ? Experience with Django and Flask a high-level Python Web framework.  ? Experience in developing web applications by following Model View Control (MVC) Architecture using server side application Django.  ? Experienced with WAMP (Wirohan@greatservicemail.comndows, Apache, MySQL, and Python/PHP) and LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, and Python/PHP) Architecture.  ? Experience in Web Application Development, hands on experience of Python/Django, Flask, SQL Alchemy, SQLite, JavaScript, JQuery, HTML5/CSS3, Bootstrap and JSON/AJAX.  ? Experience of using Python modules like NumPy, Matplotlib, Pickle, Pandas, SciPy, wxPython, PyTables, PyQt, etc., for generating complex graphical data, creation of histograms, etc.  ? Skilled in Object-Oriented Design and Programming using Python and C++.  ? Excellent Experience on various Python integrated IDE's such as Sublime Text, PyCharm, Eclipse and NetBeans.  ? Experience in working on various python packages such as NumPy, SQL Alchemy, Pyside, SciPy, and PyTables.  ? Good knowledge in establishing database connections for Python by configuring packages MySQL- Python.  ? Good experience in performing operations such as CRUD operations and writing complex queries with Oracle, MS SQL Server, and MongoDB.  ? Experience in developing web services (WSDL, SOAP and REST) and consuming web services with python programming language.  ? Proficient in developing complex SQL Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, Functions, and Packages along with performing DDL and DML operations on the database.  ? Experience in Bash Shell Scripting, SQL and Java.  ? Hands on experience with installation and configuration of Apache Tomcat server.  ? Hands on experience with continuous integration and automation using Jenkins.  ? Hands on experience with Build Automation tool like Maven, and version control tools such as Git, and GitHub.  ? Experience in working on different operating systems-windows, Linux, UNIX, and Mac also strong development experience on Linux based operating systems such as Ubuntu, Red Hat and CentOS.  ? Excellent communication, Teamwork, inter-personnel and presentation skills, fast learner and organized self-starter.  ? Ability to work on multiple projects with aggressive timelines, to prioritize and meet operational deadlines in a demanding, fast-paced environment or quickly changing priorities.  ? Ability to handle multiple tasks, Initiative and Adaptable. Self-motivated, organized team player with strong problem solving and analytical skills and total commitment to the organization goals Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Developer Movado - Paramus, NJ February 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  ? Involved in analysis, specification, design, and implementation and testing phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) and used agile methodology for developing application.  ? Participate in requirement gathering and analysis phase of the project in documenting the business requirements by conducting workshops/meetings with various business users  ? Worked with team of developers on Python applications for RISK management  ? Worked on Python Open stack API's,used Python scripts to update content in the database and manipulate files  ? Implemented machine learning schemes using Python libraries scikit-learn and scipy.  ? Experience in MVC architecture using Django for web based application in OOP concepts.  ? Worked on several python packages like Matpoltlib, Pillow, Numpy, SQL Alchemy, and sockets.  ? Designed and deployed machine learning solutions in Python to classify millions of previously unclassified Twitter users into core data product  ? Used Pandas API to put the data as time series and tabular form for east timestamp data manipulation and retrieval to handle time series data and do data manipulation  ? Worked on front end frame works like CSS, Angular JS, Bootstrap for development of Web application.  ? Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly interface using MVC architecture.  ? Used Python and Django to interface with the jQuery UI and manage the storage and deletion of content.  ? Using Git version control tool to coordinate team-development.  ? Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript, also used Bootstrap as a mechanism to manage and organize the html page layout  ? Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from Python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL db package  ? Involved in development of Web Services using SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface in the XML format  ? Responsible for debugging the project monitored on JIRA (Agile)  Environment: Windows, Linux, Python, Angular JS, libraries - (NumPy, SciPy, Pandas, PyCharm, PyQuery, Matpoltlib), SQL Alchemy, MVC, HTML5, Shell Scripting, JSON, Apache Web Server, SQL, UNIX. Python Developer Northway Bank - Berlin, NH August 2017 to January 2018 Responsibilities:  ? Involved in daily Scrum meetings and follows agile methodology.  ? Wrote Python routines to log into the websites and fetch data for selected options. Used Python modules such as requests, urllib, urllib2 for web crawling.  ? Used other packages such as Beautiful soup for data parsing.  ? Worked on developing web applications and implementing Model View Control (MVC) architecture using server-side applications like Django and Flask.  ? Involved in developing views and templates with Python and Django view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  ? Developed views and templates with Python and Django view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly Website interface.  ? Worked on writing and as well as read data from csv and excel file formats.  ? Involved in working with Web-services backend development using Python (CherryPy, Django, and SQLAlchemy).  ? Worked on HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Git, REST API, and Mongo DB.  ? Design and Setting up of environment of Mongodb with shards and replicasets. (Dev/Test and Production).  ? Worked on analyzing SQL scripts and designed the solution for the process using PySpark.  ? Developed rich user interface using CSS, HTML, JavaScript and JQuery. Created a Python based GUI application For Freight Tracking and processing  ? Used Django framework for application development.  ? Responsible for search engine optimization (SEO) to improve the visibility of the website.  ? Developed automated testing framework for command-line based tests on Linux using Objected Oriented Perl and for selenium-based tests using Python.  ? Created database using MySQL, wrote several queries to extract data from database.  ? Setup automated cron jobs to upload data into database, generate graphs, bar charts, upload these charts to wiki, and backup the database.  ? Wrote scripts in Python for extracting data from HTML file.  ? Used Git as version control tool, and Maven as Build tool.  ? Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application using Jira Bug Tracking Tool.  Environment: MySQL, HTML, Python, Django, HTML5, CSS, XML, MySQL, JavaScript, Linux, Shell Scripting, AJAX, urllib, urllib2, Json, CherryPy, Unix, Bootstrap, Mongodb, SQL Alchemy, Jquery. Python Developer Induco slutions pvt ltd - Hyderabad, Telangana November 2013 to July 2017 Responsibilities:  ? Involved in development of entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  ? Involved Developed dynamic web pages using python Django Frameworks and used Python and Django creating graphics, XML processing, data exchange and business logic implementation Installation and setting up Python/Unix test beds and supported Apache Server on Linux Platform.  ? Used the continuous integration (CID) tool Jenkins for automating the build processes.  ? Implemented a continuous Delivery pipeline with Jenkins and GitHub, whenever a new GitHub branches are created Jenkins automatically attempts to build a new Docker container from it.  ? Modified queries, functions, cursors, triggers and stored procedures for MySQL database to improve performance, while processing data.  ? Created Database tables, functions, stored procedures and wrote prepared statements using PL/SQL.  ? Automated the existing scripts for performance calculations using NumPy and Sqlalchemy.  ? Used REST and SOAPUI for testing web service for server-side changes.  ? Embedded AJAX in UI to update small portions of the web page avoiding the need to reload the entire page.  ? Wrote scripts in Python for extracting data from HTML file.  ? Involved in entire lifecycle of the projects including Design and Deployment, Testing and Implementation and support. Maintaining the scripts using the version Control.  ? Involved in development of Python APIs to dump the array structures in the Processor at the failure point for debugging.  ? Worked on different cross browsing capability issue for IE, Chrome, Firefox and Safari.  ? Utilized PyQt to provide GUI for the user to create, modify and view reports based on client data.  ? Developed complex web, middleware, and back end systems in Python, SQL and Perl for Linux and Windows.  ? Created PyUnit test scripts and used for unit testing & Used Git for the version control.  ? Developed Merge jobs in Python to extract and load data into MySQL database.  ? Developed user interfaces using HTML5 and JavaScript.  ? Created a Git repository and added the project to GitHub.  ? Utilized Agile process and JIRA issue management to track sprint cycles.  Environment: Python, DJango, Git, Jenkins, HTML, CSS, NumPy, SQLAlchemy, Rest, Soap, MySQL, SQL, PyQt, PyUnit    Project #2: Python Developer MAQ software - Hyderabad, Telangana August 2012 to October 2013 Responsibilities:  ? Involved in the Design, development, test, deploy and maintenance of the website.  ? UI was developed using HTML, AJAX, CSS.  ? Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  ? Generated property list for every application dynamically using Python.  ? Implemented Test Driven Development (TDD) strategy for the project.  ? Developed Python batch processors to consume and produce various feeds.  ? Created database access layer using JDBC and PL/SQL stored procedures.  ? Responsible for search engine optimization to improve the visibility of the website.  ? Developed Merge jobs in Python to extract and load data into MySQL database.  ? Use Git for version control.  ? Wrote validation scripts in SQL to validate data loading.  ? Trained users and did production support.  Environment: Python, Django, MySQL, HTML, XHTML, CSS, AJAX, Apache Web Server, Git, Linux. Education Bachelor's