Sr. Python Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Python Developer - TD Bank New York, NY • About 8 years of experience as a Python Developer with a deep understanding of technology trends with expertise in the core of complex technologies. Solid experience in analysis, design, and development, testing, implementation and maintenance of various web applications using Python and Django.  • Experience in application development using python, Django, HTML5, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, MySQL, PostgreSQL and SQLite.  • Experienced in working with various python IDE's using PyCharm, PyScripter, Spyder, PyStudio, and PyDev.  • Hands on Experience with the implementation of python libraries NumPy, SciPy, PyTables, SQL Alchemy, and Matplotlib, Pandas, Beautiful Soup and urllib in various tasks.  • Strong knowledge of Object Oriented Design and Programming concepts and Experience in Object Oriented Programming (OOP) concepts using python, C++.  • Experience in Cloud Computing AWS - EC2, RDS, S3, Glacier, SQS, SNS, Cloud Formation, VPC, IAM, Route 53, EBS, DynamoDB, Lambada, Redshift.  • Experienced in Working on Big Data Integration and Analytics based on Hadoop, Spark and No-SQL databases like HBase and MongoDB.  • Experience with container-based deployments using Docker, working with Docker images, Docker Hub and Docker registries and Kubernetes.  • Hands on experience in Agile Methodologies, Scrum stories and sprints experience in a python based environment.  • Deployed and monitored scalable infrastructure on Amazon Web Services (AWS) and also used AWS CLI to control various AWS services over SHELL/Bash.  • Experience in developing Web Services with Python programming language.  • Experience in using Design Patterns such as MVC, Singleton and frameworks such as DJANGO.  • Knowledge about setting up Python Rest API Frame work using Django.  • Experience in working with Python ORM Libraries including Django ORM.  • Developed CI/CD system with Jenkins on Google's Kubernetes container environment, utilizing Kubernetes and Docker for the runtime environment for the CI/CD system to build and test and deploy.  • Experience in writing Subqueries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on MySQL and PostgreSQL database.  • Basic knowledge on Rest API and JSON Parsing, jQuery and Angular JS.  • Experience in Shell Scripting, SQL Server, UNIX and Linux.  • Good knowledge on front-end frameworks like CSS Bootstrap.  • Good knowledge of Apache server, Apache Server Tomcat, and Web logic.  • Experience in designing the automation framework using Shell scripting.  • Experience in writing test plans, test cases, test specifications and test coverage.  • Experience in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on MySQL, PostgreSQL, Oracle and MongoDB. Designed and Developed automation scripts using Selenium Web Driver.  • Experienced in working with different operating systems like Windows, Ubuntu, Linux and UNIX.  • Experience in implementing PEP8 coding standards.  • Experienced in installing, configuring, modifying, testing and deploying applications with Apache.  • Experience in developing big data applications using Hadoop framework and its eco systems like MapReduce. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Python Developer TD Bank - New York, NY February 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Participated in requirement gathering and analysis phase of the project in documenting the business requirements by conducting workshops/meetings with various business users.  • Strong understanding of MySQL database. Writing Queries on Existing schema for Analysis.  • Created database using MySQL and wrote several queries to extract data from database.  • Designed and developed a horizontally scalable APIs using Python Flask.fspicy  • Designed the front end of the application using Python, HTML, CSS, AJAX, JSON and JQuery. Worked on backend of the application.  • Developed server-based web traffic statistical analysis tool using Flask, Pandas and had implemented and tested Python-based web applications interacting with MySQL.  • Developed and tested many features in an agile environment using Python, Django, HTML5, CSS, JavaScript, and Bootstrap.  • Responsible for designing and deploying new ELK clusters (Elasticsearch, Logstash, Graphite Kibana, beats, Kafka, zookeeper etc.  • Implemented AngularJS controllers to maintain each view data  • Involved in writing application level code to interact with APIs, Web Services using AJAX, JSON, XML, Angular JS and Node JS.  • Working with container-based deployments using Docker, working with Docker images, Docker Hub and Docker registries and Kubernetes.  • Performed testing using Django's Test Module.  • Rewrite existing Python/Django modules to deliver certain format of data.  • Involved in maintaining and editing Python scripts for application deployment automation.  • Working on various Integrated Development Environments like Pycharm, Anaconda Spyder.  • Developed a portal to manage and entities in a content management system using Flask.  • Golang, Infrastructure Teams and Engineering Productivity utilizing Kubernetes, Docker, influxdB, Ansible, Spinnaker.  • Implemented Model View Control (MVC) architecture using server-side applications like Django and Flask for developing web applications.  • Wrote Python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Created Python scripts used to generate reports.  • Worked on creating the Docker containers and Docker consoles for managing the application life cycle.  • Setup Docker on Linux and configured Jenkins to run under Docker host.  • Rewrite existing Java application in Python.  • Built various graphs for business decision making using Python matplotlib library.  • Create, activate and program in Anaconda environment  • Used Perforce Visual Client P4V for version control  • Applied HTML, HTML5, Java scripting and CSS for generating daily reports.  • Using the Numpy, Anaconda and keras model.  • Developed automatic generated reports using Python and SQL.  • Design and implement the Python scripts based on the requirement.  • Analyze the data using the Daily reports and work based on the requirement and targets, which discussed in the stand-up meetings.  • Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes.  • Creation of Python scripts for data access and analysis to aid in process and system monitoring.  • Involved in Agile methodology and scrum process.  • Participated in Design, Develop and deployment of the project.  • Implement code in Python to retrieve and manipulate data.    Environment: Python, Django, MySQL, Python Scripting, MongoDB, AJAX, SOAP, REST, jQuery, JavaScript, Bootstrap, PyCharm, HTML5, XML, matplotlib, SQL, Anaconda, Flask, JSON, Kubernetes, Node.js, Kafka, CSS, JavaScript, Bootstrap Sr. Python Developer Hertz - Estero, FL December 2015 to February 2018 Responsibilities:  • Exposure on Multi-Threading factory to distribute learning process back-testing and into various worker processes.  • Worked on user portal, creating forms and adding users.  • Developed dynamic web pages using Python Django Frameworks  • Used Django Restful API for database access.  • Wrote Python scripts to parse JSON documents and load the data in database.  • Features for dashboard were developed and tested using CSS, AngularJS and Bootstrap  • Developed forms using HTML and performing client-side validations using JavaScript, jQuery and Bootstrap.  • Cleansing data generated from weblogs with automated scripts in Python.  • Used PostgreSQL database for storing the information and experience in performing CRUD operations to operate Schema objects to browse functions in Python.  • Performed Tuning, Query Optimization, Client/Server Connectivity and Database consistency checks, Backup and Recovery  • Involved in Continuous Integration (CI) and Continuous Delivery (CD) process implementation using Jenkins along with Shell script.  • Used GIT repository for software configuration management and version control  • Used JIRA for tracking and Updating Project issue.  • Maintained main source of data for both customers and internal customer service team.  • Maintained technical documentation for resolved issues for future reference.  • Coded test programs and evaluated existing engineering process.  • Effectively communicated with the external vendors to resolve queries.  • Performed research to explore and identify new technological platforms  • Working in team of developers to build and deploy Flask, Linux, and AWS.  • Deployed and monitored scalable infrastructure on Amazon Web Services (AWS) and also used AWS CLI to control various AWS services over SHELL/Bash.  • Used Cloud Trail, TESSA, Cloud Passage, Check Marx, Qualys Scan tools for AWS security and scanning.    Environment: Python, Django 1.10, MySQL, Python Scripting, MongoDB, AJAX, SOAP, REST, jQuery, JavaScript, Bootstrap, PyCharm, AWS (EC2, S3, RDS), JIRA, JSON, GIT, HTML, XML, AWS, Qualys, Linux, PostgreSQL. Python Developer Boston Scientific - San Jose, CA August 2013 to December 2015 Responsibilities:  • Developed the presentation layer using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery and AJAX.  • Worked with Configuration Management tool, Chef.  • Utilized Python libraries wxPython, numPY, Pandas, Twisted and matPlotLib.  • Implemented SQL Alchemy which is a Python library for complete access over SQL.  • Worked on Element Tree XML API in Python to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Skilled in collections and used for manipulating and looping through different user defined objects.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to created user-friendly website interface.  • Used Pandas library for statistical Analysis.  • Pandas library was used for flexible reshaping and pivoting of data sets.  • Used Django configuration to manage URLs and application parameters.  • Created entire application using Python, Django, MySQL and Linux.  • Installed, configured, and managed the AWS server.  • AWS data pipeline for Data Extraction, Transformation and Loading from the homogeneous or heterogeneous data sources.  • Accessed database objects using Django Database APIs.  • Worked on python-based test frameworks and test-driven development with automation tools.  • Strong experience working with real time streaming application and batch style large scale distributed computing applications using tools like Spark Streaming.  • Implemented advanced procedures like text analytics and processing using the in-memory computing capabilities like Apache Spark written in Scala.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  • Manage the configurations of multiple servers using Ansible.  • Deployed mircoservices2, including provisioning AWS environments using Ansible Playbooks.  • Provisioned load balancer, auto-scaling group and launch configuration for microservice using Ansible.  • Used Ansible playbooks to setup Continuous Delivery pipeline. This primarily consists of a Jenkins and Sonar server, the infrastructure to run these packages and various supporting software components such as Maven, etc.  • Wrote playbooks for Ansible and deploying applications using Ansible.  • Automated various infrastructure activities like Continuous Deployment, Application Server setup, Stack Monitoring using Ansible playbooks and has integrated Ansible with Run deck and Jenkins.  • Provisioned and patched servers regularly using Ansible.  • Implemented Ansible to manage all existing servers and automate the build/configuration of new servers.  • Developed an Ansible role for Zabbix-agent which will be integrated into the to the CI/CD pipeline.  • Used Ansible to document all infrastructures into version control.  • Used Ansible to document application dependencies into version control.  • Responsible for on boarding Application teams to build and deploy their code using GitHub Jenkins, Nexus and Ansible.  • Migrated out core repository from SUBVERSION to GIT.  • Managed GitHub Projects and migrated from SVN to GitHub with history.  • Created monitors, alarms and notifications for EC2 hosts using Cloud Watch.  • Performed web testing automation using selenium API.  • Performed parameterization of the automated test scripts in Selenium to check how the application performs against multiple sets of data Contributed in developing Automation Framework that uses Java, Selenium Web Driver and Testing.    Environment: Python, Ansible, CSS, HTML, XML, Spark, Git, Selenium, Jenkins, Maven, Apache Spark, Scala, AJAX, JavaScript, jQuery, Django, MySQL, Linux, AWS, XML, Pandas, Chef, matplotlib, SVN, GitHub, Jenkins. Python Developer All State Insurance - Northbrook, IL April 2011 to August 2013 Responsibilities:  • Involved in Developing a Restful service using Python Django framework.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework with GIT.  • Designing Celery and multithreading for scheduling the tasks and multiple activities.  • Develop Interactive front end to visualize data from backend and represent in graphical manner to batter understanding for user.  • Experienced in hand-coding HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, and other UI technologies.  • Experience with JavaScript Frameworks Ext JS, AngularJS, jQuery  • Experienced in web applications development using Flask and Django in Python.  • Expertise in developing web-based open stack applications using Python and Django for large dataset analysis.  • Parsed the unstructured data into semi-structured format by writing complex algorithms in pyspark.  • Developed Merge jobs in Python to extract and load data into MySQL database.  • Successfully migrated the Django database from SQLite to MySQL to PostgreSQL with complete data integrity.  • Experience in report writing using SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS) and in creating various types of reports like table, matrix, and chart report, web reporting by customizing URL Access.  • Provide high-level technical support and administration for GIS-based routing software.  • Ensure data integrity, performing extensive quality control checks of GIS data and non-spatial databases.  • Front-end web development using HTML/CSS, JQuery, Bootstrap as well as back-end development using Golang and SQL.  • Designing and tightly integrating Flash into the CMS with the use of FlashVars stored in the Django models. Also created XML with Django to be used by the Flash.  • Used Test driven approach for developing the application and Implemented the unit tests using Python Unit test framework.  • Supported development team with deployment workflow and continuous integration using Gitlab, GitLab CI, Rundeck, Docker and SaltStack provisioning.  • Worked on Atlassian tools like Bamboo, Jira, and confluence.  • Reviewed and implemented instrument pricing and modelling methodologies in collaboration with technical engineers. Analyzed and documented how instrument prices move as underlying market data sources change.  • Actively participated in requirement gathering sessions and capability planning for multi data center Cassandra cluster.  • Involved in the Complete Software development life cycle (SDLC) to develop the application.  • Full Stack Developer for custom Drupal 7 build. Responsibilities included site maintenance, new feature development and user support.    Environment: Python, HTML, CSS3, JQuery, Bootstrap, Golang, SQL, Django, Drupal 7, Jira, Docker, MySQL, PostgreSQL, XML, Angular.js, Git. Education Bachelor's