Sr. Python Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Python Developer - Morgan Stanley New York, NY • Over 6 + years of experience as Sr. Python Developer with specilization in programming using Python 3.6/3.4.6/2.7, Flask and C++, Django 1.9/1.8, XML, CSS3, HTML5, DHTML, JavaScript and experience in Analysis, Design, Development, Testing, Customization,Implementation of various stand-alone, client-server enterprise applications.  • Experience in object oriented programming (OOP) concepts using Python, Django and Linux and familiar with JSON based REST Web services and Amazon Web Services(AWS).  • Experience in frameworks like Flask, Django and Python packages like PySide, PyQtGraph, NumPy, MatPlot Lib as well as having experience in python packages such as NumPy, matPlotlib, Pandas, SciPy, Pickling, JSON.  • Strong experience in developing Microservices using Docker, Mesos, GOLang and Python.  • Experience with Web Development, Amazon Web Services, Python and the Django framework.  • Expertise in developing the queries in Hive with Experience in Version Control, ideally SVN, CVS and GIT.  • Strong application integration experience using Mule ESB with Connectors, transformations, Routing, ActiveMQ, JMS and RabbitMQ.  • Good experience with GOLang drivers to perform operations such as CRUD operations and writing complex queries with PostgreSQL and SQL Server.  • Proficient Experience in Back End databases MS SQL, MySQL, Oracle, no-SQL, MongoDB, Cassandra, SQL to write Stored Procedures, Functions, Triggers, Views.  • Experience in Implementation of web pages using HTML5/CSS3, Boot Strap and XML/JSON JavaScript, JQuery, Angular JS, AJAX, based SOAP and REST web services.  • Strong experience with Docker Puppet, Chef, Ansible, AWS CloudFormation, AWS CloudFront.  • Experience in MVC frameworks like Django, Angular JS, Java Script, Jquery, React.js and Node.js. Flask and Pyramid, Well versed in Django ORM and SqlAlchamy and Extensive use of Linux (Ubuntu), SSH, Flask/Django.  • Experience of software development in Python libraries used: libraries- Beautiful Soup, Backbone.js, numpy, scipy, matplotlib, python-twitter, Pandas data frame, network, urllib2, MySQL dB for database connectivity) and IDEs - sublime text, Spyder, pycharm, emacs.  • Hands on experience on Pandas API to put the data as time series and tabular format for east timestamp data manipulation and retrieval.  • Experience in working Asynchronous Frameworks like NodeJS, Twisted and designing the automation framework using Python and Shell scripting.  • Experience in working in OWASP security testing and penetration testing using Accunetix, Vega, Zap, Burp Suite.  • Experience in using containers like Docker and familiar with Jenkins.  • Experienced in NoSQL database MongoDB and relational databases like My-SQL and MySQL databases.  • Experience in Setup hosting on AWS EC2 instance and used Amazon SES for email delivery.  • Having good domain expertise in developing applications/tools using Perl and programming in C, C and Java and Having experience in developing GUIs using Tcl, Tk and Java.  • Good Experience in C/C++ development of multi-threaded applications in a Linux Environment.  • Good Experience in error and exceptional handling with good Experience in debugging the issues using debuggers like gdb, pdb.  • Hands-on experience on SCM tools like GIT, containers like Docker and familiar with Jenkins, CHEF.  • Extensive knowledge in J2EE architecture (JDBC, JSP, JNDI, Data Source, JMS, Servlets).  • Proficiency in multiple databases like MongoDB, Cassandra, MySQL, ORACLE and MS SQL Server.  • Experience in Development of applications and RESTful web services and API's using PHP, Python/Django and Zope.  • Develop a fully automated continuous integration system using Git, Gerrit, Jenkins, MySQL and custom tools developed in Python and Bash.  • Experience in writing/editing web content, technical and user documentation, business process analysis, process flowcharting and documentation. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Python Developer Morgan Stanley - New York, NY May 2015 to Present Project Responsibilities:  • Implementing Python alongside using various libraries such as matplotlib for charts and graphs, MySQL dB for database connectivity, Python -twitter, PySide, Pickle, Pandas data frame, network, urllib2.  • My responsibilities include developing and designing front end with ReactJs and also debugging backend code in Golang.  • Developing an embedded software data driven test automation framework in Linux/ Python. Designing test cases and authored test plans.  • Developing a fully automated continuous integration system using Git, Gerrit, Jenkins, MySQL and custom tools developed in Python and Bash.  • Designing, developing, coding and working in penetration testing in customized DOL-AWS GovCloud Node.js Security Monitoring of VPC Zones using AWS - Lambda to load customized Spark-Scala GraphX Application.  • Implementing multiple high performance MongoDB replica sets on EC2 with roboust reliability.  • Actively involve in developing the methods for Create, Read, Update and Delete (CRUD) in Active Record and Successfully migrated the Django database from SQLite to MySQL with complete data integrity.  • Rewrite existing Python/Django modules to deliver certain format of data and responsible for debugging the project monitored on JIRA (Agile).  • Working with RabbitMQ as a messaging queue to publish the messages and Develop an API that asynchronously distributes task using RabbitMQ.  • Designing and developing the UI of the website using HTML, XHTML, CSS, AJAX and JavaScript and also used Bootstrap as a mechanism to manage and organize the HTML page layout.  • Developing various Python scripts to find vulnerabilities with SQL Queries by doing SQL injection, permission checks and performance analysis.  • Designing, implementing, and maintaining solutions for using Docker, Jenkins, Git, and Puppet for microservices and continuous deployment.  • Developing single page web application using AngularJS, HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, Node.js, jQuery for interactive cross-browser functionality.  • Designing applications implementing MVC architecture in Pyramid, Zope frame works where this program contains over 11,000 lines of Python code, and the user interface is implemented with over 17,000 lines of Python-scripted HTML templates.  • Administer and monitored multi Data center Cassandra cluster based on the understanding of the Cassandra Architecture.  • Involve in Test Driven Development and Written automated unit test functions in GoLang to cover the API code.  • Constructing and involving in penetration tested Production EC2 Container Service Stacks as well as installed, managed and designed DOL - Docker Containers onto AWS-GovCloud.  • Working in the devops team, delivered new agile environments & build/release/configuration and deployment automation/monitoring using Jenkins, ant, maven, artifactory, chef, custom scripting and Jira for ticketing.  • Involve in the re-architecture of the application due to serious issues found during penetration testing which led to decommission of the product and build a new product using Angular.  • Involve in Python OOD code for quality, logging, monitoring, and debugging code optimization as well as wrote Python modules to view and connect the Apache Cassandra instance.  • Installing and automation of application using configuration management tools Puppet and Chef and Creating and configuring virtual development environments with Chef and Virtual Box.  • Work on NoSQL database MongoDB using the pymongo driver. Imported datasets into MongoDB from JSON files.  • Used Test driven approach (TDD) for developing services required for the application and Implemented Integration test cases and Developing predictive analytic using Apache Spark Scala APIs.  • Involve in SQL and PL/SQL storing procedures which use to create access to data and deployed them to Oracle and SQL server databases.  • Work on Extensively on integrating Application with Oracle Database and Prepare KSH Shell Scripts for Automation of administration tasks.  • Involved in writing web services in GOLang to fetch data from the HBase.  • Implemented a continuous Delivery pipeline with Docker, Jenkins and GitHub, whenever a new GitHub branches are created Jenkins automatically attempts to build a new Docker container from it.  • Migrating the Django database from SQLite to MySQL to PostgresSQL with complete data integrity.  • Working on MongoDB database concepts such as locking, transactions, indexes, Sharding, replication, schema design.  • Playing a key role in a development wide transition from Subversion to Git, which resulted in an increase in efficiency for the development community and Develop a fully automated continuous integration system using Git, Jenkins, MySQL and custom tools developed in Python and Bash.    Enviroment: Python 3.6, 3.4.6, Django 1.6.2, Java script, Mule ESB 3.5.1/3.7.3, AWS , API, Zope , Radar client, CSS, Jenkins, HTML, HTTP, jQuery, JSON, Git, Oracle SQLdeveloper, REST, Shell scripting, Apache2, Gitlab, Sublime, Pycharm, XML, AngularJS, Node.js, Bootstrap, RabbitMQ, Microservices, Mule, MongoDB, GoLang, Docker Python Developer Citigroup - New York, NY November 2013 to April 2015 Project Responsibilities:  • Designed, developed, coded, worked in penetration testing and implemented a concurrent - multi-parallel - event oriented-processing - AKKA Actor System and Actors; to consume Scala Spark-SQL Rules which aggregated data to produce Quality Performance Reports (QPR) on Fiscal projections against Apprentice and Intern Job data.  • Re-designed and transformed menu backend service to a containerized distributed service and Overhauled codebase to increase fault tolerance, scalability, and performance.  • Performed GOLang unit testing and benchmarking for microservices.  • Worked in optimizing the python code made the code scalable as well as Involved in development of RESTFUL Web Services using Spring MVC to extract client related data from databases.  • Worked on creating the Docker containers and Docker consoles for managing the application life cycle.  • Worked on AngularJS framework for UI development and developed HTML views with HTML 5, CSS 3, JQuery 1.1.0, JSON, and Java Script, Node.js  • Worked on front end frame works like CSS Bootstrap for development of Web applications.  • Used MongoDB implemented automate scripts to back up the old records and transfer these backup files using ftplib library.  • Utilized standard Python modules such as csv, robotparser, itertools and pickle for development.  • Experience in setting up App pools and web sites in Python and Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML5, AJAX, CSS3 and JavaScript.  • Used Pandas library for statistics Analysis and developed web pages using ASP. Net, C#, HTML, CSS, AJAX, Java Script, JQuery and IIS. Used ADO.NET Enterprise Library to connect with SQL Server Database.  • Configured the Django admin site, dashboard and created a custom Django dashboard for end users with custom look and feel. Used Django APIs for database access.  • Designed logic for semantic procedures and aggregate tables using standard SQL/PLSQL.  • Designed web application to register, authenticate users to upload files on Google storage using Go Lang.  • Maintained multiple copies of data in different database servers using MongoDB Replication concept.  • Conducted the debug team meetings and providing directions to the team for the next level debugging of the different failure signatures to environment/silicon/BIOS issues.  • Worked on version control with the help of Github version control for GOLang source code.  • Debugged the failure issues by capturing the array and register dumps using Python scripts, traces and performing several experiments by interacting with the design team.  • Designed front end using UI, HTML, Bootstrap, Node JS, underscore JS, Angular JS CSS, and JavaScript and Strong Expertise in working with server side technologies including databases, restful API and MVC design patterns.  • Used Python Library Beautiful Soup for webscrapping.ss and Developed Wrapper in Python for instantiating multi-threaded application.  • Worked to creating tables, Analytical views, Attributes views and procedures in SAP Hana DB.  • Used django_evolution and manual SQL modifications was able to modify Django models while retaining all data, while site was in production mode.  • Involve in testing, debugging, bug fixing and documentation of the system. Use Git for version control and Waterfall methodology was used.  • Worked with team of developers on Python applications for RISK management.    Enviroment:Agile, CSS, HTML, HTTP, JSON, NumPY , Panda, AWS, Hive, PostgreSQL, MySQL, REST, Shell scripting, Sublime, Pycharm, SQLite, web services, XHTML, XML, AngularJS, Bootstrap. Mule, MongoDB, Git, Jenkins, GoLang Python Developer Deutsche Bank - Jersey City, NJ July 2012 to October 2013 Project Responsibilities:  • Designed and Developed User Interface using front-end technologies like HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, AngularJS, Bootstrap and JSON, Node.js.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Implemented and used custom built query script to store, index and read large sets of Object data (like MongoDb).  • Used Python library BeautifulSoup for webscrapping to extract data for building graphs as well as built various graphs for business decision making using Python matplotlib library.  • Used HTML5, CSS, JSP for GUI and GO Lang for both Client-side and Server-side validations  • Worked on AWS using EC2 instances, setting security groups (ports, source) handling events between python scripts and linux server.  • Involved security fixing found as part of the Penetration testing.  • Designed the application using Python, HTML, CSS, AJAX, JSON and JQuery. Worked on backend of the application.  • Created shell and python scripts for data push from Informatica/Teradata to S3 and Worked on Jenkins continuous integration tool for deployment of project.  • Designed and documentation of RESTful APIs for collection and retrieval of high volume IOT telemetry data.  • Managed datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL, queried MYSQL database queries frompython using Python-MySQL connector MySQLdb package to retrieve information.  • Created Restful API's to integrate and enhance functionalities of the application. Also Utilized Restful API in communicating with third parties.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and template language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Utilized standard Python modules such as csv, itertools and pickle for development and Used Ajax and JQuery for transmitting JSON data objects between frontend and controllers.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to created user-friendly website interface.  • Created numerous shell scripts for batch jobs and continuous deployment and as well as Exported the result set from HIVE to MySQL using Kettle (Pentaho data-integration tool).  • Used Zookeeper for various types of centralized configurations along Involved in Automated data extraction, Transformation and Loading(ETL) process using python.  • Worked on AJAX in UI for avaoiding he reloading of the entire web page to update small portions  • Developed the business logic using Spring and Hibernate different statistics and information in Dispatch Summary screen that will help them make better decisions for mangers.    Enviroment: Python, Django, RESTful Web Services, BeautifulSoap, NumPY, Java, MySQL, HTML, CSS, AJAX, JavaScript, HP-Cloud services, Chef Apache Web Server, and Linux. MongoDB, Jenkins Python/ Software Developer Evercore - New York, NY January 2011 to June 2012 Responsibilities:  • Involved in designing and developing the functionality and features using C++ and Python.  • Worked in development of several Python APIs and harassers that works both in Linux and windows and maintaining them using the revision control SVN.  • Involved in Application development with C++ and python on IDE Tool Eclipse and web server Tomcat.  • Worked on HTML and JavaScript with integration of UI for developing grids, charts and schedulers.  • Involved in development and maintenance of the tool that abstracts the information for the user.  • Worked on creating various documents that include Use Cases, Class Diagrams, Sequence Diagrams and Activity Diagrams.  • Created XML Schema, XML template and XSL Developed WebServices Application using SOAP.  • Developed, coded, tested, debugged and deployed Webservices, MQ for the input and output forms on the web browsers.  • Involved in representation of the system in hierarchy form by defining the components, subcomponents using Python and developed set of library functions over the system based on the user needs.  • Involved in Unit Testing of Various Modules based on the Test Cases.  • Involved in Bug fixing of various modules that were raised by the Testing teams in the application during the Integration testing phase.  • Developed UI and backend applications using Struts, spring, Spring Security, Java, EJB 3.0, JSP, HTML, Javascript, XSLT and AJAX.  • Created tile definitions, struts-config files, and validation files for the application using Struts framework.  • Wrote SQL queries and stored procedures and Involved in Unit testing, System Testing and writing test cases.  • Was responsible to communicate with End client to support the application and analyzed/fixed the issue.  • Used MySQL as backend database and MySQL dB of python as database connector to interact with MySQL server.  • Designed and developed components using Python. Implemented code in python to retrieve and manipulate data.  • Used Python and Django creating graphics, XML processing of documents, data exchange and business logic implementation between servers.    Environment: JSP Struts, JDBC , J2EE, Apache Tomcat, HTML, JavaScript, MySql, MySQL, Oracle, Python, C, C++, Struts Framework, JavaScript, Junit, XML, WebLogic Application Server. Skills AJAX (6 years), DATABASE (6 years), DJANGO (6 years), HTML (6 years), JAVA (6 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:-  • Languages:- Python, Java, C, C++, Embedded SQL, Core Java, JavaScript, C/C++, Visual Basic, HTML, SQL, MapReduce, GoLang, OOPS.  • Python Frameworks:- Django, AngularJS, Hibernate, Sqlalchemy Orm.  • Python Libraries:- Numpy, matPlotLib, PyQt, Pickle, PySide, Scipy, wxPython, PyTables,Beautiful Soup.  • Scripting Languages:- HTML, CSS, Java Script, J-Query, JSON, DOJO, bootstrap, Node.js, Angular.js.  • Databases:- PostgreSQL and NoSQL database MongoDB (2.6,2.4),MS SQL Server MS-Access, Cassandra, MY SQL, Oracle,MongoDB, SQLite, PL/SQL  • Web Technologies:- HTML, HTML5, DHTML, CSS, XML, DOM, XAML, IIS, AJAX, SOAP, Restful, WSDL, Web Services, Angular JS,SAX parser, XPath, Xquery, Bootstrap  • Security Tools:- Docker  • Version Controls:- GitHub, git, cvs, svn.  • Operating Systems:- Linux, Windows, Windows Server 2003, Version Control Team Foundation Server (TFS), Subversion, Clear Case  • Protocols:- TCP/IP (FTP, HTTP, SSH, DHCP, SNMP, SMTP, LDAP).  • Tools & IDE: - PowerShell, Jenkins (build process), Eclipse Pydev, Wing 3.1, Maven, Django South, Fabric deployment tool, Pytest, Selenium, SoapUI, Chef, Jenkins, PyCharm, Sublime, Eclipse, NetBeans.  • SDLC:- Waterfall, RAD, Agile, Scrum  • Packages:- MS Office (Word, Excel and PowerPoint), MS outlook, Lotus Notes.