Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - Pivotal Labs Miami, FL • Over 7+ Years of experience in Analysis, Design, Development and Management  • Around 5+ years in Python (libraries used: libraries- Beautiful Soup, numpy, scipy and sublime text, Spyder, pycharm, emacs.  • Expertise in Object-Oriented design and coding and openstack development.  • Good Knowledge of Django, Flask Frameworks.  • Working Knowledge of Java and java related frameworks.  • Good knowledge of web services with protocols SOAP, REST.  • Good knowledge of server Apache Tomcat, Web logic.  • Created methods for cross application use using the Class Builder and Object Oriented programming.  • As an embedded developer used Python for signal integrity test.  • Knowledge of ORM mapping using SQLACHEMY.  • Experienced with databases using ORMs/DOMs for integrating with Mysql, Postgres, Neo4J, MongoDB, Cassandra SQLite. Also, experienced with writing custom queries through database connectors.  • Leveraging queueing architectures with AMQP/RabbitMQ and ZeroMQ for scalability, performance and building distributed systems.  • Experienced in web applications development using Django/ Python, Flask/ Python, and Node.js, Angular.js, DOJO, Jquery while using HTML/CSS/JS for server-side rendered applications.  • Experienced in developing API services in Python/Tornado, NodeJS while leveraging AMQP and RabbitMQ for distributed architectures.  • Experienced in writing SQL Queries, Stored procedures, functions, packages, tables, views.  • Having working Knowledge of Amazon AWS S3.  • Hands on experience in SVN, Git, JIRA, Bugzilla. Work Experience Python Developer Pivotal Labs - San Francisco, CA May 2013 to Present Responsibilities:  • Used python modules such as requests, urllib, urllib2 for web crawling.Coding in LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, and PHP) environment for openstack development.  • Used other packages such as Beautifulsoup for data parsing. Wrote python routines to log into the websites and fetch data for selected options.  • Worked on writing and as well as read data from csv and excel file formats.  • Worked on a resulting reports of the application and Tableau reports.  • Modifying data using SAS/BASE, SAS/ MACROS.  • Performed QA testing on the application. Used Python/Bash scripts and SQL queries to automate testing and file management.  • Developed approaches for improving NLP pipeline.  • Used TDD (Test driven development) methodology.  • Create custom VB scripts in repackaging applications as needed.  • Implemented database access and data manipulation functions in Embedded SQL environment using ODBC.  • NLP File Prep Settlement-Prepare files for review for Settlement.  • Held meetings with client and worked all alone for the entire project with limited help from the client.    Environment: Python 2.7, Sypder (IDE), Windows 7, Terdata, Requests, urllib, urllib2, Beautifulsoup, Tableau, Python Scripting, JSON.    Project: Siebel CRM Trouble Ticketing Solution for Avaya  Worked in a staff augmentation role as part of a client's J2EE team, developing both web service clients and producers that interfaced with an enterprise CRM trouble ticketing system.  Development included use of JAX-RPC based web services and Siebel web services in openstack.    Developed web service client and producer code that involved extensive use of Java Reflection API to interact with Siebel "query-based" web services.    Developed custom build scripts enabling team to generate client stub code with consistent package naming conventions.    Served as liaison between Perficient Siebel development team and client J2EE team.    Performed investigation and research on development issues such as WS-Security and Axis web service logging mechanisms. Technologies/Tools/Platforms    Java 5, JAX-RPC Based Web Service Development, Linux Scripting, ANT scripting. Python Developer HighGroove, Altanta - US April 2012 to April 2013 Responsibilities:  Worked with the design team for project structure.  • Designed, implemented, and tested numerous applications that were focused towards iOS as well as windows.  • Extensive knowledge gained in C# and the MSDN libraries provided by Microsoft.  • Great experience in OOP type programming and how to efficiently design good data structures to handle certain situations.  • Practiced good software design techniques and applied them to the various stages of the software development lifecycle.  • Responsible for design and development of multiple Onboard System Domains and the automated l&T test capability used to validate embedded system command and control protocols (C/C++, Perl, MySQL, Linux) for an advanced AUV/RPV.  • Developed and distributed over 3 major titlesin openstack which included augmented reality applications for the Witte Museum and the San Antonio Zoo.  • Used TDD (Test driven development) methodology.  • Generated an API Reference to help application developers for creating the software applications to store data using DDN S3 or DDN OpenStack Swift API calls.  • Experience gained using augmented reality features on iOS and Android devices.  • Great knowledge gained in using XCode and distributing applications to the Apple app store.  • Involved in writing stored procedures using MySQL. Used Python/Bash scripts and SQL queries to automate testing and file management  • Optimized the database queries to improve the performance.Created methods for cross application use using the Class Builder and Object Oriented programming.  • Embedded AJAX in UI to update small portions of the web page avoiding the need to reload the entire page.  • Developed in Windows and going to deploy it in Linux server.  • Worked on data exchange from website using XML, JAVA and Web Services.    Project: BPM Order Management System for FedEx Corporation  Project was to design, develop and implement the business processes and workflows to replace a legacy system that handled the internal order management of telecommunication services for globally distributed FedEx locations. The BPM solution provided FedEx Corporate the ability to expedite, track and manage these services resulting in immense cost savings and decreased provisioning times.    Java & J2EE development including the use of Spring and Struts 2.0.  Using subversion version control system or Git for all projects. Setting up email scripts to indicate my development activity to my managers. Resulting in very verbose revision history and much more transparent development process. This also helps to maintain very close contact and good communication channels.    Development of Java utility that interfaced with SunOne LDAP server.    Coding in LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, and PHP) environment.    Development of J2EE SSO API that leveraged the Java Cryptography API.    Management of design and implementing of mobile & web development strategy.    Design and Development of Business Processes and Workflows.  Development of DAO and SQL Maps using iBATIS.    Technologies/Tools/Platforms: Java & JSP/Servlets, Ajax (Dojo), Spring, Struts 2, JUnit Test Suite, Web Services, JavaScript, iBATIS, ANT, SVN, Linux, Oracle, Git, Weblogic, Savvion SBM 7, Savvion BPM Studio 7. Python Developer ZeOmega - Plano, TX July 2010 to March 2012 Responsibilities:  • Used Django framework for application development.  • Developed user interface using, CSS, HTML, JavaScript and Jquery & Ruby on rails.  • Assisted in reduction of cost and optimization of supplier selection for the CRM Applications. Also used methods for cross application use using the Class Builder and Object Oriented programming.  • Generated an API Reference guide to help application developers for creating the software applications to store data using DDN S3 (compatible with Amazon S3 API) or DDN OpenStack Swift API calls.  • Ensured high quality data collection and maintaining the integrity of the data.  • Cleaned data and processed third party spending data into maneuverable deliverables within specific formats with Excel macros and python libraries.  • Used TDD (Test driven development) methodology.  • Used several python libraries like wxPython, numPY and matPlotLib.  • Was involved in environment, code installation as well as the SVN implementation.  • Build all database mapping classes using Django models and cassandra.  • Used Pandas API to put the data as time series and tabular format for east timestamp data manipulation and retrieval.  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL.  • Creating unit test/regression test framework for working/new code  • This project also used other technologies like JQuery for javascript manipulations, bootstrap for the front-end html layout.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  • Developed, tested and debugged software tools utilized by clients and internal customers.  • Coded test programs and evaluated existing engineering processes.  • Designed and configured database and backend applications and programs.  • Performed research to explore and identify new technological platforms.  • Collaborated with internal teams to convert end user feedback into meaningful and improved solutions.  • Resolved ongoing problems and accurately documented progress of a project.  Management of product roadmap and implementing mobile & web development strategy.    Environment: Python 2.7, scipy, Pandas, Bugzilla, SVN, C++, Java, JQuery, MySQL, Linux, Eclipse, Shell Scripting (Bash), HTML5/CSS. Red hat Linux, Apache, RUBY, Cassandra Python Developer Cisco, California, United States - Cisco, CA March 2008 to June 2010 Responsibilities:  • Participated in the complete SDLC process and used PHP to develop website functionality on openstack.  • Coding in LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, and PHP) environment. Worked on development of openstack ceilometer system on open stack.  • Developed GUI HTML, XHTML, AJAX, JSON, CSS and JavaScript (jQuery)  • Developed website using Ruby on Rails on Mac operating system, backed by MySQL and Capistrano to automate and ease the deployment process on Phusion Passenger server.  • Used the Django Framework to develop the application.  • Used Django APIs for database access.  • Involved with client interaction during in customization of our product as per client requirements.  • Involved in unit testing and integrated testing of the application.  • Actively involved in the process of deployment.  • Special skills in developing user friendly, simple yet effective web based applications  • Daily updates to clients through teleconferences and formal status updates.  • Actively involved in tuning the application.  • Actively involved in clustering of the application using web logic.  • Used RHTML, ERB Templating, YAML, RJS and Cascading Style Sheets (CSS) to design the web pages.  • Used Ruby to extract weekly hotel availability information from XML files.  • Used WebServices to get travel destination data and rates.  • Participated in requirement gathering and worked closely with the architect in designing and modeling.  • Used data types like dictionaries, tuples and object oriented concepts based inheritance features for making complex algorithms of networks.  • Worked with the design team for project structure.  • Performed Design, involved in code reviews and wrote unit tests in Python.  • Implemented the presentation layer with HTML, DHTML, Ajax, CSS and JavaScript.  • Worked on development of SQL and stored procedures on MYSQL.  • Developed shopping cart for Library and integrated web services to access the payment (E-commerce)    Environment: Python 2.6/2.7, Ruby, JavaScript, Django Framework 1.3, CSS, SQL, OpenStack, MySQL, LAMP, JQuery, Adobe Dreamweaver, Apache web server, Apache Lucene.    Additional Information: Additional Information Technical Proficiency:  Languages Python 2.7/2.4, C++, Ruby on Rails, C, Java, Shell Script, SQL, VHDL  Python Framework Django 1.3/1.4  Databases MySQL, Oracle, PostgreSQL  Web Technologies AJAX, JavaScript, JSON, HTML, DHTML, XHTML, XML, JSON  Versioning Tools Git, SVN, CVS  Applications/Web servers Apache, Nginx  Operating systems Linux/Unix    Related Courses Include:  Data Structures, Level Design, Project Development, Simulation Group Project, Advanced C++, Advanced Object-Oriented Programming, Object Oriented Design, Systems Programming, Programming Languages, Software Validation and Quality Assurance, Computer Graphics, Software Engineering.