Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - Sirius XM Detroit, MI • Around 8+ years of experience in IT, which comprise of Web/Application Develop er and coding analytical Programming using Python, Django.  • Experienced with full software development life-cycle, architecting scalable platforms, object oriented programming, database design and agile methodologies  • Extensively used SQL, Numpy, Pandas, and Spark for Data Analysis and Model building.  • Cognitive about designing, deploying and operating highly available, scalable and fault-tolerant systems using Amazon Web Services (AWS).  • Provide highly available and durable data by using S3 data store, versioning and life cycle policy.  • Built the web application by using Django, Flask, Jinja, Python, WSGI, REDIS, PostgreSQL and DyanamoDB.  • Thorough understanding of providing specifications using Waterfall and Agile Software methodology to modeling systems and business processes.  • Experience for debugging the project monitored on JIRA(Agile)  • Experience object oriented programming (OOP) concepts using Python.  • Experienced in WAMP (Windows, Apache, MYSQL, and Python/PHP) and LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, and Python/PHP) Architecture.  • Experienced with UNIX/Linux environments  • Experienced with python PyPi packages and used those packages at run time by pulling it from Artifactory  • Experienced in developing web-based applications using Python, Django, CSS, HTML, Bottle, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Experienced in installing, configuring, modifying, testing and deploying applications with AWS (Amazon Web services).  • Well versed with design and development of presentation layer for web applications using technologies like HTML, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Familiar with REST and SOAP Web services.  • Experienced in developing Web Services with Python programming language.  • Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on MongoDB, MySQL and PostgreSQL database.  • Experience with continuous integration and automation using Jenkins  • Developed the required XML Schema documents and implemented the framework for parsing XML documents.  • Involved in Unit testing and Integration testing of the code using PyTest and Unit test  • Worked on AJAX framework to transform Datasets and Data tables into HTTP-serializable JSON strings.  • Proficient in using editors Eclipse, PyCharm, PyScripter, Notepad++ and Sublime Text while developing different applications.  • Experienced in developing test automation framework with Python scripting& Selenium.  • Having good knowledge in using NoSQL databases like Apache Cassandra (1.2, 2.0 and 2.1), Kubernetes and Mongo DB (2.6, 2.4), Orient DBF net.  • Having experienced in Agile Methodologies, PCI, Scrum stories and sprints experience in a Python based environment, Data analytics, data wrangling and Excel data extracts.  • Worked on various operating systems like Windows, UNIX and LINUX. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Developer Sirius XM - Detroit, MI April 2017 to Present Responsibilities:    • Worked as a Python Developer for PPFA to help them complete the process of development and testing for their two most heavily used websites. in a small PPFA team of developers, QA, and engineering resources supporting a total of 30 websites  • Designed front end and backend of the application utilizing Python on Django Web Framework.  • For the development of the user interface of the website used HTML, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Experience in developing views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Expertise in developing consumer-based features and applications with Python, Django, HTML, Behavior Driven Development (BDD) and pair-based programming.  • Modify the existing Python/Django modules to deliver certain format of data.  • Have work knowledge on JIRA(Agile) for the bug tracking of the project.  • Worked on deployment on AWS EC2 instance with Postgres RDS and S3 file storage  • Developed Chef Cookbooks to install and configure Apache Tomcat, Jenkins and deployment automation.  • Used Django-celery with the help of RabbitMQ message broker for large processing.  • Experience with Streaming platforms like Apache Kafka.  • Worked on Python scripts to parse JSON documents and load the data in database.  • Build SQL queries for performing various CRUD operations.  • Developed full stack Python web framework with an emphasis on simplicity, flexibility, and extensibility.  • Worked on AWS Cloud Platform and its features which includes EC2, S3, EBS  • Integrated Redis-Cache with Django Rest Framework for reading the data faster.  • Involved in Design, Development, Deployment, Testing, and Implementation of the application.  • Implemented the application in LINUX environment and comfortable with all its commands.  • Developed Restful Microservices using Flask and Django and deployed on AWS servers using EBS and EC2.  • Automated most of the daily task using python scripting.  • Performed job functions using Spark API's in Scala for real time analysis and for fast querying purposes.  • Involved in converting Hive/SQL queries into Spark transformations using Spark RDDs, Python and Scala.  • Implemented Integration test cases and Developing predictive analytic using Apache Spark Scala APIs.  • Worked on designing SCD logic using Spark framework in Python.  • Providing solution on integrating PySpark custom logic to integrate with AWS Glue.  • Managed Virtual servers (Ubuntu, Linux and Windows) on AWS EC2 using Open-Source Chef server.  • Deployed and monitored scalable infrastructure on Amazon Web Services (AWS) & configuration management using Chef  • Implemented the application using Python Spring IOC (Inversion of Control), Django Framework and handled the security using Python Spring Security.    • Environment: Python, Django, HTML, Angular JS, JSON, AJAX, XML, CSS, SQL, MySQL, JIRA, PySpark, Bootstrap, Restful Web Services, Beautiful Soup, Jenkins, GitHub, Linux, PyCharm, Hive,Pandas, Machine Learning, Version One, Linux, Shell Scripting, IBM Netezza, JavaScript, AngularJS, Toad Data Point(SQL), Putty(Linux), Informatica. Python Developer WPS Health Solutions - Monona, WI December 2014 to April 2017 Responsibilities:    • Involved in analysis, specification, design, and implementation and testing phases of Software  • Development Life Cycle (SDLC) and used agile methodology for developing application. Upgraded existing UI with HTML, CSS, jQuery and Bootstrap.  • testing units (VPN/Tunneling Etensively worked on Mobile).  • Used Django Migrations for designing and expanding of the database.  • Hands on experience in migrating Business from a physical data centre environment to AWS.  • Successfully migrated the Django database from SQLite to MySQL to PostgreSQL with complete data integrity.  • Experience working on with Amazon Web Services (AWS), Amazon EC2 instances, Load Balancing, Amazon Dynamo DB.  • Also have a good Experience on Rest APIs, AWS, Open Shift, Cloud engineering, Coding in LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, and PHP) environment  • Implemented network security policies and procedures for PCI compliance.  • Developed the required XML Schema documents and implemented the framework for parsing XML documents.  • Working as an application developer experienced with Perl, BDD, PL/SQL, controllers, views and models in Django and Linux Shell Scripting - Bash and Python scripting.  • Used Salt Stack to configure and manage the infrastructure.  • Restful web services using Python REST API Framework.  • Involved in designing and deploying multitude applications utilizing almost all of the AWS stack (Including EC2, Route53, S3, RDS, Dynamo DB, SNS, SQS, IAM) focusing on high-availability, fault tolerance, and auto-scaling in AWS Cloud Formation.  • Automated Regular AWS tasks like snapshots creation using Python scripts.  • Build servers using AWS, importing volumes, launching EC2, RDS, creating security groups, auto-scaling, load balancers (ELBs) in the defined virtual private connection.  Environment: Python, PL/SQL Django Web Framework,c++, AWS, HTML, CSS, NoSQL, JavaScript, JQuery, Sublime Text, Jira, GIT, py Builder, unit test, Firebug, Web Services. Python Developer PHH Mortgage - Mount Laurel, NJ September 2012 to December 2014 Responsibilities:    • Extensively used OOD concepts in overall design and development of the system.  • Used UML Rational Rose to develop Use-case, Class and Object diagrams for OOA/OOD techniques.  • Prepared and analyzed reports using Python libraries and involved in environment Setup.  • Created the environment specific settings for a new deployment and update the deployment specific conditional checks in code base to use specific checks.  • Used Python and Django to interface with the JQuery UI and manage the storage and deletion of content.  • Administration of Continuous Integration tool in Jenkins.  • Implementing customer data collection with PySpark analytics.  • Used XML for dynamic display of options in select box and description on web page.  • Responsible for Debugging and Troubleshooting issues.  • Involved in debugging the applications monitored on JIRA using agile methodology.  • Involved in postproduction support for solving complex tickets.  • Resolved user problems in a timely and accurate manner as a member of the End-User support team.  • Involved in presenting demos to the clients and also reporting the daily and weekly status to the Project manager.  • Involved in creating the database modelling to the project and wrote queries for retrieving data from backend.  • Developed, tested and debugged software tools utilized by clients and internal customers.  • Coded test programs and evaluated existing engineering processes.  • Responsible for running and maintaining business processes on daily / weekly / monthly basis.  • Developing test automation framework using python and See Test APIs.  • Developing Requirement Traceability Tool using python.  • Coordinating with the development team for any assistance in issue reproduction and testing.  • Executing test scripts using Visual Studio, MTM and See Test tool.  • Involved in Code reviews and Test Case reviews.  • Prepare any risk mitigation plans if in case any delays are foreseen.    Environment: Python 3.x, Django 1.7, Java Script, HTML, Angular JS, JSON, AJAX, XML, CSS, MySQL, PySpark, Bootstrap, Restful Web Services, Beautiful Soup, Jenkins, GitHub, Linux, PyCharm. Python Developer Global Atlantic Financial Group - Boston, MA July 2010 to September 2012 Responsibilities:  • Designed and developed the server module and resolved issues and responsible for its enhancements.  • Architected and developed Python and Django for the backend development and front-end application using React, Web pack, Redux, and ES6/7 and PostgreSQL for the database.  • Worked on Django ORM module for signing complex queries.  • Load balancing of ETL processes, database performance tuning ETL processing tools.  • Loaded the data from Teradata to HDFS using Teradata Hadoop connectors.  • Hands on experience in Amazon Web Services AWS provisioning and good knowledge of AWS services like EC2, S3, Red shift, Glacier, Bamboo, ELB (Load Balancers), RDS, SNS, SWF and EBS etc and Azure.  • Migrating a production infrastructure into an Amazon Web Services utilizing AWS Cloud Formation, Code Deploy, EBS and Ops Works.  • Build servers using AWS, importing volumes, launching EC2, RDS, creating security groups, auto-scaling, load balancers (ELBs) in the defined virtual private connection and open stack to provision new machines for clients.  • Defined different Django API profiling techniques for faster rendering information.  • Used Ansible, Vagrant, and Docker for managing the application environments.  • Developed Python scripts for testing the car functioning on different services.  • Worked with Splunk for testing the performance and debugging server level problems.  • Implemented various Validation Controls for form validation and implemented custom validation controls using Object Oriented JavaScript.  • Working close together with QA and Operations teams to understand, design, and develop and end-to-end data flow requirements.  • Used React JS in components like JSX, creating React components, Virtual DOM, React Props, Lifecycle methods, working with the React States and Events.  • Developed Restful Microservices using Flask and Django and deployed on AWS servers using EBS and EC2.  • Developed views and templates with Django view controller and template to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Worked on Dockers ,Kubernetes, Django and RabbitMQ queues.  Environment: Python 2.7,AWS,Devops, Django, Django Rest, Flask, React, Redux, Circle CI, Vagrant, Splunk, New Relic Server, GitHub, Ansible, HTML5/CSS, PostgreSQL, Amazon Web Service (AWS), S3, EC2, EBS, PyCharm, Microsoft Visual Code, Linux, Shell Scripting, JIRA. Education Bachelor's Skills Visual studio, Android studio, C++, Django, Git