Sr. Python Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Python Developer - United Health Group Hopkins, MN • 7+ years of experience in developing and designing Web Based, Multi-tier distributed applications using latest analytical programming Python, Django, Flask, Pyramid.  • Experience of software development in Python (libraries used: libraries- Beautiful Soup, NumPy, SciPy, matplotlib, python-twitter, Pandas data frame, network, urllib2, MySQL dB for database connectivity) and IDEs - sublime text, Spyder, PyCharm, emacs.  • Good experience in developing web applications implementing MVT architecture using Django, Flask, Webapp2 web application frameworks, with good understanding of Django ORM and SQLAlchemy.  • Extensive experience in developing applications by implementation of web based and client/server application using HTML, Angular JS, Node JS, CSS, JavaScript.  • Experienced in developing web-based applications using Python, Django, PHP, C++, XML, CSS, HTML, DHTML, JavaScript and jQuery, MVC3, RESTful, RUBY, AJA.  • Extensive experience in technologies like UML, HTML, JSP, Servlets, JMS, JDBC, JNDI.  • Experienced in MVC frameworks like Flask and Pyramid and MVT framework like Django.  • Experienced in Working on Big Data Integration and Analytics based on Hadoop, Spark and No-SQL databases like HBase and MongoDB.  • Experience in designing the automation framework using Shell scripting.  • Experience on Hadoop (HDFS), Hive QL, Impala, Apache Drill, Apache Spark, SQOOP, FLUME/Kafka.  • Experience in developing big data applications using Hadoop framework and its eco systems like MapReduce.  • Experience in implementing PEP8 coding standards.  • Experienced in installing, configuring, modifying, testing and deploying applications with Apache.  • Experience in using XML, SOAP, REST web Service for inter operable software applications.  • Hands on experience with bug tracking tools JIRA and Bugzilla.  • Experienced in writing SQL Queries, Stored procedures, functions, packages, tables, views, triggers.  • Expertise in using JSON based REST Web services and Amazon Web services.  • Expertise in Amazon EC2, Amazon S3, Amazon Elastic Load Balancing and other services of the AWS family.  • Experience with cloud technologies such as VMware, AWS.  • Experienced in installing, configuring, modifying, testing and deploying applications with Apache  • Experience in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors and Functions on MySQL and Postgre SQL database.  • Expertise in working with GUI frameworks - PyJamas, python.  • Experienced in NoSQL technologies like MongoDB, Cassandra and relational databases like Oracle, SQLite, PostgreSQL, Dynamo DB and MySQL databases.  • Experience in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors and Functions on MySQL and PostgreSQL database.  • Hands-on experience with industry-standard IDEs like PyCharm, Sublime, NetBeans.  • Experience with CI/CD systems like Git and Jenkins and also experience in working with Bitbucket.  • Experience in using the Docker containers leveraging existing Linux Containers and AMI's in addition to creating Docker containers from scratch  • Experience in all phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC)-Waterfall, agile Process across various workflows (Requirement study, Analysis, Design, Coding, Testing, Deployment and Maintenance) in Web & Client/Server application development.  • Hands on experience in Agile Methodologies, Scrum stories and sprints experience in a Python based environment.  • Experience in writing test plans, test cases, test specifications and test coverage. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Python Developer United Health Group - Minnetonka, MN April 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Utilized Python libraries like wxPython, NumPy, SciPy, Web2py.  • Designed RESTful Web services using FLASK, with emphasis on improved Security for the service using FLASK-HTTP AUTH with HTTPS.  • Created RESTful web services for Catalog and Pricing with Django MVT, MySQL, and MongoDB.  • Development of Python APIs to dump the array structures in the Processor at the failure point for debugging.  • Wrote and executed various MySQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL DB package.  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL. Built application logic using Python 2.6.  • Used Django APIs for database access.  • Solr Core on-demand autoloader - autoload and unload Solr cores based on demand  • Various enhancements to Solr (field level permissions, Span wildcard queries, multiple default fields, language specific tokenization, etc.)  • Designed and developed communication between client and server using Secured Web services.  • Developed and tested many features for dashboard using Python, Java, Bootstrap, CSS, JavaScript and jQuery.  • Worked on developing internal testing tools which were written in Python.  • Developed various algorithms for generating several data patterns.  • Built Automation of Applications and Middleware using IBM Urban Code Deploy  • Built Automation for Non-functional Software Testing using IBM Urban Code Deploy  • Developed remote integration with third party platforms by using RESTful web services. Wrote Python code embedded with JSON and XML to produce HTTP GET request, parsing HTML data from websites.  • Configured RedShift, Elasticsearch and Dynamo DB with EC2 Instances and involved in migrating data from RDBMS to RedShift.  • Developed indexer programs and search endpoint for enterprise applications, maintenance of Elasticsearch, cluster, and deployment of programs done through custom automated scrips.  • Documented the requirements including the available code which should be implemented using Spark, Hive, HDFS, HBase and Elasticsearch.  • Deployed and configured Elasticsearch, Logstash and Kibana (ELK) for log analytics, full text search, application monitoring in integration with AWS Lambda and CloudWatch. Then store that logs and metrics into S3 bucket using Lambda function.  • Monitored the servers & applications using Nagios, Cacti and Splunk. Worked with application servers such as JBoss, Jetty and Tomcat servers.  • Wrote Python scripts to manage the AWS resource from API calls using BOTO SDK. Worked with AWS CLI. Automated the cloud deployments using Chef, Python (boto 3 & fabric) and AWS CloudFormation Templates.  • Designed Cassandra schema for the APIs.  • Loaded some of the data into Cassandra for fast retrieval of data and used JIRA for bug tracking and issue tracking.  • Used GitHub for Python source code version control, Jenkins for automating the build docker containers, and deploying in Mesos.  • Use Docker containers leveraging existing Linux Containers and AMI's in addition to creating Docker containers from scratch.  • Worked on creating the Docker containers and Docker consoles for managing the application life cycle. Setup Docker on Linux and configure Jenkins to run under Docker host.  • Added several options to the application to choose algorithm for data and address generation.  • Designed and developed the framework to consume the web services hosted in Amazon EC2  • instances.  • AmazonEC2 is also used for deploying and testing the lower environments such as Dev, INT and Test  • Used Spring Cloud AWS Core, Spring Cloud AWS Context, and Spring Cloud AWS Messaging.  • Involved in development using Python, bug fixing  • Developed web-based applications using Python, Django, XML, CSS, HTML, DHTML  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework  • Part of the SOA (Service Oriented Architecture) team enforcing best practices for services (REST and SOAP).  • Worked on HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, AngularJS, Node.JS, Git, REST API, intellij IDEA  • Development of real-time multi-tasking systems using Python  • Created data access modules in python  • Involved in Developing a Restful API'S service using Python Flask framework.  • Collaborated within a team using an agile development workflow and widely-accepted collaboration practices using Git. Sr, Python Developer ExxonMobil - Irving, TX December 2015 to March 2017 Responsibilities  • Developed user-friendly web-based GUI using ReactJS, JavaScript, CSS, HTML and AJAX.  • Developed views and templates with Django's MVT (model, view and template) to create a user-friendly website.  • Worked on MVC architecture using PHP, Python 3.x as controller.  • Worked on packages like socket, REST API, Django.  • Experience in using collections in Python for manipulating and looping through different user defined objects.  • Involved in front end and utilized Bootstrap and Angular.js for page design.  • Created stored procedure, trigger on the database to provide/insert specific data from multiple tables for Web API services.  • Built machine learning model to analyze crawled data classifying them by applying machine learning and storing them in Redis. Created real-time dashboard for Executives, utilizing Logstash, Elastic Search, Kibana & Redis.  • Developed code in Java which creates mapping in Elasticsearch even before data is indexed into. Worked to build an end to end pipeline to process and store user logs in Elasticsearch and Splunk real time of multiple products.  • Created Docker images from scratch and customized and modified base images from existing environment configurations and maintaining the image repo for development teams.  • By using Kubernetes, we have deployed containers of Docker inside a cluster. Automated application deployment in cloud using Docker technology using Elastic Container Service Scheduler.  • Used Celery as task queue and RabbitMQ, Redis as messaging broker to execute asynchronous tasks. Implemented Restful web service to interact with Redis Cache framework. Worked on developing Restful endpoints to cache application specific data in in-memory data clusters like REDIS and also exposed them with Restful endpoints.  • Used Cassandra for database and Redis for cache, for storing and fetching the data. Used Redis Cache for high performance, which creates space for new data by removing old data. Developed Ruby on Rails web applications using MongoDB and back-ground processes using Resque and Redis. Utilized Python in the handling of all hits on Django, Redis, and other applications.  • Created Business Logic using Python to create Planning and Tracking functions.  • Designed a template using macro template with in a web frame work such as pylons.  • All these four micro services are deployed in Mesos cluster in AWS using Jenkins, Marathon, and Chronos.  • Built Continuous Integration Pipeline using Jenkins, IBM Urban Code Deploy, Python.  • Used automation Jenkins for continuous integration on Amazon EC2.  • Designed AMI images of EC2 Instances by employing AWS CLI and GUI.  • Working knowledge of various AWS technologies like SQS Queuing, SNS Notification, S3 storage, Redshift, Data Pipeline, EMR.  • Responsible for all Public (AWS) and Private (Open stack/VMWare/DCOS/Mesos/Marathon) cloud infrastructure.  • Experience with automated CM and maintained a CI/CD pipeline, deployment tools such as Chef, Puppet, or Ansible  • Automating the tasks using Ansible playbooks, Shell scripting and Python.  • Migrating servers with the required configurations changes and testing and deploying the machines using Ansible commands  • Created various modules and Manifests in Ansible to automate various applications  • Working knowledge of various AWS technologies like SQS Queuing, SNS Notification, S3 storage, Redshift, Data Pipeline, EMR.  • Developed a fully automated continuous integration system using Git, Jenkins, MySQL and custom tools developed in Python and Bash.  • Implemented Multithreading module and complex networking operations like race route, SMTP mail server and web server Using Python.  • Automated RabbitMQ cluster installations and configuration using Python/Bash.  • Written test cases using PyUnit and Selenium Automation testing for better manipulation of test scripts.  • Used JIRA for Bug tracking and issue tracking.  • Worked as part of an Agile/Scrum based development team and exposed to TDD approach in developing applications.  • Developed user interface using, CSS, HTML, JavaScript and jQuery& Ruby on rails.  • Assisted in reduction of cost and optimization of supplier selection for the CRM Applications.  • Ensured high quality data collection and maintaining the integrity of the data.  • Cleaned data and processed third party spending data into maneuverable deliverables within specific formats with Excel macros and python libraries.  • Used several python libraries like wxPython, NumPy and matplotlib.  • Was involved in environment, code installation as well as the SVN implementation.  • Build all database mapping classes using Django models and Cassandra.  • Used Pandas API to put the data as time series and tabular format for east timestamp data manipulation and retrieval.  • Experience with automated CM and maintained a CI/CD pipeline, deployment tools such as Chef, Puppet, or Ansible  • Automating the tasks using Ansible playbooks, Shell scripting and Python.  • Migrating servers with the required configurations changes and testing and deploying the machines using Ansible commands  • Created various modules and Manifests in Ansible to automate various applications Python Developer Cardinal Health - Dublin, OH September 2013 to November 2015 Responsibilities  • Designed object model, data model, tables, constraints, necessary stored procedures, functions, triggers, and packages for Oracle Database.  • Used Django configuration to manage URLs and application parameters.  • Used Wireshark, live http headers, and Fiddler debugging proxy to debug the Flash object and help the developer create a functional component.  • Developed Views and Templates with Django view controller and template language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Configured the Django admin site, dashboard and created a custom Django dashboard for end users with custom look and feel. Used Django APIs for database access.  • Implemented MVC architecture in developing the web application with the help of Django framework  • Used Python and Django for XML, JSON processing, data exchange and business logic implementation.  • Built database Model, Views and API's using Python for interactive web based solutions.  • Used Python scripts to update the content in database and manipulate files.  • Created UI using JavaScript, Perl and HTML5. Designed and developed data management system using MySQL.  • Worked in MySQL database on simple queries and writing Stored Procedures for normalization and renormalization.  • Generated Python Django Forms to record data of online users  • Used Python and Django creating graphics, XML processing, data exchange and business logic implementation  • Used Pandas API to put the data as time series and tabular format for east timestamp data manipulation and retrieval.  • Worked on Jenkins continuous integration tool for deployment of project.  • Played a key role in a development wide transition from Subversion to Git, which resulted in increase in efficiency for the development community.  • Worked on developing internal testing tools which were written in Python.  • Worked on Libraries like Pandas for data manipulation and analysis.  • Developed Merge jobs in Python to extract and load data into MySQL database.  • Successfully migrated the Django database from SQLite to MySQL to PostgreSQL with complete data integrity.  • Designed front end using UI, HTML, Bootstrap, Node JS, underscore JS, Angular JS, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Followed AGILE development methodology to develop the application.  • Involved in Data base design, normalizations and de-normalization techniques.  • Involved in User Acceptance Testing and prepared UAT Test Scripts.  • Effectively communicated with the external vendors to resolve queries.  • Used and customized apache server to for checking our developed project.  • Used Test driven approach (TDD) for developing services required for the application.  • Implemented Integration test cases.  • Used Git to resolve and coding the work on python and portlet.  • Deployed mircoservices2, including provisioning AWS environments using Ansible Playbooks.  • Provisioned load balancer, auto-scaling group and launch configuration for microservice using Ansible.  • Used Ansible playbooks to setup Continuous Delivery pipeline. This primarily consists of a Jenkins and Sonar server, the infrastructure to run these packages.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Utilized Python libraries like python, NumPy, SciPy, Web2py. Python Developer Barclays - New York, NY July 2011 to August 2013 Responsibilities  • Developed Python Open Stack APIs by using NumPy for Numerical analysis.  • Used Ajax and jQuery for transmitting JSON data objects between frontend and controllers.  • Implemented user interface guidelines and standards throughout the development and maintenance of the website using the HTML, CSS, JavaScript and jQuery.  • Worked on front end frameworks like CSS Bootstrap for responsive webpages.  • Developed and tested many features for dashboard, created using Bootstrap, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Developed Wrapper in Python for instantiating multi-threaded application.  • Apply machine learning and/or graph analysis techniques for a variety of modeling and relevance problems.  • Assist in designing and developing a scalable recommendation platform that can be used by various systems/application  • Performs the transformation using PyYAML to parse the data file(s) and Jinja2 to fill the data into templates.  • Built Amazon Web Services for data storing and Web journal with Flask framework and Jinja templates  • Involved in deploying systems on Amazon Web Services (do) Infrastructure services EC2.  • Experience in configuring, deploying the web applications on AWS servers using SBT and Play.  • Designed object model, data model, tables, constraints, necessary stored procedures, functions, triggers, and packages for Oracle Database.  • Used Django configuration to manage URLs and application parameters.  • Used Wireshark, live http headers, and Fiddler debugging proxy to debug the Flash object and help the developer create a functional component.  • Developed Business Logic using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL.  • Write scripts using python modules and its libraries to develop programs that improve processing of access requests.  • Utilized PyUnit, the Python Unit test framework, for all Python applications and used Django Database API's to access database objects.  • Used PyQuery for selecting particular DOM elements when parsing HTML.  • Developed server-based web traffic using RESTful API's statistical analysis tool using Flask, Pandas.  • Wrote PL/SQL views, Stored Procedures, database triggers & Packages.  • Enhanced by adding Python XML SOAP request/response handlers to add accounts, modify trades and security updates.  • Recording of Scripts Web Services HTML using Vugen and SoapUI and script validation through co correlations, parameterizations and other methods.  • Worked with RDBMS like Oracle 11g/10i and MySQL databases to query and read data.  • Developed various Python scripts to find vulnerabilities with SQL Queries by doing SQL injection, permission checks and performance analysis. Education Bachelor's Skills Django (5 years), Python (4 years), RESTful (4 years), CSS3 (5 years), API (4 years), JavaScript (4 years), jQuery (4 years), UI (5 years), Bootstrap (4 years), SOAP (5 years), Cassandra (5 years), JDBC (6 years), Perl (4 years), NumPy (4 years), MongoDB (5 years), AngularJS (3 years), Flask (4 years), Shell scripting (4 years), Servlets (5 years), Node.js (4 years), Ansible (4 years), DevOps (4 years), NumPy (5 years), beautifulsoap (4 years), CSS, ASP, HTML 5, MySQL