Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - Jefferson Bank Atlanta, GA • 5+ Years of experience in Analysis, Design, Development, Testing, Customization, Bug fixes, Enhancement, Support and Implementation of various web, stand-alone, client-server enterprise applications using Python, Django in various domains.  • Experienced with full software development life-cycle (SDLC), architecting scalable platforms, object oriented programming (OOPs), database design and agile methodologies.  • Experience in developing web-based applications using Python 2.7/2.6, Django 1.4/1.3.  • Extensive experience in system analysis, design, development and implementation of web based and client/server application using HTML, Angular JS, Bootstrap, underscore JS, Node JS, CSS, JavaScript, AJAX, JSP, JDBC, XML, XSLT, Python, Django.  • Good experience in developing web applications implementing MVT/MVC architecture using Django, Flask, Webapp2 and spring web application frameworks.  • Good Experience with Django, a high-level Python Web framework.  • Experienced in MVC frameworks like Django, Angular JS, Java Script, jQuery and Node.js.  • Experienced in web applications development using Django/ Python, Flask/ Python.AndNode.js, Angular.js, DOJO, jQuery while using HTML/CSS/JS for server-side rendered applications.  • Good Experience in Linux Bash scripting and following PEP Guidelines in Python.  • Developed consumer based features and applications using Python, Django, HTML, Behavior Driven Development (BDD) and pair based programming.  • Using Django evolution and manual SQL modifications, could modify Django models while retaining all data, while site was in production mode.  • Experienced in monitoring, developing and transforming data using SQL Server Integration Service (SSIS) and SQL Server Analysis Service (SSAS).  • Experienced with databases using ORMs/DOMs for integrating with MySQL, Postgres, Neo4J, MongoDB and Cassandra SQLite. Also, experienced with writing custom queries through database connectors.  • Expertise in establishing database connections for Java and Python by configuring packages like JDBC, MySQL- Python.  • Successfully migrated the Django database from SQLite to MySQL to Postgres SQL with complete data integrity.  • Architecture, size (Capacity planning), Data modeling, implementation and support Cassandra Clusters including install, configure and upgrade DSE v3/4 (Cassandra v 1/2.x) and OpsCenter v 4.x/5.x on Bare metal and Cloud including AWS (Amazon Web Services).  • Experience with creating script for data modeling and data import and export. Extensive experience in deploying, managing and developing MongoDB clusters.  • Good Knowledge of web services using SOAP and REST protocols.  • Used Node.js as a proxy to interact with Rest services and interacting with Database.  • Excellent Experience and knowledge in using XML, SOAP, web Service for inter operable software applications.  • Good knowledge of version control software - CVS, GitHub.  • Efficient in demonstrating all phases of software development life cycle (requirements, design, architecture, development, testing).  • Experience in working with deployment tools like Microsoft Azure, Heroku and Jenkins.  • Deployed production site using Apache 2.0 with mod python.  • Experienced in Agile Methodologies, Scrum stories and sprints experience in a Python based environment, along with data analytics, data wrangling and Excel data extracts.  • Hands on experience with bug tracking tools JIRA and Bugzilla.  • Skilled in writing and reviewing requirements, architecture documents, test plans, design, documents, quality analysis and audits.  • Skilled in debugging/troubleshooting issues in complex applications.  • Experience in Database Administration, development, design, maintenance and production support of relational databases, business applications, new server setup, MySQL Server installation, upgrade, migration.  • Reviewed requirement documents with the business and development team to understand the architecture and functionality of the application and consolidated these requirements in appropriate modules in Test strategy.  • Experienced in Unit testing, Integration testing, User acceptance testing, Functional testing.  • Experienced in Requirement gathering, Use case development, Business Process flow, Business Process Modeling extensively used UML to develop various use cases, class diagrams and sequence diagrams. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Developer Jefferson Bank - San Antonio, TX October 2016 to Present Jefferson Bank is a family-owned bank serving communities in San Antonio and surrounding areas in the Texas Hill Country. Through the years, Jefferson Bank has created an elite team of highly skilled, family oriented and civic-minded individuals who contribute to the Bank continuing success.    Responsibilities:  • Responsible for gathering requirements, system analysis, design, development, testing and deployment.  • Worked very closely with designer, tightly integrating Flash into the CMS with the use of Flashvars stored in the Django models. Also created XML with Django to be used by the Flash.  • Created PHP/MySQL back-end for data entry from Flash. I had to assist the Flash developer send the correct data via query strings.  • Developed monitoring and notification tools using Python.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks.  • Created Business Logic using Python to create Planning and Tracking functions.  • Used Django for framework for accessing various Clinical Trial Data from various sources.  • Created Data tables utilizing PyQt to display customer and policy information and add, delete, update customer records.  • Involved in MVW frameworks like Django, Angular.js, Java Script and Node.js.  • Designed and managed API system deployment using fast http server and Amazon AWS architecture.  • Implemented navigation rules for the application and page outcomes, written controllers using annotations.  • Used Python based GUI components for the front-end functionality such as selection criteria.  • Created test harness to enable comprehensive testing utilizing Python.  • Worked with JSON based REST Web services.  • Used jQuery and Ajax calls for transmitting JSON data objects between frontend and controllers.  • Used GitHub for version control.  • Worked on MongoDB database concepts such as locking, transactions, indexes, replication, schema design.  • Worked in an agile development environment.  • Developed SQL Queries, Stored Procedures, and Triggers Using Oracle.    Environment: Python, Django, HTML, CSS, PHP, DOM, REST, Node.js, Angular.js, JavaScript, AJAX, jQuery, AWS, GitHub, agile, Oracle, MongoDB and Windows. Python Developer CONIFER Health Solutions - Frisco, TX May 2015 to August 2016 Conifer Health Solutions is a healthcare services company partnering with more than 800 clients to strengthen their financial and clinical performance. Conifer Health helps organizations transition from volume to value-based care, enhance the consumer and patient healthcare experience and improve quality, access to healthcare and control costs.    Responsibilities:  • Created Python and Bash tools to increase efficiency of call center application system and operations data conversion scripts, AMQP/RabbitMQ, REST, JSON and CRUD scripts for API Integration.  • Used Celery with RabbitMQ, MySQL, Django, and Flask to create a distributed worker framework.  • Application was based on service oriented architecture and used Python 2.7, Django1.5, JSF 2, Spring 2, Ajax, HTML, CSS for the frontend.  • Build the Silent Circle Management System (SCMC) in Django, Python, and Node.JS while integrating with infrastructure services.  • Created a Python/Django based web application using Python scripting for data processing, MySQL for the database, and HTML/CSS/jQuery and High Charts for data visualization of the served pages.  • Used existing Deal Model in Python to inherit and create object data structure for regulatory reporting.  • Managed, developed, and designed a dashboard control panel for customers and Administrators using Django, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Bootstrap, jQuery and RESTAPI calls.  • Automated RabbitMQ cluster installations and configuration using Python/Bash.  • Deployed the project into Heroku using GIT version control system.  • Improved the coding standards, code reuse. Increased performance of the extended applications by making effective use of various design patterns (Front Controller, DAO).  • Worked on a large scale distributed computing environment, monitoring data nodes to prioritize jobs for processing functions.  • Worked extensively with Bootstrap, JavaScript and jQuery to optimize the user experience.  • Carried out various mathematical operations for calculation purpose using python libraries.  • Fetched twitter feeds for certain important keyword using python-twitter library.  • Used Python Library Beautiful Soup for web scrapping to extract data for building graphs.  • Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes of the two main applications that were a main source of data for both customers and internal customer service team.  • Executing regression tests on each release and verified bugs found from automation test in Bugzilla.  • Planning, implementing, and converting manual test cases to automation test cases.    Environment: Python, Django, Cassandra, RabbitMQ, SoapUI, Node.JS, REST, API, Bash, Spyder, Agile. Python Developer Walgreens - Deerfield, IL February 2014 to April 2015 Walgreens is one of the largest drugstore chains in the U.S., with more than 8,000 stores in all 50 states, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, and the U.S. Virgin Islands. The combination brought together two leading companies with iconic brands, complementary geographic footprints, shared values and a heritage of trusted health care services through community pharmacy care and pharmaceutical wholesaling. Both companies have more than a century's worth of experience in customer and patient care. Walgreens is today part of the Retail Pharmacy USA division of Walgreens Boots Alliance.  Responsibilities:  • Configuring and managing Open stack components such as keystone, nova, neutron, glance, swift, Heat.  • Written Nova, Glance, Neutron, Cinder, Keystone, Hashborad, Swift, python client API to integrate with existing Application.  • Understanding python files in open stack environment and make necessary changes if needed.  • Using Cinder to enable persistent storage for applications like databases deployed in Open stack.  • Using Amazon EC2 command line interface along with Bash/ Python to automate repetitive work.  • Involved in Requirement gathering, Analysis, Design, Estimation and testing of the assigned tasks in Open stack.  • Implemented Rally open stack benchmarking tool on the entire cloud environment.  • Experience in reviewing Python code for running the troubleshooting test-cases and bug issues.  • Involved in Automated Open stack and AWS deployment using Cloud Formation, heat and Puppet.  • Involve in the development of the application using Python 3.3, HTML5, CSS3, AJAX, JSON and jQuery.  • Maintained and managed Puppet modules responsible for deploying Open stack and other cloud tools.  • Design roles and groups for users and resources using AWS Identity Access Management (IAM).  • Creating Cloud watch alerts for instances and using them in auto scaling launch configurations.  • Developed Cloud infrastructure like compute, storage, and platform Restful services to implement OpenStack API.  • Created a custom dashboard using JSF replacing an existing Horizon dashboard using the RESTful API provided by Open stack.  • Used JSP, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, CSS3, and HTML5 as data and presentation layer technology.  • Involve in intense User Interface (UI) operations and client-side validations using AJAX toolkit.  • Developing applications using RESTFUL architecture using Node.js and PHP as backend languages.  • Designed Cloud Infrastructure as a Service environment using open source technology OpenStack to enable portability of cloud services across hybrid cloud environments.  • Implementing multi-tier application provisioning in OpenStack cloud, integrating it with Ansible/Puppet.  • Design front end using UI, HTML, Bootstrap, Node JS, underscore JS, Angular JS, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Used Python and Django creating graphics, XML processing, data exchange and business logic implementation.  • Develop consumer based features and applications using Python, Django, HTML, behavior Driven Development (BDD) and pair based programming.  • Design and developed data management system using PostgreSQL.  • Wrote Python OO Design code for manufacturing quality, monitoring, logging, and debugging code optimization.  • Build Back-end support for Application from ground up using Python, Shell scripts & Perl.  • Use the Model View controller (MVC) framework to build modular and maintainable applications.  • Successfully migrated the Django database from SQLite to MySQL to PostgreSQL with complete data integrity.  • Used Test driven approach for developing the application and Implemented the unit tests using Python Unit test framework.  • Written with object-oriented Python, Flask, SQL, Beautiful Soup, httplib2, Jinja2, HTML/CSS, Bootstrap, jQuery, Linux, Sublime Text, git.  • Utilized continuous integration and automated deployments with Jenkins, Ansible and Docker.  • Used HTML, CSS, AJAX, JSON designed and developed the user interface of the website.  • Dynamic implementation of SQL server work on website using SQL developer tool and working with continuous integration and automation using Jenkins.  • Involved in the Complete Software development life cycle (SDLC) to develop the application and Worked closely with software developers and DevOps to debug software and system problems.  • Followed AGILE development methodology to develop the application and Used the GO Programming Language to refactor and redesign the legacy databases.  • Use Test driven approach (TDD) for developing services required for the application and Implemented Integration test cases and Developing predictive analytic using Apache Spark Scala APIs.  Environment: Python 3.4/2.7, Django 1.7, MongoDB, MySQL, AJAX, SOAP, REST, jQuery, JavaScript, Bootstrap, AWS (EC2, S3, RDS). Python Developer Staples Inc - Framingham, MA May 2012 to December 2013 Staples makes it easy to make more happen with more products and more ways to shop. Through its world-class retail, online and delivery capabilities, Staples lets customers shop however and whenever they want, whether it's in store, online or on mobile devices.  Responsibilities:  • Designed the application using Python, HTML, CSS, AJAX, JSON and jQuery. Worked on backend of the application.  • Develop consumer based features and applications using Python, Django, HTML, Behavior Driven Development (BDD) and pair based programming.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Used Python and Django to interface with the jQuery UI and manage the storage and deletion of content.  • Created a Python/Django based web application using Python scripting for data processing, MySQL for the database, and HTML/CSS/jQuery and High Charts for data visualization of the served pages.  • Implemented AWS solutions using S3, RDS, EBS, Elastic Load Balancer, and Auto scaling groups.  • Design roles and groups for users and resources using AWS Identity Access Management (IAM).  • Developed intranet portal for managing Amazon EC2 servers using Python, Tornado and MongoDB.  • Using Amazon EC2 command line interface along with Bash/ Python to automate repetitive work.  • Used Celery as task queue and RabbitMQ as messaging broker to execute asynchronous tasks.  • Implemented dynamic page elements and form error validations using AngularJS.  • Develop consumer based features and applications using Python, Django, HTML, Behavior Driven Development (BDD) and pair based programming.  • Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL package.  • Managed, developed, and designed a dashboard control panel for customers and Administrators using Django, Oracle DB, PostgreSQL, and VMWare API calls.  • Developed GUI using webapp2 for dynamically displaying the test block documentation and other features of python code using a web browser.  • Developed the required XML Schema documents and implemented the framework for parsing XML documents.  • Performed efficient delivery of code based on principles of Test Driven Development (TDD) and continuous integration to keep in line with Agile Software Methodology principles.  • Involved in development of Web Services using SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface in the XML format.  • Used Python and Django creating graphics, XML processing, data exchange and business logic implementation.  • Involved in design, implementation and modifying the Python code and MySQL database schema on-the back end.  • Developed web applications in Django Framework's model view control (MVC) architecture.  • Had regular interactions with customers and gathered requirements in Big Data collation, summation, filtering and normalizing the data.  • Exposure on Multi-Threading factory to distribute learning process back-testing and into various worker processes.  • Developed a fully automated continuous integration system using Git, Gerrit, Jenkins, MySQL and custom tools developed in Python and Bash.  • Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL dB package.  • Successfully migrated the Django database from SQLite to MySQL to PostgreSQL with complete data integrity.  Environment: Python, Django, Java, AWS, MySQL, Node.js, Linux, HTML, XHTML, CSS, AJAX, REST, JSON, JavaScript, PHP, MySQL, Linux, HTML. Skills CSS (5 years), Django (5 years), HTML (5 years), Java Script (5 years), MySQL (5 years) Additional Information SKILLS  • Languages: Proficient: Python, Node.js /JavaScript, HTML, CSS, SQL | Familiar: C, Java    • Web Frameworks: Flask, Django, WebApp2, Express,    • Software: Atom, Linux, PostgreSQL, MySQL, Eclipse, Android Studio    • Cloud Platforms: AWS (EC2, EBS, S3, Elastic Beanstalk) | Google Cloud (App Engine, Firebase)