Sr. Python Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Python Developer - AIG Insurance Louisville, KY ? Around 8 years of experience in IT field, in Design, Development, Testing of Enterprise Applications, Analysis and Database Development.  ? Professional 5+ years of experience as a Web/Application Developer and coding with analytical programming using JAVA/J2EE spring, Python, Django, Java and C++.  ? Experienced in developing web-based applications using Python, DJANGO, GTK, QT, C++, XML, CSS3, SaaS, HTML5, DHTML, JavaScript and JQuery.  ? Well versed with Design and Development of presentation layer for web application using technologies like HTML5, CSS, Bootstrap, XML, Angular JS, JavaScript, AJAX, jQuery, Jinja2 and JSP.  ? Good experience using various Python libraries to speed up development (libraries used: Beautiful Soup, NumPy, SciPy, TCP/IP, UDP, HTTP, MQTT, Matplotlib, python-twitter, Pandas dataframe, network, urllib2, RDBMS, MySQL dB for database connectivity, JSON libraries with RTOS(ITRON).  ? Experience in working on various python packages such as NumPy, SQLAlchemy, matPlotlib, Beautiful soup, pickle, Pyside, SciPy, PyTables etc.  ? Experience in developing web-based applications using Python v3.x/2.x, Django 1.4/1.3, PHP, AngularJS, VB, C++, XML, CSS, HTML, DHTML, JavaScript and JQuery.  ? Experience with Design, code, debug operations, reporting, data analysis and web applications utilizing Python.  ? Mastering in implementing Model view control architecture using Django for web based applications in Object Oriented Programming concepts like Multi-Threading, Exception Handling and Collections.  ? Knowledge in R language, Hadoop, Hive, big data analytics, ML packages and data mining.  ? Hands on experience working in WAMP (Windows, Apache, MYSQL, and Python/PHP) and LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, and Python/PHP) Architecture.  ? Utilized PyUnit, the Python unit test framework, for all Python applications.  ? Have good exposure in LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, and Python) and WAMP Architectures.  ? Wrote Python modules to extract/load asset data from the MySQL source database.  ? Experienced in Relational databases like Oracle, SQLite, PostgreSQL, Dynamo DB and MySQL databases.  ? Good experience in developing web applications implementing Model View Control architecture using Django, Flask, Pyramid and Zope, Python web application frameworks.  ? Experience in developing web-based applications using Python 2.7/3.0, Django 1.7/1.8, PHP, Angularjs, C++, XML, CSS, HTML, JavaScript and JQuery.  ? Extensive experience in system analysis, design, development and implementation of web based and client/server application using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, AJAX, Java/J2EE, Servlets, JSP, JDBC, XML, Python, Django, PHP.  ? Good understanding of Python best Practices (PEP-8).  ? Expertise with Object Oriented Design (OOD), Object Oriented Analysis (OOA), Object Oriented Modelling (OOM) based on Unified Modelling Language (UML) architecture.  ? Vast experience with Core Java and J2EE using most of the advanced features of Java including JDBC, Spring, Struts, EJB, Servlets, Hibernate.  ? Experience of software development with Python and various libraries of Python, python-twitter, Pandas, Dataframe, MySQLdb for database connectivity), Regular expression, File IO etc.  ? Experience in writing Subqueries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on MySQL and PostgreSQL database.  ? Experience with SOA and microservices concepts, Web/RESTful Services, and Event-Driven Architecture.  ? Good experience of software development in Python (libraries used: libraries- Beautiful Soup, NumPy, SciPy, Matplotlib, python-twitter, Pandas dataframe, network, urllib2, MySQL for database connectivity) and IDEas - sublime text, Spyder, pycharm, Eclipse, Emacs.  ? Good experience in developing web applications implementing Model View Control architecture using Django, Flask, Pyramid Python web application frameworks.  ? Have good experience in working with application server WebLogic (10.0, 10.3, 11g), WebSphere (7.0, 8.5, 8.5.5), Apache (6.0, 7.0, 8.0).  ? Skilled experience in Python with proven expertise in using new tools and technical developments (libraries used: libraries- Beautiful Soup, Jasy, numpy, Scipy, matplotlib, Pickle, PySide, python-twitter, Pandas dataframe, networkx, urllib2, MySQL dB for database connectivity) to drive improvements throughout entire software development lifecycle.  ? Experienced in Installing, Configuring and Managing Docker Containers, Docker Images for Web Servers and Applications servers such as Apache, Tomcat using Docker and integrated with Amazon MySQL RDS database.  ? Experience of implementing enterprise systems based on Microsoft Azure PaaS platform using Azure Storage Queue, Azure Table, Azure BLOB, Worker / Web Role and Azure Redis Cache in an integrated development & test environment involving Azure SDK, Visual Studio and Azure Emulator.  ? Experienced in working on Application Servers like WebSphere, WebLogic, Tomcat, Web Servers like Apache server, NGINX and Integrated Development Environments like Pycharm, Eclipse, MyEclipse, JDeveloper and RAD, Built the web application by using Python, Django, AWS, J2EE, PostgreSQL, MySQL, Oracle 10g and MongoDB.  ? Good experience in developing web applications and implementing Model View Control (MVC) architecture using server side applications like Django, flask and Pyramid.  ? Experienced in WAMP (Windows, Apache, MYSQL, Python /PHP) and LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, and Python/PHP) Architecture.  ? Proficient in AWS Services CLI, EC2, VPC, S3, ELB Glacier, Cloudwatch, Route 53, Cloudtrail, Lambda, API Gateway, Cloud formation, Codestar, IAM, and Trusted Advisor services.  ? Hands-on experience with industry-standard IDE like Pycharm, Sublime, Emacs, Eclipse, NetBeans, TOAD.  ? Experienced in web applications development using Django/ Python, Flask/ Python and Node.js, AngularJS, DOJO, JQuery while using HTML/CSS/JS for server-side rendered applications.  ? Experience in developing web-based applications using Python 2.7/2.6, Django 1.4/1.3, PHP, AngularJS, VB, C++, XML, CSS, HTML, DHTML, JavaScript and JQuery.  ? Worked on various applications using python integrated IDEs Eclipse, NetBeans and Pycharm.  ? Good experience in Shell Scripting, SQL Server, UNIX and Linux, Open stock and Expertise python scripting with focus on DevOps tools, CI/CD and AWS Cloud Architecture.  ? Experienced in Agile Methodologies, Scrum stories and sprints experience in a Python based environment, along with data analytics, data wrangling and Excel data extracts.  ? Experienced in monitoring, developing and transforming data using SQL Server Integration Service (SSIS) and SQL Server Analysis Service (SSAS).  ? Experience in working with Python ORM Libraries including Django ORM, SQLAlchemy.  ? Experience in working with Python ORM Libraries including Django ORM.  ? Built Django web applications for its medical and health clients that include few to several Views as part of Rapid Application Development (RAD).  ? Experience in writing Subqueries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on MySQL database.  ? Experience in client/server and distributed (multi-tier) Oracle Web Commerce, ATG BCC, CSC, ATG Endeca, Jboss, Weblogic & WebSphere applications, their development, maintenance and administration in different UNIX, Linux and Windows platforms.  ? Sound knowledge in Spring, Hibernate, RDBMS, Web, XML, Ant/Maven, HTML, Python, GULP, MAKE, Jenkins, Shell Scripting.  ? Having good knowledge in using NoSQL databases like Apache Cassandra (1.2, 2.0, and 2.1) and MongoDB (2.6, 2.4), Orient DB.  ? Extremely knowledgeable about CI/CIT/CID integration.  ? Exposure working with virtual machines and containers with Vagrant, Virtualbox and Docker.  ? Sound experience in working with python editors like PyCharm, PyScripter, PyStudio, PyDev, Wing IDE and Spyder.  ? Experienced in developing Web Services with Python programming language. Good experience with Unix, Linux scripting/unit testing/Load testing, Performance stress/endurance testing and Integration Testing; tools and frameworks- Junit, PyUnit, HP VUGEN LoadRunner, Selenium Web driver, Controller, Dynatrace, Performance Center, QC, JIRA.  ? Experience using enterprise level design patterns and technologies like caching (e.g. Memcached, Redis), message queues (e.g. ActiveMQ, Kafka, SQS), and non-relational databases (i.e. NoSQL, e.g. Cassandra, HBase, MongoDB).  ? Experiences in working with various Python Integrated Development Environments like NetBeans, PyCharm, PyScripter, Spyder, PyDev and Sublime Text.  ? Brief exposure in Implementing and Maintaining Hadoop Security and Hive Security.  ? Extensively used python modules such as requests, urllib and urllib2 for web crawling.  ? Built web applications by using Python, Django, AWS, Flask, Jinja, UWSGI, nginx, Fabric, PostgreSQL, REDIS.  ? Strong experience in developing Microservices using Docker, Mesos, GO Lang and Python.  ? Hands-on experiences in Python scripting, Python STL, Hbase, Hive, Pig, Sqoop, Django, UI and web development.  ? Experience in project deployment using Heroku/Jenkins and using web services like Amazon Web Services (AWS) EC2, AWS S3, Auto scaling, Vagrant, Cloudwatch and SNS.  ? Experience creating real-time data streaming solutions using Apache spark core, spark SQL, Kafka, spark streaming and Apache Storm.  ? Worked in Waterfall and AGILE methodologies and various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC).  ? Experienced in Meteor web framework written using AngularJS 2.  ? Proficient in MVC architecture using Zend, CodeIgniter and Express frameworks and Design Patterns.  ? Proficient using Python packages such as NumPy, SciPy, Requests, matPlotLib, Pickle, Pandas, PySide, wxPython, QT, PyGTK, PyTables and Scikit-learn.  ? Experienced in MVW frameworks like Django, splunk, Angular.js, Javascript, backbone.js, JQuery and Node.JS.  ? Strong Socket programming experience in Python. Implemented complex networking operations like race route, SMTP mail server and web server.  ? Good experience of software development in Python (libraries used: libraries- Beautiful Soup, NumPy, SciPy, Matplotlib, python-twitter, Pandas dataframe, network, urllib2, MySQL for database connectivity) and IDE's - sublime text, Spyder, pycharm, Eclipse, Emacs.  ? Design and implemented custom scripts. Extensive use of version controller Team Foundation Server (TFS).  ? Proficient in developing Web Services and its related frameworks like: WSDL, SOAP, REST, AXIS and Jersey.  ? Experienced in Application Development using Python, RDBMS and Linux shell scripting and performance tuning.  ? Experience in infrastructure as service (IaaS), Platform as service (PaaS), Software as a service (SaaS) & end user computing.  ? Experienced in NoSQL technologies like MongoDB, Cassandra, Redis and relational databases like Oracle, SQLite, PostgreSQL and MySQL database.  ? Experience using Content Management Systems: WordPress and Django CMS plugins.  ? Employed production site using Apache 2.0 with mod_ python.  ? Expertise in establishing database connections for Python by configuring packages like MySQL- Python.  ? Experienced in WAMP (Windows, Apache, MYSQL and Python/PHP) and LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, and Python/PHP) Architecture.  ? Excellent Experience of Databases such as MySQL, Oracle 8g/9g/10g, Microsoft SQL Server, PostgreSQL, SQL/PL SQL concepts & PowerShell.  ? Contributed to the Python codebase used in the automated deployment of software on multiple virtual machines.  ? Experience in Installing, upgrading and configuring RedHat Linux 4.x, 5.x, 6.x and 7.x using Kickstart Servers.  ? Experienced in object oriented programming (OOP) concepts using Python, Java, C++, and PHP.  ? Having experienced in Agile Methodologies, Scrum stories and sprints experience in a Python based environment, along with data analytics, data wrangling and Excel data extracts.  ? Excellent experience with Python development under Linux OS (Debian, Ubuntu, SUSE Linux, Red Hat Linux, Fedora).  ? Worked on various applications using Python integrated IDEs Eclipse, PyCharm, NetBeans and Geany.  ? Strong experience in developing Microservices using Docker, Mesos, GOLang and Python.  ? Hands-on experience on SCM tools like GIT, containers like Docker and deployed the project into Jenkins using GIT version control system.  ? Experience in Agile development processes ensuring rapid and high quality software delivery.  ? Experience in developing Single Page Applications (SPA) using AngularJs with Node.Js and PHP Web Services.  ? Experience with new Virtual Environments like Vagrant.  ? Experience in analysing and handling large datasets using Oracle Relational database 9i, 10g, 11g. Architecture and worked on JavaScript implementation of Tetris game, using ES6 and HTML5 Canvas.  ? To conclude, In and out worked as a full stack developer based on the needs of the team.  ? Good hands on experience in data warehouse developer/ database engineer for high-volume data processing.  ? Excellent knowledge and experience in Oracle Database, JDBC, DB2, PL/SQL, MS SQL Server, My SQL Server, Mongo D.  ? Experience in using various version control systems like Git, GitHub and SVN.  ? Hands on experience in SVN, Git, GITHUB, JIRA, CVS, Perforce, Jenkins.  ? Extensive experience with Object Oriented Design and SDLC methodologies using Rational Rose, Unified Modeling Language (UML).  ? Good knowledge in working with application server- Apache Tomcat (6.0, 7.0, 8.0), WebLogic (10.0, 10.3, 11g, 11gr1), WebSphere (7.0, 8.5, 8.5.5).  ? Created Python and Bash tools to increase efficiency of call center application system and operations, data conversion scripts, REST, JSON and CRUD scripts for API Integration.  ? Highly motivated, quality minded developer, with proven ability to deliver applications against tight deadlines. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Python Developer AIG Insurance - Louisville, KY January 2016 to Present Responsibilities:  ? Involved all the stages of Software Development Life Cycle: application design, development, debugging and testing.  ? Involved in understanding and analyzing the client's business, requirements for the system.  ? Involved in gathering and analyzing business requirements and converting them into technical specifications.  ? Improved the application by designing and developing it using HTML and JavaScript.  ? Involved in the development of front end of the application using Python 2.7, HTML5, CSS3, AJAX, JSON and JQuery and worked on backend of the application, mainly using Active Records.  ? Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  ? Working in team of Architects and Developers to build and deploy Python Flask Peewee Linux AWS.  ? Used Angular JS as frameworks to create single page applications (SPA) which can bind data to specific views and synchronize data with server using Sass, Less, Bootstrap and AngularJS.  ? Generated various compliance and user reports in Python including FINRA OATS reports, user P&L reports, customized reports for users, user permissions and security information reports. Used Python MySQL connectors to pull data from db's.  ? Automated the cloud deployments using chef, Python (boto & fabric) and AWS Cloudformation Templates.  ? Incorporate in installing, deploying, and configuring java/JEE applications for ATG Commerce, CSC, fand Search/Endeca framework.  ? Extensive experience with Object Oriented Design and SDLC methodologies using Rational Rose, Unified Modeling Language (UML) and Developed Web Applications using Java/J2EE, JSF on JVM.  ? Designed and managed build and release methodologies using Witbe Tool.  ? Successfully build complex web-based application using in Oracle Web Commerce, 9.X and 10.X, 11.X BCC, Endeca search, Infrastructure implementation, Build and Release Management.  ? Installed Witbe, Python, Jira, testRail as part of server setups.  ? Experience in using various version control systems like CVS, SVN, Git, GitHub and Amazon EC2 and deployment using Heroku.  ? Expertise in working with GUI frameworks-PyJamas, Jytho, guidata, PyGUI, PyQt WebkitGtk, Elasticsearch, Logstash and Kibana (ELK).  ? Worked on NoSQL databases (including MongoDB, Couchbase, Cassandra, and Redis).  ? Designed and developed System monitoring in Python and Redis to keep track health of Platform, Hbase, Storm, MQTT, Kafka etc in the multi-node cluster environment.  ? Managed, developed, and designed a dashboard control panel for customers and Administrators using Django, Oracle DB, PostgreSQL, and VMWare API calls.  ? Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks. Interfacing with supervisors, artist, systems administrators and production to ensure production deadlines are met.  ? Used Python based GUI components for the front-end functionality such as selection criteria.  ? Used Pandas API to put the data as time series and tabular format for east timestamp data manipulation and retrieval.  ? Implemented SQLAlchemy as ORM mapping tool for complete access and Wrote SQL queries and maintained PostgreSQL RDBMS in the local development environment.  ? Developed the REST API using Django for fetching the data from NoSQL MongoDB database.  ? Created applications using Python under Linux OS (Debian, Ubuntu, SUSE Linux, Red Hat Linux) environment.  ? Developed ETL Processes using Python to feed data into MS SQL Server.  ? Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks. Interfacing with supervisors, artist, systems administrators and production to ensure production deadlines are met.  ? Responsible for training ETL developers to utilize existing python framework.  ? Created Data tables utilizing PyQt to display customer and policy information and add, delete, update customer records.  ? Have delegated in successful administer and troubleshoot various difficult project issues in, Jboss, Weblogic and Endeca-ATG integration, BCC administration, Experience Manager, Workbench, dynamo admin, Operational, Search tuning and Infrastructure implementation solutions.  ? Automated the existing scripts for performance calculations using Numpy and SQLalchemy.  ? Designed and built security architecture using AWS Lambda, AWS API Gateway, AWS Cognito and AWS STS.  ? Developed python code using version control tools like GIThub and SVN on vagrant machines.  ? Implemented a continuous Delivery pipeline with Docker, Jenkins and GitHub, whenever a new GitHub branches are created Jenkins automatically attempts to build a new Docker container from it.  ? Developed user interface solutions using a Django and Pyramid web framework. Used Python scripts to update content in the database and manipulate files.  ? Development of REST Services powered web-based SaaS application for large-scale video processing using custom DV Labs video compression software able to reduce the size of video by over 50% without a loss in perceived quality (Java, Groovy, Python, AWS SQS, Jenkins, MySql, NginX, REST Services).  ? Design and Setting up of environment of MongoDB with shards and replica sets. (Dev/Test and Production).  ? Generated graphical reports using python package Numpy and MatplotLib.  ? Usage of WebSphere Studio Application Developer 5.1 to develop and deploy the application.  ? Built serverless architecture with AWS Lambda, AWS API Gateway, and AWS DynamoDB.  ? Used Python MySQL connectors to pull data from databases.  ? Developed a fully automated continuous integration system using Git, Gerrit, Jenkins, MySQL and custom tools developed in Python and Bash.  ? Involved in working with various frameworks of JavaScript like BackboneJS, AngularJS etc.  ? Built the web application by using Python, Django, AWS, J2EE, PostgreSQL, MySQL, Oracle 10g and MongoDB and Knowledgeable with continuous deployment using Heroku, Jenkins and Ansible.  ? Expertise in using Functional Programming Tools and writing scripts in various operating systems like (Terminal, Bash and PowerShell) Mac, Linux and Windows.  ? Used Wireshark, live http headers, and Fiddler debugging proxy to debug the Flash object and help the developer create a functional component.  ? Built various graphs for business decision-making use of Python matplotlib library.  ? Added support for Amazon AWS S3 and RDS to host static/media files and the database into Amazon Cloud.  ? Testing ClearVoice AVS application for Amazon Alexa Service on IOT devices like Raspberry Pi and Samsung Artik, Qualcomm Dakota Board, Allwinner Board.  ? Involved in writing automation scripts using Python-Selenium to test the functionality of the web pages and also written Socket programming scripts to bridge communication in between Client-Server.  ? Performed Compatibility testing of applications for dynamic and static content of browsers using HTML Ids and XPath in Selenium.  ? Expertise in back-end procedure development, for RDBMS, Database Applications using SQL and PL/SQL. Hands on experience on writing Queries, Stored procedures, Functions and Triggers by using SQL.  ? Designed MDM integration facilities (SOA-style).  ? Generated Python Django Forms to record data of online users. Involved in analyzing Hadoop cluster using Hadoop Distributed file system (HDFS) in data analytics process including Ma Reduce, HBase, Hive etc.  ? Installed and configured Hadoop Mapreduce, HDFS, Developed multiple MapReduce jobs in java for data cleaning and preprocessing.  ? Used REST based microservices with REST template based on RESTful APIs and designed, developed the UI for the client websites by using HTML, CSS, jQuery and React.JS.  ? Wrote SOAP and RESTFul web services, in house ESB for a web Claims applications (Spring MVC, AngularJS, Active MQ, SOAP UI, Mockito, JSON, Build Forge.  ? Used Selenium Library to write fully functioning test automation process that allowed the simulation of submitting different requests from multiple browser to web application.  ? Consumed REST based Microservices with Rest.JS template based on RESTful APIs and designed, developed and tested HTML, CSS, jQuery and React.js that meets accessibility and web browser standards for car dealerships websites.  ? Worked with Private VPN using Ubuntu, Python, Django, CherryPy, Postgres, Redis, Bootstrap, Jquery, MongoDB, Fabric, Git, Tenjin, Selenium, Sphinx, Nose.  ? Used Python with OpenStack, OpenERP (now ODOO), SQLAlchemy, DJango CMS etc.  ? Involved in building database Model, APIs and Views utilizing python, in order to build an interactive web based solution.  ? Developed a dashboard to display tickets status and workflow using React and REST API.  ? Responsible for Installation and configuration of Hive, Pig, HBase and Sqoop on the Hadoop cluster.  ? Mapping of already existing work on Internet of Things (IOT).  ? Worked closely on building IOT business models for improving efficiency.  ? Worked on Integrating of smart devices using IOT for exchange of data between those devices.  ? Extensively worked with Networking layer(L3) with IPv4/IPv6 and also Transport layer(L4) with TCP.  ? Developed Table Management System replacement, dine time written in Django Flask and deployed to production.  ? Experience in working with Python ORM Libraries including Django ORM. Have good knowledge on Project management tools JIRA, Redmine and Bugzilla.  ? Developed automated process for builds and deployments; Jenkins, Ant, Maven, Shell Script.  ? Test driven development (TDD) and agile development using integrated platform (Quartz, Subversion, Story/Jira/Sprint) for development, testing, signoff and release.  ? Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks. Interfacing with supervisors, artist's, systems administrators and production to ensure production deadlines are met.  ? Followed Agile methodology and involved in daily SCRUM meetings, sprint planning, showcases and retrospective and used JIRA as a tracking tool for the sprints.  ? Parsed various file formats including XML and JSON and loaded into Oracle database with Python XML and JSON modules.  ? Used Pandas API to put the data as time series and tabular format for east timestamp data manipulation and retrieval.  ? Analyzed current cloud services governance and management market dynamics and augmented existing SaaS capabilities to address IaaS and PaaS governance opportunities including AWS.  ? Installing new Web Agents on Unix Apache servers and Windows IIS servers for implementing SSO for new applications.  ? Designed, implemented, and maintained solutions for using Docker, Jenkins, chef, Git, and Puppet for microservices and continuous deployment.  ? Created Python and Bash tools to increase efficiency of retail management application system and operations; data conversion scripts, AMQP/RabbitMQ, REST, JSON, and CRUD scripts for API Integration.  ? Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes of the two main applications that were a main source of data for both customers and internal customer service team.  ? Developed and tested many features for dashboard using Python, Java, Bootstrap, CSS, JavaScript and JQuery.  ? Constructing and involving in penetration tested Production EC2 Container Service Stacks as well as installed, managed and designed DOL - Docker Containers onto AWS-GovCloud.  ? Involved in doing AGILE practices and planning of sprint attending daily agile meetings and SPRINT meetings to produce quality deliverables within time.  ? Used several python libraries like wxPython, numPY and matPlotLib.  ? Generated SWIG interfaces to coordinate between C++, Java and Python. Used JNI for communication between C++ and Java.  ? Developed the ANT scripts for preparing jar and other purposes.  ? Used jQuery and AJAX calls for transmitting JSON data objects between front end and controllers and Utilized continuous integration and automated deployments with Jenkins, Ansible and Docker.  ? Built backend REST API with Node.JS, Express JS and also Implemented modules into Node.JS to integrate with designs and requirement.  ? Developed numerous Regulatory and custom reports in Python and delivered over FTP/email to clients/vendors/Regulatory agencies.  ? Implemented ELK stack on Hadoop cluster. Generated audit logs for Hbase, HDFS, Knox, Ambari, and other Hadoop.  ? Used Vagrant to install and configure virtual machines and hosted personnel VM which points to development environment.  ? Implemented Chef/Puppet scripts for running and deploying applications onto the Cloud Foundry (PaaS).  ? Administered existing Single Sign On(SSO) and SAML applications implemented through SiteMinder.  ? Responsibilities for creation of Database, Business Logic to display the records dynamically on template based on query, providing user permission to access particular features of the site.  ? Extensively used Python modules such as requests, urllib, and urllib2 for web crawling.  ? Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS Pyspark and JavaScript.  ? Designed and developed a number of RESTful web services that support JSON for other developers to access to speed up development using KCML, PHP, Web Services, JSON, RESTful, PgSQL, and Maven.  ? Designing, developing, coding and working in penetration testing in customized DOL-AWS GovCloud Node.js Security Monitoring of VPC Zones using AWS - Lambda to load customized Spark-Scala GraphX Application.  ? Expertise in Object-Oriented design and coding. Good knowledge of various Design Patterns and UML and Wrote Python OO Design code for manufacturing quality, monitoring, logging, and debugging code optimization.  ? Used several python libraries like wxPython, numPY and matPlotLib and I was involved in environment, code installation as well as the SVN implementation and Hands-on experience with Hadoop applications (such as administration, configuration management, monitoring, debugging, and performance tuning).  ? Worked on developing REST web services as part of converting the existing applications to be separate entity and be accessed by Rest APIs using Apache CXF.  ? Used advanced packages in AON PATHWISE for performing unit test and deploying data models.  ? Created PHP/MySQL backend for data entry from Flash, I had to assist the Flash developer send the correct data via query strings.  ? Client Search Engine, Using Python and XLWings package created an excel interface to search for client info through our databases.  ? Back-end developer for an iOS health and fitness application. Implemented functionalities like mail services, SMS using Twilio, APNS push notifications and asynchronous tasks using Celery.  ? Analyzed client needs and developed software tools to assist dynamic site content creation ( Python, wxPython).  ? Implemented new microservices in Clojure to support new business capabilities.  ? Designed and developed the new features in the existing application to meet the customer's satisfaction.  ? Implementation of fully API based SSO architecture using CA SiteMinder, CA IDM, PingFederate, and Radiant Logic Virtual Directory Server which accomplishes end applications integration with SSO easier.  ? Utilized Python, Django, jQuery and Java etc. to design server applications and client interfaces.  ? Worked on front end frameworks like CSS Bootstrap for development of Web application.  ? Done the design, development and testing phases of Software Development using AGILE methodology.  ? Developed build and deployment scripts using ANT and MAVEN as build tools in Jenkins to move from one environment to other environments.  ? SQL Workflow System, using Python created an adapter allowing communication between Sharepoint lists and SSIS packages. This system provides users the ability to create complex automation workflows.  ? Designed front end UI web pages using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Bootstrap and AngularJS.  ? Preparation of technical specification document for the development of Informatica Extraction, Transformation and Loading (ETL) mappings to load data into various tables in Data Marts and defining ETL standards.  ? Developed views using Bootstrap components, Angular-UI and involved in configuring routing for various modules using angular UI router.  ? Used Gradle to create dependency JARS and deploy the entire project onto the Apache Tomcat Server.  ? Developed UI with AJAX, DHTML and JavaScript for more interactive web pages.  ? Implemented a Continuous Delivery pipeline with Jenkins and CVS.  ? Integrated Opengrok into development environment for making source code visible across the organization.  ? Configured MySQL and NoSQL in the application server.  ? Participated in requirement gathering and worked closely with the architect in designing and modeling. Python Developer Best Buy - Syracuse, NY August 2013 to November 2015 Responsibilities:  ? Extensively worked on JSF Framework integrated with EJB 3.0, Hibernate 4 and MyBatis 3 for both projects.  ? Participated in the complete SDLC process and used PHP to develop website functionality.  ? Used Python based GUI components for the front end functionality such as selection criteria, created test harness to enable comprehensive testing utilizing Python.  ? Technical knowledge of fundamental web protocols and technologies including HTTP, HTTPS, HTML, JavaScript, XML, AJAX, JSON and REST.  ? Mainframe access profiles, using a series of algorithms created access profiles securing company mainframe system and allowing for auditing purposes and easier acclimation of new hires.  ? Designed, developed, implemented, and maintained solutions for using Docker, Jenkins, Git, chef and Puppet for microservices and continuous deployment.  ? Performed dynamic UI designing with HTML5, CSS3, less, Bootstrap JS, JavaScript, JQuery, JSON and AJAX.  ? Used NoSQL database Apache Cassandra to load the data in database.  ? Developed a multi-threaded C++ SOAP web service application to process XML Requests with a scheduler option to run things at dedicated times.  ? Developed Business Logic using Python on Django Web Framework.  ? DB2 SQL Procedures and UNIX Shell Scripts were designed and developed for Data Import/Export and Conversions.  ? Using jQuery and AJAX calls for transmitting JSON data objects between front end and controllers and Utilized continuous integration and automated deployments with Jenkins, Ansible and Docker.  ? Successfully migrated the Django database from SQLite to MySQL to PostgreSQL with complete data integrity.  ? Resolve, tune, maintain & manage client's Jboss / weblogic / WAS - ATG instances on cluster connectivity producing optimal performance results in each environment throughout the life cycle.  ? Prepare Test scripts for different applications using QTP & Selenium.  ? Worked with RDBMS like Oracle 11g/10i and MySQL databases to query and read data.  ? Utilized standard Python modules such as csv, robot parser, itertools and pickle for development.  ? Developed user interface by using the Reactjs, Flux for SPA development.  ? Installation and Configuration of Apache Tomcat 6.x, Eclipse 3.x, WSAD, and AXIS.  ? Transfer Object for Lookups, Value List Handler for search and DAO.  ? Worked on AWS using EC2 instances, setting security groups (ports, source) handling events between python scripts and linux server.  ? Designed and led big data algorithms using Hadoop and Java to improve forecasting and used HiveQL to generate reports.  ? Used Vagrant to implement environment for microservices deployments and testing in Docker images.  ? Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  ? Developed spark code using Scala and spark -SQL/Streaming for faster testing and processing of data.  ? Django Framework was used in developing web applications to implement the MVC architecture.  ? Implemented automated cloud infrastructure using Chef and Puppet on multi-platforms on AWS Cloud Servers.  ? Used Test driven approach for developing the application and Implemented the unit tests using Python Unit test framework and Development of Isomorphic React.JS and Redux driven API client applications.  ? Developed Ruby on Rails 3 web applications using MongoDB and background processes using Resque and Redis and Worked on performance tuning of cluster using Cassandra Configuration file and JVM Parameters.  ? Deployed the Web application using ANT build script.  ? Worked on MongoDB database concepts such as locking, transactions, indexes, Shading, replication, schema design.  ? Created Reusable components by writing React.JS classes.  ? Administration of Linux machine and configured Apache python mod to host the website.  ? Used GIT to resolve and coding the work on python and portlet.  ? Utilized PyUnit, the Python Unit test framework, for all Python applications and used Django Database API to access database objects.  ? Responsible for user validations on client side as well as server side. Work with DNS to map the website to its IP address.  ? Worked on creating the Docker containers and Docker consoles for managing the application life cycle.  ? Involved in working with large teams to support existing ETL framework written in python.  ? Created Python Scripts to Automate AWS services which include web servers, ELB, Cloudfront Distribution, database, EC2 and database security groups, S3 bucket and application configuration, this Script creates stacks, single servers or joins web servers to stacks.  ? Automated the cloud deployments using chef, Python (boto & fabric) and AWS Cloudformation Templates.  ? Designed email marketing campaigns and created responsive web forms that saved data into a database using Python/ Django Framework.  ? Microsoft SQL Server Stored Procedures and Python Scripts were designed and developed for Data Import/Export and Conversions.  ? JIRA was used to build an environment for development.  ? Used python modules such as requests, urllib, urllib2 for web crawling.  ? Business logic implementation, data exchange, XML processing and graphics creation has been done using Python and Django.  ? Performed Design and Code reviews and used GITHub for version control.  ? Discover customer insights and web data through data mining and predictive modeling using Pyspark.  ? Was involved in environment, code installation as well as the SVN implementation.  ? Integrated data from multiple applications using ETL tools like SSIS, Informatica.  ? Designed RESTful XML web service for handling AJAX requests and created project designs utilizing MVC architecture components. Developed the JSON structure for the data transfer in between the Google Web Toolkit (UI) and business tier.  ? Design database using Erwin and Python/Django for DB scheme scripting.  ? Different testing methodologies like unit testing, Integration testing, web application testing were performed. Python Developer AbbVie Inc - Worcester, MA February 2012 to July 2013 Responsibilities:  ? Involved in development of Web Services using SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface in the XML format.  ? Responsible for Loading via Elasticache: DOLETA-noSQL Grants Program Document Data; to AWS-DynamoDB; for AWS-EMR Grant Fulfillment Analysis.  ? Write scripts using python modules and its libraries to develop programs that improve processing of access requests.  ? Involved in doing AGILE (SCRUM) practices and planning of sprint attending daily agile (SCRUM) meetings and SPRINT retrospective meetings to produce quality deliverables within time.  ? Utilized Python in the handling of all hits on Django, Redis, and other applications.  ? Used OOP concepts in overall design and development of system applications.  ? Involved in all phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) and Worked on all activities related to the development, implementation and support for Hadoop.  ? Used Python and Django to interface with the jQuery UI and manage the storage and deletion of content.  ? Used Ajax and JQuery for transmitting JSON data objects between frontend and controllers.  ? Worked with WEB API's to make calls to the web services using URLs, which would perform GET, PUT, POST and DELETE operations on the server.  ? Build all database mapping classes using Django models.  ? Managed datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL, queries MYSQL database queries from Python using Python-MySQL connector MySQLdb package to retrieve information.  ? Used existing Deal Model in Python to inherit and create object data structure for regulatory reporting.  ? Developed UI using HTML, AJAX, JavaScript and jQuery and jQueryUI.  ? Used MySQL as backend database and Mysqldb of python as database connector to interact with MySQL server.  ? Performed efficient delivery of code based on principles of Test Driven Development (TDD) and continuous Integration to keep in line with Agile Software Methodology principles.  ? Integrated data from multiple applications using ETL tools like SSIS, Informatica.  ? Successfully migrated the Django database from SQLite3 to PostgreSQL with complete data integrity.  ? Created scripts for system administration and AWS using languages such as BASH and Python.  ? Wrote django admin pages and developed REST API get, post, delete, put functionalities for the application.  ? Developed Python daemon processes that filter, price, and load CDR data to Oracle DB. This script utilized multi-threading, sockets, and grid queues.  ? Developed SOAP web service to provide server-side info on user attributes, channel descriptions and other on-demand live show information.  ? Designed and developed a horizontally scalable APIs using Python Flask.  ? Fixed existing user interface bugs with CSS and JavaScript functionalities.  ? Used GitHub, Crucible and Fisheye, to maintain and utilize the repository.  ? Used Postgresql with python database API for database manipulation.  ? Used react google charts to show data in column charts, combo chart, bar charts.  ? Maintained and tracked bugs and Scrum stories in JIRA. Jr. Python Developer DaVita Inc - Arlington, TN December 2009 to November 2011 Responsibilities:  ? Worked on development of customer support and complains registration system. This is a Customer feedback and complaints management system.  ? Recording of Scripts (Web, Web Services HTML) using Vugen and SoapUI and script validation through co correlations, parameterizations and other methods. Scripting - web and web services.  ? Generated various reports of channel usage, system performance etc. by using python module such as NumPy, Matplotlib.  ? Designed and developed data management system using MySQL.  ? Implemented the presentation layer with HTML, DHTML, Ajax, CSS and JavaScript.  ? Running load/endurance tests using Vugen, ALM and controller, server monitoring, analysis using Dynatrace, UNIX putty, SQL logs and other tools and reporting the performance. Analyzing errors and exceptions using putty logs (UNIX), etc.  ? Made Django web based apps for Insurance premium calculations.  ? Scripting and validation of scripts through correlation, parameterization and web based logic testing (Smoke test, Load test, Endurance) using Controller for a duration further analysis, checking response times, CPU utilizations, memory leaks of servers and other performance characteristics of the website through capturing Perfmon logs and creating PAPAL reports and creating test reports.  ? Migrated the code to React JS with Redux.  ? Worked with complete rewrite of filtering script in python for a major client to process CISCO call manager IPT CDR records based on rules provided by client.  ? Used Django Database API to access database objects.  ? Used Python, Perl, CGI, JQuery, JavaScript and JSON at the front end.  ? Developed dynamic web pages using python Django Frameworks  ? Generated property list for every application dynamically using python.  ? Used Amazon Cloud EC2 along with Amazon SQS to upload and retrieve project history.  ? Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application. Skills AJAX (7 years), CSS (7 years), DJANGO (7 years), HTML (7 years), JAVASCRIPT (7 years) Additional Information SKILLS  Python v3.x, Django, Flask, Spring v4.3, MVC, Struts v1.3, AngularJS 4, Angular 2, Spring boot v1.5, Bootstrap v4.0, Groovy (Grails), Node.Js, AJAX, Web2py, Pyramid, Service Cloud, Functions, SDLC, Hadoop, Visual Analyser, (DW) Data Warehousing, DB2, SharePoint, UNIX mainframes, SOQL, CSS, XML, MS Excel, SAP, MS Visio, OOP, Communities, MS Word, Outlook, DHTML, IDE Plugin, PowerPoint, TurboGears, MicroServices, CubicWeb, Ext.JS, ReactJs, Express JS, Backbone JS, Hibernate v5.0, HTML 5, SASS/SCSS, Apache Camel c2.4, Sqlalchemy Orm, Redux, Pydoc, Java, C, C++, JavaScript, Embedded SQL, Waterfall, Agile, RAD, Scrum, TDD, methodologies, VUGen, JSON, MQTT, NumPY , Solr, Apache Cassandra v2.x, Erwin, Panda, jQuery, Matplotlib, Django FIX, multiprocessing, Shell Scripting, SAAS, PL/SQL, Unix, Linux, C, Azure IoT suite, C++, cppCheck, PyHive v1.2x, Jython v2.x, Coverity, Pylint, J2EE(EJB, Struts framework, JNDI), SEMrush, Chartbeat, BeautifulSoup, SoapUI, MongoDB v3.x, WebSphere v3.x, CI/CD, Selenium v2.x, MySQL, SQL Server, PostgreSQL, Oracle JDBC, Bugzilla, Sqoop v1.4x, Raspberry Pi, Pivotal Cloud Foundry (PaaS), AWS, Rackspace, Drools, Red Hat, JBoss, Github, Memcached, RabbitMQ, Redis, ElasticSearch, Kibana, LogStash, Git, Bitbucket, CVS, Eclipse, SVN, JIRA, Jenkins, Automation, GTK, QT, ANT, Testing, Vagrant, Heroku, Maven, Ansible, ORM (Object Relational Mapper) library, Puppet, chef, Docker, RDBMS, VSAM, RESTful services, REST APIs, JDBC, PowerShell, Strong unit test and debugging skills.