Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer • Over 4 plus years of experience as a Web/Application Developer and coding with analytical programming using Python.  • Experienced with full software development life-cycle, architecting scalable platforms, object oriented programming, database design and agile methodologies.  • Experienced in frameworks like Flask, Django and Python packages like PySide, PyQtGraph, NumPy.  • Expert knowledge in Object Oriented Design and Programming concepts.  • Familiar with JSON based REST Web services and Amazon Web services.  • Experience in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on MySQL.  • Familiar with concepts such as routers, switches and TCP/IP protocols and OSI layer.  • Hands-on experience on SCM tools like GIT, containers like Docker and familiar with Jenkins, CHEF.  • Experience using different kinds of databases like SQL, SQLite3, PostgreSQL.  • Experience in Cassandra Database Configurations and its C++ client libQt Cassandra.  • Experience in utilizing SAS Procedures, Macros, and other SAS application for data extraction, data cleansing, data loading and reporting.  • Knowledge in the ETL of data into a data ware house/date mart with Informatica and Data Stage.  • Involved in all the phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) using Project management tools JIRA, Redmine and Bugzilla.  • Experienced in working on Application Servers like WebSphere, WebLogic, Tomcat and Web Servers like Apache server, NGINX.  • Experience in Integrated Development Environments like PyCharm, Eclipse, MyEclipse, JDeveloper and RAD.  • Experience in handling database issues and connections with SQL and NoSQL databases like MongoDB (2.6, 2.4) by installing and configuring various packages in python (Teradata, MySQL dB, Pyodbc, MySQL connector, Pymongo and SQLAlchemy)  • Good experience in Amazon Web Services (AWS) environment and good knowledge of AWS services.  • Experience in Creating and deploying parameterized reports using power BI and Tableau.  • Hands on experience in data processing automation using python.  • Development Experience in Linux (CentOS, Debian, Ubuntu), Mac OS.  • Experience in writing reusable and test driven development using Unit Testing and Selenium.  • Excellent written and oral communication skills with results-oriented attitude. Highly motivated, quality minded developer, with proven ability to deliver applications against tight deadlines. Work Experience Python Developer JPMC - New York, NY July 2016 to December 2016 ADInvestorServices is a JPMC strategic project totally build on python and mainly this application is a reporting tool) is developed to replace the already existing project which is written in Java. Project includes work streams created for the multi-year program called IRIS (Independent Revaluation Infrastructure) in support of the VCG (Valuation Control Group) business.    Responsibilities:  • Used Bottle framework for web development and challenging to learn a new front end such as angular material. Create clean, semantic code across the entire Web stack that integrate with various systems, APIs and data sources.  • Assisted in migrating data from Hydra Object database to Oracle database.  • Worked with vendor tech teams to designed and implemented processes interfacing with their systems e.g. Reuters LBN API and Logic scope  • Worked on MongoDB database concepts such as locking, transactions, indexes, Sharing, replication, schema design.  • Fully participate in a scrum-based, agile development team.  • Built application logic using Python, Django, Bottle and PostgreSQL.  • Used and promoted standard python coding conventions (PEP8).  • Participate in code reviews, automated and functional testing, and other aspects of our quality assurance process.  • Installed/configured/maintained Apache servers on all machines (production server and development servers).  • Experience Using High charts and d3js for creating Graphs and charts for payments section and also implemented the filtering functionality for the graphs.  • Understand web protocols, standards, and technologies like HTML5, CSS3, JS.  • Involved in entire lifecycle of the project including Design, Development, and Deployment, Testing and Implementation and support.  • Accessed virtual machines with shell parameters using Linux.  • Maintained Schema changes on databases using south DB.  • Used LINUX as trouble shooter for systems.  • Build SQL queries for performing various CRUD operations like create, update, read and delete.  • Used angular material for frontend development.  • Implemented and enhanced real time FX Order Management system using Java, spring and worked on projects on Athena (JPMC in house Python platform).  • Wrote complex queries to resolve integration error using PostgreSQL.  • Developed appropriate web-based APIs for related systems.  • Parsed JSON data for backend solutions.  Environment: Python 3.5/2.7, Django 1.6, Linux, Shell Scripting, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, MongoDB, d3js, PostgreSQL, GIT, Bottle and Flask, Angular Material, MySQL, Angular JS, JQuery, RESTful. Python Developer Grand Bank of Texas - Dallas, TX July 2015 to May 2016 Grand Bank of Texas is a locally-owned and operated independent community bank. This project presents offers and content most relevant to the customers.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in developing and implementation of the web application using JavaScript. Database modeling and design.  • Simple web app for reviewing the packet tracing information in the virtual machine (router packet simulation)  • Utilized Active Record eager loading to improve rendering time of index pages, incorporated up/down voting, reviewing, and several custom sorting methods for shows to provide smooth user experience.  • Cross-referenced Seat Geek and Spotify APIs to get track and previews for each selection.  • Experienced in Git, Object-oriented programming, JavaScript and Amazon Web Services.  • Followed agile methodology and involved in daily SCRUM meetings, sprint planning, showcases and retrospective.  • Designed user friendly Interface using Bootstrap framework.  • Created server monitoring daemon with Psutil, supported by Django app for analytics which I created. Also researched big data solutions with Cassandra database.  • Experience with Data migration from Sqlite3 to Apache Cassandra database. Cassandra data model designing, implementation, maintaining and monitoring using DSE, Dev Centre, Data stax Ops center.  • Designing and developing new enhancements using core Java, Python.  • Build the Silent Circle Management System (SCMC) in Django, Python and Node.JS while integrating with infrastructure services.  • Worked in MySQL database on simple queries and writing Stored Procedures for normalization and renormalization.  • Extensive experience in deploying, managing and developing MongoDB clusters.  • Improved the coding standards, code reuse. Increased performance of the extended applications by making effective use of various design patterns (Front Controller, DAO).  • Fetched twitter feeds for certain important keyword using python-twitter library.  • Used Python Library Beautiful Soup for web scrapping to extract data for building graphs.  • Using Subversion version control tool to coordinate team-development.  • Worked on updating the existing clip board to have the new features as per the client requirements.  • Installed and maintained web servers like Apache server.  Environment: Python 2.7, Django 1.4, Amazon AWS S3, MySQL, HTML5, CSS, XML, MySQL, MS SQL Server, JavaScript, Linux, Shell Scripting, PHP, AJAX, Cassandra, Backbone JS, JQuery, Mongo DB, Git, GitHub. Python Developer Contenterra Pvt. Ltd - Hyderabad, Andhra Pradesh June 2013 to December 2014 Contenterra offers a range of consulting services designed to improve your business operations. The project delivers interoperability among various Enterprise Content Management (ECM) solutions from multiple vendors.    Responsibilities:  • Handled overall database schema design and Oracle stored procedure implementation.  • Implemented several REST-based web services for reporting queries.  • Created a triggered event email notification system.  • Created a distribution/publishing/serving system.  • Created several Oracle extension modules.  • Used Python scripts to update content in the database and manipulate files.  • Generated Python Django Forms to record data of online users Helped with various Google integration efforts post-acquisition.  • Used standard Python modules e.g. csv, robot parser, iter tools, pickle, jinja2, lxml for development.  • Directly responsible for various enhancements of Equipment updates/transmission of signals on OC/ST cables.  • Authored important Network APIs for Basic Video, developed user interface screens and solved customer reported software bugs or issues.  • Used Purify, GDB and DBX for debugging/crash logs which helped in performance enhancement and optimization.  • Implemented locking mechanisms using multi-threading functionality.  • Responsible for debugging the project monitored on JIRA (Agile).  • Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes of the two main applications that were a main source of data for both customers and internal customer service team.  Environment: Python 2.7, Django 1.4, AWS, MySQL, HTML5, CSS, XML, MySQL, MS SQL Server, JavaScript, Linux, Shell Scripting, PHP, AJAX, Cassandra, Backbone JS, JQuery, Git, GitHub. Python Developer DRDL - Hyderabad, Andhra Pradesh January 2012 to May 2013 Worked for a government project where Defence Research and Development Laboratory is a multi-disciplinary Missile System laboratory with thrust on design, development and flight evaluation of various types of Missile Systems for armed forces.    Responsibilities:  • Designed front end and backend of the application using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Used HTML, CSS, AJAX, JSON designed and developed the user interface of the website.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Used JavaScript and JSON to update a portion of a webpage.  • Develop consumer-based features and applications using Python, Django, HTML, Behavior Driven Development (BDD) and pair based programming.  • Rewrite existing Python/Django modules to deliver certain format of data.  • Wrote Python scripts to parse JSON documents and load the data in database.  • Used JQuery for the data manipulations.  • Worked on deployment of project on to Amazon S3.  • Worked in development of applications especially in UNIX environment with shell.  • Application architecture designed as per the requirements using spring framework.  • Developed Python batch processors to consume and produce various feeds.  • Developed internal auxiliary web apps using Python Flask framework with CSS / HTML framework.  • Implemented Test Driven Development (TDD) strategy for the project.  • Wrote SQL Queries, Store Procedures, Triggers and functions in MySQL Databases.  • Created database access layer using JDBC and PL/SQL stored procedures.  • Coordinate with SMEs, other architects, and senior technical staff to identify client's needs, document assumptions, and build-out new requirements and move code through user acceptance testing.    Environment: Python 2.7, Django 1.0, MySQL, Linux, HTML, XHTML, CSS, AJAX, JavaScript, SQL, MySQL, Apache  Web Server, UNIX. Education Masters in Computer Science Lamar University May 2016 Bachelors in Computer Science TKR Engineering College - Hyderabad, Andhra Pradesh May 2013 Skills DJANGO (4 years), JAVASCRIPT (4 years), LINUX (4 years), MYSQL (4 years), PYTHON (4 years) Additional Information Technical Skills:    OS Platforms Linux/Unix, Windows-98/NT, MAC OSX  Languages Python 2.7/2.4, Java, Shell Script, Perl  Databases MySQL, SQL Server 2008, PostgreSQL  NoSQL databases MongoDB  Web Technologies AJAX, AWS EC Cloud, Amazon S3 JavaScript, HTML, DHTML, XHTML, XML  Versioning Tools Git, SVN  Web servers Apache, Nginix  Framework Django, Flask, d3js  Other Tools Putty, SQL developer, Photoshop, JIRA, Open stack