Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer Atlanta, GA • Python Software Developer with 8 years' experience in Analysis, Design, Development, Testing, and Implementation of internet-based web applications.  • Experienced with full software development life-cycle, architecting scalable platforms, database management, database design and agile methodologies.  • Experience in developing Web based application using Python, Django, PHP, C++, XML, HTML, DHTML, MVC, Bootstrap, RESTful, JavaScript and jQuery.  • Experience in Web based UI design and interface development using HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, JavaScript, jQuery and Angular JS.  • Experience in Object Oriented Design and Programming concepts in Python. Good experience in developing web applications and implementing Model View Control (MVC) architecture using Python, Django and Linux.  • Excellent knowledge of Collections, Multi-Threading and their usage in Python.  • Proficient in developing Web services using SOAP and RESTful in python using XML, JSON.  • Expertise in practicing the SDLC models, agile methods with Scrum, Extreme Programming, Ticketing systems using JIRA and Test-Driven Development (TDD).  • Experience in AWS Cloud platform and its features which includes EC2, S3 and EBS.  • Proficient in SQL databases like My SQL, PostgreSQL, Oracle and NoSQL databases like MongoDB. Familiar with stored queries.  • Experience in working with SQLAlchemy in connecting with databases like Mongo DB, Cassandra, Oracle and MySQL.  • Exposed to all aspects of software development life cycle (SDLC) such as Analysis, Planning, Developing, Testing, implementing and Post-production analysis of the projects.  • Experience working knowledge in UNIX, Linux and Power shell environments using command line utilities.  • Experience on working with several standard Python packages like NumPy, matplotlib, Pickle, Beautiful Soup, MYSQL dB, urllib2, SciPy, python-twitter, networkx.  • Versatile experience with Version Control System like GIT, GitHub and SVN.  • Worked on various applications using Python integrated IDEs Eclipse PyDev, PyCharm and Sublime Text.  • Excellent experience with Python development under Linux OS (Debian, Ubuntu, Red Hat Linux).  • Well versed with Version control systems such as Git, SVN and CVS.  • Successfully migrated the Django database from SQLite to MySQL with complete data integrity.  • Developed a scalable logging solution in Golang that could track custom log outputs to various destinations; file, stdout/stderr, syslog, email, remote.  • Created a Golang script to read data from csv file and publish formatted json data to remote RabbitMQ cluster.  • Experience in deploying applications in heterogeneous Application Servers TOMCAT, Web Logic and Oracle Application Server.  • Worked on automation using Python Scripting Language.  • Proficient in developing complex SQL queries, Stored Procedures, Functions, Triggers, Cursor and Packages along with performing DDL and DML operations on the MySQL and PostgreSQL database.  • Strong knowledge with REST API development and good idea using debugging tools like JIRA.  • Expertise in performing Unit testing using Pyunit framework and Test Automation used Robot Framework along with Error Logging using Sentry.  • Performed code reviews and implemented best Pythonic programming practices.  • Worked on Waterfall to Agile Methodologies.  • Good team player with excellent work history and willingness to go extra mile.  • Exceptional analytical, troubleshooting organizational, communication, prioritization and problem solving and leadership skills with ability to create and sustain high work tempo. Work Experience Python Developer Atlanta, GA June 2016 to Present Description: United Parcel Service is an American multinational package delivery company and a provider of supply chain management solutions. Along with central package delivery operation, the UPS is used to denote many of its divisions and subsidiaries, including its cargo airline, freight-based trucking operation and retail-based packing and shipping centers.    Responsibilities:  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python.  • Designed Forms, Views, Models using Django's MVC software architecture pattern.  • Using Python and Pandas for data cleaning and aggregation.  • Creating RESTful API's using Django.  • Used Django Database API's to access database objects.  • Wrote python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Worked on front end frame works like CSS Bootstrap for development of Web applications.  • Involved in deployment of projects using AWS.  • Deployed the project into Heroku using GIT version control system.  • Used SAS Proc MI to Develop Algorithms to Impute Missing Values for Company Precision Project.  • Special skills in developing user friendly, simple yet effective web-based applications.  • Worked in MySQL database on simple queries and writing Stored Procedures for normalization and renormalization.  • Used Test driven approach (TDD) for developing services required for the application.  • Built a distributed system for triggering and executing daily data processing jobs. It contains a high-availability scheduler (built with Python), a message broker(RabbitMQ), a cluster of worker (built with Python), and UI (built with Python, Django and Bootstrap).  • Built a real-time monitoring system with RabbitMQ, Celery.  • Wrote Python routines to log into the websites and fetch data for selected options.  • Performed testing using Django's Test Module.  • Web pages on the internet are generated by servers running LINUX.    Environment: Python 2.7, Django 1.6, RabbitMQ, SAS, Celery, GIT, Heroku, Bootstrap, CSS, XML, MySQL, Oracle SQL, JavaScript, AWS, Linux, Shell Scripting. Python Developer CVS Caremark - Woonsocket, RI April 2015 to May 2016 Description: CVS Caremark is a prescription benefit management subsidiary of CVS Health, it is a third-party administrator of prescription drug programs for commercial health plans. It is the second largest pharmaceutical services business in the United States.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in developing frontend modules using Python, MySQL.  • Used HTML/CSS, AJAX, JSON, jQuery and JavaScript for front-end applications and UI development.  • Used Python scripts to update content in the database and manipulate files.  • Design and develop streaming data processing and data services using Kafka, Spark streaming,  • Created data access using SQL and PL/SQL stored procedures.  • Worked extensively on Multithreading and Concurrency for implementing Batch Job Scheduling.  • Performed Data Modelling, Data Integration, Data Warehousing and Data Analytics using Microsoft BI suite -SISS, SSAS and SQL.  • Involved in managing MongoDB environment from availability, performance and scalability perspectives.  • Installed and maintained web servers Tomcat and Apache HTTP in UNIX.  • Managed, developed, and designed a dashboard control panel for customers and Administrators using Django, Oracle DB, PostgreSQL, and VMWare API calls.  • Involved in the Complete Software development life cycle (SDLC) to develop the application and Worked closely with software developers and DevOps to debug software and system problems.  • Designed and developed big data algorithms using Hadoop and Java to improve forecasting and used Hive QL to generate reports.  • Worked on HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, AngularJS, Node.JS, Git, REST API, Mongo DB.  • Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks.  • Managed our servers in development, testing, certification and production.  • Used Linux profiler Val grind for optimization of code.  • Automated RabbitMQ cluster installations and configuration using Python/Bash.  • Implemented the presentation layer with HTML, DHTML, Ajax, CSS and JavaScript.  • Implemented locking mechanisms using multi-threading functionality.  • Developed in Windows and deployed it in Linux server.  • Worked on data exchange from website using XML, Java and Web Services.  • Interfacing with supervisors, artists, systems administrators and production to ensure production deadlines are met.    Environment: Python 2.7, Django 1.4, HTML5, CSS, MYSQL, JavaScript, jQuery, CSS Bootstrap, PyCharm, GitHub, Linux, Shell Scripting. Principal Financial Des Moines, IA February 2014 to March 2015 Python Developer  Description: The Principal Financial Group is a global financial investment management and insurance company. It offers businesses, individual and institutional clients a wide range of financial products and services including retirement, asset management and insurance, through its diverse family of financial services companies.  Responsibilities:  • Participated in various stages of Software development life cycle(SDLC), Software Testing Life Cycle (STLC) and QA methodologies from project definition to post-deployment documentation.  • Worked in an Agile (Framework: SCRUM) development environment.  • Used JIRA to manage bug tracking and debugged the errors.  • Optimized the API framework to meet the needs of the growing application using Python/Django.  • Developed Python based API (RESTful Web Service) to track the Scheduler and perform analysis of the scheduler using Flask, SQLAlchemy and MongoDB.  • Worked on statistical analysis by processing of collected data and Data Visualization using Python Pandas, Matplotlib, SciPy and NumPy packages.  • Developed numerous new features and enhancements for the Web application using Python/Django, HTML/CSS/JavaScript, as well as automating our development environment using Ansible.  • Developed and maintained an infrastructure for a new project using Ansible, Redis, Postgres and Celery.  • Install and configuring monitoring scripts for AWS EC2 instances and deployed project using Jenkins and using Web Services like Amazon Web Services (AWS).  • Developed frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Created a user-friendly website interface by developing views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language.  • Microservice architecture development using Python and Docker on an Ubuntu Linux platform using HTTP/REST interfaces with deployment into a multi-node Kubernetes environment.  • Wrote Python scripts to parse XML, JSON data and load the data in database.  • Performed Test Driven Development (TDD) and continuous integration to keep in line with Agile Software Methodology.  • Create plugins in airflow for monitoring the daily pipeline.  • Performed large amounts of bytes of SQL queries using AWS Redshift.  • Delivered goals of the project in a stipulated time frame. Coordinated with other teams to solve the issues.    Environment: Python, Django, SciPy, Pandas, Ansible, Pytest, Pygit, Selenium, jQuery, PostgreSQL, MySQL, Eclipse, PyCharm, Kubernetes, Docker, Shell Scripting, HTML5/CSS, Red hat Linux, Nginx, Apache, MongoDB. Python Developer DealerTrack - Lake Success, NY January 2012 to February 2014 Description: DealerTrack is part of COX Automotive Family which opens new doors to transform the world buy, sell, and own cars. This website features new functionality to greatly enhance the dealer's online experience, as part of "DealerTrack" enhancements dealers will be able to create credit applications, pull the credit bureaus of their customers and send that applications to suitable lenders for customers and everything is maintained in single deal.    Responsibilities:  • Designed front end and backend of the application using Python on Django Web Framework  • Used HTML, CSS Bootstrap, AJAX, JSON designed and developed the user interface of the website.  • Developed views and templates with Python OOP to create a user-friendly Website interface.  • Refactor Restful APIs and Django modules to deliver certain format of data.  • Implemented client-side validation to avoid back and forward between server-client and provide better user experience using AngularJS.  • Utilized Python 3.4 libraries such as NumPy, pandas and matplotlib to read data from csv files aggregate and update data.  • Worked under Agile/Scrum environment and handled production rollouts and issues.  • Reviewed requirement documents with the business and development team to understand the architecture and functionality of the application and consolidated these requirements in appropriate modules in Test strategy.  • Collaborated with UI team to create web pages while ensuring visual quality and performance.  • Added support for AWS S3 by creating S3 buckets, managing policies and RDS to host static files into the Amazon cloud.  • Worked with search business team to implement dynamic rule updates to search using elastic search.  • Worked in NoSQL and MySQL database on queries and writing Stored Procedures for normalization and renormalization.  • Wrote Python scripts to parse JSON documents and load the data in database.  • Wrote scripts to Import and Export data to CSV, EXCEL formats from different environments using Python for Cron jobs.  • Handled potential points of failure through error handling and communication of failure.  • Anticipated potential parts of failure (database, communication points, file system errors)  • Troubleshoot the process execution and worked with other team members to fix many Python bugs.  • Responsible for debugging project monitored on JIRA (Agile).  • Involved in Continuous Integration (CI) and Continuous Delivery (CD) process implementation using Jenkins along with Shell script.  • Developed Docker images to support Development, Testing Teams and their pipelines.  • Worked on virtual and physical Linux hosts and involved in day to day administrative activities such as maintaining user accounts and providing advanced file permissions to specific users.  Environment: Python 3.4/2.7, Django 1.8, PyCharm, MySQL, MongoDB, AWS (EC2, S3), JIRA, JSON, Angular JS, Docker, Git, Jenkins, Linux Python Developer Prathima Technologies - Hyderabad, Telangana December 2010 to December 2011 Responsibilities:  • Worked on tuples, dictionaries, object-oriented concepts-based inheritance features for making algorithms.  • Interacting with team members on technical programming.  • Solving production support issues (such as bug fixes, queries, etc.).  • Prepared documentation for the generated reports  • Developed GUI using Python and Django for dynamically displaying the test block documentation and other features of python code using a web browser  • Developed the customer complaints application using Django Framework, which includes Python code. Involved in development of main modules like CSV import, bulk content upload.  • Published and Consumed Contract SOAP web services and developed corresponding test cases.  • Involved in building database Model, APIs and Views utilizing Python, to build an iterative web-based solution.  • Performed debugging and troubleshooting the web applications using Subversion version control tool to coordinate team-development  • Participated in the development of application architecture and blueprints to define application components, platforms, interfaces and development tools.  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL  • Worked on UI using HTML, CSS and JavaScript  • Used Git for version control  • Monitored and troubleshot web applications  • Performed data analysis, manipulation and reporting using pivot tables and advanced functions in MS excel. Education Bachelor's Skills CSS (7 years), DATABASE (7 years), DJANGO (7 years), MYSQL (7 years), PYTHON (7 years) Additional Information ? Operating Systems: MAC OS, Linux (Debian, Ubuntu), Windows 98/NT/XP/Vista/7/8.  ? Frameworks: Django, Pyramid, Flask, Spring, Angular JS.  ? Web Services: REST, SOAP, WSDL.  ? Database: MySQL, PostgreSQL, Oracle, Mongo DB, SQLite3.  ? Software/IDE: Sublime Text, PyCharm, Eclipse.  ? Cloud Computing: Amazon AWS (EC2, ELB, S3).  ? Web Technologies: HTML5, CSS3, XML, CSS Bootstrap, Java Script, jQuery, JSP, JSON.  ? Programming Languages: Java, Python, JavaScript, Golang.  ? Python Libraries: Report Lab, NumPy, SciPy, Matplotlib, HTTPLib2, Urllib2, Beautiful Soup, Pickle, Pandas.  ? Version Control Systems: CVS, SVN, Git and GitHub.  ? Agile Methodologies: TTD, SCRUM.  ? Deployment Tools: Heroku, Amazon EC2, Jenkins and Fabric.