Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - Neopost Indianapolis, IN • Over 5+ years of experience as a Web Application Developer and Software Engineer using Python, Django, Java, C++, HTML.  • Experience with full software development life-cycle, architecting scalable platforms, objects oriented programming, database design and agile methodologies.  • Experience working in Java, JavaScript, and Python software development environments.  • Experience with Design, code, and debug operations, reporting, data analysis and web applications utilizing Python.  • Experienced with Python frameworks like Webapp2 and, Flask.  • Expert knowledge of and experience in Object oriented Design and Programming concepts.  • Good Knowledge of Python and Python Web Framework Django.  • Very strong experience writing API's/ and Web Services in PHP and in Python.  • Experienced in working on Application Servers like WebSphere, WebLogic, Tomcat, Web Servers like Apache server, NGINX and Integrated Development Environments like PyCharm, Eclipse, MyEclipse, JDeveloper and RAD.  • Experienced in developing web-based applications using Python, Django, QT, C++, XML, CSS, HTML, DHTML, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Having working knowledge of Amazon AWS 3/ S3.  • Experience in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on MySQL and PostgreSQL database.  • Sound Knowledge on RDBMS concepts and extensively worked with Oracle, SQL Server 2008, MYSQL.  • Have the ability to understand complex systems and be in command of the details to provide solutions.  • Ability to learn and adapt quickly to the emerging new technologies and paradigms.  • Excellent communication, interpersonal and analytical skills and a highly motivated team player with the ability to work independently. Work Experience Python Developer Neopost - Indianapolis, IN July 2015 to Present Responsibilities:  • Involved in building database Model, APIs and Views utilizing Python, in order to build an interactive web based solution.  • Responsible for gathering requirements, system analysis, design, development, testing and deployment.  • Worked on UI using HTML5, CSS3 and Java Scripts.  • Created User Controls and simple animations using Java Script and Python.  • Designed and implemented Model-View-View Model pattern for many components in the project (Contracts, Products, Search Sales, Employees, BackOffice Admin).  • Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks. Interfacing with supervisors, artists, systems administrators and production to ensure production deadlines are met.  • Developed multi-threaded standalone app in Python, PHP, C++ to view Circuit parameters and performance.  • Developed Python batch processors to consume and produce various feeds.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Developed Business Logic using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Developed Merge jobs in Python to extract and load data into MySQL database.  • Successfully migrated the Django database from SQLite to MySQL with complete data integrity.  • Also used Bootstrap as a mechanism to manage and organize the html page layout.  • Added support for Amazon AWS S3 and RDS to host static/media files and the database into Amazon Cloud.  • Created PHP/MySQL back-end for data entry from Flash.  • Used JQuery and Ajax calls for transmitting JSON data objects between frontend and controllers.  • Used JQuery for selecting particular DOM elements when parsing HTML.  • Used GitHub for version control.  • Developed SQL Queries, Stored Procedures, and Triggers Using Oracle, SQL, PL/SQL.    Environment: Python, Django, PHP, C++, HTML5, CSS3, JQuery, AJAX, XHTML, Bootstrap, AWS, JavaScript, XML, GitHub, Flash, SQLite, MYSQL, SQL, PLSQL, Oracle and Windows. Python Developer GENENTECH - South San Francisco, CA March 2014 to June 2015 Responsibilities:  • Design, develop, test, deploy and maintain the website.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Utilized PyQt to provide GUI for the user to create, modify and view reports based on client data.  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL.  • Rewrite existing Java application in Python module to deliver certain format of data  • Wrote Python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Designed and managed API system deployment using fast http server and Amazon AWS architecture  • Successfully migrated the Django database from SQLite to MySQL with complete data integrity.  • Rewrite existing Java application in Python module to deliver certain format of data.  • Developed the required XML Schema documents and implemented the framework for parsing XML documents.  • Used JQuery for selecting particular DOM elements when parsing HTML.  • Used HTML5, CSS3, JQuery, JSON, Node.js and Javascript for front end applications.  • Developed a fully automated continuous integration system using Git, Jenkins, MySQL and custom tools developed in Python and Bash.  • Generated property list for every application dynamically using python.  • Set up rules and policies with a Node.js/ Python back end.  • Worked with JSON based REST Web services.  • Responsible for search engine optimization to improve the visibility of the website.  • Handled all the client side validation using JavaScript.  • Performed testing using Django's Test Module.  • Creating unit test/regression test framework for working/new code  • Using Subversion version control tool to coordinate team-development.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.    Environment: Python, Django 1.4, PyQt, Java, MySQL, Bash, Node.js, AWS, Linux, HTML, XHTML, CSS, AJAX, JSON, JavaScript, Apache Web Server. Python Developer Jefferies Group - Jersey City, NJ November 2012 to February 2014 Responsibilities:  • Built a GC analytic tool using Python, to help clients analyze data and profile risk against a wide spectrum of reinsurance options.  • Developed custom reports using HTML, Python and MySQL.  • Developed monitoring and notification tools using Python.  • Documented the revised workflow using confluence wiki.  • Created Data tables utilizing PyQt to display customer and policy information and add, delete, update customer records.  • Used Python based GUI components for the front end functionality such as selection criteria.  • Key performance index and filtering of displayed columns to help customers understand the analytics data that is provided by GC.  • Implemented navigation rules for the application and page outcomes, written controllers using annotations.  • Written queries in MySQL and Native SQL.  • Created PyUnit test cases for unit testing.  • Added the navigations and paginations and filtering columns and adding and removing the desired columns for view.  • Worked in an agile development environment.  • Used GitHub for version control.  • Used PyQuery for selecting particular DOM elements when parsing HTML.    Environment: Python, PyQT, PyQuery, MySQL, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, DOM, Ajax, agile, Web Services (SOAP), XML, PL/SQL, and Oracle SQL Developer. Python Developer Asite Solutions Pvt. Ltd - Ahmedabad, Gujarat February 2011 to October 2012 Responsibilities:  • Application architecture designed as per the requirements using spring framework.  • Requirement Analysis and Estimation of project timelines.  • Developed Python batch processors to consume and produce various feeds.  • Generated PDF daily and Monthly statements using Aspose PDF Kit.  • Developed internal auxiliary web apps using Python Flask framework with CSS / HTML framework.  • Implemented Test Driven Development (TDD) strategy for the project.  • Wrote SQL Queries, Store Procedures, Triggers and functions in MySQL Databases.  • Involved in development using C++, bug fixing and unit testing of the Layout commands.  • Undergone training on C/ C++ / Linux.  • Worked on Socket communication layers and multithreading on Linux.  • Created database access layer using JDBC and PL/SQL stored procedures.  • Coordinate with SMEs, other architects, and senior technical staff to identify client's needs, document assumptions, and build-out new requirements and move code through user acceptance testing.    Environment: Python, C++, HTML, CSS, TDD, SQL, MYSQL and Windows. Additional Information Technical Skills:  Languages Python 3.x, 2.7/2.4, C++, Java, Shell Script, Perl, SQL  Python Framework Django, Webapp2, Flask  Web Technologies AJAX, JavaScript, HTML, DHTML, XHTML, XML, JQuery  Versioning Tools Subversion, GIT, Perforce, SVN, CVS  Web servers Apache, WebLogic, WebSphere  Databases MySQL, SQL Server 2008, Oracle  Operating systems Linux/Unix, Windows Variants