Sr. Python Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Python Developer - Postmate Work Experience Sr. Python Developer Postmate - San Francisco, CA January 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Responsible in upgrading their operating system from OpenVMS to Linux and converting all DCL programs to Python.  • Implemented user interface guidelines and standards throughout the development and maintenance of the website using the HTML, CSS, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Implemented presentation layer using CSS framework, NodeJS, AngularJS, Wire-Framing and HTML5.  • Responsible for setting up AngularJS framework for UI development. Developed html views with HTML5, CSS3, JSON and AngularJS, Adobe flash.  • Created new JSP views to incorporate backend functionality to display on the UI screens using client rich technologies like JQuery, JavaScript, HTML, CSS files.  • Taken part in entire lifecycle of the projects including Design, Development, and Deployment, Testing and Implementation and support.  • Python/Django based web application, PostgreSQLDB, and integrations with 3rd party email, messaging, storage services.  • Job scheduling, batch-job scheduling, process control, forking and cloning of jobs and checking the status of the jobs using shell scripting.  • Worked on PythonOpenStack APIs and used NumPy for Numerical analysis.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to created user-friendly website interface.  • Managed, developed, and designed a dashboard control panel for customers and Administrators using Django, OracleDB, PostgreSQL, and VMWareAPI calls.  • Developed a fully automated continuous integration system using Git, MySQL, Jenkins, and custom tools developed in Python.  • Managed datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL, queried MySQL database queries from Python using Python -MySQL connector MySQLdb package to retrieve information.  • Develop consumer based features and applications using Python, Django, HTML, Behavior Driven Development (BDD) and pairbasedprogramming.  • Designed and developed integration methodologies between client web portals and existing software infrastructure using SOAP API's and vendor specific frameworks.  • Used JIRA for bug tracking and issue tracking and added several options to the application to choose particular algorithm for data and address generation.  Environment: Python 3.5, Django 1.7, CSS, HTML, JavaScript, Bootstrap, AJAX, JQuery, Pandas, MySQL, Servlets, Agile, Enterprise Scheduler, Bitvise SSH Client, Scrum, Heroku, JIRA, GIT. Sr. Python Developer Nike - Beaverton, OR October 2014 to July 2016 Responsibilities:  • Gathering requirements and translating the business details into Technical design.  • Implemented responsive user interface and standards throughout the development and maintenance of the website using the HTML, CSS, JavaScript, and JQuery.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django have to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Utilized Python libraries like wxPython, NumPy, SciPy, Web2py.  • Designed Restful Web services using FLASK, with emphasis on improved Security for the service using FLASK-HTTPAuth with HTTPS.  • Wrote and executed various MySQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL DB package.  • Development of Python APIs to dump the array structures in the Processor at the failure point for debugging.  • Creating Restful web services for Catalog and Pricing with Django MVT, MySQL, and MongoDB.  • Collaborated within a team using an agile development workflow and widely-accepted collaboration practices using Git.  • Developed a fully automated continuous integration system using Git, Jenkins, MySQL and custom tools developed in Python and Bash.  • Implemented Multithreading module and complex networking operations like race route, SMTP mail server and web server Using Python.  • Automated RabbitMQ cluster installations and configuration using Python/Bash.  • Written test cases using PyUnit and Selenium Automation testing for better manipulation of test scripts.  • Used automation Jenkins for continuous integration on Amazon EC2.  • Used JIRA for Bug tracking and issue tracking.  • Worked as part of an Agile/Scrum based development team and exposed to TDD approach in developing applications.  Environment: Python, Django, CherryPy, HTML5, CSS, Bootstrap, JSON, JavaScript, AJAX, Restful web service, MySQL, SQLite, Cassandra, AWS (EC2, S3), PyUnit, Karma, Jenkins, Selenium. Python Developer Pfizer - New York, NY July 2012 to June 2014 Responsibilities:  • Designed the front end of the application using Python, HTML, CSS, AJAX, JSON and JQuery. Worked on backend of the application.  • Used the Django Framework to develop the application.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Used JavaScript and JSON to update a portion of a webpage.  • Develop consumer based features and applications using Python, Django, HTML, Behavior Driven Development (BDD) and pair based programming.  • Rewrite existing Python/Django modules to deliver certain format of data.  • Responsible for debugging the project monitored on JIRA (Agile)  • Wrote Python scripts to parse JSON documents and load the data in database.  • Used Python and Django to interface with the JQuery UI and manage the storage and deletion of content.  • Implemented web applications in Flask frame works following MVC architecture.  • Worked on front end frame works like CSS Bootstrap for development of Web applications.  • Involved in deployment of project using AWS.  • Special skills in developing user friendly, simple yet effective web based applications.  • Deployed the project into Heroku using GIT version control system.  • Worked in MySQL database on simple queries and writing Stored Procedures for normalization and renormalization.  • Used many regular expressions in order to match the pattern with the existing one.  • Build SQL queries for performing various CRUD operations like create, update, read and delete.  • Skilled in using Collections in Python for manipulating and looping through different user defined objects.  • Performed Unit testing, Integration Testing, web application testing.  • Taken part in entire lifecycle of the projects including Design, Development, and Deployment, Testing and Implementation and support.  • Worked in development of applications especially in UNIX environment and familiar with all of its commands.  Environment: Python 2.7, Django 1.4, HTML5, CSS, XML, MySQL, JavaScript, Angular JS, Backbone JS, JQuery, CSS Bootstrap, Mongo DB, MS SQL Server, T-SQL, JavaScript, Eclipse, Git, GitHub, AWS, Linux, Shell Scripting. Python Developer Argonne National Labotary - Lemont, IL February 2011 to April 2012 Responsibilities:  • Providing daily reports to the Development Manager and have strongly participate in the development phase.  • Used Agile Methodology and SCRUM Process.  • Participated in Daily Stand-up meetings and provided status on work progress.  • Implemented code in Python to retrieve and manipulate data in the controller.  • Wrote Python scripts to parse CSV documents and load the data in MongoDB.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Implemented and executed code to perform CRUD operations on MongoDB using Mongo Engine module.  • Designed and developed the UI for the website with HTML, CSS, Java Script and Bootstrap.  • Used JQuery and Ajax calls for transmitting data object between frontend and controllers.  • Also used Bootstrap as a mechanism to manage and organize the HTML page layout.  • Re-engineered various modules for implementing changes and created efficient system.  • Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes of the applications that were a main source of data for the customers.  • Maintained program libraries, user's manuals and technical documentation.  • Used GitLab for version control.  Environment: Python, Django, MongoDB, Linux, HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX, GitLab.