Python/Django Developer <span class="hl">Python</span>/Django <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python/Django Developer TAMPA, FL, 33613, US Over 5 years of experience as Analysis, Design, Development, Management and Implementation of various stand-alone, client-server enterprise applications.  Good experience of software development in Python (libraries used: libraries- Beautiful Soup, numpy, scipy, matplotlib, python-twitter, Pandas data frame, network, urllib2, MySQL dB for database connectivity) and IDEs - sublime text, Spyder, pycharm, emacs    More than 3 years of experience in Python and 2 years in Django.    Sound experience in Python, Java, Object Oriented programming and Multithreading, etc.    Strong Experience in web based UI design and interface development using HTML, DHTML, CSS, Bootstrap, JavaScript, Angular JS, Backbone JS, JQUERY, AJAX and JSON.  Experienced in developing web-based applications using Python, Django, PHP, C++, XML, CSS, HTML, DHTML, JavaScript and JQuery  Experience in analyzing and handling large datasets using Oracle Relational database 9g, 10g, 11g.  Good experience in Python, Django, Shell Scripting, SQL Server, UNIX and Linux. Worked on various Integrated Development Environments like PyDev, PyCharm,  PyScripter and NINJA-IDE.  Experienced in writing SQL Queries, Stored procedures, functions, packages, tables, views, triggers.    Has good knowledge on NoSQL databases such as MongoDB, ElasticSearch and Dynamo DB.    Knowledge of the software Development Life Cycle (SDLC), Agile and Waterfall Methodologies.  Good understanding of Django ORM and SqlAlchamy Good knowledge of server Apache Tomcat, Web logic    Developed feedback application with c#.    Working towards AWS Cloud Practitioner Certification. Knowledge on JIRA, SPRINT.    Familiar with XLMINER, OCTOPARSE, Web scrapping using python. Work Experience Python/Django Developer First Choice Ship, NY April 2017 to May 2018 Responsibilities:  Analyzed system requirement specifications and also in client interaction during requirements specifications.  Designed the front end of the application using Python 3.6.5, HTML, CSS, AJAX, JSON and JQuery. Worked on backend of the application, mainly using Active Records.  Designed and developed communication between client and server using Secured Web services such as Django-rest-framework.    Knowledge on python SDK's. Used Boto3 SDK to work with AWS API references.    Integrated Redis-Cache with the Django-rest-framework for reading the data faster. Created UI using JavaScript and HTML5/CSS  Developed and tested many features for dashboard using Python, Java, Bootstrap, CSS, JavaScript and JQuery.  Develop consumer based features and applications using Python and Django in test driven Development and pair based programming.  Performed Unit testing, Integration Testing, GUI and web application testing using Rspec. Building, publishing customized interactive reports and dashboards using Tableau server Worked on Jenkins continuous integration tool for deployment of project.    Created interactive data charts on web application using Highcharts JavaScript library with data coming from Apache Cassandra.    Worked on frontend frameworks like CSS Bootstrap for development of Web application.    Worked in MySQL database on simple queries and writing Stored Procedures for normalization and denormalization.    Used Django-celery with the help of rabbitmq message broker for large processing.    Generated Dashboards with quick filters, parameters and sets to handle views more efficiently.    Updated the client admin tool to have the new features like support for internalization, support for customer service and etc.    Developed Tableau visualizations and dashboards using Tableau Desktop.    Worked on rebranding the existing web pages to clients according to the type of deployment.    Skilled in using collections in Python for manipulating and looping through different user defined objects.    Work with team of developers on python applications for RISK management.    Improved code reuse and performance by making effective use of various design patterns. Documented the design solutions and created stories for client requirements.  Environment: Python 2.7, Django 1.5.4, Jenkins, CSS Bootstrap, High Charts JS, MySQL, Mongo DB, Linux, HTML, CSS, JQuery, JavaScript, Apache, Linux, GIT, AWS. Python Developer DTCC Global Financial Services - Brooklyn, NY, US March 2016 to March 2017 Responsibilities:  Worked with Python, MySQL, CSS, JavaScript, AJAX and XHTML to build a fully Web 2.0 compliant social networking website around online HD streaming video.  Developed scalable applications using Django framework. Performed documentation and user training.  Built key modules including photo gallery, blogging system, forums, profiles, articles, newsletters and email.    - 2 -    Integrated third party software such as ImageMagic, TinyMceAJAX.    Used Pandas API to put the data as time series and tabular format for east timestamp data manipulation and retrieval.  Build all database mapping classes using Django models and Cassandra. Used several python libraries like wxPython, numPY and matPlotLib.  Wrote multi-thread scripts to obtain optimal performance. Used AJAX to reduce page reloads.  Used the Model View controller (MVC) framework to build modular and maintainable applications. Wrote complex SQL queries.    Created table-less design using CSS.    Developed multi-page applications from beginning to end.    Performed Flow Control, response to Front-End Request using Python /MySQL/AJAX. Conceived and created tables using MySQL 5.  This project also used other technologies like JQuery for java script manipulations, bootstrap for the front-end html layout    Created tables, stored procedures, triggers and views for data access and manipulation. Python Developer Jefferies Group - Jersey City, NJ, US September 2014 to February 2016 Responsibilities:  Involved in entire lifecycle of the projects including Design, Development, and Deployment, Testing and Implementation and support.  Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript. Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  Created backend database T-SQL stored procedures and Jasper Reports.    Added support for Amazon AWS S3 and RDS to host static/media files and the database into Amazon Cloud.    ETL process for continuously bulk importing catalog data into ElasticSearch Managed large datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL.    Maintained program libraries, user manuals and technical documentation.    Deployed with Fabric on AWS on EC2 instance with Postgres RDS and S3 file storage.    Worked with millions of database records on a daily basis, finding common errors and bad data patterns and fixing them    Wrote HTML front end pages using Django templates.    Experienced in Agile Methodologies and SCRUM Process.  Involved in development of Web services using SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface in the XML format.    Implement code in Python to retrieve and manipulate data.    Used Django configuration to manage URLs and application parameters.    Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes of the two main applications that were a main source of data for both customers and internal customer service team.  Resolved ongoing problems and accurately documented progress of a project.    Environment: Python 2.7, Django, HTML5/CSS, Parse Database, JQuery, GitHub, Review Board, Amazon AWS S3 CLI, Amazon BotoPil, Jira.MS SQL Server 2013, T-SQL, Jasper Reports, JavaScript, Eclipse, Linux, Shell Scripting.    - 3 - Python Developer Symbiosys - IN January 2012 to April 2013 Responsibilities:  Design, develop, test, deploy and maintain the website.    Designed the front-end applications, user interactive (UI) web pages using web technologies like HTML, XHTML, JavaScript, AJAX and CSS.    Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework. Designed and developed data management system using MySQL.    Extensively involved design discussions and user experience sessions to provide inputs on the layout and UX.    Rewrite existing Python/Django modules to deliver certain format of data.    Used Django Database API's to access database objects.    Wrote python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database. Generated property list for every application dynamically using python.    Handled all the client side validation using JavaScript.    Coded Java Script for page functionality and Lightbox plugins using JQUERY. Creating unit test/regression test framework for working/new code  Using Subversion version control tool to coordinate team-development. Worked on data exchange from website using XML Web Services.    Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.    Environment: Python, Django, XML, Java, MYSQL, Apache, CSS, ORACLE, DHTML, HTML, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX, Shell Scripts, SVN, Linux and Windows. Education Master of Science in Managing Information Technology in Managing Information Technology Sullivan University - Lexington, KY, US Skills DJANGO (4 years), HTML (4 years), JAVASCRIPT (4 years), PYTHON (4 years), AJAX (4 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS    Operating Systems Windows, Linux, Unix  Languages Python, Java, C, C++, SQL  Python Framework Django  Web Technologies HTML, DHTML, CSS, Bootstrap, JavaScript, Angular JS, Backbone JS, JQUERY,  AJAX and JSON  Version Control SVN, CVS, Git  Servers Apache Tomcat, IBM Web sphere  Databases Oracle, My SQL, query languages: PL, SQL  IDEs/ Tools Eclipse, Toad, Sublime text, Spyder  Protocols TCP/IP, HTTP/HTTPS, SOAP, SMTP  MS office tools Microsoft Excel (Super user), Microsoft word, Microsoft PowerPoint, Outlook  - 1 -