Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - Pivotal Labs Dallas, TX • Over 6+ Years of experience in Analysis, Design, Development and Management  • Around 4.5 years in Python (libraries used: libraries- Beautiful Soup, numpy, scipy and sublime text, Spyder, pycharm, emacs.  • Expertise in Object-Oriented design and coding..  • Good Knowledge of Django, Flask Frameworks.  • Working Knowledge of Java and java related frameworks.  • Good knowledge of web services with protocols SOAP, REST.  • Good knowledge of server Apache Tomcat, Web logic.  • Knowledge of ORM mapping using SQLACHEMY.  • Experienced with databases using ORMs/DOMs for integrating with Mysql, Postgres, Neo4J, MongoDB, Cassandra SQLite. Also, experienced with writing custom queries through database connectors.  • Leveraging queueing architectures with AMQP/RabbitMQ and ZeroMQ for scalability, performance and building distributed systems.  • Experienced in web applications development using Django/ Python, Flask/ Python, and Node.js, Angular.js, DOJO, Jquery while using HTML/CSS/JS for server-side rendered applications.  • Experienced in developing API services in Python/Tornado, NodeJS while leveraging AMQP and RabbitMQ for distributed architectures.  • Experienced in writing SQL Queries, Stored procedures, functions, packages, tables, views.  • Having working Knowledge of Amazon AWS S3.  • Hands on experience in SVN, Git, JIRA, Bugzilla. Work Experience Python Developer Pivotal Labs - San Francisco, CA May 2014 to Present Responsibilities:  Wrote python routines to log into the websites and fetch data for selected options.  • Used python modules such as requests, urllib, urllib2 for web crawling.  • Used other packages such as Beautifulsoup for data parsing.  • Worked on writing and as well as read data from csv and excel file formats.  • Worked on a resulting reports of the application and Tableau reports.  • Modifying data using SAS/BASE, SAS/ MACROS.  • Performed QA testing on the application.  • Developed approaches for improving NLP pipeline.  • Create custom VB scripts in repackaging applications as needed.  • NLP File Prep Settlement-Prepare files for review for Settlement.  • Held meetings with client and worked all alone for the entire project with limited help from the client.  Environment: Python 2.7, Sypder (IDE), Windows 7, Terdata, Requests, urllib, urllib2, Beautifulsoup, Tableau. Python Developer HighGroove, Altanta, United States April 2013 to April 2014 Responsibilities:    Worked with the design team for project structure.  • Performed Design and Code reviews.  • Implemented the presentation layer with HTML, DHTML, Ajax, CSS and JavaScript.  • Performed coding in C++ on Linux Platform.  • Involved in writing stored procedures using MySQL.  • Optimized the database queries to improve the performance.  • Developed in Windows and going to deploy it in Linux server.  • Worked on data exchange from website using XML, JAVA and Web Services.  • Involved in writing stored procedures using MySQL.  • Optimized the database queries to improve the performance.  • Developed in Windows and going to deploy it in Linux server.  • Worked on data exchange from website using XML, JAVA and Web Services. Python Developer ZeOmega - Plano, TX July 2011 to March 2013 Responsibilities:    Designing for web and print, develop websites in HTML and CSS. Designing and developing all Flash related projects, which included a multi-page website with music, programmed  animated elements, content stored in XML files and javascript hooks for analytics and a project  which required integrating Box2DFlash for accurate physics. Python Developer Cisco - California, CA March 2009 to June 2011 Responsibilities:    Design, develop, test, deploy and maintain the website.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL.  • Rewrite existing Python/Django modules to deliver certain format of data.  • Used Django Database API's to access database objects.  • Wrote Python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Wrote XML and JSON files to load data in database.  • Handled all the client side validation using JavaScript.  • Created unit test/regression test framework for working/new code  • Using Git version control tool to coordinate team-development.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.