Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer San Antonio, TX ? Around 6 years of experience as a Web Application Developer and coding with analytical programming and client-server enterprise applications using Python, Django and flask, MySQL, Unix and Linux, JavaScript, XML.  ? Proficient in Object oriented design experience, with extensive experience of Python-C/C++ binding using Boost Python and Python C types.  ? Working experience in Unix and Windows systems  ? Working knowledge of error and exception handling debugging using PDB, Eclipse and Pycharm.  ? Experience on No-SQL databases like Mongodb, Cassandra.  ? Experience in analyzing and handling large datasets using Oracle Relational database.  ? Proficient in database design and management in No-SQL database Cassandra.  ? Worked with bug tracking tools like BUGZILLA and JIRA.  ? Good exposure on File Handling and SSH (Secure Shell).  ? Excellent knowledge on IPython, NumPy, SciPy, Pygal.  ? Good knowledge in maintaining various version controls systems such as SVN (Centralized Version Control System) and GIT (Distributed Version Control System).  ? Experienced in LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, and Python) Architecture.  ? Experienced in installing, configuring, modifying, testing and deploying applications with Apache.  ? Experience with Unit testing/ Test driven Development (TDD), Load Testing.  ? Experience with SOAP and REST APIs.  ? Having experienced in Agile Methodologies, Scrum stories and sprints experience in a Python based environment and Excel data extracts.  ? Experienced with full Software Development Life-Cycle, Object Oriented Programming, Database Design and Agile Methodologies.  ? Excellent Debugging, Problem Solving, Optimization and Testing Skills.  ? Highly motivated, dedicated, quick learner and have proven ability to build and manage a team and work individually.  ? Maintained detailed documentation and architectural solutions in IT infrastructure and sales systems.    Employer Details :  Mahendar  Technical Recruiter   Pro-Tek Consulting   Email ID : ravi@pro-tekconsulting.com  Contact No : 805-918-4405 Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Developer Harland Clarke - San Antonio, TX November 2014 to Present Responsibilities:  ? Django Framework that was used in developing web applications to implement the model view control architecture.  ? Exposure on Multi-Threading factory to distribute learning process back-testing and the into various worker processes.  ? Different testing methodologies like unit testing, Integration testing and web application testing.  ? Selenium testing performed.  ? Design and implemented custom scripts.  ? Extensive use of version controller Team Foundation Server (TFS).  ? Test and validated the custom scripts.  ? Delivered automated solutions for science models.  ? Managed, developed, and designed a dashboard control panel for customers and Administrators using Django, Oracle DB, and VMWare API calls.  ? Implemented configuration changes for data models.  ? Maintained and updated existing automated solutions.  ? Handled potential points of failure through error handling and communication of failure.  ? Anticipated potential parts of failure (database, communication points, file system errors).  ? Troubleshoot the process execution and worked with other team members to correct them.  ? Developed GUI using webapp2 for dynamically displaying the test block documentation and other features of python code using a web browser.  ? Responsible for user validations on client side as well as server side.  ? Interacted with QA to develop test plans from high-level design documentation.    Environment: Python 2.7, Django, HTML5/CSS, MS SQL Server 2013, MySQL, JavaScript, Eclipse, Linux, Shell Scripting, GitHub, Angular.JS, JIRA. Python Developer Activision Blizzard - Santa Monica, CA October 2012 to October 2014 Responsibilities:    ? Automation for execution of tests in batch using Shell scripting in python.  ? Development of data structures, XML parsing using Python.  ? Usage of advance features like pickle/unpickle in python for sharing the information across the applications.  ? Used Django database API's to access database objects.  ? Rewrite existing Python/Django modules to deliver certain format of data.  ? Generated graphical reports using python package Numpy and matPlotLib.  ? Representation of the system in hierarchy form by defining the components, subcomponents using Python and developed set of library functions over the system based on the user needs.  ? Development of Python APIs to dump the array structures in the Processor at the failure point for debugging.  ? Wrote programs to parse excel file and process many user data with data validations.  ? Create Cassandra database to handle the user's data (server-client).  ? Developed front end page using HTML, CSS, JavaScript and JQuery.  ? Generated property list for every application dynamically using python.  ? Collecting the several usage models and functions from the team members.  ? Developing and maintenance of the tool that abstracts the information for the user.  ? Implemented multiple high performances MongoDB.  ? Utilized various IDEs and internal debug tools during debugging.  ? Analyzing the data in design database.  ? Used SVN for version control.  ? Maintaining the data with different levels of access privileges.    Environment: Python, Django, Linux, HTML, CSS, MongoDB, Cassandra, Web services, SVN. Python Developer Comcast - Philadelphia, PA December 2011 to September 2012 Responsibilities:  ? Create application using Django using RESTful API.  ? Ensured high quality data collection and maintaining the integrity of the data.  ? Cleaned data and processed third party spending data into maneuverable deliverables within specific formats with Excel macros and Python libraries.  ? Was involved in environment, code installation as well as the SVN implementation.  ? Build all database mapping classes using Django models.  ? File handling for the client data in files like .txt file, .xlxs file for data retrieve and storing purpose.  ? Graphical data representation using Numpy, SciPy, Pandas, Pygal  ? Data Exchanges and sorting as per customer requirement between Database and Files like Text file to Excel file and vice versa  ? Work closely with business analysts, quantitative research team, and business users to interpret the requirements and evaluate alternative solutions.  ? Used Pandas API to put the data as time series and tabular format for east timestamp data manipulation and retrieval.  ? Enhanced existing automated solutions, such as the Inquiry Tool for automated Asset Department reporting and added new features and fixed bugs.  ? Implemented code to perform CRUD operations on MongoDB using PyMongo module.  ? Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.    Environment: Python, Bugzilla, SVN, C++, Java, Mongodb, Linux, Eclipse, Shell, File handling, SSH, UNIX, Pandas Jr. Python Developer Devanshi Electronics - Vadodara, Gujarat July 2010 to October 2011 Responsibilities:    ? Create a Python application for ERM system.  ? Used Django web based apps for Insurance premium calculations.  ? Designed and developed components using Python.  ? Designed unit test framework for new code.  ? Used GIT Subversion version control tool to coordinate team-development.  ? Implemented database access and data manipulation functions using MySQL.  ? Update and Replace Java, C++ application in Python.  ? Designed the architecture of the hardware environments and methodology of the code.  ? Experienced in Agile Methodologies and SCRUM Process.  ? Involved in entire lifecycle of the projects including Design, Development, and Deployment, Testing and Implementation and support.  ? Used Pandas library for statistical Analysis.  ? Used Numpy for Numerical analysis for Insurance premium.    Environment: Python, Django, MySQL, Linux, HTML, GIT, CSS, JavaScript and Apache Web Server. Education B.Tech in Electronics and Communication Rajasthan Technical University 2010 Additional Information Technical Skills:  • Language: Python, C, HTML  • Python Framework: Django, Spring, Flask, Pandas.  • Database: Oracle, SQL, MySQL, Mongodb, Cassandra  • Version Control: Git, SVN, CVS.  • Web Technologies: CSS, JavaScript, XML, AJAX, JQuery, Bootstrap  • Technical Writing Tools: MSWord, Excel, Pages, Terminal  • Operating System: Windows, Linux, Unix