Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - PNC Bank Dallas, TX ? 8+ years of experience as a Web/Application Developer and coding with analytical programming using Python, Django, C++.  ? Experience of software development in Python (libraries used: libraries- Beautiful Soup, numpy, scipy, matplotlib, python-twitter, Pandas dataframe, networkx, urllib2, MySQLdb for database connectivity) and IDEs - sublime text, Spyder, pycharm, emacs.  ? Experience object oriented programming (OOP) concepts using Python, Django and Linux.  ? Experienced in developing web-based applications using Python, Django, PHP, C++, XML, CSS 5 HTML, DHTML, JavaScript and Jquery.  ? Expertise in python scripting with focus on Develops tools, CI/CD and AWS Cloud Architecture and hands on Engineering.  ? Extensive experience working in SaaS, IaaS, PaaS.  ? Experience in developing applications using Spring Framework 3.2.2, worked on different spring modules like core container module, application context module, Aspect oriented module (AOP Module), JDBC Module, ORM Module and web module.  ? Experience in working with Python ORM Libraries including Django ORM. Have good knowledge on Project management tools JIRA, Redmine and Bugzilla.  ? Experienced with data modelling of traditional RDBMS and NoSQL databases.  ? Having good knowledge in using NoSQL databases like Apache Cassandra (1.2, 2.0 and 2.1) and MongoDB (2.6, 2.4), Orient DB.  ? Experienced in installing, configuring, modifying, testing and deploying applications with Apache.  ? Experience in using Microsoft Visual SourceSafe, SVN for Version Controlling.  ? Proficient in Front end development experience using HTML, XML, CSS 5, JQuery, JSON and  ? Javascript, CSS 5, Bootstrap.  ? Having experienced in Agile Methodologies, Scrum stories and sprints experience in  ? a Python based environment, along with data analytics, data wrangling and Excel data extracts.  ? Hands on working with Python latest versions 3.4.3 and 2.7.10,SVN, Git, JIRA, Bugzilla, Axosoft, Amazon EC2/S3.  ? Good experience in Python, Django, Zope, Pyramid Framework.  ? Proficient in SQL databases MS SQL, MySQL, Oracle and no-SQL databases MongoDB, Cassandra.  ? Experienced in developing Web Services with Python programming language.  ? Experience in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on MySQL and PostgreSQL database.  ? Experience in developing web-based applications using Python 2.7/2.6, Django 1.4/1.3, PHP,  ? Angular JS, VB, C++, XML, CSS, HTML, DHTML, JavaScript and JQuery.  ? Knowledge of the Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC), Agile and Waterfall Methodologies.  ? Expertize in designing, developing middleware components for software in C/C++ using STL,  ? multithreading, data structures, and design patterns.  ? Well versed in writing unit test cases and selenium test cases.  ? Understanding of Python best Practices (PEP-8).  ? Wrote AJAX framework to transform Datasets and Datatables into HTTP-serializable JSON strings.  ? Experienced in writing SQL Queries, Stored procedures, functions, packages, tables, views,  ? triggers.  ? Extensively used UNIX shell Scripts for automating batch programs.  ? Experience in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on MySQL database.  ? Expertise in client scripting language and server side scripting languages like JavaScript, JQuery,  ? JSON, DOJO, bootstrap, Node.js, Angular.js, backbone.js, Require.js.  ? Excellent experience with Python development under Linux OS (Debian, Ubuntu, SUSE Linux,  ? RedHat Linux, Fedora).  ? Worked on Celery Task queue and service broker using RabbitMQ.  ? Experience with Jsp Servlets, Web Services (SOAP, REST) and Tomcat.  ? Expertise in Object Oriented Analysis and Design (OOAD), OOPS using Unified Modeling Language (UML), Design Patterns, MVC Frameworks.  ? Having experience in loading CSV, JSON and Paraquet files in Apache Spark using Data Frame API.  ? Experience in OTC derivatives such as Swaps and also in ETD.Capable of demonstrating efficiency in developing and implementing EJB's.  ? Extensive experience in developing enterprise web applications using Python, PHP4 and PHP5,Flask, Jinja2, Django, HTML, CSS, JavaScript,C,C++, JQuery, Ajax, MySQL. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Developer PNC Bank - Pittsburgh, PA August 2016 to Present Responsibilities:  ? Worked with the design team for project structure  ? Performed Design and Code reviews.  ? Implemented the presentation layer with HTML, DHTML, Ajax, CSS and JavaScript.  ? Performed coding in C++ on Linux Platform.  ? Involved in writing stored procedures using MySQL.  ? Involved in the creation of JUnit Unit Test Cases using Test Driver Development (TDD) technique.  ? Involved in migrating SOAP based Web Service to RESTful services.  ? Involved in development of Web Services using SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface in the XML format.  ? Integrates applications by designing database architecture and server scripting. Studying and establishing connectivity with network systems, search engines and information servers.  ? Responsible for software development lifecycle (SDLC) including interpreting requirements, developing the solution and testing the results.  ? Designed and developed several reports for the reporting module built-in JDBC, XML and EJB connectivity, along with a custom User-Defined Data Source API which allows easy access to virtually any data source.  ? Debugged the application using Firebug to traverse the documents and manipulated the Nodes using DOM and DOM Functions using Firefox and IE Developer Tool bar for IE.  ? Developed Use Case Diagrams, Object Diagrams & Class Diagrams in UML.  ? Worked on open stack for the processing and storage of users data.  ? Optimized the database queries to improve the performance.  ? Developed in Windows and going to deploy it in Linux server.  ? Worked on data exchange from website using XML, JAVA and Web Services.  ? Involved in writing stored procedures using MySQL.  ? Optimized the database queries to improve the performance.  ? Developed in Windows and going to deploy it in Linux server.  ? Worked on data exchange from website using XML, JAVA and Web Services. Python Developer Comerica Bank - Dallas, TX July 2014 to August 2016 Responsibilities:  ? Worked alone on the project from gather requirement developing the entire application, with help from other analyst.  ? Wrote Python routines to log into the websites and fetch data for selected options.  ? Worked on writing and as well as read data from csv and excel file formats.  ? Worked on a resulting reports of the application and Tableau reports.  ? Performed QA testing on the application.  ? Held meetings with client and worked all alone for the entire project with limited help from the client.  ? Experience in agile environment using a CI/CD model methodology.  ? Writing SOAP and RESTFul web services, in house ESB for a web Claims applications (Spring MVC, Angular JS, ActiveMQ, SOAP UI, Mockito, JSON, Buildforge).  ? Designed the front-end applications and user interactive web pages using web technologies like Angular JS, Node JS and HTML5.  ? Able to create scripts for system administration and AWS using languages such as BASH and Python.  ? Participated in developing ETL components for executing various workflows.  ? Designed and implemented kafka stream to get user activity and used SparkStreaming kafka connect module to read and import data into Cassandra and files.  ? Install and Configure Linux with Apache, Oracle 8I and PHP (LAMP Project).  ? Resolved several hidden bugs caused by complicated multithreading issues such as race onditions caused by asynchronous events.  ? Managed MongoDB environment from availability, performance and scalability perspectives and Developed various algorithms for generating several data patterns.  ? Developed GUI HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS 5 and JavaScript (jQuery).  ? Built application logic using Python 2.7.  ? Used the Django Framework to develop the application.  ? Used Django APIs for database access.  ? Designed and developed System monitoring in Python and Redis to keep track health of Platform, Hbase, Storm, Kafka etc in the multi-node cluster environment.  ? Used Python to extract weekly hotel availability information from XML files.  ? Participated in requirement gathering and worked closely with the architect in designing and modeling.  ? Developed a core component of Analytics with Angular JS.  ? Developed GUI HTML, XHTML, Coded dynamic and browser compatible UI web pages using JavaScript, CSS3, HTML5, JQuery, AngularJS, Ajax and ReactJS responsive design in MVC environment.AJAX, CSS 5 and JavaScript (jQuery).  ? Creating data pipelines using Apache Spark, a big-data processing and computing framework.  ? Private VPN using Ubuntu, Python, Django, CherryPy, Postgres, Redis, Bootstrap, Jquery, Mongo, Fabric, Git, Tenjin, Selenium, Sphinx, Nose.  ? Used Spark SQL and Data Frame API extensively to build spark applications.  ? Developed numerous distributed python applications utilizing Django (Web Framework), Flask (Web Framework), SQL, Celery (AMQP), RabbitMQ, Redis, and multiple types and flavors of databases.  ? Develop programs to automate the testing of controller in CI/CD environment using Python, Java, Bash script, Git, Linux command line, Java Script.  ? Use Data Frame API in Scala for converting the distributed collection of data organized into named columns.  ? Worked close with Data Modelling team for identifying entities and attributes and developed conceptual, logical and physical models using ERWIN.  ? Improved server application performance and scalability by adding data caching and tuning Hibernate session management.  ? Implement new Cisco DCNM to perform Cisco MDS switch zoning for VMAX, VNX, Netbackup, Linux/Vmware Used Scala for writing the Spark jobs for data processing using RDD's and Data Frame API.  ? Design and Setting up of environment of Mongodb with shards and replicasets. (Dev/Test and Production).  ? Worked on development of SQL and stored procedures on MYSQL.  ? Wrote Python routines to log into the websites and fetch data for selected options.  ? Worked on writing and as well as read data from csv and excel file formats.  ? Worked on a resulting reports of the application and Tableau reports.  ? Performed QA testing on the application.  ? Held meetings with client and worked all alone for the entire project with limited help from the Python Developer CVS Caremark - Woonsocket, RI June 2012 to July 2014 Responsibilities:  ? Converted Visual basic Application to Python, MSQL.Design and develop streaming data processing and data services using Kafka, Spark streaming,  ? Used HTML/CSS and Javascript for UI development.  ? Used Python scripts to update content in the database and manipulate files.  ? Created Reports using JASPER.  ? Design and develop streaming data processing and data services using Kafka, Spark streaming,  ? Created data access using SQL and PL/SQL stored procedures.  ? Worked extensively on Multithreading and Concurrency for implementing Batch Job Scheduling.  ? Deployment and testing of the applications.  ? Performed Data Modelling, Data Integration, Data Warehousing and Data Analytics using Microsoft BI suite -SISS, SSAS and SQL.  ? Involved in managing MongoDB environment from availability, performance and scalability perspectives.  ? Installed and maintained web servers Tomcat and Apache HTTP in UNIX.  ? Managed, developed, and designed a dashboard control panel for customers and Administrators using Django, OracleDB, PostgreSQL, and VMWare API calls.  ? Involved in the Complete Software development life cycle (SDLC) to develop the application and Worked closely with software developers and DevOps to debug software and system problems.  ? Designed and led big data algorithms using Hadoop and Java to improve forecasting and used Hive QL to generate reports.  ? Worked on resulting reports of the application and Tableau reports.  ? Worked on HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, AngularJS, Node.JS, Git, REST API, Mongo DB, intelliJ IDEA.  ? Responsible for building scalable distributed data solutions using Hadoop.  ? Design and Setting up of environment of Mongodb with shards and replicasets. (Dev/Test and Production).  ? Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks.  ? Interfacing with supervisors, artists, systems administrators and production to ensure production deadlines are met.  ? Worked very closely with designer, tightly integrating Flash into the CMS with the use of Flashvars stored in the Django models. Also created XML with Django to be used by the Flash.  ? Used HTML, CSS, JQuery, JSON and JavaScript for front end applications.  ? Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  ? Used HTML, CSS 5, JQuery, JSON and Javascript for front end applications.  ? Managed our servers in development, testing, certification and production.  ? Used Linux profiler Valgrind for optimization of code.  ? Automated RabbitMQ cluster installations and configuration using Python/Bash.  ? Responsible for development and enhancements of all the modules of raildocs and have them running ith the design team for project structure.  ? Implemented the presentation layer with HTML, DHTML, Ajax, CSS and JavaScript.  ? Implemented locking mechanisms using multi threading functionality.  ? Used Python, Perl, CGI, JQuery, JavaScript and JSON at the front end.  ? Developed in Windows and going to deploy it in Linux server.  ? Worked on data exchange from website using XML, JAVA and Web Services.  ? Used Python scripts to update content in the database and manipulate files. Python developer Avaya - New York, NY May 2008 to June 2012 Responsibilities:  ? Participated in the complete SDLC process and used PHP to develop website functionality.  ? Coding in LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, and PHP) environment.  ? Developed GUI HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS 5 and JavaScript (jQuery).  ? Worked mainly on Core Java, C++, STL, data structures, UNIX, multithreading.  ? Built application logic using Python2.7.  ? Used Apache Couchdb (NoSQL) in AWS Linux instance in parallel to RDS MySQL to store and analyze job market info.  ? Developed the required XML Schema documents and implemented the framework for parsing XMLdocuments.  ? Testing Network Configuration and Clustering with Robot Framework.  ? Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  ? Thorough knowledge of UML, RUP and other software development methodologies.  ? Development of new client side screens, implementing validation logic for both client and server side, Serverside business logic implementation, integration with legacy system, documenting for API and following process for CMMi, Creating TestCases and developing logic for automation testing using Junit.  ? Develop consumer based features and applications using Python, Django, HTML, behavior Driven Development (BDD) and pair based programming.  ? Involvement with business analysts, Requirement gathering, requirements analysis, technical design, development and testing.  ? Designed and managed API system deployment using fast http server and Amazon AWS architecture.  ? Worked on analyzing Hadoop stack and different big data analytic tools including Pig, Hive, HBase database and SparkSQL.  ? Used Couch base Python SDK to build applications that use Couch base Server.  ? Proficient in developing web basCreated and maintained Technical documentation for launching Hadoop Clusters and for executing Hive queries and Pig Scriptsed, service oriented based and mobile-web/App based applications using CSS3, JavaScript and Jquery.  ? Worked on Spark SQL Data Frame API to read data and transforming the data and Inferring the Schema to aggregated data and created hive external tables.  ? Involved in Unit testing and Integration testing.  ? Developed ColdFusion Components, custom tags and modified CF Objects.  ? Wrote AJAX framework to transform Datasets and Datatables into HTTP-serializable JSON strings.  ? Used the Django Framework to develop the application.  ? Used Django APIs for database access.  ? UIS system design ( Python Object Oriented Design approach, developing various modules/packages/utilities, e.g.: Cryptography - Encryption/Hashing, Foundation Utilities, Persona management, error/exception management etc.).  ? Used python to extract weekly hotel availability information from XML files.  ? Used WebServices to get travel destination data and rates.  ? Participated in requirement gathering and worked closely with the architect in designing and  ? modeling.  ? Issues pertaining to Realtime data being read from RabbitMQ into Postgres and Cassandra.  ? Performed Design and Code reviews.  ? Worked on development of SQL and stored procedures on MYSQL.  ? Developed shopping cart for Library and integrated web services to access the payment (E-  ? commerce).  ? Used python modules such as requests, urllib, urllib2 for web crawling. Education Bachelors in EC Institute of Technology and Science