Sr. Python Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Python Developer - Cognizant Township of Warren, NJ • Around 5+ years of experience in developing and designing Web Based, Multi-tier distributed applications using latest analytical programming Python, Django, Flash, JAVA, J2EE and spring technologies.  • Experience with all aspects of technology projects including Business Requirements, Technical Architecture, Design Specification, Development and Deployment.  • Hands on experience working in WAMP (Windows, Apache, MYSQL, and Python/PHP) and LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, and Python/PHP) Architecture.  • Experienced in developing web-based applications using Python, Django, PHP, XML, CSS, HTML, Java Script and JQuery.  • Experienced in Python's modules Numpy, matPlotLib, Pickle, PySide, Scipy, wxPython, PyTables etc. for generating complex graphical data, creation of histograms etc.  • Written and developed scripts for automating tasks using Jenkins and UNIX shell programming  • Performed Unit testing, Integration testing and generating of test cases for web applications using Junit and Python Unit test framework.  • Expertise in practicing the SDLC models, Agile methods with Scrum, Extreme Programming, Ticketing systems using JIRA and TDD  • Good knowledge on Spark platform parameters like memory, cores and executors  • Familiar and Worked on various Operating Systems like UNIX (Sun Solaris, AIX), Linux and Windows.  • Experienced in developing Web Services with Python programming language.  • Experience in using UNIX shell Scripts for automating batch programs.  • Highly experienced in generator function, generator expression, object-oriented programming and package development  • Good knowledge in SOC, SOA and developing applications with RESTful services  • Good experience in developing web applications and implementing Model View Control (MVC) architecture using server side applications like Django, Flask and Pyramid  • Proficient in developing complex SQL queries, Stored Procedures, Functions, Packages along with performing DDL and DML operations on the database.  • Expert in using JSON based REST Web services and Amazon Web services.  • Experience in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors and Functions on MySQL and PostgreSQL database.  • Experience in Creating SAS Datasets, Data manipulation, develops data marts for preparation of reports, tables, listings & graphs.  • Experienced in Automation Tools like HP Operations Orchestration & System Center Orchestrator.  • Application Stress tester, created and stress tested stand-alone, web-applications and generated graph reports.  • Used PDB, GDB and other debugging tools and deployed production hot fixes.  • Knowledge of deployment tools using Heroku, Jenkins, pylint, cpp Check and Coverity  • Worked on AJAX framework to transform Datasets and Data tables into HTTP Serializable JSON strings.  • Familiarity with development best practices such as code reviews, unit testing, system integration testing (SIT) and user acceptance testing(UAT)  • Expertise in working with GUI frameworks - PyJamas, Jython.  • Experienced in NoSQL technologies like MongoDB, Cassandra and relational databases like Oracle, SQLite, PostgreSQL, Dynamo DB and MySQL databases  • Experienced in Application Development using Python, RDBMS and Linux shell scripting and performance tuning  • Performed code reviews and implemented best Pythonic programming practices  • Experience in writing test scripts, test cases, test specifications and test coverage.  • Good experience in handling errors/exceptions and debugging the issues in large scale applications.  • Planning and Implementing, Disaster Recovery and Fault Tolerance for AWS services.  • Troubleshooting AWS Auto scaling and EC2 instances related issues. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Python Developer Cognizant - Teaneck, NJ June 2016 to Present Responsibilities:  • Developed web applications and RESTful web services and APIs using Python, Django and PHP.  • Experience with Django, a high-level Python Web framework.  • Automated JIRA processes using Python and bash scripts.  • To fetch data of definite options that are selected, Python routines were written to log into websites.  • Automated AWS S3 data upload / download using Python scripts.  • Responsible for setting up Python REST API framework using DJANGO.  • Developed Merge jobs in Python to extract and load data into MySQL database.  • Created Python and Bash tools to increase efficiency of application system  • Developing Python Framework using Django to perform scan software unit monitoring.  • Design and development of user interfaces and client displays using Java Script, CSS and troubleshoot various issues in Python code and fix them with code enhancements- code used various python libraries such as Jython  • Built various graphs for business decision making using Python matplotlib library.  • Developed and tested many features for dashboard using Python, Bootstrap, CSS, and JavaScript  • Built various graphs for business decision making using Python library.  • Implemented business logic using Python/Django  • Responsible for setting up Python REST API framework using Django.  • Implement code in python to retrieve and manipulate data.  • Worked on ElementTree XML API in python to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Created entire application using Python, Django, MySQL and Linux.  • Worked on python based test frameworks and test driven development with automation tools.  • Developed a fully automated continuous integration system using Git, MySQL, Jerkins, and custom tools developed in Python.  • Worked on server side applications with Django using Python programming.  • Utilized standard Python modules such as csv, itertools and pickle for development.  • Worked on Python OpenStack APIs and used Numpy for Numerical analysis.  • Implemented the application using the concrete principles laid down by several Java/J2EE Design patterns like Business Delegate, MVC, Session Façade, Factory Method, Service Locator, Singleton and Data Transfer Objects (DTO).  • Development of Web (Intranet) database-driven and GIS Java/J2EE applications for Oracle databases.  • Involved in multi-tiered J2EE design utilizing MVC architecture Spring, Struts, Hibernate and EJB deployed on Websphere Application Server connecting to an Oracle database.  • Developed and configured the Java beans using Struts MVC and Hibernate.  • Leading JavaScript Frameworks Team like Angular.js, backbone.js, bootstrap.js, Node.js.  • Providing a responsive, AJAX-driven design using JavaScript libraries such as JavaScript, jQuery, backbone.js, Node.js AngularJS and Bootstrap.js - Using Subversion for version control.  • Built a RESTful API to save and retrieve geolocations using a remote server in Java using spring, MongoDB, Apache CXF, and JAX-RS.  • Developed user interface using JSP, JSTL and Custom Tag Libraries and AJAX to speed the application.  • OOP in PHP to extend or update functionalities. The project uses MySQL as the database.  • Involved in Development of the application Using J2EE Technologies (Servlets, JSP, EJB, JSF, Struts).  • Developed the base framework using Java, JSP, Struts, CSS, HTML, JavaScript, Oracle and MS SQL Server.  • Involved in user interface development using JSTL.  • Technology leadership for the direction of the Cloud based application using Node.JS, PDFJS, Sencha, MongoDB and MS SQL Server integrating to a proprietary framework.  • Creation of REST WebServices for the management of data using Apache CXF (JAX-RS)  • Developed HTML, CSS, Javascript and JSP pages for user interaction and data presentation.  • Used JDBC to connect to the information model tier.  • Create webservice component using REST, SOAP, WSDL, XML and XSLT to interact with the middleware  • Used Webservices - WSDL and SOAP for getting credit card information from third party.  • Used XML WebServices using SOAP to transfer the amount to transfer application that is remote and global to different financial institutions.  • Worked in RDBMS implementation using, SQL, PL/SQL, DB2, MySQL on Oracle database.  • Worked with Oracle RDBMS for writing complex queries and PL/SQL, SQL for Stored Procedures, Triggers and Events, for generating some important responses needed by the application at times.  • Performed Validations on UI data using JSF validators and JavaScript.  • Developed interfaces and their implementation classes to communicate with the mid-tier (services) using JMS.  • Performed J2EE application deployment using JBoss application server on Windows and Linux  • Performed Unit Testing and developed Unit Test Classes using JUNIT  • Writing JUnit test/Integration test cases for asserting functional quality    Environment: Java, J2EE, Python, Django, Spring, Hibernate, JSP, Angular.js, React.JS, Node.js, bootstrap.js, backbone.js, Ibatis, HTML, Javascript, CSS, XML, WebLogic, WebServices, SOAP, Cassandra, Hadoop, PL/SQL, Junit, Oracle, MySql, REST, SOA, Git, Github, Selenium, RAD, Agile, UML, CVS, Eclipse. Sr. Python Developer Verizon - Township of Warren, NJ April 2015 to May 2016 Responsibilities:  • Designed the front end of the application using Python, HTML, CSS, AJAX, JSON and JQuery.  • Used the Django Framework to develop the application.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Used Test driven approach for developing the application and Implemented the unit tests using Python Unit test framework.  • Involved in implementing the complete Application in the in-build Spring MVC Architecture with Angular JS.  • Used JavaScript and JSON to update a portion of a webpage.  • Used Selenium Library to write fully functioning test automation process that allowed the simulation of submitting different requests from multiple browser to web application.  • Rewrite existing Python/Django modules to deliver certain format of data.  • Responsible for debugging the project monitored on JIRA (Agile).  • Wrote Python scripts to parse JSON documents and load the data in database.  • Used Python and Django to interface with the jQuery UI and manage the storage and deletion of content.  • Wrote and executed various RDBMS, MYSQL database queries from Python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQLDB package.  • Designed and Implemented Server Build Automation & Server Decommissioning Automation  • Implemented Apache Spark data processing project to handle data from RDBMS and streaming sources.  • Implemented web applications in Flask frame works following MVC architecture.  • Worked on front end frame works like CSS Bootstrap for development of Web applications.  • Also, created XML with Django to be used by the Flash  • Involved in deployment of project using AWS.  • Special skills in developing user friendly, simple yet effective web-based applications.  • Worked in MySQL database on simple queries and writing Stored Procedures for normalization and DE normalization.  • Worked within SOA based enterprise framework to build web services.  • Used many regular expressions to match the pattern with the existing one.  • Build SQL queries for performing various CRUD operations like create, update, read and delete.  • Performed Unit testing, Integration Testing, web application and automation testing.  • Taken part in entire lifecycle of the projects including Design, Development, and Deployment, Testing and Implementation and support.  • Worked in development of applications especially in UNIX environment and familiar with all its commands.    Environment: Python 2.7 & 3.5, Django 1.6.1, Selenium, HTML-5, CSS-3, XML, MySQL, JIRA, JavaScript, Angular JS, Backbone JS, JQuery, RDBMS, CSS Bootstrap, Mongo DB-3.2, MS SQL Server-2014, T- SQL, SAS, Eclipse, Git, GitHub, AWS, Linux, Shell Scripting. Python Developer ZORO Tools Inc - Buffalo Grove, IL March 2013 to March 2015 Responsibilities:  • Developed the application using agile methodology and Scrum method of project management.  • Developed web applications in Django Framework's model view control (MVC) architecture.  • Exposure on Multi-Threading factory to distribute learning process back-testing and into various worker processes.  • Performed efficient delivery of code based on principles of Test Driven Development (TDD) and continuous integration to keep in line with Agile Software methodology principles.  • Different testing methodologies like unit testing, Integration testing, web application testing  • Worked very closely with designer, tightly integrating Flash into the CMS with the use of FlashVars stored in the Django models.  • Design and implement Provisioning Server 5.6 upgrade to Provisioning Server 6.1.  • Developed test scripts for automation with Selenium.  • Python/Django based web application, Postgre sql DB, and integrations with 3rd party email, messaging, storage services.  • Architected, designed and implemented SAML and symmetric key based Single Sign On service provider systems.  • Build development environment with JIRA.  • Implemented multi-site Enterprise SOA using Oracle SOA Suite and also worked in SOA architecture WebSphere Message broker for integration.  • Also Created Angular JS controllers, directives, models for different modules of the application.  • Developed a fully automated continuous integration system using Git, Gerrit, Jenkins,  MySQL and custom tools developed in Python and Bash  • Involved in converting Hive/SQL queries into Spark transformations using Spark RDDs, Python.  • Managed, developed, and designed a dashboard control panel for customers and Administrators using Django, Oracle DB, PostgreSQL, and VMWare API calls.  • Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes of the two main applications that were a main source of data for both customers and internal customer service team  • Helped maintain existing Python (Django and Flask) applications. Interfaced with infrastructure services like Amazon AWS (S3, SQS) and used tools like Solr, RabbitMQ.  • Built S3 buckets and managed policies for S3 buckets & used S3 bucket and glacier for storage and backup on AWS.  • Used Pandas library for statistics Analysis.  • Designed object model, data model, tables, constraints, necessary stored procedures, functions, triggers, and packages for Oracle Database.  • Managed large datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL.  • Extensively used python modules such as requests, urllib, urllib 2 for web crawling.  • Developed GUI using webapp2 for dynamically displaying the test block documentation and other features of python code using a web browser.  • Developed the required XML Schema documents and implemented the framework for parsing XML documents.  • Responsible for user validations on client side as well as server side.  • Interacted with QA to develop test plans from high-level design documentation    Environment: Python, Django1.4, HTML/CSS, MS SQL Server 2012, MySQL, Script, Eclipse, GIT, GitHub, AWS, Linux, Shell Scripting. Python Developer Concentrix Insurance Solutions - Greenville, SC January 2012 to February 2013 Responsibilities:  • Design, develop, test, deploy and maintain the website.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL.  • Rewrite existing Python/Django modules to deliver certain format of data.  • Used Django Database API's to access database objects.  • Wrote python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Handled all the client side validation using JavaScript.  • Worked extensively with Bootstrap, JavaScript, and jQuery to optimize the user experience.  • Used Python and Django to interface with the jQuery UI and manage the storage and deletion of content.  • Involved in development of Web Services using SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface in the XML format.  • Responsible for debugging the project monitored on JIRA (Agile)  • Used JQuery for all client-side JavaScript manipulation.  • Created unit test/regression test framework for working/new code  • Using Subversion control tool to coordinate team-development.  • Built development environment with JIRA, Stash/Git.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application  • Created data access using SQL and PL/SQL stored procedures.  • Created reports in SAS and exported to Excel spreadsheets, created web reports using Web Report Studio.  • Performed Unit/System test.  • Written many programs to parse excel file and process many user data with data validations    Environment: Python 2.6, Scipy, Pandas, Bugzilla, SVN, C++, Java, JQuery, MS SQL, Visual Basic, Linux, Eclipse, Java Script, XML, JASPER, PL/SQL, Oracle 9i, Shell Scripting, HTML5/CSS, Apache. Education Bachelor's Skills CSS (6 years), DJANGO (6 years), Git (6 years), HTML (6 years), LINUX (6 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:  Frameworks Django, web2py, Flask, Struts, pylons and CSS Bootstrap  Technologies HTML, CSS, DOM, SAX, Java Script, JQuery, AJAX, XML, Angular JS  Programming Languages C, C++, Python-3.5 & 2.7, Java, SQL, SAS and PL/SQL.  Python Libraries  Python, Django, Flask, Beautiful Soup, httplib2, Jinja2, HTML/CSS, Bootstrap, Spark, jQuery, Numpy, matPlotLib, Pickle, PySide, Scipy, wxPython, PyTables, pdb    Version Control GIT (GitHub), SVN, CVS, Bitbucket.  Databases Oracle, MySQL, PostgreSQL, MongoDB  IDE's/ Development Tools PyCharm, and Sublime Text.  Web Services AWS, Rackspace Cloud, Amazon S3  Operating Systems Windows, Red hat Linux, MAC OSX.  Protocols TCP/IP, HTTP/HTTPS, SOAP, SNMP, SMTP, REST.  Deployment Tools Heroku, Jenkins  Tracking Tools Bugzilla and JIRA.  Methodologies Agile, Scrum and Waterfall