Sr. Python Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> West Des Moines, IA Sr. Python Developer Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Python Developer Des Moines, IA May 2018 to Present Roles & Responsibilities:  ? Involved in the process of Data Migration.  ? Migrated data from SQL to POSTGRES.  ? Developed python scripts as to transfer the data to POSTGRES.  ? Used Datical to automate and transform database deployments into a simple, repeatable process.  ? Worked on Python OpenStack APIs and used NumPy for Numerical analysis.  ? Used python scripts to update content in the database and manipulate files.  ? Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes of the two main applications that were a main source of data for both customers and internal customer service team.  ? Worked on Branching, Merging, Tagging and maintaining the version across the environments using SCM tools like GIT (Bitbucket, GitHub).  ? Worked on Element Tree XML API in Python to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  ? Worked on continuous integration and automation using Jenkins.  ? Perform Jenkins administration, updating plugins, setting up new projects and debugging build problems.  ? Developed complex SQL Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, Functions, and Packages along with performing DDL and DML operations on the database.  ? Used POSTGRESQL a system of data management was designed and developed where queries were optimized to improve the performance.  ? Worked on Integration of data storage solutions including databases, key-value stores, and blob stores.  ? Used Python's Unit Testing library for testing various programs on python and other codes.  ? Worked on millions of database records on daily basis, finding common errors and bad data patterns and fixing them.  ? Worked on BMC Control-m as it simplifies and automate diverse batch application workloads, improve SLAs and accelerates application deployment.  ? Used JIRA for bug tracking and issue tracking and added several options to the application to choose algorithm for data and address generation.  ? Trained extensively in agile methodologies and implemented by participating in scrum stand ups, discussing and implementing requirements with clients.  Environment: Python, PostgreSQL, MySQL, Agile, REST, JSON, MS SQL Server, MySQL, Eclipse, Jenkins, Datical, Bitbucket, Git Python Developer Dish Technologies - Meridian, CO June 2016 to March 2018 Roles & Responsibilities:  ? Developed Python based API (RESTful Web Services) to track the events and perform analysis using Django.  ? Supported/maintained client website within the DJANGO CMS system for various website needs.  ? Performed dynamic UI designing with HTML5, CSS3, less, Bootstrap, JSON and AJAX.  ? Created Python and Bash scripts to monitor & increase efficiency of retail management application system and operations.  ? Developed a Django CMS based promotion management system offering the ability to created arbitrary forms through an admin interface.  ? Automated various infrastructure activities like Continuous Deployment, Application Server setup, Stack Monitoring using Ansible playbooks and has integrated Ansible with Run deck and Jenkins.  ? Used GCP to create storage resources and define resource attributes, such as disk type or redundancy type, at the service level.  ? Used Ansible playbooks to setup Continuous Delivery pipeline. This primarily consists of a Jenkins and Sonar server, the infrastructure to run these packages and various supporting software components such as Maven, etc.  ? Created a Python/Django based web application for data processing using MySQL as database, and HTML/CSS/JavaScript for frontend development and D3 JavaScript for Data Visualization.  ? Implemented REST API's in Python using python based micro-framework called Flask with SQL Alchemy in the backend for management of data center resources on which OpenStack would be deployed.  ? Worked in DevOps group running Jenkins in a Docker container with EC2 slaves in Amazon AWS cloud configuration.  ? Designed and developed MySQL Procedures and UNIX Shell Scripts for Data Import/Export and Conversions.  ? Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting programming related issues.  ? Worked on Atlassian tools like Bamboo, Jira, and confluence.  ? Installed and configured configuration tool such as Chef Server/workstation and nodes via CLI tools to AWS nodes.  ? Created and configured new JIRA projects and worked with departments to maintain existing JIRA projects.  ? Created and maintained various DevOps related tools for the team such as provisioning scripts, deployment tools and staged virtual environment using Docker.  Environment: Python, Django, Django-CMS, SSO, PostgreSQL, MySQL, Bootstrap JS, HTML5, CSS3, Agile, REST, JSON Python Developer Siemens - New York, NY January 2015 to May 2016 Roles & Responsibilities:  ? Involved in entire lifecycle of the projects including Design, Development, Deployment, Testing and Implementation and support.  ? Developed and tested many features for dashboard using Python, BootstrapJS, CSS, XML and HTML.  ? Develop installer scripts using Ant, Python, and UNIX for various products to be hosted on Application Servers.  ? Implemented business logic for integrating third party API's using Python.  ? Worked with millions of database records on daily basis, finding common errors and bad data patterns and fixing them.  ? Maintained program libraries, user's manuals and technical documentation.  ? Used Python libraries like Beautiful Soup, NumPy and SQL Alchemy.  ? Designed and managed API system deployment using fast http server and Amazon AWS architecture.  ? Worked with team of developers on python applications for RISK management.  ? Extensively used ANT tool to do the builds, integrated ANT to Eclipse and did local builds. Integrated Maven with Jenkins for the builds as the Continuous Integration process.  ? Used Chef and AWS allowed me to reduce costs for the department and eliminate unwarranted resources. Automated provisioning of cloud infrastructure with Chef.  ? Responsible for on boarding Application teams to build and deploy the code using GitHub Jenkins, Nexus and Ansible.  ? Worked with backend python automation, CI pipelines, Docker and cloud provisioning/automation.  ? Managed, developed, and designed a dashboard control panel for customers and Administrators using Django, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Bootstrap, jQuery and RESTAPI calls.  ? Designed the architecture of the hardware environments and methodology of the code:  ? Wrote & executed various MYSQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL dB package.  ? Created PHP/MySQL back-end for data entry from Flash.  Environment: Python 2.7, Django, CSS, HTML, UNIX, MS SQL Server 2013, T-SQL, Linux, Shell Scripting, RESTful, MVC3, GIT Python Developer ICICI Bank - Mumbai, Maharashtra January 2011 to November 2015 Roles & Responsibilities:  ? Created entire application using Python, Django.  ? Developed applications especially in Linux environment and familiar with all its commands.  ? Involved in development of Web Services using REST for sending and getting data from the external interface in the XML format.  ? Worked with Linux like OS on regular basis.  ? Improved code reuse and performance by making effective use of various design patterns.  ? Managed version control tool Git to version code changes to help developers/programmers branch/merge code.  ? Used SOAP and Restful API for information extraction.  ? Creating unit test/regression test framework for working with new code.  ? Managed version control tool Git to version code changes to help developers/programmers branch/merge code.  ? Constructed SQL queries implementing functions, packages, views, triggers, and tables.  ? Involved in entire lifecycle of the projects including Design, Development, and Deployment, Testing and Implementation and support.  ? Maintained the scripts using the GIT version control tool.  ? Maintained customer database using MY SQL.  ? Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL dB package.  ? Deployed the project into Heroku using GIT version control system.  ? Proactively worked with managers and development staff to meet project goals within expected timelines.  Environment: Python, Django, MY SQL, Linux, Git, Agile, HTML, CSS, Eclipse, Linux, Shell Scripting.    Certification & Education: Education Bachelor's Degree in Mechanical Engineering Acharya Nagarjuna University 2010 Skills CSS (7 years), Django. (7 years), HTML (7 years), MySQL (7 years), Python (7 years) Additional Information ? Result-driven IT Professional with 8 years of experience in Analysis, Design, Development and Implementation of various client-server applications using Python.  ? Proficient in full software development life-cycle, designing and architecting scalable platforms, object-oriented programming, database design and agile methodologies.  ? Strong experienced in MVC frameworks like Django and object-oriented programming (OOP) concepts using Python.  ? Experience in WAMP (Windows, Apache, MYSQL, Python /PHP) and LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, Python /PHP) Architecture.  ? Highly skilled in Python's modules like NumPy, regular expressions, collections, dates & times and OS modules.  ? Experience in developing web-based applications using Python, Django, FLASK, XML, CSS, and HTML.  ? Experience with Unit testing/ Test driven Development (TDD), Load Testing.  ? Good experience in PL/SQL programming including complex SQL queries using stored procedures and Triggers in Oracle, SQL Server using TOAD and Query Manager.  ? Good experience on DevOps environment on various technologies/applications like Ansible, Chef, GIT, SVN, Jenkins, Docker.  ? Hands-on experience in writing and reviewing product specifications, technical specifications, test plans and quality analysis.  ? Experience in Cloud computing window Azure (AWS).  ? Experience in maintaining all the tools like Bamboo, Bit Bucket, Confluence, JIRA, and GIT.  ? Good experience in Amazon AWS concepts like EMR, S3 and EC2 web services which provides fast and efficient processing of Big Data.  ? Good experience in Linux Shell Scripting (Bash) and following PEP Guidelines in Python.  ? Effective in handling database issues and connections with SQL and NoSQL databases like MongoDB (2.6, 2.4) by installing and configuring various packages in python (Teradata, MySQL dB, MySQL connector, PyMongo and SQL Alchemy).  ? Proficient in writing SQL Queries, Stored procedures, functions, packages, tables, views, triggers using relational databases like DB2 and MySQL.  ? Proficient in designing Model, View, Database Architecture for a given requirement or problem statement irrespective of underlying technology.  ? Excellent analytical and problem-solving skills with efficient time management and result oriented attitude.    Technical competencies:    Languages Python, Shell Scripts, PL/SQL, HTML, CSS, XML  Operating Systems Windows 7, Windows 10, Windows Server 2003, LINUX, UNIX, Mac OS  Frameworks Django, Flask  Web Technologies HTML, CSS, XML  Web Services SOAP, REST & GRAPHQL  DevOps Tools Ansible, Chef, Puppet, GIT, SVN, Jenkins, Docker, Datical  Databases MySQL Server, Postgres Server, No SQL Databases such as Mongo DB & CouchBase  Delivery Tools Chef, Puppet  Testing Tools PyTest, Doc Test