Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - Kimberley Clark Corporation Knoxville, TN • Over 5+ Years of IT experience as a Web/Application Developer and coding with analytical programming using Python and Django.  • Experienced with full software development life-cycle, architecting scalable platforms, object oriented programming, database design and agile methodologies.  • Experience with PythonLibraries/Packages such as HTTPLib2, Urllib2, Beautiful Soup, Py Query, Numpy, Scipy, Pickle, PyQT, PySide, wxPython, PyTables, DataFrames, SQLAlchemy, Twisted, Pygame, PyGtk, Pandas and Matplotlib.  • Experienced in LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL and Python/PHP), WAMP (Windows, Apache, MySQL, Python/PHP) architecture.  • Excellent experience with Python development under Linux OS (Debian, Ubuntu, SUSE Linux, RedHat Linux, Fedora).  • Experience in working with Python ORM Libraries including Django ORM.  • Experience in working with Python packages like NumPy, Pandas, BeautifulSoup, matplotlib, PyTables and SciPy.  • Good experience with Python frameworks like Flask and WebApp2.  • Experienced in working with various Python Integrated Development Environments like NetBeans, PyCharm, PyScripter, PyDev, Eclipse and Sublime Text.  • Having hands experience on JSON modules of Python to call web service to handle the multi-processing created a celery tasks with the help of message broker RabbitMQ.  • Proficient in Front end development experience using HTML5, XML, CSS, jQuery, JSON, JavaScript, Angular.js, and Bootstrap.  • Good Knowledge on Amazon Web Services (AWS) Cloud services such as EC2, EBS, S3, VPC, Cloud Watch, and Elastic Load Balancer.  • Experience using version control system such as GIT.  • Experience in relational databases like Oracle MS SQL server, developing PL/SQL packages, Stored Procedures, Functions, Views, Indexes, Triggers, XML join, user defined data types and other complex queries.  • Having experienced in Agile Methodologies, Scrum stories and sprints experience in a Python based environment, along with data analytics, data wrangling and Excel data extracts.  • Experience with working on multiple environments like development, testing, production. Excellent analytical and problem-solving skills and ability to work on own besides being valuable and contributing team player.  • Excellent communication and interpersonal skills with ability to interact with individuals at all levels and can work as a part of team as well as independently. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Developer Kimberley Clark Corporation - Knoxville, TN March 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Participated in entire lifecycle of the projects including Design, Development, and Deployment, Testing and Implementation and support.  • Designed the architecture of the hardware environments and methodology of the code.  • Developed multi-threaded standalone app in Python, to view Circuit parameters and performance.  • Worked with team of developers on Python applications for RISK management.  • Worked with various Python libraries such as Six, Click Pandas and Matplotlib for analysis and manipulation of data.  • Developed web applications in Django Framework's model view control (MVC) architecture and manipulated databases by using Django database API along with MySQL.  • Created a Python, Django web-based application using Python scripting for data processing and MySQL for database, HTML5, CSS and JQuery for data visualization.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Provided GUI utilizing PyQt for the end user to create, modify and view reports based on client data.  • Designed and developed a horizontally scalable APIs using Python Flask.  • Using Amazon EC2 command line interface along with Bash/ Python to automate repetitive work.  • Worked with View Sets in Django-REST framework for providing web services and consumed web services performing CRUD operations.  • Used Pandas library for statistical Analysis.  • Designed and Developed User Interface using front-end technologies like HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Bootstrap and JSON.  • Integrate the dynamic pages with Angular.JS and JQuery to make the pages dynamic.  • Worked in an agile development environment.  • Created multiple Python and UNIX shell Scripts for various application level tasks.  • Used Test driven approach for developing the application and Implemented the unit tests using Python Unit test framework.  Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from Python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL dB package.  • Developed weekly, monthly nightly job process through UNIX shell scripting.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.    Environment: Python 3.x, Django, Pandas, Flask, AWS, PyQt, Matplotlib, Agile, Angular.js, JQuery, CSS, DHTML, HTML5, JavaScript, GitHub, Shell Scripts, Restful API, MySQL, ORACLE, LINUX, and Windows. Python Developer Nordstrom Apparel - Seattle, WA January 2017 to February 2018 Responsibilities:  • Responsible for gathering requirements, system analysis, design, development, testing and deployment.  • Rewrite existing Python/Django modules to deliver certain format of data.  • Used Django Database API's to access database objects.  • Developed GUI using webapp2 for dynamically displaying the test block documentation and other features of Python code using a web browser.  • Used Python module named Pandas for data manipulation.  • Involved in building database Model, APIs and Views utilizing Python, to build an interactive web-based solution.  • Wrote Python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Used Wire shark, live http headers, and Fiddler2 debugging proxy to debug the Flash object and help the developer create a functional component.  • Utilized Python in the handling of all hits on Django, Redis, and other applications.  • Created Python Scripts to automate AWS services which includes Web servers, ELB, Cloud Front distribution, database, EC2 and database security groups, S3 bucket and application configuration.  • Implemented user interface guidelines and standards throughout the development and maintenance of the website using the CSS, HTML, JavaScript, Angular.js and JQuery.  • Used JQuery for all client side JavaScript manipulation.  • Used Python to place data into JSON files for testing Django Websites.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Development of Python APIs to dump the array structures in the Processor at the failure point for debugging.  • Worked on Python Open stack API's used Python scripts to update content in the database and manipulate files.  • Used GIT control tool to coordinate team-development.  • Developed in Windows and going to deploy it in Linux server.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.    Environment: Python, Django, webapp2, Wire shark, Fiddler2, Flash, Angular.js, HTML, CSS, JQuery, AWS, Shell Scripting, Java Script, JQuery, JSON, MySQL, Git, Apache and Linux. Python Developer First Commercial Bank - Alhambra, CA October 2015 to December 2016 Responsibilities:  • Exposed to various phases of Software Development Life Cycle using Agile - Scrum Software development methodology.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Developed the customer complaints application using Django Framework, which includes Python code.  • Implemented web applications in Flask frame works following MVC architecture.  • Developed Restful API's using Python Flask and SQLAlchemy data models as well as ensured code quality by writing unit tests using PyTest.  • Worked on JavaScript MVC Framework like Angular.js.  • Worked on Python Open stack API's.  • Used Python library BeautifulSoup for web scrapping to extract data for building graphs.  • Created entire application using Python, Django, MySQL and Linux.  • Created Data tables utilizing PyQt to display patient and policy information and add, delete, update patient records.  Involved in web designing using HTML 4/5, XHTML, CSS 2/3, JQuery, JavaScript extensively used Table less Design in CSS for positioning.  • Developed the required XML Schema documents and implemented the framework for parsing XML documents.  • Used JQuery and Ajax calls for transmitting JSON data objects between frontend and controllers.  • Created a Git repository and added the project to GitHub.  • Utilize PyUnit, the Python unit test framework, for all Python applications.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Worked in MySQL and NoSQL database on simple queries and writing Stored Procedures for normalization and renormalization.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting of web application.    Environment: Python, Django, Flask, SQLAlchemy, PyTest, PyQt, Beautifulsoup, Angular.js, Shell Scripting, XML Schema, Java Script, AJAX, JQuery, JSON, MySQL, Git, Apache, Linux and Windows. Python Developer Sunlife Financial - Boston, MA February 2014 to September 2015 Responsibilities:  • Requirement Analysis and Estimation of project timelines.  • Created Business Logic using Python to create Planning and Tracking functions.  • Developed Python batch processors to consume and produce various feeds.  • Developed internal auxiliary web apps using Python Flask framework with CSS / HTML framework.  • Involved in designing, constructing and documenting various object oriented applications using UML, Rational Rose.  • Built database Model, Views and API's using Python for interactive web based solutions.  • Used Python scripts to update the content in database and manipulate files.  • Designed and developed the presentation layer/client end using HTML, XML, DHTML and JSP.  • Wrote SQL Queries, Store Procedures, Triggers and functions in MySQL Databases.  • Coordinate with SMEs, other architects, and senior technical staff to identify client's needs, document assumptions, and build-out new requirements and move code through user acceptance testing.  • Implemented Test Driven Development (TDD) strategy for the project.  • Developed and executed User Acceptance Testing portion of test plan.    Environment: Python, Flask, HTML, CSS, JSP, XML, TDD, SQL, TDD< MYSQL and Windows. Education Bachelor's Skills Django (3 years), Html (4 years), Mysql. (5 years), Python (5 years), Xml (4 years), Javascript, MySQL Additional Information Technical Skills:  Languages Python 3.x/2.7/2.4, Java, Shell Script  Python Framework Django, Webapp2, Flask  Libraries/Packages NumPy, Pandas, BeautifulSoup, matplotlib, PyTables, SciPy, Urllib2, PyQT, Pyside, HTTPLib2  IDE PyCharm, PyScripter, PyDev, Eclipse, NetBeans, Sublime Text  Cloud AWS (Ec2, EBS, S3, VPC, Cloud Watch)  Web Technologies AJAX, JavaScript, HTML, DHTML, XHTML, XML, JQuery, JSON, Angular.js, Bootstrap  Version Control Tools Subversion, GIT, SVN  Web servers Apache, WebLogic, WebSphere  Databases MySQL, SQL Server, Oracle  Operating systems Linux/Unix, Windows Variants