Python developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">developer</span> Python developer - Mobiquity Inc Gainesville, FL, FL * Over 8+ years of experience in IT Industry with proficiency in Design & Development of Python, Java/J2EE, Django, flask projects.  * Experience in Multi-Tier distributed Enterprise applications  * Extensive experience in system analysis, design, development and implementation of web based and client/server application using HTML, Angular JS, BootStrap, underscore JS, Node JS, CSS, JavaScript, AJAX, JSP, JDBC, XML, XSLT, Python, Django, PHP  * Working knowledge in multi-tiered distributed environment, OOAD concepts, good understanding of Software Development Lifecycle (SDLC)  * Developed Java/J2ee applications using Hibernate, XML, Android, XSLT, and Basic ASP.net applications including using Core Java concepts like OOPS, Multithreading, Garbage Collections, and Collection etc.  * Experience in Implementation of MVC/ MVW architecture using Servlet, Django, and RESTful, SOAP web service and SOAPUI  * Experienced in installing, configuring, modifying, testing and deploying applications with Apache, Tomcat and WebSphere.  * Extensively followed development methodologies such as Agile (SCRUM), Water Fall  * Excellent Experience of Databases such as MySQL, Oracle 8g/9g/10g, Microsoft SQL Server, PostgreSQL, SQL/PLSQL concepts  * Good Knowledge of using IDE Tools like Eclipse, NetBeans, Android Studio, Visual Studio, IDLE.  * Experience on Ruby Reg-Ex for pattern and Text matching.  * Good command on full life cycle application development.  * Designed and developed video and blogging website on PHP using WordPress on wamp server using MySQL database  * Experience with continuous integration and automation using Jenkins  * Developed ColdFusion Components, custom tags and modified CF Objects  * Experience with Unit testing/ Test driven Development (TDD), Load Testing in JIRA, JENKIN.  * Wrote AJAX framework to transform Datasets and Data tables into HTTP-serializable JSON strings Work Experience Python developer Mobiquity Inc - Gainesville, FL March 2015 to Present Responsibilities:  • Analysis and Design of application.  • Created UI usingJavascript and HTML5/CSS.  • Developed and tested many features for dashboard using Python, Bootstrap, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Implemented business logic using Python/Django.  • Created backend database T-SQL stored procedures and Jasper Reports.  • Worked with millions of database records on a daily basis, finding common errors and bad data patterns and fixing them.  • Exported/Imported data between different data sources using SQL Server Management Studio.  • Maintained program libraries, users' manuals and technical documentation.  • Managed large datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL.  • Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL dB package.  • Thorough knowledge in various front end tools like HTML, DHTML, CSS, JavaScript, XML, JQuery, Angular JS, and AJAX  • Hands-on experience in writing and reviewing requirements, architecture documents, test plans, design documents, quality analysis and audits.  • Built various graphs for business decision-making using Python matplotlib library.  • Fetched twitter feeds for certain important keyword using python-twitter library.  • Used Python library Beautiful Soup for webscrapping.ss.  • Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes of the two main applications that were a main source of data for both customers and internal customer service team.  • Created most important Business Rules which are useful for the scope of project and needs of customers  • BuildSQL queries for performing various CRUD operations like create, update, read and delete.  • Work with team of developers on python applications for RISK management.  • Taken part in entire lifecycle of the projects including Design, Development, and Deployment, Testing and Implementation and support.  • Used Pandas library for statistics Analysis.  • Created most important Business Rules which are useful for the scope of project and needs of customers.  • Designed the architecture of the hardware environments and methodology of the code  • Experienced in Agile Methodologies and SCRUM Process.  • Worked in development of applications especially in UNIX environment and familiar with all of its commands.  • Refactored existing project to make it more RESTful and thread-safe.  • Added unit tests and improved existing ones.  • Designed RESTful XML web service for handling AJAX requests.  • Created project designs utilizing MVC architecture components.    Environment: Python 2.7, Django, HTML5/CSS, UNIX, MS SQL Server 2013, T-SQL, Jasper, Reports, JavaScript, Eclipse, Linux, Shell Scriptingo, RESTful, MVC3. Python Developer Hewlett - Packard - Sunnyvale, CA December 2013 to January 2015 Responsibilities:  • Installed VMware ESX server 4.1/4.0 and created virtual machines on ESX Servers.  • Created standard templates and deployed virtual machines from these templates.  • Creation, Management and Configuration of Virtual Machines, Clone and Templates.  • Customizing guest operating system on Virtual Machines.  • Wrote scripts in scale out process for deploying multiple virtual machines from a single template.  • Built task monitoring script to monitor various tasks such as poweron a virtual machine after cloning, clone virtual machine and reboot virtual machine using pyvmomi.  • Implemented script to monitor on vcenter tasks.  • Built web crawler on Jenkin web site to get the latest build information.  • Wrote python scripts for IP address and Mac Address validation.  • Built python scripts to read and write JSON files.  • Re-wrote scripts to use data exchange formats like JSON and made more modular.  • Wrote scripts to clone virtual machine on ESX from the given template name in JSON file.  • Built scripts to deploy virtual machine on ESX when template name is not specified.  • Wrote script to generate IP address from CIDR and write into JSON files and assign them to virtual machine while cloning.  • Built scripts to suppress the urllib3 warning when accessing vcenter using pyvmomi.  • Deployed Cloud with various templates.  • Familiar with openstack services such as NOVA, SWIFT, KEYSTONE, NEUTRON, CINDER and GLANCE.  • Used ansible for automating cloud deployment process.  • Used cobbler for server provisioning.  • Integrated and involved in daily scrum meetings with both onsite and offshore team.  • Wrote multithreading scripts to access datacenter from different locations.  • Wrote python scripts to assign ip addresses tovm's on different networks.  Environment: Python 3.3, JSON, hLinux, Linux, Git, Jira, VMware vSphere 5.5, VMware ESX 4.1, KVM. Python Developer Jefferies Group - Jersey City, NJ November 2011 to October 2013 Responsibilities:  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Utilize PyUnit, the Python unit test framework, for all Python applications.  • Used the Django Framework to develop the application.  • Build all database mapping classes using Django models.  • Implemented the presentation layer with HTML, DHTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript  • Successfully migrated the Django database from SQLite to MySQL with complete data integrity.  • Developed multi-threaded standalone app in Python, PHP, C++ to view Circuit parameters and performance.  • Worked on UI using HTML5, CSS3 and Java Scripts.  • Worked with JSON based REST Web services and Amazon Web services.  • Created User Controls and simple animations using Java Script and Python.  • Generated Python Django Forms to record data of online users.  • Wrote Python routines to log into the websites and fetch data for selected options.  • Involved in writing application level code to interact with APIs, Web Services using JSON.  • Involved in AJAX driven application by invoking web services/API and parsing the JSON response.  • Rewrite existing Java application in Python module to deliver certain format of data  • Creating unit test/regression test framework for working/new code  • Using Subversion version control tool to coordinate team-development.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  Environment: Python, Django 1.4, PyUmit, Java, AWS, MySQL, Linux, HTML, XHTML, CSS, AJAX, REST, JSON, JavaScript, SVN, Apache Web Server and Windows. Python developer SONY - Hyderabad, Telangana November 2008 to September 2011 Responsibilities:  • UsedPython, Django and Zope frameworks to develop applications.  • Implemented business logic using Python 2.7.  • Used HTML, CSS, JavaScript and JQuery and Implemented AJAX for dynamic functionality of a webpages for front end applications.  • Worked on front end frame works like Bootstrap for responsive webpages.  • Managed large datasets using Pandas data frames and MySQL.  • Developed and executed various MySQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector andMySQL database package.  • Implemented SQLAlchemy which is a python library for complete access over SQL.  • Designed object model, data model, tables, constraints, necessary stored procedures, functions, triggers, and packages for Oracle Database.  • Fetched twitter feeds for certain important keywords using python-twitter library.  • Used Python library BeautifulSoup for web scrapping.  • Worked on Python OpenStack APIs and used Numpy for Numerical analysis.  • Used AJAX and JQuery for transmitting JSON data objects between frontend and controllers.  • Designed and managed API system deployment using fast http server and Amazon AWS architecture.  • Implemented monitoring and established best practices around using elastic search.  • Install and configuring monitoring scripts for AWS EC2 instances.  • Worked with the design team for project structure.  • Created a Git repository and added the project to GitHub.  • Wrote Python scripts to parse XML and JSON documents and load the data in database.  • All projects adhered to agile principles to deliver commitments, meet acceptance criteria and ensure fastreleases.  • Handled all the client side validation using JavaScript.  Environment: Linux and Windows, Python/Django, Python/Zope, HTML, JavaScript, CSS, JQuery, AJAX and BOOTSTRAP, REST, AWS, MySQL, Elastic Search, MS SQL, Apache, Ubuntu, Windows 12, Amazon S3 Skills LINUX (9 years), PYTHON (9 years), AJAX (8 years), DJANGO (8 years), JAVASCRIPT (8 years) Additional Information Technical Skills:  Programming Languages Python, Java, JavaScript, PHP, C, C++, MATLAB, Linux.  Frameworks Django, Spring/Hibernate  Web HTML5, XHTML, CSS3, Bootstrap, XML, JSON, JQuery, Ajax, Node.js, Web Services  Databases MySQL, PostgreSQL, MS-SQL 2008  Big Data Technologies Platforms Apache Spark, Apache Hadoop, Apache Hive, Pig Linux, Windows, Ubuntu  Tools & IDE Pytest, Selenium, SoapUI, IntelliJ Idea, PyCharm, Sublime, Eclipse, NetBeans, Dreamweaver  SDLC Waterfall, RAD, Agile, Scrum  Design Patterns Repository Pattern, Singleton, Template Method, Facade, Abstract Factory  Others GIT, PIP, PEP8, Celery, Redis, RESTful Web Services, Heroku, OpenCV, Django-Debug-Toolbar, UML, RUP