Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Fenton, MI • Experience in software development in Python (libraries used: libraries- Beautiful Soup, numpy, scipy, re, matplotlib, Python-twitter, Pandas data frame, urllib2, MySQL dB for database connectivity) and IDEs - sublime text, Anaconda, pycharm, emacs.  • In depth knowledge of different web frameworks Django, Flask, Pyramid.  • Having experienced in Agile Methodologies, Scrum stories and sprints experience in a Python based environment, along with data analytics, data wrangling and Excel data extracts.  • Expertise in Object-Oriented design. Good knowledge of various Design Patterns and UML.  • Proficient in SQL databases MS SQL, MySQL, Oracle, no-SQL.  • Hands-on experience in UNIX and Linux Kernels.  • Efficient in using Python Spark API and efficient in using apache Spark.  • Used Hive to analyses data by writing SQL like queries called HiveQL.  • Used Spark SQL to query structured data inside Spark programs using Data Frame API or SQL.  • Working experience on Amazon Web Services (AWS) Cloud services like EC2, S3, EBS, RDS, VPC, and IAM  • Designed, configured, and deployed Amazon Web Services (AWS) for applications utilizing the AWS stack (Including EC2, Route53, S3, RDS, Cloud Formation, Cloud Watch, SQS, IAM), focusing on high-availability, fault tolerance, and auto-scaling.  • Provided security and managed user access and quota using AWS Identity and Access Management (IAM).  • Build servers using AWS: Importing volumes, launching EC2, RDS, creating security groups, auto-scaling, load balancers (ELBs) in the defined virtual private connection.  • Used AWS lambda to run code virtually.  • Migrating physical Linux/Windows servers to cloud (AWS) and testing  • Basic knowledge in Front end development technologies like HTML, XML, CSS, JQuery, JSON and JavaScript, DOJO, Bootstrap, Node.js, backbone.js, Require.js.  • Good knowledge of server Apache Tomcat, Web logic  • Experience in developing web-based applications using Python 2.7/2.6, Django 1.4/1.3, PHP, Angular JS, VB, C++, XML, CSS, HTML, DHTML, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Experienced in various types of testing such as Unit testing, Integration testing, User acceptance testing, Functional testing.  • Experienced in writing SQL Queries, Stored procedures, functions, packages, tables, views, triggers.  • Strong skills in writing technical and functional documents defined by the business requirements.  • Good knowledge in various stages of SDLC (Software Development Life Cycle), Software Testing Life Cycle (STLC) and QA methodologies from project definition to post-deployment documentation.  • Maintained Automated Scripts and troubleshoot their issues for each Site Release, Feature, and, Small Enhancement Project.  • Well experienced in unit testing, integration testing and end-end testing.  • Strong understanding of Agile and Scrum Software Development Life Cycle Methodologies.  • Experienced in performing tests for nondeterministic code, testing multithreaded code, test design patterns, and more.  • Involved in the issue resolution and Root Cause Analysis.  • Developmental experience on Windows NT/95/98/2000/XP, UNIX and LINUX platforms. Sponsorship required to work in the US Work Experience Python Developer Fenton, MO June 2018 to Present Profile: Maritz is a sales and marketing services company that designs and operates employee recognition and reward programs, sales channel incentive programs, and customer loyalty programs. It also plans corporate trade shows, meetings and events, and offers a customer experience technology platform.    Responsibilities:  • Exposed to various phases of Software Development Life Cycle using Agile - Scrum Software development methodology.  • Good experience in developing web applications and implementing Model View Control (MVC) architecture using server-side applications like Django and Flask.  • Bring data deidentification projects from all the way from conceptualization to development, to deployment by owning technical aspects of software development and identifies opportunities to adopt innovative technologies.  • Designs and implements cloud scale distributed ETL/ELT systems, services and frameworks to address high volume and complex data collection, processing, transformation and reporting for analytical purposes.  • Developed tools to automate some base tasks using Shell Scripting, Python.  • Performed data extraction and manipulation over large relational datasets using SQL, python, and other analytical tools.  • Used python libraries and PostgreSQL queries/subqueries to create several datasets which produced statistics, tables, figures, charts and graphs  • Developed strategic partnerships with the business unit to develop a solid knowledge base of the business line, including the business plan, products, and processes.  • Developed custom scalable ETL pipelines using python, click to ingest Customer original data into de-identification data  • Involved in deployment using Docker Container on AWS.  • Used Python to write data into JSON files for testing Django Websites. Created scripts for data modelling and data import and export.  • Successfully migrated the Django database from SQLite to PostgreSQL with complete data integrity.  • Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes of the two main applications that were a main source of data for both customers and internal customer service team.  • Good hands on experience in data warehouse developer/ database engineer for high-volume data processing.  • Maintenance and continues development of the applications in PL/SQL procedures, ETL modules and shell scripting using best practices.  • Improved overall logging structure to de-identification application to make it more useful by implementing structured logging by using struct log and python inbuilt logging library  • Worked on ETL tasks like pulling, pushing data from and too various servers.  • Involved in development of Web Services using and REST for sending and getting data from the external interface in XML and JSON format.  • Experienced worked with systems processing large amounts of data. Familiarity using data streams using kinesis  • Collaborates with other peer organizations QA, DevOps, technical support to prevent and resolve technical issues and provide technical guidance  • Experience in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on PostgreSQL database  • Developed the notification service by posting the JSON request in AWS API Gateway, Validating the response in Lambda by getting the data from DynamoDB and sending the notification through AWS SNS.  • Setup database in AWS using RDS and configuring backups for S3 bucket, Worked on AWS Cloud services such as EC2, EBS, S3, VPC, Cloud Watch, and Elastic Load Balancer.  • Experience in Continuous Integration/Deployment environment like Circle CI and Jenkins.  • Experience in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on PostgreSQL database.  • Deployed the project into Jenkins using GIT version control system.  • Worked with View Sets in Django-REST framework for providing web services and consumed web services performing CRUD operations.  • Extracted log from Git using Python and performed data cleaning using regex to generate the Changelogs for comparing different software versions.  • Also used Python scripts for security purposes, AWS IAM, AWS lambda functions and deploying the applications through elastic beanstalk.  • Experienced in performing tests for nondeterministic code, testing multithreaded code, test design patterns.  Environment: Amazon Web Services (AWS), Cloud Environment, AWS Redshift, Python 3.4, Django, API  Gateway, Amazon S3, CloudWatch, GIT, Dockers, CircleCi, Jenkins, Kibana, Kubernetes Python Developer Prentice Hall - Iowa City, IA January 2017 to May 2018 Profile: Pearson Education is a British-owned education publishing and assessment service to schools and corporations, as well as directly to students. Pearson owns educational media brands including Addison-Wesley, Peachpit, Prentice Hall, eCollege, Longman, Scott Foresman, and others.    Responsibilities:  • Participated in the complete SDLC process. Written many programs to parse excel file and process many user data with data validations.  • Created network architecture on AWS VPC, subnets, Internet Gateway, Route. Perform S3 buckets creation, configured the storage on S3 buckets, policies and the IAM role-based policies.  • Designed high availability environment for Application servers and database servers on EC2 by using ELB and Auto-scaling.  • Used Cloud-watch for monitoring AWS cloud resources and the applications that deployed on AWS by creating new alarm, enable notification service.  • Add project users to the AWS account with multi factor authentication enabled and least privilege permissions.  • AWS Import/Export accelerates moving large amounts of data into and out of AWS using portable storage devices for transport.  • Used Subversion version control tool to coordinate team-development.  • Developed tools to automate some base tasks using Shell Scripting, Python.  • Designed and Developed User Interface using front-end technologies like HTML, JavaScript, Bootstrap and JSON. Worked with Regular Expressions, URLLIB modules.  • Develop applications that use MongoDB database and PyMongo.  • Integrating multiple databases and data sources in to one system.  • Managed and trained peers on the installation of MYSQL and in writing queries to achieve performance optimization.  • Wrote Python modules to extract/load asset data from the MySQL source database.  • Having experienced in Agile Methodologies, Scrum stories and sprints experience in a Python based environment, along with data analytics, data wrangling and Excel data extracts.  • Extensive hands-on engineering and implantation knowledge of leading container orchestration and infrastructure management tools  • Created multiple Python and UNIX shell Scripts for various application level tasks.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Developed and tested many features for dashboard using Django and JavaScript.  • Created unit test/regression test framework for working/new code  • Using Git as version control tool to coordinate team-development.  • Built development environment with JIRA, Stash/Git. Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Created Docker images using a Docker file, worked on Docker container snapshots, removing images and managing Docker volumes.  • Integration of Maven/Nexus, Jenkins, Urban Code Deploy with Patterns/Release, Git, Confluence, Jira.  • Developed automation scripting in Python (core) using Puppet to deploy and manage Java applications across Linux servers.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  • Participated in writing scripts for automation.  Environment: Python 2.7, AWS, Django, MySQL, Oracle 11.2, Linux, Django, Eclipse, Shell Scripting, HTML, XHTML, Git, CSS, AJAX, Bug zilla, JavaScript, Apache Web Server, Apache spark. Python Developer General Motors Company, commonly referred to as General Motors - Detroit, MI March 2015 to December 2016 GM), is an American multinational corporation headquartered in Detroit that designs, manufactures, markets, and distributes vehicles and vehicle parts, and sells financial services, with global headquarters in Detroit's Renaissance Center.    Responsibilities:  • Developed strategic partnerships with the business unit to develop a solid knowledge base of the business line, including the business plan, products, and processes.  • Build and deployment of scripts using python scripting, Shell to setup development and QA environments.  • Build servers using AWS, importing volumes, launching EC2, creating security groups, auto-scaling, load balancers (ELBs) in the defined virtual private connection. Migrated applications to the AWS cloud.  • Build and configure a virtual data centers in the Amazon Web Services cloud to support Enterprise Data Warehouse hosting including Virtual Private Cloud (VPC), Public and Private Subnets, Security Groups, Route Tables, Elastic Load Balancer.  • Used EC2 Container Service (ECS) to support Docker containers to easily run applications on a managed cluster of Amazon EC2 instances.  • Use AWS Beanstalk for deploying and scaling web applications and services developed with Java.  • Worked with Version Control tools like GIT.  • Used Python and Django creating graphics, XML, json processing, data exchange and business logic implementation  • Utilized PyUnit, the Python unit test framework, for all Python applications.  • Packaging, build, Test and Deploy chain, SVN with Dev/Test/Prod Branching Model for weekly releases.  • Developed GUI using webapp2 for dynamically displaying the test block documentation and other features of python code using a web browser.  • Co-ordinated with developers, Business Analyst and Mangers to make sure that code is deployed in the Production Environment.  • Wrote Python OO Design code for manufacturing quality, monitoring, logging, and debugging code optimization.  • Involved in Installation and setting up Python /Linux test beds. Worked with JSON based REST Web services.  • Generated property list for every application dynamically using python.  • Created branches in GIT implementation parallel development process.  • Created deployment request tickets in Bugzilla for the deploying the code to Production.  • Provided on-going support and administration for Jenkins, SonarQube, fortify scan, GIT and build automations.  • Integrated Jenkins with various Devops tools such as Nexus, Sonar Qube, Puppet etc.    • Used Splunk for centralized logging and debugging, experienced in Installing, Configuring and Monitoring using NAGIOS.  • Developed GIT hooks for the local repository, code commit and remote repository, code push functionality and on Git Hub.    Environment: AWS, GIT, Nexus, Django, Linux, Python/Shell script, Tomcat, SVN, Gradle, Nagios, Splunk, Kubernetes. Python Developer NCC Ltd - Hyderabad, Telangana May 2013 to November 2014 Profile: NCC contributes to India's progress through landmark infrastructure projects which demonstrate far-reaching impact - beyond the realm of construction. NCC has evolved as a leading mother brand with BOT, Realty and International businesses.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in the analysis and development of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC).  • Contributed in developing a web services middle-tier in Python to integrate with an existing MySQL backend. Wrote several internal API utilities and micro services to carry out specific tasks.  • Wrote and executed exhaustive SQL queries using Python with help from various query builders in Python to frame the queries.  • Migrated MySQL to NoSQL data store using ETL processes using Python. Tasks included CRUD, elaborate cleansing of data and packing it into the expected format - JSON.  • Developed Python scripts to perform auditing tasks and generating Excel reports to support engineering a logistics, sales and inventory management system.  • Worked as assistant to Web Programmer in creating Django/Flask Web apps. Generated sample JSON format queries for testing REST endpoints.  • Frequently performed adhoc File IO tasks in python. Dealt with CSV, JSON, Text, XML and XLSX files. Used shell scripting to automate repetitive tasks.  • Followed a test-driven approach closely. Used Python's Unit Testing extensively.    Environment: Python, MySQL, PostgreSQL, MongoDB, Jira, Flask, REST, JSON, CSV, Excel, Eclipse Linux Administrator Vasantha Tool Crafts Pvt. Ltd - Hyderabad, Telangana January 2012 to April 2013 Profile: Vasantha has pioneered many a breakthrough innovation in the design and manufacturing of plastic injection moulds and has one of the most sophisticated facilities in the whole of South East Asia. Has an excellent track record of building high cavitation and critical 101 class moulds to meet the ever-increasing requirements of the customers.    Responsibilities:  • Administered RedHat Enterprise Linux 5.x/4.x, OEL 5.x, & Solaris 9 Servers by testing, tuning, upgrading, patching and troubleshooting both Physical & Virtual server problems.  • Created Disk volumes, Volume groups and Logical volumes (LVM) for Linux operating systems.  • Installed and Configured Apache Tomcat Web Server.  • Configured Proxy Server (Squid), DNS, FTP and DHCP servers on Red Hat Enterprise Linux and maintained system securities using IPTABLES.  • Developed Shell scripts for automation of the build and release process. Developed automation scripting in Python to deploy some applications.  • Created the LDAP Scripts which monitor the LDAP connectivity and alerts the Admin Group if the connection is closed. Also administered Active Directory Servers.  • server, MySQL databases in both development and production.  • Experience in implementing and configuring network services such as HTTP, DHCP, and TFTP.  • Install and configure DHCP, DNS (BIND, MS), web (Apache, IIS), mail (SMTP, IMAP, POP3), and file servers on Linux servers.  • Troubleshooting Backup and Restore Problems Creation of LVMs on SAN using Linux utilities  • Troubleshooting Linux network, security-related issues, capturing packets using tools such as IP tables, firewall, and TCP wrapper and NMAP.  • By integrating WLST scripts to Shell scripts, artifacts like war, ear are deployed into WebLogic app server.  • Upgraded Red hat Linux OS on Web Sphere, JBoss and Oracle database servers from V3, V4 to V5.  • Monitored servers, switches, ports etc. with Nagios monitoring tool.  • Responsible for setting up Cronjobs scripts on production servers and Implementation of passwordless (SSH) authentication between servers.    Environment: RedHat Enterprise Linux 5.x/4.x, OEL 5.x, Solaris 9, LVM, RAID, Cronjobs, Oracle, MySQL, TCP/IP Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Cloud Microsoft Azure, Amazon Web Services, PCF, OpenStack  Python Libraries Pandas, Numpy, urlilib, matplotlib, UnitTest, JSON, CSV, XML, XLS  Python Framework Django, Flask  Version Control Tools Git, Github, SVN, VSS  Web Technologies J2EE, Servlets, JDBC, XML, JSON  Bug Tracking Tools Jira, Bugzilla, Rational Clear-quest  Scripting Languages Python, Javascript, HiveQL, Advanced PL/SQL, SQL, IDE's Splunk, SQL Developer  Languages C  Database Oracle 11g/10g/9i, DB2, MS-SQL Server, MySQL, MS-Access, PostgreSQL, NoSQL (Mongo DB), SQLite3  Software Developmet Lifecycle Agile Methodology, Scrum framework  Operating System Red Hat, Ubuntu, Debian, Fedora, CentOS, Windows, Solaris, Mac OS,Linux  Repository Management Nexus, JFrog, Artifactory  Build Tools Maven, Ant  Web and Application Servers JBoss, Apache Tomcat, Web Sphere, Web Logic, Nginx,  Container Orchestration Tools Docker Swarm, Azure Container Services