Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - Eli Lilly and Company • Senior software Engineer with 7 years of experience in Development, Analysis, Design, Testing, Linux administration and Cloud Management. Expertise in Financial, Insurance, and Healthcare domain. Support and Implementation of various stand-alone, client-server enterprise applications. Worked in software development using Python with Machine learning and Data science Libraries.  • Experience as a Web/Application Developer and Cloud Engineer as coding with analytical programming using Python, Django, Flask, HTML, CSS, JavaScript,XML, JQuery, JSON and DOJO, Bootstrap, Node.js, Angular.js, Backbone.js, React.js.  • Proficient in SQL databases MS SQL, MySQL, Oracle, no-SQL, Mongo DB, Cassand  • Experienced in PHP, Angular JS, VB, C++, XML, CSS, HTML, DHTML, JavaScript and J-Query.  • Used Apache Spark, Hadoop for big data analysis.  • Hands on experience in PhP.  • Having experienced in Agile Methodologies, Scrum stories and sprints experience in a Python based environment, along with data analytics, data wrangling and Excel data extracts.  • Hands-on experience in Unix and Linux Kernels, SVN, Git, JIRA, Bug zilla.  • Hands on experience in Hands on experience with version control tools such as SVN, GitHub, GitLab.  • Experience in SAS/STAT  • Actively involved in each phase of Software Development life cycle (SDLC) and experience in Agile Software Methodology, efficient in using Python Spark API and efficient in using apache Spark.  • Experience in GUI based on web/desktop for various tools (html,js,bootstrap,css,jquery.ajax, react,angular js etc).  • Provided security and managed user access and quota using AWS Identity and Access Management (IAM).  • Good knowledge of server side programming, Apache Tomcat, Web logic,  • Experienced in various types of testing such as Unit testing, Integration testing, User acceptance testing, Functional testing using selenium.  • Strong understanding of Agile and Scrum Software Development Life Cycle Methodologies.  • Experienced in performing tests for nondeterministic code, testing multithreaded code, test design patterns, and more.  • Strong skills in writing technical and functional documents defined by the business requirements.  • Maintained Automated Scripts and troubleshoot their issues for each Site Release, Feature, and, Small Enhancement Project.  • We'll experienced in Unit testing, integration testing and end-end testing.  • Developmental experience on Windows NT/95/98/2000/XP, UNIX and LINUX platforms. Work Experience Python Developer Eli Lilly and Company - Indianapolis, IN January 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • The Project is to development of drug development and treatment tracking system. Also, there was Worked on conversion of Sales/Back Office Integration system from PHP to python/Django System.  • Developed dynamic web pages using python Django Frameworks.  • Build and configure a virtual data centers in the Amazon Web Services cloud to support Enterprise Data Warehouse hosting including Virtual Private Cloud (VPC), Public and Private Subnets, Security Groups, Route Tables, Elastic Load Balancer.  • Wrote Python OO Design code for manufacturing quality, monitoring, logging, and debugging code optimization.  • Developed strategic partnerships with the business unit to develop a solid knowledge base of the business line, including the business plan, products, and processes.  • Build servers using AWS, importing volumes, launching EC2, creating security groups, auto-scaling, load balancers (ELBs) in the defined virtual private connection. Migrated applications to the AWS cloud.  • Experienced in build and deployment of Java applications on to different environments such as QA, UAT and Production.  • Co-ordinated with developers, Business Analyst and Mangers to make sure that code is deployed in the Production Environment.  • Build and deployment of scripts using python scripting, Shell to setup development and QA environments.  • Used EC2 Container Service (ECS) to support Docker containers to easily run applications on a managed cluster of Amazon EC2 instances.  • Worked with Version Control tools like GIT and created branches in GIT implementation parallel development process.  • Developed GIT hooks for the local repository, code commit and remote repository, code push functionality and on Git Hub.  • Used Python and Django creating graphics, XML, J son processing, data exchange and business logic implementation  • Utilized PyUnit, the Python unit test framework, for all Python applications.  • Packaging, build, Test and Deploy chain, SVN with Dev/Test/Prod Branching Model for weekly releases.  • Hands on standard of SCM tools (Git), CI/CD (Jenkins/Maven) process.  • Developed GUI using webaspp2 for dynamically displaying the test block documentation and other features of python code using a web browser.  • Involved in Installation and setting up Python /Linux test beds. Worked with JSON based REST Web services.  • Generated property list for every application dynamically using Python.  • Created deployment request tickets in Bugzilla for the deploying the code to Production.  • Provided on-going support and administration for Jenkins, SonarQube, fortify scan, GIT and build automations.  • Integrated Jenkins with various Devops tools such as Nexus, Sonar Qube, Puppet etc.  • Involved in migration of CI tool stack from SVN to GIT, Maven to Gradle, Build force to Jenkins.  • Create Jenkins pipeline jobs for Puppet release process for module deployment, using Kanban methodology for Puppet development.  • Used Splunk for centralized logging and debugging, experienced in Installing, Configuring and Monitoring using NAGIOS.  • Creating the Brokers for the use of Kubernetes, Kafka, zookeeper.  • Installed Jenkins on Linux machines and created master and slave configurations to implement multiple parallel builds.  Environment: Python 2.7, AWS, GIT, Jenkins, Nexus, Django, Linux, Python/Shell script, Tomcat, SVN, Gradle, Nagios, Splunk, Kubernetes. Python developer Carmax - Richmond, VA January 2017 to December 2017 Responsibilities:  • Analysis and Design of application and created UI using JavaScript and HTML5/CSS.  • Hands-on experience in writing and reviewing requirements, architecture documents, test plans, design documents, quality analysis, audits and generating technical documentation for the project  • Developed and tested many features for dashboard using Python, Bootstrap, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Implemented business logic using Python/Django with Jinja templating system.  • Worked with millions of database records daily, finding common errors and bad data patterns and fixing them.  • Exported/Imported data between different data sources using SQL Server Management Studio.  • Maintained program libraries, users' manuals and technical documentation.  • Managed large datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL.  • Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL DB package.  • Thorough knowledge in various front-end tools like HTML, DHTML, CSS, JavaScript, XML, J-Query, Angular JS, and AJAX  • Built various graphs for business decision-making using Python Matplotlib library.  • Fetched twitter feeds for certain important keyword using python-twitter library and used it for sentimental analysis.  • Used Python library Beautiful Soup for web scrapping.  • Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes of the two main applications that were a main source of data for both customers and internal customer service team.  • Created most important Business Rules which are useful for the scope of project and needs of customers.  • Designed the architecture of the hardware environments and methodology of the code.  • Took part in various lifecycle phases such as Design, Development, and Deployment, Testing and Implementation and support.  • Used SQL Alchemy to generate ORM model for the project to connect python backend code to Postgres database  • Work with team of developers on Python applications for RISK management.  • Created AWS S3 buckets, configuring buckets with permissions, logging, versioning and tagging.  • Used BOTO3 software development kit for AWS S3 services.  • Participated in Performance tuning and query optimization in AWS Redshift  • Managed Amazon redshift clusters such as launching the cluster by specifying the nodes and performing the data analysis queries.  • Used Pandas and Scikit-learn libraries for statistics Analysis.  • Used python flask framework to develop Restful API's service.  • Created Restful API's to integrate and enhance functionalities of the application. Also Utilized Restful API in communicating with third parties  • For sending and receiving the data between multiple systems RESTful Web-Services were implemented.  • Used Docker and Ansible to fully automate the deployment and execution of benchmark suite on a cluster of machines.  • Utilized continuous integration and automated deployments with Jenkins, Ansible and Docker  • Applied NLP techniques and increased accuracy  • Performed tokenization in NLP. Used NLP to rank the documents and data.  • Experienced in Agile Methodologies and SCRUM Process.  • Worked in development of applications especially in UNIX environment and familiar with all of its commands.  • Refactored existing project to make it more Restful and thread-safe.  • Added unit tests and improved existing ones using assert and Py-unit.  • Designed RESTful XML web service for handling AJAX requests.    Environment: Python 2.7, Django, HTML5/CSS, UNIX, MS SQL Server 2013, Jasper, Reports, JavaScript, Eclipse, Linux, Shell Scripting, RESTful, MVC3. Python Developer Change Healthcare - Chicago, IL December 2015 to December 2016 Responsibilities:  • Developed strategic partnerships with the business unit to develop a solid knowledge base of the business line, including the business plan, products, and processes.  • Wrote Python routines to log into the websites and fetch data for selected options.  • Followed Agile Methodologies and SCRUM Process.  • Develop programs to automate the testing of RAID controller firmware and utilities using Python, Java, Java Script,  • Responsible for Amazon web services (AWS) infrastructure with automation and configuration management tool such as chef.  • Worked on JavaScript MVC Framework like Angular.js.  • Worked with Open Stack Command-line client.  • Created backend database T-SQL stored procedures and Jasper Reports.  • Used Python modules such as requests, urllib, urllib2 for web crawling.  • Worked on a resulting report of the application and Tableau reports.  • Hands on with tools Git/GitHub, Ansible, Artifactory, Jenkins, OpenStack, Balance, Node-Proxy, VMWare, and Open Source software to build automated testing and delivery pipelines.  • Built Kubernetes environment deployed via terraform. Built AMIs with packer.  • Setup a Docker cluster built own PaaS and used Kubernetes cluster for orchestration and testing.  • Deployed Docker containerized applications using Kubernetes in Google Cloud Platform(GCP).  • Log monitoring and generating visual representations of logs using ELK stack. Implement CI/CD tools Upgrade, Backup, Restore, DNS, LDAP and SSL setup.  • Utilize PyUnit, the Python unit test framework, for all Python applications.  • Exported/Imported data between different data sources using SQL Server Management Studio.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Perform S3 buckets creation, policies and IAM role based policies  • Build servers using AWS, importing volumes, launching EC2, RDS, creating security groups, auto scaling, load balancers (ELBs) in the defined virtual private connection.  • Deploy applications on AWS by using Elastic Beanstalk.  Environment: Python 2.7/3.0, Django 1.5/1.8, AWS, C++, XML, Agile (SCRUM), PyUnit, MYSQL, CSS, MySQL, DHTML, HTML, JavaScript, Angular.js, Shell Scripts, Git, Linux, Unix and Windows. Python Developer Value Labs - Hyderabad, Telangana September 2014 to May 2015 Responsibilities:  • Involved in the analysis and development of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC).  • Contributed in developing a web services middle-tier in Python to integrate with an existing MySQL backend. Wrote several internal API utilities and micro services to carry out specific tasks.  • Wrote and executed exhaustive SQL queries using Python with help from various query builders in Python to frame the queries.  • Migrated MySQL to NoSQL data store using ETL processes using Python. Tasks included CRUD, elaborate cleansing of data and packing it into the expected format - JSON.  • Developed Python scripts to perform auditing tasks and generating Excel reports to support engineering a logistics, sales and inventory management system.  • Worked as assistant to Web Programmer in creating Django/Flask Web apps. Generated sample JSON format queries for testing REST endpoints.  • Frequently performed Adhoc File IO tasks in python. Dealt with CSV, JSON, Text, XML and XLSX files. Used shell scripting to automate repetitive tasks.  • Followed a test-driven approach closely. Used Python's Unit Testing extensively.  Environment: Python, MySQL, PostgreSQL, MongoDB, Jira, Flask, REST, JSON, CSV, Excel, Eclipse SQL Programmer Unilever - Chennai, Tamil Nadu June 2011 to August 2014 Responsibilities:    • Designed and developed the interface program to Import item master using SQL *Loader, PL/SQL package and Import Concurrent program.  • Involved in customization of Oracle Forms, Oracle Reports.  • Created views, procedures, and functions, packages in the Oracle Database using PL-SQL, SQL/PLUS and TOAD.  • Developed PL/SQL packages using indexes, joins, bulk collects and bulk variables.  • Made Forms customization on various existing forms.  • Developed many complex reports using Oracle Reports 6.  • Designed and developed front-end applications using Oracle Forms 6i.  • Developed Ad-hoc reports as per the requirement in Oracle Reports.  • Process payments automatically and manually in case of exceptions.  • Involved in developing test plans and test cases based on high-level and detailed designs.  • Extensively used SQL Developer for database access and PL/SQL Development and SQL tuning.  • Involved in Production Support and troubleshooting data quality and integrity issues.  Environments: SQL*Loader, Oracle Reports 6i, SQL, PL/SQL, Toad, Oracle 11g, SQL*Plus, SQL developer, UNIX. Education Bachelor's Skills Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud (2 years), AWS (3 years), CSS. (2 years), database (5 years), Django (3 years), EC2 (2 years), GIT (2 years), HTML (2 years), Java (2 years), JavaScript (2 years), MS SQL Server (2 years), MySQL. (2 years), PL/SQL (3 years), Python (3 years), scripting (2 years), SQL (6 years), SQL Server (2 years), Testing (2 years), Web Services (2 years), XML (3 years)