Sr. Python Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Python Developer - HP Kansas City, MO • Around 8 years' experience in IT industry with proficiency in Design and Development using Python, Django, Java/J2EE and Flask projects.  • Experience in various stage of SDLC (Software Development Life Cycle), Software Testing Life Cycle(STLC) and QA methodologies from project definition to post-deployment documentation.  • Strong experience of software development in python (libraries used: Beautiful Soup, numpy, scipy, matplotlib, Pandas data frame, urllib2, MySQL dB for database connectivity).  • Experienced in working on Application Servers like WebSphere, WebLogic, Tomcat, Web Servers like Apache server, NGINX and Integrated Development Environments like pycharm, Eclipse and RAD.  • Used HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, JavaScript and jQuery to develop a web based UI design and Interface development.  • Worked on JIRA for bug tracking and communicating for better results. Strong Experience in Big data technologies including Apache spark, Hadoop, HDFS, Hive, Cassandra, MongoDB.  • Created applications using Python under Linux OS (Debian, Ubuntu, SUSE Linux, Red Hat Linux) environment.  • Written Python Scripts, mappers to run on Hadoop distributed file system (HDFS).  • Have written queries in Hive to process the data from Hadoop based systems.  • Experience in Agile Methodologies, Scrum stories and Sprints experience in a python based environment along with analytics, data wrangling and Excel data extracts.  • Developmental experience on Windows, UNIX, Linux platforms.  • Have strictly followed PEP-8 coding standard and test a program by running it across test cases to ensure validity and effectiveness of code using PyLint, Jenkins.  • Good knowledge of data analytics and nlp techniques.  • Extensively used Amazon Web services like amazon EC2, Amazon s3, Redshift, EMR apart from other Cloud services from Google and Microsoft.  • Experience in C and C++ languages. Written C and C++ applications and also migrated many legacy applications to python.  • Good knowledge in testing tools like Bugzilla, Junit and JIRA.  • Strong analytical and Problem-solving skills, always striving for new knowledge. A person with multi-tasking and Organizational skills and high ethical Standards.  • Swift learner and can juggle between various emerging technologies. Work Experience Sr. Python Developer HP December 2015 to Present Responsibilities:  • Participated in the complete SDLC process and used PHP to develop website functionality.  • Used Django Framework in developing web applications to implement the model view control (MVC) architecture.  • Developed analytical component using Scala and KAFKA.  • Designed Forms, Modules, Views and Templates using Django and Python.  • Installed/configures/maintained Apache servers on all machines (production server and developmental servers).  • Created script in python for calling REST APIs.  • REST API development via Django REST Framework.  • Implemented Business logic, data exchange, XML processing and graphics creation using Python and Django.  • Implemented RESTful Web-services for sending and receiving the data between multiple systems.  • Configured Docker container for branching purposes.  • Implemented Business logic, data exchange, XML processing and graphics creation using Python and Django.  • Rewrite existing Python/Flask module to deliver certain format of data.  • Responsible for performing machine learning techniques regression/classification to predict the outcomes.  • Validated the machine learning classifiers using ROC Curves and Lift Charts.  • Helped the company migrate to deep learning by implementing Tensor Flow and LSTM for model training.  • Created authorization scheme which enforced limitations on API clients.  • Worked on Docker container snapshots attaching to a running container, removing images, managing director structures and managing container.  • Overwritten Django Rest Framework internals to allow for more dynamic routing.  • Developed an application in Linux environment and dealt with all its commands.  • Design and develop ETL APIs which will automate the data mining in different database sources.  • Worked on ETL processing which consists of data transformation, data sourcing and also mapping, conversion and loading.  • Experience working on several Docker components like Docker Engine, Hub, Machine, Compose and Docker Registry.  • Installed/configured/maintained Apache servers on all machines (production server and development servers).  • Administrate Continuous Integration services (Jenkins, Nexus Artifactory and Repository).  • Designed and Developed DB2 SQL Procedures and UNIX Shell Scripts for Data Import/Export and Conversions.  • Installed/configured/maintained MySQL database and MongoDB database.  • Executed Backend and Database Tests using SQL queries, validating the data for database editing and debugging is conducted using selenium.  Environment: Python 3.x, Django, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, PHP, MySQL, JSON, UNIX, XML, AJAX, Tensor Flow, KAFKA, Docker, Bootstrap. Python Developer Bloomberg September 2014 to November 2015 Responsibilities:  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes of the two main applications that were a main source of data for both customers and internal customer service team.  • Implanted a continuous delivery pipeline with Docker, Jenkins and GitHub. Whenever a new GitHub branch gets started, Jenkins our continuous Integration server, automatically attempts to build a new Docker container from it.  • Web-Service backend development using Python (cherrypie, Django, SqlAlchemy).  • Utilized standard Python modules such as CSV, itertools and pickle for development.  • Private VPN using Ubuntu, Python, Django, CherryPy, Postgres, Redis, Bootstrap, jQuery, Fabric, Git, Tenjin, Selenium, Sphinx, Nose.  • Performed QA testing on the application.  • Developed a standard ETL framework for reusability of similar logic.  • Worked on creating custom ETL scripts using python for business related data.  • Wrote and executed various MySQL database from python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL db package.  • Developed ETL software for DB2 columnar database fact and dimension tables.  • Also used Bootstrap as a mechanism to manage and organize the html page layout.  • Implement code in python to retrieve and manipulate data.  • Used Django configuration to manage URLs and application parameters.  • Added support for Amazon Aws S3 and RDS to host static/media files and the database into amazon Cloud.  Environment: Python 2.7, Django 1.8, HTML5, CSS, XML, MySQL, MySQL Server, JavaScript, AWS, Docker, Linux, Shell Scripting, AJAX, urllib, urllib2, Json, Cherrypy, Unix, Redis, Bootstrap, Mongo db, jQuery. Python Developer Verizon October 2013 to August 2014 Responsibilities:  • Used Django framework for application development.  • Developed user interface using CSS, HTML, JavaScript and jQuery.  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL.  • Used several python libraries like wxpython, numpy and matplotlib.  • Used Pandas API to put the data as time series and tabular format for east timestamp data manipulation and retrieval.  • Ensured high quality data collection and maintaining the integrity of the data.  • Build all database mapping classes using Django models.  • This project also used other technologies like jQuery for JavaScript manipulations, bootstrap for the front-end html layout.  • Cleaned data and processed third party spending data into maneuverable deliverables within specific formats with Excel macros and python libraries.  • Assisted in reduction of cost and optimization of supplier selection for the CRM applications.  • Integration of Python with C and C++ libraries.  • Developed Python classes and used decorated methods to create the dependency graphs for the business logic and core applications that are pre-built using C++.  • Creating unit test/regression test framework for working/new code.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  • Developed, tested and debugged software tools utilized by clients and internal customers.  • Coded test programs and evaluated existing engineering processes.  • Performed research to explore and identify new technological platforms.  • Collaborated with internal teams to convert end user feedback into meaningful and improved solutions.  • Resolved ongoing problems and accurately documented progress of a project.  Environment: Python 2.7, scipy, Pandas, Bugzilla, SVN, C++, Java, jQuery, MySQL, Linux, Eclipse, Shell Scripting, HTML5/CSS. Python Developer Indmax - IN December 2009 to September 2013 Responsibilities:  • Developed application logic using Python, Java Script, Java.  • Implemented business logic using Python 2.7.  • Used HTML, CSS, JavaScript and jQuery and implemented AJAX for dynamic functionality of a webpage for front end applications.  • Worked on front end frame works like Bootstrap for responsive webpages.  • Designed object model, data model, tables, constraints, necessary stored procedures, functions, triggers and package for Oracle Database.  • Fetched twitter feeds for certain important keywords using python-twitter library.  • Worked on Python OpenStack APIs and used numpy for Numerical analysis.  • Developed and executed various MySQL database Queries from python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL database package.  • Implemented SQLAlchemy which is python library for complete access over SQL.  • Used AJAX and jQuery for transmitting JSON data between frontend and controllers.  • Designed and managed API system deployment using fast http server and Amazon AWS architecture.  • Experience in large file transfers.  • Managed large datasets using Pandas data frames and MySQL.  • Created automated test scripts for web applications with Ruby.  • Worked with the design team for project structure.  • Created a Git repository and added the project to GitHub.  • Wrote Python scripts to JSON documents and load the data in database.  • All projects adhered to agile principles to deliver commitments, meet acceptance criteria and ensure fast releases.  Environment: Linux and Windows Python, Django, MySQL, Linux, HTML, CSS, AJAX, JavaScript, jQuery. Skills Bootstrap. (7 years), CSS (7 years), Django (7 years), HTML (7 years), JavaScript (7 years) Additional Information Technical Skills:  Languages Python, C, C++, Java, Shell.  Frameworks Bootstrap, REST, spring, Django.  Databases Oracle, My SQL, MongoDB, SQL,NoSQL DynamoDB, PostgreSQL and Redis  Web Technologies HTML 4.0/5.0, XHTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, JSON, AJAX, Bootstrap, ReactJS.  Cloud Amazon web services and Resources.  Web/Application Servers Apache Tomcat, SOAP  Operating System Red Hat Enterprise Linux 5.x/6.x/7.x, Solaris [ ], Unix, Windows [ ], Mac OSX  Version Control Tools Git/GitHub, SVN  Development Tools Sublime Text, Visual Studio, Cordova, Postman, JIRA, karma, Jasmine, Gulp.    Methodologies Agile, Scrum, Waterfall, Design Pattern.