Sr. Python Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Python Developer - United Site Westborough, MA • Good experience of software development in Python (libraries used: Beautiful Soup, numpy, scipy, matplotlib, python-twitter, Pandas data frame, network, urllib2, MySQL dB for database connectivity).  • Experienced in developing applications using React JS /Redux and experience in working with React Flux architecture. Experienced in creating Restful API in NodeJS.  • Extensive experience with Amazon Web Services (AWS), Open stack, Docker Puppet, Chef, Ansible, AWS Cloud Formation, AWS Cloud Front and Experience in using containers like Docker and familiar with Jenkins.  • Experience with Unit testing/ Test driven Development (TDD), Load Testing in JIRA, JENKIN.  • Experience with Requests, Pysftp, Gnupg, ReportLab, Numpy, Scipy, Matplotlib, HTTPLib2, Urllib2, Beautiful Soup and Pandas python libraries during development lifecycle.  • Proficient in developing Web Services (SOAP, RESTful) in Python3.5 using XML, JSON.  • Experience working with Python data stack (pandas, dask, scikit learn, statsmodels, numpy, matplotlib, seaborn).  • Written with object-oriented Python, Flask, SQL, Beautiful Soup, httplib2, Jinja2, HTML/CSS,  • Bootstrap, jQuery, Linux, Sublime Text, git.  • Extensive experience in system analysis, design, development and implementation of web based and client/server application using HTML, Angular JS, Bootstrap, underscore JS, Node JS, CSS, JavaScript, AJAX, JSP, JDBC, XML, XSLT, Python3.5, Django.  • Experienced in MVC frameworks like Django, Angular JS, Java Script, jQuery and Node.js.  • Experienced in web applications development using Django/ Python, Flask/ Python and Node.js, Angular.js, DOJO, jQuery while using HTML/CSS/JS for server-side rendered applications.  • Developed consumer-based features and applications using Python, Django, HTML, Behaviour Driven Development (BDD) and pair-based programming.  • Strong knowledge of Continuous Integration/Continuous Development (CI/CD) with Kubernetes Spinnaker.  • Strong expertise in development of web-based applications using python scripting, Django sites with  REST and AngularJS for making it more responsive.  • Experience in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on MySQL and PostgreSQL database  • Experience in setting up VPN environment for Client and Configuring and launching AWS EC2 instances as per requirement.  • Using Django evolution and manual SQL modifications was able to modify Django models while retaining all data, while site was in production mode.  • Good experience with Amazon Cloud EC2, Redshift, Lambda, Simple Storage Service S3 and Amazon SQS.  • Experienced in developing web-based applications using Python, Django, PHP, XML, CSS, HTML, DHTML, JavaScript and jQuery, RUBY, AJAX.  • Hands-on experiences in Python scripting, Python STL, Pylons, Django, UI and web development.  • Excellent knowledge in developing web application using Model View Control (MVC) architecture using Django, Flask and Spring web frameworks. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Python Developer United Site - Westborough, MA May 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Developed various screens for the front end using React JS and used various predefined components from NPM (Node Package Manager) and redux libraries. Used Middleware Redux-thunk, Redux-Promise in application to retrieve data from Back-End and perform RESTFUL services  • Worked with Redux Middleware Redux-Sagas while working with the CRUD operations like GET, POST, PUT and DELETE methods. Worked with React JS components, Redux Forms, Events, Animations and Router. Experience working on Redux Unidirectional data-flow achieving the predictable application behaviour.  • Written Python utilities and scripts to automate tasks in AWS using boto3 and AWS SDK. Automated backups using AWS SDK (boto3) to transfer data into S3 buckets.  • Used JavaScript for Dynamic Page Functionality, popup screens and the user entry validations. Handled all the client-side validation using JavaScript.  • Creating restful web services for Catalog and Pricing with Django MVT, Jersey, MySQL, and MongoDB.  • Representation of the system in hierarchy form by defining the components, subcomponents using Python and developed set of library functions over the system based on the user needs.  • Developed application using Amazon Web Service like EC2, cloud search, Elastic load balancer ELB, S#, Cloud FronDeploy and monitor scalable infrastructure on Amazon web services (AWS) & configuration management using puppet.  • Designed and maintained databases using Python and developed Python based API (RESTful Web Service) using Flask, SQLAlchemy and PostgreSQL.  • Involved in writing application level code to interact with Restful Web APIs, Web Services using AJAX, JSON, XML and jQuery.  • Worked with WEB API's to make calls to the web services using URLs, which would perform GET, PUT, POST and DELETE operations on the server.  • Designed and led big data algorithms using Hadoop and Java to improve forecasting and used Hive QL to generate reports.  • Involved in debugging the applications monitored on JIRA using agile methodology.  • Used Grunt for build tool for configuring tasks, Karma, Jasmine for Unit Testing  • Created Python scripts to automate AWS services which include web servers, ELB, Cloud front distribution, databases, security groups and application configuration.  • Created scripts for system administration and AWS using languages such as BASH and Python.  • Composed the front end of the application using Python 2.7, HTML, CSS, AJAX, JSON and JQuery. Worked on backend of the application, essentially utilizing Active Records.  • Designed and developed communication between client and server using Secured Web services such as Django-rest-framework.  • For reading the data faster integrated Radis-Cache with the Django-rest-framework.  • Designed the application using HTML5, AngularJS, JQLite, CSS, UI-Grid, Bootstrap, CSS, Web-API, ngroute and responsive web-design that supports mobile environment. Sr. Python Developer State Street - Boston, MA December 2014 to May 2017 Responsibilities:  • Developed user interface by using React Redux for SPA development.  • Used ReactJS Axios Ajax calls to get, post, delete REST API calls. Used ReactJS to create Controllers to handle events triggered by clients and send request to server.  • Used the AWS SDK for Python to write programs to perform the CRUD and Cross-functional operations on Amazon DynamoDB.  • Created Restful API's to integrate and enhance functionalities of the application. Also Utilized Restful API in communicating with third parties.  • Perform data analysis with python using the pandas library. Have used n-dimensional arrays in NumPy as well as the pandas Series and DataFrames to analyse data.  • Used Python, Pandas/matplotlib/seaborn for feature engineering, quantitative analysis, exploratory data analysis, Scikit learn, XGBoost for scaling, standardization, model evaluation and developing the model.  • Responsible for designing and developing front and back end of the applications utilizing python on  • Developed API's using python flask and restful web services.  • Working in a team of developers to build and deploy Flask, Linux, and AWS. Used Amazon Elastic Beanstalk with Amazon EC2 to deploy project into AWS  • Used Python AWS SDK for dynamic creation of EC2 instance and installed the application on AWS EC2 instances  • Worked on various Integrated Development Environments like Pycharm, Anaconda Spyder.  • Built various graphs for business decision making using Python Matplotlib library.  • Developed Views and Templates with Python and using Django's view controller and template language for the Web application.  • Developed single page applications using Angularjs, implemented two-way data binding using AngularJS.  • Used Unit.js testing framework along with Jasmine, Karma, Protractor and Mocha test runners  • Usage of advance features like pickle/unpickle in python for sharing the information across the applications.  • Used Selenium Library to write fully functioning test automation process that allowed the simulation of submitting different requests from multiple browsers to web application.  • Used Python and Django to interface with the jQuery UI and manage the storage and deletion of content.  • Implemented TDD and written integration tests using Cucumber and Jasmine.  • Used Pandas API to put the data as time series and tabular format for easy timestamp data manipulation and retrieval.  • Developed a web application for developers to generate their own REST API calls in, JAVA, and Python. Python developer Xerox Corp - Atlanta, GA October 2012 to December 2014 Responsibilities:  • Web application development using Python 3.5, Django 1.9, Flask, MongoDB, JavaScript, AJAX, HTML, XML and template languages.  • Developed server-based web traffic statistical analysis tool using Flask, Pandas.  • Developed and tested many features in an AGILE environment using Ruby on Rails, HTML5, CSS, JavaScript, and Bootstrap.  • Deploy and monitor scalable infrastructure on Amazon web services (AWS)& configuration management using chef.  • Created a Python/Django based web application using Python scripting for data processing, MySQL for  • the database, and HTML/CSS/jQuery and High Charts for data visualization of the served pages.  • Implemented ETL process to ingest analytical data stored in S3 into a Redshift data warehouse cluster using AWS Lambda Microservices.  • Migrated the Django database from SQLite to MySQL to PostgreSQL with complete data integrity.  • Created and updated complex views and stored procedures in Postgre SQL.  • Deployment of entire infrastructure using cloud formation.  • Used Docker to implement a high-level API to provide lightweight containers that run processes isolation and worked on creation of customized Docker container images, tagged and pushed the images to the Docker repository.  • Django Framework that was used in developing web applications to implement the model view control architecture.  • Implemented a continuous Delivery Pipeline with Jenkins and GitHub to build a new Docker container automatically  • Used Git to resolve and coding the work on python and portlet and Utilized continuous integration and automated deployments with Jenkins, Ansible and Docker.  • Managed the configuration of the existing AWS servers by using the Ansible.  • Performed efficient delivery of code based on principles of Test Driven Development (TDD) and continuous integration to keep in line with Agile Software Methodology principles  • Python/Django based web application, Postgre sql DB and integrations with 3rd party email, messaging, storage services.  • Integrate the dynamic pages with Angular JS and jquery to make the pages dynamic and Creating and configuring virtual development environments with Chef and Virtual Box and Part of the SOA (Service Oriented Architecture) team enforcing best practices for services (REST and SOAP).  • Designed and developed System monitoring in Python and Redis to keep track health of Platform, HBase, Storm, Kafka etc in the multi-node cluster environment.  • Developed a fully automated continuous integration system using Git, Gerrit, Jenkins, MySQL and custom tools developed in Python and Bash  • Used Pandas library for statistics Analysis. Used Numpy for Numerical analysis and Managed large datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL. Python Developer Kaiser Permanente - Pleasanton, CA August 2010 to October 2012 Responsibilities:  • Developed python scripts to collect data from source systems and store it on HDFS to run analytics  • Working with data transformations Big Data from HDFS, HIVE, HBASE and MySQL and Pig.  • Automating the data operations using Oozie and analyzing the data by performing Hive Queries.  • Creating the tables in Hive and integrating data between Hive & Spark. Created Hive Partitioned and Bucketed tables to improve performance. Created Hive tables with User-defined functions  • Developed monitoring python framework to insert data into postgres SQL database and help test functionalities.  • Designed and developed a horizontally scalable APIs using Python Flask.  • Participated in implementation and deployment of DevOps areas including Continuous Integration, Automated Testing, Continuous Deployment and Continuous Delivery.  • Automated setting up server infrastructure for the DevOps services, using puppet/Ansible, shell and python scripts.  • Design and developed workflow using python and API to create REST services to the application  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Managed datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL, queried MYSQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL db package to retrieve information.  • Utilized Python libraries wxPython, numPY, Twisted and mat PlotLib. Wrote Python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Upgraded existing UI with HTML, CSS, jQuery and Bootstrap with AngularJS interaction.  • Experience in utilizing open-source frameworks such as Angular-JS, Node-JS, Struts, Spring, Hibernate, JSF and jQuery.  • Implemented user interface guidelines and standards throughout the development and maintenance of the website using the HTML, CSS, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Written functional php unit test cases for Data Layer, and Search server classes using Django, Curl, XML, JSON, REST base services and MongoDB.  • Created Data tables utilizing PyQtto display customer and policy information and add, delete, update customer records.  • Used Python and Django creating graphics, XML processing, data exchange and business logic implementation.  • Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks.  • Used third party JQuery based plug-ins like JQuery UI, Data tables etc. Heavily used JavaScript for Form Submit and other UI elements during development. Education Bachelor's