Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - Comerica Bank San Jose, CA • Over 5+ years of experience as an Analysis, Design, Development, Management and Implementation of various stand-alone, client-server enterprise applications.  • Good knowledge in various stages of SDLC (Software Development Life Cycle), Software Testing Life Cycle (STLC) and QA methodologies from project definition to post-deployment documentation.  • Experienced in MVW frameworks like Flask/Django, Angular.JS, Java Script, JQuery and Node.js.  • Experience in developing web-based applications and design using Python, Django, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JAVA, Angular.JS, jQuery, MVC3, Bootstrap, RESTful, RUBY and AJAX and C++.  • Experience in using Python integrated IDE's like IntelliJ, Eclipse and PyCharm.  • Experienced in working on Application Servers like WebSphere, WebLogic, Tomcat, Web Servers like Apache server, NGINX.  • Strong experience of software development in Python (libraries used: libraries- Beautiful Soup, Numpy, Scipy, matplotlib, Python-twitter, Pandas Dataframe, Networkx, Urllib2, MySQLdb for database connectivity) and IDEs - sublime text, Pycharm and emacs.  • Expert in developing dynamic web pages including front end and back end using Python and Django Frameworks.  • Experience on Python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Experience in developing web services (WSDL, SOAP and REST) and consuming web services with Python programming language.  • Experience in managing datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL.  • Experience implementing Object Oriented Python, Hash Tables (Dictionaries) and Multithreading, Django, MY-SQL.  • Performed mapping of XML formatted data with relational databases like MySQL, Postgre SQL.  • Experience in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on SQL and Postgre SQL database.  • Good idea about testing tools like Bugzilla and JIRA.  • Very good experience with cloud platforms like Amazon AWS.  • Having experienced in Agile Methodologies, Scrum stories and sprints experience in a Python based environment, along with data analytics, data wrangling and Excel data extracts.  • Highly motivated, dedicated, quick learner and have proven ability to build and manage a team and work individually.  • Excellent communication and interpersonal skills, ability to work independently as well as part of an integrated team. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Developer Comerica Bank - Brea, CA November 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Responsible for gathering requirements, system analysis, design, development, testing and deployment.  • Used Python based GUI components for the front end functionality such as selection criteria.  • Created test harness to enable comprehensive testing utilizing Python.  • Utilize PyUnit, the Python unit test framework, for all Python applications.  • Involved in UI development for the application using HTML5, CSS3, and Angular.js.  • Implemented the presentation layer with HTML, DHTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Rewrite existing Java application in Python module to deliver certain format of data.  • Created Business Logic using Python to create Planning and Tracking functions.  • Wrote Python routines to log into the websites and fetch data for selected options.  • Developed Business Logic using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Used Jenkins for continuous integration and continuous delivery (CI/CD) and to implement the End-to-End Automation.  • Used Pandas API to put the data as time series and tabular format for east timestamp data manipulation and retrieval.  • Build all database mapping classes using Django models.  • Used Python SNMP for automating Network Management in Windows server.  • Worked with JSON based REST Web services and Amazon Web services (AWS).  • Involved in AJAX driven application by invoking web services/API and parsing the JSON response.  • Developed internal auxiliary web apps using Python Flask framework with Angular.js and Bootstrap CSS / HTML framework.  • Utilized Python 3.4 libraries such as numpy, pandas and matplotlib to read data from csv files aggregate and update data.  • Set up rules and policies with a Node.js/ Python back end.  • Involved in development of Web Services using SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface in the XML format.  • Created a Git repository and added the project to GitHub.  • Written Python modules to extract/load asset data from the MySQL source database.  • Troubleshooting backup and restore problems and performed day-to-day trouble shooting for the end users on Linux based servers.  • Interfacing with supervisors, artists, systems administrators and production to ensure production deadlines are met.    Environment: Python, Java, PyUnit, Pandas, HTML, DHTML, AJAX, CSS, JavaScript, Django, Jenkins, Amazon Web Services (AWS), JSON, REST, Angular.js, Bootstrap, Node.js, SOAP, Git, JIRA, Perl, SQL, Agile, Windows and Linux. Python Developer Nationwide Insurance - Columbus, OH September 2016 to October 2017 Responsibilities:  • Involved in building database Model, APIs and Views utilizing Python, in order to build an interactive web based solution.  • Performed testing using Django's Test Module.  • Managed large datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL.  • Developing scalable front-end user interfaces using HTML, CSS, and JavaScript, JQuery, Angular.JS and Mongo DB.  • Designed and managed API system deployment using fast http server and Amazon AWS architecture  • Worked on Python Open stack API's.  • Carried out various mathematical operations for calculation purpose using Python libraries.  • Developed GUI using webapp2 for dynamically displaying the test block documentation and other features of Python code using a web browser.  • Managed large datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL.  • Worked with JSON based REST Web services.  • Consumed Restful Webservices where the transmission of data is in JSON format.  • Used Maven, Rake and Jenkins for doing builds and deployments.  • Creating unit test/regression test framework for working/new code.  • Using Subversion version control tool to coordinate team-development.  • Used JIRA for Bug tracking and issue tracking.  • Developed SQL Queries, Stored Procedures, and Triggers Using Oracle, SQL, PL/SQL.  • Worked as part of an Agile/Scrum based development team and exposed to TDD approach in developing applications.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  • Supported user groups by handling target-related software issues/service requests, identifying/fixing bugs.  • Used data types like dictionaries, tuples and object oriented concepts based inheritance features for making complex algorithms of networks.    Environment: Python, Django, JavaScript, JQuery, JSON, DOJO, Bootstrap, Node.js, Angular.js, HTML, DHTML, AJAX, CSS, Open Stack API, Panda, Maven, Jenkins, Rake, JIRA, Agile, SQL, Windows. Python Developer Home Away - Austin, TX July 2015 to August 2016 Responsibilities:  • Responsible for analyzing various cross-functional, multi-platform applications systems enforcing python, best practices and provide guidance in making long term architectural design decisions.  • Designed and developed Use-Case Diagrams, Class Diagrams and Object Diagrams using UML Rational Rose for OOA/OOD techniques.  • Involved in entire lifecycle of the projects including Design, Development, and Deployment, Testing and Implementation and support.  • Debugging Software for Bugs.  • Generated property list for every application dynamically using Python.  • Developed internal auxiliary web apps using Python Flask framework with CSS / HTML framework.  • Responsible for debugging the project monitored on JIRA (Agile).  • Used Python and Django to interface with the JQuery UI and manage the storage and deletion of content.  • Built development environment with JIRA/Git.  • Involved in development of Web Services using SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface in the XML format.    Environment: JAVA, J2EE, HTML, CSS, Shell Scripting, PL/SQL, Oracle, Linux and Windows. Python Developer Hexaware Technologies - IN May 2013 to June 2015 Responsibilities:  • Built web based and workstation based application for Customers to review their trades and confirm affirm them within allotted time using JSF 2.0, spring, Hibernate JavaScript and AJAX.  • Created Data tables to display customer information and add, delete, update customer records using Python, MySQL, and XHTML.  • Used PyQt for the functionality filtering of columns helping customers to effectively view their transactions and statements. Implemented navigation rules for the application and page outcomes, written controllers using annotations.  • Written queries in HQL and Native SQL and criteria API.  • Added the navigations and paginations and filtering columns and adding and removing the desired columns for view utilizing Python based GUI components.  • Implemented marshalling and UN marshalling XML to HTML and HTML to XML.  • Worked on RUP development environment and used Rational ClearCase for versioning.  • Used JQuery for selecting particular DOM elements when parsing HTML.  • Developed SQL Queries, Stored Procedures, and Triggers Using Oracle 9i SQL and PL/SQL.  • Actively participated in System Testing, production support and maintenance/patch deployments.    Environment: Python, HTML, JavaScript, Ajax, PL/SQL, and Oracle SQL Developer. Education Bachelors India Kesav Memorial Institute Of Technolgy (KMIT), JNTU 2012 Skills MySQL, Javascript