Python developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">developer</span> Python developer - Amazon Seattle, WA • Experienced professional with 5+ years of technical exposure in diverse technologies like Python, Django, PostgreSQL, Linux, Java, MySQL and AWS.  • Experienced in developing web-based applications using Python, DJANGO, GTK, QT, C++, JSON, CSS,  • Expertise in implementing Object-Oriented technologies, Web based client-server architecture, service-oriented architecture and Object Relational Mappings (ORM).  • Experienced in developing Web-based Applications using Python, CSS, HTML, JavaScript, Angular JS and JQuery.  • Skilled experience in Python with using new tools and technical developments (Libraries Used: libraries - Beautiful Soup, Jasy, numpy, Scipy, matplotlib, Pickle, PySide, Pandas dataframe, SQLAlchemy, networkx, numpy, scipy, urllib2, Pychart, Highcharts, PySide, SciPy, PyTables) to drive improvements throughout entire SDLC.  • Experience with Open VMS 6.2, 7.1 & 7.2, Unix (SOLARIS), Linux, and NT systems. Performed system tuning functions and installed software on NT, Unix, and Alpha-servers.  • Expertise in working with server-side technologies including databases, Restful APL and MVC design patterns.  • Experience in creating Open stack services for Identity, Compute, Image Service, Block Storage, Networking (Neutron, Keystone).  • Superior Troubleshooting and Technical support abilities with Migrations, Network connectivity, Security, and Database applications.  • Good experience in Shell Scripting, SQL Server, UNIX and Linux, Open stack. Involved in Unit testing, Integration testing, User-Acceptance testing, and Functional testing.  • Experience in working with different operating systems Windows 98 / NT / 2000 / XP / Vista / 7 / 8, UNIX, and MAC OS X.  • Experience in AWS Cloud services such as EC2, S3, EBS, VPC, ELB, Route53, Cloud Watch, Security Groups, Cloud Trail, IAM, Cloud Front, Snowball, RDS and Glacier.  • Experienced in developing API services in Python/Tornado, NodeJS while leveraging AMQP and RabbitMQ for distributed architectures.  • Expertise in PIP (community most used Python Package Manager), PyVows (BDD tool for Python).  • Expertise in working with GUI frameworks-Pyjamas, Jytho, guidata, PyGUI, PyQt PyWebkitGtk and Experienced with Elasticsearch, Log stash and Kibana (ELK).  • Expertise in Crypto Blockchain (Bitcoin, Monaro, Bitcoin Cash) E-commerce platform built utilizing Python with Flask back-end and Jinja/JavaScript front-end  • Authorized to work in United States for any employee. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python developer Amazon - Seattle, WA August 2018 to Present Developed and designed Python based API (RESTful Web Service) to interact with company's website.  ? Successfully implemented Django framework to design server applications.  ? Wrote Python code and actively participated in the procedure to automate processes.  ? Build and test functionality within a production pipeline.  ? Implemented Python code to fix bugs and provides upgrades to existing functionality.  ? Created Business Logic using Python to create Planning and Tracking functions.  ? Involved in building database Model, APIs and Views utilizing Python, in order to build an interactive web-based solution.  ? Developed Business Logic using Python on Django Web Framework.  ? Utilized PyQt to provide GUI for the user to create, modify and view reports based on client data.  ? Developed complex web, middleware, and back end systems in Python, SQL for Linux and Windows.  ? Developed a fully automated continuous integration system using Git, Gerrit, Jenkins, MySQL and custom tools developed in Python and Bash.  ? Involved in front end and utilized Bootstrap and Angular.js for page design. Created Data tables utilizing PyQt to display customer and policy information and add, delete, update customer records.  ? Used PyQuery for selecting particular DOM elements when parsing HTML. Used Wireshark, live http headers, and Fiddler debugging proxy to debug the Flash object and help the developer create a functional component. Used Pandas API to put the data as time series and tabular format for east timestamp data manipulation and retrieval.  ? Worked with python editors like PyCharm, PyScripter, PyStudio, PyDev, Wing IDE and Spyder.  ? Worked with open-stack services such as NOVA, SWIFT, KEYSTONE, NEUTRON, CINDER and GLANCE. Used J2EE Design patterns (Singleton, Service Locator and DAO).  ? Added support for Amazon AWS S3 and RDS to host static/media files and the database into Amazon Cloud.  ? Developed Kafka producer and consumers, HBase clients, Spark, shark, Streams and Hadoop MapReduce jobs along with components on HDFS, Hive.  ? Leveraged AWS cloud services such as EC2, auto scaling and VPC to build secure, highly scalable and flexible systems that handled load on the servers.  ? Worked on Microservices architecture using technologies such as Docker, AWS Lambda, Serverless design patterns.  ? Worked on analyzing Hadoop stack and different big data analytic tools including Pig, Hive, HBase database and DynamoDB.  ? Used Amazon Elastic Beanstalk with Amazon EC2 instance to deploy Django project into AWS. Configured continuous integration with Jenkins on Amazon EC2.  ? Connected continuous integration system with GIT version control repository and continually build as the check-in's come from the developer.  ? Involved in converting Hive/SQL queries into Spark transformations using Spark RDDs, Python and Scala.  ? Container management using Docker by writing Docker files and set up the automated build on Docker HUB and installed and configured Kubernetes.  ? Created Data- pipelines and configured EMR Cluster to offload the data to Redshift.  Configured Data- pipelines (with EMR Cluster) to offload the data to Redshift.  ? Configured and administered Jenkins for continuous integration and deployment into Tomcat Application Server and to improve reusability for building pipelines.  ? Created data pipelines in AWS using AWS native services like Lambda,EC2 and are aware of big data transformation. Python Developer Cisco - Dublin, OH January 2017 to December 2017 Writing REST APIs, as part of developing web-based applications for insurance premium calculations, using Django REST framework.  ? Heavily leveraged Python's graphics APIs for creating graphics and serialization libraries for encoding data in XML/JSON formats.  ? Also involved in writing REST APIs using Django framework for data exchange and business logic implementation.  ? Experience in using collections in Python for manipulating and looping through different user defined objects.  ? Design and implemented custom Bash scripts for controlling the data flow from the PostgreSQL database.  ? Assisted the development team in sending the correct data via query strings using PostgreSQL as the back-end for storing data.  ? Using SQL Alchemy with Flask and PostgreSQL as database for developing the web application.  ? Used REST and SOAP API for testing web service for server-side changes.  ? Developing scripts for build, deployment, maintain and related task using Jenkins, Maven, Python, Bash.  ? Successfully migrated the Django database from SQLite to MySQL to PostgreSQL with complete data integrity.  ? Managed code versioning with GitHub, Bitbucket and deployment to staging and production servers. Python Developer HUBSPOT INC - Cambridge, MA November 2015 to November 2016 Involved in the Design, development, test, deploy and maintenance of the website.  ? UI was developed using HTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  ? Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  ? Generated property list for every application dynamically using Python.  ? Developed internal auxiliary web apps using Python Flask framework with CSS / HTML framework.  ? Implemented Test Driven Development (TDD) strategy for the project.  ? Developed Python batch processors to consume and produce various feeds.  ? Created database access layer using JDBC and PL/SQL stored procedures.  ? Responsible for search engine optimization to improve the visibility of the website.  ? Developed Merge jobs in Python to extract and load data into MySQL database.  ? Use Git for version control.  ? Used Angular.JS built-in directives, custom directives and services for developing interceptor and complex UI data table grids.  ? Created Angular.JS controllers, services and used Angular.JS filters for filter functionality in search box and integrator functionalities.  ? Utilized Python specific tools including Django, Django Rest Framework, Django ORM, Flask, SQL Alchemy, Pandas, NumPy.  ? Performed Unit testing, Integration Testing, GUI and web application testing using Spec.  ? Involved in writing SQL Queries and implementing stored procedures, functions, packages, tables, views, Cursors, triggers.  ? Deployed the project into WebLogic using GIT version control system.  ? Worked in MySQL database on simple queries and writing Stored Procedures for normalization and renormalization.  ? Build SQL queries for performing various CRUD operations like create, update, read and delete. Python Developer IBM - IN January 2013 to February 2015 Responsible for gathering requirements, system analysis, design, development, testing and deployment.  ? Participated in the complete SDLC process.  ? Created Business Logic using Python 2.7.  ? Used FLASK framework for application development.  ? Utilized PyTest, the Python unit test framework, for all Python applications.  ? Wrote Python OO Design code for manufacturing quality, monitoring, logging, and debugging code optimization.  ? Involved and played a leading role in database migration projects from Oracle to MongoDB  ? Deployment and Build of various environments including Linux and UNIX  ? Installed and maintained web servers Tomcat and Apache HTTP Web servers in UNIX.  ? Involved in Installation and setting up Python /Linux test beds.  ? Worked with JSON based REST Web services.  ? Worked on automation, setup and administration of build and deployment tools such as Jenkins  ? Used RESTful API with JSON for extracting Network traffic/Memory performance information.  ? Created database using MySQL, wrote several queries and used FLASK to extract data from database.  ? Created specific images using Python Imaging Library for the custom images used for each book.  ? Effectively communicated with the external vendors to resolve queries.  ? Used GIT for the version control. Education Master's Skills AMAZON WEB SERVICES, Hadoop, BOOTSTRAP, REACTJS, JSON, MySQL, Javascript Additional Information SKILLS    • Python  • Scala  • SQL  • PL/SQL  • SAS  • PEP8  • PIP  • Spark  • Requests  • Scrapy  • SQLAlchemy  • BeautifulSoup  • NumPy  • SciPy  • matplotlib  • EmberJS  • ReactJS  • Bootstrap  • Big Data  • Hadoop technologies  • Linux  • Unix  • AJAX  • JQuery  • JSON  • XML  • XSLT  • LDAP  • OAuth  • SOAP  • REST  • Selenium  • Splinter  • PyChecker  • Komodo  • PyCharm  • PyScripter  • PyShield  • Spyder  • Jupyter  • MySQL  • Teradata  • SQL Server  • InfluxDB  • MongoDB  • IntelliJ  • Kafka  • Swagger  • OpenStack  • Amazon Web Services (AWS)  • Microsoft Azure  • NumPy  • PyDev  • Data pipelines