Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - ARRIS International plc ? 5+ years of experience in Design, Development, Implementation of Python, Django, JavaScript, and client-server technology-based applications.  ? Experience in developing web-based applications using Python 2.7/3.0, Django 1.7/1.8, PHP, Angularjs, C++, XML, CSS, HTML, JavaScript, and jQuery.  ? Experienced with Python Libraries NumPy, Pandas data frame.  ? Experience in working with Relational DB (RDBMD) like SQLite, MYSQL Workbench, PostgreSQL, and No-SQL database MongoDB for database connectivity.  ? Experience in analyzing and handling large datasets using Oracle Relational database  ? Familiar with JSON based REST Web services and Amazon Web services.  ? Experienced in MVW frameworks like Django, Angular.js, Java Script, jQuery and Node.js.  ? Implemented responsive web pages using HTML, CSS, Bootstrap and XML/JSON.  ? Experienced with full software development life-cycle (SDLC), architecting scalable Platforms, object-oriented programming, database design and agile methodologies.  ? Extensive experience in implementation of the version control software like Git and TFS.  ? Good knowledge of web services with protocols SOAP and REST.  ? Experience in various Client-Server development technologies with the help of JavaScript, CSS, Bootstrap, HTML, jQuery, AJAX and XML.  ? Proficiency with the application servers like WebSphere, WebLogic, JBOSS and Tomcat.  ? Experience with continuous integration and automation using JENKINS.  ? Experience in working with deployment tools like Jenkins  ? Understanding of Python Best Practices (PEP-8).  ? Experienced in WAMP (Windows, Apache, MYSQL, and Python/PHP) and LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, and Python/PHP) Architecture.  ? Excellent working knowledge in UNIX and Linux shell environments using command line utilities.  ? Assisted in Developing testing plans and procedures for Unit testing/Test Driven Development, system test, and Load testing.  ? Extensive use of Linux (Ubuntu), SSH, Flask/Django  ? Experience with different IDE's like Sublime Text, Jet Brains PyCharm and Visual Studio.  ? Ability to learn and adapt quickly to the emerging new technologies and paradigms.  ? Efficient team member with excellent work/time management skills, communications and Interpersonal Skills, ability to work under strict deadlines. Work Experience Python Developer ARRIS International plc - Alameda, CA January 2013 to Present Responsibilities:  ? Good experience in developing web applications implementing Model View Control architecture using Django, Flask, Pyramid and Zope Python web application frameworks.  ? Used Amazon Cloud EC2 along with Amazon SQS to upload and retrieve project history.  ? Experience in project deployment using Heroku/Jenkins and using web services like Amazon Web Services (AWS) EC2, AWS S3, Auto scaling, Cloud watch and SNS.  ? Created interactive data charts on Customer portal web application using High charts JavaScript library with data coming from Apache Cassandra.  ? Worked on front end frame works like CSS, Bootstrap for development of Web application.  ? Worked in MySQL database on simple queries and writing Stored Procedures for normalization.  ? Deployed the project into Jenkins using GIT version control system.  ? Used python scripts to update content in the database and manipulate files.  ? Redesigned existing task management systems using Python.  ? Worked on frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  ? Implemented and enhanced CRUD operations for the applications using the MVC (Model View Controller) architecture of Django framework and Python conducting code reviews.  ? Used Python, JQuery, JavaScript and AJAX at the front end.  ? Worked on design, implementation and modifying the Python code, MySQL and PostgreSQL database schema on-the back end.  ? Search engine optimization by replacing existing database with MongoDB (NoSQL Database).  ? Documented company Restful API's using Swagger for internal and third part use and also worked on Unit testing and Integration testing.  ? Used Git for the version control  ? Develop user friendly and sophisticated graphical representation of the catalogue of items that would be configured for a piece of equipment.  ? Worked on object-oriented programming (OOP) concepts using Python, Django, and Linux.  ? Used JIRA for bug tracking and issue tracking.  ? Experience in deploying applications in heterogeneous Application Servers TOMCAT, Web Logic and Oracle Application. Server.  ? Developed dynamic web pages using Python, Django Frameworks.  ? Designed and Developed User Interface using front-end technologies like HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, AngularJS, Bootstrap and JSON.  ? Worked on Django API's for accessing the database.  ? Supported Apache Server on Linux Platform.Designed and managed API system deployment using fast HTTP server and Amazon AWS architecture  ? Setup database in AWS using RDS and configuring backups for S3 bucket.  ? Experience in setting up Elastic Load Balancers (ELB's) and Auto Scaling groups on Production EC2 Instances to build Fault-Tolerant and High Availability applications. Having Knowledge on AWS Lambda, Auto scaling, Cloud Front, RDS, Route53, AWS SNS, SQS, SES.  ? Gained Knowledge on Deploying apps using AWS Cloud Formation.  ? Experience in using various version control systems like Git, CVS, GitHub, Heroku and Amazon EC2.  ? Experience in using Jenkins/Hudson as a Continuous Integration server to configure with Ant/Maven  ? Created the tests that have no user interaction as a set and executed them as Batch tests using ANT.  ? Generated Python Django forms to record data of online users and used PyTest for writing test cases.  ? Created specific images using Python Imaging Library for the custom images used for each book  ? Implemented Business logic, worked on data exchange, processed XML and HTML using Python 2.7 and its familiar framework Django.  ? Worked on creating the Docker containers and Docker consoles for managing the application life cycle.  ? Setup Docker on Linux and configured Jenkins to run under Docker host.  ? Model View Control architecture is implemented using Django Framework to develop web applications.  ? Used IBM DB2 SQL stored procedures and UNIX Shell Scripts for importing/exporting Data and Conversions.  ? Developed a fully automated continuous integration system using Git, Jenkins, MySQL and custom tools developed in Python and Bash  ? Developed scripts to migrate data from proprietary database to PostgreSQL.  ? Implemented continuous integration using Jenkins and involved in the deployment of application with Ansible automation engine.  ? Created backend database T-SQL stored procedures and Jasper Reports.  ? Created Django dashboard with custom look and feel for end user after a careful study of Django admin site and dashboard.  ? Worked on Jenkins continuous integration tool for deployment of project.  ? Deployed the project into Jenkins using GIT version control system.  ? Developed Application to access JSON and XML from Restful, Webservices from consumer side using JavaScript and Angular.JS.  ? Ensured high quality data collection and maintaining the integrity of the data.  ? Developed object-oriented programming to enhance company product management  ? Used Rational Rose Enterprise to develop Use Case diagrams, Class diagrams, Collaboration and Sequence Diagrams, State Diagrams, Data Modeling.  ? Developed application logic using Python, Jython, and Java script.  ? Used JMS for updating Mailing plans and tracking them.  ? Implemented front end for third party Web service using JQuery, HTML, AJAX, JSON and JavaScript.  ? Used Java Server Pages for content layout and presentation with Jython.  ? Developed the frontend for interaction by using the Django framework.  ? Worked with version controlling system CVS and SVN.  ? Created Data layer in MYSQL.  ? Extracted and loaded data using Python scripts and PL/SQL packages.  ? Used Pandas library for statistical Analysis.  ? Developed Views and Templates with Django view controller and template language to create a user-friendly website interface  ? Implemented user interface guidelines and standards throughout the development and maintenance of the website using the HTML, CSS, JavaScript and JQuery.  ? Created APIs, database Model and Views Utilization Python in order to build responsive web page application.  ? Implemented user interface guidelines and standards throughout the development and maintenance of the website using the HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery and Angular JS.  ? Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface  ? Used Github for Python source code version control, Jenkins for automating the build Docker containers, and deploying in Mesos.  ? Migrated the Django database from SQLite3 to PostgreSQL with complete data integrity.  ? Worked on REST API calls and integration with UI. Used AngularJS to develop the component to the application team, Spring MVC to consume REST API's and used JavaScript, CSS3 and JQuery to display the data in front end.  ? Performed Unit testing, Integration Testing, GUI and web application testing using Rspec.  ? Worked on Jenkins continuous integration tool for deployment of project.  ? Automated the continuous integration and deployments using Jenkins, Docker, Ansible and AWS Cloud Templates.  ? Developed automated process for builds and deployments by using Jenkins, Ant, Maven, Shell Script.  ? Worked on changes to open stack and AWS to accommodate large-scale data center deployment.  ? Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks.  ? Working in team of Developers to build and deploy Python Flask Peewee Linux AWS.  ? Version control using GITHub.  ? Involved in writing stored procedures using MySQL.  ? Interfacing with supervisors, artists, systems administrators and production to ensure production deadlines are met.  ? Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks.  ? Working in team of Architects and Developers to build and deploy Python Flask Peewee Linux AWS.  ? Supported Java application for Media portal management.  ? Debugging and testing of the applications & fine-tuning performance. Provided maintenance support in production environment.  ? Implemented DAO database access objects.  Environment: Java, Python 2.7, PHP, Django, CVS, JavaScript, HTML/CSS, MYSQL, PL/SQL, JDBC, UNIX Shell Scripting, Red Hat Linux, Web Logic Application Server, AWS, Angular Js, Jenkins, Docker, XML, JQuery, JavaScript, JSON, Ajax, Angular Js, MongoDB, HTML, JSON, Linux WSDL, Restful, CSS, Postgre-SQL, Swagger, Git, JIRA. Education Master's in Computer science Massachusetts Institute of Technology - Cambridge, MA Skills AJAX (5 years), BOOTSTRAP (5 years), CSS (5 years), DJANGO (5 years), FRAMEWORKS (5 years) Additional Information Technical Skills    Operating systems: UNIX, MS Windows, LINUX, MacOS.  Methodologies: Agile, Scrum.  Web Technologies: JSON, XML, HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX and MVC.  Web Frameworks: Django, Flask, Pyramid.  Languages: Python, C, C++, SQL and Android.  Databases: SQLite, MYSQL, MongoDB, PostgreSQL.  Configuration Management: GIT, GITHUB  Testing Tools: Selenium  Protocols: TCP/IP, ICMP, HTTP/HTTPS and SOAP.  Development Tools: IDE's Sublime Text, Jet Brains Pycharm, Visual Studio, Eclipse Python, Pydev, Django Plug-in.