Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - T-Mobile Irving TX, TX • Over 6 years of extensive experience in Machine Learning solutions to various business problems and generating data visualizations using Python.  • Experience as a Professional Qualified Data Scientist in Data Science and Analytics including Machine Learning, Data Mining, and Statistical Analysis  • Used Pandas, NumPy, Pickle, Scikit-learn in Python for developing various machine learning models.  • Hands on experience in implementing Naive Bayes, Random Forests, Decision Trees, Linear and Logistic Regression, SVM, Clustering, neural networks, Principle Component Analysis and good knowledge on Recommender Systems.  • Implemented deep learning models and numerical Computation with the help of data flow graphs using Tensor Flow Machine Learning.  • Worked with numerous data visualization tools in python like matplotlib, seaborn, ggplot, pygal.  • Experience in designing visualizations using Tableau software and publishing and presenting dashboards, Storyline on web and desktop platforms.  • Used the version control tools like Git.  • Worked and extracted data from various database sources like Oracle, SQL Server, DB2, and Teradata.  • Good knowledge of Hadoop Architecture and various components such as HDFS, Job Tracker, Task Tracker, Name Node, Data Node, Secondary Name Node, MapReduce concepts, and ecosystems including Hive and Pig.  • Strong experience in Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) including Requirements Analysis, Design Specification and Testing as per Cycle in both Waterfall and Agile methodologies.  • Proficient knowledge in statistics, mathematics, machine learning, recommendation algorithms and analytics with excellent understanding of business operations and analytics tools for effective analysis of data.  • Highly self-motivated, enthusiastic, and result-driven with the ability to effectively communicate with all levels of the organization including senior management and executives.  • Guide the development teams to break down large and complex user story into simplified versions for execution. Work Experience Python Developer T-Mobile - Dallas, TX January 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Developed Consumer-based custom features and applications using Python, Django, and HTML.  • Experienced with Software Development Life Cycle, Database designs, agile methodologies, coding, testing of enterprise applications and IDE's such as Jupiter Notebook, PyCharm, Emacs, WebStorm, Intellij and Visual Studio.  • Experienced with Python Libraries Beautiful Soup, NumPy, Pandas data frame, Matplotlib, python-twitter, urllib2.  • Experience in developing web-based applications using Python, Django, PHP, XML, CSS, HTML, JavaScript and jQuery.  • Extensive experience in designing and implementing various web applications in WAMP (Windows, Apache, MySQL, PHP)  • Experienced in application of various machine learning algorithms and statistical modeling techniques like decision trees, regression models, and SVM in Python  • Extensive experience in designing and implementing various web applications in both LAMP (Linux, Apache, MY SQL, PHP) Environments.  • Working with backend python automation, CI pipelines, Docker and cloud provisioning/automation.  • Experience with Django and Flask a high-level Python Web framework.  • Good experience with following PEP Guidelines in Python.  • Experienced in MVC frameworks like Flask and Pyramid and MVT framework like django.  • Experience in Implementation of MVC/ MVW architecture using Servlet, Django, and RESTful, SOAP web service and SOAPUI.  • Experience and understanding of React Redux life cycle with components and rendering to DOM.  • Good experience in Shell Scripting, UNIX commands.  • Experience in developing applications in Linux Environments such as Red Hat, CentOS, Ubuntu.  • Good Experience in Linux Bash scripting.  • Experience in working with Relational DB (RDBMD) like SQLite, MYSQL Workbench, PostgreSQL and No-SQL database MongoDB for database connectivity.  • Experience in analyzing and handling large datasets using Oracle Relational database.  • Having experienced in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on MySQL, PL/SQL and PostgreSQL database.  • Basic Knowledge on JSON based REST Web services and Amazon Web services.  • Basic knowledge on Rest API and JSON Parsing, jQuery and Angular JS  • Experience in building frameworks in Python for Test Automation.  • Having Good Experience in Object Oriented Concepts with Python.  • Extensive experience in using Python/Perl to code and design various phases for data processing pipeline.  • Experienced on Installation, Integration and Configuration of third party tools, Content Management System (CODEIGNITER, Zend, Laravel, Smarty)  • Good knowledge on IBM WebSphere Application Deployment and maintenance of an application on Application Server using clusters concept and IBM Tivoli Monitoring.  • Good knowledge in various phases of SDLC Requirement Analysis, Design, Development and Testing on various Development and Enhancement Projects.  • Experienced in Agile Methodologies and SCRUM process including Sprint planning, backlog grooming, Daily Standups, Code review, Pert Chart, Gant Chart.  • Good Experience in error and exceptional handling.  • Managed windows servers which included Active Directory maintenance and support  • Hands on experience with bug tracking tools such as JIRA and Bugzilla.  • Maintained customers relationship management databases (MySQL / PostgreSQL)  • Unit testing for the entire code to fix bugs.  • Wrote AJAX framework to transform Datasets and Data tables into HTTP-serializable JSON strings.  • Experience in writing test plans, test cases, test specifications and test coverage.  Environment: Python, Django, Web Framework, HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, MongoDB, Linux, Javascript, JQuery, AJAX, JSON, Sublime Text, Jira, Git, Django-cms, SSO, database access, Django-cms plugins, Bootstrap, Agile, Eclipse, Weblogic, GitHub, Junit, UML, JSP, Xml, SOA. Sr. Python Developer Dell - Austin, TX June 2015 to December 2016 Responsibilities:  • Participated in requirement gathering and worked closely with the architect in designing and modeling.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML, BIG DATA to automate some of the menial tasks.  • Used PyQt for the functionality filtering of columns helping customers to effectively view their transactions and statements. Implemented navigation rules for the application and page.  • Performed testing using Django's Test Module.  • Implemented  • Learning schemes using Python libraries scikit-learn and scipy.  • Used Django configuration to manage URLs and application parameters.  • Involved in Web development, programming, and engineering Django, UWSGI and SQL internal admin tools behave BDD.  • Used Python and Django to interface with the JQuery UI and manage the storage and deletion of content.  • Developed a fully automated continuous integration system using Git, Jenkins, MySQL and custom tools developed in Python and Bash.  • Designed and managed API system deployment using fast http server and Amazon AWS architecture  • Implemented machine learning schemes using Python libraries scikit-learn and scipy.  • Creation of Python scripts for data access and analysis (Scripts, DataFeeds, XLS, FIXML) to aid in process and system monitoring, and reporting.  • Wrote Python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Generated property list for every application dynamically using Python.  • Also used Bootstrap and Angular.js as a mechanism to manage and organize the HTML page layout.  • Responsible for search engine optimization to improve the visibility of the website.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML5, XHTML, AJAX, CSS3, BIG DATA and JavaScript.  • Handled all the client side validation using JavaScript.  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL.  • Created a Git repository and added the project to GitHub.  • Build development environment with JIRA.  • Creating unit test/regression test framework for working/new code.  • Using Subversion version control tool to coordinate team-development.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  Environment: Python, Django, Java, Angular.js, Bootstrap, AWS, Bash, PyQt, XML, Shell Scripting, MySQL, HTML, XHTML, CSS, AJAX, JavaScript, Jenkins, Apache Web Server, Linux. Python Developer Schlumberger - Houston, TX July 2014 to June 2015 Responsibilities:  • Understanding the functional requirements from business analysts and developing the server side modules using Python.  • Developed spark programs using Python, involved in creating Spark SQLQueries and developed the continuous workflow for spark jobs.  • Written extensive sql queries to do transformations on the data to be used by downstream models.  • Developed map reduce programs as a part of predictive analytical model development.  • Written spark python for model integration layer.  • Developed programs in Spark based on the application for faster data processing than standard MapReduce programs.  • Involved in creating Maprdb tables, loading with data and writing sql queries which will run internally in map reduce way.  • Implemented Spark SQL to access MaprDb tables into spark for faster processing of data.  • Validated the business use cases using Apache drill.  • Designed, developed, implemented and maintained solutions for using Docker, Jenkins, Git for micro services and continuous deployment.  • Written high Quality SQL and UNIX Shell Scripting code based on Business requirement.  • Extracted data from Json tables which are resides in MapRDB using pyspark.  • Used Git for version control and TFS for tracking  Environment: Python, MAPR Distribution, MaprDB, Spark, Apache Drill, Anaconda distribution, Flask, Oracle, Pycharm, Docker, TFS, Jenkins, Jira, Git. Python Developer John Deere - Arlington, VA March 2013 to May 2014 Responsibilities:  • Developed backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Designed and developed Use- Case, Class and Object Diagrams using UML Relational Rose for Object Oriented Analysis (OOA) /Object Oriented Design techniques (OOD)  • Designed and developed data management system using PostgreSQL.  • Built application logic using Python.  • Used Apache CouchDB (NoSQL) in AWS Linux instance in parallel to RDS MySQL for storing and analysis.  • Used Django API's for databases access.  • Implemented public segmentation using unsupervised machine learning algorithms by implementing k-means algorithm using Spark.  • Used AWS RestAPI gateway and connected with lambda functionality.  • Added support for Amazon AWS S3 and RDS to host static/media files and the database into Amazon Cloud.  • Used Amazon Web Services (AWS) for improved efficiency of storage and fast access.  • Wrote AJAX framework to transform Datasets and Data tables into HTTP-serializable JSON strings.  • Used Scala to convert Hive/SQL queries into RDD transformations in Apache Spark.  • Implemented Spark Scripts using Scala, Spark SQL to access hive tables into spark for faster processing of data.  • Participated in the complete SDLC process and used PHP to develop website functionally.  • Used Python to extract information from XML files.  • Worked on development of SQL and stored procedures on MySQL.  • Build/Provision Docker container using Docker compose  • Participated in requirement gathering and worked closely with the architect in designing and modelling.  • Used F5 GTM for external DNS resolutions configured all listeners and created all zone files, A record and Names.  • DNS administration like adding/modifying/deleting IP address and DNS assignments using log messages.  • Designed and developed a horizontally scalable API's using Python Flask.  • Developed shopping cart for Library and integrated web services to access the payment (E-commerce)  • Designed Cassandra schema for the APIs. Education Bachelor of Science in Information Systems University of Texas at Arlington - Arlington, TX 2013 Skills Machine Learning Regression analysis, Decision Tree, Random Forests, Naïve Bayes, SVM, Neural Network, K-Means Clustering and KNN. Programming Languages Python (2 &3), SQL, Java, C/C++, Scala, PHP Frameworks and Toolkits NumPy and Pandas. Statistical Methods Descriptive statistics, Hypothesis Testing, ANOVA, Chi-square testing, F-tests, Confidence Intervals, Bayes Law, Dimensionality Reduction, ROC curve. Databases Oracle 10g/9i/8i, MS SQL Server 2008, MS Access, MySQL 5.x, Operating Systems Windows NT/2000/XP/7,8&10, Windows Server 2008. (6 years)