Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - Fidelity Investments Dallas, TX • 6+ years of experience as a Web/Application Developer and coding with analytical programming using Python, Django.  • Experienced with full software development life-cycle, architecting scalable platforms, database design and agile methodologies.  • Experience in object-oriented programming (OOP) concepts like Multi-Threading, Exception Handling and Collections using Python.  • Built Web application using Python, Django, Flask, JavaScript, AJAX, HTML and template languages.  • Used Apache to deploy production site.  • Strong experience using Web Services and API's in python.  • Experience in using Design Patterns such as MVC and frameworks such as Django, Flask.  • Proficient in SQL databases MYSQL, PostgreSQL, Oracle and MongoDB.  • Good knowledge in maintaining various version control systems such as GIT, SVN, CVN.  • Having experienced in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on MySQL, PL/SQL and PostgreSQL database.  • Experience in Application Development and Object-Oriented Programming Analysis and Design (OOAD).  • Experience in working with various python Integrated Development Environments like IDLE, PyCharm, Atom, Eclipse, PyDev and Sublime Text.  • Experience in Third Party tools like CollectD, SNMP, Karaf, Yang, Yaml, OSGi  • Good experience in software development using Python and using its libraries and modules like NumPy, Pandas, Pickle, Jupyter, Python-twitter, Matplotlib, urllib2 for data analytics and rapid development.  • Experience with the Python Scientific Stack (SciPy).  • Experience as Open stack developer  • Experience in creating initial website prototype from Django skeleton and building out views, templates using CSS for whole site following Django MVC architecture.  • Experience in Continuous Integration (CI): Gradle, Maven, Ant, Jenkins, Git  • Strongly follow PEP-8 coding standard and test a program by running it across test cases to ensure validity and effectiveness of code using PyChecker and PyLint.  • Involved in Unit testing and Integration testing of the code using PyTest.  • Worked on Python libraries for Zookeeper, RESTful, OpenStack, Events, Queues, ssh (Paramiko), NetConf (ncclient), Socket & Multi-threading  • Displayed and proved capability to learn any new technology and work on it.  • Worked on Java: Zookeeper Curator, Guava, Logging (slf4j, logback, log4j), Junit  • Hands-on experience in writing and reviewing requirements, architecture documents, test plans, design and maintaining documents, quality analysis and helping with the software release process.  • Experience in using Design Patterns such as MVC, Singleton and frameworks such as DJANGO, Ability in handling Django ORM (Object-Relational Mapper) and SQLAlchemy.  • Proficient in Python OpenStack API'S and GUI framework - Pyjamas (for web).  • Proficient in performing Data analysis and Data Visualization using Python libraries.  • Scaling up projects using python tools like multithreading, celery.  • Experience in full software development life-cycle (SDLC), Agile/Scrum Methodology with high quality deliverables delivered on-time.  • Experience in UNIX/Linux shell scripting for job scheduling, batch-job scheduling, automating batch programs, forking and cloning jobs.  • Exposure to CI/CD (Continuous Integration and Continuous Deployment) tools - Jenkins for Continuous Integration, Ansible for continuous deployment.  • Extensively worked on Hudson/Jenkins, Build Forge for continuous integration and for End to End automation for all build and deployments.  • Experienced with containerizing applications using Docker.  • Experience in maintaining and executing build scripts to automate development and production builds.  • Problem solver with an ability to work independently in a fast-paced environment and quickly adopt emerging technologies. Work Experience Python Developer Fidelity Investments - Westlake, TX January 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Designed and developed customer preferences portal in Python using Django framework.  • Extensive use of Python / Django Framework for developing some backend components.  • Used secured web services for communication and integrations with other enterprise applications.  • Achieved business process automation via applications developed using Git, Gerrit, Jenkins, MySQL and custom tools developed in Python and Bash.  • Used Numpy, Scipy, Matplotlib libraries for n-dimensional representation of data and plotting graphs.  • Analyzed the code completely and have reduced the Python code redundancy to an optimal level.  • Improved the website part of the application using Django, and REST API.  • Implemented Ajax calls to get, post, delete REST API calls for upload and delete files.  • Created custom user with overriding key field and adding more fields other than that provided by the Django out-of-box features.  • Worked with Pandas for automatic and explicit data alignment, easy handling of missing data.  • Customized user registration with two steps (in-active user creation and email activation).  • Designed User Interface to leverage HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Enhanced the design of user interface using Bootstrap framework for Django.  • Worked on writing and as well as read data from CSV and excel file formats.  • Implemented web scraping using Python's Beautiful Soup library. Python Developer AT&T - Plano, TX September 2016 to December 2017 Responsibilities:  • Experienced with Python Libraries Beautiful Soup, NumPy, Pandas Data Frame, Matplotlib, python-twitter, urllib2.  • Experience in developing web-based applications using Python, Django, PHP, AngularJs, Reactjs, C++, XML, CSS, HTML, JavaScript and jQuery.  • Extensive experience in designing and implementing various web applications in WAMP (Windows, Apache, MySQL, PHP).  • Developed Consumer-based custom features and applications using Python, Django, and HTML.  • Having good experience in MEAN Stack (Mongo DB, Express.js, Angular.js, and Node.js) applications.  • Extensive experience in designing and implementing various web applications in both LAMP (Linux, Apache, MY SQL, PHP) Environments.  • Working with backend Python automation, CI pipelines, Docker and cloud provisioning/automation.  • Experience with Django and Flask a high-level Python Web framework.  • Experienced in MVC frameworks like Flask and Pyramid and MVT framework like Django.  • Experience in Implementation of MVC/ MVW architecture using Servlet, Django, and RESTful, SOAP web service and SOAPUI.  • Experience and understanding of React Redux life cycle with components and rendering to DOM.  • Good experience in Shell Scripting, UNIX commands.  • Experience on Java: Zookeeper Curator, Guava, Logging (slf4j, logback, log4j), Junit  • Experience on Python libraries for: Zookeeper, RESTful, OpenStack, Events, Queues, ssh (Paramiko), NetConf (ncclient), Socket & Multi-threading  • Experience on Third Party tools: CollectD, SNMP, Karaf, Yang, Yaml, OSGi  • Worked on Other integrated Cisco internal products: Conf-D, Elastic Services Controller (Esc), Cisco Policy Suites (CPS), Ultra-M  • Worked on - Continuous Integration (CI): Gradle, Maven, Ant, Jenkins, Git  • Worked on OpenStack (CLI and PythonClientLibs): Horizon, Nova, Ceilometer, Swift, Heat, Cinder, Glance, Neutron, KeyStone  • Experience in developing applications in Linux Environments such as Red Hat, CentOS, Ubuntu.  • Good Experience in Linux Bash scripting and following PEP Guidelines in Python.  • Experience in working with Relational DB (RDBMD) like SQLite, MYSQL Workbench, PostgreSQL and No-SQL database MongoDB for database connectivity.  • Experience in analyzing and handling large datasets using Oracle Relational database.  • Basic Knowledge on JSON based REST Web services.  • Experience in building frameworks in Python for Test Automation.  • Excellent Experience in Code Refactoring and Udeploy. Solid ability to code in JavaScript.  • Thorough knowledge in various front-end tools like HTML, JavaScript, XML, jQuery and AJAX.  • Experience in Bash Shell Scripting, SQL and Java Full stack web development using Python.  • Having Good Experience in Object Oriented Concepts (OOPS) with C# and Python.  • Good knowledge on IBM WebSphere Application Deployment and maintenance of an application on Application Server using clusters concept and IBM Tivoli Monitoring.  • Good knowledge in various phases of SDLC Requirement Analysis, Design, Development and Testing on various Development and Enhancement Projects.  • Good Experience in error and exceptional handling.  • Proven ability in working with Shell scripting for designing automation framework.  • Experience in writing test plans, test cases, test specifications and test coverage.  • Familiar with Agile and Waterfall development methodologies.  • Followed Agile Methodologies (Scrum) involved in daily stand-up meetings.  • Managed windows servers which included Active Directory maintenance and support  • Hands on experience with bug tracking tools such as JIRA and Bugzilla.  • Developed and designed e-mail marketing campaigns using HTML, JavaScript and CSS.  • Maintained customers relationship management databases (MySQL / PostgreSQL)  • Unit testing for the entire code and fixing bugs in unit testing  Environment: Python, Django, Web Framework, HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, MongoDB, Linux, Javascript, JQuery, AJAX, JSON, Sublime Text, Jira, Git, Django-cms, SSO, database access, Django-cms plugins, Bootstrap, Agile, Eclipse, Weblogic, GitHub, Junit, Agile, UML, JSP, Xml, SOA. Python Developer Thomson Reuters - Raleigh, NC October 2015 to August 2016 Responsibilities:  • Develop, test, deploy and maintain the application.  • Worked with UI team to maintain and monitor the application using JAVA and Python.  • Developed web-based applications using Python 2.7/2.6, Django 1.4/1.3, PHP, Flask, Webapp2, Angular.js, VB, C++, XML, CSS, HTML, DHTML, JavaScript and jQuery.  • Rewrite existing Java application in Python module to deliver certain format of data.  • Wrote Python scripts to parse csv files and load the data in database.  • Generated property list for every application dynamically using Python.  • Designed test cases and test plans, and developed an embedded software data driven test automation framework in Linux/ Python.  • Worked on HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Git, REST API, Mongo DB, intelliJ IDEA.  • Developed automated testing framework for command-line based tests on Linux using  • Objected Oriented Perl and for selenium-based tests using Python.  • AGILE development process has been followed. Experienced with stand-up, Retrospective, Demo, Planning and Code Review meetings.  • Used AJAX for request response processing without reloading the complete page.  • Designed the architecture based on the popular J2EE Model 2 approach of Model-View-Controller design paradigm.  • Developed UI screens using Angular JS (Custom Directives, Validation and Promises).  • Developed Angular Controllers, Services, Filters and HTML templates using Angular Directive.  • Developed Test Cases using Easy Mock and used POSTMAN to test REST Calls.  • Used Python and Django Creating Graphics, XML Processing, Data Exchange and Business Logic  • Develop and execute Unit Test plans using JUnit, ensuring that results are documented and reviewed with Quality Assurance teams responsible for integrated testing.  • Worked in agile environment and developed CI/CD (Continuous Integration and Continuous Deployment) pipeline through Jira, GitHub, Team City, Pypi, Docker Hub, Supported Amazon AWS S3 and RDS to host static/media files and the database into Amazon Cloud.  • Expert in writing Python modules to extract/load asset data from the MySQL source database.  • Wrote and executed various MySQL database queries from Python-MySQL connector and MySQL database package.  • Involved in building database Model, APIs and Views utilizing Python, to build an interactive web-based solution.  • Using Python/Django, HTML, CSS, Sass, JavaScript, SQL, and PostgreSQL, maintaining and adding software.  Environment: Python 2.7/2.6, Django 1.4/1.3, Angular.js, VB, C++, XML, CSS, HTML, DHTML, JavaScript, SQl, PostgreSQL, Jira, REST API, Mongo DB. Python Developer Gold Stone Technologies May 2012 to June 2015 Responsibilities:  • Extensively used OOD concepts in overall design and development of the system.  • Used UML Rational Rose to develop Use-case, Class and Object diagrams for OOA/OOD techniques.  • Prepared and analyzed reports using Python libraries and involved in environment Setup.  • Created the environment specific settings for a new deployment and update the deployment specific conditional checks in code base to use specific checks.  • Involved in database scrapes, folder cleanup, applying data retention using Airflow.  • Produce SAS Graphical reports showing GPLOT charts as well as PIE and BAR charts for analysis while providing the drill down capabilities.  • Used Python and Django to interface with the JQuery UI and manage the storage and deletion of content.  • Assisted with the addition of Hadoop processing to the IT infrastructure.  • Administration of Continuous Integration tool in Jenkins.  • Implementing customer data collection with PySpark/Hadoop analytics.  • Developed Hadoop integrations for data ingestion, data mapping and data processing.  • Used XML for dynamic display of options in select box and description on web page.  • Wrote Python modules to view and connect the Apache Cassandra instance.  • Responsible for Debugging and Troubleshooting issues.  • Involved in debugging the applications monitored on JIRA using agile methodology.  • Setting up network environments using TCP/IP, DNS, DHCP and proxy.  • Involved in postproduction support for solving complex tickets.  • Resolved user problems in a timely and accurate manner as a member of the End-User support team.  • ETL process for continuously bulk importing catalog data from MySQL into Elastic search  • Involved in presenting demos to the clients and also reporting the daily and weekly status to the Project manager.  • Involved in creating the database modelling to the project and wrote queries for retrieving data from backend.  • Deployed the project into Hebrok using GIT version control system.  • Developed, tested and debugged software tools utilized by clients and internal customers.  • Coded test programs and evaluated existing engineering processes.  • Responsible for running and maintaining business processes on daily / weekly / monthly basis.  Environment: Python 3.x, Django 1.7, Java Script, Coffee Scripting, Elastic Search, Kafka, Airflow, DAG, LESS, HTML, Angular JS, JSON, AJAX, XML, CSS, MySQL, PySpark, SAS/SQL, Hadoop Bootstrap, Restful Web Services, Beautiful Soup, Jenkins, GitHub, Ansible, Linux, PyCharm. Education Master's Skills AJAX (6 years), CSS (6 years), DJANGO (6 years), Git (6 years), HTML (6 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    Programming Languages Python, C, C++, GoLang, Shell programming  Web Technologies HTML, XHTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, XML, JSON, Docker  Frameworks Django, Flask, Pyramid, Pyjamas, Web2py, Bootstrap  Python Libraries NumPy, SciPy, Pandas, Jupyter, Matplotlib, Urllib2, Python-twitter  Databases MySQL, Oracle, PostgreSQL, DB2, NoSQL - MongoDB and Cassandra  Web Services AWS, SOAP, RESTful  Servers IBM WebSphere, WebLogic, JBoss, Apache Tomcat  Version Control Git, GitHub, SVN, CVS  Deployment Tools Heroku, Jenkins, Ansible  Operating Systems UNIX, Linux, Windows, Mac OS  IDE's/Dev Tools PyCharm, Eclipse, Sublime Text, NetBeans, Visual Studio, JIRA, Putty  Testing Tools Selenium, HP QC, HP QTP  Methodologies Agile, Scrum and Waterfall