Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - Skytap • 7+ years of experience as a Python Developer with a deep understanding of technology trends with expertise in the core of complex technologies. Solid experience in analysis, design, and development, testing, implementation and maintenance of various web applications using Python and Django.  • Hands on Experience with the implementation of Python libraries NumPy, SciPy, PyTables, SQL Alchemy, Matplotlib, Pandas, Beautiful Soup and urllib in various tasks.  • Experience in Cloud Computing AWS - EC2, RDS, S3, Glacier, SQS, SNS, Cloud Formation, VPC, IAM, Route 53, EBS, DynamoDB, Lambada, Redshift.  • Excellent Experience and knowledge in using XML, SOAP web Service for inter operable software applications.  • Experience in implementing and working on the python code using shell scripting. Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes.  • Efficient in demonstrating all phases of software development life cycle (requirements, design, architecture, development, testing).  • Experience in Database Administration, development, design, maintenance and production support of relational databases, business applications, new server setup, MySQL Server installation, upgrade, migration.  • Experienced in installing, configuring, modifying, testing and deploying applications with Apache, NGINX.  • Hands on Experience in building RESTful APIs, architecting complex systems with batch and real-time workloads, monitoring and instrumenting production systems.  • Have Experience in List Comprehensions and python inbuilt functions such as Map, Filter, and Lambda.  • Good amount of experience in handling errors/exceptions and debugging issues in large scale applications.  • Experience in utilizing SAS Procedures, Macros, and other SAS application for data extraction, data cleansing, data loading and reporting  • Experience in Designing and development of web crawler in python using Scrappy framework and using RabbitMQ as a messaging server between the micro services.  • Experienced in developing API services in Python/Tornado, NodeJS while leveraging AMQP and RabbitMQ for distributed architectures.  • Experience of working with relational databases like Oracle, SQLite, PostgreSQL, MySQL, DB2 and non-relational databases like MongoDB and Cassandra.  • Experience on Web development using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, Angular JS, AJAX, XML and JSON by following W3C standards. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Developer Skytap - Seattle, WA March 2017 to Present Responsibilities:    ? Responsible for gathering requirements, system analysis, design, development, testing and deployment.  ? Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks. Interfacing with supervisors, artists, systems administrators, and production to ensure production deadlines are met.  ? Responsible for setting up Python REST API framework using Django.  ? Developed views and templates with Python and Django to create a user-friendly website interface.  ? Developed web applications in Django Framework model view control (MVC) architecture.  ? Used Python to write data into JSON files for testing Django Websites. Created scripts for data modelling and data import and export.  ? Deployed and monitored scalable infrastructure on Amazon Web Services (AWS) and also used AWS CLI to control various AWS services over SHELL/Bash.  ? Implemented monitoring and established best practices around using Elasticsearch and used AWS Lambda to run code without managing servers.  ? Worked on Amazon AWS S3 and RDS to host static/media files and the database into Amazon Cloud.  ? Leveraged AWS S3 to store huge amounts of application audit log and also developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks.  ? Contributed source code in Golang to developing an automation framework for AWS CFN.  ? Used JQuery and Ajax calls for transmitting JSON data objects between frontend and controllers.  ? Involved in building database Model, APIs and Views utilizing Python, in order to build an interactive web based solution.  ? Used object-relational mapper (ORM) to automate the transfer of data stored in relational databases tables into objects.  ? Used Python based GUI components for the front-end functionality such as selection criteria and created test harness to enable comprehensive testing utilizing Python.  ? Created Data tables utilizing PyQt to display customer and policy information and add, delete, update customer records.  ? Used PyQuery for selecting DOM elements when parsing HTML, CSS and JavaScript's.  ? Created Business Logic using Python to create Planning and Tracking functions and developed multi-threaded standalone applications using Python and PHP.  ? Performed data extraction and manipulation over large relational datasets using SQL, Python, and other analytical tools.  ? Used Python libraries and SQL queries/subqueries to create several datasets which produced statistics, tables, figures, charts and graphs.  ? Worked in team of Architects and Developers to build and deploy Python Flask, Peewee, on Linux server hosted on AWS.  ? Worked on creating Relational Database stored objects like Functions, Stored Procedures, Packages, Triggers, and Sequences.    Environment: Python , Django, Golang, Shell Scripting, AWS, Pandas, PyQt, PyQuery, Flash, DOM, JSON, PHP, HTML5, CSS3, AJAX, JavaScript, Bootstrap, Apache Web Server, MYSQL, GitHub, LINUX. Python Developer Altegrity - Nashville, TN August 2016 to February 2017 Responsibilities:  • Involved in the project life cycle including design, development and implementation and verification and validation  • Developed the application front-end using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Bootstrap, Django framework.  • Extensively utilized Python frameworks like Django, Flask, Sanic, PyUnit, and libraries like matplotlib.  • Designed applications implementing MVC architecture in Pyramid, Zope frameworks.  • Created a Python/Django based web application using Python scripting for data processing, MySQL for the database, and HTML/CSS/jQuery and High Charts, matplotlib for data visualization of sales, tracking progress, identifying trends.  • Developed data-accessible web applications for employee accesses using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, and Django.  • Participate in the design, build and deployment of NoSQL implementations like MongoDB and added support for Amazon AWS S3 and RDS to host static/media files and the database into Amazon Cloud.  • Worked on the creation of custom Docker container images, tagging and pushing the images and developed server-based web traffic using RESTful API's statistical analysis tool using Flask, Pandas.  • Extensive code reviewing using GitHub pull requests, improved code quality, also conducted meetings among Team.  • Wrote PL/SQL views, Stored Procedures, database triggers & Packages.  • Implemented table sorting feature on the webpages regardless of the type of data types with the use of JavaScript.  • Enhanced by adding Python XML SOAP request/response handlers to add accounts, modify trades and security updates.  • Worked with RDBMS like Oracle and MySQL databases to query and read data and created backend database T-SQL stored procedures and Jasper Reports.  • Developed various Python scripts to find vulnerabilities with SQL Queries by doing SQL injection, permission checks, and performance analysis.  • Developed scripts to migrate data from the proprietary database to PostgreSQL.  • Implemented continuous integration using Jenkins and involved in the deployment of an application with Ansible automation engine.  • Performed Unit testing, Integration Testing, GUI testing using PyTest and web application testing using Selenium Python bindings.  • Used Embedded Coder for translating models into model source code and executable in QNX Real Time Operating System(RTOS) single-tasking mode.  • Used Selenium Library to write fully functioning test automation process that allowed the simulation of submitting different requests from multiple browsers to the web application.  • Logged user stories and acceptance criteria in JIRA for features by evaluating output requirements and formats.  • Executing regression tests on each release and verified bugs found from automation test in Bugzilla.  • Collaborate with Product Management and User Experience experts regarding product definition, schedule, scope and project-related decisions.    Environment: Python, Hadoop, Django, HTML5, CSS, Bootstrap, jQuery, JSON, JavaScript, PostgreSQL, T-SQL, MongoDB, SoapUI, VuGen, Docker Oracle, Charles Web Debugging, Ansible, MySQL, Google Cloud, Amazon AWS S3, Bugzilla, JIRA. Python Developer T-Mobile - Dallas, TX July 2014 to June 2016 Responsibilities:  • Developed Python Django forms to record data and the Login module page for users.  • Designed email marketing campaigns and created interactive forms that saved data into database using Django Framework.  • Used collections in Python for manipulating and looping through different your defined objects and worked in Test driven development with Behave in Python.  • Wrote Python routines to log into the websites and fetch data for selected options.  • Performed efficient delivery of code based on principles of Test Driven Development(TDD) and continuous integration to keep in line with Agile Software Methodology principles.  • Implemented a login module for user, registration of the products, placing the order and tracking the order.  • Improving the performance while processing data by modifying functions, queries, cursors, triggers and stored procedures for MySQL database.  • Worked on Unit testing, Integration testing and Web application testing and done code review using GitHub, testing, fixing of the bugs and coding modifications.  • Performed research to explore and identify new technological platforms and developed API modularizing existing python module with the help of pyYAML libraries and improved performance by using more modularized approach and using more in-built methods.  • Collaborated with internal teams to convert end user feedback into meaningful and improved solutions.  • Performed data manipulation/storage for incoming test data using lxml /etree libraries.  • Embedded AJAX in UI to update small portions of the web page avoiding the need to reload the entire page.  • Wrote unit test cases for testing tools.  • Enhanced existing automated solutions, such as the Inquiry Tool for automated Asset Department reporting and added new features and fixed bugs.  • Developed views and templates with python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Used Amazon Web Services (AWS) for improved efficiency of storage and fast access.  • Added support for Amazon AWS S3 and RDS to host static/media files and the database into Amazon Cloud.  • Participated in the complete SDLC process and used PHP to develop website functionality.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS, BIG DATA and JavaScript.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using python on Django Web Framework.  • Designed and developed Use-Case, Class and Object Diagrams using UML Rational Rose for Object Oriented Analysis/Object Oriented Design techniques.  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL.  • Used Django APIs for database access and built application logic using python.  • Provided GUI utilizing PyQt for the end user to create, modify and view reports based on client data.  • Angular.js is used to build efficient backend for client web application.  • Used python to extract information from XML files.  • Expertise in Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) and its related technologies like Web Services, BPEL, WSDLs, SOAP, XML, XSD, XSLT etc.  • Participated in requirement gathering and worked closely with the architect in designing and modeling.  • Worked on development of SQL and stored procedures on MYSQL and designed Cassandra schema for the APIs.  • Developed shopping cart for Library and integrated web services to access the payment (E-commerce).  • Designed and developed a horizontally scalable APIs using python Flask and implemented monitoring and established best practices around using elastic search.    Environment: Python, Django, Behave, Puppet Rspec, Jenkins, Grafana/Graphite, MySQL, Linux, HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, JQuery, JavaScript, Apache, Linux, Git, Perl, Cassandra, Azure Automation cloud services. Python Developer Infosys - Hyderabad, Telangana August 2011 to June 2014 Responsibilities:  • Work with team of developers on python applications for RISK management.  • Design, develop, test, deploy and maintain the website.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL.  • Rewrite existing Python/Django modules to deliver certain format of data.  • Used Django Database API's to access database objects.  • Wrote python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Handled all the client-side validation using JavaScript.  • Expertise in writing Constraints, Indexes, Views, Stored Procedures, Cursors, Triggers, and User Defined function.  • I have also used Selenium Library to write fully functioning test automation process that allowed the simulation of submitting different we request from multiple browser to web application.  • Used JQuery for all client-side Java script manipulation.  • Created unit test/regression test framework for working/new code.  • Using Subversion control tool to coordinate team-development.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  Environment: Python, Django, MySQL, Linux, HTML, XHTML, SVN, CSS, AJAX, Bugzilla, JavaScript, Apache Web Server, Django Education Bachelor's Skills Python, Django, Javascript, Flask, Java