Sr. Python Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Python Developer - Freddie Mac , Fairfax County Fairfax County, VA • 5+ Years of experience in Analysis, Design, Development, Testing, Customization, Bug fixes, Enhancement,Support and Implementation of various web, stand-alone, client-server enterprise applications using Python, Django in various domains.  • Experienced with full software development life-cycle (SDLC), architecting scalable platforms, object oriented programming (OOPs), database design and agile methodologies.  • Experience in developing web-based applications using Python 2.7/2.6, Django 1.4/1.3.  • Good experience of software development in Python (libraries used: Beautiful Soup, numpy, scipy, matplotlib, python-twitter, Pandas data frame, network, urllib2, MySQL dB for database connectivity) and IDEs - sublime text, Spyder, pycharm, emacs.  • Extensive experience in system analysis, design, development and implementation of web based and client/server application using HTML, Angular JS, Bootstrap, underscore JS, Node JS, CSS, JavaScript, AJAX, JSP, JDBC, XML, XSLT, Python, Django.  • Good experience in developing web applications implementing MVT/MVC architecture using Django, Flask, Webapp2 and spring web application frameworks.  • Experienced in MVC frameworks like Django, Angular JS, Java Script, JQuery and Node.js.  • Experienced in web applications development using Django/ Python, Flask/ Python and Node.js, Angular.js, DOJO, JQuery while using HTML/CSS/JS for server-side rendered applications.  • Worked closely with designer, tightly integrating Flash into the CMS with the use of Flashvars stored in the Django models. Also created XML with Django to be used by the Flash.  • Good Experience in Linux Bash scripting and following PEP Guidelines in Python.  • Experienced in monitoring, developing and transforming data using SQL Server Integration Service (SSIS) and SQL Server Analysis Service (SSAS).  • Good experience using various Python libraries to speed up development (libraries used: Beautiful Soup, NumPy, SciPy, Matplotlib, python-twitter, Pandas data frame, network, urllib2, MySQL dB for database connectivity, JSON libraries).  • Experienced with databases using ORMs/DOMs for integrating with MySQL, Postgres, Neo4J, MongoDB, and Cassandra SQLite. Also, experienced with writing custom queries through database connectors.  • Worked on AJAX framework to transform Datasets and Data tables into HTTP-serializable JSON strings.  • Expertise in establishing database connections for Java and Python by configuring packages like JDBC, MySQL- Python.  • Successfully migrated the Django database from SQLite to MySQL to PostgresSQL with complete data integrity.  • Extensive experience with Amazon Web Services (AWS), Openstack, Docker Puppet, Chef, Ansible, AWS CloudFormation, AWS CloudFront.  • Architecture, size (Capacity planning), Data modeling, implementation and support Cassandra Clusters including install, configure and upgrade DSE v3/4 (Cassandra v 1/2.x) and OpsCenter v 4.x/5.x on Bare metal and Cloud including AWS (Amazon Web Services).  • Configure backup, alerts, repairs and monitoring of Cassandra clusters, in conjunction with Nagios/Opscenter and custom scripts.  • Used Node.js as a proxy to interact with Rest services and also interacting with Database.  • Excellent Experience and knowledge in using XML, SOAP, web Service for inter operable software applications.  • Supported web project which consumes JSON.  • Efficient in demonstrating all phases of software development life cycle (requirements, design, architecture, development, testing).  • Experience in working with deployment tools like Microsoft Azure, Heroku and Jenkins.  • Deployed production site using Apache 2.0 with mod_ python.  • Experienced in Agile Methodologies, Scrum stories and sprints experience in a Python based environment, along with data analytics, data wrangling and Excel data extracts.  • Hands on experience with bug tracking tools JIRA and Bugzilla.  • Excellent experience with Python development under Linux OS (Debian, Ubuntu, SUSELinux, RedHatLinux, Fedora).  • Experienced in Requirement gathering, Use case development, Business Process flow, Business Process Modeling: extensively used UML to develop various use cases, class diagrams and sequence diagrams. Work Experience Sr. Python Developer Freddie Mac , Fairfax County July 2015 to Present Responsibilities:  • Responsible for requirement gathering, designing and developing web based applications.  • Coded model level validation and provide guidance in making long term architectural design decisions and also used Agile Methodology and SCRUM process.  • Developed and handled business logics by backend python programming to achieve optimal results.  • Worked on Element Tree XML API in python to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Wrote unittest cases for unit, integration, and functional tests, run automatically by Hudson/Jenkins in the builds triggered by each push to Git.  • Developed user interfaces using html, CSS, JavaScript, Ajax, JSON and JQuery.  • Experienced with Bootstrap as a mechanism to manage and organize the html page layout.  • Used JavaScript to validate all the client side validations.  • Used Django configuration to manage URL's and application parameters.  • Used Pandas as API to put the data as time series and tabular format for manipulation and retrieval of data.  • To provide automation, used Configuration Management Tool, Chef.  • Worked on Matillion ETL Tool, used it to transfer and load data into Amazon Redshift.  • Creating and configuring virtual development environments with Chef and Virtual Box.  • Used Pandas Library for statistical analysis.  • Involved and worked on Python Open stack API's.  • Used several python libraries such as wxPython, Numpy and matPlotLib.  • Experience in development of web services SOAP, RESTful for sending and getting data from the external interface in the XML and JSON format.  • Used PyUnit, Python unit test framework for all the Python applications.  • Involved in implementation of automate scripts to back up the old records by using Mango DB export command and transferred the backup files into backup machine with the help of ftplib.  • Involved in build and deployment on various environments including Linux and UNIX.  • Worked with team of developers on Python applications for RISK management.  • Used design patterns efficiently to improve the code reusability and also used JIRA for bug tracking and issue tracking.  • Hands on experience on version control tools such as GitHub and amazon EC2. Python Developer Goldman Sachs - New York, NY December 2012 to November 2014 Responsibilities:  • Developed web applications in Django Framework's model view control (MVC) architecture.  • Performed efficient delivery of code based on principles of Test Driven Development(TDD) and continuous integration to keep in line with Agile Software Methodology principles  • Developed test scripts for automation with Selenium.  • Used Python/Django based web application, Postgresql DB and integrations with 3rd party email, messaging, storage services.  • Developed a fully automated continuous integration system using Git, Gerrit, Jenkins, MySQL and custom tools developed in Python and Bash.  • Parsing various format of files like XML, JSON format files and load into Oracle database with Python XML and JSON modules.  • Develop data cleansing, retrieval, migration tools (ETL).  • Extensive use of version controller Team Foundation Server(TFS).  • Developed UI using CSS, HTML, JavaScript, AngularJS, JQuery and JSON.  • Managed, developed and designed a dashboard control panel for customers and Administrators using Django, Oracle DB, PostgreSQL and VMWare API calls.  • Risk analysis for potential points of failure (database, communication points, file system errors)  • Actively worked as a part of team with managers and other staff to meet the goals of the project in the stipulated time.  • Experience with continuous integration and automation using Jenkins.  • Developed a fully automated continuous integration system using Git, Jenkins, MySQL and custom tools.  • Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes of the two main applications that were a main source of data for both customers and internal customer service team  • Managed large datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL.  • Extensively used python modules such as requests, urllib, urllib 2 for web crawling.  • Developed GUI using webapp2 for dynamically displaying the test block documentation and other features of python code using a web browser.  • Developed the required XML Schema documents and implemented the framework for parsing XML documents.  • Written with object-oriented Python, Flask, SQL, Beautiful Soup, httplib2, Jinja2, HTML/CSS, Bootstrap, jQuery, Linux, Sublime Text, git.  • Part of team implementing REST API's in Python using micro-framework like Flask with SQLAlchemy in the backend for management of data center resources on which OpenStack would be deployed.  • Created and implemented SOA services utilizing SOA programs.  • Generated reports with iTExt tool and conducted unit testing.  • Developed and executed stored procedures and PL/SQL scripts. Python Developer Allstate July 2011 to August 2012 Responsibilities:  • Developed user interface using, CSS, HTML, JavaScript and Jquery and Django.  • Assisted in reduction of cost and optimization of supplier selection for the CRM Applications. Also used methods for cross application use using the Class Builder and Object Oriented programming. Generated an API Reference guide to help application developers for creating the software applications to store data using DDN S3 (compatible with Amazon S3 API) or DDN OpenStack Swift API calls.  • Cleaned data and processed third party spending data into maneuverable deliverables within specific formats with Excel macros and python libraries. Used TDD (Test driven development) methodology.  • Used several python libraries like wxPython, numPY and matPlotLib.  • Was involved in environment, code installation as well as the SVN implementation.  • Build all database mapping classes using Django models and Cassandra.  • Used PandasAPI to put the data as time series and tabular format for east timestamp data manipulation and retrieval.  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL.  • This project also used other technologies like JQuery for javascript manipulations, bootstrap for the front-end html layout.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  • Developed, tested and debugged software tools utilized by clients and internal customers.  • Coded test programs and evaluated existing engineering processes.  • Designed and configured database and backend applications and programs. Jr. Python Developer Aflac , Colombus, GA October 2010 to May 2011 Responsibilities:  • Participated in entire lifecycle of the projects including Design, Development, and Deployment, Testing and Implementation and support.  • Wrote Python routines to log into the websites and fetch data for selected options.  • Used Python modules such as requests, urllib, and urllib2 for web crawling and Performed Design, involved in code reviews and wrote unit tests in Python and Updated site with JavaScript, JQuery, Python, Django, and SQL.  • Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks. Interfacing with supervisors, artists, systems administrators and production to ensure production deadlines are met.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework and Utilize PyUnit, the Python unit test framework, for all Python applications.  • Developed the required XML Schema documents and implemented the framework for parsing XML documents.  • Used JQuery and Ajax calls for transmitting JSON data objects between frontend and controllers.  • Utilized PyQt to provide GUI for the user to create, modify and view reports based on client data.  • Worked with JSON based REST Web services and Created a Git repository and added the project to GitHub.  • Utilized Agile process and JIRA issue management to track sprint cycles.  • Created backend database T-SQL stored procedures and Jasper Reports. Created and updated complex views and stored procedures in Postgre SQL. Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:    • Primary Languages: Python, Java, C  • Python Libraries: Beautiful Soup, numpy, scipy, matplotlib, python-twitter, Pandas data frame, urllib2  • Frameworks: Bootstrap, Django, Node.JS, Flask, PyJamas, Pyramid, Hibernate  • Database: Sqlite3, MSSQL, MySQL, Mongo DB, Oracle 11g  • IDE's: PyCharm, Eclipse, NetBeans, MS Visual Studio, PyDev, RIDE  • Servers: Apache Tomcat, WebSphere, JBoss, WebLogic, XAMPP  • Deployment tools: MS Azure, Heroku, Chef, Amazon Web Services (EC2, S3, EBS, ELB, SES)  • Web Technologies: HTML, CSS, DHTML, XML, JSON, Java Script  • Operating systems: Windows, Mac, Fedora Linux, Red hat Linux  • SDLC Methods: SCRUM, Agile  • Testing Frameworks: Junit, TestNG, ROBOT, JXL, JTest  • Bug Tracking Tools: Axosoft, JIRA, Bugzilla, Rational Clear-quest  • Version Controls: VSS, SVN, Github, Git