Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - Aetna Inc Trenton, NJ • Over 6+ years of experience in developing and designing Web Base using latest analytical programming Python and Django.  • Hands on experience in developing Web-Applications implementing Model View Control (MVC) architecture using Django, Flask and Spring web application frameworks.  • Experience in object oriented programming (OOP) concepts using Python, Django and Linux.  • Worked on various applications using python integrated IDEs Eclipse, Pycharm.  • Experienced in developing web-based applications using Python, Django, C++, XML, CSS, HTML, JavaScript, AngularJS, Bootstrap and jQuery.  • Experienced in Python's modules Numpy, Pandas, SciPy, IPython, Scikit-learn, Matplotlib etc. for generating complex graphical data, creation of histograms etc.  • Experience object oriented programming (OOP) concepts using Python, C++ and PHP.  • Hands on experience working in WAMP (Windows, Apache, MYSQL, and Python/PHP) and LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, and Python/PHP) Architecture.  • Experienced in working in many UNIX platforms.  • Written and developed scripts for automating tasks using UNIX shell programming.  • Experienced in installing, configuring, modifying, testing and deploying applications with Apache.  • Understanding of Python Best Practices (PEP-8).  • Expertise on working with the Networking protocols like TCP/IP, HTTP/HTTPS.  • Implemented various Networking Concepts, Router Architectures, and HTTP & FTP Services.  • Familiar with JSON based REST Web services  • Experience in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on MySQL and PL SQL database.  • Worked in agile and waterfall methodologies with high quality deliverables delivered on time.  • Involved in Unit testing, Test driven Development (TDD), Integration testing, User-Acceptance testing, and Functional testing.  • Expertise in working with server side technologies including Databases, Restful APL and MVC design patterns.  • Created algorithms to predict car mileage using concepts of Liner Regression Models.  • Developed predictive algorithms to predict no shows at clinic using Logistic Regression Models.  • Applied K-Means clustering and PCA dimensionality reduction in Unsupervised Learning to address image clustering problem.  • Performed code reviews and implemented best Pythonic programming practices.  • Good experience in Errors and Exceptions handling and debugging the issues in large scale applications.  • Experience in working with teams (Agile Environment). Highly Organized and independent, able to prioritize and coordinate tasks effectively to accomplish timely project completion. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Developer Aetna Inc - Hartford, CT January 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Built database Model, Views and API's using Python for interactive web based solutions.  • Placed data into JSON files using Python to test Django websites. Used Python scripts to update the content in database and manipulate files.  • Developed web based application using Django framework with python concepts.  • Generated Python Django forms to maintain the record of online users.  • Used Django API's to access the database.  • Involved in Python OOD code for quality, logging, monitoring, and debugging code optimization.  • Wrote Python modules to view and connect the Apache Cassandra instance.  • Created Unit test/ regression test framework for working/new code.  • Installed and maintained web servers Tomcat and Apache HTTP in UNIX.  • Developed efficient Angular.js for client web based application.  • Responsible for designing, developing, testing, deploying and maintaining the web application.  • Designed and developed the UI for the website with HTML, XHTML, CSS, Java Script and AJAX.  • Involved in working with Python open stock API's.  • Responsible for managing large databases using MySQL.  • Wrote and executed various MySQL database queries from Python-MySQL connector and MySQL db package.  • Used the Python's modules numpy, matplotlib, etc. for generating complex graphical data, creation of histograms etc.  • Developed and designed automation framework using Python and Shell scripting.  • Involved in debugging and troubleshooting issues and fixed many bugs in two of the main applications which are main source of data for customers and internal customer service team.  • Implemented SOAP/RESTful web services in JSON format.  • Created Git repository and added the project to GitHub.  • Involved in debugging the applications monitored on JIRA using agile methodology.  • Attended many day-to-day meetings with developers and users and performed QA testing on the Application.  • Experience in using containers like Docker.    Environment: Python 2.x+ and 3.x+, Django 1.4, HTML, CSS, AJAX, Tomcat, Apache HTTP, Angular.js, JSON, Restful, XML, JavaScript, OOD, Shell Scripting, GIT Hub, MYSQL, Cassandra, JIRA. Python Developer Harvard University - Cambridge, MA September 2014 to November 2016 Responsibilities:  • Involved in the Analysis, design, and architecture of the application.  • Worked on requirement gathering and High level design.  • Created PHP/MySQL back-end for data entry from Flash I had to assist the Flash developer send the correct data via query strings  • Converted Visual Basic Application to Python, MySQL  • Generated Python Django Forms, Crispy forms to record data, login, and signup of user.  • Experience in development test automation  • Generated various reports in Python for channel usage, system downtimes, catching exceptions, and performance related metrics.  • Designed and Implemented a Unique Test Selector Package on processing large volume of data using Python and Django ORM  • Skilled in using collections in Python for manipulating and looping through different user defined objects  • Designed email marketing campaigns and created responsive web forms that saved data into a database using Python/ Django Framework  • Skilled in using collections in Python for manipulating and looping through different user defined objects.  • Created database tables, functions, stored procedures and wrote prepared statements using PL/SQL  • Modified queries, functions, cursors, triggers, and stored procedures for MySQL database to improve performance, while processing data.  • Performed different testing methods like Unit testing, Integration testing, web application testing.  • Involved in capturing the requirements for serial functional interface and other software requirements specification document  • Extensive code reviewing using GitHub pull requests, improved code quality, and conducted meetings among peers.  • Responsible for Parsing XML data using XML parser and Testing, fixing of the bugs and coding modifications  • Database Administration activities like taking backup, checking log messages, looking for database optimization.  • Used Redis as messaging broker to execute asynchronous tasks.    Environment: Python, Django 1.4, Jenkins, MySQL, Linux, HTML, CSS, Apache, Linux, Git Python Developer Augusta HiTech Software, Inc - Coimbatore, Tamil Nadu August 2013 to May 2014 Responsibilities:  • Design, develop, test, deploy and maintain the website.  • Worked closely with designer. Converted Photoshop images into XHTML/CSS, complex Flash integration.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Worked on AJAX framework to transform Datasets and Data tables into HTTP-serializable JSON strings.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using PHP/ Python.  • Maintenances PHP/MySQL (primarily Joomla), Classic ASP/MSSQL. Communicating and interfacing with previous developers on a regular basis.  • Used AWstat and Google Analytics to analyze web traffic.  • Started developing with Django 0.96 and currently developing with Django 1.0  • Deployed production site using Apache 2.0 with mod_ python.  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL.  • Successfully migrated the Django database from SQLite to MySQL to Postgres SQL with complete data integrity.  • Rewrite existing Python/C++/ Java module to deliver certain format of data.  • Wrote python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Using Django evolution and manual SQL modifications was able to modify Django models while retaining all data, while site was in production mode.  • Worked very closely with designer, tightly integrating Flash into the CMS with the use of FlashVars stored in the Django models. Also created XML with Django to be used by the Flash.  • Creating unit test/regression test framework for working/new code.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.    Environment: Python 2.7, PHP, C++, MySQL, Linux, HTML, XHTML, CSS, AJAX, JavaScript, Apache Web Server, Django, AngularJS, JQuery, Json Python Developer CITI Bank - Bengaluru, Karnataka July 2011 to August 2013 Responsibilities:  • Design, develop, test, deploy and maintain the web application.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL.  • Rewrite existing Python/Django modules to deliver certain format of data.  • Used Django Database API's to access database objects.  • Wrote python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Handled all the client side validation using JavaScript.  • Worked extensively with Bootstrap, JavaScript, and jQuery to optimize the user experience.  • Used Python and Django to interface with the jQuery UI and manage the storage and deletion of content.  • Involved in development of Web Services using SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface in the XML format.  • Responsible for debugging the project monitored on JIRA (Agile)  • Used JQuery for all client side JavaScript manipulation.  • Created unit test/regression test framework for working/new code  • Using Subversion control tool to coordinate team-development.  • Built development environment with JIRA, Stash/Git.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  • Created database using SQL and PL/SQL stored procedures.  • Written many programs to parse excel file and process many user data with data validations    Environment: Python 2.6, Scipy, Pandas, Bugzilla, SVN, C++, Java, JQuery, MS SQL, Linux, Eclipse, Java Script, XML, Shell Scripting, HTML5/CSS, Apache. Education Bachelor of Technology in Technology Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University - Kakinada, Andhra Pradesh Skills Apache (5 years), CSS (5 years), HTML (5 years), Python (5 years), XML (5 years) Additional Information SKILLS    Operating systems Windows, Linux Ubuntu  Languages C, C++, Python 2.x+ and 3.x+, Java  Python Libraries Scripting languages Python(Numpy, Pandas, Scipy, Scikit-learn, Matplotlib) CSS, AJAX, Java Script, jQuery, PHP, Shell Scripting  Markup languages HTML, XML, JSON  Servers Apache Tomcat, IBM Web sphere, open stock, RESTful web services  Databases Oracle, My SQL, query languages: PL/SQL  IDEs/ Tools Eclipse, Toad, Sublime text, Spyder, Pycharm  Revision Controlling Systems CVS, Github  Methodologies & tools Object Oriented Programming, UML, Agile Scrum  MS office tools Microsoft Excel (Super user), Microsoft word, Microsoft PowerPoint