Sr. Python Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Python Developer - Amica Mutual Insurance Lincoln, RI Around 6 years of experience as a Python Developer, proficient coder in multiple languages and environments including Python, RESTful APIs, AWS and SQL. Experience in building frameworks and automating complex workflows using Python. Good experience in developing web applications and implementing Model View Control (MVC) architecture using server-side applications like Django, Flask and Pyramid. Experience in the field of Data warehouse using ETL tools such as Informatica Power Center. Expertise in development of web-based applications using Python, Django, HTML5, XML, AngularJS, CSS3, DHTML, JavaScript, JSON and jQuery and developed web-based applications using Python 3.5/2.7, Django. Experience with Amazon Cloud EC2, Simple Storage Service S3 and Amazon SQS. Worked on several python packages like NumPy, PySide, SciPy, wxPython, PyTables etc. Extensive experience in deploying, managing and developing MongoDB clusters. Hands on experience in using Spring MVC Framework to customize (web application) good experience in ORM mapping using SQL Alchemy. Experience in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on MySQL and PostgreSQL database. Strong knowledge of Continuous Integration/Continuous Development (CI/CD) with Kubernetes Spinnaker. Work Experience Sr. Python Developer Amica Mutual Insurance - Providence, RI April 2018 to Present Participated in implementation and deployment of DevOps areas including Continuous Integration, Automated Testing, Continuous Deployment and Continuous Delivery.  Built Python scripts to identify and correct erroneous data in PostgreSQL database using clustering, regression, and statistics  • Used Continuous delivery / Continuous Integration (CD/CI) tools Docker, Jenkins to deploy this application to AWS along with GIT for Version Control of code for incremental development.  • Involved in Data Extraction, Transforming and Loading (ETL) using SQL Server Integration Services (SSIS), DTS, Bulk Insert utilities.  • Created Complex ETL Packages using SSIS to extract data from staging tables to partitioned tables with incremental load.  • Involved in Database Design, Data Modelling (Relational and Dimensional) using Erwin and Microsoft Visio for logical and physical data models.  • Called the RESTful web services to get the JSON object (Response) and manipulated the JSON Object to display the response in the webpage.  • Developed micro services API'S for an individual module and exposed the results in JSON format using Bottle framework.  • Developed effective web pages using Angular 2.0 and implemented MVC architecture to handle model view and component logic.  • Developed and test many features in an Agile environment using Python, Django, HTML5, CSS, JavaScript, Bootstrap.  • Build servers using AWS S3, importing volumes, launching EC2, creating security groups, auto-scaling, load balancers (ELBs) in the defined virtual private connection.  • Used Cloud Front to deliver content from AWS edge locations to users, allowing for further reduction of load on front-end server.  • Created S3 buckets and managing policies for S3 buckets and Utilized S3 bucket and backup on AWS.  • Developed data Automated database build process and data loading pipelines. Consumed external APIs and wrote RESTful API using Django REST Framework.  • Used Python and Pandas for data cleaning and aggregation. Created RESTful API using Flask.  • Developed intranet portal for managing Amazon EC2 servers using Python, Tornado and MongoDB.  • Used AngularJS, Node.JS, Express.JS, MongoDB, Couchbase, Cassandra and various Node.JS testing frameworks for full-stack development on the Amazon Web Services (AWS) platform instances using Puppet, Chef Configuration management.  • Designed and developed Use-Case, Class and Object Diagrams using UML Rational Rose for Object Oriented Analysis/Object Oriented Design techniques. Sr. Python Developer T Rowe Price - Baltimore, MD December 2015 to March 2018 • Developed a fully automated continuous integration system using Git, Gerrit, Jenkins, MySQL and custom tools developed in Python and Bash.  • Created a distributed python job scheduling tool complete with a web interface using a flask and jinja2 backend, a html, bootstrap and jQuery front end, and RabbitMQ to schedule ETL jobs to consumers that would that report information about the job back to the web interface.  • Worked on Single node/ Multi-Cluster setup using technology NoSQL, MongoDB. Used TOAD to create complex queries and sub queries.  • Used AWS Beanstalk for deploying and scaling web applications and services developed.  • Used ETL (SSIS) to develop jobs for extracting, cleaning, transforming and loading data into data warehouse. Wrote PL/SQL stored procedures& triggers, cursors for implementing business rules and transformations.  • Designed and maintained databases using Python and developed Python based API (RESTful Web Service) using Flask and PostgreSQL.  • Designed and developed transactions and persistence layers to save/retrieve/modify data for application functionalities using Django and PostgreSQL.  • Involved in Continuous Integration (CI) and Continuous Delivery (CD) process implementation using Jenkins along with Shell script.  • Enhance user experience by designing new web features using MVC Framework like Angular.js, Backbone.js, Require.js, Node.js and EXT.js.  • Implemented functionality using Servlet, JSP, HTML and Struts Framework., Hibernate, Spring, Java Scripts and WebLogic.  • Responsible for Amazon web services (AWS) infrastructure with automation and configuration management tool such as chef.  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL. Involved in Agile Methodologies and SCRUM Process.  • Used Restful Web services for integration with various monitoring devices.  • Developed frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework with GIT.  • Performed data ETL with Oracle SQL, MySQL. Designed and implemented RESTful API's using Python.  • Developed web applications using MongoDB and back-ground processes using Resque and Redis and Worked on performance tuning of cluster using Cassandra Configuration file and JVM Parameters.  • Created a Python/Django based web application using Python scripting for data processing, MySQL Workbench for the database, and HTML/CSS/jQuery and High Charts for data visualization of the served pages. Python Developer Fidelity Investments - Westlake, TX August 2014 to November 2015 • Worked on Python OpenStack API's, used Python scripts to update content in the database and manipulate files.  • Responsible for maintaining and editing Python scripts for application deployment automation  • Involved and played a leading role in database migration projects from Oracle to MongoDB, Cassandra, Couchbase databases based on my custom software.  • Wrote and executed various MYSQL Workbench database queries from Python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL dB package.  • Used AngularJS Services for consuming RESTful API's and utilized Postman tool to debug Web API.  • Migrated the Django database from SQLite to MySQL to PostgreSQL with complete data integrity.  • Created Python scripts to automate AWS services which include web servers, ELB, Cloud front distribution, databases, security groups and application configuration.  • Developed automated testing framework for command-line based tests on Linux using Objected Oriented Perl and for selenium-based tests using Python.  • Implemented server-side technologies with restful API and MVC design patterns with Django framework.  • Maintained multiple copies of data in different database servers using MongoDB Replication concept.  • Used UML Tools to develop Use Case diagrams, Class diagrams, Collaboration and Sequence Diagrams, State Diagrams and Data Modeling. Python Developer Schneider National - Green Bay, WI June 2013 to July 2014 • Extensively worked on Application servers like WebLogic and Apache Tomcat and Used WebLogic servers for environmental hosting.  • Worked on HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Angular JS, Node.JS, Git, RESTful API, Mongo DB, intelliJ.  • Designed and developed Use-Case, Class and Object Diagrams using UML Rational Rose for Object Oriented Analysis/Object Oriented Design techniques.  • Worked on NoSQL database MongoDB using the PyMongo driver. Imported datasets into MongoDB from JSON files.  • Involved in debugging the applications monitored on JIRA using agile methodology.  • Written Chef Cookbooks for various DB configurations to modularize and optimize project configuration, converting production support scripts to Chef Recipes and AWS server provisioning using Chef Recipes.  • Created RESTful web services for Catalog and Pricing with Django MVT, Jersey, MySQL, and MongoDB and used SOAP and Restful API for information extraction.  • Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from python using Python MySQL connector and MySQL dB package.  • Involved in building database Model, APIs and Views utilizing Python, to build an interactive web-based solution.  • Worked on MongoDB database concepts such as locking, transactions, indexes, Sharing, replication, schema design, etc.  • Involved in Agile Methodologies and SCRUM Process.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and template language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Designed XML Schemas and developed XSL and XML gateway and used XSD files that are used to validate XML.  • Used Ant for developing build scripts and deploying the application onto WebLogic.  • Used MongoDB implemented automate scripts to back up the old records and transfer these backup files using ftplib library.  • Used UML Rational Rose to develop Use-case, Class and Object diagrams. Education Master's Skills MySQL, Javascript Assessments Critical Thinking — Proficient May 2019 Using logic to solve problems. Full results: https://share.indeedassessments.com/share_assignment/ocowbu69510-nzr Indeed Assessments provides skills tests that are not indicative of a license or certification, or continued development in any professional field.