Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - CVS Caremark Woonsocket, RI • Over 7+ Years of experience in Analysis, Design, Development, Testing, Customization, Bug fixes, Enhancement, Support and Implementation of various stand-alone, client-server enterprise applications.  • Experienced with full software development life-cycle, architecting scalable platforms, object oriented programming, database design and agile methodologies.  • Good experience of software development in Python (libraries used: libraries- Beautiful Soup, numpy, scipy, matplotlib, python-twitter, Pandas dataframe, networkx, urllib2, MySQLdb for database connectivity) and IDEs - sublime text, Spyder, Pycharm, emacs.  • Experience in MVW frameworks like Django.  • Experience object oriented programming (OOP) concepts using Python, C++ and PHP.  • Experienced in MVW frameworks like Django, Angular.js, Java Script, JQuery and Node.js.  • Experience in WAMP (Windows, Apache, MYSQL, and Python/PHP) and LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, Python/PHP) Architecture.  • Experience in developing web-based applications using Python, Django, C++, XML, CSS, and HTML.  • Familiar with JSON based REST Web services and Amazon Web services.  • Experience in installing, configuring, modifying, testing and deploying applications with Apache.  • Well versed with design and development of presentation layer for web applications using technologies like HTML and CSS.  • Proficient in Front end development experience using HTML5, XML, JQuery, JSON, JavaScript, CSS3 and Bootstrap.  • Experience in developing Web Services with Python programming language.  • Experience in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on MySQL and PostgreSQL database.  • Experience with continuous integration and automation using Jenkins.  • Proficient in SQL databases MS SQL, MySQL, Oracle and No-SQL databases MongoDB and Cassandra.  • Experience in agile and waterfall methodologies with high quality deliverables delivered on-time.  • Hands-on experience in writing and reviewing requirements, architecture documents, test plans, design documents, quality analysis and audits.  • Excellent analytical and communication skills with ability to interact with individuals at all levels. Work Experience Python Developer CVS Caremark - Woonsocket, RI November 2015 to Present Responsibilities:  • Worked on a large scale distributed computing environment, monitoring data nodes to prioritize jobs for processing functions.  • Converted Visual basic Application to Python and MSQL.  • Developed dynamic web pages using Python Django Frameworks.  • Used Python and Django creating graphics, XML processing, data exchange and business logic implementation  • Involved in Installation and setting up Python/Linux test beds.  • Created use-case scenarios and storyboards in MS Word and MS PowerPoint for better visualization of the application.  • Wrote Automation/test Python scripts to test.  • Build all database mapping classes using Django models.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Used the Django Framework to develop the application.  • Worked extensively on Multithreading and Concurrency for implementing Batch Job Scheduling.  • Used HTML5, CSS3, JQuery, JSON, React.js and JavaScript for front end applications.  • Used existing Deal Model in Python to inherit and create object data structure for regulatory reporting.  • Created entire application using Python, Django, MySQL and Linux.  • Used other packages such as Beautifulsoup for data parsing.  • Automated RabbitMQ cluster installations and configuration using Python/Bash.  • Implemented locking mechanisms using multi threading functionality.  • Achieved modular (extensible) codebases through Angular.js based MVC architecture.  • Created UI using HTML CSS, JavaScript, Angular.js and Node.js.  • Used Python, JQuery, JavaScript and JSON at the front end.  • Worked on data exchange from website using XML, JAVA and Web Services.  • Involved in environment, code installation as well as the SVN implementation.  • Created data access using SQL and PL/SQL stored procedures.  • Developed in Windows and going to deploy it in Linux server.  • Worked Responsible for development and enhancements of all the modules of rail docs and have them running the design team for project structure.    Environment: Python 3.1, Django, Beautifulsoup, Bash, HTML5, CSS3, JSON, React.js, Angular.js, Node.js, JQuery, JavaScript, XML, Shell Scripting, MySQL, Jenkins, SVN, Git, SQL, Windows and Linux. Python Developer Accent Technologies Inc - Houston, TX July 2014 to October 2015 Responsibilities:  • Involved understanding the current business process, defining scope of the project along with position statement  • Re-engineered various modules for implementing changes and creating efficient system.  • Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks. Interfacing with supervisors, artists, systems administrators and production to ensure production deadlines are met.  • Developed a fully automated continuous integration system using Git, Jenkins, MySQL and custom tools developed in Python and Bash.  • Used Python scripts to update content in the database and manipulate files.  • Generated Python Django Forms to record data of online users.  • Flex development exposure of Flex layout and navigation, event handling, pop-up dialogs, menus and skinning.  • Utilized PyUnit, the Python unit test framework, for all Python applications.  • Resolved issues and improvised the process to ensure a stable and accurate solution.  • Wrote Python OO Design code for manufacturing quality, monitoring, logging, and debugging code optimization.  • Involved in MVW frameworks like Django, Angular.js, React.js, Java Script, and Node.js.  • Responsible for analysis, design, development and integration of Market Risk applications with FLEX/JAVA/ PYTHON.  • Worked on writing and as well as read data from csv and excel file formats.  • Connected Flex from Spring Controller using different API services.  • Used standard Python modules e.g. csv, robotparser, itertools, pickle, jinja2, lxml for development Managed our servers in development, testing, certification and production.  • Flex development exposure of Flex layout and navigation, event handling, pop-up dialogs, menus and skinning.  • Managed requirements and tasks using JIRA.  • Used Git, managed Gitlab repositories and other users.  • Worked with the architect, developers on business and technical issues, helping in designing of the system; and testers to ensure all requirements are correctly translated.  • Involved in Data mapping, logical data modeling, created class diagrams and ER diagrams and used SQL queries to filter data within the Oracle database.  • Held meetings with client and worked all alone for the entire project with limited help from the client.    Environment: Python 2.7, Django, Flex, Beautiful soup, PyUnit, Angular.js, Node.js, React.js, XML, MS Visio, MS Project, JIRA, Apache, Git, UML, SQL, Windows and Linux, Python Developer AltoBridge Corporation - San Jose, CA November 2012 to June 2014 Responsibilities:  • Analysis and Design of application.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Worked with millions of database records on a daily basis, finding common errors and bad data patterns and fixing them.  • Exported/Imported data between different data sources using SQL Server Management Studio.  • Maintained program libraries, users' manuals and technical documentation.  • Managed large datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL.  • Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL package.  • Worked on JavaScript MVC Framework like Angular.js and Node.js.  • Carried out various mathematical operations for calculation purpose using python libraries.  • Built various graphs for business decision making using Python matplotlib library.  • Fetched twitter feeds for certain important keyword using python-twitter library.  • Used Python library BeautifulSoup for webscrapping.ss.  • Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes of the two main applications that were a main source of data for both customers and internal customer service team.  • Implement code in python to retrieve and manipulate data.  • Used Django configuration to manage URLs and application parameters.  • Also used Bootstrap as a mechanism to manage and organize the html page layout.    Environment: Python, Django, Flex, Beautiful soup, PyUnit, Angular.js, Node.js, XML, MS Visio, MS Project, JIRA, Apache, Git, UML, SQL, Windows and Linux, Python Developer TechAce Software Solutions Pvt Ltd January 2010 to October 2012 Responsibilities:  • Design, develop, test, deploy and maintain the website.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL.  • Rewrite existing Python/Django modules to deliver certain format of data.  • Used Django Database API's to access database objects.  • Wrote python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Handled all the client side validation using JavaScript.  • Worked extensively with Bootstrap, Javascript, and jQuery to optimize the user experience.  • Used Selenium Library to write fully functioning test automation process that allowed the simulation of submitting different we requests from multiple browser to web application.  • Used Python and Django to interface with the jQuery UI and manage the storage and deletion of content.  • Involved in development of Web Services using SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface in the XML format.  • Responsible for debugging the project monitored on JIRA (Agile).  • Used JQuery for all client side Javascript manipulation.  • Created unit test/regression test framework for working/new code  • Using Subversion control tool to coordinate team-development.  • Built development environment with JIRA, Stash/Git.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  • Involved in entire lifecycle of the project including Design, Development, and Deployment, Testing and Implementation and support.    Environment: Python, Django, C++, Java, JQuery, MySQL, Linux, Eclipse, Shell Scripting, HTML, XHTML, SVN, CSS, AJAX, Bugzilla, JavaScript, Apache Web Server, Oracle. Skills DJANGO (7 years), LINUX (7 years), MYSQL (7 years), PYTHON (7 years), XML (7 years) Additional Information Technical Skills:  Languages Python 3.x,2.7/2.4, C++, Perl, SQL, PHP  Python Framework Django 1.3/1.4, Wireshark  Python Libraries Panda, Pycharm, Beautiful soup, Numpy, urllib2  Web Technologies HTML5, XML, CSS3, Javascript, JQuery, AJAX, Angular.js, Node.js, Bootstrap  Office Tools Microsoft Word, Excel, Visio, Google spreadsheets, Google Smart sheet  Web servers Apache, IIS    Methodologies Agile, Waterfall  Databases MySQL, SQL Server 2008, Oracle.  Operating systems Linux/Unix, Windows 2000/XP/2003/Vista, MAC