Sr. Python Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Python Developer - American Express New York, NY • Having 7+ years of experience as a Python Developer with deep understanding of technology trends with expertise in core of complex technologies. Solid experience in Analysis, Design and Development, Testing, Implementation, production support and maintenance of various Web Applications using Python, Spark, Django, Bottle framework.  • Extensive experience in Requirement Analysis, Application Design & Development and profound knowledge on SDLC using agile and V-model.  • Experienced in working with various Python IDE's using PyCharm, PySpark, PyScripter, Spyder, PyStudio and PyDev and Bottle framework and to deploy AWS & MS Azure.  • Experienced in developing Web-based Applications using Python, CSS, HTML, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, AJAX, J2EE, jQuery, JSON, jQuery UI, XML, Angular JS and jQuery also involving Beautiful Soap, NumPy, SciPy, Matplotlib, python-twitter, Pandas Data frame, PySpark, urlib2 libraries.  • Experienced in developing Web Services with Python programming language and good knowledge of Web Services with protocols SOAP, REST.  • Experience in using third party tools like Telerik, DevExpress and kendo Controls and worked containerizing applications using Docker and Vagrant and familiar with JSON based REST, SOAP, and Amazon Web Services.  • Profiled python code for optimization and memory management and skilled experience in Python with using new tools and technical developments (Libraries Used: libraries- Beautiful Soup, Jasy, NumPy, SciPy, Matplotlib, Pickle, PySide, Pandas Data frame, Bottle framework, networkX, urllib2, Pychart, Highcharts) to drive improvements throughout entire SDLC.  • Involved in Unit testing, Integration testing, User-Acceptance testing, and Functional testing and experienced in web applications development using, Flask / Python, Bottle framework, and Node.js, Angular.js, DOJO, jQuery while using HTML/CSS/JS for server-side rendered applications also involving Beautiful Soap, NumPy, SciPy, Matplotlib, python-twitter, Pandas Data frame, urlib2 libraries.  • Experienced in developing API services in Python/Tornado, NodeJS while leveraging AMQP and RabbitMQ for distributed architectures to deploy AWS & MS Azure.  • Expertise in developing web-based applications using libraries and frameworks like Bottle, Angular JS, Bootstrap, jQuery, Ruby on Rails, Knockout.js, Node Js, Backbone.js, React JS, D3 JS and Require JS.  • Having working Knowledge of Amazon AWS S3 and worked extensively on Big Data analytical models developed in Python.  • Experience object-oriented programming (OOP) concepts using Python, C++ and PHP and expertise in NoSQL technologies like MongoDB, CouchDB Cassandra, Redis and relational databases like Oracle, SQLite, Postgre SQL and MySQL(PostgreSQL) databases.  • Experience on Web development using HTML 4/5, CSS/CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, Angularjs, AJAX, XML and JSON by following W3C standards also involving Beautiful Soap, NumPy, SciPy, Matplotlib, python-twitter, Pandas Data frame, urlib2 libraries.  • Extensive development experience in Java, Struts, JSPs, Servlets, taglibs, Hibernate, JDBC, HTML HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, AJAX, J2EE, jQuery, JSON, jQuery UI, XML, SQL, XML and JSON and developed J2EE applications on IDE's like Eclipse, PySpark, PyCharm, My Eclipse, Google GWT, and Rational Application Developer.  • Proficient in developing multithreaded web services using Cherrypie & bottlePy framework and leveraging queuing architectures with RabbitMQ for scalability, performance and building also involving Beautiful Soap, NumPy, SciPy, Matplotlib, python-twitter, Pandas Data frame, urlib2 libraries.  • Proficient in writing unit testing code using Unit Test/PyTest and integrating the test code with the build process worked on Python Testing frameworks like Bottle, zope, pytest, nose and Robot framework also involving Beautiful Soap, NumPy, SciPy, Matplotlib, python-twitter, Pandas Data frame, urlib2 libraries.  • Experience in working with different operating systems like LINUX, UNIX and WINDOWS and developed web applications and RESTful web services and APIs using Python Flask, Spark, Django and PHP also involving Beautiful Soap, NumPy, SciPy, Matplotlib, python-twitter, Pandas Data frame, urlib2 libraries.  • Proficient in writing unit testing code using Unit Test/PyTest and integrating the test code with the build process worked on Python Testing frameworks like Bottle, zope, pytest, nose and Robot framework also involving Beautiful Soap, NumPy, SciPy, Matplotlib, python-twitter, Pandas Dataframe, urlib2 libraries.  • Well versed with Agile with SCRUM, Waterfall Model and Test-driven development methodologies experienced in installing, configuring, modifying, testing and deploying applications with Apache.  • Experience in working with different operating systems like LINUX, UNIX and WINDOWS and developed web applications and RESTful web services and APIs using Python Flask, Django and PHP also involving Beautiful Soap, NumPy, SciPy, Matplotlib, python-twitter, Pandas Data frame, urlib2 libraries. Work Experience Sr. Python Developer American Express - New York, NY August 2017 to Present Responsibilities: • Parsed various file formats including XML and JSON and loaded into Oracle database with Python XML and JSON modules and developed parsers for Extracting data from different sources of web services to deploy AWS & MS Azure and transforming to store in various formats such as CSV, Database files, HDFS storage, etc. then to perform analysis for the spark framework.  • Worked with lxml to dynamically generate SOAP requests based on the services. Developed custom Hash-Key (HMAC) based algorithm in Python for Web Service authentication and worked with Report Lab PDF library to dynamically generate the PDF documents with Images and data retrieved from various sources of Web services also involving Beautiful Soap, NumPy, SciPy, Matplotlib, python-twitter, PySpark, Pandas Data frame, urlib2 libraries.  • Parsers written in Python for extracting useful data from the design data base. Used Parse kit (Enigma.io) framework (Bottle etc.) for writing Parsers for ETL extraction and implemented Algorithms for Data Analysis from Cluster of Web services with tools/platforms such as JIRA, Jenkins, Docker, Elasticsearch and AWS.  • Built the Web API on the top of Flask/ Bottle framework to perform REST methods. Used MongoDB and MySQL databases in Web API development. Developed database migrations using SQLAlchemy Migration.  • Generated graphical reports using python package NumPy and matPlotLib and did the usage of advance features like pickle/unpickle in python for sharing the information across the applications to deploy AWS & MS Azure with tools/platforms such as JIRA, Jenkins, Docker, Elasticsearch and AWS.  • Managed datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL, queried MYSQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL db. package to retrieve information and utilized Python libraries wxPython, NumPy, Twisted and mat PlotLib also involving Beautiful Soap, NumPy, SciPy, Matplotlib, python-twitter, Pandas Data frame, urlib2 libraries.  • Wrote Python scripts (Tibco Scripts) to parse HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, AJAX, J2EE, jQuery, JSON, jQuery UI, XML documents and load the data in database and used Wireshark, live http headers, and Fiddler2 debugging proxy to debug the Flash object and help the developer create a functional component. The PHP page for displaying the data uses AJAX to sort and display the data. The page also outputs data to .csv for viewing in Microsoft Excel.  • Used Python based GUI components for the front-end functionality such as selection criteria. Administration of dedicated collocated RHEL 4 machine and configured complex Apache configuration files and added support for Amazon AWSS3 and RDS to host static/media files and the database into Amazon Cloud.  • Writing Python scripts (Tibco Scripts) with Cloud Formation templates to automate installation of Auto scaling, EC2, VPC, and other services and familiarization with UNIX / Linux internals, basic cryptography & security.  • Using Jenkins AWS Code Deploy plugin to deploy to AWS & MS Azure and involved in Continuous Integration (CI) and Continuous Delivery (CD) process implementation using Jenkins along with Shell script to deploy AWS & MS Azure.  • Worked on developing Web-based Applications using Python, CSS, HTML, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, AJAX, J2EE, jQuery, JSON, jQuery UI, XML, Angular JS and jQuery also involving Beautiful Soap, NumPy, SciPy, Matplotlib, python-twitter, Pandas Data frame, urlib2 libraries.  • Used several python libraries like python, NumPy and matplotlib and was involved in environment, code installation as well as the SVN implementation also involving Beautiful Soap, NumPy, SciPy, Matplotlib, python-twitter, Pandas Data frame, urlib2 libraries.  • Build all database mapping classes using Django and Flask models and Cassandra and used Pandas API to put the data as time series and tabular format for east timestamp data manipulation and retrieval.  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL and developed and tested websites using MEAN (MongoDB, Express, AngularJS, Node.js) stack.  • Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, to automate some of the menial tasks. Interfacing with supervisors, artists, systems administrators and production to ensure production deadlines are met.  • Used third party jQuery-based plug-ins like jQuery UI, Data tables etc. Heavily used JavaScript for Form Submit and other UI elements during development also involving Beautiful Soap, PySpark, NumPy, SciPy, Matplotlib, python-twitter, Pandas Data frame, urlib2 libraries. Sr. Python Developer Multi Plan - New York, NY May 2016 to August 2017 Responsibilities: • Written functional PHP unit test cases for Data Layer, and Search server classes using Django, Spark, Flask, Curl, XML, JSON, REST base services and MongoDB and created restful web services for Catalog and Pricing with Django MVT, Jersey, XML, MySQL(PostgreSQL), and MongoDB to deploy AWS & MS Azure.  • Interact with backend using Hibernate Framework and got involved in Coding of Enterprise Java Beans, which implements business rules, and business logic with tools/platforms such as JIRA, Jenkins, Docker, Elasticsearch and AWS.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Spark, Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface and refracted Python/Django modules to deliver certain format of data.  • Development of Python APIs to dump the array structures in the Processor at the failure point for debugging and involved in development of Web Services using SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface in the XML format.  • Involved in developing the classes and JavaBeans and did the representation of the system in hierarchy form by defining the components, subcomponents using Python and developed set of library functions over the system based on the user needs to deploy AWS & MS Azure.  • Used Selenium Library to write fully functioning test automation process that allowed the simulation of submitting different requests from multiple browsers to web application and created Data tables utilizing PySpark, PyQt to display customer and policy information and add, delete, update customer records also involving Beautiful Soap, NumPy, SciPy, Matplotlib, python-twitter, Pandas Data frame, urlib2 libraries.  • Used Python and Spark, Django and creating graphics, XML processing, data exchange and business logic implementation and utilized in-depth knowledge of Technical experience in LAMP and other leading-edge products and technology in conjunction with industry and business skills to deliver solutions to customer.  • Developed multiple spark batch jobs in Scala using Spark SQL and performed transformations using many APIs and update master data in Cassandra database as per the business requirement.  • Developed and implemented core API services using Python with spark. Representation of the system in hierarchy form by defining the components, subcomponents using Python and developed set of library functions over the system based on the user needs also involving Beautiful Soap, NumPy, SciPy, Matplotlib, python-twitter, Pandas Data frame, urlib2 libraries.  • Created data frames schema from raw data stored at Amazon S3 using PySpark to deploy AWS & MS Azure.  • Worked in developing Web-based Applications using Python, CSS, HTML, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, AJAX, J2EE, jQuery, JSON, jQuery UI, XML, Angular JS and jQuery also involving Beautiful Soap, NumPy, SciPy, Matplotlib, python-twitter, Pandas Data frame, urlib2 libraries.  • Used Tableau to automatically generate reports, Worked with partially adjudicated insurance flat files, internal records, 3rd party data sources, JSON, XML and more. Python Developer Express Scripts - St. Louis, MO February 2015 to April 2016 Responsibilities: • Translated the customer requirements into design specifications and ensured that the requirements translate into software solution application based on service-oriented architecture to deploy AWS & MS Azure and used Python 2.5, Spark,Django 1.5, JSF 2, Spring 2, Bottle framework, Ajax, HTML, CSS for the frontend.  • Involved in creating Servlets and Java Server Pages (JSP), which route submittals to the appropriate Enterprise Java Bean (EJB) components and render retrieved information using Session Facade with tools/platforms such as JIRA, Jenkins, Docker, Elasticsearch and AWS.  • Designed the front end of the application using Python, HTML, CSS, AJAX, JSON and jQuery. Worked on backend of the application, mainly using Active Records.  • Used the Python language to develop web-based data retrieval systems and designed and maintained databases using Python and developed Python based API (RESTful Web Service) using Flask, SQLAlchemy and PostgreSQL and developed web sites using Django, Flask, Python, XHTML, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Developed and designed e-mail marketing campaigns using HTML and CSS and tested and implemented applications built using Python with tools/platforms such as JIRA, Jenkins, Docker, Elasticsearch and AWS.  • Developed and tested many features for dashboard using Python, PySpark, ROBOT/ Bottle framework, Bootstrap, CSS, and HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, AJAX, J2EE, JSON, jQuery UI, XML and created complex dynamic HTML UI using jQuery and automated Regression analysis for determining fund returns based on index returns ( Python/Excel) • Used PHP language on lamp server to develop page and developed server-based web traffic statistical analysis tool using Flask, Pandas.  • Simple web app for reviewing sitcoms that gives users the ability to view, add, review, up/down vote, search, etc. and performed joins, group by and other operations in MapReduce using Python with tools/platforms such as JIRA, Jenkins, Docker, Elasticsearch and AWS.  • Handled importing of data from various data sources, performed transformations using Hive, MapReduce, and loaded data into HDFS.  • Wrote MapReduce code to make un-structured data into semi- structured data and loaded into Hive tables and supported MapReduce Programs those are running on the cluster to deploy AWS & MS Azure. Python Developer GE Healthcare Information Technologies - Chicago, IL July 2011 to July 2014 Responsibilities:   • Used Django or Flask/Bottle framework for application development utilizing the PySpark.  • Assisted in reduction of cost and optimization of supplier selection for the CRM Applications. Also used methods for cross application use using the Class Builder and Object-Oriented programming. Generated an API Reference guide to help application developers for creating the software applications to store data using DDN S3 (compatible with Amazon S3 API) or DDN OpenStack Swift API calls.  • Ensured high quality data collection and maintaining the integrity of the data and cleaned data and processed third party spending data into maneuverable deliverables within specific formats with Excel macros and python libraries. Used TDD (Test driven development) methodology and AJAX extensively to implement front end /user interface features in the application.  • Used several python libraries like python, NumPy and matplotlib and was involved in environment, code installation as well as the SVN implementation also involving Beautiful Soap, PySpark, NumPy, SciPy, Matplotlib, python-twitter, Pandas Data frame, urlib2 libraries.  • Build all database mapping classes using Django and Flask models and Cassandra and used Pandas API to put the data as time series and tabular format for east timestamp data manipulation and retrieval.  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL(PostgreSQL) and developed and tested websites using MEAN (MongoDB, Express, AngularJS, Node.js) stack.  • Running load/endurance tests using Vugen, ALM, and controller, server monitoring, analysis using Dynatrace, UNIX putty, SQL logs and other tools and reporting the performance. Analyzing errors and exceptions using putty logs (UNIX), etc to deploy AWS & MS Azure.  • Creating unit test/regression test framework for working/new code and responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application with tools/platforms such as JIRA, Jenkins, Docker, Elasticsearch and AWS.  • Developed, tested and debugged software tools utilized by clients and internal customers and coded test programs and evaluated existing engineering processes.  • Developed screens using jQuery, JSP, JavaScript, Ajax and ExtJS. Education Master's Skills database (5 years), Django (6 years), JavaScript (6 years), JIRA (6 years), Python (6 years) Additional Information Technical Skills    Primary Languages: Python 2.7, Core Java, C, C++  Python Libraries: Beautiful Soap, NumPy, SciPy, Matplotlib, python-twitter, Pandas data frame, urllib2  Frameworks: Flask, Parse kit (Enigma.io), Bootstrap, Django, Bottle, Node.JS, Pajamas, Pyramid, Hibernate  Database: Sqlite3, MSSQL, MySQL, MongoDB, Oracle 11g  IDE's: PyCharm, Eclipse, NetBeans, MS Visual Studio, PyDev, RIDE  Servers: Apache Tomcat, WebSphere, JBoss, WebLogic, XAMPP  Deployment tools: MS Azure, Heroku, Amazon Web Services (EC2, S3, EBS, ELB, SES)  Web Technologies: HTML, CSS, DHTML, XML, JavaScript, HTML5  Operating systems: Windows, Mac, Fedora Linux, Red hat Linux  SDLC Methods: SCRUM, Agile  Testing Frameworks: Junit, Bottle, TestNG, ROBOT, JXL, JTest, NumPy  Bug Tracking Tools: Ax soft, JIRA, Bugzilla, Rational ClearQuest  Version Control: VSS, SVN, GitHub, Git