Angular/ Python developer Angular/<span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">developer</span> Angular/ Python developer - AllScripts Piscataway, NJ ? 5+ years of experience in development, implementation and maintenance of web applications using frontend/backend technologies for banking, healthcare, finance company using Angular JS, Angular 2, Django, HTML/HTML5, CSS/CSS3, Bootstrap, Services(REST/SOAP), MongoDB, JavaScript with proficient knowledge of Python, Java, MEAN, Django.  ? Experience as a full stack developer in domains: Finance, Healthcare and E-commerce.  ? Excellent knowledge of building Single Page Applications using JavaScript frameworks like AngularJS, Angular 2+  ? Expertise in creating the responsive pages using Bootstrap, CSS/CSS3 web page layouts and vast knowledge in dealing with CSS Animations, Backgrounds, Layouts, Positioning, Text, Border, Padding and CSS Box Model.  ? Hands on experience in use of various Python libraries in web development like NumPy, SciPy, Matplotlib, Pandas, PyMongo, Tkinter, Unit test.  ? Worked with web-based application development using frameworks like Django and Flask.  ? Experience in creating and consuming SOAP/REST web services.  ? Experience in using NoSQL databases like, MongoDB and DynamoDB and RDBMS like MySQL, MS SQL Server and integrated database with other technology to generate API like REST, SOAP, JSON.  ? Knowledge of web scraping using python BeautifulSoup library.  ? Experience in deployment of application AWS using Amazon EC2 instance and S3 bucket storage.  ? Used Visual Studio Team Services(VSTS) as bug tracking, GIT and VSTS as version control tools.  ? Carried out unit testing of AngularJS component using debugging tool like Jasmine, Karma. Used JIRA as bug tracking tool.  ? Strong Familiarity with iterative process of development in Agile and Scrum environment, waterfall methodology and Software Development Life Cycle(SDLC).  ? Experience of development using various IDEs like, PyCharm, Eclipse, Atom, Visual Studio, NetBeans. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Angular/ Python developer AllScripts - Melville, NY July 2017 to Present Description: Allscripts provide Healthcare quality expertise to those who deliver care and those who receive care. Allscripts solutions enable smarter care, delivered with greater precision, for healthier patients, populations and communities. I was involved in development of Electronic Health Record Solutions(EHRS), one of the business goal of this application was to computerize the principal operations and administrative functions in a hospital. The application consisted of different modules like Clinical Management, Finance & Administration, Support Service, Management Information and Appointment Scheduling. As a developer I have worked on multiple modules, my responsibilities began from designing UI for doctor, nurse followed by developing role-based authentication for differentiating staff, developing dashboard for nurse to access case list, case details, previous visits/medications/payments, along with that, for the staff to update surgeries information, patient information, reports and page contents.  Responsibilities:  ? Involved in the complete Software Development Life Cycle including gathering Requirements, Analysis, Design, Implementation, Testing and Maintenance.  ? Responsible for creating efficient design and developing User Interaction screens using Python, Django, HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap and JavaScript.  ? Heavy Interaction with backend of the application and utilized Python on Django Web Framework.  ? Developed effective web pages using Angular 2.0 and implemented MVC architecture to handle model view and component logic. Used Angular lifecycle hooks.  ? Used Numpy and SciPy for Numerical analysis to manage Medicine Inventory.  ? Generated components, services, pipes, forms, and directive for effective design of the application.  ? Angular reactive forms used for generating forms and client-side validation performed using Form Builder.  ? Involved in Designing and Setting up of environment of Mongo dB with shards and replica sets. (Dev/Test and Production).  ? Used PyUnit library to perform unit testing on Python  ? Used JIRA(Agile) tool for tracking the project status.  ? Experience of deployment on AWS using EC2 instance and S3 storage bucket.  ? Implemented REST api using Django Rest Framework.  ? Used GIT for Repository management and Visual Studio Team Services(VSTS) as version control.  Environment: Python 3, Django Rest Framework, PyUnit, Numpy, SciPy Angular 2.0, Mongo dB, HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap 3.3, JavaScript, jQuery, JSON, Karma, Amazon Web Services, Atom, PyCharm, GIT, VSTS, Robomongo Angular/ Python developer Bank of America - New York, NY December 2015 to June 2017 Description:  Bank of America Corporation is a multinational banking and financial services corporation headquartered in Charlotte, North Carolina, United State. I worked on the mortgage tracker application, which was a web-based enterprise level application developed using Angular JS framework. This application was created for the bank employees to process loan applications, send tax forms, and generate reports and to prepare the forms to send over to the Housing and Urban Development. Since the loan process requires a lot of paperwork, this application allowed the bank employees to process the loan applications easily and effectively. Added role-based security modules were developed to only allow authorized users to generate reports and prepare the forms for HUD.  I was primarily involved in creating the forms that bankers would fill out for processing the loans, displaying and editing the pending loan applications and creating printable detailed reports in pdf, excel formats.    Responsibilities:  ? Responsible to create organized, responsive design and developed user interaction screens using Angular JS, Django, HTML5, CSS/CSS3, Bootstrap 3.3, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX and JSON.  ? Extensively used angular built-in directives, services, factories, filters, custom directive for development of front-end.  ? Used AngularJS Services $http for consuming REST API's and utilized Postman tool to debug Web API.  ? Model View Component (MVC) architecture implemented for development of the project and used Django Rest Framework to develop REST API.  ? Used different python libraries like Scikit-learn, NumPy, Pandas to create models to predict the likelihood of a potential debtor defaulting on a loan based off of credit history, employment history, credit score.  ? Good experience in various source code control tools like Git.  ? Worked on MS SQL Server database concepts such as locking, transactions, indexes, Sharding, replication, schema design.  ? Using the Django framework developed models, customized admin page, views, templates and effective ORM implementation with MS SQL Server  ? Used JIRA(Agile) tool for tracking the project status.  ? Experience with Unit testing/ Test driven Development (TDD), Load Testing.  Environment: Python 3, Django, Angular JS, HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap 3.3, NumPy, Pandas, Mongo dB, JavaScript, jQuery, JSON, Karma, Git, Atom, PyCharm, Robomongo Python developer CyberThink InfoTech Pvt Ltd - Ahmedabad, Gujarat April 2014 to November 2015 Description:CyberThink InfoTech Pvt Ltd provides outsourced development service to the pharmaceutical, biotechnology and medical device industries. Organization with expertise to conduct clinical trials and development projects on global basis. Patient Care system (PCS) is a web-based documentation deals with creating a patient assignment and identification lists. This system includes critical functionalities such as outpatient therapy, mammography, outpatient radiology, inpatient survey and emergency center. The system also had a module to store and archive the information of all patient complaints. I was responsible for designing and developing back-end logic for the patient complaint and the survey module.  Responsibility:  ? Designed and developed communication between client and server using Secured Web services such as Django-rest-framework, Django and Python.  ? Involved in complete development of project in Agile/SCRUM Environment and tested the application in each iteration.  ? Develop the user interface using HTML5, CSS3, Django Web Framework and used Bootstrap to make the application responsive.  ? Used Django configuration to manage URLs and Application Parameters.  ? Implemented Django framework in the presentation tier for all the essential control flow, business level validations and for communicating with the business layer.  ? Performed form validations on the UI using Django framework.  ? Designed and developed backend of the application utilizing Python on Django Rest Framework.  ? Involved in Designing and Setting up of environment of Mongo db with shards and replica sets. (Dev/Test and Production).  ? Good experience in various source code control tools like Git.  ? Good Experience of JIRA (Agile) for tracking project status.  Environment: Python, Angular JS, Django, XML, CSS, HTML, JavaScript, Django Rest Framework, jQuery, JSON, Numpy, Matplotlib, Mongo db, Aws, Eclipse, VS code. Python developer Virtual Qube Technologies - Ahmedabad, Gujarat June 2012 to March 2014 Description:Virtual Qube Technologies provides portfolio of sourcing, transportation. CHRW online is an e-commerce web application which allows the customer to enter and track the shipment information. It offers the resources to enter, track, and manage any shipment, regardless of mode. It gives multiple tracking options and features to help the customer to keep tabs on all your shipments no matter where they are in the shipping process. The main goal of the project was to design the portals where customers can view their open Orders, track the package, Invoices and organize the customer database. Involved in application development for streamlining office workflow processes involved in Electronic Data Interchange (EDI).  Responsibilities:  ? Involved in design and development of web applications usingPython, Django, JavaScript, jQuery, HTML, CSS, MySQL.  ? Providing daily reports to application lead and participate in both the design phase and the development phase. Utilized Agile Methodology and SCRUM Process.  ? Participated in Daily Stand-up meetings and provided status on work progress.  ? Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  ? Used Django Database API's to access database objects. Also involved in validating and processing of files.  ? Performed form validations on the UI using Django framework.  ? Used Python and Django to interface with the jQuery UI and manage the storage and deletion of content.  ? Responsible for managing large databases using MySQL.  ? Wrote and executed various MySQL database queries from Python-MySQL connector and MySQLdb package  ? Created Git repository and added the project to GitHub.  ? Involved in debugging the applications monitored on JIRA using agile methodology.  Environment: Python, Django, XML, CSS, HTML, JavaScript, Apache, Django Web Framework, jQuery, JSON, JIRA, NumPy, SciPy, PyCharm, GIT, MySQL Education Bachelor of Engineering in Computer Science Gujarat Technological University Ahmedabad - Ahmedabad, Gujarat Skills DJANGO (5 years), Git (5 years), JAVASCRIPT (5 years), jQuery (5 years), JSON (5 years) Additional Information SKILLS & INTERESTS:  Programming Languages Python 2.7/3, Java 8, C++, SQL  Databases Mongo dB 2.x, Dynamo DB, MySQL 5.x, MS SQL Server 12.x, SQLite  Web Developments  HTML/HTML5, CSS/CSS3, JavaScript, AJAX, JSON, jQuery, XML, Redux, Bootstrap 3.33/4.0, Materialize CSS 1.x, SASS, Typescript, Angular CLI, ES6    Frameworks Django 1.x, Angular JS, Angular 2.x, React.JS 16.x, Flask  Tools Postman, Jira, Karma, VSTS, Git, Eclipse, PyCharm, Atom, Visual Studio, NetBeans  Servers Node.JS 4.x, Express.JS, Passport.JS, RESTful, SOAP  Cloud Technology Amazon Web services  Python Library NumPy, SciPy, Matplotlib, Pandas, PyMongo, Unit Test, Tkinter  Operating Systems Windows XP/7/8/10, Linux