Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - Thomson Reuters Rockville, MD • Experience in software development in Python (libraries used: libraries- Beautiful Soup, NumPy, SciPy, re, matplotlib, Python-twitter, Pandas data frame, urllib2, MySQL dB for database connectivity) and IDEs - sublime text, Spyder, PyCharm, emacs  • In depth knowledge of different web frameworks Django, Pyramid.  • Having experienced in Agile Methodologies, Scrum stories and sprints experience in a Python based environment, along with data analytics, data wrangling and Excel data extracts.  • Expertise in Object-Oriented design. Good knowledge of various Design Patterns and UML.  • Proficient in SQL databases MS SQL, MySQL, Oracle, no-SQL, Mongo DB, Cassandra.  • Developed web app using flask library to abstract the implementation process and produce reports for decision making.  • Good experience in developing web applications implementing Model View Control architecture using Django, Flask and Pyramid Python web application frameworks.  • Hands-on experience in UNIX and Linux Kernels.  • Efficient in using PythonSpark API and efficient in using apache Spark.  • Used SparkSQL to query structured data inside Spark programs using Data Frame API or SQL.  • Working experience on Amazon Web Services (AWS) Cloud services like EC2, S3, EBS, RDS, VPC, and IAM  • Designed, configured, and deployed Amazon Web Services (AWS) for applications utilizing the AWS stack (Including EC2, Route53, S3, RDS, Cloud Formation, Cloud Watch, SQS, IAM), focusing on high-availability, fault tolerance, and auto-scaling.  • Used AWS lambda to run code virtually.  • Migrating physical Linux/Windows servers to cloud (AWS) and testing.  • Good experience in performing operations such as CRUD operations and writing complex queries with Oracle, MS SQL Server, and MongoDB.  • Basic knowledge in Front end development technologies like HTML, XML, CSS, jQuery, JSON and JavaScript, DOJO, Bootstrap, Node.js, Angular.js, backbone.js, Require.js.  • Good knowledge of server Apache Tomcat, Web logic  • Experience in developing web-based applications using Python 2.7/2.6, Django 1.4/1.3, PHP, Angular JS, VB, C++, XML, CSS, HTML, DHTML, JavaScript and jQuery.  • Wrote a Python module to connect and view the status of an Apache Cassandra instance.  • Experienced in various types of testing such as Unit testing, Integration testing, User acceptance testing, Functional testing.  • Experience in Installing Jenkins/Plugins for GIT Repository, Setup SCM Polling for Immediate Build with Maven.  • Experienced in writing SQL Queries, Stored procedures, functions, packages, tables, views, triggers.  • Good knowledge in various stages of SDLC (Software Development Life Cycle), Software Testing Life Cycle (STLC) and QA methodologies from project definition to post-deployment documentation.  • Proficient in SQL databases MS SQL, MYSQL, Oracle and NO SQL databases MongoDB, Cassandra.  • Researched and implemented code coverage using SonarQube scanner and runner and unit test plug-ins like find bugs, check style and JUnit with Maven/Hudson.  • Well experienced in unit testing, integration testing and end-end testing.  • Strong understanding of Agile and Scrum Software Development Life Cycle Methodologies.  • Involved in the issue resolution and Root Cause Analysis.  • Developmental experience on Windows NT/95/98/2000/XP, UNIX and LINUX platforms. Work Experience Python Developer Thomson Reuters - Rockville, MD July 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Responsible for gathering requirements, system analysis, design, development, testing and deployment.  • Participated in the complete SDLC process. Written many programs to parse excel file and process many user data with data validations.  • Created network architecture on AWS VPC, subnets, Internet Gateway, Route. Perform S3 buckets creation, configured the storage on S3 buckets, policies and the IAM role-based policies.  • Designed high availability environment for Application servers and database servers on EC2 by using ELB and Auto-scaling.  • Used Cloud-watch for monitoring AWS cloud resources and the applications that deployed on AWS by creating new alarm, enable notification service.  • AWS Import/Export accelerates moving large amounts of data into and out of AWS using portable storage devices for transport.  • Designed Cassandra schema for the APIs.  • Developed Restful Microservices using Flask and deployed on AWS servers using EBS and EC2.  • Worked on HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Git, REST API, and Mongo DB.  • Developed tools to automate some base tasks using Shell Scripting, Python.  • Designed and Developed User Interface using front-end technologies like HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Bootstrap and JSON. Worked with Regular Expressions, URLLIB modules.  • Configured and maintained Jenkins to implement the CI process and integrated the tool with Ant and Maven to schedule the builds.  • Created Maven POMs to automate build process for the new projects and integrated them with third party tools like SonarQube.  • Develop applications that use MongoDB database and PyMongo.  • Managed and trained peers on the installation of MYSQL and in writing queries to achieve performance optimization.  • Wrote Python modules to extract/load asset data from the MySQL source database.  • Integration of Maven/Nexus, Jenkins, Urban Code Deploy with Patterns/Release, Git, Confluence, Jira.  • Having experienced in Agile Methodologies, Scrum stories and sprints experience in a Python based environment, along with data analytics, data wrangling and Excel data extracts.  • Extensive hands-on engineering and implantation knowledge of leading container orchestration and infrastructure management tools (Kubernetes).  • Experience in Kubernates& writing the scripts in Perl and Shell Scripts for managing various enterprise applications.  • Created multiple Python and UNIX shell Scripts for various application level tasks.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Developed and tested many features for dashboard using Django, CSS and JavaScript.  • Created unit test/regression test framework for working/new code  • Developed views and templates with Flask WTForms to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Using Git as version control tool to coordinate team-development.  • Built development environment with JIRA, Stash/Git. Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Created Docker images using a Docker file, worked on Docker container snapshots, removing images and managing Docker volumes.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  • Participated in writing scripts for test automation  ENVIRONMENT:  Python 2.0/3.0, Flask, AWS, Django, MySQL, Oracle 11.2, Linux, Django, Eclipse, Shell Scripting, HTML, XHTML, Git, CSS, AJAX, Bug zilla, JavaScript, Apache Web Server, MongoDB, Apache spark, Cassandra, MySQL. Python Developer Stanley Black and Decker - Middle River, MD February 2016 to July 2017 Responsibilities:  • Developed strategic partnerships with the business unit to develop a solid knowledge base of the business line, including the business plan, products, and processes.  • Worked extensively with Bootstrap, Cassandra with MySQL, Java script and J Query to optimize the user experience.  • Build and deployment of scripts using python scripting, Shell to setup development and QA environments.  • Build servers using AWS, importing volumes, launching EC2, creating security groups, auto-scaling, load balancers (ELBs) in the defined virtual private connection. Migrated applications to the AWS cloud.  • Involved in back end development using Python with framework Flask Restful web services using Python REST API Framework.  • Build and configure a virtual data centers in the Amazon Web Services cloud to support Enterprise Data Warehouse hosting including Virtual Private Cloud (VPC), Public and Private Subnets, Security Groups, Route Tables, Elastic Load Balancer.  • Working in team of Architects and Developers to build and deploy Python Flask Peewee Linux AWS.  • Worked with Version Control tools like GIT.  • Expertise in working with different data bases Oracle MySQL, PostgreSQL and Good knowledge in using NoSQL databases MongoDB.  • Wrote Python modules to view and connect the Apache Cassandra instance.  • Used Python and Django creating graphics, XML, json processing, data exchange and business logic implementation  • Utilized PyUnit, the Python unit test framework, for all Python applications.  • Configured NoSQL databases like Apache Cassandra and Mongo DB to for increasing compatibility with Django.  • Packaging, build, Test and Deploy chain, SVN with Dev/Test/Prod Branching Model for weekly releases.  • Used UML Rational Rose to develop Use-case, Class and Object diagrams for OOA/OOD techniques.  • Built database Model, Views and API's using Python for interactive web-based solutions.  • Placed data into JSON files using Python to test Django websites. Used Python scripts to update the content in database and manipulate files.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Flask Web Framework.  • Developed web-based application using Django framework with python concepts.  • Developed server-side presentation layer using Spring MVC Framework using Maven.  • Implemented the Project structure based on Spring MVC pattern using spring boot.  • Generated Python Django forms to maintain the record of online users.  • Used Django API's to access the database.  • Involved in managing MongoDB environment from availability, performance and scalability perspectives.  • Involved in Python OOD code for quality, logging, monitoring, and debugging code optimization.  • Wrote Python modules to view and connect the Apache Cassandra instance.  • Created Unit test/ regression test framework for working/new code.  • Responsible for designing, developing, testing, deploying and maintaining the web application.  • Developed GIT hooks for the local repository, code commit and remote repository, code push functionality and on Git Hub.  • Configured and maintained Jenkins to implement the CI process and integrated the tool with Ant and Maven to schedule the builds.  • Creating the Brokers for the use of Kubernates, kafka, zookeeper.  • Installed Jenkins on Linux machines and created master and slave configurations to implement multiple parallel builds.  ENVIRONMENT:  Java, J2EE, Flask, Spring MVC Framework, AWS, GIT, Jenkins, Nexus, Django, Linux, Python/Shell script, Tomcat, MongoDB, SVN, Gradle, Nagios, Splunk, Kubernates, Cassandra, MySQL. Python Developer Gilead - Foster City, CA February 2014 to November 2015 Responsibilities:  • Developed strategic partnerships with the business unit to develop a solid knowledge base of the business line, including the business plan, products, and processes.  • Worked on the project from gather requirement to developing the entire application, with help from another analyst.  • Wrote python routines to log into the websites and fetch data for selected options.  • Followed Agile Methodologies and SCRUM Process.  • Develop programs to automate the testing of RAID controller firmware and utilities using Python, Java, Java Script,  • Responsible for Amazon web services (AWS) infrastructure with automation and configuration management tool such as chef.  • Implemented the Spring MVC architecture.  • Worked on JavaScript MVC Framework like Angular.js.  • Worked with Open stack Command-line client.  • Created backend database T-SQL stored procedures and Jasper Reports.  • Used Python modules such as requests, urllib, urllib2 for web crawling.  • Used other packages such as Beautiful soup for data parsing.  • Worked on writing and as well as read data from csv and excel file formats.  • Worked on a resulting report of the application and Tableau reports.  • Hands on with tools Git/GitHub, Ansible, Artifactory, Jenkins, OpenStack, Balance, Node-Proxy, VMWare, and Open Source software to build automated testing and delivery pipelines.  • Written Terraform templates, Ansible playbooks for configuring servers.  • Hands on experience in installing and administrating CI/CD tools like Hudson, Jenkins, Bamboo.  • Performed QA testing on the application. Use of Docker and OpenShift to manage micro services for development and testing.  • Built kubernetes environment deployed via terraform. Built AMIs with packer.  • Setup a Docker cluster built own PaaS and used Kubernetes cluster for orchestration and testing.  • Deployed Docker containerized applications using Kubernetes in Google Cloud Platform (GCP).  • Log monitoring and generating visual representations of logs using ELK stack. Implement CI/CD tools Upgrade, Backup, Restore, DNS, LDAP and SSL setup.  • Utilize PyUnit, the Python unit test framework, for all Python applications.  • Exported/Imported data between different data sources using SQL Server Management Studio.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Created Python scripts to automate AWS services which include web servers, ELB, CloudFront distribution, databases, security groups and application configuration.  • Perform S3 buckets creation, policies and IAM role-based policies  • Build servers using AWS, importing volumes, launching EC2, RDS, creating security groups, auto scaling, load balancers (ELBs) in the defined virtual private connection.  • Deploy applications on AWS by using Elastic Beanstalk.  ENVIRONMENT:  Python 2.7/3.0, Django 1.5/1.8, AWS, C++, XML, Agile (SCRUM), Spring MVC, PyUnit, MYSQL, CSS, MySQL, DHTML, HTML, JavaScript, Angular.js, Shell Scripts, Git, Linux, Unix and Windows. Python Developer IVY COMPTECH - IN May 2013 to January 2014 Responsibilities:  • Involved in the analysis and development of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC).  • Contributed in developing a web services middle-tier in Python to integrate with an existing MySQL backend. Wrote several internal API utilities and micro services to carry out specific tasks.  • Wrote and executed exhaustive SQL queries using Python with help from various query builders in Python to frame the queries.  • Migrated MySQL to NoSQL data store using ETL processes using Python. Tasks included CRUD, elaborate cleansing of data and packing it into the expected format - JSON.  • Developed Python scripts to perform auditing tasks and generating Excel reports to support engineering a logistics, sales and inventory management system.  • Worked as assistant to Web Programmer in creating Django/Flask Web apps. Generated sample JSON format queries for testing REST endpoints.  • Frequently performed adhoc File IO tasks in python. Dealt with CSV, JSON, Text, XML and XLSX files. Used shell scripting to automate repetitive tasks.  • Supported and solved tasks received through a ticketing system. Liaised with third-party engineers and technical support depts.  • Heavy usage of String interpolation, modular structuring of code and parameterized approach.  • Followed a test-driven approach closely. Used Python's Unit Testing extensively.  ENVIRONMENT:  Python, MySQL, PostgreSQL, MongoDB, Jira, Flask, REST, JSON, CSV, Excel, Eclipse. Linux Administrator State Bank of India - IN May 2011 to May 2013 Responsibilities:  • Administered RedHat Enterprise Linux 5.x/4.x, OEL 5.x, & Solaris 9 Servers by testing, tuning, upgrading, patching and troubleshooting both Physical & Virtual server problems.  • Used Veritas File system and Veritas Volume Manager 5.0 to configure the RAID 1 &RAID 5 Storage System for more redundancy.  • Installed and maintained regular upgrades of Red Hat Linux Servers using kickstart based network installation.  • Created Disk volumes, Volume groups and Logical volumes (LVM) for Linux operating systems.  • Installed and Configured Apache Tomcat Web Server.  • Configured Proxy Server (Squid), DNS, FTP and DHCP servers on Red Hat Enterprise Linux and maintained system securities using IPTABLES.  • Developed Perl& Shell scripts for automation of the build and release process. Developed automation scripting in Python to deploy some applications.  • Created the LDAP Scripts which monitor the LDAP connectivity and alerts the Admin Group if the connection is closed. Also administered Active Directory Servers.  • Involved in monitoring and troubleshooting Network like TCP/IP, NFS, DNS and SMTP in Linux servers and System Activities like CPU, Memory, Disk and Swap space usage to avoid any performance issues.  • server, MySQL databases in both development and production.  • Experience in implementing and configuring network services such as HTTP, DHCP, and TFTP.  • Install and configure DHCP, DNS (BIND, MS), web (Apache, IIS), mail (SMTP, IMAP, POP3), and file servers on Linux servers.  • Built ESXi hosts using multiple technologies including HPSA, VUM, Host Profiles, and PowerCLI scripts Performed routine maintenance on VMware environment such as vCenter upgrades, firmware upgrades, Patching.  • Troubleshooting Backup and Restore Problems Creation of LVMs on SAN using Linux utilities  • Troubleshooting Linux network, security-related issues, capturing packets using tools such as IP tables, firewall, and TCP wrapper and NMAP.  • By integrating WLST scripts to Shell scripts, artifacts like war, ear are deployed into WebLogic app server.  • Upgraded Red hat Linux OS on Web Sphere, JBoss and Oracle database servers from V3, V4 to V5.  • Monitored servers, switches, ports etc. with Nagios monitoring tool.  • Responsible for setting up Cronjobs scripts on production servers and Implementation of password less (SSH) authentication between servers.  ENVIRONMENT:  RedHat Enterprise Linux 5.x/4.x, OEL 5.x, Solaris 9, LVM, RAID, Cronjobs, Oracle, MySQL, TCP/IP. Education Master's in information assurance in information assurance Wilmington University - New Castle, DE 2018 Master's in Software Engineering in Software Engineering Vellore Institute of Technology - Vellore, Tamil Nadu 2010 to 2015