Sr python Developer Sr <span class="hl">python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr python Developer - AT&T Denver, CO • I have 8 years as python developer. Responsible for gathering requirements, system analysis, design, development, testing and deployment.  • Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks. Interfacing with supervisors, artists, systems administrators and production to ensure production deadlines are met.  • Developed Business Logic using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL.  • Developed Business Logic using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Wrote scripts using python modules and its libraries to develop programs that improve processing of access requests.  • Used JQuery and Ajax calls for transmitting JSON data objects between frontend and controllers.  • Involved in building database Model, APIs and Views utilizing Python, in order to build an interactive web-based solution.  • Used Python based GUI components for the front-end functionality such as selection criteria, created test harness to enable comprehensive testing utilizing Python.  • Good knowledge of bug tracking tools, such as Jira  • Experience in Linux OS, (Ubuntu, RHEL, SUSE, Mac OSX) and Windows  • Have working experience or good working knowledge of Make, Maven, Gradle build tools, and deploying web packages through Apache Tomcat.  • Experience in XML and JSON data interchange formats  • Familiarity with creating and querying databases in MySQL RDBMS  • Involved releases, created delivery documentation, and created release packages for SDLC stages - Staging, QA/UAT, Production  • Worked with a multiple third party libraries which include Volley, Retrofit, Gson, and Dagger.  • Expertise in design based platforms like Adobe Illustrator, Photoshop, Flash, Maya, Cinema 4D and after effects.  • Extensive knowledge in designing front-end applications, accessing SQL database, application layer protocols, and XML.  • Experienced in Version controls using Git, SVN, CVS and GitHub. Experience in working Agile and  • Waterfall environment and coordinate with offshore team.  • Excellent communication and interpersonal skills with ability to interact with individuals at all levels and can work as a part of team as well as independently. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr python Developer AT&T November 2016 to Present Responsibilities:  • Responsible for social occasion prerequisites, framework examination, plan, improvement, testing and organization.    • Developed instruments utilizing Python, Shell scripting, XML to mechanize a portion of the humble assignments. Interfacing with managers, specialists, frameworks directors and generation to guarantee creation due dates are met.    • Developed Business Logic utilizing Python on Django Web Framework.    • Designed and built up the UI of the site utilizing HTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.    • Designed and created information administration framework utilizing MySQL.    • Developed Business Logic utilizing Python on Django Web Framework.    • Wrote contents utilizing python modules and its libraries to create programs that enhance preparing of access demands.    • Used JQuery and Ajax calls for transmitting JSON information protests amongst frontend and controllers.    • Involved in building database Model, APIs and Views using Python, so as to manufacture an intuitive electronic arrangement.    • Used Python based GUI parts for the front-end usefulness, for example, determination criteria, made test saddle to empower exhaustive testing using Python.    • Used Amazon Web Services (AWS) for enhanced productivity of capacity and quick access.    • Added bolster for Amazon AWS S3 and RDS to have static/media records and the database into Amazon Cloud. Associated with front end and used Bootstrap and Angular.js for page outline.    • Created Data tables using PyQt to show client and arrangement data and include, erase, refresh client records.    • Used JQuery and Ajax calls for transmitting JSON information protests amongst frontend and controllers.    • Involved in building database Model, APIs and Views using Python, to assemble an intelligent online arrangement.    • Used Python based GUI segments for the front-end usefulness, for example, choice criteria, Created test outfit to empower exhaustive testing using Python.    • Used Amazon Web Services (AWS) for enhanced proficiency of capacity and quick access.    • Added bolster for Amazon AWS S3 and RDS to have static/media records and the database into Amazon Cloud.    • Involved in front end and used Bootstrap and Angular.js for page outline.    Environment: Python, Django, Shell Scripting, AWS, Pandas, PyQt, PyQuery, Wireshark, Flash, DOM, JSON, PHP, HTML5, CSS3, AJAX, JavaScript, Angular.js, Bootstrap, Apache Web Server, MYSQL, GitHub, LINUX. Python Developer Quick - Manassas, VA January 2016 to October 2016 Responsibilities:    • Participate in prerequisite social occasion and examination period of the undertaking in archiving the business necessities by leading workshops/gatherings with different business clients.    • Worked with group of designers on Python applications for RISK administration.    • Developed Python application for Google Analytics conglomeration and announcing.    • Worked on Python Open stack API's, utilized Python contents to refresh content in the database and control documents.    • Implemented machine learning plans utilizing Python libraries scikit-learn and scipy.    • Experience in MVC engineering utilizing Django for electronic application in OOP ideas.    • Worked on a few python bundles like Matpoltlib, cx_Freeze, Pillow, Numpy, attachments.    • Worked on ETL Processing which comprises of information change, information sourcing and mapping, Conversion and stacking.    • Worked on plan and advancement of Unix Shell Scripting as a piece of the ETL Process to mechanize the way toward stacking.    • Worked on ETL undertakings like pulling, driving information from and excessively different servers.    • Tested and assessed comes about for incorporation into programming item.    • Designed and sent machine learning arrangements in Python to group a large number of already unclassified Twitter clients into center information item.    • Used Pandas API to put the information as time arrangement and forbidden frame for east timestamp information control and recovery to deal with time arrangement information and do information control.    • Used Pandas library for factual Analysis utilizing R Studio.    • Automating Email Process, Downloading and transferring the records through Perl Scripting.    • Worked on front end outline works like CSS, Bootstrap for improvement of Web application.    • Developed perspectives and formats with Python and Django's view controller and templating dialect to make an easy to understand interface utilizing MVC design.    • Used Python and Django to interface with the jQuery UI and deal with the capacity and erasure of substance.    • Integrate the dynamic pages with Angular JS and j-question to make the pages dynamic.    • Interfacing with chiefs, specialists, frameworks chairmen and creation to guarantee generation due dates are met.    • Used Machine learning systems like unsupervised Classification, enhancement and forecast.    • Worked on Python open stack API's.    • Using Subversion form control apparatus to facilitate group advancement.    • Responsible for investigating and investigating the web application.    • Designed and built up the UI of the site utilizing HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript, additionally utilized Bootstrap as an instrument to oversee and sort out the html page format.    • Wrote and executed different MYSQL database inquiries from Python utilizing Python-MySQL connector and MySQL DB bundle.    • Associated with working distributed computing stages like open stack.    • Involved being developed of Web Services utilizing SOAP for sending and getting information from the outside interface in the XML organize.    • Added bolster for Amazon AWS S3 and RDS to have static/media documents and the database into Amazon Cloud.    • Worked on improvement of SQL and put away techniques on MYSQL.    • Engaged in Design, Development, Deployment, Testing and Implementation.    • Responsible for investigating the task checked on JIRA (Agile).    • Performed investigating, settled and conveyed numerous Python bug fixes of the two primary applications that were a principle wellspring of information for the two clients and inner client benefit group    Environment: Pythin2.7, .NET, PyQuery, MVW, HTML5, Shell Scripting, JSON, Apache Web Server, SQL, UNIX, Windows, and Python libraries. Python Developer Iblesoft Pvt Ltd November 2013 to June 2015 Responsibilities:  • Developed Python/Django application for Google Analytics conglomeration and announcing.    • Used Django arrangement to oversee URLs and application parameters.    • Worked on Python Open stack API's.    • Analyzed the SQL contents and planned it by utilizing Spark SQL for quicker execution.    • Implemented different Spark Actions and Transformations by making RDD's in HDFS.    • Used Python contents to refresh content in the database and control documents.    • Generated Python Django Forms to record information of online clients.    • Used Python and Django making illustrations, XML preparing, information trade and business rationale usage.    • Implemented Apache Spark information preparing task to deal with information from RDBMS and gushing sources.    • I have utilized Pandas API to put the information as time arrangement and forbidden configuration for east timestamp information control and recovery.    • Added bolster for Amazon AWS S3 and RDS to have static/media records and the database into Amazon Cloud.    • Used Pandas library for measurable Analysis.    • Developed apparatuses utilizing Python, Shell scripting, XML to mechanize a portion of the humble undertakings. Interfacing with managers, craftsmen, frameworks heads and creation to guarantee generation due dates are met.    • Worked intimately with architect, firmly incorporating Flash into the CMS with the utilization of Flashvars put away in the Django models. Likewise made XML with Django to be utilized by the Flash.    • Used HTML, CSS, JQuery, JSON and Javascript for front end applications.    • Designed and built up the UI of the site utilizing HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.    • Also utilized Bootstrap as a component to oversee and sort out the html page design.    • Used Django arrangement to oversee URLs and application parameters.    • Used Amazon Redshift to recover information speedier by composing complex investigative questions.    • Wrote and executed different MYSQL database inquiries from Python utilizing Python-MySQL connector and MySQLdb bundle.    • Involved being developed of Web Services utilizing SOAP for sending and getting information from the outside interface in the XML design.    • Worked on advancement of SQL and put away techniques on MYSQL.    • Responsible for troubleshooting the undertaking checked on JIRA (Agile).    • Performed investigating, settled and sent numerous Python bug fixes of the two primary applications that were a principle wellspring of information for the two clients and interior client benefit group.    Environment: Python, Django, Panda API, AWS, JSON, PHP, Flash, Shell Scripting, HDFS, AWS, S3, Redshift, HTML, CSS, AJAX, JQuery, XML, SOAP, Jira, Agile, SQL, Spark, MYSQL and Windows. Jr python developer Patni Computer Systems September 2011 to October 2013 Responsibilities:  • Engaged with the advancement of front end of the application utilizing Python 2.7, HTML5, CSS3, AJAX, JSON and JQuery and took a shot at backend of the application, mostly utilizing Active Records.    • Developed powerful pages utilizing Python, Django Frameworks.    • Developed observing and notice apparatuses utilizing Python.    • Improved the application by outlining and creating it utilizing HTML and JavaScript.    • Used information structures like registries, tuples, protest arranged class based legacy highlights for making complex calculations of systems.    • Created MySQL back-end for information passage from Flash. Helped the Flash engineer send the right information through question strings.    • Experience in spry condition utilizing a CI/CD demonstrate philosophy.    • Involved in building database Model, APIs and Views using python, so as to fabricate an intelligent electronic arrangement.    • Generated Python Django Forms to record information of online clients.    • Created Data tables using PyQt to show patient and approach data and include, erase, refresh understanding records.    • Wrote a Python module to interface and view the status of an Apache Cassandra case.    • Developed MVC model supplanting of current item with Django.    • Developed Python OO Design code for assembling quality, checking, logging, and investigating code enhancement.    • Responsible for examination, outline, improvement and mix of Market Risk applications with FLEX/JAVA/ PYTHON.    • Used Python to put information into JSON records for testing Django Websites.    • Involved in building database Model, APIs and Views using Python, keeping in mind the end goal to manufacture an intuitive online arrangement.    • Wrote Python schedules to sign into the sites and bring information for chose alternatives.    Environment: Python 2.7, Django, Beautifulsoup, HTML5, AWS, CSS/CSS3, Bootstrap, XML, JSON, JavaScript, JQuery, Restful Web administrations, Apache, Linux, Git, Amazon s3, Jenkins, MySQL, Mongo DB, T-SQL, Eclipse.. Skills JAVASCRIPT (6 years), PYTHON (6 years), XML (6 years), DATABASE (6 years), MYSQL (6 years) Additional Information Technical Skills:    Languages C, C++, Python, JavaScript, PHP, XML, JAVA, SQL  SCM Tools Subversion, Perforce, Jenkins/Hudson, Sonar, Jira, TFS, Confluence, Clear Case, AccuRev, GIT, GitHub.  Build Tools Ant, Maven, Make  Operating Systems UNIX, Linux, Solaris, Windows, DOS, VMware  Database Postgre SQL, MS Access, SQL Server, MYSQL and Sybase, Oracle, DB2  Application Servers Web logic, JBoss, IBM WebSphere, Apache tomcat5.5, IIS  Issue Tracking Tools ATLASSIAN JIRA, BUGZILLA, Mantis  Delivery Tools Saltstack, Chef & Puppet