Software Developer Intern Software <span class="hl">Developer</span> Intern Ann Arbor, MI Seeking a 2017 summer internship in Software Engineering. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Software Developer Intern Hefei Gocom Information & Technology Ltd. Co. - Hefei, China May 2016 to August 2016 I developed an automatic testing software for the company’s existing software module. The testing software is a TCP/IP server which communicates with the client in bytes. I implemented this software using C# by modularizing different testing conditions and the main server code. The C# program has a user interface that allows users to choose which tests to run and the program works with database in SQL to extract information. Through this project, I was able to learn new programming knowledge quickly. For example, I made my server multi-threaded to accept connections from multiple clients. I also learned how to incorporate SQL into C# program to both read and write to the database. Research Assistant in Python Statistics and Visualization of Network Traffic Streams Research - Ann Arbor, MI September 2015 to April 2016 • Implemented statistical methods like kernel smoothing in Python that visualized tornado landing intensities in the United States with a heat map.  • Optimized my program to visualize tornado landings of the past five decades that allowed the detection of intensity changes in the “tornado alley” of the US.  • Wrote research report in LaTeX that provided references for future members. Programmer Intern Gocom Information & Technology Ltd. Co - Hefei, CN May 2015 to August 2015 • Developed a program in C/C++ according to the Software Requirement Specification that established data transfers between two railway software modules.  • Presented my code to the managers using flow charts in the code review.  • Documented my code into Software Design Specification in English and managed to obtain Safety Certification from the Technical Inspection Association (TUV). Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Science Engineering University of Michigan - Ann Arbor, MI May 2018 Skills C/C++ (2 years), Python (1 year), MATLAB (1 year), C# (1 year), SQL (Less than 1 year), HTML/CSS (Less than 1 year) Additional Information SKILLS  Programming Languages C/C++, Python, MATLAB, VPython, Java  Computer Skills Microsoft Office Suite, Google Drive, Linux, Visual Studio