Sr. Python Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Denver, CO • Over 8 years of experience as a professional application developer, software development and design using Python, Django, Angular JS, React, Node JS, HTML, JavaScript, CSS, Java, MySQL, Oracle PL/SQL, Postgres.  • Developed Consumer-based custom features and applications using Python, Django, HTML, CSS.  • Experienced with Software Development Life Cycle, Database designs, agile methodologies, coding, testing of enterprise applications and IDE's such as Jupiter Notebook, PyCharm, Eclipse and Visual Studio.  • Well versed with design and development of presentation layer for web applications using technologies like HTML, CSS, Bootstrap and JavaScript.  • Expertise in working with server-side technologies including databases, awsful API and MVC design patterns.  • Experience with high level Python web frameworks Django and Flask.  • Handled all aspects of the web application including maintaining, testing, debugging, and deploying.  • Experience with Python Libraries/Packages such as HTTPLib2, Urllib2, Beautiful Soup, Py Query, Numpy, Scipy, Pickle, PyQT, PySide, Data Frames, Pandas and Matplotlib.  • Experience in Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) using Agile methodology.  • Good experience with Amazon Cloud EC2, Simple Storage Service S3.  • Experienced in MVC frameworks like Flask and Pyramid and MVT framework like Django  • Developed websites using JavaScript MVC frameworks such as Bootstrap, AngularJS, NodeJS.  • Worked on a new web app built in React and Redux.  • Experience with automation/configuration management using tools like Ansible, Puppet, and Chef.  • Working experience on JSON based REST Web services and Amazon Web Services (AWS) Such as EC2, Lambda, ELB, SQS (Queuing Services), VPC and cloud watch.  • Hands-on experience on Apache Spark, Kafka.  • Experience in using Zookeeper for coordinating the distributed applications.  • Experience in developing Scala scripts to run in SPARK cluster.  • Familiar with Agile and Waterfall development methodologies.  • Followed Agile Methodologies (Scrum) involved in daily stand-up meetings.  • Managed users, workflow, groups and projects in JIRA.  • Experience in working with different operating systems like Windows XP, MAC, UNIX and LINUX.  • Hands on Experience with parallel computing, multithreading; Experience with JSON based REST Web services.  • Excellent Experience and knowledge in using XML, SOAP, web Service for inter operable software applications.  • Experience in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on MySQL and Postgre SQL database.  • Experience with Version Control with SVN and GIT.  • Experience in implementing PEP8 coding standards.  • Highly motivated, dedicated, quick learner and have proven ability to build and manage a team and work individually. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Python Developer Denver, CO November 2017 to Present Description: DaVita is a health care provider which operates practices in Denver, CO. We design, develop and maintain software programs required to keep DaVita on the leading edge of medical technology. Worked with Python-based frameworks for the creation of web applications, including medical apps. Writing effective and scalable code, developed back-end components to improve responsiveness and overall performance. Worked with AWS using Restful API's to extract the information.    Responsibilities:  • Responsible to create organized responsive design and developed user interaction screens using Django React, HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, Javascript and jQuery.  • Responsible for gathering requirements, system analysis, design, development, testing and deployment.  • Designed Python/Django based web application, Postgre SQL DB, and integrations with email, messaging, storage services.  • Developed Python and Django for the backend development and front-end application using React, Webpack, Redux and MySQL for database.  • Developed web applications in Django Framework's model view control (MVC) architecture used Django Rest Framework to develop REST API.  • Used React JS in components like JSX, creating React components, Virtual DOM, React Props, Lifecycle methods, working with React States and Events.  • Used different python libraries like SciPy, NumPy, and Pandas to create models for predictive analysis.  • Responsible for setting up Python REST API framework using Django.  • Developed internal data science library in Python and PySpark  • Developed SQL Queries to run against database in MySQL server for the application.  • Developed a fully automated continuous integration system using Git, Jenkins, MySQL and custom tools developed in Python and Bash.  • Develop consumer-based features and applications using Python, Django, HTML and Test-Driven Development (TDD).  • Rewrote existing Python/Django modules to deliver certain format of data.  • Hands on Agile methodologies, Scrum stories and sprints in python.  • Responsible for tracking and monitoring project status in JIRA (Agile).  • Developed Python web services for processing JSON and interfacing with the Data layer.  • Worked on JSON and XML data of web application assets and its attributes.  • Built SQL queries for performing various CRUD operations like create, update, read and delete.  • Developed PySpark pipelines for multi-sourced data ingestion (S3, various API's, MySQL).  • Used Scala functional programming concepts to develop business logic.  • Using REST Web services to integrate agile tool for SDLC in the project.  • Maintenance and continues development of the applications in PL/SQL procedures, ETL modules and shell scripting using best practices.  • Experienced in Working on Big Data Integration and Analytics based on Hadoop, Spark and No-SQL databases like Hbase and MongoDB.  • Performed job functions using Spark API's in Scala for real time analysis and for fast querying purposes.  • Using the Django framework developed models, customized admin page, views, templates and effective ORM implementation with My SQL.  • Worked on building of Tableau desktop reports and dashboards to report customer data.  • Wrote Python modules to extract/load asset data from the MySQL source database.  • Used PyUnit, the Python unit test framework, for all Python applications.  • Experience with Unit testing/ Test driven Development (TDD), Load Testing.  • Experience in consuming web services (REST) with python programming language.  • Design and develop continuous deployment pipeline integrating Git, Jenkins and Chef across geographically separated hosting zones in AWS.  • Worked on Microservices for Continuous Delivery environment using Docker and Jenkins.  • Used SAS and SQL to create files that would be used as lists for various business partners and their marketing campaigns, and to perform full comprehensive quality checks on those files to ensure the perfect accuracy of the lists.  • Used Ansible to configure and manage the infrastructure. And worked on Jenkins in production environment.  • Experience using SAS for different procedures involving high volumes of data spanning millions of records.  • Automation (Ansible) and Deploying on AWS environment (EC2).  • Creating Amazon EC2 Cloud Instances using Amazon Web Services and configuration of launched instances with respect to specific applications.  • Collaborated with internal teams and external teams to solve the issues and giving feedback    Environment: Python, Django, React, Java, HTML/CSS, Javascript, MySQL, REST Web Services, Jupiter, NumPy, Pandas, JSON, PyCharm, Shell Scripting, TDD, Ansible, GitHub, Tableau, GIT, AWS, PySpark. Python Developer Kroger - Blue Ash, OH August 2015 to November 2017 Description: Kroger is an American retailing company located in Ohio. Worked on building secure, reliable and scalable solutions for the end user on this project. With strong back-end python coding and scripting experience, worked with AWS Lambda.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in building database Model, APIs and Views utilizing Python, in order to build an interactive web-based solution.  • Created Python and Bash tools to increase efficiency of application system and operations, data conversion scripts, REST, JSON, and CRUD scripts for API Integration.  • Developed and implemented the MVC Architectural Pattern using Struts Framework including JSP, Servlets and Action classes.  • Developed Python based API (RESTful Web Service) to track the events and perform analysis using Django.  • Created a Python /Django based web application using Python scripting for data processing, MySQL for the database, and HTML/CSS/jQuery and High Charts for data visualization of the served pages.  • Implemented user interface guidelines and standards throughout the development and maintenance of the website using the HTML, CSS, JavaScript and jQuery.  • Built client pages using HTML, JSP, XML to interact with users, and the business logic is implemented using Servlets and Java Beans.  • Used Pandas API to put the data as time series and tabular format for east timestamp data manipulation and retrieval.  • Designed and managed API system deployment using fast http server and Amazon AWS architecture.  • Worked on JMS components for asynchronous messaging.  • Worked mainly on Core Java, C++, STL, data structures, UNIX, multithreading.  • Worked on various environment Python, MYSQL, Apache, CSS, GIT, HTML, JavaScript, Shell Scripts.  • Worked with POSTMAN for API testing. Developed REST APIs and created User Model for application.  • Developed scripts for build, deployment, maintenance and related tasks using Docker.  • Developed existing network mapping microservices using python nmap and deployed it on kubernetes.  • Experience in Amazon Web Services (AWS) cloud platform like EC2, Virtual private clouds (VPCs), Storage models (EBS, S3, instance storage), Elastic Load Balancers (ELBs).  • Creating Cloud Formation templates in JSON format and deploy stack of AWS resources like EC2 instances, get code from S3 and deploy it, creation of security group and so on, as defined in the template.  • Also used python scripts for security purposes, AWS IAM, AWS lambda functions and deploying the applications through elastic beanstalk.  • Used Apache Tomcat web server to handle HTTP request and deploy Java Servlets and JSP's.    Environment: Python, Django, RESTful, Linux, HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, MySQL, Shell, JIRA, CVS. Python Developer Western Digital Corporation - San Jose, CA May 2013 to August 2015 Description: Western Digital Corporation (Western Digital), located in San Jose, CA, is a developer, manufacturer and provider of data storage devices and solutions that address the needs of the information technology (IT) industry and the infrastructure that enables the proliferation of data in virtually every industry.    Responsibilities:  • Responsible for gathering requirements, system analysis, design, development, testing and deployment.  • Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks. Interfacing with supervisors, artists, systems administrators and production to ensure production deadlines are met.  • Developed Business Logic using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL.  • Write scripts using python modules and its libraries to develop programs that improve processing of access requests.  • Worked on various complex modules in python including pyodbc, JSON, XML, Requests, profiler.  • Utilized PyUnit, the Python Unit test framework, for all Python applications and used Django Database API's to access database objects.  • Used PyQuery for selecting DOM elements when parsing HTML.  • Designed and created backend data access modules using PL/SQL stored procedures and Oracle 9i.  • Worked in an agile development environment.  • Used HTML, CSS, jQuery, JSON and JavaScript for front end applications.  • Involved in development of Web Services using SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface in the XML format.  • Designed object model, data model, tables, constraints, necessary stored procedures, functions, triggers, and packages for Oracle Database.  • Used Django configuration to manage URLs and application parameters.  • Used Wireshark, live http headers, and Fiddler debugging proxy to debug the Flash object and help the developer create a functional component.    Environment: Python, Django, HTML5, CSS, XML, AJAX, MySQL, JavaScript, Angular JS, JQuery, PyQuery, Bootstrap, Mongo DB, Postgre SQL, JavaScript, Eclipse, Git, GitHub, AWS, Linux, Shell Scripting. Python Developer XPO Logistics - Philadelphia, PA January 2011 to May 2013 Description: XPO Logistics is one of the top ten global logistics companies. This provides supply chain solutions and empowers the employees to deliver world-class customer service through our information technology. We've built a highly scalable and integrated platform using on-cloud technology that differentiates XPO across all lines of business and enables rapid development.    Responsibilities:  • Used the Django Framework to develop the application.  • Implemented web applications in Flask and spring frameworks following MVC architecture.  • Used Python to place data into JSON files for testing Django Websites.  • Updated and manipulated content and files by using Python scripts.  • Organized Python code using PEP8 online tool including documentation of scripts.  • Implemented web applications in Flask and spring frameworks following MVC architecture.  • Used Django configuration to manage URLs and application parameters.  • Abided by PEP8 Python coding standard for Squish scripts.  • Worked on Amazon Web Services (AWS) infrastructure with automation and configuration management tools such as Chef and Puppet. Worked on python Open stack API's.  • Used Python scripts to update content in the database and manipulate files.  • Generated Python Django Forms to record data of online users. Used Python and Django creating graphics, XML processing, data exchange and business logic implementation.  • Used Pandas API to put the data as time series and tabular format for east timestamp data manipulation and retrieval.  • Used Flask to connect front-end to back-end, Cherry Py to build the server and word clouds to visualize movies.  • Used latest Video conference applications and worked extensively on them. Data mapping, logical data modeling, created class diagrams and ER diagrams and used SQL queries to filter data within the Oracle database.  • Performed daily administration functions, including database management, monitoring, performance tuning, backup and recovery and also general troubleshooting on multiple UNIX platforms and windows servers.  • Added support for Amazon S3 and RDS to host static/media files and the database into Amazon cloud.  • Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some tasks.    Environment: Python 2.7, Django, HTML5/CSS, Parse Database, jQuery, GitHub, Amazon AWS S3, Jira.MS SQL Server 2013, JavaScript, Eclipse, Linux, Shell Scripting. Education Bachelor's