Senior Python Software Engineer Senior <span class="hl">Python</span> Software Engineer Senior Python Software Engineer Software Developer  Demonstrated ability to utilize excellent programming and systems skills  with careful preparation and planning resulting in user satisfaction Work Experience Senior Python Software Engineer Cigna Insurance - Windsor, CT July 2014 to July 2014 Python / Django Developer  • Implemented web services for use on mobile device applications  • Wrote unittest  • Used git, managed gitlab repositories and other users  • Implemented logic to:  ? generate identification cards for users  ? call backend services  ? generate pdf documents  ? protect consumer data and remain HIPAA compliant  • Worked on the CHDP (Cigna Home Delivery) Project  • Architectual design and changes with code refactoring  • Worked with device, QA, and other teams to get the job done on time.  • Tricks:  ? Created a script to convert Xcode xib files (Iphone device code templates) to html to avoid having to recreate what was on the device screen which allowed me to easily reproduce what was done over the course of a few years by multiple developers and with little documentation of the requirements in a matter of a few days rather than months. I enjoy doing this kind of stuff.  ? Wrote script to automate installation of dev environment(s)  * on vagrant  * on cloud boxes  * and it would even work on most of our environments too (system agnostic)  ? Linux command line I prefer to avoid doing things manually  * Many small scripts to do things for me in bash and python have been written, it usually saves me time and thus the probject time too. Java + Ruby Automation Developer Xpanxion / Redhat - Ames, IA July 2013 to July 2013 Wrote Cucumber-JVM / Java Automated Test  • Used Eclipse IDE in a Linux VM  • Participated in Daily Scrum meetings for Agile Development  • Managed and updated task in Rally  • Used DocSpace to get updated info on projects and procedures  • Used Mojo to get updated info on projects and procedures  • Learned Ruby and ported Java Automation Test to Ruby  • Created automation tests in Ruby  • Helped debug bash scripts on a RHEL sandbox  • Xpaxnion (in house)  ? Helped debug several applications  ? Started porting / reimplementing wallboard from Java to AngularJS, javascript, python, flask framework. Junior .NET Developer Deloitte - Harrisburg, PA May 2013 to July 2013 Helped to update, extend, and fix a previous system for the PA Department of Welfare  • Main set of changes were to include and update the business rules to meet the federal government's requirements for the new Affordable Care Act (ACA) laws.  • Fast paced team environment with deadlines which must be meet.  • Created Unit Test  • Gallio Test Suite w/ .NET  • PL/SQL with Oracle Database  • TFS Version Control  • Visual Studio 2012/2010  • SQL Server Management Studio  • Corticon Business Rules  • Regular Expressions (Used in Unit Test Match and Replace functions to compare) Software Developer Scott Means Consulting - Columbia, SC 2012 to 2013 Clients: Coxwood, CSC (Computer Science Corporation), CoralBK, markITByte    Coxwood / markITByte:  • Successfully updated Wordpress site code and added plugins in PHP with jQuery / JavaScript  ? Added ajax plugin for DataTables http://www.datatables.net/  ? Updated wordpress plugin(s)  ? Created plugin to create charts using dynamic data  ? Created plugin to authenticate wordpress request / sign url for IIS Server module  • Implemented login capability from ASP.NET / Windows server to Wordpress  ? Used RSA C# libraries to sign / verify request from the Wordpress plugin  ? Created using IIS plugin / module  • Coded ASP.NET / C# AJAX plugins and http modules  ? Helped develop and update dynamic AJAX page to query data from the MSSQL database and return it in XML output  ? Created a seperate dynamic AJAX page to query a SQL view and return the data in a reusable DataTables format for use with or without the jQuery dataTables library  ? Created and maintained a page to authenticate users from / with the Wordpress logins with the IIS Windows Authentication User Accounts and return the data for the user account so that it is updated and maintained on the Wordpress side  ? Created complex PL/SQL / MSSQL stored procedures, views, and queries for dynamic queries from the plugin(s)  • Developed android app in java for corporate employees  ? Created from scratch without prior knowledge of Android development  • Designed and implemented custom Wordpress applets for internal customer / employee use  CSC:  • Created an android RedLaser plugin for phonegap / cordova in Java and Javascript  • Helped with integration of plugin into project code  CoralBK:  • Fixed bugs on site  • Improved site with user friendly modifications to the site in python / django  • Added new features to site  • Updated site with both JavaScript, jQuery, python, django, and SQL  • Created and updated complex views and stored procedures in Postgresql  • Helped move database from MySQL to Postgresql  • Helped database migration  ? Imported external data into new system using SQL and python scripts  • Site optimizations and layout enhancements SCHOOL EXPERIENCE 2012 to 2012 2012  • Learned C#, ASP.NET, Visual Basic, COBOL, Java, HTML / CSS, Unix, Network Security, and Software Development Lifecycles  • Worked in a group to create a C# project with a Master Page (template) and submodules which linked off one another to create a final product    C++  • Various incomplete projects (side projects) for fun  • Specific encryption scheme program(s)  • Coded some programs for friends and self online to do small task such as batch renaming  • Challenges in online war games  • Batch jobs (for fun)  • Network programs for client / server for fun  ? irc bots for fun (calculator, functional, conversion, weather, time, etc)  ? logfile generate  • Utilities  ? quickly send data in specific format to user  ? generate data using encryption libraries  • Graphical  ? Small games for fun  ? Application programs for friend online  Unix / Linux  • Home server is Linux (ArchLinux)  • Run my own Wordpress website (empty)  • File Server  • Encryption (Full Disk, GPG, etc)  • Bash, ZSH, etc scripts for cron jobs and other mundane task  • Power User, I love working in the shell and prefer it most of the time  Ruby  • Ported Automation Tests created in Java to Ruby for Redhat  • Created new automation tests in Ruby  Python  • Small incomplete web projects to play with new technologies such as Flask, django, SQLAlchemy, threading, etc in python    CSS / HTML  • Created personal site and side projects using bootstrap with templates, custom HTML / CSS, Javascript, and extensions  Perl  • Various scripts to accomplish task  • Many one liners for use in the shell  SQL  • Manage my own local MySQL, PostgreSQL, SQLite, and mongodb (No-SQL) databases  • Various database for personal things such as music, video index, task, etc Education Computer Technology, Application Programming Midlands Technical College - Columbia, SC 2012 Additional Information PROFESSIONAL SKILLS    Engineering and Technology  • Implement and use new technologies  • Modify current, outdated, or broken code to meet the clients' needs  • Keep updated documentation of programs, procedures, and best security practices  • Create programs from scratch and design a functional layout to match user needs and skill levels  • Manage large sets of data within a database and modify or migrate database scheme    Technologies  • Languages: C / C++, C#, .NET, SQL, PL/SQL, MySQL, MSSQL, Postgresql, Perl, Python, PHP, Java, ASP.NET, Visual Basic (VB), Shell Scripting, Ruby, and New languages easily learned  • Operating Systems: Linux / UNIX, Windows    Customer and Personal Service  • Communicate with other programmers on and off the team to guarantee project completion  • Discuss and determine cost / benefit with clients  • Advise clients on cost of maintenance and remote hosting versus in house hosting    Administrative and Management  • Successfully train new team members how to our systems work  • Delegate different areas of a project among team members while ensuring timely completion  • Monitor team members in execution of task and procedures such as regression testing, installation, and coding  • Utilize the Internet to research better solutions to simple and complex problems that may arise    Open source programming  • Github: https://github.com/kelvinhammond