Full Stack Developer ( Python, Swift, Java) Full Stack <span class="hl">Developer</span> (<span class="hl">Python</span>, Swift, Java) Ithaca, NY Actively look for 2019 Summer Internship Work Experience Full Stack Developer ( Python, Swift, Java) Cornell Information Chatbot January 2019 to Present • Build a voice/text chatbot application on both iOS and Android platforms for use by the Cornell community to quickly answer questions about the university without needing to search through multiple web data sources.  • Use services from AWS (Lambda, API Gateway, DynamoDB) to access the backend technology for Alexa to build custom voice/text interpretation applications and respond to client-side queries with help of serverless technologies. Software Engineer Intern (C#) Ampligence - Irvine, CA August 2018 to December 2018 • Implemented an image recognition system capable of reading numbers and characters from different types of gauges for a graphene factory.  • Contributed to over 30% of the development by implementing image recognition base and two modules capable of reading two types of gauges.  • Improved system extensibility and flexibility with Dependency Injection and SOLID  principle. Back-end Developer (C) Dynamic Memory Allocator April 2018 to May 2018 • Implemented a dynamic memory allocator in C language that efficiently allocated and Back-end Developer resized blocks of memory by using the Explicit Free List method with bidirectional coalescing, significantly improving memory allocation.  • Applied the concept of Spin Lock to manage synchronization in a multi-core  environment Full Stack Developer (Java) SQL Interpreter August 2017 to December 2017 • Implemented a SQL query interpreter/compiler by using Java JSqlParser to parse SQL in a .sql file into a Java object.  • Invoked java NIO to perform page-at-a-time I/O and B+ Tree indexing via the Bulk Loading algorithm to achieve 101 ms processing time on 10000 uncluttered entries.  • Realized several relational operators such as "select", "distinct", BNLJ and SMJ by using an iterator model (iterator API) and singleton pattern to interpret query content. Back-end Developer ( Python) Ensemble Learning August 2017 to December 2017 • Invoked Python package Sklearn to realize various machine learning techniques Back-end Developer including Decision Tree, KNN, Naive Bayes, Logistic Regression, and Neural Networks.  • Trained each model with over 1000 breast cancer diagnoses data entries, each with 6 attributes, found on UCI Machine Learning Repository.  • Obtained a KNN model with goodness of fit over 0.80, beating human average of 0.70. Geotechnical Research Intern (MatLAB) Bovay Laboratory - Ithaca, NY May 2017 to August 2017 • Performed large-scale mechanical tests on casted iron, PVC, and PVCO pipes produced by companies from Canada, Japan, and U.S.  • Implemented MATLAB functions that recognized fraudulent behaviors on mechanical performances and calculated deformations of pipes. Teaching Assistant University Calculus 1110 August 2016 to January 2017 Organized study session in weekly office hours. Education Master of Engineering in Software Engineering Cornell University May 2020 Bachelor of Science in Computer Science & Civil Engineering Cornell University May 2019 Skills C#, Html, Php, Python, Java Links https://github.com/BillTang111