Backend Software Engineer Backend Software Engineer Software Engineer San Francisco, CA A Software engineer with a curious mind and passion for problem-solving and designing solutions. I keep a continuous professional development by staying up to date with the latest technologies and honing my knowledge in essential concepts e.g. Data structures, Algorithms, Design Patterns and Software development methodologies. Other interests include IoT (Internet of Things), machine learning, Blockchain, mathematics, and music. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Backend Software Engineer Trufla Technologies - Cairo June 2018 to October 2018 Responsibilities:  • Analyze, design, develop and test microservices to build a complete suite of digital solutions for modern insurance brokerages using the NodeJS framework HapiJS, mongoose as an ORM and various other npm packages depending on our needs like (Joi, lodash).  • Work on the frontend product (SharpOne) with technologies like HTML5, CSS3, Angular, bootstrap.  • Provide ongoing maintenance, support, and enhancements in the existing platform and microservices.  One of the projects we worked on was "CARRIER-BROKER API" where we built a microservice in Node.js to fully integrate with Sharp’s custom quoting system to provide customers in Alberta and Ontario new and innovative ways to shop, buy and administer their auto insurance.  https://www.canadianunderwriter.ca/inspress/trufla-technology-launches-carrier-broker-api-canada/ Python Developer (Academic Project) Information Technology Institute Project - Cairo April 2018 to April 2018 A library website developed using Django 2.0.2, HTML5, CSS3 and Javascript Libraries. JavaScript Developer (Academic Project) Information Technology Institute Project - Cairo December 2017 to December 2017 An object-oriented implementation of the famous puzzle “Towers of Hanoi” in pure JavaScript, HTML5 and CSS3. Mathematics Content Developer Nagwa Limited - Cairo December 2016 to September 2017 My main role was to design and implement algorithms to generate and solve mathematical problems using python. Education Diploma in Open Source Application Development - 3.96 GPA Information Technology Institue - Cairo October 2017 to July 2018 B.Sc. in Engineering Suez University - Suez July 2016 to September 2016 Skills Node.js (1 year), Angular (Less than 1 year), HapiJS (Less than 1 year), MochaJS (Less than 1 year), Javascript (1 year), Git, Docker, Express.js, MongoDB, Linux, Python, Object Oriented Programming (OOP), JQuery, JSON, XML, MySQL, Algorithms, Data Structures, Backend, Back End, Rest, Microservices, Angular, React.js, Go Links http://linkedin.com/in/kareem-adel-000 http://github.com/kareemadel