Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Software Engineer Nashville, TN Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Developer ettain group - Franklin, TN August 2015 to February 2016 Responsibilities  Working closely with a software architect on a small team of software engineers to develop a system that improves the speed and reduces the cost of bringing on new clients.    Using Python to develop RESTful APIs that are used to gather various types of client information to be stored in couchbase/elasticsearch.    Using principles of test-driven development.    Skills Used  - Python  - elasticsearch  - couchbase  - RabbitMQ  - RESTful APIs  - Test-Driven Development Software Engineer Cash Express, LLC - Cookeville, TN June 2015 to August 2015 Using Perl and MySQL, assisted in improving the POS system used by the Cash Express, LLC employees at over 300 stores in the southeast US.    Worked closely with upper management on various projects.     Fixed bugs and implemented changes to the system as needed or as problems were brought to my attention.    Added new functionality to the POS to allow stores to provide different loan types for customers. Operations Coordinator The Biz Foundry - Cookeville, TN December 2014 to June 2015 Coordinated workshops and various events between the organizations within The Biz Foundry using the Insightly customer relationship and project management software.    Designed manuals, workbooks, and other printed media using Adobe InDesign and Illustrator.     Spoke at events and to various businesses to promote the organizations within The Biz Foundry to gain sponsors and to advertise events being hosted at The Biz Foundry. Cofounder / Lead Instructor 100 Girls of Code - Chattanooga, TN May 2014 to June 2015 Responsibilities  Worked alongside the Program Director for TN Code Academy to develop the 100 Girls of Code program, which teaches young girls, from middle school to high school, the fundamental principles of computer programming during a one-day workshop.    Collaborated with a team of instructors and programmers to develop the curriculum and guidelines for teaching 100 Girls of Code workshops including the basics of HTML5, CSS3, and an outline for using MIT’s Scratch to teach the logic of programming.    Met with businesses and organizations who were interested in hosting 100 Girls of Code workshops to discuss the details of the events.    Taught workshops at 20 different locations and more than 300 girls across the state of Tennessee between May 2014 and June 2015.    Skills Used  - HTML & CSS  - jQuery  - JavaScript Instructor TN Code Academy - Chattanooga, TN May 2014 to June 2015 Responsibilities  Taught students, from middle school to high school, the fundamental principles of computer programming.    Assisted in the development of the curriculum for the five-day code camps which includes MIT’s Scratch project as a basis for teaching the logic behind computer programming and the foundations of web development using HTML5, CSS3, and JavaScript; and Python.    Taught code camps in Nashville, Knoxville, and Oak Ridge.    Skills Used  - HTML & CSS  - jQuery  - JavaScript  - Python Software Developer Intern Gofanbase (formerly Chief Ingredient) - Cookeville, TN August 2014 to October 2014 Worked on a small team to help in the development of the client portal using HTML & CSS, Bootstrap, PHP (Laravel framework), and JavaScript. Education Bachelor of Science in Computer Science Tennessee Technological University - Cookeville, TN Skills Python (2 years), PHP (Less than 1 year), HTML (2 years), CSS (2 years), Javascript (1 year), C++ (Less than 1 year), elasticsearch (Less than 1 year), couchbase (Less than 1 year), Perl (Less than 1 year), MySQL (1 year), Ruby on Rails (Less than 1 year), AngularJS (Less than 1 year)