Software Engineer Intern Software Engineer Intern Software Engineer Intern Cupertino, CA Work Experience Software Engineer Intern Baidu - Beijing, CN June 2018 to August 2018 • Mainly responsible for Baidu Page News Recommendation (660 million monthly active users).  • Applied Naive Bayes, SVM and linear regression classifier with posterior statistics to increase high quality  resources recall rate. Movie Box Office Prediction (Python) March 2018 to May 2018 • Crawled raw html of over 10,000 movies and parsed them into usable data using lxml.  • Processed 30,000,000 records of movie information using MapReduce and managed the information using  MySQL.  • Extracted features using Pandas, NumPy and One Hot Encoding. Trained prediction models using Linear  Regression and Regression Decision Tree. Achieved 82% prediction accuracy within 10% deviation rate. Python, Cloud Computing January 2018 to April 2018 Applied MapReduce and Liner Regression with Hadoop on AWS EC2/GPU to clean and analyze Twit- ter/Yelp Big data. Built interpersonal relationship network using Twitter data and implemented restaurant  recommendation system. Developer Intern ( Python) University of Bristol June 2017 to August 2017 • Reduced the chance of accident through monitoring material fatigue using real-time material spectrum measure- ment and data analysis via Python, Matplotlib and Seaborn.  • Built a warning system, which reports current material condition by measured data and predicts material duration. Developer Intern (C/C++) Chinese Academy of Sciences - Beijing, CN June 2016 to August 2016 • Designed a secondary network system based on Modbus TCP/IP technology using C/C++.  • Constituted TCP information frame strictly following the Modbus format requirement, in order to realize Mod- bus/TCP protocol that can be used in daily life such as smart home and intelligent building.  • Increased the maximum controllable nodes' number for a primary device while still maintaining the intrinsic  advantages of Modbus protocol. Internet Software Engineer China Unicom - Beijing, CN June 2015 to August 2015 • Responsible for interface terminal optimization. Debugged core switches, routers, HLR, VLR and base station, as well as client-side failure troubleshooting. Helped with code maintenance on the interface.  • Applied theories into practice including TCP/IP protocols and network architecture establishment using Python and C. Built servers as clusters, increased the mean time between failures from 2 weeks to 8 weeks. Education Master of Science in Electrical and Computer Engineering Carnegie Mellon University January 2018 to May 2019 Bachelor of Engineering in Electrical and Electronic Engineering University of Bristol September 2014 to July 2017 Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  Program Languages Python, C/C++, JavaScript, SQL, Matlab  Technologies Big Data, AWS, Machine Learning, Docker, NLP, MapReduce, Deep Learning