Upper Bound Tutor Upper Bound Tutor Upper Bound Tutor - Fitchburg State University Fitchburg, MA To work for an organization which provides me an opportunity to utilize my skills in Android Development, J2EE technologies, Web technologies, Databases. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Upper Bound Tutor Fitchburg State University August 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Assist students for their SAT exam.  • Taught students subject like Mathematics, Biology, Physics assisting to crack SAT exams  • Assist Councilor in organizing different sessions like Tutor study, Workshop, Games, Debate topics every week  • Taught student basics of computer like spreadsheet, presentation tool like MS PowerPoint and how to create a HTML page and how to add different features to it.  • Assist students to write basic java programs in Eclipse.  • Assist students in completing their Assignments, Projects. Android Developer Fitchburg State University September 2017 to December 2017 Title: Hangman  Description:  • Developed an Android game called Hangman with version 8.0 (API level 26), in Android Studio.  • The program chooses a word from list of words available and displays underscores equal to the length of the word.  • The player starts to guess letters. If he guesses a letter and if that letter is in that word, then all instances of that letter are displayed at their corresponding positions in the word. If the guess is incorrect, every incorrect guess draws a body part starting from head, body, one arm, then the other arm, then one leg and finally the other leg.  • The game ends when the player guesses all the letters correct or when all the body parts have been drawn i.e. 6 incorrect guesses.  • Created back end service to check if user is still playing the game or activity is in foreground, otherwise kill the app.  • Used SQLite Database to store list of words for application  • Used content provider for database operations so that data can be shared and used among different applications.  • Used multiple android phones with different device drivers to test the application (LG, Samsung, HTC)  • Used different flavors of the app for testing and debugging purpose.  Environment: Android SDK 8, Android Studio 2.3.3, Java1.8, SQLite Database. Software/ Python developer Fitchburg State University September 2017 to December 2017 Title: Pac-Man  Description:  • Developed a game called Pac-Man by using Python in Spyder where we have different objects such as Wall, Food, Capsule, Ghosts, Garridoman (Pac-Man). Goal of the game is to consume complete food by Garridoman without encountering a ghost.  • The game automatically exits if we did not complete it within time limit.  • Used multiple images to form maze. Fixed coordinates for each object were assigned in the maze at the start of the game.  • Multiple sprites were created for each object and also imported sound files for different actions performed by objects in the game.  • Tests were performed on code and working of game on each stage of development.    Environment: Python 3.6, Spyder 3.1.3 Support Team Member Fitchburg State University August 2017 to December 2017 Title: Phone-a-thon-Caller  Responsibilities:  • Responsible for calling Alumni and friends of the University for Financial Support to raise the annual fund.  • Responsible for collecting and organizing the data of alumni.  • Responsible for accurately entering and updating the information electronically. Java Developer Fitchburg State University February 2017 to May 2017 Title: Tic-Tac-Toe  Description:  • Design and implemented a game called Tic-tac-toe, a board game played by two players with a simple graphical user interface.  • Used Swing Designer under Window Builder which is a GUI Designer Plugin in Eclipse to build this game.  • Created different labels and buttons for performing actions like reset, exit, keeping count of which player won how many number of times, etc.  • Used JOtionPane for displaying messages such as which player won, if the player is sure he wants to quit the game, etc.  • Unit testing was performed by using Junit to check if the game is working as it should.    Environment: Eclipse Neon, Java 1.8. Database Administrator Fitchburg State University February 2017 to May 2017 Description:  • Designing relational database algorithm for querying schemas and other database objects.  • Run queries on ORDBMS-Object Relational Database Management System, Oracle 10g, 11g.  • Used Java and SQL language to perform DDL, DML and TCL transactions against Oracle.  • Define DTD's for XML Schemas and vice-versa.  • Querying XML using XPath and XQuery Software developer Parul Institute of Technology January 2015 to May 2015 Title: Faculty Management System  Description:  • Managing courses and faculty details of a university is a task which needs at most care.  • A system that provides authenticated access and control to designated users for viewing, editing, adding and deleting appropriate data is to be provided.  • The administrator must be able to assign appropriate faculties to the appropriate subjects in a manner that the designated classes do not overlap with the existing timetable.  • The application allows the administrator to add a new faculty, delete and existing faculty, view timetable of any subject or any faculty.  Environment: JSP, HTML5, JavaScript, MySQL5.5, Eclipse Luna Internship Parul Institute of Technology June 2014 to November 2014 Title: Digital Marketing  Responsibilities:  • Worked as a lead in digital marketing for our University.  • Was responsible for organizing workshops and manage content in our college social media.  • Was responsible for responding to queries on social media for students.  • Was responsible for advertising on behalf of our college in social media. Education Masters in Computer Science Fitchburg State University May 2016 to Present Bachelors in Computer Science and Engineering Gujarat Technological University May 2011 to June 2015 Skills ECLIPSE (1 year), JAVA (Less than 1 year), LINUX (Less than 1 year) Additional Information Technical Skills:    Languages C, C++, Java, Python, MY SQL, Shell Scripting, Perl  J2EE Technologies JSP  Web Technologies HTML5, JavaScript  Android Android Studio, Google API, SQL, XML, Android SDK  IDE's Eclipse, NetBeans, Spyder  OS Windows, Linux, Mac