Software Engineering Intern, Full Stack (Machine Learning, Django/ Python) Software Engineering Intern, Full Stack (Machine Learning, Django/<span class="hl">Python</span>) Software Engineering Intern Santa Clara, CA SKILLS  Programming Languages: C, C++, Core Java, Python, R, Scala.  Databases: MySQL, Oracle, SQLite.  Big Data Ecosystem: Spark, HBase, Hive, Pig, MapReduce, HDFS.  Web Development: HTML5, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, PHP, Django, Bootstrap, Wordpress.  Software: Pro-E, ANSYS, AutoCAD, Android Studio. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Software Engineering Intern, Full Stack (Machine Learning, Django/ Python) Delighterr Inc - Fremont, CA December 2015 to March 2016 - Conduct thorough design and code reviews  - Work closely with other engineers to design elegant software solutions  - Integrating various API's into the Website Software Developer Aloka Infotech Solutions Pvt Ltd - Vijayawada, Andhra Pradesh August 2013 to June 2014 - Implemented the front-end design, back-end code and scripts for web development projects  - Integrated the hive warehouse with HBase  - Worked on analysis of Datasets related to retail and financial industries.  - Worked with Pig, HBase, Spark, Hive, Map Reduce and Sqoop. Academic Projects Santa Clara University Responsibilities  PROJECTS  Distributed file storage(Cloud)  Built an application for distributed cloud file storage using decentralized Chord P2P implementation and a centralized  implementation of consistent hashing and compared the results of these implementations. This cloud application has  scalability(Nodes can be added and removed easily), fault tolerance, availability, consistency and in-memory file storage.  Technology Stack:  Java, RMI  Game Engine Application  This Application lets user create small multiplayer 2D games. User can draw images and assign various interactions to each  object.  Technology Stack:  Java  Sentiment Analysis of Yelp reviews on cluster  Analyzed the performance of sentiment analysis on reviews using naive Bayes Algorithm (Similar to spam filtering) in a Hadoop  cluster using Spark and compared this performance with Mahout (MapReduce) Naive Bayes Algorithm. Dataset is nearly 3.2GB.  Technology Stack:  PHP, Spark, Scala, Mahout  Recommendation System on YELP Dataset  Content-Based Recommendation System based on various features from the Dataset, which recommends restaurants to users.  R,  Technology Stack RecommenderLab, SVM, NaiveBayes  Social networking Web page  Developed a Social networking web page where user have to Sign up, add friends, write on their wall, get notifications and chat with them.  Technology Stack HTML, CSS, PHP, JQuery, JavaScript, AJAX, MySQL  Bill Settler Mobile App  This Mobile Application lets user send messages to friends similar to other chatting applications, create events and check who  is attending, and also includes a bill splitter in which loans can be settled globally and comments are attached to each bill and settlement.  Technology Stack:  Android, Java  Facial Recognition  Using the Dimension reduction approach called PCA (Principle Component Analysis) we create Eigenfaces to recognize faces.  Technology Stack R Education Master's in Computer Science and Engineering Santa Clara University September 2014 to June 2016 Bachelor's in Mechanical Engineering Birla Institute of Technology and Sciences 2009 to 2013 Skills Git, Pro-E, ANSYS, Autocad, Microsoft Excel, Microsoft Office, Android, Wordpress, Bootstrap, Django, PHP, JQuery, Javascript, CSS, HTML, Hadoop, MapReduce, Pig, Hive, HBase, Spark, Machine Learning, Data Science, Scala, R, Python, Java, Advanced Java, C++, C Links https://www.linkedin.com/in/raja-nageswara-rao-gogineni-438270107 Awards IEEE HackerRank coding Competition 2015-11 Ranked 36 in US Runners up at SCID's 2nd Annual Product Designathon 2016-05 Designed a Bluetooth network to track all luggage in Airport. 2nd place at The IoT for Cities Hackathon at Internet of Things World Event 2016 2016-05 Developed an application which provides the safest routes for commuters in the country. Any Bluetooth capable device can be configured as a beacon which would help track pedestrians and ensure their safety. In the times of an emergency, if any pedestrian goes off track then all the emergency contacts and nearby users using the application would be notified. Additional Information RELEVANT COURSES  Operating Systems, Design and Analysis of Algorithms, Object Oriented Programming, DBMS, Artificial Intelligence, Mobile Applications, Big Data, Web Programming, Computer Architecture, Distributed Computing, Wireless and Mobile Networks.