Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - WeSuite LLC White Plains, NY ? 2+ years of experience as a Web/Application Developer and coding with analytical programming using Python, Django, Flask.  ? Familiar with JSON based REST Web services and Amazon Web services.  ? Experienced in developing Web Services with Python programming language.  ? Experience in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on SQL and PostgreSQL database.  ? Experienced in WAMP (Windows, Apache, MYSQL, Python/PHP) and LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, Python/PHP) Architecture.  ? Experienced in developing web-based applications using Python, Django, PHP, XML, CSS, HTML, Java Script and JQuery.  ? Worked on AJAX framework to transform Datasets and Datatables into HTTP-serializable JSON strings.  ? Experienced in installing, configuring, modifying, testing and deploying applications with Apache.  ? Experienced with full software development life-cycle, architecting scalable platforms, object oriented programming, database design and agile methodologies  ? Experienced in MVW frameworks like Django, Java Script. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Developer WeSuite LLC - White Plains, NY May 2015 to Present Responsibilities:  ? Deployed production site using Apache 2.0 with mod_ python  ? Upgraded Python 2.3 to Python 2.5 on a RHEL 4 server, this required recompiling mod_ python to use Python 2.5. This upgrade was necessary because because in lined models with UTF-8 characters were causing unexpected errors. Submitted a ticket to the Django project documenting this incompatibility with Python 2.3.  ? Successfully migrated the Django database from SQLite to MySQL to PostgreSQL with complete data integrity.  ? Using Django evolution and manual SQL modifications was able to modify Django models while retaining all data, while site was in production mode.  ? Build high-performance streaming REST server in Flask  ? Worked very closely with designer, tightly integrating Flash into the CMS with the use of Flashvars stored in the Django models. Also created XML with Django to be used by the Flash.  ? Rewrite existing Python/Django modules to deliver certain format of data.  ? Used Django Database API's to access database objects.  ? Wrote python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  ? Use GIT to track software developmen  ? Handled all the client side validation using JavaScript.  ? Worked extensively with Bootstrap, Java script, and jQuery to optimize the user experience.  ? Used Selenium Library to write fully functioning test automation process that allowed the simulation of submitting different we requests from multiple browser to web application.  ? Used Python and Django to interface with the jQuery UI and manage the storage and deletion of content.  ? Involved in development of Web Services using SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface in the XML format.  ? Responsible for debugging the project monitored on JIRA (Agile)  ? Used JQuery for all client side Java script manipulation.  ? Scalable, database-driven web application development using a variety of frameworks: ASP.NET on C#, Flask on Python, and PHP.  ? Created unit test/regression test framework for working/new code  ? Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  ? Using Subversion control tool to coordinate team-development.  ? Built development environment with JIRA.  ? Implemented multiple high performance MongoDB replica sets on EC2 with robust reliability  ? Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  ? Involved in entire lifecycle of the project including Design, Development, and Deployment, Testing and implementation and support.    Environment: Python 2.7, Python 2.7, Django, HTML5/CSS, MS SQL Server 2013, MySQL, Java script, Eclipse, Linux, Shell Scripting, JQuery, GitHub, Angular.JS, Jira Education Master's in computer science programming in computer science Cornell University - Ithaca, NY Skills CSS (2 years), database (2 years), Django (2 years), GIT (2 years), Java (2 years) Additional Information Skills  Access-lists, Routing, Switching, Subnetting, Designing, CSU/DSU, IPSec, VLAN, VPN, WEP, WAP, MPLS, VoIP, Bluetooth, Wi-FiSolar Winds, SNMP, Cisco Works, Wireshark, QRadar, RSA Envision, Zenoss, NCM, Algosec, Voyence, Netscout, InfoBlox, Wireshark, ASDM, XenAppRIP, OSPF, EIGRP, BGP, STP, RSTP, VLANs, VTP, PAGP, LACP, MPLS, HSRP, VRRP, GLBP, TACACS+, Radius, AAA (8 years)    Technical Skills  Programming Languages Python with django, Java, C, SQL, Shell Scripting  Database Development Technologies: SQL, PL/SQL. Software/Tools: MySQL, PostgreSQL.  Web Design Technologies/Tools Technologies: HTML 4/5, DHTML, JavaScript, JQuery, JSON, XML, CSS 3    Software/Tools: Adobe Dreamweaver, Adobe Photoshop.    Technologies: XML, SOAP, Borg Environment, REST, Stubby Calls.  Version Control GIT, Mercury.    Operating Systems Microsoft Windows, Unix, Linux.  SDLC Agile, Test-Driven, Iterative Model.