Healthcare Data Analyst Healthcare Data Analyst Healthcare Data Analyst - All Children and Adult Dentistry Kearny, NJ Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Healthcare Data Analyst All Children and Adult Dentistry - Kearny, NJ May 2017 to Present • Perform Data Analysis and Ad Hoc reporting using claims, provider data, authorization, and membership data utilizing MS Excel Analysis ToolPak, Google Data Studio, and Rapid Miner for predictive modeling of profitability, patient risk, and healthcare outcomes.  • Originated migration of spreadsheet data from Google Sheets and MS Excel to MySQL database for supporting security, concurrency, redundancy, integrity, and backup of valuable data collected in a timely, accurate and secure fashion.  • Audit paid and unpaid insurance claims data to identify and resolve issues regarding payments, billing, and claim processing from various medical insurance organizations. Python Developer Petra Systems - South Plainfield, NJ April 2017 to May 2017 • Automated daily and weekly build processes delivering expedited turnaround time for data changes submitted by clients.  • Created a system for processing database updates from solar panels via FTP in text files to Manufacturing and Asset Management databases based in MySQL and SQL Server, minimizing network operators time required to reflect changes by over 70%.  • Executed application interface and data scraping scripts using OO designing, UML modelling, and Dynamic Data Structures in Python to manage incoming files, generate backups, and extract deltas or explicit transaction updates, processing them with SQL for the Intelligent Asset Management system in a Linux Environment. Technical Analyst Intern The United Nations - New York, NY May 2016 to August 2016 • Partnered with Information Systems Officer to automate data flow for the UN enterprise search engine using Apache Solr and NiFi; indexing and parsing data from repositories using SQL technologies, logging server statistics, and developing report automation/data visualization in MicroStrategy.  • Completed enterprise search test plan, design, and implementation using Selenium WebDriver and TestNG frameworks; employing an agile approach to ensure processes and procedures would meet changing business requirements using design and use case documents, work flow diagrams, UML diagrams in MS Visio, and MS Project.  • Collaborated with computational linguistics engineer to develop the upgrade plan for the United Nations' enterprise search, utilizing statistical natural language processing to facilitate unstructured data mining, document clustering, topic analysis, text classification, machine translation, and part-of-speech tagging for semi-structured data using OpenNLP and Taming text. Web Development Intern Ivavsys - Pune, Maharashtra June 2014 to May 2015 • Partnered with stakeholders to identify client needs, define project requirements, and create use case/vision documents, designing and implementing database, queries, and stored procedures in SQL Server 2008.  • Developed web application in NetBeans with HTML, JavaScript, and CSS, creating test plans and executing manual tests in HP Quality Center.    PROJECTS  Data Mining and Visualization for Supermarket Transactions to improve Business Decision Making  • Analyzed, transformed, and modelled structured/unstructured data, implementing algorithms to support predictive analysis using advanced statistical and mathematical methods from machine learning and data mining in SPSS, SAS, & MS Excel. Designed KPI dashboards to explore data, deliver insights, and support decision making using Tableau & IBM Cognos.  Data Modelling and Statistical Analysis with Decision Trees and Naïve Bayes algorithms  • Developed data mining, data warehousing and statistical solutions to optimize characteristics of an adult income dataset by applying Decision Trees and Naïve Bayes classification algorithms in R statistical analysis and Python. Identified relationships and patters between different activities of data sets by visualizing with Tableau.  Signature Based Packet Sniffing and Analyzing  • Developed a network analyzing system which captured IP packets using Java in NetBeans, JPcap, Pcap and analyzed threats by comparing specific signature user inputs and incoming packet signatures.  Website of Car Sales Showroom  • Collaborated on business analysis and technical design solutions to develop user stories, requirements documentation, solution design, and ETL design specifications, delivering a prototype for the system using HTML, D3.js, and SVG.  IT Service Management  • Organized and improved IT services using ITIL processes like Service Strategy, Service Transition, Service Operation, Continual Service Improvement & the 7-step improvement process. Education MS in Business & Information Systems New Jersey Institute of Technology December 2016 MS in Business & Information Systems University of Pune - Pune, Maharashtra May 2014 Bachelors in Computer Engineering University of Pune - Pune, Maharashtra May 2014 Links http://vizualize.me/ashish27kulkarni