Senior Python developer Senior <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">developer</span> Senior Python developer - EchoStar Corporation Newark, NJ • 9+ years of experience as a Web/Application Developer with a deep understanding of technology trends with expertise in the core of complex technologies. Solid experience in analysis, design, and development, testing, implementation, production support and maintenance of various web applications using Python and Django.  • Experienced in developing Web Services with Python programming language, web development using HTML4/5, CSS/CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, AngularJS, AJAX, XML, and JSON by following W3C standards.  • Experienced in working with various Python IDE's using PyCharm, PyScripter, Spyder, PyStudio, and PyDev.  • Implemented different Python libraries NumPy, SciPy, PyTables, Matplotlib, Pandas, and urllib in various tasks.  • Experience with event-driven programming in Python. Understanding of the threading limitations of Python, and multi-process architecture.  • Experience in integration of user-facing elements developed by front-end developers with server-side logic.  • Experience in implementing with server-side technologies with restful API and MVC design patterns with node JS and Django framework.  • Experienced with full software development life-cycle, architecting scalable platforms, object-oriented programming, database design, and agile methodologies.  • Good experience in debugging the issues using pdb.  • Proficient in writing unit testing code using unittest/PyTest and integrating the test code with the build process. Experience with automated testing by writing test scripts in Python.  • Expert knowledge of and experience in Object Oriented Design and programming concepts.  • Strong experience in setting up Python REST API framework using Django.  • Good knowledge of SQLite, MySQL, PL/SQL, ETL, MSSQL, Cassandra databases with Python.  • Involved in designing and implementing UI for AWS Cloud Computing Service to automate the enforcement of cloud security policies.  • Good knowledge on front-end frameworks like CSS Bootstrap.  • Good knowledge of Apache server, Apache Server Tomcat, and Web logic.  • Wrote AJAX framework to transform Datasets and Data tables into HTTP-serializable JSON strings.  • Extensive use of Linux (Ubuntu), SSH, Flask/Django.  • Knowledge in developing data mining processes for large files.  • Familiar with JSON based REST Web services and Amazon Web services.  • Responsible for writing AJAX framework to transform datasets and data tables into serializable JSON strings.  • Experience on Hadoop (HDFS), HiveQL, Impala, Apache Drill, Apache Spark, SQOOP, FLUME/Kafka  • Experience with Version Control with SVN, CVS, and GIT.  • Experience in working with continuous deployment using Heroku and Jenkins.  • Good knowledge on Ansible in automating the tasks.  • Excellent interpersonal and communication skills, efficient time management and organization skills, ability to handle multiple tasks and work well in a team environment.  • Prepared best practice documents for external customers and worked closely with third-party vendors. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Senior Python developer EchoStar Corporation - Aurora, CO June 2016 to Present EchoStar Corporation is a premier global provider of satellite communication solutions through its Hughes Network systems and EchoStar Satellite Services business segments. It is the owner and operator of the satellite fleet for the closely affiliated DISH. Here the main responsibility is for planning and designing new software and web applications. Also, editing new and existing applications. Testing, and debugging defined software components.    Responsibilities:  • Designed front end and backend of the application using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Used HTML, CSS, AJAX, JSON designed and developed the user interface of the website.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Develop consumer based features and applications using Python, Django, AWS (Amazon web service), HTML, Behavior Driven Development (BDD) and pair based programming.  • Used Python and Django to interface with the jQuery UI and manage the storage and deletion of content.  • Rewrite existing Python/Django modules to deliver certain format of data.  • Created the backend application using Python, Django, Cassandra, and MySQL.  • Wrote Python scripts to parse JSON documents and load the data in the database.  • Worked on cross-browser compilation and Responsive Web Design using HTML5, CSS3, and Bootstrap.  • Used AngularJS as the development framework to build a single-page application.  • Unit Test Python library was used for testing many programs on Python and other codes.  • Used collections in Python for manipulating and looping through different user-defined objects  • Created Django dashboard with a custom look and feel for end user after a careful study of Django admin site and dashboard.  • Used jQuery for the data manipulations on the client side.  • Leveraged CSS Bootstrap for development of Web applications.  • Monitored developed applications and fixed bugs.  • Used GIT version control and deployed project to Heroku  • Designed and managed API system deployment using fast HTTP server and Amazon AWS architecture.  • Build SQL queries for performing various CRUD operations like create, update, read and delete.  • Wrote scripts in Python for automation of testing jobs.  • Worked in development of applications especially in UNIX environment and familiar with all its commands.  • Deployed the project into Heroku using GIT version control.    Environment: Python, Django, HTML5, CSS3, XML, MySQL, JavaScript, Angular JS, jQuery, CSS Bootstrap, MS SQL Server, Cassandra, T-SQL, AWS, JavaScript, Eclipse, Git, GitHub, Linux, Shell Scripting. Senior Python developer Qualcomm Technologies Inc - Boulder, CO September 2015 to May 2016 Qualcomm Incorporated is a world leader in 3G, 4G, and next-generation wireless technologies. Qualcomm Technologies, Inc., a subsidiary of Qualcomm Incorporated, operates, along with its subsidiaries, substantially all of Qualcomm's engineering, research and development functions, and substantially all of its products and services businesses.    Responsibilities:  • Responsible for complete SDLC process in gathering requirements, system analysis, design, development, testing, and deployment.  • Designed the front end of the application using Python, HTML, CSS, AJAX, JSON, and jQuery.  • Skilled in using collections in Python for manipulating and looping through different user-defined objects.  • Used NumPy and Pandas for Numerical and statistical analysis.  • Developed and tested many features for a dashboard using Python, Bootstrap, and JavaScript.  • Spearheaded adoption of responsive web design principles and converted existing websites to responsive websites by using Bootstrap.  • Worked with Python along with JavaScript to create scalable and common components which can be used across the whole framework. Developed Rest API for the projects.  • Extensively used Python modules such as requests, urllib, and urllib2 for web crawling.  • Worked with Python along with JavaScript to create scalable and common components which can be used across the whole framework.  • Used Django framework along with Postgres for application development and to provide comprehensive logging of all stock transactions.  • Experience in designing and developing applications in Spark using Scala.  • Automated the existing scripts for performance calculations using NumPy.  • Development of Python APIs to dump the array structures in the Processor at the failure point for debugging.  • Developed and maintained ETL (Data Extraction, Transformation, and Loading) mappings  • Involved in data loading using PL/SQL.  • Used Angular JS for developing single page web applications.  • Wrote scripts in Python for extracting data from HTML file.  • Analyzed and executed the test cases for various phases of testing - integration, regression, and user  • Created interactive websites and its features using jQuery/jQuery UI.  • Extensive use of AJAX to provide a dynamic user experience.  • Experienced in writing SQL Queries and implementing stored procedures, functions, packages, tables, views, Cursors, triggers.  • Manage, collaborate and coordinate the work of an offshore development team.  • Created database using MySQL and Cassandra, wrote several queries to extract/ store data.  • Experienced in Agile Methodologies and SCRUM Process.  • Worked in development of applications especially in UNIX environment and familiar with all its commands.    Environment: Python, Django, HTML5, CSS, XML, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, Angular JS, Node JS, GIT, Linux, Shell Scripting, AWS SDK, MySQL, PL/SQL, Cassandra, mongoDB, Spark. Python Developer Humana Healthcare Insurance - Lancaster, SC December 2014 to August 2015 Humana Healthcare Insurance is a Fortune 100 company that markets and administers health insurance in The United States. Humana is committed to helping employers manage their healthcare costs, guiding consumers to make informed health and benefits decisions, and giving back to the communities they serve.    Responsibilities:  • Design, develop, test, deploy and maintain the website by coding and execution of scripts in Python/Unix.  • Implemented MVC architecture in developing web applications using Django framework.  • Closely worked with business system analyst to understand the requirements to ensure that right set of UI modules been built.  • Designed the front-end applications, user interactive (UI) web pages using web technologies like HTML, XHTML, CSS, JavaScript and jQuery.  • Rewrite existing Python/Django modules to deliver certain format of data  • Built various graphs for business decision making using Python Matplotlib library.  • Fetched twitter feeds for certain important keyword using Python-Twitter library.  • Used PyPi while installing the project.  • Used Beautiful Soap a Python library for web Scraping.  • Used Django database API's to access database objects.  • Using Django and manual SQL, modifications were able to modify Django models while retaining all data, while the site was in production mode.  • Development of Python APIs to dump the array structures in the Processor at the failure point for debugging.  • Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes of the two main applications that were the main source of data for both customers and internal customer service team.  • Used Bootstrap extensively for organizing the web page created.  • Maintained program libraries, user's manuals and technical documentation.  • Managed large datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL.  • Wrote and executed various MySQL database queries from Python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL dB package.  • Developed and maintained ETL (Data Extraction, Transformation, and Loading) mappings.  • Developed Spark scripts by using Scala shell commands as per the requirement.  • Using Subversion version control tool to coordinate team-development.  • Actively involved in generating graphical reports using tableau.  • Actively involved in developing the methods for Create, Read, Update and Delete (CRUD) in Active Record.  • Involved in data loading using PL/SQL.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application. Involved in writing application-level code to interact with APIs, Web Services using AJAX, JSON, and XML.  • Define technical requirements based on business requirements.  • Wrote Python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in the database. Actively worked as a part of a team with managers and other staff to meet the goals of the project in the stipulated time.    Environment: Python, Django, HTML5/CSS, CSS Bootstrap, MySQL, PL/SQL, MS SQL, JavaScript, SVN, Linux, Shell Scripting, Apache Web Server, Pyramid, Spark. Python Developer Vertical Ops - Orem, UT October 2013 to November 2014 Vertical Ops is a dedicated Business Solutions Company tailored to the needs of our clients. They have a unique, industry-leading understanding of business which produces quality sales, amazing customer service.    Responsibilities:  • Wrote Python routines to log into the websites and fetch data for selected options.  • Implemented code in Python to retrieve and manipulate data.  • Used Python modules such as requests, urllib, and urllib2 for web crawling.  • Used other packages such as Beautiful soup for data parsing.  • Worked on writing and as well as read data from CSV and excel file formats using Python.  • Web-services backend development using Python (CherryPy, Django, SQL Alchemy).  • Worked on resulting reports of the application and Tableau reports.  • Participated in developing the company's internal framework on Python. This framework became a basement for the quick service's development.  • Worked on HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, AngularJS, Node.JS, Git, REST API, MongoDB  • Design and setting up of the environment of MongoDB with shards and replica sets. (Dev/Test and productions).  • Designed and developed components using Python with Django framework.  • Private VPN using Ubuntu, Python, Django, CherryPy, Bootstrap, jQuery.  • Created a Python-based GUI application for Freight Tracking and processing.  • Experience in designing and developing applications in Spark using Scala.  • Wrote scripts in Python for extracting data from HTML file.  • Used Python and Django creating graphics, XML processing of documents, data exchange and business logic implementation between servers.  • Developed rich user interface using CSS, HTML, JavaScript, and jQuery.  • Participated in the complete SDLC process.  • Worked on automating the repetitive tasks using Ansible.  • Extracting acting data from the database using SAS/Access, SAS SQL procedures and create SAS data sets.  • Created and modified PL/SQL scripts for data conversions.  • Developed and maintained various automated web tools for reducing manual effort and increasing efficiency of the Global Shipping Team.  • Created database using MySQL, wrote several queries to extract data from the database.  • Communicated effectively with the external vendors to resolve queries.  • Held meetings with client and worked all alone for the entire project with limited help from the client.    Environment: Python, Django, MySQL, Windows, Linux, HTML, CSS, jQuery, JavaScript, Apache, Linux, Quality Centre, Ansible, PL/SQL Python Developer Royal Sundaram Alliance Insurance Company Ltd October 2011 to July 2013 Location: India    Royal Sundaram Alliance Insurance Company Ltd (RSA), a Joint Venture between Sundaram Finance Ltd and Royal & Sun Alliance Plc. of UK, sells a wide range of Commercial and Personal Insurance Products in India. The application would support product creation and underwriting, Quotation and Policy Issuance (New Business) for Engineering and Commercial Property line of business.    Responsibilities:  • Involved in the entire lifecycle of the projects including Design, Development, Testing and Implementation and Support.  • Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed Python bug fixes of the two main applications that were the main source of data for both customers and internal customer service team.  • Created Business Logic using Python 2.7.  • Used Python and Django to interface with the jQuery UI and manage the storage and deletion of content.  • Worked on developing internal testing tools written in Python.  • Used Django configuration to manage URLs and application parameters.  • Performed client-side validations using JavaScript and server-side validations using Django.  • Used Python and Django to interface with the jQuery UI and manage the storage and deletion of content.  • Designed and developed the UI using HTML, AJAX, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Managed large datasets using Pandas data frames and MySQL.  • Rewrite existing modules into Python to deliver certain format of data.  • Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from Python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL dB package.  • Embedded AJAX in UI to update small portions of the web page avoiding the need to reload the entire page.  • Created most important Business Rules which are useful for the scope of project and needs of customers.  • Created database using SQLite, wrote several queries to extract data from the database.  • Involved in development of Web Services using SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface in the XML format.  • Generated interactive dashboards using tableau.  • Build SQL queries for performing various CRUD operations.  • Used Jenkins for automation of build process and coordinated deployments across different sites.  • Developed GUI using webapp2 for dynamically displaying the test block documentation and other features of Python code using a web browser.  • Built development environment with JIRA and SVN.    Environment: Python, Django, Pandas, HTML5, CSS, XML, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, Eclipse, Linux, SVN, MySQL, Apache. Python Developer InfrasoftTech July 2009 to September 2011 Location: India    InfrasoftTech is a specialist software solutions provider for global financial enterprises. It has wide productized offerings, framework based solutions, and specialized services in the domains of Commercial Banking, Microfinance, Wealth Management and Capital Markets.    Responsibilities:  • Developed entire front-end and back-end modules using Python on Django web framework.  • Made Django web-based apps for insurance premium calculations.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, AJAX, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Generated property list for every application dynamically using Python.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  • Used Python-based GUI components for front-end functionality like selection criteria.  • Worked with a team of developers on Python applications for RISK management.  • Used NumPy for numerical analysis for the insurance premium, Pandas library for statistical analysis.  • Created graphical reports for financial data using Tableau.  • Creating unit test/regression test framework for working/new code.  • Knowledge of user authentication and authorization between multiple systems, servers, and environments.  • Generated property list for every application dynamically using Python.  • Designed the architecture of the hardware environments and methodology of the code.  • Implemented code in Python to retrieve and manipulate data.  • Experienced in Agile Methodologies and SCRUM Process.  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL.  • Handled all the client-side validation using JavaScript.  • Involved in the entire lifecycle of the projects including Design, Development, and Deployment, Testing and Implementation and support.  • Build SQL, NoSQL queries implementing functions, packages, views, triggers, and tables.  • Using Subversion version control tool to coordinate team-development.  • Handling the day to day issues and fine-tuning the applications for enhanced performance.  • Worked in development of applications especially in UNIX environment and familiar with all of its commands.    Environment: Python, Django, MySQL, Linux, HTML, CSS, AJAX, JavaScript, and Apache Web Server, NoSQL. Software Developer Nihar Info Global Limited - Hyderabad, Telangana August 2008 to June 2009 Telangana    Responsibilities:  • Involved in software development life cycle (SDLC) of tracking the requirements, gathering, analysis, detailed design, development, system testing and user acceptance testing.  • Actively involved in developing the methods for Create, Read, Update and Delete (CRUD) in Active Record.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python Django Web Framework.  • Involved in designing user interactive web pages as the front end part of the web application using various web technologies like HTML, JavaScript, Angular JS, JQuery, AJAX and CSS.  • Knowledge of cross-browser and cross-platform development of HTML and CSS based websites in Windows like IE 6, IE 7, IE 8 and FF.  • Used AJAX to modify small portions of the web pages by sending a request to the server avoiding the need of reloading the entire web page.  • Interactive in providing change requests, trouble reports and requirements collection with the client.  • Implemented and modified various SQL queries and Functions, Cursors and Triggers as per the client requirements.  • Managed code versioning with GitHub, Bit Bucket and deployment to staging and production servers.  • Implemented MVC architecture in developing the web application with the help of Django framework.  • Involved in code reviews using GitHub pull requests, reducing bugs, improving code quality, and increasing knowledge sharing.  • Implemented task object to interface with data feed framework and invoke database message service setup and update functionality.  • Used Celery as task queue and RabbitMQ, Redis as messaging broker to execute asynchronous tasks.    Environment: Python, Django, HTML5, CSS, XML, MySQL, JavaScript, Angular JS, JQuery, CSS Bootstrap, Ubuntu server, Windows 12 Server, My SQL, Mongo DB, GitHub, Bit Bucket, Linux, and Windows. Skills CSS (9 years), Django (9 years), HTML (9 years), JavaScript (9 years), Linux (9 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:  Languages: Python 3.x, 2.7, JavaScript, C, C++, SQL, PL/SQL, Java  Operating systems: Windows, Linux, Mac OSX  Framework: Django, Flask, AngularJS, NodeJS,  Web Technologies: HTML/HTML5, CSS/CSS3, jQuery, JSON, XML, AJAX and Bootstrap, DOM  Versioning Tools: GIT, SVN  Databases: MySQL, SQL Server, NoSQL, MongoDB, Cassandra  Web servers: Apache, WebSphere, Apache Tomcat  Deployment Tools: Heroku, Jenkins, Amazon EC2  IDE: PyCharm, Spyder, PyDev, IntelliJ IDEA, Sublime Text, Brackets, NetBeans, Eclipse