Sr. Python Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Python Developer - VISA TX • Over 7+ years of experience as a Web Application Developer and Software Engineer using Python, Django.  • Experience in implementing PEP8 coding standards.  • Hands-on-experience on python web application development using Django and Serverless framework.  • Good experience in developing web applications implementing MVT/MVC architecture using Django, Flask web application frameworks.  • Good Experience in Infrastructure Development and Operations involving Google App Engine and AWS Cloud platforms.  • Worked on Cloud Computing AWS - EC2, RDS, S3, Glacier, SQS, SNS, Cloud Formation, VPC, IAM, Route 53, EBS, DynamoDB, Lambada, Redshift  • Experience in implementing PEP8 coding standards.  • Experienced in installing, configuring, modifying, testing and deploying applications with Apache.  • Experience in developing big data applications using Hadoop framework and its eco systems like MapReduce.  • Designed and implemented Hive and Pig UDF's using Python for evaluation, filtering and storing of data.  • Excellent knowledge of OOPS, Multi-Threading and Collections concepts and in Python. Used Pandas library for Statistical Analysis.  • Experience in data analysis and machine learning techniques with hands-on-experience on various python libraries like NumPy/Pandas/SciPy.  • Good experience with Amazon Cloud EC2, Simple Storage Service S3  • Worked in Python Integrated Development Environments like NetBeans, PyDev and Sublime Text.  • Experienced in developing web-based applications using Python, Django, XML, CSS, HTML, DHTML and JavaScript  • Understanding of protocols/technologies like HTTP, LDAP, JDBC, SSL, Servlet/JSP, SQL, HTML, XML  • Experience in developing python scripts for automation and performing functional tests and data validation.  • Proficient in installing, configuring and using Apache Hadoop ecosystems such as MapReduce, Hive, Pig, Flume, HBase, Sqoop, Kafka, Oozie, and Zookeeper.  • Knowledge of Error Capture, Exception Management, Recon strategies.  • Excellent technical and analytical skills with clear understanding of design goals and development for OLTP and dimension modeling for OLAP.  • Experienced in developing Web Services with Python programming language.  • Strong experience and knowledge of HDFS, MapReduce and Hadoop ecosystem components like Hive, Pig, Sqoop, NoSQL databases such as MongoDB and Cassandra.  • Familiar with Amazon Web Services along with provisioning and maintaining AWS resources such as EMR, S3 buckets, EC2 instances, RDS and others.  • Expertise in Big Data architecture like Hadoop (Azure, Hortonworks, Cloudera) distributed system, MongoDB, NoSQL.  • Extensive experience in loading and analyzing large datasets with Hadoop framework (MapReduce, HDFS, Pig, Hive, Flume, Sqoop).  • Extensive experience in using ER modeling tools such as Erwin and ER/Studio, Teradata, BTEQ, MLDM and MDM.  • Good knowledge on R and Python for statistical computing. Also experience with MLlib (Spark), Matlab, Excel, Minitab, SPSS, and SAS.  • Working with Databases like Teradata and proficiency in writing complex SQL, PL/SQL for creating tables, views, indexes, stored procedures and functions.  • Good experience working on analysis tool like Tableau for regression analysis, pie charts, and bar graphs. Work Experience Sr. Python Developer VISA - Austin, TX December 2017 to Present • Involved in all phases of SDLC and participated in daily scrum meetings with cross teams.  • Installed and configured Hadoop ecosystem like HBase, Flume, Pig and Sqoop.  • Architected and developed Python and Django for the backend development and front-end application using React, Webpack, Redux, and ES6/7 and PostgreSQL for the database.  • Responsible for gathering requirements, system analysis, design, development, testing and deployment.  • Developed and unit test integration solutions in MuleSoft Anypoint Platform.  • Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks. Interfacing with supervisors, artists, systems administrators, and production to ensure production deadlines are met.  • Responsible for setting up Python REST API framework using Django.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Developed web applications in Django Framework's model view control (MVC) architecture.  • Used Python to write data into JSON files for testing Django Websites. Created scripts for data modelling and data import and export.  • Used JQuery and AJAX calls for transmitting JSON data objects between frontend and controllers.  • Involved in building database Model, APIs and Views utilizing Python, in order to build an interactive web based solution.  • Used object-relational mapper (ORM) to automate the transfer of data stored in relational databases tables into objects.  • Used Python based GUI components for the front-end functionality such as selection criteria.  • Created test harness to enable comprehensive testing utilizing Python.  • Used Amazon Web Services (AWS) for improved efficiency of storage and fast access.  • Added support for Amazon AWS S3 and RDS to host static/media files and the database into Amazon Cloud.  • Created Data tables utilizing PyQt to display customer and policy information and add, delete, update customer records.  • Used PyQuery for selecting DOM elements when parsing HTML.  • Created Business Logic using Python to create Planning and Tracking functions.  • Created UI Screens for initiation and validation.  • Worked on UI using HTML5, CSS3 and JavaScript's.  • Developed multi-threaded standalone app in Python and PHP to view performance.  • Performed data extraction and manipulation over large relational datasets using SQL, Python, and other analytical tools.  • Used Python libraries and SQL queries/subqueries to create several datasets which produced statistic statistics, tables, figures, charts and graphs.  • Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks.  • Working in team of Architects and Developers to build and deploy Python Flask Peewee Linux AWS.  • Involved in writing stored procedures using MYSQL.  • Designed and developed Big Data analytic solutions on a Hadoop-based platform and engage clients in technical discussions.  • Worked with Microsoft Azure Cloud services, Storage Accounts, Azure date storage and Azure Data Factory.  • Performed transformations, cleaning and filtering on imported data using Hive, MapReduce, and loaded final data into HDFS.  • Used S3 Bucket to store the jar's, input datasets and used Dynamo DB to store the processed output from the input data set.  • Utilized Oozie workflow to run Pig and Hive Jobs Extracted files from Mongo DB through Sqoop and placed in HDFS and processed.  • Used Flume to collect, aggregate, and store the web log data from different sources like web servers, mobile and network devices and pushed to HDFS.  • Involved in PL/SQL query optimization to reduce the overall run time of stored procedures. Sr. Python Developer DaVita - Denver, CO May 2015 to November 2017 • Used UML Rational Rose to develop Use-case, Class and Object diagrams for OOA/OOD techniques.  • Built database model, Views and API's using Python for interactive web based solutions.  • Placed data into JSON files using Python to test Django websites. Used Python scripts to update the content in database and manipulate files.  • Developed web based application using Django framework with python concepts.  • Generated Python Django forms to maintain the record of online users.  • Used Django API's to access the database.  • Involved in Python OOD code for quality, logging, monitoring, and debugging code optimization.  • Skilled in using Collections in Python for manipulating and looping through different user defined objects.  • Wrote Python modules to view and connect the Apache Cassandra instance.  • Created Unit test/ regression test framework for working/new code.  • Installed and maintained web servers Tomcat and Apache HTTP in UNIX.  • Utilized standard Python modules such as CSV, itertools and pickle for development.  • Developed efficient Angular.js for client web based application.  • Responsible for designing, developing, testing, deploying and maintaining the web application.  • Designed and developed the UI for the website with HTML, XHTML, CSS, Java Script and AJAX.  • Used the Python's modules numpy, matplotlib, etc. for generating complex graphical data, creation of histograms etc.  • Developed and designed automation framework using Python and Shell scripting.  • Involved in debugging and troubleshooting issues and fixed many bugs in two of the main applications which are main source of data for customers and internal customer service team.  • Implemented SOAP/RESTful web services in JSON format.  • Associated with debugging the applications monitored on JIRA using Agile methodology.  Attended many day-to-day meetings with developers and users and performed QA testing on the application. Involved in working with Python open stock API's.  • Developed Spark Code using python for faster processing of data.  • Responsible for managing large databases using MySQL.  • Wrote and executed various MySQL database queries from Python-MySQL connector and MySQL db package. Python Developer Havas Media - New York, NY December 2013 to April 2015 New York    • Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks. Interfacing with supervisors, artists, systems administrators and production to ensure production deadlines are met.  • Involved in developing web applications using Model View Control (MVC) and Django Framework.  • Build all database mapping classes using FLASK models.  • Involved in building database Model, APIs and Views utilizing Python to build an interactive web based solution.  • Involved in implementing Continuous Integration and Continuous Delivery (using Jenkins) in an AWS Environment.  • Created Test plans. Worked on SQL scripts to load data in the tables.  • Connected continuous integration system with GIT version control repository and continually build as the check-in's come from the developer.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on FLASK Framework.  • Developed custom screens using HTML5, JavaScript, jQuery, Bootstrap, Jinja and Angular.js.  • Developed monitoring and notification tools using Python.  • Involved in business logic discussions and use case design.  • Reviewed product requirement documents, functional specifications, and involved in developing test strategy, test plan and test case documents.  • Involved in Selenium Automation using Selenium Web Driver, Java and Unit Test Framework.  • Created Selenium web-driver automation scripts using Python to validate functionality on various browsers.  • Established framework to setup Continuous Integration environment using Jenkins, Nexus.  • Used Couchbase Python SDK to build applications that use Couchbase Server.  • Used Pandas API to put the data as time series and tabular format for east timestamp data manipulation and retrieval.  • Involved in developing selenium automation framework using TestNG. Developed Maven targets to execute automation suites from command line.  • Worked on AWS Cloud and Created instances in EC2. Python Developer Cox Automotive - Atlanta, GA March 2011 to November 2012 • Work with team of developers on python applications for RISK management.  • Design, develop, test, deploy and maintain the website.  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL.  • Rewrite existing Python/Django modules to deliver certain format of data.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  • Using Subversion control tool to coordinate team-development.  • Used Django Database API's to access database objects.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL.  • Rewrite existing Python/Django modules to deliver certain format of data.  • Used Django Database API's to access database objects.  • Wrote python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Handled all the client-side validation using JavaScript.  • Expertise in writing Constraints, Indexes, Views, Stored Procedures, Cursors, Triggers, and User Defined function.  • Created unit test/regression test framework for working/new code  • Using Subversion control tool to coordinate team-development.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.