Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - The Walt Disney Company • Over 7+ years of experience as an Analysis, Design, Development, Management and Implementation of various stand-alone, client-server enterprise applications using Python.  • Strong experience in developing software in Python using libraries- Beautiful Soup, numpy, scipy, matplotlib, python-twitter, Pandas data frame, network, urllib2, MySQL dB for database connectivity  • Sound experience in working with different python editors like PyCharm, PyScripter, PyStudio, Sublime Text, Emacs and Spyder  • Implemented automation using Selenium WebDriver, Python.  • Experienced with full software development life-cycle, architecting scalable platforms, object-oriented programming, database design and agile methodologies  • Strong Experience in Automating Web Application Testing using Selenium WebDriver with Testing Framework  • Expert in analyzing test results and preparing test/defect summary report for Sr. Management.  • Experience in Python, Django, Flask  • Strong exposure testing applications on different browsers like IE, Firefox, Chrome.  • Expertise in locating the web elements using XPATH and CSS.  • Experienced in WAMP (Windows, Apache, MYSQL and Python) and LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, and Python) Architectures.  • Good experience in setting up REST API using Django.  • Firm knowledge of different phases of Software Testing and Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) including Agile Methodology and Waterfall.  • Good Experience in Linux Bash scripting and following PEP Guidelines in Python.  • Good knowledge in front end technologies such as HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, JavaScript, XML, Ajax and JQuery.  • Familiar with JSON based REST Web services and Amazon Web services.  • Proficient in writing SQL Queries, Stored procedures, functions, packages, tables, views, triggers using relational databases like Oracle, DB2, MySQL and MSSQL Server.  • Skilled in debugging/troubleshooting issues in complex applications.  • Expertise in Object-Oriented design and coding. Good knowledge of various Design Patterns and UML.  • Followed Agile Methodologies (Scrum), involved in daily standup meetings.  • Experienced in unit testing and testing using Selenium.  • Good Experience on Selenium IDE and creating Scripts in selenium --RC by using Python  • Experienced in developing applications using Amazon web services like S3.  • Experienced in Version controlling tools like Bitbucket, Git, CVS and SVN  • Good Experienced in developing web-based applications using Python, Django, XML, CSS, HTML, JavaScript and JQuery, RESTful  • Good experience in Unix and Linux.  • Expertise in Object-Oriented design and coding. Good knowledge of various Design Patterns and UML.  • Have good idea about development tools like Bugzilla, Jira, Confluence, and Axosoft.  • Expert in maintaining technical documentation for projects.  • Good analytical and problem-solving skills and ability to work on own besides being a valuable and contributing team player.  • Excellent Interpersonal and communication skills, efficient time management and organization skills, ability to handle multiple tasks and work well in a team environment. Work Experience Python Developer The Walt Disney Company - Orlando, FL June 2018 to Present Responsibilities:  • Understanding the Disney environment and business use-case to develop the photo pass service model.  • Responsible for developing and researching the python modules required for the model.  • Worked on REST-APIs to leverage the model and integrate with other service.  • Deployed python code in Redhat production environment using Gunicorn  • Developed a Flask service to do health check (check the quality of the model) of the model.  • Developed a script for encrypting the model-weights of convolutional neural network.  • Worked on AWS to store and update the model-weights of the convolutional neural network model.  • Worked in conjunction with subject matter expert and proposed new changes in model hierarchy. Also acted as an engagement manager with offshore in Argentina.  • Developed remote integration with third party platforms by using RESTful web services.  • Aggregated the CPU and GPU temperature for the model as the model was using TensorFlow as bank-end.  • Worked with Python development under Linux OS (Ubuntu).  • Created bucket in AWS and updated file and hashed it and defined chunk size memory for the machine not to crash the program.  • Wrote Python code to simplify lists in Python with list comprehension and Python OOP. Worked with POSTMAN for API testing. Developed REST APIs and created User Model for application.  • Installed Ubuntu and Red hat in the machine and performed a proper comparison tests in the lab before the production.    Environment: Python, Amazon Aws, Psensors, Postman, Linux, Redhat, Tensor flow, Cuda, REST API, Flask Python developer Austin, TX October 2017 to April 2018 Responsibilities:  • Providing digital banking solutions by integrating banking cores, back-end systems with Q2 platform in a n-tier architecture with the use of tools & techniques of Python programming and web technologies.  • Developed online banking forms where end users interact directly to use the various services provided in online banking.  • Developed "Product extensions" for banking product to provide custom additional functionalities using Python.  • Design product extensions that leverage the Q2 Wedge Framework  • Working with SOAP and XML base api to communicate with third parties through platform.  • Communicating with database making stored procedures for necessary database operations.  • Support internal and external testing as well as resolve bugs  • Deploy code to customer environments  • Worked on web forms, back-end API's with Python integration framework for Banks and Credit Unions which are developed on component-based design architecture.  • Integrated TransferNow and PopMoney services provided by Fiserv using Single sign-on (SSO) authentication service using Python requests module.  • Worked on integration of third party calls for FIS to view user payment activity eStatements, Documents.  • Worked on MongoDB database concepts such as locking, transactions, indexes, Sharding, replication,  • Developed RESTful web services for Symitar Repgen extension.  • Managed 4 bank portfolios simultaneously by providing implementation, support and maintenance services.  • Integrated Stop payment type notifications for end users using techniques like SFTP, Send Secure message notification script.  • Worked on Funds Transfer API and developed widgets like External Transfers, Future Dated Transfers,  • Member to Member Transfers, Scheduled Transfers, and Recurring Transfers.  • Worked on end user Auto-enrollment online banking module which creates user profile for online banking.  • Worked on end user Real Time address change banking module which allows user to change their address when they move.  • Collaborated with internal teams to convert end user feedback into meaningful and improved solutions.  • Developed application extensions like Fraud Alerts, Travel Notifications, Secure Messages, Secure Access Code, Account Preferences, and User Profile Update.  • Good understanding of technical banking terminology such as ABA, Internal and External account numbers, PFM accounts, External accounts.  • Developed REST and SOAP test suites for testing API's using SoapUI and Postman tools.  • Worked in Kanban and Scrum software development process of an agile methodology.  • Associated with various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) of the application like requirement gathering, Design, Analysis and Code development.  • Worked with team of developers on Python applications for RISK management.  • Responsible for building an automated ingestion platform that crawls websites, manipulates the data  • Resolved ongoing problems and accurately documented progress of a project.    Environment: Python 2.7, MSSQL, JQuery, Linux, Ajax, Java Script, Apache, Jinja, HTML5 and CSS Python developer Southern Graphics Systems, LLC - Peoria, IL October 2016 to October 2017 Responsibilities:  • Developed Restful API's integrating web exe with Django, Html with Jinja logic and Python implementations with data exchange through JSON and XML formats.  • Wrote Python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Refactored existing project to make it more RESTful and thread-safe.  • Used many regular expressions to match the pattern with the existing one.  • Worked on various Excel functionality using Python using xlsxwriter and openpyxl modules  • Developed views and templates with Python, Django view controller and template language to create a user-friendly website interface and used Django Database API's to access database objects.  • Experience in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on MySQL and PostgreSQL database.  • Worked on Linux shell commands and command line utilities.  • Used Python Library Beautiful Soup 4 for Web Scraping to extract data for building graphs.  • Worked in MySQL database on queries and writing Stored Procedures for normalization  • Managed large datasets using Panda data frames and Cassandra.  • Implemented business logic using Python/Django. Worked with millions of database records daily, finding common errors and bad data patterns and fixing them.  • Used standard Python modules xlrd, csv, itertools, pickle, json, subprocess, collections, lxml, xmltodict for development.  • Experienced in developing parallel computing applications using multithreading and multiprocessing.  • Developed Python web services for processing JSON and interfacing with the Data layer.  • Build SQL queries for performing various CRUD operations like create, update, read and delete.  • Managed, developed, and designed a dashboard control panel for feed status information for the Kwikee Internal Team using Python, Django framework, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Bootstrap, jQuery and RESTAPI calls.  • Used Vagrant to install and configure virtual machines and hosted personnel VM that points to development environment.  • Used Liquid Planner and Microsoft Teams for project management and collaboration.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  • Engaged in Design, Development, Deployment, Testing and Implementation of the application.  • Built development environment using bug-tracking tools like Jira, Confluence and version controls such as Git, GitLab and SVN.  • Experienced in Agile Methodologies and SCRUM Process.  • Experienced in writing technical documentation to accurately represent application design for user support.  Environment: Python, Jinja, Django, Selenium, Amazon Aws, Beautiful Soup, Pandas, JQuery, Bootstrap, MySQL, Linux, Ajax, Java Script, Apache, Cassandra, Oracle SQL Developer, HTML5 and CSS Sr. Python developer Insight - Austin, TX January 2015 to October 2016 Responsibilities:  • Associated with various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) of the application like requirement gathering, Design, Analysis and Code development.  • Worked with team of developers on Python applications for RISK management.  • Generated Python Django Forms to record data of online users  • Used Python and Django creating graphics, XML processing, data exchange and business logic implementation.  • Helped the team to move some of their legacy systems from Java to Python using Jython.  • Imported few Java libraries using Jython from legacy systems to use in python environment.  • Guiding the team and keeping them informed regarding expectations, priorities, release status and project schedules  • Implemented machine learning algorithms in Python, for segmentation of data.  • Work with multiple team to develop services and coordinate releases.  • Used PHP as an HTML embedded scripting language, in front end web development.  • Prepare Test scripts for different applications using QTP & Selenium  • Run a Regression test on Selenium after every build.  • Used Python at all stages of the experiments, from data preprocessing to Linux cluster task automation to statistical analysis and model optimization.  • Automation of internal web application through Selenium 2 WebDriver.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Involved in development of Web Services using SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface in the XML format.  • Developed and tested many features for dashboard using Python, Java, Bootstrap, CSS, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Carried out various mathematical operations for calculation purpose using python libraries.  • Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Performed research to explore and identify new technological platforms.  • Collaborated with internal teams to convert end user feedback into meaningful and improved solutions.  • Resolved ongoing problems and accurately documented progress of a project.    Environment: Python 2.7, Django, MongoDB, Selenium, Amazon Aws, Pandas, Java, Jython JQuery, Bootstrap, MySQL, Linux, Ajax, Java Script, Apache, Cassandra, HTML5 and CSS Sr. Python developer Citi Group - Dallas, TX April 2014 to December 2014 Responsibilities:  • Translated the customer requirements into design specifications and ensured that the requirements translate into software solution.  • Application was based on service oriented architecture and used Python 2.7, Django 1.5, JSF 2.1, Spring 3.2.5, Ajax, HTML, CSS for the frontend.  • Developed Automation Scripts for Regression using Selenium Web Driver and Python.  • Generated Python Django Forms to record data of online financial users.  • Worked on Integration of Selenium RC/WebDriver with existing API to test Framework.  • Worked on data curation using Python for reuse purpose.  • Used PandasAPI to put the data as time series and tabular format for east timestamp data manipulation and retrieval.  • Cleaned data and processed third party spending data into maneuverable deliverables within specific formats with Excel macros and python libraries. Used TDD (Test driven development) methodology.  • Experienced Python on LINUX for execution.  • Actively involved in developing the methods for Create, Read, Update and Delete (CRUD) in Active Record.  • Used Python library BeautifulSoup for webscrapping to extract data for building graphs  • Managed, developed, and designed a dashboard control panel for customers and Administrators using Django, OracleDB, PostgreSQL, and VMWare API calls.  • Experience in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on MySQL and PostgreSQL database.  • Implemented user interface guidelines and standards throughout the development and maintenance of the website using the HTML, CSS, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Implemented the validation, error handling, and caching  • Created project designs utilizing MVC architecture components.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.    Environment: Python 2.7, Django 1.5, Selenium, HTML5, CSS, VMware, Oracle DB, Pandas, Spring, MS SQL Server 2013, Jasper, Reports, JavaScript, Ajax, Eclipse, Linux, Shell Scripting, RESTful, MVC3. Python developer Infinity Info Systems - New York, NY August 2013 to March 2014 Responsibilities:  • Build all database mapping classes using Django models and used Python scripts to update content in the database and manipulate files.  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL. Built application logic using Python 2.7.  • Expertise in Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) and its related technologies like Web Services, BPEL, WSDLs, SOAP1.1, XML, XSD, XSLT etc.  • Designed and developed database object parsing, dependency builder and documenting software in Python using object oriented features  • Performed operations on LINUX for receiving good support for the large users.  • Setting up schema, users, permissions, creating database objects  • Simple web app for reviewing sitcoms that gives users the ability to view, add, review, up/down vote, search, etc  • Implemented Model View Control architecture in developing web applications using Django frame work.  • Helped the big data analytics team with implementation of python scripts for Sqoop, Spark and Hadoop batch data streaming.  • Worked on CSS Bootstrap to develop web applications.  • Worked with millions of database records on a daily basis, finding common errors and bad data patterns and fixing them.  • Created most important Business Rules which are useful for the scope of project and needs of customers  • Built SQL queries for performing various CRUD operations like create, update, read and delete.    Environment: Python 2.7, Django, Selenium, HTML5, CSS, MS SQL Server 2013, T-SQL, Hadoop, Angular.JS, Jasper Reports, JavaScript, Eclipse, Linux, Shell Scripting. Python Developer EyeMed Vision Care - Mason, OH June 2012 to August 2013 Responsibilities:  • Converted Visual Basic Application to Python, MSQL.  • Used python scripts to update content in the database and manipulate files.  • Created Reports using JASPER.  • Used Thales asynchronous theorem for applying encryption and decryption of ISO standard message in Python programming.  • Developed a fully automated continuous integration system using Git, Gerrit, Jenkins, MySQL and custom tools developed in Python and Bash.  • Implemented schema and data migration for the postgres database using South migration tool.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, AJAX, CSS, JQuery and JavaScript.  • Developed user-friendly modals for the form submissions using simplemodal.js, JQuery, Ajax and JavaScript.  • Experience in building the war with help the putty and deployed into cloud environment using the cloud controller and experience in solving the cloud issue.  • Used Python modules such as requests, urllib, urllib2 for web crawling.  • Designed the front end web pages using HTML, JavaScript, Angular JS, JQuery and AJAX. Used CSS  for better appearance. Writing templates for front end pages where we include HTML pages and JavaScript files knowledge of cross-browser and cross-platform development of HTML and CSS  based websites in Windows like IE 6, IE 7, IE 8 and FF.  • Interactive in providing change requests, trouble reports and requirements collection with the client.  • Worked in development of applications especially in UNIX  • Improved performance by using more modularized approach and using more in built methods.  • Improved caching system for the test webserver.  • Collaborated with internal teams to convert end user feedback into meaningful and improved solutions.    Environment: Python 2.7, Django, VB scripts, Jenkins, Jasper, Gerrit, MySQL, Unix,  HTML, CSS, JQuery, JavaScript, Apache, Ajax, simplemodal.js, Git. Python Developer Trigent Software Ltd - Bengaluru, Karnataka April 2011 to May 2012 Responsibilities:  • Assisted in reduction of cost and optimization of supplier selection for the CRM Applications.  • Cleaned data and processed third party spending data into maneuverable deliverables within specific formats with Excel macros and python libraries.  • Implemented Servlets to handle HTTP requests for on-line requests, credit card payments, registration and bug tracking.  • Used Bootstrap for responsive design.  • Worked on development of SQL and Stored Procedures on MYSQL  • Embedded AJAX in UI to update small portions of the web page avoiding the need to reload the entire page  • Improved code reuse and performance by making effective use of various design patterns.  • Worked with UNIX like OS on regular basis.  • Engineered stable, isolated environments per game team  • Used HTML, CSS, JQuery, JSON and JavaScript for front end applications.  • Optimized the database queries to improve the performance.  • Developed in Windows and going to deploy it in Unix server.  • Implemented Python components and deployed under the Web Logic server.  • Developed various EJB components to fulfill the business functionality  • Using Subversion version control tool to coordinate team-development.  • Performed data manipulation/storage for incoming test data using lxml/etree libraries.    Environment: Python 2.7, Json, Javascript, JQuery, Bootstrap, MySQL, Unix, Eclipse, Shell Scripting, HTML5, CSS, Apache, Cassandra Skills HTML (5 years), PYTHON (7 years), AJAX (6 years), CSS (7 years), jQuery (6 years) Additional Information Technical Skills:    Frameworks Django, Flask.  Web Technologies HTML, CSS, Java Script, JQuery, AJAX, XML.  Programming Languages Python, C/C++, SQL and PL/SQL.  Versioning Tools SVN, CVS, Git, GitHub.  Databases Oracle (9i,10g, 11g), My SQL, MSSQL  IDE's/ Development Tools NetBeans, Eclipse, PyCharm and Sublime Text.  Operating Systems Windows, Red hat Linux 4.x/5.x/6.x, MAC OSX.  Protocols TCP/IP, HTTP/HTTPS, SOAP, SMTP  Testing Tools Selenium, Bugzilla and JIRA.