Python developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">developer</span> Python developer St. Louis, MO ? 5 years of IT experience in Analysis, Design, Development, Implementation and Testing of various stand-alone and client-server architecture based enterprise application software in Python on various domains.  ? Handy experience in developing Web-Applications implementing Model View Control architecture using Django, frameworks.  ? Experienced in developing Web-based Applications using Python, CSS, HTML, JavaScript.  ? Experienced in developing Web Services with Python programming language.  ? Good knowledge of Web Services with protocols SOAP, REST.  ? Involved in Unit testing, Integration testing, User-Acceptance testing, and Functional testing.  ? Expertise in working with server side technologies including databases, Restful APL and MVC design patterns.  ? Hands-on experience working with JavaScript MVC frameworks AngularJS.  ? Strong knowledge in SQL concepts - CRUD operations and aggregation framework.  ? Well versed with Design and Development of presentation layer for web applications using technologies like HTML, CSS, and JavaScript.  ? Experience in working with different operating systems like UNIX, and MAC OS X.  ? Good Analytical and Problem-Solving skills and ability to work on own besides being a valuable and contributing team player.  ? Having experienced in Agile Methodologies, Scrum stories and sprints experience in a Pythonbased environment, along with data analytics, data wrangling and Excel data extracts.  ? Experience in working with Python ORM Libraries including Django ORM.  ? Hands on experience in working with various Version Control Systems, mostly GIT.  ? Good Communication and interpersonal skills. Work Experience Python developer JPMORGAN - Columbus, OH December 2016 to November 2017 Responsibilities:  ? Analysis of requirements and implement different functions according to design..  ? Supported the bank website in creating user profiles, we can also do the simple banking transactions for the withdrawls, deposit and transactions is accompanied by password check by securing  ? individual account holder's privacy with the banking management scripts in Python.  ? Developed the web applications with the use of the Django.  ? Developed web pages using HTML, CSS, JQuery, JavaScript, and AngularJS.  ? Backend skills in creating SQL objects like Tables, Stored Procedures, Views, Indexes, Triggers, Rules, Defaults, user defined data types and functions.  ? Generated property list for every application dynamically using Python.  ? Using Subversion version control tool to coordinate team-development.  ? Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  ? Involved in Unit testing and Integration testing for the application.  ? Develop and validated unit test cases using PYUNIT.  ? Performing code coverage and Pep8 standardization.  ? Involved in daily Scrum meetings and follows agile methodology.  Environment: Python, Django, JSON, HTML, Javascript, JQuery, XML, Agile, SQL. Python developer Wisgnex - Santa Clara, CA August 2015 to May 2016 Responsibilities:  ? Analysis of requirements and implement different functions according to design.  ? Developed the back-end web services for the worker using python and REST APIs.  ? Wrote scripts in Python for Extracting Data from JSON and XML files.  ? Implemented MVC architecture in developing the web application by Django framework.  ? Used Test driven approach for developing the application and Implemented the unit tests using Python Unit test framework.  ? Used Python scripts to update content in the database and manipulate files.  ? Generated Python Django Forms to record data of online users.  ? Used Python and Django creating graphics, XML processing, data exchange and business logic implementation  ? Used Pandas API to put the data as time series and tabular format for east timestamp data manipulation and retrieval.  ? Involved in writing python scripts for Unit testing, Automation testing and used Jenkins for Integrations testing by creating jobs.  ? Used Git and JIRA for code submissions and issue tracking.  ? Performing code coverage and Pep8 standardization.  ? Involved in daily Scrum meetings and follows agile metholodology.    Environment: Python, Django, Panda API, JSON, HTML, CSS, Javascript, JQuery, XML, SOAP, Jira, Agile, No SQL, Python developer Mskills, Hyderabad IND June 2014 to December 2014 Responsibilities:  ? Involved in the Design, development, test, deploy and maintenance of the website.  ? UI was developed using HTML, CSS and JavaScript.  ? Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  ? Generated property list for every application dynamically using Python.  ? Used Python and Django creating graphics, XML processing of documents, data exchange and business logic implementation between servers  ? Responsible for search engine optimization to improve the visibility of the website.  ? Developed Merge jobs in Python to extract and load data into MySQL database.  ? Wrote validation scripts in SQL to validate data loading.  ? Use Git for version control.  ? Performed Unit and system testing.    Environment: Python, Django, MySQL, HTML, XHTML, CSS, JavaScript, Apache Web Server, Git, Linux. Python Developer Code&Pixcel, Hyderabad IND March 2012 to April 2014 Responsibilities:  ? Used Agile Methodology and SCRUM Process.  ? Developed UI using HTML, AJAX, Java script and jQuery and JQuery UI.  ? Re-engineered various modules for implementing changes and creating efficient system.  ? Developed rich UI web application using java script libraries like JQuery UI, data grid  ? Designed and developed components using Python and implemented code in Python to retrieve and manipulate data.  ? Used MySQL as backend database and MySQL dB of Python as database connector to interact with MySQL server.  ? Used Restful APIs to access data from different suppliers.  ? Support the scripts configuration, testing, execution, deployment and run monitoring and metering.  ? Used Restful API's to gather network traffic data from Servers.  ? Supported Apache Tomcat web server on Linux Platform.  ? Developed and executed User Acceptance Testing portion of test plan.  ? Debugging Software for Bugs.    Environment: Python, Django, HTML Restful API, Mysql, Shell Scripting, PL/SQL, UNIX, Linux Education Master's Skills database (3 years), Django. (4 years), HTML (4 years), JQuery (3 years), Python (4 years) Additional Information Technical Skills  ? Web - Technologies: CSS, Java Script, JQuery, HTML, AngularJS  ? Programming Language: Python, Java  ? Frameworks: Django  ? Data Base Technologies: Mysql, NoSQL database  ? Version control: Git    ? Operating Systems: Windows7/8, Red hat Linux 4.x/5.x/6.x, and MAC OSX