Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - AT&T Inc Cupertino, CA • Over 8 years of IT Experience in designing, developing, testing and implementing of various stand-alone and client-server architecture based enterprise application software in Python on different domains.  • Skilled experience in Python with proven expertise in using new tools and technical developments (libraries used: libraries- Beautiful Soup, Jasy, numpy, Scipy, matplotlib, Pickle, PySide, python-twitter, Pandas data frame, networks, urllib2, My SQL dB for database connectivity) to drive .com  • Experience in project deployment using Heroku/Jenkins and using web services like Amazon Web Services (AWS) EC2, AWS S3, Lambda, RDS (MySQL).  • Having good knowledge in using NoSQL databases like Apache Cassandra (1.2, 2.0 and 2.1) and Mongo DB (2.6, 2.4), Orient DB.  • Extensive experience with Amazon Web Services (AWS), OpenStack, Docker Puppet, Chef, Ansible, AWS CloudFormation, AWS CloudFront.  • Experience in using various version control systems like CVS, Git, GitHub and Amazon EC2 and deployment using Heroku.  • Sound experience in Core Java and Object Oriented Programming using concepts like Multi-Threading, Exception Handling and Collections.  • Experienced in working with server side technologies including databases, restful API and MVC design patterns.  • Special skills in development of effective, user-friendly web applications. Experienced in requirement gathering, Use case development, Business Process flow, Business Process Modelling: extensively used UML to develop various use cases, class diagrams and sequence diagrams.  • Having experienced in Agile Methodologies, Scrum stories and sprints experience in a Python based environment, along with data analytics, data wrangling and Excel data extracts.  • Superior Troubleshooting and Technical support abilities with Migrations, Network connectivity and Security and Database applications.  • Ensure data integrity and data security on AWS technology by implementing AWS best practices.  • Integrating AWS infrastructure with Cloud Computing Product - CloudHealth.  • Good experience in developing web applications implementing Model View Control architecture using Django, Flask, Pyramid and Zope Python web application frameworks.  • Experienced in working with various Python Integrated Development Environments like Net Beans, PyCharm, PyScripter, Spyder, PyStudio, PyDev and Sublime Text.  • Strong expertise in development of web based applications using Python, Django, HTML, XML, Angular JS, CSS, DHTML, JavaScript, JSON and JQuery.  • Good knowledge on front end frame works like CSS Bootstrap.  • Knowledge about setting up Python REST API Frame work using Django.  • Experienced with Amazon SQS, and Amazon Web Services like EC2, Redshift, Lambda and S3.  • In-depth Cisco technology knowledge in design, administration, implementation and support.  • In-depth knowledge of deploying and troubleshooting IP protocols.  • Good knowledge in working with application server- Apache Tomcat (6.0, 7.0, 8.0).  • The methodology used here will be to introduce in a simple and abbreviated manner the components of the Jython language most likely to be used in wsadmin scripts.  • That introduction will then be illustrated with a few examples demonstrating the capabilities and functioning of Jython.  • Experience in using Jenkins/Hudson as a Continuous Integration server to configure with Ant/Maven  • Good knowledge of web services with protocols SOAP, REST.  • Experience in Test Driven Development and Behaviour Driven Development methodologies for consulting firms and enterprise projects.  • Write, maintain and improve automation scripts in Perl, BASH, PHP & Python.  • Troubleshoot client/server application issues.  • Day-to-day server support for clients from our office in Midtown Manhattan.  • Build, upgrade and maintain servers on Solaris and Linux platforms.  • MySQL, Postgres and Oracle maintenance.  • Developed and executed White box test cases of the Java API using Test NG framework & Eclipse.  • Extended Testing framework by adding some helper classes and methods.  • Proficient in writing SQL Queries, Stored procedures, functions, packages, tables, views, triggers using relational databases like Oracle, DB2 and MySQL.  • Good idea about testing tools like Bugzilla and JIRA.  • Shares expertise throughout the organization and may provide user training for products  • Evaluates engineering approaches and risks to produce development plans that ensure high quality, low cost products and systems  • Experience in working with Python ORM Libraries including Django ORM.  • Expertise in working with GUI frameworks - PyJamas, Jytho  • Identifies and keeps abreast of novel technical concepts and markets  • Authors technical reports, papers, articles, patents and presentations when needed  • Participates in relevant project technical reviews and audits  • Reviews, mentors and coaches, while defining and promoting use of standards, best practices and lessons learned. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Developer AT&T Inc - Cupertino, CA July 2017 to Present Python Developer Kellogg's - Oak Brook, IL August 2016 to June 2017 Python Developer Vanguard -Michigan, MI June 2015 to July 2016 Python Developer Centene Corporation - St. Louis, MO August 2014 to May 2015 Python Developer wells fargo - Alpharetta, GA January 2014 to July 2014 Python Developer Octave Technologies Pvt.Ltd - Hyderabad, Telangana September 2011 to April 2012 Java - Developer Hyderabad, Telangana July 2009 to August 2011 Education Education Details State 2013 Skills TESTING (6 years), APACHE (5 years), DJANGO (5 years), PYTHON (5 years), JAVA (5 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  • Frameworks Django, Zope, PyJamas, python, CSS Bootstrap,aws.  • Web Technologies HTML, CSS, DOM, SAX, Java Script, JQuery, AJAX, XML, AngularJS.  • Programming Languages Python, C, PERL, SQL and PL/SQL.  • J2EE Technologies JSP, Java Servlets, JNDI, JDBC and JMS.  • Version Control SVN, CVS, Git, GitHub.  • Deployment Tools Heroku, Amazon EC2  • Analytic Tools JMP PRO, SAS, Tableau, UCI NET, Node XL  • Application servers Apache Tomcat, JBoss  • Databases Oracle (9i,10g, 11g), My SQL, Apache Cassandra, Mongo DB  • IDE's/ Development Tools Net Beans, Eclipse, PyCharm, PyScripter, PyStudio and Sublime Text.  • Operating Systems Windows, Red hat Linux 4.x/5.x/6.x, Ubuntu.  • Protocols TCP/IP, HTTP/HTTPS, SOAP, SMTP  • Testing Tools Bugzilla, JIRA, and Redmine.