Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer Fremont, CA • Around 6+ years of experience in development of all phases of SDLC including design, development, testing, implementation and support using Python.  • Enhancement, Support and Implementation of web, stand-alone, client-server enterprise applications using Python, Django in various domains.  • Experience in developing web-based applications using Python 2.7/3.0, Django 1.4/1.3, Java, Angular.js, HTML5/CSS3, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Worked on several standard python packages like Numpy, matPlotLib, Pickle, PySide, Scipy, WxPython, PyTables and Scikit-learn.  • Experience with Design, code, and debug operations, reporting, data analysis and web applications utilizing Python.  • Experience implementing Object Oriented Python, Hash Tables (Dictionaries) and Multithreading, Django, MYSQL.  • Experience working with Amazon Web Services like EC2, Storage models (EBS, S3, instance storage), Elastic Load Balancers (ELBs).  • Expertise in working with different databases like Oracle, MySQL, PostgreSQL and Good knowledge in using NoSQL databases MongoDB  • Experienced in installing, configuring, modifying, testing and deploying applications with Apache, NGINX, and Apache Solr.  • Hands on experience in working with various Version Control Systems, mostly GIT, CVS and SVN.  • Excellent working knowledge in UNIX and Linux shell environments using command line utilities. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Developer Hitachi - Santa Clara, CA June 2017 to May 2019 Worked on development of spare parts processing system For Hitachi. This included Order processing, Invoicing and parts procurement and management.  • Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes of the two main applications that were a main source of data for both customers and internal customer service team.  • Performed efficient delivery of code based on principles of Test Driven Development (TDD) and continuous integration to keep in line with Agile Software Methodology principles  • Created Business Logic using Python 2.7 and Django framework for application development.  • Developed Python based RESTful API to track the events and perform analysis-using Django.  • Extensively used Python modules such as requests, Urllib, Urllib 2 for web crawling.  • Created database-using MySQL, Wrote queries and Django API's to extract data from database.  • Effectively communicated with the external vendors to resolve queries.  • Actively participated in Testing, Production support and Maintenance/Patch deployments.  • Used Git for the version control.  Environment: Python 2.7, Django 1.4, MySQL, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, Apache and Linux. Python Developer Oracle Corporation - Redwood Shores, CA January 2016 to May 2017 Worked on portal for Employees Benefits processing System. The Employees can register on the portal and process their Insurance, leaves and other benefits.  Responsibilities:  • Worked on LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, PYTHON) architecture.  • Worked with offshore teams and internal clients to Design and analyze the requirements of in-house applications.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL and Django.  • Developed database layer including Tables and Stored procedures in MYSQL.  • Ported parts of application on cloud using AWS.  • Used JSON based and RESTful API for information extraction  • Worked with Marketing and Sales teams to enhance applications to suit their needs  • Debug application deployments on multiple environments.  • Trained and documented initial deployment and Supported product stabilization/debug at the deployment site  Environment: Python 2.7, Django 1.4, MySQL, Amazon EC2, Amazon SQS, S3, HTML5/CSS3, AngularJS,  JQuery, JavaScript, Apache, Linux. Python Engineer Tata Consulting Service /Whirlpool Corp - Mumbai, Maharashtra February 2013 to August 2015 Worked on development of customer support and complains registration system for Whirlpool. This is a Post sales and Customer feedback and complains management system.  Responsibilities:  • Design, develop, test, deploy and maintain the website.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python.  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL.  • Rewrite existing Python module to deliver certain format of data.  • Wrote python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Generated property list for every application dynamically using python.  • Handled all the client side validation using JavaScript.  • Creating unit test/regression test framework for working/new code  • Using Subversion version control tool to coordinate team-development.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  Environment: Python, Django, Java, MySQL, Linux, CSS, AJAX, JavaScript, and Apache Web Server Education Bachelor of Engineering in Engineering Information Technology Gujarat Technological University - Gujarat, India May 2009 to May 2013 Skills Apache (5 years), database (6 years), Django (5 years), Javascript (6 years), Linux. (5 years) Links http://www.linkedin.com/in/Rahul-Link Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:  • Languages: Python 2.7/3.0, Java, Shell Script, C++, SQL  • Framework: Django 1.3/1.4  • Database: MySQL, SQL Server, MongoDB, PostgreSQL, Amazon AWS cloud, Amazon Cloud EC2, Elastic Bean, Amazon S3,  • Web Technologies: AJAX, JavaScript, AngularJS, Javascript, pyQT, pY2EXE, HTML, DHTML, XHTML, XML  • Versioning Tools: Git, Mercurial, Perforce, SVN, CVS  • Appl/Web servers: Apache, NGIX  • Operating systems: Linux/Unix, MAC OS, FreeBSD, XINU