Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - College Board • Experienced Python Developer with proficiency in Design & Development of Python 2.7, Django.  • Worked in Python Integrated Development Environments like NetBeans, PyCharm, PyScripter, Spyder, PyStudio, PyDev and Sublime Text.  • Good exposure in building CMS using tool Saas.  • Developing high availability real time Messaging system for financial/Banking transactions and developed associated components in Linux, UNIX, AIX platforms. Tools C++, STL, BOOST, XML (XPath and XSLT) IBM MQ libraries, Perl, Python scripting  • Developed Real-time messaging system for new payment framework for Linux, UNIX (HP), AIX OS platforms.  • Extensive experience as a Tableau Admin/ Developer in Finance Environment with Tableau 7.x/8.x/9.x (Desktop, Server)  • Hands on Experience in working in CSS, CMS, HTML.  • Extensive experience working in SaaS, IaaS, PaaS.  • Have good exposure in LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, and Python) Architecture.  • Extensive experience in developing enterprise web applications using Python, PHP4 and PHP5, Flask, Jinja2, Django, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Jquery.  • Experienced with full software development life cycle, architecting scalable platforms, object oriented programming, database design and agile methodologies.  • Experience object oriented programming (OOP) concepts using Python, C++ and PHP.  • Experienced in WAMP (Windows, Apache, MYSQL, and Python/PHP) and LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, and Python/PHP) Architecture.  • Experience in Python Open Stack API'S  • Write MATLAB code to create discretized computer models of sloped levy geometries.  • Experienced in installing, configuring, modifying, testing and deploying applications with Apache.  • Experienced in developing Web Services with Python programming language.  • Experience in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on MySQL and PostgreSQL database.  • Experienced in agile and waterfall methodologies with high quality deliverables delivered on-time.  • Experience in utilizing SAS Procedures, Macros, and other SAS application for data extraction, data cleansing, data loading and reporting.  • Maintained detailed documentation and architectural solutions in IT infrastructure and sales systems.  • Very strong full life cycle application development experience.  • Experiance in CGI, JQuery, JavaScript and JSON at the front end.  • Strong knowledge on Dev Express Controls.  • Experience with Unit testing/ Test driven Development (TDD), Load Testing.  • Experience in developing ColdFusion Components, custom tags and modified CF Objects.  • Have the ability to understand complex systems and be in command of the details to provide solutions.  • Excellent analytical and problem solving skills and ability to work on own besides being a valuable and contributing team player.  • Familiarity with technology toolset used in JPMC (SVN, Fisheye, Crucible, Anaconda, Regression Testing) Work Experience Python Developer College Board - New York, NY February 2014 to Present 250 Vesey Street,  New York    Responsibilities:  • Worked in stages such as analysis and design, development, testing and debugging.  • Involved in Unit testing and Integration testing.  • Experienced in NoSQL technologies like MongoDB, Cassandra and relational databases like Oracle, SQLite, PostgreSQL, Dynamo DB and MySQL databases.  • Developed GUI HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS 5 and JavaScript (JQuery)  • UIS system design ( Python Object Oriented Design approach, developing various modules/packages/utilities, e.g.: Cryptography - Encryption/Hashing, Foundation Utilities, Personal management, error/exception management etc.)  • Used Python, Perl, CGI, JQuery, JavaScript and JSON at the front end.  • Developing high availability real time Messaging system for financial/Banking transactions and developed associated components in Linux, UNIX, AIX platforms. Tools C++.  • Developed Real-time messaging system for new payment framework for Linux, UNIX (HP), AIX OS platforms.  • Performed efficient delivery of code based on principles of Test Driven Development (TDD) and continuous integration to keep in line with Agile Software Methodology principles  • Used python to extract weekly hotel availability information from XML files.  • Used Web Services to get travel destination data and rates.  • Exposure in working for developing a portal to manage and entities in a content management system using Flask  • Wrote AJAX framework to transform Datasets and Data tables into HTTP-serializable JSON strings.  • Used the Django Framework to develop the application.  • In depth exposure to creating API for internal and external application using REST and SOAP based design  • Designed, automated the process of installation and configuration of secure DataStax Enterprise Cassandra using chef.  • Wrote Automation test cases using Selenium WebDriver, Junit, Maven, and Spring.  • Participated in requirement gathering and worked closely with the architect in designing and modeling.  • Worked in LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, and Python) Architecture  • Issues pertaining to Realtime data being read from RabbitMQ into Postgres and Cassandra.  • Performed Design and Code reviews.  • Worked on development of SQL and stored procedures on MYSQL.    Environment: Python, MySQL, HTML, CSS, Subversion, Adobe Flash, Apache, Phusion Passenger, Windows XP (development), Linux (hosted RedHat/Ubuntu) Python Developer Charlotte, NC March 2010 to January 2014 Responsibilities:  • Involved in the development of front end of the application using Python 2.7, HTML5, CSS3, AJAX, JSON and Jquery.  • Designed and maintained databases using Python and developed Python based API (RESTful Web Service) using Flask, SQL Alchemy and PostgreSQL.  • Involved in the Complete Software development life cycle (SDLC) to develop the application.  • Involved in UI refactoring that involves extensive use of Ajax  • Worked on backend of the application, mainly using Active Records.  • Good exposure in building CMS using tool Saas.  • Have good exposure in LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, and Python) Architecture  • Hands-on experience in Python scripting, Python STL, Django, UI and web development.  • Analyzed the code completely and have reduced the code redundancy to the optimal level  • Develop programs to automate the testing of RAID controller firmware and utilities using Python 2.7, Java, Bash script, Windows command line, AutoIt, AutoHotKey.  • Experienced in NoSQL technologies like MongoDB, Cassandra and relational databases like Oracle, SQLite, PostgreSQL, Dynamo DB and MySQL databases.  • Involved in the development ORM Queries.  • Involved in development of Web Services using SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface in the XML format.  • Having experienced in Agile Methodologies, Scrum stories and sprints experience in a Python based environment, along with data analytics, data wrangling and Excel data extracts.  • Used Test driven approach (TDD) for developing services required for the application.  • Exported Test case Scripts and modified the selenium scripts and executed in Selenium RC environment.  • Used Pandas library for statistical Analysis.  • Worked on JavaScript MVC Framework like Angular.JS.  • Used Python scripts to update content in the database and manipulate files.    Environment: Python 2.6/2.7, Django 1.5, HTML5/CSS, CSS Bootstrap, Pyramid, MySQL, MS SQL, T-SQL, Jasper Reports, JavaScript, Eclipse, Git, Linux, Shell Scripting, SaaS, IaaS, PaaS. Software Engineer / Python SIM Solutions Pvt Ltd May 2008 to March 2010 Responsibilities:  • Involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) such as requirements gathering, modelling, analysis, design and development.  • Generated Use case diagrams, Activity flow diagrams, Class diagrams and Object diagrams in the design phase.  • Responsible for entire data migration from Sybase ASE server to Oracle.  • Migration of API code written for Sybase to Oracle.  • Overlook the migration activity of PL/SQL programs  • Migration of the PL/SQL code from Sybase to Oracle.  • Migration of the data contained in the earlier ASPL Database from Sybase to Oracle.  • Migrate the Libraries written using Sybase API's to Oracle's OCCI API's  • Automation of testing using Python.    Environment: Python, Shell scripting, PL/SQL, SVN, Quality Center, Solaris, Windows, perl.