Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - Bristol-Myers Squibb San Jose, CA • Over 6 years of core IT experience, a strong background in Backend and Web/Application Development. Proven ability to design, develop and deploy top-quality software projects experience in web application development using Python, Django.  • Solid Experience with Django, a high-level Python Web framework.  • Experienced in Object Oriented programming (OOP) concepts using Python.  • Experienced with Machine Learning using SCIKIT-Learn.  • Experience with Amazon Cloud EC2, Simple Storage Service S3 and Amazon SQS.  • Good experience with Oracle, MYSQL and MongoDB (NoSQL)  • Well versed with design and development of presentation layer for web applications using technologies like HTML, CSS and JavaScript.  • Experienced in Machine Learning and Data Analytics using Python on Jupyter Notebook.  • Experienced in developing Web Services with Python programming language.  • Excellent debugging, problem solving, optimization and testing skills.  • Excellent written and oral communication skills with results-oriented attitude. Work Experience Python Developer Bristol-Myers Squibb - Redwood City, CA June 2018 to Present Worked on implementing predictive models for new drugs using tools such as classification, survival analysis. Establish novel data resources and predictors through processing of a variety of data sources including medical records and reports, insurance claims, lab results, consumer sentiment analysis. Develop visualizations to effectively convey insights.  • Developed projects using Django, MongoDB and AWS.  • Designed UI using, HTML5/CSS3 and Bootstrap4.  • Developed Data layer for data extraction and storage using SQL Server, Oracle and MongoDB.  • Used RESTful API for information extraction.  • Project resulted in faster data collection and data retrieval in relation to the older methods.  • Performed sentiment analysis of drug usage and side effects based on client feedback.  • Working on cloud service, design, develop cluster on AWS service like EC2, S3.  • Used Pandas, Numpy, and Lifeline for Survival analysis of the data.  • Created visualization graphs using Matplotlib/Seaborn.  • Trained and documented initial deployment and Supported product stabilization/debug at the deployment site.  Environment: Python 3, Django, MongoDB, SQL Server, Amazon AWS, EC2, QA testing, Windows, HTML5/CSS3, BootStrap Python Developer Fidelity National Financial February 2017 to May 2018 Worked on development of Wealth Management and Stock Analysis application for high net worth individuals.  Responsibilities:  • Responsible for migrating the pre-existing HTML, CSS, bootstrap and JavaScript documents for the internal website to Django for faster and ease of production.  • Designed and developed database using PostgreSQL in Python on Django Web Framework.  • Used Restful API's to access Stock and bonds information.  • Created machine learning models that predict stock prices using historical data and Cup and handle theory.  • Used Pandas library for statistical Analysis and Developed tools using Python.  • Used BeautifulSoup4 for web scraping of stock data.  • Performed supervised learning using ScikitLearn.  • Used Amazon Web Services (AWS) for improved efficiency of storage and fast access.  • Version control using GIT.  Environment: Python 3, Django, AWS, PostgreSQL, BeautifulSoup4, ScikitLearn, HTML5/CSS3, JavaScript, and Apache. Programmer Manipal Technologies - Mumbai, Maharashtra August 2013 to January 2017 Worked on development applications for their clients.  Responsibilities:  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, CSS.  • Developed models in Django using Python.  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL.  • Rewrite existing Python module to deliver certain format of data.  • Wrote python scripts to parse Excel/CSV documents and load the data in database.  • Creating unit test/regression test framework for working/new code  • Created Test Plan test cases and automated test scripts in python.  • Used Git version control tool to coordinate team-development.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  Environment: Python 3, Django, QA testing, MySQL, HTML/CSS, JavaScript, Apache Skills DJANGO (5 years), PYTHON (5 years), APACHE (4 years), Git (4 years), JAVASCRIPT (4 years) Additional Information Technical Skills:    Languages Python 3.x, SQL  Tools/ Framework Django, ScikitLearn, BeautifulSoup4, Numpy, Pandas, PyMongo, NLTK, Matplotlib, Seaborn, Lifeline  Databases MySQL, MongoDB, SQL Server 2008, Oracle  Web Technologies AWS (Amazon Web Services) EC2, S3 (Simple Storage Service), JavaScript, HTML5, CSS3  Versioning Tools Git  Web servers Apache, IIS  Operating systems Linux/Unix, MAC OS, Ubuntu, Windows