Senior Python Developer Senior <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Senior Python Developer - Nike Pittsburgh, PA • 7+ Year's experience in IT industry with proficiency in Design & Development of Python, Java /J2EE, Django, flask projects.  • Handy experience in developing web applications by using Python, Django, PHP, C++, XML, CSS, HTML,DHTML, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Extensive experience in Python web frame works like Django, Pyramid and Flask in implementing Model View Control (MVC) architecture and automating complex workflows using Python for Test Automation.  • Good experience in Shell Scripting, SQL Server, UNIX, Linux and Open stack.  • Actively involved in each phase of software Development life cycle (SDLC) and experience in Agile Software Methodology.  • Good Experience in Object Oriented Analysis in developing Front-End and Back-End framework using various design patterns.  • Excellent Experience on various Python integrated IDE's such as Sublime Text, Geany,Pycharm, Eclipse and NetBeans.  • Experienced in advance SAS analytical and programming techniques.  • Good experience of software development in Python (libraries used: libraries- Beautiful Soup, numpy, scipy, matplotlib, python-twitter, Pandas data frame, network, urllib2, MySQL dB for database connectivity).  • Experienced in designing web pages and Graphical user interfaces, front end layouts on the web by using HTML, DHTML, CSS, Bootstrap framework, PHP, XML, JavaScript, node Js and Angular Js.  • Hands on experience with Docker Puppet, Chef, Ansible, AWS CloudFormation, AWS CloudFront.  • Different testing methodologies like unit testing, Integration testing, web application testing, selenium testing were performed.  • Experience in designing the automation framework using Perl and Shell scripting.  • Hands on experience working in WAMP (Windows, Apache, MYSQL, and Python/PHP) and LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, and Python/PHP) Architecture.  • Expertise in working with different databases like Oracle, MySQL, PostgreSQL and Good knowledge in using NoSQL databases MongoDB (2.6,2.4)  • Open VMS 6.2, 7.1 & 7.2, Unix (SOLARIS), Linux, and NT systems. Performed system tuning functions and installed software on NT, Unix, and Alpha-servers.  • Experienced with integration of MongoDB and Casandra databases.  • Experience with Version Control, ideally SVN, JIRA,CVS and GIT.  • Worked on Tableau, QlikView to create dashboards and visualizations  • Experience with GUI frameworks such as PyJamas, Jython.  • Experience in implementation of Python web frameworks like Pylons, Web2py and Python Servlet Engine(PSE).  • Good understanding of Openshift Platform in managing Docker containers and Kubernates clusters.  • Have good Knowledge of Agile Methodologies (Scrum).  • Hands on experience with installation and configuration of Apache Tomcat server.  • Experienced in developing multi-threaded web services using CherryPy & bottlePy framework.  • Handy experience on using Big Data Cloud Services like PIG, HIVE and Kafka for Map reducing by which large amount of data can be easily analyzed.  • Good programming, problem solving skills, commitment & result oriented, with a quest & zeal to learn new technologies.  • Practical experience with working on Multiple-Environments like Development, Testing, Production.  • Good understanding of Jingo ORM and SqlAlchamy .Good knowledge in CORE JAVA and OOPS concepts. Work Experience Senior Python Developer Nike - Portland, OR June 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Implemented user interface guidelines and standards throughout the development and maintenance of the website using the HTML, CSS, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Implemented AJAX for dynamic functionality of a web pages for front end applications.  • Worked on front end frameworks like CSS Bootstrap for responsive web pages.  • Implemented presentation layer using CSS framework, Node JS, Angular JS, Wire-Framing and HTML5.  • Designed and led big data algorithms using Hadoop and Java to improve forecasting and used Hive QL to generate reports.  • Analysis, design and development of Web & Enterprise applications using JAVA and J2EE Technologies.  • Integrated Apache Kafka for data ingestion.  • Experience in Software As a Service (SaaS).  • Developed and tested this software using MS Access as the database and then optimized the code to use the Oracle database on a UNIX server. Designed and developed PL/SQL procedures.  • Design/Implement large scale pub-sub message queues using Apache Kafka.  • Design and development of the new Technical flow based on JAVA/J2EE technologies.  • Used integrated environment for java such as Eclipse, RAD, NetBeans, Clear Case and VSS.  • Working knowledge of Java Web Services with real time knowledge using SOAP and REST.  • Responsible for setting up Angular JS framework for UI development. Developed html views with HTML5, CSS3, JSON and Angular JS, Adobe flash.  • Developed business process execution language processes and deployed them using Oracle SOA Suite 11g.  • Configuring the docker containers ad creating docker files for different environments.  • Delivered automated solutions for science models.  • Implemented RabbitMQ into our backend services.  • Used various XML technology including SAX, DOM and others to form/transform data  • Developed web applications and RESTful web services and APIs using Python Flask, Django  • Maintained and updated existing automated solutions.  • Used Jython and Wireshark to test and troubleshoot proper XML SOAP packet creation using auto-generated Java web-services, eventually allowing PBS to replace outsourced PHP code with Python web service calls.  • Used AWS services like Ec2,S3, Dynamo db, Api Gateway, Route 53, Redshift for building applications.  • Implements data transfer from SQL server to Redshift using AWS data pipeline, AWS S3 bucket, AWS EC2 worker group and AWS SNS.  • Managed datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL, queried MYSQL relational database (RDBMS) queries from python using Python-MySQL connector MySQLdb package to retrieve information.  • Worked on docker container snapchats, attaching to a running container, Removing images, Managing directory structures and managing containers.  • Worked on Sql combined in Database environments like SAS, ORACLE and TERADATA.  • Automated the existing scripts for performance calculations using Numpy and SQL Alchemy.  • Developed test scripts for automation with Selenium.  • Used Spring MVC (Model View Controller) to intercept the user requests and used various controllers to delegate the request flow to the Backend tier of the application.  • Included in spark for efficient handling of information and characterizing work streams.  • Develop remote integration with third party platforms by using RESTful web services and Successful implementation of Apache Spark and Spark Streaming applications for large scale data.  • Developed frontend of application using Bootstrap (Model, View, Controller), Angular.js framework. Created new JSP views to incorporate backend functionality to display on the UI screens using client rich technologies like JQuery, JavaScript, HTML, CSS files.  • Redesigning the existing web application with new technologies like Bootstrap, Angularjs.  • Developed and tested many features for dashboard, created using Bootstrap, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Worked on server side applications with Django using Python programming.  • Used Pandas for a data alignment and data manipulation.  • Migrated applications to the AWS cloud.  • Utilized standard Python modules such as csv, itertools and pickle for development.  • Worked on Python OpenStack APIs and used Numpy for Numerical analysis.  • Used Ajax and JQuery for transmitting JSON data objects between frontend and controllers.  • Developed Wrapper in Python for instantiating multi-threaded application.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to created user-friendly website interface.  • Managed datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL, queried MYSQL database queries from python using Python-MySQL connector MySQLdb package to retrieve information.  • Developed various algorithms for generating several data patterns.  • Developed data pipeline using Spark and Hive to ingest, transform and analyzing data.  • Wrote data filters in PERL to clean, and pre-process data  • Experienced in developing Web Services with Python programming language  • Used JIRA for bug tracking and issue tracking.  • Added several options to the application to choose particular algorithm for data and address generation.  • Designed & developed parallel execution process using SAS Grid.  • Developed the project in Linux environment.  • Used Agile Methodology and SCRUM Process.  • Maintained the versions using GIT and sending the release notes for each release.  • Supported the issues seen in the tool across all the teams for several projects.    Environment: Python 2.7, Django 1.4, SaaS, Devobs, CSS, IBM AppScan, HTML, Apache Kafka, BOOTSTRAP, PERL, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX, MYSQL, Linux, Heroku, GIT. Sr. Python Developer C. Johnson & Son - Racine, WI April 2015 to June 2017 Responsibilities:  • Business logic implementation, data exchange, XML processing and graphics creation has been done using Python and Django  • Views and Templates were developed with Python and to create a user-friendly website interface Django's view controller and template language is used.  • Developed UI using CSS, HTML, JavaScript, AngularJS, JQuery and JSON.  • DB2 SQL Procedures and UNIX Shell Scripts were designed and developed for Data Import/Export and Conversions.  • Integrated Apache ignite hadoop for data ingestion.  • A Django dashboard with custom look and feel for end user has been created after a careful study of the Django admin site and dashboard.  • Unit Test Python library was used for testing many programs on python and other codes.  • Worked on selenium testing framework.  • JIRA was used to build an environment for development.  • Used web applications development using Django/ Python, Flask/ Python, and, JQuery, Ajax while using HTML/CSS/JS for server-side rendered application.  • Develop UNIX shell scripts and XML configuration files.  • Different testing methodologies like unit testing, Integration testing, web application testing, selenium testing were performed. Used Django framework for application development.  • Developed user interface using, CSS, HTML, JavaScript and JQuery& Ruby on rails.  • Assisted in reduction of cost and optimization of supplier selection for the CRM Applications.  • Ensured high quality data collection and maintaining the integrity of the data.  • Cleaned data and processed third party spending data into maneuverable deliverables within specific formats with Excel macros and python libraries.  • Developed Data Sourcing component and Data Standardization Components using Spark.  • Used several python libraries like wxPython, numPY and matPlotLib.  • Was involved in environment, code installation as well as the SVN implementation.  • Build all database mapping classes using Django models and Cassandra.  • Used Pandas API to put the data as time series and tabular format for east timestamp data manipulation and retrieval.  • Hands on experience with continuous integration and automation using Jenkins.  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL.  • Creating unit test/regression test framework for working/new code.  • Optimizing of exiting algorithms in Hadoop using spark sql, spark context and pair RDD's.  • This project also used other technologies like JQuery for java script manipulations, bootstrap for the front-end html layout.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  • Developed, tested and debugged software tools utilized by clients and internal customers.  • Coded test programs and evaluated existing engineering processes.  • Designed and configured database and back end applications and programs.  • Performed research to explore and identify new technological platforms.  • Collaborated with internal teams to convert end user feedback into meaningful and improved solutions.  • Resolved ongoing problems and accurately documented progress of a project.    Environment:  Python 2.7, Django, Java Script, SQL Server, HTML, DHTML, CSS, Linux, Sub Version, Wing, AJAX. Full Stack Python Developer ASURION - San Mateo, CA December 2014 to March 2015 Responsibilities:  • Developed Python scripts to read from Excel files, generate XML configuration files and also for generating IP access frequency lists in different data logs.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Designed email marketing campaigns and also created responsive web forms that saved data into a database using Python/ Django Framework.  • Designed and Developed Web Services using RESTFul and SOAP protocols with Apache, XML and JSON.  • Generated Python Django Forms, Crispy forms to record data, login and signup of online users.  • Learned technical skills that are required for the system like CherryPy, Django, Flask, Pandas, JIRA, and Heroku etc.  • Used Flask framework for application development.  • Collaborated with a team of instructors and programmers to develop the curriculum and guidelines for workshops to teach the logic of programming.  • Worked for development and enhancements of all the modules of raildocs and have them running it the design team for project structure.  • Developed data pipeline using Flume, Spark and Hive to ingest, transform and analyzing data.  • Successfully migrated the Django database from SQLite to MySQL to PostgresSQL with complete data integrity.  • Implemented Robot automation framework from scratch.  • Upgraded Python 2.5 to Python 2.7 on a RHEL server. This upgrade was necessary because in lined models with UTF-8 characters were causing unexpected errors.  • Developed Application to access JSON and XML from Restful Web Service from consumer side using JavaScript and Angular.JS.  • Created entire application using Python, Flask, MySQL and Linux.  • Expertise in developing web-based LAMD stack applications using Python and Django for large dataset analysis.  • Analysed the SQL scripts and designed the solution to implement using Scala.  • Designed and Implemented a Random Unique Test Selector Package on processing large volume of data using Python and Django ORM.  • Developed API endpoints in scala. Used functional programming, data aggregation with pagination, and parsing using Jackson library.  • Used Amazon Elastic Beanstalk with Amazon EC2 to deploy project into AWS.  • Developed and implemented the user registration and login feature for the application process from scratch by extending Django user model.  • Manage re-architecture of Jenkins and integration with Confluence for release management and documentation assets. Re architect a Maven based system reducing build times.  • Write a wrapper program in Python to automate the entire process like running different executables of FORTAN and call the Java swing program.  • Database Administration activities like taking backup, checking log messages, looking for database optimization.  • Learned how to create specific images using Python Imaging Library for the custom images used for each book.  • Helped other team members to set up and understand Robot Framework Automation implementation.  • Developed and maintained parsing modules, which read CSV, XML and JSON data from files and other REST services, processed the data.  Environment:  Python 2.7, RabbitMQ, FORTAN, XML, WSDL, CherryPy, Flask, Django, Pandas, MySQL, CSS, HTML, Jenkins, Google App Engine. Python Developer State of North Dakota - Bismarck, ND October 2013 to November 2014 Responsibilities:  • Responsible for requirement gathering, designing and developing web based applications.  • Coded model level validation and provide guidance in making long term architectural design decisions and also used Agile Methodology and SCRUM process.  • Developed and handled business logics by backend python programming to achieve optimal results.  • Developed remote integration with third party platforms by using Restful web services.  • Worked on Element Tree XML API in python to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Wrote and deployed daily production system using Perl.  • Developed view and templates in Django to create a user friendly website interface.  • Developed user interfaces using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Ajax, JSON and JQuery.  • Experienced with Bootstrap as a mechanism to manage and organize the html page layout.  • Used JavaScript to validate all the client side validations.  • Used Django configuration to manage URL's and application parameters.  • Used Pandas as API to put the data as time series and tabular format for manipulation and retrieval of data.  • Implemented a web application using JavaScript, HTML, and RDBMS.  • Used Pandas Library for statistical analysis.  • Involved and worked on Python Open stack API's.  • Used python scripts to update content in the database and manipulate files.  • Build servers using AWS, importing volumes, launching EC2, RDS, creating security groups, auto- scaling, load balancers (ELBs) in the defined virtual private connection.  • Used several python libraries such as wxPython, numPY, Spicy and matPlotLib.  • Experience in development of web services SOAP, RESTful for sending and getting data from the external interface in the XML and JSON format.  • Worked on creation of custom Docker container images, tagging and pushing the images.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application and created unit test/regression test framework for working on new code.  • Involved in implementation of automate scripts to back up the old records by using Mongo DB export command and transferred the backup files into backup machine with the help of ftplib.  • Worked on Mongo DB replication concept, used to maintain multiple copies of data in different database servers.  • Involved in build and deployment on various environments including Linux and UNIX.  • Worked with team of developers on Python applications for RISK management.  • Used design patterns efficiently to improve the code reusability and also used JIRA for bug tracking and issue tracking.  • Hands on experience on version control tools such as GitHub and amazon EC2.    Environment:  Django, HTML, CSS JavaScript, Ajax, JSON, PERL, JQuery, Mango Db, RISK management, TDD, SOAP, REST, MVC, GitHub. Python developer Hughes Network Systems - Gaithersburg, MD January 2012 to October 2013 Responsibilities:  • Developed views and templates with Python Django view controller and templating language to create a user friendly website interface.  • Used PyUnit, Python unit test framework for all the Python applications.  • Used Django framework to develop the application and used Python modules such as requests, urlib and urlib2 for web crawling.  • Used other packages such as Beautiful soup for data parsing.  • Worked with Montreal team to build out multiple API's for the enterprise level version of the REST service using Python falcon (WSGI)  • Worked on building all the database mapping classes using Django models.  • Implemented the presentation layer with HTML, Ajax, CSS, and JavaScript, JQuery and Angular Js.  • Experience with JSON based web services and Amazon Web Services (AWS).  • Worked on Jenkins for continuous integration.  • Created user Controls and simple animations using Java Script and Python.  • Generated Python Django forms to record data of online users.  • Used PyQuery for selecting particular DOM elements when parsing HTML.  • Successfully migrated the Django database from SQLite to PostgreSQL with complete data integrity.  • Enhanced existing automated solutions, such as the Editorial tool for automated request reporting.  • Wrote python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Worked with JSON based REST web services.  • Created a Git repository and added the project to GitHub and also worked on JIRA issue management to track sprint cycles.  Environment:  Python, Django MVC, PyUnit, JSON, REST, GitHub, JIRA, XML, DOM, HTML, AJAX, CSS, JQuery, Agile, SQLite, PostgreSQL. Python Developer Progressive Digital Media Private Limited June 2011 to January 2012 Responsibilities:  • Programming in Python as well as Perl.  • Participated in the complete SDLC process.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Developed user interface using CSS, HTML, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Created entire application using Python, Django, MySQL and Linux.  • Designed and implemented a dedicated MYSQL database server to drive the web apps and report on daily progress.  • Used Django framework for application development.  • Wrote unit test cases for testing tools.  • Collaborated with internal teams to convert end user feedback into meaningful and improved solutions.  • Enhanced existing automated solutions, such as the Inquiry Tool for automated Asset Department reporting and added new features and fixed bugs.  • Embedded AJAX in UI to update small portions of the web page avoiding the need to reload the entire page.  • Improved performance by using more modularized approach and using more in built methods.  • Performed data manipulation/storage for incoming test data using lxml /etree libraries.  • Developed API modularizing existing python module with the help of pyyaml libraries.  • Designed and configured database and back end applications and programs.  • Performed research to explore and identify new technological platforms.  Environment:  Python 2.7, Django 1.4, Puppet Rspec, Grafana/Graphite, MySQL, Linux, HTML, CSS, JQuery, JavaScript, Apache, Linux, Git, Perl, Cassandra. Education Bachelor's Skills CSS (7 years), Django (7 years), HTML (7 years), JavaScript (7 years), Python (7 years) Additional Information Technical Skills:    Programming Languages Python, JAVA, C++, C, PL/SQL,PHP  Query Languages SQL, PL/SQL.    Operating Systems Windows Vista/XP/7/8/10, Linux, Unix, OS X.  Deployment Tools AWS (EC2, S3, ELB, EBS, RDS, SES), Heroku, Jenkins, Azure.  Web Development CSS, HTML, DHTML, XML, JavaScript. Angular JS, JQuery and AJAX.  Web Servers WebSphere, WebLogic, SOAP, RESTful.  Python Framework Django, Flask, Web2py and Bottle, Pyramid, RabbitMQ Django, Flask, Pyramid, Django Rest, Pyjamas, Jython.  Bug Tracking Tools Jira, Bugzilla, Junit, gdb.  Databases Oracle 11g/10g/9i, MySQL, SQL Server RC 2008, postgreSQL, NoSql, MongoDB, RDBMS, Django ORM, Cassandra.    Methodologies Agile, Scrum and Waterfall.  IDEs Sublime Text, PyCharm, Eclipse, NetBeans, jDeveloper, WebLogic Workshop, RAD.  Version Controls CVS, SVN, GIT and GitHub.