Sr Python Developer Sr <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr Python Developer - Vanguard group of investments Malvern, PA • 8 years of experience in developing web based applications, software development and design using Python, Django, XML, CSS, HTML, C++, DHTML, Java, JavaScript, JQuery and AngularJS.  • Experience in IT industry with proficiency in Analysis, Design & Development Testing of Enterprise Applications and Database Development using, Python, Django, Flask and SQL projects.  • Experienced in complete Software Development Life Cycle, and major aspects of technological projects including Requirement Analysis, Design, Development, Database Design, Deployment, Testing, Debugging, and Application Maintenance.  • Experience of dealing with various development methodologies like Waterfall, Scrum, and Agile.  • Experienced with WAMP (Windows, Apache, MySQL, and Python/PHP) and LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, and Python/PHP) Architecture.  • Experience of using Python modules like NumPy, Matplotlib, Pickle, Pandas, SciPy, wxPython, PyTables, PyQt, etc., for generating complex graphical data, creation of histograms, etc.  • Skilled in Object-Oriented Design and Programming using Python and C++.  • Experienced in implementing Model View Control (MVC) architecture using server-side applications like Django and Flask for developing web applications.  • Experienced with JSON based RESTful web services, and XML based SOAP web services.  • Worked on various applications using python integrated IDEs like Eclipse, IntelliJ, Sublime Text and PyCharm.  • Experience of working with relational databases like Oracle, SQLite, PostgreSQL, MySQL, DB2 and non-relational databases like MongoDB and Cassandra.  • Proficient in developing complex SQL Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, Functions, and Packages along with performing DDL and DML operations on the database.  • Written and developed scripts for automating tasks using Jenkins and UNIX shell scripting.  • Experience in project deployment using Heroku, Jenkins and Amazon Web Services (AWS).  • Worked on various Operating Systems like UNIX, Linux, Windows, and Mac OS.  • Experienced with version control systems like Git, GitHub, CVS, and SVN in order to keep the versions and configurations of the code organized.  • Experienced with Unit Testing, System Integration Testing (SIT) and User Acceptance Testing (UAT).  • Worked on JIRA for bug tracking and communicating for better results Strong Experience in Big data technologies including Apache Spark, Hadoop, HDFS, Hive, MongoDB.  • Experience in handling errors/exceptions and debugging issues in large scale applications.  • Highly motivated, dedicated, quick learner and have proven ability to work individually and as a team.  • Excellent written and oral communication skills with results-oriented attitude.  • Experienced with version control systems like Git, GitHub, CVS, and SVN in order to keep the versions and configurations of the code organized.  • Experienced with Unit Testing, System Integration Testing (SIT) and User Acceptance Testing (UAT) • Worked on JIRA for bug tracking and communicating for better results Strong Experience in Big data technologies including Apache Spark, Hadoop, HDFS, Hive, MongoDB.  • Experience in Implementation of MVC/ MVW architecture using Django, and RESTful, Soap web service and SoapUI. Work Experience Sr Python Developer Vanguard group of investments - Malvern, PA August 2018 to Present Description: The Vanguard Group is an American registered investment advisor based in Malvern, Pennsylvania with over $5.1 trillion in assets under management. Vanguard is structured as a mutual company; it is owned by funds managed by the company, and is therefore owned by its customers.    Responsibilities: • Created scripts for data modeling and data import and export.  • Experience with working on Linux server & Used PyGtk, WxPython python libraries.  • Worked on Python to place data into JSON files for testing Django Websites.  • Explains eBay VP of engineering Japjit Tulsi, Machine learning engineers must be able to straddle the line between knowing the mathematics and coding the mathematics.  • Experience working in WAMP (Windows, Apache, MYSQL, and Python/PHP) and LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, and Python/PHP) Architecture.  • Developed web applications in Django Framework's model view control (MVC) architecture.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Designed and Developed REST Webservices to interact with various business sectors and used SOAP protocol for webservices communication.  • Implemented Docker containers to create images of the applications and dynamically provision slaves to Jenkins CI/CD pipelines.  • Experience with different IDE's like Sublime Text, Jet Brains PyCharm and Visual Studio pytest mypy, flake.  • Accountable Data Migration Team Create data enrichment reports, routines, strategy, and manage data cleansing effort • Good experience Project management on PushMo ,JIRA.,Quire,Trello, Zoho Project • WORKING on SDK in open source in python with dig in depeer.  • Esperance on SDK Installation process in python.  • Good experience on Write reusable and testable code.  • Ability to learn and adapt quickly to the emerging new technologies and paradigms.  • Used Django framework to develop the application and used Python modules such as requests, urlib, and urlib2 for web crawling.  • As data migration developer Define analysis reporting requirements for data enrichment • Involved in deploying systems on Amazon Web Services Infrastructure services EC2, S3, RDS, SQS, Cloud Formation.  • Working on Pysal release management using to prepare the release, MAKE Dismuke a source dist. And test locally.  • Stored the data in the form of JSON structure-based documents, stored in a collection using MongoDB. Worked on creating the Docker containers and Docker consoles for managing the application life cycle.  • Good experience on Release management is the process of managing, planning, scheduling and controlling a software build through different stages and environments; including testing and deploying software releases.  • Developed Web based Dynamic Form Builder using HTML, CSS, JavaScript Object-to-XML.  Environment: Python, Bootstrap, Agile, Django, Web Framework, HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, MongoDB, Linux, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX , JSON, Jira, Eclipse, WebLogic, GitHub, Junit, Agile, UML, JSP, Xml. Sr Python Developer Capgemini Chicago,IL - Chicago, IL September 2017 to July 2018 Description: A global leader in consulting, technology services and digital transformation, Capgemini is at the forefront of innovation to address the entire breadth of clients' opportunities in the evolving world of cloud, digital and platforms.    Responsibilities - • Design, develop, test, deploy and maintain the website.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL.  • Implemented client-side Interface using React JS.  • Build React components and stand-alone functions to be added to any future pages.  • Rewrite existing Java application in Python module to deliver certain format of data.  • Wrote Python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Generated property list for every application dynamically using Python.  • Working on AWS services (S3, EC2) and deployment services (Lambda) and RDS, DynamoDB (NoSQL), Beanstalk, SQSand Jenkins CICD.  • Refactored messaging and storage implementation in loan originator service to use AWS SQS and S3.  • Developed corresponding ETL jobs, batches and automated real-time data load.  • Created a backend server with Python Flask that implemented routing for indexing & showing page, and receiving the video & info data sent from the user • Responsible for search engine optimization to improve the visibility of the website.  • Implemented code according to coding standards and Created AngularJS Controller, which Isolate scopes perform operations.  • Responsible for the Automation of the deployment of the Conductor application on AWS lambda using high-end AWS architectural components • Developed AWS lambda scripts to build on demand EC2 instance formation.  • Handled all the client-side validation using JavaScript.  • Performed testing using Django's Test Module.  • Involved in AJAX driven application by invoking web services/API and parsing the JSON response.  • Created JIRA Work flows for multiple projects as per business needs.  • Used Couch base Python SDK to build applications that use Couch base Server.  • Involved in writing application level code to interact with APIs, Web Services using JSON.  • Bulk data/issues import into JIRA using CSV file templates.  • Was involved in REST client testing as part of this project • Creating unit test/regression test framework for working/new code.  • Using Subversion version control tool to coordinate team-development.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.    Environment: Python, Django, Flask, Couch base, Lambda, Python SDK, PyQt, Java, MySQL, HTML, XHTML, CSS, AJAX, JSON, JavaScript, React, Jira, Apache Web Server, Linux. Python Developer Boston Scientific Corp - San Jose, CA December 2016 to August 2017 Description: Boston Scientific Corporation, doing business as Boston Scientific, is a manufacturer of medical devices used in interventional medical specialties, including interventional radiology, interventional.    Responsibilities: • Developed and implemented the MVC Architectural Pattern using Struts Framework including JSP, Servlets and Action classes.  • Supported/maintained client website within the DJANGO CMS system for various website needs.  • Performed dynamic UI designing with HTML5, CSS3, less, BootstrapJs, JavaScript, JQuery, JSON and AJAX.  • Created Python and Bash tools to increase efficiency of retail management application system and operations; data conversion scripts, AMQP/RabbitMQ, REST, JSON, and CRUD scripts for API Integration.  • Implementation of fully API based SSO architecture using CA SiteMinder, CA IDM, PingFederate, and Radiant Logic Virtual Directory Server which accomplishes end applications integration with SSO easier.  • Led the development of parsers for handling JSON, XML responses and JAXB binding and worked with JMS (java messaging service) for asynchronous communication.  • Created a Python/Django based web application using Python scripting for data processing, MySQL for the database, and HTML/CSS/JQuery and HighCharts for data visualization of the served pages.  • Developed web-based applications using Python, Django, XML, CSS, HTML, DHTML, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Developed a Django CMS based promotion management system offering the ability to created arbitrary forms through an admin interface.  • Developed a fully functional prototype application using JavaScript and Bootstrap, connecting to a RESTful server on a different domain.  • Developed numerous websites ranging from large university sites to small marketing microsites with django CMS. Some being both multi-site and multi-lingual.  • Administered existing Single Sign On(SSO) and SAML applications implemented through SiteMinder.  • Built various graphs for business decision-making use of Python matplotlib library.  • Developed a fully functional prototype application using JavaScript (jQuery and Backbone.js) and Bootstrap, connecting to a REST-ful server on a different domain.  • Involved in development using C++, bug fixing and unit testing of the Layout commands and used Custom Node.JS proxy to simulate API responses before client implementation was complete and to proxy.    Environment: Python, Django, Django-cms, SSO, database access, Django-cms plugins, Bootstrap, JavaScript, HTML5, CSS3, Agile. Python Developer Cyient Inc November 2014 to August 2016 Python Developer Value IT Labs - Hyderabad, Telangana October 2012 to August 2014 Description:  Responsibilities: • Involved in analysis, specification, design, and implementation and testing phases of Software • Development Life Cycle (SDLC) and used agile methodology for developing application.  • Working as an application developer experienced with controllers, views and models in Django • Used Salt Stack to configure and manage the infrastructure • Restful web services using Python REST API Framework.  • Implemented the application using Python Spring IOC (Inversion of Control), Django Framework and handled the security using Python Spring Security.  • Tested entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework • Responsible for handling the integration of database system.  • Developed Server-side automation using Node JS scripting and connecting different types of SQL and NoSQL stores from Node JS.  • Used object-relational mapping (ORM) solution, technique of mapping data representation from MVC model to Oracle Relational data model with an SQL-based scheme.  • Implemented Performance tuning and improved the Performance of Stored Procedures and Queries.  • Installed and configured py Builder for application builds and deploying it.  • Used Selenium Library to write fully functioning test automation process that allowed the simulation of submitting different we request from multiple browser to web application.  • Developed and Deployed SOAP based Web Services on Tomcat Server.  • Used Jenkins for continuous integration for code quality inspection and worked on building local repository mirror and source code management using Git hub.  • Used IDE tool to develop the application and JIRA for bug and issue tracking.  • Wrote unit testing codes using unit test, resolving bugs and other defects using Firebug.  • Used JIRA to assign, track, report and audit the issues.  • Used GIT to coordinate team development.    Environment: Python, Django Web Framework, HTML, CSS, NoSQL, JavaScript, JQuery, Sublime Text, Jira, GIT, py Builder, unit test, Firebug, Web Services. Python Developer Nova IT Solutions Pvt Ltd September 2011 to June 2012 Description: Nova IT Solutions Pvt Ltd. (NITS) is Chennai based company that provides web designing and web development. We concentrate on our client needs and full satisfaction. We provide web designing, web development, mobile application development, Internet marketing, flash designing, logo designing, brochure designing and much more    Responsibilities: • Participated in requirement gathering and worked closely with the architect in designing and modeling.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML, BIG DATA to automate some of the menial tasks.  • Used PyQt for the functionality filtering of columns helping customers to effectively view their transactions and statements. Implemented navigation rules for the application and page.  • Performed testing using Django's Test Module.  • Used Django configuration to manage URLs and application parameters.  • Involved in Web development, programming, and engineering Django, UWSGI and SQL internal admin tools behave BDD.  • Used Python and Django to interface with the JQuery UI and manage the storage and deletion of content.  • Developed a fully automated continuous integration system using Git, Jenkins, MySQL and custom tools developed in Python and Bash.  • Designed and managed API system deployment using fast http server and Amazon AWS architecture • Creation of Python scripts for data access and analysis (Scripts, DataFeeds, XLS, FIXML) to aid in process and system monitoring, and reporting.  • Rewrite existing Java application in Python module to deliver certain format of data.  • Wrote Python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Generated property list for every application dynamically using Python.  • Also used Bootstrap and Angular.js as a mechanism to manage and organize the HTML page layout.  • Responsible for search engine optimization to improve the visibility of the website.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML5, XHTML, AJAX, CSS3, BIG DATA and JavaScript.  • Handled all the client side validation using JavaScript.  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL.  • Created a Git repository and added the project to GitHub.  • Build development environment with JIRA.  • Creating unit test/regression test framework for working/new code.  • Using Subversion version control tool to coordinate team-development.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.    Environment: Python, Django, Java, Angular.js, Bootstrap, AWS, Bash, PyQt, XML, Shell Scripting, MySQL, HTML, XHTML, CSS, AJAX, JavaScript, Jenkins, Apache Web Server, Linux. Education engineering Infotech Enterprises - Hyderabad, Telangana March 2018 Skills CSS (4 years), HTML (4 years), JIRA. (3 years), jQuery (3 years), Python (6 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:  Operating Systems: Unix, Linux, Windows and Mac  Programming Languages: Java, C, C++, Python 3.3/2.7/2.4.  Scripting Languages: CSS, Java Script, JQuery, Shell Scripting  Markup languages: HTML, XML, JSON  Analytics Tools: JMP PRO, SAS, Tableau, UCI NET, Node XL, MVC3  Python Libraries: Beautiful Soup, numpy, matplotlib, python-twitter, Pandas data frame, urllib2.  Databases: Oracle 10/11g, MySQL, SQL Server and PostgreSQL  Servers: Apache Tomcat, IBM Web sphere, RESTful web services  Tools: Intellij, PyCharm, FileZilla, PL/SQL Developer, and TOAD  Integration Tools: Jenkins and Web Builder  Version Control: GitHub and SVN  Defect Tracking: JIRA, Git, and VersionOne  Methodologies & tools: Object Oriented Programming, UML, Agile Scrum