Sr. Python Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Python Developer - Wells Fargo Raleigh, NC • Having 8+ years of experience as a Web/Application Developer with deep understanding of technology trends with expertise in core of complex technologies. Solid experience in Analysis, Design and Development, Testing, Implementation, production support and maintenance of various Web Applications using Python, Django.  • Developed web applications and RESTful web services and APIs using Python Flask, Django and PHP.  • Proficient in creating front end-systems using JavaScript, jQuery, Bootstrap, HTML5, CSS3 and MVC frameworks such as Angular.js and Node.js. Experience object oriented programming (OOP) concepts using Python.  • Extensive experience in Requirement Analysis, Application Design & Development and profound knowledge on SDLC using agile. Experienced in web applications development using Django/ Python.  • Experience with containerizing applications using Docker Profiled python code for optimization and memory management.  • Involved in Unit testing, Integration testing, User-Acceptance testing, and Functional testing.  • Having experienced in Agile Methodologies, Scrum stories and sprints experience in a Python based environment, along with data analytics, data wrangling and Excel data extracts.  • We have implemented pyspark for Transformation and Actions in Spark Having working Knowledge of Amazon AWS ECS Worked extensively on Big Data analytical models developed in Python.  • Extensive use of Object Oriented design methodology and Agile in software development.  • Experienced in NoSQL technologies like MongoDB, CouchDB Cassandra, Redis and relational databases like Oracle, SQLite, PostgreSQL and MySQL databases. Knowledge in working with continuous deployment using Heroku and Jenkins. Experience in developing applications using Amazon web services like EC2, Cloud Search.  • Developed J2EE applications on IDE's like Eclipse, PyCharm, My Eclipse, Google GWT, and Rational Application Developer. Leveraging queueing architectures with RabbitMQ for scalability, performance and building.  • Proficient in developing multi-threaded web services using CherryPy&bottlePy framework.  • Knowledge on Cloud innovations including Infrastructure as a Service, Platform as a Service, and Software as a Service supplier (IaaS, PaaS, and SaaS). Familiar with JSON based REST Web services and Amazon Web services.  • Experienced in working with various IDE's Visual Studio and Vim Experienced in developing Web Services with Python programming language. Good knowledge of Web Services with protocols SOAP, REST.  • Proficient in writing unit testing code using Unit Test/PyTest and integrating the test code with the build process.  • Worked on Python Testing frameworks like zope, pytest, nose and Robot framework.  • Well versed with Agile with SCRUM, Waterfall Model and Test-driven development methodologies.  • Experienced in installing, configuring, modifying, testing and deploying applications with Apache. Work Experience Sr. Python Developer Wells Fargo - Raleigh, NC May 2017 to Present Responsibilities: • Wrote scripts to integrate API's with third party applications. Python/Django based web application, PostgreSQL, and integrations with third party messaging, storage services. Created UI using JavaScript and HTML5/CSS3.  • Developed monitoring and notification tools using Python. Developed MVC prototype replacement of current product with Django. Worked on serializing data using Serializers in Django Rest Framework.  • Used data structures like directories, tuples, object-oriented class-based inheritance features for making complex algorithms of networks. Extensive working experience in agile environment using a CI/CD model methodology.  • Involved in building database Model, APIs and Views utilizing python, to build an interactive web-based solution.  • Generated Python Django Forms to record data of online users.Used Kafka for data pipeline.  • Created Data tables utilizing Pit to display accounting information and add, delete, update records.  • Used Jenkins for Continuous Integration and deployment into AWS ECS fargate.  • Installed and configured Jenkins for Automating Deployments and providing an automation solution.  • Integrated GIT into Jenkins to automate the code check-out process.  • Wrote Python normalizations scripts to find duplicate data in different environments.  • Developed and tested many features for dashboard using Python, Java, Bootstrap, CSS, JavaScript and jQuery.  • Managed builds and wrote Build scripts for JAVA and WebSphere based applications.  • Responsibilities for creation of Database, Business Logic to display the records dynamically on template based on query, providing user permission to access features of the site.  • Generated Python Django forms to record data of online users and used PyTest for writing test cases.  • Implementing change requests raised by user for server configuration, kernel tuning, software installation and OS hardening, Managing Linux VMs using Puppet as per some projects requirement.  • Experience in building frameworks in Python for Test Automation.  • Familiar with Agile and Waterfall development methodologies.  • Followed Agile Methodologies (Scrum) involved in daily stand-up meetings.  • Managed windows servers which included Active Directory maintenance and support • Hands on experience with bug tracking tools such as JIRA and Bugzilla.  • Developed and designed e-mail marketing campaigns using HTML, JavaScript and CSS.  • Maintained customers relationship management databases (MySQL / PostgreSQL) • Unit testing for the entire code and fixing bugs in unit testing • Wrote AJAX framework to transform Datasets and Data tables into HTTP-serializable JSON strings.  • Experienced in working with different operating systems like Windows, Ubuntu, Linux and UNIX.    Environment:  Python, Django, Web Framework, HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, MongoDB, Linux, Javascript, JQuery, AJAX, JSON, Sublime Text, Jira, Git, Django-cms, SSO, database access, plugins, Bootstrap, Agile, Eclipse, Weblogic, GitHub, Junit, Agile, UML, JSP, Xml, SOA. Sr. Python Developer APP Pharmaceuticals - Chicago, IL November 2015 to April 2017 Responsibilities: • Involved in the development of front end of the application using Python, HTML5, CSS3, AJAX, JSON and JQuery and worked on backend of the application, mainly using Active Records. Developed dynamic web pages using Python, Django Frameworks.  • Developed monitoring and notification tools using Python.  • Improved the application by designing and developing it using HTML and JavaScript.  • Used data structures like directories, tuples, object-oriented class-based inheritance features for making complex algorithms of networks. Generated Python Django Forms to record data of online users.  • Created MySQL back-end for data entry from Flash. Assisted the Flash developer send the correct data via query strings.  • Experience in agile environment using a CI/CD model methodology.  • Involved in building database Model, APIs and Views utilizing python, to build an interactive web-based solution.  • Created Data tables utilizing PyQt to display patient and policy information and add, delete, update patient records.  • Wrote a Python module to connect and view the status of an Apache Cassandra instance.  • Worked on converting Hive/SQL queries into Spark transformations using Spark RDDs, Python, and OOP with Python. Worked on developing and executing shell scripts to automate the jobs.  • Developed MVC prototype replacement of current product with Django.  • Worked extensively on Spark Streaming, Spark SQL, PySpark and Hadoop/HDFS API doing MapReduce.  • Significantly improved report generation efficiency by caching, reusing and improve the security level of data.  • Experienced in automation and continuous integration process with Cloud bees Enterprise Jenkins.  • Used Jenkins for Continuous Integration and deployment into Tomcat Application Server.  • Installed and configured Jenkins for Automating Deployments and providing an automation solution.  • Integrated GIT into Jenkins to automate the code check-out process.  • Wrote scripts to integrate API's with third party applications. Python/Django based web application, PostgreSQL, and integrations with third party email, messaging, storage services.  • Strong experience working with Hadoop from Cloudera Data Platform and running services through Cloudera-manager.  • Pyspark we implemented Caching, Accumulators and UDF's We have implemented pyspark for Transformation and Actions in Spark Wrote Python normalizations scripts to find duplicate data in different environments.  • Used Query and Ajax calls for transmitting JSON data objects between frontend and controllers.  • Involved in building database Model, APIs and Views utilizing python, in order to build an interactive web based solution.  • Worked on HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, AngularJS, Node.JS, Git, REST API, intellij IDEA.  • Development of real-time multi-tasking systems using Python.  • Created data access modules in python.  • Designed, developed, implemented, and maintained solutions for using Git and GitHub for microservice and continuous deployment.  • Involved in Developing a Restful API'S service using Python Flask framework.    Environment:  Python, Django, Shell Scripting, AWS, Pandas, PyQt, PyQuery, Wire shark, Flash, DOM, JSON, PHP, HTML5, CSS3, AJAX, JavaScript, Angular.js, Bootstrap, Apache Web Server, MYSQL, GitHub, LINUX. Python Developer T-Mobile - Dallas, TX November 2014 to October 2015 Responsibilities: • Implemented user interface guidelines and standards throughout the development and maintenance of the website using the HTML, CSS, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Utilized Python libraries python, NumPy, Twisted and matplotlib.  • Developed API modularizing existing python module with the help of pyyaml libraries.  • Designed and configured database and back end applications and programs.  • Used JavaScript data visualization framework (D3.js) to display the information in a chart view.  • Experienced in developing Web Services with Python programming language.  • Involved in Unit testing, Integration testing, User-Acceptance testing, and Functional testing.  • Created custom directives in Angular JS for re-usable components (multi-field form elements, background file uploads).  • Involved in various phases of the project like Analysis, Design, Development, and Testing.  • Developed rich user interface using CSS, HTML, JavaScript and jQuery.  • Developed a Front-End GUI as stand-alone Python application.  • Involved in Integrating and Functional System Testing for the entire Data Warehousing Application Experience in python, Jupiter, Scientific computing stack (NumPy, SciPy, pandas and matplotlib).  • Pyspark we implemented Caching, Accumulators and UDF's We have implemented pyspark for Transformation and Actions in Spark Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes of the two main applications that were a main source of data for both customers and internal customer service team.  • Wrote Python scripts to parse JSON documents and load the data in database.  • Developed new scripts a using many regular expressions to match and extract data as required to comply with various compliance reporting requirements.  • Build SQL queries for performing various CRUD operations like create, update, read and delete.  • Worked on Anti Money Laundering (AML) application to develop new modules to build reports for identifying various accounts and activities.  • Developed Python Django forms to record data and the Login module page for users.  • Designed email marketing campaigns and created interactive forms that saved data into database using Django Framework.  • Participated in requirement gathering and worked closely with the architect in designing and modeling.  • Generating various capacity planning reports (graphical) using Python packages like NumPy, matplotlib.  • Optimized for online queries and Data Warehousing tools using dimensional model.  • Analyzing various logs that are been generating and predicting/forecasting next occurrence of event with various Python libraries.  • Worked on development of SQL and stored procedures on MYSQL.  • Developed shopping cart for Library and integrated web services to access the payment (E-commerce).  • Designed and developed a horizontally scalable APIs using pythonFlask.  • Designed Cassandra schema for the APIs.  • Implemented monitoring and established best practices around using elastic search.  • Effectively communicated with the external vendors to resolve queries.  • Used GIT for the version control.    Environment:  Python, Django, Behave, Puppet Rspec, Jenkins, Grafana/Graphite, MySQL, Linux, HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, JQuery, JavaScript, Apache, Linux, Git, Perl, Cassandra, Azure Automation cloud services. Python Developer JD.com - Boston, MA May 2013 to October 2014 Responsibilities: • Used Python and Django to interface with the jQuery UI and manage the storage and deletion of content.  • Worked extensively with Bootstrap, Java script, and query to optimize the user experience.  • Handled all the client-side validation using JavaScript.  • Created a custom CMS built using Django, AWS (Amazon web service), REST, Json with JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX components, worked closely with designer. Converted Photoshop images into XHTML/CSS.  • Rewrite existingPython/Django modules to deliver certain format of data.  • Used Django Database API's to access database objects.  • Wrote pythonscripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL.  • Used AWstat and Google Analytics to analyze web traffic.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Created scripts for system administration and AWS using languages such as BASH and Python.  • Design, develop, test, deploy and maintain the website.  • Used Selenium Library to write fully functioning test automation process that allowed the simulation of submitting different we requests from multiple browser to web application.  • Involved in development of Web Services using SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface in the XML format.  • Participated in entire lifecycle of the projects including Design, Development, and Deployment, Testing and Implementation and support.  • Participated in the complete SDLC process.  • Responsible for debugging the project monitored on JIRA (Agile).  • Used JQuery for all client-side Java script manipulation.  • Scalable, database-driven web application development using a variety of frameworks: ASP.NET on C#, Flask on Python, and PHP.  • Created unit test/regression test framework for working/new code.  • Implemented multiple high-performance MongoDB replica sets on EC2 with robust reliability.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules usingPythonon Django Web Framework.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  • Worked on developing a website for a power company. Used to get energy consumption from various customers to store it into a database. Load the data from database to display on customer accounts. Wrote various python modules to perform back-end operations on the data. Developed graphical interface for users to display in their accounts.  • Used Python's pandas and matplotlib libraries to conduct data exploration and visualization of electricity consumption data.  • Created Python scripts for analyzing large quantities of data.  • Maintained detailed databases of energy storage projects and country-specific energy policies.  • Generated Python Django Forms to record data, login, and signup of users.  • Built various graphs for business decision making using Python matplotlib library.  • Utilized standard Python modules such as csv, itertools and pickle for development.  • Worked on Python OpenStack APIs and used Numpy for Numerical analysis.  • Responsible for search engine optimization to improve the visibility of the website.  • Performed different testing methods like Unit testing, Integration testing, web application testing.  • Developed efficient Angular.js for client web based application.    Environment:  Python, Django, Flashvars, PyUnit, PyQuery, PyQt, HTML, CSS, PHP, DOM, REST, AJAX, JQuery, AWS, GitHub, agile, Oracle and Windows. Python Developer Prime Inc - Austin, TX May 2011 to April 2013 Responsibilities: • Involved in different layers such as Front and Back end.  • Developing Web Applications with W3C, XHTML, HTML, PHP, CSS standards and using Python, Django.  • Worked on Payment Processing which involves monitoring payments and provide required solutions.  • Involved in the complete software life cycle (SDLC) to develop the web application.  • Coding application using Python, Django in End-to-End Web application development using MVC architecture while front-end is built on CSS and HTML.  • Used Test Driven Approach for developing the application and implemented the unit tests using Python Unit Test framework called PyUnit.  • Designed Database Model for the entire application Creating tables, Views and Stored procedures.  • Implementation of client side validations using JQuery, Angular JS and ASP.NET MVC Validation implemented at Controller level.  • Performed Scalable Computing and data analytics of big data.  • Designed and developed various abstract classes, interfaces, classes to construct the business logic using C# .NET.  • Created Database Schema for MySQL Database and involved in designing ER-Diagrams using Microsoft Visio.  • Worked on Restful API's to access the third party data for the internal analysis and statistical representation of that data.  • Worked on Pandas to import the data, Sort and plot the statistical data using histograms.  • Worked on Python Scripts to create Excel and CSV files for documenting the Statistical Reports.  • Used Pandas for Statistical Analysis in the application and Numpy for the advance math functionalities.  • Experience with Python Libraries such as HTTPLib2, Urllib.  • Used GitHub for Version Control System and deployed the project code into Heroku.  • Worked on XML documents based on XML Schema definition (XSD) with python scripts to load the data to database.  • Used JavaScript for Dynamic Page Functionality, popup screens and the user entry validations.    Environment:  Python, Django, HTML, CSS, JIRA, TDD, AJAX, JQuery, JavaScript, AWS, MySQL, Angular JS, Linux, Apache, XML, Git. Python Developer Ruckus Marketing - Jersey City, NJ May 2009 to April 2011 Responsibilities: • Experience in developing Web Applications based on MVC architecture using Python, Django, Flask.  • Experience in developing web-based applications using Python, Django.  • Proficient in implementing PEP8 coding standards for all the projects.  • Expertise in HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, AngularJS, Node.js, JSON and XML using XML Schema Definition (XSD) • Experience in working with different python packages like Pandas, BeautifulSoup,  Numpy, Matplotlib, SciPy.  • Experience working on with Integrated Development Environments (IDE's) like PyCharm, and Sublime text.  • Experience working on with Amazon Web Services (AWS), Amazon EC2 instances, Load Balancing, Amazon Dynamo DB.  • Expertise in developing Bar-plots, Boxplots, histograms, Grouped plots and Scattered plots.  • Experienced in NoSQL technologies like MongoDB and relational databases like SQLite, MySQL databases.  • Worked on Version Control Systems like GitHub, SVN.  • Experience working with Big Data and exposure to distributed computing platforms like Hadoop.  • Experience working with Restful Web Services.  • Have good experience on working with relational databases (RDBMS) and NoSQL Databases like MongoDB.  • Experience working with SSH client on the Linux Operating System.  • Experience with Unit testing/ Test driven Development (TDD), Behavior Driven Development, Load Testing.  • Worked on writing unit testing code using Py-Test and integrated the test code with the build process.  • Proficient in working on with REST and SOAP Web Services handling XML and JSON data.  • Expertise on working with the Networking protocols like TCP/IP, HTTP/HTTPS.  • Experience working with Issue tracking tools like Bugzilla and JIRA.  • Experience in Agile Development (Iterations and standup meetings etc).  • Used the best practices of test-driven development, SCRUM, continuous integration, refactoring and code standards.  • Experience writing custom queries through database connectors.  • Experience on working with excel sheets and csv files • Experience on working with Web Servers like Apache, Nginx.  • Experience in Test Driven Development (TDD) and Behavior Driven Development (BDD) for enterprise projects.  Environment:  Python, Django, Shell Scripting, AWS, Pandas, PyQt, PyQuery, Wire shark, Flash, DOM, JSON, PHP, AJAX, JavaScript, Angular.js, Bootstrap, Apache Web Server, MYSQL, GitHub, LINUX. Education Master of Science in Science and Engineering University of California - San Diego, CA Additional Information Technical Skills:    Languages: Python, Java, PHP, C, C++, Ruby  Web Technologies: HTML/HTML5, CSS/CSS3, XML, AJAX, jQuery, JSON and Bootstrap  Deployment Tools: Heroku, Amazon EC2, Jenkins  Client side: Java Script, HTML, DHTML  Databases: My SQL, Sqlite3, Mongo DB, SQL  Cloud Computing: AWS, EC2, S3  Framework: Django, Flask, Angular JS, Node JS  Operating System: Windows, MacOS, UNIX and Linux  Configuration Management: GitHub, SVN, CVS, Maven.  Tools & IDE: PyCharm, Eclipse, Jupyter Notebook, Sublime Text  Testing Tool: JIRA  Protocols: TCP/IP, HTTP/HTTPS