Sr. Python Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Python Developer - CareFirst Owings Mills, MD Sr. Python Developer Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Python Developer CareFirst - Owings Mills, MD October 2017 to Present Roles & Responsibilities:  ? Developed frontend and backend modules using Python on Django including Tastypie Web Framework using Git.  ? Developed Merge jobs in Python to extract and load data into MySQL database and Worked on MYSQL data lineage process to map source to target DB, table and column mappings using OO Python.  ? Successfully migrated the Django database from SQLite to MySQL to PostgreSQL with complete data integrity and Designed, developed and deployed CSV Parsing using the big data approach on AWS EC2.  ? Used Sqoop to import the data from RDBMS to Hadoop Distributed File System (HDFS) and later analyzed the imported data using Hadoop Components  ? Created and maintained Technical documentation for launching HADOOP Clusters and for executing Hive queries and Pig Scripts.  ? Developed Ruby on Rails 3 web applications using MongoDB and back-ground processes using Resque and Redis and Worked on performance tuning of cluster using Cassandra Configuration file and JVM Parameters.  ? Created complex reports in MicroStrategy Desktop using features like Templates, Transformations, Custom Groups and Consolidations.  ? Used Ansible for automating cloud deployment process and Implemented EC2 infrastructure using Ansible, Fabric deployment process.  ? Designed & developed scalable Azure APIs using Flask web framework in Python and Integrated with Azure API Management, Logical Apps and other Azure services.  ? Worked in the Azure Cloud for integration processes.  ? Used ReactJS, worked on applications for Bash terminal component to add Extensible commands and autocomplete in content writing.  ? Created MySQL queue using AWS SNS, SQS, and Golang (Go), to concurrently process SQL queries in the background  ? Built a Golang web server to host multiple tools so another has http access to them.  ? Created Virtual Machine cluster and load balance for VM's using PowerShell.  ? Set up cluster environment for load balancing and high availability of Windows Servers.  Environment: Python, AWS, EC2, PyCharm, Selenium IDE, GIT, GitHub, MySQL, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Ajax, Web Services, Django, MongoDB, SQL Workbench Sr. Python Developer Petco - San Diego, CA January 2016 to October 2017 Roles & Responsibilities:  ? Developed web applications and implemented Model View Control (MVC) architecture using server-side applications like Django and Flask.  ? Developed views and templates with Python and Django view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  ? Developed views and templates with Python and Django view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly Website interface.  ? Migrated platform from physical server to virtual environment (took it from development into production by wiring up an Nginx stack).  ? Consumed external APIs and wrote RESTful API using Django REST Framework and Angular.Js.  ? Developed Python Script for moving files from dropbox to Amazon server.  ? Build the pipelines, ran the tests in Jenkins and deployed the application in AWS  ? Created API Keys and Usage plans in AWS API Gateways and used the keys across the regions for using the API Gateway  ? Developed the notification service by posting the JSON request in AWS API Gateway, Validating the response in Lambda by getting the data from DynamoDB and sending the notification through AWS SNS.  ? Created AWS Secrets Manager to store the properties across the regions, retrieve the secrets and wrote a shell script to automate the process  ? Created AWS kinesis Firehouse and attached it to S3 bucket for having the log information and store that as Event data in the S3 storage bucket  ? Wrote Python Scripts for loading data from CSV files into the database tables.  ? Documented tasks in Confluence and related them to the JIRA tickets.  ? Used Python /Perl to code and design various phases for data processing pipeline  ? Used with version control systems such as Git and Apache SVN for maintaining a consistent state throughout the application development process.  ? Involved in database-driven web application development using a variety of frameworks such as Django on Python.  ? Worked on designing and maintaining complex SQL queries and developing PL/SQL stored procedures.  ? Followed the best practice of Python such as PEP-8.  ? Developed Python scripts to execute Stored Procedures and load data from various forms of csv files into staging tables in SQL Server database.  ? Involved in back end development using Python with framework Flask  ? Developed internal project in Flask to generate report from google analytics on daily, monthly and weekly basis.  ? Administered Microsoft Active Directory environment and maintained user account in Active Directory by adding/deleting users, correcting user access problems, and assigning appropriate rights and privileges.  ? Developed Organizational Units in Active Directory and managed user security with group policies.  Environment: Python, AWS, EC2, S3, PyCharm, Selenium IDE, GIT, MySQL, HTML, CSS, Flask, Django, MongoDB, SQL Workbench Python Developer Comcast - Philadelphia, PA May 2015 to January 2016 Roles & Responsibilities:  ? Actively involved in Initial software development life cycle (SDLC) of requirement gathering and also in suggesting system configuration specifications during client interaction.  ? Extensively used Python / Django Framework for developing backend of applications.  ? Responsible for analyzing various cross-functional, multi-platform applications systems enforcing Python best practices and provide guidance in making long term architectural design decisions.  ? Worked on JSON based REST Web services and Amazon Web Services (AWS).  ? Worked on Angular JS framework to develop interactive websites based on client needs.  ? Successfully migrated the website's main database from MySQL to PostgreSQL.  ? Helped the big data analytics team with implementation of python scripts for Sqoop, spark and Hadoop batch data streaming.  ? Involved in Developing a Restful service using Python Flask framework.  ? Analyze the logs data and filter required columns by LogStash configuration and send it to elastic search.  ? Handled Business logics by backend Python programming to achieve optimal results.  ? Implemented admin sites to manage database information with Flask Admin, MySQL and SQLite.  ? Involved building Hadoop platforms, maximizing business value by combining data science with big data.  ? Generated various graphs for business decision making using Python Matplotlib library.  ? Tested various regular expressions in URL Dispatchers in Django.  ? Developed frontends using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript and JQuery.  ? Created restful web services for Catalog and Pricing with Django MVT, Jersey, MySQL, and MongoDB.  ? Designed and created the database tables and wrote SQL queries to access PostgreSQL.  ? Analyzed and Designed workflows based on business logic.  ? Designed user friendly Interface using Bootstrap framework.  ? Wrote python code within the Hadoop framework to solve Natural Language Processing problems.  Environment: Python, AWS, EC2, PyCharm, Selenium IDE, MySQL, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Ajax, Web Services, Django, MongoDB, SQL Workbench Python Developer ZORO Tools Inc - Buffalo Grove, IL November 2014 to May 2015 Roles & Responsibilities:  ? Involved in data analysis using python and handling the ad-hoc requests as per requirements.  ? Developed entire frontend and backend modules using python on Django web framework on SQL Server.  ? Used Python and Django creating graphics, XML processing, data exchange and business logic implementation  ? Involve in the development of the application using Python 3.3, HTML5, CSS3, AJAX, JSON and jQuery.  ? Used JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, CSS3, and HTML5 as data and presentation layer technology.  ? Built application logic using Python 3.4/2.7. Used Django APIs for database access. Use the Model View Controller (MVC) framework to build modular and maintainable applications.  ? Developed Hibernate with Spring Integration as the data abstraction to interact with the database.  ? Developed Scala programs with Spark for data in Hadoop ecosystem.  ? Handled potential points of failure (database, communication points and file system errors) through error handling and communication of failure.  ? Used Test driven approach for developing the application and Implemented the unit tests using Python Unit test framework.  ? Improved understanding of Unit Testing, learned Golang and its testing framework, familiarized. And Created RPC-based service for reading large volume of data from PostgreSQL using GO (Golang).  ? Utilized standard Python modules such as csv, robotparser, itertools and pickle for development.  ? Responsible for build and deployment automation using VM Ware ESX, Docker containers and Chef.  ? Worked on resulting reports of the application and Tableau reports.  ? Configured and used ELK Stack for log management.  ? Logged user stories and acceptance criteria in JIRA for features by evaluating output requirements and formats.  ? Involved in Agile process, Sprints, and daily Scrums to discuss the development of the application.  Environment: Python, Django, XML, CSS, HTML, DHTML, JavaScript, JQuery, JavaScript, Shell Scripts Python Developer Kreative Web Solutions - IN January 2012 to September 2014 Roles & Responsibilities:  ? Developed the front-end module of the application using Python 2.7, HTML5, CSS3, AJAX, JSON and JQuery.  ? Involved in the design and maintenance of the databases using Python and Python based API using Flask, SQL and PostgreSQL.  ? Used Python scripts to update the content in the database and manipulate files.  ? Involved in development of web services using SOAP for sending and getting the data from external interface in XML format.  ? Worked on JavaScript MVC framework like Angular JS.  ? Exported Test case scripts and modified the selenium scripts and executed in Selenium RC environment.  ? Involved in writing application level code to interact with APIs, Web Services using JSON.  ? Created a Python /Django based web application using Python scripting for data processing, MySQL for the database, and HTML/CSS/JQuery and High Charts for data visualization of the served pages.  ? Built various graphs for business decision making using Python Matplotlib library.  ? Managed, developed, and designed a dashboard control panel for customers and Administrators using Django, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Bootstrap, JQuery and RESTAPI calls.  ? Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes of the two main applications that were a main source of data for both customers and internal customer service team.  ? Executing regression tests on each release and verified bugs found from automation test in Bugzilla.  ? Trained extensively in agile methodologies and implemented by participating in scrum stand ups, discussing and implementing requirements with clients.  ? Created Python and Bash tools to increase efficiency of call center application system and operations.  Environment: Python, MySQL, HTML, CSS3, JavaScript, Ajax, JSON, Angular JS, SOAP, Agile, SQL Workbench Python Developer Paramatrix Technologies India March 2010 to January 2012 Roles & Responsibilities:  ? Involved in developing web applications using Django Framework to implement the model view control architecture.  ? Involved in Developing a Restful service using Python Flask framework.  ? Created entire application using Python, Django, MySQL and Linux.  ? Developed the presentation layer using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery and AJAX and Used JQuery libraries for all client-side JavaScript manipulations.  ? Performed efficient delivery of code based on principles of Test Driven Development (TDD) and continuous integration to keep in line with Agile Software Methodology principles.  ? Lock mechanisms were implemented, and the functionality of multithreading has been used.  ? Developed a fully automated continuous integration system using Git, Gerrit, Jenkins, MySQL and custom tools developed in Python and Bash.  ? Managed MongoDB environment from availability, performance and scalability perspectives.  ? Managed, developed, and designed a dashboard control panel for customers and Administrators using Django, Oracle DB, PostgreSQL, and VMWare API calls.  Environment: Python, PyCharm, MySQL, HTML, CSS, JQuery, Ajax, Web Services, GIT, Django Education Bachelor's Degree in Aeronautical Engineering JNT University 2010 Skills DJANGO (8 years), HTML (8 years), JAVASCRIPT (6 years), PYTHON (8 years), MYSQL (8 years) Additional Information ? Result-driven IT Professional with 8+ years of experience in developing web-based applications, software development & design using Python 3.3/2.7, Django 1.9/1.8, Perl, XML, CSS, HTML, DHTML, JavaScript, JQuery and AngularJS.  ? Excellent experience with Python development under Linux OS (Debian, Ubuntu, SUSE Linux, RedHat Linux, Fedora).  ? Experience in WAMP (Windows, Apache, MYSQL, Python/PHP) and LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, Python/PHP) Architecture.  ? Experience in configuring and implementing various AWS components such as Elastic IPs, EBS, ElastiCache, Elastic Beanstalk, DynamoDB, Redshift and Cloud Formation.  ? Strong development skills on Cloud Amazon Web Service (AWS).  ? Strong operational skills on Cloud Services EC2, S3, VPC, Cloud Formation, Cloud Watch, RDS, Dynamo DB, SQS, SNS, API Gateway  ? Experience in developing Web Services with Python programming language.  ? Automation experience using Selenium IDE/RC/ Web Driver and TestNG frameworks  ? Good knowledge of web services with protocols SOAP and REST.  ? Expertise in designing, developing middleware components for software in C/C++ using STL, multithreading, data structures and design patterns. Experienced with Python frameworks likeWebapp2 and, Flask.  ? Experience with Unit testing/ Test driven Development (TDD) and Load Testing.  ? Strong understanding of Agile and Scrum Software Development Life Cycle Methodologies.  ? Good experience on Application Servers like WebSphere, WebLogic, Tomcat, Web Servers like Apache server, NGINX and Integrated Development Environments like PyCharm, Eclipse, MyEclipse, JDeveloper and RAD. Strong proficiency in version control systems like SVN, Git.  ? Proficient in SQL databases MS SQL, MySQL, Oracle and no-SQL databases MongoDB and Cassandra.  ? Experience with JSP Servlets, Web Services (SOAP, REST) and Tomcat. Effective in executing multiple tasks and assignments ahead of schedule. Created and maintained effective budgets.  ? Hands-on experience in writing and reviewing requirements, architecture documents, test plans, design documents, quality analysis and audits.    Technical competencies:    Languages: Python 3.x,2.7/2.4, C++, Java, Shell Script, Perl, SQL  Python Framework: Django 1.3/1.4/1.5  Databases: MySQL 5.1, SQL Server 2008, Oracle 10g, Siebel  Web Technologies: AJAX, JavaScript, HTML, DHTML, XHTML, XML, JQuery  Versioning Tools: Subversion, GIT, Perforce, CVS  IDE: Eclipse, My Eclipse, PyCharm, RAD  Web servers: Apache, IIS  Debugging tools: Selenium, IDE  NO SQL: MongoDB, Cassandra  Operating systems: Linux/Unix, Windows NT/2000/XP/2003/Vista, Mac OSX  Cloud Technologies: AWS, OpenStack