Sr. Python Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Python Developer - Boston Consulting Group Dallas, TX • Around 8 years of experience in the field of software development. Proficient in developing applications using Python, Java and C++.  • Experience in IT industry with proficiency in Analysis, Design & Development and Unit-Testing of Enterprise Applications and Database Development using, Python, Django, Flask and SQL  • Experienced in complete Software Development Life Cycle, and major aspects of technological projects including Requirement Analysis, Design, Development, Database Design, Deployment, Testing, Debugging, and Application Maintenance.  • Experienced in complete Agile Methodology for development.  • Experienced with WAMP (Windows, Apache, MySQL, and Python/PHP) and LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, and Python/PHP) Architecture.  • Experience with Cloud Services like Heroku, Google App Engine, Microsoft Azure, Amazon AWS, EC2, S3 etc.  • Good working experience in processing large datasets with Spark using Django and PySpark.  • Used Ansible to document all infrastructures into version control.  • Experience of using Python modules like Django, NumPy, Matplotlib, Pickle, Pandas, SciPy, PyTables, PyQt, etc., for generating complex graphical data, creation of histograms, etc.  • Skilled in Object-Oriented Design and Programming using Python and C++.  • Experienced in using Python, Django, PHP, C++, CSS, HTML, XHTML, JavaScript, AngularJS, REACT and JSON for developing web applications.  • Experienced in HTML/HTML5, DHTML, CSS/CSS3, JavaScript, Angular.JS and JSON.  • Experienced in implementing Model View Control (MVC) architecture using server-side applications like Django and Flask for developing web applications.  • Experienced with JSON based Restful web services, and XML based SOAP web services.  • Worked on various applications using python integrated IDEs like Eclipse, IntelliJ, Sublime Text and PyCharm.  • Experience of working with relational databases like Oracle, SQLite, PostgreSQL, MySQL, DB2 and non-relational databases like MongoDB and Cassandra.  • Working knowledge in multi-tiered distributed environment, OOAD concepts, good understanding of Software Development Lifecycle (SDLC)  • Proficient in developing complex SQL Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, Functions, and Packages along with performing DDL and DML operations on the database.  • Experience in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on MySQL and Postgre SQL database.  • Experience Amazon SQS, and Amazon Web Services like EC2, Redshift and S3.  • Written and developed scripts for automating tasks using Jenkins and UNIX shell scripting.  • Experience in project deployment using Heroku, Jenkins and Amazon Web Services (AWS).  • Worked on various Operating Systems like UNIX, Linux, Windows, and Mac OS.  • Experienced with version control systems like Git, GitHub, Bit Bucket and SVN in order to keep the versions and configurations of the code organized.  • Experienced with Unit Testing, System Integration Testing (SIT) and User Acceptance Testing (UAT).  • Worked on JIRA for bug tracking and communicating for better results Strong Experience in Big data technologies including Apache Spark, Hadoop, HDFS, Hive, MongoDB and Django.  • Experience in handling errors/exceptions and debugging issues in large scale applications. Work Experience Sr. Python Developer Boston Consulting Group - Seattle, WA January 2019 to Present Description: FCA Car pricing is the application developed by BCG for FIAT Company to analyze the historical data and compute the price, Tax, Co2 emission logics, models, brands, manufactures and to provide the scope of the market for their particular brand or product. This Pricing Tools is developed with Python, Flask, various databases and cloud services etc. FCA Car Pricing project is also implemented with Data Lake to archive the data for future analysis.  Responsibilities:  • Worked with Flask and pandas to monitor, migrate and develop table database  • Implemented SQL scripts and quarries in Python code to work with various databases and data sources.  • Used AWS EC2, LAMBDA, S3, API GATEWAY and implemented various work environment  • Performed data migration and data filter from various data sources and build different databases to store the Raw data and Transformed Data  • Work with team of developers on python applications for RISK management.  • Manage the configurations of multiple servers using Ansible.  • Created database using MySQL and used Python to interact database.  • Deployed mircoservices2, including provisioning AWS environments using Ansible Playbooks.  • Designed and Developed User Interface using front-end technologies like HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, AngularJS, Bootstrap and JSON.  • Developed and tested many features in an agile environment using Python, Django, HTML5, CSS, JavaScript and Bootstrap.  • Developed Job dashboard monitor UI using Django/Flask.  • Develop REST API and integrated with cloud products like AWS REST API gateway and AWS lambda.  • Develop remote integration with third party platforms by using Restful web services and Successful implementation of PySpark and Spark Streaming applications for large scale data.  • Implemented Restful Web Services for the data transportation between multiple systems.  • Automating analysis of large data sets  • Responsible for on boarding Application teams to build and deploy there code using GitHub Jenkins, Nexus and Ansible  • Worked on UI modification using HTML, CSS.  • Work on dns tables to map the website to its IP address and mapped them to AWS Route 53.  • Developed Application logic using Python 2.7 and Flask framework.  • Written backend data access Logic using MYSQL and SQL Server  • Designed and implemented a distributed, QA infrastructure for automated testing of a multi process software product.  • Involved in the Complete Agile Methodology to develop the application.  • Implementing customer data collection with PySpark/Hadoop analytics.  • Involved in back end development using Python with framework Flask  • Restful web services using Python REST API Framework.  • Developed entire front end and back end modules using flask Web Framework.  • Developed single page application by using AngularJS backed by MongoDB and NodeJS.  • Developed internal project in Flask to generate report from Google analytics on daily, monthly and weekly basis.  • Designed and built a reporting module that uses Apache Spark SQL to fetch and generate reports.  • Designed and developed data center management system using MySQL.  • Wrote python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Developed SQL Queries, Stored Procedures, and Triggers Using Oracle.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.    Environment: Python 3/2.7, Flask, MySQL, Microservices, Windows, HTML5, CSS3, JQuery, JavaScript, AngularJS, AJAX, Bootstrap, Git, GitHub, PySpark, Linux, Shell Scripting, Apache Spark, Ansible, AWS, Maven, Jenkins, NodeJS, SQLAlchemy, Psutil, Server less Sr. Python Developer HAVI Global Solutions - Naperville, IL February 2018 to January 2019 Description: SEQUOIA is the Web Application developed by Havi Global Solution for one of their very very important customer MecD. MecD is one of top most food industry in USA and it has it branches all over nationwide. Sequoia is the application where it will help the user to perform many things like creating promotions for their product, analyzing the sales data according to the region wise and session they create the promotions for a certain period of time for different locations. This project is developed in Python, Django, Spark, AngularJS, NodeJS, Postgres and Azure cloud services.  Responsibilities:  • Developed API Using Django Rest Frame Work for Front-end and various Database Plugins for Postgres  • Designed Databases in MySQL, Postgres  • Written code in python to handle the Request and response using REST frame work and Json data objects  • Worked with Flask and pandas to monitor, migrate and develop table database and work with large data set files  • Implemented SQL scripts and quarries in Python code to handle User requests and work with the data in database.  • Performed Unit testing and regression testing.  • Worked with AZURE SERVICES in multiple areas API code to interact and trigger the functionality at particular points of code.  • Developed Interacting UI with REACT and ANGUALR  • Used Azure Cloud for maintaining database, code  • Used Azure machines to development the service in cloud.  • Work with team of developers for the BACK-END and FROINT-END INTRIGRATION  • Manage the configurations of multiple servers using Ansible.  • Created database using Postgres and wrote several queries to extract data from database.  • Designed and Developed User Interface using front-end technologies like REACT  • Developed and tested many features in an agile environment using Python, Django, REACT,  • Developed Job dashboard monitor UI using Django/REACT  • Used Ansible playbooks to setup Continuous Delivery pipeline. This primarily consists of a Jenkins and Sonar server, the infrastructure to run these packages and various supporting software components such as Maven, etc.  • Utilizing MEAN stack and JSON for data transfer and technologies related to server-side scripting.  • Develop remote integration with third party platforms by using Restful web services.  • Implemented Restful Web Services for the data transportation between multiple systems.  • Responsible for on boarding Application teams to build and deploy there code using GitHub, Jenkins, Bit Bucket  • Developed Application logic using Python 2.7 and Django framework.  • Involved in back end development using Python with framework Flask  • Restful web services using Python REST API Framework.  • Used Amazon Web Services (AWS) for improved efficiency of storage and fast access.  • Developed entire front end and back end modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Rewrite existing Python/Django modules to deliver certain format of data.  • Responsible for setting up Python REST API framework and spring framework using Django    Environment: Python 2.7, Django 1.8, Flask, Oracle, MySQL, PostgreSQL, Windows , JavaScript, AngularJS, Bootstrap, Git, GitHub, PySpark, Linux, Shell Scripting, AWS, Postgres, Jenkins, Pycharm, Vs Code. Sr. Python Developer JPMC - Wilmington, DE January 2017 to February 2018 Responsibilities:  • Performed Systems Analysis and detail application design  • Developed multiple Database Plugins for Cassandra, MySQL, Oracle , Mssql  • Designed various Databases in MySQL, Oracle  • Implemented threshold points to secure the code to crash free run environment  • Worked with Flask and pandas to monitor, migrate and develop table database  • Implemented SQL scripts and quarries in Python code to work with various databases and data sources.  • Worked with AWS in different servers to implement and test the code and develop a database  • Used AWS EC2, REDSHIFT, DEVBOX, DBA and implemented various work environment  • Performed data migration and data filter from various data sources and build different databases to store the Raw data and filtered Data  • Work with team of developers on python applications for RISK management.  • Manage the configurations of multiple servers using Ansible.  • Created database using MySQL and wrote several queries to extract data from database.  • Deployed mircoservices2, including provisioning AWS environments using Ansible Playbooks.  • Designed and Developed User Interface using front-end technologies like HTML, CSS, JavaScript, JQuery, AngularJS, Bootstrap and JSON.  • Developed and tested many features in an agile environment using Python, Django, HTML5, CSS, JavaScript and Bootstrap.  • Developed Job dashboard monitor UI using Django/Flask.  • Develop REST API and integrated with cloud products like AWS REST API gateway and AWS lambda.  • Used Ansible playbooks to setup Continuous Delivery pipeline. This primarily consists of a Jenkins and Sonar server, the infrastructure to run these packages and various supporting software components such as Maven, etc.  • Utilizing MEAN stack (MongoDB/AngularJS) and JSON for data transfer and technologies related to server-side scripting.  • Develop remote integration with third party platforms by using Restful web services and Successful implementation of Apache Spark and Spark Streaming applications for large scale data.  • Implemented Restful Web Services for the data transportation between multiple systems.  • Automating analysis of large data sets  • Responsible for on boarding Application teams to build and deploy there code using GitHub Jenkins, Nexus and Ansible  • Worked on UI modification using HTML, CSS.  • Work on dns tables to map the website to its IP address and mapped them to AWS Route 53.  • Developed Application logic using Python 2.7 and Django framework.  • Wrote backend data access Logic using MYSQL and SQL Server  • Designed and implemented a distributed, QA infrastructure for automated testing of a multi process software product.  • Involved in Unit, integration and smoke testing.  • Involved in the Complete Software development life cycle (SDLC) to develop the application.  • Implementing customer data collection with PySpark/Hadoop analytics.  • Involved in back end development using Python with framework Flask  • Restful web services using Python REST API Framework.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Use JavaScript and Bootstrap for page usefulness popup screens, Sale and discount tags for the products.  • Used Amazon Web Services (AWS) for improved efficiency of storage and fast access.  • Developed entire front end and back end modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Developed single page application by using AngularJS backed by MongoDB and NodeJS.  • Developed internal project in Flask to generate report from Google analytics on daily, monthly and weekly basis.  • Developed python scripts in order to migrate information from Oracle to MongoDB.  • Designed and built a reporting module that uses Apache Spark SQL to fetch and generate reports.  • Designed and developed data center management system using MySQL.  • Rewrite existing Python/Django modules to deliver certain format of data.  • Responsible for setting up Python REST API framework and spring framework using Django  • Used Django Database API's to access database objects.  • Wrote python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Developed SQL Queries, Stored Procedures, and Triggers Using Oracle.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.    Environment: Python 3/2.7, Django 1.8, Flask, Oracle, MySQL, PostgreSQL, Microservices, Windows, HTML5, CSS3, JQuery, JavaScript, AngularJS, AJAX ,Bootstrap, Git, GitHub, PySpark, Linux, Shell Scripting, Apache Spark, Ansible, AWS, Mongo DB, Maven, Jenkins Python Developer Dexmedia - Dallas, TX May 2016 to December 2016 Responsibilities:  • Wrote Python routines to log into the websites and fetch data for selected options. Used Python modules such as requests, urllib, urllib2 for web crawling.  • Designed and developed multi-threaded C++ programs to process data into different Data Bases.  • Developed a MATLAB algorithm which determines an object's dimensions from digital images.  • Web-services backend development using Python (CherryPy, Django, SQLAlchemy).  • Participated in developing the company's internal framework on Python. This framework became a basement for the quick service's development. Framework based on CherryPy with GnuPg encryption (reGnuPg module) on the top.  • Involved in writing stored procedures using MySQL.  • Worked on front end frame works like CSS, Bootstrap for development of Web application.  • Worked on HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, AngularJS, Node.JS, Git, REST API and MongoDB.  • Experience in writing playbooks for Ansible and deploying applications using Ansible.  • Implemented Ansible to manage all existing servers and automate the build/configuration of new servers.  • Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks. Able to create scripts for system administration and AWS using languages such as BASH and Python.  • Worked on HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, Git, REST API, Mongo DB, intelliJ IDEA.  • Design and Setting up of environment of MongoDB with shards and replica sets. (Dev/Test and Production).  • Private VPN using Ubuntu, Python, Django, PostgreSQL, Redis, Bootstrap, JQuery, Mongo, Fabric, Git, Tenjin, Selenium.  • Developed Job dashboard monitor UI using Django/Flask.  • Performed QA testing on the application.  • Developed approaches for improving NLP pipeline.  • Worked on development of SQL and stored procedures for normalization and renormalization in MYSQL.  • Create custom VB scripts in repackaging applications as needed. NLP File Prep Settlement-Prepare files for review for Settlement.  • Managed and reviewed Hadoop log file and worked in analyzing SQL scripts and designed the solution for the process using PySpark.  • Developed rich user interface using CSS, HTML, JavaScript and JQuery. Created a Python based GUI application For Freight Tracking and processing  • Designed and built a reporting module that uses Apache Spark SQL to fetch and generate reports.  • Used Django framework for application development. Excellent knowledge with distributed storages (HDFS) and distributed processing (Map Reduce, Yarn).  • Used Amazon Web Services (AWS) for improved efficiency of storage and fast access.  • Used on Django's API's to access database objects Used AWS tats and Google Analytics to analyze web traffic.  • Developed internal project in Flask to generate report from Google analytics on daily, monthly and weekly basis.  • Developed, tested, and deployed Business feature set in NodeJS with Express and MongoDB backend, incorporating APIs.  • Developed automated testing framework for command-line based tests on Linux using Objected Oriented Perl and for selenium-based tests using Python.  • Created database using MySQL, wrote several queries to extract data from database.  • Involved in the Complete Software development life cycle (SDLC) to develop the application.  • Involved in front end and utilized Bootstrap and AngularJS for page design.  • Wrote scripts in Python for extracting data from HTML file.    Environment: MySQL, HTML, C++, C#, Python 2.7, Django 1.8, PySpark ,Flask, HTML5, CSS, XML, MySQL, MS SQL Server, Ansible, JavaScript, AWS, Linux, Shell Scripting, Bootstrap, AJAX, urllib , urllib2, Json, Jenkins, CherryPy, Unix, Redis, Bootstrap ,MongoDB, SQLAlchemy, JQuery. Python Developer Clever Devices - Woodbury, NY October 2015 to April 2016 Responsibilities:  • Developed Python based API (Restful Web Service) to track the events and perform analysis using Django.  • Involved in development using Python, bug fixing and unit testing of the layout commands.  • Dealt with development of parsers for handling JSON, XML responses and JAXB binding and worked with JMS (java messaging service) for asynchronous communication.  • Created a Python/Django based web application using Python scripting for data processing, MySQL for the database, and HTML/CSS/JQuery and High Charts for data visualization of the served pages.  • Developed web-based applications using Python, Django, XML, CSS, HTML, DHTML, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Developed automated process for builds and deployments by using Jenkins, Ant, Maven, Shell Script.  • Used Pandas API to put the data as time series, in a tabular format, for east timestamp data manipulation and retrieval.  • Published and Consumed Contract SOAP web services and developed corresponding test cases.  • Designed and managed API system deployment using fast http server and Amazon AWS architecture.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Used AWS for application deployment and configuration.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Performed debugging and troubleshooting the web applications using Subversion version control tool to coordinate team-development.    Environment: Python 2.7, Django, HTML5/CSS, MS SQL Server 2013, MySQL, JavaScript, Eclipse, Linux, Shell Scripting, JQuery, AJAX, GitHub, Jira Python Developer Napier Healthcare Pvt. Ltd - Hyderabad, Telangana August 2012 to June 2015 Responsibilities:  • Participated in the development of application architecture and blueprints to define application components.  • Specification of platforms, interfaces and development tools.  • Used Python scripts for automation of production tasks.  • Generated property list for every application dynamically using Python.  • Rewrite existing Java application in Python module to deliver certain format of data.  • Designed statistical analysis tools using R for data analysis and visualization.  • Was responsible for analyzing various cross-functional, multi-platform applications systems enforcing Python best practices and provide guidance in making long term, scalable architectural design decisions.  • Involved in various phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) such as requirements gathering, modeling, analysis, design and development.  • Used PyQuery for selecting particular DOM elements when parsing HTML.  • Created PyUnit test scripts and used for unit testing.  • Worked with JSON based REST Web services.  • Developed GUI using CSS, HTML, JavaScript, Bootstrap and JQuery.  • Used JQuery and Ajax calls for transmitting Json data objects between frontend and controllers.  • Used GitHub for version control.  • Worked in an agile development environment.  • Developed SQL Queries, Stored Procedures, and Triggers Using Oracle.  • Actively participated in System Testing, production support and maintenance/patch deployments.    Environment: Python Django, Flashvars, PyUnit, PyQuery, PyQt, HTML, CSS, PHP, DOM, REST, AJAX, JQuery, AWS, GitHub, agile, Oracle and Windows. Education Master's in Computer and Information Science Southern Arkansas University Additional Information Technical Skills    Programming Languages Python 3.x,2.7/2.4, C, C++, C, Java    Technologies HTML/ HTML5, XHTML, CSS/CSS3 , JavaScript, AngularJS, XML, JSON, REACT  Frameworks Django, Flask, Pyramid, Struts, REST  Version Control Git, GitHub, SVN, Bit Bucket  Databases Oracle, SQL, MySQL, PostgreSQL, DB2, MongoDB  IDE's/Development Tools Pycharm, Eclipse, Sublime Text, Net Beans, VS code  Web Services AWS, Restful Web Services, SOAP    Operating Systems UNIX, Linux, Windows, Mac OS  Deployment Heroku, Jenkins, AWS    Methodologies Agile, Scrum and Waterfall  Servers Web Sphere Web Logic, JBoss, Apache Tomcat  Debugging Tools dbx, gdb  Testing Tools Selenium and Junit