Sr. Python/Django Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Python</span>/Django <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Python/Django Developer - CVS Health Phoenix, AZ Sr. Python, Django Developer Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr. Python/Django Developer CVS Health - Phoenix, AZ November 2016 to Present Roles & Responsibilities:  ? Designing, developing and managing REST APIs utilizing Django's Rest framework and overlooking the API system.  ? Responsible for developing an automated system to identify redundant server instances with the same session IDs and mark them for deletion, thereby freeing the memory by a significant amount at times.  ? Development of web applications using Python frameworks as Django.  ? Successful migration of the default Django's database (SQLite) to PostgreSQL to improve efficiency, integrity and security of data.  ? Involved in database-driven web application development using a variety of frameworks such as Django on Python.  ? Worked on PostgreSQL development (tables, views, joins) and migrations from SQLite databases preserving the integrity.  ? Preparing documentation as per organizational standards, designing, implementing, and maintaining complex database applications.  ? Worked on SSIS and created SSIS Jobs and scheduled Packages using SQL Server Management Studio for Daily Load.  ? Loaded data from External Files into Oracle tables using SQL *Loader  ? Developed SQL and PL/SQL scripts to transfer tables across the schemas and databases.  ? Worked on complex datasets including Python's native lists, dictionaries and tuples.  ? Designed & developed templates using Django's template library and utilized them using Django's forms library.  ? Generated property list for every application dynamically using Python and was responsible for search engine optimization to improve the visibility of the website.  ? Used version control systems such as Git and Apache SVN for maintaining a consistent state throughout the application development process.  ? Effectively followed Scrum along with Test-Driven Development to develop applications, services and software solutions.  ? Scripting with Windows environments such as PowerShell.  ? Analyzing the data with Hive, Spark and MongoDB from Hadoop and develop the mappings as per the requirement.  ? Responsible for constantly communicating the progress and issues to the higher management and making necessary changes to the application based on flexibility, scalability and security issues.  Environment: Django 1.10, JSON, Mango DB, RISK management, SOAP, REST, GitHub, SQLite3 Python Developer Nike - Hillsboro, OR January 2016 to October 2016 Roles & Responsibilities:  ? Participated in entire lifecycle of the projects including Design, Development, and Deployment, Testing and Implementation and support.  ? Wrote Python routines to log into the websites and fetch data for selected options.  ? Used Python modules such as requests, urllib, and urllib2 for web crawling.  ? Performed Design, involved in code reviews and wrote unit tests in Python.  ? Updated site with JavaScript, JQuery, Python, Django, and SQL.  ? Creating new SSRS reports-based Teradata and SQL data sources.  ? Creation of SSIS packages to enable SSRS reporting.  ? Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks.  ? Interfacing with supervisors, artists, systems administrators and production to ensure production deadlines are met.  ? Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  ? Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  ? Utilized PyUnit, the Python unit test framework, for all Python applications.  ? Used SOAP UI tool to test the REST web service operations.  ? Created complex SQL scripts in validating source with target tables and preparing business report data as per business Needs.  ? Developed the required XML Schema documents and implemented the framework for parsing XML documents.  ? Used JQuery and Ajax calls for transmitting JSON data objects between frontend and controllers.  ? Utilized PyQt to provide GUI for the user to create, modify and view reports based on client data.  ? Worked on JSon based REST Web services.  ? Worked on PowerShell Scripting.  ? Created a Git repository and added the project to GitHub.  ? Utilized Agile process and JIRA issue management to track sprint cycles.  ? Created backend database T-SQL stored procedures and Jasper Reports. Created and updated complex views and stored procedures in PostgreSQL.  Environment: Python, Django, PyUnit, PyQt, JQuery, JavaScript, HTML, CSS, XML, JSON, AJAX, Shell scripting, GitHub, agile, Jira, SQL, SSIS, T-SQL, SQLite3 and Windows Python/Django Developer Symantec - Herndon, VA February 2015 to December 2015 Roles & Responsibilities:  ? Designed Python/Django based web application, PostgreSQL DB, and integrations with 3rd party email, messaging, storage services.  ? Developed web applications in Django Framework's model view control (MVC) architecture.  ? Worked on Multi-Threading factory to distribute learning process back-testing and into various worker processes.  ? Performed efficient delivery of code based on principles of Test Driven Development (TDD) and continuous integration to keep in line with Agile Software Methodology principles.  ? Followed different testing methodologies like unit testing, Integration testing, and web application testing.  ? Developed, designed and deployed Matrix and Tabular reports with drill down and drill through features using SSRS in Business Intelligence Development Studio (BIDS) as per client requirements.  ? Developed a fully automated continuous integration system using Git, Jenkins, MySQL and custom tools developed in Python and Bash  ? Design and implemented custom scripts.  ? Develop consumer based features and applications using Python, Django, HTML and Test Driven Development (TDD)  ? Rewrote existing Python/Django modules to deliver certain format of data.  ? Responsible for tracking and monitoring project status in JIRA (Agile)  ? Developed Python web services for processing JSON and interfacing with the Data layer.  ? Worked on deployment of project on to Amazon S3.  ? Used GIT version control.  ? Designing & deployment of Hadoop cluster and different Big Data analytic tools including Hive, Spark.  ? Worked on development of SQL and stored procedures for normalization and renormalization in MYSQL.  ? Built SQL queries for performing various CRUD operations like create, update, read and delete.  ? Used collections in Python for manipulating and looping through different user defined objects.  ? Engaged in Design, Development, Deployment, Testing, and Implementation of the application.  ? Worked in development of applications especially in UNIX environment and familiar with all of its commands.  Environment: Python 2.7, Django 1.4, HTML5, CSS, XML, MySQL, Script, C++, Angular JS, Backbone JS, JQuery, CSS Bootstrap, Mongo DB, MS SQL Server, SSIS, T-SQL, Script, Eclipse, Git, GitHub, AWS, Linux, Shell Scripting Python/Django Developer Intuit - San Diego, CA November 2013 to December 2014 Roles & Responsibilities:  ? Involved in building database Model, APIs and Views utilizing Python, in order to build an interactive web based solution.  ? Responsible for gathering requirements, system analysis, design, development, testing and deployment.  ? Worked on creating Python API's  ? Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks.  ? Involved in building database Model, APIs and Views utilizing Python, in order to build an interactive web-based solution.  ? Designed and managed API system deployment.  ? Developed Python batch processors to consume and produce various feeds.  ? Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  ? Developed Business Logic using Python on Django Web Framework.  ? Created database objects like procedures, functions, triggers and indexes.  ? Worked with various SSIS control flow tasks and data transformation tasks like data conversion, derived column, look-up, and fuzzy look-up, conditional split etc.  ? Created checkpoints and configuration files in SSIS packages  ? Developed Merge jobs in Python to extract and load data into MySQL database.  ? Successfully migrated the Django database from SQLite to MySQL with complete data integrity.  ? Also used Bootstrap as a mechanism to manage and organize the html page layout.  ? Added support for Amazon AWS S3 and RDS to host static/media files and the database into Amazon Cloud.  ? Used GitHub for version control.  ? Developed SQL Queries, Stored Procedures, and Triggers Using Oracle, SQL, PL/SQL.  Environment: Python, Django, PHP, C++, HTML5, CSS3, JQuery, API, AJAX, XHTML, Bootstrap, AWS, JavaScript, XML, GitHub, Flash, SQLite, MYSQL, SSIS, SQL, PLSQL, Oracle and Windows Python developer Innovative Technologies - IN August 2011 to September 2013 Roles & Responsibilities:  ? Responsible for using the best technologies to add features to the existing system and services.  ? Involved in all aspects of the development process from product inception to scaling in production.  ? Responsible for driving software development best practices for the team and also, mentoring and developing junior engineers.  ? Worked in collaboration with project managers and higher management in cross-functional teams within Sales and Account Management, to understand business requirements and develop efficient, elegant approaches to their implementation.  ? Heavily leveraged Python's graphics APIs for creating graphics and serialization libraries for encoding data in XML/JSON formats.  ? Wrote REST APIs, as part of developing web-based applications for insurance premium calculations, using Django's REST framework.  ? Also involved in writing REST APIs using Django framework for data exchange and business logic implementation.  ? Used collections in Python for manipulating and looping through different user defined objects.  ? Created checkpoints and configuration files in SSIS packages.  ? Extensively used merge command as alternative to small SSIS packages in dimension and fact load.  ? Design and implemented custom Bash scripts for controlling the data flow from the PostgreSQL database.  ? Assisted the development team in sending the correct data via query strings using PostgreSQL as the back-end for storing data.  ? Used Django configuration to manage URLs and application parameters.  ? Responsible for configuring NoSQL databases like Apache Cassandra and Mongo DB to for increasing compatibility with Django.  ? Designed and created backend data access modules using PL/SQL stored procedures.  ? Wrote SQL Queries and implementing stored procedures, functions, packages, tables, views, cursors, triggers.  ? Responsible for debugging the project monitored on JIRA.  ? Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many bug fixes for applications that were a main source of data for both customers and internal customer service team.  ? Handled potential points of failure through error handling and communication of failure.  ? Risk analysis for potential points of failure (database, communication points and file system errors).  ? Troubleshoot the process execution and worked with other team members to correct them.  ? Actively worked as a part of team with managers and other staff to meet the goals of the project in the stipulated time.  ? Developed and executed User Acceptance Testing portion of test plan.  ? Generated Django forms to record data of online users and used PyTest for writing test cases.  ? Extensive use of version controlling systems like GIT and SVN.  ? Involved in capturing the requirements for serial functional interface and other software requirements specification document.  Environment: Python, Django, MySQL, SSIS, SVN, Unit Test Python Developer ARIS Global - Bengaluru, Karnataka May 2010 to July 2011 Roles & Responsibilities:  ? Involved in the Design, development, test, deploy and maintenance of the website.  ? Developed the UI using HTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  ? Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  ? Generated property list for every application dynamically using Python.  ? Responsible for search engine optimization to improve the visibility of the website.  ? Developed Merge jobs in Python to extract and load data into MySQL database.  ? Designed and developed the presentation layer/client end using HTML, XML, DHTML and JSP.  ? Handled all the client side validation using JavaScript.  ? Wrote validation scripts in SQL to validate data loading.  ? Use Git for version control.  ? Performed Unit and system testing.  ? Trained users and did production support.  Environment: Python, Django, MySQL, HTML, XHTML, CSS, AJAX, JavaScript, Apache Web Server, Git, Linux Education Bachelor's Degree in Computer Science in Computer Science JNT University 2009 Skills DJANGO (8 years), PYTHON (8 years), MYSQL (5 years), SQL (8 years), VERSION CONTROL (5 years) Additional Information ? IT Professional with 8+ years of experience in designing, developing and maintaining large-scale systems/applications with strong expertise in Python 2.7, 3.2 and 3.5.  ? Thorough in full software development life-cycle, architecting scalable platforms, object oriented programming, database design and Agile methodologies.  ? Expert knowledge of and experience in Object Oriented Design and Programming concepts.  ? Experience in writing REST APIs in Python for large-scale applications.  ? Experience in using Python's REST framework.  ? Good experience in real-time configuration and management of MySQL, MongoDB, Cassandra and PostgreSQL databases on a large scale.  ? Familiar with JSON based REST Web services and Amazon Web services.  ? Good experience in writing SQL queries and implementing stored procedures, functions, packages, tables, views, cursors, triggers.  ? Significant application development experience in Ubuntu, RedHat and Windows environments.  ? Expert in using developmental tools such as Eclipse, PyCharm and Sublime Text, version control tools like Git and Apache SVN.  ? Experience in developing and consuming Web Services using WSDL, SOAP, HTTP, and UDDI.  ? Good knowledge in RESTful web services.  ? Experience in adopting security best practices during development and production.  ? Experience in testing and debugging applications using PyUnit, PyTest and JUnit frameworks.  ? Experience in writing test cases from the requirements and also, writing various test scripts for the applications.  ? Experience working in a Test-Driven Development environment and software development lifecycles such as Waterfall and Agile (Scrum).  ? Experience in developing Web Services with Python programming language.  ? Experience in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on MySQL and PostgreSQL database.    Technical competencies:    Programming Languages: Python, Java  Web services: SOAP, RESTful  Data bases: Oracle 10/11g, MySQL, NoSQL, SQL Server, SSIS  IDE's and tools: Eclipse, Pycharm, NetBeans  Python Frameworks: Django  OS &Environment: XP, windows, Linux, UNIX, Ubuntu  UNIX Shell Scripting: UNIX Shell Scripting  Version control: GitHub, SVN  Development Methodologies: Agile, Scrum