Sr. Python Developer Sr. <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr. Python Developer - Northern Trust Chicago, IL • Strong ability in development of web based applications using Python also experience in Object Oriented Design and Programming concepts in Java and Python.  • Experience in developing web applications by following Model View Control (MVC) Architecture using server side applications Django, Flask, WebPy, BottlePy and Pyramid.  • Worked on refactoring the code (Struts, JSP and JavaScript) by restructuring it for better performance.  • Proficient in Front end development experience using Python 3.4/2.7, Django 1.7/1.8, HTML, XML, CSS, JavaScript, Bootstrap, JQuery, JSON and, Angular.js, Node.js.  • Good knowledge of web services with protocols SOAP, REST and knowledge of server Apache Tomcat, Web logic.  • Implemented user interface guidelines and standards throughout the development and maintenance of the website using the HTML, CSS, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Hands on experience in SVN, Git, JIRA and Bugzilla worked in SQL databases MS SQL, Apache Cassandra, Oracle and MongoDB.  • SQL and PL/SQL programming, developing complex code units, database triggers and using the latest features to optimize performance (Bulk Binds, Materialized views, Inline views, Global Temporary Tables).  • Good Experience in debugging the issues using pdb  • Proficient in developing multi-threaded web services using CherryPy&bottlePy framework.  • Extensive experience in developing applications using Java API, Swing, HTML 4/5, Flex, JavaScript, CSS2/3, JQuery, JDBC, JSF, JMS, XML.  • Leveraging queueing architectures with Rabbit MQ for scalability, performance and building.  • Knowledge in working with continuous deployment using Heroku and Jenkins.  • Proficient in writing unit testing code using Unit Test/PyTest and integrating the test code with the build process.  • Worked on Python Testing frameworks like zope, pytest, nose and Robot framework.  • Proficient in using editors Eclipse, PyCharm, PyScripter, Notepad++ and Sublime Text while developing different applications.  • Hands-on experience in UNIX and Linux Kernels (file validations, file downloads, workflow executions).  • Worked in development of applications especially in UNIX environment and familiar with all of its commands.  • Having experience in Agile Methodologies, Scrum stories and sprints experience in a Python based environment, along with data analytics, data wrangling and Excel data extracts.  • Experienced in various types of testing such as Unit testing, Integration testing, User acceptance testing, Functional testing.  • Ability to learn and adapt quickly to the emerging new technologies and paradigms.  • Excellent communication, interpersonal and analytical skills and a highly motivated team player with the ability to work independently. Work Experience Sr. Python Developer Northern Trust - Chicago, IL February 2016 to Present Responsibilities:  • Extensively used Python / Django Framework for developing backend applications.  • Strong Expertise in working with server side technologies including databases, Restful API and MVC design patterns.  • Handled Business logics by Python programming to achieve optimal results.  • Actively involved in Initial software development life cycle (SDLC) of requirement gathering and also in suggesting system configuration specifications during client interaction.  • Involved in Developing a Restful service using Python Flask framework.  • Analysis of logs data and filter required columns by logstash configuration and send it to elastic search.  • Generated various graphs for business decision making using Python matplotlib library.  • Creating restful web services for Catalog and Pricing with Django MVT, Jersey, MySQL, and MongoDB.  • Worked with JSON based REST Web services and Amazon Web Services (AWS).  • Worked on Angular JS framework to develop interactive websites based on client needs.  • Successfully migrated the website's main database from MySQL to PostgreSQL.  • Implementing admin sites to manage database information with Flask Admin, MySQL and SQLite.  • Helped the big data analytics team with implementation of python scripts for Sqoop, spark and Hadoop batch data streaming.  • Tested various regular expressions in URL Dispatchers in Django.  • Developed frontends using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Designed and created the database tables and wrote SQL queries to access PostgreSQL.  • Analysed and Designed workflows based on business logic.  • Designed user friendly Interface using Bootstrap framework.  • Wrote python code within the Hadoop framework to solve Natural Language Processing problems.  • Executed asynchronous tasks with help of Celery and Rabbit MQ.  • Managed, developed, and designed a dashboard control panel for customers and Administrators using Django, Oracle DB, PostgreSQL and VMWare API calls.  • Design and developed applications to be cross-browser and cross-platform compatible  • Extensive code reviewing using GitHub pull requests, improved code quality, and also conducted meetings among peer.  • Deployed the project into Heroku and also used Github version control system.  • Followed best practices and standards throughout the development of the project, while implementing various design patterns.  • Modified existing webpages to enhance the usability.  • Maintained Puppet rspec for testing various unit/system automation schemes Python Developer McLeod USA - Cedar Rapids, IA July 2015 to February 2016 Environments/Tools: Python 3.4/2.7, Java 1.7, Django 1.9/1.7, HTML5, CSS3, XML, JSON, JavaScript, Angular JS, Backbone JS, JQuery, CSS Bootstrap, Puppetrspec, Amazon s3, Jenkins, Mongo DB, MySQL, Postgre SQL, Elastic search, Beautiful soup, TFS, nose, Eclipse, Git, GitHub, Linux.  Client:McLeod USA, Cedar Rapids, IA Jul 2015 - Feb 2016  Role: Python Developer  Responsibilities:  • Designed front end and backend of the application using Python on Django Web Framework  • Used HTML, CSS, AJAX, JSON to design and develop the user interface of the website.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Used JavaScript and JSON to update a portion of a webpage.  • Develop consumer based features and applications using Python, Django, HTML and Test Driven Development (TDD).  • Rewrite existing Python/Django modules to deliver certain format of data.  • Responsible for tracking and monitoring project status in JIRA (Agile)  • Worked on deployment of project on to Amazon S3.  • Used GIT version control and deployed project to Heroku  • Involved in development of Web Services using SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface in the XML format.  • Performed data manipulation/storage for incoming test data using lxml /etree libraries.  • Developed API modularizing existing python module with the help of pyyaml libraries.  • Wrote Python modules to extract/load asset data from the MySQL source database.  • Designed and implemented a dedicated MySQL database server to drive the web apps and report on daily progress.  • Used Spring ORM to integrate Spring Framework with hibernate  • Build SQL queries for performing various CRUD operations like create, update, read and delete.  • Shared responsibility for administration of Hive and Pig.  • Worked extensively with Bootstrap, JavaScript and JQuery to optimize the user experience.  • Skilled in using Collections in Python for manipulating and looping through different user defined objects.  • Worked in development of applications especially in UNIX environment and familiar with all of its commands.    Environment: Python 2.7, Django 1.6, HTML5, CSS, XML, Java, JavaScript, Angular JS, Backbone JS, JQuery, CSS Bootstrap, Mongo DB, MS SQL Server, T-SQL, Eclipse, Git, GitHub, AWS, Linux, Shell Scripting. Sr. Python Developer EXAMITY - Natick, MA April 2013 to June 2014 Examity offers live online proctoring for academic institutions & universities by using a webcam to monitor students taking exams online to prevent cheating.  Responsibilities:  • Created Python and Bash tools to increase efficiency of call center application system and operations; data conversion scripts, AMQP/Rabbit MQ, REST, JSON, and CRUD scripts for API Integration.  • Used Celery with Rabbit MQ, MySQL, Django, and Flask to create a distributed worker framework.  • Recording of Scripts (Web, Web Services HTML) using Vugen and Soap UI and script validation through co correlations, parameterizations and other methods. Scripting- web and web services.  • Application was based on service oriented architecture and used Python 2.7, Django1.5, JSF 2, Spring 2, Ajax, HTML, CSS for the frontend.  • Created server monitoring daemon with Psutil, supported by Django app for analytics which I created. Also researched big data solutions with Cassandra database.  • Automated RabbitMQ cluster installations and configuration using Python/Bash.  • Used Pandas API to put the data as time series and tabular format for east timestamp data manipulation and retrieval.  • Deployed the project into Heroku using GIT version control system.  • Built various graphs for business decision making using Python mat plotlib library.  • Fetched twitter feeds for certain important keyword using python-twitter library.  • Used Python library Beautiful Soup for web scrapping to extract data for building graphs.  • Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes of the two main applications that were a main source of data for both customers and internal customer service team.  • Experience with Data migration from Sqlite3 to Apache Cassandra database. Cassandra data model designing, implementation, maintaining and monitoring using DSE, Dev Centre, Data stax Ops center.  • Designing and developing new enhancements using core Java, Python.  • Build the Silent Circle Management System (SCMC) in Django, Python and Node.JS while integrating with infrastructure services.  • Created a Python/Django based web application using Python scripting for data processing, MySQL for the database, and HTML/CSS/JQuery and High Charts for data visualization of the served pages.  • Strong Socket programming experience in Python. Implemented complex networking operations like race route, SMTP mail server and web server.  • Used existing Deal Model in Python to inherit and create object data structure for regulatory reporting.  • Used standard Python modules e.g. csv, robot parser, iter tools, pickle, jinja2, lxml for development.  • Managed, developed, and designed a dashboard control panel for customers and Administrators using Django, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Bootstrap, JQuery and RESTAPI calls.  • Executing regression tests on each release and verified bugs found from automation test in Bugzilla.  • Planning, implementing, and converting manual test cases to automation test cases.  • Trained extensively in Agile methodologies and implemented by participating in scrum stand ups, Kanban mode, discussing and implementing requirements with clients.  Environment: Python 2.7, Django 1.6, Cassandra, Rabbit MQ, Java, Node.JS, REST API, Bash, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Bootstrap, JQuery, PyDev, Spyder, Heroku, GIT, Agile, Bugzilla Python Developer Abbott Laboratories - Abbott Park, IL December 2012 to March 2013 Responsibilities:  • Experience in analysis, design, development and maintenance of the web applications.  • Built application logic using Python 2.7, Django and MySQL  • Worked with good enough third party django apps, like South, djcelery, django-all-auth, tastypieanddjango rest frameworks  • Created Shell scripts for build automation and deployment onto various environments to reduce manual efforts  • Developed GUI using HTML, AJAX, CSS, JavaScript and jQuery  • Worked on Bootstrap, AngularJS and other Search modules API's.  • Used Restful Web services for integration with many monitoring devices.  • Considerable knowledge with deployment of servers.  • Developed python scripts to tokenize XML data and store them to Mongo DB  • Developed python programs to backup MySQL/mongo DB databases to EC2  • Deploy and operate production OpenStack clouds for Canonical and its clients  • Experience working with noSQL database like Mongo DB  • Experience working with GitandBitbucket.  • Used the Python's modules numpy, matportlibetc for generating complex graphical data, creation of histograms etc.  • Used Python's XML parser architectures (SAX) and DOM API for tracking small amounts of data without requiring the DB.  • Solved production issues at time of emergency  Environment: Python 2.7, Django 1.6, MySQL, MAC OSX, Linux, HTML, CSS, JQuery, JavaScript, Openstack, Apache, and SVN. Python Developer Coal India May 2010 to September 2012 Responsibilities:  • Analyze, design, develop, test, deploy and maintain the website.  • Involved in entire SDLC process.  • Designed the User Interface using HTML, XHTML, CSS, JavaScript, and AJAX for the website.  • Frontend and Backend modules were created using Python on Django framework.  • Developed Python code for instantiating multi-threaded application and running with other applications.  • Designed and developed Database management using MYSQL.  • Developed Python modules to extract data from MYSQL database.  • Installation and setting up Python/Django/MySQL in AWS and EC2 cloud platform.  • Built and maintained remote Apache tomcat server and MySQL database on AWS.  • Wrote and executed various MySQL database queries from Python-MySQL connector and MySQLdb package.  • Build all database mapping classes using Django models and Cassandra.  • Created Unit test framework for new codes.  • Skilled in using collections in Python for manipulating and looping through different user defined objects.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting issues.  • Maintaining the scripts using the SVN version Control.  • Maintaining customer database using MS EXCEL.  Environment: Python 2.7, Django, HTML, XHTML, CSS, Java Script, AJAX, MYSQL, Beautiful Soup, SOAP, Heroku, GIT, SVN, Shell Scripting. Python Developer National Remote sensing center - Hyderabad, Telangana June 2009 to April 2010 Responsibilities:  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Design, develop, test, deploy and maintain the website.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL.  • Rewrite existing Python/Django modules to deliver certain format of data.  • Used Django Database API's to access database objects.  • Wrote python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Generated property list for every application dynamically using python.  • Handled all the client side validation using JavaScript.  • Creating unit test/regression test framework for working/new code.  • Build SQL queries implementing functions, packages, views, triggers, and tables.  • Using Subversion version control tool to coordinate team-development.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  • Handling the day to day issues and fine tuning the applications for enhanced performance.  • Worked in development of applications especially in UNIX environment and familiar with all of its commands.  Environment: Python 2.7, Django 1.0, MySQL, Linux, HTML, XHTML, CSS, AJAX, JavaScript, SQL, MySQL, Apache Web Server, UNIX Skills PYTHON (7 years), CSS (5 years), HTML (5 years), APACHE (4 years), JAVA (4 years) Additional Information Technical Skills:  Operating systems Windows, Linux Ubuntu, UNIX  Languages Java, C, C++, Python 3.3/2.7/2.4,Perl, Ruby  Scripting languages CSS, Java Script, JQuery, Shell Scripting  Analytics Tools JMP PRO, SAS, Tableau, UCI NET, Node XL,MVC3  Markup languages HTML, XML, JSON  Servers Apache Tomcat, IBM Web sphere, open stock, RESTful web services  Databases Oracle, My SQL, Apache Cassandra, MongoDB.  IDEs/ Tools Eclipse, Toad, Sublime text, Spyder  Revision Controlling Systems CVS, Github  Methodologies & tools Object Oriented Programming, UML, Agile Scrum  MS office tools Microsoft Excel (Super user), Microsoft word, Microsoft PowerPoint, PPTPlex