Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - Conoco Phillips • Over 7+ years of experience as a Web Application Developer and Software Engineer using Python, DJANGO, Java,J2EE.  • Experience with full software development life-cycle, architecting scalable platforms, objects oriented programming, database design and agile methodologies.  • Good Experience with Django, a high-level Python Web framework.  • Experience object oriented programming (OOP) concepts using Python, C++.  • Experienced in WAMP (Windows, Apache, MYSQL, and Python/PHP) and MVC Struts.  • Experienced in developing web-based applications using Python, Django,Java, HTML, DHTML, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Good Knowledge of Python and Python Web Framework Django.  • Experienced with Python frameworks likeWebapp2 and, Flask.  • Experienced in installing, configuring, modifying, testing and deploying applications with Apache.  • Well versed with design and development of presentation layer for web applications using technologies like HTML,CSS, and JavaScript.  • Experienced in developing Web Services with Python programming language.  • Experienced in developing web-based applications using Python, Django,QT,C++, XML, CSS, JSON,HTML, DHTML, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Experienced in working on Application Servers like WebSphere, WebLogic, Tomcat, Web Servers like Apache server, NGINX and Integrated Development Environments like PyCharm, Eclipse, MyEclipse, JDeveloper and RAD.  • Experience in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on MySQL and PostgreSQL database.  • Sound Knowledge on RDBMS concepts and extensively worked with Oracle, SQL Server 2008, MYSQL.  • Excellent debugging, problem solving, optimization and testing skills.  • Highly motivated, dedicated, quick learner and have proven ability to build and manage a team and work individually.  • Excellent written and oral communication skills with results-oriented attitude. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Developer Conoco Phillips - Bartlesville, OK September 2015 to Present Responsibilities:  • Involved in building and developing CKAN data catalog.  • Customized the CKAN instance according to the clients requirements.  • Developed custom tailored extensions for CKAN tool.  • Developed python code and maintained the custom version on GIT.  • Customized front end using CSS and HTML Jinja2 templates.  • Developed whole instance on Azure cloud box.  • Gathering requirements from Analyst and work accordingly.  • Customizing CKAN fields using JSON schema.  • Implementation of CKAN APIs.  • Implemented multiple instances for testing.  • Used GitHub for version control.  • Developed PSQL Queries and Triggers PSQL.  • Customized SOLR schema for improvements in the search capabilities.  • Migrated whole CKAN instances from cloud to on premises server.  • Responsible for Debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  • Involved in code level changes for customizing both GUI and functionality.    Environment: Python, Jinja2, HTML, CSS, Ubuntu 12.04, Azure cloudbox, GIT, SOLR, CKAN APIs. Python Developer EPAM Systems - Newtown, PA May 2014 to August 2015 Responsibilities:  • Involved in building database Model, APIs and Views utilizing Python, in order to build an interactive web based solution.  • Created User Controls and simple animations using Java Script and Python.  • Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks. Interfacing with supervisors, artists, systems administrators and production to ensure production deadlines are met.  • Developed Business Logic using Python on DjangoWeb Framework.  • Developed Merge jobs in Python to extract and load data into MySQL database.  • Used Couchbase Python SDK to build applications that use Couchbase Server.  • Modified CSS in order to provide cross-browser integration.  • Performed testing using Django's Test Module.  • Utilized PyQtto provide GUI for the user to create, modify and view reports based on client data.  • Manipulated JavaScript & JQuery code to enhance user functionality with new website.  • Involved in writing application level code to interact with APIs, Web Services using JSON.  • Cleaned up and optimized the MySQL Word Press database.  • Develop table less, W3C compliant web sites using CSS, XHTML, Javascript, JQuery and Python.  • Implemented JQuery controlled CSS to enhance content modules.  • Used GitHubfor version control.  • Developed SQL Queries, Stored Procedures, and Triggers Using Oracle, SQL, PL/SQL.    Environment: Python, Django, PYQt, Couchbase Python SDK, Java, Java Script, HTML, CSS, JSON, JQuery, Shell Scripting, XML, MYSQL, GitHub, SQL, PLSQL, Oracle and Windows. Python Developer EMC - San Jose, CA March 2013 to April 2014 Responsibilities:  • Started developing web applications with Django 1.4 to 1.7.  • Deployed production site using Apache 2.0 with mod_ python.  • Worked on development of customer support and complains registration system for EMC.  • Upgraded Python 2.3 to Python 2.7 on a RHEL 4 server. This upgrade was necessary for inlined models with UTF-8 characters were causing unexpected errors.  • Successfully migrated the Djangodatabase from SQLite to MySQL with complete data integrity.  • Worked very closely with designer, tightly integrating Flash into the CMS with the use of Flashvars stored in the Djangomodels. Also created XML withDjango to be used by the Flash.  • Created PHP/MySQL back-end for data entry from Flash. I had to assist the Flash developer send the correct data via query strings.  • Used Wireshark, live http headers, and Fiddler2 debugging proxy to debug the Flash object and help the developer create a functional component. The PHP page for displaying the data uses AJAX to sort and display the data. The page also outputs data to .csv for viewing in Microsoft Excel.  • Created Data tables utilizing PyQtto display customer and policy information and add, delete, update customer records.  • Used Python based GUI components for the front end functionality such as selection criteria. Administration of dedicated collocated RHEL 4 machine and configured complex Apache configuration files.  • Imported SSL certs from other hosts to new host and properly configured Apache to use certs.  • Used Apache .htaccess to provide authentication system for PHP/MySQL sites.  • Usedmod_rewrite to create SEO friendly links.    Environment: Python, Django, Flash, PHP, MYSQL, PYQt, SQLite, Java, Wireshark, AJAX, XML, Apache and Windows. Python Developer MShift - Fremont, CA January 2012 to February 2013 Responsibilities:  • Design, develop, test, deploy and maintain the website.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Utilized PyQtto provide GUI for the user to create, modify and view reports based on client data.  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL.  • Rewrite existing Java application in Python module to deliver certain format of data  • Wrote Python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Generated property list for every application dynamically using Python.  • Responsible for search engine optimization to improve the visibility of the website.  • Handled all the client side validation using JavaScript.  • Creating unit test/regression test framework for working/new code  • Using Subversion version control tool to coordinate team-development.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.    Environment: Python, Django 1.4, PyQt, Java, MySQL, Linux, HTML, XHTML, CSS, AJAX, JavaScript, Apache Web Server. Python Developer Amicus Therapeutics - Cranbury, NJ November 2010 to December 2011 Responsibilities:  • Developed complex web, middleware, and back end systems in Python, SQL, Perl for Linux and Windows.  • Integrating Teradata Relationship Manager / Aprimo (CRM) applications, Touchpoint, and Oracle.  • Monitoring, logging, and debugging using SDLC best practices and tools. Code optimization/reworking for PEP.  • Working in a team of Architects Data Engineers to build and deploy NoSQL Data Stores using Python.  • Developed ETL Data Extraction, Transformation and Loading in Python OO Design code.  • Creating YAML driven query engines in Python for SQL, Sqoop, HDFS, and Teradata, BTEQ, TDT.  • Query expertise to implement highly defined user experience interactive Web App with intricate results.  • Scalable Web Architecture based AWS Cassandra in Python Linux OS for High I/O GPS Application DevOps.  • Working in team of Architects and Developers to build and deploy Python Flask Peewee Linux AWS.  • Examination / Analytics of Software Design for DNS Failover, Performance, Reliability, and cost effectiveness.  • Creating DB driven web apps in Python JSONPostrgreSQL Cassandra Flask Peewee ORM WSGI Werkzeug.    Environment: Python, Python Flask, JAVA, J2EE, JSON, HTML, CSS, Perl, Shell Scripting, Windows and Linux. Python Developer Clover InfotechPvt ltd May 2009 to October 2010 Responsibilities:  • Application architecture designed as per the requirements using spring framework.  • Requirement Analysis and Estimation of project timelines.  • Developed Python batch processors to consume and produce various feeds.  • Generated PDF daily and Monthly statements using AsposePDF Kit.  • Developed internal auxiliary web apps using Python Flask framework withCSS / HTML framework.  • Implemented Test Driven Development(TDD) strategy for the project.  • Wrote SQL Queries, Store Procedures, Triggers and functions in MySQL Databases.  • Created database access layer using JDBC and PL/SQL stored procedures.  • Coordinate with SMEs, other architects, and senior technical staff to identify client's needs, document assumptions, and build-out new requirements and move code through user acceptance testing.    Environment: Python, C++, HTML, CSS, TDD, SQL, MYSQL and Windows. Software Engineer ARIS Global - IN January 2008 to April 2009 Responsibilities:  • Designed and developed Use-Case Diagrams, Class Diagrams, and Object Diagrams using UML Rational Rose for OOA/OOD techniques.  • Designed and developed components using Java J2EE.  • Created UI using HTML CSS and JavaScript's.  • Created Servlets and Beans to implement Business Logic  • Used SAX/DOM Parser for parsing the data to Oracle Database.  • Designed and created backend data access modules using PL/SQL stored procedures and Oracle 9i.  • Created database access layer using JDBC and PL/SQL stored procedures.  • Designed object model, data model, tables, constraints, necessary stored procedures, functions, triggers, and packages for Oracle Database.  • Developed and executed User Acceptance Testing portion of test plan.  • Debugging Software for Bugs.    Environment: JAVA, J2EE, DOM, HTML, CSS, Shell Scripting, SQL, PLSQL, Oracle andWindows. Additional Information Technical Skills:  Languages Python 3.x,2.7/2.4, C++, Java, Shell Script, Perl, SQL  Python Framework Django, Webapp2, Flask  Web Technologies AJAX, JavaScript, HTML, DHTML, XHTML, XML, JQuery, JSON  Tools Cadence, PSpice, NetBeans IDE, WireShark, mkvMerge GUI, Atmel Studio 6.0, Quartus IISuite, LabVIEW  Versioning Tools Subversion, GIT, Perforce, SVN, CVS  Web servers Apache, WebLogic, WebSphere  Databases MySQL, SQL Server 2008 , Oracle  Operating systems Linux/Unix, Redhat, Windows Variants