Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - Yotabites consulting Lenexa, KS • 8+ years of experience in Analysis, Design, Development, Management and Implementation of various stand-alone, client-server enterprise applications in Python, C and C++, Java, Core Java.  • Experienced of software development in Python (libraries used: libraries- Beautiful Soup, numpy, scipy, matplotlib, python-twitter, Pandas data frame, network, urllib2, MySQL DB for database connectivity) and IDEs - sublime text, Spyder, pycharm, emacs.  • Experienced in developing web-based applications using Python, Django, XML, CSS, HTML, DHTML, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Hands-on experiences in Python Scripting, Python STL, Hbase, Hive, Pig, Scoop, Django, UI and web development.  • Brief exposure in Implementing and Maintaining Hadoop Security and Hive Security.  • Experience in working with AWS: Amazon S3, Amazon EC2, and Amazon SQS.  • Good understanding of Object-Oriented Technologies and Relational Database Systems.  • Good Knowledge of Agile Methodologies (Scrum).  • Good working knowledge on importing and exporting data from different databases namely MYSQL into HDFS and HIVE using SQOOP.  • Experience in embedded C, C++, Data structures and proprietary RTOS.  • Strong experience in Shell Scripting, SQL Server, Linux, and Open Stack.  • Experienced in writing SQL Queries, Stored procedures, functions, packages, tables, views, triggers.  • Involved in Manual Test case design and Automation script design.  • Developed, Maintenance and automated Test cases for Web application (Selenium Webdriver, Python, Pytest, and CSS).  • Well experience in Data Extraction, Transforming and Loading (ETL) using various tools such as SQL Server Integration Services (SSIS), Data Transformation Services (DTS).  • Knowledge of advanced level programming in C/C++ including thread synchronization multithreading, multi-processing, concurrency and TCP/IP Socket Programming.  • Strong Experience in working with Python ORM Libraries including Django ORM, SQL Alchemy.  • Have experience on Kubernetes and Docker for runtime environment of system to build, test & deploy  • Having hands experience on JSON modules of python to call web service to handle the multi-processing created a celery tasks with the help of message broker RabbitMQ.  • Experience with modern visualization tools such as Grafana or Kibana, Jupyter notebooks.  • Monitor and deploy scalable infrastructure on Amazon web services and configuration management using Puppet.  • Have experience in working with server side technologies including databases, Restful API and MVC design patterns.  • Experienced in NoSQL technologies like MongoDB, Cassandra and relational databases like Oracle, SQLite, PostgreSQL, Dynamo DB and MySQL databases.  • Migrate on in-house database to AWS Cloud and also designed, built, and deployed a multitude applications utilizing the AWS stack (Including EC2, RDS) by focusing on high-availability and auto-scaling.  • Very strong experience writing API's and Web Services in PHP and Python.  • Superior Troubleshooting and Technical support abilities with Migrations, Network connectivity, and Security and Database applications.  • Expert level skills in HTML, CSS, and JavaScript including familiarity with common libraries like jQuery, Foundation, Bootstrap and Backbone.  • Skilled in debugging/troubleshooting issues in complex applications.  • Experience in working with different operating systems WINDOWS, LINUX, and iOS.  • Experience in continuous build and version control systems like Jenkins, Coverity, Jira, git, svn, OpenGrok.  • Good analytical and problem solving skills and ability to work on own besides being a valuable and contributing team player.  • Excellent Interpersonal and communication skills, efficient time management and organization skills, ability to handle multiple tasks and work well in a team environment.  • Hands-on experiences in writing and reviewing requirements, architecture documents, test plans, design documents, quality analysis and audits. Work Experience Python Developer Yotabites consulting - Lenexa, KS August 2018 to Present Description: Yotabites has been functioning as a resullts-driven company. The company functions under the powerful Yotabites promise, where the company guarantees the clients their money back if the project is not completed as specified, on time, and on budget. Big data has been a buzz word for a while. Quite a number of consulting groups have sprung up around the concept.    Responsibilities:  • Used Django framework for application development.  • Booting up nodes using prebuilt images on Amazon EC2. Uploading, Copying, Downloading, and Deleting files using Amazon S3.  • Responsible for Installation and configuration of Hive, Pig, HBase and SQOOP on the Hadoop cluster.  • Implemented automations tools Chef, Puppet, Splunk and cloud services AWS  • Assisted in reduction of cost and optimization of supplier selection for the CRM Applications.  • Used several python libraries like Python, Numpy and Matplotlib.  • Have good knowledge in understanding of Object Oriented Programming and skilled in developing automated test scripts with automation frameworks.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, XHTML, AJAX, CSS, Bootstrap and JavaScript.  • Extracted, transformed and loaded data from various heterogeneous data sources and destinations like Access, Excel, CSV, Oracle, flat files using connectors, tasks and transformations provided by SSIS.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Wrote python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  • Developed and maintained automated test scripts for web based applications using automated frameworks (Selenium).  • Build all database mapping classes using Django models and Cassandra.  • Used Pandas API to put the data as time series and tabular format for east timestamp data manipulation and retrieval.  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL.  • Built various graphs for business decision-making using Python matplotlib library.  • Created Python and Bash tools to increase efficiency of call center application system and operations, data conversion scripts, AMQP/RabbitMQ, REST, JSON and CRUD scripts for API Integration.  • Created server monitoring daemon with Psutil, supported by Django app for analytics which I created. Also, researched big data solutions with MongoDB database.  • Developed a plug-in that interacts with the load balancer API. Added new applications to the pool of the load balancer.  • Design and developed embedded software for Encore 700 S Fuel Dispenser application using C++, python language.  • Experience in embedded C, C++, Data structures and proprietary RTOS.  • Involved in cross-functional development in embedded systems for further production and customer support.  • Collaborated with internal teams to convert end user feedback into meaningful and improved solutions.  • Resolved ongoing problems and accurately documented progress of a project.    Environment: Python 2.7, Django 1.4, scipy, Pandas, HIVE, PIG, Bugzilla, SVN, C++, Java, JQuery, MySQL, Linux, Eclipse, Puppet, Shell Scripting, HTML5/CSS. Red hat Linux, Apache, MongoDB, ETL. Python Developer Avventis Tech - Edison, NJ May 2017 to July 2018 Description: Avventis is a growing consulting and technology services company focused on leveraging technology to drive business value. Named one of America's Most Promising Companies by Forbes Magazine, we are powered by a pool of talented IT and consulting professionals across more than thirty different technologies including SAP enterprise solutions, Salesforce.com solutions, supply chain management, financial management, client relationship management, business analytics, enterprise reporting , HR and human capital management, enterprise security and administration and web development amongst other capabilities.    Responsibilities:  • Used Django Framework for developing web applications using model view control architecture.  • Developed and implemented R and Shiny application which showcases machine learning for business forecasting.  • Managed, developed, and designed a dashboard control panel for customers and Administrators using Django, Oracle DB and VM Ware API calls.  • Worked on loading CSV/TXT/DAT files using Scala language in Spark Framework to process the data by creating Spark Data frame and RDD and save the file in parquet format in HDFS to load into fact table using ORC Reader.  • Used Numpy for Numerical analysis for Insurance premium.  • Implemented configuration changes for data models.  • Different testing methodologies like unit testing, Integration testing, web application testing Selenium testing performed.  • Implemented SSIS packages for data sourcing from Heterogeneous data systems using SSIS ETL Tool to support daily incremental data refresh, full loads.  • Preparation of technical specification document for the development of Informatica Extraction, Transformation and Loading (ETL) mappings to load data into various tables in Data Marts and defining ETL standards.  • Worked on various applications using Python integrated IDEs Eclipse, Pycharm, and NetBeans.  • Automated the existing scripts for performance calculations using Numpy and SQL alchemy.  • Extensively used python modules such as requests, urllib and urllib2 for web crawling.  • Used packages like dplyr, tidyr & ggplot2 in R Studio for data visualization.  • Maintained and updated existing automated solutions.  • Handled potential points of failure through error handling and communication of failure.  • Performed efficient delivery of code based on principles of Test Driven Development (TDD) and continuous integration to keep in line with Agile Software Methodology principles.  • Design and implemented custom scripts. Extensive use of version controller Team Foundation Server (TFS).  • Lock mechanisms were implemented and the functionality of multithreading has been used.  • Python/Django based web application, PostgreSQL DB, and integrations with 3rd party email, messaging, storage services.  • Worked on Openstack Swift for moving large data files using Keystone and Horizon and integrated them into the web services and client server application.  • Automation database programming through Perl DBI module.  • Wrote Perl Modules and subroutine packages to facilitate code reuse, portability and modularity.  • Extracting data from the database using SAS/Access, SAS SQL procedures and create SAS datasets.  • Used Multi-Threading factory model to distribute learning process back-testing into various worker processes.  • Developed a fully automated continuous integration system using Git, Gerrit, Jenkins, MySQL and custom tools developed in Python and Bash.  • Test and validated the custom scripts.  • Delivered automated solutions for science models.  • Anticipated potential parts of failure (database, communication points, file system errors).  • Troubleshoot the process execution and worked with other team members to correct them.  • Actively worked as a part of team with managers and other staff to meet the goals of the project in the stipulated time.  • Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes of the two main applications that were a main source of data for both customers and internal customer service team.  • Used Pandas library for statistics Analysis.  • Managed large datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL.  • Used advanced packages in AON PATHWISE for performing unit test and deploying data models.  • Developed GUI using webapp2 for dynamically displaying the test block documentation and other features of python code using a web browser.  • Developed the required XML Schema documents and implemented the framework for parsing XML documents.  • Responsible for user validations on client side as well as server side.  • Interacted with QA to develop test plans from high-level design documentation.  Environment: Python 2.7, Django, HTML5/CSS, MS SQL Server 2013, MySQL, Oracle, JavaScript, Eclipse, Linux, Shell Scripting,Openstack,jQuery, GitHub, Jira. Python Developer DCI Engineers Irvine CA - Irvine, CA January 2016 to April 2017 Description: DCI Engineers is in the Consulting Engineer business. View competitors.Business Description. DCI Engineers is located in Irvine, California. A civil or structural engineering degree, masters preferred, from an ABET accredited university. DCI Engineers is a leading structural and civil engineering.  Responsibilities:    • Used Python scripts to generate various reports like transaction history, OATS, user privileges, limit rules and commission schedule reports.  • Built and maintained code libraries to support analytics using Numpy and Scipy. Used Pygal and plot.ly for visualization of the data retrieved using Scrapy.  • Managed cloud infrastructure using Openstack software to create Virtual machines.  • Created Jenkins cluster for managing software build process through different nodes.  • Integrated Openstack API with Jenkins to do auto deployment of VM's.  • Implemented MVC architecture using BOTTLE for creating Restful API's, and used Bottle plugin system to connect to the backend database SQLite and Mangodb.  • Worked on parsing of JSON data to be used in the project received by API calls using Python Request library.  • Used Blaze ecosystem, SQL Alchemy to operate across databases.  • Worked with Scrapy for webscraping to extract structured data from website to analyze the specific data of a website and work on it.  • Used ansible for automated package deployment and server configuration.  • Performed data manipulation /Storage for incoming test datausing lxml/etree libraries.  • Designed the front end of the application using HTML, CSS, AJAX, Bootstrap, JSON, Angular JS and jQuery. Worked on backend of the application using Python, mainly using active records. Used Python and Django to interface with the jQuery UI and manage the storage and deletion of content.  • Used Java Script for Dynamic Popup in the Webpages.  • Embedded Ajax in UI to update small portions of the webpage avoiding the need to reload the entire page.  • Used SVN as version control for existing system.  • Creating and modifying web services and stored procedures to implement new requirements using Python. Exposing services as RESTful service in JSON format for Admin UI which is developed using Django.  • Installation, configuration and administration of Virtual box and VMware virtual machine for RHEL, Ubuntu, Linux servers.  • Proprietary product very similar to SSRS, however, it handled PostScript layout for very detailed document.  • Developing PostScript templates for charts in Reports for Financial Industry.  • Extensively used XML and RESTful Web services to retrieve and send data from different applications.  • Created SQL loader Scripts to load data into the temporary staging tables.  • Created SSRS reports using BIDS that includes activities such as Extract Query Design, Reports format design and development; Verification/Rendering to PDF/Excel formats deployment to Report Server and creates subscriptions.  • Implemented SSIS packages for data sourcing from Heterogeneous data systems using SSIS ETL Tool to support daily incremental data refresh, full loads.  • Preparation of technical specification document for the development of Informatica Extraction, Transformation and Loading (ETL) mappings to load data into various tables in Data Marts and defining ETL standards.  • Developed DOM-based interactive directory structure diagram with dynamically expandable directory trees.  • Used Robot framework for test Automation integrated with Jenkins.  • Used JIRA to maintain system protocols by writing and updating procedures and business case requirements, functional requirement specifications documents.  • Implemented unit testing using PyUnit, and tested several RESTful services using SOAP UI.  • Experienced in Agile Methodologies and SCRUM Process.  • Worked in development of applications especially in LINUX environment and familiar with all commands.    Environment: Python 2.7, Django 1.3, BOTTLE, HTML5, CSS, Bootstrap, XML, AJAX, JSON, Blaze, JQuery, Angular JS, JavaScript, Oracle 11g/10i, MySQL, RESTful API's, Linux, ROBOT framework, Soap UI. Python Developer Zoll Medical Corp - Chelmsford, MA March 2014 to December 2015 Description: ZOLL Medical Corporation develops, manufactures, and markets resuscitation devices, related data management and software solutions, and temperature management technology worldwide.  Responsibilities:    • Participated in all the stages of software development lifecycle like design, development, and implementation and testing.  • Django Framework that was used in developing web applications to implement the model view control architecture.  • For database access Django API's/Models have been used.  • Business logic implementation, data exchange, XML processing and graphics creation has been done using Python and Django.  • Views and Templates were developed with Python and Bash scripting and to create a user-friendly website interface Django's view controller and template language is used.  • Developed UI using CSS, HTML, JavaScript, AngularJS, JQuery and JSON.  • Developed Apache Spark jobs using python in test environment for faster data processing and used Spark SQL for querying.  • Experience in ETL operations to use Spark SQL on Hive Tables.  • Involved in converting Cassandra/Hive/SQL queries into Spark transformations using Spark RDD's, and Python.  • Developed analytical component using Scala. Analyzed the SQL scripts and designed the solution to implement using Scala  • Developed and implemented API services using pyspark.  • A Django dashboard with custom look and feel for end user has been created after a careful study of the Django admin site and dashboard.  • Unit Test Python library was used for testing many programs on python and Integration testing, web application testing were performed.  • Implemented Automated Application Deployment using Puppet.  • Search engine optimization by replacing existing database with MongoDB (NoSQL Database).  • To build and populate DB and to ensure the standards the team of QA was also collaborated.  • For sending and receiving the data between multiple systems RESTful Web-Services were implemented.  • Performance and consistency being the main factors of consideration the code was tuned.  • Actively worked as a part of team with managers and other staff to meet the goals of the project in the stipulated time. Python / Django Developer People Tech Group - Hyderabad, Telangana December 2012 to February 2014 Environment: Python 2.7, Django 1.6, Java Script, HTML, XHTML, Angular JS, JQuery, JSON, XML, CSS, MySQL, Bootstrap, Git, Linux, Pyspark.  Client: People Tech Group, Hyderabad,India Dec 2012 - Feb 2014  Role: Python / Django Developer    Description: Founded in 2006, People Tech is an emerging leader in the Enterprise Applications and IT Services marketplace. People Tech draws its expertise from strategic partnerships with technology leaders like Microsoft, Oracle and SAP and combines that with the deep understanding of its employees.    Responsibilities:  • Developed web applications in Django Framework's model view control (MVC) architecture.  • Exposure on Multi-Threading factory to distribute learning process back-testing and into various worker processes.  • Performed efficient delivery of code based on principles of Test Driven Development (TDD) and continuous integration to keep in line with Agile Software Methodology principles.  • Different testing methodologies like unit testing, Integration testing, web application testing.  • Python/Django based web application, PostgreSqlDB, and integrations with 3rd party email, messaging, storage services.  • Developed a fully automated continuous integration system using Git, Jenkins, MySQL and custom tools developed in Python and Bash  • Design and implemented custom scripts.  • Develop consumer based features and applications using Python, Django, HTML and Test Driven Development (TDD)  • Rewrite existing Python/Django modules to deliver certain format of data.  • Responsible for tracking and monitoring project status in JIRA (Agile)  • Developed Python web services for processing JSON and interfacing with the Data layer.  • Worked on deployment of project on to AmazonS3.  • Used GIT version control.  • Worked on development of SQL and stored procedures for normalization and renormalization in MYSQL.  • Build SQL queries for performing various CRUD operations like create, update, read and delete.  • Skilled in using Collections in Python for manipulating and looping through different user defined objects.  • Engaged in Design, Development, Deployment, Testing, and Implementation of the application.  • Worked in development of applications especially in UNIX environment and familiar with all of its commands.  Environment: Python 2.7, Django 1.4, HTML5, CSS, XML, MySQL, Script, C++, Angular JS, Backbone JS, JQuery, CSS Bootstrap, Mongo DB, MS SQL Server, T-SQL, Script, Eclipse, Git, GitHub, AWS, Linux, Shell Scripting. Jr. Python Developer Innova Infotech - Bengaluru, Karnataka January 2011 to November 2012 Description: SYSINNOVA Infotech is an offshore software services and IT consulting company based in Bangalore, India. As a committed outsourcing partner and an IT vendor, our goal is to ensure cost effective, technical excellence and on-time deliveries.    Responsibilities:  • Responsible for using the best technologies to add features to the existing system and services.  • Involved in all aspects of the development process from product inception to scaling in production.  • Responsible for driving software development best practices for the team and also, mentoring and developing junior engineers.  • Working in collaboration with project managers and higher management in cross-functional teams within Sales and Account Management, to understand business requirements and develop efficient, elegant approaches to their implementation.  • Writing REST APIs, as part of developing web-based applications for insurance premium calculations, using Django's REST framework.  • Heavily leveraged Python's graphics APIs for creating graphics and serialization libraries for encoding data in XML/JSON formats.  • Also involved in writing REST APIs using Django framework for data exchange and business logic implementation.  • Experience in using collections in Python for manipulating and looping through different user defined objects.  • Design and implemented custom Bash scripts for controlling the data flow from the PostgreSQL database.  • Assisted the development team in sending the correct data via query strings using PostgreSQL as the back-end for storing data.  • Used Django configuration to manage URLs and application parameters.  • Responsible for configuring NoSQL databases like Apache Cassandra and Mongo DB to for increasing compatibility with Django.  • Designed and created backend data access modules using PL/SQL stored procedures.  • Good experience in writing SQL Queries and implementing stored procedures, functions, packages, tables, views, cursors, triggers.  • Responsible for debugging the project monitored on JIRA.  • Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many bug fixes for applications that were a main source of data for both customers and internal customer service team.  • Handled potential points of failure through error handling and communication of failure.  • Risk analysis for potential points of failure (database, communication points and file system errors).  • Troubleshoot the process execution and worked with other team members to correct them.  • Actively worked as a part of team with managers and other staff to meet the goals of the project in the stipulated time.  • Developed and executed User Acceptance Testing portion of test plan.  • Generated Django forms to record data of online users and used PyTest for writing test cases.  • Extensive use of version controlling systems like GIT and SVN.  • Involved in capturing the requirements for serial functional interface and other software requirements specification document.    Environment: Python, Django, MySQL, SVN, Unit Test. Education Bachelor's Skills MySQL