Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - Comcast Owings Mills, MD, MD • Around 8 years of experience as a Web/Application Developer and coding with analytical programming using Python, Django, Flask.  • Experienced with full software development life-cycle, architecting scalable platforms, object oriented programming, database design and agile methodologies  • Experienced in MVW frameworks like Django, Java Script.  • Experienced in Python's modules numpy, matplotlibetc for generating complex graphical data, creation of histograms etc.  • Expert knowledge of and experience in Object oriented Design and Programming concepts.  • Experience object oriented programming (OOP) concepts using Python, C++ and PHP.  • Experienced in WAMP (Windows, Apache, MYSQL, Python/PHP) and LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, Python/PHP) Architecture.  • Experience in AWS Cloud platform and its features which includes EC2, AMI, EBS Cloudwatch, AWS Config, Auto-scaling, IAM user management, and AWS S3  • Experienced in developing web-based applications using Python, Django, PHP, XML, CSS, HTML, Java Script and JQuery.  • Experienced in installing, configuring, modifying, testing and deploying applications with Apache.  • Well versed with design and development of presentation layer for web applications using technologies like HTML, CSS, and JavaScript.  • Familiar with JSON based REST Web services and Amazon Web services.  • Experienced in developing Web Services with Python programming language.  • Experience in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on SQL and PostgreSQL database.  • Worked in agile and waterfall methodologies with high quality deliverables delivered on-time.  • Maintained detailed documentation and architectural solutions in IT infrastructure and sales systems.  • Very strong full life cycle application development experience.  • Experience with continuous integration and automation using Jenkins  • Experience with Unit testing/ Test driven Development (TDD), Load Testing..  • Developed the required XML Schema documents and implemented the framework for parsing XML documents.  • Involved in Unit testing and Integration testing.  • Extensive use of Linux (Ubuntu),SSH, Flask/Django  • Developed ColdFusion Components, custom tags and modified CF Objects.  • Worked on AJAX framework to transform Datasets and Datatables into HTTP-serializable JSON strings. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Developer Comcast - Philadelphia, PA April 2016 to Present Comcast Corporation, formerly registered as Comcast Holdings, is an American global mass media conglomerate and is the largest broadcasting and cable television company in the world by revenue.  Responsibilities:  • Responsible for gathering requirements, system analysis, design, development, testing and deployment.  • Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks. Interfacing with supervisors, artists, systems administrators, and production to ensure production deadlines are met.  • Developed Business Logic using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Used Django Database API's to access database objects.  • Used JQuery and Ajax calls for transmitting JSON data objects between frontend and controllers.  • Involved in building database Model, APIs and Views utilizing Python, in order to build an interactive web based solution.  • Used Python based GUI components for the front end functionality such as selection criteria.  • Created test harness to enable comprehensive testing utilizing Python.  • Used Amazon Web Services (AWS) for improved efficiency of storage and fast access.  • Added support for Amazon AWS S3 and RDS to host static/media files and the database into Amazon Cloud.  • Involved in front end and utilized Bootstrap and Angular.js for page design.  • Created Data tables utilizing PyQt to display customer and policy information and add, delete, update customer records.  • Used PyQuery for selecting particular DOM elements when parsing HTML.  • Used Wireshark, live http headers, and Fiddler2 debugging proxy to debug the Flash object and help the developer create a functional component.  • Used Pandas API to put the data as time series and tabular format for east timestamp data manipulation and retrieval.  • Created Business Logic using Python to create Planning and Tracking functions.  • Created UI Screens for initiation and validation.  • Worked on UI using HTML5, CSS3 and Java Scripts.  • Developed multi-threaded standalone app in Python and PHP to view performance.  • Used Pandas library for statistical Analysis.  • Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks.  • Working in team of Architects and Developers to build and deploy Python Flask Peewee Linux AWS.  • Version control using GITHub.  • Involved in writing stored procedures using MySQL.  • Interfacing with supervisors, artists, systems administrators and production to ensure production deadlines are met.    Environment: Python 3.x, Django, Shell Scripting, AWS, Pandas, PyQt, PyQuery, Wireshark, Flash, DOM, JSON, PHP, HTML5, CSS3, AJAX, JavaScript, Angular.js, Bootstrap, Apache Web Server, MYSQL, GitHub, LINUX. Python Developer Texas Life Insurance Company - Waco, TX March 2015 to March 2016 The Texas Life Insurance Company, headquartered in Waco, TX offers life, accident, and health insurance.  Working on Texmerge, Texas Life's API , making HTTP requests by Python  Responsibilities:    • Design, develop, test, deploy and maintain the website.  • Created a custom CMS built using Django, AWS(Amazon web service), REST, Json with JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX components, worked closely with designer. Converted Photoshop images into XHTML/CSS.  • Used AWstat and Google Analytics to analyze web traffic.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Created scripts for system administration and AWS using languages such as BASH and Python.  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL.  • Rewrite existing Python/Django modules to deliver certain format of data.  • Used Django Database API's to access database objects.  • Wrote python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Handled all the client side validation using JavaScript.  • Worked extensively with Bootstrap, Java script, and jQuery to optimize the user experience.  • Used Selenium Library to write fully functioning test automation process that allowed the simulation of submitting different we requests from multiple browser to web application.  • Used Python and Django to interface with the jQuery UI and manage the storage and deletion of content.  • Involved in development of Web Services using SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface in the XML format.  • Responsible for debugging the project monitored on JIRA (Agile).  • Used JQuery for all client side Java script manipulation.  • Scalable, database-driven web application development using a variety of frameworks: ASP.NET on C#, Flask on Python, and PHP.  • Created unit test/regression test framework for working/new code.  • Using Subversion control tool to coordinate team-development.  • Built development environment with JIRA.  • Implemented multiple high performance MongoDB replica sets on EC2 with robust reliability.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.    Environment: Python 2.7 and 3.4, Django, HTML5/CSS, MS SQL Server 2013, MySQL, Java script, Eclipse, Linux, Shell Scripting, JQuery, GitHub, Angular.JS, Jira Python Developer Charter Communications - St. Louis, MO February 2014 to March 2015 Description: Charter Communications is a cable telecommunications company, which offers their services to consumers and businesses under the branding of Charter Spectrum. Providing services to 5.9 million customers in 29 states, it is the third-largest cable operator in the United States.  Responsibilities:  • Designed and managed build and release methodologies using Witbe Tool.  • Experience in writing branching and merging methodologies in Python.  • For update and manipulation of file, Python scripts were used.  • Performed various tasks in a cross functional project team during the product acceptance test phase of the product development lifecycle.  • Deploy Test cases from Tool and automate them.  • Deploy and monitor scalable infrastructure on Amazon web services (AWS) & configuration management using puppet  • Created projects and portal sites in Web portal.  • Installed and configured build manager and agents to queue builds in Application.  • For the implementation of batch job scheduling the concepts of multithreading and concurrency were practiced.  • Installed Witbe, Python, Jira, test Rail as part of server setups.  • Experience in deploying and troubleshooting code to Data stage.  • SQL and PL/SQL stored procedures were used to create access to data and deployed them to Oracle and SQL server databases.  • Using MYSQL a system of data management was designed and developed where queries were optimized in order to improve the performance.  • Experience in setting up App pools and web sites in Python.  • Features for dashboard were developed and tested using CSS, JavaScript, Django, Bootstrap.  • Git repository was created and added to GitHub project.  • Can review code as part of build and deployment.  • Experience in setup and deploying front office application called Front Arena.  • Worked with bug tracking tools like BUGZILLA and JIRA.  • Deployed applications to Witbe server also experience in creating host instances.  • Maintained technical documentation for projects along with the development of marketing material such as flyers, presentations, case studies.  • Skilled in writing and reviewing requirements, architecture documents, test plans, design, documents, quality analysis and audits.    Environment: Python 2.7, Witbe Tool, Git, CSS 3, HTML 5, Bootstrap, Django, MYSQL, PL/SQL, JIRA. Python Developer Verizon Data Services - Tampa, FL January 2013 to February 2014 Founded in 1967, Verizon Data Services Inc. is a large-sized organization in the data processing and preparation companies industry located in Tampa, FL.  Responsibilities:  • Responsible for setting up networks through Design and Development.  • Engineered various custom modules for integration of various types of network circuits.  • Developed memory managed design patterns for various GigE networks.  • Optimized the code using smart pointers, profilers and C++ Standard template library.  • Designed and built an effective Baais Video customization development environment for other developers to work in.  • Directly responsible for various enhancements of Equipment updates/transmission of signals on OC/ST Scables.  • Authored important Network APIs for Baais Video, developed user interface screens and solved customer reported software bugs or issues.  • Used Purify, GDB and DBX for debugging/crash logs which helped in performance enhancement and optimization.  • Used various Design Patterns in provisioning the networks.  • Designed and implemented the orders for VNI, VHO, VSO, ONI etc., and their controllers as demanded for the applications design.  • Responsible for creation of Database, Business Logic to display the records dynamically on template based on query, providing user permission to access particular features of the site.  • Used data structures like directories, tuples, object oriented class based inheritance features for making complex algorithms of networks.  • Did Content Management through front end, live search and normal search features.  • Created Forms, views, models using Django.  • Used the Python's modules numpy, matpoltlibetc for generating complex graphical data, creation of histograms etc.  • Used Python's XML parser architectures (SAX) and DOM API for tracking small amounts of data without requiring the DB.  • Developed widgets for GUI using Tkinter, Gtk modules of Python.  • Profiled python code for optimization and memory management.  • Implemented locking mechanisms using multi threading functionality.  Environment: Python 2.6/2.7, Linux, Shell Scripting, JavaScript, Django Framework, CSS, SQL, MySQL, LAMP, JQuery, Adobe Dreamweaver, Apache web server. Python Developer US Cellular - Chicago, IL September 2011 to November 2012 United States Cellular Corporation, d.b.a. U.S. Cellular, is a regional carrier which owns and operates the fifth-largest wireless telecommunications network in the United States    Responsibilities:  • Involved in understanding the current business process, defining scope of the project along with position statement.  • Re-engineered various modules for implementing changes and creating efficient system.  • Developed dynamic web pages using python Django Frameworks.  • Used Python and Django creating for XML processing, data exchange and business logic implementation.  • Used python scripts to update content in the database and manipulate files.  • Resolved issues and improvised the process to ensure a stable and accurate solution.  • Generated Python Django Forms to record data of online users.  • Python OO Design code for manufacturing quality, monitoring, logging, and debugging code optimization.  • Writing Unit, Functional, and Integration test cases for Cloud Computing applications on AWS usingPython with boto library.  • Held meetings with client and worked all alone for entire internal project with limited help from the client.  • Worked on writing and as well as read data from csv and excel file formats.  • Connected Flex from Backend Controller using different API services.  • Working with the architect, developers on business and technical issues, helping in designing the system; and testers to ensure all requirements are correctly translated.  • Managed requirements and tasks using JIRA.  • Data mapping, logical data modeling, created class diagrams and ER diagrams and used SQL queries to filter data within the Oracle database.  Environment: Python, Django, Java, MySQL, XML, HTML, XHTML, CSS, AJAX, JSON, JavaScript, Apache Web Server, MYSQL, and Linux. Python Developer North Face Holdings India Pvt Ltd - Hyderabad, ANDHRA PRADESH, IN May 2009 to April 2011 Responsibilities:  • Work with team of developers on python applications for RISK management.  • Design, develop, test, deploy and maintain the website.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL.  • Rewrite existing Python/Django modules to deliver certain format of data.  • Used Django Database API's to access database objects.  • Wrote python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Handled all the client side validation using JavaScript.  • Expertise in writing Constraints, Indexes, Views, Stored Procedures, Cursors, Triggers, and User Defined function.  • I have also used Selenium Library to write fully functioning test automation process that allowed the simulation of submitting different we request from multiple browser to web application.  • Used JQuery for all client side Java script manipulation.  • Created unit test/regression test framework for working/new code  • Using Subversion control tool to coordinate team-development.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  Environment: Python, Django 1.3, MySQL, Linux, HTML, XHTML, SVN, CSS, AJAX, Bugzilla, JavaScript, Apache Web Server, Django Education Bachelor's in Computer Science Engineering in Computer Science Engineering Ace Engineering College Skills Database (6 years), Django (7 years), JavaScript (7 years), MySQL. (7 years), Python (7 years) Additional Information Technical Skills    Programming Languages Python with django, Java, C, SQL, Shell Scripting,  Database Development Technologies: SQL, PL/SQL. Software/Tools: MySQL, PostgreSQL.  Web Design Technologies/Tools Technologies: HTML 4/5, DHTML, JavaScript, JQuery, JSON, XML, CSS 3, AWS Software/Tools: Adobe Dreamweaver, Adobe Photoshop.  XML Technologies XML, SOAP, REST.  Version Control GIT, Mercury.    Operating Systems Microsoft Windows, Unix, Linux.  SDLC Agile, Test-Driven, Iterative Model.