Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - UPS Monmouth Junction, NJ • A more than 8 years of experience skilled python with proven expertise in using new tools and technical development to drive improvements throughout software development life cycle (SDLC).  • Good Experience with Django, a high-level Python Web framework. Experience object oriented programming (OOP) concepts using Python.  • Experience in developing web-based applications using Python, Django, Flaskand also developed web based applications on MVC architecture.  • Experienced in WAMP (Windows, Apache, MYSQL, and Python) and LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, and Python) Architecture.  • Experience in working with Python packages like Numpy, Pandas, BeautifulSoup, Matplotlib, SciPy.  • Experience working on Amazon Web Services (AWS), Amazon EC2instances, Load Balancing, Amazon Dynamo DB.  • Worked on Version Control System like GIT, GitHub, SVN.  • Experience in working on PostgreSQL and NOSQL technologies like MongoDB and relational databases like SQLite, MYSQL databases.  • Proficient in developing complex SQL Queries, Stored Procedures, Functional Packages along with performing DDL and DML operations on Databases.  • Developed the required XML Schema documents and implemented the framework for parsing XML documents.  • Experience in JSON based RESTweb services and SOAP for sending and getting data for the JSONformat.  • Experience with Unit Testing/ Test Driven Development (TDD), Load Testing and Integration Testing.  • Experience with IDEs - Sublime Text, JetBrains Pycharm, Django Plugin PyDev.  • Practical experience with working on multiple environments like development, testing and production.  • Ability to learn and adapt quickly to the emerging new technologies and paradigms. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Developer UPS - Timonium, MD February 2016 to Present Project description:  UPS is the logistics based organization. Returns Next Generation (RNG) seeks to increase usage of UPS returns services by making it easier for shippers to offer their customers self-service access to authorized return shipping and expanding access to UPS No Print label options. I was member in developing New UPS web applications (Label Landing Page and Merchandise Return Application) from scratchthat accepts requests for return shipments based on either tracking number or items from a specified customer order.  Responsibilities:  • Gathered and analyzed the requirements and converted them into User Requirement Specifications and Functional Requirement Specifications for the designers and developers to understand them as per their perspective.  • Worked on object oriented programming (OOP) concepts using Python, Django and Linux.  • Developed web-based applications using Python, Django, XML, CSS, HTML, JavaScript, Angular JS and JQuery.  • Experience with JSON based REST Web services and Amazon Web Services (AWS).  • Worked on Amazon services like Amazon Cloud EC2.  • Added support for Amazon AWS and RDS to host static/media files and the database into Amazon Cloud.  • Experience in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, andFunctions on MySQL and PostgreSQL database.  • Worked in agile and waterfall methodologies with high quality deliverables delivered on-time.  • Experience with continuous integration and automation using Jenkins.  • Experience with Unit testing/ Test driven Development (TDD), Load Testing.  • Developed the required XML Schema documents and implemented the framework for parsing XML documents.  • Worked on AJAX framework to transform Datasets and Data tables into HTTP-serializable JSON strings.  • Designed Interface using Bootstrap framework.  • Practical experience with working on multiple environments like development, testing, production.  • Excellent analytical and problem solving skills and ability to work on own besides being valuable and contributing team player.  Environment:  Python, Django, REST Web services, XML, CSS, HTTP, Ajax, AngularJS, Bootstrap, JSON, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, AWS EC2, Triggers, Cursors, MySQL and PostgreSQL database,Amazon Cloud EC2, Amazon Web Services (AWS). Python Developer Disney Store - Pasadena, CA March 2015 to January 2016 Project description:  Responsible for building the 'client-side' web applications. Use markup languages like HTML to create user-friendly web pages. Maintain and improve website. Optimize applications for maximum speed. Collaborate with back-end developers and web designers to improve usability    Responsibilities:  • Participate in requirement gathering and analysis phase of the project in documenting the business requirements by conducting workshops/meetings with various business users.  • Developed Python/Django application for Google Analytics aggregation and reporting.  • Worked on object oriented programming (OOP) concepts using Python, Django and Linux.  • Used Django configuration to manage URLs and application parameters.  • Worked on Python Open stack API's.  • Used Python scripts to update content in the database and manipulate files.  • Generated Python Django Forms to record data of online users  • I have used Pandas to put the data as time series and tabular format for east timestamp data manipulation and retrieval.  • Added support for Amazon AWS and RDS to host static/media files and the database into Amazon Cloud.  • Used Pandas library for statistical Analysis.  • Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks. Interfacing with supervisors, artists, systems administrators and production to ensure production deadlines are met.  • Used Django configuration to manage URLs and application parameters.  • Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from Python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL DB package.  • Participated in development of Web Services using SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface in the XML format.  • Used LINUX as trouble shooter for systems.  • Worked on development of SQL and stored procedures on MYSQL..  • Responsible for debugging the project monitored on JIRA (Agile).  • Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes of the two main applications that were a main source of data for both customers and internal customer service team.    Environment:  Amazon AWS, MySQL, HTML, Python,Django, Pandas, HTML, CSS, XML, MySQL, JavaScript, AWS, Linux, Shell Scripting, AJAX. Python Developer Toyota Motors - Irvine, CA January 2014 to February 2015 Project Description:  Developed various internal projects. One of my primarily project was to develop an admin application through which they could track down detail of every single product exists in there company, this includes pricing, product details, related documentation and training material through a member login system and allow admin to include any new member. There were several other applications we developed for other departments, including company's web, database etc.    Responsibilities:  • Prepared low level detail design document from Functional spec document.  • Used Django configuration to manage URLs and application parameters.  • Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes of the two main applications that were a main source of data for both customers and internal customer service team.  • Worked in development of Web Services using SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface in the JSON format.  • Used Bootstrap as a mechanism to manage and organize the html page layout.  • Worked on development and stored procedures on MongoDB.  • Carried out various mathematical operations for calculation purpose using Python libraries NumPy and Scipy. Responsible for debugging the project monitored on JIRA (Agile).  • Developed different shell scripts for initial validations.  • Followed Scrum/Agile methodology.  • Debugging and Troubleshooting production issues.    Environment:  Python, Django, Shell Scripting, LAMP, Tastypie, REST, APIs, HTML5, AngularJS, MongoDB, Git, JIRA, NumPy and Scipy, JSON, SOAP Python Developer NetApp - Charlotte, NC April 2013 to December 2013 Project Description:  Implemented an admin tool for report generation. The application allows admin to do different type of analysis like monthly sales, daily sales, sales per product, revenues generated per month and new customers. These reports included internal data analysis. Admin can download generated reports in csv formats. Implemented a REST API using Tastypie.  Responsibilities:  • Created Business Logic using Python.  • Used Django framework for application development.  • Created database using MySQL, wrote several queries and Django API's to extract data from database.  • Wrote scripts in Python for extracting data from HTML file.  • Effectively communicated with the external vendors to resolve queries.  • Developed rich user interface using CSS, HTML, Bootstrap, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Used Git for the version control.  Environment:  Python, Django, MySQL, Windows/Linux, HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, JQuery, JavaScript, Apache, REST API, Tastypie. Python Developer Eaton Electrical - Pittsburgh, PA February 2012 to March 2013 Project Description:  Eaton is the international worldwide Manufacturing Product base organization which deals manufacturing hydraulics, turbines parts of Aircraft like Airbus 380 & electrical accessories.  Project Responsibilities:  • Extensively used Python Django Framework for developing backend of applications. Responsible for analyzing various cross-functional, multi-platform applications systems enforcing Python best practices and provide guidance in making long term architectural design decisions.  • Developed a Restful service using Python Flask framework.  • Actively worked in Initial software development life cycle (SDLC) of requirement gathering and also in suggesting system configuration specifications during client interaction.  • Analysis the logs data and filter required columns by logstash configuration and send it to elasticsearch.  • Implementing admin sites to manage database information with FlaskAdmin, MySQL and SQLite.  • Generated various graphs for business decision making using Python matplotlib library.  • Tested various regular expression in URL Dispatchers in Django.  • Improving preexisted client based applications by introducing Django framework in backend  • Developed frontends using HTML, CSS, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Analyzed and Designed workflows based on business logic.  • Designed user friendly Interface using Bootstrap framework.  • Implemented AJAX to update necessary section of webpages and hence, avoiding the need for reloading the entire web page.  • Wrote python code within the Hadoop framework to solve Natural Language Processing problems.  • Executed asynchronous tasks with help of Celery and RabbitMQ.  • Participated in implementation, design, development and testing stages of projects.  • Prepared design and impact analysis documents.  • Design, model and optimize relational databases tables in MySQL.  • Modified queries, functions, cursors, triggers and stored procedures for MySQL database to improve performance, while processing data.  • Developed a portal to manage and entities in a content management system using Flask.  • Design and developed applications to be cross-browser and cross-platform compatible  • Coordinated and supported validation team during testing phase.  • Extensive code reviewing using GitHub pull requests, improved code quality, and also conducted meetings among peer.  • Deployed the project into Heroku and also used Github version control system.  • Followed best practices and standards throughout the development of the project, while implementing various design patterns.  • Modified existing webpages to enhance the usability.  • Maintained Puppet for testing various unit/system automation schemes  • Well skilled in maintain records of change requests, trouble reports and requirements collection.  Environment:  Python, Django, Ajax, HTML, CSS, JavaScript and JQuery. PostgreSQL, GitHub, Heroku, MySQL and SQLite. Python matplotlib Flask, Tastypie, REST API, JSON, Puppet, Bootstrap, RabbitMQ, puppet  Restful service. Python Developer Cenvien Technologies - Hyderabad, ANDHRA PRADESH, IN July 2008 to December 2011 Project Description:  The application is developed in multiple layers with multiple autonomous components within each layer. This enables modifications to one layer/ component without impacting other layers/ components in the application. The solution leverages business services for interactions between and within these components to meet the business requirements  Responsibilities:  • Participate in requirement gathering and analysis phase of the project in documenting the business requirements by conducting workshops/meetings with various business users.  • Developed Python/Django application for Google Analytics aggregation and reporting.  • Used Django configuration to manage URLs and application parameters.  • Worked on Python Open stack API's.  • Used Python scripts to update content in the database and manipulate files.  • Generated Python Django Forms to record data of online users  • I have used Pandas to put the data as time series and tabular format for east timestamp data manipulation and retrieval.  • Used Pandas library for statistical Analysis.  • Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks. Interfacing with supervisors, artists, systems administrators and production to ensure production deadlines are met.  • Used Django configuration to manage URLs and application parameters.  • Wrote and executed various MYSQL database queries from Python using Python-MySQL connector and MySQL DBpackage.  • Participated in development of Web Services using SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface in the XML format.  • Used LINUX as trouble shooter for systems.  • Worked on development of SQL and stored procedures on MYSQL.  • Responsible for debugging the project monitored on JIRA (Agile).  • Performed troubleshooting, fixed and deployed many Python bug fixes of the two main applications that were a main source of data for both customers and internal customer service team.  Environment:  Python ,Django, CSS, HTML, BOOTSTRAP, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX, MYSQL, xml, Linux, Heroku, GIT, flask and python libraries such as NumPy, Pandas, SQL Alchemy, MySQL DB, Automation framework, Jenkin, Jira. Skills Bootstrap (7 years), CSS (7 years), Django (8 years), HTML (8 years), Python (8 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS:  Operating systems UNIX, MS Windows , LINUX ,MacOS  Methodologies Agile , Waterfall , Hybrid(waterfall, -Agile)  Web Technologies JSON, XML, HTML/HTML5, CSS/CSS3, Bootstrap, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX, MVC.  Web Frameworks Django, Flask, Pyramid.  Languages Python, JavaScript, C, C++,SQL, Shell scriptingPowerShell, UML  Databases Oracle, SQLite, MYSQL, PostgreSQL, MongoDB, DynamoDB  Configuration Management GIT,GITHUB,SVN  Application servers Apache Tomcat Servers, Coherence server  Testing Tools Unittest, Loadtest  Protocols TCP/IP, HTTP/HTTPS  Development Tools Sublime Text, JetBrains Pycharm, Eclipse Python & Django Plugin.Pydev