Sr Python Developer Sr <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Sr Python Developer - Dell Computer Corporation Boston, MA • Over 7 Years of experience in Analyzing, Developing, Managing and implementing various stand-alone, client-server enterprise applications using Python, DJango, Java and mapping the requirements to the systems.  • Well versed with Agile with SCRUM, Waterfall Model and Test-Driven Development (TDD) methodologies.  • Experience in developing web applications by using Python, Django, C++, XML, CSS, HTML, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Pleasant experience in developing web applications implementing Model View Control (MVC) architecture using Django, Flask and Pyramid Python web application frameworks.  • Experience in implementing with server-side technologies with restful API and MVC design patterns with node.js and Django framework.  • Experience in working with number of public and private cloud platforms like Amazon Web Services (AWS), Microsoft Azure and RackSpace.  • Extensive experience in Amazon Web Services (Amazon EC2, Amazon S3, Amazon Simple DB, Amazon RDS, Amazon Elastic Load Balancing, Elastic Search, AWS Identity and access management, AWS Cloud Watch, Amazon EBS and Amazon CloudFront).  • Proficient in SQLite, MySQL and Postgre SQL databases with Python.  • Experienced in working with various Python IDE's using PyCharm, PyScripter, Spyder, PyStudio, PyDev, IDLE, NetBeans and Sublime Text  • Pleasant experience in using WAMP (Windows, Apache, MYSQL, and Python/PHP) and LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, and Python/PHP) Architectures.  • Experience with Requests, Numpy, Scipy, Pytables, Python-Twitter, Matplotlib, HTTPLib2, Urllib2, Beautiful Soup, DataFrame, Pysftp, and Pandas python libraries during development lifecycle.  • Hands-on experience in handling database issues and connections with SQL and NoSQL databases like MongoDB, Cassandra, Redis, CouchDB, DynamoDB by installing and configuring various packages in python.  • Experience in using Pytest, unittest, framework for testing small codes  • Expertise in working with GUI frameworks- PyGUI, PyQt, PyWebkitGtk, PyJamas, Jython, Guidata.  • Experienced in developing Multi-threaded web services using CherryPy & BottlePy framework.  • Experienced with version control systems like Git, GitHub, CVS, and SVN to keep the versions and configurations of the code organized.  • Expertise in Build Automation and Continuous Integration tools such as Apache ANT, Jenkins/Hudson, Anthill Pro, Bamboo, Cruise Control.  • Good Knowledge in writing various kinds of tests like Unit test/Pytest and build them.  • Strong experience in developing Web Services like SOAP, REST, Restful with Python programming language.  • Experienced in writing SQL Queries, Stored procedures, functions, packages, tables, views, triggers using relational database like Oracle, DB2, MySQL, Sybase. PostgreSQL and MS SQL server.  • Good familiarity with Networking Technologies such as TCP/IP, UDP, FTP, DNS, DHCP, SNMP, TFS, and all Networking Layers (Layaer1 to Layer7).  • Experience in using Docker and Ansible to fully automate the deployment and execution of the benchmark suite on a cluster of machines.  • Good Experience in Linux Bash scripting and following PEP-8 Guidelines in Python.  • Experience in building applications in different operating systems like Linux (Ubuntu, CentOS, Debian), Mac OS.  • Strong working experience with the Testing tools such as Nose, Selenium (IDE, WebDriver, and RC), Cucumber, JUnit, QUnit, Karma, Jasmine, SoapUI etc.  • Excellent Interpersonal and communication skills, efficient time management and organization skills, ability to handle multiple tasks and work well in a team environment. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Sr Python Developer Dell Computer Corporation - Boston, MA January 2017 to Present Responsibilities:  • Participated in requirement gathering and worked closely with the architect in designing and modeling.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML, BIG DATA to automate some of the menial tasks.  • Used PyQt for the functionality filtering of columns helping customers to effectively view their transactions and statements. Implemented navigation rules for the application and page.  • Performed testing using Django's Test Module.  • Used Django configuration to manage URLs and application parameters.  • Involved in Web development, programming, and engineering Django, UWSGI and SQL internal admin tools behave BDD.  • Used Python and Django to interface with the JQuery UI and manage the storage and deletion of content.  • Developed a fully automated continuous integration system using Git, Jenkins, MySQL and custom tools developed in Python and Bash.  • Designed and managed API system deployment using fast http server and Amazon AWS architecture  • Creation of Python scripts for data access and analysis (Scripts, DataFeeds, XLS, FIXML) to aid in process and system monitoring, and reporting.  • Rewrite existing Java application in Python module to deliver certain format of data.  • Wrote Python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Generated property list for every application dynamically using Python.  • Also used Bootstrap and Angular.js as a mechanism to manage and organize the HTML page layout.  • Responsible for search engine optimization to improve the visibility of the website.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML5, XHTML, AJAX, CSS3, BIG DATA and JavaScript.  • Handled all the client-side validation using JavaScript.  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL.  • Created a Git repository and added the project to GitHub.  • Build development environment with JIRA.  • Creating unit test/regression test framework for working/new code.  • Using Subversion version control tool to coordinate team-development.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.    Environment: Python, Django, Java, Angular.js, Bootstrap, AWS, Bash, PyQt, XML, Shell Scripting, MySQL, HTML, XHTML, CSS, AJAX, JavaScript, Jenkins, Apache Web Server, Linux Sr Python Developer UBS - Chicago, IL July 2015 to December 2016 Responsibilities:  • Actively involved in various stages of Software Development Cycle (SDLC) like gathering requirements, configuring the system configurations during interaction with the client.  • Designed and developed several front end and back end modules using Django web framework.  • Made use of advanced python packages like Numpy, Scipy for various sophisticated numerical and scientific calculations.  • Designed and optimized relational database tables in MySql.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Designed and developed various applications using Pyramid, Zope and Flask frameworks.  • Developed applications on several IDEs like Eclipse, Rational Application Developer, and Rational Software Architect.  • Administer and monitor multi Data center Cassandra cluster based on the understanding of the Cassandra Architecture.  • Developed Wrapper in Python for instantiating multi-threaded application and Deploy and monitor scalable infrastructure on Amazon web services (AWS).  • Worked on Angular 2 for front-end development and Node.JS for back-end development and installed and automation of application using configuration management tools for Creating and configuring virtual development environments with Chef and Virtual Box.  • Integrated Hibernate ORM with Spring-Hibernate framework to facilitate DML and DQL queries and represent object-database mapping.  • Using Pandas for a data alignment and data manipulation.  • Developed the required XML Schema documents and implemented the framework for parsing XML documents  • Designed user friendly interface using BOOTSTRAP framework.  • Built various graphs using Matplotlib package which helped in taking business decisions.  • Created database schemas which represent and support business process.  • Utilize continuous integration and automated deployments with Jenkins, Ansible, Docker.  • Used AWS EC2 Container Service (ECS) to support Docker containers to easily run applications on a managed cluster of Amazon EC2 instances.  • Used web scraping python tools like BEAUTIFUL SOUP to extract data.  • Analyzed larger Datasets using Pandas and visualized data using Matplotlib python library.  • Developed several python command line programs using argparse.  • Good understanding and usage of NoSQL databases such as MongoDB, Data tax, Redis and Apache Cassandra.  • Wrote Map reduce programs for larger datasets where meaningful data can be retrieved.    Environment: AWS, Docker, EC2, Python, DJango, MySQL, JSON, REST, HTML, CSS, XML, Django, XML, Bootstrap, SQLAlchemy, MongoDB, Pyramid, Zope, Flask, Jenkins, Ansible, Rest, Restful, MongoDB, Redis, Cassandra, Windows, Linux. Python Developer Cisco - San Jose, CA February 2014 to June 2015 Responsibilities:  • Design, develop, test, deploy and maintain the website.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL.  • Rewrite existing Python/Django modules to deliver certain format of data.  • Used Django Database API's to access database objects.  • Wrote python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Handled all the client-side validation using JavaScript.  • Worked extensively with Bootstrap, Javascript, and jQuery to optimize the user experience.  • in development of Web Services using SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface in the XML format.  • Responsible for debugging the project monitored on JIRA (Agile).  • Worked with Spring Batch Used Spring ORM module to integrate with Hibernate.  • Built development environment with JIRA, Stash/Git.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  • Involved in entire life cycle of the project including Design, Development, and Deployment, Testing and Implementation and support.  • Worked on XML documents based on XML Schema definition (XSD) with python scripts to load the data to database.  • Involved in code reviews using GitHub pull requests, reducing bugs, improving code quality, and increasing knowledge sharing  • Implemented monitoring and established best practices around using elastic search.  • Install and configuring monitoring scripts for AWS EC2 instances.  • Implemented task object to interface with data feed framework and invoke database message service setup and update functionality.  • Working under UNIX environment in development of application using Python and familiar with all its commands.    Environment: Python 2.7, Django1.3, C++, Java, JQuery, MySQL, Oracle 11.2, Linux, Eclipse, Shell Scripting, HTML, XHTML, SVN, CSS, AJAX, Bugzilla, JavaScript, Apache Web Server. Python Developer Shareware Technologies - Hyderabad, Telangana November 2012 to December 2013 Responsibilities:  • Took part in each stage of Software Development Cycle (SDC) of getting the requirements, design, development, system integration testing and user acceptance testing.  • Analyzed and designed various applications using Django web framework.  • Wrote python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data into database.  • Developed and tested many features for dashboard using Python, Bootstrap, CSS and Javascript.  • Built efficient, testable and reusable code for many Django modules.  • Worked on developing different internal testing tools which are written in python.  • Designed and embedded AJAX in UI in order to update small portions of a web page so that need of reloading the entire page is avoided.  • Developed and used web services using SOAP to extract the data from external interface in XML format.  • Used MongoDB at the backend to develop an application.  • Developed small web applications using CherryPy, Flask and Bottle Frameworks.  • Worked in AGILE methodologies and SCRUM process.  • Created Unit tests and regression tests for the working/new code according to the client requirements.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting web application.  • Provided security and access control for the web applications.  • Used Pandas and Numpy python packages for data analysis  • Used JIRA for bug tracking and monitoring.  • Extensive code reviewing using GitHub pull requests, improved code quality, and also conducted meetings among peer.    Environment: Python, Django, HTML, CSS, XML, AJAX, MySQL, JavaScript, JQuery, CSS Bootstrap, GitHub, Linux, Pycharm, Jasper Reports, JIRA, Eclipse, Linux, Shell Scripting. Python Developer United Health Group - Hyderabad, Telangana September 2011 to October 2012 Responsibilities:  • Developed entire front-end and back-end modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Used Django framework for application development.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript  • Worked on CSS Bootstrap to develop web applications.  • Used AJAX to modify small portions of the web pages by sending a request to the server avoiding the need of reloading the entire web page.  • Designed and developed Web services using XML and JQuery.  • Improved performance by using more popularized approach and using more in-built methods.  • Experienced in Agile Methodologies and SCRUM Process.  • Maintained program libraries, users' manuals and technical documentation.  • Wrote unit test cases for testing tools.  • Involved in entire life cycle of the projects including Design, Development, and Deployment, Testing and Implementation and support. s  • Built various graphs for business decision making using Python Matplotlib library.  • Worked in development of applications especially in UNIX environment and familiar with all its commands.  • Used Numpy for Numerical analysis for Insurance premium.  • Handling the day to day issues and fine tuning the applications for enhanced performance.  • Implement code in Python to retrieve and manipulate data.    Environment: Python, Django, MySQL, Linux, HTML, XHTML, CSS, AJAX, JavaScript, Apache Web Server, NO SQL, JQuery. Java / Python Developer Virtusa - Hyderabad, Telangana April 2010 to August 2011 Responsibilities:  • Developed entire modules using Java and Python using Web Frameworks.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL.  • Designed and developed user interactive interfaces.  • Using Subversion version control tool to coordinate team-development.  • Used Django Database API's to access database objects.  • Wrote python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application  • Designed complex application database SQL statements for querying, updating and reporting using Python Database Connector.  • Developed in Windows and going to deploy it in Linux server.  • Build SQL queries implementing functions, packages, views, triggers, and tables.  • Rewrite existing Java, C++ application in Python.  • Performed database operations and queries using MySQL.  • Designed complex application database SQL statements for querying, updating and reporting using Python Database Connector.  • Responsible for running and maintaining business processes on daily / weekly / monthly basis.    Environment: Java, Python, Django, MySQL, Linux, HTML, XHTML, CSS, AJAX, JavaScript, SQL, Apache Web Server, UNIX. Education Bachelor's in computer science engineering in computer science engineering Jyothishmathi institute of technology Skills DJANGO (8 years), HTML (8 years), PYTHON (8 years), XML (8 years), CSS (8 years) Additional Information TECHNICAL SKILLS  Operating Systems Windows 98/2000/XP/7,8, Mac OS and Linux CentOS, Debian, Ubuntu  Programming Languages Python, Core Java, C, C++  Web Technologies HTML/HTML5, CSS/CSS3, XML, DOM, AJAX, JQuery, JSON, Bootstrap, Angular JS, angular2, Angular4, Node.js, React JS  Python Libraries/Packages  Numpy, Scipy, openpyxl, Pickle, PyQT, PySide, PyTables, DataFrames, Pandas, Matplotlib, SQLAlchemy, HTTPLib2, Urllib2, Beautiful Soup, PyQuery.    Python Frameworks Django, Flask, Pyramid, PyJamas, Jython, Web2py.  IDE PyCharm, Anaconda, PyScripter, Spyder, PyStudio, PyDev, IDLE, NetBeans, Sublime Text, Brackets, Webstorm,  Analytic Tools Google Analytics Fiddler, Tableau  Cloud Computing AWS, Azure, RackSpace  AWS Services  Amazon EC2, Amazon S3, Amazon Simple DB, Amazon RDS, Amazon Elastic Load Balancing, Elastic Search, Amazon SQS, AWS Identity and access management, AWS Cloud Watch, Amazon EBS and Amazon CloudFront    J2EE JDBC, JNDI, JSP and Servlets  Databases/Servers MySQL, SQLite3, Cassandra, Redis, PostgreSQL, CouchDB, MongoDB, Apache Web Server 2.0, Tomcat, JBoss, WebLogic  Testing/Bug Tracking Tools Robot, Selenium, Junit, Nose, Karma, Bugzilla, Jasmine, Pynit, JIRA and Junit, zope, PyTest, TestNG  Web Services/ Protocols TCP/IP, UDP, FTP, HTTP/HTTPS, SOAP, REST, Restful  Miscellaneous Git, GitHub, SVN, CVS  Build and CI tools Ant, Maven, Gradle, Jenkins, Hudson, Bamboo  SDLC/Testing Methodologies Agile, Waterfall, Scrum, TDD, BDD