Python Developer <span class="hl">Python</span> <span class="hl">Developer</span> Python Developer - Samsonite Mansfield, MA • Over 8 years of experience as a Web/Application Developer with a deep understanding of technology trends with expertise in the core of complex technologies.  • Solid experience in analysis, design, and development, testing, implementation and maintenance of various web applications using Python and Django.  • Good Knowledge in Objected Oriented Concepts, Standard Template Library, Smart Pointers, Data Structures and Design patterns.  • Experience in developing web applications by using Python, Django, C++, XML, CSS, HTML, JavaScript and jQuery.  • Good experience of software development in Python (libraries used: Beautiful Soup, NumPY, SciPY, MatPlotLib, Python-twitter, Pandas data frame, MySQL DB for database connectivity) and IDE's Sublime Text, PyCharm, Emacs.  • Experience in installing software's using pip command for python libraries like Beautiful Soup, numpy, Scipy, PySide, python-twitter, RabbitMQ, matplotlib, Pandas data-frame and used PEP coding convention.  • Experience in writing Sub Queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers, Cursors, and Functions on MySQL and PostgreSQL database.  • Experienced with databases using ORMs/DOMs for integrating with MySQL, Postgres, MongoDB, Cassandra SQLite. Also, experienced with writing custom queries through database connectors.  • Extensive experience in Amazon Web Services (Amazon EC2, Amazon S3, Amazon Simple DB, Amazon RDS, Amazon Elastic Load Balancing, Elastic Search, Amazon SQS, AWS Identity and access management, AWS Cloud Watch, Amazon EBS and Amazon CloudFront).  • Expertise in Querying RDBMS such as MYSQL and SQL Server by using SQL for data integrity.  • Experience in planning, designing, developing and implementation in the area of Amazon Web Services (AWS)  • Experience with Requests, Pysftp, Gnupg, Report Lab, NumPy, SciPy, Pytables, Python-Twitter, Matplotlib, HTTPLib2, Urllib2, Beautiful Soup, Data Frame and Pandas python libraries during development lifecycle.  • Developed consumer-based features and applications using Python, Django, HTML, Behavior Driven Development (BDD) and pair-based programming.  • Extensive experience in using Python/Perl to code and design various phases for data processing pipeline.  • Experienced in web applications development using Django/ Python, Flask/ Python, and NodeJS, AngularJS, DOJO, JQuery while using HTML/CSS/JS for server-side rendered applications.  • Experience in building applications in different operating systems like Linux (Ubuntu, CentOS, Debian), Mac OS.  • Involved in the development of Web Services using SOAP for sending and getting data from the external interface in the XML format.  • Experience in developing big data applications using Hadoop framework and its eco systems like MapReduce.  • Excellent Interpersonal and communication skills, efficient time management and organization skills, ability to handle multiple tasks and work well in a team environment.  • Experience in implementing PEP8 coding standards.  • Experience using GIT version control and testing deployments using Heroku.  • Experience in analyzing and handling large database using Oracle Relational Data Architecture.  • Experienced in working on Application Servers like WebSphere, WebLogic, Tomcat and Web Servers like Apache server, NGINX.  • Experienced in working with various Python IDE's using PyCharm, PyScripter, Spyder, PyStudio, and PyDev.  • Experience on Hadoop (HDFS), Hive QL, Impala, Apache Drill, Apache Spark, SQOOP, FLUME/Kafka. Authorized to work in the US for any employer Work Experience Python Developer Samsonite - Mansfield, MA April 2017 to Present Description: Samsonite is the worldwide leader in superior travel bags, luggage, and accessories combining notable style with the latest design technology and the utmost attention to quality and durability. We are principally engaged in the design, manufacturing, sourcing, and distribution of luggage, business and computer bags, outdoor, casual bags, travel accessories and slim protective cases for personal electronic devices.  Responsibilities:  • Designed and developed the server module and resolved issues and responsible for its enhancements.  • Architected and developed Python and Django for the backend development and front-end application using React, Webpack, Redux, and ES6/7 and PostgreSQL for the database.  • Worked on Django ORM module for signing complex queries.  • Defined different Django API profiling techniques for faster rendering information.  • Used Ansible, Vagrant, and Docker for managing the application environments.  • Developed Python scripts for testing the car functioning on different services.  • Worked with Splunk for testing the performance and debugging server level problems.  • Implemented various Validation Controls for form validation and implemented custom validation controls using Object Oriented JavaScript.  • Working close together with QA and Operations teams to understand, design, and develop and end-to-end data flow requirements.  • Used React JS in components like JSX, creating React components, Virtual DOM, React Props, Lifecycle methods, working with the React States and Events.  • Developed Restful MicroServices using Flask and Django and deployed on AWS servers using EBS and EC2.  • Developed views and templates with Django view controller and template to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Worked on Django and RabbitMQ queues.  • Imported data using Sqoop to load data from MySQL to HDFS on regular basis.  • Used Circle CI for continuous integration and delivery platform over GIT.  • Used Django Migrations for designing and expanding of the database.  • Automated most of the daily task using python scripting.  • Involved in the CI/CD pipeline management for managing the weekly releases.  • Worked on Jira for managing the tasks and improving the individual performance.  • Making recommendations to the team in terms of appropriate testing techniques, shared testing tasks.    Environments: Python 2.7, Django, Django Rest, Flask, React, Redux, Circle CI, Vagrant, Splunk, New Relic Server, GitHub, Ansible, HTML5/CSS, PostgreSQL, Amazon Web Service (AWS), S3, EC2, EBS, PyCharm, Microsoft Visual Code, Linux, Shell Scripting, JIRA. Python Developer Direct TV - El Segundo, CA January 2016 to March 2017 Description: AT&T Inc. (NYSE: T) is a world leader in communications, media and entertainment, and technology. With our acquisition of Time Warner, we are building a truly modern media company that will create the best entertainment and communications experiences in the world.  Responsibilities:  • Responsible for gathering requirements, system analysis, design, development, testing and deployment.  • Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks. Interfacing with supervisors, artists, systems administrators and production to ensure production deadlines are met.  • Developed Business Logic using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Developed views and templates with Python and Django's view controller and templating language to create a user-friendly website interface.  • Used Django Database API's to access database objects.  • Developed Graphical User Interfaces using CQ5, HTML and ASP's for user interaction Used JavaScript, jQuery for client-side validation. Worked in AJAX to create interactive front-end GUI. Used CSS, CSS2/CSS3for styling the Front-end pages.  • Plan and organize GIS shape files into Geodatabase; create, manage, convergent implement your databases into other file formats as required  • Experience in developing multiple MapReduce programs in java for data extraction, transformation and aggregation from multiple file formats including XML, JSON, CSV and other file formats.  • Perform quality control checks of GIS data and non-spatial databases to ensure data integrity.  • Used JQuery and Ajax calls for transmitting JSON data objects between frontend and controllers.  • Involved in building database Model, APIs and Views utilizing Python, to build an interactive web-based solution.  • Created PHP/MySQL back-end for data entry from Flash  • Handled importing of data from various data sources, performed transformations using Hive, MapReduce, loaded data into HDFS and Extracted the data from MySQL into HDFS using Sqoop.  • Used Python based GUI components for the front-end functionality such as selection criteria.  • Created test harness to enable comprehensive testing utilizing Python.  • Developed multiple chef cookbooks from scratch.  • Managing Amazon Web Services (AWS) infrastructure with automation and configuration management tools such as uDeploy, Puppet or custom-built. designing cloud-hosted solutions, specific AWS product suite experience.  • Implemented secured way of Centralized login for AWS users using 389 Directory Services (LDAP) and OpenVPN.  • Implemented Vagrant, a production like virtual development environment for developers.  • Used Amazon Web Services (AWS) for improved efficiency of storage and fast access.  • Added support for Amazon AWS S3 and RDS to host static/media files and the database into Amazon Cloud.  • Involved in front end and utilized Bootstrap and Angular.js for page design.  • Responsible for Plug-in Management, User Management and Backup/Disaster Recovery Plan/Implementation (BDR) on Jenkins.  • Created Data tables utilizing PyQt to display customer and policy information and add, delete, update customer records.  • Used PyQuery for selecting particular DOM elements when parsing HTML.  • Used Wireshark, live http headers, and Fiddler2 debugging proxy to debug the Flash object and help the developer create a functional component.  • Used Pandas API to put the data as time series and tabular format for east timestamp data manipulation and retrieval.  • Created Business Logic using Python to create Planning and Tracking functions  • Created UI Screens for initiation and validation.  • Worked on UI using HTML5, CSS3 and Java Scripts.  • Developed multi-threaded standalone app in Python and PHP to view performance.  • Used Pandas library for statistical Analysis.  • Developed tools using Python, Shell scripting, XML to automate some of the menial tasks.  • Working in team of Architects and Developers to build and deploy Python Flask Peewee Linux AWS.  • Version control using GitHub.  • Have used Confluence to create, share and discuss content and projects.  • Expertise in Using Version management tools Git, bit-bucket and source Tree.  • Involved in writing stored procedures using MySQL.  • Interfacing with supervisors, artists, systems administrators and production to ensure production deadlines are met.  Environment: Python 3.x, Django, Celery, Shell Scripting, AWS, Pandas, PyQt, PyQuery, Wireshark, Flash, DOM, JSON, PHP, HTML5, CSS3, AJAX, JavaScript, Angular.js, Bootstrap, Apache Web Server, MYSQL, GIS, GitHub, LINUX. Python Developer Cigna Health Care - Bloomfield, CT October 2014 to December 2015 Description: Cigna is a global health service company with 95 million customers around the world and more than 40,000 employees worldwide. As your partner in health, we're available for our customers 24/7 with an expansive network built to help them meet their health goals. We're on a mission to improve our customers' health, well-being, and sense of security with the power of preventive care.  Responsibilities:  • Involved in preparing engineering specification with OOA and OOD.  • Used UML Tools to develop Use Case diagrams, Class diagrams, Collaboration and Sequence Diagrams, State Diagrams and Data Modeling.  • Developed application logic using Python, Java script, Java, C++.  • Used JMS for updating Mailing plans and tracking them.  • Used Java Server Pages for content layout and presentation.  • Worked extensively with Bootstrap, JavaScript, and jQuery to optimize the user experience.  • Enhanced existing automated solutions, such as the Inquiry Tool for automated Asset Department reporting and added new features and fixed bugs  • Created database using MySQL, wrote several queries to extract/store data.  • Working close together with QA and Operations teams to understand, design, and develop and end-to-end data flow requirements.  • Developed, tested and debugged software tools utilized by clients and internal customers  • Extracted and loaded data using Python scripts and PL/SQL packages  • Configuration and installation of MongoDB Servers and Ops Manager in Integration, Test and Prod Environment.  • Worked on Installation and configure MongoDB Cluster nodes on different AWS EC2 instances.  • Supported Java application for Media portal management.  • Generated SWIG interfaces to co-ordinate between C++, Java and Python. Used JNI for communication between C++ and Java.  • Implementing complete web SSO features with Identity Federation with SAML 2.0 compliance.  • Responsible for federating with clients using SAML and proprietary SSO.  • Wrote python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Generated property list for every application dynamically using python.  • Creating unit test/regression test framework for working/new code.  • Debugging and testing of the applications & fine-tuning performance.  • Provided maintenance support in production environment.  Environment: Python, Django1.4, HTML/CSS, MS SQL Server 2012, MySQL, Script, Eclipse, GIT, GitHub, AWS, Linux, Shell Scripting Python Developer Dow Jones Market - New York, NY June 2013 to September 2014 Description: The Dow Jones Industrial Average, or simply the Dow, is a stock market index that shows how 30 large, publicly owned companies based in the United States have traded during a standard trading session in the stock market.  Responsibilities:  • Mainly used Python alongside using various libraries such as matplotlib for charts and graphs, MySQL dB for database connectivity, Python -twitter, PySide, Pickle, Pandas data frame, network.  • Developed an embedded software data driven test automation framework in Linux/ Python. Designed test cases and authored test plans.  • Developed a fully automated continuous integration system using Git, Gerrit, Jenkins, MySQL and custom tools developed in Python and Bash.  • Used Python with OpenStack, OpenERP (now ODOO), SQL Alchemy, DJango CMS etc.  • Provide team guidance from agile experience/learning and day-to-day support to the scrum team.  • Configured SiteMinder web agents, Affiliate agents and RADIUS agents to provide federation of web services in the SSO environment.  • Developed website based on Django CMS.  • Developing dynamic web pages using HTML, CSS, Bootstrap, jQuery & D3JS.  • Created and populated digital brochures using Page Turn Pro and built photo galleries on website in the Django CMS and also using Django CMS plugin.  • Configuring SSO for different applications in different domains with Cookie Provider and troubleshooting issues related to them.  • Maintenance and development of a high-traffic and -demand site and platform running on a custom-rolled Django CMS.  • Managing content population and deployments through Django CMS.  • Experience in designing and developing interactive User Interfaces, usability, web and client/server applications using HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, JavaScript and JQuery.  • Installing new Web Agents on Unix Apache servers and Windows IIS servers for implementing SSO for new applications.  • Experience using Content Management Systems: WordPress and Django CMS plugins.  • Expertise in client scripting language and serve scripting languages like JavaScript, JQuery, JSON and Bootstrap.  • Used the Node.js, Angular.js MVC Frameworks in the development of the web applications. Unit testing with JavaScript and node.js.  • Consumed REST based Microservices with Rest template based on RESTful APIs and designed, developed and tested HTML, CSS, jQuery and React.js that meets accessibility and web browser standards for car dealerships websites.  Environment: Python, Django, Django-cms, SSO, database access, Django-cms plugins, Bootstrap, JavaScript, HTML5, CSS3, Agile. Python Developer METLIFE - Greenville, SC December 2011 to May 2013 Description: With over 145 years of experience, the MetLife companies are a leading innovator and a recognized leader in protection planning and retirement and savings solutions around the world. We have established a strong presence in nearly 50 countries through organic growth, acquisitions, joint ventures and other partnerships.  Responsibilities:  • Design, develop, test, deploy and maintain the website.  • Interaction with client to understand expectations and requirements.  • Designed and developed the UI of the website using HTML, AJAX, CSS and JavaScript.  • Developed entire frontend and backend modules using Python on Django Web Framework.  • Designed and developed data management system using MySQL.  • Rewrite existing Java application in Python.  • Wrote python scripts to parse XML documents and load the data in database.  • Performed testing using Django's Test Module.  • Assisting junior Perl developers in the development of scripts  • Developed a fully automated continuous integration system using GIT, Gerrit, Jenkins, MySQL and custom tools developed in Python and Bash.  • Managed, developed, and designed a dashboard control panel for customers and Administrators using Django, Oracle DB, PostgreSQL.  • Extensively used python modules such as requests, urllib, urllib2 for web crawling.  • Implemented configuration changes for data models.  • Used Pandas datamining library for statistics Analysis &NumPY for Numerical analysis.  • Managed large datasets using Panda data frames and MySQL.  • Exported/Imported data between different data sources using SQL Server Management Studio.  • Maintained program libraries, users' manuals and technical documentation.  • Responsible for debugging and troubleshooting the web application.  • Successfully migrated all the data to the database while the site was in production.  • Developed GUI using webapp2 for dynamically displaying the test block documentation and other features of python code using a web browser.  Environment: Python 2.7, Django 1.8, CSS, HTML, JavaScript, JQuery, webbapp2, AJAX, MYSQL, Linux, Heroku, GIT, urllib, urllib2, Oracle DB, PostgreSQL, and VMWare API Python Developer Vertis Microsystems LLP July 2009 to November 2011 Description: Vertis Microsystem LLC, is software development firm focused on conceiving, developing and distributing customer-focused solutions for the Fortune elite as well as SMEs from Silicon Valley. We provide an integrated service offering that includes strategic consulting on SaaS/ Cloud Based Solutions, software development, mobile application development and implementation of world-class e-business applications.  Responsibilities:  • Developed UI using HTML, AJAX, JavaScript and jQuery and jQuery UI.  • Designed and developed components using Python. Implemented code in python to retrieve and manipulate data.  • Worked with the Stakeholders, gathered requirements developed High level design Detail design documents.  • Implemented database access using Django ORM.  • Used Python and Django creating graphics, XML processing of documents, data exchange and business logic implementation between servers.  • Developed Micro services using Go language and worked on test cases.  • Used Restful APIs to access data from different suppliers and to gather network traffic data from servers.  • Used MySQL as backend database and MySQL db of python as database connector to interact with MySQL server.  • Support the scripts configuration, testing, execution, deployment and run monitoring and metering.  • Supported Apache Tomcat web server on Linux Platform.  • Developed and executed User Acceptance Testing portion of test plan.  • Re-engineered various modules for implementing changes and creating efficient system.  Environment: Python, C++, HTML Restful API, MySQL, Shell Scripting, PL/SQL, Unix, Linux Education Bachelor's Skills LINUX (9 years), MYSQL (9 years), PYTHON (9 years), Git (6 years), SQL (6 years), Django, Javascript, Java, C Additional Information Operating Systems Unix, Linux, Windows and Mac  Programming Languages Python, PL/SQL, AngularJS, JAVA  Databases Oracle 10/11g, MySQL, SQL Server and PostgreSQL  Tools Intellij, PyCharm, FileZilla, PL/SQL Developer, and TOAD  Integration Tools Jenkins and Web Builder  Version Control GitHub and SVN  Defect Tracking JIRA, Git, and VersionOne  Cloud  VPC creation, EC2 instance, S3 buckets, RDS instances, Amazon command line, cloud Front, IAM, creating security groups, managing S3 object lifecycle, creating CDN, implementing S3 security & Encryption, Route53, working with databases and DNS, Using bootstrap scripts, AWS EC2 and S3